Orodan was the very definition of subterfuge. The embodiment of stealth itself.

Zaessythra sighed, the faithless disbeliever that she was.

“This can’t get any worse at least…”

Elaborate disguise secured; he strode forth. His target? Eversong Plaza, but not directly, not yet.

A true master of clandestine activity needed to case the joint first. And he certainly had, identifying the first target and a weak link. The plaza had a tower a bit further out, somewhat isolated but it had a good view of the tavern and the sentry atop it provided overwatch for the guards of House Argon.

He tip-toed across the ground, his first target isolated in a manner which would make their disposal unseen. At the base of the tower, he acrobatically leapt upwards, gripping parts of the wooden tower which jutted outwards and hauling himself up.

Yes, he could’ve simply teleported or leapt up directly, but doing things the mundane way would lead to gains.

[Parkour 11 → Parkour 12]

Like a nimble cat, he scaled the tower, gripping the final handhold…

…when he both felt and heard a crunch of wood struggling to bear the load.

Orodan forgot sometimes, big as he was, that he weighed half as much as a full-grown bull. Certain small handholds just weren’t meant to hold his large frame.

The wooden beam which jutted out, about to snap off, was quickly dealt with just before it broke.

[Wood Communion 66 → Wood Communion 67]

Wood grain, fused together and strengthened, would no longer give way.

Of course, the near-snapping of wood was more than audible on a quiet night, and the sentry up top walked over to peer down the edge. Armed with a bow, the woman had a frown on her face as she looked down.

[Stealth 9 → Stealth 10]

The sentry looked down the side of the tower… but Orodan’s fingers buried into the wood, squeezing himself against the wall much as he could that he might hide beneath the overhang.

“Hmm? Creaky wood… I suppose. Baron needs to pay for better construction on these third-rate towers, any day now the lousy thing will topple right over…”

The sentry hadn’t noticed him yet! As expected of a true master of stealth.

Of course, the crunching of wood as it gave way under his fingers was yet again quite noisy.

“The hells? Something under there?” the sentry asked as she nocked an arrow and stooped over to get a better look.

Only for Orodan’s hand to come up and envelop her entire face.

“Mmmph!”

[Surprise Attack 46 → Surprise Attack 47]

Before the woman could put up a fight, Orodan’s Celestial skill cleansed her mental representation in her mindscape, sending her to unconsciousness. She’d come to eventually, a day or two later, but for now was in an unawakenable slumber.

He put her down in the corner and surveyed the area.

Eversong Plaza looked the same it always did at this time of night. It wasn’t even five minutes into the loop yet. His early loops of charging into and dying against the forces arrayed here had given him intimate familiarity with their patrol patterns and positions.

The Apprentice-level guards along the perimeter stood in front of all entrances to the plaza; bored but still keeping watch over the roads leading in from nearby neighborhoods. Past them were the Adept-level enforcers of House Argon, surly faced men and women who looked tough and occasionally reminded a regular guard to remain vigilant in their duties.

Vision of Purity told him that the majority of the enforcers were inside the tavern itself. However, three enforcers were outside the tavern at this time. One, a woman wielding dual daggers who Orodan remembered starting his early death loops off by instantly killing. The other two, a great-axe wielding Adept and a spear-wielding Adept.

A decent complement of guards and enforcers; numerous and vigilant. However, neither the Apprentice-level guards nor the Adept enforcers were the issue. The problem, when it came to Orodan’s stealthy endeavors… were the eagle-eyed lookouts standing watch from atop the tavern’s balconies and roof.

And just as he looked at them from atop the tower…

…so too did one archer frown at him. Peak of the Adept-level, this man looked to be the watch commander for House Argon’s soldiers at Eversong Plaza.

The man must’ve known the sentry he’d disabled or simply been familiar with the postings, for his frown quickly turned questioning and he asked something of the other lookout near him.

Stealth was as much a mindset as it was a skill. Orodan, used to barrelling through everything like a bull in a pottery shop, hadn’t even considered that he didn’t need a direct line of sight to use Vision of Purity. Consequently, he had stood tall atop the tower and gazed over the plaza and its guards instead of remaining hidden behind the tower fence and using Vision of Purity’s ability to see through the fence while remaining hidden.

Well, better to learn now than trigger every detection measure when attempting to travel to Lonvoron. Part of the reason for his fixation on stealth this loop was so he could potentially weave it into his infiltration attempts for Lonvoron.

His enhanced hearing picked up their chatter.

“Say… isn’t Rulstida supposed to be on the north tower tonight? Who’s that?”

Thinking on the fly, he swiftly ducked down behind the fence, using the brief moment where the suspicious lookout on the tavern roof turned his head to question the other lookout regarding his concerns.

He swiftly used the cover of the fence and began climbing down the side of the north tower, dragging the unconscious sentry with him, obscured from the sight of the lookouts.

“What’re you talking about? There’s nobody there.”

“What the… they were just… lazy bastard must be taking an unscheduled break.” the lookout questioned and then called down to one of the enforcers on the plaza floor. “Hey! Buximus! I can’t see the north tower guard from here, can you go give them a slap on the head and tell them to do their job?”

“Isn’t Rulstida supposed to be up there? She’s not usually the lazy sort…” the great axe wielding Adept murmured and then looked to two nearby guards. “Right, you two, with me. She’s probably at the foot of the tower taking a piss is all. Can’t exactly aim off the ledge like some.”

Where there was suspicion and the sending of an enforcer… there was also opportunity.

The three Argon soldiers came around the side of the tower blind to the lookout on the tavern roof, all grouped together…

“Oi! Rulstida! You taking a piss? I don’t want to walk in on you, but the watch commander’s being paranoid and ordered me to check- argh!”

…and Orodan gathered all three into a tackle, like a farmer gathering a bundle of hay. And smashed them into the side of the tower, causing it to tremble.

[Stealth 10 → Stealth 11]

[Surprise Attack 47 → Surprise Attack 48]

The average warrior would’ve perhaps tackled one, maybe two. But Orodan could take advantage of being built like a tree and swooped all three with his long and stout arm span.

Of course, tackling them hard enough that the tower shook was something that could be seen, even if he immediately used Domain of Perfect Cleaning to knock them out.

“What the hells… did that tower just shake? I swear I heard something on the wind too. I don’t like this one bit!” the paranoid lookout said and then called down to an enforcer on the ground level. “Varania! You heard that too, right? Communications amulet on, take twenty troops and get me an answer!”

“On it! Troops four, five, seven and eight, with me!”

Excellent. Even more opportunity for stealth!

Orodan tucked the four unconscious bodies away in a nearby storage shed and waited for the approach of the twenty-one targets.

“Tower’s empty! No sign of sir Buximus or the other two who went with him!” a guard cried out.

“Spread out and search the streets damn it! I want answers! Communications amulets on!” the Adept barked and then spoke to her own amulet which was glowing. “Yes sir, no sign of them, we’re splitting off and searching the streets as we speak. We’ll be getting additional reinforcements? Yes sir.”

As the Adept spoke to the watch commander, Orodan could see fifty more soldiers pour out of the tavern, weapons drawn and making for the tower.

Near him though, was the first troop of five Apprentice-level guards that had split off.

Both arms shot out, and he grabbed all five of them in a big bearhug, lifting them into the air and running with them into the storage shed.

He threw them down to the ground like tossing stacks of lumber.

“Guah! Under attack! Und-”

A singular slap went across all of their faces, resounding across each cheek as the palm continued onwards through pure strength to impact the next. All five were disoriented, and a follow-up usage of his Celestial skill put them to sleep.

[Stealth 11 → Stealth 12]

Unfortunately, the call had gone out, and the two nearest troops were now coming his way in a sprint.

Orodan immediately hopped out the open window of the storage shed and began making his getaway. Yes, he could’ve teleported, used chronomancy or simply used overwhelming strength and speed to incapacitate them all…

…but that would’ve defeated the purpose of this training, which was to adopt stealth as a mindset and hopefully gain skill levels.

“I heard a commotion in there! The intruder must be that way!”

He gained distance and ducked into an alleyway, taking two more turns before crouching behind a trash heap.

“Seven hells… we got nine bodies in here! They’re… they’re alive still!”

“Damn it! Where are the pursuit specialists when you need them?” the Adept yelled as she practically barrelled through a thin wall two houses down. “The footprints in the dirt lead this way. Find them! Now!”

Of course, Orodan’s concern wasn’t his pursuers…

…but the stray cat which had been eating a tossed fish from the heap. It now looked at him, utterly frozen as he was crouched behind the heap alongside it.

Orodan stared at the cat.

The cat stared at Orodan.

And the dirty rag covering his head which had eye holes cut out at the back.

What was a disguise?

A disguise, in his view, was something that helped him blend into the scenery. To make his existence unquestionable.

And as Orodan thought this, he too endeavored to be nothing more than a part of the environment.

Like a mountain, he sat there, imposing. His frame large and solid, his bearing ominous. His motion, absolutely and utterly still, like a statue. Did anyone question the existence of the sky? Of the mountains? Of the oceans?

No.

Then so too, would none question Orodan.

The cat sniffed him…

[Disguise 12 → Disguise 15]

[Intimidation 28 → Intimidation 29]

…and it turned back to eating the scraps it was fixated upon prior.

“I can’t decide what I should be more impressed by. That your ridiculous disguise worked, or that you intimidated a cat into pretending you’re not there,” Zaessythra said.

“No sensible being should question the existence of the ground beneath their feet. Accordingly, none shall question me.”

Zaessythra’s mutters about him always finding some way to exceed her notions of stupidity were ignored.

In all seriousness, Orodan felt there was something more to the Disguise and Intimidation skills that he could leverage. He also felt a window to his soul itself open up when utilizing the combination, but nothing had levelled. More training needed to explore the matter further.

Cat successfully tricked; the soldiers of House Argon went in another direction to where he was.

Before leaving, Orodan gave the mangy stray a pat upon the head, causing it to jump in surprise. Proof that his disguise and stealth had in fact worked.

Consequently, he doubled back and decided to swoop down upon the unsuspecting guards and enforcers near the north tower where he began his clandestine operation.

There were at least twenty guards surrounding it, so the immediate area was quite packed. The top of the tower though… remained empty.

Orodan clambered up to a nearby roof…

…and then leapt from there to the tower. Immediately hiding behind the fence at the top the moment he reached.

“Hey! I saw something move! Check out the top of the north tower!” the watch commander archer ordered from atop the tavern roof.

The soldiers did as asked.

The first one up was an enforcer, an Adept-level spearman.

And the moment his head crossed the top of the ladder, Orodan pulled him behind the fence, and a loud thump could be heard.

“Fire! Open fire! Intruder at the top!”

“Sir our troops are still scaling the ladder!”

The following three guards who followed up the ladder were also yanked behind the fence at the top and knocked senseless.

An angry pyromancer exited the tavern, emerging onto the second-floor balcony. Hands glowing with flame.

Elite-level, and someone Orodan frequently dealt with. Aeglos Argon.

“What is this farce? We’re under attack and you act so hesitantly?!” Aeglos Argon roared, striking the watch commander with a burning fist which scalded half the man’s face and flung him off the roof. The man was wounded and in great pain but would live. “Stand back. Anyone near the tower will die.”

Without fail, Orodan always killed this worm. This occurrence of badly wounding his own house’s soldier was just one more reason why the scum’s death was entirely justified.

A mighty fireball shot towards him, and he used the cover of its glowing blaze to quickly leap off the tower and to a nearby roof without detection.

Orodan was mid-sprint as the entire north tower exploded in a shower of flame and wooden splinters. Many of the guards near the tower were injured, but the warning was thankfully enough for them to get outside the fatal radius.

