Fortunately for Ilyatana’s dog, someone quickly interceded before he gave her and half of Karilsgard’s forces a beating in an ever-escalating brawl.

“Sujifaria, that’ll be enough. I shall speak with him,” the curt but calm voice said. It was the man with the pointy hat who’d been leaning against the pillar in a surly manner.

“But… my lord!”

“No buts, leave this one to me. I’ve been expecting him,” the man said. “Orodan Wainwright, the Wainwrighting Apprentice… I suppose that’s what passes for a funny joke nowadays?”

“I did think it would be entertaining,” Orodan admitted.

“Hmm, and is rousing these simpletons to a fight also part of your entertainment?” the man asked.

“No, but fighting them might’ve been.”

“Violent one, aren’t you? Capital guard at the gate tipped me off about your approach. What’s your business with the Cathedral?”

“I’ve come to learn light magic.”

“Why? I have a vague feeling that you have plenty of power within you. What need have you for light magic?” the man asked. “That militia man outfit looks passable enough, but I hope you don’t assume I’m stupid enough to actually believe you’re with any county militia.”

“Is learning for its own sake not an acceptable answer?” Orodan asked.

“Spare me your rhetorical questions. Even now, standing within the seat of the Gods’ power, there’s no fear within you. You look all too happy to pick a fight if you need to,” the surly man said. “I’ll ask again. Why do you want to learn light magic?”

“…an enemy of mine is a light mage of great power. I need to not only learn light magic… but also find some method of resisting or countering it,” Orodan answered.

“An honest answer at last. Just start with what you’re after when dealing with me. I don’t like beating around the bush.”

Orodan liked the sound of that and made note of it for future loops.

“Very well. I’ve come to the Cathedral to learn light magic. Will you teach me?”

“Are you willing to aid the Cathedral?” the man asked.

“I will be no leashed mutt for the Gods,” Orodan immediately laid out.

“What I need you for will have nothing to do with worshiping Gods or following their will.” the man clarified. “People need protection from some terrible things, and we’re horribly low on manpower.”

“If you’re asking me to stand guard, I’m afraid that’s not my way of doing things. I would rather go out and hunt down whatever’s causing problems.”

“Even better… I think you’ll be the right fit for the job.”

“I walk off the street and you’re pressing me into recruitment…?” Orodan asked, surprised and somewhat amused by the man’s no-nonsense attitude. “Does the Cathedral not have its own for this sort of work?”

“It did… until recently. Recent events have caused most of those under me to be re-deployed.”

The man gestured for Orodan to follow him. The guards didn’t look too happy with where Orodan was being led, but they could only glare as the senior member of the Cathedral was the one allowing it. Must’ve been some sort of restricted area.

“Silestor Lumenarin. Head of the Cathedral’s arm of exorcists and hunters.”

Now that was a renowned name. Orodan had heard of the light mage and his reputation as a hunter of vampires, necromancers and cultists.

“I’ve heard the name. You and your lot are the ones responsible for dealing with vampires, demons and cultists across the Republic,” Orodan remarked.

The Cathedral, much as Orodan hated some of the Gods associated with it, was responsible for many good things. Charitable endeavors to aid the poor, relief for villages devastated by banditry, raiding or monsters and most importantly… dealing with dark and supernatural creatures which wanted to prey upon the innocent peoples of Inuan.

Vampires, unsanctioned necromancers, cultists and the incredibly rare case of demon summoning, and even instances of haunting by malevolent spirits. These were all under the purview of this arm of the Cathedral.

“Among other things,” Silestor said, leading Orodan into a library of sorts where numerous acolytes and diviners were studying or meditating. He grabbed a singular tome off a bookshelf and threw it at him. “Here. Read that and consider it an advance payment.”

“An advance payment?” Orodan asked while opening the tome up and closing it after verifying what the content were. The basic Light Beam spell. “I still haven’t agreed to work for the Cathedral.”

“You’ll be working for me. Believe me, I have no interest in the sanctimonious drivel those mindless preachers spout either. I’ll get to the point. I need people who can fight, and I need them fast,” Silestor stated. “Damn fools of the inner sanctum have lost their wits trying to parse that stupid tapestry since it’s gone rear end over head yesterday. Two-thirds of all the diviners in this country are in that sanctum now, with the remaining ones on their way as we speak. By order of the Head Oracle, more than half of my combat capable light mages and diviners are stuck with their heads buried in fate reading orbs. It’s a disaster.”

Orodan said nothing about the fact that he was the cause for said disaster.

“A disaster? Nobles and well-off merchants being unable to read the tapestry is hardly a disaster,” Orodan said. “Can’t you hire mercenaries to fill in the gaps? I don’t exactly see where the disaster is.”

“What do you think I’m talking to you for? Until today, I didn’t see what the issue with the tapestry being unreadable was either. Problem is, the diviners are heavily reliant upon the tapestry to track things, people and events,” Silestor said. “And the Cathedral aren’t the only ones capable of recognizing that the tapestry’s gone awry.”

“In other words, the lack of tapestry is being taken advantage of.”

“Correct. The number of malevolent spirit sightings has remained consistent, those things are too mindless to realize what’s occurred. But the number of vampire attacks and reports of illegal necromancy and cultist activity have almost doubled over the first day,” Silestor informed. “We haven’t dealt with a proper demon summoning in at least a century, but with this catastrophe on our hands we might have devils returning to our world by the end of today.”

Well hells…

…Orodan had caused a real mess.

How was he supposed to know that the Cathedral was so reliant upon the tapestry of fate in order to maintain the security of Inuan? It made sense though.

Monsters weren’t as much of a concern. They typically didn’t prey upon mortals in an organized manner. They remained in the depths or certain wild habitats away from civilization, only choosing to attack opportunistically. The worst that monsters did was assault cities like Anthus, which were built around energy wells. And while Anthus might have a slightly harder time without the tapestry… it was a walled and heavily militarized city which could defend itself.

Sentient and predatory beings such as vampires and demons were a different matter altogether. As were cultists who sought innocents for ritual sacrifice and necromancers who sought corpses for their hordes.

The tapestry of fate could track deaths, powerful beings and those who had fates different from the norm. Orodan himself had been singled out in his early loops when Ilyatana read his fate and discovered it was akin to a coiling ouroboros, the symbol of infinity. Similarly, devils, vampires and other non-human supernatural creatures and monsters could be tracked via the tapestry and hunted down. Necromancers and cultists too had a unique signature upon the tapestry whenever they raised the dead or slaughtered the living for their evil rituals.

Without the tapestry, these fiends would now feel emboldened to commit atrocities without fear of being tracked. Hells, the tapestry even helped hunt down mass murderers and anyone going on a rampage as the sudden severance of threads and the loss of many fates was easily noted. Who knew what sadistic sorts would now have free reign to go about butchering people?

The real problem, however, would be the organized and hungry predators of the night.

Vampires preyed upon mortals. Eldiron being an advanced civilization had mostly eradicated them, but the younger Inuan, with its burgeoning towns and cities was a feast to them.

The cabals of vampires which normally dwelled far from civilization in the deep wilds would doubtlessly take notice of the chaos and gladly start feeding upon people. What deterred them prior to Orodan’s entry into the tapestry was that they could be tracked down, hounded and then slain. Crossing the border didn’t exactly help either as to the south was Novarria and to the east were the Eastern Kingdoms. Both these other nations were under the purview of humanity and the Prime Five, and almost every human on Alastaia hated vampires.

With such a critical tracking tool now rendered inoperable… the consequences were undoubtedly apparent.

“I have to take some measure of responsibility for this,” Orodan said. “I can’t rest until every fiend hunting the innocent is dead.”

“Responsibility? A good attitude to have but there are many monsters upon-”

“I’ll find and end them all. The ones hunting innocents at least,” Orodan declared. “Where’s the nearest one?”

“If we knew, we’d have gone out already. The tapestry is in flux and… that’s a fate-reading orb, why are you picking it up?”

Silestor’s question was answered soon enough as Orodan’s eyes began glowing slightly golden, indicative of someone peering into the tapestry of fate. Truthfully, he didn’t need the orb, but it was easier to show proof of his competence than simply telling the man to trust him.

The tapestry was in utter disarray, a complete mess. The alternate timeline tapestries he’d parsed when gazing into his past didn’t look as though a tidal storm was occurring within them. The tapestry in the real world was a mess though. Reading and making sense of it in this state was incredibly difficult. Myntasa had been capable of it, rare talent that she was. Though most people, even experienced diviners, weren’t.

Orodan however could, and he had some advantages which made it uniquely easier for him.

Being the cause of the tapestry of fate’s current tempestuous state was a decent boon. Given that he was the source of the pandemonium, it allowed him to know when the waves would come and go, reading the threads accordingly. Mainly though, he had the unfair advantage of a mind that was an unfathomable number of times mightier than anyone else’s. It had to be, else the absorption of his own System’s central glyph of knowledge would’ve shattered his mind and unravelled his soul.

[Fate Reading 57 → Fate Reading 58]

Provided they had similar upbringings and grew up in the same place, humans, orcs, dwarves, goblins and elves had fates that were mostly indistinguishable from one another. They were the mortal races, and their souls were the standard, with nothing which stood out.

Vampirism was a curse which affected not just the mind and body, but the soul too. Consequently, their fates in the tapestry had a distinct and bloody feel to them. Particularly those vampires who killed in order to feed.

Eyes glowing a tinge of gold, he focused on the closest one.

“The nearest predator is a vampire in Jerestir,” Orodan declared. “I’ll make way and end it.”

“You… can read the tapestry?” Silestor asked, dumbfounded.

Some nearby acolytes were also shocked. A few murmured that Orodan should perhaps be sent into the inner sanctum, that the High Oracle could make use of his talents.

To that, he said no thanks.

“I’ll pass on helping your mindless fate readers try and make sense of the tapestry. We have actual work to do,” Orodan said.

“I’ll get in some serious trouble for this; the Chosen has a standing order out for anyone who can read the tapestry as it is now…” Silestor muttered, and then the man’s face took on a determined expression. “In for a copper, in for a silver. I’m coming with you.”

“You’re not concerned about being punished?” Orodan asked.

“Sometimes, it’s better to beg for forgiveness than ask permission,” Silestor preached. “They’ll show lenience when we achieve results and get rid of enough of these fiends. Let me gather a few trusted-”

“No need. I’ll be more than enough,” Orodan said, placing a hand upon the man’s shoulder as the dimensional boundary rippled.

Still not as imperceptible as Talricto’s was, but he’d get there one day.

The pores of the dimensional boundary were a tight enough squeeze by himself. They were in a state of constant movement. Adding someone else would have been incredibly dangerous…

…for the regular dimensionalist who didn’t have absurd reaction times as a result of high levels in various physical skills. As it stood, the boundary shifted in slow motion from Orodan’s perspective, even without using any time compression.

He safely ferried Silestor across, and in the blink of an eye the two were standing on a grassy plain, just outside a hunter’s cabin in a clearing.

“What devilry is this?” Silestor asked in surprise. “You’re a spatiomancer as well?”

“Dimensionalism. I can perform spatiomancy too, but traveling through the dimensional boundary’s far trickier to detect and won’t set off anti-spatiomancy wards. Either way it’s good to practice both.”

Silestor gave him a look which lasted for two seconds before getting over it and accepting his skillset.

