“Hmm, well I won’t pry if you don’t wish to say. In any case, since that whole mess at Eversong Plaza I’ve heard the Cathedral’s wanting to send some priests and relief efforts this way. Heard whispers that they’re recruiting,” the old man informed. “Might be a good chance for you to get in touch with them? Not sure if they’ll teach you what you’re looking for in a day otherwise.”

“Recruiting?” Orodan asked. “I’m not interested in becoming a diviner.”

“I wouldn’t have mentioned it if they were recruiting only the priestly sort,” Old Man Hannegan said with a chuckle. “A passing priest told me they were looking for soldiers and mercenaries too.”

“They’re recruiting soldiers and mercenaries? That’s new…” Orodan muttered. After all, this was his first time hearing they were doing that. “In any case, I doubt their lot are coming along for the good of the people old man. More likely they’re trying to get their paws on what’s beneath the mountain.”

After all, the Cathedral was doubtlessly interested in the ancient machine Orodan had disabled. And that affair had gone quite poorly, as in, his stealth had much room for improvement. Orodan had forgotten to account for the scrying eye orbs hidden at certain spots in the plaza. Naturally, the Master-level necromancer had been ready for any skulking and evasive maneuvers from him. Necromancers in general, alongside beast tamers and those who commanded golems, were in the unique position where stealth, espionage and assassination were dramatically harder against them.

Orodan had been quickly discovered, and then he’d had to go about regularly battering his way forward from that point on.

Still, it was a problem he intended to tackle across many loops.

“What’s beneath the mountain?” the old man asked.

“Don’t worry about it. The knowledge will only have people coming after you,” Orodan said. “Now then, can’t say I’ll interact with these approaching hounds and cronies of the Gods… but the Cathedral may have a thing or two that’ll help me.”

“Hounds and cronies? Not saying I haven’t had my doubts about the Cathedral as well Orodan… but whoever’s wronged you, I hope you don’t let the hatred fester in your heart for long,” Old Man Hannegan said. “Despite the wrongs of a few, there are still good people who serve the Gods.”

Frankly, he still hated Ilyatana alongside the other two of the tyrannical three, but the old man wasn’t wrong. Orodan had moved past allowing his hatred to control his actions. If he killed Agathor, Eximus or Ilyatana, it would be because their deaths were necessary to prevent more people being harmed.

And he’d seen people such as Uldrine and Myntasa; he wasn’t blind to the fact that innocent folk with good hearts placed their trust and faith in the Gods. Orodan simply disagreed that the vile despots deserved their worship.

“Perhaps you aren’t wrong old man,” Orodan said. “Anyhow, remember to hold onto that ring I gave you. I suppose it’s about time I paid the Cathedral a visit.”

“The Cathedral itself? They’re a bit more stringent in what they teach than wandering priests might be… the lot in Trumbetton have always been a bit prickly in my experience.”

“Aye, the Cathedral itself. I have my ways of learning what I need,” Orodan said. Whether by force or simply ransacking a library, he would acquire what he needed. “And you mistake me; I’m not headed for Trumbetton…”

“…but the Cathedral of the Prime Five in the capital.”

#

Karilsgard was bustling with activity as normal. Perhaps even more so now that the tapestry of fate was in a state of utter pandemonium and the recent events surrounding an ancient machine, Novarrian interference and the betrayal of a noble house of the Republic came to light.

The walls of the city were tall, and lined with even more ranged troops, mages and war machines than usual. The number of foot patrols had increased, the mounted patrols sweeping the roads were frequent and the pair of famed dragon riders doing flyovers were a visible message to the people and any would-be interlopers in this time of uncertainty.

Of course, Orodan had to worry about none of that as he strode down the road towards the city gate. His fate was ‘normal’ enough, as in, it simply couldn’t be closely read just like everyone else. Long as he didn’t make any long-distance travel, gain levels in Domain of Perfect Cleaning or directly fight the System, Orodan’s fate would be the last thing to expose him.

Of course, having a soul and fate open to Observe was a different matter. And he’d not thought to change his Wainwrighting Apprentice title.

“Hold there, militia man. Which county do you hail from?” the capital guardsman, an Elite-level swordsman asked, while gesturing out with a hand for Orodan to stop. “Can’t be Vondarius or Exerston county…”

“He’s from Volarbury county corporal, saw their uniform when they sent us to visit the mayor once,” another guard informed.

“Volarbury county, eh? You being a militia man or visiting the capital isn’t the issue,” the capital guard corporal said. “The reason I stopped you is because your Status is a bit…”

“Suspicious?” Orodan offered.

“You said it, not me. I’m not the sort to relish in stopping people and giving them a rough time… but you’ve got to admit, a man with your bearing and armaments donning a militia uniform can’t just have the title of Weaving Apprentice,” the corporal said with a friendly smile. “Orodan Wainwright, is it? While I can appreciate a good practical joke, I don’t think I’ve ever seen or been taught of the Wainwrighting Apprentice title during my academy days. My gut says you aren’t here to cause trouble, but the circumstances bear questioning is all. If you don’t mind saying, what’s your business in Karilsgard?”

“Just here to visit the Cathedral, corporal,” Orodan answered. “Have some matters to discuss with the priesthood and diviners.”

“The Cathedral you say? They’ve certainly been busy with recent events. Don’t know how easily you’ll obtain an audience with how much they’ve been running around like headless chickens,” the man said. “High Oracle’s locked in her chamber alongside half the high-ranking diviners, and everyone else is scrambling to get answers. The tapestry of fate’s supposedly in an uproar.”

“Hmm, how unfortunate,” Orodan replied.

“Indeed. Anyhow, off you go. Good fortune to you in your business,” the corporal said and waved him off. “And if you ever find yourself looking for a new career, the capital guard’s always looking for more.”

“Can’t say standing guard at a gate interests me, but I appreciate the offer.”

“Didn’t think you’d bite. Was worth a shot though, take care.”

As Orodan walked off he heard the junior guardsman talk.

“You let him off rather easy sir… did your skill get a strong reading?” the younger guard asked. “A job offer too?”

“The skill’s Legendary for a reason lad; it’s never let me down over the years. Didn’t sense he’s a bad sort… got the feeling he’s more than a little hot-headed though…” the corporal murmured. A skill which could get a sense for someone’s character, interesting. “Strong bearing too. Doesn’t carry himself like any rank-and-file militia man that’s for sure.”

Though, despite those words, Orodan sensed a pulse of dirty mana go out from the corporal’s communications amulet to someplace deeper in Karilsgard.

In any case, it wasn’t a concern for him. Orodan continued down the streets of Karilsgard, passing the commercial district before entering the temple district where the Cathedral of the Prime Five lay.

The doors were already open, the giant double doors leading inside to five separate doors, denoting each of the Prime Five. The Cathedral’s operations seemed mostly regular, save the lack of any priests or diviners of Ilyatana in sight. The other four Gods’ chambers of worship were operating normally, though some mean-looking rough soldiers stood guard in front of the chamber leading to the chamber of worship corresponding to the Goddess of Fate.

The common folk denied entry were understandably unhappy. Even a well-dressed and wealthy merchant was among them. To the side, lazily leaning on a pillar, was a surly man with a resigned look on his face and a pointy hat on his head. Master-level, Orodan gauged, and the man was looking rather intently at him, but said nothing for the moment.

“This is outrageous! We’ve come to pray, to offer donations, and the Cathedral would turn us away?!” the wealthy merchant demanded, behind him, an assortment of other traders and businessfolk.

“I assure you, good merchant, your concerns are justified. However, by order of the High Oracle herself these doors are to remain barred,” the young armored faithful of the Cathedral said. “It’s out of my hands. Protesting to me will achieve nothing.

“How could Lady Lakshiya do this?! I have an auspicious trade deal coming up and need to have my fate read! My entire fortune depends on this!” the merchant clamored. “Last thing I need is that damned Esgarius to get one over me again!”

“Esgarius of Trumbetton?” Orodan asked, prompting the merchant to turn around. “Of course he would have an advantage in that regard, he used to be an adventurer himself.”

“Why yes! That clever rascal has all but cornered the market on goods sold by adventurers. I don’t know what swindling or backstabbing he’s engaged in, but I can see him taking over even the markets of Karilsgard soon if we don’t put a stop to him!”

Esgarius was wildly different in some ways from Orodan, but also shockingly similar in others. While Orodan didn’t quite understand the man’s single-minded thirst for gold, so too could it be said that many didn’t understand his own focus on strength. Despite their differences in personality though, Orodan respected Esgarius for having a certain standard of conduct. And the greedy merchant had helped him many a time.

To stand and listen to some irate ponce besmirch his name wouldn’t do.

“Backstabbing? He’s certainly rather greedy and covetous, but the man’s always honored his trade deals down to the copper,” Orodan said. “He pays his employees well and looks after the families of any fallen underlings of his. In that regard, he’s far better than most merchants in this city of snakes.”

“Y-you! A supporter of his, are you? How much did he pay you to say those words?!” the merchant barked. “Some no-good thug you are, speaking on that fraud’s behalf.”

Orodan was on the bottom step of a landing. He decided to rectify this matter and remind the merchant that sometimes speaking too loudly wasn’t a good idea.

He stepped up, looming over the second tallest person in the vicinity by a good head. And the merchant must’ve finally realized how tiny he was, for he shrank backwards.

“The man you speak of is no fraud. Rather, the lot of you before me might qualify for that term. Recant the falsehoods you spout about Esgarius of Trumbetton,” Orodan ordered, glaring at the puny man menacingly. “Or answer to me.”

[Intimidation 29 → Intimidation 30]

Orodan didn’t typically enjoy bullying those weaker than him. And if the criticism was true, he would’ve simply shut his mouth and let them air their fair grievances. In prior loops, many had called the God of Death a coward, and while Orodan defended Malzim’s actions, he never threatened anyone over the truthful criticism.

But to spread falsehoods? He would sort the matter out himself.

“A-ah… er…”

The well-dressed merchant stuttered, fearful.

“Hey… you can’t just go around threatening people, especially not in this sacred place of worship,” the armored faithful guard said, stepping forward with a frown.

“He was uttering lies and I felt compelled to correct them,” Orodan answered.

The guard sized Orodan up and didn’t like what he saw. It was then, that a nearby senior faithful walked up, a frown on her face.

“Hey! What’s all this chatter about?” the senior guard, a burly armored woman with a halberd demanded.

“Ma’am… these merchants are demanding audience and-”

“Enough of that. I’ve told you before that you’re too polite while on guard duty,” the older guard chided the junior and then turned to the leading merchant with an angry frown. “You. What do you want?”

“Noble defender of the faith! This brutish man here-”

“That was a rhetorical question, in case the look on my face wasn’t answer enough, I don’t care. You heard the man already, did you not? The chamber of Ilyatana is closed until further notice. Now get lost,” she brusquely dismissed. “And you, what’re you doing here with that sword and shield? The chamber of Agathor is that way, the war-priests there can help you.”

“I wouldn’t enter that place if my life depended on it. Agathor can offer me nothing that I cannot already do better,” Orodan said. “Matter of fact, can’t say I much want to be here either.”

“What the hells did you just say? Uttering blasphemy right in front of her Lady’s faithful is a poor decision,” the burly woman said, a sneer on her face.

“I thought Karilsgard is under authority of the capital guard. But of course, the Cathedral does love overstepping its bounds… just like the Gods you serve,” Orodan said and then cracked his knuckles. “Accused me of blasphemy, did you? Why don’t you step up and do something about it then.”

If someone wanted to hot-headedly challenge him, Orodan was more than fine with starting a fight here and now.

