“A hunter’s dwelling… of course the filthy bloodsucker would target those living farthest from town… even with the tapestry down the vampire won’t risk a fight against Jerestir’s guards,” Silestor said. “Come, let us enter.”

Vision of Purity told him exactly what was inside.

“Vampire inside. The victim is dead,” Orodan stated. “Managed to land an arrow before she fell too.”

“Malzim ferry her soul…” Silestor prayed, and then the man’s face hardened. “Let us purge it!”

A foul, gray-skinned humanoid was grotesquely feeding on the corpse of a hunter when Orodan pushed the door open, sending it flying into the vampire.

Vampires were supernaturally mighty, beyond any equivalent-level martial specialist. Unfortunately for it, that didn’t matter much when a door came sailing at the speed of an artillery shot. The door collided with it, a shriek rang out, and the Adept-level vampire was smashed right through the wall of the hunter’s dwelling and onto the grassy field outside.

It looked to get up, only for a blazing beam of light to instantly turn it to ash. Orodan had fought mages using light magic before, but Silestor seemed well beyond what the regular Master-level light mage should be.

Anyhow, we can continue this later. I have to recite the funerary rites and prepare this brave woman’s body for transport back to Jerestir.”

“No need. Let’s bring her back.”

“I assure you; the funerary rites may seem silly to one who lacks faith in the Gods, but are as much a custom of respect for the dead as they are-”

The death was only two hours ago and the body still warm. The amount of soul energy needed was thus utterly trivial.

A swift cast of Time Reversal, and the blood all over the cabin and some portions from the ash pile outside were pulled right back into the woman’s body. And with a gasp, she awoke, her eyes wide and trembling.

Her first response was to scream in terror, whipping the knife in her hand directly towards Orodan.

He caught it and gently forced her hand back to her own lap.

“At ease warrior, your death was a valorous one, but I will not let it stand today,” Orodan comforted. “You fell fighting a vampire, but you are returned to the living once more.”

The woman frantically looked at her cabin, at Orodan and Silestor, and then out the destroyed wall where a pile of ash lay.

Vampire hunting was quite fun it seemed.

#

[New Skill (Uncommon) → Light Beam 1]

The tiny beam of light shot forth from his finger and scored a black burn mark upon the vampire’s forehead.

It growled, more irritated than hurt.

“Hmm, took you long enough. Though the power could use some work,” Silestor said.

“I kept it weak because that was my first cast. Didn’t want to accidentally overdo it,” Orodan said. “Might want to step back for the next one.”

The light mage heeded his warning and did in fact step back.

[Light Beam 1 → Light Beam 8]

The circumference of the beam covered the entirety of the Elite vampire’s body, reducing it to utter oblivion. It then continued onwards, striking the mountain behind it, clearing a clean hole through it, and creating a decent hole in the cloud layer too.

“By the north…” Silestor muttered. “Such power at so low a skill level?”

“I have an unfair advantage,” Orodan remarked. “I have to say… this feels as though it has similar properties to soul energy.”

“Of course. Light is one of the purest forms of elemental magic. The question of its discovery and initial founding is one lost to time, ever since the Cataclysm which destroyed all civilization upon Inuan,” Silestor explained. “Yet one thing scholars agree upon is that it’s the type of magic closest to the natural light of the soul.”

Orodan had already advanced a step further than light magic in that regard, by learning how to harness the power of his soul directly. But learning a closely related element was by no means a bad thing. Just with that cast, he began to ferment some ideas in his head of how he could make his soul energy flow better.

“I’ll have to keep that in mind,” Orodan said.

He and Silestor had gone around the Republic executing vampires, exorcising malevolent spirits and slaying cultists and necromancer. The overwhelming majority of them had been predatory individuals or at most, groups of less than six.

The hunt was fun. Executing bloodthirsty monsters and cultists keen on human sacrifice was oddly relaxing, even if there was no real fight in it. More importantly, Orodan committed the locations to memory, ensuring that he could be even more efficient about hunting them down on the next loop.

He’d also gotten the chance to slowly learn the singular light magic spell Silestor had given him. It took the better part of the day, but now Orodan knew how to cast a Light Beam. Unlike Flare, which was a projectile, or Candleflame, which remained connected to his body, Light Beam shot out as a straight ray of burning light.

He’d fought light mages before, but it was a field he really hadn’t delved too deeply into. Consequently, he still wasn’t sure what the exact differences between it and fire were when it came to developing a resistance skill.

Another vampire charged forth, Master-level, and this was when Silestor stepped forth.

Orodan could see the man’s soul roiling with power. The sky darkened, looking angry. With a final gesture, the light mage called forth a grand pillar of blazing light from the sky to smite it to nothingness.

A Master-level vampire smote to oblivion in an instant. An epic feat, especially when considering the fact that vampires could fight a tier above and were far stronger than an equivalent-level martial specialist.

Orodan had to re-evaluate Silestor. The man was dramatically more powerful than even the strongest Master-level light mage he’d seen before.

Two vampires, both ranging out to seek prey. Orodan had slain the first, and Silestor had dealt with the second in most extravagant fashion.

“That wasn’t mana fuelling your spell,” Orodan noted. “…a Bloodline?”

“The innate ability to use light, powered directly by the soul,” Silestor said.

In other words, not just Light Magic Mastery which used mana… but Light Mastery, which used the power of the soul to fuel the spell. Much like House Argon had natural pyromancy as a Bloodline, so too did Silestor Lumenarin have a natural affinity for light.

“A powerful natural ability to have,” Orodan remarked.

“And at times a burden. Many a vampire enclave has attempted to have me assassinated for fear of my light,” Silestor said. “House Lumenarin is but minor nobility, but we face far greater dangers than most because of our Bloodline.”

“Your children have inherited it too?” Orodan asked.

“My daughter and grandson both. Though they rightfully choose to take a different path in life than following these Gods and their corrupt oracles and priests,” Silestor spat. “A safer life than hunting wicked undesirables like I do.”

“You’re quite critical of the Cathedral for someone who’s a part of it,” Orodan remarked. “Not fond of the Prime Five? I can relate to that.”

“Hmm, you have some sense then. As for me, I don’t originally hail from Inuan. I was born and raised on Guzuhar, immigrating to these southern shores as a young man,” Silestor said. Now that he thought about it… the man did have an exceptionally pale hue. “I will not say that the north is better, for I would not have come here otherwise… but the involvement of the Gods in our daily lives is far less intrusive. And our Gods up north, while less influential, care for the people more intimately.”

“I’m tempted to agree. I have been to Vorskard, long ago. The hospitality of Clan Iron-Bear was a warm embrace in the chilling cold,” Orodan said with a smile. “Beholding bear and human living in harmony, casually trotting down the town roads was a sight to behold.”

“Oh! You’re of the north too?” Silestor excitedly asked, suddenly becoming lively despite the man’s typical stern demeanor.

“No, I merely visited there a few times. Mainly to see the Valley of Spires,” Orodan answered.

“Ah, I see… not northern, but a frequent visitor then. You might as well call yourself a northerner if you’ve been there so many times,” Silestor said, and Orodan thought that being northern through blood might count. “Of all the places of wonder to see, you chose that dreadful valley? The clans and kingdoms have barred entry there for fear of the horrid darkness which lingers… I’m surprised they allowed you passage.”

“With what’s descending in six months, I don’t think they were keen on turning away any help.”

“You… know of it then?” Silestor asked.

“Aye. I’ll be there to deal with it when the time comes.”

Most would have questioned the absurdity of that statement, but the light wizard simply remained quiet, an inquisitive look upon his face for a long while.

“You plan on aiding the north against that descending calamity? An outrageous thought… how powerful do you think you are? Bah! This discussion can be tabled for later,” Silestor said with a shake of his head, but a suspicious look on his face. “Come, we’ve tarried long enough. What does that skill of yours say we’re up against? I never thought I’d find such a large gathering of fiends in my life… emboldened by the circumstances as they are.”

“There’s a decently sized force in there. Eight vampires, fifty human cultists and a dozen necromancers,” Orodan said, continuing forwards. “Hundreds of corpses too. I have little doubt they’ll be raised the second battle begins. And they have nearly two-hundred captives in a chamber below.”

A small army.

This was the farthest and largest gathering of evildoers they’d encountered thus far. They were in the eastern part of the Republic, near Fort Redvane and Anthus in Vondarius County. A nearby hamlet of two hundred lay entirely empty, the guards killed and the inhabitants kidnapped for nefarious purposes.

Unlike what the myths commonly said, sunlight wasn’t utterly anathema to vampires. For the weaker ones maybe, but the stronger ones could survive under it just fine, though it was uncomfortable. Like an untrained mortal being thrown into a wintry night without clothes versus a trained Adept with various physical skills braving the same.

They also had good senses and made excellent sentries. Orodan and Silestor had taken out two vampires departing to find pry, but that was three miles out from their destination. Now, closer to the cave, they would have to move with caution lest they provoke the entire group.

“That many… we should fall back and call for aid. With your abilities in dimensionalism we can bypass their anti-spatiomancy wards and quickly ferry reinforcements into battle to overwhelm them with concentration of numbers,” Silestor said.

“We really don’t need all that. I can just-”

“Orodan Wainwright. The worst we’ve encountered in the small bands of vampires and cultists we’ve slain are Elites. And just now I had to use a spell capable of slaying a Grandmaster to deal with the Master-level one. You fight well, you’re strong too. But what are you, a Master? A Grandmaster even?” Silestor asked. “Vampires are far stronger and deadlier than equivalent-level martial specialists. Such a large group may very well have a Master or a Grandmaster among them. And with their numbers we’d quickly be killed without managing to get any word out.”

“Feel free to remain outside and call for backup then. I’m going in,” Orodan declared.

“Damn it…! You’re going to get us both killed!” Silestor hissed. “If we’re going to do this, we need to at least act stealthily, with a clear path of retreat should things go awry.”

“That’s fine by me,” Orodan said, drawing a certain important item from his dimensional ring. His fist was clenched in determination. “I, Orodan Wainwright… am the very soul of secrecy!”

“T-this…!”

In response to the item, Silestor could not say anything else at all. So awed was he by the awesome quality of what Orodan had brought out.

“Be at ease, Silestor. This can only be of benefit to us,” Orodan assuaged, donning the item.

“You…! You…” Silestor trailed off, clearly in shock. “You’re wearing a damned rag on your head!”

Zaessythra sighed.

“Now hold on a moment… you’re not giving this a fair chance.”

“A fair chance? You haven’t even donned it correctly! The eye holes are at the back of your head! You’re wearing it the wrong way!” Silestor angrily exclaimed. “What manner of jest is this?”

“The eye holes positioned behind my head are meant to confuse and intimidate any on-lookers,” Orodan declared. “If they see me from behind, it’ll be as though I’m gazing right at them. How can they get the drop on me when I already have the drop on them?”

Orodan tapped his rag-covered forehead, showing off the majesty of his superior thinking.

“Stealth.”

His one-word declaration was all that was needed.

Though, Orodan wasn’t sure why Silestor was turning so red.

“You… you imbecile! How can someone possessed of such might be so horribly dull! If they see you, that defeats the purpose of stealth entirely!” the light mage scolded. “We’re both going to die today…”

Orodan thought Silestor was being dramatic. Yes, by the bounds of common logic, he could see why the vampire hunter might think it utterly hopeless. But Orodan had been working on his grasp of stealth and disguise for a bit now.

