Soul energy flowed through his body. Stronger and just a bit more efficient thanks to the singular level he’d gained in Incipience of Infinity.

[Teleportation 89 → Teleportation 90]

He winked out of space from the moon. And as expected, halfway into his travel, he felt the subtle signs of something changing the destination of his teleport.

His exit destination, the void between galaxies.

“At last, the source of this disorder is reve-.”

As much soul energy as he could muster was thrown into both his hands.

[Light Beam 17 → Light Beam 20]

His body suffered a decent amount of damage from the sheer amount of power he channelled, but the two continent-sized beams of light coming out of his hands collided with the arrow of light sent by the Embodiment-level spatial spider…

…and an explosion occurred as the arrow punched right through Orodan’s spells.

As it reached him, the arrow was now visibly weakened however, and his Smite of Abrupt Deliverance smashed it out of existence.

A feral grin emerged on Orodan’s face. This stupid spider wanted to bully Orodan with ranged attacks, did it? Then it could have the ranged duel it wanted.

“Light magic? Quite some power for so crude a usage of it… you do not carry the bearing of a mage either,” Alagameth spoke calmly. “A paladin? A spell sword? It matters not. Cease your destructive actions upon the tapestry of fate… or receive judgement at my hands till you yield and agree to change your ways.”

“Then by all means, bring all the judgement you have to bear,” Orodan challenged. “A duel of light magic, you against me.”

It was madness, plain and simple. This spatial spider with an oversized bow far bigger than its spindly body should’ve been able to handle, was at the Embodiment-level. Even with his recent training and the singular level gained in Incipience of Infinity, the gap was still too large!

A magical duel would’ve been hopeless!

Which was exactly why Orodan considered it good training.

The spider’s beady eyes held a look of arrogance and the desire to give Orodan a thrashing.

And Orodan’s own eyes held a look of defiance and the desire to give Alagameth a scalding.

[Light Beam 20 → Light Beam 21]

A potent arrow of light met two massive but crude and unskilled beams of light, penetrating right through them.

Only for Orodan to pull the dispersed energy back to his hands via Domain of Perfect Cleaning and fire the beams a second time before the arrow reached.

[Recycling 5 → Recycling 7]

The arrow still punched through. The spider must’ve at least been Transcendent when it came to the usage of light. But that was fine, as yet again Orodan’s Smite of Abrupt Deliverance met it and smashed it aside.

The totality of his soul energy was thrown into a teleport. Now at the Master-level, having attempted to brute force this fight enough times, it genuinely made the spatial spider struggle to re-direct it.

He had gotten the drop on this opponent before, he knew how to do it again if necessary…

…but that would have been weak.

Instead, Orodan remained at range, casting light beam after light beam, flummoxing Alagameth who expected him to press his advantage with raw power.

And throughout the battle, Orodan used feints and clever maneuvers. At first, he thought to move around under the screen and cover of multiple beams of light, yet that proved useless when he realized the spider could see him anyways.

It hadn’t gotten to be as old and powerful as it was without having some ability of seeing through bright flashes of light.

Then, Orodan achieved unexpected success by abusing the fact that he didn’t have to care about running out of power. He cast intentionally bogus Teleports which simply teleported him in the same place or not at all. Taking control of a properly cast Teleport was one thing, but taking over and re-directing an intentionally flawed Teleport whose spell structure was botched was another. He had additional tactics too, such as simply dropping Teleports mid-cast, throwing power into them but abandoning the spell entirely. And at other times he made the hand gesture for a teleport but instead cast a Spatial Fold to move a short distance away.

These tactics severely frustrated and exhausted his opponent. The spatial spider was doubtlessly powerful, it was an Embodiment of Space. An apex existence within System space!

And yet, its energy wasn’t endless like Orodan’s was. Orodan’s raw power with a Teleport was high enough that the spatial spider couldn’t afford to ignore or not bite on a feint. It had lived for an unfathomably long time, far longer than Orodan… but it didn’t have a lifestyle revolving around fighting, and Orodan suspected his own Combat Mastery was higher.

The possibility that these feints could be real forced Alagameth to take every one of them seriously. Intentionally flawed Teleports forced it to expend energy trying to grab them. Teleports abandoned mid-cast did the same. And unlike Teleportation, it simply couldn’t re-direct a Spatial Fold the same way.

“Such an irritating thing…” it muttered. “Your tactics are vexatious but will not avail you against true skill.”

“What true skill?” Orodan asked. “All I see is an Embodier struggling against a mere Transcendent!”

An embarrassing insult! Yet, it hadn’t grown old in a dangerous universe by being hot-headed. It didn’t rise to the bait and instead chose to fight patiently.

Still, as Orodan gained levels in Light Beam, the exhaustion in his opponent was beginning to show.

Orodan’s clever battle tactics allowed him to slowly corner it. Its real weakness was the fact that it was unwilling to kill him. He had little doubt that if it was truly serious, Orodan would have been dead by now. But fighting while restrained by a sense of ethics weakened it.

Its spatiomancy was incredibly potent, but without it and the willingness to kill, it wasn’t too dangerous. And when fighting Orodan, who presented the constant threat of an overpowered Teleport and close combat, it simply couldn’t afford to ignore any feints. Under these circumstances, while Orodan had to launch multiple attacks to block a single one of Alagameth’s… he still slowly began to stalemate it in a purely ranged duel.

At last, the spatial spider looked as though it had enough.

“Cease. No more of this game. We are at an impasse,” Alagameth said, stopping combat for a moment. “You are young but powerful and possessed of incredible potential. Just as I hold back, I sense that you do as well. I am unsurprised that a being capable of causing such calamity to the tapestry of fate is such a powerful foe. But that will be enough. I shall leave now and-”

[Space Mastery 96 → Space Mastery 97]

[Combat Mastery 109 → Combat Mastery 110]

[Recycling 7 → Recycling 8]

Weaving didn’t gain any levels this time. Perhaps he needed to actually hone his understandings of it through the craft itself. Still, it was used all the same to direct a monstrous and overpowered cast of Teleport straight for Alagameth.

And just like last time, when the spatial spider proved that it wasn’t an Embodiment of Space for nothing, Orodan used Recycling to recast another, even more powerful, Teleport, bringing him right up to grabbing distance of it…

…and a swift hand lashed out and tapped Alagameth over the head.

“Got you,” Orodan declared. “That’s my win. Well… long as you’re holding back and trying not to kill me at least.”

“You… did not kill me?”

“Why would I? You’ve taught me a lot. Though I do wish you’d stop holding back.”

“You are a mad man… but not a bad man,” Alagameth calmly said, and Orodan could sense the incredibly subtle gatherings of soul energy within its spindly body.

Not this time.

“I see what you’re about to do. The sentiment is appreciated,” Orodan said, gathering all the soul energy he could. “But unnecessary. I will make my own way to Lonvoron… or die trying.”

He liked Alagameth, he did. But he would not allow anyone or anything to steal the satisfaction of earning something through his own sweat and blood. But how could Orodan prevent a righteous spider trying to save his life from throwing him towards Lonvoron?

After all, it had been holding back throughout the fight but when it got serious last time, it had flung him right towards his destination with no resistance.

The answer was a simple one.

To beat a spatiomancer…

…destroying space itself was always an option.

[Spatial Fold 88 → Spatial Fold 90]

The entire fabric of space around them tore apart as Orodan’s massively overpowered Spatial Fold caused the canvas to tear.

Immediately, predatory things from different sections of the void began to come through the cracks.

“Lunatic!” it hissed, showing emotion for once. “If you wish to die so badly, I shall not rob you of the choice. Fend for yourself if you wish.”

Alagameth swiftly disappeared, skillfully navigating the torn canvas. But it certainly wouldn’t be sending Orodan anywhere else under these circumstances.

Fighting in the void was tricky business. There was no footing, and Orodan often had to rely on spatial or dimensional movement to get anywhere. But he could also propel himself via spellfire if needed, and his kinesthetic sense was good enough that he could spin around a hundred times and be thrown about only to recover and continue fighting from any awkward orientation.

And as the first few predatory beings came through, Orodan used Dimensional Step to bring himself to the nearest one, a thousand-legged centipede with shimmering black scales which seemed to absorb all energy.

He carved it apart, shattering its chitinous shell and causing yellow ichor and lifeblood to spill forth. The following four, Transcendents, also died under a furious and wrathful blitz of melee which caused the remaining ones to quail and realize that he was no prey for the likes of them.

It was then that what he’d truly been waiting for came through.

The torn canvas ripped apart even further as a gigantic Living Crystal the size of a star system entered the fray.

And as a thin crystalline tendril extended towards him, seeking to forcibly assimilate him via mental assault, Orodan knew that this was his chance.

He got close, very close.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 80 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 81]

And as Orodan delivered one of the strongest Smites he’d ever struck…

…he stood atop its face, and gazed deep into its core, where he sensed the window to its soul was.

The Living Crystal, a massive gouge on its surface, stared at Orodan.

Orodan, a feral grin on his face, stared at Ur-Vah’sahn.

He gazed into its soul, but in turn…

…it also gazed into his.

[Skill Absorption - Disguise 20 + Intimidation 33 → Incipience of Infinity 128]

The sheer power roiling through him at the high-level skill absorption caused some decent damage. It wasn’t the old System any longer, but his own. Consequently, any grand combinations or absorptions weren’t facilitated via veins of System energy in the divine dimension… but through his own body.

Still, it worked without a hitch, and most importantly…

…a manic shriek of agony and frenzy echoed out across the void.

The core of raw, unending crystalline power gazed into the depths of a mere man. And when it found no bottom to this insignificant warrior, its mind could not accept the contradiction.

Orodan himself felt under incredible mental pressure. Most of his body began bleeding as the cells began dying.

Unlike the Grandmaster vampire, this was a calamitous being of the Embodiment-level, feared and avoided by other Embodiers like Alagameth too. Not only was allowing it to gaze into the very depths of his soul an assault upon its psyche, but it was also a test for Orodan’s own mental prowess and the depths of his mind and soul.

Fifteen agonizing seconds of mental combat ensued.

It was an existential conflict between Transcendent and Embodier. The outcome should never have been in question.

And yet…

…the Living Crystal’s psyche began to fracture as Ur-Vah’sahn the Harmonious swiftly began to understand what disharmony was. The various voices and minds within it began maddening due to the deep gaze into Orodan’s soul, and great cracks began to appear on its physical body too.

His eyes bled but maintained a steely gaze with its core, and with it, Orodan bestowed unto it the truth. Not the truth of the Eldritch, but a truth of his own.

The terrifying cosmic truth of Orodan Wainwright.

The revelation of true infinity.

[Incipience of Infinity 128 → Incipience of Infinity 130]

The Living Crystal began to crack and grow insane. And in its throes of frenzy and the slow death of disassembly that Orodan had inflicted, it lashed out.

He wasn’t its match in direct combat. Yet he’d done it harm enough.

The darkness of death took him as an attack capable of wiping out star systems was unleashed.

And yet, Orodan had a defiant smile on his face all the way to the end.

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him, and he rose with a satisfied smile on his face.

He now had a skill which would allow him to move about unnoticed. The absorption brought Disguise and Intimidation into his Celestial skill, bringing them up to the Transcendent-level as a part of his skill.

With this, he could act more freely on Lonvoron without raising a ruckus. Although, the matter of getting there under his own power and actually besting his attackers in the void between galaxies still remained.

As many death loops as it took, Orodan Wainwright was determined to see this through.

There were various avenues of training waiting to be explored.
