Cleaning aside, Orodan felt that he had a real knack for stealth. He’d made some mistakes during his time back on Narictus, but now, back on Alastaia where his roots were, Orodan felt that with this dirty rag on his head, he was undetectable.

Better to prove his proficiency in stealth first that the mage laid off him.

Orodan tip-toed across the dirt.

The large gathering of evil was inside of a rather extensive cave system connected to the depths. The cave entrance in the mountainside leading in however was guarded by vampiric sentries, and two had been taken out already.

He would deal with the rest.

Like a prowling beast, Orodan skulked about, stalking the nearby unaware vampire sentry.

[Stealth 17 → Stealth 18]

About thirty feet away though, its ears suddenly perked up as Orodan’s quiet footsteps became audible. Its nose twitched too, picking up his scent. He’d forgotten to account for the fact that vampires were predators and consequently had the keen senses of such.

It immediately whipped about…

[Stealth 18 → Stealth 19]

…only for Orodan to match its movement and speedily shoot around behind it to its blind spot. The sound in such a fast motion was quite audible however.

Even if the vampire couldn’t see him, it had certainly heard.

“Warmblood!” it hissed, turning around once more to look.

Only for him to hastily match its turning motion and circle behind it again.

Orodan was a master of combat, armed and unarmed. He could predict and read the movements of a foe through the minute twitches, breaths and even the flow of blood in their body. This vampire stood no chance of outplaying him.

“What the…! Show yourself!” it demanded, rapidly turning its head left and right.

Unfortunately for it, Orodan kept up with even these rapid movements, positioning himself that it never managed to see him no matter how furiously it turned. And with each such motion, Orodan got closer and closer.

Until finally, it turned only to see a large hand envelop its face. A quick squeeze pulped the Elite vampire’s skull thenceforth.

The remaining two sentries were spaced farther out. Though Orodan wondered why the vampires with their keen senses hadn’t heard the commotion.

The answer was the angry light mage who walked up behind him, hands glowing with subtle power as a basic wind magic spell was maintained. The sound was isolated thanks to Silestor.

Huh… he hadn’t even thought to try incorporating wind magic into his stealthy ways.

“See? Stealthy.”

“You’re a damned fool, Orodan Wainwright. The other sentries will soon notice that three of their own are nowhere to be seen,” Silestor said, a grim look on his face. “Vampires are capable of maintaining track of one another via smell. We have little time before the scent of this one fades and the other two are alarmed.”

An interesting tidbit of knowledge. Still, for someone who was so vehemently against his stupidity, Silestor was now quite on-board with helping.

Orodan wouldn’t spurn the hand.

He swiftly bounded across the dirt, slowing as he drew nearer to the next. This time, with assistance from Silestor who cast some simple spells to muffle the sound of his steps.

Unlike the previous one, this vampire didn’t hear or smell him coming as his hands separated its head from its shoulders.

The final one though, seemed to notice something was off as he approached. Not via sound or smell… but by the suspicious lack of other sentries in its sights. Occasionally losing sight of a sentry or two was one thing, after all, they might happen to walk behind a rock or a hill.

But to lose sight of all its compatriots for the past minute? It suddenly began looking around and shrieking to try and call the others.

Cries which were blocked by Silestor’s wind magic.

[Stealth 19 → Stealth 20]

A fist through the head finished it off soon after.

“Damn… how strong are you?” Silestor asked. “You practically pulped their skulls with your bare hands. It shouldn’t be possible, not so easily.”

One to one, a vampire was far stronger than a human with equivalent skills. Even a martial Grandmaster wouldn’t have been able to make the kills look as brutal and casual as Orodan had. The light mage was doubtlessly curious, especially since Orodan had allowed him to take much of the lead during the fighting thus far while he focused on learning the Light Beam spell.

The truth though, was that Orodan had simply stuck to the philosophy of building his own body up to being powerful. No Bloodline, no borrowed power and no vampirism needed. Just the sweat and blood of hard work. Long ago, he’d rejected the opportunity to become a half-dragon hybrid, and now he knew that had been the correct choice.

What need did Orodan Wainwright have for such cheap methods of strength when his own body would suffice? His Body Tempering, Physical Fitness and Absolute Body Composition meant that he was far stronger than any vampire of equivalent level. Humans feared vampires for being superior to them, however vampires would be right to fear him for the same reasons.

“Just some honest training,” Orodan answered. “Come. I can sense four more vampires making for the surface. If we’re quick, we can catch them in the narrow tunnel and end them.”

Normally, a mage wanted to be as far away from a vampire as possible. Entering a cramped tunnel with them was akin to a death sentence for a spellcaster who would otherwise be outmatched in terms of combat speed. Silestor went along without hesitation however. Orodan’s display had perhaps convinced the light mage.

They went inside and hid in a crevice within the tunnel.

The first vampire to round the bend looked at him, its eyes narrowing and its teeth bared as it hissed in surprise.

Right… he’d forgotten that they could see in the dark.

But that was fine. After all, he had his fancy disguise on.

The vampire looked at Orodan.

Orodan looked at the vampire.

And he crossed his arms, making the thickness of them apparent. He stood a head taller and was far wider too. But most importantly, he gave the vampire a predatory grin and gazed into its eyes.

It was utterly illogical, with a rag covering his head, his eyes couldn’t even be seen! The grin, invisible to the bloodsucker should have been entirely pointless!

And yet, as Orodan’s rag-covered eyes gazed into the vampire’s own, it was as though he was looking into its soul…

…and at the same time forcing it to see his.

[Disguise 15 → Disguise 18]

[Intimidation 30 → Intimidation 31]

[Incipience of Infinity 127 → Incipience of Infinity 128]

Now that was an unexpected level gain. The result of what he’d felt when bullying the cat in Eversong Plaza and opening a window to his own soul which others could directly see. It was interesting too, as he hadn’t even generated titanic amounts of energy for this gain.

Beholding Orodan in the tapestry of fate was one thing, as was using Observe upon him. But even these methods of looking at his soul were but a surface level glance. To actually stare into the depths of it?

Not something meant for those weak of mind.

The vampire froze in place, stopping mid-hiss. Its bared teeth were covered and its eyes un-narrowed.

Some said that the eyes were a window into the soul. Orodan agreed with this saying.

And what better way to make something accept the fact that you weren’t there than by making it gaze into your soul?

Nobody wanted to stare at the sun. Their eyes would burn. No sane person wanted to dwell on the existence of a black hole about to devour them and their world, it was a sanity-reducing affair.

Yet, beyond all of those things…

…no regular being wanting to retain its sanity would want to gaze into the soul of Orodan Wainwright.

After all, the concept of infinity could be a very maddening thing.

Sometimes, it was better to pretend the unfathomable didn’t exist than try and grasp cosmic concepts the mind wasn’t ready to comprehend. Better to live in ignorance than suffer the breaking of one’s mind.

It trembled for a brief moment, before its facial expression became normal.

“The young one hisses? Have you seen something?” another vampire asked, coming up and rounding the bend as well.

“No, nothing,” the first vampire said, entirely normal as though it had never seen Orodan.

Even though he was standing clearly in plain view.

The second vampire though, did see Orodan. It immediately hissed…

…until he also gazed into its eyes.

[Disguise 18 → Disguise 19]

[Intimidation 31 → Intimidation 32]

The second one too, became suddenly ignorant of him.

Silestor’s jaw hung agape in utter shock at what he was seeing. The light mage wanted to say something, but Orodan’s hand went over his mouth, signalling him to keep it down.

“Such commotion. What is all the hissing about? Disagreeing over the feeding schedule? Worry not… we have plenty of cattle in the pens,” another vampire said coming up. “We shall-”

It saw Orodan and also reacted, only to return to normal as though it had seen nothing right after.

However, the fourth vampire was a different matter. It was a Grandmaster, and when it rounded the bend to spot Orodan, the reaction was a different one.

“What is… what are you?” it fearfully asked, terror in its voice as it began backing away. Its hands began clawing at its own face and eyes, madness seeping into its psyche at what it was seeing. “No, no! Stay away from me! I don’t want to see it!”

Vision of Purity clearly saw the vampire’s psyche beginning to strain and undergo a great deal of pressure. The revelation of a truth it was strong enough to perceive but not resilient enough to accept. Existential dread filled its mind.

Orodan’s sword immediately took its head off, granting it the mercy of death. However as he did, the effect stopping the other three younger vampires broke, and they suddenly saw him very well.

“Human!” one shrieked.

Orodan’s sword executed all three, but the clandestine act was up.

Silestor looked more than a bit wary himself.

“What did you do? I sensed no illusion…” the light mage said.

“There was none.”

“Then…?”

He didn’t understand the first thing about it. But his experience with Incipience of Infinity, what the Custodian and the Prophet said about him, and how that foreign Boundless One had reacted to him all began to add up.

Orodan wasn’t sure what to call himself, but it was apparent that looking too deeply into his soul caused a similar sort of madness that a mortal would be inflicted with by looking at a Boundless One. Particularly if he gazed directly into someone’s soul and also allowed them to view his.

Still, the effect didn’t seem all-powerful; the Grandmaster vampire had partially resisted it. But it was something to hone all the same. A new avenue of training.

“Sometimes, a mind which is too weak to comprehend something will rather pretend it doesn’t exist. An instinctive mechanism,” Orodan said. “Now come, that scuffle was certainly heard, and you didn’t cast a spell to silence the noise either.”

“Can you blame me? You’ve displayed one unnatural ability after another,” Silestor said. Though, the man was all about business as he readied himself for battle.

They descended deeper into the tunnels; however Vision of Purity told him that the remaining four vampires weren’t interested in coming to them anytime soon. Smart; an unknown foe capable of killing four vampires, among them a Grandmaster, was best not rushed towards.

“They’re digging in and preparing for a battle,” Orodan informed. “The necromancers are raising the dead and the cultists are preparing a ritual.”

“Damn it… damn it! Let’s retreat and call for reinforcements!” Silestor suggested.

“I’m not leaving the captives behind,” Orodan declared. “No ritual sacrifices will happen today.”

The light mage shook his head.

“If the ritual was ready, they would’ve sacrificed the captives already. That they haven’t means they still have preparations to do,” Silestor explained. “Human sacrifices to generate energy are the simplest part for a ritual of demonic summoning. Properly preparing it though, is another thing. The materials are expensive, and the time needed to get it right is exceedingly lengthy. On the other hand, if we rush them, they might trigger it early without safeguards. An outcome which would kill them as surely as it would us. We’ll need far more forces here to prevent a devil rampaging throughout the county.”

“Devils are no tougher than any other foe,” Orodan said. “I’m going in. Remain here if you wish, Silestor.”

“Damn it Orodan!”

The man protested but came along all the same.

They rounded a few corners before finally entering a large subterranean chamber. It was here that an army of raised undead, cultists, vampires and necromancers awaited the two of them.

“Dogs of the Cathedral! I see the famed Silestor Lumenarin presents himself before us. Even with the tapestry of fate as it is, you’ve still managed to find us? That is quite… vexing,” a gaunt necromancer spoke, irritation in his voice. He was at the Grandmaster-level, and the horde of raised minions looked to be under his command. He then gestured to a grand ritual array behind him. “We have a ritual of demonic summoning here, ready to call forth not just any demon… but an Arch-Devil!”

“You fiend! To think your pathetic band can control an apex ruler of the hells is pure hubris at best and fatal arrogance at worst!” Silestor yelled. “Not only will you die, but the county will face terrible damage.”

