“I have to wear it the whole time, then?” Erick took off the belt, and felt drained. “Ohh. That’s a… That’s strange.”

Carnelia said, “Wearing it all the time is the only way to keep the benefits, yes.”

Erick looked at the belt. He thought. He asked, “Do you have Strength rings? Or something easier to wear and not have to take off?”

Carnelia gestured to the rings and jewelry in the glass case three steps to the right. “Over here.” She pulled out a steel ring with one thumb-nail sized, red spherical gem. “This one is 10 Strength and is 500 gold, or 450 for you. Wearing more than one magical ring on one hand will cause destructive resonance.”

The price just kept going up; likely because there were so many fewer gems used in this one’s construction. There were at least 10 gems in the belt, and that gave 30 Strength. One gem here gave 10 Strength. This one gem must have a much better enchantment than the belt.

Erick looked to the belt, and then to the ring. The ring… He could certainly wear that all the time.

“I’ll take the ring.”

Carnelia smiled softly, and did a small curtsy. “As you wish, Archmage.”

After Carnelia resized the ring with [Metalshape], and after Erick paid for the ring with his Mage’s Guild badge and some paperwork, Erick walked out of Ruby’s Reds with a subtle red ring on his left hand, pointer finger. He felt a lot stronger, like he was in the prime of his life. Though he didn’t suddenly grow muscles, he felt healthier in a very primal way.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 39, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 659,855,559/10,233,415,500

Class: 3/6

Points: 15

HP

617/900

600

MP

900/900

6000 per day

Strength

20

+10

[30]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

30

+0

[30]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

His HP was already ticking up.

- - - -

Erick stopped by the bank on his way home and picked up three grand-rads at the bank.

This was the first time Erick had seen a grand-rad. He did not expect to be given what he was given.

All three of the grand-rads were slightly different, and none of them resembled the marquise cut of a thumbnail-bone-sized 10 mana rad, or the thumbnail-sized 5 mana rad. Grand-rads were each unique, and all three of the ones the bank had given Erick were palm-sized; each of them looking like a dozen different crystal-clear gems cut for maximum brilliance, all perfectly mushed together. There were no seams in these jewelers' nightmares.

According to Erick's enchanting books, all he’d need to do to recharge his rod of [Treat Wounds] was to store them together in an open-air environment. So that's what he was going to do.

- - - -

Erick stored the rod of [Treat Wounds] with two of the three grand-rads in a stone bowl on the kitchen table. After making himself some coffee, Erick got down to reading Sizzi’s journal in the sun room. It was light reading, mostly just tiny doodles and a list of check boxes, separated into bigger boxes with a date written large in the upper corner. Sometimes there were notes, but most of the time there were just boxes in boxes, either with check marks, or not.

The first page of the journal listed what the boxes meant.

{_} mana cost

[_] same familiar

[_] imbue at range, or a multi-summon

[_] slow decay

[_] all normal abilities

[_] acceptable shape

(_) total abilities

At the beginning of the journal, Sizzi was consistently hitting 2 out of her 5 goals. Toward the end, she was hitting 3 or 4 out of the 5. This journal looked like it only covered 4 years, though. There were a few notes here and there, and Erick read them, but the notes were all about the weirder results. She recorded the Script Spell box of each interesting result, but most of those Script Spell boxes were rather boring.

And then Erick found the entry for the 3 meter tall collection-of-fangs that hit all 4 of Sizzi’s big requirements. It had failed the proper shape requirement, of course. But beyond that, there were a few other obviously terrible parts to the spell that made the whole thing untenable.

Summon Xerzeril, medium range, 417 mana + Variable.

Summon a Xerzeril to do your bidding.

Xerzeril persist until killed or dismissed.

All Xerzeril are the same creature; to know one is to know them all.

Maximum 10 Xerzeril; summoning more than 10 will cause the least controlled to wander completely out of your control.

Imbue your Xerzeril with spells, wherever they are. Variable

See through the eyes of your Xerzeril. Variable

Communicate telepathically with your Xerzeril. Variable

Sizzi had also taken the time to draw several pictures of her Xerzeril.

It looked just like the Black Spiker; the one that had chased Erick and Jane in the Crystal Forest.

Erick frowned, mumbling to himself, “Either someone else created a Xerzeril, or that thing in the Forest was Mel’s. Since it chased us so methodically when it could have easily caught us… probably the second option. Maybe even both.” Erick set Sizzi's journal down. He sighed, “Like a lost dog chasing after its human.”
