“20g for the normal textbooks, 117 for the other two. The advanced ones are put out by the Arcanaeum Consortium, and are updated every five years.” Tamarim grinned, saying, “I cannot wait to see what next year’s edition holds. They’re probably going to have to switch to new editions every year for a while.” Tamarim stilled. He chuckled. He smiled as he said, “Maybe... There’ll be new editions every year for the rest of my life.”

Erick laughed as he collected his books into his shoulderbag. “Thanks, Tamarim. Charge my account?”

“Of course, Archmage.”

- - - -

Erick stood under a [Weather Ward] just outside of the temple in the farms. Valok, Apogough, Krakina, and Poi stood nearby. Platinum rain fell all around them in a very peculiar pattern, because the sky was a checkerboard of silver clouds and blue, for miles and miles around; well past the edge of the farms. Erick felt his mana strain, gradually dipping down. It was actually difficult to maintain this configuration, even with all of his modifiers and Sculpt Spell. He let his [Exalted Storm Aura] flex back to almost normal; clouds flowed together, slowly. Erick tried to keep the cloud mostly out of Spur. But just to make sure...

Erick cast a [Scry], high into the air, then rushed it up, through the glimmering storm. He broke the upper surface and turned the [Scry] eye around, to look down.

Looking down from on high, the silver storm looked like a moon being eclipsed by Spur; like someone had taken a bite out of a cookie. The edges of the cloud were well past the farmland, and even with his initial guesses to correct for the new edge of the storm, he was raining in the city; Erick made minor adjustments here and there so the spell stayed out of Spur. This was much easier than the checkerboard pattern; that was just showing off. Erick could hold this new configuration without any problems at all.

Erick came back to himself, and said, “It’s sorted, now. We won’t have to move the temple.”

Krakina said, “Show off! Sculpt Spell, yes?”

Erick smiled. “I switched out some things after that accident.”

“This is good.” Krakina nodded, saying, “I have Sculpt Spell, too. It is a good choice! Much better than whatever nonsense you were doing before.” She pointed to the sky with a wing, saying, “That square pattern was impressive, though.”

Apogough said, “I agree.”

Valok said, “We’ll need to talk about increasing the size of the farms.”

“We’re already meeting all of our orders.” Apogough said, “We can increase the cattle pasture, though. Things are getting tight there and my father is looking to expand.”

“Then we'll have more mimics to deal with.” Valok looked out across the rainy land. “This is a lot of land to defend.”

Erick said, “Do you need me to clear out the mimics every day?”

Valok shook his head. “No. The Adventuring Guild is packed; there’s more and more people coming to Spur every day, and a lot of them start off hunting mimics. Some of them always show up bright and early to kill the mimics that have moved near the farms. The problem, is at night, when the mimics come into the farms and the only defense is the Guard.”

Krakina chanced, “Pasture land should tie the mimics up long enough for them to not get too far?”

“I agree.” Apogough said, “Since we can’t build walls, let’s try pasture land for a while. We’re not going to forgo this opportunity.”

“Agreed,” Valok said.

“How are the monster cows coming along, anyway?” Erick asked.

“Rather well.” Apogough said, “There was that one that got turned into jerky, but it tasted great, so… There wasn’t even any problems with the butchering, because it was automatically [Cleanse]ed. There’s a small debate over whether it was ethical to kill the animal that way, but some people are weird about how they like to butcher animals. It died practically instantly, so those people are in the minority.”

Krakina said, “Those people were just mad they didn’t get to sell the kill rights.”

“Enough chatting.” Valok said, “Good work, Erick; now we gotta do the same.”

"See you later," Erick said.

Valok started walking away. Krakina and Apogough each gave a farewell nod to Erick before they followed Valok down the path, each to their own jobs.

Erick and Poi went to the temple. Under a stone roof, out of the rain, Erick took out his beginner enchanter book and began reading, while platinum rain fell all around, and the sounds of joyful cows mooing rounded out a peaceful farmland ambiance. He used [Scry] occasionally to check and see if his aura was raining across town. It was. He pulled back his aura a bit here and there; [Exalted Storm Aura] mostly stayed in place.

Sometimes people popped his [Scry] eye if he got too close; sometimes they waved.

He didn’t [Scry] for very long; only long enough to ensure the rain was where it needed to be. The rest of the time, he read.

- - - -

… how to construct a rhyme in Ancient Script, yes, yes. Erick had used this schema many times, but seeing it laid out before him in an academic setting was quite different than what he had been doing. Apparently, proper enchanting created a resonance between the rhyme and the spell. Ancient Script was used for multiple reasons, but also because all the words sounded so much alike that this helped to reinforce that resonance…

Erick read that chapter a few times.

… spell circles to enchant force-based spells, or healing magic, or mana alterings, all of them slightly different, because this is how magic propagates…

… this is how magic resonates...

How mana propagates and resonates? Eh. Sure. Erick rolled with that reasoning, though he had no idea what it actually meant.

… shaping spells are difficult to put into a wand, and this is why…

… mental imagery, yadda yadda yadda...

That made sense. In Erick’s experience, Shaping spells required a lot of mental imaging. It made sense that Shaping spells did not take well to being enchanted, because enchanted objects were static replicas of an enchanter’s ability.

… Base Stat enhancements are done like this…

Oh!

Oh! Enhancement enchantments. Now this was interesting. Hmm. If Erick was understanding this right, creating a Stat enhancement enchantment was about creating a resonance between the enchanter’s own Stat and trapping that resonance inside a suitable item. Good materials for this trapping included diamonds, at the very bottom of the list, then there were rubies, or other red gems, for the physical stats, or sapphires, or other blue gems, for the mental stats. Perfectly white pearls were the best for all enhancement, though.

Well that seemed completely arbitrary!

Erick switched to the more advanced tomes…

… And almost instantly went back to the textbooks. The tomes were chock full of diagrams and numbers and math. So much math.

Veird might not be as technologically advanced as Earth, but they certainly had a lot of math. That graph looked like calculus, that other graph looked like sine and cosine stuff. Tangents and areas plotted out in three dimensions, spheres and bouncing internal waves based on— Erick was out of his league.

Enchanting was a lot of math, and Erick appreciated all of that, but he could not do this level of math.

Erick quickly went through the table of contents and found the section on enhancement enchantments.

… He read for a while, switching back and forth between books, trying to understand what he was reading. After a while, he did discover something that he might have to ask a real mage about, because, like he had guessed, using colored stones to ensure a better enchantment might actually be correct, but not because of the color.

Erick had a working theory, but revealing it would be revealing the nature of light.

The resonances of the four different stats were all different, and each of them had a secondary resonance past the first that translated into the actual MP or HP or either Regen stat. To create an enhancement enchantment was to replicate a portion of one’s own matching resonance inside a gem. The various colors of red matched Strength, Vitality, HP, and HP regen, while the various colors of blue matched Willpower Focus, MP, and MP regen.

To sum it up: Base Stats either had a resonance that was predominately Red, or Blue, and thus, those types of gems helped to resonate with those Base Stats.

There was a reason clear diamonds were poor, but acceptable, enchanting items, and that was because they picked up on all resonances equally. Diamonds took a very skilled enchanter to get them properly enchanted. There was a reason pearls were great, and that was because they were, firstly, something that bridged the gap between magic and flesh, and secondly, they were opaque, and blocked out all other resonances. The second factor was actually both a drawback and a bonus, because it took a lot of skill to press the desired resonance into the pearl, but once it was in there, it stuck around for a long time. The first factor, with pearls bridging a gap between magic and flesh, was because they were very, very similar to a rad, and that boosted all resonances up, doubling the effectiveness of the enhancement enchantment.

One factor all gems had in common, though, was that perfect spheres were best.

To make a gem hold an enchantment, you needed to ‘skip’ the enchantment around the interior of the gem. Anything that prevented this perfect containment of the desired resonance, from interior flaws, to outside edges, would weaken the enchantment, and cause it to fail faster than it would otherwise.

Because, what enhancements were doing, was increasing a person’s resonance with a Stat in a specific way. ‘Equipping’ or ‘using’ that enhancement would eventually break down an enchantment past the point of emergence into Reality, as a person’s personal magical resonance was always shifting, while an enchantment was static.

But if a mage enchanted their own gear, then the resonance between a mage and their gear degraded much slower than someone just going to a store and buying an enchantment. Enchanting your own gear also made repairing that gear much easier...

Erick was going back through all of the books for the fourth time, when Poi stepped up to the side.

Erick turned to him. “Uh?”

“We’ve been here for an extra hour, sir.” Poi gestured to the farms. People were still farming. “Though I don’t think they mind.”

Erick turned off the rain, stretching as the mana drain on his body relaxed. He said, “I’ve got some questions for some enchanters.” He began packing away his books. “You know anyone besides Ulrick Ulrick? Though I think I’ll go there first.”

“I would have recommended him, anyway, sir.”

- - - -

‘Ulrick's Unusuals’ was located at the end of Market Street, near the wall, which should have been a dark part of town because of all the tall, narrow buildings, but it was not. Lightwards of all kinds lit the area with multicolored glows; some of them streetlights, some of them new businesses that had opened up since the last time Erick had been this way. Erick looked around at all the new shops, then opened the door under Ulrick’s large glowing business sign, and walked in. The store was as full of enchanted knives, wands, and rods as it was all the other times Erick had been to see the man, or to buy one of those rods of [Treat Wounds]—

Oh. That reminded him: he needed to pick up some of those grand-rads at the bank and store his rod of [Treat Wounds] next to the grand-rads, so that it could recharge.

— Ulrick kept under thicker glass, toward the back of the showroom floor. The showroom was empty right now; Erick was the only one in the store besides the pinkscale cashier behind the counter, named Soux. She smiled as Erick walked to her.

“Greetings, Archmage,” said Soux. “How can I help you?”

“Just wanted to ask Ulrick a few questions about enchanting. Is he in? Would he mind talking for a little while? I’ll buy some desserts and teas at that new shop across the way. It looks nice.”

Tealscale Ulrick stepped out from his workshop in the room behind the counter, saying, “I thought I heard your voice. I’m ready for lunch. I’ll pick the place; let’s go.”

Erick smiled. “Following you, then.”

- - - -

Ulrick picked an upscale place located on the fifth floor of a building on Market Street. The restaurant was built high up enough to see over the city walls, with a large view that went from the northeast, to the west, to the south. It also looked expensive. There were only six tables in view, and all of them were semi-private, with ferns or ornate wooden dividers or architecture separating them.

Before Erick knew it, a goldscale server had guided Erick and Ulrick to a table beside a large window, the farms of Spur stretching out to the west; vivid green and golden wheat under a blue sky, surrounded by the browns of the Crystal Forest. Erick had vivid flashbacks of his first time talking to Anhelia, until—

“I’m paying, so order whatever you want. They can make anything.” Ulrick spoke to the server, “I’d like the lunch platter, as usual.” He said to Erick, “It’s a little bit of everything on their menu; they had fried potatoes the last time I was here two days ago.”

“I’ll have the same.” Erick added, “With some fried chicken?”

Goldscale said, “As you wish, sir. And to drink?

Ulrick said, “A bottle of Crim’s Son’s Red.”

The server bowed and walked away.

Ulrick smiled, sighing, looking out to the west. “It’s so nice to see the farms so green. And huge! I hope its going well out there. I saw that checkerboard stunt at the beginning and I have a bet going; Class Ability change, right?”

Erick chuckled. “Yeah. Sculpt Spell.”

Ulrick smacked one hand into the other. “I knew it!”

“They’re going to expand the pasture land for now, so it should get even greener in a few days.”

“It’s really beautiful to see this change, Erick—”

The server arrived with a bottle of red wine. He uncorked it, and began pouring into two cut-crystal glasses. Ulrick took his; Erick took his, and remembered his first trials with light wards. He loved that green cut crystal one he made; he needed to make a few more and scatter them across the house. In fact, he could redo all the lights in his house. They were all kinda plain.

Ulrick held up his glass. “To a wonderful, green Spur.”

Erick smiled, holding up his glass. “To a green Spur.”

The wine tasted nice; a bit bitter, but it was a good red, and Ulrick seemed to like it.

“So! Enchant me with your questions.”

Erick smiled, and began, “Why the focus on gems? Why not use colored glass? I see it in the church’s stained glass windows. It can’t be that hard to make.”

