Master Pacore the Deathless’ Point of View:

As my men tear my tent down for me, I adjust my armor and take in the morning air. The smell of the forest enhances the spring breeze.

I hear the forest birds chirping in the distance, creating a soothing melody anybody would enjoy.

“Do the flying rats never shut up?!” Young Jason complains nearby. “Is it too much to ask for some peace and quiet?” Poor Jason curses, starting to develop dark circles under his eyes from the lack of sleep he’s been getting.

“Still not used to the sounds of the forest, I see,” I chuckle at the city boy. “You know the birds won’t hurt you, right?”

Young Jason frowns and looks like he's considering stabbing me. "Not all of us are invincible as you, sir," Jason venomously retorts. "When something snaps a branch outside my tent, it worries me. If I had your stats, I wouldn’t care about the noises at night either. It must be nice knowing nothing can hurt you."

I give young Jason a sad smile. “I wish that were true, Jason. But there are still many things in this world that can kill me.” Looking out into the forest, I remember the dragon’s breath and how much damage I suffered from blocking it, it was the closest I’ve come to death in a long time, even more so than my fight with General Pitz.

Jason nervously looks around our camp, thinking I’m talking about the invisible beasts the village head warned us about. “Do you think they’re watching us?” He nervously asks me.

Jason is too preoccupied scanning the woods to see the smile on my face. "Perhaps, what do you think, General Pitz?" I ask my silent companion standing next to me.

“There’s nothing out there," General Pitz dryly remarks. Even suppressed as she is, General Pitz would be the first of us to notice anything dangerous trying to creep up on us.

The general’s words calm young Jason down. “That’s good to hear. I’ve been expecting some sort of monster to pop out of nowhere since we entered the forest.”

"I know, it's too bad we haven't seen one yet," I grin at Jason. General Pitz hums in agreement; she must be interested in the invisible spiders as well.

“The two of you are nuts,” Jason nervously scans the tree line once more before my men finish packing up our supplies.

I offer General Pitz a hand to help her back up on the jelen. Usually, she’d swat my outstretched hand away, but General Pitz has reluctantly started to accept my help over the last few days and lets me help her mount the animal. It’s fun to tease her at times, but that doesn’t mean I don’t respect her.

Since we started heading to Spotted Creek Village, I’ve noticed a slight change in her emotions. The general tries to keep up a neutral facade around me, knowing I’m always keeping an eye on her. But in rare moments, I see an excited look on her face. A look that’s appearing more frequently the closer we get to the village.

The general’s excitement has only fueled my curiosity, and after pushing hard yesterday, we should make it to the village in under an hour if we hustle.

“Why would anyone build a village this far out?” Young Jason complains as we start trekking down the forest trail. “No one travels this deep into the forest.”

“I wouldn’t say that. This trail has seen more travel than most of the villages we’ve been to. If you look closely, you can see the signs that a cart has been through here regularly. And if it weren't used, this trail would be much more overgrown than it is." Jason is surprised upon hearing this and tries to look for the details he missed as I point them out.

I mention it out loud, but I notice this trail has obviously been frequently used. One particular set of wagon tracks is especially deep, meaning something heavy was delivered to the village recently.

Our trip remains uneventful until one of my forward scouts slowly drifts back to the middle of our formation, where young Jason and I are walking next to General Pitz on her jelen.

“Sir,” the scout motions to the side of the trail.

“I noticed,” I tell him. The scout nods and moves back into position

“Noticed what?” Jason curiously asks me.

I ignore Jason's question and look up at General Pitz. We make eye contact with each other, trying to read each other's minds. I make no effort to hid my happy expression while General Pitz remains stone-faced under my scrutiny. Her only tell is that she's gripping the jelen's reigns too tightly.

Jason notices our stare-down and asks worriedly, “what is it?”

“A scout,” I finally tell him, without turning away from the general.

"So, every village has had scouts waiting for us." I don't look at Jason, but I can hear the confusion in his voice.

“Those were hunters watching the roads,” I explain to him. “The person who just spotted us was above level 50, not something you usually see in a small village.”

General Pitz decides to break our eye contact, choosing to stare ahead of us rather than pretend she doesn't know anything.

I briefly consider this might be some sort of trap to recover the general, but I quickly dismiss that possibility. We’re too far away from any of Olebert’s forces, and visiting this village wasn’t even on our original schedule. That doesn’t take away the fact someone above level 50 was watching this road.

“Level 50!” Jason exclaims.

I can understand his shock. Even in Scholl, where strength is revered and rewarded, it's rare for villagers to reach level 50. If a person reaches level 40 in their lifetime, it's because they worked hard for it. But for a villager to reach level 50, it takes talent, drive, and altogether opportunity. Unless a villager joins the army and receives help, they rarely pass the level 50 mark.

The squad I brought with us consists of two scouts around level 50, fourteen soldiers around level 45, a mage at level 53, another mage at level 57, their two guardians at level 62 and 64, while the commander is level 72.

It takes on average five years of training for a villager to reach the levels required to be a soldier and even longer to reach a higher-ranking position.

As soon as someone reaches level 50, they're considered superior, and the nobility tries everything they can to draw in such individuals. So, why is someone like that out here?

“Men, keep an eye out. This isn't a typical village we're heading to!"

“Sir!” They all sound off together, acknowledging my orders. Jason pales a bit and moves closer to me, knowing I’m the safest person to stand next to should something go wrong.

A spark of excitement lights a fire in my chest.

What kind of village produces a level 50 woodsman? I can’t wait to find out!

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

“That was a nice little warm-up run,” I joke to Mom.

"Funny," mom wheezes out as she wipes the sweat from her face.

We've just finished our morning run together, and I'm about to start round two, where I use my movement skills. Mom has leveled up her Running skill quite a bit since we started running together, but she's not to the point she can keep up with me if I use any of my skills.

“You think we can finish brothers tassel when I get back?” I ask mom as she starts to catch her breath.

"Maybe," mom answers coyly. "If we don't finish your brother’s tassel today, we can always finish it during your next break." Mom smirks at me, knowing my dislike for sewing. Give me a hammer or any other tool, and I'm good to go; ask me to sew a three-inch seam, and my Dexterity immediately drops to zero.

“Why do I get the feeling your stalling on purpose?” I narrow my eyes at Mom.

“I don’t know what you mean,” Mom cocks her head to the side, smiling like a saint.

Now I know she’s stalling!

I'm about to make a snappy remark when a bell starts ringing in the distance.

“Is that?” I ask Mom as her eyes widen in fear. A few other villagers going about their day nearby freeze for a second before running off in a panic.

That’s the emergency bell ringing! There is only one thing that can mean.

Scholl is approaching the village!

"Get inside, Mom!" I fling open our door with my right hand and push mom inside with my left. Once she is inside, I follow her in and run to my room, not bothering to remove my shoes.

“Aaliyah!” Mom chases after me and stands in my doorway, watching me throw on my armor. “Stay here with me,” she pleads as I put my helmet on.

"I can't," I tell her as I grab my axe resting nearby. I double-check my dagger and sword are correctly fastened before I move to leave my room.

Mom blocks the doorway with tears in her eyes. “Please,” she begs in a quiet voice.

I swiftly move over to mom and wrap her in a hug. “I have to go,” I whisper in her ear.

Her grip tightens around me, not wanting to let go, so I pick her up and move her out of my way. I gently separate myself from my mother and make for the front door.

“Lock the door after me!” I tell her, slamming the door close as soon as I'm outside before Mom can argue with me.

I wish I could stay with her, but I know where I need to be.

Using Double Step, I run towards Camden's house. There's been plenty of discussions should Scholl come to our village and everyone knows where they should be. Those with non-physical builds should hide in their homes while everyone else gathers at Camden’s house to be given a weapon.

When I arrive at the headman’s house, people have already gathered and started helping to drag all the weapons out from Camden’s basement. The spears I made are being passed around along with the other weapons that were stored with them. As villagers arm themselves, I see Camden wearing a set of worn leather armor, standing next to his family and Ronald.

All three of Camden's children are wearing nicer sets of armor, especially Sandra. Mages are the first ones targeted in a fight, after all.

My special armor and the large axe I'm carrying stick out in the crowd, and I'm quickly noticed.

“Aaliyah!” Sandra sees me and calls me over.

Villagers step aside as I make my way over to the small group.

“They’re here?” I ask as soon as I stand in front of Camden.

“They are,” Camden says in a somber tone. “Ronald spotted a whole platoon of them approaching.”

“They noticed me,” Ronald briefly mutters.

Shit! If they noticed Ronald when he was hiding, then they have to be around his level or higher. Why the hell are people like that coming to our village? If one or two showed up the alarm wouldn’t have been raised, but a whole platoon, seriously!?

“How is everything going here?” I ask, trying to keep the nervousness from my voice.

“People are grabbing their weapons and moving towards the front of the village. We’ll try to keep Scholl from entering,” Camden hastily explains.

“How far out are they?”

“Twenty minutes,” Camden tells me.

“You should head over and start organizing people into ranks,” I suggest to Camden. “I’ll go get Master.”

“That won’t be needed.” I’m surprised to hear Master’s voice.

We all turn to see Del walking over, wearing his armor and carrying his largest hammer.

“I wasn’t sure you would be joining us,” Camden looks relieved to see Master.

Del scoffs at Camden's remark. "I'm here to watch over my apprentice, not to help the village," Master says that but I don't think anyone believes him.

“No matter the reason, I’m grateful,” Camden briefly bows his head.

I expect Master to demand a proper thank you, stone kin style, but he doesn’t. Master Del just turns to me. "Stay next to me, kid. Your mother will kill me if something happens to you."

“She’ll kill both of us,” I lightly joke.

Master and I share a smile which is quickly interrupted by Camden. “We need to head to the front of the village.”

Time is of the essence, so our group of people rushes to the front of the village together. Camden Starts organizing everybody based on their weapons. The people who were given a sword from Camden's collection are also given one of the bucklers I made and put on the front lines. Most of the villagers are armed with the spears I made, and Camden must have considered the possibility of Scholl attacking our village because his plan isn’t something you’d think of on the fly.

Camden orders those with axes to chop down the nearby trees and stack them to create a rudimentary wall. He instructs the villagers with spears to stand behind the logs and stab anyone who tries to get over them. It won't do much against people with high physical stats, but every little bit helps.

While everyone is scrambling around preparing everything, I see Dad join the party in his thickest tunic, wielding his best axe. Dad scans the crowd and sees me looking at him. He walks over to me, and I can see the sad look on his face.

“Mom?” I knowingly ask him.

Dad nods his head. "It was hard to leave her in that state." He must have gone back home before he came here and saw mom.

“Aaliyah, if something should happen, I want,” dad starts telling me in a somber voice.

I stop dad before he can raise any flags. "Whatever you want to tell me, we can discuss it after we apologize to mom for leaving her home."

Dad looks like he wants to say something else but stops when he sees my resolve. “Later then,” he mumbles.

Dad still looks tense, so I help him the only way I know how. I lightly elbow him, "you looked pretty heroic there for a second. Show that to mom, and we'll get off scot-free."

Dad smiles a little. “I’ll think about it.”

The two of us work together to help erect more log barriers until another scout runs up the trail and informs everyone that Scholl is five minutes out.

