The drinks did help, but barely. The Goblins sat in a corner of the room, their injuries healed once again with Erin’s potions. Jelaqua shook her head grimly as Erin finished the story.
“And so you invited them in. Why am I not surprised?”
“It’s just—they saved my life, Jelaqua.”
Erin spread her hands helplessly. Jelaqua turned and glared at the Goblins. They flinched. There was a clear distribution of power there, and they could tell they were on the losing end of it. The other two Halfseekers looked just as grim.
“We like all kinds of species Erin, but our group has its problems with Goblins. You do know we lost half our members to one?”
Jelaqua’s statement made the other Goblins sit up at their table. Moore’s eyes were shadowed as he watched them. Seborn’s gaze could have fried the egg in front of him. Erin waved her hands, trying to defuse the situation.
“I know, I know! But these are good Goblins, guys! Just give me a moment. They might not be here long. I’m just feeding them!”
“Right. Well, you’d better explain that to the others.”
Jelaqua glanced towards the door. Erin looked as well.
“What others?”
“Your usual crowds. Who else? I saw the Horns finishing up their request at the Adventurer’s Guild a while back. They’ll be here soon too, and a bunch of people from Liscor. You’d better have a good explanation ready for them, too.”
“Oh no. Wait here. Drassi! Go to Celum and make sure no one comes through! Jelaqua, Goblins—stay here!”
Erin ran for the door. She threw it open and saw the Horns of Hammerad and a number of other people trudging towards her inn through the snow. Her dinner crowd, as usual. Erin raced down the hill towards them.
“We’re closed! Go away! Shoo!”
The people heading towards her inn hesitated as Erin ran towards them. She shouted, waved her arms. Ceria frowned as Erin shouted at the others.
“Erin? What’s going on? What do you mean you’re closed?”
“Does this mean there is, in fact, no food?”
Pisces peered at Erin, looking concerned. She grinned desperately.
“That’s right! No food! We have a—a thing going on. A thing with the food! I’m sorry, but you’ll have to come back later! Not you, though.”
She grabbed Pisces as he turned around and dragged him back. The other Horns of Hammerad clustered around Erin as she whispered to them.
“There’s a minor thing in the inn, okay? We’ll all go up and nobody scream, okay?”
“Goblin!”
Every head turned. A Drake who’d approached the inn from a different spot on the hill backed out of the door, scales pale. He turned to them and ran down the hill, waving his arms and screaming.
“Hobs! There’s five Hobgoblins in there! It’s an invasion! Run for your lives!”
Erin groaned. She saw her guests turn and began fleeing towards Liscor’s gates. Alerted by the commotion, the guards on the walls began shouting down at the people below. In moments, horns were blowing.
Ceria looked at Erin. Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Pisces did likewise. Slowly, Erin turned and grinned weakly at them. Ceria crossed her arms.
“Erin. What have you done?”
 
—-
 
“Human!”
Erin flinched as the door to her inn slammed open. The five Redfang warriors would have jumped to their feet, but the two adventurer teams kept them seated. They tensed as a group of heavily-armed guardsmen led by Zevara herself stormed into the room. The Drake Watch Captain halted when she saw the Hobgoblins, and then rounded on Erin.
“I didn’t believe it when I heard it. I thought even a Human, even you wouldn’t be stupid enough for this. Harboring five Hobgoblins? Now? While the Goblin Lord is marching on our cities? Have you lost your mind?”
“I can explain!”
Erin strode forwards quickly and put herself between Zevara and the Goblins. She saw Relc standing behind Zevara with a group of Drakes in full plate armor. He and the other guardsmen were ready for a fight. But it couldn’t come to that.
“Speak quickly, Human.”
Zevara lashed her tail as she stared at the Hobgoblins. Her sword was half out of its sheath, and the [Guardsmen] behind her looked ready to fight. Relc’s eyes smoldered as he stared at the Goblins. They were tense, but they waited for Erin to speak.
She explained as fast as she could. Zevara was incredulous.
“You were attacked by goats?”
“Eater Goats, Captain. They have to be. Those buggers are nasty. If there’s a herd coming down from the High Passes—”
One of the guardsmen murmured to Zevara. She turned to Erin.
“We’ll inspect the bodies. But if these Hobs fought them, so what? Monsters fight monsters.”
“But they did it to save the village! I’m sure of it! They attacked the goats when they were about to jump over the walls! Look, Captain, I know they’re Goblins, but remember Rags?”
Behind Zevara, Relc twitched. Zevara glanced at him, then at Erin.
“I remember a group of Goblins starting to raid the roads around Liscor before they vanished. If that’s your argument—”
“These Goblins aren’t a danger! I promise!”
“Hah! And I’m supposed to let five Hobgoblins sit here while—”
“It’s five Goblins.”
“Five Hobs! Do you understand how dangerous that is? A Silver-rank team wouldn’t be a match for them! And why are they without a tribe? They could be spies, saboteurs—”
“Why did they sit in my inn and eat food for the last two hours, then?”
Zevara hesitated. She eyed the Goblins. One waved at her. Another raised his middle finger.
“It could be a Goblin ploy—”
“Oh come on. Really?”
Some of the guardsmen shifted behind Erin. One murmured.
“She has a point, Captain. That would be stupid, even for a Goblin—”
“They might have heard there’s a softhearted Human with a fondness for Goblins around here. Maybe they lured the Eater Goats here themselves. I don’t know, but I’m not having them here! And you, why would you think this is a good idea?”
The Drake Watch Captain glared at Erin. She glared back.
“Haven’t you seen the sign outside my inn? Didn’t you read what it says? It says, ‘no killing Goblins’!”
Zevara paused.
“That’s not—”
Erin glared at her. She rounded on the other Drakes and Gnolls in the Watch, raising her voice.
“Did you think that was a joke? That I wasn’t serious? I am. Unless the Goblin is attacking me or other people, or stealing or—or being a jerk, I won’t let you harm them.”
Zevara’s eyes narrowed dangerously.
“This is Watch business, Human. You may not be in Liscor, but you’re close enough to fall under our jurisdiction.”
“So what, you’ll kill them right here and now because you think they might be a threat?”
The Drake hesitated. She eyed the Goblins. They were watching her. At last, she nodded.
“That was our intent.”
All five Redfang warriors shifted at once. The Watch did likewise. Zevara held up a hand.
“We won’t have a fight here. I’d rather force these Goblins to leave the area than risk any deaths.”
Slowly, the Redfang Goblins relaxed their grips on their weapons. But Erin was the one who objected this time.
“You can’t.”
“What?”
“They’re starving. Can’t you see?”
She pointed at the Goblins. The Redfang warriors glanced at her in astonishment. Erin spread her hands.
“They were hungry when they came in, and I think they’re on the run. They aren’t allied with the Goblin Lord—I think they’re part of Rags’ tribe. Look, Captain Zevara, why can’t I let them stay in my inn for a day or two?”
Everyone was gaping at her. Zevara shook her head.
“You really are as crazy as Relc says. I won’t allow it.”
“Well, I won’t let you lay a hand on these Goblins! Give me a day or two and I’ll let them go—maybe out of Celum. But no one’s hurting them here.”
Zevara stared incredulously at Erin.
“And what will you do if we decide to move them? Stop us? By yourself?”
She glanced around the inn. Both the Halfseekers and the Horns of Hammerad were present, but they didn’t seem inclined to stand up for Erin the same way as they had before. Erin nodded.
“If I have to.”
Someone in the group of guards people laughed. Zevara stared at Erin.
“Stand aside. We’re removing the Goblins.”
Erin’s eyes narrowed.
“Try it.”
For a heart-thundering second, Zevara’s hand tightened on her sword’s hilt and every warrior in the room tensed. Then the door opened. Half a dozen swords cleared their sheaths, but the figure standing in the doorway made everyone hesitate.
“Enough. Watch Captain Zevara, stand down.”
Zel Shivertail stood in the doorway. He glanced around, pinning the Redfang warriors with a glance. The Drakes backed up and he strode forwards to speak with Zevara. The two Drakes bent their heads. Erin couldn’t hear anything, but she saw Zevara’s tail lashing and caught a few words.
“—on my authority—can’t be s—quite. The situation—won’t allow—follow orders.”
At last, Zevara turned. She looked like she was ready to blast Erin with flames, but she held back. She clenched her claws into fists and glared pure murder at the Goblins.
“If they hurt anyone, it’s on your head, Human!”
She whirled and stormed out of the room. Slowly, the guardsmen followed her. In the newfound stillness, Zel Shivertail looked at Erin. He sighed.
“A word, Miss Solstice?”
 
—-
 
They stood outside and spoke in the cold.
“Thank you for helping me. I don’t know what would have happened if you hadn’t.”
Zel inclined his head slightly. He glanced through a window into the inn, where the Redfang Goblins were still sitting, tense, watched by both adventurer groups.
“Truthfully, I don’t know if I should have. Goblins are dangerous, Miss Solstice.”
“I know that. But I think these ones are good. Why did you help me, by the way?”
Zel grimaced.
“Call it instinct. Not mine. Yours. You picked out Regrika Blackpaw and her associate’s treachery. If you can do that, perhaps you’re right about these Goblins. But truthfully, I have ulterior motives.”
“Which are?”
Erin studied Zel, but he didn’t meet her gaze.
“I’m sorry. But I can’t say. Regardless, I managed to convince Watch Captain Zevara to back down. However, if those Goblins cause any kind of disturbance—”
“I’ll make sure they won’t. And they won’t necessarily stay here. I just—I couldn’t leave them alone, you know?”
Erin shrugged helplessly. The Drake [General] eyed her and sighed.
“No, you really couldn’t, could you? Well, I will let you handle this at your discretion—however many misgivings I have. But if you…no. I’m afraid, though, that if you do intend to shelter the Goblins, I won’t be staying at the inn.”
“Why?”
Erin stared at him. Zel Shivertail paused.
“I fought Goblins back in the Second Antinium war, and countless times before and since. They’re monsters to me, I’m afraid. I wouldn’t be able to sleep under the same roof as them. I’m sorry. I’ve seen what they can do, and while I can trust your word…I’m sorry.”
He looked at Erin. She hesitated, and then nodded slowly.
“I get it. But I think…I think I will offer them a place to stay for now. I don’t think they have anywhere to go. And I…want to know about Rags.”
Zel nodded.
“In that case, I’ll move out before tonight. I wish you luck, Miss Solstice.”
He turned. Erin called out behind him.
“Why did you do it? Stand up for me? And why were you sure I’d give them a place to stay?”
Zel looked back.
“You’re kind to strangers, Erin Solstice. That’s all. And that’s not a bad thing. If you can prove some Goblins are worth living, well, who am I to stop you?”
Then he walked into the inn. After a second, Erin followed him.
 
—-
 
“Do you…have names?”
Erin sat with the Redfang Goblins. They stared at her, and glanced behind her. Zel Shivertail was talking quietly with Lyonette, who was upset with Erin, and he was talking to Mrsha, who was clinging to his leg. Sitting around the room were the Horns of Hammerad and the Halfseekers, who were both watching them as well.
Erin tried to ignore all of them. She focused on the Goblin ahead of her.
“I’m Erin. But you know that. Do you have names?”
They hesitated. The Goblins looked at each other, and shrugged. They weren’t proper names, not like Rags had. But they were something. Erin looked at Headscratcher and pointed to him.
“Okay, what’s yours?”
He scratched his head. She waited. The Goblin looked at her and scratched his head again.
“You don’t know?”
He shook his head and then pointed to it. He slowly and deliberately scratched his head.
“Headscratching?”
Pisces coughed. He cleared his throat as Erin looked at him.
“I believe, Miss Solstice, that the answer is far simpler. That is his name. And rather than Headscratching, I believe you would call him…Headscratcher?”
Headscratcher nodded in relief. Erin stared at him.
“What, really?”
The skepticism in her voice hurt more than any ridicule. Headscratcher drooped and Erin tried to reassure him.
“No, no, it’s a great name! I’m just surprised. You’re Headscratcher. That’s cool. And uh, what about you?”
She pointed at Shorthilt. The other Goblin began to pantomime as well. Erin’s brows furrowed as she tried to work his name out.
“Short. Right. I got that. Short…short…sword? No? Short hilt? Shorthilt? That’s your name?”
He gave her a short nod and stared challengingly at her. Erin sucked in her lips.
“Right. It’s uh, a good name! Very original. I think.”
Slowly, she went around the table, getting each name from each Goblin. Rabbiteater and Numbtongue were hardest to figure out, especially because Erin had neither rabbits nor numbing agents in her inn. But they got there.
“It’s nice to meet you all. Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Badapple—sorry, sorry! Badarrow, Rabbiteater, and Numbtongue, right?”
They all nodded. All four Goblins had repeatedly elbowed Numbtongue throughout the conversation, but he’d refused to open his mouth. Now Erin smiled at them. Goblin hearts did odd things in their chests and more than one Goblin poked at his heart experimentally.
“Good to meet you all. Sorry about everything earlier. Let’s do this properly. I’m Erin, this is Ceria, Pisces, Ksmvr, Yvlon—Drassi’s hiding in the kitchen. She’s the Drake. Lyonette and Mrsha are upstairs…Mrsha’s the cute little Gnoll. And uh, this is Jelaqua—”
The Selphid leaned over her table. She wasn’t smiling.
“Where is Garen Redfang? How do you know him?”
The Redfang warriors looked at her. Her eyes were fixed on them. Slowly, Headscratcher raised one finger. He pointed at himself and the others, spoke a word.
“Redfang.”
Erin stared blankly at Jelaqua. The Selphid frowned. Someone else spoke up.
“They must be his tribe.”
