Years ago:The song still echoes deep in his mind. He didn't quite remember where it came from, not from the Sister. She didn't have an understanding of simple songs and rhymes.Not the Brother. It wasn't crude enough.'Stone, too deep to shine. Bronze to smelt the soul. Silver to connect the ley line. Gold to control.'Yal hadn't thought of Silver in some time. Not since Lorsa's last visit.It made Yal think of the four.He of gold, Lustre- no, she went by Lorsa now (changes always escaped him), Lorsa of stone, Silver the silver, and the grump to the north.Thinking of that workaholic made Yal grimace. He was always cleaning up that fool's messes. First with holding the near-dead Dungeon network up when he was too busy. Yal held it up and kept the capital flourishing.Then the business with those Maidens.What on Brother had that Dungeon been thinking?Mayden the Bronze has basically forced that annoying slogan out of that town he was in, what was it called... Deowrant?"Made in Mayden!"It was enough to make Yal nauseous. But he did have to give Mayden credit, the Dungeon was so creative and clever he had made a false Dungeon over itself. A sort of false front.The locals had forgotten that below what they thought was a simple 26 floor Dungeon was a titan of a beast. He just wished Mayden stopped with that invitation he set out for people.'All those that enter may leave with gold or stay forever as fuel for the Smith's Forge'The nerve. His 'Gold' was all stamped with a caricature of Yal with a huge nose. He had seen those... those coins!Yal returned the favor obviously. He printed gem crusted books with detailed land maps that pretended Deowrant didn't exist.He also refused all tributes of the stuff coming out of Mayden's dungeon.Silver had once commented that the two of them were definitely family. For that smart remark, Gold turned entire sections of Silver's network into a golden hue. It had looked so much better, in his humble opinion.Then Lorsa would appear and smack them all. She always smacked them on the head of their cores. It always hurt.She was the eldest, even if her Dungeon had been utterly exposed and ruined after the Shattering.Even Dungeonless, they all aided her.He moved through his 101st floor with a frown. Thinking of the Shattering made him broody. He remembered how the land itself shook, how the Brother howled, how so many people cried out...How Lorsa had screamed.It was the Shattering that changed everything. It awoke something in the Sister. It awoke something and for the first time, their creator felt painful guilt. Then their plan was put into motion.Even Yal lost a little bit of his glow for a while. Still, it wasn't bad enough that Lorsa had been utterly exposed from the wound, but people had delved into her like parasites. She who was never meant to be tested.'The black box' was what the Brother called her."Enough," he commanded himself and turned in his opulent hall of mirrors and gold, admiring his avatar which had a long genderless appearance with angelic features. His nose was so slight, so angled it could never be called anything that related to huge, enormous, titan, giant, massive, humongous, and-He twitched and smoothed down his hair.So far, he wasn't impressed with the Sibling's plan.The only one they had released in the world so far, this 'Gamma' was good at chaos and that wasn't always a good thing. Or wait... did they plan on releasing this 'Beta' soon? He really ought to check his messages but he had so many from himself, praising his floors, his style, his gold, his small nose, his grace-He paused.Right, Gamma. That little toady had been in his Dungeon recently. He was brought here by the newest Queen. Yal wasn't impressed with her either but she had passed the test and gotten the crown. The only thing going for her was her clear love for gold which he could respect.It was extremely gaudy she would go on to earn the title 'Gold Queen'. He should have sued but he was benevolent and he was sure he ate any lawyers that wandered in.Yal would have guessed that was some time ago. Wasn't one of her children due to come in soon? Durent? Enduant?He was almost tempted to pull on Lorsa to ask for updates but Yal honestly did not care. He had so many new projects to make, creative traps, and more!He opened his gold Menu and eyed his to-do list."Forge a giant statue of my avatar pushing Mayden's down stairs, then make more but make them small enough to be marketable and fetch," he read. That would take time, he always had to start over to make Mayden's face even sadder each time."Item two: Contract a lawyer and sue the queen. There is only room enough for one golden queen and it's me," he nodded. He still had about... 94 contract slots left. He should have more but, a few years ago, Yal had gotten overly attached to an adventuring group called the 'Dazzling Beauties'.Right now, they lived on the 40th floor, stuck as golden statues. Another few years and he could even stop feeding them once they converted!Then there was Brilda.That one burned up ten contracts in one go.Lorsa insisted on it because she wanted to 'maintain' herself. It bugged Yal because maintaining a perfect sense of self while also converting them was costly. It only cost ten because the girl was nearly dead as it was.Yal offered to snip off childhood memories, her sense of duty, morals, and more to free up the cost, but Lorsa smacked him.It hurt.He was about to move on to his third item which was to test every mirror from floor 1 to current when he felt someone entering the Dungeon. The tinge of her revealed she was royal, but not by blood.In fact, the girl didn't have a single drop of hero or noble blood at all. Those sorts had been in Yal's Dungeon and his 'sparkle' didn't dim over the years. It was handy to know if he tormented someone's parents to see if their children had avoided their unfortunate features.Whole bloodlines went extinct because they just wouldn't stop breeding with each other. 'Extinct' because Yal intentionally turned off limiters on his lower floors to kill them. The memories of their webbed toes, fangled teeth, droopy noses...He felt faint.To be fair, he only killed the ones who thought they were the next chosen one. The lucky ones to get out and escape their family home he didn't see any issue.It was like cultivating roses and Yal so did see the capital as his garden.This new queen was a commoner. Her blood was new, it was wild of different histories. Tested by hardship and time.Still, he took a quick peek at her physically. She was a slender woman garbed in subtle clothes and tones. Not shabby by any means but there was something off about her."Great Dungeon, please... please, I beg a boon," she knelt and Yal was intrigued. He smelled drama.Was his favorite show 'Royals kill themselves over an ugly crown' about to get exciting?"I can't take this anymore. Please, make me disappear," she shook and Yal was let down.No blood vengeance? No deadly poison? No cries for a powerful sword to destroy Gamma? He was about to turn away when she continued."The man I am married to is a... pig. I bear children and sit at his side. All the while I hold a terrible secret," she said with a thick throat.Invisible ears perked, Yal pivoted on the spot and headed back towards her. He had to lean in really close to hear her next words."None of my children are the king's," she whispered. She pulled something out and it was a near empty vial of blood stored in one of those beautifully made phylacteries. It was so beautiful he wondered who the craftsman was..."I got this from the town of Deowrant, it's a special Dungeon item that ensures no blood inside will ever go bad," she explained as if trying to think through her own choices.Yal thickly swallowed and managed to smile.How... nice. She turned the thing over and the cap was a rather golden bird with a long... a very long beak.Yal was going to kill him."Brilda and Lorsa, they use a special power to enchant the blood. The last gift of my beloved, Durence. Lovers give each other a vial of their blood as the ultimate trust. This was his way of apologizing I suppose... they had magic to make the blood, well...Durence gave me a blessing if the chance came up but it's still rather-" she cut herself off and turned pink. Yal stared at her, not catching on."But even with their love and light, the king has eroded me. I am wrapped in golden silks that form a noose. I feel worse than I did when I begged for food. The cold in our bed makes those rough nights on a doorstep feel warm," she began to sob.Oh, she was leaking. Did he bring her a mop or a napkin? Yal didn't like messes."The elixirs of health the chemists make me no longer chase away the darkness. I can't 'feel' better as long as my demon shares my bed. I can't heal as long his words keep cutting me. I cannot shine if he is determined to bury me in despair," she went on."Have you tried murder?" he offered, appearing before her suddenly, and she jumped so far back she nearly flew."What?" she breathed."Murder. Death? Ending a living being. Taking an alive person and unaliving them. Surprise forever sleep? Helping their souls escape?" he listed, wondering if she was slow."He is guarded, even in his sleep," she said as if still in shock."Kill them too," Yal said simply."They did nothing wrong!" the woman said, sounding outraged now."They are preventing your current goals. I would call that 'obstruction of justice' but don't quote me. I still lack a lawyer," he said sadly."You're the avatar of the Royal Dungeon, but I've never seen... this form in any record," the queen admitted and Yal looked down at his beautiful self and the thick gold bathrobe he wore. It was something Brother had shown off and Yal just had to have one.Even if it did come from the scattered memories of those orbs he recently recovered from the demon world."Isn't it sublime? Don't you wish you were me?" Yal said with a hum as he rolled his shoulders."...Not at this moment," she said and Yal chalked it up to shock on her part. Soon, the grandness of his self would drive her mad with envy."So, do you desire powerful magic? Turn his royal jewels to hunks of gold?" he asked and she shook her head."Well, I was-""A cursed golden scimitar that will keep him alive no matter how many times you cut him up?" he said excitedly. She looked excited or horrified at that one.If you stumble upon this narrative on Amazon, be aware that it has been stolen from Royal Road. Please report it."Gods, no-""Swear to no god in my domain lest you wish to lose your tongue," Yal dropped all the excitement and fun in his tone and sounded like the ancient beast he actually was."O-Of course, great Dungeon. My apologies..." she stammered."Great! Now, how about a golden hive that makes bejeweled bees that will inject a deadly poison that will make the victim suffer for thirty days and nights with hives and the inability to see the color gold!" he went on with a clap of his hands."Can I live here?" she interrupted and he stared at her."No," he said with a shock."Please! I beg of thee!" she bowed again and Yal crossed his arms."You can beg of thee, bee, knees, and all things me, but the answer is no. You're not... symmetrical," he said, shivering."What do you mean? I have been called pretty and fair by many," the woman protested."And you should really go and thank them for their kind, if exaggerated, words," he gestured to the stairs back to the town."Beauty is in the eye of the beholder," she challenged."And I behold you, so off you go!" Yal insisted, getting ready to vanish back into his Dungeon."You have no taste!" she snapped and Yal screeched to a stop, running a hand over the entrance of his Dungeon, making the contact emit a high pitch squeal."Is that so?" he said, voice tight.---In the capital for Verluan, every golden item farmed from the Dungeon and converted to be forever began to ever so slightly vibrate in tension. In a bank, Ned Happy stared as a mountain of gold shuddered with outrage."Oh dear," the ghost commented.---Yal stalked forward with a haughty tone."And this is the golden fountain of the thirty-first floor. Its liquids are the shimmering pearlescent of a full moon, its surfaces are sprinkled with diamond dust, and the smell is practically perfect. Only those who fought here with beauty and grace would ever see this and you want to say you've seen something more beautiful?" Yal challenged the queen who looked a little shell shocked at the sudden 'tour'.So far, every other floor had impressed her but she always turned to Yal and said she had seen something far more beautiful every time.And she was telling the truth. It galled Yal."What is this gem? This artwork? What is this goblet of gold, this necklace of rubies? What weapon of the greatest smiths have you gazed upon? What white gold have you seen in the sunset?" Yal demanded, not whining.He was a visage of beauty. One did not whine."Contract me properly, and I'll tell you," she offered, holding out a hand. Ever since this little competition had begun, life and youth had returned to the queen's face and Yal did have to admit that she was... not hideous.Yal stared then held a hand up."Let me consult my wisest men," he intoned."You have men?" she blinked then went on, "wise men?" she echoed. He vanished to his core room where he sat in front of his 'self'.A giant ever reflective series of gem panels surrounded his gold core that was the size of a boulder. The mirrors danced and reflected light and illusions.He stepped into the middle and millions of copies of himself appeared."This thespian demands we out do her!" a Yal said, wearing a toga of gold."No no! We challenge her to a beautiful duel to the death!" a gladiator version announced."Let's just be sad," said a disheveled (but still beautiful, this was important) Yal."Should we contract her?" the main Yal asked his echo chamber."The most beautiful object will be lost to us if we don't!" an older v