ersion announced in outrage."EAT. DEVOUR. GOLD" a barely sentient cloud screamed."Thank you Philosophical Me and Floor 1-20 me," Yal said with a deep frown."You need to let her in," said a darker voice and Yal tensed."Who let you back into the chamber? I was pretty sure we all voted to remove you as a jewel in this crown," Yal asked the cracked mirror."You can never erase the unsettled rage. Love took Silver, the humans took Lorsa, and darker forces moved around Mayden. You can lock me up, but even the great and 'beautiful' Yal isn't immune to corruption," the shadow whispered.Yal waved it off.He was constantly purifying the Seeds of the city. All that drank the water, ate the locally grown food, breathed the air... all that dreamed in Verluan walked in a gilded hall of gold.His backlog of seeds was truly immense and it was desperate to escape.The echo chamber was more than just a name. It was a function."All in favor of rejecting the human?" Yal said and other voices joined in.Pain suddenly flowed down from his temple and he yelped, pulling himself from the echo chamber to see the tall lithe form of Lorsa standing over his core."Knock!" he hissed and she raised a brow. He hated how she used leylines to sneak in and out of any dungeon she desired, his included."Knock knock," she said flatly. Oh, Yal did enjoy the art of good comedy."Who's there?" he asked with a smile."Norma Lee," she responded."Norma Lee who?""Norma Lee, I'd kick the crap out of you for wasting the queen's and my own time, but you left a human in your dungeon," Lorsa growled. He stared at her, not seeing the issue."An undefended human who got bored an hour ago from where you dumped her on your thirty-first floor," she snarled."Oh an hour? I was so busy admiring myself," he mumbled, a little embarrassed. Dungeons and time always had a rocky relationship.Once they were comfortable, what was an hour? A day? Really, a month?"Well, she was nearly mauled, but she found one of your gold swords and beheaded the 31st floor boss with luck. I showed up just as she was looting herself a 'Ruby dress set' that kills those that exceed its waist line?" she reported, eyes raising in a question."Ruby can be unflattening. Emerald is more fitting of someone with something to hold. Sapphire is a good between, but only works well in some galas, but not others," he explained."This is why Ruby is such a mess. She inherited your gaudy tastes," Lorsa sighed.Yal could see that. Ruby was... how would one say... tired of sand in her places."I kept her close. And she didn't get all my personality. Only some of my gloriousness was siphoned off when I hit floor 100," he pointed out and Lorsa smiled weakly.Right... Yal could have smacked himself."The Twins will heal. The Shattering only grazed them. And your first daughter is... was... " he tried to be soothing. That twin Dungeon was as nuts as a mutant king squirrel saving for winter. He loved Lorsa, but her 100 floor split off kid was bipolar. Her first dungeon was special but it was a shame what happened."The siblings want to use Mayden's 100th floor and what's left of Silver's potential mixed with your 150th floor offshoot to make something special. They won't say what but it's big," Lorsa said quietly as they reappeared near the queen."Can't believe that bronze slacker hasn't hit 100," Yal snorted."He's a perfectionist," Lorsa said coolly."Perfectly annoying. He edits his floors. His first floors! Does history mean nothing to him?" Yal muttered."And Silver... that idiot," Yal sighed as they watched the queen practise with a short sword, not looking too bad with it in her hands."Silver was a back talking, smartass know-it-all who lectured us, but he was our pain in the ass," Lorsa said sadly with a shake of her head."No sign of him?" Yal asked, trying to appear unbothered."The trail of silver mutants stretches from the north all the way to the east. Whatever vessel he has taken on to avoid dying is imperfect," she shrugged."What's east?" Yal asked. His mental mapping skills were a bit rusty since he didn't often shift focus off himself."Ruby, a few smaller Dungeons, the false tree, a few modest cities, and not a lot else," Lorsa said, having near perfect recall.Nothing that Silver cared for, when he was still a Dungeon at least."And the one who broke his heart?" he asked, his voice almost impossible to hear, but Lorsa did hear it and her hands clenched."The 'woman' has been taken care of. She calls herself Lare if that means anything," Lorsa offered. It didn't but he returned his attention back to the queen."Should I accept her? As a contract?" he asked, hating the question."She's wounded and she wants to be close to home," his elder sibling commented."I don't know the first thing about co-existing with a sad woman," he complained, crossing his arms and flicking his golden halo of hair."Then treat it as an upgrade experience. Like a chatty menu," Lorsa grinned."Menus do not talk," he said back, childishly.There was pause."Two hours then she leaves.""Longer.""Three.""Longer.""Five, not an hour more""Longer.""...Six."Another long pause."I refuse to go past a year.""Longer."Yal curled his perfect lips and his sister raised her hand to smack him."Two years," he bit out."Two years as a trial period. You are most gracious, little brother," Lorsa smiled. He huffed and tried to ignore her."Oh don't sulk, you will see her shine soon. You have a nose for hidden gems," she said and Yal twitched, hands covering his face"What makes her so special?" he muttered and Lorsa looked down at her feet."She's a little bit Dungeon. Brilda and I converted her seed partially to a dungeon core. She's a human hybrid and it has the Sister excited. She said that Hearah could finally show how to stabilize the project she's been working on," Lorsa admitted.Yal peered past her flabby arms, splotchy cheeks, two-left feet, split-ends, awkward thighs, and large ears to peer into the core of the woman and Lorsa was right.The queen had a little bit of Dungeon in her. Just enough to make unlikely life more possible."I'll contract her... Only if she tells me what the most beautiful thing she's ever seen is first. I demand to know such beauty," he said stubbornly.Less than an hour later, he was making a new sculpture. Of a small round golden potato with elegant fingers and dazzling eyes. Hearah patiently described this 'Serma'.This heavenly treasure. The impossible child.He ended up with a floating godly potato that glowed with gems and inner light.How wonderful."You got her cheeks all wrong!" Hearah commented as she settled into her becoming the floor 100 contract."But my potato!" he said in a defensive tone.This would be the argument they would continue to have for the next sixteen years.
