Alden nodded. “Yeah. At least on the you coming here front. I think it’ll be a few weeks, though. Anesidora is good about immediate family travel passes, but friend passes are harder. The therapist yesterday mentioned it would be an option. I’m talking with her again this afternoon. I think she’s going to put some kind of recommendation in my file to expand my guest list, since I’ve only got Connie. And Cly Zhao might be working on it, too.”

“Adopt me,” Jeremy said immediately. “I’ll be your non-Avowed son.”

Alden felt a huge rush of relief. So they could still joke around with each other. It wasn’t all going to be super serious. Thank goodness. “My son who’s three months older than me?”

“Age is just a number.”

Alden grinned. “Yeah. Anyway, I’ll adopt you or declare you my blood brother or something if I have to. They seem to have a really strong focus on getting new Avowed settled into life on the island with minimal friction, so it’ll work out. Uh…how have you been?”

“I’m fine, man. I’ve been here on Earth. Eating chicken nuggets and going to high school.”

“And helping Aunt Connie. A lot,” Alden added. “She mentioned you in like every other voicemail she sent me. Thank you for that.”

Jeremy looked surprised. “Well, yeah! Obviously I wasn’t just going to let her deal with everything on her own. It turns out my mom really likes having her over for dinner every other Saturday. She’s a lot more fun than the people from the law firm.”

Alden hadn’t realized Jeremy had gone so far as to pull Connie into his family circle.

“Jeremy, you might actually be a saint.”

“No. I let her put your stuffed wombat in her room. She and Mr. Tiger Shorts are getting serious about each other, by the way. The things that poor innocent creature has seen by now…”

Alden laughed so hard he spilled hot tea all over the counter. “Oh shit.” He shook liquid from his fingers. “You’re a cruel man. Why would you put that image in my brain?”

“It’s your punishment for making me think you were gone.” Jeremy tilted his head. “Uh…can you tell me where you were? No details necessary if you don’t want. Is it all top secret Avowed stuff a regular human guy can’t hear? It wasn’t that Manon person—”

“No. It was just a random accident,” Alden said. “Mostly. I accepted a side quest from one of the professors at the university. To go to Moon Thegund.”

“That’s…some planet near Artona I?” Jeremy asked.

“Giant moon orbiting Kimnor. It’s not a very important place even though it’s in the same solar system as the Mother Planet. I think it used to be more significant, but now it’s a low-population backwater with a System that’s been half-broken since before Earth became a resource world.” He found a roll of paper towels in a cabinet and started wiping up the mess he’d made. “Anyway, while I was there it went from half-broken to completely gone.”

Jeremy frowned. “Gone?”

“Yeah.”

“Like…no System at all?”

“Yep. It was a total collapse. There’s a big team of wizards there now. They’re going to have to build a new one from scratch. It’s something that takes a few months.”

“What was that even like?”

“Inconvenient,” Alden said dryly, tossing the soggy paper towels in the trash. “No teleports. No communications. I was on the wrong half of the moon, and there wasn’t even something like a cell phone tower.”

“Damn. So you’ve been roughing it on a moon for six months?”

“Well, there was a giant mad scientist’s laboratory full of supplies. And a chaos event and some demons and a really cool little Artonan girl named Kibby.”

Jeremy’s eyes were huge.

“See…I realize now I should probably have opened with the chaos problem.” Alden ran a hand through his hair. “That was why the System went down in the first place. I haven’t had a lot of practice telling the story.”

“What the heck, Alden?”

“They were very little demons. Like drunk hell bees.”

“Dude.”

“And they were only around for a couple of months.”

“Seriously?”

“Chaos sucks. By the way. Much, much more than anticipated.”

“Are you sure you’re all right?”

“I have a fancy coffee pot in my intake apartment. And a pinball machine.  And I have twelve million dollars.”

“Okaaay.” Jeremy’s eyebrows were drawn together in concern. “Those are all positives?”

“Where’s Boe?”

It just popped out. Alden had been planning to talk to Jeremy about other things for longer. But ever since the last unanswered text, he had a knot of something like panic in his chest. No voicemails from Boe in months, no mention of him from Connie or Jeremy…

“Um…” Jeremy looked away from his phone’s camera.

“He’s not dead, is he?”

Alden wasn’t joking. Some part of him that was now a little too used to horrible things happening was really waiting for Jeremy to say, Yes, Alden. Your closest friend died while you were away.

“He’s fine,” Jeremy said quickly. “Or he’ll tell you he’s fine and get super pissed if you disagree. When he bothers to contact you. Once every five or six weeks. Or maybe that’s just me, and he’ll actually answer your messages. He says he’s not ignoring me, that he just doesn’t get my texts. But I don’t know.”

“What happened while I was gone?”

Jeremy’s face was uncharacteristically serious. “I think your death really messed him up,” he said. “Way more than I realized at first. And he decided you were dead right away, man. The same day the official Missing on Assignment: Irretrievable status came in from the Artonans. He looked up some statistics on his phone, and then he said, ‘So, he’s dead.’”

"Oh."

Jeremy groaned. “Alden, I was so mad. I could have strangled him. Connie and I were both telling each other, ‘We could hear back from him any second now. Wait and see.’ And he came into the conversation with that.”

“Boe’s not…” Alden tried to think of how to put it. “I don’t think hopeful is part of his makeup? He’s always been that way. He didn’t mean anything bad by it, he just prefers to operate on facts.”

Alden understood it. When you had a choice between desperately hoping for something unlikely and moving forward with your life…hope wasn’t always better. There was a reason people held funerals even without a body. Denial couldn’t go on forever.

“I get it. But it’s still hard to deal with someone like that when you’re in the maybe-this-isn’t-really-happening phase of your friend going missing,” Jeremy replied. “He apologized about it the next day. And then he was very, very nice for a while. To me and Connie and even people at school. Even the ones he hates.”

That was possibly the most alarming thing Jeremy could have said.

“He was great, actually,” Jeremy admitted. “For a few weeks. And I realize in hindsight that he must have been putting in crazy amounts of effort because emotionally supporting others is not something he usually does.”

Actually, Boe could be good at that despite his own protests to the contrary. He just very rarely made an effort to be. Jeremy probably hadn’t seen it before.

“He finally…I think he just snapped. You were all over the local news. They dug up all the old Body Drainer stuff—”

“They did?” Alden hadn’t expected that.

“Sorry. Once it finally got out, it was a big thing. Tragic victim of the worst supervillain incident in Chicago in recent years becomes a B-rank Avowed, gets summoned on his way into the consulate to register, dies on his first assignment…”

Jeremy gave him an apologetic look. “You only blipped across national news for a couple of days, but here, it was two weeks worth of seeing pictures of you and hearing hot takes from random people about the dumbest stuff. Should traumatized youth ever be selected as Avowed? Are Artonans evil for summoning fifteen-year-olds? Are humans evil for forcing fifteen-year-olds to leave their home countries? What did Alden Thorn’s friends and classmates think of him?”

“Ugh. They called me a traumatized youth? Like Body Drainer was still messing me up so bad I can’t function? It was years ago.”

“I can send you clips of some of it if you—”

“I never want to see it,” Alden said. “It’s just…noise. With my name attached. Please tell me it finally died out.”

Jeremy nodded. “Yeah, you’re old news now. Your return from the dead will probably change that for a minute, but you can just refuse to comment, right? And it’ll go away again.”

“The internet will remember,” Alden said darkly.

Jeremy didn’t disagree.

“Anyway, we were steeped in that. And then there was your memorial thing at school right before summer break, and Boe was mad about it. I could tell. But he didn’t say anything. And he went to it and sat there like a statue for the whole service. Then, when I got home, the window was open in my bedroom and he’d dropped off your cat with a bag of food. There was a note  on my pillow that said, ‘I’m taking a vacation from people.’”

“A vacation from people?”

“He ran away from home. And everything else. Doesn’t answer his phone. I was scared he had hurt himself or something, but he swung by around a week and a half later. He looked just as bad as he did at the funeral, and he was in one hell of a unique mood.”

“Unique how?” Alden asked, dreading the answer.

Jeremy slouched against the sink. “Honestly?” he said in a near whisper. “I think he wanted me to beat the shit out of him. He said the worst things to me. They were too fucking awful. To the point where I stopped being mad and started thinking he was actually going insane.”

“Jeremy…”

“Once he realized I thought he needed an exorcist instead of an ass-kicking, he punched my bedroom wall, apologized, and left. I haven’t seen him in person since. I just get the occasional phone call. I thought maybe he’d come back when school started again, but he didn’t.”

Alden didn’t know what to say.

“Sorry. It’s not great news to come home to. I know you two have been best friends for years. Don’t worry too much about him. His last call was actually normal. We argued about movies for a couple of hours. He seemed like himself again. And I’m sure you being alive can’t hurt.”

Boe, you weren’t supposed to fall apart.

He recognized that it was an odd thing to think. Why couldn’t Boe fall apart? Time hadn’t just frozen here at home while he was away. People kept moving and changing and dealing with stuff.

He stared out over the apartment’s living room area without really seeing any of it.

“Hey,” said Jeremy, a note of forced cheer in his voice, “you’re going to see Connie today, right?”

Alden shook himself. “Yeah. I think so. I thought I’d teleport her in later after I sorted some things. I have to find out if it’s okay for her to come stay here at the dorm overnight or if I need to get her a room someplace else.”

“Can I send Victor with her? Can you have pets?”

Alden blinked. “I…have no idea. Wait. Did you say Boe left the cat with you?”

“Yeah. Your landlord is on a rat poisoning mission, and Connie was afraid Victor would eat one of them. There’s fur everywhere in my room. I have to keep him in there because my dad and my sister are allergic.”

“Victor’s more of a street cat who deigns to let me feed him. He’s not really a big fan of confinement. Isn’t your room completely destroyed?”

“He’s used to it now. It’s fine except for his weekly bath.”

Alden had never once attempted to bathe the semi-evil cat. He valued his body too much.

“About my room, though,” said Jeremy, a strange expression on his face. “Let me show you my new poster.”

“Poster?”

“Yeah,” he said casually. “Got it a few months ago. Haven’t shown it to anyone else. I don’t think we should talk about it. I think you need to see it.”

“Sure?”

Jeremy was already walking toward the stairs with his phone. A minute later, he opened the door into his familiar room and switched on the light. A shockingly fat and fluffy orange cat, with a collar and a bell, was stretched out on the duvet.

“My poster,” said Jeremy, striding over to a brick wall and turning the phone toward it so Alden could see.

“It’s…Yellowstone National Park,” said Alden, baffled. “That’s outdoorsy of you.”

“Right?” Jeremy’s tone was odd. “Make sure you take a good look at this part.”

While Alden watched, his friend pried up the tape at the bottom of the poster and lifted the paper.

There was a hole in the wall. Not a massive one. But a couple of bricks were missing, there were some cracks, and the copper pipes on the other side were visible.

“Yellowstone,” said Jeremy, dropping the poster back. “I spend a lot of time thinking about it.”

Alden stared.

“Jeremy. Did you say Boe tried to hit you?”

“No. I was on the other side of the room. Guy just needed to relieve some tension. Hit the wall. After I refused to beat him up.” Jeremy paused. “Apparently he has a lot of faith in my workout routine.”

Alden laughed. He wasn’t sure if it was actually funny or if he was just too shocked for another response.

“That…asshole,” he said finally.

“Such an asshole,” Jeremy agreed. “Such a skinny, pale, weak-looking asshole.”

They both stared at each other, and then, for some strange reason, they burst out laughing at the same time.

“I really missed you,” Alden said when they’d stopped cracking up. “Sorry everything got turned sideways because of me. But I really did miss you so much.”
