Alden woke up at two o’clock in the Anesidoran morning. The sheets on his new bed were soaked with sweat thanks to a horror soup nightmare featuring demons and a dead Kibby and running through trees, trying to get away from an unseen thing that wanted to hurt him.

He was normally pretty good at going back to sleep after bad dreams, but he knew the second he opened his eyes that he wouldn’t be able to right now.

His freshly bound authority was roiling. It was a sickening, awful sensation.

He took a few deep breaths, trying to calm himself and refocus.

“Don’t be such a whiner,” he told his authority finally, as if it was something separate from him instead of the essence of who he was. “Avowed are supposed to bounce up from our affixations feeling mighty and blasting out new kinds of magic.”

He recalled how he’d started using the skill right away when he first got it. It had been really fun to experiment with it while Boe and Jeremy watched.

It’s so strange. I can’t quite remember how it felt to not feel it.

With a groan, he tossed off his damp sheets and rolled out of bed. A motion-sensitive light below the frame lit up as soon as his feet hit the floor. It illuminated the reddish faux-wood flooring and the pile of Alden’s dirty clothes at the foot of the double bed.

This was a luxurious room by Alden’s standards. There was a television on the wall with dozens of global streaming services. A small private bath held a shower that operated at human temperatures. There were F and Apex cityscape sketches on the walls.

Instead of curtains or blinds, the bedroom’s window had an adjustable tint on it. When it was in transparent mode, like now, it looked out over the water of the Pacific Ocean. The intake complex was right at the water’s edge on the far south side of F-city. And the apartment tower Alden was staying in was on the perimeter of the complex.

Right now, there was nothing but miles and miles of dark sea between where he stood and Antarctica.

He stared at the ocean for a while, until finally the fact that he was standing around stark naked started to bother him. He had just collapsed into bed without caring about it when he made it through all the hoops that had come with his arrival and he was finally left to his own devices. Now, though, it was a little odd to be a nudist.

He glanced at his one filthy clothing option and wrinkled his nose.

“Nah. Can’t sleep. Have money,” he muttered to himself. “There’s got to be something better even if it is the middle of the night.”

His old Wardrobe purchases—the housekeeping uniform and the cargo pants—were listed as in-transit right now. He didn’t know what that meant except that they’d been stored somewhere and were coming to him slowly instead of through the more expensive direct teleport into his arms. Anyway, what he wanted was underwear, socks, t-shirts...the Wardrobe didn’t really do basics.

He wrapped a towel around his waist, opened the door and poked his head out to examine the rest of the apartment suite. It was empty. The other three bedrooms had their doors open just as they had when he’d arrived, and they were still unoccupied.

The nighttime intake counselor who was in charge of the two Rabbit floors—a middle-aged guy from Brazil with strong everyone’s-favorite-teacher vibes—had told Alden not to expect roommates for at least a few weeks.

Alden suspected that wasn’t the norm. It was probably a stealthy accommodation to make sure he was okay without completely separating him from the other newcomers. But he was grateful for it, and he didn’t mind taking advantage of the privacy.

He headed into the living area, feeling almost as impressed with it as he had the first time he’d seen it. Effort had clearly gone into making a space that invited social interaction. There was a kitchen with a two-burner stove, a microwave, a toaster oven, and the world’s fanciest, Wright-designed magic coffee maker. Alden was intimidated by the number of features on the thing, but the counselor had said it was one of this particular apartment’s “talking points.”

The other one was a pinball machine in the corner by the sofa.

Every suite had stuff like this, to encourage people to hang out with their new roommates and venture into other apartments to meet the neighbors. There was an entire cabinet stocked with coffee syrups, glassware, and mugs, in case Alden or any future residents wanted to be the dorm’s barista.

The idea was that a bunch of superpowered teenagers who’d left behind not only their homes and families, but also their countries and cultures, needed new friends fast. There was a calendar on the fridge and available through his interface that was filled with community activities and classes for the month, too. About half of them were completely optional, and the other half involved a credit system Alden hadn’t looked into yet. It seemed like you had to attend a certain minimum number before you were allowed to leave and get your own place, unless you were heading straight into one of the schools’ boarding programs.

He headed over to the counter where he’d dropped off the pair of large welcome gift bags they’d given him at the counselor’s desk. He dumped them out, and shook his head again at the randomness of the contents.

Candy, a bag of mixed nuts, deodorant samples, an enamel bunny rabbit pin, a stress ball with the logo for a dance studio on it, a dark green baseball cap with the Anesidoran flag design on the front, an invitation to a Rabbits-only welcome party that would be held in a ballroom somewhere in December, and coupons.

Tons and tons of coupons.

It turned out there was a fairly well adhered-to no System spam mail policy among superhumans. Having junk mail in your actual brain was just uncool. And since loads of Avowed didn’t bother to receive messages in any other way, advertisements on Anesidora came to you on paper.

Alden started sorting through his coupons.

All right, he thought. Which of you sells clothes and is open 24/7?

He organized them all for his own amusement. The largest stack by far was for restaurants, but everything else a person might need was there, too. All new Avowed got a decent argold stipend every month for their first year and a half on the island. So they were probably an ideal target audience for advertisers.

There were several clothing stores. Most seemed to be popular name brands from various countries, but a few were purely local. None said they were open all night.

But there were errand runner services, and one of them was delightfully named DRAGON RABBIT GETS YOU THINGS.

The postcard was written in Spanish. Alden was decent enough at it to read the simpler words, but the System translation was helping.

Dragon Rabbit would get you anything, anytime, day or night. Drone delivery available. Just try it if you didn’t believe. Ten percent off for first-time customers.

There was a picture of a dragon with bunny ears sitting on a hoard of food, accessories, and electronics. Alden felt compelled to put his fellow Rabbit to the test.

He held up the card. “Call this person,” he said. “Voice or text only.”

A millisecond later a man’s voice answered. <<Alden, this is Dragon Rabbit. You need things. I get them for you.>>

Alden was already inspired.

“Can I get a couple of t-shirts and some jeans and boxers and socks and a pair of sneakers delivered by drone? Tonight?”

<<Yes.>>

“Really? Cool. What do I owe you?”

<<How fancy do you want the t-shirts and jeans and boxers and socks and sneakers to be?>>

Alden found himself faced with a dark temptation. He couldn’t sleep. And he had twelve million dollars. And he was standing around in a towel talking to someone named Dragon Rabbit while he ate candy all alone in a luxury apartment.

“Actually, let me change my request a little. What I want is five hundred…no, a thousand argold worth of clothing,” he said. “I want stuff that fits me well. And I want to look like an average American teenage guy.”

<<Yes,>> said Dragon Rabbit. <<I will get that for you. Authorize the System to send physical measurements.>>

“I have a coupon.”

<<Ten percent off the service fee for first time customers.>>

“Awesome.”

He transferred the money.

The thing was, it was no big deal if a complete stranger who didn’t even use their real name cheated him out of around three thousand dollars. Alden had never been rich before, and he wanted to see what would happen if you gave an unsleeping errand Rabbit a mission and the money he needed to complete it.

About two hours later, he got a notification from the intake facility’s security person that a package had arrived for him by delivery drone. Several minutes after that, one of the dorm’s own delivery drones—a rolling box with uncanny cartoon eyes painted on it—trundled into the apartment right by itself and spat a large parcel onto the floor by Alden’s bedroom door. He spied on it through the crack.

The drone quietly left, and the main apartment door shut behind it.

Alden dragged the package into his room and opened it.

He would have been happy, he thought, even if it was full of random ugly things that didn’t fit. Novelty had its merits when you were trying to focus on anything outside yourself.

But Dragon Rabbit was good at his job.

Everything was new stuff, still in its original packaging or with the tags on. It was all pretty much the right size. And it was interesting to see how the errand runner had decided to interpret “average American teenage guy.”

Alden could be preppy in a cable-knit sweater and chinos. Or he could do jeans—strategically ripped or unripped—and a black t-Shirt with a skull on it. Or he could wear a random fan football jersey for a team he did not know. There were also some plain colored t-shirts, a plaid button-down, a brown hoodie, twelve pairs of socks, leather flip-flops, and two new sets of sneakers—one a casual high-top and the other a more athletic pair.

“Pajama pants,” he said to his empty room as he held up some flannel ones. “Nice touch. Didn’t think of those.”

He’d also gotten a stocking hat. Who didn’t want a nice stocking hat every now and then?

It was all so human. It felt good to be surrounded by it. And it made the room look more lived-in to have something to stick in the closet.

After he was done trying on all the new things, he declared himself officially successful at surviving his first night back on his home planet. He managed to persuade the coffeemaker to give him what he thought was a double shot of espresso, and he drank a sip while he sat on a counter stool in his non-ripped jeans and the skull shirt.

He was thinking it was the ironic choice. Since he was not dead.

“Text this to Boe,” he said. “Hey. How do you drink coffee, anyway? It’s bitter as hell, and I don’t think it’s just because I’ve been stuck on wevvi for too long.”

It was seven o’clock in the morning in Chicago. Alden finally thought that he could have a conversation with his friends without worrying about coming across as different in too many worrying ways.

Boe should be up by now, and if he wasn't, he needed to be woken. The jerk hadn’t even answered his “I’m alive” text from yesterday. Admittedly, Alden had said he would reach out again when he’d dealt with the Anesidora stuff, but complete silence from Boe was odd.

Jeremy had texted back several illegible things before he’d finally gotten control of the autocorrect. Alden hoped he’d slept.

Boe didn’t answer.

Alden added non-dairy creamer to his espresso and stuck out his tongue at the taste.

Nope. Still bad.

He dumped it into the sink and poked different parts of the machine, trying to see if he could get it to spit out something better.

It gurgled. He got hot water. He threw a tea bag he found in the supply cabinet into it and waited for it to steep while he stared at the light that would blink when his friend texted him back.

It didn’t.

“Text Jeremy,” he said finally. “Hey. You awake? I’m back on Earth and officially among the living.”

He got back nineteen exclamation points, and a millisecond later, a video call came in. Alden accepted it, and Jeremy’s face appeared, wobbling around as he held up his cell phone with one hand and walked through the living room into his family’s big, industrial-chic kitchen.

Alden took in the sight of his friend. He still looked just like Jeremy. Same haircut. Same slightly crooked nose. He’d broken it in a skateboard accident before they knew each other.

Seeing his face felt like time travel.

But the speed of his answer and the slightly bloodshot eyes were unusual. He’s probably been waiting around all night for my call.

“Sorry it took me so long,” Alden said.

He didn’t know whether he meant the call or everything else.

Jeremy just stared at him for a full minute. “I’m so fucking glad to see you, Alden,” he said finally, leaning back against the sink. “Are you okay?”

“I’m okay.”

“Yeah, but…are you really okay?”

This is going to be a thing with everyone, isn’t it? He’d gotten an almost identical question from several total strangers yesterday. And even Stu-art’h, now that he thought about it.

“I’m definitely more okay than I have been for the past several months,” he said after a moment. “I’m glad to be home. I’m looking forward to doing normal stuff. Normal-er stuff. I think I’m all right.”

“Can I come see you? Or can you come back home for a while? Is that a thing we can do?”

