“You mean you think you can teach me magic? We haven’t gotten around to it. And I didn’t really manage to learn much when you tried before. But you think I can really learn how to run like the wind?”
The faerie was silent as she tossed the empty egg over her shoulder. It flew surprisingly far and high and bounced off of Ksmvr’s head.
 
“I do not know. But I think…”
 
Ryoka watched Ivolethe carefully.
“Yes?”
The faerie nodded slowly. She smiled wickedly.
 
“Yes, I think it will be entertaining for me.”
 
She grinned at Ryoka, and the young woman bared her teeth in reply.
Across the inn, as Ksmvr stared at the eggshell and wondered aloud where it had come from, and then promptly asked Pisces to explain, Erin sat with Olesm and talked about her door.
“It’s so cool! Ryoka says she could take a portal-door-thingy to Invrisil and then I could go there and back any time I wanted! Okay, I could only go like once a day and then come back, but if I bought a mana potion or something…Pisces says he could fuel the door with his own mana to make it charge faster!”
Olesm was sweating over the chess board, tail lashing furiously. Relc looked bored as he watched them play.
“Invrisil. Hah. Why’s everyone want to go there?”
“Well, Ryoka knows some people there and it sounds really cool. It’s one of the biggest cities on the continent!”
“One of the biggest Human cities.”
Relc folded his arms. Erin looked at him as she took one of Olesm’s knights and he covered his face in despair.
“What’s wrong with that? I want to go to a cool city. So what if it’s Human?”
Olesm looked up.
“But you don’t have to. You could go to one of the biggest Human cities on the continent…or a Drake city. You could reach one of the Walled Cities from here, Erin.”
“Yeah!”
Relc pounded a fist on the table, and then held out for Olesm to gingerly tap.
“Scales over skin! Whoops, sorry, Erin. Why not Drakes? Give us a chance!”
“Really? A Walled City?”
Erin had never gone south from Liscor. Neither had Ryoka. She had no idea what was south of Liscor, what things looked like. Ryoka had said she’d gone to a mountainous place, a forest, the Blood Fields…but never a city.
“The Walled Cities are amazing, Erin. I think you’d love to visit. Why not try and get a teleporting door there? I’m sure a lot of people from Liscor would pay good money to travel back and forth as well.”
Relc was nodding as Olesm spoke. Then he sat up, scratching at the spines on his head.
“Home, huh? That reminds me, what with this dungeon thing…I was thinking about it after that stupid Gazi kicked my tail a while back. But I really need to get my spear back.”
Olesm and Erin looked at Relc. Erin pointed silently to the spear the Drake had leaned against the wall near his table. Relc waved his tail at it dismissively.
“Not that. That’s just an ordinary spear, Erin! I mean my spear, my enchanted spear! I had it back when I was a [Sergeant] in army. But I had to leave it when I left. Stupid rules…but I think I need it to handle all these monsters and stupid Human adventurers.”
He glanced across the room at Ryoka, who was tossing Mrsha up and catching her, much to the Gnoll’s delight. He nodded at her and spoke conspiratorially to Erin.
“Think your runner friend could go to one of the Walled Cities for me, Erin? For maybe a discount? I need to send a message to the army.”
“Which army?”
“Liscor’s! Duh.”
Relc snorted.
“They’re fighting around one of the Walled Cities, last I heard. Well, they’re always fighting. I don’t know where they are exactly, but I bet anyone could tell your Runner friend. She looks familiar, by the way. Have I met her before? Ah, well, you Humans…anyways. It would only take like…a week or two? She’d be back in no time, I bet, especially if you give her one of those teleporting things.”
Erin stared at him. Olesm stared at him. Relc looked around innocently.
“One week? Come on. It’s not like it would take months. No? Fine. I guess I’ll go bug Hawk.”
The last visitor to the inn dropped by long after Mrsha had figured out how to throw up in midair and Ryoka had learned why tossing children and engaging in vigorous exercise around dinner time was a bad idea. Bird wandered into the inn and was immediately accosted by Erin.
“Bird! Guard! Bird House! I pay, you shoot! Birds! Bird!”
It took a while for him to understand what Erin was getting at, but when he realized what Erin was suggesting, Bird was ecstatic.
“I am ecstatic. Is that the word?”
“Yes! Oh, Bird, it’ll be great! You can have your own room, you can shoot birds, I can cook birds, Mrsha and Lyonette can be safe and you can stop her from running off without supervision—”
Mrsha, recovered and eating more food, gave Bird a wary look. He gave the Gnoll cub an even warier look, but nodded at Erin.
“Revalantor Klbkch has informed me of my duties. I would be happy to accept.”
Erin smiled at him.
“That’s great. Everything’s so great! Oh, by the way, is Pawn around? I heard he was trying to talk to me earlier, but I didn’t get a chance to see him. What did he want?”
Bird looked confused. He scratched his head, and then remembered. He replied cheerfully.
“Ah yes. I remember now. Pawn was to be assigned to combat duty with the group of Soldiers under his command today. He wished to speak with Erin and talk with her in case he perished later.”
It was like a spell. Everyone that heard Bird went instantly silent. Only Relc and the Halfseekers across the room hadn’t heard. Relc was laughing loudly at Jelaqua and challenging her to a drinking match when he realized the room had gone still. He turned and looked at Bird as Erin put a hand over her mouth. Bird looked confused as he stared around. He shrugged.
“What? He said it was only a possibility.”
