“Whew, that’s tough. But magic is like that, see? I visualize my spells and put everything together just right. It’s hard to do earth magic and fire magic can get nasty if you don’t understand it right. But ice magic is like sculpting. You harden the ice here, lengthen it here…and you have a spike. It’s all seeing and concentrating, not…numbers.”
“Wait, so magic isn’t math?”
“Of course not!”
Someone interrupted their conversation. Erin looked over and saw Revi chewing on a meatball with a sour expression. The Stitch-girl’s tone was acerbic, but not exactly rude as she spoke to Erin.
“Magic isn’t the same for every mage, Miss Erin. Why would it be? Different schools use magic in different ways. Ceria specializes in destruction magic, in shaping her ice spells. But magic isn’t like that for me. I summon warriors. Magic is all about maintaining a link between myself and my spirits.”
“What’s it like?”
Revi hesitated. She drummed on the table and looked away before she replied.
“It’s rather like keeping a conversation up with all of my familiars. I have to maintain them, make sure there’s nothing wrong with their bindings, and I’m always looking for more. Magic is like collecting, exploring, augmenting what’s there. I slowly improve myself and the spirits I summon, buying new equipment for them, learning new ways to boost them with spells in combat…”
“Magic’s different for everyone it seems.”
Revi and Ceria nodded. Erin sighed. She wanted to learn magic, and knew that she couldn’t. Okay, in theory she could, but she didn’t have the raw talent or capacity Pisces and Ceria did. And…she didn’t really have the time. She had to get more help, like Ryoka said! It was just too bad she couldn’t throw around fireballs for fun now and then.
“Ah, is that food I see? Friends, let us adjourn for a moment.”
The other [Mages] had finally noticed that there was food on the tables. Typhenous, Pisces, and Moore came over to eat, and while they did Erin quizzed them on what magic was like.
Pisces snorted when he heard how Ceria practiced magic.
“Of course an [Elementalist] would think that way.”
Ceria threw a meatball at his head and he caught it in the air and levitated it onto his plate. Typhenous smiled at Erin and lowered his voice conspiratorially.
“Alas, it is the case where Revi and I have disagreed on the fundamentals of magic theory. A [Summoner] is…well, not the same as a general practitioner of the arts.”
“Up yours, Typhenous. Our spells are fine!”
“Yes, well, I’m sure they’re quite functional. For spells that require no adjustment and have little variation no matter how they’re cast.”
Pisces smirked and Typhenous smiled at him. Ceria muttered and flicked her fingers at them, showering the two [Mages] in snow. Typhenous blew it back at her and Revi hurled her plate at the two male [Mages].
There was a definite tension between the female mages and the male ones. Erin edged away. Mrsha and Lyonette stared at her as she joined their table.
“That wasn’t my fault.”
Someone popped into place in front of the door. Erin turned, and saw Ryoka, sweaty, looking about and scowling when she saw the eating mages.
“Hey! I just ran five miles. Get back over and finish testing!”
She snatched a plate full of the skewered meatballs from Moore and began scarfing them down, much like Mrsha. Actually, that was probably where the Gnoll was learning her table manners. Erin resolved to have a word with Ryoka about that.
While her friend was busy appearing and disappearing in the inn and the mages were arguing about the results, Erin had another visitor. It wasn’t Pawn or Bird—Lyonette told Erin they’d gone back to their Hive, much to her disappointment.
Instead, Klbkch came into the inn, looking for Ryoka. He got Erin instead, and didn’t seem put out by the trade.
“Sorry, Ryoka’s busy teleporting. But if you have time, I’d love to talk.”
“I have a reasonable supply of time, Erin. How may I help you?”
“I uh, I want to hire some of your people, Klbkch. And maybe upgrade my inn? Um. I can pay!”
Erin waited, looking hopefully at Klbkch as he sat with a plate of lukewarm meatballs in front of him. The Antinium Revalantor stared at her. He had a long gash down one arm, where the chitin was splintered. Was that new? Why hadn’t he healed it? After a minute Klbkch shook his head slightly, as if coming to.
“Ah. You never cease to surprise me, Erin.”
“Oh? Is that bad?”
“No. Rather…it would be fortuitous if not for the timing. May I ask what reason you have for this course of action?”
That was odd. Erin explained her problem with overwork as Klbkch nodded.
“Naturally this is an issue. So you wish to hire…?”
“Um. Garry? I know you’ve got lots of Workers and Soldiers, but I really need a [Cook]. And I get along so well with Garry and he’s a friend, so…”
Klbkch drummed his fingers on the table, thinking. At last he slowly shook his head.
“I regret that I cannot allow Garry to work at your inn, although I will naturally consult with you about construction costs and options.”
“Aw. Why not?”
The Antinium paused, and for some reason, looked awkward. He clicked his mandibles a few times before replying.
“My Queen…is partial to Garry’s skill at preparing food. I do not believe she would allow him to work elsewhere no matter how much gold was offered.”
“You mean she likes his cooking?”
“…Yes.”
“Well, I mean, that’s a bummer. But it’s okay. She probably needs to eat a lot because she’s uh, so, so…grand. Big. Huge. Gargantuan. Which is a good thing! Right?”
Klbkch wasn’t as quick to nod as Erin would have thought. He traced on the table with a finger, catching a tiny ant that had somehow wandered into her inn. He stared at it as Erin blinked at it and him. She wondered if he had a connection with—
He squished the ant and then picked up a meatball with the same fingers. Klbkch ate it slowly as he spoke.
“The…Queens of the Antinium are naturally large. However, this is not due to their need to birth eggs. That method is inefficient and was removed from our process long ago. Rather, Queens are normally composed of an extensive matter of brain. Sometimes Queens had bodies that were two thirds thinking matter. However my Queen merely emulates that fashion.”
It took Erin a moment to figure out what he was hinting at.
“You mean she’s…fat?”
Klbkch looked around the room slowly. Ksmvr sunk down low at his table as the Revalantor spotted him. Yvlon scowled at Klbkch, but the Antinium just turned back to Erin and lowered his already quiet voice.
“I believe that she is the lightest of all the Queens on Izril by a considerable margin. She was the only Queen able to relocate herself to Liscor to start a new Hive, and as such she is still capable of movement.”
He paused and thought about that statement.
“For now.”
Erin had a horrible urge to start telling ‘yo mamma’ jokes about the Queen of the Free Antinium, but she resisted the impulse with difficulty. It wasn’t nice, although the Queen was a huge jerk. Plus, Erin couldn’t think of any good ones.
So instead she sighed and slumped over on the table.
“Too bad. I was really counting on getting Garry! But if the Queen wants her munchies…aw.”
Klbkch regarded Erin for a moment.
“I regret that I cannot allow you to take Garry. However, I would have to say the same of Anand, Belgrade, and Pawn. They all fulfill important roles within the Hive, now.”
“Yeah. And what would I get them to do? I mean, I could have them help Lyonette, but they’re not [Barmaids]. I’m going to talk with Safry and Maran about that anyways…although I could use some guards.”
“Indeed?”
Erin nodded, thinking. She hadn’t discussed that with Ryoka, but Selys had always told her she needed help. Of course, she’d gotten Toren after that…Erin pushed away the memory.
“Someone to stay here while I’m out and all the adventurers are away would be good. I don’t like leaving Lyonette and Mrsha by themselves, even if there is a magic door to Octavia’s shop. For that matter, what if trouble comes in through the door?”
“Indeed. That is a quandary. Would you hire an adventurer?”
“Maybe…but they cost a lot! With how much I make, I’d only be able to hire one. And Selys says the job isn’t popular, I mean, a bouncer or a guard has to stand around all day.”
“Indeed. It is an unenviable task in many respects.”
Erin sighed, thinking out loud.
“What I really need is someone who’s patient. Someone I know—only all my adventurer friends like adventure. It’s their thing. But I need a guard, and not Wesle! Someone who never gets bored, who has practically no life…”
Erin chewed at her lip as Klbkch sat silently. She turned to look as Lyonette showed Mrsha how to dip her meatballs in some raw egg and eat it. Erin opened her mouth to ask if that was hygienic, remembered that no one besides Ryoka knew what that word meant, and then stared at the eggs.
The idea hit her in a flash of inspiration. She turned to Klbkch.
“What about Bird?”
“What?”
“Bird! What if I hired him?”
Klbkch stared at her. He visibly hesitated and glanced towards her window.
“Bird? He is unusual. Do you truly believe he would serve as an adequate guard for your inn?”
“Why not? He likes high places, and he likes sitting in one spot. He told me so. He can sit on top of my inn and shoot birds all day! Hold on—I’ve just had a great thought. Let me show you what I mean!”
Erin rushed into her kitchen and ran back to Klbkch with a piece of parchment and charcoal. She began sketching energetically.
“I told you I wanted to upgrade my inn, right? Well, I want a bigger common room—can you expand it like ten feet? And I want a third floor and longer second floor so I can have a lot more guests. But what if I added something on top of the third floor?”
It took Klbkch several minutes and a few questions before he could identify Erin’s sketch as a blueprint for the inn. What she had envisioned was a third floor for the inn, but her newest addition was a tall tower on top of the inn, a watchtower with no roof that would give anyone an unparalleled view of the landscape, much like the crow’s nest on a ship.
Erin grinned as she pointed to it and showed Klbkch a tiny stick-Antinium with a bow standing on the tower.
“He could sleep on the third floor and go up to the tower to shoot birds and watch out for danger. That’s all Bird does, right? And the tower would be totally cool! Doesn’t it look cool? I’ll call it…the Bird’s Nest.”
She waited. Klbkch stared at her. Erin coughed.
“That was, uh, a joke. You know, because of Bird and his name? And nest? And it’s tall?”
Klbkch nodded.
“I am aware. And if Bird agrees, I see no reason to object.”
“You mean you’d do it? You can build my inn?”
Erin sat up excitedly. Klbkch pored over the designs for Erin’s inn and nodded slowly.
“Your proposed designs for your inn seem feasible. However, I will have to charge you for this work, Erin. I am…unable to requisition supplies and aid so readily from my Hive at this time.”
“That’s fine! I wanted to pay you anyways. It wouldn’t be right otherwise.”
Erin smiled brightly at Klbkch.
“How much are we talking about here? I’ve got lots of gold coins.”
“I believe three hundred and twenty eight gold coins would be sufficient for this work.”
Erin paused. She stuck a finger in one ear and wiggled it around. But reality didn’t change, although she did find some earwax.
“Um. That’s…a lot.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Yes. Sadly, if we acquire useable wood from the forest of ah, ‘boom trees’, there is the matter of construction, hiring the Antinium, glass for the windows…”
“But three hundred—”
“Part of the cost—six silver coins out of every twenty—is given to Liscor under our treaty with the city. It is a non-negotiable tax.”
“That’s highway robbery!”
“No. That is our agreement. But it drives prices higher, as does a standing law that requires me to charge you for work outside of the city’s limits, as well as the necessity of guarding said Workers while they go about their tasks. To construct a third floor and expand your inn is a difficult task, Erin. Building a new home of quality would normally cost around two hundred gold coins in itself.”
Erin put her head in her hands. She didn’t have that money. She had a lot of money, but that…no. She stared at Klbkch.
“It’s the glass that’s expensive, isn’t it?”
He nodded.
“Each window costs approximately eight gold coins.”
Erin said a bad word. And then told Mrsha it was a bad word. The Gnoll nodded appreciatively as Erin sighed over the cost.
“What’s the problem?”
Someone came over to their table. Ryoka was gulping down water as Lyonette refilled her glass. She heard Erin’s woes out and barely listened to the issue of money before she nodded.
“I’ll pay for it, Erin. Go ahead and get everything built.”
Erin gaped at Ryoka.
“What? But Ryoka, it’s so expensive—”
The Runner shrugged carelessly. She sipped from her glass as Mrsha tried to leap onto her shoulder and failed. The Gnoll splatted onto the ground and went howling over to Lyonette, who scolded her about being reckless before cuddling her.
“I’m good for it. The Horns are paying me a bit more than that for doing the run to Invrisil and back. I’ll take it out of that and I’ll still have over a thousand gold coins to buy magical items with.”
“But—”
Ryoka flicked some sweat out of her eyes. She looked back at the door, where Pisces was waving her impatiently over.
“Erin, I really don’t care. Klbkch, I’ll give you the coins later, okay?”
She jogged back towards the door and vanished with a pop of dislocated air. Erin turned weakly back to Klbkch.
“I can pay some of it. Really.”
“We will negotiate the division of payment. But I will take Miss Ryoka’s word on credit. Her generosity is worth accepting, Erin.”
“Yeah, but I never give her anything back…”
Erin sighed. She felt guilty, but she wanted a better inn more. She also felt a bit hurt. True, Ryoka had all that money from running dangerously, but she didn’t treat it like it was, well, important.
Maybe it was because Ryoka used to be really rich? She said her father was some big shot politician guy and her mother also had an important job. Either way, it was done.
“I guess I’ll talk to Bird and see if he wants to be my guard. I think he will. And then I’ll have one guard! Do…do you think one is enough?”
Klbkch pondered the question before nodding.
“Safety is a relative term, but you are able to escape to Liscor and Celum quite quickly. Bird would no doubt be able to fend off any assailant if outnumbered or outmatched.”
