Rain was counting down the seconds. He dove for cover behind a lone tree near the riverbank just before he reached zero. There was a sudden flash of light and something impacted the ground near where he had just been, leaving a small blackened circle in the grass.

“Shit!”

He scrambled to his feet, trying to keep a tree between himself and Val as he looked for a way to escape. He heard footsteps approaching his position. He had to move. Now.

The treeline is my only hope.

Rain worked up his nerve, then sprinted out from behind the tree, keeping as low as he could. Instead of running in a straight line, he zigzagged back and forth, trying to throw off his opponent’s aim. His tactic proved successful, as the next bolt of light impacted just in front of him, charring another patch into the ground.

Oh fuck! Oh fuck! Oh fuck! Move!

Rain dove for the trees, making it behind a large oak just in time. There was another flash and a sudden burning smell as the bolt of light impacted the sturdy trunk. Rain didn’t wait to rest, charging deeper into the trees and forcing his way through the underbrush.

About 10 seconds between shots. I might have a chance. He risked a glance over his shoulder. Val was sprinting after him and had just passed the oak that had saved his life. He dove over a bush and came up in an aggressive stance, his finger pointing straight at Rain.

“Fuck!” Rain cursed and threw himself flat. The flash of light left a charred circle in the bark of the tree that was just in front of him, though he barely noticed as he scrambled back to his feet. He could hear Val approaching, so he didn’t waste any time, dashing for a nearby rock, panting heavily. There was another flash just as he cleared it, the smell of burned lichen greeting his nostrils as he pressed his back to the stone.

Fuck! There’s nothing close enough to get to within ten seconds. Fuck, what do I do? He took a few seconds to catch his breath, heart hammering. He heard the crunch of leaves as Val quickly closed on his position. Can’t run, can’t hide. Well, he never said I couldn’t fight back…

As quickly as he could, Rain tore off his shirt. He tossed it out from behind the left side of the rock, the telltale flash of white light almost blinding him as Val took the shot. Got you! Ten seconds, I’ve gotta be fast!

Rain roared, spinning out from around the other side of the rock and charging at Val, fists raised. He activated his refrigeration aura as he charged at the man, winding up to deck him right in his smug face. He was brought up short by a bright flash and a sensation of searing pain stabbing into his shoulder. He screamed in equal parts surprise and agony at the unexpected attack, dropping his aura and falling to the ground. He noticed his health bar rapidly dropping in the corner of his vision.

That was way less than ten seconds. Fuck, he was playing with me the whole time.

The sound of laughter added insult to injury, Val’s smiling face filling his view as the man walked up to stand over him.

“Hah, not bad. For a lago, that is. We’ve got some work to do.”
