This silence arrived in a space where she had run out of approaches and had not found a new one. She was sitting in the center of the room and she had hummed something that was genuinely hers and had stopped when it stopped and the silence was the size of everything she had not filled in the last twenty-three minutes. She did not fill it because she did not reach for the tools she used to fill things. She did not reach for them because she had tried the tools and they had returned insufficient results, and she was sitting in the result of not-reaching, and the result was: this. A silence she was present in.

The System notification arrived without preamble.

```stat-screen
[TRIAL COMPLETE — BRIGHTSPIRIT]
Nadia Volkov-Baptiste

Trial duration: 23:17
Result: Genuinely Present
  (minimum threshold: met)

LEVEL UP: Level 11 → Level 12
  +3 AGI  +2 INT  +1 WIS
  Chaos Grenade — Lv. 6 → 7 (third grenade per activation)

[+3 RESONANCE EVENTS — Proving Trial: Brightspirit]
Party total: 145/150

FLOOR 20 — CLEARED
  Party XP: +4,200
  Section bonus: +840 (20%)
```

She read it twice.

*Genuinely Present. Minimum threshold: met.*

She sat with this for a moment. The minimum threshold. Twenty-three minutes and change for the minimum. The humming and the thinking and the sitting without filling — all of it had cleared the floor.

She found this somewhat funny.

Not in the managed way, not a produced reaction to a result she wanted to present well. Just: funny, in the way that accurate information sometimes arrived with a quality of absurdity that didn't require embellishment. Twenty-three minutes for the minimum. That was specific. That was very her.

She stood up. Her legs were stiff from the stone floor. She picked up her pack.

She walked to the door.

---

The antechamber was as she had left it.

Dayo against the wall. Miriam next to Dayo, notebook in her lap. Vesper with her hands resting. Tomás with a schematic in his hands — she recognized the format as the Floor 21 advance notes, which meant he had not been idle.

Solenne was standing. She had the dulcimer case at her feet. When the door opened, she did not move, but something in how she was holding the Conductor shifted.

Nadia walked out.

She looked at Solenne.

"Took me a minute," she said.

"Twenty-three minutes and seventeen seconds," Solenne said.

Nadia held this. "Yeah," she said.

Solenne felt something release in the Conductor — not in the party's signals, in her own processing of them. Twenty-three minutes of receiving the Brightspirit signal through stone without being able to do anything with it: not the working register, not the tactical read, just presence arriving and being received and not converted into action. She had been holding it the way the antechamber had asked her to hold it. The weight of it had been real. And now Nadia was standing in front of her saying "took me a minute" with the quality of someone reporting an accurate result without embellishment, and there was something very specifically funny about this. She did not name it as funny. She held it for a moment and let it be what it was, and it had the quality of something that had been carried and was now set down by someone else, and she had been there to watch it land.

```stat-screen
[FLOOR 20 — PROVING GATE: COMPLETE]

All trials resolved.

PROVING GATE: OPEN

SECTION CLEAR — FLOOR 20: CRYSTAL SALT DESERT
  +1 RES (all party)
```

The notification was addressed to the party. All six received it simultaneously. The fifth trial door and the sixth trial door — all the doors in the far wall — were open at once, not into separate corridors, into a single room beyond: a Transition Hall, fully lit, with the fire-bowl configuration that meant rest and passage.

Nadia picked up the dulcimer case from Solenne's feet.

She settled it onto her back. The strap sat right. The case had the quality she'd been noticing since Vesper finished the insert — the ambient chord muted, the instrument's own resonance distinct and clean, the two things no longer interfering. She had not known, when she first started carrying the dulcimer, how much the interference was costing her. She knew now.

She looked at the Transition Hall.

The Tower's background Mana pulse — the constant that had been running beneath everything since Floor 1, the hum she had stopped registering sometime around Floor 14 the way you stopped registering your own heartbeat — had a different quality.

Nothing had changed in it. The pulse was what it had always been. But the place she was receiving it from had changed, and that changed the quality of the reception. She did not have language for this yet. She filed it.

"Ready?" Tomás said. He had the Floor 21 notes folded in his inside pocket.

Dayo said: "Yeah."

Vesper said: "Yeah." She was already looking at the Transition Hall with the quality of someone who had identified it as the next environment and was beginning to map it.

Miriam had closed the notebook. The ink Nadia had seen at the margin was dry now. Miriam was looking forward.

"Yes," Solenne said. She was still running the Conductor. The party's Aspects at whatever register they were running at now — the post-trial register, the one Solenne had been reading since the first door opened and had not, Nadia suspected, fully categorized yet.

Nadia said: "Yeah."

They walked through the antechamber and into the Transition Hall.

The fire-bowl was lit. The passage to Floor 21 was at the far end — a door, unremarkable from here, the same white stone. The Tower had placed the fire-bowl without ceremony. A floor had been completed. The place that registered it was what it had always been: functional, unhurried, designed for rest before the next thing.

Floor 20 was behind them.

Twenty floors of building was behind them, and ahead of them was the fire, and past the fire was a door they had not walked through yet.

They sat down.
