“I still don’t like them getting the early lead.”

Liz flexed her spiritual perception around a group of Empire teams rushing through the hallway. “A week is a long time to hold a room. This strike force will arrive before the Corporation reinforcements can, so there is a chance they are immediately dislodged.”

Liz was proven correct just minutes later as the Empire team threw themselves into the mercenaries’ hastily erected defenses with abandon.

The losses were high, with nearly a hundred of the two hundred and fifty person team being removed, but those losses proved worth it as they managed to take possession of the boss room.

They started creating, or rather assembling, fortifications they brought along in their spatial expanded bags, which Matt approved of.

It was all hastily enchanted and wouldn’t hold up to much of a beating but it was an advantage, and they needed every advantage if they were going to hold out long enough for the second wave of Empire troops to arrive. Now that everyone was moving in the correct direction the battles would only get fiercer as time went on and bodies were thrown at problems.

And that was exactly what both sides did for the first day.

Once they hit a bottleneck of how many people could fit or fight down the corridors, the combat started to spill over to the adjoining rooms, until almost a mile of the border rooms had active fights.

As per their initial agreement a contested room, a room with both sides having active fighters, counted as the defender’s room, which was why they needed to move so quickly and decisively to dislodge them.

Still, through it all the Empire defenders held strong and only gave ground when they absolutely had to, to prevent their line from collapsing entirely.

That was until the Corporation mercenary elites moved in.

Matt knew things wouldn’t go well when he watched Michelle Skores, the healing scorpion bloodline pretending to be an ordinary healer, move in along with three other teams.

Together they made what seemed like a normal push to the boss room but just as they were being repelled, they used an earth mage to collapse the fortifications the Empire team had set up and rushed the disoriented teams.

Their better than average combat prowess, as well as real combat experience, showed its value, as they managed to clean up the fifteen defending Empire teams inside the boss room before reinforcements could arrive.

Michelle’s ‘healing’ being able to bypass the innate defenses cultivators had against internal attacks by virtue of being healing spells had proven devastating, as she took out almost a quarter of the defenders herself.

The Corporations then threw bodies into the tunnels leading to the Empire controlled rooms and then, in a move only doable by madmen or people who knew they were playing a game, walled the tunnels up, trapping their people and letting the Empire slowly whittle their troops down. Even once they had managed that, they realized they would have to dig through dozens of feet of reinforced stone and brick. Not only that, but actively fight for control over the dirt with mercenary earth mages who would be resisting every one of their actions.

When the Empire didn’t manage to dislodge or dig through after the first day, Matt was worried the world's ownership might be transferred right then and there, but the gathered Tier 15s weren’t willing to give up so easily.

He didn’t know which was a bigger motivator, their presence or the promised rewards as both kept being used as rallying cries.

At the end of the Corporation’s third day of holding the boss room, the Empire Tier 15s led by the third group’s leader, the one who had proven himself stronger than everyone else in his group, made a push.

Instead of trying to dislodge the Corporation directly from the boss room, they made a two pronged pincer attack at two relatively weak points on the Corporation supply lines from their entrances to the boss room.

They didn’t bother to sweep the rooms in between but instead took a lesson out of the Corporation tactics and blocked what hallways they could with dirt and stone from the outside.

The ruin, seeing a section of the rooms were cut off from the outside, moved the rooms to new locations in its labyrinthine halls, removing almost a tenth of the Corporation’s fighters from the immediate fight.

From the outside, Matt was able to see the fifty or so cut off rooms were sent onto the far side of the planet and he was deeply amused as they started to contemplate initiating a surrender. Doing so could get them back in the fight in just a single month, or they could try to fight their way back to the others, which might take longer or shorter depending where they were and how well they chose their directions.

Considering how badly everyone navigated the ruin, they should have chosen the quick exit. As such their decision to try and make their way back to the main group themselves made his day. Doubly so as they started heading in an almost forty five degree wrong direction, which just got worse as they kept going.

Clyde’s obvious frown only made the sight all the better as Matt, Liz, and Aster not only got to watch a large portion of the Corporation mercenaries wandering around aimlessly but also got to watch as the rest of the mercenaries had to struggle to reconnect their supply lines as the Empire Tier 15s turned their full might to dislodging the team holding the boss room.

Sadly, instead of letting themselves be surrounded and defeated in detail before their reinforcements could arrive, the surviving Corporation mercenaries, including those in the boss room, sallied forth and punched through a weak point in the Empire encirclement, allowing them to escape and reconnect with the remainder of their main body.

Still, the maneuver was a grand success and allowed the Empire to not only reclaim the boss room but put the mercenaries firmly on the back foot.

The Corporation mercenaries didn’t intend to go down so easily and once their elite groups regrouped with their main group and re-established their supply lines, they pushed through the newly refreshed rooms and started a three day assault on the Empire fortifications.

With a ticking clock counting down on the one week timer until the Empire won, the Corporation mercenaries moved step by step with determination. They didn’t rush but they never slowed down, using their long years of trust and refinement to march forward in a wave to cut down the Empire Tier 15s who lacked such cohesion.

By the end of the three day assault they were standing at the final two rooms. The boss room itself and a pair of antechambers that had been turned into mini underground fortresses just waiting for them to throw themselves upon their walls.

And thanks to the nature of the boss room only having two connecting rooms, they had to pick one of them.

They spent a few hours and a few team’s lives probing the defenses, hoping to find a weaker section, but when both fortifications proved formidable and well reinforced, they made a choice, a literal coin flip, and launched a full fledged assault on one of the antechambers.

Their elites led the charge, and even though it took two days of brutal fighting through a labyrinth of cultivator-made traps that filled every room, they managed to slowly cut their way to the final chamber.

With just thirty six hours left, they stood before the boss room packed with as many defenders as they could fit without just getting in each other's way.

Matt nearly laughed as he watched one of the mercenary leaders offer the Empire Tier 15s a deal to trade the boss room ownership back and forth to keep the timer going. She coached it as a good way to keep earning contribution points, but what was less funny was how some of the Empire Tier 15s seemed to seriously consider her offer.

Thankfully their better sense won out and the Empire side, led by the retired army soldier and one of the two surviving leaders, declared they would fight until the end.

With no other recourse, the mercenaries threw themselves at the defenders.

It took almost ten hours for the first layer of defenders to fall, allowing the mercenaries inside the room, but that was just in time for the remaining Empire forces who had been scattered during the last assault to mount an attack on the Corporation’s rear and flanks.

Sadly, the Empire troops walked into a series of traps that not only alerted their enemies of their presence but also decimated their numbers.

The only advantage was that the attack cost the mercenaries precious time they didn’t have as the time continued to tick down, and they were on their remaining four hours before they needed to gain control of the boss room or lose outright.

Even Clyde, who had acted the mostly uninterested observer during the preceding half a year, was on the edge of his seat as they waited to see the outcome.

As the mercenaries broke through the front line of fortifications and into the killing field, Matt cursed as one of their people, a hat-wearing support who disrupted or hacked technology showed himself and shut down all of the Empire Tier 15s’ AIs in a devastating, if brilliant, blow.

It immediately became obvious that a number of the Empire Tier 15s were far too reliant on their AI’s predictive models, as they struggled to read the flow of battle and were picked apart by the mercenary fire teams.

With half of their number suddenly gone, the remaining fifty seven Empire Tier 15s retreated to a final wall and hunkered down, as the mercenaries threw everything they had at them.

One by one the Empire Tier 15s started to either run out of mana and were pulled out as they were about to take a hit they couldn’t defend, or as they simply took too much damage to continue despite their defense of the crumbling structure.

Knowing they just needed to hold on, the Empire Tier 15s refused to leave their battered fortifications, but the mercenaries were under that same time crunch and threw themselves at the Empire cultivators with furor.

Despite being outnumbered, the defender’s advantage showed its worth, as each remaining Empire Tier 15 went down taking at least one Corporation cultivator with them, but usually more.

With just ten minutes left it was down to the final five remaining Empire Tier 15s against thirty Corporation mercenaries.

All parties were low on not just mana but stamina and willpower, but none of them surrendered or gave up.

The remaining mercenary melee fighters threw themselves forward into the final few spells that the Empire mages could muster.

One mage even had to be pulled out when he nearly caused the collapse of his spirit due to overdrawing his Concept on the last shield he cast, which protected two of the melee fighters from getting spiked in the back of the head.

Matt watched, not letting himself blink, even though he was watching with his spiritual perception and not his sight, as he watched the final four Empire defenders fight with everything they had.

One of those was the scout Alice Everdon, who had caught his eye earlier in the contest when she was the first person to make appreciable distance in the correct direction.

In fact she was the final Empire Tier 15 standing as the final three melee mercenaries tried to batter down her defenses.

She had been able to refill her mana slightly with a fast converting mana stone but, not being wealthy, had only been able add a few thousand mana to her pool and she spent all of that blocking the onslaught of attacks they launched at her.

When her mana ran dry, Matt and all of the watching higher Tiers saw as she started using her Concept, something motivationally empowering based on the feel, to keep herself going longer than she should have been able to survive under such an onslaught.

Even when she lost most of her shield arm, she used her mace to block the next two attacks, the head of the mace absorbing mana from the few spells the three remaining mages could slip in. Then she used that same mana to severely wound one of the mercenaries, which bought her a precious few seconds of time.

Finally she did go down, as the remaining two Corporation melee fighters drew daggers and threw themselves at her, stabbing at gaps in her armor, one of them losing most of a leg to her final desperate attack.

Thanks to her Concept, which she was resonating with enough to cause a visible distortion, she survived another full minute and thirty seconds, just focusing on protecting her head, before one of their guards pulled her out of the ruin and dropped her off in an already prepared medical bed.

Aster jumped to her feet and punched the air even as Matt pulled Liz into a hug just to be piled on by Aster.

One minute and twelve seconds over the one week time limit.

Alice’s last stand and struggle had bought them just enough time to hold the boss room for one week.

It had come down to the wire, but they had managed it.
