Stella checked her pockets, and held a hand up. She went to get her other clothes and took out the cell phone from the pocket. She checked to see if they missed any calls; but there wasn't anything, so she put it in her pocket and went back to the living room.

“I just had to get Ren's cell phone.” Stella said. “Let's go.”

They loaded up into the minivan, and Gloria drove them to Amazon Jim's Restaurant. Ren didn't need a menu, and ordered Endless Fries smothered in gravy. Stella and Gloria ordered hamburger platters and drinks, and Ren had water. While they ate, they discussed the massive amount of progress they had made so far, and what they still had time to do before Ren had to be back at the temporary care facility.

*

“So.” Holly said. “We're not staying at your sister's place.”

John shook his head. “I was going to, but then Nancy had the bright idea to have a sleep-over with her friends tonight.”

Holly chuckled. “You'd never get in the bathroom!”

John laughed. “That's the truth.” He said. “Plus, they take up both spare bedrooms and the living room.”

“I saw that.” Holly said. “It was almost like the living room was a crime scene with the 'Caution: Do Not Cross' tape around it.”

“Exactly.” John said and nodded. “So, I made reservations at the local inn instead.” He sighed. “Tanya and Nancy weren't too happy about that.”

“Did they expect you to sleep in the tub or something?” Holly asked and laughed.

“No idea.” John said. “It doesn't matter, though. We're going to an inn for the night, and that's that.” He quickly glanced at her to try and gauge her reaction, then smiled as he looked back at the road. She's not frowning or vehemently saying 'no, we can't stay at an inn together!' He thought. Maybe... maybe she actually does like me the way Tanya said.

What do I do? Holly asked herself. Should I really stay overnight at an inn with him? She quickly glanced at him, and saw his smile. Is he expecting me to sleep with him on our first date? She froze at the thought. Oh, my god. She thought in surprise. This is our first date!

They pulled into the parking lot, and Holly got out of the car kind of in a daze. John went to the trunk and got their bags, then walked around to the passenger side.

“Hey, are you all right?” John asked her.

“Hm?” Holly looked at him. “Oh, I'm fine. Just thinking.”

John nodded and motioned to the inn with an elbow, since he had a bag in each hand. Holly took the hint and walked ahead of him through the door, then over to the reception desk.

“John!” The clerk at the desk said. “You haven't been here in... hell, I don't remember when!”

John laughed. “Tanya's got a house full of girls right now.”

“Yeah, that will push any guy right out.” The clerk grinned and checked the computer. “Ooo, the presidential suite!” He said and grabbed the key from the rack behind him. “Follow me.” He said, walked out from behind the desk, then down the hallway to the right.

“Presidential suite?” Holly asked John in a low voice as they followed the clerk.

“It's an in-house joke.” John whispered to her. “The whole place was built with Lincoln logs.”

Holly snorted a laugh, and John grinned. The clerk opened the room with the key, and Holly and John entered it. It was a huge room that had wood decorations everywhere and nice furniture. To Holly's relief, it also had two large identical beds. John put the bags down and turned to get the key from the clerk and slipped him a tip.

“If you need anything, just let me know.” The clerk said. “The kitchen is open until 8 p.m., and the maids come in at 10 a.m. to clean.”

“Thanks.” John said, and shut the door when the clerk left. Holly hopped onto the edge of the bed to sit on it, and bounced up and down a few times to test the mattress' springiness. John watched the display, and couldn't believe Holly would do something like that, and in a scoop neck top. When Holly was satisfied that the bed would be comfortable enough to sleep on, she looked at him.

“So, what do you want to do now?” Holly asked.

“Well, I have an idea...” John said and smiled at her.
