The snake let out a third war cry as it dove at its prey below, mouth wide open, preparing to launch another cloud of venomous mist. It knew they would try to dodge; its prey always did. It would catch them in the act and swallow them whole! Their strength would be made its own!

The winged serpent’s considerable mana turned into a foul substance in its lungs that could snuff out life in seconds. The sides of its head swelled as it struggled to contain it all until it no longer could.

In one large breath, the winged serpent bellowed a cloud of death at Tabitha and Aaliyah that seemed to block out the sun. The serpent continued to rush at them as it did so, waiting for the perfect moment to strike. It would be any moment now, it thought, as its venom cloud closed in.

Any second—now!

The cloud of nocuous fumes was mere feet from the two women when a small part of the winged serpent's brain finally realized something was wrong.

It's prey, they weren't moving!?

The smaller of the two stood in front of the larger one, but neither tried to escape its deadly attack.

The caustic mist engulfed Tabitha and Aaliyah, and still, the two did not move. With its lower intellect, the winged serpent couldn't fathom why its prey had chosen death over trying to flee. It didn't even enter the serpent's mind that the two could somehow survive a blast of its venom head-on, not for a second time.

It continued flying forward, diving headfirst into its own cloud of noxious secretions with its mouth open, ready to devour its prey whole, and in so doing, made its first mistake.

At the same time as the winged serpent blindly charged into its own venomous smog, the duo of Tabitha and Aaliyah made their own move. Using the snake's all-encompassing attack as cover, the two rushed the snake while it couldn’t see them.

By all accounts, they should’ve been dying on the floor as the toxic venom destroyed their bodies from both inside and outside, but that wasn’t what happened.

They might not be as strong as a lesser dragon, even with their combined strength, but Tabitha and Aaliyah had something the lesser dragon didn't: wisdom and the ability to adapt to a stronger foe.

Right before the snake’s deadly attack engulfed them, Aaliyah had chanted a spell. It was nothing more than a simple self-cleaning spell, barely considered tier-1 in the magic community. It shouldn’t have done anything against the snake’s venom, but it did.

Overcharging her spell, Aaliyah had created a shield of cleaning magic strong enough to briefly fight toe-to-toe against the caustic nature of the snake’s venom, thereby protecting herself and Tabitha while simultaneously hiding themselves using the winged serpent’s own attack as a smokescreen.

The winged serpent learned all of this too late, as even with its mana zone active, it couldn't react quickly enough at the speed it was charging forward—Not until it was too late.

Aaliyah stood right behind Tabitha with no more than a few inches separating the two. She had to stay close and match Tabitha's movements precisely as they moved, or her mentor would leave her spell's limited range and be affected by the poison surrounding them. That's how they were able to move inside the poisonous fog.

This had been their plan from the start: to use the wannabe dragon’s attacks against itself. If anyone else had tried the same, they would be dead, but because Tabitha had Aaliyah backing her up, the two of them were able to pull off the impossible together. Thanks to Aaliyah, Tabitha was now within striking distance.

With lightning-fast speed, Tabitha drove her blade deep into the serpent’s wide-open mouth before it could pull up in time, plunging her sword into the side of its exposed throat.

Blood erupted from the wound as the winged serpent reeled back in pain and began writhing in agony.

At the same time, Aaliyah and Tabitha shot out of the venomous cloud and continued running southward. While their opponent coughed up huge amounts of blood, they once again made their escape.

Less than two minutes had passed since they reached the surface, and the humans had managed to draw first blood.

But things were far from over— Not by a long shot.
