She had not expected to be here. But—something had drawn her here in the mad flight, when Nama told her to run.
“Wait a second. Have you met…a young woman? Shorter than me? This high—she told me once—”
Ryoka had laughed at Erin, when she confessed about the dream and Ivolethe. Erin herself hadn’t believed it. But Ryoka was suddenly wide-eyed.
“Did she touch this blade?”
The three Arthurs turned to each other. One stood up, as if to inspect the blade.
“A young woman? Yes. Yes, she did. She came dreaming. She nearly took it out of her dream—but one of the Winter Court stopped her. Just as well. What was she?”
“An innkeeper. My friend.”
The oldest Arthur nodded.
“Then she would have woken as a King. Of…innkeepers. Or just a King. And the terrible fate of ours would be shared by her. In some other way.”
“But she didn’t. Erin was here?”
Ryoka stared about. The other three glanced at each other.
“Are you lost?”
“I’ve been trying to get in. But the Wild Hunt is following me and—this is so strange. You can’t be the Arthur of legend.”
“And why not?”
Ryoka clutched at her head. They were so—normal. Okay, she could see the entrails leaking out of one of them and the sword—but here?
Kindly, one of the Arthurs drew her down.
“Sit, Miss Ryoka. Sit. Time will not touch you here. Even the other fae are respectful. The Wild Hunt will not trouble you. I’ve ridden with them myself. What cause have they to hunt you? Pettiness?”
The young King assured her. Ryoka sat, despairing.
Meeting after meeting. She explained an abbreviated version of why she was here and the three nodded.
“Other worlds. Mine seems so small and insignificant, my kingdom so small at times. Yet—my legacy endures?”
The oldest Arthur turned to Ryoka, greedy for assurances. She hesitated.
“After a fashion, Your Majesty. You see—I don’t know if you ever were on my world. Historically? I’m not sure. But…they tell stories of you.”
“Stories?”
The oldest’s face fell. Ryoka winced.
“That’s all they have.”
“Does Albion not stand in your world?”
“Um.”
Ryoka didn’t want to get into geopolitical events of Earth. But Arthur demanded to know. He raked a hand through his bloodied hair, dislodging the fragments of crown. Then he stood.
“Stories. I commanded the greatest kingdom the world had ever seen. The deeds of my knights struck awe and hope into the hearts of all who heard them and fear into that of all of Albion’s foes! And that is all Camelot…all my kingdom…”
He trailed off, shaking his head. The younger two watched him anxiously. At last, the old King laughed.
“Perhaps that is all I can hope for. My great kingdom was the seed of the next nation. Perhaps—stories are enough of a legacy for any man. So long as they remember chivalry and honor, let it endure.”
He reached for the sword. Ryoka felt a chill at those grave eyes, the sad smile. The oldest King turned to the others.
“I will not change my mind. That is for you two to decide.”
Ryoka felt so sorry for this man—who had a rough life despite all his triumphs. She longed to say something, but she didn’t feel she belonged here.
And yet—the three seemed glad of her presence. The young man frowned.
“If not me, then the burden will fall to someone else. I only wonder if I am the right one for this blade. If there is a better king—let them take the sword.”
“There are many. We are reflected across many stories. Or so the fae claim. And Merlin. But they’re tricky and he is a liar. I hate Merlin.”
The oldest Arthur sighed. The young King nodded, a touch uncertainly. Ryoka wanted to take notes. She had no notion that Arthur had ridden with the Wild Hunt. Or was it alluded to in some story? And Erin was here? Well, there were stories of mortals walking the worlds in dreams. Even so—and Erin had just grabbed the sword. Typical.
“I bet I couldn’t even pull that damn thing if I tried, but my friend got it out.”
The other Arthurs chuckled. The young King leaned over conspiratorially.
“You see, it’s actually not hard. Anyone can do it. It’s a twist of the wrist as you pull.”
“What? No way. Really?”
“Yes, I’m joking.”
King Arthur laughed at her dumbfounded expression. The old man and young King fell over themselves laughing and back-slapping while the boy gave Ryoka a long-suffering look of sympathy. Clearly, Arthur changed from time to time.
…Presently, they calmed down. It seemed this was their fate. When they drew the blade, they would rise once more to their fates. It was just this reflection of them that remained, to know all and choose forever.
It sucked. But that was the kind of thing old stories loved. Ask Sisyphus. Actually—if Ryoka met him, she’d break that stupid boulder. She doubted it, since it was the wrong mythology, but she’d always felt bad for him. And Prometheus.
“I think I have to go. Nama—my protector—is helping me go in. And she might get hurt. They found us, you see.”
“Mm. I don’t know the whole of it, but it seems a young woman such as yourself does not deserve the Faerie King’s wrath. He can be…capricious. Although I have heard he has lost his wife.”
“Er…she might have run off with a mortal again. She did it once, I think. There may be a story about that?”
The old Arthur coughed. The boy turned red as the young King rolled his eyes.
“And Guinevere is going to do the same? Wonderful. Maybe I won’t draw the blade.”
“It’s your fault. I mean, mine. And Mordred. If only we could undo it. Try to remember.”
The oldest Arthur seized the younger one, caught for a moment by fresh emotion. The younger one nodded, trying desperately to fix the knowledge in his memory that history might change.
What tragedy. Ryoka looked away for a moment and then had a thought.
“Listen. Guys. I don’t know if this is right to say…but maybe I can clear up your dilemma?”
The three Arthurs turned, eagerly.
“How so, Lady Griffin?”
Ryoka flushed at the attention.
“Well…there’s this thing called the time traveller’s paradox. Basically, if one of you is from the future, then he’s already done everything that leads up to him going back in time. So…there’s no point deliberating because you’ve already chosen. It’s…basic…logic…”
She trailed off lamely. The three were staring at her. And all three were glaring.
“If she’s my descendants of descendants or what humanity looks like after my reign, maybe I won’t pull the sword out. What’s the point?”
The boy kicked a clod of grass. Ryoka lifted her hands.
“Look, guys. It’s just logic—”
“Have you learned nothing? Logic matters little with such things here. I am choosing. And right now, I’d rather a drink.”
The young King leaned on the stone grumpily. Even the old one looked annoyed. Arthur gestured at the stone.
“I could choose not to. Even now. Even from whatever time you come from, Ryoka Griffin.”
She smiled, half-uncertainly.
“Yeah, but if you did—”
“I could choose not to.”
And then there was silence. Ryoka Griffin and time froze uncertainly as King Arthur stood over the stone. He looked at her. Her tongue was stuck in her teeth.
“I’m…I’m going to go. Sorry. Very sorry. I annoy everyone. Please pull out the sword. I’ll just…”
She walked backwards to the very edge of the clearing. Until time began to follow her, also running from that eternal moment. Also, kicking her in the back of the head for nearly unmaking reality as they knew it.
The two Kings and the squire looked after her. Slowly, they looked at each other. Murmuring. Ryoka turned.
“I’m sorry. I just want to find my friend. And I don’t want Nama or anyone else to die. Thank you—I’ll remember meeting you forever.”
She turned away. Knowing she would and wishing she could speak longer. Longer…she heard a voice calling out after her.
“Miss Ryoka!”
Arthur the squire stood by the sword in the stone. He shook his head.
“I’m but a boy. And he is a dying old man.”
He gestured at the old man, who glowered at the youngest Arthur. The boy returned the gaze, steadfast. The last King Arthur spoke.
“But I am the Arthur of your stories. You say they tell stories of me?”
“They do, King of Camelot!”
She shouted, tears springing to her eyes as he smiled by his terrible burden. The King nodded, pleased.
“—Then. Chivalry is not dead. Nor will it ever be. Nor is it now.”
She didn’t know what he meant. But then she saw the young man reach down. His crown shone golden. His armor gleamed.
He drew Caliburn from the stone. And raised it high overhead.
The world went still. Ryoka stared as the young man strode towards her. No—
King Arthur Pendragon. He held the blade aloft as the other two remained. Walking out of the clearing, into the forest consumed by a winter’s storm. Fearless. He saluted Ryoka as he walked.
“I have never left a maiden in distress. Nor do I fear the Winter Court. Come, milady. Let us find your friend and rescue your great protector.”
He offered her an arm to rest upon, in the fashions of old. Ryoka Griffin stared at him. She stared at the arm. She edged away from the arm, but then she bowed.
“Are you sure?”
The King of Chivalry smiled. He stepped beyond the glade and was engulfed in winter. Ryoka’s skin froze—the world became a howling snowstorm without direction. 
The winter fae were everywhere. Great shapes; wolves of the end time bounding about the lone figure in the blizzard. Somehow, she was keeping them all back. Ryoka threw up an arm as her body turned to ice in front of the wind—
But the light of Caliburn protected her. The winter fae spotted her and the warrior in icy armor charged at her, lifting the blade no one had matched.
He did not see the young King until it was too late. Did not expect any foe but Ryoka. The blade swung up—and the winter warrior’s blade was blown backwards. The ringing sound halted the other figures in the blizzard. They turned as one, and saw the light.
Caliburn swung down, and the blow sent even the faerie king’s champion stumbling back. The King of Chivalry shouted, and knocked aside an arrow made of hoarfrost as it sped at Ryoka’s chest. He blurred as he whirled the sword around and the Wild Hunt charged him—and fell back.
Ryoka saw it now. It was a sword and an idea. It was a kingdom, the kingdom made then, and in the future, when the Once and Future King returned to reclaim his lost kingdom, when his subjects needed him most.
It was all those things. To break it, you would have to break all those things at once. And the immortal skill of the fae—King Arthur turned in the howling winds and locked blades with another warrior of the Wild Hunt.
The fae was pressed backwards. The man laughed. He had all the knowledge of his life, before and after! In this place—he looked at Ryoka as Caliburn’s light forced the others back.
“I’ll return it in time. But unless the Winter Court would try to slay the King of Knights, let them flee!”
He laughed into the storm as he advanced and the fae fell back. Ryoka saw Nama waving her spoon amid the snow and vast figures. She stared at King Arthur’s back.
Fairytales. Ryoka Griffin stumbled forwards as winter drew back. The King charged alone and scattered an army before him.
“For the King of Innkeepers who will never be! For honor time and time again!”
She would have followed him forever. But he was doing this for her. Ryoka turned as someone clutched her arm. Nama pointed.
“In! In! We are not far now.”
They ran, past trees and figures who poked their heads out of the trunks themselves—they were trees! Nymphs? Ryoka saw a few denizens of the forest come alive, wondering. The King of Chivalry was a sight even here. They stared at Ryoka.
“More mortals, today?”
Her head turned, but the gawking Dryad was just there a moment.
They ran and ran. And on this day of days, this day, amid meetings both foul and fair, as the faerie king’s warriors tried to keep her from breaching his will—
Ryoka Griffin ran out of the forest. Out of the second layer of the realm of the fae and deeper still. She heard the distant horns fading. The clash of blades disappear.
In.
