“It’s the same with other nature spells, like {Ensnaring Roots}. There are other spells in other attributes with similar effects, but {Ensaring Roots} is by far the cheapest, as the roots it creates are biologically geared toward trapping things. It costs much less mana because the roots naturally will wrap around whatever they touch, while in any other attribute, they would need to be specifically guided.

“Of course, this doesn’t help it at all when it comes to firepower, which is why people like me tend to use it for other things. Tripping and trapping, defense, mobility, and so on are my main focuses when it comes to nature magic, while for offense, I use either unattributed magic, or earth magic.”

The longer he spoke, the more certain Elise was that she would likely follow in his footsteps. She already needed to mix in her aether with her nature magic, so a style that was already designed to be a supplement was perfect for her, and as he went on to talk about some more specific tactics he employed, she started coming up with her own ideas. With {Nature Mana Manipulation}, she could already imitate basically everything he did, and with nature magic’s natural efficiency combined with her own aether Skills, she felt like she could become an extremely efficient combatant. Using aether to aid her own attack and defense, she would expend even less mana than Heath did, and her enormous aether pool would fuel her for a while. She could become a very good attrition fighter. Efficient fighting was kind of what she already did, since she had to do it in the Jungle when her mana pool was much smaller, but if she mastered nature magic further, she could take it to a new level.

When Heath finished his explanation, Elise was feeling generally satisfied with how she planned to develop her magic. She got a bonus dose of satisfaction when she realized she might have pre-emptively ended another existential spiral. She didn’t need to worry about a balance of aether and mana. She could just develop her abilities together as one. That might change a bit when she unlocked the full {Mana Manipulation} Skill, but the general philosophy would stay the same. Her aether pool made it foolish to specialize in anything but aether, but there was plenty of room for her mana abilities to slot in.

Her satisfaction was enough that even Telvir’s general arrogance didn’t bring her mood down, and she was in a very good mood when Daryl started explaining the sparring.

“So obviously, we can’t do true sparring in here,” he said. “There’s not enough room, the terrain is bad, and we would get in trouble for damaging the room. However, we can do something just as good. And before I get too deep into it, don’t worry. This is just a fun game, and your performance doesn’t really matter.

“Basically though, we’ll be doing a pseudo-spar using these!” he gestured back toward the stone dummies standing in the dirt patch. “We can’t have you attacking each other, but we can have you attack these stone dummies, and try to defend them. So that’s exactly what you’ll be doing! We’ll pair you off, and you’ll each take turns attacking and defending a dummy.

“Don’t worry about being inexperienced. You’re newbies, so it’s expected. Also, we’ll be right here to give you some tips based on your performance, so you can start getting a feel for using nature magic for combat.

“That said, since some of you do have experience, it’s not entirely fair to pit you against the ones without it. At least not immediately. So for the first match, we’ll have you go against each other! Experience versus experience. Does that sound alright to you?”

Elise and Telvir made brief eye contact. Telvir’s disdain rose to a new high, and with it, so did Elise’s desire to prove him wrong.

“I’m game,” she said.

“I supposed it would be interesting,” said Telvir.

“Then it’s a match!” said Daryl happily.
