“Because Sevona was witnessed and remembered by a Stellar Wanderer. Her kingdom lived on in the mind of a being that had witnessed all its possible futures. Much later, the wanderers shed their everlasting coils to raise the firmament of the Heavenly Dao. Their immortal memories became the bedrock of the Ultom Courts, helping it endure Era after Era.”

Idiche sighed, and the tranquil garden was replaced by the chaotic world of the lost plane. Twisted relics and boundless madness attacked Zac’s senses until Idiche erected a barrier that kept them safe.

“Not even the Stellar Wanderers are Eternal. Memories eroded and were discarded to protect the courts. They were left to their own devices.”

With those words, a huge crack appeared in the nauseating mess before them, and a whole section of the Lost Plane fell out. It was the size of a small continent before fragmenting into countless pieces. The vision locked onto one particular mass of corruption as it fell through cracks of reality until it appeared before a familiar landmass.

“Some memories found their way into the Left Imperial Expanse,” Idiche said, her starry eyes full of sorrow. “The memory of Sevona eventually fused with the Peregrine Ocean, disrupting ancient plans. Slumbering souls with no connection to Sevona or her kingdom were dragged inside and forced to play out unfamiliar roles. The faded memory grew in power with every cycle of sacrifices, but it also grew more twisted.

They were back in the Hall of Abundance the next moment.

“Thanks to you, the cycle has ended. Sevona’s memories and existence are now mine. I will not allow them to bring any further harm to my fellow disciples,” Idiche declared.

“Sevona yet not Sevona,” Zac sighed.

It was no wonder there was such a discrepancy between August and Sevona in the vision and the power they exhibited now. The August they fought was the fabrication of a Stellar Wanderer’s stubborn memory that had fed on countless memory lanterns.

The revelation also meant that Sevona’s memory was a disruptive component thrown into the Omnipresence Chamber. It didn’t just damage the Grand Array with tremendous amounts of corruption; feeding on its souls meant the memories were forced to change. Zac glanced at Idiche, guessing she was only the latest of countless “reincarnations.” Each cycle, the recorded reality would deviate further from the truth.

Finally, that destructive cycle had come to an end thanks to outside agents bringing the winds of change.

Idiche looked to the sky once more. “Poor August. For Sevona’s most loyal guardian to be remembered as the sinner who claimed her life… The universe has a twisted sense of humor.”

The silence stretched for a full minute until it was broken by an impatient cough.

“That’s all well and good. You can call yourself Sevona or Lemona for all I care, but you surely haven’t forgotten how we worked ourselves half to death to bring you here?” Esmeralda huffed. “As a grand ancient Goddess, it’s time to bestow your bounty.”

“Uh…” Zac said, only relaxing upon seeing a smile appear on Idiche’s face. “What she said.”
