The Boss had high hopes for this weapon, but Bulat and the others were failing to deliver.

Well, most of them. While Silva, Viyan, and Birca produced similar results, Ravil’s sword-rifle let loose with a peal of thunder as his weapon jerked towards the sky with such force Bulat worried it’d fly out of Ravil’s grip. Three hundred meters downrange, a cloud of dust and straw shot into the air as the target shook from the impact, showing just why they’d excluded the dark-skinned marksman from their little wager. Both accurate and reliable, Ravil was a demon with his Spiritual Weapon, succeeding at one in four shots. Flashing his pearly-white grin, Ravil’s heated gaze caressed the single-edged sword, probably imagining all the lives it would soon take, Defiled or otherwise.

A good friend to have and the worst enemy to make, that’s Ravil in a nutshell.

Pran and Saluk’s weapons barked with successful shots and though neither hit their targets, when facing a horde of Defiled, it’d be difficult to miss. Dropping the hammer's head to the frozen dirt, Pran grunted as he pulled back the crossbar, his muscles strained and jaw clenched in order to move the handle a mere five centimetres. Two seconds later, the springs depressed to their shortest length with an audible click and he side-loaded the grape-sized bullet onto the chamber. Hefting the maul, he fired the weapon in a careless manner, missing the target once again. With an almost 60% success rate and climbing, Pran’s talent was undoubtedly the highest and well positioned to surpass Saluk’s 75% record after a short five days.

A brilliant Divine Blacksmith, Captain Sumila’s improvements were readily visible with each new masterpiece, making changes to everything from the loading method to the cocking mechanism. Since she took weeks to make each weapon, Bulat worried another faction would copy her success but when he brought it up, the tiny girl replied with a thunderous snort. “Feel free to show your weapon to anyone who asks,” she’d said, giving him a sneer worthy of the Mother herself. “Not even Papa can copy my designs, so they’re welcome to try.”

So domineering. Bulat’s heart ached for the Boss, but such was life. How could Falling Rain refuse the Chief Provost? Not everyone could be lucky to find someone as amazing as Dei An.

Having been given the first weapon, Silva had the worst of both worlds, lacking both a handy winch to wind his springs and a grip to help steady his sword-rifle. To make up for it, he practised more carefully than any other, making every shot count. Lazy though he might be, he hated being dead-last, as Birca was merciless with his taunting. Lacking both muscles and motivation, Silva was the slowest shooter, taking a full ten seconds to draw back the springs and load his bullet, then taking even longer to line up his shot and fire, but his success rate was higher than Viyan and Birca’s at one out of every eight shots.

A shame Silva was so easily satisfied. Viyan and Birca were easily motivated since they’d put effort into anything so long as there were stakes to be won, but Silva was different. He wasn’t incompetent, rather far from it, able to match the others with half the effort, but he was too easily satisfied, content to sit in the middle of the pack when he could instead excel like Ravil. Something would have to be done to motivate the man, but money, women, and beatings had all failed and Bulat was out of ideas.

Bah. Better for Old Bulat to deal with his own failings first. Saying he would succeed at one out of every ten shots was being generous, only a little better than Viyan or Birca. He’d yet to lose money on their little wagers, overcoming Silva through sheer volume of shots, but he felt the others hot on his heels. At the end of their hour-long practice, Bulat’s record stood at four-hundred-sixty-seven tries while succeeding fifty-two times, an abysmal record. Using a magnetic plate attached to a broomstick, he went about collecting the nearby bullets to be reforged into new ones while the others collected and replaced the targets to see how many of those successful shots hit their mark.

Waving his cloth target like a flag, Viyan wore a triumphant grin. “Looks like you’re gonna eat a loss this time, Baby Bulat. My best record yet, eleven shots.”

Birca grumbled beneath his breath as he tossed his target aside. “Lucky sonovabitch. Nine.”

Shrugging, Silva held his cloth up for inspection, letting sunlight stream through the various holes. Sighing because no one would count for him, he eventually counted them himself. “Ten.” Not bad considering he fired half the volume of shots compared to the others.

Heart sinking, Bulat asked Ravil, “So what’s the damage? Give it to Old Bulat.” No point asking about Ravil's shots, probably hit damn near every one.

“Bad news.” Shaking his bald head, Ravil made a big show of it, acting all heartbroken and distraught. “Six.” Bulat’s breath caught in his throat, horrified by his terrible record. Six shots hit out of fifty-two? How could it be so few? “Six more than Viyan.” Ravil continued with a smile. “At twenty coppers a mark, I’d call that terrible news. Seventeen marks for Bulat, clear as day. Nice shooting.”

It took a handful of seconds for the news to sink in before Bulat burst into laughter. “Hahaha, you all thought you finally beat Old Bulat, but today ain’t the day. Pay up you lousy deadbeats, I ain’t gonna chase you down fer it.”

With his pouch four silvers and twenty coppers heavier, Bulat strolled towards the sparring grounds, happy to match blades with Vichear, Gerel, Tenjin, and even Dagen. So what if he was no match for them? With Captain Sumila’s amazing new weapons, he could fire a shot from two-hundred meters away, easily tearing through bone and armour to deliver a killing blow. While he might never be an incredible warrior or form his Natal Palace, Old Bulat was now a force to be reckoned with, all thanks to this wonderful new weapon.

Away from the others, Ravil leaned in and whispered, “Half those winnings are mine. Put eight shots into your target myself while no one was looking. Lucky they ain’t the brightest bunch, but you got to step up Baby Bulat, else you gonna get left behind.” Tossing him the day’s notes with a smirk, he added, “Bring those to the Captain for me, will ye?”

...

Seems Old Bulat is a cheat after all. Suppose this means he'll be spending less time with Dei An and more time at the shooting range. Such a shame to keep Ma waiting for her grandkids, a real damned shame.

Chapter Meme
