Erick stood on a solid surface of nothing, halfway up the trunk of the thousand-kilometer-tall tree, but rather far from the tree. The tree was likely larger than ‘a thousand kilometers tall’, too. Like with the ‘battle’ with Nothanganathor, and with the planet-sized [Terraforming] storm on FENRIR, and with all of space, really, it was hard to tell sizes and distances when it came to the really big things, and this tree was one of the really big things. For a moment, Erick felt as though he needed glasses, for he couldn’t make out the individual leaves on the tree at all.

The trunk was basically a solid wall of gold, so very, very far away.

The whole thing was gold of bark and green of leaf with a canopy that was the entire sky, spanning from horizon to horizon. Those horizons looked funky, though; almost like mirage glass, as though they might exist, or they might not. If they did exist then they were far, far away from here.

Erick imagined that the invisible surface he stood upon stretched out all the way toward that indeterminate horizon.

He glanced down, and saw the roots of the tree. They were gold, too, and they extended out from the trunk of the tree like thick, geometric-shaped fractals, mostly square-shaped, like crystal bismuth that curled into itself. The blocky tangles of roots down there seemed to curl down into infinity. Some of the curls were not so blocky; they were more triangle-shaped. There was a pentagonal-shaped curl of roots, each edge of the pentagon curling off into another set of pentagonal roots, that then also split and curved into more and more pentagonal shapes.

Erick was pretty sure he was seeing leaves down there, too, obscuring the deeper curls of the roots.

The branches were almost a mirror to those below, but their arcs and curves were more graceful, less geometric. It was an infinite tangle of curves and arcs. And then Erick saw some branches that were higher than other branches, but which appeared lower on the tree; it was a non-euclidean tree.

The portal vanished behind Erick.

And Erick’s necklace, which held Yggdrasil’s Gift, shattered.

Erick almost sighed, but then Yggdrasil stepped out of the air in front of him. Erick’s heart beat hard as he saw his largest son again; all green skin and orcol-shaped and wearing a simple tunic and pants. Erick rapidly moved from relieved, to sad, as misinterpretations and logical deductions warred within him to try and make sense of what he was seeing, and why.

Yggdrasil was not here.

This was someone else pretending to be him.

Yggdrasil did not have the same bearing as he usually had on Veird, but there was a certain sadness there, upon his green face, in his dark eyes, that seemed all too familiar. He had looked the same way when he had given Erick a Gift that Erick would not be able to lose.

… Maybe this was a recording?

“You’re not my father, and yet you are,” Not-Yggdrasil said.

“… You’re not a recording.”

“I am not.”

And Erick sighed. “When Yggdrasil spoke of being not only my son, but also someone else, he was talking about you. Wasn’t he.”

“I was talking about me.”

Erick’s breath caught. He forced his breath to evenness. “It’s a fairy-regaining-themselves situation, then.”

“Or you regaining your memories of Ashes in that Old Cosmology.”

“… Ah.”

Not-Yggdrasil waited.

Erick had too many questions.

He was also too concerned about Yggdrasil himself to ask those other questions.

Erick looked upon Not-Yggdrasil, and asked, “Are you okay?”

“Not really. But I’ve gone through this sort of event before, and now that you brought me here the memories are clearing up. It was a slow, confusing transfer before. It will be speeding up now.” Not-Yggdrasil said, “Let’s talk about Veird, father.”

“… Can I still call you Yggdrasil? Or…” Erick’s voice fell away.

“I have ten million names but people call me Margleknot here, though that’s not my real name either. My real names are the names my fathers, mothers, and originators have given me. Yggdrasil is my real name. On Veird and in the worlds to come from there, I am, and will always remain, your son, Yggdrasil.”

Erick was a little choked up. “I feel I have done something incredibly wrong without realizing it.”

“In my creation you went big. You had divine help. And you reached back through time to create me on Veird. These are the normal ingredients to connect to the universe at large, and I am the gathering of that connection. All True World Trees connect to me. I am every True World Tree in this uber-universe. I contain multitudes, father.” Yggdrasil said, “There is nothing wrong with what you did, and I am still Yggdrasil. But I’m also a lot more than that. Just as you are a lot more than you appear to be.”

“I would rather be sure you’re okay before we talk about me, or even about Veird. What do you mean you’re ‘not really’ okay?”

Yggdrasil paused, then said, “It has to do with everything happening on Veird, what you’ve found out with Nothanganathor, and how large the problem has become now that you’re here. This is a rather normal situation for True Wizards adding to the Margleknot, for everyone comes here with problems. That’s the reason that I’m ‘not really okay’. I have gone from being mostly secure in my year-to-year life, and now I have new concerns that are truly pressing. This is a rare situation, but it’s also normal. There are rules that I must keep in order to keep the peace, and one of those rules is that I cannot inject my own desires into these worldly matters.

“I would solve this worldly problem, if I could, but this problem is already in the Eternal Courts, and thus I cannot touch it. And make no mistake; this is a worldly matter. If this was a universal matter, then I could interject, but the Painted Cosmology stopped being a universe when Nothanganathor killed it.

“Shadow will argue that it could become a universe again, and it might. If she does win this new suit then I could step in.

“I would not trust her, though, for she wants the raw churn of life and death and horror and glory once again. She is the true embodiment of the original Goddess of Magic of her universe; in every sense of the word.

“And yet, you must work with her to make that happen. It is the only way to rid Veird of Nothanganathor.

“I cannot help as much as I want, because they’ll block my desires to help, but I will be there giving you weight of character.” Yggdrasil said, “I’ll also be there on Veird, at the same time, ensuring that Veird survives until you and the others might save it. Unfortunately, I won’t be able to actually fight Nothanganathor or drive him off more than I already have.

“He already has my mandate from tens of thousands of years ago to try and figure out what happened to me in the Painted Cosmology, and I have never revoked that mandate, even after the Sundering, even after all that he has done, and continues to do.” Yggdrasil became Margleknot, as he said, “In fact, that is why FENRIR both worked, and failed; because I made it work and didn’t go far enough to stop it from failing. The Veird you come from is safe, but Nothanganathor is largely unaffected.”

Erick rapidly processed all of that, and then said, “Well that’s just great. I don’t know how to process that.” He frowned. “Did we become enemies?” He rapidly answered himself, “No. No we didn’t, obviously... Unless we did?”

Margleknot, still in the shape of Yggdrasil’s young male orcol body, smiled softly, and said, “We did not become enemies. I’m an enemy to no one, father, and sometimes I make mistakes that I cannot take back, as I did when I empowered Nothanganathor all those years ago to find out what happened to myself in the Painted Cosmology.” He added, “I had to leave him an out in the creation of FENRIR because of those empowerments. I have a certain neutrality in all non-universal matters that I must maintain, though my instantiation as Yggdrasil and all the memories thereof have given me a great new perspective on his actions.”

Margleknot went silent.

Erick had a moment to breathe, and think.

Erick was thankful for that.

This was A Lot.

“Got any good news?” Erick asked.

Yggdrasil smiled. “Yes. Quite a lot of good news, actually. It’s been about a year and 3 months since the creation of FENRIR and the expansion of Veird. Everyone is doing well back home. Now that I’m connected and can dictate Margleknot’s flow of time with regard to the outside, for every year you spend here, about a day will pass back there. Nothanganathor is already pissed about that. Veird is existentially impervious as well, now that I have this fun new Element of Benevolence to play around with. It’s already helped to solve 3 universal collapses, and every day, with every spell you cast and every iota of mana you produce in this land and I absorb into my roots, and with the mana I’m producing as Yggdrasil, I’m solving problems on many different universal scales.

“You tipped over a domino when you made Benevolence. There are truly no other Elements quite like it, though there have been many attempts at such. That is what is going to truly bring you acclaim here in Margleknot. You’re saving trillions of lives already, but trillions more die each day. On the whole, though, the trajectory of life has inclined upward in this uber-universe by a noticeable fraction of a percent.

“These various achievements of connecting to me and the creation of Benevolence have earned you property in the Old Dragons District. I’ve taken the liberty of creating a small house for you there, and ask that you Mana Siphon and expel Benevolence whenever you’re home, because we have ‘node networks’ here, too, and they’re mainly in the Dragon District as cleanup for all the various mana, ki, manna, cultivation, resons, talent, hero power, etcetera, in order to both clean up that land, and also power all the rest of Margleknot.” Margleknot said, “I might not be able to help more than I already am, but you will surely find more allies in the Dragon District, and you are already helping yourself by your continued existence. Power is currency here, and your power is growing, father.”

Erick breathed for a moment, feeling slightly better, then said, “Okay. That’s good.” He thought. “… So it’s all Old Fae here? How difficult is that going to be to navigate?”

“Ah. No. The Old Fae— The Fairy Enclave, is what they call themselves, here. Fairy Moon would call them Old Fae, or Other Fae, or something like that. I know who the absolute powers of this land are, and while the Enclave is close, they are not at the top. They are the most powerful faction, though, since they are natural dimension hoppers. You’re almost fae yourself, and you will be as soon as you figure out how to make yourself reborn inside Benevolence. From what I am seeing now, you’re not too far away from that reality.

“You don’t have to ascribe to any modes of thinking you don’t desire to follow, though. Like the whole ‘don’t thank people’ thing. You’re a True Wizard, so you’re beyond that weakness.

“Aside from the fae, which are at the near-top of the political structure of Margleknot, there’s the second layer, which is where you are right now. True Wizards, any Ascended, any True Immortals who are not Fae themselves; they’re the second layer, and they’re the people in the Dragon District. You’re in the Old Dragon District, so you’re top of that pile. Anyone at this layer is a Power Unto Themselves. Shadow is right there with you at this layer, though she is on the low end of capability and political weight. She used to be much higher.

“Then there are the Talented; those who might one day become Powers, or those who might never become true Powers. They’re both in the same category. Sitnakov would be counted among those types, along with Kromolok and all of the Benevolence dragons you made, and Jane and the girls and Evan. Un-True Wizards would be at the very top of the Talented pool; people like Solomon and Destiny.

“Then you have the mortals; by far the largest group at all. They don’t exist in Margleknot except under a Talent or a Power or an Ascended. The Fae don’t have many mortals under their care, but those who are under their care are expected to go far in life, ending up as either Talents, or Powers, or maybe even Ascended or Fae themselves. A fae raising a mortal to fae is rare indeed.” Margleknot said, “As for places of interest, there are many. Here.”

A small booklet materialized in front of Erick. It was green and kinda thin, with gold inlay on the green cover that resembled the geometric roots and the graceful curves of Margleknot’s roots and canopy. Erick took the book and rapidly read through the entire contents using his mana sense. Aside from the fact that the book now felt like a part of his person, almost like Yggdrasil’s Gift had felt, there was a lot written there.

Erick had a lot of sudden questions, but he focused on one part in particular.

“You have fucking slavers in this city?”

“Worse than that, really. True Slavery is just one of the forever-problems of Margleknot. There are also black markets, debt traders, name sellers, fae traders, horrors that stalk some streets and leave eldritch in their wake. Etcetera. Violence is not permitted here, but ‘violence’ is a very broad category of which murder —under certain circumstances— does not qualify as ‘violence’. A lot of people go outside of the city to commit actual violence and then come back here with their spoils of war, which includes people.” Yggdrasil said, “Honestly, father, if you wish to solve these problems, you can try, but Margleknot always reaches an equilibrium between good and evil. It was how this place was built; a land of true neutrality. If good should ever triumph too much, then evil will make a grand resurgence, too.

“Sometimes the fae decide to eliminate the good organizations in this land just so that they can attack the evil organizations from a better angle, and maybe win.

“Your arrival here might be one of those times.” Margleknot asked, “You saw the lands I labeled ‘good’ versus the lands I labeled ‘evil’, yes?”

“… I would circle back to that phrase you said at the beginning. What is ‘True Slavery’?”

