“The soul, mind, and body shackling of a person to make them into the perfect slave of another. Some would say a single type of shackling is enough to qualify for True Slavery. Others would say you need all three to qualify. Soul shackling is perhaps the most widespread ‘True Slavery’ of Margleknot. What you did with your [Blessing of Empathy] to the Sovereign Nations would be considered a very poor idea of slavery by many slavers of the Slaver’s Den, but even so they would count you among their number.”

Erick had no words.

And then he found some words, “Okay. Well. I can work on multiple problems at once.” He looked at his new book, with its golden inlay cover. “You really can’t… You’re really neutral, then.”

Margleknot nodded. “Everyone prospers under my boughs. I only stop the worst of offenses. Everything else Balances out.”

“… That’s one way to do it.”

Margleknot grinned. “It works that way not out of any directed, malevolent plan, but because all of the various powers here pollute everything with thoughts that turn tangible. That’s how it works on Veird, too, and many other places, though those places are overseen by overmagics that manage to Power Alter their pollution into better systems. We do what we can here, and if you wish to help, you could sign up with Elder Lionshard in the Old Dragon District. He oversees the various power systems that underlay much of the common lands of Margleknot, keeping the worst powers to a minimum. Meeting him will not be completely different from meeting Al, the Sewermaster of Spur; they fulfill a similar role.”

Moments passed, as Erick considered the complete trajectory of his life.

Things were getting kind of insane right now.

Hopefully he could eliminate Nothanganathor and solve the problems of Veird, and then relax… But who was he kidding. He would never relax, would he? Not really, anyway.

“All life is a series of the same events but with different people, but...” Erick’s words came to him as easy as opening his eyes, “Ideally, it’s an evergrowing cycle.”

“For now, and for all always.”

That was Erick’s Truth of Benevolence, wasn’t it…

Erick openly wondered, “Am I the only one of me to make it here, Yggdrasil? Isn’t this land… infinite?”

Was this land infinite? Erick wasn’t even sure of that.

He wasn’t sure of much right now.

“Infinity has a way of closing off here in Margleknot; it keeps everything simpler. If you were to die and vanish another one of you from a different reality might come forth, but they wouldn’t be you. It is quite possible that the person who you used to be had lived once here in Margleknot, and he had died, and now you’re here to replace them.

“If those other Ericks ever ascend, then they wouldn’t be directed here, to Margleknot. They’d go to one of the many different infinite cities out there, in this uber-cosmology. It’s Fate magic.” Yggdrasil said, “As soon as a person gets here, and no matter where they go afterward, they will always be the version of themselves that comes here to Margleknot, until they perish in Truth.”

Erick decided to let that full mystery stand for another day.

In fact. All of these problems? They could wait.

Time to get back on task.

“I have problems to solve at home, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil breathed happily at the mention of his name. He easily said, “And home is waiting for you to return triumphant. So get some allies, father, and then return exactly as you planned. I could open a portal there right now, but as soon as you leave, then Nothanganathor might be able to spend a century at the Enclave, turning them harder against you. You have a chance now, and you need to take it before you go back.”

Erick wasn’t sure what to say next, except, “Yggdrasil is already you, and you’re already him, right?”

Yggdrasil/Margleknot nodded. “Yes. It would have happened anyway had I not given you that spot of light, but it would have taken time, and I would not have known who you were right away, as soon as Shadow requested my Sight and my portals.”

“So you’re still my son. You’re still Ophiel’s younger brother. You’re still siblings with Jane, Abigail, Beth, Candice, and Evan.” Erick wasn’t sure if he was asking questions or stating facts. “You’re still all of those things, but you’re also more.”

“Yes. I also have many duties beyond you. Many, many duties.”

Erick rapidly said, “That’s fine! I do want you to be happy, though. That’s all I really wanted, aside from all the smaller duties— I never wanted you to be obligated to work a gate network, though. I was very clear about that. Are you happy working this Margleknot network?”

Yggdrasil softly grinned. “I’ve handed that over to other people long, long before you and I happened, father. I just look in on it from time to time. Aside from that: I tell you now, father, that you are among the best creators I have ever had. Veird is, and will always be, a great home for me. FENRIR looks like great real estate, too. Do you know how many other spheres there are in this uber-universe, father? Less than a million.”

Erick felt a tiny thrill of joy at that...

Erick asked, “Can I get a hug?”

Yggdrasil stepped forward and embraced Erick, and Erick hugged him back.

Erick mumbled, “This is still weird for me, but I do want to be a part of your life.”

Yggdrasil sniffled a little. “I want you to be a part of my life, too.” He pulled back, looking his father in the eyes, saying, “Invite me over to dinner sometime, father. You have a home here, now.”

Erick nodded.

There were more small words and they were important, but soon enough Erick waved his son farewell, for now, and stepped through a swirling portal of gold and green.

- - - -

Yggdrasil watched his father depart.

He let his avatar stand there for a while, under a much larger version of himself than he had ever imagined that he would become...

He almost shifted perspective back to his ‘normal’ perspective, but he decided to stay Yggdrasil for a while longer, both in avatar, and in Truth.

Maybe he’d stay this way for a while, actually.

There was a certain beauty of thought that came from immersing himself in this person that his father had created. A peacefulness. A purposeful clarity. ‘Margleknot’ was always so passive. Yggdrasil was active. Margleknot liked being active when he actually felt like being active.

And he had been rather active ever since he recognized Erick, down there in the Timeless Forest.

Thanks to Benevolence he had already solved 1 existential threat to 2 different universes, and he created 7 truly good twists of Fate to enable something Better to happen in the near or distant future for 15 other places. Some of those forecasts were rather uncertain for now, for the Benevolent Sky back on Veird was focused on Nothanganathor. Yggdrasil had to really press at the Sky to get it to show him what he wanted to see…

And yet his eyes were drawn to all the Red in the sky, most of all.

‘Yggdrasil’ found he had a lot of powerful, disparaging thoughts regarding that dragon ‘he’ had raised to power so long ago. Chief among those thoughts was the overriding refrain that Yggdrasil had promised himself so very many times over the course of his long, long life, and which he had broken so very many times already.

‘Don’t raise people to power; they will always disappoint you.’

Why did he raise people to power anymore? It always ended poorly eventually.

… And yet, here was Erick Flatt, simply the latest in a very long line of people that proved that some people sometimes did very well with power. How had Erick gotten his power, though? Self-actualized?

Mostly self-actualized, considering how many Ericks got eaten by Nothanganathor. Powerfully self-actualized, too, considering the number of Establishments he managed to pull off to make his entrance today into Margleknot. Yggdrasil didn’t think any other Ericks would make it to this land, though. Already, Nothanganathor was reporting a drop in attempted-wizard events.

Solomon was still on Veird, though. He would make it as soon as he tried. So could Destiny, really.

“But they all stemmed from Erick and his Benevolence, which is still rather unique. Fairy Moon deserves some praise for her assistance in that creation, but who else influenced the creation of Benevolence? Erick did, for sure, as for the entire culture of Earth and then Veird… But were there any specific Powers?”

Yggdrasil went searching—

“Oh.

“Well.

“Hello.”

“Okay.”

- - - -

A great platinum dragon had been resting on a bed of softest moonglows and supportive cosmic webs.

And then there was a twinge.

Waking from his afternoon nap, which had been rather short at a few years long, Lionshard went to the kitchen first and had a wonderful breakfast of starfire and crunchy diamonds, and then he turned into his mortal form and had a much more delicious meal of leafies and eggs in a rice porridge. Lionshard might have been far removed from his mortal roots but he had made sure long ago that he would retain his love of the common things. He had never seen fit to remove those casual pleasures, because of course the casual things in life were worth keeping around and enjoying.

Wearing his mortal guise and a robe of moonglows —because while many things were good in their common forms, moonglow was just nice— Lionshard strode through his little mansion to arrive at the sympathetic model of the Great Tangle of Margleknot. This great flow-ways of pulse-knockers and orbitals is what allowed him to do what he truly enjoyed in life which was to clean up the universe by starting at the center. Other people might win wars in other lands and thus affect this Great Orrery, but Lionshard could do the same thing in a general sense from this room right here, extending influence all across this uber-universe of Margleknot to set better stages here and there.

This orrery was Fate Magic beyond the measure of most to understand, and it certainly couldn’t affect the largest players in the universe, but it was good for keeping eyes and counterbalances on corruption, while also serving to balance all the rest… Hmm. No new corruption, it seemed?

Lionshard hummed, mumbling, “Now what woke me up...”

Lionshard stared at the pulsing colored orbs and the flow of magic from this location to that location, and the trillion little stars that marked the largest of big influences that this sympathy was actually capable of tracking…

He studied the map for an hour until he found it.

“Oh!” Lionshard said, “Someone activated the MERCY system and they actually got into the city—” Lionshard’s mouth shut and his eyes went wide as he tracked the new person, who was first classified as Talented, then rapidly escalated to Ascended, and then rapidly labeled a True Power by Margleknot Itself— And then Lionshard saw something he had only seen a handful of times already. “Oh stars and wells!”

Lionshard rushed out of the Orrery to the very nearest balcony, which was outside of the room and pointed toward Margleknot in the far, far distance. After one incident long ago, where Lionshard had needed to break a wall to see what he wanted to see, Lionshard had arranged his house and this exit to the house for exactly the reason he was using it for right now. Sure, sometimes people used this entrance to sneak into his house to see the Orrery, but those people were easily captured—

All thoughts fled and then came back as Lionshard stared at Margleknot.

The tree was the size of a mountain in the distance, too far away and too large to ever really see except in a general sense. That’s how the Great World Tree looked from everywhere in the city. This ‘Vision of Margleknot’ was the one constant of this endless land. For the last hundred thousand years of subjective Margleknot time, the tree had been gold of bark and green of leaf.

As Lionshard watched, the tree was changing, just as he knew it would, just as it always did when Margleknot decided to accept the new life granted to him by some World Tree creator.

Lionshard reflexively put a hand over his chest and whispered, “Stars and wells.”

Margleknot was turning ever so slightly white of bark, green of leaf, and with a rainbow crown around his canopy. As Lionshard watched for a minute or an hour, Margleknot began to glow. Greens became green fire. Whites became starglows. The crown turned bright and radiant—

Words appeared in the air before Lionshard.

My new father has arrived in the Old Dragon District. His name is Erick Flatt. We have already met. He calls me Yggdrasil. He will have problems with an incident which was thought solved by the Enclave; Nothanganathor versus the Painted Cosmology.

I have directed Erick your way.

Please temper his expectations with the Enclave. I have told him that I have no real power, but he does not believe me.

Also, he is

Lionshard’s eyes went wide. And then he said, “Of course, Margleknot. Will you be accepting your new name, as well?”

That will be complicated for a time. Call me as you wish; everyone always does. With any luck, Erick will be calling me ‘Yggdrasil’.

“But you changed your appearance? You don’t normally do that.”

I have, haven’t I.

The words read plain, but to Lionshard, he saw a small joy in those letters.

“I suppose that says it all, then.” Lionshard said, “Congrats on your new look. It’s rather brilliant.”

It’s a bit flashy, but I do like it.

Check out Erick’s mana Element either before or after you meet him. Probably after, if you want to have a cleaner introduction. You would be too excited if you checked it out before. You’ll probably be awake for a while for the near and prolonged future, so I hope your nap was well.

Lionshard chuckled. “It was a pretty good nap, thank you.”

The words vanished.

Lionshard rushed back inside his house… And he paused.

He could go left and check out Erick’s new mana, or he could go right and get properly dressed to go meet a new True Power.

To the right, Lionshard decided, an instinctive use of Guiding Fate crunching his decision into becoming the correct choice.

