“Newcomers are always so suspicious, though, so I have to be careful about my Guiding Fate,” Lionshard said, ripping through his collection of meeting clothes. “They usually have reasons to be wary, of course— Oh! This red one— No. Not red at all. That would be bad, somehow. … Somehow? Somehow. Ah! I’ll just—” Lionshard released a flicker of Guided Fate, his hand grabbing a grey and white robe thing that he hadn’t worn in centuries, not since that commoner party down by the docks. He stared at the thing, wondered for a moment, and said, “I suppose understated is good.” He hummed as he held the garment up to the light. “… He must come from a rather mundane sort of world.” He decided, “Simple things can be good, though.”

Lionshard took another moment.

This new person was probably going to have a lot of culture shock, so appearing to him in proper clothes would probably do more harm than good. Plus there was whatever that ‘Nothanganathor versus the Painted Cosmology’ was all about. Lionshard didn’t quite remember that happening, but he recalled it was an Enclave decision. Erick would be going against the Fae Enclave, then.

He was in for a lot of heartache, then.

He would need allies.

Holding up the garment again, Lionshard decided, “Yes. This is good.”

He put on the plain garment.

- - - -

Erick stepped through a portal onto solid brown ground in the middle of absolutely nowhere.

Several things happened almost all at once.

Margleknot stood on the horizon far over there, looking all green and gold, but he began to transform as Erick looked his way, turning radiant white and glowing green with a crown of rainbows. Erick wasn’t sure how to feel about that. He hoped that Yggdrasil was still Yggdrasil back home… And yet even back home, Yggdrasil had known he was more than who he thought he was—

But did he? Fully and completely? Not until Erick had delivered that Gift to Margleknot.

And now Yggdrasil was Margleknot, and Margleknot was Yggdrasil.

It was a kick in the balls, for sure. Erick felt some kinda way about all that, and he had no idea where to even begin processing that… grief? Yes. Grief. A loss of what had been, for what is new and unknown.

Erick turned his eyes to the sky in thought.

The sky was funky, here. Suns of every color, and a great big black hole in the very center that was like a hundred suns ringed around a black hole; a brilliant corona of light that was made all the more bright by the absolute black of the center.

And then the horizon over there suddenly held a mansion on a cliff overseeing a lake. It was tall and white, all cathedral-like stone and silver roofs and flowering vines on some walls. Fountains sparkled in the lights of the suns. That property took up an eighth of the horizon. It was a really nice castle.

And then two more similarly-sized castles took up another eighth and another eighth of Erick’s horizon in that other direction. One of them had expansive gardens filled with flowers and vegetables and orchards, all with glowing or radiant or shadowy parts. The castle-house on that first property was a tower, more than a castle. The other property had a similar garden, but the castle on that one was more of a compound, than a towering castle. The builders of those properties looked like they had built in opposition to each other. Erick wasn’t sure how he knew that, but he saw what he saw.

And then he moved on.

Other houses popped up on the horizon, most of them only taking up a sliver of the distance. Some of the houses appeared closer than ‘on the horizon’, like there were roads leading toward them, but there was nothing there; only mirages. In fact, mirages were everywhere, on every horizon, separating the brown land here from the land beyond.

Everything was non-euclidean here, it seemed—

The brown dirt of the land under Erick began to flex.

And then a white root lifted out of the ground, a kilometer in width, a leviathan surfacing from brown waters, and then ground dropped down, revealing deep, clear waters. The lake bottom was made of layers of geometric roots half covered in dirt. Long streamers of glowing green plants sprouted from that dirt, unfurling upward, providing the lake with more light.

Erick focused on the main root; the one that breached the surface of the new lake. It was a ten-sided circle that ended up being a wide crescent, mostly above the waves, with almost every part of it covered in thick greenery.

A house popped into existence at the apex of that root.

Erick got the distinct impression that this was his house, because it looked a lot like a combination of many different housing styles of Veird. There was the mage tower, common on mage houses. There were the porches that Erick loved. It was very possible that all housing architecture in the universe was more or less the same, but Erick doubted that, because that other house in the distance over there was made of a bunch of spheres, and that other house in the other direction was made with crystal spires. This house was made of stone and glass and other normal things.

It looked sort of like a lighthouse with one great mage tower ten stories tall and just as thick, with a castle compound to match. If one were looking closely, they’d think it was just a nice castle on a green island. But it was from Erick’s perspective, ten kilometers away from that house and floating atop the waters, that he saw the house as made of something like eternal stonewood, and the island itself as an extension of Yggdrasil.

And then Yggdrasil stepped out onto a balcony of the castle, and waved Erick over.

Erick took a moment.

And then he flew over and landed on the balcony. “Hello, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil smiled. “So I forgot to say congratulations on your Ascension. It went well. You did a lot right. Most people don’t leave room for themselves to grow as easily as you have. You also have an inborn ‘Find the Way’ ability, which is crucial to any proper True Wizard. Every single True Power here in the Dragon District has something like that; it’s the only way for them to survive here in this land. Also: that book I gave you is yours, unchanging. Unless you change it yourself. It’s the same trick I did with the piece of myself I gave to you to give to me. I think you already recognized that fact, though.

“Also, I’ve already grown fond of myself, so I’ll be Yggdrasil for a while now. The last time I Changed was something like 11,187 years ago. The me down on Veird is not the me up here, but we’re mostly the same. Yggdrasil is a code-switch for me up here, but down there Margleknot would be the code-switch.

“And not to come at you too fast, but I need you to formally claim this house and lands.”

Erick took that all in, and then said to the land below, “You’re mine now.”

The world clicked.

And Erick suddenly felt—

Yggdrasil said, “Excellent! They forgot the name for what you did down on Veird, but here they’d call that Claiming Authority. You’ll always know every part of your house here, sort of how Benevolence is primarily yours. You can Claim Authority with a lot of different things, places, etcetera, but not here. I moderate all authority here at Margleknot at layer 0, so your house is now pretty much inviolate in any grand way. If you ever go to layer 1, the war zone, you’ll be able to claim Authority in order to be a little safer in that land.” Yggdrasil stressed, “Do not go to layer 1 yet, father.”

Erick nodded, already feeling the truth of Yggdrasil’s words as he pushed his senses through the land. Everything here finally felt normal, instead of the jumble of power and influence and stray domains and otherwise Erick had felt back at that grassland, and when meeting ‘Margleknot’.

One thing was weird, though.

He asked, “What’s happening at the edges, with that pull and flow?”

“That would be the part where the cleaner systems of Margleknot are interfacing with this Old Dragon property to keep it from spilling out influence everywhere. It’s like your Node Network, but different. All Old Dragons expel waste power, and we use that waste power to grow everything else.” Yggdrasil asked, “Do you want some mana injectors into this land, so you can Siphon them and transform them into more Benevolence? Or to simply make yourself stronger? You seem like you have a Siphon power of your own. Seems rather clean, though, but I don’t actually know.”

“… I suppose I need to learn how to use different manas?” Erick thought for a moment. “Sure? How would such a system work? Maybe a little orb thing that gives me the mana I ask for?”

Erick was feeling quite overwhelmed right now, but also strangely invigorated?

New magic? Great distraction.

“Yes, I could parcel out the mana for you, but I would prefer to open the tap on the unused, intentless power, and you can figure out how to better use it all yourself.”

“I like that idea better too.” Erick suddenly had a lot of questions. “Is there stuff like Fate and Purity and Pirate? What can you even do with Pirate?”

“All that and a lot more. There are even rarer ‘mana’ types than that. Veird comes from a universe where everything makes mana, but there are stranger places where everything is made of particles, but individual Shards touch individual people and give them singular powers that are more like grafted muscles than true manas. There are cultivation universes where there’s only one ‘mana’ to harvest, and people turn themselves into mana to become immortal. This uber-universe is full of resons, and that’s the primary currency here on Margleknot, that we turn all other manas into. There’s lots out there, Father.” Yggdrasil pointed to the side, to the end of the curve of his crescent island root, where an archway led off to a road in the mirages. Beyond those mirages lay a city of tall black crystal. “That’s the main road of the Dragon District, which leads to all houses of all Powers who choose to attach to the road. Most Powers walk to each others’ houses and ask to be let inside. If someone tries to invade your property you are fully within your rights to expel them however you wish, but a peaceful expulsion is the normal sort of expulsion. Most normal people won’t be able to reach you without you letting them, but the Old Dragon District and even the Dragon District don’t have many normal people inside them. At the edges, sure, but inside? No one here is normal.

“Call for a portal, father, and I’ll take you anywhere you want to go.”

Yggdrasil came in for a hug—

And Erick easily returned the hug—

And then Yggdrasil pulled back, holding Erick at arms length, saying, “I gave you some basic amenities in the house. Nothing fancy. Love you. Talk to you later, father.”

“I love you too, Yggdrasil,” Erick said, the words true, but different somehow.

“It’ll feel less odd after this thing with Nothanganathor is solved and you can go back to Veird for a time and see a version of me that is more the one you raised, directly.” Yggdrasil said, “But I want you to come back here, too, Father. Anyway! That’s all in the future.” Yggdrasil stepped away. “Margleknot will be one of your many vacation homes.”

And then Yggdrasil stepped backward through a portal.

Gone.

Just like that.

‘Welcome!’ and then ‘See you!’

Erick stood there on a balcony of his new castle—

He sensed a new weirdness opening up inside the castle, in a room that was on the bottom level, below the surface of the white root of Marg— Yggdrasil. That room opened downward, turning into a staircase that went into the root, into a new chamber deep inside the kilometers-wide white root, revealing a line of power in the very center of the root that was completely outside of Erick’s ability to sense. That line of power contained an infinity of an odd, flowing sort. That would be the ‘intentless power’ that Yggdrasil spoke of earlier—

“Hello! New neighbor!” came a voice, carrying on the wind.

“Holy shit,” Erick exclaimed, things moving too fast right now.

Erick went to the edge of the balcony.

There was a man in sparkling grey robes standing just on the other side of the archway that led to the road with the black buildings. He seemed friendly. He also seemed to have a complicated set of curling platinum horns. So. Dragon.

Erick’s Lightning Path had been acting oddly for a while, but now it zeroed in on this guy.

Maybe this was the guy Yggdrasil’s guidebook mentioned? Lionshard, the platinum dragon.

Erick called out, “Who are you?”

“I am Lionshard of the Roots, and I see you already have a root with your house! Such a nice lake, too. Amazing! May I come in?”

Erick wanted to trust his Lightning Path, and Yggdrasil…

But these people here were all True Wizards…

Trust first, and if they prove unworthy of my trust, then I will discard them.

That was Erick’s usual way of doing things, and he wasn’t in a hostile area right now (probably), so that is what he would do.

“I invite you inside.”

Lionshard’s eyebrows went up. He declared, “I accept! Do you mind if I step to your balcony?”

“… Come on in, then.”

Lionshard stepped onto the property. Another single step took him all the way to the balcony beside Erick. He was just a bit shorter than Erick and rather human-shaped, in a normal, comfortable-body sort of way. His eyes were a little too platinum, teeth a little too sharp, ears a little too long, his bearing a lot more solid than his form seemed capable of being, so he surely wasn’t human, but he was human-shaped. Erick couldn’t see past his skin, which was probably only because Lionshard allowed that much visibility at all; his aura was solid as adamantium just beyond Erick’s mana senses. His clothes were comfortable cotton, if a lot more fancy than Erick’s current attire. All of that added together to show a man who was secure, and not full of himself.

It was probably all an affectation, but affectations were important.

Lionshard said, “Hello. You’re Erick Flatt, the new father of Margleknot. I’m Lionshard of the Roots. It’s great to meet you! I would like to gift you your absolute most favorite food as a welcoming to the neighborhood, if you’d permit it.”

Erick paused, concerned. And then he got interested. He would, actually, like to see what this was all about. What sort of magics would he cast?

“Sure. Love to know what my favorite food is.”

Lionshard smiled a little as he raised an eyebrow. “Let’s find out!”

