And then Lionshard put his hand, palm up and horizontal, in front of his chest. With a casual ease, he rotated his arm. Platinum light flowed away from a large and laden plate that had not been there before. Pastries practically piled upon each other. Lionshard raised an eyebrow at what he had brought forth, looking partially confused, as he said, “Usually it’s one item, but— Ah. I know. They’re from multiple people in your life.”

Erick rolled with it, chuckling. “Yeah; they are.”

There were three cinnamon rolls. One of them was from Kiri and it was perfectly made; good enough to appear on a Knowledge Mage’s report. The huge one was from Teressa, all thick with white frosting and big enough for an orcol, or for Erick in his Apparent King form. Another cinnamon roll was from Poi, absolutely laden with cinnamon. And then there was a slice of purpleberry pie. The pie was a recent addition both for how happy Ophiel looked when he ate it that one time, in his living form, and also because Quilatalap had made it. It was a pretty great pie and Erick enjoyed it, but Ophiel enjoyed it more. Yggdrasil had once made Erick a spun sugar fish, and that was there too; it was bright gold and red and stuck on top of some spun sugar blue waves.

And then there were a few little baklava, all improperly made and kinda ugly, honestly. They were an exact copy of the ones Jane had made back when she was in culinary in high school. She had brought them home, so proud of them. Erick had loved those little things, and Jane had loved that he loved them. It was one of Erick’s favorite memories of Earth.

Erick looked at the pastries for a moment longer, then asked Lionshard, “How do you feel about the slavery in this land? Or the various other injustices, like the Corrupted Void Sanctuary, to the Wraithborne Tower, to the Corrupted Archive?”

Lionshard’s eyebrows went up again. He set the pastries down on a small breakfast table on the balcony, and said, “I do what I can to minimize their influences, but as for eliminating them... There are better things to do with your time than trying to fight infinity. Like discussing your reasons for coming to Margleknot, or what sorts of magics you might like to learn, or maybe we can talk about cultural expectations for operating in these lands?”

Erick decided to leave the question of ‘will you help me overthrow all evil’ for another day.

It was just a wild, crazy suggestion, anyway.

He lowered his scope.

He sat down at the breakfast table, and took a bite of Jane’s baklava. It tasted exactly as Erick remembered. He chuckled a little at that, and then he set the partially-eaten pastry down on a plate he created at that moment. “Delicious. Thank you. I would love to hear your ideas of the culture of Margleknot, if you would sit and share those ideas with me for a while, for I honestly don’t know if I’m being rude right now, or if you’re a threat, or if any of this is going to get me back home with allies in any sort of timely manner. This whole business with Yggdrasil / Margleknot is a large mind fuck. Still trying to wrap my head around that.”

Lionshard sat down across from Erick, asking, “You did not expect to bring a shard of a new World Tree to the Great World Tree of Margleknot?”

“I didn’t know of Margleknot at all until today. I suspected that there were universal fae, or something like that, and that I could ask them for help against Nothanganathor, and link them with the fae back home, but all of this?” Erick gazed out across the large ‘lake’ and ‘island’ of ‘his property’, and said, “I’m rather certain I did not fail to escape Nothanganathor, and that I am not trapped in a dream right now, but I’m feeling untethered.”

Lionshard nodded. “You came here during a time of your own troubles and did not expect to land into a different sort of fire.”

“Yup.”

“Well the fire here is ever-burning, and most Ascended are a decent sort of people until you anger them or make mortal enemies in some other sort of way. No real need to focus on the trillions and trillions of mortals in this land unless you truly want to. A lot of Powers do that, but I do not. I focus on this land. I left my mortal world behind millions of years ago, and my specialty helps me to maintain the systems that keep this land truly running well.” Lionshard said, “I am what most people with mana-centered inclinations would call a Fate Mage. That’s how I figured out your favorite foods, even through your immunity to direct control; it was a common reflective sympathetic resonance instantiation, so it wasn’t even intrusive at all. Have you tried Fate Magic before? I would assume you have, for it appears you have some sort of Fateful power around you already, but whatever you have going on is not Fate at all.”

“… In the interest of being honest, I will say that Fate Magic concerns me. Deeply.”

Erick wanted Lionshard gone, even though his Lightning Path was saying good things right now. Erick’s knack for reading people and knowing people was internal, but the Lightning Path was an external thing by its very nature, so it was very possible that Lionshard was influencing it somehow.

“Most people are very wary when dealing with Fate Mages, so this is normal. That I can work Fate Magic even beyond your immunity is concerning. So I will give you just a few lessons in culture, and then I will depart.” Lionshard said, “Ascended are mostly good people as long as you are good to them, just never meet an unknown Ascended in the War Zone. Everyone below Ascended can be any sort of way under all the suns. If you know who an unascended works for then you can get a good idea of where they fall on the spectrum of Good and Evil.

“Everyone tries to walk or take public transportation when they’re going places in Margleknot, except here in the Dragon District. You can’t get around here without invitations or power.

“People will try to be polite, so try to be polite back, because oftentimes no one knows who is working for who, or if the person you’re talking with today will come back as an immortal in a thousand years and wreck your day. Plus we’re all from different worlds, and politeness goes a long way toward making a peaceful society.

“No purposefully permanent killing inside layer 0, but everything else is fair game.

“If you want to do the greatest amount of good —and I get the impression that you do— you can find someone with an Elemental Good mana signature, or an Elemental Peace, or Elemental Honesty, or any of the other odd, good Elements, and raise them to True Power. No one ever gets to power on their own, and raising good people is the best way to ensure that there’s more good in the world than evil.”

Erick was feeling better about Lionshard, but not quite to the level that Yggdrasil had suggested; like this would be meeting Al back at that initial meeting in Spur, all those years ago. Erick wanted to believe, though.

He lowered his metaphorical walls a fraction, and asked, “What if you already had an Element like that at your use?”

Lionshard’s eyes sparkled platinum. “Then pump out power into the root systems of Margleknot, and people the city over will be blessed by your blessings. If your power is one of the truly good ones then you could fund things like the auto-res system, which is constantly taxed with people waiting in line to be resed, who often end up resurrected as slaves by necromancers in that Wraithborne Tower you mentioned. The longer a person waits in line to be resurrected then the larger the chance that someone will bring them back for untoward reasons. Most people try to keep ahead of their res-payment schedules so that doesn’t happen, but trillions of people live here, and people fall through the fingers of fate all the time.” Lionshard stood, saying, “And that’s enough of a first meeting. You came into Margleknot and ended up in the very deepest end of the city. I feel you are getting a very odd idea of what is possible here in Margleknot, and you are feeling threatened.

“Of course, people will try to hurt you. But even if Margleknot Himself wasn’t looking over your shoulder, you’re an Ascended, and one of the better ones, Erick. No one can touch you unless you let them. You seem to have three rather stable and guarded ways to attack you, though. That’s a lot less than most people. You’re rather safe.

“I encourage you to go out and check out the mortal lands. Suffer an attack from someone who doesn’t know any better. Banish them to Layer One and let their own actions sort them out.

“I thank you for inviting me to your home today. When you come back from your visit to Margleknot city, I Invite you into my home. It’s that nice one over there; we’re neighbors! I can show you the circulatory system of Margleknot, and you can see how big the city truly is.”

Lionshard seemed like a truly good guy…

Erick wanted to believe. Yggdrasil had even vetted the guy…

Erick still wasn’t sure about ‘Margleknot’...

Erick felt the need to apologize, though, because politeness was politeness, so he said, “Sorry about being wary, Lionshard. Thank you for your words, and for the pastries.”

“It’s completely understandable that you’re like this right now. I don’t know about your Nothanganathor situation, but it was probably dangerous. That name tickles my memory… but nothing more than that... Ahhh... I should mention: When Margleknot put you here and changed his form he made everyone aware of your person. Everyone is already researching why you’re here, so I’m sure I’ll learn about Nothanganathor again soon enough. You’ll probably learn a lot more about whoever that is soon, too. It was nice meeting you.”

Erick suddenly felt small. As though Veird’s problems were unremarkable. But maybe, in the grand scheme of things, they were unremarkable? At least to Margleknot, anyway. To Erick, Veird’s problems were top of his list of things to solve. On the plus side, though, if Margleknot thought Nothanganathor was a ‘small problem’, then that meant Nothanganathor was solvable.

So that was good news.

Erick said, “It was nice meeting you as well. Good day, Lionshard.”

“Good day, Erick Flatt.”

And then Lionshard went to the balcony and hopped over, to land on the soft grasses and moss below. He took his sweet time walking over to the edge of Margleknot’s root, to fall off the edge of that, too, to land on top of the water and start walking toward his property in the distance. Eventually, he passed through the mirages to stand upon his property once again, and then he vanished from sight.

“… so Stepping toward people is okay, but walking away you take your time?”

Weird.

Erick spent a while coming to terms with his own level of wariness, versus what a good level was, versus what was necessary here in these lands. For some reason, Erick didn’t think he could ‘solve’ the slavery issue here. Not in one lifetime.

Veird needed him first, anyway.

- - - -

Lionshard walked into his home and felt a bit bad about that interaction with Margleknot’s newest father. Erick was a very new Ascended. Less than a day. He would need time to see the true size of his new universe.

Whoever this Nothanganathor-person was, they were probably fucked…

But Margleknot could only influence the background; not the actual players. Just like Lionshard.

Lionshard went to his tomes to research this ‘Elemental Benevolence’, mumbling, “It seems too broad from my little interaction. I wonder why Margleknot approved of it so much. Erick himself is way too wary so Benevolence can’t be that useful, otherwise Erick would have opened up…” Mumbling some more as he grabbed infinitome-B, Lionshard began moving through the letters, saying, “I was all ready to teach him some useful magic, too. But I probably spent too long there. ‘Always beware strangers bearing gifts’. It’s not a bad lesson… to… heed. Hmm.”

Lionshard had found Elemental Benevolence, as categorized by Margleknot himself and populated to this book here.

The information therein had already taken up 3 thick pages. It was one of the larger entries. Lionshard read, eyes going wide, and then he grabbed the last page and worked an edge until one page split into two, turning the information in the book into 4 pages of Margleknot’s musings on the element, everything reorganizing to account for the new information.

Within a minute Lionshard had peeled open tens of more pages, digging deeper into this Element and the place where it came from, this ‘Veird’, but also a different world called ‘Earth’.

There was a whole biography here.

“Ohh… He’s going to hate that everyone knows about him.”

Lionshard decided to rip out the entry and put it in a separate book, creating a Tome of Benevolence ten thousand pages long. He started reading from the very beginning. Lionshard skipped the first few volumes of the man’s known life—

“Ah. So he was practically god emperor of Veird already. Maybe he’s used to people knowing him. Well that’s good for him, then.”

An hour later, Lionshard had read about Erick’s escape from Nothanganathor, and his arrival in Margleknot.

He slammed the book shut and called out, “Ygg—Margleknot! I need to talk to you about Benevolence!”

A green person with black hair and lower jaw fangs appeared in Lionshard’s library. This was ‘Yggdrasil’, as described in the book.

Margleknot— Or rather, Yggdrasil, said, “I’d like to discuss Benevolence, too.”

- - - -

Shadow scowled from her darkened corner of the Black Crystal Tavern. She had been brooding with purpose for the last hour, and Erick still hadn’t shown up. He should have shown up by now!

“Did someone merc him? Who did he piss off?” Shadow mumbled, into her drink—

A guy burst in the front door, zeroed in on whoever it was he was meeting, and started rushing through the bar to get to them, his noise and fear palpable to every single person in the room. His words were even more concerning.

“Gods and monsters!” he softly exclaimed, long before he reached his destination. “Margleknot is changing colors!”

The bar erupted in words and actions. People leapt out of their chairs, rushing toward the door or the windows, tightly-controlled auras from newer powers flowing into the air. One guy got incinerated accidentally and revived in the very next second by a man made of wind, who argued with the man made of fire about control, but only half heartedly; there were bigger concerns than a simple death. People tried to abandon the Black Crystal Tavern, but the owner, Lyra, shouted out how people weren’t allowed to leave without paying. Half of the people in the bar instantly shot back to their chairs.

