"It's a training center for disadvantaged kids. You'll get them out of the rat race of Schema's low levels. That way, they can help support themselves."

She shrugged.

"That's the plan. The livestock will be killed anyway, and we can have the experience funneled into something more, er, meaningful than gradually leveling a bunch of butchers. Any industry like that can be used like this. I, uh, well, I want to make that happen so fewer people have to die."

I put my hands on my hips.

"Damn, Althea. This is good thinking."

She smiled.

"Torix and Kessiah helped. I've got some land squared away outside of Mt. Verner for it. I need help setting up, but I'm friends with a few engineers here."

I raised a hand.

"I can make you a constructor golem. The world becomes like Minecraft when you have one of those."

She raised a brow.

"Minecraft?"

I waved a hand.

"A videogame from forever ago."

She narrowed her eyes.

"Wait, that's where everybody's like squares or something, right?"

I nodded. She tapped the pages.

"Those videogames...They're like premonitions of Schema, don't you think?"

Having never dwelled on it, I put my hand on a page.

"It's...Huh, maybe?"

She frowned.

"Well, I just thought it was crazy. The more I read about your world, the more obvious it became. It's actually really funny. All your nonfiction books are pure fantasy, while the fiction stories are like gritty realism. It's a real culture clash I get from the reviews and stuff I see about the books."

I scoffed.

"The irony."

She turned to me.

"But uh, finishing the orphanage conversation, I don't think I'll need to borrow any money for it either."

"Of course not. You get a salary, right? I remember something about that with my guild privileges."

Feeling like a bumbling fool, I noted the need for an accountant. Althea raised a hand.

"But, hm, that still feels like borrowing money."

From her arm, different flowers or creatures spawned.

"I figured out that I could mold eldritch parts on me and sell them. Potion masters love it when they can refine their work because, you know, I'm like an infinite spring of whatever they need."

I put my fingers against my temples.

"Of course. You let alchemists create the rarest potions and get them filthy rich."

I moved my hands away from my head.

"That's genius."

Althea smiled, her eyes narrow and the grin sly.

"I have good ideas from time to time."

I pulled her close.

"So do I."

"Really? How about you share a few."

I bit her lip.

"Gladly."

A few hours later, we left her workshop, both of us looking frazzled and happy. After finishing the pack of cookies and tea, we walked back to our bedroom. It felt like her place at this point, with me as an outsider. In the bed, her eyes began closing, and she struggled to stay awake. She swung her arms at a nonexistent foe.

"No. Stay away."

I rolled my eyes.

"You need some sleep."

She hugged her pillow.

"But I still want to spend some time with you."

I sat beside her.

"I'll still be with you when you sleep."

She murmured.

"You need to work. I know you do."

I peered up, the moths coming out as Althea said. A giant lunar moth landed on my shoulder spike, as delicate as a snowflake. It flew up before I peered at Althea.

"We should have weekly date nights, and next time, I'll see if I can't show you something instead of you leading the way like this."

She mumbled.

"I would love that."

I let her fall asleep and watched her for a while. As my thoughts drifted, a single fact stuck out to me - I needed this. I had needed this for so, so long, and getting it left me fulfilled in a way I hadn't experienced in a long time. It also reminded me of what I had to lose. Many unseen enemies mounted in the distance beyond my sight. They'd have to wrench my home from my cold, dead hands if they wanted it.

And I could not die.

Once Althea drifted deep into her slumber, I stood up. My wake saturated with my psyches and condensed down to my body. I held it there, the psionic splintering leaving me nauseous. I actually had something to vomit up this time, so I held it down. Walking out of the room, I met up with my blob of dimensional fabric.

Fusing together, I stood as tall as a short tree at my compressed height. Above me, a night sky full of stars beamed down. I soaked it in, my augmented sight allowing me to see the stars in greater detail than when I was a human.

It left a spike of fear in me.

If this was Lehesion's eclipse attack, could I save this place in time? I stretched out my arms, imagining a singularity storm over the stars. I'd destroy the entire mountain in my defense. At the very least, I'd turn this place from a small mountain to a broken hill. Before that could happen, I flowed through Mt. Verner and inspected it from the top down.

It was time to turn this place into a fortress.
