"I can hardly walk around like I used to without breaking every room in half."

She hopped down before pulling me along.

"Let's test that out."

We walked up to a series of crates spread around. Within them, different colored furballs hopped about. Two of my older golems guarded the place, their inefficiencies glaring to me now. Still effective, they stopped any eldritch from getting funny ideas, so the monsters cooed and ahhed at nearby people.

I walked up as a twenty-foot-tall titan. The group gave me space before I lunged down. A single finger dwarfed the cage, and the eldritch huddled against the edge of the bars. I put my face on my knee.

"So, did I pass the test?"

Althea glared at the pink puffball, and it moved over to my hand. It grazed me, and its soft fur was like a cold plushy. Tapping with slight pressure, it gave like squishy tofu. It let out a little blurb sound before hopping on my finger. It went in circles.

"Dawwww. It's adorable."

Althea leaned toward me.

"Their fur is actually fingers, and they pry skin apart to go into the intestinal walls of their victims." She waved her fingers around. "Oooh, spooky."

It circled in my hand. I made my voice high-pitched.

"But you can't pierce my skin. Can you, little guy? Can you?"

It hopped up and down, waving a tail with a puffball at the end. It opened two black eyes and let out a tiny tongue like a cat before licking my hand.

I was smitten.

I turned to Althea.

"Can we take it home?"

Althea waved her hands.

"No. Those things shed like crazy. The fur is alive, too, so it doesn't clean right. It, like, crawls around."

Fair points. I gave it one last pet.

"Cya, little guy. I'll try to visit more often."

We walked past several other creatures, many monsters tamed by my golem's presence. We passed the last cage, and Hod sat in it wearing a worn-out mascot costume. I raised my brow.

"Uh. What are you doing here?"

Hod put his wings on his hips.

"Hod finish shady man training. Shady man evil. Evil! Hod come here and help eldritch. Hod good samaritan."

Althea leaned toward me.

"He liked the pets."

Hod stuck out his wing.

"Stop expose Hod secrets! Hod hear all."

Once again, he pointed in a different direction than us. Althea facepalmed.

"He's at it again."

I turned to where Hod pointed, and Shalahora walked out of the ether. The shadow murmured.

"It's incredible. I've yet to pierce his defenses. They are...Immutable."

Hod karate chopped the air a few times.

"Hod like chef. Nothing escape Hod kitchen. Hod too sharp. Hod knife. Not Hod be knife. Hod like knife. Hod think Hod know what Hod mean. Wait."

He narrowed his eyes while striking a pose.

"Hod...Confused."

He did a few spinning kicks, and nearby children shouted with glee. Children? Damn, they weren't as rare these days. Althea and I laughed with everybody before giving Hod some snacks from a nearby vendor. Those snacks siked Althea's hunger, so she pulled me outside Mount Verner. With a cool breeze and the smell of pine in the air, she showed me a new restaurant out there.

Someone built a log cabin surrounded by pine trees, having birds, butterflies, and bees flying nearby from the influence of magic. Quintessence orbs powered it all, and flowers burst forth from ivy in various colors. Stone framed it all near the foundation, giving it a rustic appeal.

I stared at the tiny doorway. It was ten feet tall, plenty for an average system goer. People built buildings taller than they used to because of the system and how it made people about a foot and a half taller than before. Still, I dwarfed this place. Althea gestured to a table beside the entrance.

"Want to sit outside?"

I raised my brow.

"Yeah. Let's."

Several people walked up and talked to us. After a few thanks, we ordered a meal. Althea preferred a rabbit stew with peppered meat and a side salad. Being super lame, I copied her order. They used dressings and seasonings I'd never seen, the stew rich and earthy while the salad came out light and almost frosted. I could taste the cold but not feel it.

I finished the salad before shaking my head.

"I can't remember the last time I had a good meal."

Althea watched a bird sing.

"Me neither."

I watched the bird with her. Peering close, it was a giant hummingbird streaked with blue and yellow feathers. When it flapped its wings, nearby hair stood on end, static shocks erupting. It crossed over before landing beside her. She smiled at it.

"The eldritch aren't always bad. This one's some kind of split between a hummingbird and lightning, er, something? We don't really know. It's not fully eldritch, anyway."

It sang out like a tiny trumpet. I gawked.

"That's awesome."

It flew away, zipping around like a bolt. Althea and I chatted before I got curious about Mt. Verner's ecosystem. We left with a large tip before I put my hands on my hips.

"Do you mind if we just, I don't know, fly around?"

Answering me, Althea spread her arms while forming wings, feathers of violet, mauve, and other shades of purple cascading down. She flew up, her plumage sheening in the sun like tinted metal. I followed. We watched the eltari, gialgathens, and people below just live, play, and toil for something better. It bolstered my spirit in a way I hadn't expected.

It was easy to forget the good I caused when I fought wars or constantly destroyed my mind. While I stared, Althea flew just below me in my shadow. She peered up.

"So, are you still feeling down?"

An irrepressible grin ran up my cheeks. I scoffed.

"How could I? This has been great."

She nudged me.

"Good."

We passed to the other side of Mt. Verner. Other buildings cropped up, and I sighed.

"I really, really needed this."

She looked forward.

"I know. You look...Tired all the time. Er, as tired as you can look. What's got you like that?"

I grimaced.

"You don't want to know."

She flew up into my gravity well, standing upright on my chest. That hung her upside down.

"I do."

I looked away.

"No, you don't."

She walked up chest before grabbing my cheeks.

"Hey, don't tell me what I want, capeesh?"

I frowned.

"Capeesh."

She put her forehead against mine.

"Show me."

I closed my eyes.

"Ok."

I connected our minds. For a moment, she marveled. She found my many psyches working in tandem, their coordination seamless. Althea shook her head.

"This is crazy, but uh, I'm guessing the thing is something else?"

I nodded. She delved deeper, finding the minds in my dimensional wake. They wallowed in a psionic soup, howling out in torment. It was more a general chaos; none of the psyches could coherently think. It made me wonder. Humans' way of thinking could revolve around being a physical being more than we admit.

That might explain why the Old Ones couldn't relate to us.

We rode through a few clouds, and Althea let out a few tears. She murmured.

"This reminds me of before I could hold a physical body. But...It's your head. Or, psionic, whatever you call it."

I peered at the sun. It burned.

"I call them minds."

She shook her head.

"It...It gets better. I promise."

Knowing that wasn't the case, I smiled.

"I know."

I warmed Althea with magic as we darted in and out of the clouds. It got cold this high up. After a few more minutes, we glided back down to the mountaintop. Along the upper edge, she and I landed, hers a graceful dance and mine a thumping collision. We headed into our suite, one tucked away on the mountain's edge.

Two of my older golems guarded the place, and they nodded as we walked up. I flowed inside, finding the suite a bit cramped. Wanting to walk around easier, I committed one of my minds to holding the dimensional fabric outside the place. A wire connected back to my main body, now smaller than before.

Sitting inside, I marveled at how much Althea had changed the place. Different flower arrangements hung from the upper walls, along with colorful kinds of pottery. Wires of my fabric hung, connecting tiny mana stones that sheened in different colors. The light fed the wildlife, keeping it all alive and fresh.

A few butterflies floated overhead. Althea pointed at them.

"At night, they sleep, and the moths come out. They're pretty too."

I raised a hand, and a monarch butterfly landed on my fingertip.

"They're stunning. Really."

I sat in a gravity well above a couch in the living room, soaking it all in. Althea raised a hand.

"Wait a sec. I have to share something with you."

She pulled out a teapot, heated water with it using a runic plate, and pulled out an exotic tea. After a few minutes, she brewed it and came over with two custom mugs. Hers was a dainty, flowered one with thorns across it, giving it an edge. Mine mirrored steel, metallic paint giving the ceramic a different feel.

It was tiny in my hand, but that didn't matter. She poured the tea, and we drank it with these crazy cookies she pulled out of a cabinet. I stared at them, the alien concoctions holding no consistent shape.

"What are these?"

She shrugged.

"I got them from Gypsum. They're supposed to be non-toxic or something."

I waved a cookie at her.

"Didn't you handle a mission there?"

"It's the one where the Spatial Fortress attacked us. Then, a nanomachine behemoth attacked it. We almost died."

"Sounds insane."

"Our usual, right?"

I scoffed.

"Right."

I bit into a cookie, and a flavor flowed through my mouth like warm cedar and honied cream. Soft like a pillow but chewy, I enjoyed the hell out of it before grabbing another one. Althea pulled it away.

"You have to try the tea first."

I sipped on it, and the tea permeated with a sharp, herbal kick tamed by a mellow sweetness. It even carried a savory kind of texture, like milk.

It was delicious.

"Damn, where did you find this?"

Althea spread her hands.

"So here's the thing. I've been researching all kinds of different eldritch, and I've found out how to, like, remake them. You know, my transformation stuff."

I nodded.

"Mm-hm."

She looked out a window.

"I, uh, can mold myself into whatever part I want to harvest. That works with plants, too."

My eyes widened. I held the teacup up.

"This...This is you?"

Althea flushed.

"Uh, sorta."

I gave her a knowing grin.

"You taste good."

I sipped, and she blushed brighter than a tomato. After letting it fade, she coughed into a hand.

"So...Do you remember me telling you about helping kids involved with research?"

I nodded, vaguely recalling something of the sort. Althea crossed a leg.

"I think I've got a strategy for how to do it if you'd like to listen."

I beamed.

"Hell yeah."

She walked into a different room. I followed, finding her workshop. She stored many colored clays, paints, and flowers on additional shelves. Herbal notes about each floral garment lay below them. Althea even tucked scopes, rifles, and gun parts away in a different corner of the room, a few tools set up for making them.

Notes about eldritch covered the walls, and in the corner, a patch of void ice misted away, keeping the room chilly. On the block of ice, her best rifle sat. It was made of me, though an out-of-date version. Althea tapped the violet crystal below the gun, and it rang out with a consistent note.

"That's there, so my railgun doesn't break through the floor."

I inspected it closely.

"Huh. Smart."

She pulled out a notebook before opening it on her desk. I peered over it.

"What is it?"

She pointed at it.

"It's going to be an orphanage."

I raised a brow.

"Seems like a good way to help research children."

Althea frowned.

"See, that's what I thought too, but the more research I did, the more, er, complex it became."

She waved her hands around.

"So, uhm, whenever you make an orphanage, sometimes it can split families that don't need to be split up. Like, if they were poor and my orphanage gave them more food than the family could provide. Er, housing, clothes, all of that could give parents a reason to get these people away from each other."

I scratched my head, never even considering that.

"Huh. It's a perversion of incentives, in other words."

She nodded.

"Yeah, that's a great way to put it. This, uhm, the incentive structure isn't easy to take out. After a bit of thought, I came up with a solution."

She pulled out a few pictures of eldritch. They mirrored elemental cows and other livestock. She gestured at a picture.

"We can have the children level up by killing eldritch livestock."

I grimaced at the idea of children slitting animals' throats. Althea waved her hands.

"It's not going to be as gruesome as you're thinking. We'll be putting in some controls to make it less personal. Much less personal, like flipping a switch and being out of sight."

I shrugged.

"But they'll gain levels. Sounds traumatizing if they ever figured out what they'd done."

Althea frowned.

"I wish we could be so gentle, but that's a kindness we can't afford to give."

She grimaced.

"No, even worse. It's a kindness they can't afford to take."

When she said those words, my childhood didn't seem so bad. Althea scratched the side of her head.

"There are a few problems with it all, I think. This will lock out many of their later trees since we'll be assisting so much, but it lets us get these children out of the depths of single digits levels. That's the main concern. We'll, you know, support them until then."

Kind of estranged by the concept, I kept my mouth shut. Althea pulled out a few pictures of different environments.

"You grew up outside of a systemized world, right?"

I nodded. Althea waved her hands back and forth.

"The first one hundred levels are a huge bottleneck that most people don't pass. Orphans especially. Now, this planet is actually very temperate for the most part. If we get the kids leveled to forty or so, we can get them to a baseline level of resistance that stops them from being weak to the elements. They'll need less food, too."

I snapped my fingers.

