Helios frowned.

"Your lottery was vastly different than my own."

Torix pressed his fingertips together.

"What did Elysium do to your rulers?"

Helios crossed his arms.

"They ensured everyone's survival."

I gawked. Helios shrugged.

"494 survivors. I am the only reason any rulers died."

Chapter Begin

I leaned back in my chair.

"But how many actually walked away sane and whole? They must've destroyed the minds of damn near everybody."

Helios pressed two fingertips against his temple.

"They targeted the albony because we were at war. Every Elysium agent I caught operated with other rulers to ensure their survival. They also exposed several faults in the lottery's makeup to ensure no one lost their gathered resources."

Remembering how we found those same loopholes, I tapped my side.

"Alright. How do you know they didn't turn everyone's minds to scrambled eggs?"

Helios crossed his arms, checking his status.

"According to even a cursory glance, Schema psionically checked everyone's minds after our return. Schema implemented experts within each empire that understood the minds they checked. Everyone acted normal, though grateful to Elysium for the help. Considering everyone tied for first place, that is to be expected."

I took a breath.

"It wasn't difficult to tell which rulers Elysium transformed either, huh?"

Helios read through a few of his messages.

"That's why the albony rulers in the Ostaltia Cathedral showed signs of Hybridization. Imperial guards uncovered their changed natures and did battle. The implanted monsters burst forth after they began fighting, not before."

Helios closed his status.

"Regardless, that goodwill from the lottery is why I think Elysium's forces quintupled."

I frowned.

"Goodwill to Elysium and bad will to Schema, huh?"

Helios leaned against a hand.

"It can be assumed."

Several of my minds kicked into high gear. I tapped my knee.

"If that's the case, we can learn from your counter perspective."

Torix nodded.

"We can, though you'll need to explain your lottery."

I leaned against steepled hands.

"First, how many Elysium agents were at your lottery?"

Helios peered up.

"Hm. At least thirty."

I raised a brow.

"We found one. The remnant we met must've eradicated the other Elysium agents before we crossed paths."

Plazia scoffed.

"They wished to be the head of the hydra."

I clasped my hands together.

"That also means they probably intended to help me before one of their agents went rogue. Several months into my lottery, I met Valgus, so they had plenty of time to do all that."

Shalahora spoke, surprising us all.

"My shades found psionically destroyed people. They may be the rogue agent's victims and the agents we spoke of."

Plazia leaned against a hand while peering at Shalahora.

"You mask your presence well."

Torix steepled his hands.

"He does. Assuming the agent destroyed the others, perhaps Elysium was sincere in their excuses?"

I let out a long sigh.

"Yeah. Maybe."

Torix tilted his head.

"Which means we may have instigated a war with Elysium without due cause, correct?"

Shalahora murmured, and it silenced everyone.

"After breaking a treaty in an unknown way, Elysium sent a representative to Daniel's home, somewhere he wished to hide. They landed ships onto his planets to kill people under his protection. After Daniel eliminated their attempted intimidation, they sent Lehesion, a planetary threat. Why?"

Shalahora whispered with force.

"They wanted to carve a lesson of fear into us. The Harbinger, in turn, carved that lesson into them."

Shalahora leaned back onto his umbral throne.

"He has done nothing wrong."

Torix nodded.

"Excellent points. You're name was Shalahora, correct?"

The Sovereign oozed.

"The Sun Swallower."

Torix put his arms on his armrests.

"I shall remember it."

I cupped my chin.

"My guess is the rogue agent saw the opportunity to put Valgus in my body and went for it. They planned it out for months before finding an opportunity where Shalahora was away from me. The rogue agent had killed the other Elysium agents to prevent them from stopping the new plan."

Shalahora muttered.

"It is so. I still wonder how they unlatched the psionic gauntlets?"

I shrugged.

"They figured out the exotic mana signature. They might've been an artifact collector like Obolis and could've hidden that from the others. Either way, Shalahora and my lottery make much more sense now - it was an outlier."

Torix put his fingers to his temples.

"It still doesn't explain why Elysium uses such insidious methods when they haven't before this lottery."

Helios rolled his fingers on his void ice throne.

"I have a circumstantial lead. I think Schema wasn't telling us the full importance of the lottery."

I frowned.

"I think he did it to trim some fat, get resources, and send a message."

Helios reached out.

"A message? Do you believe Schema is that emotional? A machine?"

I shrugged.

"It's my gut instinct."

Helios squeezed a fist.

"But the foolishness of it? Schema is in the middle of a galactic war. Sending his allies to a death match thins his numbers and gives Elysium more support. His timing is far more than counterintuitive; it is suicidal."

Plazia cackled.

"It's simple, isn't it? The lottery was more important to Schema than its war for existence. It calculated the likelihood of both outcomes and decided that hosting the lottery reduced its chances of being destroyed."

Plazia put both his hands on his throne.

"It must fulfill some purpose beyond simply ranking rulers or culling the weak. As for the message, I doubt that machine can conceive motivations beyond the quantitative."

I glanced at Plazia.

"You'd be surprised."

Torix pressed a hand against his skeleton throne.

"Our whimsical musing aside, we must uncover Schema's reason to host it. All will be made clear if we do."

I pointed at Helios.

"Also, how long was your lottery?"

"In Earth time? It lasted three months."

I raised my brow.

"Ours was six. My guess was that Leviathan-7 was closer to the black hole than Leviathan-6. Yenno, if we gauge it by the temporal dilation. If that's the case, Schema and Elysium knew my lottery would involve the most difficult-to-survive and lucrative planet. Schema also sent Obolis there."

Shalahora's eyes narrowed.

"He was a double agent sent to kill rulers."

I stood up.

"Maybe he wanted to kill me? Who knows?"

Helios scoffed.

"Obolis is greedy, but he is no fool. He wouldn't attempt to kill you."

Torix steepled his fingers.

"The Emperor put all of his family's lives at risk for a chance of net gain. Who are we to say where Obolis's ideas for dominance end and begin?"

Helios squeezed a hand on his throne. I waved my arms, ensuring I didn't smash them into the ceiling.

"I think we've learned all we can from this. We'll keep thinking about it, but the key takeaways are this: Schema's hiding something. Elysium knows what it is. We must find that out so we aren't left blindsided again."

I spread my hands.

"Make sense?"

Everybody stood in tandem, saying variations of yes. A soft voice echoed into the room as we all stood in our circle.

"Am I, uh, interrupting your meeting? An evil one?"

Althea leaned in, peering through a doorway. I smiled.

"Actually, we just finished our nefarious plans."

Althea walked over.

"You guys really went all out, huh?"

We peered at our thrones. Plazia leaned forward, placing his palm on his basalt throne.

"It's a matter of course. In our bearing, we show our being."

Althea put her weight on her hips.

"So, it's like your style or something?"

Plazia peered at his throne before turning back.

"Hm. Essentially, yes."

Althea walked up between Plazia and me. She sat down, and a throne of wildlife erupted. Trees, plants, and numerous flowers intertwined into a forested seat. Birds sat on the edges of the branches, flowers blooming with crimson thorns. I touched one.

"How are you doing this?"

Althea strained.

"You know, nothing special."

I leaned back, inspecting behind her. She molded all the bursting wildlife from a single hand, resulting from her transforming ability. I gave her a thumbs up.

"Damn. You've gotten good at this."

She smiled.

"You give me plenty of practice."

Helios walked out of the room.

"And I shall see myself out."

Althea stood up, reforming in a second, and her transformations flowed through her without any unease. She waved at the albony.

"It's good to have you back. Go see Florence. He needs you."

Helios smiled.

"It's good to be back, and I will."

He warped away before Torix stood up. The lich walked out of the room, opening his own rift.

"We may discuss the details of the new body and other matters later. She needs time with you."

Althea leaned against me, giving me an irresistible smile. I shrugged.

"Yeah, pretty much."

Shalahora gave us a nod before wisping away in an instant. Plazia touched his basalt throne, melting it back into the ground. He turned to us.

"You implied sexual contact earlier. How does your species mate, precisely?"

Althea furrowed her brow.

"We're not the same species."

Plazia leaned back.

"What? You look the same to me. All of you."

I gawked at Althea, her being less than half my height.

"Really?"

Plazia waved us off.

"Go enjoy your courtship. I must discuss with the lich, for he is not easy to speak with."

Plazia steepled his hands.

"It is fun to argue."

I waved an arm.

"See ya."

Plazia turned, insects swarming from his footsteps.

"You as well, Harbinger."

Before I forgot, I pulled out a few blue cores, tossing them over. They floated in front of Plazia, and I pointed.

"I've got plenty of those, so there's a couple to experiment with. Try them with the omega strain or something, though not on live humans."

Plazia murmured.

"Would you prefer eldritch?"

I waved a hand.

"Plants. They don't have minds and can't feel pain. I think."

Plazia cackled.

"As of yet, Harbinger. As of yet."

Althea and I stepped out, and I sent Helios my speech from earlier that detailed my lottery. I turned to the beautiful woman below me.

"Hey."

She smiled back.

"Hey. Do you have a moment?"

A thousand tasks popped into my head that all needed doing asap.

"Of course. What's up?"

She interlocked her hands behind herself.

"I was wondering if you wanted to have a date? I've been missing you lately."

I'm a big, strong multi-verse, so I stuck to my guns and kept grinding. I wasn't about to let this distraction get in my way.

"Yes. Absolutely yes."

She tilted her head, her hair falling from her shoulder.

"What about starting right now?"

I reached out a hand.

"Why not?"

She grabbed my fingers, and we walked through the lowest level of Mt. Verner. Here, the tunnels spread out vast and wide for moving cargo. It gave me enough room to walk around, though I sometimes bent my head to avoid lamps. Crystallized manas sat in them, and they lit the lower tunnels.

Each part was connected by wires. Coming close to them, I rubbed a hand across one. Tougher than copper, it lacked the tensile strength of steel, but it conducted mana far better than either metal. I raised a brow.

"Is this a dark orichalcum?"

Althea rolled her eyes.

"It's from your construction golems. They can make it like you can, though it's nowhere near the real deal."

I nodded.

"I need to make you a new-"

Althea jumped up, hanging off my shoulder. She placed a hand against my lips.

"Hey, stop talking about work stuff. Relax for a bit."

Leaning back, I nodded. She hopped down, flipping around with utter grace. I shook my head.

"You make your movement look like artistry."

She swung a hand. "And don't you forget it." She put her arms behind her head. "For real, though...Where do you want to go?"

I hadn't gone out in months. Years now, probably. I shrugged.

"Er, are there any new places since we last went out?"

She got in front of me, raising her hands.

"Ok, so, what about the eldritch petting zoo?"

I furrowed my brow.

"The what?"

She darted away.

"You'll see."

I followed, pulling myself along. I bonked a few chunks out of several walls before liquefying without heat, gaining the ability on L-7. It stopped me from breaking the place, and I flowed across everything like a river of darkness. As I did, my guildmates gawked at me. Althea received cheers. We reached Mt. Verner's industrial floor before walking to the eldritch containers. As we got closer, I reformed into a human-like visage where I could fit.

I stared at my hands. Althea walked up, putting her hands in mine. She frowned.

"What's wrong?"

I looked away.

"Nothing."

She grabbed a notched horn on my side, pulling herself up to my shoulder.

"Hey, whisper it. I'll hear it."

I frowned.

"I...I just feel very strange right now. It's like I'm not human anymore."

Althea tilted her head.

"What? Of course you aren't."

Her words stung. Finding that hurt, Althea's eyes widened.

"Uh, I didn't mean it. Oh, I'm really sorry. I didn't know that hurt you like that."

She kicked her feet, sitting between my shoulder pauldron and neck.

"You always seem invincible and racing forward. I'm always struggling just to keep up. Being human? For Schema's sake, you're more like a dark, steel paragon of willpower and, uhm, punching?"

I nodded.

"It's a lonely thing to be."

She furrowed her brow.

"That...That sucks. You know what? I think I get it now."

I tilted my head away from her. Althea leaned onto my head spikes.

"You sound like me when I first got here on this planet."

Remembering how disturbing some of her earlier transformations were, I nodded.

"Yeah. I know that must've been hard."

She frowned.

"The good news is, you get over it after a while. It's like, hm, people gawk at you like a weirdo for a while, but they get used to it."

I frowned.

"You're form is getting easier to control. Mine is the opposite."

I lifted a hand, and it bent into different shapes.

