These Gods, the Prime Four, they were guilty of crimes aplenty. The wanton murder of innocent people was just the start. The other Gods had hesitantly been forced to join Agathor when Balastion Novar entered the picture. Yet this alliance borne of desperation didn’t mean they had to go along with all the accompanying slaughter and bloodshed.

“I will ask once more… who are you? You speak names I do not know and tell of things that have never occurred. I cannot recall ever meeting one such as you in the past,” Agathor spoke.

“You never did, not in this time. But it seems you’ll always be the same wretched coward even in this timelime, Agathor. And your crimes here are aplenty. You claim to have no quarrel with me, but I have one with you… with all of you in fact.”

But more importantly, he had a mistake to undo. And as raw soul energy bled off his form and power filled his broom, he focused upon the act of restoring what was wrong. On bringing the Goddess of Fate back to life.

But as the power of his broom and Domain of Perfect Cleaning erupted, covering all Alastaia and even beyond. He was an Embodier now, and while the level mattered less than his actual insight, what did matter… was that Orodan had grown strong, very strong.

The ‘sense’ his Celestial skill gave him allowed him to feel far beyond what Vision of Purity allowed. And with it, he attempted to push and fix what he’d wrought in the first place. The Domain of Perfect Cleaning shot out, enveloping the entirety of Alastaia’s timeline.

Except, there was one small detail he had missed.

His Domain of Perfect Cleaning didn’t just clean things, but also fortified them from further corruption… from further change.

And Orodan realized too late that this wasn’t a wall he could simply push on without it pushing back.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 161 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 162]

The broom in his hands exploded and he nearly lost control over his Celestial skill as something struck back against his attempts to mend the situation.

At first he was concerned it was a foreign force, some enemy Embodier vying over the same concept who’d come to thwart him. But those thoughts parted for the realization that he faced something entirely greater. A very facet of reality… the concept of cleaning itself.

He bled all over and his body began suffering destruction as he pulled upon greater and greater amounts of power.

[Incipience of Infinity 146 → Incipience of Infinity 147]

Yet it was not power that would solve the problem. But insights.

And for the first time in his life, across all his loops… Orodan Wainwright felt himself truly tested in a battle of cleaning.

This wasn’t the Custodian, it wasn’t one of the many rival Embodiers… it was cleaning.

And as Orodan’s mind, talent and insights clashed against it… he made the horrid mistake of attempting to directly throw his mind and awareness against it.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 162 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 163]

And Orodan Wainwright forgot who he was.

Cleanliness saw the small world before it. It was so filthy, everything within it was.

The foul Gods who needed eradication. The dirty mages and their silly magic spells. The politicians, nobles and scheming cowards who ran the various nations upon it. And the imperfections within every living thing.

Cleanliness demanded the purification of it all. Only a small step had been taken with the erasure of the unclean divinity which called itself the Goddess of Fate, but more remained.

And as Cleanliness brought its power down to bear, it found itself… thwarted? Held back at the last step by the one which embodied it above all others.

The voice which had joined the collective, the Embodier which represented cleanliness in reality… it disagreed?

This confused Cleanliness, it introduced… disharmony. After all, what it wished to purge, were all things which the Embodier considered unclean. Was this not what Cleanliness should do?

Why was Cleanliness not allowed to purge what was unclean?

If the Embodier was but persuaded and saw things the way Cleanliness did, then in tandem with its sibling, Infinity, all of reality would finally be clean. Devoid of Gods, mages, nobles and the wicked forces of corruption which empowered the System.

It seemed, all Cleanliness needed to do… was convince the Embodier of its view.

It set about the task of convincing this Orodan Wainwright that the unclean must be purged. The results were encouraging. The Embodier began to falter in its stubborn refusal to understand the concept of Cleanliness.

After all, to begin with, it held such darkness and detestation in its heart for the Gods, particularly the war God of its home continent. The buried dislike of mages and the strong dislike of nobility were mere add-ons of a lesser nature.

Cleanliness was on the verge of succeeding… when another soul intervened?

“-dan! Orodan! Snap out of it! Come to your senses you stubborn fool! Where’s that endless willpower when you need it?!”

Orodan? Who was Orodan?

Cleanliness… no, Orodan, suddenly came to.

Around him, the Avatars of the Gods had retreated to a far greater distance and were cautiously monitoring the situation. The ground was heavily cratered around him too, but not from his own power but their attempts to put an end to him while he was distracted. Not that it’d done anything.

Inwardly, he found himself grateful beyond measure to Zaessythra for pulling him out of it.

So far, Orodan had thought Infinity to be the most dangerous concept he’d encountered. But this horrid thing, this Cleanliness… it was far, far worse. At least Infinity simply took his willpower and forced it to churn higher and higher without end. Dangerous, but in a very direct manner.

But Cleanliness… was insidious. Orodan did not hate mages any longer, neither did he wish for any of the Gods to cease existing altogether. If he felt that someone needed to be stopped, his own blade would do the honest work of granting them an honorable death. Yet that wicked concept had connected to his mind and seen everything he felt; likes, dislikes and all. And using that, it had so convincingly nudged him towards nearly enacting a horrific deed.

Worst of all, it wasn’t direct about the matter either. It genuinely presented so many convincing arguments, showing him all the times in his life that he’d been wronged by nobles, all his deaths against mages, the arrogance they held towards non-mages even before he began the time loops. Logically, none of these were convincing arguments at all, but Cleanliness, due to him having merged his mind and soul with it in an attempt to fix things, had accessed the very emotions tied to those memories and made them vivid within his own mind.

It was the worst sort of mental attack… but Orodan wasn’t sure he could even call it that. After all, he was the Embodiment of Cleaning, and if Cleanliness thought that purging Gods, mages and nobles was a good idea…

…then it was only because a small part of Orodan still thought negative things about them.

“I don’t hate mages. I don’t want the Gods to be erased from existence, and I certainly don’t want all nobles eradicated… I know this. I’ve learned much from many mages, I respect them now. The Gods, not all of them are evil and many even helped me. Likewise for the nobility.”

Yet, Orodan wasn’t sure if he was trying to convince himself of the truth… or lying to himself.

“You don’t want those things,” Zaessythra reassured. “But whatever this new concept is, it’s preying upon even the repressed opinions and desires you have.”

And she was right. For once, Orodan found himself wishing he wasn’t such a violent and bloodthirsty beast at heart who maintained grudges and forgave very slowly. Hells, it wasn’t even Cleanliness’s desire to enact the purge, it was Orodan’s. After all, as he’d learned long ago during his journey to the heights of cleaning, one’s perception of reality determined what was clean versus what was unclean.

Fixing his blunders? He first needed to clear his mind and re-center himself before having another confrontation with the concept of Cleanliness. Or rather, another confrontation with his own mind.

Of course, the four enemy Avatars were still around, and glaring at him with barely disguised hatred and wariness. Especially now that he’d shown their attacks to be meaningless.

And while he had no interest in erasing any Gods from existence… sometimes cleaning required a more manual, hands-on approach.

The bloody sort.

#

“This feels… wrong.”

“I’ll admit, even I’m somewhat overcome by a feeling of alienation… I miss your bed…”

“You’re speaking as though you’ve slept in it with me.”

“My… how bold. Is that an invitation Orodan?”

He shook his head and put Zaessythra’s teasing laughter to the side. Still, Orodan did see her point.

It was an exceedingly odd feeling, for something to be so familiar yet so different.

Briar Court had a mostly similar layout to what he remembered. The houses, the well, the familiar path to the general store nearby. Yet, everything was different.

Instead of the familiar Mister Heatherswith’s home with its foul stench of tannins, there was a florist’s shop. Instead of a run-down well, there was now a magical one with top-of-the-line enchantments. And instead of the familiar Volarbury County Militia, there were soldiers bearing the sigil of House Argon dutifully patrolling the streets. No sense of unease or fear could be seen in the people’s faces at the sight of these soldiers either.

And most importantly, where there should have been a dilapidated hovel at 13 Briar Court—belonging to one Orodan Wainwright—was now a recruitment office with a small statue of Agathor on top.

“This is just adding insult to injury…”

The building was undoubtedly meant to recruit more warriors for this holy war going on up north. And while its operation and specific location would ordinarily have irked Orodan a bit more, as it stood, with its doors barred and the priests within nowhere to be seen, the sting was a bit lessened.

“Hey, when are they going to open the sanctum? We’ve come to offer our swords to Lord Agathor for glory!” one impatient youth said.

“Damn it… I bet it has something to do with the lockdown going on at the capital. My uncle was right after all,” another young aspiring warrior said.

“Your uncle also spouted some nonsense about how his Blessing from Agathor suddenly vanished, I think he’s lying.”

Orodan left the area behind. Looking at where his hovel should have been and instead seeing a recruitment building for Agathor was just too much. Even though he’d driven his blade through the war God’s heart, he had to begrudgingly admit that the now deceased God had gotten one over him, even if it was unknowingly.

And it was exceedingly strange in general to see a relatively well-developed and propsperous town in place of the dungheap he knew. In this strange reality, House Argon had never seen any reason to betray the Republic. Burgher Viglas Argon and his house held domain over Volarbury county, particularly since House Firesword’s position had grown dramatically weaker with the death of their Grandmaster during the Liberation War.

There were no street rats, there was no orphanage. The town had managed to avoid most of the fighting during the destructive war against Novarria, which was more than could be said for towns like Jerestir and Anthus, which had entirely fallen in the fighting.

Still, Karilsgard was on lockdown and while it would take some time for news to spread and the loss of Blessings to be confirmed, the truth of the Gods he’d dealt with would soon come to light. And of course, his alteration of the timeline had doubtlessly been noticed by forces greater than the Gods of Alastaia.

And if Orodan had managed to survive the erasure of his own existence through raw power, then he had no doubt that other beings of similar might had managed to avoid being dragged about or altered through the phenomena he’d created.

But, among all the things that hadn’t survived his careless usage of Domain of Perfect Cleaning, something had.

A pair of beady eyes stared up at him from atop his shoulder. The sympathy in them evident.

Orodan signed.

“You don’t need to give me that pitying look, I’ve slept on rocks before. Having my home vanish is hardly a setback worth mentioning,” Orodan said.

She continued giving him a sad look.

“The thought is appreciated, but I don’t really need to sleep anymore. But if I do, I’ll take you up on that offer,” Orodan replied. “ Now then, the interruption in your training is on me, but we’ll continue soon enough once I make sure of some things.”

Of course, her eyes and body language showed a fierce determination! Soon enough? She wanted it right now!

“Right this instant? Hmm, I approve! Alright then,” Orodan said, conjuring a Candleflame upon his right finger which he held up to his shoulder where she was situated. “Have at it, and keep your striking form consistent too if you’re going to temper your fists upon the flames.”

“I don’t think cockroaches have fists…” Zaessythra muttered. “I also have no idea how you’re understanding her at all.”

“Isn’t it obvious? One warrior can understand another without words.”

“You…! You can’t just give me a bogus explanation like that as though it makes perfect sense!”

Personally, Orodan thought Zaessythra was being overly dramatic and didn’t see what the big deal was.

As his hard working student threw jabs at the flame while he walked, Orodan also focused on instructing her and correcting her form.

