“You are not worthy! My lord shall not descend to speak to a wicked heretic!” came the replied shout, and an accompanying charge, though one where the man still made sure to hide behind his shield.

Orodan responded in kind, rushing forward. However, at the last moment instead of meeting shield-to-shield again, he allowed the leather straps to ride it along his arm, freeing up his left hand to grab his opponent’s shield and yank it upwards to block his view.

Then, Orodan simply dropped his sword, put both hands upon the grabbed shield and began twisting it at very odd angles which forced the battle priest to mess up his footwork in a bid to prevent what the man thought was a disarm.

Throughout this grapple for the shield, Orodan made sure to keep Solamus’s own shield at such an angle that the man could not strike with his sword, and periodically took a hand off the contested shield to deliver a punch or pull his opponent in for a knee.

It was only after the ninth blow—a ringing punch to the gorget which had the battle priest choking—that the man finally saw sense and let go. Nine unanswered strikes throughout which the battle priest had desperately tried holding onto his shield under the incorrect assumption that he was at risk of being disarmed.

In truth, Orodan had simply tricked Solamus into thinking that so that he could strike with impunity.

[Shield Mastery 98 → Shield Mastery 99]

Understanding could be acquired even through the most mundane of battles.

“The shield isn’t a defensive implement to hide behind. I hope the nine unanswered blows were enough to teach you that lesson,” Orodan said as the battle priest scurried to gain some distance. “The shield is a weapon like any other, a tool for the warrior, not some ultimate defense which will win you a battle by itself. Use the shield, but do not rely on it.”

Sword, shields, halberds… they were weapons, tools. But every tool had the chance of failing or being seen through, especially if used in a one-dimensional manner. Remaining adaptable was a necessity.

Despite Orodan limiting himself to the Apprentice-level, his punches still hurt. The battle priest of Agathor looked uncomfortable and more aware now of the power dynamic between them.

“You are strong, warrior. It is evident to see you are toying with me. But, I have not bled yet, and this duel is still ongoing!” the old man yelled, gripping the bastard sword with both hands now that he was lacking a shield. “You wished to converse with my God? Very well… strong as you are, no man can stand before the power of-”

“Are you truly going to rely on that wicked power to win?”

It was a direct question which interrupted the man plainly.

“You dare to call my Lord’s power wicked? It is divine providence! The might of the God of War himself!”

“But it isn’t your own strength. Tell me, Solamus Einshield, would Agathor approve of you drawing upon divine power to fight a mere duel? Is that the honor and courage the God of War espouses?” Orodan asked, mockingly. “Or… does the greatest coward of old Hasmathor remain the craven he has always been? Perhaps his follower calling upon divine power for a mere honor duel makes more sense now.”

“Coward of… my lord? A-as you command…”

Those were the battle priest’s last words before the familiar orange glow of divine energy Orodan associated with his least favorite God descended from the heavens.

The crowd bowed in reverent supplication, their zealous faith towards Agathor apparent. And the remaining battle priests fell to their knees in awe.

As the Avatar’s eyes blazed with power, the God behind them met Orodan’s gaze and had only three words to speak.

“Who are you?”

“So you were watching all this time, as expected,” Orodan spoke. “Did my honest remark draw your attention?”

“You know things which none in this age should. Are you a reincarnator? Or has one of those fell northern Gods made you their thrall?” Agathor asked, his voice laced with barely contained fury.

“Neither. I am someone that has made a grievous mistake, one I fully intend to rectify,” Orodan answered, withdrawing his broom from his spatial storage. And the next words out of his mouth were ones he’d never expected to be uttering in a million loops. “Perhaps Ilyatana’s existence was a necessity after all.”

“The name you speak is meaningless to me. I am Agathor, chief deity of the Prime Four, and you speak of dangerous things, blasphemer. Bold of you to utter such words while standing upon Inuan, particularly Karilsgard where my power is strongest,” Agathor spoke. “But I am not without reason. You would not have so carelessly spilled provocative words of a forbidden nature if you did not wish to meet me. So I will ask again, who are you and what do you seek?”

“What I seek, is the return of one of your wretched fellow divinities, the lost member of the Prime Five,” Orodan answered. “Ilyatana, the Goddess of Fate.”

“You speak nonsense. There has never been a fifth divinity among us Prime Four. Even among the savage northmen or the elven quartet I have never heard of this Ilyatana,” Agathor spoke, the air booming with divine power.

“So it affected even the Gods… not even you sense anything amiss, do you?” Orodan honestly asked.

His typical hatred of Agathor was set aside for a moment as he was genuinely just trying to understand the scope of what had occurred. Yes, he would ordinarily waste no time in personally putting an end to the wretched war God in the divine dimension, but right now, tracing Agathor and the other divinities of the Prime Four was Orodan’s best shot at understanding just what he’d changed.

“Sense what amiss? Wait… you cannot mean… is this what Eximus sensed?”

Unfortunately for Agathor, the God of War’s question went unanswered as Orodan focused on his thread in the tapestry and the river of time.

His eyes glowed with power as he directed his chronomancy towards peering as far back into the past as he could.

Using the time stream of a God, Orodan could view a lot more of just what had changed in this alternate timeline where Ilyatana didn’t exist. He could go far back, very far back.

And immediately he saw the differences in how Alastaia’s history had played out without the existence of Ilyatana.

The Republic’s secession from the Novarrian Empire was bloody… very, very bloody. Since Ilyatana hadn’t slain many of the dragon flights, the entire enmity between the Time Wind, Sapphire Gale and Burning Ember dragon flights was practically non-existent. The conflict—which had originally started due to a few unruly dragons killing mortals—had been arbitrated and punishments dispensed among themselves.

In the absence of the dragon flights causing the war and acting as a guarantor of some level of civility, Agathor had stepped in… to help the Republic. Entire cities were razed and the death toll horrific until the Prime Four came to an accord and followed Agathor in standing with the alliance of the Republic and the Eastern Kingdoms.

Needless to say, Novarria was not happy. The deaths of so many civilians as Agathor went scorched earth and razed cities drew the attention of one particular man, Balastion Novar. The First Emperor himself awoke and took to the battlefield, slaying the Chosen of the Prime Four and nearly destroying the Republic in retribution. The Gods barely avoided corruption from the man’s Eldritch crown. At which point the late intervention of the dragonflights and the threat of foreign interference from Eldiron had finally forced the man to return to his citadel before the newly seceding nation could be obliterated.

Naturally, following such an extreme event, Novarria had outright banned the worship of divinities in this alternate timeline. They had become a reclusive nation, and there were serious tensions between even the average Republican and the regular Novarrian as many believed the empire was providing secretive aid to the northerners. Furthermore, unlike the original timeline, here, there were frequent talks of hostilities being imminent once more, and dark rumors that the tyrannical First Emperor was experimenting with a dark power to this day, biding his time until he mastered it and could annihilate the Republic and its allies.

And strangely enough… Orodan noticed that there was no mention or signs of any Eldritch incursions from the stars throughout the period of Agathor’s life and divinity. Not a singular one landed upon Inuan, Guzuhar or Eldiron. And from what he could glean from the time stream… there was no Eldritch Avatar coming?

Now that was exceedingly odd, and not at all something Ilyatana’s erasure should have affected.

Orodan had an uncomfortable feeling about that, but before he could ponder upon it, one last thing caught his attention.

The lack of something specific in the time stream.

“It really went so far…”

He’d finally discovered what that slight difference in the river of time from earlier was. Unfortunately, he had little time to dwell on the ramifications of such a startling discovery. Orodan’s thoughts were interrupted as three more divine presences slammed down upon the ground, drawing his attention back to the real world and away from the time stream.

The crowd had long since fled, the gathering of power from Orodan had made them fear a potential fight.

Chronomantic fields where time suddenly sped up or slowed down, an aura of life and nature, and one of death and decay. He knew none of the hosts of these Chosen Avatars, understandable given that Arvayne Firesword and Alcianne Rockwood had died at the First Emperor’s hands during the Liberation War.

“Who dares meddle with the river of time?” the Avatar of Eximus growled as it touched down, cratering the ground. “Agathor, who is this man? Not even the wretched Balastion Novar possesses power enough to look back so far in time. The tremors were felt even in my domain.”

“Remain cautious brother, I do not know of his identity in the slightest. Even now my faithful can only tell me that an unknown man by the name of Orodan Wainwright entered the council chambers earlier today. The trees speak nothing of him…” Halor spoke, his Avatar remaining in a guarded stance.

“You’re not wrong. The trees speak nothing of me, and no one here knows of me,” he replied in agreement. “Because Orodan Wainwright… does not exist.”

He had never been born.

Not here, not in this strange timeline where too many things had changed and his mother and father had never met.

It was what he’d sensed right away but been unable to put a finger on. Something he had no experience in dealing with prior because Orodan had always had a stable and consistent thread in the river of time.

But now? It was as though he’d suddenly popped into existence a few days ago, created a natural phenomena near Ogdenborough and presented himself to Bluefire with his new Mythical skill. A complete stranger, someone not of this world or this time.

Yes, even his destruction of House Argon and its Novarrian allies was something which had retroactively not occurred at all… because House Argon were never traitors in this timeline. The ancient machine still existed of course—as did his alterations to it—but whatever had occurred with the timeline after his erasure of Ilyatana had caused many of his activities involving non-existent people to no longer exist as well.

It was a sobering realization on just how far his cleaning could go.

“Then… we must ask you come with us. There are too many oddities surrounding you and for the sake of this nation’s safety we cannot allow you to wander unchecked,” Malzim said.

“I wonder what changed? For you all to have become loyal dogs of Agathor, it’s disappointing. Particularly for you two, Halor and Malzim,” Orodan spoke. “The wanton slaughter of entire Novarrians towns? A holy war against the northmen? I can understand this bloodthirsty coward engaging in these things, but you two went along with him?”

Surprisingly enough, he sensed the divine power within Malzim’s host squirm at his words. The God of Death, it seemed, was not proud of all that had occurred. Halor however, looked unmoved.

“Enough. Your power is great, but we will not brook such a threat wandering the Republic, nor one who disrespects me so plainly in the open. If you do not wish to cooperate with us… then we must ask you leave immediately and never return,” Agathor spoke.

Orodan laughed. He couldn’t help it. It was a mocking sound, full of animosity.

“A coward even in this timeline, prince of old Hasmathor. Are you so unwilling to fight me that you would simply ask me to leave politely?” he retorted. “Are you not the God of War?”

“Your attempts at aggravating me will not work. This may yet end peacefully, leave, we have no quarrel with you and have enemies enough of our own,” Agathor spoke.

“Is that what it is? Ah, perhaps Balastion Novar’s near corruption of you has humbled you? You certainly do not act as brashly as you did in my time,” Orodan spat. “Or is it this mad holy war against the northern continent that you’ve started? Is your attention divided on too many fronts to afford another enemy? Strange how unwilling you become when your enemy isn’t a helpless town full of innocents.”

Orodan knew he was being entirely too provocative, and more than a little petty. Ordinarily, he had no interest in disrespecting anyone without cause, but Agathor was one of the few exceptions to that. Yes, he’d truly considered leaving these Gods be—after all they weren’t the Gods of his timeline who’d entrapped him—what had this Agathor done to him?

But one look at the timeline of this alternate reality had disabused him of that notion.

