“Good, remember to generate power through your entire frame when hitting a jab, of course, not every jab should be a step-in either as that can present openings. Hmm? An example? I can show you some of my moves shortly, but you’d be better served watching how Death Roaches fight, I’ll take you to the deep depths to have you meet one.”

[Teaching 82 → Teaching 83]

“This is madness… I’ve grown used to you doing Orodan things, but how can you even…?”

It was just good training, yet again, he didn’t see what the big deal was.

As he trained the cockroach, people gave him odd looks and kept a distance. Orodan walked down the familiar yet different streets of Ogdenborough. The general store was no longer Fodgarton’s, and the blacksmith wasn’t in the same place either though was thankfully still the same man.

Certain people had survived, such as the mayor Aldus Vilthar. Yet there were others who did not exist in this timelime, such as some familiar faces in the county militia.

But the man whose existence he really needed to verify, was ahead.

And thankfully still relatively spry and dour-faced as he always was.

“Hey! Hoist that beam right, come on you lazy louts, put your backs into it! And get that next cart of supplies in position. We have a schedule to keep here!” Old Man Hannegan barked, and then noticed Orodan walking onto the work site. “Can I help you, young man? Oh wait… you’re that odd one who wanted to capture my memories, right? Why, I don’t even remember why you would want such a thing…”

Orodan would not lie, it stung a bit to not be recognized by someone he’d known for the longest time. But it also confirmed that the snapping back of the timeline after his erasure of Ilyatana wasn’t perfect. In this loop, he’d interacted with Old Man Hannegan before the erasure, and had captured his memories in Fenton’s device too.

It seemed the man recalled a conversation with him, but not who he was.

“Young? technically, I’m older than you, old man,” Orodan said with a grin on his face.

“Who’re you calling old?! Go about telling me what you want before I run you off!” the old man barked with the familiar temper he always had. It was good to know some things hadn’t changed.

“Well, I just came by to check in on you. And to remind you of certain things,” Orodan said.

“To remind me of what exactly? Is this some sort of practical-”

Old Man Hannegan had little time to talk as Orodan withdrew a gleaming orb from his own soul and promptly bonked the man’s head with it. A rather intuitive method of transfer that Fenton had designed.

A sharp gasp of pain and a groan were all that the old man managed to get out before he was on his way to the ground. Thankfully Orodan caught and steadied him with a hand.

“Hey! Who’s that putting his hands on the foreman? Let’s help him out!”

“Call the guards! Some big brute’s causing trouble!”

“He’s got a cockroach on his shoulder!”

Orodan was on the verge of reversing the changes for fear of having hurt him, when the man finally came to.

“O-Orodan? What in the seven hells… where am I? What the hells happened…?”

“Well, for starters, we’re in a different timeline. Or rather, the same loop but the aftermath of a reality changing experiment gone wrong,” Orodan cheerfully replied.

“Loop? Timeline? What are you even…” Gregory Hannegan spoke and then hissed in pain as his eyes clenched shut and he nearly fell again only for Orodan to steady him. “Damn… this hurts worse than when I drank the militia barracks of Scarmorrow under the table…”

“You never told me that…” Orodan said.

“That’s because it happened in this life, no wait… the other life? Damn it all, what did you do to me boy? It’s like I have two sets of things I remember in my head… what sort of magic is this?” the old man asked.

In response, Orodan brought the orb up between them and showed it to him.

“Not magic, not mine at least. The orb, you agreeing to have your memories transferred, remember?” Orodan asked.

And then, Old Man Hannegan’s eyes grew wide as the memories connected fully and he began to remember it all.

“What…? Orodan! You mean to say this time loop business of yours is real?! But it makes little sense, in my head are one set of thoughts and memories, yet I also remember another where I never met you…”

“Right, that would be because we’re still in the same loop.”

“Wait a minute… what reality changing experiment?” the old man asked.

“Well, let me tell you about how my hatred for a certain Goddess of Fate led to this state of affairs…”

And so Orodan spoke, and he explained what had occurred, and he briefly explained the time loops once more while making sure to clarify that this was all within the same loop.

And at the end of it all, the old man was thoughtfully looking down at the ground.

“Are you really… Orodan Wainwright?”

“You have the very memories of that timeline now as proof old man, who else would I be?” he asked.

“A demon possessing his body who then planted false memories in my head? A rogue mind mage who has me trapped in an illusion?” Old Man Hannegan suggested. Fair concerns from his perspective Orodan had to admit.

“I’m not trying to swindle you into a soul-binding agreement or use you as a ritual sacrifice for some nefarious ritual. Matter of fact, I don’t strictly need the help of old Gregory Hannegan at all,” Orodan replied.

“Then why in the hells did you throw all these memories into my head!”

“Partly because it was a good opportunity to test the orb. And partly because you’re the oldest person I know.”

“That had better be in the sense that I’m the person you’ve known for the longest time,” the old man grumbled, but he had a smile on his face. “Well then… I have the memories of two lives crammed in my head and am somewhat convinced of this time loop business. It’s either that or you’re some sort of demon or God. And I’ve never known you to be the religious type.”

“Definitely not a God,” Orodan replied. “Now, I understand that having two sets of memories might not be very pleasant, so I have no intention of ferrying back the memories from this alternate timeline to your next loop self.”

The old man thought a moment before replying.

“Why not?”

“Huh? What do you mean why not? You said it gives you a headache, no? Why would I want to inflict that upon you?” he questioned.

“Yes, it does give me a headache, but… comparing the two lives I’ve lived, they’re similar yet different. I have skills here that I do not in the… original timeline. I also have no family here that I care for at all, in fact, just remaining here is already making me rather angry,” the old man said with a frown.

“You… have family? I never knew…” Orodan muttered.

“Gods above boy, is a man not allowed to have some secrets?” he barked back.

“Right, of course. I’ll respect your privacy and won’t pry,” Orodan said. “Well, if you insist, I suppose I can collect your memories here and bring them to the next loop as well.”

“Good… now what’s this nonsensical tale you’re telling me about the concept of cleanliness and cosmic power? You know, if you need something to clear your head, I have a good friend who runs a merchant company who could show you a variety of new skills to dabble in…” the old man said. “And would you care to explain why you have a cockroach on your shoulder who you’re holding up a Candleflame for?”

#

Orodan should not have been surprised to hear that Old Man Hannegan’s suggestion was to head to Exerston County and meet with an old friend of his.

House Stenguard was a merchant house. Orodan had learned this at the beginning of the loop before causing the pandemonium that he had.

With the Republic being more than a little chaotic with the sudden loss of three of its Gods, venturing to Exerston County and its wilds wasn’t an issue. If anything, the odds of anyone bothering Orodan and his industrious student there were a lot lower too.

Mainly, he needed to clear his head and refocus himself. Especially if he was going to tackle the entirely different challenge of clashing against the concept of Cleanliness once more. Unlike the directness of Infinity, it was a far more insidious force, and Orodan would need to master his own mind before trying to confront it once more.

After all, the last thing he needed was being subsumed by the concept for who knew how long, and through him, Cleanliness could become deadly at an unprecedented scale and rate.

And Orodan had to wonder for a moment if using Domain of Perfect Cleaning at the Embodiment-level was different in some critical way.

Still, before him was the town of Greenvale. Much like Trumbetton in Volarbury County, this was the center of Exerston County, even if the county itself was a lot wilder and untamed than the other.

And as he passed the town guards who barely cared for his identity after verifying he wasn’t a monster, Orodan’s eyes were set upon a particular building.

The calligrapher’s association.

For if any skill was good enough to help center the mind and aid in introspection before he faced Cleanliness again, that would be it. And alongside that, his regular training and that of his student would continue as usual.
