What was true power?

To influence the world? To live comfortably and lavishly? In accordance with one’s ideals?

Or was it to protect the life one had built from destruction?

It was a broad question, the sort argued over by meandering philosophers and fools in taverns.

But while such people would argue about whether kings, emperors or Gods held true power, Orodan had gone ahead and done something which none of them ever had.

He had permanently altered reality and by extension the tapestry of fate and timeline itself. If that wasn’t true power, then what was?

Even now as the council members, many of the faces unfamiliar to him, and many familiar but wearing different colors. Furthermore, many of the banners and sigils were different too.

A quick check within his soul had Orodan sighing in relief as Fenton’s device and Adeltaj’s memory bank within it remained intact. Which was quite strange, as the timeline had been altered yet a trace of the old man still remained? It had him immediately considering whether the alteration of reality didn’t affect him and anything within his soul because he was the caster, or because he was too high in power to be erased and moved about in the timeline.

Still, his postulations did little to distract him from the glaring absence of his mentor Adeltaj Simarji.

A problem of his own making that he was dead set on fixing.

The chamber of the council, this city, this nation, everything around him felt similar yet radically different. Even Zaessythra seemed more than a little alarmed at the changes he had wrought.

Matter of fact, he needed to verify the extent to which his unintended erasure of Ilyatana had affected the timeline and reality.

“Mister Wainwright? We have yet to finalize a date for the ceremony. A new addition to the ranks of the Republic is quite the auspicious occasion,” the High-Burgher reminded. “Does sometime in the coming two weeks sound preferable?”

Orodan had no time for the Hogh-Burgher as his eyes began to glow with the familiar white power of his soul.

“Wait! We have yet to discuss this time loop you mentioned,” the Altamari said. “Lord Halor will be most interested in… Mister Wainwright? What are you-”

Orodan utterly ignored her as cries of shock erupted at the sight of his glowing eyes and the raw power emanating from him.

Everything had changed.

And not in a way Orodan had wanted or planned for. This needed to be set right, right away.

His eyes glowed with power as he immediately dove into the time stream, trying to understand just what he’d changed.

[Time Mastery 93 → Time Mastery 94]

Yet, deep as he looked… nothing was wrong?

“This can’t be right. I wiped her out of existence, therefore of course something should be wrong,” Orodan thought. “But this time stream looks… no wait… it definitely looks more chaotic as a whole than the river of time I’m used to.”

His power blazed, doubtlessly acting a beacon for anything beyond Alastaia. But worries about being discovered and ending the loop earlier were the farthest thing from his mind right now.

Yet, no matter how closely Orodan looked, even going back as far as a hundred-thousand years ago, he could find no sign that anything was out of the ordinary. Oh yes, the river of time was chaotic. Nothing was amiss, but it was akin to a normally calm river suddenly being a raging one. Proof that Orodan’s alteration of reality was still fresh and the timeline’s natural snapping back in an attempt to flow naturally had occurred not too long ago.

But even then, although the time stream was chaotic… nothing was amiss.

Besides the non-existence of Ilyatana and Adeltaj Simarji that was. Furthermore, there was something a bit… off about the river, but he wasn’t quite able to put his finger on it just yet.

Naturally, this caused no shortage of frustration for him.

How could he undo what he’d wrought if there was no real evidence of what he’d undone in the first place?

There was no soul of Ilyatana or Adeltaj lingering in the hidden corners. There was no secret thing he had to find and interact with to set things back to normal. No… it was plainly as though the Goddess of Fate had never existed altogether. As though everything was the way it should be. As though the timeline was… perfectly clean.

That didn’t sound perfect or clean to him.

“Your mentor still exists in this timeline, you could still resurrect him, could you not?” Zaessythra asked, and it was a fair point too.

However, the Adeltaj he resurrected would not be the same one. And Orodan would feel better about not resurrecting the man only to eventually see this alternate Adeltaj rendered non-existent once he set the timeline back to normal.

Orodan was caught in a bind, and his Reality Alteration wasn’t a skill he could apply in and of itself yet. He had a strong feeling that it was a critical component to fixing this horrid mistake of his, but it would require time and training to hone it to that point.

No… the real culprit was the Domain of Perfect Cleaning. And Orodan was swiftly beginning to understand that it had the potential to carry the same gravity of consequences that Incipience of Infinity did.

But remaining here would do him no favors.

The council members were more than a little concerned at the utter excess of power he’d glowed with, but since when had Orodan cared about laying low? Not that he was any good at it.

Exiting the chamber of the council, the capital guard commander who he recalled encountering upon entry was no longer the same woman. Instead, in her place was now a grizzled older man. And as he stepped out of the High Spire of Karilsgard altogether, a group of ornately armored men wearing robes and familiar insignia approached him.

Leading them, a familiar old man. One who he’d tried soliciting aid from in his very first loop after dying for the first time.

“Greetings warrior, a moment of your time for the good word of the Prime Four?” Solamus Einshield spoke. He was a heavily armored man with sword and shield ready to be drawn. And Orodan’s mouth set into a thin line upon the realization that only one God upon Inuan had battle priests. “Lord Agathor and the Prime Four require your aid. The foul northmen are regularly being pushed back, but the divine is always seeking more holy warriors for our righteous crusade.”

Righteous crusade?

Thankfully, a nearby capital guardsman intervened before the group of battle priests could spread their gospel further.

“Hey, that’s enough. You’ve been warned time and time again not to approach the High Spire. Preach about the call to arms elsewhere, not here.”

“The holy call to arms in Lord Agathor’s name has no limitation on where it may be spread, guardsman. Or would you like to explain to your superiors how the capital guard are interfering with Cathedral business? You would not like the status of your Blessing to come into question now… would you?”

The guard frowned and seemed more than a little shaken by the threat, that was, until a senior guardsman came by with a severe look on her face. Or rather, what should have been the capital guard commander, or had been… in the previous timeline.

“What’s going on here?” the woman asked, looking more worn and stern than he remembered. “Priest Einshield, have you come attempting to recruit more warriors for the northern crusade again? That is not permitted near the surroundings of the High Spire.”

“Captain, come to create trouble for the God of War’s faithful yet again? Did your demotion not-”

But Orodan had heard enough.

“What crusade is this?” he sharply cut off, and the intensity in his voice caused the leading battle priest to take a step backwards. “What new devilry has Agathor gotten up to?”

“Devilry? Mind your blasphemous tongue! Lord Agathor seeks brave warriors to join the ongoing holy war against the vile northmen. A noble cause which is the shared duty of all Republicans and Easterners.”

A war against the northern continent? For what? Orodan could understand purging the raider tribes, but what was the point of an all-out war?

The priest was vehement in his defense of this practice, and worst of all, many of the nearby passing folk were on-board with the idea and glaring at him with a level of open hostility he hadn’t expected.

“Hey! This man’s a blasphemer!”

“A heretic? We should carve him up and display his corpse on the mountain so that Novarria can see!” yelled a particularly zealous citizen.

“How dare a disbeliever speak so of his eminence? Maybe he’s one of them Guzuharans! Worship the wicked blood God of the north do you?”

The crowd was angry, and they were braying for blood already. A single remark, and the deep faith these people held in Agathor was now becoming apparent. A little ironic that these people would covet his blood for such a simple remark while expressing disgust for the northern blood God in the same breath.

And it seemed there was more than a bit of disconnect between what the councilman had said earlier in the chamber, regarding the Republic being tolerant of differing faiths. It appeared that Guzuharan God worship was not among that list.

What had become of society in the absence of Ilyatana? Had Agathor truly infilitrated the hearts and minds of the people so deeply?

In any case, zero multiplied by fifty was still zero, and none of these weak rabble composing the mob would be capable of threatening even an Adept. And whether it was his naturally joyless face or his stature, none of the roused members of the crowd wanted to meet his gaze.

“Order! This is a nation of laws, not blind religious zealotry! The Republic of Aden has many faiths within it!” the capital guard captain barked, drawing her weapon and standing between Orodan and the angry citizens. “Disperse before force is used. No assault will be taking place here.”

Orodan was always down for a fight and would have been more than happy to dispense a beating of his own, but he decided to not complicate this poor woman’s day any further. The sudden demotion due to an alteration of the timeline was bad enough as it was.

The angry crowd pacified themselves a bit at the sight of the armed capital guard giving a direct order, but the battle priest of Agathor, Solamus Einshield, yet remained. Frankly, Orodan remembered the man as a grizzled battle priest who was willing to at least hear out the impulsive and young Orodan Wainwright back then. Yet now? A mouthpiece for the coward of old Hasmathor.

“Captain, this matter is not over. This man openly derides the chief deity of the Prime Four, any insult against our lord cannot go overlooked by his servants. Agathor is not only the God of War, but of honor. And as his loyal servant, I Solamus Einshield must challenge this man to a duel.”

The man perhaps realized too late that he’d uttered such a thing to the one warrior all too happy to fight anyone.

“A duel? Excellent, let’s fight,” Orodan immediately replied in agreement, his smile positively bloodthirsty as his sword left the sheathe and the shield was raised. “I’m sure Agathor will be quite proud of your decisive nature and bravery.”

The almost instantaneous agreement alongside Orodan’s friendly smile had Solamus stepping back two feet. The other two battle priests with the man reflexively drew their weapons in fear too.

“Friendly? That’s an interesting way of saying deranged…” Zaessythra remarked, amused.

Of course, she knew him all too well. But one man’s derangement was another man’s joy, and he doubted anyone on Alastaia loved fighting as much as he did.

This would of course be an entirely pointless battle if even a millionth of his strength was unleashed. From the feeling Orodan got, Solamus was an Adept, and Orodan had surpassed that level within the first two hundred loops of starting his journey. But, fighting was something he would never turn down, and there was much to learn and even more to be learned in correcting someone’s flaws in the midst of battle.

And most importantly, Orodan sensed that Solamus had two Blessings of Agathor within his soul. Unlike the original timeline, it seemed this old battle priest was a figure of a bit more importance in this one. Which was just fine as he’d be able to get in some training and a meeting in one.

The battle priest frowned, but to his credit didn’t back down.

“I know not what level you are, blasphemer, but we shall keep this duel limited to first blood, with the loser recanting their words,” the battle priest said as he stepped forward cautiously, hiding behind his shield but with his sword at the ready.

“Tch… duelling right in front of the High Spire? Just don’t cause any undue property damage or I’ll be having both parties fined for the expenses,” the capital guard captain said with a grumble as she backed away.

Out of fairness, Orodan limited himself to the strength and speed of an Apprentice as he lunged forward. But despite that, the aggression of it was enough to have the old battle priest acting wary from the get-go.

Orodan’s shield rammed against the battle priest’s shield at such an angle, that despite willingly ceding the strength advantage, the old man’s guard was compromised. Furthermore, the man must have been expecting Orodan to strike with his sword and not step into a much closer range where blade work would be more difficult. His leg hooked behind Solamus’s lead foot, and a follow-up shove sent the man stumbling backwards.

The gathered crowd gasped and began muttering, and the other two battle-priests had frowns of concern on their faces.

“And if I win? What words will you recant?” Orodan asked. “How about this. If I win, let me have a conversation with your God.”

