Over the next few days, David helped Niala sort through the material from the Radiant Archive. While he only had superficial Alchemical knowledge, he could still help by giving Niala summaries of the content within a book or act as a bouncing board for the uncontrolled stream of ideas and questions as she read through the books.

He learned more about alchemy in those few days than he had in his life.

But, perhaps more importantly, he just enjoyed spending time with her. His beautiful wife, with her bright amethyst eyes, devouring old and forgotten knowledge, was the cutest thing ever.

He didn't speak much; Niala didn't let him put in a lot of words, but the smiles he gave her whenever she looked his way were enough of a message for him.

Niala was a bit overwhelmed.

It had been four days now, and they had barely gone through half the books they'd retrieved, and not even in depth. Just enough to categorize them; there was still so much knowledge to find in them!

But, beyond that, there was also David, whose attentive and supportive presence made sure her heart never slowed down too much.

And she loved every second of it.

Sure, they'd spent plenty of time together cleaning, cooking, travelling, snuggling, and so on. But! Those moments had always been broken apart, interspersed by time apart. Now, he hadn't left her side since they started going through the books, and his presence next to her seemed to solidify, somehow.

And every time she looked up, he gave her that super-sweet smile of his! Each time it tempted her to drop whatever book she had and jump on him to rub her face all over him and give him all the kisses and-

She felt the blush as it rose over her cheeks. She hid it behind the book she was reading.

She forced her eyes back to the words written within, but her mind was off elsewhere. Back over to the man sitting near her. To her husband.

It still didn't feel real, and she had to keep looking at her wedding bracelet to remind herself that, yes, she was married now.

Married to a man who'd just appeared in her life once, and who had stuck around, who had cared for her, supported her, and helped make the dream she had back then a reality.

She still loved her shop, and their, their! House was the cutest thing ever, and everywhere she looked at it, she saw the signs of their hands from when they had renovated it, which made memories bubble up.

They'd had adventures, good and bad, like a series of storms swirling around them, but, ever since that night when he ran back to her door and took her in his arms, it had felt like something happening outside.

Because having David in her life felt like something solid, permanent, and warm.

So warm, in his arms...

She mentally shook herself and internally squealed like a teenage girl. Really, another day or two of this closeness and she'd be done, unable to do anything except curl up all over him and become a content puddle.

She sighed and wondered if these feelings would be with her forever, or if time would erode some of them away.

Time...

Her ebullient emotions flattened as she was reminded of the ticking clock over David's future; mana corruption. If Jordo was right, and David hadn't materialized Leviathan, then they still had to find a solution.

They had time! At least ten years, but this wasn't the kind of situation you just ignored and hoped a solution would appear.

Which was part of the reason she'd retrieved so many books from the Radiant Archive. Sure, a good portion of it was simply because, well, books! But, really, what she most hoped for was to find a remedy of some sort, something that would give her an idea of how to fix his mana corruption.

Because if her previous dream had been about building and running a small, cozy potion shop, she had a new, even bigger one now.

She wanted to found a family with David, and grow old with him.

She glanced up at him over the book's edge.

Well, not old old. It might have been selfish of her, but she fully intended to keep themselves young with youth potions.

So, really, she just wanted to be around him for as long as she could. The smile on his face told her he felt the same, and that made her heart beat just a little bit faster, still.

The next day, Niala left David at their house, saying she had a small errand to run, and insisting that he stay home to keep sorting the books; she'd barely be gone a bell, at most.

Her thoughts from the day prior, about wanting to find a cure for David's mana corruption, had kept running around in her head, and had led to one simple problem: they needed a way to measure his corruption level.

Rinka had said the Reign never found an acceptable way, only being able to detect corruption within someone's mana pathways once it was more or less terminal. From her discussion with Marshalla and Leandro, it was the same with the Azure guards. Their fel detectors could tell if someone was, at most, a month or two away from turning.

Nobody seemed able to measure someone's corruption level before then, but there had to be a way.

She knocked on Marshalla's door. The dark-skinned woman soon answered, giving Niala a polite smile. “Niala, what brings you here today?”

“Hi, Marshalla. I hope I'm not bothering. I had a few questions for you, if you have the time.”

The scholar's smile curved up a bit more. “Questions for me? It's usually the other way. Come in, I wasn't doing anything important, I have time.” She said, standing aside to let the catkin in.

Niala dipped her head in thanks and stepped inside. Marshalla brought her to her study, where she offered something to drink. Niala agreed to a cup of herbal tea. The two women chatted a bit about recent events in their lives, eventually leading to the present.

Marshalla put down her empty cup and looked up at Niala. “So, my dear, what brings you to me today? You said you had questions.”

Niala's ears twitched. “I do. It's about mana corruption. Do you know if there is any way to measure it, before it's too late?”

The scholar put a hand to her chin as she thought. “Hmm.. I'm assuming this has to do with David's situation?”

Niala nodded.

Marshalla got up and walked toward one of her bookshelves, retrieving an older tome from which several loose pages stuck out. She spoke as she did so. “The issue is not a new one. I believe everyone aware of the process of corruption has attempted to find a way to detect it.”

She walked back to her seat and opened the old book, its leather cover creaking in protest. She held out the book for Niala, who accepted it with reverence. “In this book, I have collected all known experiments and processes used to attempt to measure someone's corruption level. Nothing has ever yielded definitive results. The problem is that we simply do not know exactly what is causing corruption.”

Niala looked up from the book's notes and diagrams. “But we can detect fel, and terminal corruption in those about to turn. Don't we have at least a general idea about what is causing it?”

Marshalla shook her head. “Fels emit a particular wavelength of mana. That is what we can detect from individuals in the final phase of mana corruption. There is something that causes people's mana to transform, but we don't know what.”

Niala frowned as she turned her attention back to the book, gently turning its pages as she skimmed their contents. She spoke without looking up. “What if we could measure someone who we know is entirely free of corruption, and compare that to other people?”

The scholar put a hand to her chin. “That could... help. Yes, if we had a baseline that we know is entirely free of mana corruption, it would be relatively easy to compare the harmonics and resonances, to see what we have been missing so far.”

She looked at the catkin. “However, finding such a person would be impossible, since we'd need to be able to measure their corruption level in the first place.”

Niala raised her head, meeting Mashalla's gaze. “What if it were someone from a world where there is no corruption at all?”

Marshalla narrowed her eyes. “...From a world? What are you...” Her eyes widened. “Ah! Leo told me you've had dealings with fairies. Is that it?”

“Yes. From what they told us, they don't have mana corruption. They don't turn into fels.”

The scholar leaned back in her chair. “Hmm, interesting... if their pathways are truly free of whatever leads to mana corruption, then it would certainly help. But, there's another issue.”

“What is it?” Niala asked, ears erect and turned toward the woman.

“We would need to figure out if a fairy's mana and pathways are different from ours. It has long been understood that all mana originates from the same place, in this world. No matter the species or creature, the harmonics and resonances all fall within set parameters, pointing at a common source of mana. If fairies truly have no corruption, then we would need a way to determine if that is because the mana comes from a different source, or if corruption is due to something inherent in the people of this world.”

Niala tilted her head. “Wouldn't measuring a fairy's mana reveal that? If their readings fall within the same parameters?”

Marshalla nodded. “We could assume that, yes, but making assumptions in research is dangerous. We would need a baseline to compare both a fairy and a humanoid's mana readings against, to determine if there are other variables.”

Niala's ears twitched as she narrowed her eyes. “A baseline... like, a fairy without any mana whatsoever?”

The scholar nodded. “In theory, yes, but that doesn't exist. Every living thing has mana in it.”

The catkin leaned forward a bit. “Not everyone.”

One of Marshalla's eyebrows shot upward.

With a general direction in which to proceed, Niala's steps back home felt a bit lighter. And they might have quickened a bit as she caught sight of it, and with it, the thought of David's arms around her.

Even if she hadn't been gone for a full bell, could you really blame her for being eager? They were such strong, comforting arms...

And, just as she'd hoped and expected, the first thing David did when she walked back to him was to give her a hug and a kiss. His eyes showed a bit of surprise when he tried to pull back, only for her to grab his shirt and hold him close, but he let himself get drawn into his wife with blissful abandon.

After the unexpectedly passionate kiss, they returned to the books for another few bells, and then it was time for dinner.

Niala made some stuffed oven-baked bell peppers with a side of fried chicken rice. Over the food, Linzy gave them a rundown of the day's business, while Papo offered factual corrections when the goblin girl exaggerated.

Linzy eventually had enough and began explaining to Papo what the concept of an “embellished tale” was. The little rat didn't seem to understand the idea and continued to challenge the goblin woman about the importance of precise information.

As the two bickered and they looked on with amused smiles, Niala couldn't be certain, but she thought that Papo's expression looked a lot like what a smile would look like on a rat.

Was he... doing this on purpose?

The day after was spent on going through the books again, but this time, Niala wanted to start reading the more promising ones with more attention.

While David continued to create short summaries of what he could gather from the books, she began delving into the pages of her top picks and taking notes.

Of especially interest to her were two works from what appeared to be retired alchemists, from the tail-end of the age of alchemy, right when molecular chemistry began pushing the antiquated practice out of the professional and commercial space and into the hands of hobbyists.

The old alchemists had compiled cross-reference lists between alchemical manipulations and the processes of molecular chemistry. It was meant to allow future hobbyist alchemists to apply new knowledge to their craft, and to Niala, it was the key. It would allow her to integrate the entirety of the Reign's knowledge into her alchemy, and the prospect was more than a little titillating.

By the end of the day, she had half a notebook filled with ideas and things she wanted to test. She took one look at the pile of books still waiting for her, each one representing at least a few bells of reading time, and back at her list.

She looked up at David with determined eyes and a wagging tail.

He caught sight of her stare. “What is it, kitten?”

“David, tomorrow, we brew.” She declared.