Torix Worm, of Darkhill( 6:01 A.M. 01/05/01) - We’ll meet at the Lola Mine near the town’s outskirts at 9:00 A.M. I forwarded the location to you.

I checked the time using my interface. It was 8:16 am, so I pointed my hands at Althea and Hod, “You guys ready to leave?”

“Sure.”

“Hod ready.”

I walked out of the room, “Let’s go then. Torix is expecting us soon.”

I paced outside the house, ducking under the parts of the house I chipped while walking in earlier. I reached outside,

“We’re ready.”

Ajax stood, turning his head towards us, “Then let’s be gone. I will follow you, though I recommend we stay stealthy. I’d rather not be obliterated with all of you in a burning fire.”

Ajax slipped away, his existence disappearing entirely. Hod murmured, “Tree Man spoke the truth.”

I forwarded the mine’s location to Hod and Althea, “Thanks for letting us know. It’s always unnerving when Ajax just disintegrates like that.”

They both fiddled with their status screens, looking at the notifications.

“That’s where we’re headed. Let’s try being quiet.”

I shot forward into a sprint, leaving the two of them behind. They shot forward after I left, catching up quickly. We each stayed on the ground, running on the ground instead of flying or hopping around. It would make too much noise and be too easy to see, so we took a the long way there.

As we traveled, I noticed a few changes in the cityscape. The roots streaking across the city were wilting. The further out they went from the world tree, the more dead the tree was. Wherever the world tree died, plants blossomed. Flowers of all colors, brushes of all sizes, even full grown trees sprouted up around the rotting husk.

It was like the forest around Springfield was creeping inwards. We kept away from these new slices of forest. Ajax’s warning about trees listening to us spooked us pretty badly, so we kept away from them. In all honesty, that makes us sound crazy as hell.

Maybe we were, but there wasn’t really a need in taking any unnecessary risks. We reached the Lola mine about half an hour later. The entrance was a set of train tracks leading into the side of a mountain. Tall trees towered everywhere around it, an overgrown dirt road leading it it.

The place was too far from town for anyone to tag the place. It was a place almost overtaken by nature. Torches lit the inside along with lights from the steel legion. All along the tracks and tunnels, the legion holed up inside. As we walked inside, the first soldiers we saw up close looked broken.

Their shoulders drooped over and the fight in them was gone. We reached them, and they looked up at us. The tallest soldier, sporting a brown beard and a scar down his cheek gasped as I walked up. The other soldiers glanced up at me as I walked within range of my aura.

The broken look on their faces faded as they looked at me. I was the war hero coming home victorious. With Hod and Althea tailing behind me, we were sight to be seen. I walked into the camp, other soldiers peering out of their makeshift rooms to see me. Whenever I reached the center of the camp, hundreds of eyes looked at me.

I stopped walking. I turned around, looking at the eyes of the soldiers looking at me. I raised an opened hand, my voice booming with the sound of victory and strength,

“The followers are dead.” I clamped my hand into a fist harder than iron, the sound of clapping metal echoing through the mine.

“And Yawm is the next skull I crack under my heel.”

The legion burst into a roar of approval as I turned towards Torix’s room and walked. As I paced by, hands covered in power armor slapped my shoulder and pat my back. It was an invigorating feeling. It was like as long as I lived, so did their fighting spirit. The weight of responsibility pressed on my shoulders at the same time, however.

It wasn’t that unpleasant a weight to bear though. I was never the smoothest talker or the most likable guy. I was rough around the edges, more of an acquired taste. That changed with the system. I went from a social outcast to some sort of weird, war hero. In my eyes, it was a step up.

The legion agreed. Some howled with approval as I walked towards Torix’s checkpoint. I passed them, reaching deeper into the mine’s depths. We reached a staircase leading down into the mountain, lit by white fired torches. We entered a circular room full of diagrams and assorted

Once out of earshot from the legion members, I gasped out a breath as I leaned against a wall,

“Fuck man...doing that kind of thing on the spot...I didn’t think I had it in me.”

Althea laughed before Ajax walked onto our plane of existence. He turned towards me,

“So someone like you is the symbol of your people?”

I weighed my hands back and forth, “I mean, I guess you could call it that. I think of it more like I’m some glorified con man.”

Hod walked over, placing a wing on my shoulder, “Harbinger not just symbol for humans. Harbinger symbol for Eltari as well.” Hod walked up to Ajax,

“Hod ask Tree Man to wait. One day, Harbinger will be symbol for eldritch too. Bad symbol though, not good symbol.”

They were both lean and thin for their frames. Hod was a head shorter than Ajax though, so Ajax looked down on Hod as he spoke,

“Your aura reminds me of us followers. It’s as if you’re on the brink of being consumed at any moment. How are keeping the eldritch at bay?”

Hod shrugged, “Harbinger do it, not Hod.”

A portal of shadow appeared beside us. From it, Torix paced out. Torix connected his hands together behind him, peering at each of us. His fire eyes lingered on Ajax. Torix introduced himself with a quick bow,

“So this Ajax...It’s good to have your acquaintance.”

Ajax returned the gesture, “Likewise. Your handling of your troops is masterful. Perhaps you may show me your methods some time.”

Torix grinned, “And I’ll ask how you cut through the fabric of dimensions as well.” Torix turned to us all, “It’s good to see that our mission wasn’t in vain. All of us escaped unscathed for the most part. I was even able to escape with most of the legion, though of course we lost a few members.”

Torix met my eye, “I won’t let their bodies go to waste.”

I frowned, “I wouldn’t let anyone see that you’re using the bodies of allies. It would cripple moral completely.”

Torix unhooked his hands from behind him, waving off my concern, “Of course, of course. I’ll utilize them in other ways, I assure you.” He raised one of his hands, “In fact, I already have. One such way involved being messengers.”

Ajax tilted his head, “You’ve already spoken with Yawm?”

Torix nodded, “I’ve also informed the overseer of our plan. He believed it was our best chance of victory.”

Hod walked up to Torix, “Hod think there something very important for Hod and Dry Man to discuss.”

Torix sighed, “What is it that you want to waste my time with now?”

Hod placed his left wing over Torix’s shoulder, “Hod promise, this time it worth Dry Man’s time.”

With his right wing, Hod pointed out like he was trying to envision something grand,

“Hod want Dry Man to think about a place. This is a wet place, a place with much water.”

Torix groaned, but Hod continued, “Hod think Hod found wet place for Dry Man. Dry Man drink water, and Dry Man no longer dry.”

Hod pressed his wing into a fist, “But Hod need Dry Man to be with Hod on this one. Hod can take Dry Man to place with water, but Dry Man has to want it. What does Dry Man say, is Dry Man willing to follow Hod to lake? Is Dry Man willing to become not dry?”

Torix leaned down while pinching the bridge of his nose. Ajax pointed at them,

“Are they serious?”

I walked over towards Ajax. With a look solemn as a grave on my face, I spoke,

“Oh, you mean Torix over there...Well, let's just say he’s dead serious.”
