“I’ll remind you…” Fox began. “I never wanted to come behind those walls in the first place. I only came back to save you from getting snatched by the Valrok guy’s pets. So, you’re welcome. Now I don’t have a choice about leaving or not, but if they’re at least being hospitable, I might as well enjoy myself, right?”

My ears folded down, and I frowned. She wasn’t wrong, and I really couldn’t argue the facts. But still, something about it was just rubbing me the wrong way. Though, Fox always had a way of rubbing me the wrong way.

I grabbed another puffstork leg and put my annoyance with Fox out of my mind. I just hoped we wouldn’t have to wait too long before talking to Rin, and I could actually get some answers.

Luckily, by the time I had a nice pile of clean bones on the plate in front of me, and Grick was half asleep from overeating, Aiko came to the head of the table and cleared her throat.

“High Regent Rin Zaoh will see you now. She’s awaiting your audience in the war room.”

I felt a sudden tug of anxiety. I’d soon be finding out if reuniting with two of my pack members would be a little closer, or if it was still no more than a vague hope.

As I got up to follow Aiko, I felt a hand on my shoulder. I looked up to see Fox smiling down at me. Her grip was light, but firm enough to stop me for a moment.

“Don’t go in there like that,” she said quietly.

“…Like what?” I asked.

“Nervous. Desperate.” Her eyes flicked toward the doorway where Aiko was waiting, then back down to me. “Rin will see it on you. And she’ll use it.”

My ears twitched.

“…I am desperate,” I muttered in a low whisper.

“I know,” Fox said simply. “That’s why you can’t show it.”

Fox’s smile softened just a fraction—less teasing, more… serious than I was used to from her.

“You’re not some pet she’s trying to tame, and your job isn’t to impress a master,” she continued. “You’re a weapon she wants to keep. And if there’s already fifteen less bandits that won’t be stressing her guard, you’ve proven your potential and earned your place here. You have leverage. So act like it.”

My eyes shifted away from her. I wanted to believe in what she was saying, but the actual powerlessness I felt over not being able to just go save my brothers and the rest of my family gnawed at me.

“Think about it,” Fox continued. “Look at how they’re treating us. Look at what they’re giving me.” Then she lowered to a knee to whisper. “They could have just stuck me in a room with a couple meals every day. But Rin knows if my forced detainment feels like that, and I’m not okay with it—and don’t worry, trust me, I’m pretty damn satisfied—but if I wasn’t, you would never accept it, and she’d lose some of her grip on you.”

I canted my head. “So you’re saying she’s manipulating me. I already knew that, though.”

“No,” Fox corrected. “She’s negotiating with you, but more importantly, she seems to be negotiating in good faith. She’s trying to give us what we want, so she gets what she wants. That’s how any kind of trade works, in essence. But you have to understand—a negotiation is still a negotiation, and if you forget your own value, then you’ve already lost. Get it?”

“Is everything alright?” Aiko prompted from the end of the room.

Fox flashed a fang. “Just a last-minute pep talk. You ready, kids?” Fox asked as she raised up and looked around for Lily and Grick, who were just joining us.

“Grick’s ready,” Grick said.

“Yeah, I’m ready.” I nodded.

Aiko bowed and then led the way through the halls. I looked at the tapestries and portraits of frogs and I finally asked, “So, there are other nobles living here?”

“Of course there are,” Aiko said.

“It’s just, I haven’t really seen anyone else other than guards and serving girls…” I looked up to Fox, who had spent a bit more time here.

Fox shrugged. “I’d been enjoying my own room for the time being.”

“That’s because you are in the guest wing,” Aiko explained. “For privacy and security reasons, the royal family have their own accommodations.”

“Makes sense,” Fox hummed.

“So I’d been wondering…” I continued. “Are they uh… people, or, you know…” I glanced to one of the paintings. “Frogs?”

Upon asking, Aiko stiffened slightly.

Fox then patted me hard on the back and said, “Hey! What’s with a rude question like that?” She then turned her attention to Aiko. “You know how it is with kids. Always say exactly what’s on their minds.”

Aiko’s expression smoothed into something carefully neutral. “The royal family are… as they are meant to be,” she said.

That wasn’t an answer, but as I opened my mouth to complain about it, Fox cut me off.

“Right, right,” she said easily, waving a hand like it didn’t matter. “Very mysterious. Very important. Got it.”

I frowned but let it drop—for now.

Still… Aiko’s reaction felt a bit odd to me, and I wondered about what the final bandit I had killed had said about it. Of course, propaganda from an enemy nation would be portrayed in the worse way possible, but even such things tended to be rooted in some truth and… well… the emperor was undeniably a frog himself.

But before I could ponder on that any more, we were led into the war room where Rin awaited us. She was sitting at the end of the long table, a sheet of paper between metal fingers. Standing just over her shoulder was another girl. She was pale-skinned with rosy cheeks and had the loose robes of a serving girl, but instead of the lighter colors of the others, hers were black with pink flowers augmenting it.

Rin looked up and returned the page to a binder. “Welcome back. Please, have a seat.” She gestured over the table, then turned her attention to the girl behind her. Rin then started making movements with her hands and mouthing silent words. It looked so odd that my brow rose, but the girl simply nodded and grabbed the binder, then politely exited the room.

As me and Grick climbed into our seats, and Fox collapsed into hers, Rin explained, “Xiu is deaf.” Then pointed a metal finger at her own ear to clarify. “It means she can’t hear anything. She communicates well through signing and reading lips.”

“Oh,” I answered, searching through Lisha’s memories. “Yes, I know what deaf means. In my other life, what you just did is called sign language.”

“So how did your quest go?” Rin asked, cutting right to the chase, intertwining her metal fingers under her chin as she leaned forward.

“We’ve completed it,” I answered.

“Excellent. I honestly did not expect you would be back so soon,” Rin answered. Her red eyes focused on both me and Grick in turn. She then stood from her seat and paced around the table, arms crossed behind her back as she moved. I watched her, but she stopped as soon as she got eyes on Lily. “And you’ve all grown significantly. This is very good.”

“So what about my brothers?” I asked, cutting to the chase myself.

“So far, we’ve confirmed that the Scorched Steeps Tribe is in possession of two Hell Hounds.”

“And…?” I asked.

“And.” She paused, locking her gaze with me. “It seems unlikely they will be willing to sell both.” She let it hang there, leaving space for me to respond. My eyes dropped away from hers. I had to hold back the low growl that wanted to bubble up in my throat.

“So you’ve asked them already?” I pressed.

“No. That also has to be handled with care. The information we have now comes from, let’s say… our intelligence network.”

“You mean spies?” I asked.

“I prefer to go into as little detail about how exactly I know what I know as possible.” Rin paced back over to her side of the table and retook her seat. “But here is what the situation seems to be. One of the males was meant to go to the fighting pits with the mother, while the other was to be sold to the Scorched Steeps. It seems Valrok of the Bloody Peaks Tribe had warned that they would be untamable as a pair. But this advice has gone ignored. Now seeing the difficulty of taming a Hell Hound let alone two, the Chief of the Scorched Steeps Tribe wishes to get rid of one.”

I shook my head. “You said you’d help me get both of my brothers back. I want to find Luke, Iris, and my mother as well!”

“As for the rest of your family, I don’t have a plan yet, but we are looking into it.”

“What about Ben and Jerry! Can’t you pay them enough to give both back!”

“Don’t get ahead of yourself,” Rin said sternly, her red eyes locking onto mine once again. “The purchase of even one is up in the air at this moment. We cannot force a sale if it is not desired by the other party. I was merely giving you insight on the situation. As for other courses of action, that remains to be seen.”

I let out a breath. “Right… based on my performance.”

“Based on what’s feasible,” she corrected. "But I gave you my word we'll do what we can."

I opened my mouth to complain further, but she cut me off—

“And you will not interrupt me again,” she said sternly. “I’ve been lenient, but my patience has its limits. I have no use for a soldier who barks at me at every turn. Do you understand?”

I froze, mouth still half open. I looked over to Fox, who shrugged a single shoulder. She then gave me a reassuring smile before leaning forward to address Rin. “Apologies, High Regent. You know she’s young, and the lives of her family members is naturally a delicate subject. You’ll have to forgive her. She’s learning.”

I muttered under my breath, “You’re the one who told me to stand my ground.”

“Yeah, but not to disrespect the warlord in her own war room,” Fox muttered back.

“You’re the worst advisor ever!” I hissed.

“You just need to learn nuance, kid,” she shot back.

“Can we proceed?” Rin asked, her voice cutting through our banter.

Fox chuckled and waved a hand. “Of course, we’re all ears!”

Rin held her gaze on me a moment longer. Finally her posture relaxed. “Now, we’ll get into the other paths going forward when the time is right. For now, I’d like a report on the quest you’ve just completed.”

“A… report?” I asked.

“Just tell everything that happened. What you’ve learned, thoughts on the threats, and possible locations of other threats. I’d like details on how you’ve gone about completing the quest as quickly as you had… and…”

There was a knock on the door that cut her off. Rin said, “And there was one other thing I needed to ask you about.” She then raised her voice and called, “Enter.”

I looked over my shoulder to see a familiar face. It was Mei or Saku-something, dressed in plain white robes, but that wasn’t all. Her hands were shackled in front of her, her wrists locked inside a thick wooden block with a hinge. There was an armored guard on either side of her, and the black-robed servant, Xiu, filed in right behind them silently.

I gasped in surprise. “Mei!?”

Grick looked back and forth between Mei and Rin.

“P-Please, help me, Ser Grick,” Mei pleaded, but a guard nudged her shoulder, silencing her.

Grick stood up on his chair, leaning forward with one hand on the table and the other pointed back at her. “Why do that? Mei good human!”

Rin nodded and sat back. “So, you do know her. Start your report with how you had come across her.”
