“Channeling over 12,500 kilometers will do that.” Erick added, “It seems.”

Rats nodded, silently watching him. Now Teressa was watching him, too. Even Kiri was glancing his way.

Erick changed the subject, asking, “What does everyone know about [Gate]? I think channeling mana this far is a part of the spell.” He added, “Probably.”

Rats hummed a little, then sat up, glancing away from Erick. “Sorry. No idea.”

Teressa said, “It’s a portal that takes you from one location to another, anywhere in the world. Distance doesn’t matter.” She added, “That’s all I know.”

Erick said, “Yup. Me too.”

Kiri spoke up, enthusiasm coloring her bright voice as she chopped vegetables on a cutting board, “[Gate] is an advanced form of [Teleport], though it’s not available in the Script.” She said, “I looked up the history of it, and almost every person who was able to produce such a spell found either great success in the Wayfarer’s Guild, or the patronage of a country. All of them were Spatial Mages, though, and were at the top of their careers when they achieved [Gate].”

Erick listened, but mostly he channeled mana across an ocean and half a continent, thinking about the tunnel-like sound he heard from Yetta, and Atunir’s, [Gate].

Kiri continued, “The Class quest to become a Spatial Mage requires that the applicant know at least 5 Spatial magics, but only two of them are in the basic Script. [Blink] and [Teleport]. [Teleporting Platform] is another one that’s easy enough to get. Beyond that, most people looking to become a Spatial Mage go to the Wayfarer’s Guild to learn other, more specialized spells.” She added, “They’re not a very popular guild because Spatial Mage is a nuanced class, mostly all about moving around.”

Erick asked, “The body isn’t destroyed and remade as a part of the [Teleport], is it?”

Kiri laughed, saying, “No! Why would you think that?”

“Just thinking thoughts.” Erick asked, “How do you know the body isn’t destroyed and remade in a [Teleport]?”

Kiri said, “Well… We just do? Uh.” She tossed veggies in the round-bottom pan, ground meat flipping over the veggies as she did. “I’m not sure.”

Rats said, “There’s no soul-work in [Teleport], or body healing. Injuries come along with you. I’d say that’s proof enough that your body is not remade each time.”

“Yes.” Kiri said, “That’s how we know.”

“Okay. I’ll accept that. It’s not a dimensional, either, though.” Erick asked, “Because that’s Banned.”

“I’m not even sure what dimensional magic is.” Rats said, “It’s a Ban, but what does that really mean? What is a dimension?”

“Come on now, Rats.” Kiri said, “This Reality is a dimension. The one before the Sundering was another dimension.”

Rats said, “I’m just challenging assumptions, here!” He added, “All I know is that no one really even tries to work against the Dimensional Ban, but every crazy mage and their brother tries to circumvent the Propagation Ban. Now we got people bumping up against the Infinitesimal Ban, too, with Particle magic.”

Teressa got up, saying, “Too much magic for me. Sorry.”

Rats got up with her, saying, “Fine fine, I’ll stop!”

Rats and Teressa walked off together, out the front door. Poi was still out there, somewhere. The sun shone through the huge picture windows of Windy Manor, coloring everything with warm yellow light.

Erick thought, ‘[Teleport] has to be some sort of quantum tunneling effect. Too bad I have no idea what the heck ‘quantum tunneling’ even means. Maybe Jane would know.’

Erick sat in the sunlight, relaxing, pouring much more mana per second into [Exalted Storm Aura] than [Exalted Storm Aura] said it required, in order to get that mana all the way to Ophiel. It was not a comfortable experience. If he relaxed for even a moment, the silver clouds over the farm would vanish; he knew this, because that’s what happened twice already. A casual check with Ophiel’s [Scry] functional revealed the sky as spotty, until Erick doubled and tripled down, ramping back up to nearly 5 mana per second, on what was supposed to be a 1 mana every 2 seconds sort of spell.

He stretched himself thin, but his regeneration was able to keep up with the draw. Erick looked to the rings on his fingers. He could make some slightly better ones, for sure. That would help with the drain.

Yet another problem for later. Erick looked over to Kiri, who had gone silent.

Kiri set aside the cooked meats she had made, and began to make a dough. Flour, butter, eggs and salt came out of the cupboards and the cold box. With an expertly used [Telekinesis], she combined everything, then kneaded it together. She tucked the white dough into a ball, then aside to proof in an oiled bowl, in a mild [Warmth Ward].

“Smells delicious already, Kiri,” Erick said.

Kiri smiled, saying, “It’s going to taste even better. This is haraah beef. It’s ten gold a pound.”

Erick said, “Oceanside is so damn overpriced. You noticed everything was in 5 gold increments, right? Marks, and other stuff.”

“Chips, Marks, and Quants.” Kiri said, “A magical education is crazy expensive.” She added, “Most students are expected to go out and kill monsters between classes.”

“There are monsters on this island? I thought it was safe?”

Kiri laughed a little, then waved a hand north, then south, saying, “Half this island is full of monsters. There’s a mana river flowing directly against the island from the west, so the monsters on the west side of the island are pretty strong. Levels in the upper 30s. On the east they’re only level 20, or so.” She said, “Striders, Hequals, a lot of slimes, too. Oceanside is full of curated dungeons, kept full of farmed slimes.”

“Uh? Farmed slimes?” Erick asked.

Kiri said, “In a place like Oceanside a lot of mages go out and dig holes in the ground to create spaces and environments for the mana to condense into slimes. Sometimes other monsters move in, but the owners usually try to keep only slimes around. In this way, you know the dungeon, completely, and can farm the slimes for their rads.” She added, “Chips, in the beginning, but in a place like Oceanside slimes with marks will appear fast enough. For grand-rads you gotta go out and hunt bigger creatures, or make a large enough dungeon so that the ecology supports the rise of monsters over level 45.” She said, "Since people are constantly harvesting their slimes, there's little chance for an ooze to spawn. That's always the real danger when it comes to slime farming, but it's a rare occurrence."

"You can do that?”

“Here you can.” Kiri said, “You could probably make one in the Crystal Forest, too. But Oceanside is a closed system. The monsters that live here are mostly easy pickings. The monsters you’d get in the Crystal Forest are true monsters.” She said, “Dungeoneering is big business in places like Oceanside, where the local monsters are all kept under control and the mana concentration is high.”

“Learn something new every day.”

Kiri nodded, adding, “The sewers of Spur are technically a dungeon. It’s just one that's open to the public, where the majority of the rads gathered are from [Cleanse]ing the waters, and the slimes are left as incentive for people to come to Spur to get a start on becoming true adventurers.”

Erick smiled. What was it Jane talked about, with her games? A ‘Dungeon Maker’ ran those games she played with all those people? That was the word for it, wasn’t it? Maybe Erick could become a Dungeon Maker, too.

No. Wait. That wasn’t the word for it. Erick would have to ask Jane after the rain was done—

His thread of mana to the Farms snapped. Erick quickly refocused on the Ophiel over Spur, flooding mana down the line to reestablish the connection. Kiri watched as Erick reconnected, then went back to making her meat pies.

The Ophiel next to Erick, sitting on the headrest of the couch, slowly crawled down, on to his lap, his eyes blinking open in a lazy, quiet sort of way. He trilled in quiet flute sounds. He was obviously in distress. He didn’t seem to be too happy about being stretched this far, either. Erick petted the little guy.

The connection to the farms stabilized, as Erick’s hand touched his [Familiar]. 5 mana a second became 4. Ophiel trilled in tiny violins, as Erick channeled mana across the ocean, guided by the connection already established from him to both of the currently existent Ophiel.

That was odd.

… Erick summoned another Ophiel and sent him [Teleport]ing across the ocean, to hover over the waters somewhere around halfway between Oceanside and Spur. Erick focused his mana through the Ophiel on his lap, to the one over the ocean, to the one over the farms of Spur. A network suddenly came into being, and Erick’s mana drain went from 4 mana a second, to 3.

Erick smiled. This was good. He asked Kiri, “Did you know that you can piggyback a signal from one of your [Familiar]s to the other? I’m raining on Spur right now, and the cost per second has gone from 5, to 3.”

Kiri stared straight at Erick. She frowned. She mumbled, “No. I did not know that.”

Ophiel trilled, louder and happier than before.

Erick patted his wings, saying, “And Ophiel likes the better connection, too. Don’t you, little guy?”

Ophiel gave a solid, affirmative violin sound. Erick smiled.

Kiri muttered, “Dammit. Now I need a [Familiar], too, don’t I?”
