Whether through Heaven’s Guidance or Warrior’s intuition, Goujian immediately knew this was a disastrous idea. Falling Rain could very well be hidden amongst the cavalry, and mounted battle relied too much on stupid animals for Goujian’s tastes, so this was not a risk he wanted to see the future Sovereign take. Wracking his brain for an excuse, he found no safer target for the cavalry short of circling around to the eastern side of the fort, a lengthy prospect considering the massive, impassible trenches stretching north and south of the camps, a new addition since he left three days past. Eccentric Gam’s work no doubt, and the hateful half-fox still had yet to step off the battlefield since early this morning. Unlike most Experts who preferred to remain Concealed to conserve their strength, Eccentric Gam was all but inviting an assassin to...

Heavenly inspiration struck as Goujian realized how to delay young Gen once more, but it would come at great personal risk. Though never one to gamble, the more he thought about it, the more he grew to fancy the idea, for the Heavens would never present him a trial without leaving him a path to victory. Even if the worst should come to pass, he was confident in his ability to avoid death and escape with head intact, far more so than his ability to keep young Gen alive in the chaos of a mounted battle. “A moment young warrior,” he said, catching Gen’s attention. “If I may make a suggestion? A cavalry battle, while thrilling, will most likely end in a stalemate. The Defiled irregulars are of no consequence, but your valiant huntsmen are few in number and slow to train. No need to waste their lives chasing Imperial cavalry about the fields of Sinuji, for they are meant for greater things than this.”

“I have already wasted half the day idling about, listening to you drone on and on. How much longer do you expect me to wait?”

Forcing a smile, Goujian explained, “The Imperial forces still hold because the Defiled are unable to bring their greater numbers to bear against this defensive position, but the stalemate will not last much longer. Their numbers are waning and their spirits flagging, and the northern flank holds by the barest of margins only because Eccentric Gam still stands in their midst.”

Turning his glare on the distant half-fox, young Gen seemed ready to attack the Peak Expert himself, which would be disastrous indeed. “Yes, one foot in the grave and still he resists. Most vexing.”

Seeing he’d taken the bait, Goujian drew himself up to full height and said, “Since the old half-beast knows no shame, let this one go out to teach him a lesson and clear the path to victory.”

“Oh?” Taken aback by the offer, young Gen could barely hide his derisive sneer, but Goujian pretended not to notice. “Did you not advise against sending the Transcendents in? You said it would be better to wait and force the Experts lying in wait to exhaust themselves against the Defiled first. You were right, but now you’re volunteering to go out and fight? While the half-fox is likely spent, the three Patriarchs you warned me of have yet to show their faces, so why take this risk? You are an able advisor and I still have use for you yet.”

At least the boy had been listening and was concerned about Goujian’s well-being. “Perhaps this old man was inspired by your heroic demeanour,” he replied with a smile. “Besides, since new waves inevitably overtake the old, the older generation must learn to give way to the young. With Eccentric Gam dead, the northern flank will collapse, and the Defiled will close in on the fort and spread their lines thin. Victory will be ours within the hour.” And with luck, Falling Rain will flee the battlefield before young Gen issued his challenge.

Grumbling beneath his breath, Gen considered his options and sighed. “So you advise me to continue waiting whilst you head out in search of glory? I do not like this, but I ignored you before and lost three Transcendents. Perhaps this time, I should heed your advice.” Shaking his head, he continued, “Very well then. We will do as you say, but should you fail, then I will lead the charge.”

“As you wish, young warrior. As always, this one is merely here to advise.” After explaining his intentions to the Defiled Commander, the haughty half-beast merely sneered and waved Goujian aside like an unwanted nuisance, only agreeing to have someone keep young Gen Concealed after being reminded of the Uniter’s orders. With his charge safe, Goujian leapt into the skies and Cloud-Stepped over to the northern flank unseen. Shrouded in obscurity, he drifted to the ground and made his way through the press of Defiled bodies, striding over a veritable mountain of corpses before finally reaching the front lines. There, Eccentric Gam fought with intractable obstinance, swatting aside inferior Defiled with an almost bored expression on his blood-soaked face as he moved about the battlefield unchecked. Foolish to leave himself open to ambush, but even more foolish of the Defiled Commander not to take advantage.

Rather than risk exposure, Goujian took his time and waited until the half-fox looked away before making any movements, readying his square-hooked sword for a decisive killing blow. Much like young Gen, Eccentric Gam relied too much on his Earth-Blessed defences, but after half a day of non-stop battle, his Chi reserves were no doubt bordering on nil, which would make him an easy target for Goujian’s blade. How to go about it? Decapitation would be best, but difficult to pull off considering how packed his surroundings were. He would have no issue killing a handful of Defiled or Imperials with his opening attack, but their deaths could give Eccentric Gam enough time to react. An overhead strike then, but this would require careful positioning, so he slowly but surely made his way close to the Peak Expert while the battle raged around him.

Spotting BoShui returning to the battlefield, Goujian considered killing two birds with one stone. Slaughter the Eccentric first, then BoShui, but they would have to move closer for this to work. Perhaps he could –

Holding his sword out before him, Goujian dug his feet in and Deflected the oncoming blow, but the dual slashes still sent him crashing into the crowd. Entrapped by the press of idiotic Defiled, he blocked a flurry of follow up attacks delivered by Twinned Dragon Jukai, his dual sabres whirling about as if possessed with life of their own. Tossing an errant Defiled at his opponent, Goujian’s first thought was to flee and extricate himself from this dangerous situation, but then he realized failure meant risking young Gen. Gritting his teeth, he went on the offensive Wolf Form – Twisting Snap and the spiralled thrust caught both of Jukai’s sabres in the crook of his sword. Almost as surprised as his opponent, Goujian flicked his wrist and drew his sword back while throwing out a palm strike with his free hand. The twin sabres arced through the air as Goujian’s hand slammed into Jukai’s chest. Bones cracked and lungs ruptured as Jukai dropped to his knees, blood spraying from his mouth and eyes wide with shock.

Then, his head joined his sabres on their journey through the air, the Twinned Dragon neatly decapitated by the Confessor’s hooked sword.

All this happened in the blink of an eye, and Goujian stood frozen in muted disbelief. Earlier, he’d watched Jukai battle the wood-spawned Transcendent and had been impressed by the younger warrior’s prowess, but now this Expert lay dead at his feet, easily defeated even after catching him by surprise. Incredible... So this was how far his strength had come since he’d stumbled upon the Truth. Raising his head to the skies, he cackled with sheer delight, thanking the Heavens for blessing him with strength and purpose.

A furious howl brought Goujian back to the battle and he smiled at the sight of Situ Jia Zian charging towards him. Intending to avenge his fallen second no doubt, a touching sentiment, though foolish to the extreme. Aiming to take the fledgling dragon’s head and place it alongside Jukai’s, Goujian’s instincts screamed to retreat and he did so without thought, leaving Zian intact as the ground exploded in a pillar of dirt and gore. “You shouldn’t have come here,” Eccentric Gam snarled, wrenching his staff out of the crater before him. “Now you’re gonna die.”

Straightening up, Goujian smirked and flourished his sword. “So you think, but I –” The impact cut his reply short as he barely Deflected the oncoming thrust, so rudely interrupted by a half-cat warrior. Du Min Yan’s slave guardian, an impressive specimen, but not even the match of Jukai. “You dare?” Goujian roared, as his riposte smashed through the slave’s paltry defence and broke his arm. “A mere slave thinks he can –”

Interrupted once again, Goujian was forced back before Eccentric Gam’s furious charge, slipping away through the crowd of Defiled while the half-fox bowled straight over them. Impressive as Goujian’s strength was, he could not compare to the Earth-Blessed half-fox in brute force, so he led him on a merry chase about the battlefield without caring for collateral damage. Only when Goujian brought him back towards Imperial lines did Gam slow his steps, his chest heaving and brow soaked with sweat. Seizing the initiative, he lashed out with a series of probing thrusts and avoided clashing with Gam head on, dancing untouched around the spent warrior and driving him towards death. His first thrust to break through Gam’s defences was Deflected aside, as was the second, and third, but soon enough, he connected and his blade slid off unharmed flesh. Undeterred, he continued his offensive and forced the half-fox into the Imperial crowd, killing any soldier who drew too close while knowing it was only a matter of time before his sword sank into tender flesh. Seeing BoShui nearby, Goujian directed the duel towards him and lashed out to take his head, his mind already picturing the beautiful fountain of blood which would soon erupt.

There was no impact and no rebound, no clang or crash. Instead, Goujian’s blade merely stopped in place as it was caught in Han BoDing’s steely clutches. No, not even, for his weapon was held fast between two fingers, but no matter how he tugged or twisted, he could not even budge the blade. Repressing a snarl, he opted to reason with the hulking bear of a man, standing there so calmly as he stroked his beard in thought. “This one is honoured to match skills with the great Patriarch of the Han Clan,” Goujian said, doing his best not to sound sarcastic, “but I thought you’d have thanked me if I killed the black sheep of the Han Clan.”

“All noble families have their internal struggles,” BoDing replied, his deep baritone rumbling in Goujian’s ears, “but regardless of our differences, BoShui is still surnamed Han.” Raising an eyebrow in a condescending sneer, he asked, “Who are you to interfere in Han Clan affairs?”

Abandoning his sword, Goujian dodged the fist by the skin of his teeth and barely escaped with his life. Cold sweat dripping down his back, he continued to back away even though BoDing remained rooted in place, putting a good fifty meters and hundreds of Defiled between them. As if he couldn’t be bothered to pursue, BoDing studied Goujian’s hooked sword and said, “Ah. I thought you looked familiar.” Throwing the weapon back, he Sent, “How far the mighty Confessor has fallen. Truly a poor investment on my part, but perhaps I can make up for with your head.”

As soon as the weapon was in his hands, Goujian took to the skies and fled, shrouding himself in Concealment before rapidly changing directions to throw his pursuer off. A chorus of screams erupted behind him and he glanced back to see yet another crater formed in the dirt, originating from where he’d only just been standing. Monsters one and all, these damned Patriarchs of the Society, so Goujian made his way back to young Gen’s side in a hurry. Powerful though he might be, surely there were Defiled here who could match him, and if not, then UmiBozu could at least buy them time. Luckily, the Han Patriarch didn’t pursue, so after long seconds of scanning his surroundings, Goujian wiped his brow with a sigh of relief.

Even then, he didn’t feel safe enough to drop his Concealment, so he turned towards Gen and Sent, “The Eccentric still lives, but –”

For the fourth time today, Goujian was interrupted mid-sentence, but he lacked the means to even be angry. Staring at the shaft jutting out of his ribs, he foolishly wondered how it got there and why it hurt so much, then turned to his Disciple and wondered where Yuanyin was dragging him to.

“Form ranks!” Young Gen’s voice boomed over the thunder of crashing hooves and the world came back into focus. Turning to the east, he shielded his eyes from the sun only to realize there was no need, for there was a dark cloud passing overhead. “Spears at the ready!”

No... Not a cloud, but a hail of arrows. So many arrows, like the one stuck in his ribs or the others protruding from the corpses of Defiled, Huntsmen, gajashia around him.

“Charge!”

Though he wanted to follow behind to keep young Gen safe, he couldn’t find the strength to keep his eyes open. Rethinking his stance on ranged weapons, he closed his eyes to Heal and prayed young Gen would survive without him. His injury would be difficult to fix for the arrow had shattered ribs and pierced his lung, but Goujian had done enough for one day, so the Heavens would have to do without him for now.

