“Who is that?”

Though Goujian held high expectations for young Gen, it took considerable effort not to backhand the churlish little wretch across the face for his disrespect. As the Confessor, even the most prominent of dignitaries and officials had afforded him the highest of respects, and as the boy’s (admittedly self-appointed) Teacher, he should demand no less, but Gen was a stubborn, mulish bumpkin who lacked the proper upbringing to appreciate Goujian’s efforts. The boy would be brought to heel soon enough, but it was not a matter which could be rushed, so he let it slide and answered Gen’s question. “He is Han BoShui, Young Patriarch and Tiger of the Han Clan.”

Fixated on the battle between BoShui and the Ursine Transcendent, young Gen studied the obvious threat and reevaluated where his personal strength ranked in relation to his peers. Though BoShui’s speedy advancement along the Martial Path came as a surprise, it was a blessing in disguise as far as Goujian was concerned. Managing young Gen’s unbridled arrogance was tiresome to say the least, so perhaps this rude awakening would teach him some modesty. Killing a warrior, even a Peak Expert, could be easy as turning a hand if properly arranged, but staying alive was far more difficult. Even though young Gen had enough power to kill a Colonel in a direct confrontation, his defensive capabilities were sorely lacking. He stood no chance against the Ursine Transcendent unless he killed it before it reached him, whereas BoShui danced unharmed alongside his powerful foe. Even Yuanyin had a sixty percent chance to emerge victorious in a life and death battle against young Gen, simply because the talented young man put too much emphasis on his Elemental Blessing and not enough on his Martial skills.

Pillars of fire, unbreakable skin, and impact redirection were all fine and dandy, but whether it be stamina or focus, their efficiency left much to be desired. All it would take was one moment of distraction for a blade to slip through young Gen’s throat, and his endurance was much like the flames he so loved to wield, a powerful burst which then dissipated into nothingness. A poor match up for Falling Rain who so loved to drag matches out and flaunt his prowess in Healing, but the petulant Gen would hear nothing of it, much less his lack of experience and woefully inadequate Martial skills, the foundations upon which a Martial Warrior’s prowess was built.

Granted, Goujian’s criticisms were somewhat harsh considering the boy’s meteoric growth, but as the future Sovereign of the Holy Azure Empire, young Gen had to be held to a higher standard. Using Yuanyin as a foil, Goujian used his Disciple as an excuse to educate young Gen, for the boy could learn much from BoShui’s style. “Disciple, pay close attention to BoShui’s footwork, Snake Coils About Its Nest fused with Mantis Stalks the Cicada. Snake and Mantis, both standard Forms for an extreme close combat specialist like him. See how he weaves his attacks in between every step? He sticks close to his larger opponent, yet remains wholly in control, not merely avoiding the attacks, but dodging with purpose and intent, thinking three, five, or even seven steps ahead of his opponent. Skewer the Blossom, Spear Hand, Twisting Thrust, and Darting Fang, all minor, almost inconsequential strikes, but they set the tempo. Even if his attacks do no damage, the opponent still must guard lest the feint turn into a – there! He slips left and kicks the exposed knee, then backs away to avoid the counter, but his arms are already raised to deliver a decisive blow, a crushing two-handed hammer strike to the Transcendent’s skull. Planned to perfection and easily avoidable with proper foresight and... Eh?”

Pausing in surprise, Goujian Scryed for a closer look. Heavily injured by the last strike, the Transcendent staggered about as if ready to collapse, its vitality dwindling after mere minutes in combat. How though? Previously, it had been matched against Gunan, one of Goujian’s most dedicated Aspirants who’d been given orders to delay at all costs, but now the Transcendent was on the back foot after a short exchange with BoShui. The Ursine Transcendent was far from the weakest under young Gen’s command, a burly, powerful creature with a thick, armoured hide, so how could BoShui’s singular strike injure it so? No, not a singular strike, for the young tiger’s prowess was far more advanced than expected. Impressive enough for him to develop a Domain so early, but BoShui had also learned how to harness the destructive power of Resonance.

While it was still plausible for BoShui’s advancement along the Martial Path to be natural, Goujian now wondered if the Han Heir’s dazzling improvement was due to Imperial guidance. It wasn’t unheard of for previously unknown Experts to experience a sudden and significant jump in strength thanks to a confluence of chance and Insight, and developing a Domain alone was enough to set Experts far above their peers, but for a man once known as the paper tiger of the Han Clan to transform from an indolent weakling to the extraordinary warrior before them was almost incomprehensible. Were it Situ Jia Zian battling the Transcendent, Goujian wouldn’t think twice about it, but BoLao’s worthless little cousin?

...Oh BoLao. The sweet girl often spoke of BoShui until Goujian’s other Disciples were seething with jealousy. She would be so proud if she could see him today, a valiant, heroic warrior of the Empire. A shame he was proving so stubborn to MuYang’s efforts to draw him away from Falling Rain’s beguilement, else he too would prove a staunch ally against the Dog Emperor.

“Mentor, what is Resonance?”

Yuanyin’s timely question brought Goujian out of his contemplation and he realized he’d been mumbling and had trailed off mid-sentence. Clearing his throat, he said, “My apologies Disciple, but I was mistaken earlier. Those previous ‘inconsequential strikes’ I mentioned? From this distance, I failed to see the true power behind them. Though it seemed as if his attacks were warded off by the Transcendent’s armoured hide, BoShui used Resonance to transmit the force of his blows past the surface and inflict internal injuries. A complicated, higher order Chi manipulation, but a powerful one which renders external defences all but moot.” Which made him a grave threat to young Gen since all his defences were external, so best to eliminate BoShui before Goujian’s foolish student got it into his head to issue a challenge.

Whilst expounding on the finer details of Resonance out loud, Goujian took a measured risk and reached out to MuYang through Sending. “Han BoShui must be eliminated. Sacrifice yourselves if necessary, but he must die immediately.” It should be a simple matter since Goujian had four Aspirants by BoShui's side, not because he thought the young tiger of vital importance, but because he was sorely lacking in other contacts to slip his Experts into Sinuji.

Breaking from protocol, MuYang Sent, “Master, this cannot be done. BoShui knows we are Aspirants and has raised his guard against us.” As if his incompetence weren’t enough, the fool even had the audacity to try and cover up his mistakes. “There is a thread of hope to be found, however, for young master offered to bring us to meet Falling Rain. We can use this to draw close to him and –”

“Worthless!” Goujian Sent, barely able to contain his anger. “Your own words betray you. Young Master? Han BoShui is an Imperial stooge, one wrapped tightly around Falling Rain’s finger. Kill him, then yourselves. Do it now before he kills the Transcendent!”

“...You mean the Demon, Master?”

“Do not mince words with me! BoShui is a threat, so kill him now and be done with it!”

Long seconds passed without a reply, and Goujian thought MuYang had learned his place, but neither he nor his fellow Aspirants moved to strike. One by one, Goujian contacted them, starting with Gunan, then Jadhar, and even the naive Kanri, but not a single one returned his Sending, nor did they move to kill MuYang or BoShui. Bristling with rage, Goujian condemned each in turn as traitors and apostates and Sent warning of their betrayal to the still loyal Aspirants in Sinuji, ordering all four killed on sight. Unfortunately, he had no loyal Aspirants situated on the northern flank, for the majority of his agents were scattered amongst the mundane workforce and currently ensconced inside the fort proper.

There was little he could do except watch as Han BoShui danced about the Transcendent and whittled away at its strength. A single errant strike would spell the end of the young tiger’s life, but the Han Clan was famed for their indomitable defence, a must when their favoured weapons were fist and foot. The Ursine Transcendent wasn’t the only one struggling to deal with its foe, and across the battlefield, the other seven were duly suppressed by various Experts of the Empire. They, like Gen, were too young and untested, with not a single one over three months old, and while they were most formidable for newly formed Transcendents, they were not strong enough to stand against the likes of Twinned Dragon Jukai or Eccentric Gam. The former had already dispatched his opponent and returned to Zian’s side, while the latter chased his fleeing opponent about in wild glee and left destruction in his wake.

“Three of my Transcendents have died,” Gen declared, as if no one else could see or count, “and Samat won’t last much longer. Save him, UmiBozu. Save all of them.” The last was directed towards the hulking Water-Blessed Transcendent waiting at his side, the only one besides the Uniter’s mouthpiece which had yet to take action. Lumbering forward to obey, UmiBozu fired five watery projectiles at the engaged Experts, buying time for the Transcendents to retreat while wounding BoShui and another junior Expert fighting on the fort walls. Alas, neither one was in danger of dying, and BoShui even retreated under his own power, exiting the field to recuperate after a hard fought battle.

Turning to Goujian, young Gen snarled at the unspoken censure and said, “Fine. So I should not have deployed the Transcendents, but things are not going as you said they would. The Imperials hold fast against our assault and I grow weary of waiting. We outnumber them ten to one, so why have they not crumbled yet?”

“No battle goes exactly as planned, young warrior, though some plans are... more effective than others.” Giving a none-too-subtle glance at the Defiled Commander, Goujian laid the blame at the tribal primitive’s feet, unable to pronounce his name which was little more than a series of grunts. A half-beast no less, with twin spiralled horns protruding from his head-wrap, the sum total of his commands had been ‘attack’ and ‘press the attack’, according to their translator, an Imperial-born slave who’d defected to the primitives more than a decade ago. Thankfully, the Defiled Commander seemed no less committed to seeing Falling Rain dead than Goujian, for he dispatched the bulk of his forces after the northern camp after asking where the ‘Devourer’ would be. Why they called him this, no one would say, aside from telling him it was what the ‘ancestors’ called him and he needed to die forthwith.

Goujian assumed the ‘ancestors’ were a part of whatever shadowy magics the Uniter used to control the tribal primitives, because it would be absurd to think those base, disgusting creatures could ever hear Heaven’s commands, much less obey them. How laughable...

Unfortunately, the Bekhai runt still had yet to show himself during the battle, and Goujian had not thought to ask MuYang about Rain’s location before denouncing the Aspirant as a traitor. It was possible Rain had ridden out into the stalemate with the rest of the Imperial cavalry, but whether he was on foot or quinback, someone was Concealing his presence. Shrouding valuable commanders and important officers in Concealment was standard battle protocol, and Goujian himself was keeping young Gen hidden from sight, but as an Imperial Puppet, Falling Rain’s purpose was to be seen and idolized, so his glaring absence was contrary to expectations.

Perhaps the Society finally did something right and removed Rain from the battlefield, though this was probably too much to hope for...

At least this meant young Gen had yet to set eyes upon his hated rival and could still be reined in. To keep his complaints to a minimum, Goujian assured him the Imperials were on the back foot and continued expounding on the intricacies of the Forms, Chi Manipulation, and rudimentary battle tactics to Yuanyin out loud. Though arrogant and prideful, young Gen possessed a ravenous thirst for knowledge, so the indirect lessons kept him quiet as the battle continued unabated. An hour passed, then two, but soon Goujian’s voice grew hoarse and raspy as he ran low on relevant and engaging topics to cover.

In response to his suggestion that they break for lunch, Gen scowled and declared, “Today, I will feast upon Falling Rain’s flesh and nothing else.” Throwing a dark look at the Defiled Commander, he added, “I once thought they were the True Enlightened, but I now see that they too have worthless dregs lurking about their ranks.” Mounting his gajashia, he strung his bow as he rode away, and Goujian hurried to keep him Concealed. “Come. It’s long past time we joined the fight. Gather my huntsmen and let us deal with their cavalry first, then this glorious army of Chosen will march forward to conquer Sinuji. Perhaps then, the cowardly Falling Rain will deign to show his face.”

