Slowly but surely, my vision begins to become clear again, and my legs stop trying to give way under me.

I begin to focus on my heart beating and heavy breathing slow back down to normal.

The pain in my body ceases, but most of the fatigue stays the same. Even so, I step off the teleport platform back into the white training room, and the green glow of Abby's rune on the floor dissipates as well.

I accept the incoming hug from Maria and hear her speak in a worried tone.

"What was that all about? Don't you think that was a little too risky...?"

We step back from each other, and I reply.

"Yes... it was, but I didn't quite have a choice in the matter."

My eyes dart around the room and see the scene I just caused. Some hunters are waking up, while others are still out cold on the ground or foaming at the mouth.

"I'll explain later."

She nods, and I watch Abby turn around to use a much lighter version of healing magic on the entire room for a split second before turning back.

"Pretty impressive fight. It looks like you actually went all out."

I sigh and walk closer as she eyes my burnt cloak up and down.

"Yeah... If I had the option, I wouldn't do it again..."

Even walking now, my energy stores feel completely drained. I don't know by how much exactly, but it feels as if a portion of my red Hydra's Buff has completely been destroyed.

It really is borrowed energy. Just like the Ghouls, once it runs out, I'll be left with only my own power. I may have another stone left in my storage, but this only proves my point further that this energy resource is finite.

"We need to get stronger."

I whisper while walking past both of my teammates with a half-dazed look in my eyes.

The only thing on my mind is every moment of that battle replaying in my head. The Wraith had the upper hand every instant of that match. It was only defeated because of brute strength, will power, and the perfect combination of using multiple skills and hidden abilities.

On top of all of this, that was the so-called weakest of the Dark Guards. There are 12 supposedly stronger... and one can only assume the Dark One is much stronger to order these guards around.

The monsters in this city are far out of my league... So far out that they don't even see me as a threat, more so just entertainment. They let me do as I please while inside these walls because they know I can't lay a finger on them.

I continue walking forward slowly through the training room, now suppressing my mana aura as many other fighters get up from the floor.

The Legacy Fighters congratulate me on my victory, and Monk praises me for my talents in the ring, but I can hear by his undertones he understands the seriousness of the situation as well.

Above us, the crowds slowly disperse, and many fighters get in line to sign up with Mr. Wright again before leaving the room. Once he gets to me in line, I politely decline.

"I may be busy tomorrow. I don't think I'll be showing up."

He smiles and nods.

"Very well, even if you show up late, you're always welcome here."

The crowds finally calm down, and we go upstairs to leave the arena. Max invites us all to the restaurant bar again, food and drinks on him to repay the gamble payout he won on my 8th Stage match.

Maria and Abby look excited and want to celebrate their match victories. I nod and accept.

"Why not, let's have a good night!"

I want to let my teammates celebrate their progress, so there is really no reason not to go.

We leave through the golden walls, agreeing to meet with Monk tomorrow around the same time for sparring, and go to the bar with Sia, Ace, and Max.

Maria and I take off our masks, but use our concealment items and skills once we leave the public eye, and everyone introduces each other while Abby makes up a backstory about being Maria's old friend visiting the city.

As they chat, I look up at the night sky and continue to think about the impossibly high power gap between myself and the monsters lurking in this city.

Even as the night goes on and we get luxurious drinks and food, I'm barely present in the conversations. I just rewatch the match clips on my wristband and picture myself fighting the Wraith over and over again.

By the time the midnight tax comes around, I still haven't found any solid solution to my problem.

The only right answer here is time. I need more time than I physically have to raise my Qi Capacity. Whatever the Dark One is planning, it knows I won't be capable of stopping it.

After another hour or so passes, the Legacy fighters get rooms in the upstairs lounge for the night while the three of us leave to roam the city streets.

Once we make it to the silver walls, each of us receives a massive payout. My item storage now holds 390 Platinum Bars. My teammates cash in a hefty sum too, placing their arena winnings in their item boxes.

Abby is capable of restoring herself to negate her intoxication but doesn't until we get far outside the city walls. Maria tells me to let her enjoy the walk too, but once we're ready to head back to the Galeheart Tower, I share my Self Regeneration perk with her, and she sobers up.

Once far out of sight from the city, we all take out a teleportation crystal and find ourselves back in the lobby. Maria speaks up.

"So, back to farming?"

Abby replies as we enter the elevator and go toward the dungeon access room.

"Yeah! We have a lot more time than yesterday. We can gain some serious levels and resources."

"Right, I really want to get enough Ice stones to craft a nice set."

The elevator door opens as we walk into the teleport room and grab a few transport crystals each. I reply as we make our way down to the cave system.

"How about I let you two farm alone tonight. I think I need to rest up in an isolation pod... I have a lot to think about."

Simultaneously, I reach into my item storage and pull out the containment case that holds the remaining Red Hydra's Soulstone.

I open it with a click and place the stone into my storage without a casing. Its violent swirling energy ceases to react the moment it hits the pocket world in stasis just like the element stones.

After closing the case, I hand it to Maria.

"You can use this to hold any new stones you farm without worry of them going bad."

She smiles and takes it.

"So, our explanation of that 8th Stage fight is going to have to wait?"

"Yeah. I really need some time to rest."

Abby interjects.

"My restoration really didn't do the trick?"

I shrug and let out a tired chuckle.

"It did more than enough. I'd probably be passed out or worse if you didn't heal me on time, I just pushed the limits too far. After some time in a pod, I'll be better at explaining things and have a clear next plan of action."

"Fine, don't complain when both of us blow past you in levels tonight."

Abby smirks and jumps through the swirling portal of the Red Ogre's dungeon.

Maria smiles at her remark and jumps through too.

I follow, teleporting them into the icy serpent dungeon and red speedster dungeon in the labyrinth before crushing another crystal and blipping back to the Tower. I agree to come back to train with them if I'm feeling better, and if not, they'll use their teleport crystals to come back to the tower in 10 hours before the training session with Monk.

Once I return, my eyes are threatening to close as I make my way to the isolation pod room.

As I walk in, I notice there's already a pod in use on the far left side that says just over 4 hours remaining on it.

[04:06:55]

Considering the pods make time pass roughly six times faster inside, 4 hours would be a full day.

I whisper under my breath while getting inside the pod all the way on the other side.

"That's exactly what I need."

I enter 4 hours on the touchpad, close the heavy metal door to surround myself in the dense mana-imbued mist, then finally take a Qi pill to restore my core back to full. My eyes shut, letting the dense waves of mana rejuvenate my body, and I fall asleep in a matter of seconds.
