Ripping himself out of his shock, David drew Heartsong and fed the blade his mana. It glowed blue and grew out to two metres, yet remained as light as a feather.

He lowered his stance and interposed himself between the fel and Niala, while she threw her handful of potions up into the air, the wind picking them up and orienting the phials toward the enemy, ready to barrage, even as she retrieved more.

Only the fel's unblinking eyes moved, tiny, nearly imperceptible flickers as they moved from one guest to the next.

The voice battered at their minds. “You recognize his touch. However, you do not show deference. Bow.”

They did not.

The fel kept staring at them.

Its voice returned, commanding. “Bow.”

David glanced at Niala. She subtly shook her head. He looked back at the fel and growled. “We're not going to bow to you. Release the captives, and we'll go.”

The fel's eyes widened. Irritated words assaulted their thoughts. “BOW. SHOW DEFERENCE TO HIS DIVINE TOUCH.”

David took a step forward. “Release the captives, and we might wave.”

The fel stared at him, its face a settled mask, without emotion. Its arm began to rise.

David's mana flared, his feet glowed blue, and he kicked at the ground with Strong Arm. He flew up and toward the fel, Heartsong already in a swing.

Niala's potions zipped past his head, shattering on the fel's face and dousing it with their contents.

David was a breath behind, and his sword finished its path-

And was stopped by the fel's neck.

Using the sword as leverage, David flung himself back at the feet of the pyramidal dais.

Apart from its arm, the fel hadn't moved. A single drop of pale yellow blood beaded on its neck. Its arm, frozen mid-motion, redirected to its neck, feeling the area where Heartsong had struck. It brought its hand before its face, eyeing the blood smeared on its fingers as if it was seeing the sun for the first time.

Its head dripping with various poisons and sleeping liquids, it turned its sight toward David. “How?”

A second wave of potions smashed into its face while Niala ran up toward David and planted her hand over the sword's pommel, and fed it her mana.

Heartsong's energy turned indigo as the aethers mixed, and the blade grew another three metres.

David gripped it in both hands, and Quick Stepped a Strong Armed jump back at the fel. Heartsong sliced through the air, aimed at the fel's neck once more.

The fel's hand flickered toward the path of the sword, palm out. The edge of it dug into its flesh, but its hand clamped over the blade. Yellowed blood oozed along the shallow wound and through its fingers.

David found himself dangling from the sword's pommel.

The fel stared at him. “How can a blade wound me?” The words lanced at his mind, rebounding, but leaving behind a ring.

The ex-courier pulled his mana back out of the sword, and it suddenly shrank out of the fel's grasp. David landed with a flex and pushed his mana back into his weapon.

He pointed it up toward the fel. “Last chance. Release the prisoners.”

Another trio of potion phials shattered on the fel's unmoving head. The liquid began to sizzle. “Why are you not bowing? How are you defying the call?”

David narrowed his eyes. “I guess talking won't work.”

He widened his stance and unleashed his mana. It ignited, rising nearly to the ceiling. His feet shone blue as he pushed his power into one of the imbuement there.

Before the fel could do or say anything else, he lifted his foot and brought it down, toward the dais, in a Strong Armed, Tremor Step.

A crack appeared toward the fel's raised throne.

The dais exploded.

The fel, eyes wide in surprise, was flung away, its body finally proving it could move as his limbs flailed.

And on its face, something that made David pause.

A smile.

As his body sailed through the air, Mikayl tried to remember the last time he had been made to move, and came up empty.

Truly, a remarkable day.

He craned his neck to keep the seemingly infinite fountain of mana shaped like a man in his sight. The threes had called him an anomaly.

Perhaps he was.

But he was also something he had been waiting for; his transformation had long since plateaued. He had consumed all the other ones, and yet his transcendence had remained out of reach.

But now... The amount of His essence present in the anomalous vessel must be immense. It would be the push he needed, and, finally, the world would be graced with His presence once more.

Yes.

Now was not the time to try to comprehend.

It was the time to consume.

The fel tumbled down amidst the debris of the dais.

One of its feet touched the floor.

He pivoted on it.

At an impossible angle, it launched itself toward its prey.

David had the time to turn and face the incoming threat, and nothing else. A vice-like hand clamped over his throat and squeezed just short of crushing his windpipe.

He was lifted off the ground, held at the end of the fel's rigid arm. He clawed at the fel's fingers around his throat with one hand while swinging Heartsong over and over at the creature, opening up a dozen superficial wounds.

The fel ignored them, even while a barrage of potions shattered on its face.

David locked gaze with his foe for the barest instant, and, as if it had been waiting for it, the fel began feeding.

He felt his mana move, like an unbridled river, toward the hand at his neck. The river widened, deepened, its water gauging a channel to allow for ever more mass to shift through.

His body felt like a hose through which a torrent was being forced. His entire being tingled, then pricked, then ripped, and finally burned.

He heard someone scream.

He thought it was Niala.

He realized it was him.

Mikayl One-One frowned internally. Something was wrong.

The amount of mana he was consuming from the man was without compare. He might as well have been drinking from a sea, but something was missing.

There was barely any of His essence within the mana. So little that he wondered if he wasn't simply collecting the motes which always floated in the aetheric realm.

Nearly useless on their own. Only worth consuming once they had been allowed to agglomerate and grow within a vessel's mana pathways.

Scions, as the deluded called them, were prime sources. They lacked the mana pressure to naturally purge the motes away. They would collect and accumulate, waiting to be fed upon by a sanctified, like him.

He was consuming a stew which was nothing but broth.

There was no meat.

There was none of His essence.

How... dare this creature walk into his domain and prove utterly useless.

He extinguished the nascent flames of ire within his self. There was no space for emotions- wasted energy.

Very well.

It was not the meal he had envisioned, but divine motes were still being collected. Like a whale filtering krill out of gallons of water, he would slowly accumulate them within his body.

He had time. He just needed to remember to feed and water the vessel. They were so fragile.

With a flex of ethereal muscles, he widened his aetheric maw and sucked in even more of the vessel's mana.

The loudness of the scream told him it was working.

None of her potions were working! Her best, most potent stuff, just splashing over the white fel like water!

David's redoubling scream tore at her heart. She could feel his anguish through their link.

And yet... And yet! He was still somehow pushing through his love and reassurance. He loved her, and she would be ok.

She knew he was trying to tell her to run away.

To the pits with that!

She turned toward the golem. “Jordo! Keep me safe! I'm going to... try something, and I won't be able to move!”

He nodded. “They will destroy me before they get to you, madam.”

With that, she retrieved her cargo cloth, unfurled it and retrieved its contents. From the potions held within, she picked one that was enveloped in linen. She rolled the fabric off, and beheld the throwing phial, and the void-deep red liquid held within.

A god's grade potion.

But she had to make certain.

Closing her eyes, she began weaving. An unstoppable piercing tip, which would part any material or flesh, no matter how resistant, and inject the fluid within.

She distantly heard the sound of a scuffle, something fleshy hitting something metallic, clanging, energy whines...

But she finished her tale, pushed it into the phial, and, ready to fling her ultimate weapon at her foe, reopened her eyes.

Only to find the fel's eyes staring at her, a hand span away.

She meeped and recoiled, but the fel's hand closed around her wrist.

Held in its other hand like an uninteresting doll, David kept screaming even as he struggled to tear himself free from the fel's grasp.

The fel's unblinking eyes were locked on her. Its voice, finally spoken with its mouth, felt like coarse sandpaper. “What did you just do? What is that power? I want it.”

She pulled at her hand, but within the fel's grip, it might as well have been stuck in a wall. She looked back at the fel, straight into his yellowed, pin-pricked eyes.

Panic clawed at her thoughts.

Isaac stirred, coming back to consciousness, with a splitting headache waiting to greet him. He tried to move his arms, but found them bound with something stiff.

He blinked a few times, only to find darkness. His senses woke up slowly, telling him he was upright, but bound against a wall. Around him, he heard other people squirm and moan.

He closed his eyes and dredged up his memories. Right, captured by tentacles, feeling weak and drained, then passing out.

Angeline was there, somewhere in the chain of events. She'd done something important...

His eyes snapped open. She'd shoved something inside his armour.

Testing his movements again, he felt it attempt to respond to his actions, only to emit a pitiful metallic whine. So, the tentacles were able to drain the mana of magitech as well.

He frowned. The tentacles had obviously stopped, or at least lessened, their draining. He didn't have to wonder too long on why it was so: David and Niala's doing, most probably.

If they were giving him this opportunity, best not to waste it.

Agonizingly, he directed the trickle of mana he was regenerating into his armour. He just needed one arm to have enough force to tear free and retrieve the pointy thing Angeline had sent along with him.

He forced himself to wait, enduring through the pain of mana depletion which brought him back to the edge of unconsciousness several times, but eventually, he heard the soft chime that indicated his armour was out of energy conservation mode.

He willed his strength back into his arm and flexed. The tentacles offered immediate resistance, but he kept straining, stretching them like reticent rubber bands. A centimetre off the wall, then two, three... Small, wet tearing sounds popped.

His arm flew upward, tentacles tearing apart and releasing their gooey fillings to the floor. Gasping in a few mouthfuls of air, he reached for the small metal needle that was wedged between two plates and pulled it out.

He had only glimpsed it, but he had a pretty good idea of what it was.

Hand out, palm up, with the needle on top, he pulsed his mana. The needle hummed red, almost blinding in the total darkness, and began growing. He curled his fingers around the forming hilt. A few seconds later, he held the short sword that Angeline had used.

He beheld the softly-glowing red blade for a moment, dreading that he was going to have to thank the woman once more.

Blowing a breath through his nose, he began hacking away at the fleshy restraints holding him against the wall, freeing himself within moments.

He took a few steps and activated the light on his mangled helmet. It flickered, then pierced the darkness. He observed the room, found it to be made of off-white stone. He panned his head, illuminating the squinting and squirming workers and Azure Guards, all bound to the wall as he had been. A quick mental count told him that some of the prisoners were missing.

He decided to believe they were in another room, instead of the much more likely alternative.

Ignoring his thumping head, he wielded Angeline's sword and freed the Guards, many of them falling to their knees, the rest stumbling a few steps before sitting down.

One of them, a wolfkin man, forced himself upright and at attention. His voice was dry and cracking. “Thank you, Sir. What are your orders?”

Isaac looked at the man's nameplate and insignia. “Sergeant Merton,” he said, the wolfkin nodding.

Isaac handed him the short sword. “Go free up the workers. Your eyes good enough in this level of light to work?”

“Yes, Sir.”

“Then get to it.” He instructed, before unclasping the small storage box attached to the small of the armour's back and opening it, picking one of the two rolled up cargo cloths within. He knelt and laid it flat on the floor, revealing the image of a singular, large chest taking up the entirety of the cloth's space.

He retrieved the wooden strongbox from the cloth. Within, emergency supplies.

Isaac retrieved a few light globes, turning them on and passing them to nearby Guards, who huddled around the lights as if they were a ward against the darkness.

The Guards had begun shuffling toward him, forming a loose circle. He picked potions from the chest and handed them out. “Mana potions. I don't have enough for everyone, so drink a third each, then pass it to the next.”

One of the guards, accepting the potion and eyeing it, looked at him. “Sir, a third of a mana potion won't do much. Wouldn't it be better to concentrate the effect on a few people?”

Isaac levelled his eyes at the man. “It'll be enough. Follow orders, guardsman.” He instructed, turning back to the wooden chest.

The guard stared at the potion a moment more, and then did as ordered, drinking a third of the potion and passing it to the next guard. He sat down to wait for the potion to start working and give him back a small amount of mana.

He hadn't finished settling before he felt his mana pathways tingle. His limbs cramped up momentarily as a deluge of fresh, revitalizing mana surged through his channels, like water after a drought. All around him, the other guards had the same reaction.

When the rush of mana passed, they looked at each other, the same silent question going unanswered, until someone spoke up. “Those potions are from her, right, Sir? The witch of Riverwall?”

Several pairs of eyes snapped at the offending man, their stares beating into him the idea that he'd just said something he shouldn't have.

Isaac eyed the man, who had begun visibly sweating. He'd remember his face and have a talk with him later.

Although, to be fair, his sister-in-law might as well have been a witch, given what she could do. He pushed the thought away and pulled out a leather bundle holding a dozen basic swords. He took out and set down another box next to the swords. Within were fifty small metal spheres.

Isaac looked up at the Guards and pointed at the weapons. “Figure out who's the best swordsman and distribute these. As for those.” He motioned at the spheres. “They're explosive charges. Push some mana in and they'll explode after a few seconds. Whichever of you have the best throwing arms, split these among yourselves.”

As the troop armed themselves, the wolfkin sergeant returned, handing the red-glowing blade back to him. “Sir, all workers freed, though most are barely capable of standing up on their own.”

Isaac took back Angeline's blade and gave the man a few more mana potions, telling the sergeant to drink one himself and give a sip to each of the workers- just enough to get them walking.

Lastly, he passed around ration bars and water canteens from the chest, giving the troops a minute to eat and hydrate, before calling everyone to attention.

He looked over his troops: two dozen battered, but somewhat refreshed guards, half-equipped, with sixty civilians to escort to safety, from within saints-know-where, with walls that can potentially sprout hostile tentacles and enemies who can wield unknown magic.

He wished he could be confident about their chances. He wasn't.

But, to the troops before him who probably felt the same as he did, there was only one thing he could do: offer them the face of someone who knew, without a doubt, that they'd get out of here.

And so he did, because Wardenfels fought.

And because there was a woman back in Riverwall who needed her sword back.