Alden wondered if asking it to be a bit flexible on that, without getting him into trouble, would be a bad idea.

[You have gym in ninety-seven minutes.]

Alden read the words. [Thank you. That’s a helpful reminder.]

It was pointing out that volunteering to exhaust his skill right now didn’t even make sense. Which was decent of it.

He spent a while exploring and introducing himself to people who weren’t busy. Interface notices told him where he could and couldn’t go.

Central Crescent had a special emergency department in a separate building where the System ET’d patients who were too dangerous for other hospitals. Alden wouldn’t be going there. But he was allowed in the walk-in clinic, on most of the patient floors, in the cafeteria, and in the janitorial closets. The waiting rooms were also his territory.

A chat with a fellow polo-shirted volunteer who was in charge of the gift shop today gave him ideas for the kinds of things he could do when his magic wasn’t needed by anyone.

“There are always lonely patients who want to chat, and the nurses know who they are,” she said, while she cut the tape off of a cardboard box and opened it to reveal a stack of coloring books. “Nothing is ever as clean as it could be. And filling the hospitality carts with what people actually want to snack on or play with is the key to popularity.”

“Got it.”

“It takes a while for everyone who works here to get used to having you around and get familiar with what you can do well. If you find a chore that nobody else seems to want, and you do it regularly, it will become yours and people who you didn’t know appreciated it will notice when you stop.”

“Finding something nobody else is doing sounds difficult. But I’ll—I’m getting an assignment!” he exclaimed as the notice came across his interface.

The gift shop lady took a step back, startled by his increase in volume.

“I wasn’t sure I’d get to do anything.” Alden snatched his messenger bag off the counter. “But I’m going to the potion dispensary!”

“I’m glad for you?”

“Thank you!”

Nerves and excitement clashing, he rushed out. The System gave him directional arrows so that he didn’t get lost traveling down a couple of floors and turning left at an intersection of hallways. He approached a beige door that said Authorized Personnel Only, and when it swung open to admit him automatically he got a little thrill out of it.

I’m authorized for something.

White tile floors gave way to pale, surprisingly unvarnished wood. Tall, gray metal cabinets stood along both walls, their contents invisible. A man in a nurse’s scrubs was checking the label on a vial that had just dropped into one of the cubbies on the front of a cabinet.

He glanced at Alden but didn’t say anything as Alden followed directions toward a window that had been cut out of the wall in the middle of the hallway. There wasn’t much to see through the opening, just a wooden wall and a door that blended into it. But there were two people waiting in the window for him.

One was a man with a chiseled jaw and a large nose whose name tag said Dr. Abbasi—Healer/MD, and the other was an Artonan man in a long-sleeved white robe more similar to an angel costume than the lab coat of the doctor beside him.

“Look, Panna! Look how fast the volunteer came. Look who the Contract has sent us,” Dr. Abbasi said, in Artonan, as he swept his arm grandly toward Alden. “I recognize this young man. They say he has been commended. You have to agree he has a trustworthy dance.”

Trustworthy dance? Is that an expression I don’t know or did he mean some other word?

“His honorary title is ‘Pause Button’,” the doctor continued. “Doesn’t that sound next door to perfection? Go tell your wizard it will be educational for him to help her.”

The Artonan, Panna, had the same earthworm hair color as Ambassador Bash-nor, but his demeanor wasn’t similar at all. He was slouching under the doctor’s gaze and sighing like he was enduring something very exhausting. “She will not like having a volunteer.”

“No. She will. We’re helping her. Because I’m sure she didn’t mean to start a day-long project when she’s supposed to be in charge of our potions.”

“She did mean to. She had an idea of rare worth to test,” Panna muttered.

“She has so many of those, though. Isn’t she tired of them, yet?”

Panna sighed for so long it sounded like he’d sprung a leak. Doctor Abbasi turned to Alden, “Hello,” he said. “I asked the System if it could help me get our hospital’s extraordinary potion and medical device wizard to modify a potion for one of my patients. And it sent you. Is your nickname ‘Pause Button’ because you pause certain processes?”

I want to get whatever this is right. Alden tried to stand a little straighter. “I can preserve things and beings. I have to hold them, but when I do, I protect them from change. My skill does pause everything going on within a protective shield. It doesn’t have a specific connection to potions, though.”

Panna looked at the doctor. “That is useful. He can hold your patient until Master Ladda has finished testing her idea.”

The doctor gave him an incredulous look. “We’re not having him hold an adult man for ten hours when he can just hold whatever experiment she’s working on for ten minutes.”

“I have to go to school soon,” said Alden, wondering what would happen if he told Panna that after school he had to go to Rapport I. “If the Contract says I can do this, I’m sure I can. Should I put on my commendation so that I look more trustworthy and the Master of Potions won’t feel worried about leaving me with her important project? I have automatic embroidery patches in my bag. If that would help.”

The doctor gave him a few blinks. Panna, who Alden was assuming was the wizard’s ordinary class assistant based on the fact that he wore no embroidery of any kind on his angel robe, turned one eye to him and another toward the door.

“That is not necessary, Alden Ryeh-b’t,” he said. “I will convey your presence and the Healer’s request to Master Ladda-ser…who is a Master of Healing Objects for Humans. She is still working on being recognized for mastery of potions.”

He disappeared through the door.

The doctor beckoned Alden closer. “Don’t think that Ladda-ser is scary just because Panna-ser is hard to get past. She likes humans. It can be hard to tell because she’s extremely introverted. He keeps people from bothering her.”

Alden raised an eyebrow.

“She’s supposed to be bothered right now,” the doctor said. “She’s at work, and I brought her work only she can do. Are you new to volunteering with us? Your skill sounds interesting.”

“It’s my first hour volunteering,” Alden said. “I’m glad someone needed me.”

“You’ll get to use that skill on something cool, I think. She makes amazing things for us.”

Panna-ser reappeared and ushered Alden back into a workshop that was toasty and meticulously neat. Almost everything must have been tucked away in the drawers that covered the walls. There were several empty tables, and a woman with dull brown hair that matched her wizard garb was leaning over one. Her nose was very close to a human…doll…that was naked except for a clearish red blob sitting on its chest like a misplaced jellyfish.

The doll was an average-looking adult male. It was around eighteen inches long, which was the one thing keeping Alden from thinking it was a dead or unconscious body. Thankfully, its eyes were closed. The realism was uncanny.

The wizard didn’t let her attention flick away from the project at all. It was  Panna-ser who told Alden to pick up the doll, and the blob with it, without letting either be disturbed for a single instant.

Alden stepped over and eyed the model, settling on lifting it by its feet and head because grabbing it anywhere else seemed weird. As soon as he’d picked it up, Ladda-ser drew in a breath and titled her chin up to regard him. Briefly, she seemed like someone who was confused about why her toy had been taken away. Then, in a quiet voice, she said, “I am inventing an enchanted heart for humans to wear while theirs are being healed. It will stick to the chest. We have ones like these, but they don’t work for you. I will make them work for you.”

Alden looked at the jellyfish. Enchanted external heart? “Hyektch.”

“Please do not drop it.”

“I won’t.”

She looked from him to a chair across the room. He went to sit in it, even though she hadn’t actually said to, in case it made her feel better about leaving him alone with this thing she’d made.

After she left, the assistant stood guard over Alden like he could somehow prevent disaster just by being present. He explained that this device, if it worked, would be one that anyone could grab and slap onto the chest of a person whose heart had stopped, and its use wouldn’t be an impediment to other healing magic.

He also explained that the doll was a specially made medical research tool. “What else would it be?”

Alden refrained from replying, “A middle-aged dead guy you shrank with a spell.”

The specially made medical research tool had body hair, testicles, toenails…

About ten minutes after she’d left, Ladda-ser returned. She walked straight over to where she’d been standing and even leaned over in the same way, like she wanted everything to be exactly as it had been before the interruption.

Alden tried to put the doll back in precisely the right place on the table in front of her, thinking that would help her get back into the zone.

What she’s doing sounds important. Panna was already shooing him out of the workshop with one hand and gesturing for silence with the other. They’re an odd pair. But I got to help a researcher do research on an enchanted heart, even if it was only for a few minutes. Maybe because I helped, it becomes real one day.

The assistant was glad to get rid of him, the doctor was nowhere to be seen, and the System was telling him he wasn’t allowed in the dispensary anymore since he didn’t have business there. But Alden felt himself smiling as he left.

He knew he had preserved the strange doll as perfectly as anyone could, and that seemed to be what was needed.

Before he left the hospital, he found one more chore for himself by standing at an entrance and offering to dry peoples’ umbrellas with a quick application of his skill so that they wouldn’t have to shake water all over the place or stuff them into plastic bags.

Things I can do well. Strong bricks are strong bricks, even if they’re small.
