Her words had hard edges, but Erick was surprised to see that she was much less antagonistic than she was yesterday. Or even last night. Something had changed. She, like many others, had seen Erick walk her way, and she had seen him interact with the other clansmen, so maybe she approved? Or maybe she approved of the systematic killing of monsters? Whatever the case, it was a nice change.

Erick readily said, “I am making myself a yurt and a vehicle, and I want to know where to get a set of the large suspensions that everyone else has.”

Koori’s brushing paused. Then she continued, and half turned toward Erick. “You aren’t going to magic up a solution? I saw how easily you gave magic to those kids.”

“There will be magic involved, but I want to keep that to a minimum in consideration of your traditions, thus, the need for mundane suspension.” Erick wanted to make these people as comfortable as possible, for now, because when the dragons showed, no one was going to be happy with him. “I admit that it was a bit rude of me to give those kids those wardlights, but they’re just lights; nothing more than something pretty to look upon.”

“The Lure of Darkness is always just ‘something pretty to look upon’ until it is more than that. Until it corrupts and shreds, and leaves nothing but death and damnation in its wake.” Koori said, “These dragons you are after are supreme examples of this.”

“I completely agree.” Erick said, “But to call every knife a sword and then be scared of every sword is to make it rather difficult to cut a steak.”

Koori’s cow mooed at the mention of steak.

Koori, however, just kept on brushing as she let out a good-natured laugh, then said, “With enough care and cooking, even the toughest steak can be cut with a finger.”

“But then you’d have to use a napkin to clean your fingers. And why make the mess if you don’t have to? And besides: who has time to cook a perfect steak every time?” Erick added, “I can keep up with whatever analogy you wish to pursue, or we can drop the one-upmanship here.”

“We’d all be better off if there were no magic at all.”

Erick found himself speaking a lot harder than he likely meant to, as he said, “In some ways, you are correct, but in others ways, you are not.”

Koori stopped brushing her cow and turned fully toward him. “I understand you come from a world without magic.”

“Aye. This much is public knowledge; yes.”

“And it is true, that you plan on opening [Gate]s to other worlds?”

“That is the far-off plan.”

Koori frowned in thought. She tried to understand him, “Are you trying to get back home?”

“Getting back to Earth is never going to happen, and mostly because I have no idea where Earth is in comparison to Veird. Even if I did find the way back, though, I wouldn’t want to bring the Script to Earth, for magic is way too destructive.”

Koori blinked a few times, unsure if she heard what she had heard. Then she moved on, saying, “We get our drive systems from Clan Metal Rider, who gets the raw materials from a city that no longer exists in Alaralti, east of the Wanzhi River. That city was destroyed by Terror Peaks, and their entire population spelled to death by magics that should not exist. It is my understanding that this destroyed city was where you found Amasar.” She said, “Clan Metal Rider should still have a few suspensions available, but if they do not, then there are other clans that operate in the metal forging trade. Heizel or Uli at the hawkery should know the location of Metal Rider and all the rest. If they fail you, Speaker Yorila would know.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Thank you. Then I go in search of Metal Rider.”

“When you get your yurt up and running, I want to call upon you for a discussion of your words. To know why you think I would not enjoy a world without magic, and why you would not want to inflict magic upon your own world, if it is so great.”

Her words were calm, but she was unsettled, and highly interested in talking. It might be nice to know what she thinks of the Script, and how it could be made better, for new planets meant new manaminers each possibly working a different Script. Obviously, such planning was getting way ahead of himself, but it would be good to look to the future before they got there.

Erick simply said, “Sure. Whenever you wish to talk, I will be available.”

Koori said, “We will be leaving at noon. Do you think you will be ready by then? If you are not, you can ride with our yurt.”

“Thank you for your offer. We might have to take you up on that offer if I can’t find suspension systems for purchase.”

Koori nodded, then went back to brushing her cow. Behind her, other clansmen were done with their brushing. One was already strapping a leather and cushioned-canvas harness around the neck of their own cow. That cow mooed a bit at the weight of the harness, but it was a joyful sound, accompanied with a small up and down happy jerk of the head. The cow was happy to work.

Erick turned around and walked back toward the hawkery.

But Heizel and Uli were still out and about, getting their cows.

Erick went with the other option. He still hadn’t had that private talk with Speaker Yorila, so maybe now was the time.

- - - -

Yorila and her accompanying apprentices, all three of them, were stationed in the same yurt about a kilometer away from everyone else, on the very edge of the caravan’s mobile borders. It didn’t take long for Erick and Poi to get there, but Yorila and two of her apprentices were out, gathering some cows for her yurt.

Yorila’s remaining apprentice was a short, skinny man, with a malformed left arm, who came out of the yurt to stand on the edge of the porch and tell Erick this much, and then to say, “She’ll be back soon.”

Erick listened to the man and was polite with his facial features. He even said, “Thank you, Boril,” in a polite tone, but internally, Erick was completely flabbergasted to see a person with a physical deformity.

He had seen a lot of those on Earth, and he had helped a lot of people to cope with their situations, but on Veird? Rarer than a crystal slime! Magic could fix almost all physical problems, after all. A dozen questions flooded Erick’s mind. He answered those questions himself, almost just a fast, by turning on [Soul Sight], then [True Sight], then [Soul Sight] again.

Boril’s twisted arm conformed to his twisted soul; there were no illusions here.

Apart from the soul damage, which was obviously abnormal, the way the arm grew alongside the soul was normal. The body naturally healed according to what the soul laid down. Erick wasn’t exactly sure how this worked, but that was how it worked, generally.

But! Healing Magic did not work off of the blueprint of the soul. Rats’ soul was all sorts of fucked up, but a weekly treatment of [Greater Treat Wounds] and [Regeneration] healed his body back to normal. If he didn’t get those treatments then his eyesight went bad, first, and then came arthritis in the hands and feet, and then a whole host of other ailments came along, each one increasingly worse than the last. If Rats went untreated for a month, he would die. This was the major reason that Rats became a Healer in the first place.

And so, if Healing Magic worked for Rats, it should work for Boril’s arm, too.

Okay. So. Erick did not need to be involved with this, either, but he had to, so he asked, “Does Healing Magic not work on your arm?”

“Aye; it does not. I’d cut it off, but—” With good nature, Boril shook his withered arm, saying, “I’m attached to it.”

Erick laughed a little, since the man was obviously making a joke, but Erick was uncomfortable in playing along. So he moved on as fast as he could, saying, “Anyway. I came here to locate another clan, to find some suspensions for a yurt I am making. Can you give me the location of Clan Metal Rider? Or anyone else that sells suspension systems for yurts.”

Boril nodded, then looked away, his eyes clouding over as he stared off into the distance. Three seconds later, he came back, and pointed with his bad arm, to the east. “That way. One and a third [Teleport]s. But if you just need a suspension system, everyone around here has at least one replacement rig. We got two spares if you want to pay us back later. Don’t know where you’d get the other two, though. Or the axle, or the brakes. We don’t got none a that.”

Erick had already noticed the replacement parts in everyone’s yurts, but it was nice to hear someone actually offer those extra parts. “Thank you for the offer. I might take you up on that if I can’t get something from Metal Rider, but I’m going to try them first.”

Boril asked, “Do you need some plans for your own yurt?”

Erick grinned. “Already got those, too, but thanks for the offer. Could you tell Yorila that I was here? I still haven’t had that talk with her.”

“Certainly, archmage. Do you want me to let Clan Metal Rider know that you’re coming?”

“You can call me Erick, and no, you don’t have to tell them. Not unless you think notice would be needed? I plan on showing up and buying what they have available. Would that be a problem?”

Boril said, “Messaging ahead isn’t really needed. They’re merchants; not orthodox. You can [Teleport] in and purchase what you want, long as you don’t pop into the middle of the clan. Walk in, politely. Should be fine.”

“Thank you for your help.”

Boril nodded, then returned to his yurt.

Erick and Poi walked back to the wooden boulder.

Erick could have done this entire thing as easily as covertly [Duplicate]ing someone else’s suspensions. Or, he could have Imaged for the shape of the metal, and tracked down the seller on his own, or at least their warehouse. Or he could have made the parts himself, and smoothed out whatever problems arose through judicious use of [Control Machine]. But none of that would have allowed him to get to know the people he’d be living with and defending when the dragons came around.

And so, having taken a few small steps to becoming a guest of the community, and more importantly, feeling that he had actually been successful in that endeavor, Erick had an Ophiel throw an Imaging up in the air far to the east; that plan to search for suspensions came in useful, anyway. Soon, the map populated with thousands of markers. Erick found many, many clans, but also what had to be Clan Metal Rider, with their stockpiles of finished goods.

A series of lightsteps swept Erick and Poi toward their destination, along with a fair bit of the monster cores Erick had gathered from last night’s monster cleansing. How much could the struts cost, anyway? A few dozen gold? Better to be prepared, just in case.

Clan Metal Rider had yurts made of steel and iron, and no cows at all. They even had a Teleport Square set up near the side of the encampment; it was just white pillars of stone marking out a square plot of bare ground, but other people were already using that zone to blip in and out, and that made the whole transition to the clan easy as pie. And since Erick kept Ophiel out of sight, they had no idea who Erick was, so this was great! Erick quickly found the suspension vendor at her forging yurt.

And then he discovered the price of a set of suspensions, and that was less fun.

It was a full grand core for a yurt suspension kit.

Erick balked at the price, like any person would, and then he directed the conversation to easier waters, trying to talk shop with the vendor, to find out how they moved their own vehicles around without any cows.

“Ha!” The vendor laughed. “Cows are for eating! Not for moving a yurt! You just need to get you [Control Machine], my fellow. It might take a few tendays to work it right, and the mana cost to keep it working right is rather high, but I’m sure you can manage. If my idiot nephew can make the spell, then I’m sure you can, too.”

The nephew in question, who was currently holding a hammer and banging away at some glowing red steel in the back of the barn, scowled, saying, “Hammering is better’n magery, ya old milker.”

Erick went back to the subject of the cost, “I can work on that spell, I suppose, but I’m still stuck on the cost. A whole grand core?”

The vendor didn’t laugh anymore. She stared Erick down. “That’s the price. You don’t deserve to be a grass traveler if you can’t take down a grand core monster. What you gonna do if an abyss drinker takes your cart? You gonna let that beastie keep it? No! But… I reckon you ain’t a grass traveler, are you?” The woman frowned a little, then asked, “You from Songli?”

“You’re right; I’m not a grass traveler. But I got friends in a clan and I want my own ride.”

The woman nodded. “Fair enough. Still a grand core price. The price of admission, or the price of a rite of passage. Don’t matter to Clan Metal Rider; those are the prices set by Ooloraptoor, and we abide by the Politeness of it all. But! If you can’t get the glow together right now, we’re here at this riverside all week. We’ll be here when you’re ready to pay.”

“No need.” Erick had an Ophiel blip a core directly into his open hands. It was a pale green thing the size of an orcol’s head. “Came from an abyss drinker, just last night.”

The woman startled at the display of magic but she recovered fast enough, her mouth opening in a wide, happy smile. “I suppose you earned the right, then, best as anyone else. You need transport? That costs extra, but normal prices; ten gold per 100 kilometers. We’ll get a whole system to you quick as you want.”

“No need for that. I got [Teleporting Platform].”

With a genuine grin, the woman said, “Well ain’t you fancy.”

Business proceeded rapidly from there.

Soon enough, Erick reappeared at his boulder of eternal stonewood with his axles and suspensions and braking system all piecemeal, sitting around him, just waiting to be put together.

And so, Erick put the pieces together.

