Erick had yet to get within 50 meters of the man, and already he was thinking this was a mistake. But Erick pressed on!

Ten meters away, Zan called out, “How does the sun greet you, Archmage Flatt?”

It was a bit of an archaic, polite greeting, but Erick had caught on enough here and there to respond, “With as much warmth and light as I hope it does you, Herder Zan.”

Zan flinched at the saying of his name.

Erick added, “And you as well, Herder Solia.”

Solia flinched half a foot into the air, her baby coming undone from her breast and giving a tiny cry. Without missing a moment, Solia gave an excuse that the baby must have messed himself and then she retreated into her yurt, escaping from the gaze of the archmage.

Zan ignored the disturbance behind him, asking, “Uh. How can this one help you?”

Erick ignored the drama, and said, “I’d like to know where you got the suspensions for your yurt. Everyone seems to have the same ones, and you’re the closest, and yours looks the newest, so I thought I’d ask you, first.”

Zan paused, his eyes going wide. “Uh. Leader Niyazo gets them for us. Usually as wedding gifts for the founding of a new yurt. That’s where we got ours a year ago. Uh. I’m not sure how you would get four of them?”

Erick nodded, saying, “Thank you for the directions.” Erick already knew where Niyazo’s yurt was, so he turned that way, and gave a farewell to Zan, “Blessings to you and your new family.”

Zan piped up, “Uh! Can I— Can I have a moment of your time?”

Erick turned to the man. “Certainly.”

Zan instantly said, “Thank you for helping to find my mother’s killer. The face stealer had her face for the past three months, but I knew she was wrong. She was always such a wonderful mo—” Sudden tears streamed down his face, and his voice cracked, but he kept talking through the lump that settled in his throat, “She was a wonderful mother, and person. She’d do anything for you, and you’d do anything for her in return. She was never a burden. She was always a boon. But then she just changed. Overnight. At first, we didn’t think anything of it because people change, sometimes. But it was bad and— We caught her looking at our child and—” He stopped crying, as his face turned hard. He said, “And then Songli tracked a face stealer through to our shared home. They found the thing posing as my mother…” He looked up to Erick. “Thank you. Who knows what the monster would have done if you weren’t here.” He rapidly added, “I couldn’t say anything last night. But now… Thank you.”

Erick had not expected that. For a moment, he felt as if any push at all would topple him to the ground, for the man’s pure conviction and relief was almost a palpable force upon the air. Erick eventually found some words, and said, “I’m sorry that happened to your mother. She sounds like a wonderful woman.”

Zan blinked out another tear. “She was. Thank you.” He paused, then added, “Uh. Good day to you, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick nodded, then resumed his walk toward Niyazo’s yurt, keeping his face as expressionless as he could, and his breathing even.

Two minutes later, Erick was walking by a different yurt, with different people brushing down different cows, when an interruption appeared.

A young girl who had been eyeing his walk all this while, stepped away from her cow, calling out, “Archmage Flatt!”

Erick stopped and turned to the girl. She had to be 14, perhaps. “Yes? Can I help you?”

Like a triumphant merchant, the girl said, “Yes you can! I want—”

The girl’s mother, who was also brushing down the cows, rapidly interceded, stepping between the girl and Erick, saying, “Please pay her no mind, esteemed Archmage. She is a precocious child who knows not with whom she speaks.”

Erick experienced a whiplash of emotions, as he read the face of the concerned woman in front of him, and came to the conclusion that the woman thought that he was going to harm her daughter. Erick was almost offended—

But the girl was apparently offended, too, and on Erick’s behalf, no less. She shouted, “He’s not gonna hurt me, Ma! You shouldn’t listen to those storytellers so much!”

Erick said, “I assure you, madam, that I would never hurt a child unless they were secretly a dragon, or a Shade, or a Hunter in disguise. And only if they were out to harm me, or others, first. I believe my track record is rather solid when it comes to these facts.”

The girl looked less sure of herself as Erick added caveat after caveat. The woman’s eyes simply went wide.

Erick added, “Now why did you call out to me, young lady?”

Emboldened, the girl hopped around her mother and declared, “I want some pretty night lights! Can you do it?”

The mother looked both scandalized and deeply embarrassed. She wanted to run away, but she did not.

Erick simply gave a tiny smile, and asked the girl, “In what colors, and in what designs?”

At that, the mother’s grip on her brush failed. The hairy instrument tumbled to the ground, and the woman left it there, as she turned, and walked away from the situation. The girl’s older brothers had stopped brushing their cows to watch whatever was happening with their sister, but at Erick’s question their casual interest turned into incredible, unspoken jealousy.

The girl didn’t notice that. All she did was exclaim, “Bright orange and white and yellow! Like fire! Something to see with at night! Something to drive away the dark!”

“How about I make one for each of you kids?” Erick asked the boys behind the girl, “Would you like that?”

The boys’ jealousy evaporated like mist under the sun.

One of them said, almost sadly, asked, “Can you do blue, like the ocean? I ain’t never seen the ocean.”

The second boy, desiring to hurt his sister, said, “I want fire, but bigger than Cor’s!”

The young girl, Cor, turned to her brother and promptly started cursing at him like a sailor.

The mother looked their way, briefly, then turned away, muttering about how she can’t save them from themselves all the time. The boy who had asked for the water globe seemed to mirror these sentiments.

Erick, meanwhile, had already had an Ophiel shape some eternal stonewood into tiny pellets, and then had him attach the requested lightwards to those pellets. He did not make the boy’s fire larger than the girl’s, both were ten centimeter wide spheres, but he did make two that were slightly different from each other. One was more for reading, with better ambient light, but the other was flashier, with tiny sparkles in the fire. Erick was happier with the water orb lightward, though, for it looked to him like a world made of water, but when gazed at from outer space. Whorls of clouds hung in the sky, forming miniature storms and air currents, while the waves of the water’s surface reflected whatever light was around, sparkling like a proper ocean. The boy would need very good eyesight to see all of what Erick had packed into that tiny, ten centimeter blue sphere, though.

With a flicker, and before the girl’s tirade got going and the boy was forced to give a response, Ophiel came to Erick’s side in a step of light, floating there with the three stones in his lightgrip. The wardlights for those stones floated above them, one sparking, one glowing, and one oceanic.

The girl stopped talking. The fire boy’s clenched fists relaxed as his eyes went wide. The ocean boy smiled a little as he gazed upon the blue sphere.

Erick had Ophiel extend the ocean wardlight to the ocean boy, saying, “Here you go. It’ll last for a while, but not forever.”

The boy tried to grab the sphere, itself, but his hands passed through it, and his entire persona went from happy, to crushed in an instant, thinking that a trick had been played on him. The brother and sister saw this happen, too, and were instantly angry at Erick. Erick almost laughed at that; At least they could come together against a common enemy. But he did not. Their anger was genuine, even if it was misplaced by mistake.

Before they could get mad, Erick said, “Grab the stone under the light. The [Ward] is attached to the stone, so that you might set it somewhere and have it float where you set it.”

The kids paused their anger.

“Oh.” The boy grabbed the stone, and the lightward came away from Ophiel’s grip. “Heh.” The boy wiggled the stone around, and the lightward wiggled around with it, but Erick had made this one special, and the water actually broke from the surface of the sphere, like an ocean exploding into the sky. “Woah,” went the kid, as he stilled the rock, and the ocean settled down. He looked to Erick, saying, “Thank you, Archmag—”

“Which one is for me!” said the fire boy.

The fire girl said, “I want that one!”

“You want the ugly one?!” Fire boy said, “Fine by me! I want the pretty one!”

Oh thank god. It worked out like Erick hoped it would.

He handed the prizes to their respective kids, saying, “There’s no inherent magic to any of them, besides being lightwards. Don’t expect them to save your life, or anything. Low magic, like these items, doesn’t work like that. Low magic works exactly as you want it to work, and these are just lights. That is all.”

The girl looked disappointed for a moment, but inside their yurt, their mother was deeply relieved.

Fire boy said, “Duh! I knew that!”

The girl didn’t care about her brother’s words. She only had eyes for her wardlight, except when she looked up and rapidly said, “You’re alright.” And then she went back to staring at her prize. She wiggled it back and forth, and the light broke apart and came back together almost like the ocean sphere had, but the effect was much less pronounced.

Erick walked on, leaving the kids to their new toys.

The other yurts of the caravan were spread a fair bit apart from each other, but they were all close enough for the more inquisitive people to notice that Erick was walking through ‘town’, talking to whoever approached. And there were a lot of inquisitive people; someone always had eyes on the horizon and ears open, searching for signs of monsters.

There were none more inquisitive than those of the hawking yurts, which were easy to tell apart from all the other yurts due to their two story structure, and their wooden walls, instead of walls made of canvas. The hawking yurt of this main branch of Clan Pale Cow was raised even higher than the norm, with a raised platform above the second floor, so that people could stand on top and keep eyes out with [Ultrasight] and other abilities. All the real grass traveler clans used hawks to send official messages around to each other, as well as patrol for monsters from the sky. In that way, the hawkery was as much a mailroom, as it was a radar station.

And since Erick was walking past the hawkery to get to Niyazo’s yurt, they very much knew he was passing by.

The flap to the hawking yurt flew open and a man rushed outside. He was a heavily muscular man, more so than normal, and as he put his hands on the railing of his yurt he locked eyes on Erick, making sure that he was seeing who he was seeing. He called out, “Ho! Archmage Flatt! Spare a moment, please!”

Erick turned his walk toward the hawking yurt, asking, “Can I help you?”

The man excitedly said, “None of my hawks have seen any monsters all last night or even today! Did you kill them all?”

Erick stopped before the man, looking up to say, “Yes, I did.” And then, to circumvent the man’s next question, he added, “I couldn’t sleep so I took care of the problem that was making me unable to sleep. I am charged with defense of Pale Cow while I am here, after all.”

“Ha!” The hawker laughed, then he turned to see a woman come out of the yurt behind him. “Did you hear that! I was right, Uli! You owe me a dinner!”

The man seemed boisterous, while the woman, Uli, was not. She was older and stern of face, and rather thin, but when she spoke, it was with kindness. “Then that merely means that you only owe me three dinners, for you always base your guesses on the weakest of evidence.” Uli turned from her coworker, to look at Erick. “Thank you for killing the Abyss Drinkers. We never notice those until after they’ve grabbed a cow or three, and then retreated so far down that we can’t give proper chase. Nasty things.” She glanced around, looking at other yurts in the near distance. “I suppose it’s time to get some cows to harness. Let’s get to it, Heizel.” Uli hopped off of the side of the yurt then gave a tiny bow to Erick, before she headed off toward the herd.

“Right!” Heizel followed the woman, landing with a great thud upon the ground, but he turned back after a moment and called to Erick, “It was nice to meet you! I feel we owe you many dinners, so come on by sometime! My hawks always hunt up some nice lizards!” And then he turned back and raced after Uli, who had already gone rather far ahead.

Three seconds later, the cry of a large bird chattered out of the second floor of the hawkery, and then the door at the top flapped open, and a beautiful golden brown bird chased after his people, following Uli and Heizel, crying about being left behind. Other birds inside the yurt called out as well, seeming to complain about the complainer.

Erick smiled a little, wondering if he was anthropomorphising the hawks, or not. He guessed he was, but that much was fine. He continued walking toward Clan Leader Niyazo’s yurt. Ophiel, sitting on Erick’s shoulder, just watched the other birds, without doing much except to give a tiny mimic of the golden hawk’s whining cry. Erick patted him on the head, and he pressed into Erick’s hand.

He walked on.

Koori was outside of her yurt, along with several cows, and several people brushing down those cows. Each animal had canvas bags of grain attached to their faces. Koori’s cow turned toward Erick, swinging his horns around, which earned him a stern grab upon the horns from Koori’s solid hand, stilling the cow’s movement. She let him go when he didn’t fight her.

Koori glanced Erick’s way, but turned back to her cow, while calling to him, “My husband is with my daughter Iylea at the cheese yurt. I believe your daughter is there, too. I think they are both learning to milk the cows and make the cheese. But if that is not what you were after, can I help you with something?”

