The base was a rectangle seven meters across and twelve meters from front to back, with the wheels placed at meter 2 and 9. The yurt was a little larger than most since he wanted Teressa to be comfortable, but the shape was perfectly normal, if a little taller than all the others. Anyone looking at his yurt would think it a normal construction, with the walls even patterned to look like taut canvas, but the walls were actually thick eternal stonewood; thick enough to withstand most damaging spellwork. A dragon would still make quick work of it, though. The point of the structure was just to provide defense against normal [Fireball]s, and such, and this yurt could definitely do that. It even had windows and doors, though Erick took pains to make them look like normal canvas while they were shut.

The front had a nice porch, with a place for an outdoor fire. Erick would entertain guests there, if he got any, and he was pretty sure he would have some, soon enough. Perhaps even some draconic representatives, too.

He had no cows, though, and no plans to get any.

Instead, he had magic.

With his Ophiel surrounding him, and standing on the front of his new yurt, Erick harmonized the sounds of simple life in [Conjure Force Elemental], alongside [Mysticalshape]’s ability to make Reality appear in reality, and [Husbandry]’s ability to connect with an animal.

Erick had never used [Husbandry] before, but it was the standard spell to include in [Spectral Steed], and so Erick included it. [Mysticalshape] was non-standard in this sort of spellwork, but as soon as Erick heard the spells all together, he knew that Illusions would work well in this spell, and for multiple reasons. First, he could make the summon look like a real animal. But also, he felt he could conjure the summons with barding and harnesses, already attached. He could probably make the spell modular, too, and capable of working alongside multiples of the same spellwork.

He smiled, imagined a happy cow, and—

And realized that he could add in other spellwork, too. The components for [Control Machine] were [Control Item] and [Alter Friction]. Oohh yes. This was good.

He had Ophiel harmonize the tune together, and knew it to work well. [Alter Friction] could even be used to increase friction between the summoned animals and the ground, while it decreased friction on all the moving parts of the yurt’s undercarriage.

Ah. Yes. This would work out well.

A cow, or a set of cows, able to control the machine they were attached to. This would be useful in so many different scenarios! Most of those scenarios involved being incognito and driving around animal-powered vehicles, but that was fine.

Erick cast.

A splash of white light resolved into a beautiful, shaggy white cow, directly in front of the yurt. It had gleaming white horns and a white leather harness that yoked the animal between a pair of wooden beams that extended out from the yurt. The wooden beams hadn’t been there until Erick had cast the spell.

The cow lifted its head and glanced backward with its big, black eyes, and mooed upon seeing Erick; it was a happy note. Its tail swished back and forth as it —or rather, he— pawed the ground, seemingly ready to go.

Cute!

A blue box appeared.

Imaginary Work Animal, instant, close range, 1500 mana.

Summon a happy imaginary animal that gains and grants you fine control over a suitable machine of your choosing. The summon will listen to your commands and carry out simple instructions, but is not capable of much more than a normal animal of the summoned type. Multiple summons fitted toward the same goal will seamlessly join together, if possible. Lasts 1 hour under heavy workload. Lasts up to 24 hours with an easy workload.

Casting this spell again on any configuration of creatures summoned from this spell renews the duration.

Erick cast the spell again, and a second shaggy white cow joined the first. The white wooden beams that attached to both sides of the original cow became a single, large, central wooden beam, and the cows adjusted themselves to stand on both sides of that beam, their yokes automatically adjusting to the new configuration.

Erick giggled a bit, then said, “Steady walk forward, if you could.”

The cows walked forward and the yurt easily followed, as though the cows were pulling almost no weight at all. Erick steadied himself a bit as the yurt moved underneath him, but it was not that difficult to remain upright. The suspensions, and the spells controlling them, worked perfectly! As the yurt bumbled along, Erick felt as though they were on a paved road, instead of on a grassy plain.

“Pause,” Erick said.

The cows slowed down, and then stopped, swishing their tails and looking around. One stomped their foot and sniffled out, looking very much like a real cow.

Poi, who stood behind Erick, spoke up, “It’s nice. Could use some color, though.”

Erick chuckled, then said, “It is very white, isn’t it!” And it was; Erick had used the white eternal stonewood to make the whole thing, and the cows were white, too. The only color present was on the metal parts, in the undercarriage; those were grey. He said, “I’ll let everyone else color up the place. You got any decorations you want to put up? Go ahead.”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye, which had been rather sedately watching Erick this whole time, seemed to perk up at Erick’s offer. He leapt off of Erick’s shoulder and went to the wooden door to the yurt, then bounced around a bit.

Erick wasn’t quite sure what he was saying, since Yggdrasil wasn’t using his words, exactly, but Erick guessed, “Put a tree on the front door? You?”

Yggdrasil’s eye bounced around happily, and waited.

Erick cast a lightward over the door. A tree took hold of the surface; a stylized version of Yggdrasil, showing off his roots and his branches and his crown of rainbow light. It was a pretty good image, in Erick’s opinion.

Yggdrasil seemed to approve, too, as he nodded and then retook his place on Erick’s shoulder.

And that was it; that was all the work Erick had for the day. Done in just a few hours of walking around.

Now, Erick and his people had a mobile home, and the way to move that home, and soon, the caravan would start moving again. People would likely come over to visit, and Erick would need to go out and get some actual furniture and such, since this was life for right now.

And that was great, actually. Just the open plains and the cows, and talking with other clans, and eventually with dragons. This was much better than pursuing the Arcology lead, or asking around for the Red dragon.

Now where was everyone else…

Erick glanced out with Ophiel.

Ah. There’s Nirzir.

The young woman was finishing up with the cooking yurt. Cleaning, it seemed. And by hand, too. Jane was also done with her duties at the cheese yurt; she exited that yurt alongside Niyazo and his daughter Iylea. There was a story there, for sure, because wasn’t Jane supposed to be with the cowherds? Yes, she was. Teressa was still at the teaching yurt, but while the kids wanted her to stay, she told them she could not; she needed to ride with her boss while they were underway. She had already been gone for too long. While she was attempting to leave, the teacher in that yurt told Teressa to come back anytime.

Erick smiled at that.

Clan Pale Cow seemed like good people. Sure, Erick had upset their life, and they were adjusting, but they were a lot more welcoming today than they had been yesterday. It just takes time, sometimes. Also, sometimes it takes the murder of every single major threat within a hundred kilometers, but that was fine, too. Most people were basically good, anyway, but stress had a habit of turning people rotten in unexpected ways.

Ah. Now that was a nice thought.

Erick hadn’t had a thought like that in a long time. Eh. He was probably under too much stress, himself. A nice cow ride across open plains sounded really good, actually— Oh! This was a road trip! Heh. Erick smiled at that little revelation. Road trips were fun. Sometimes.
