They dwarfed the size of skyscrapers. It was like a large metropolis floated over our heads. As the shadows covered our guild, Hybrids fought on the outer hulls, many having drilled their way inside. Behind the vessels, the void of space howled out, feasting on Earth's air. Helios reached up with his gauntlet, closing the warps. My runes flared with violence, and Event Horizon smothered the entire fleet.

I reached out with a charged hand, ready to disintegrate them with singularities. With a telepathic wave, I thought over.

"What are you doing here?"

A cacophony of voices screamed back via telepathy.

"Help. Please."

Chapter Begin

Chaos disgorged out of the vessels. I sprang into action along with my guild members. I catapulted toward the largest vessel using a gravity well. As I reached the ship, I tore through its surface and pierced into the labyrinth of rooms. A moment later, I scanned the individuals via telepathy. I found Florence in seconds, his thoughts a jumbled mess.

I bolted through steel walls like a bullet through paper. After destroying the last wall between us, I gazed at a strange scene. Within the room, a twisted Sentinel raised its spear over Florence. The albony smiled at me.

"Ah, you big lug of cold steel. Thank Schema, you're here."

I dashed forward like a juggernaut ready to pulp a soft fruit. The twisted Sentinel sliced towards me, opening a rupture in spacetime. I flew into deep space, where no stars shined, and no galaxies swirled. Behind me, the Sentinel closed the rupture. Before it sealed me in the vast emptiness, I smothered my wake into the rupture. As I had done with my own carry-on dimension, I pried the portal open before flying myself back out. In the command room, Florence hid under a command table. He locked eyes with me and beamed.

"I know, I know, my bravery is commendable. You can thank me later."

After getting all the way out of the portal, I gazed at the twisted Sentinel. Hybrid flesh squirmed in between gaps in his armor plates, and glowing sacks pulsed on his arms. The creature murmured.

"The Harbinger. We meet at last."

I grabbed the rip in spacetime before wringing it out like an old, soaked rag. As I did, the twisted Sentinel's spear shattered. It stared back at me in awe.

"A fine strategy. You isolated-"

I dashed forward, grabbing its skull. My arm moved faster than it perceived and held tighter than it could slip out of. It grabbed my hand, trying to escape.

"Your abilities have improv-"

I squeezed its helmet to a pulp. Like an egg dropping on the floor, its graphene helmet crushed, and the mush inside splattered between my fingers. My armor absorbed the mass within its shell before I tossed the corpse aside. Turning back to Florence, I scoffed.

"You have got to be the luckiest albony I know."

He shrugged.

"It's my main stat. Having causality on your side is never a bad thing."

There was the word again. Causality. Huh. I grabbed Florence before barreling out of the shuttle. Floating over the chaos, I assessed the situation. From the looks of it, my guild assaulted the vessels in mass.

Gialgathens tore Hybrids apart with their tails, keeping their distance by flying. No longer the fattened cats they once were, the amphibious dragons used tactics and their flames to destroy the steel abominations. Flowing faster and with grace, their aerial superiority allowed them to assault the enemy uncontested.

Around them, the eltari flocked in swarms. With energized talons, they tore at the vulnerable cords and orange pustules on the Hybrids. The Eltaris' mana kept them sanitized while amplifying their assaults, flocks of them swarming one Hybrid at a time and leaving it a desecrated mound.

The Omega Strain division crawled over the outer hulls of the enemy vessels, tearing Hybrids apart. They operated in teams of three, each member like a death-dealing spider. Anytime they happened upon a Hybrid, the Omega Strain's claws dismantled the enemy's entire body before engorging their strains on the monster's pieces.

Elthara led the charge. She evolved into a crystalline hurricane, her body shifting and molding her Omega Strain to assault with reckless abandon. The strains moved on her, flowing like liquid gemstones. Before contacting enemies, they hardened into glistening blades. The colors blurred into a confusing, dangerous whirlwind.

And death followed her wake.

Torix moved his hand, experimenting with his new staff in a lazy, laid-back manner. Each spell lobbed out was a cataclysmic event, entire legions of the enemies disintegrating in elemental plumes, acidic fireballs, burning ice, or poisoned steel. Torix enveloped the enemy in a deluge of deaths, ensuring they never lacked in variety either.

Others wielded elemental magic. Helios paired his gauntlets together. With one hand, he gutted vessels using gravitation. From his other palm, shards of void ice erupted out, impaling any Hybrids that fumbled in the air. He raised the gravity gauntlet, slamming the enemies together before throwing his ice-gauntleted fist at them.

They erupted in a satisfying plume of void ice.

Chrona flew over our the guildmembers staying in the rear. She maintained a temporally manipulated zone, enhancing our guildmates' defenses. In this space, even raw guild members fought hand and hand with Hybrids. On the outskirts of this zone, guild members suffered wounds. They maintained composure even if limbs hung half-cleaved from their bodies.

These grisly mutilations looked deadly, but our guild stayed true to its roots; they endured. Guild members pulled back, allowing other guildmates to take on the danger while they healed. My legacy allowed them to recuperate from mortifying wounds in minutes, so even if death's doorbell rang, they found no one home.

Furthering death's distance, Kessiah worked on multiple patients at once. Anyone in real danger, she snatched from death's jaws in an instant. Krog stayed nearby and zoned for her. His precise sound waves shocked Hybrids, but prolonged blasts caused them to vibrate into tiny fragments, their flesh liquified.

A vessel charged a blast to assault this clustered set of healers. Krog breathed in before blasting a roar into the side of the assaulting vessel. The air trembled before slamming into the hull of the destroyer. An entire panel disintegrated into a plume of steel sand, the cannon no more.

Diesel, Amara, and Hod grouped up beneath Chrona. Diesel helped coordinate people coming for healing while Amara stayed still. This wasn't her fight. Other Hod erupted in a plume if anything encroached, his shadows spreading over any it touched like an infection. Once darkened, the darkness over the Hybrids erupted into umbral flames.

They burned to nothing except a lingering shadow that dispersed like ash. It seemed like something from the void, and the powder left lingering shadows wherever it landed. Hod warped between these shadows like a businessman alt-tabbing at work while high on cocaine.

Of course, the enemy retaliated in kind. The largest shuttle of the enemy fleet charged up a rail cannon, ready to fire at Mt. Verner's center. As it lobbed out the projectile, three of the keeper golems lined up in front of it. The sky dimmed as the railgun fired with untold power, the blast's light blinding.

The first keeper slapped the projectile, redirecting it into the sky. The slug tore a hole in the atmosphere, and the clouds parted in an enormous circle above while a shockwave ushered outward. The second keeper contained the collision's blowback, preventing it from hurting anything nearby. The last keeper slammed into the vessel, tearing its weaponry from out of its side.

To the keeper, steel was tin, and flesh was paper.

The executive managed these golems' efforts and more, keeping the vanguards from killing uninfected passengers and assisting the architects with constructing temporary shelters. The executive even killed nearby Hybrids at the same time, offering combat support where possible.

All in all, they left me with nothing to do. In fact, Plazia and Shalahora watched the devastation nearby. Plazia rested on a basalt throne while Shalahora's form leeched out as if waiting to teleport. While ready for action, they didn't need to do much. I landed beside them, setting Florence down.

The albony brushed himself off.

"And here I thought I was why everyone was so angry. Who'd of guessed our secret meeting would be leaked before having an enemy force assault us. That, and half the luminari's procession turned into Hybrids all of a sudden."

Florence shivered.

"An eerie thing. They didn't even know what killed them."

It was like L-7's last battle. Many died from embedded Hybrids there as well. I raised my brow.

"I thought you said your luck stat was high?"

Florence shrugged.

"I like to think it makes a difference where it matters."

I watched a shuttle get taken by Helios.

"I didn't expect us to clean this up so easily."

Plazia nodded.

"Your guild gains experience and sharpens its fangs. This assault will emphasize their need for training, and those that laze about will no longer let their claws grow dull."

Shalahora murmured.

"They fight well, but I am watching and waiting. If something is awry, I shall handle it."

Plazia rumbled.

"I, as well. None shall die here under my watchful eyes."

Knowing these two could disassemble the invasion by themselves, I sat down and watched the show. After a few minutes, Florence passed out on the ground, his adrenaline utterly shot. The guy earned a nap. I made him a tent of marble and a bed of pine straw.

With the two world destroyers surveying the battle, I found a moment of peace amidst war. I meditated for a while. After an hour of fighting, I checked in. My guild's sharpness dulled, but so did the enemies. People still fought against the vessel's occupants, having cleared deep into each of the ships. In the close-quarters, hallway-based combat, Althea and Hod took center stage.

Althea tore open each of the doorways with a circular swipe of her hand. She used a tiny, unseen thorn from her fingertip. These holes were cut in such a way that they didn't make a sound while sliced. This left each room breachable without the enemy being aware. Furthering her reconnaissance, Althea moved room by room, phasing through walls like a ghost.

She reported what fought within the rooms before Other Hod swarmed in, killing hostiles but not neutral targets. Their teamwork and experience shined, each of them moving like clockwork. They cleared each of the tightly packed rooms in seconds, and vessel by vessel, the enemy's number dwindled.

It still required hours of concerted effort because of each spaceship's design. They were tightly intertwined lattices, like dense steel honeycombs. That composition absorbed railgun punctures in space, preventing the vessel from vomiting its guts out when pierced. Since each room could be locked down, this prevented the breathable air from belching out into the void.

This made sieging each vessel incredibly arduous if a force lacked the right skill set. Despite those innovations and difficulties, the enemy force fell by sunfall. As the sun set on the affair, our guild was victorious. Even with the scale and length of the conflict, we lost no one despite the chaos. Plazia, Shalahora, and Kessiah's interventions caused an absolute lack of casualties, two of them surveying the battlefield with a watchful gaze while the last member made up for any crippling mistakes.

It exposed how powerful they were, two of them a planetary influence and the last a walking ER. It gave me a sense of satisfaction knowing how powerful my allies were, but it also left me uneasy. If either Shalahora or Plazia turned on the guild, we'd be in hell and quickly.

I let my paranoia fade as the situation wrapped up. I also joined in the cleanup. On each infected vessel, I disintegrated all remains of the Hybrids. Their flesh, metal, and wires all melted into mana from Event Horizon, and my armor feasted on the clouds of energy. As I killed the blight, the Hybrids gazed at me with different bodies.

While still disgusting, Elysium improved their designs. Less a shamble of corded flesh, they bore sleeker forms without as much exposed tissue. Some of the orange pustules were covered in a clear glass, those spots longer pulsing like grotesque tumors. Even the faces held dark eyes like giant irises.

They were haunting.

Paired with each Hybrid were four-legged mole rats in jumpsuits. Even under folds of pink skin, their eyes stared at me with intelligence and dignity. They hissed in despair whenever I arrived, most surrendering but many choosing to die. Their dedication was...Humbling. On the other hand, the Elysium agents lacked that same resolve.

Whenever a situation became dire, they sent their Hybrids on a rampage. The destruction let them find avenues of escape in many circumstances, but not against me. They found no haven in their portals or escape in their smokescreens. I pulled them apart via gravitation, blood raining in and spurting like rapids in a flooding river.

It was something I hated about them. They had surgical precision and complete control over their Hybrids if they chose to be disciplined. However, whenever a situation stressed them out, they baled on their responsibilities. Despite years of progress in learning how to use the monsters, I still found civilians half consumed them.

Some of the noncombatants still lived as their blood, body, and bones were converted into steel. They screamed in agony, and I'd never forget the howling. I would make sure Elysium never did, either.

