In many portions of each vessel, uninfested groups huddled together, weeping. This was where I learned what species of alien these people actually were. They were glowing, phosphorescent aliens who screamed for mercy while Hybrids dug cords through them. I freed them with Event Horizon by vaporizing the majority of the Hybridized mass that latched onto them.

After I cleared the bulk of the infection, I handed them off to Althea and Kessiah. They worked in tandem. Althea helped Kessiah by operating on the aliens. Althea's slicing was more precise than any surgeon alive. Her hands danced over them, removing even thin wires and isolated, glowing tumors in seconds.

Althea left nothing within before Kessiah restored them. Anything these aliens lacked, Kessiah granted, from missing limbs to organs to blood. I marveled at how Kessiah could be given a limbless, eyeless, and faceless hunk of meat before turning it into a living, breathing alien. It was the closest thing to a miracle I'd ever seen.

Once healed, we could tell what they were supposed to look like. Most of the injured were a species known as the luminari. Their sleek, black frames outlined themselves in a white light. It was like a two-dimensional drawing in real life. Floating in their encapsulated darkness, collections of light skimmed the surface of their skins. This gave them dimension, and those luminescent dots changed color as their emotions shifted.

Green, violet, and turquoise, their emotional range exposed itself like a rainbow. Even if they were able to show different colors, they all changed to green when awakening. It was their shade of fear. Once they learned they were safe, they dimmed to a cool blue.

It was their color of sadness and exhaustion. We set up a medical bay of surgical tables and sanitized supplies. We left them under the moon and stars since it helped them regenerate. They didn't mind the open air or wind. In those cubicles, we let the luminari collect themselves for a few hours, each of them sleeping for a while.

After several hours of parsing through the mess, we found their leader. Well, the closest thing to one. The Hybrids devoured their generals until they looked less like a command chain and more like a food chain. Still, this was a noble luminari, and it sat upright despite its wounds. The alien communicated with pulses of light and sound. After talking to a field nurse, the luminari's lights danced across its surface as it gazed at me.

"Oh, mighty Harbinger, thank you for granting our kind asylum. Given the size and ferocity of your species, we expected a harsh world that would induce extreme evolutionary demands. Instead, we find this peaceful planet. It seems you're establishing a base here before conquering it. A wise choice from a wise leader."

The number of misunderstandings mounted, but I didn't have time to correct the guy. Having cleared the hulls and cracked some skulls, I gestured to Florence. Our resident diplomat clasped his hands together while facing me.

"Before we discuss the details, I want to thank you again for saving both of us."

I raised a palm.

"I appreciate the thanks, but I did send you on the mission. Honestly, preventing your death was the least I could do."

Florence's brow raised.

"Then what would be the most you could do?"

I frowned.

"Hm. I don't know. Why do you ask?"

Florence turned his hand to the luminari leader.

"Perhaps there's an opportunity to find out what can be done. Echo and his people need to find some way of fending off Elysium's invasion. I believe you're more than capable of doing that."

I closed my eyes. Yet again, a crisis wanted to pull me back from helping Earth and humanity. By now, I had freed the skeptiles, saved the gialgathens, uplifted the Vagni, and pulled the Eltari out of a dungeon. I'd saved five other races before taking even the most basic steps to helping humanity.Enough was enough. My voice was stone.

"Absolutely not. I'm not fighting someone else's war while people here are torn apart by monsters."

Florence stiffened.

"Well, you don't have to be so certain about it."

"The thing is, if I give you an inch, you'll take a mile."

Florence leaned back.

"Oh, come on. I'm not doing anything but advocating for these people."

I dragged my hand down my face.

"See, that's the problem. You're supposed to be advocating for us, not them."

Florence moved his hands in circles.

"In a sense, I am. Think about it; these people carry so much potential."

I let out a sharp sigh.

"So do the skeptiles, gialgathens, Vagni, and Eltari. How many species will I need to take under my wing before I even solidify Earth? How many other people's problems will I have to solve before I solve my own?"

Florence put a hand on his chest.

"None. I'm not asking you to siege this species' planet. I'm asking you to give them a fighting chance."

I pinched the bridge of my nose.

"Florence...You were supposed to gain us political leverage."

"This is political leverage."

I shook my head.

"And look how saving someone else worked with the albony. We gained a planet with constant rebellions and no official Schemic presence. We also got dragged into more conflict with Elysium. The only benefit I gained from working with Obolis was getting you and Helios working for me, but even that wasn't given. You two chose to join me on your own."

I sighed.

"In the end, we were dragged into a war that we barely scraped our way out of. Now, you're trying to drag us back in before we've even sent out a basic scouting mission on Earth."

A wave of emotion crossed over Florence's face. He settled on a cold, icy anger. His voice was a low boil, but it didn't sound like it was directed my way.

"I understand your sentiment, but fortunately for us, not every species is led by an egomaniacal tyrant. We're lucky that not all rulers value their personal collections over their families, people, and planets. Some rulers are actually grateful and will help wherever they can if given a chance to repay an old debt."

Since we last met, Florence had time to think about what happened in the lottery. With that updated understanding, Florence's opinion of Obolis had changed., soI let the guy get his anger out. He and I both knew the subject was a touchy one, like an exposed nerve.

I furrowed my brow.

"How are you holding up?"

Florence raised a shaking hand, holding his tongue. He swallowed a few choice words before letting out a sigh. His standing posture relaxed.

"I'm sorry for my tone. This has been...A trying time. I'm holding it together because of Helios and his support, but-"

Florence's voice cracked.

"I remember everyone I've lost. The homes. The friends. My family. It's all gone. Seeing these people suffer the same fate is like reopening old wounds that had hardly closed."

The depth of his loss loomed like an ocean. Unlike me, Florence invested in the people around him. He didn't get lost in his thoughts, operating in some internal world. Florence put himself out there, and he wore his heart on his sleeve. In response, the world ripped his sleeves and heart out. That's why I always found Florence's vulnerability brave.

I wished I'd been born the same, and that was why it hurt me to see Florence wounded by that same openness. Florence breathed in, pulling himself together.

"Daniel. I don't want what happened to the albony to happen to anyone else. I'm not saying we should fight Elysium for them. I'm saying we can at least give them a few weeks of safety so that they may regroup. Perhaps we may grant them a few golems for combat?"

Florence turned a palm to the luminari leader.

"I'm certain your people are more than fine with paying back a hefty loan given the circumstances?"

Echo's shade shifted from blue to amber. It shook its head with vigor.

"Oh yes. We would adhere to whatever requirements you demanded. We will give you anything we can."

I frowned.

"That's the thing. I can tell just by your species' combat abilities that you're not giving me any empowered relics or war machines. You guys lack firepower, and your economy is shot. You don't have anything you can give me that I actually want. This is going to be charity, and I'll be giving it out while the people on my own planet are eaten alive."

As the luminari heard my words, its reality set in. The leader's head lowered in a slow, heavy gaze.

"Oh...I see."

Florence's eyes brightened.

"Now, wait a minute, Daniel. While these people may not have anything you materially want, they can promise to enact whatever will you desire."

I frowned.

"That's the thing - I don't want slaves. That's actually the last thing I want."

Florence snapped his fingers.

"Precisely my point. I'm certain you saw the various, er-" Florence looked something up in his status. "Molerats in the shuttles, correct?"

"I did. They worked with Elysium. Well, most of them."

Florence grinned, his voice elated.

"They're the race that the luminaries enslaved."

"Huh...You seem really happy about that."

Florence waved his hands.

"Of course not. My point is that these people can promise to live their lives differently after we've helped them."

My eyes narrowed.

"How so?"

Florence paced in a direction, his hand raised. As he spoke, the negotiator within him crawled out of its shell.

"As you've said, the last thing you want is slaves. From what I've gathered, that's on a conceptual level, not just our empire, correct?"

My face wrinkled.

"That's true-"

"Then this is an opportunity to free a people without any of the repercussions seen on Giess. We can have the luminaries contractually obligated to free the molerats after we've saved them. We could enact this across the cosmos wherever Elysium has invaded. All that without fighting directly. This will grow your empire while purging a societal ill that should've ended long ago."

I furrowed my brow.

"Ok, I have to ask this before we continue. Are they really called molerats?"

Florence scoffed.

"No, their Xylojakovichianoradonitises. The name is...It's a horror, so I found an earthian equilivant."

My eyes widened.

"Wow. That's...That's a mouthful."

Florence waved his hand.

"But to further the point, I want to remind you of something. Daniel, you're a man of principles. You're someone who wants to improve the world and the universe as a whole. I've seen that in you, and that desire is something you've shown time and time again."

I raised a brow.

"Really? How?"

Florence turned a hand.

"You've saved multiple sapient species from extinction. You've assisted those on Earth without any reason to. You've even extended a helping hand to the Empire on a whim, of which Obolis never returned the favor. Despite that, you've been good to me and Helios."

Florence met my eye.

"You are a good soul."

I grimaced, remembering the bombing of espen cities and the people I killed.

"I don't know about that. In all honesty, I think people who don't know me can give a better answer to that question than I can."

Florence sighed.

"Then give those people something they can't refute. Here and now, you have an opportunity to do something great. If these people overturn Elysium, then the molerats will remain enslaved. If Elysium wins, the luminari will be gutted and strung up to dry. In essence, enslaved as well."

I pinched the bridge of my nose.

"Dammit."

Florence could tell he got me. He swung a hand.

"You are the only person in this situation armed with the agency needed to change this paradigm."

I nodded.

"I could win the luminari's war and dictate the terms of victory to my liking. But that's the issue. I could make things better or worse, and I can't tell which way the chips will fall in the end. Like with Giess, I don't know the situation. I'll also need to divert resources we could use to help settle Earth."

Florence's face wrinkled.

"You've seen the luminaries' planet being invaded. In the same vein, you've seen what occurred to the gialgathens without your intervention. Since then, Elysium's morality has only worsened."

Remembering Elysium carving on rulers' bones, I glared at the ground. I seethed.

"They're just absurdly evil. It's hard to believe at this point."

Florence stared at me.

"The luminaries will suffer the same fate as the gialgathens, and you have the opportunity to help alter the course of this tragedy."

My face softened.

"I tried and failed at that already. I contributed to the gialgathen's fall when I intervened on Giess. I was an icon for Elysium's rise to power. Remember the gray giant? I made a bad situation worse, and I tried to fix it after I learned about my mistake. But, it was far too late."

I took a breath, my eyes closed.

"I can't do that again."

Florence offered a hand.

"It was your first foray to another planet. You lacked perspective, personnel, and resources. You were focused on yourself, as you should've been. Now, the situation has changed. You can stop Elysium from decimating these people. We have the means. Besides for that, you won't need to do everything. Send a few golems and make it a volunteer project."

I raised a hand.

"Ok, let's assume I'm saying yes to what you want, which I'm not, but assuming I am, what would be my course of action?"

Florence grinned.

"Simple. We arm them with tools and combatants. And maybe an extra planet."

I frowned.

"An extra planet? Where do I have one of those?"

Florence gestured up at the vessels above.

"You have a few here in the solar system. We could perhaps even grant them one of the lifeless worlds in the Blegara system."

For a moment, I contemplated. Florence wasn't wrong about the situation. This was the second time an Elysium vessel landed on my planet, even if it was by accident or in chaos. They broached our treaty multiple times and in multiple ways. If anything, allowing this to go without retaliation might invite even more infringements.

