Typhenous stroked his beard. He looked at Revi, and she nodded. Halrac turned to Erin. She looked at him, then his teammates and laughed nervously.
“Aha. Ha. But you don’t mean that, right, Halrac? Right?”
“I do. I think it’s probably time. This is…as good an excuse as any.”
The [Scout] didn’t quite meet Erin’s eyes. But he was certain. Erin opened her mouth and closed it a few times.
“But—”
“That may be our cue as well.”
The voice came from behind them. Erin turned. Ylawes was on his feet. The [Knight] looked towards the door.
“We’re far enough north. We could begin looking for work at the first village we come across. And today’s job reminded me. We have been staying here a long time.”
“Without profit.”
Falene got up too. Dawil glanced at the two of them, then sighed and downed his mug. He got up.
“I suppose you’re right for once, lad. It has been fun, but if we’re all leaving, better to do it together.”
“Wait, wait. You’re not serious. Are you?”
Erin looked from Ylawes to Halrac. The [Scout] still had trouble meeting her eyes, but Ylawes came over. The [Knight] held out a hand as he removed his gauntlet.
“We’re truly grateful for your hospitality, Miss Erin. But my team and I came south to check on my sister. Since she no longer needs my help and she won’t come to our estates…I think this might be a proper opportunity to say goodbye as well.”
“But…now? The door’s just on the fritz. Don’t mind it.”
Erin kicked the door. She looked around. This was too sudden. And yet, it had been coming. And the third Gold-rank Captain who stood up confirmed it. Jelaqua had an odd smile on her face. Regretful, embarrassed. But she came to stand with Ylawes and Halrac.
“I guess we’ll do the same. Moore, Seborn? Guess we’ve got to pack. Toss everything in your bag of holding and get ready to go.”
Moore looked up. He was patting Mrsha’s head. Seborn stood up. Erin turned around.
“Wait, wait, wait. This is so fast!”
“But we have been thinking about it. We are going to Invrisil for a reason, Miss Solstice. But I think our paths will take us away from the City of Adventurers, at least for now.”
Typhenous spoke gently. Erin looked at Jelaqua.
“But you guys are taking the door, right? You don’t have to go. I mean, you’re not going. You can come back whenever! So it’s just…”
The Selphid waved her hand gently as she shook her head.
“Nah. Think about it. We’d have to charge up your door to let all three of us go back and forth, and we need to have a team watching that door, right? You wouldn’t be able to go to Pallass if we did that, anyways. So…we’ll head out. You might see us once or twice before we get to Invrisil, but I think it’s good to say goodbye. With the others. For solidarity.”
She couldn’t quite meet Erin’s eyes either. The [Innkeeper] looked around again. The Horns were staring at the other teams in surprise. But it was mild. In her heart, Ceria couldn’t be that shocked by the sudden decision. The Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, the Silver Swords…they were adventurers. Come to that, it was strange for Ceria to have stayed so long in Liscor. She didn’t stand up, though. She couldn’t do that to Erin.
The young woman was laughing a bit. But it faded away as she looked around.
“You’re serious. But why not go tomorrow?”
“Better today. We’ll get our things.”
“Oh. Okay. Um…but…”
Erin blinked as Halrac reached out. He changed the mana stone on the door and walked through to Liscor. She stared at the Silver Swords as they went through.
“But—”
“Let’s get our stuff. We’re not gonna run off, but we have, uh, stuff to pack. Lots of little shiny rolling things. Boys?”
Jelaqua headed up the stairs. Erin looked up as Moore got up. He gently put Mrsha on the floor and walked up the stairs. She faintly heard his voice and Jelaqua’s as Mrsha ran up after him.
“Does it have to be so soon, Jelaqua?”
“Hey. Do I look like I’m smiling? It’s just that if they’re going—you want to say goodbye later? It’s already hard…”
Someone opened a door, and the voices vanished. Erin looked around. The Horns were sitting in place. Lyonette and Ishkr blinked at her. And Erin panicked.
“Hold on. Hold on, cake! Ishkr, do we have any cake? Anything?”
She ran into the kitchen. Lyonette followed her in as Erin tore it apart, looking for cake or the ingredients for it. But she didn’t have anything festive. She still couldn’t keep ice cream without it melting.
And—it felt like a moment before both teams were back. After all, they just had to pay and put everything they needed into a bag of holding. It took them minutes. The door opened, and Griffon Hunt and the Silver Swords walked back in. Jelaqua, Moore, and Seborn were already sitting in the common room.
“Okay, there’s no cake or ice cream. But if you just hold on, I can make one. Give me an hour and I can whip something up! Or I can get Lasica and Rufelt to help me—”
Erin came back out of the kitchen and looked from face to face. It was Jelaqua who cut her off gently. The Selphid gripped Erin’s shoulder with a pale hand and smiled at her.
“It’s fine, Erin. You’ve done so much already. We don’t need a party. Honestly, I’d feel bad if you gave us one. We normally don’t stay so long in one place.”
“But this is so sudden! This is a snap decision! You shouldn’t make those! And you’re springing it on me without giving me a day to process it! Can’t you wait an hour? Can’t you—”
The [Innkeeper]’s voice faltered and broke. She looked around.
“Do you have to go so quick?”
The inn fell silent. The [Actors] on stage realized there was a real drama going on behind them and turned. The other patrons turned to stare. Perhaps this was why they’d come to begin with. To see a moment. But this was no [Immortal Moment]. And it was going far too fast.
“Just wait a day? Please? We can have a party.”
Erin implored Jelaqua. The Selphid did hesitate. And she did smile. But she shook her head.
“I think we’ve been doing that. Wait an hour and it becomes a day. Wait one day and it becomes a week. We got treasure from the dungeon, Erin. We did it. But we’re tired. I’m not going back in that dungeon. So…it’s time to go.”
She looked around. Ylawes nodded. Halrac finally looked up. He met Erin’s eye.
“It is. And it’s easier this way. Which is why we’re going. It’s time to say our goodbyes.”
It did feel too soon. It did feel abrupt. But as all three teams looked at each other, they knew it was time. Jelaqua had spoken the truth. You could put off going again and again. But you’d never feel like it was the right time to go.
“Well—well, you have to wait one second! I’m not letting you go empty-handed!”
Erin looked around defiantly. She ran into the kitchen and rushed out. She shoved a small canteen into Halrac’s hands.
“Here. Faerie Flower drink. And for you guys, I’m making a lunch basket. At least for Moore! And—and Dawil can fill his water flask with that stupid lager and—”
“Erin.”
Ceria stopped her. The young woman looked up as Ceria grabbed her by the arm. Ceria wanted to tell Erin to stop overreacting. That it was just a goodbye. That they’d be back. But she couldn’t, because as she looked into Erin’s face, she saw the girl’s eyes were overflowing.
She was crying. And when the adventurers saw that, they felt…terrible. And they knew it was beyond time to go. Because she was an [Innkeeper]. And they were adventurers.
They could not stay forever.
There was no party. And it was a split decision. But there was a formality to it nonetheless. The teams went one at a time. The Silver Swords were first. Ylawes, wearing the silvery armor that still shone by virtue of polishing. Dawil stood next to him, taller than you’d think a Dwarf could be, a hand on his hammer. Was he blinking too fast? Falene was dry-eyed as she held her staff. But she bent her head and nodded to Erin.
“It was a pleasure.”
“You helped my sister and I in countless ways, Erin. I cannot thank you enough for your hospitality.”
The young woman sniffed and rubbed at her nose and eyes as she looked up at Ylawes.
“I thought you were a jerk! And I know you’re sort of a jerk, Falene. Dawil is cool.”
“Hah! Hear that?”
The Dwarf nudged his companion. Falene almost smiled as she looked down at Erin. And then Ylawes knelt. As a [Knight] might to a [Princess]. He held Erin’s hand for a second before he stood.
“We didn’t converse often, it’s true. And I think your…Hobgoblin friends affected how we interacted. I do wish we could have spoken longer, Miss Solstice. But it isn’t a farewell forever. The Silver Swords are always roaming. And if we ever pass by Invrisil or Liscor in the future…”
He drifted off. His eyes went back to Erin as he stepped back. Falene was next. She looked down awkwardly at Erin and sniffed.
“It was a pleasure. At times. Your inn is quite fascinating, Miss Solstice. Even if we haven’t spoken—”
“I didn’t mean you were a jerk, jerk.”
Erin snuffled. Falene tapped her cheek, and Erin’s running nose and tears dried for a second. The half-Elf looked at Erin, looking uncomfortable. Then she nodded to herself and adopted a lecturing, familiar tone. But a caring one.
“Be cautious of Wistram, Miss Solstice. I have no doubt they’ll be interested in that door of yours. As will others. I suggest you refuse all offers and invest in some form of security. And if you should need a proper [Enchanter], try Hedault in Invrisil when your door is active. Inform him that Falene of the Silver Swords recommends you and he might be more inclined to entertain your requests. As for the rest, I can only bid you good luck and farewell. I am sure we will meet again. For what is time to half-Elves?”
Erin snuffled. Falene yelped as an arm thrust her aside. Dawil took her place.
“You are terrible at goodbyes, Pointy. Which is my new name for you.”
He turned to Erin, who was laughing in between her tears. She looked at him.
“I met a Dwarf in Pallass! I was going to tell you all about him! His name is Pelt and—do you have to go? Can’t you talk sense into Ylawes and…everyone?”
The Dwarf smiled into his beard. He held Erin’s hand, patting it gently.
“I’d love to. But what do you do when they’re speaking it? As for Dwarves—I told you! We don’t all know each other. But I do know that one. Watch out for him, lass. He got kicked out of our people’s home for a big mistake. Not really his fault; he was only one of the smiths. There was this thing with the forge master, you see—but that’s his tale.”
He took a breath and shook his head.
“I’d stay if I could. You’re generous, the inn’s fun, and even if you don’t sell enough good alcohols, I like it here. We’ll be back. For what’s time to a Dwarf? A lot, that’s what! But I’ll be sure to make the boy and Pointy drop by.”
“Thanks.”
Erin gripped Dawil’s hand. He eyed the knife in the little sheath at her side.
“Nice work. You keep yourself safe now, you hear?”
He stepped back. Next came the Halfseekers. Jelaqua, wearing leather armor instead of an enchanted artifact, her skin pale and dead. But her eyes alive. Seborn, half-man, half crustacean, but more than the sum of his parts, nimble as a cat. Moore, stooping, eyes already filled with his own tears. Gentle and mighty.
Jelaqua wasn’t crying. She was hiccupping, though.
“I said I wouldn’t cry. Seborn, you go first. I can’t.”
She turned away. And Erin realized the body she wore wasn’t crying. But someone inside it was. Seborn went first.
“I think we haven’t spoken much either.”
“But you’re cool. Like sea-Batman.”
The Drowned Man smiled. His crab hand opened and closed softly.
“I have no idea what that means. But I seldom do with you. You’ve been kind, Erin Solstice. That’s a rarity for Drowned Folk. If we meet again, if you meet one of my kin, I hope you’ll treat them just as well. Thank you. That’s all I can say.”
He stepped back. Moore was next. A big tear fell from his eyes.
“This is always so hard. No—this is uniquely hard. Miss Erin, your inn was the most comfortable place I’ve stayed in years. And Mrsha, Lyonette…if I could stay, I would. But I buried my friend here. And my companions are going. We have to start again. I’m afraid…but I will remember your kindness.”
He bent, and Erin gave him a tight hug. Jelaqua was next. She was still hiccupping.
“This is…this is so embarrassing. Erin, I—you’re my favorite [Innkeeper]. I’d stay. I would. But I’ll get fat, and Moore will get way too attached, more than he is already. And where would we be? I…this is hard. But we have to go. But we will come back. Promise.”
She gripped Erin’s arms. Then she hugged Erin. The Halfseekers joined the Silver Swords. And then only Griffon Hunt was left. They walked forwards. Halrac, his dour expression for once struggling to hide something. Revi, tugging on her strings, looking embarrassed and sad. And Typhenous, looking…melancholy. Happy and old, as if he remembered his age suddenly. Halrac spoke abruptly.
“It was worth the trip. If Ulrien were here, he would have said so. I wish you could have talked longer with him, Erin. But it was worth it. Thank you.”
He turned away. Erin tackled him from behind. She hugged him as the [Scout] froze. She only let go once she was done. He was blushing as she turned.
“I’ll miss you!”
“And we’ll miss you. Despite everything. Somehow, this was fun.”
Revi held out her hand. Erin took it. The Stitch-Woman surprised Erin by hugging her.
“Who ever knew that a strange skeleton would lead us here? You stay safe. You’re insane and crazy, and I hope your inn does well. We’ll be back. And you just wait for us. We’ll be properly famous, then.”
She let go. Typhenous was last. He stroked his beard as he looked at Erin, at her inn.
“Ah, Miss Solstice. I don’t know what to make of you. I don’t know what to say of your inn. I owe you my apologies for my impositions. Thanks for all you’ve done. I still owe you a debt. And I will repay it someday. But for now, we must away. And so I can only leave you with this.”
He bent and gently hugged Erin. Then he stepped back.
There they were. Nine adventurers. Three teams. They looked at Erin, and she was overcome. So, to let her say something, and because they were left, all three teams said their farewells to the Horns of Hammerad.
Ceria, Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr shook hands and exchanged hugs. Each of the adventurers had advice for them, each in their own way, stern and caring, abrupt and funny.
“Don’t be afraid to run away.”
“You’re not Gold-ranks yet. But you have potential. Keep practicing until you can properly call yourselves Wistram mages.”
