“Uh oh.”
Pisces’ voice made Ceria look up. His eyes were suddenly locked on the cave. He licked his lips.
“Ah. Er—back up. Back—oh dear.”
“Pisces? Something wrong?”
The [Necromancer] didn’t respond at first. The buzzing inside the cave had reached a crescendo. Ceria exchanged a glance with Falene.
“Pisces?”
“The, uh—the Bone Horror began demolishing the hive. But—oh no. The bees are covering the Bone Horror.”
“So what? They can’t hurt it, right?”
“That was my assumption. And I thought the flames they emitted weren’t hot enough to—but it is very hot, and I think the bone is—the bone is cracking­—”
Ceria heard a snap at the same time Pisces yelled. She jumped. The cracking had come from the cave! Pisces stumbled back.
“Pisces?”
“They broke it! I just lost my connection! They burnt my Bone Horror to pieces! And they’re coming! Raise a barrier!”
He pointed towards the cave. Ceria blinked. She raised her hand and looked at Falene.
“[Ice Wall].”
“[Bone Wall]!”
“[Force Barrier]. It’s hardly an issue. They won’t be able to—”
The walls of bone and ice were rising out of the ground, sealing off the cave. They made it halfway up, Ceria’s ice spell racing up faster than Pisces’ bone magic, when there was a thrumming sound. And then a few hundred bees blasted out of the cave.
A flaming, flying fireball of insects smashed into the growing bone wall, blowing it to pieces. Ceria saw her ice wall melt in a second. The bees shot towards the entrance and stopped, ramming into something at the entrance. Falene’s [Force Wall] bulged but held. Falene staggered. And suddenly her expression had grown intense. Her eyes widened, and she raised her staff and planted it in the ground.
“Oh tree rot. My wall just—”
“Raise another! Now!”
Falene shouted at her. Behind her, the other adventurers looked around and saw the bugs swarming at the entrance. Ceria tried.
“Okay, it’s coming up! It should—grass shit! They just melted it!”
Her ice wall got hallway up before the heat melted straight through the wall. Ceria tried again, but her ice magic couldn’t even get close to the bees.
“Pisces? How’s that bone?”
“It’s cracking! They’re too hot! We underestimated them! Back up!”
He grabbed Falene, but the half-Elf shook him off. She had planted her staff in the ground.
“If I move, the [Force Barrier] will break. I’m—holding them—Ylawes, Dawil!”
“Here!”
The other adventurers raced up towards the cave. Ylawes stared at the bees, then at Ceria and Pisces.
“The Bone Horror—”
“They turned it to ash! They’re a lot hotter than I thought they were! We need to pull back!”
“You can’t outrun bees! Aw, hell! Moore! Cover me in vines! I’m going to get in there. You cover me while I knock as many down as I can. If I can get enough—”
“We’re with you.”
“Indeed. Allow us to be sacrificial decoys while the [Mages] retreat. Then we shall retreat, assuming we are alive.”
Yvlon lifted her sword. Ksmvr had already readied his Forceshield and shortsword. Ylawes looked at Jelaqua and held out a hand.
“No.”
“Ylawes—”
“I meant Ksmvr. Yv, put your helmet on. Shield your face. Borrow Ksmvr’s shield. Dawil?”
“Helmet on. Face covered. Just block the bees and our armor will hold. Got it?”
The [Warriors] nodded. They were squaring up, facing the cave. Jelaqua cursed as she lifted her flail.
“Moore! Thorns on all of us! Can you do a face covering? Ah, hells, hells—I’m just glad we have more bodies back at Erin’s inn! Falene, let us get close! Can you set up some spells? Ceria? Pisces? We could use a trap or spell!”
“I can’t do anything. I can only hold this barrier, and it’s draining my mana too quickly to—”
Falene was gasping. Ceria looked around, trying to figure out what she could do.
“I can throw some ice magic, but they’ll melt it! Hold on—”
“No time. I’ll hit them with a lightning spell as they come out, but I don’t know [Lightning Bolt]. Ceria, start running. I’ll pick up Falene and [Flash Step] after you. Ksmvr. Run! Moore as well!”
Pisces’ face was tense. Ksmvr looked around as he handed his shield to Yvlon.
“I believe it is time to run, friend Moore. We are useless and fragile. Friend Moore? Hello?”
“I can’t keep holding it—”
“Let it go in ten seconds! Get ready!”
Ylawes strode up towards the entrance. He’d raised his shield in front of his face. Dawil took his left side, Yvlon his right. Jelaqua was already waiting. The Selphid turned back to face the others.
“They’re going to come out in one mass. Cover your faces and maybe you won’t get stung too bad. But we have to be bait. Get in there, kill that queen. Got it?”
“I believe we might be in trouble.”
Ksmvr was tugging on Moore’s arm. Falene gasped.
“I can’t—”
“Run!”
Pisces grabbed Falene and lifted her up in both arms with a grunt. The willowy half-Elf yelped, and her spell went out. The bees buzzed forwards as Ceria, already running backwards and shouting for the others to follow, fired an [Ice Spike] at the fireball. She watched it melt as the Ashfire Bees blasted forwards—
“[Earthen Spire].”
A quiet voice interrupted the shouting. As Ceria ran past Moore, the half-Giant tapped his staff on the ground. A wall of stone shot up, a huge rocky stalactite four times as thick as Ceria or Pisces’ spells. It shot up like lightning. Ceria, looking back over her shoulders, saw the bees flashing towards the cave’s entrance for only a second before a crash of sound and spray of rocks made the adventurers near the cave flinch back.
Ceria ducked as some rocks blasted out, but they were only fragments. She saw a few bees buzzing around the entrance, heard a dull buzzing from within, and then there was silence. She stared at the cave. The entrance was completely closed off by…stone. Actual stone, not a temporary magical conjuration. The other adventurers looked around. Moore exhaled slowly. His plain walking staff raised, and he straightened his shoulders. He regarded his work, then looked around.
“I think most of them avoided that. But the cave’s sealed. I don’t believe Ashfire Bees can dig, and the spire is solid stone. Is everyone alright?”
The adventurers gaped at him. Falene, sweating heavily, kicked in Pisces’ arms. He dropped her. The half-Elf floated before she could land in the muck and righted herself. She walked over to Moore, reached out, and held out a hand. He bent down and offered her an arm. Falene leaned on it. She wiped some sweat from her elegant locks and then looked at Ceria and Pisces. She pointed at Moore.
“That would be the difference between a Gold-rank [Mage] and you two.”
Ceria stared at Moore and couldn’t find any reason to disagree.
 
——
 
“Okay group, what did we do wrong?”
The adventurers trooping back to Liscor on foot looked over. Jelaqua clapped her hands, smiling with her pale lips. It sounded lighthearted, but it was a serious question. Ceria hesitated. Ksmvr raised his hands, two of them at once.
“If I may, Captain Ivirith, I would venture to say that our teams took this assignment too lightly. We underestimated both the heat and offensive force of the Ashfire Bees, who were able to destroy Comrade Pisces’ Bone Horror with ease.”
“Ridiculous. I solidified the bone. That bear weighed over two hundred pounds without flesh! Even if it had been burnt in a bonfire, it wouldn’t have expired half as quickly—”
Ksmvr went on, ignoring Pisces for once.
“Moreover, Miss Skystrall’s spell, while effective, was flawed in that she was unable to use additional spells, which she no doubt possessed. And the Ashfire Bees were unable to be contained by either Comrade Pisces or Captain Ceria’s magic alone.”
Ceria winced. That was true. She’d been about as useful as a shroom back there. Her [Ice Wall] spell, which was so powerful usually, had been as effective as a sneeze at stopping the Ashfire Bees when they were on fire. Jelaqua nodded at Ksmvr, grinning.
“Sounds about right. But don’t be too hard on Ceria or Pisces, eh, Ksmvr? Us warriors couldn’t do much more than act as meat shields. If I had brought a few high-grade alchemy potions, we could have done something. But we should have had another fallback. Good job Moore was testing out his new spell, huh?”
“Indeed. His actions saved us much death and casualty.”
“Yeah. Good job, big guy!”
Jelaqua slapped Moore on the back. Ylawes nodded. Dawil nudged Moore’s thigh. Ceria and Pisces also voiced their agreement. Moore blushed.
“I was only relieved it worked.”
“Was that a new spell?”
Yvlon glanced up at Moore. The half-Giant nodded.
“I acquired it after the battle with the Redfang tribe. I’d leveled up from the dungeon, but this was the first spell I earned. And it is…rewarding.”
A small smile spread across his broad face. Falene, walking by him, nodded as proudly as if she were a doting mother. Ceria glanced at Pisces. His eyebrows were raised. They began to whisper to each other as Liscor’s gates came into view.
“Tree rot, I thought we were in trouble, Pisces.”
“I as well. That was a…commendably powerful spell.”
“No kidding? That was strong! Sealing caves aside, imagine being hit by that? He could wipe out our entire group in one shot! That’s either Tier 3 or Tier 4. Well, a fireball’s Tier 3—”
“But that rock stays in place. Definitely Tier 4. It’s earth manipulation. Quite powerful. You know, I had heard other [Mages] had different areas of strength, but I’d forgotten how useful earth magic is with its permanence. It shapes the earth, whereas [Ice Magic] is quicker, but less malleable, less durable—”
“And it melts. Yeah. We suck.”
“Indeed. Hello, Captain Ceria, Comrade Pisces. I am reflecting on my worthlessness as well. I am very depressed.”
Ksmvr popped up between Ceria and Pisces. They jumped. Yvlon walked forwards to join them, shaking her head.
“We made a bad call, Ksmvr. Don’t beat yourself up over it.”
“My remonstrations are purely mental agony, Yvlon.”
“Don’t do that either. We’re lucky we had the Silver Swords and Halfseekers to bail us out.”
“And don’t you forget it! Aw, don’t worry though. Live and learn! We got out of this alive! So I’ll forget that none of us thought to make a backup plan either! Selphid’s tits, I’m not taking a contract on Ashfire Bees again!”
Jelaqua laughed behind them. Dawil nodded.
“Stroke of fortune we were all here. We’ve gotten complacent after the dungeon. But we learned our lesson, eh? Speaking of which, Jelaqua.”
“Hm? What’s that, Dawil?”
“You said Selphid’s tits. That a common Balerosian expression?”
“Eh, pretty much. Why?”
“Well, I was wondering. Do Selphids have—”
Ylawes coughed. He nudged Dawil hard, his face red.
“Dawil. That’s not polite conversation.”
Jelaqua grinned.
“Hey, I don’t mind. And I could tell you the answer, but I could also show you. Anyone? Uh…anyone?”
The other adventurers laughed. Ceria shook off the moment of robes-soiling fear and filed the moment of trauma away for later reflection. She walked back into Liscor, listening to a convoluted description of Selphid anatomy until they got to the Adventurer’s Guild.
“Hey, Selys! We’re back!”
Jelaqua sang out as they pushed the door open. Selys was sitting at the desk, chatting with another Drake [Receptionist]. She looked up.
“Oh? You killed the Ashfire Bees, then?”
Jelaqua looked back at Ceria. The half-Elf sighed. She’d been the one to take the contract, so she had to explain.
“Sealed. Not destroyed. Uh, we’re giving credit to the Halfseekers. You see…”
She gave Selys a truncated explanation of what had happened with Jelaqua throwing in little asides. Selys blinked, but she nodded at the end of Ceria’s story.
“Sounds like you handled it. And sealed works as well as destroyed. The nest will starve itself out. I’ll see about putting out a warning for no one to try and unseal the cave—not that I’d know why. Some paint will do that. Let me just write that down…and your reward. To the Halfseekers, I guess.”
“Aw, we don’t need—”
“You sealed it, it’s yours.”
Ceria indicated Jelaqua should take the gold and silver coins. The Selphid demurred for another second, but then scooped up the coins.
“I guess we won’t argue over it. I sign for completion, right, Selys?”
“That’s right. Normally we can’t give you the money until we confirm the cave’s sealed, but a Gold-rank team is trusted. And…yes, that’s all. Thanks!”
“Ah, perks of the job. Well, shall we head back to the inn?”
Jelaqua grinned at the others. Ceria nodded. She looked around.
“Are the other teams in the dungeon?”
“The…Wings of Pallass are in. So are the Flamewardens. I haven’t seen Gemhammer, and the Pride of Kelia is hunting some Shield Spiders.”
“Got it. Well, we’ll head back to the inn. Everyone else coming? First round’s on me.”
Still a bit shamefaced, Ceria waved at the others. Jelaqua laughed.
“You mean, on us! Why not? We should relieve Griffon Hunt. They’re dragging that door along. Selys, will you join us?”
She looked at the Drake. Selys sighed.
“I’d love to. But I’m still working. Tell Erin I might stop by tonight.”
“If we see her. She’s usually at Pallass. She likes it there. Says it’s exciting.”
“She does?”
Selys rolled her eyes. The Drake sitting next to her jabbed her with a claw.
“Told you. You should go with sometimes, Selys! With your…four thousand gold pieces?”
“Maviss!”
Ceria left the guild as the two [Receptionists] began bickering again. She walked towards the door to The Wandering Inn, talking with the other adventurers, arguing with Falene over which spells she had to learn, cheering up Pisces over his lost bones and destroyed Bone Horror, and checking the sun high in the sky and wondering if it was too early to drink. It felt like another day of peace after the travails of the past.
And like all things, it couldn’t last.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was not a busy place anymore. It had been. Somehow, the inn, which had been rebuilt and operated only for a handful of months, had gone through a golden age, a dark age, and a Goblin age, not to mention the good old…ages, when a skeleton had been waiting the tables and Erin’s signature drink of choice was blue and slightly poisonous.
Well, those days were gone. All of them. And the days of Erin’s full inn with audiences watching the Players of Celum on stage were gone. As were the Goblins. Now all that remained were adventurers and a handful of Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans from Liscor and Celum who trickled in and out, sometimes only to order a hamburger, pizza, cake, or another one of the unique foods Erin had pioneered.
