“Falene, what would you have me do? March up to them and demand a share? That’s not honorable or fair. Or likely. We don’t even know how they got it.”
“The Goblins gave it to them.”
Falene and Ylawes looked down at Dawil. The two Gold-rank adventurers stared as he walked along. Dawil eventually noticed and glanced up.
“What?”
“How do you know that, Dawil? None of the others would give me a straight answer.”
“Nor I.”
“That’s because you asked them. I asked him. Numbtongue.”
“…That worked?”
The [Axe Champion] sighed gustily. He looked up at Ylawes and shook his head.
“Have you not noticed what those Goblins are like, lad? After all this time? Yes, it worked. I bought him two drinks—which really was me giving Erin money since he doesn’t pay for anything in her inn—and apologized for Falene after that mana stone thing. Talked a bit with him about mana stones and how Dwarves use them, you know, for runes? I didn’t even have to press him. I asked and he told me. They knew where the Raskghar’s treasure was hidden. Turns out it was in a separate room from the rest that the Cave Goblins all knew about. So they brought it out.”
“Just like that. And they gave it to the other teams? Not ours? Why?”
“Apparently, they thought it was fair. And they don’t like our team. Seems they were the Goblins in Esthelm we met.”
“The Goblins in—”
“Stop gawping. Or did you not recognize them? I recognized that archer. And you were suspicious.”
Ylawes had to admit that was true. He looked at the wagon and shook his head. Part of him wanted to sit down and—but it was far too late for that. He felt a pang in his chest.
“Still. I suppose that explains it. And Falene, if the Goblins gave it to them, that was their choice. So—”
“I’m not dropping it! You’re holding back because of your [Knight] class, but I demand a vote! Dawil! Are you with me or not?”
Falene growled at the Dwarf and Human. She stomped along, her ears twitching violently. It was the most worked up either had seen her. Ylawes blew out his cheeks exasperatedly. But Dawil took a level tone, which was surprising given how often he needled Falene. But his tone was serious.
“Falene. It’s fair. And before you turn on me, let me explain.”
He held up a hand as Falene whirled on him. Dawil waited until she was listening and then pointed at the teams. At Halrac and Typhenous, who’d rejoined Revi on the cart. At the Halfseekers, who’d given up on making Seborn talk.
“Yes, we fought as much as they did. Yes, we didn’t get any coin. But it is fair. It’s their reward for going in first. For being the ones who went in and died. All of them buried teammates here. Ulrien. Ceria’s team. Yvlon’s team. The other Silver-ranks. Even the Halfseekers buried their old companion, traitor though he was. You want a vote, Falene? I say drop it.”
The half-Elf turned to Dawil. He held her gaze, and Ylawes, watching them, saw a flash between them. Dwarf and half-Elf. For all they got on each other’s nerves, they shared a bond. That hint of timelessness. That age that sometimes left him feeling like a boy, as when they’d first met. At last, Falene’s shoulders sagged. Dawil smiled. He patted Falene on the arm and looked at Ylawes.
“So. Liscor was a bit of a gauntlet at times. Fun at others. But what do you say, lad? Another adventure?”
Ylawes smiled. He looked at the blue sky ahead of them. And he remembered the death and chaos and…pain that had haunted Liscor. Something, a knot in his chest, loosened. Underneath the clear sky and the sun, he held out a hand. Dawil placed his palm over it.
“Another adventure. It would be my honor, friends.”
Both looked at Falene. The half-Elf hesitated, but then she nodded regally. She laid her delicate palm over the two of theirs.
“Very well. I suppose someone has to be the adult here.”
Dawil laughed, and Ylawes had to smile. Falene gave them an arch look, but then relented and smiled as well. Ylawes looked around.
“There’s a village that way. I think we’ll pass through it. Make our goodbyes then.”
And so they did. There was no long farewell as there had been with Erin. No tears either. But all three teams exchanged handshakes, or a gentle hug between Moore and Falene, much to the half-Giant’s surprise.
“You were a stick in the mud. But a good one, and you were a sight during the Face-Eater Moth attack. It was fun adventuring with your team too. Good luck, you guys.”
Jelaqua squeezed Ylawes’ hand as she met his eyes and he looked into her dead ones. Ylawes wanted to tell Jelaqua she was the first Selphid he’d truly met and that he had more respect for her people after meeting her. But one look told him she knew that.
“An honor, Miss Ivirith.”
She grinned at him and turned to shake Dawil’s hand. Then Ylawes took Halrac’s hand. The [Scout] didn’t smile. But he nodded, one adventurer to another.
“Best of luck, Ylawes. If we meet again, let’s share a drink.”
That was a proper adventuring goodbye. No fancy oaths. Just a promise to drink together if they survived. And it was enough. Coming from Halrac, it meant a lot.
“Don’t be a stranger!”
Jelaqua called out as the Silver Swords stopped in the village the road was leading them past. Falene waved at Moore.
“Farewell.”
Moore’s eyes were a bit misty. But there weren’t any tears as he waved goodbye to Falene. The other two teams went onwards. But the Silver Swords walked into the village. And the villagers stopped to stare.
Of course they stared. One team of adventurers as peculiar as the Halfseekers was a sight to see, much less three Gold-rank teams at once. And here was a [Knight], standing in their village! Was he on a quest? On some dire errand? Ylawes walked into the square and raised his voice.
“Good people of Ambault. I am Ylawes of the Silver Swords. My team will be passing through this area today. If anyone has a request, a need, seek us out now or on the road.”
They stirred at that. The Silver Swords. Back around Liscor, Ylawes’ team was only a name. But further north, it was a story. One of the villagers hurried forwards.
“Sir. Are you the Ylawes who liberated the town of Ryhm from those Trolls two years back?”
“That was us, sir. Have you a problem?”
Ylawes shook the man’s hand firmly. The villager sucked in his breath.
“Not me. But my sister—she lives closer to the High Passes. South and west of here. Further along the mountain range than the entrance, so she thought she was safe. But after Lord Tyrion’s army passed through and those Goblins—there was trouble. Eater Goats. And then, following them, Gargoyles. Sir, she and her village haven’t enough gold to hire proper Silver-ranks for the job, much less Gold. A bounty’s been out for the past two weeks, but no one’s taken it. If you could think about—”
“Of course.”
The man blinked. Ylawes had replied with the speed of someone utterly set in his course—or someone not thinking at all. He stared up at Ylawes, but the [Knight]’s eyes were firm.
“If there are Gargoyles, we’ll take care of them. The Adventurer’s Guild has a bounty on their heads. Your sister doesn’t need to worry about the price. Let me know where her village is and we’ll head there directly. We may need to purchase horses.”
“I—I could lend you some. Or sell you them if need be. You could bring them to my sister’s—she lives near Orefell. Thank you, Sir Ylawes!”
The man grasped his hand. Ylawes shook it a second time.
“What’s your name, sir?”
“Ambriel, sir. Bless you. You just showed up. And my sister’s village is in dire need. They lost eight folks already, and the Gargoyles have eaten half a flock—”
A crowd was gathering. People were listening in, not even hiding the fact. Neither Ylawes nor Ambriel kept their voices down either. The [Knight] asked a few questions and turned.
“We will be there as soon as we can. Falene? Horses. Mister Ambriel will lend us some, but we need saddles. Dawil?”
“Potions. Aye, lad. I’m on it. Hey, is there a [Herbalist] around here? A [Healer] or [Alchemist]? Damn, we should have stocked up more on Octavia’s stuff. But I have three potions, and…”
The two adventurers hurried off. Ylawes turned. The [Knight] looked at Ambriel. The man was still blinking at him. It was a familiar sight to Ylawes.
“And you don’t need a fee besides the bounty the Adventurer’s Guild set? You’ll go straight off?”
He looked at Ylawes, as if he couldn’t believe it. The [Knight] smiled. He shook his head, amused.
“Of course. Where else would we be?”
There was something so pure, so childlike and honest about his expression that some of the villagers had to look away. Falene came back with the horses, and Dawil with some cheap potions a few minutes later. Ylawes mounted up and pointed.
“Silver Swords—forwards!”
 
——
 
The second parting was less dramatic. It came at a fork in the road. Halrac had seen the sign, so he asked Revi to stop the wagon. She hopped down, and the [Scout] pointed.
“We’ll go too. This road takes us west of Invrisil, which is where we’re headed to begin with. We might see each other again. If we do…”
He held out a hand awkwardly. Jelaqua took it.
“A drink. Don’t be strangers, you lot. It was a pleasure to work with each other, truly.”
“It was a pleasure, Moore.”
“I haven’t apologized for hitting you when we first met, have I?”
The half-Giant shook Typhenous’ hand. Seborn nodded to Revi.
“Best of journeys.”
“And to you. Uh—we don’t really know each other.”
“No.”
“But we are pals, aren’t we?”
Jelaqua laughed. Halrac smiled. Griffon Hunt watched as Seborn clambered up and began to drive the wagon away as Jelaqua and Moore walked together next to it. Then they turned and began heading west and north.
“Damn. Now I feel terrible saying that to Seborn. I liked him. I just…didn’t speak to him enough.”
Revi muttered at her hand. Typhenous smiled. He glanced twice at Halrac’s back before speaking softly to Revi.
“I’m sure he had nothing but goodwill, Revi. And, ah, we’ve had enough goodbyes.”
“True. I’m exhausted.”
Revi yawned and stretched. She lowered her arms and looked between Typhenous and Halrac. Neither man said anything. Revi scowled. Then she glanced over her shoulder, the way they’d come.
“Did you see the Silver Swords? Just walked into a village and asked if anyone needed help, like the old days. Didn’t ask about money—not that anyone in that village looked like they could pay. Think they’ll sort out those Gargoyles?”
“No doubt. Ylawes promised, and the Silver Swords don’t go back on their word.”
Halrac grunted. Revi eyed him.
“So how do they make ends meet? Taking a few lucrative jobs every now and then? They had good gear, but if they’re spending as much on potions as they make from killing monsters…”
“You’d be surprised how many old grandmothers will pull out a family heirloom or remember an old dungeon or buried treasure when a handsome [Knight] rides in and cuts off a monster’s head without asking for a reward. It’s a viable tactic.”
“So why don’t we do it?”
“Because not all grandmothers have artifacts under their beds, Revi.”
“Ah.”
The [Summoner] walked along in silence. Then she threw up her arms.
“Alright, spill it! What were you two talking about? And don’t lie or I’m summoning a Shield Spider and loosing it on both of you!”
She glared at Typhenous and Halrac. The old [Mage] looked down. Halrac turned his head. His glare was back in full force.
“Typhenous added gold to our bag of holding.”
“What?”
“He added nearly seven thousand gold pieces.”
“Seven tho—how?”
The [Scout] clenched one hand into a fist.
“He wouldn’t say. Typhenous?”
The old man looked up and met the [Scout]’s eyes. Typhenous shook his head slowly.
“Ah, Halrac. If you have to ask, you know. I have contacts. I have a past.”
“And you used those contacts and that past. If you did half the things I’m imagining, give me a reason I shouldn’t shoot you here and now.”
Revi paled. Halrac had a hand on his quiver. And she knew he could nock and loose and arrow faster than she or Typhenous could move. The [Mage] kept Halrac’s gaze.
“I told you. I did nothing to harm any of our team or our friends. And I will swear that on a truth spell.”
Halrac’s white-knuckled grip loosened only slightly.
“You will. And you will tell me everything you did, or I will kick you out of this team and more.”
“Of course. But I didn’t want to speak of it with Miss Falene eavesdropping. Wistram [Mages] have the habit. And some things aren’t…wise to speak of in the open.”
Both Halrac and Revi looked around. But there was no one to listen. Still, they understood the warning. Typhenous shook his head.
“You may not be pleased, Halrac. I will admit, at first my actions were simply…selfish. But later on, I did try and use them to help Miss Solstice. And I did this for the team. All the gold I was given is in our bag of holding. As it should be.”
Halrac’s grip was still tight on his bow. But he eventually nodded.
“There’s no help for it. Telling the others would have been a mistake. But mark me—we will have a discussion. Ulrien told you—”
“I know. But that is who I am, Halrac. And I have a greater debt to the team than anyone else. I was the one who brought us low.”
Typhenous leaned on his staff. His voice, confident before, became weaker. Pleading. Revi looked at him with concern. Halrac turned forwards again. His voice was cold.
“You’re a team member. The mistakes the team made aren’t any one person’s fault. Ulrien and I both approved.”
“And I cast the spell.”
Typhenous’ voice rasped painfully. There was nothing more to say after that. Revi walked between the two, silent. After a long time, perhaps thirty minutes as they passed through the outer part of a forest, walked along a river and past…well, a few homes, not even a village of scattered, isolated folk, Halrac spoke.
“We’re going to square some of those debts. We settled…our obligations outside of our team. But we didn’t have enough for the others.”
Neither Typhenous nor Revi spoke. The [Summoner] scuffed along the ground.
“That’s why we’re going this way, huh? Fine. How much are we giving each?”
“Eighteen thousand gold pieces.”
“Eighteen thousand? But they didn’t spend—”
“Eighteen thousand. Six thousand per teammate. It squares us for what they lost. The hit to their reputations. It’s not a debt. Ulrien would have called it a point of integrity.”
“Damn. And we just earned this much. We earned it and—”
