Revi couldn’t help it. A few tears of frustration welled up in her eyes. Typhenous patted her gently on the back. And he looked more pained than before. Furiously, Revi dashed the tears aside.
“Fine. But if they want to come back, we’ll—they’ll—fine. But this is it, you hear? Once this is over, we’re done. We’re going to make Griffon Hunt as good as it used to be.”
“Agreed.”
Halrac and Typhenous both nodded. Revi calmed down. She walked with them, her team. So few from when she’d joined a few years back. But they were a team. Joined by tragedy and error. Held together by guilt and integrity.
“So we just go visit—who? Cassielle? Elm? Briganda?”
“Elm. He’s apparently hunting solo.”
“Fine. Fine. And then—”
Revi broke off. Someone had spotted them on the road. The narrower, winding trail they were following was passing near a cottage. And a woman and two children were hurrying out towards them. Halrac looked up.
“Excuse me! Sir—sir, are you a [Hunter], by chance?”
The woman called out anxiously. The children, a girl and a boy, hid behind her anxiously. And the woman was afraid too. You would be, of travellers on the road. Halrac stepped forwards, and the small family stopped a ways away from him.
“I’m a [Scout], Miss. An adventurer. We’re Griffon Hunt. A Gold-rank team.”
The woman looked visibly relieved to hear that. One of the children, the boy, poked his head around her to stare at the adventurers. Revi waved, and he disappeared. The little girl peeked out around the other side. She couldn’t be more than six.
“Can we help you?”
“I—I’m afraid we couldn’t afford it. I was hoping you were a [Hunter], sir. You see, my husband was struck by a Corusdeer. He’s healing, but his bones have yet to mend even with the potions. The [Healer] says he’ll be at least a week more in bed before he can walk, and we live off of hunting. Our winter stocks are nearly over, and if we could just get a buck or some birds…”
She looked helplessly at Halrac. The [Scout] glanced back at Revi. She was avoiding looking at the children as she muttered.
“We’re adventurers.”
She expected Typhenous to cut in, or Halrac, but the old man was subdued. And to her shock, Halrac nodded.
“We’re adventurers. Our fees aren’t cheap, Miss. If you want hunting, it will be expensive.”
The woman sagged. She opened her mouth, and Revi nearly popped her jaw, about to curse Halrac out. She thought he was the one who—but Halrac was quicker. He drew an arrow from the quiver and looked up. Before either Revi or the woman could blink, he notched the arrow and shot nearly straight up.
The children dove behind their mother. She looked up. And screamed as a hawk fell out of the skies, an arrow buried in its breast. Halrac calmly watched as it fell. The bird didn’t strike the ground, though. It stopped close to the ground. Revi looked over and saw Typhenous had pointed his staff at it. Halrac walked over. He grabbed the bird as it levitated up and walked over to the woman. He yanked the arrow out and showed it to her.
“These are expensive. Steel. I buy only the best. So here’s my price. Four copper coins per arrow if one breaks or fractures. I’ll hunt for two hours. Deal?”
The woman looked at him. She looked down at the hawk. Her eyes welled up with tears.
“Oh, thank you—”
Halrac backed up as she tried to thank him. He gave the two kids a piercing glance as the mother wept, and Revi saw the flicker of embarrassment, swiftly hidden. She covered a smile herself. When Halrac had brusquely walked off back towards the forest they’d passed, Revi walked after him.
Typhenous had stayed to check on the house and the injured husband and because his legs were hurting. Halrac walked along, quietly, eyes scanning the distance for anything larger than a squirrel. And when he saw it, he drew an arrow back and loosed it. Revi hummed until he turned to glare at her.
“What?”
“Softie.”
Halrac glared, but Revi just smiled. He turned his back on her and aimed and shot.
“What’d you hit?”
“Digger Badger. Good eating, but they smell.”
“I don’t suppose you told that woman you have [Reinforced Arrows], did you?”
The [Scout]’s shoulders tensed as if he might snap at Revi. But he just walked towards the indeed smelly badger and retrieved his arrow, checking it for cracks.
“Hunter and trapper families live hand-to-mouth. It’s hard after winter. The husband must have been desperate if he was hunting Corusdeer. They’re dangerous. If he pushes it or if the family has another accident—you need coin and food.”
“Or levels.”
“He might be young. She’s not old. Besides, high-levels are hard to get.”
“I’m not arguing. And I’m not telling you we should hurry up, see? But you seem to know a lot about this. Were your parents…?”
Halrac paused. He slung the badger up, and Revi saw him feed it into his bag of holding, head-first.
“No. But I knew enough families who were like that. I grew up close to here.”
“Really?”
Revi had never really asked about Halrac’s past before. She knew some of the basics, like his time as a [Soldier]. But Halrac hadn’t talked much, and their group had been professional, for all they were a good team. He nodded slowly.
“Ever heard of a village called Riverfarm?”
“Nope. That’s your home?”
Halrac shook his head.
“I’m from the village next to it. Windrest. But Riverfarm’s the only one people even remotely hear about. There used to be a Troll living around those parts. Anyways, that’s near enough to Invrisil. Near enough to where Elm’s working too. We might stop by.”
“Home and old friends. Sounds like fun.”
“I know it’s not paying work—”
“I’m not complaining. And believe me, I will when I’ve had enough. Let’s square it with Elm, like you said. But what’s after that, Halrac?”
The [Scout] paused. He looked around, arrow drawn. But he didn’t immediately set out for new quarry. He spoke softly.
“We already have something. I didn’t discuss it with Jelaqua. But she was there. And so were a lot of others. I don’t know about them, but what that Antinium said. Klbkch the Slayer. Do you remember?”
Revi had to think for only a second. Then her eyes widened.
“Christmas party. I thought it was only something that Drake was making up. Or Erin.”
“She doesn’t lie. And have you noticed? Odd things happen around her. Many, many…Typhenous told me he’s noticed something. Which is why I didn’t put an arrow in his belly. One of the reasons. So she’s probably wrong. Wyverns roost in the High Passes. Even fire-breathing variants. But have you ever known a Wyvern to abandon its prey?”
“No, I have not. And Erin’s not exactly fast at running. One of those or a Griffon would get her after twenty feet.”
“Exactly.”
“So…but could it be true?”
Revi looked at Halrac. The [Scout] closed his eyes. Then he opened them and whirled. The rabbit was quick, but the arrow quicker. He walked after it.
“First, we settle things up north. Then we investigate rumors of…Dragons. Carefully.”
Revi nodded. She followed Halrac as he retrieved his arrow. And her blood was humming. Debts and guilt. Clues and mysteries. But she felt better now, on the road. It was time to settle the past. As she heard Halrac walking softly through the forest, she saw his gaze and felt the same feeling.
Griffon Hunt was going back to work.
 
——
 
“[Flame Spray]! [Lightning Orb]! [Steel Arrows]! [Sticky Webs]! [Jet Spray]—”
The spells crackled from Falene’s staff, as fast as she could chant. The flames and orb of lightning burst across one Gargoyle’s face, forcing the huge creature made of living rock to rear back as the spells struck its sensitive eyes. Arrows bounced off another Gargoyle’s face, and webs held another. Falene’s jet of water came just in time; they blasted a group of stone shards one of the Gargoyles hurled at Dawil’s back. The Dwarf roared.
“Don’t bother with the Tier 2 spells, Pointy! Hit them with something big or get lost!”
He swung his hammer and intercepted a Gargoyle’s claw as it swung at his body. The creature screamed as Dawil’s swing crushed the shell of the Gargoyle’s body and orange-red blood spurted out. The Gargoyle recoiled, but another was coming at Dawil, spitting more shards. The Dwarf covered his face with one hand and felt the impacts strike his steel armor.
“Gah! Elder’s balls, that hurts!”
There were six Gargoyles, two aiming at him, one at Ylawes, and three heading towards Falene. The half-Elf was backing up, and she had a barrier deployed, but the Gargoyles were huge, as tall as small trees and as big as—Dawil was too busy hammering the Gargoyle’s knees to make a comparison. It was strong, but his armor was thick and he was even stronger. The trouble was, the Gargoyle was huge, and even if he broke its legs, it could still spit stones.
“Falene! They’re charging you!”
The Dwarf roared. Falene raised her staff, and a [Lightning Bolt] struck one Gargoyle in the chest and then the other. But the third rammed into her barrier, and the half-Elf rolled back as the [Force Wall] spell exploded. Dawil swore.
“Ylawes!”
The [Knight] was dueling his Gargoyle, swearing as he tried to shield his horse. He was dismounted—the first Gargoyle had knocked him from the saddle. They’d been far closer to Orefell than the adventurers had expected. They’d been ambushed by the damn things on the road. Even so, they could win if Falene—
The Gargoyle was charging her. Dawil swore. Heedless of the Gargoyle trying to batter him with his claws, he turned. His hand went to his side, to a little axe on his belt. He yanked it out. The Gargoyle’s back was open. Dawil lifted the small hatchet, felt it balance perfectly, and roared.
“[Champion’s Throw]!”
The axe flew. Falene, raising her staff dizzily, saw the Gargoyle scream and buckle. The axe spun through the skin on its back, through part of its spine, and stopped—halfway out of its chest. It toppled over as Dawil turned, roaring, and bashed another Gargoyle in the knee.
“Ylawes!”
The [Knight] was finally pushing back his Gargoyle. He let the horse behind him run and slashed at the Gargoyle’s arm, drawing blood with his enchanted sword. He struck his shield as the Gargoyle punched with all of its might and its fist rebounded off his gleaming shield.
“Silver Swords advance! [Challenge of the Knight]!”
Four of the Gargoyles focused on him. Dawil hammered on his until a trio of [Lightning Bolts] hit his Gargoyle in the same spot, one after another. The third blew the Gargoyle’s head off. He looked back. Falene was angry. And the Gargoyles, already bleeding and realizing that Ylawes had barely taken more than a few blows, began to flee.
“After them!”
Dawil roared, and Falene brought down two more, one with webs on the wings, the other with more lightning bolts. Dawil and Ylawes finished off the grounded one; the other two leapt away. They couldn’t really fly; they were far too heavy. But they could glide, and their wings gave them jumping power.
“Damn. I never thought they’d be hunting the roads. That was close.”
Panting, the Dwarf struck the third Gargoyle on the head, making sure its brains were well and truly mushed. Then he stumbled back to the Gargoyle he’d killed with the axe. Heedless of the gore, he bent down and retrieved the axe, taking care not to touch the edge, even with his metal-plated fingers.
“Falene, are you alright?”
“Fine, Ylawes. My spell took the blow; it was just the blowback that struck me. My head’s ringing, but I’m well.”
Ylawes nodded.
“We’ll have to track them down. I’m sorry I missed the ambush.”
Dawil straightened, wiping the axe on the grass.
“Not your fault, lad. They looked like stones to me too. Cunning bastards. At least we don’t have to look for them.”
He walked back to the other two. Falene cleared her throat.
“Dawil. Thank you for saving me with the axe.”
“No problem, Pointy.”
Her eye twitched, but she let it slide. Dawil was feeling a bit frantic himself after that engagement, so he took a steadying breath. As he surveyed the three downed Gargoyles, Falene indicated his axe. She knew he had it of course, but this was one of the first times he’d used it in combat.
“You never used that Skill. Not once in all the time we were fighting in the dungeon or battling the moths.”
She looked pointedly at the downed Gargoyle. Dawil shrugged.
“It’s my final resort, Pointy. I would have lost it in the dungeon or against so many moths. If they’d truly cornered us, maybe. But only then. Besides, I can’t lose this axe. It was a gift. And there’s no replacement for it.”
“It looks…impressive. May I see it?”
“No.”
“But—”
“You’ll cut your fingers off. Believe me.”
“Is it enchanted, Dawil?”
Ylawes had come back with one of the horses’ rein’s in his hand. Dawil shook his head. He showed them the axe, letting them note the delicate metalwork with pride, but he didn’t let them touch it. He meant what he said about the edge.
“Just metal, Ylawes. Falene. Just metal. But forged by a master.”
“By who? Someone like that Dwarf, Pelt? The one Erin mentioned to you?”
Dawil snorted.
“Hah. He’s not fit to polish the hammers of the smith that made this. And I’m not losing this, no matter what. I just wish I didn’t have this damn [Axe Champion] class. Why couldn’t it have been a hammer throwing competition?”
He sighed and indicated the warhammer that was his weapon of choice. Ylawes nodded.
“I always thought it was odd. Still, you saved Falene with that. Thank you.”
“Just lucky I was here. Dead gods, but that’s twice now we’ve come close to death today. Ashfire Bees and Gargoyles. We can’t underestimate our enemies so much.”
Falene and Ylawes nodded. The half-Elf eyed one of the dead Gargoyles with distaste.
“True. However, it proves a point again. The Horns could not have taken on the Gargoyles if ambushed. Perhaps if they prepared…but six is a considerable threat.”
Dawil nodded. He imagined a new Gold-rank team might well have lost some people—or been wiped out depending on their composition. He grunted as he imagined how the Horns would have fared.
“They’re young. The Horns. But they can grow into their abilities. That Pisces brat is already fairly good. And if your sister gets some powerful Skills, Ylawes…remember what it was like, being on the cusp of Gold-rank?”
Ylawes nodded.
“Is that why you were talking with Ceria and Pisces, Falene? You think they can make the transition?”
The half-Elf sighed.
“If they were properly Wistram trained—”
It was actually Ylawes who sighed.
