The good days might come again. Already, there were [Actors] on the stage at the end of the room. A group of Drakes and Gnolls were lined up and reading lines from Hamlet. Ceria didn’t give it a second look. She did focus on the young woman talking to a dark-skinned Stitch-Girl, though.
“Erin! I know you’re going to Pallass, but can I bother you for a second? I have this little problem, and I could use some help!”
“I’m on vacation!”
Erin was trying to get to the magical door that Ceria and the other adventurers had just come through. She was having trouble because Octavia was clinging to her waist. The [Alchemist] was speaking quickly and pointing at the adventurers.
“Look, I don’t want to bother you, but I talked with Krshia and, uh, she’s busy so I was hoping you could get some of your adventurer friends to lend me a hand! There’s a tiny issue I have with my shop. Some—some guards would be great!”
She caught sight of the teams at the same time as Erin. Octavia brightened up and spoke even faster.
“And look, we have three, no, four famous teams right here! If I had them—no, just one adventurer standing guard in my shop or—or helping me sort this business out, that would be great. Fantastic! And I’m sure we could work out a deal? For some free—I mean, a discount? A…sizable discount?”
“Hey, Erin. We’re back. Bees aren’t a problem anymore.”
Ceria waved at Erin and took a seat at one of the tables, not even commenting on the Octavia situation. The other adventurers looked equally unfazed. Erin pried Octavia off her.
“No, Octavia. If you’re having trouble, deal with it yourself. I’m on vacation. Or ask one of the teams, but I don’t think they’re gonna say yes.”
“But—oh, Ceria! Jelaqua! Uh…my best [Knight] customer! Can I—”
“No.”
“Nope.”
“I’m afraid I must decline.”
Ceria, Jelaqua, and Ylawes instantly replied. They might not know Octavia, but one look was all they needed. Like Erin, Ceria had the feeling Octavia had some scheme in mind—or she’d gotten herself into trouble. She didn’t want to be part of either scenario. She was slightly surprised Erin wasn’t interested, but the girl had a slightly wary look on her face as she shooed Octavia back towards the door. She was tired of the drama too, Ceria supposed.
“Out! No, no buts. If it’s life or death, you can ask for help. But it’s not. Is it?”
“Well, maybe—”
“Shoo.”
Erin closed the door in Octavia’s face after pushing her out. The [Alchemist] didn’t want to go, but she didn’t have a choice. Erin was pushing with more than just her hands. The door closed, Erin turned back to the others and gave them a smile.
“So? How was it? Did you freeze them all up? Or did Pisces’ Bone Horror smash them? I asked you to bring back as many as you could, didn’t I? Wait—did he use zombies? In that case, no bees makes more sense.”
Ceria shook her head, smiling ruefully.
“We nearly got into a lot of trouble. Those damn bees…if it hadn’t been for Moore, we might have been cooked.”
“Really?”
Erin sat down and listened to the story with wide eyes. Falene sighed as she accepted a cup of cold water from Ishkr.
“I would have used lightning spells. That seems to be the most effective weapon against Ashfire Bees. We simply underestimated how resistant they were to ice magic as well as fire.”
“Well, it’s sealed off now. And that was our only job, so we might head into Celum and see what they have for work. Liscor’s a bit crowded.”
Ceria cracked her fingers and sighed. Erin looked from her to the other Horns.
“Oh. You’re going back to work?”
“We’re ready for it. And Celum won’t have difficult jobs unless something out of the ordinary happens, Erin.”
Yvlon smiled, rubbing at one of her arms. Erin saw Ylawes glancing at them and wondered if they were bothering Yvlon. She claimed she couldn’t feel pain, but—actually, she hadn’t spoken about her arms of late, even to complain.
“What about you guys?”
Erin turned to the Silver Swords and the Halfseekers. Jelaqua shrugged.
“We just had breakfast, so I’m not in the mood for any food. Maybe a drink? What did we do yesterday? Just gambled, I guess. We could go for a walk, right, Moore? Where’s Seborn?”
“Here.”
Seborn spoke to Jelaqua’s left. She nearly jumped out of the table. So did Ceria—she hadn’t seen Seborn until he’d spoken.
“Dead gods, Seborn, don’t do that!”
“I’ve been drinking and watching the [Actors]. A walk or some dice would suit me, believe me.”
“I’ve got some Go boards and chess boards. The Antinium haven’t come by of late, so no one’s using them…I’d stay if anyone wanted to play.”
Erin smiled eagerly. Seborn looked up at her and then at Jelaqua.
“If you want to lose to Erin, be my guest. But I think I’ll walk.”
“Beat you black and blue, did she? I’ll walk. Ylawes?”
“Falene might play you, Erin. But I’m no player of, er, those sorts of games. I might talk with Griffon Hunt. They were telling me about fighting Griffins, which I’ve never done. Where are they at the moment? Through the doorway?”
Ylawes looked at the door. Erin nodded and went over to it to adjust the dial.
“Yup. They went through this morning, and they’re still there. You wanna go through?”
“Please.”
“Alright. Octavia’s in Celum, and the door—”
Erin adjusted the dial with the mana stones and smiled.
“Here we go. This is so convenient. Why didn’t I…? Okay. Hey, Halrac! Are you—huh?”
Erin pulled the door open. But a curious thing happened: the door didn’t reveal Griffon Hunt and their surroundings. It stayed empty, which meant Erin was just staring at the wall of her inn. She closed the door and frowned at it.
“Weird. I haven’t been to Pallass today and no one else—hold on a sec.”
She opened the door and closed it a few more times, but all it revealed was the dark wood wall. Erin blinked.
“Huh? Uh…Moore? Ceria? Pisces? Falene? I might need a bit of help here.”
 
——
 
A doorway and over a hundred miles away, perhaps even further, a team of adventurers walked down one of the main roads between cities. It was heading north and currently passing up a slight incline, a gradient of a very long and short hill. There were three of them. There should have been four. Four had come south, but now only three remained. Two were sitting on a wagon pulled by a pair of horses, the last was walking. Halrac was talking to Revi and Typhenous though, so he stayed close, eyes scanning the traffic coming down the hill and head turning in every direction as he talked.
“So the news is accurate?”
Typhenous, the old man sitting comfortably in the wagon on a cushion, looked mildly offended.
“You know me, Halrac. I have a network of sources which are very reliable. And I wouldn’t give Revi uncertain information.”
“Hm. It’s worth the coin, Revi?”
“I think so. Didn’t you hear what I just said? I just read the King of Destruction’s second proclamation before I heard about war being declared on Tiqr! That’s huge!”
Revi was sitting as well and scowling down at Halrac. The Stitch-Woman pulled at the threads on her hand irritably. The hand came off and turned to cloth; Revi fished out a needle and began to resew it back onto her arm in a way more to her liking. Typhenous coughed as he watched the process with mild fascination.
“Explain it to me again, dear Revi. These, er, nations historically had their issues with Tiqr. And yes, Tiqr was potentially an ally of the King of Destruction. But what’s stopping him from declaring war on all the nations involved?”
“Nerrhavia? Illivere? Savere? Are you serious, Typhenous? Those are all heavy hitters, and even if Reim goes up against them, Nerrhavia might actually win, King of Destruction or not! Moreover, they’re allied, you see? If it was Nerrhavia vs Flos, they’d be watching their backs because the other nations might take them apart. But this way, they could oppose Flos if he declared war. Which he can’t, because Tiqr’s not part of his domain.”
“I see, I see. And if they declared for him?”
Typhenous stroked his long beard rapidly as he thought out loud. Revi shrugged.
“What’s he going to do? He’ll be at war and the other nations could tear Tiqr apart before you could get an army there, even with movement Skills. It’s too far, and any force would be taken out. Nerrhavia’s got chariots and a massive army; they can intercept anything Flos might do. Sure, there’s Takhatres, but word is he’s across the desert. So…”
Halrac sighed. He glanced up at a passing bird overhead and stepped sideways as a rider came down the road. The rains had fallen this morning, and Halrac might have been splashed if he’d stayed in the same spot. The rider passed by, and Halrac returned to his spot. He spoke up to Revi as she flexed her reattached hand.
“Chandrarian politics. Until it affects Izril, I don’t care. The King of Destruction never made it past Zeres, anyways.”
The [Summoner] poked her head over the side of the wagon to show Halrac one of her fingers, proving her hands were in good working condition.
“Don’t underestimate him! I keep telling you, if he’d gone solely against Izril rather than splitting his forces between Baleros and Izril—”
“Yes, yes, Revi. I quite agree. His [Mage], Amerys, was able to lock down a Walled City practically by herself. But continental pride just goes so far. Besides, isn’t your home nation at odds with Flos?”
Typhenous soothed Revi. She huffed back into her seat.
“I’m just saying, Chandrar deserves respect. At least we got that when Flos was rampaging all over. These days, all I hear are sand jokes. Anyways, my home nation is part of the Empire of Sands now. I have no idea what’s happened back home, and honestly? I’m not going to find out. At least not until—”
There was a door lying in the bed of the wagon. It had a gem embedded in the top, and it had been lying without any complaint until now. Suddenly, it opened, and Revi jumped as another room appeared on the floor of the wagon.
“Aha! It worked! Hey, guys! Wanna snack?”
Griffon Hunt looked down at a smiling face. Erin Solstice waved up at them from the ground, an odd perspective that did weird things to the mind if you stared long enough. Halrac hopped onto the back of the wagon.
“We’re still moving, Erin.”
“I know…but you could take a break. Hey, is there a problem with the door on your end?”
“Nope. And I could use a snack, Halrac. Or trade out with one of the teams.”
Revi peered into the doorway. Halrac eyed Typhenous. The elderly [Mage] shrugged.
“We have been walking for a few hours. Or rather, you have. Let’s just pull us over to the side.”
“Fine.”
Halrac let Revi move the wagon off the road. There weren’t many people, but the few that were present were stunned to see Typhenous stand up and suddenly disappear. Revi was next. Halrac climbed up into the wagon when he heard a voice from the other side.
“Hold on. Something’s—”
Suddenly, the door went blank. Halrac stared at the bed of the wagon. In her inn, Erin stared at the door.
“Huh? It’s out of juice. What happened? I thought you guys charged it up!”
She turned to Ceria and Pisces, who’d done the job to make up for their earlier failure. Pisces frowned and peered at the door.
“We did. If not all the way, then adequately for any number of trips. Maybe…”
“Don’t talk, act. Typhenous, let’s fill this up properly.”
Revi scowled and put her hand on the door. So did Typhenous. The [Mage]’s brows shot up.
“The door’s drained.”
“What? But it was only you two who—”
The door came back to life, and an image of the road flickered into view again. Halrac was standing outside the door, scowling, his bow drawn, the arrow loose on the string. He glanced up sharply.
“Problem?”
“No, the door just ran out of mana. Don’t worry, Halrac.”
The [Scout] nodded and grunted.
“Thought something had happened. Can I come through?”
“Yup. Uh, is the wagon okay?”
“It should be fine for a few minutes. We can keep the door open?”
“Yeah. Just come through in case that happens again.”
Halrac did. When he did, the door suddenly went dark. Erin made a disgusted sound. But Typhenous, who was peering at the door, came to the same conclusion that Pisces did.
“Ah. I see. The door is simply too distant, Erin.”
“Precisely my thought. The door isn’t malfunctioning, Miss Solstice. It’s simply that we’ve finally reached a distance too great for casual travel.”
Typhenous straightened with a groan and massaged his back. Erin stared blankly at him, and then her eyes widened.
“You mean…”
Jelaqua came over and peered at the door as the image of the other side reappeared once more.
“We passed Celum a long while ago. So we must be…well, hells. If we’re two hundred miles away, doesn’t that mean each trip is like…one half of Invrisil?”
“Assuredly. Even if it’s only a third of the distance, that’s a considerable distance. And the mana drain must be exponentially increasing.”
Typhenous sighed as he rapped on the door with his staff. Pisces nodded. He sniffed.
“I suppose this will inhibit travel somewhat. We can recharge the door, but it is taxing.”
“Aw. I guess we’ll have to let only one team go through at a time. And only rotate you guys out once per day or something. That’s a pain.”
Erin peered at the door, looking miffed. She shook her head.
“I really need to see if this thing can be upgraded.”
“Unless you know an [Enchanter] on the level of Warmage Thresk…”
“Who? Anyways, let’s have a snack while you guys decide who’s going through. For like, a day, unless one of you lovely [Mages] wants to recharge the door? I’ll give you free drinks.”
Erin looked around hopefully, but she didn’t have any takers. Ceria felt tired even from the few spells she’d cast this morning after recharging the door once. The other [Mages] demurred as well. It was Halrac who stared at the door and the clear skies beyond and looked around slowly.
“Maybe it’s time to go.”
Erin blinked. She looked at Halrac. So did Revi and Typhenous. Revi raised her eyebrows.
“Go, go? I mean, if you want to, Halrac. But couldn’t we stay until Invrisil?”
“I heard one of our companions is working far west of there. We’re close enough; it would save us a lot of travel to split around now. And if we’re wasting mana—perhaps it’s time. We’ve saved a lot of effort in travelling this far. What do you think? Typhenous?”
“We have been sedentary. I dislike to say goodbye so abruptly, but you have a point. I wouldn’t be adverse to it.”
