That was their difference. Griffon Hunt, who left quietly, were adventurers to their core. They traded in favors and gold and they had their pride, but they weren’t like the Silver Swords. That group rushed from danger to danger, fighting for causes, without pay, without pause. They were champions, an old sort of adventurer the world still needed. But the Halfseekers? They were different.
“Hey, Moore. You know [Earthen Spire] now, right? Did you learn any other spells? Any fancy ones?”
“A few. But I’ll use a small spell if you don’t mind.”
“Fair enough. What about you, Seborn?”
“I can juggle. Good enough?”
“Maybe not. Village is nervous. Bared blades or even sheathed ones might spook them. Let Moore do his thing.”
The half-Giant nodded. He stopped walking for a second and then, gently, tapped the ground. He spoke no spell. But suddenly, where his staff had touched the dirt path, a flower bloomed.
There was a gasp from the villagers. Drawing back for a second. But the flower was simply beautiful. It was light blue, vibrant. It was also magical, transitory. It bloomed upwards for a second and then began to wilt almost at once. But as Moore began to walk again, another flower bloomed, and another. A trail followed his staff, and the people watched as the half-Giant continued onwards.
So did the children. It was just a tiny bit of magic. Just a spark. But it was enough. It put a name to them. It gave their words credence.
Halfseekers. And as Jelaqua, Seborn, and Moore passed by the tree, passed by the two children whose stories they didn’t know, they moved. Jelaqua was first. She thrust her hand high in the air, making a fist. Seborn did the same. Moore lifted his hand into the air while his other held the staff.
They did not stop. They did not pause to fight or ask what story the two children had. They had no time, and perhaps, no power.
They were just adventurers.
But the little Drake and Gnoll stared at them as they passed. And they looked up, at a half-Giant whose staff left a trail of swiftly blooming and wilting flowers in his wake. A grinning Selphid, who twirled her flail. At a Drowned Man, who walked with shadows even under the setting sun. And they saw the three adventurers looking back at them.
The other townsfolk stared, perplexed by the three Gold-rank adventurers’ raised hands. It was almost a silly sight. But that was because it was not for them. But the children saw. They saw the three pairs of eyes looking back at them. And their hearts lifted. Without having to say it, they understood what the Halfseekers wanted to say.
We see you. We know your story. We see you.
“Lads!”
At the edge of the village Jelaqua stopped. She bellowed up at Seborn, riding the wagon, at Moore, his staff training flowers. The villagers jumped. The sound cut through the air and almost silent gathering. It was loud, as loud as Jelaqua could shout. She raised her flail over her head and screamed.
“Who are we? What’s our name? What’s our purpose?”
“Halfseekers!”
Moore and Seborn both shouted the word. It was a small sound in the skies. But they shouted it a second time. Jelaqua shouted it with them. And then they kept walking. And Jelaqua knew two pairs of eyes were fixed on their backs, even as they walked into the night.
“That’s why I keep going.”
Neither Moore nor Seborn replied. But they were both smiling slightly. Jelaqua did remember. Liscor was wonderful. But it wasn’t where the Halfseeker’s true purpose lay.
It was in villages like this. Towns. Cities. Anywhere you wanted. That was where they were.
Outcasts. That fact wouldn’t change, no matter what you did. You could try, you could fight it, you could earn respect or be chased away. But it wouldn’t change who you were and who they were. And a child, a lonely soul could do little but exist with that knowledge in their chests.
But there they were. Adventurers. Names you heard stories about. Jelaqua Ivirith. Seborn Sailwinds. Moore of Raithland.
Heroes. Not to the many, but the few. To the two children who watched them pass through their town without a word. To the half-Elf living far from home, the Drowned Girl living in a port city, the Scorchling listening to stories around the hearth. They could not fight their battles. But they could exist and shout their names across the world.
Jelaqua leapt up onto the side of the wagon. She clung to it and pointed ahead, never once looking back. Moore, walking next to her, raised his staff, and Jelaqua raised her fist again. She laughed as she looked north, past a setting sun.
“Onwards. To another adventure. We’ll get to Invrisil and…damn, I forgot to grab all my bodies out of Erin’s inn. I guess when we reach Invrisil, we can pop in one last time. Eh, it feels weird after that goodbye, though.”
“Can you take the bodies with us?”
The Selphid shrugged.
“Bag of holding works. But they’ll rot in time. I’ll see about paying for accommodation. Or maybe she’ll let me keep them there? I can put them in a corner or something. Maybe put a few barrels in the way so no one gets spooked? They’re not going to reanimate, and that’s a lot of bodies.”
“Planning on selling them? Because I know a few crews who deal in fresh corpses.”
Jelaqua laughed harder as Moore looked askance at Seborn.
“No. But on the other hand—I know a [Captain] too. Plus, can you imagine how much a Raskghar corpse would sell for in Baleros? It doesn’t play in Liscor, but up north, why not? You don’t mind if I switch out my Human body and keep the Raskghar one for like, big fights, do you?”
“Honestly, Jelaqua. Please don’t joke about that. You know what the laws are like. Besides, I’m sure Miss Solstice would let you keep the bodies.”
“You think so? Ah, of course. She’s too nice like that. But I’ll take them. Get some storage worked out. Invrisil does have a spot I can use. Otherwise, Pisces will probably salvage them for parts.”
They looked ahead. At last, Moore sighed.
“It will be hard saying goodbye. When we reach the City of Adventurers, that is.”
Jelaqua reached out and patted his shoulder.
“Someday, we’ll visit again.”
Seborn nodded. And the three kept moving. The night didn’t seem so harsh, suddenly. The road didn’t feel as painful. They walked on as Moore hummed a tune and Jelaqua began to sing. The road called, and the adventurers strayed further from hearth and home. They’d left their homes long ago, and now they lived where profit and glory called. Onwards and away.
So the Halfseekers left. Seeing where the winds took them.
 
——
 
And in the Wandering Inn, Erin wiped her tears away.
“I’ll see them again. And when I do—my inn will be twice as awesome. Or I’ll come to them. But I will see them again.”
She vowed to the quiet room. At her table, Ceria looked up. She looked at her team. Yvlon was still staring at the door where her brother had gone. Ksmvr was eating bread. Pisces was mournfully sketching a new Bone Horror.
“When we meet them again, we’ll be Gold-rank.”
That was all she said. Her team nodded. Ceria got up. She walked over to the door to Celum and opened it.
“Ceria, buddy, a little word about—”
The half-Elf closed the door for a second. She looked at the others.
“Coming? I want to go to Celum’s Adventuring Guild.”
Her team stood up. They stepped into Celum, Pisces sniffing as he stared at a burned patch of wood near the entrance to Octavia’s shop. Yvlon fended the [Alchemist] off. It just wasn’t the time for her. Not at the moment.
The four walked down the street. People stared at Ksmvr. Some panicked. Ceria wondered if they’d get to the Adventurer’s Guild. Her stomach twisted as she remembered the last time she’d been there, with the first Horns of Hammerad. With Calruz. But she kept walking.
It was time to be an adventurer again.
They didn’t make it to the Adventurer’s Guild. Or rather, they made it, but something happened first. The Horns heard a shout and saw someone jogging down the street.
“Ceria! Is that Ceria? And Yvlon!”
A young woman raced down the street. She looked like an adventurer, or maybe one in training. A [Guardswoman] perhaps? But young. She was about Ryoka’s age. Maybe a year or two younger? She looked good. Fit. Her clothing was loose and almost ill-fitting, but it only added to her look. Because her body was toned. Muscular, but thin. A body to make Ryoka jealous. Even Yvlon looked mildly impressed.
“Ceria! Long time no see!”
The girl caught up to them. Ceria blinked.
“Excuse me. Do I know you?”
She thought she’d remember, but she knew a lot of adventurers in Celum and elsewhere. The girl gave her a delighted grin.
“It’s me! Don’t you remember? We talked the last time we were in Celum!”
“Who? Have we met?”
A laugh was her reply. The girl spread her arms.
“Come on—you remember me, don’t you? Ryoka and I hung out all the time! Well, when she wasn’t busy. I’m a City Runner! Fals, Ryoka and I were friends! Where is she, by the way? I heard she was up north, but—”
The half-Elf’s jaw dropped. Ceria stared at the girl. She tried to fit her mental image in her head. But it was impossible. The other girl had been pretty, but she had been…stockier. Sturdier. With arms and muscles that could lift a cow. A [Farmer]-girl turned City Runner.
“Garia?”
Garia grinned in delight. Yvlon looked astonished. Garia spread her arms, gesturing at her body with delight.
“Garia Strongheart! I’ve changed a bit, huh? I, uh, lost some weight. And I have a new class. I’m a [Martial Artist].”
Ceria opened her mouth. She stared at Garia. And then looked around. It was the old Celum. And she had come from the old inn, the old Octavia’s shop. But here it was. Just as the old faces were leaving. Something different.
Something new.
