“Oh, dead gods, Falene. Don’t go on about it again. Yes, they’re not fully-certified. So what? What did they do that was so heinous? Pisces is a [Necromancer], but he’s not nearly as…foul as the two I’ve met.”
Falene shook her head.
“I never asked. I can be discreet, Ylawes. I just thought it was a shame. If they had completed their training, they would already be Gold-rank. If they both left in their third-year, they must have been very gifted. But I don’t know why. My…contacts in Wistram refused to say unless I did them some favors, including naming exactly where Pisces was at this moment.”
Ylawes and Dawil looked up. They were busy cutting off the heads of the Gargoyles to turn in. Dawil grunted.
“So what do you know?”
“Ceria Springwalker. Pisces, no last name given. Both students expelled in their third year. At the same time, several of the senior [Mages] in Wistram challenged the higher levels of the academy and…failed. As for the reason Pisces and Ceria left, I understand there was an incident that involved the deaths of more [Mages] and students, but not what.”
Falene pursed her lips. Ylawes frowned, but neither he nor Dawil could think of anything more to ask. Eventually, Falene pointed at Dawil’s axe.
“Where did you get that? You told me you won your class in a drunken competition, but you neglected to mention the significance of the axe.”
Dawil paused in stuffing the last Gargoyle head into his bag of holding. He looked from Ylawes to Falene. And a small smile passed his lips. He straightened as Ylawes led the skittish horses back to him. The [Knight] indicated the clear trail the Gargoyles had left. Dawil mounted up and spoke conversationally.
“Didn’t I tell you this story once? Ah, well, it’ll make a nice walking tale while we track down the rest of these Gargoyles. Let’s go. I’ll lead. Pointy, you stay back in case we get ambushed. Those damn things love to spit rock shards. Now, you remember me speaking of home? Well, there was this competition, see. Dwarves love competitions. Only, this one was special because of the prize. This axe. I don’t know how it got involved, but someone mentioned that this hatchet had been specially forged as a prize, and every Dwarf in the entire damn city wanted to win it.”
The other two adventurers gently kicked their horses into motion. They followed Dawil as he led them after the Gargoyles. There would be another fight soon. But the Dwarf spoke conversationally, calming their nerves, keeping them steady. Falene peered at Dawil.
“Your entire city? Isn’t that almost the entire population of Dwarves in Terandria?”
“Aye. We have one settlement, although we’re spread out. But yes, you could say at least half the Dwarven race was competing.”
“And you won it.”
“You see this axe? Want me to shove it up your nose for a better look?”
“You won that competition.”
“It’s a grand story! Let me finish it before you ask! And yes, I thought I had no chance as well. Which is why me and some of my mates joined the competition sloshed as it were. I’d drunk…eh, well, I don’t know how much. But somehow, I kept winning. Even too unsteady to walk a straight line, I hit every target straight on. Even when I was up against Dwarves with [Unerring Throw] and we were doing trick shots and curved throws, it was like my arm was magic. I hit targets blindfolded. I hit them when I couldn’t even see them! There was this target that was over a hundred feet away, and I was sure I couldn’t even throw an axe that far. But—and you’ll never believe this…”
Dawil kept one eye on his companion’s faces, the other ahead of him, watching for odd boulders. Soon there would be Gargoyles, and then they’d have to bring them to the village. If they were lucky, they’d get something out of it. If not? Well, they’d get some money for the heads, and they could check in at every village and town they passed towards the next Adventurer’s Guild. There was always someone in need of help. And wasn’t it worth helping folk if you could? A simple logic for a simple Dwarf. And a simpler half-Elf and Human.
Dawil smiled, and the Silver Swords rode off. On another adventure.
 
——
 
“And like that, we’re alone.”
Jelaqua looked back wistfully the way they’d come. Moments ago, they’d been walking with Griffon Hunt and the Silver Swords, or so it had seemed. This morning, she’d woken up in Erin’s inn. In Liscor. And now they were so far north and they wouldn’t go back to The Wandering Inn. At least, not for a while. And even when they did open the door, it would just be to say goodbye.
“We could visit tonight. To say hello.”
“No.”
Seborn had been ready for Moore’s suggestion, and he shot it down at once. The half-Giant looked hurt. Jelaqua sighed, but sympathetically.
“We said goodbye so we could make a clean break, Moore. Either we stopped and did some weird stuff where two of us had to guard the door at night while the other one stayed at the inn—or we say goodbye now. You can’t go back, even if Mrsha misses you. I miss her. And Erin. And those nice beds!”
“Erin cooked food enough for me. Proper food. And she gave me a proper bed, even though she had to bully that [Carpenter] in Celum to do it.”
Moore looked wistfully at the wagon. Jelaqua sighed.
“She’s spoiled us. The next [Innkeeper] we meet is going to be unpleasant. Sideways looks, questions about rotting…”
“Overcharging us.”
“Sleeping in the stables. Tip offs to the local watch…”
The Halfseekers sighed. They looked at the door in silence. Jelaqua shook her head.
“We know good sorts in Invrisil. And there’s that great [Innkeeper] up north. You know? Hey, I wonder if we can introduce Erin to her someday. You know? She’s over Level 50 and Erin’s…what?”
“At least Level 30.”
“What? No. You think so?”
“She has a preservation Skill, Jelaqua. And the mana in her inn can fuel the magic door. That’s more mana than I have. She has to be Level 30. At least.”
Jelaqua whistled.
“Well then, we met a good person to watch, boys. And we will see her again. Soon, she’ll have a door to Invrisil, and if she ever manages to improve it…sky’s the limit. But for today, I’m afraid we’re sleeping on the ground or in a barn unless we find a nice town with a friendly [Innkeeper].”
“I hate the spring. Too many bugs like my skin.”
“They like seafood, Seborn. Stop complaining. Moore’s way bigger than you are.”
“I don’t like the bugs either. You don’t feel the bites, Jelaqua.”
The two gave Jelaqua a reproachful look. She scowled at them.
“Hey! You think I have it easy? Try fighting off ticks, worms, and everything else that thinks I’m food! Little bastards think they can get this body? It’s claimed!”
She slapped her chest. The Halfseekers followed the wagon in silence for a bit, Seborn driving it down the road lit by a sinking sun. At last, Moore spoke up.
“Sometimes I don’t know why we don’t retire. Or I do, at any rate. I could live for…years off of what we earned. If I took a few minor jobs now and then. Jelaqua, Seborn, you might even retire.”
“Yeah, but I don’t want to. And this is enough for us to live modestly, Moore, but it won’t pay for more than a few artifacts. I don’t want to quit. Not now. Not when we’ve finally settled things with Garen.”
“Exactly. And I have things to do.”
“Which would be…?”
The [Rogue] didn’t reply. Jelaqua sighed.
“Well, if you promise you won’t split right away, we can upgrade our gear and maybe see about finding some new teammates. There must be someone willing to work with us. Even if they’re only Silver-rank. We can carry them until they’re higher-level. Unless you’re serious about retiring, Moore?”
She glanced up anxiously at the half-Giant. He shook his head immediately.
“I’d be willing to do that. I’m not retiring right away. I just hate…”
He waved his hand, indicating bugs in general. Jelaqua nodded.
“We’ll see if they have some [Healers] with bug repelling incense or potions or something in the next village. Looks like there’s one up ahead. See it?”
The other two nodded. They quickened their pace to beat the night. Jelaqua sighed. She did want to keep going. But sometimes it did seem like the road ahead was long.
“We spent a long time chasing Garen’s shadow. A long time, lads. What will we do now? Find work? Gain money?”
“Rebuild. You said it yourself.”
Seborn looked over. Jelaqua blinked at him. The Drowned Man gestured at her and Moore.
“We’ll find more teammates. Start from there. The Halfseekers were never at full strength. If we get three more teammates, or even two, we can take on proper requests. I won’t leave. Take me to First Landing and I can settle some things with my old crew. A matter of honor among…[Pirates].”
Jelaqua whistled. Moore blinked. Seborn rarely brought up his past.
“You have a death match or something? Because if you do, all you had to do was—”
“I don’t owe them. They owe me. And I’m going to let them know I want to collect.”
“How much are we talking here?”
“Wait and see. Happy?”
“Very.”
Jelaqua grinned to herself. Now there was a surprise from one of her teammates she could learn to like. The wagon trundled forwards, and the town came into view. It was one of those nothing-settlements, at least in Jelaqua’s eye. The road north even passed directly through the village; it had probably grown up as a way station over the years. There were people in the streets, and Jelaqua sighed as she noticed some heads turning in the distance.
“Alright, see any [Healer] signs? Inns?”
“No. And no.”
“Aw, come on. This is a village! It has to have…”
“See those burnt buildings?”
“…Ah. Well, that looks like trouble. Damn. [Bandits]? The Bloodfeast Raiders hit another place?”
“If they had, this village would be ash. Accident, [Bandits], it doesn’t matter. We’re not sleeping here. And they’re giving us the look.”
The Halfseekers fell silent. Seborn didn’t need to elaborate. Some of the villagers had spotted Moore at a distance and then Seborn and Jelaqua. She was hard to identify, but a Drowned Man and a half-Giant sent some of the villagers scuttling into their houses. Jelaqua raised her voice and shouted ahead before anyone could grab a weapon. Or form a mob.
“Hoi! We’re the Halfseekers! Gold-rank adventurers, passing through! Don’t mind us!”
That gave the villagers pause. They didn’t exactly come rushing out to welcome the trio, but they didn’t run either as the wagon trundled into the village outskirts. They knew the Halfseekers, just like people knew the Silver Swords. They stared. Gawked. Pointed. Whispered.
It wasn’t pleasant. Jelaqua saw Moore hunching his shoulders in a way he never had in Erin’s inn. She’d almost forgotten that, or the look on Seborn’s face.
“Steady, boys. Let’s just keep going. With luck, we can get to a town before night. If not—that camp’s looking better than ever.”
“Agreed. Moore can make us a shelter.”
The half-Giant nodded silently. The Halfseekers quickened their pace. They saw Humans watching them. Fear and disgust and—some children rushed around a house.
“Look! I said I saw them! I said it was a Giant and a—”
The boy excitedly leading them on froze when he saw the Halfseekers looking at him. The children fell silent, but then they began talking amongst themselves, pointing without trying to hide the fact. Jelaqua hoped one of them wouldn’t come up and ask a question. Or…do something else.
Contrary to popular belief, and in her experience, children weren’t innocent. They could be just as unpleasant as their parents, because they learned quickly by example. She turned her head, feeling sour. Maybe visiting Erin’s inn wouldn’t be so bad. But they’d said goodbye. Maybe retiring wasn’t such a stupid idea. Jelaqua had always thought she’d go back to Baleros if she retired, if the Wasting didn’t claim her. But now she imagined staying in Liscor. If—
The village had become a crowd. A gathering of faces. In their way, the Halfseekers were more popular than the Silver Swords could ever be. Jelaqua wasn’t worried—so long as the crowd didn’t turn into a mob. It could happen. Sometimes it only took a word. But then she saw something. A break in the uniform faces of a single species.
There they were. Perched by a tree, the older one sitting up in the branches, his tail curled around his seat. The other was standing by the tree, her fur ruffled, a farm worker’s trousers on her lower half, but her upper body free of clothing but for a breast band. Furry. Jelaqua nudged Seborn.
“Look. Two kids.”
A Gnoll and a Drake. There was nothing odd about that. Nothing odd, except that they were children, living in a Human town over a hundred miles north of Liscor. They stood together, of the village but apart, not with the other children though they were of age. Just a Gnoll and a Drake, perhaps thirteen and eleven. Seborn saw and nudged Moore. The half-Giant was less covert, but all three Halfseekers slowed their pace and stared at the two watchers.
“Fellow travellers? It’s rare, but [Merchants] do go north sometimes. Through the Blood Fields in the spring, though…”
“No way. Look at them. See how they’re dressed? They’re not travellers. Some Human must have adopted them.”
Yes. That was it. Jelaqua wasn’t much of a reader, much less a [Reader], but she could read the two like a book.
Look. See how they stand alone. How the Drake has a discolored patch of scales. A bruise from fighting? And look at the other children who stop to gawk at the Gold-rank team and point. Humans. Think on it.
“War orphans, perhaps.”
“Maybe. From one of the annual wars? Or one of those skirmishes? Maybe orphans from the Second Antinium War? The Drakes did send some forces north.”
“Could be any of those things. Maybe slavers? They’re outlawed in many Drake cities, but they still come through.”
Moore shook his head. He looked at the children sadly.
“There’s a story there.”
“There’s always a story. Keep walking, Moore.”
He did. But he, Jelaqua, and Seborn all felt it. A sense of…
Kinship. And they felt the eyes of the two on them. The two children stood together, outcasts. Even if they were loved. They were different. By fang and scale, by fur and tail. It wasn’t something the three Halfseekers needed to speak aloud. It was, after all, a common story. You could see it everywhere you went, no matter how old you grew, no matter which continent you visited. There were always those who were different.
