“You did well.”
“Keep advancing. Your team has done well. Take it slowly.”
“Don’t let your Captain turn into someone like Pointy.”
“Best of luck.”
“Luck, young Pisces. Miss Yvlon. Ksmvr. Ceria.”
“Hey, you’ll make it! Just watch out when Ksmvr goes places or he’ll scare people. That goes for Pisces too.”
Ylawes paused as he gripped Yvlon’s hand gently. He looked at her arms and then into his sister’s eyes.
“You’ve found a good team, haven’t you, Yvlon?”
“I have.”
“Then I will see you later. Visit Father and Mother when you can. Your sister would like to see you. But if I see them first…I’ll tell them you’re well.”
He turned. And the door was waiting. The adventurers slowly walked towards it. Moore was slowest, Falene fastest. The half-Giant had to bend down.
“Mrsha. ”
He’d said goodbye with the others. But Mrsha didn’t want to let go. She clung to Moore’s leg, looking up at him pleadingly. The half-Giant looked so stricken, Lyonette had to help pry Mrsha off him. And then he had to say goodbye to her as the others gathered around the door. Moore bent down, and his face was completely wet. But he lifted something with one hand, concealing it as he spoke.
“Keep practicing. You’re quite surprising, little one. You’ll be better than I ever could be. But remember, you aren’t just a [Mage]. You’re something more.”
He offered her a flower, as white as Mrsha’s fur, with a tiny pink center. The Gnoll clutched it in her paws, her eyes leaking tears. Moore stood. And the adventurers stood in front of the door. They turned.
“I—I—I don’t know what to say! Someone say something good! What can I say?”
Erin wept as she looked from face to face. She raised a fist and shook it weakly.
“You—you’re all jerks. Because you’re too nice! You came in here, made friends with me, saved my life. How dare you? How dare you do all that and just go without me being able to say how much I’ll miss you? Why can’t you stay?”
And at least, that was a question they could answer. Ylawes stroked his chin. Falene sniffed and sighed. Dawil grinned. Jelaqua laughed and hiccupped. Moore bowed his head, smiling through his tears. Seborn laughed softly. Halrac blinked. Revi snorted and Typhenous stroked his beard. They answered as one.
“Because we’re adventurers.”
Then they turned and left. Erin called out to them. She didn’t know what she said. She shouted their names, she shouted goodbyes. She shouted insults and jokes and knew she couldn’t have stopped them.
They walked out the door, the [Mages] going last to charge it with magic. Falene was last to go, which was really a mistake because she marched through without a final backwards glance, having said her goodbyes.
Then they were gone. Erin burst into tears again. Mrsha howled, and there was sadness. But that was how it always was with goodbyes. The best ones hurt the most.
 
——
 
Nine adventurers appeared on a small road leading north. They walked up, out of a door parked against a stationary wagon. The horses and a few passersby got the fright of their lives, but the adventurers moved in silence. A few stayed on the wagon. One took the reins and steered the horses to the road. The rest walked. In silence, for quite a few minutes. In the end, perhaps predictably, Revi broke the silence.
“That was emotionally exhausting.”
The other adventurers glanced at her. Then they burst out laughing. And the silence, the reverie was broken. They laughed as if they’d heard a fantastic joke. Then they walked or rode on, leaving the inn behind them. Revi grumbled to herself as she sat next to Typhenous.
“Erin is the most involved [Innkeeper] I’ve ever met! I bet that’s her class. [Emotional Innkeeper] or something.”
“Yeah, well. We’ll be back. Besides, who starts crying over a single inn?”
Jelaqua shook her head as she walked with Ylawes and Halrac. The other two captains looked at her. The Selphid grinned.
Three teams went north. The Halfseekers. The Silver Swords. Griffon Hunt. Neither Halrac nor Ylawes said it out loud, but it did feel like an ending. Even more than leaving Erin’s inn, this was the last time they might meet in months or years. Perhaps forever. But they didn’t say it. Jelaqua looked from captain to captain, then she put her hands behind her head.
“Damn. It really feels like we’re really not going to see each other for a long time when we walk around together like this, huh? Sort of ominous.”
Halrac chuckled. He couldn’t help it. Ylawes gave him a sideways glance and then smiled. They walked in silence for a bit, and then Halrac pulled something out of his belt pouches. It was a bit of parchment, worn and folded. He began checking it with a quill as he walked. With the other hand, he was investigating the contents of his bag of holding. Jelaqua eyed him.
“What’re you doing, Halrac? Making sure you didn’t leave anything behind? Because I’m sure Erin will flip if you come back so soon.”
The [Scout] gave Jelaqua a long look. She just grinned at him.
“I’m checking our income. We’re finally making money. I’m just doing a tally to make sure I know how much we have. I did a count a few days back, but I feel like I missed something.”
“Oh. We should do that too. Uh—hey, Seborn! How much money do we have?”
The Drowned Man walking with Moore and patting the Half-Giant on the arm gave an eloquent shrug. Jelaqua sighed.
“Moore’s gonna cry about Mrsha for days. You were right, though, Halrac. Imagine waiting a day? Erin would get us in some epic party or have this big thing before we left…you bastard.”
The [Scout]’s lips twitched again at that. What was wrong with him today? He might have taken a sip of Erin’s last gift to him, that was what it was. He shook his head as he looked at the wagon.
“We’ll be back. A door in Invrisil means Erin’s inn will have access to both north and south.”
“Yeah, but not until she can upgrade the door itself or find a way to generate—how much did Moore say it was?—a shipload of mana.”
Ylawes chuckled this time. Jelaqua gave him a very pleased grin.
“So what’s happening with your groups? We’re on to new adventures. With the money we have, we need to rebuild our team. Maybe we’ll come back, but Pallass’ teams have that dungeon locked down. And frankly, it smelled like a huge trap to me.”
Halrac and Ylawes both nodded. The [Knight] frowned.
“I got that sense too while we were in the dungeon. Some of those traps were deadly. The horde monsters nearly took out Liscor. The Raskghar, on the other hand, were probably an unexpected threat from whomever built the dungeon. However, it was the inner city we never saw that perplexed me. I listened to that Minotaur, you know.”
“What, Calruz?”
Both Jelaqua and Halrac were surprised. The [Knight] nodded.
“Briefly. I visited his prison to question him. I wanted to see if he truly was the monster he seemed to be.”
Halrac’s grip tightened on his quill.
“And?”
“He was uncomfortably sane at times. Sane, and then—I think he truly did go mad. Or the dungeon had some hold on him. But he described the inner city to me. The…things in there. The deceased guardian. I’m not ashamed to say it made me uneasy. I can’t fathom why that city exists.”
Halrac paused in doing calculations to nod.
“I agree with you, Ylawes. The Minotaur’s description of the inner city makes me uneasy.”
“Why’s that, Halrac?”
Jelaqua gave the [Scout] a curious glance. They were both old adventurers, and Jelaqua was technically older than Halrac and more experienced, but he had seen more dungeons and was a [Scout]. The man paused before replying.
“Because a few hundred thousand Infested creatures—even if they’re as dangerous as Ghouls—isn’t a threat worthy of this place. Our team never met this…Facestealer, but the Flesh Worm boss called Skinner wasn’t worthy of this dungeon either. If Erin Solstice and some Antinium could do it in, even if it was her, it was too weak.”
Ylawes and Jelaqua nodded slowly. The Selphid snapped her fingers.
“True. Someone with the power to make a dungeon like that would have many boss-class monsters, not just three. And even those horde rooms felt basic.”
“So either there’s some big trap that we haven’t seen or those three boss monsters and this Mother of Graves are truly dangerous enough for the entire dungeon…”
Ylawes rubbed at his chin. Halrac nodded.
“Or it wasn’t meant to be a dungeon, but a hiding place. Or…someone raided most of it before we ever got there.”
“How do you figure? We made out pretty rich, didn’t w—”
Jelaqua caught herself as she gestured at Halrac’s bag of holding. Ylawes sighed, but he just shook his head. Halrac nodded as Jelaqua developed a cough.
“We did. But consider this: the first treasure hauls out of Chalence pulled nearly four million gold coin’s worth of looted treasure in the first year. It turned the team that first cleared the dungeon into Named Adventurers. Six teams of the adventurers retired on the loot, and eighteen became minor landed nobility from that alone.”
“…Damn.”
“But that was Chalence. A legendary dungeon.”
“So? This dungeon wasn’t as impressive, and perhaps it was a vengeance dungeon. But even so, there wasn’t nearly enough treasure. It’s very strange how little there was. And that inner city—it could be the lion’s share of treasure is in the center. In that hole Calruz found or it was never there to begin with. Either way, Jelaqua is right. It was dangerous. Let the other teams work on it carefully. I feel quitting was the best move.”
Silently, the other two captains nodded. They walked on. After a while, Halrac made a small noise. Jelaqua glanced up.
“Something wrong?”
The [Scout] was checking his list. He glanced up and looked around.
“No, nothing. I think we’re fine. I didn’t realize we had so…”
He trailed off as he glanced at Ylawes. The [Knight] looked stoically ahead. Halrac stowed his list and walked on. Fifteen minutes later, he calmly turned his head and spoke to Jelaqua.
“Is Typhenous still looking at me?”
The Selphid’s head nearly turned, and then she caught herself. She swatted at an imaginary fly and looked right.
“No.”
“Good.”
Ylawes glanced sideways at Halrac. The [Scout]’s face hadn’t changed. But the way he’d asked and said that…
“Is there an issue, Halrac?”
“Yes. The numbers don’t add up in my list. And I saw Typhenous glancing at me while I was doing my calculations.”
Both Jelaqua and Ylawes inhaled sharply, but they never broke their measured stride. Jelaqua cursed under her breath, keeping a smile on her face.
“Damn it all. If it’s not one thing…you want a hand?”
Ylawes looked sick, but before he could offer, Halrac shook his head.
“You’re misunderstanding the situation. Typhenous didn’t steal. The opposite, actually. I’m going to have a word with him.”
He turned and walked back towards the wagon. Jelaqua and Ylawes heard him call out. Typhenous got up and hopped off the wagon. They slowed until they were at a distance. Jelaqua whistled.
“Well, that’s a new one for me. What do you think happened?”
“I shouldn’t speculate.”
“Aw, spoilsport. Well, I’m gonna talk with my team. I heard you were going to go soonest, right? Don’t run off without letting us know!”
Ylawes nodded. Jelaqua jogged around the wagon to Seborn and Moore. The half-Giant had stopped crying, but he was still red-eyed. Jelaqua grabbed both, Seborn by the shoulders, Moore by the small of the back.
“Hey, you two! Ready to be independent adventurers living on the road?”
“Yes. And no.”
“We’re still going to Invrisil, aren’t we?”
“Yup, Seborn. But we’re free after that. Unless you have an idea? You were hinting about that before.”
She glanced at the Drowned Man. Seborn was silent for a while.
“I do have things to do.”
“Like what?”
“Secret. It’s personal. I’m not in trouble like Typhenous, if that’s what you’re asking.”
“But you don’t want to say.”
“Nope.”
“Come on, tell me. We’ve been journeying together for ages. Why keep anything from us?”
Jelaqua prodded Seborn. The Drowned Man gave her a reproving look.
“And if I don’t want to tell you? What will you do?”
Jelaqua shrugged.
“Threaten you until you stab me and run off to become the most famous Goblin Chieftain this side of the continent?”
Seborn chuckled. Moore didn’t. He looked distressed.
“That’s truly not funny, Jelaqua.”
“I thought it was.”
“Exactly. And you know I’m not gonna let this drop, Seborn. Lies and secrets tore our group apart once. It’s not happening again.”
The smile Jelaqua gave Seborn was friendly, but she tightened her grip on his arm. He looked at her and hesitated. But he still shook his head. Jelaqua sighed.
“Fine. You want to play coy? Then it’s time to go back to the old ways. If a member of our team has secrets, we settle it. Moore? You know what to do.”
 
——
 
Dawil and Falene joined Ylawes as he walked on the other side of the wagon. That left just Revi driving, much to her displeasure. The Dwarf and half-Elf looked quizzically at their leader.
“Something up with Typhenous, lad?”
“Perhaps. But it’s their dispute. Let’s leave them to it.”
Falene nodded to the right.
“I note another dispute on our right.”
Ylawes looked over and nearly tripped. The Halfseekers were busy as well. Moore was holding Seborn by the ankles and shaking him vigorously. Seborn was swearing loudly, cursing as vulgarly as any [Sailor] as he wriggled, but the half-Giant wouldn’t let go. Jelaqua danced around him, laughing.
“Tell us, Seborn! Don’t make me get a feather! You know Erin would give one to me—she’d probably help out! And then you have to deal with Moore’s tears and me bothering you!”
The Silver Swords watched as Seborn swore at Jelaqua in reply. Ylawes shook his head.
“That is one unique team. Brave and honorable, though. In their own way.”
Dawil nodded.
“Aye, it was a pleasure, wasn’t it? And poor Erin. The girl’s lost friends, and now we walked out on her.”
“It was inevitable. And this was better than a long ceremony.”
Falene sniffed. Dawil eyed her.
“You still tetchy, Pointy?”
She reached over and slapped him on the back of his helmet. After a second, Falene waved her stinging hand. Ylawes sighed.
“If it’s about the gold—”
“What else would I be angry about, Ylawes? I respect both teams. But the fact remains that they earned a small fortune and didn’t elect to share it with our team. Let your sister have her windfall, very well. But what of the other two teams? Is there no honor among adventurers?”
The half-Elf snapped at Ylawes. He blew out his cheeks tiredly.
