“You know, I could quit. Right now. I could quit my job, walk into grandmother’s office and tell her to go eat her tail and walk out. Just like that. I could quit and do something else for the rest of my life.”
Selys Shivertail looked around the Adventurer’s Guild. She glanced sideways at her coworker. Maviss, a Drake with pink and red scales, paused as she applied a little scale moisturizer to the scales around her eyes. She had a little makeup kit with her, with everything from paints to touch up off-color scales to moisturizing products and powders.
Sometimes, Selys envied Humans with their hair and innumerable ways to color lips and change eyelashes and other bodily features. Then again, Drakes could paint their scales. But Selys had given up the makeup game. Now, looking at her friend, she was tempted to get back into it. It was usually expensive. But…
“You could do that, Selys. But I think Guildmistress Tekshia would rip off your head. Or run you through with one of her spears first. I don’t think anyone’s ever quit to her face. Most just hand in a letter. She’s fired people before to their faces of course…think you’d survive because you’re her granddaughter?”
“No. She’d probably kick my tail out and refuse to let me quit. But I could. Not that I’m gonna.”
Selys slumped on the counter, playing out the conversation in her head. She winced as the path took a predictable turn. Her grandmother, the infamous Tekshia, was very hard to argue with because if she started losing, she resorted to violence. And it had to be said she was still stronger than Selys in her old age, which didn’t seem fair.
“I’m just saying, Maviss. I could quit.”
“But what would we do without you? You’re the only person who knows everything around here. Besides your grandmother of course. And if you think I’m going to work with her at the front desk—”
Maviss gestured around the Adventurer’s Guild. Selys looked around from her desk. It wasn’t too busy at the guild, hence their idle chatter. Sometimes, there was a huge line at the receptionists’ desks, which were placed around a central beam in the middle of the room.
Other times, it was peaceful, like now. The few adventurers in the back of the room, sitting at the tables and chatting, were taking a break from their jobs. The rest were out, either doing nearby requests around Liscor or exploring the dungeon. But carefully. The huge drama of the Raskghar attacks, the dungeon exploration, and so on was over. It was peaceful. And Selys was a bit bored.
“What would you even do with all your free time, Selys?”
“I don’t know. Go shopping. Party more often? Hang out with Erin and Mrsha?”
“Ooh. That little cutie? I haven’t seen her around.”
“Lyonette’s protective. But I could do that. Maybe visit Pallass? But I wouldn’t be working, you know? I wouldn’t have to deal with stinking adventurers or clean up blood or work late hours…”
“But you’ve done that all your life. You told me just last week you like bossing adventurers around and working here.”
“I said that?”
“Yup.”
Maviss delicately applied some scented oil to her scales. Selys leaned back and nearly fell over; her stool had no back. She caught herself on the desk and sighed. It was true. She really didn’t mind her job usually. Her coworker shot her a glance.
“Why are you saying this now? Because of all the money you have?”
“What? Who told you how much money I have? I mean, er, well, it’s just that I could.”
Selys scratched at her neck. Her tail curled up before she caught herself. Maviss rolled her eyes, and her tail waved back and forth a tad irritably.
“Come on, Selys. Everyone knows you’re loaded after inheriting your…I mean, General…you own the Heartflame Breastplate.”
“Yeah.”
For a second, both Drake’s faces fell. It was still hard to say it. Zel Shivertail, Selys’ uncle, was dead. And he’d left the armor he’d been wearing to her.
“…Okay, I do have more money. So yeah, I could quit.”
“How much?”
“I can’t say.”
“That much? I heard you paid for a night at the Tailless Thief with Warsh and the others last night.”
“Only because they didn’t have enough on them. And I had money, so…”
Selys rubbed her head as she remembered that night out. She regretted it, too. All she’d woken up with was a sense that she’d spent too much coin. But she couldn’t even tell how much she’d spent; the little trove of gold coins hadn’t noticeably decreased in any quantifiable sense of the word. Maviss gave her a sidelong glance.
“You know what I’d do?”
“What?”
“Quit my job, like you said. Take a trip to the Walled Cities. Spend like a month or two in each one, going to big parties, seeing all the sights…”
“That sounds like work.”
“You’re just saying that because you’ve never travelled, Selys.”
“I’m a Liscorian, born and bred.”
“How would you know? You’ve never been past the Blood Fields! Selys, there’s a door to Pallass in The Wandering Inn! And you know the innkeeper yourself! You could at least take a vacation.”
“Well…that might be nice. Maybe I’ll talk to Grandma about it. I could probably get her to agree if I bought her a present. Or offered to pay for her vacation.”
“Now there’s a good use of money. Bribing your grandma.”
Selys laughed. She shook her head. It really was something she had to think about sooner or later. At the very least, she had to find a place for all that gold. Or just get a bag of holding…Selys noticed Maviss was busy writing something down now.
“What’re you working on?”
“Oh, just filling out the details of that request the, uh, Horns of Hammerad accepted.”
“The Ashfire Bee one? Watch Captain Zevara put that up.”
“Mhm. And they decided to go for it today. Wonder what took them so long.”
Selys shrugged.
“Ashfire Bees are no joke, Maviss.”
“True. Darn. I’ve filled out the form, but…what’s the Ashfire Bee threat ranking? I think I need to add whether this was a natural-based threat for Liscor or a migrating one. Little help?”
“Ashfire Bees are ranked as a Silver-rank threat. Check your monster encyclopedia. Lower left desk.”
Selys pointed. Maviss ducked down and came up with a worn book. She flipped through it quickly.
“Thanks.”
“So did the Horns go to take on the bees alone? That’s dangerous, Maviss.”
“Nah, the…Human, half-Elf, and Dwarf team went with them. The…Silver Swords. And the Halfseekers. They were going to watch, I think. But really? Three teams? Two Gold-rank teams for an Ashfire Bee nest. Couldn’t they just send one [Mage]? They’re a Silver-rank threat, right?”
She looked up. Selys shook her head as she borrowed some of Maviss’ moisturizer.
“That’s deceptive. We rank threats based on how dangerous monsters or animals are. Ashfire Bees are dangerous, but they don’t actually attack many people. One might sting you if you step on it or agitate the bee, but that’s not a threat. But hives? Hives are dangerous. You can prepare, and there are ways for a Silver-rank team to wipe them out—if they prepare right. But if you’re suddenly attacked by a thousand Ashfire Bees?”
She raised her brows. Maviss shuddered.
“Point.”
She dipped her quill in ink and scribbled quietly for a second. Selys leaned over.
“Make a note of the Hive’s size, will you? We’ll add this to the monthly report to the other guilds. If there are other Ashfire Bee nests in the area, they should be careful. Although they are good for flowers.”
“Yes, boss.”
Silence took over for a moment. Maviss finished her work, stamped the signed document, and slipped it into a folder under the table. She leaned back in her chair, then looked over at Selys.
“So…how rich are you?”
“Mm. Not saying.”
“A hundred gold pieces? No, wait, four hundred? You didn’t sell the armor, but I saw Miss Ivirith wearing the armor. And Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“Drop it, Maviss.”
“A thousand gold pieces, then. Two thousand? Four thousand?”
“Maviss…”
“Come on! I have to know! Six thousand. Eight? Ten—”
“If I had ten thousand gold pieces—”
“Aha! So it’s less. Okay, under ten thousand. Just wink if I’m getting close. Eight? Six? Four? Come on, Selys. Two? Selys? Selys…”
 
——
 
Outside of Liscor’s walls, a mile or two away from the city, was a cave. It was a noisy cave, especially in the spring. Ashfire Bees flew in and out, bearing huge loads of pollen and nectar, food for their massive home, a hive in the back of the cave. The oversized bees were terrifying and fascinating.
On one hand, they were generally peaceful. They made honey. On the other hand, they were the size of your hands and a single sting would be a world of hurt. And disturb their hive? There were hundreds of Ashfire Bees in the hive. Even someone in armor would die within seconds of incurring their wrath. Which was why the three groups of adventurers waiting outside weren’t sending a person into the cave.
“See, I can appreciate this. This is a solid use of necromancy. Baleros has no problems with undead. Well, less problems. Here we have a problem, and instead of sending the Selphid, we send a Bone Horror.”
Jelaqua Ivirith commented to Moore and Yvlon as they stood well behind the giant two-headed bear Bone Horror slowly lumbering towards the cave. It was a monstrosity of bone with a reinforced body and spiky protrusions that would allow it to gore anything it ran into or crushed. It was a monster worthy of a Silver-rank team, but it was on the side of the adventurers.
Pisces, standing next to Ceria and Falene, pointed, and the Bone Horror slowly entered the cave. The Ashfire Bees flying overhead buzzed down. A few landed on the Bone Horror, as if inspecting it. Then one tried to sting it.
“All going well so far. Can you see what it’s doing?”
Ceria watched as the Bone Horror entered the cave. Pisces nodded absently. Falene was wrinkling her nose as she watched the [Necromancer] at work. It was a surprise she’d come here with Pisces, but she’d insisted.
“I have some sensory perception, yes, Ceria. I’m moving it forwards slowly. The bees are, ah, beginning to try and dissuade my creation. But of course their stingers cannot harm it.”
“Just aim for the hive. Ceria and I will handle any stragglers after your Bone Horror has demolished the hive. Or if it somehow fails before destroying it. I intend to use [Frostdart Swarm]. What about you, Ceria?”
“Eh. [Ice Wall], probably. I’ll just freeze the bees solid. Seems like it’d work best. I don’t have that many spells against crowds anyways.”
Falene sniffed. It was such an imitation of Pisces that both he and Ceria turned to look at her.
“You should expand your repertoire, Ceria. A [Mage] should have magics for every occasion, even if you have a forte.”
“I’d like to do that, but we need to buy spellbooks first. The one I have is higher-level than I’m capable of at the moment. I’m learning spells—but slowly. Besides, I was kicked out of Wistram before I learned the good spells.”
“True. Which is why I suggest you stop referring to yourselves as Wistram graduates.”
Pisces turned his head to glare at Falene.
“We were accredited by Cognita herself, Miss Skystrall. Which I’m sure you’ve heard about if you’ve finally inquired into our pasts.”
“I only—”
“Hey! Are you arguing or killing bees? We’re not standing out here for fun! Well, I am. But Moore’s not!”
A shout interrupted the start of another fight. The three [Mages] turned. Jelaqua was waving at them. Ksmvr, standing next to her, waved too.
“Hello, Captain Ceria, Comrade Pisces! Is our help needed?”
Ksmvr’s gesture took in the small crowd standing with them. Three teams had gathered at the Ashfire Bee cave. Jelaqua, Moore, Yvlon, Ksmvr, Ylawes, and Dawil were all waiting. Seborn hadn’t come, mainly because it was fairly overkill. The other adventurers were standing in the mud. Ceria waved back.
“Sorry! The bear’s headed in! Give us a sec!”
She got a wave in reply. Jelaqua turned back to keep talking with Yvlon. Dawil, Ylawes, and Moore were still chatting. Ksmvr was still waving with one arm, poised to spring into action. Ceria turned back to Falene.
“Look, we were given the right to call ourselves graduates, Falene. I admit we’re not high-level enough, but—are you angry about our past?”
She looked at Falene, a bit apprehensively. The half-Elf [Battlemage] paused.
“I am not. I was not at Wistram, so I cannot comment about any…incidents that may have occurred. But you two are still too inexperienced to be called full Wistram graduates. Which is a pity, because if you were, you could easily be a Gold-rank team by now. As it is, you lack the variety and power to reach Gold-rank. For now. But it could happen.”
It was perhaps the nicest thing she’d said in a long time. Ceria and Pisces both looked at her in surprise.
“Really?”
“Don’t take it to heart. I was merely remarking to Moore that it was a shame. You see, a proper [Mage] has spells for every occasion, so even a lower-level [Mage] who knows more spells could in theory beat a more powerful [Mage]. But in your case, both of you have such limited spell selections…”
She sighed, eyes flicking between the two. Ceria wondered if this was still a compliment or if it had slipped into an insult. Pisces sniffed.
“I have a sufficient variety of spells given my [Mage] level, Miss Skystrall. However, my [Necromancer] spells are fairly extensive for my level. My Bone Horrors, for instance, are a strong accomplishment even for my level. Or would you call the ability to maintain two Bone Horrors at once a Silver-rank adventurer’s level? It is beginning to tear into the hive, by the way. The bees are quite agitated.”
It was true. The droning from the cave was getting a lot louder. Falene paused. She eyed the cave.
“I suppose it is more than most Silver-rank teams could commit to an engagement. But hubris is dangerous. There are some Silver-rank teams who are quite capable of taking down Bone Horrors with ease. And they are not Gold-rank teams for the same reason you are not yet; they lack experience or raw firepower or…”
“I get it. Thanks, Falene.”
Ceria sighed. Falene shot her a glance, and Ceria tried to give her a smile. She knew Falene cared, in her way. But it was hard to talk to her. She turned to Pisces. This conversation would be easier—if it had to happen—after they were done standing in the muck and having a nice drink at Erin’s inn. That was what Ceria and her team had been doing all the time of late. Drinking, eating, while the door slowly moved north to Invrisil. Did Ceria feel lazy for doing it? Yes. But she was enjoying herself. And besides, they were working. Even if this was just an easy—
