Ceria woke up first. It was an unconscious act on the part of her body that her mind wanted no part of. As the first rays of dawn hit her, she opened her eyes and sat up in her bed.
It was too early. And despite her early rising, Ceria was not a morning person.
But some things were too hard to forget. It had been years—decades, really—since Ceria had needed to wake up this early. She was safe in this inn, among her friends and companions. Safe.
Yet it was impossible to forget some things. Pisces had brought it out. It was his fault; his face made her remember better times. The academy and all that had gone wrong there. She…
She didn’t feel like attacking him. Not after—what, six years? But it still weighed on her and, she hoped, him too.
Rubbing her face with her hands, Ceria decided that she was up. Remembering the past would only lead to nightmares, and she wasn’t about to wake the inn screaming.
So despite the early hour and lack of sleep, Ceria stumbled downstairs. She blinked around at the room.
“Dd.”
She’d meant to say ‘odd’, but her mouth wasn’t working. What was odd wasn’t that the common room of the inn was a mess—what was odd was that it was not.
Last night. Ceria rubbed at her eyes again and remembered. Music. A night that had lasted forever. Songs and—something else. Some instruments she’d never heard before and beautiful words.
It felt like a dream. But it had been real, so it felt even more dreamlike. She remembered stumbling up to bed as the other adventurers left, still caught in that magical moment.
Yes—they’d left, but adventurers always created messes wherever they went. Mostly in the form of dead monster corpses and blood, but in this case in the form of empty dishes, dirt, spilled food and drink, and coins scattered on the tables.
None of that was here now. The room was clean. In fact, in the morning light, the polished wood practically sparkled at Ceria.
She found that mildly offensive. But hunger was distracting her in no small way. She stumbled towards the kitchen—
And froze as a skeleton blocked the doorway.
“Wood rot.”
That was twice now that Ceria felt her heart was literally about to stop. She staggered backwards and pointed shakily at the skeleton.
“Don’t—do that!”
The skeleton was silent. Ceria blinked at it, still not quite thinking properly. It had a name, didn’t it? Erin called it—
“Toren, right?”
The skeleton made no reply. Well, it had probably been the one to clean up the room. Last Ceria had seen, the girl Erin Solstice had been sleeping next to the Antinium named Pawn.
Who also wasn’t here.
Something about that made an alarm bell go off in Ceria’s head, but she was distracted by pressing needs and the undead monster in front of her.
“Is your mistress up? I’d like some breakfast, but I can get it myself.”
Ceria went to move past the skeleton, but its arm shot out and blocked her way. She stopped and stared at it.
“What are you—”
It put a finger to its yellowed teeth even as Ceria saw Erin rolled up in a blanket in the corner of the kitchen. She blinked at the girl.
“That’s where she sleeps?”
The skeleton made no sound, but it seemed irked that Ceria was still making sound. The half-Elf shook her head. It was too early for this.
“I’m hungry.”
No response. The skeleton stared at her.
“I need food.”
Again, the pitiless cold flames of death were her only answer. Ceria tried to push the skeleton aside, but it grabbed her hand warningly. She eyed it. It looked—well, it was Pisces’ creation. Carefully, she withdrew her hand.
“Fine. No waking her. But can you get me something to eat? Or—cook something?”
The skeleton seemed to consider this. After a moment, it reluctantly nodded and walked into the kitchen. Unlike the many skeletons Ceria had seen or killed, this one walked with something approaching grace. It was a superior version of an inferior undead creature, and there was only one mage stupid enough to create something like that.
Pisces. Ceria narrowed her eyes at the skeleton as it trotted into the kitchen. It was certainly an improvement on his older work. For one thing, this skeleton was quite intelligent. But that in itself wasn’t a good thing. It meant he was closer to his goal. If he ever made an undead that was capable of leveling—
She blinked as Toren appeared in front of her. He was holding something.
“Is that…a loaf of bread?”
It was. An entire loaf, unmarred by imperfections such as slicing or condiments. Toren thrust it at her.
Ceria took it and stared at him.
“Am I supposed to eat this? I need something else, you know.”
The skeleton couldn’t sigh. But Ceria distinctly got that it would if it could. It stared at her and then walked silently back into the kitchen.
Bemused, Ceria sat at a table and stared at the loaf. After a moment, she fished out her belt knife.
She’d just managed to cut a few slices away when the skeleton reappeared. It put a bowl down in front of Ceria. She stared at that too. It was also holding eggs.
Toren dropped the eggs in front of Ceria next to the loaf of bread. Then it added a bag of sugar. It went away and brought a cup and a pitcher of water out and then walked back into the kitchen.
Ceria stared at the food on her table. She eyed the eggs, bread, sugar, and the water. She caught one of the eggs before it rolled off the table and stared at it.
She shrugged.
 
——
 
When Gerial stumbled downstairs, yawning and rubbing at his eyes, he found Ceria dipping slices of bread into a bowl of egg yolks. Some sugar had also been added to a slice of bread and turned into a sandwich that made him entirely forget about breakfast.
The half-Elf looked up as she munched on her dipped slice of bread. She was reading from her spell book.
“Oh. Hey. The innkeeper’s asleep, so there’s no breakfast. But the skeleton got me some food. Want some?”
Gerial stared at the raw egg dripping from the slice of bread. He shuddered.
“That’s disgusting.”
Ceria rolled her eyes.
“You Humans. You eat eggs all the time. What’s the difference between frying them and grabbing them from a nest?”
“A very big difference, thank you.”
Gerial sat at the table and tried not to watch Ceria chomping down her meal. He stared at her cup.
“Is that sugar?”
“Goes well with the water if you add enough. Want some?”
He hesitated.
“I think I’d prefer normal food, thanks. Where’s the innkeeper?”
“Still asleep, I think. She’s in there.”
Ceria nodded to the kitchen.
“That damn skeleton’s guarding her though, so don’t go in. This is all it gave me to eat.”
“I see.”
“Yup. So this is the only food you’re getting for a while. Want some?”
“Pass.”
The two adventurers sat in silence for a while. It wasn’t the first time they’d done this. Gerial was a morning person, and he’d often found Ceria awake. His stomach rumbled, and he tried to ignore it.
After a while, the silence was too much. Gerial had to talk. He rubbed at his mustache and awkwardly cleared his throat. Ceria looked up and raised an eyebrow.
“So. Last night.”
“It was quite something, wasn’t it?”
“Something? It was—”
Gerial didn’t have words to describe it. He was no mage, and the memory of last night stuck in his head as something he could only describe as magical.
“What was that? Was it a spell?”
“A Skill, I think. Not one I’ve ever heard of. Must be a rare one.”
“But that wasn’t it either. Those songs—”
“Beautiful.”
Ceria smiled, and Gerial nodded fervently. But she didn’t seem as awed as he was by the memory. She frowned slightly.
“It was amazing. But odd as well.”
“Odd?”
“I’ve never heard any of the songs she sang. Not one. And the music that came with it—did it sound like anything you’d ever heard before?”
“Not even in my dreams.”
But Gerial had dreamed of those songs last night. He felt his eyes sting a bit as he remembered and turned his head to wipe at them. Ceria shook her head.
“They were moving, but that’s not the point, Gerial. It’s another mystery. Where did that music come from? How did that girl—”
She glanced up and stopped talking abruptly. That was another thing Gerial was used to, so when Erin stumbled out of the kitchen, he was already turning to greet her.
“Good morning, Miss Erin.”
She stopped and stared at him. She was still wearing the same food-spattered clothing she’d had on yesterday, and the rain and muck had made the smell and sight worse. She also looked miserable.
“Morning.”
Ceria nodded at Erin. The girl shook her head.
“Is everything alright?”
Another shake. Erin paused, made a face, and reluctantly opened her mouth.
“I hab a thore throat. And a cold.”
“Oh.”
“I see. My condolences.”
Erin staggered over to their table and flopped onto it. Gerial saw the skeleton walk out of the kitchen and stand behind her. Erin didn’t seem to notice—or care.
Ceria put down her book and pushed aside her bowl of egg yolk to peer at Erin. She shook her head.
“It must have been sitting out in the rain last night that did it.”
“I bnow.”
The half-Elf was already focusing on Erin, her fingers glowing with pale green light.
“I can do something about the sore throat, but healing potions don’t cure colds. And I wouldn’t recommend you trying one unless you want to roll the dice on it getting better—or turning into a debilitating sickness.”
“Really? You can—”
Erin yelped as Ceria poked her throat. Instantly, the skeleton behind her raised a threatening fist, but Erin sat back in her chair.
“Ow, that—hey! My throat is better!”
She still had a stuffed nose, though. Silently, Gerial offered her his handkerchief. Erin blew her nose and looked at him gratefully.
“Sorry.”
“Think nothing of it.”
Erin sniffed and handed him the handkerchief back.
“I hate colds.”
She looked at Ceria and Gerial pleadingly.
“Magic?”
Ceria shook her head at Erin.
“I’m sorry, but I can’t cure that so easily. I only know [Numb]—the spell I used on your throat—and colds are tricky. Way beyond me. Maybe a [Healer] can cure it? Drink hot soup.”
“What? But it’s a cold.”
Erin whined at Ceria. The half-Elf sighed, but remained patient.
“It’s a cold. The most common of illnesses. Which means no one’s figured out how to get rid of it. And before you suggest it—experimenting on sicknesses can create far worse kinds. Or just make them immune to magical healing at all.”
Gerial was surprised.
“That can happen? I thought—well, it’s just being sick, isn’t it?”
The half-Elf gave him a huge shrug.
“Don’t ask me. Apparently, things can develop immunities to magic. Mold, diseases—it’s why you don’t always use [Cleanse] to clean even Wistram Academy. They have Golems with mops.”
Erin groaned.
“Magic-resistant super-viruses. Just what I need.”
More words that the adventurers didn’t quite understand, but both got the meaning. Ceria shrugged regretfully at Erin. Then she glanced at Gerial with a slight smile.
“Looks like breakfast is canceled, Gerial. Unless you all want to risk getting sick before the ruins.”
He sighed.
“No helping it, I suppose.”
“I can make food.”
Erin tried to sit up, but Ceria gently shook her head.
“Some rest will do you more good than anything else. And you coughing into the food won’t do anyone any good.”
She was right, and Erin sagged back into her seat.
“Sorry.”
“Don’t mention it.”
Gerial was already standing and stretching. He was hungry, but it wouldn’t be the first time he’d missed or deferred breakfast until a later date. He nodded at Erin.
“We’re going into the city. I think Calruz is already gone, but the others are still asleep. Don’t worry about feeding us—they can always go into the city.”
Ceria looked surprised. She glanced upstairs.
“Calruz is gone? I didn’t hear him moving.”
“I don’t think he slept. He went after the bug—ah, I mean, the one called Pawn.”
Erin sat up in her chair, suddenly wide awake. She stared around the empty room.
“Pawn?”
 
——
 
Pawn of the Antinium had not slept since the night. It wasn’t as if he’d missed much sleep, though. Erin Solstice had sung well into the morning, so it was only an hour or two later that he sat outside the Wandering Inn, thinking.
And suffering. He could still feel his missing appendages, or rather, the places where they should be. It felt…horrible. Horrible in a way he couldn’t describe, not to be able to move properly. But there was nothing he could do, and at least the pain had stopped.
Small mercies. But the memory of how he had lost his limbs still haunted him. And yet the memory of what had happened last night was with him as well. He still heard the music, still felt his soul shifting, hurting, rejoicing as he heard Erin sing.
Pain and wonder. They fought for dominion, but the pain was nothing compared to the wonder that still filled him.
So he sat and thought. He thought of many things, from his role in the Hive as it had been to what it was now. He thought about what he had suffered and what was happening. He thought about many things and had no answers. But when he thought about Erin Solstice, he felt something else.
And he had no words for that emotion. And it was troubling. In a good way and a bad way, but enough so that when the Minotaur stomped towards him, Pawn was almost glad of the interruption.
“You.”
Pawn inclined his head respectfully. He didn’t know if he should, but all he knew was his role as a Worker. Yet he wasn’t one anymore. Should he be respectful? It seemed appropriate.
“Adventurer-Captain Calruz. How may I help you?”
The large Minotaur scowled down at Pawn. His eyes were shadowed, and he looked tired. And angry. He’d been walking outside by the looks of it, but now he stopped and stared down at Pawn.
“Answer me something, insect. Why did you not fight?”
Pawn stared up at Calruz.
“I’m sorry?”
The Minotaur glared at Pawn. He jabbed a finger at Pawn’s chest.
“You. Why did you not fight? When you were being tortured by your own kind—why did you not resist? Are all of your kind cowards or do you not have any pride?”
The question was so surprising to Pawn that he took a few moments to respond.
“I had no right to resist. The one who took me—he was the Prognugator. He judges other Antinium. Our lives are his to use.”
Calruz looked disbelievingly at Pawn.
“So. You would allow death and dishonor to befall you because of mere rank? The House of Minos respects rank—but even Prince Khedal or our King would expect to be challenged if they spoke or acted madness. Have the Antinium no such sense?”
Pawn did not know what he meant—but he did know his Hive, so he replied slowly. Honestly.
