Rags muttered to herself as she began playing a game of chess. Without any opponent, she was forced to play both sides, which she was not happy about. She groused to herself in her own language.
Again, to any other listener, her words would be meaningless nonsense. The language of the Goblins was scratchy, garbled, and sounded vaguely like rocks being tossed into a blender. In short, incomprehensible to anyone who was not a Goblin.
But the dead spoke a universal language, so Toren understood her perfectly. He listened, at first mainly because he had no choice, but then with increasing fascination. He was fascinated by Rags’ comments about the [Strategist] class and chess and stared at the chess board.
The Goblin played one game by herself and then two. After she won and lost the third game, she looked up and nearly tumbled out of her seat.
Toren stood silently over her, staring down. Rags unsheathed her short sword, but the skeleton made no move to attack. It stared down at the chess board and then slowly sat across from Rags.
With mechanical precision, it began moving chess pieces to their starting positions. As Rags, disbelieving, watched, Toren chose a pawn and moved it forwards on the chess board.
She stared at the undead skeleton. Its fiery blue eyes fixed on her. Slowly, Rags got back onto her chair and stared at the board. She stared at the skeleton. Then she shrugged.
And began to play.
 
——
 
Ceria and Gerial walked through the streets of Liscor, taking in this unfamiliar city. They were walking down a street filled with restaurants and pubs. They were being watched.
Gazi’s eye flicked around the street, and she smiled as she walked forwards. Relc was headed straight for the leader of the Horns of Hammerad several streets over. The [Princess] was crouched at another table, under the cloak of an [Invisibility] spell, but she would not interfere.
The man was an average adventurer. Level 17 in the [Warrior] class—without much to distinguish him. But the half-Elf was as noticeable as the Minotaur. She could only be Ceria Springwalker, member of the Horns of Hammerad.
Just the ones Gazi had been looking for.
