The Ruyi radiated intense waves of Scholarly Energy, an imbuement that couldn’t possibly come from a cultivator less than a hundred years old. The Daoist tool must have been interred inside an orthodox faction for eons to gain such a refined aura of righteousness. Such a scepter wasn’t something the Phusudor Alliance could produce, meaning that even the Grand Unity Hall had a hand in this scheme.

Despite its grand traditions and consecrated strength, it was facing the full extent of Tavza’s power. The Ruyi cracked and rotted into mud reeking of Abyssal Death just as it finished the circle, but it had achieved its goal. A gargantuan bagua appeared in the sky, resisting both Apocalyptic and Abyssal Death as if it had become a fixture in reality.

Two more items were brought out to empower the bagua. The first was a copper ruler covered in ancient talismans. Apart from radiating the intense righteousness of Legalism, it imposed a certain order on its surroundings. The wall of unbreakable seaweed was forced to align itself along the truths conveyed by the bagua, which incidentally opened a path to the observatory.

And yet, it was the second item that made Tavza draw a deep breath in shock. It was an azure sapphire shimmering with ancient starlight.

‘Such a large piece of [Eion Starsource]!’ Tavza stared at the sapphire with alarm.

The Abyssal Shores were certain that the last of the veins had been destroyed over a hundred million years ago, and the involved parties had been silenced. To think that the White Sky Phalanx had not only managed to uncover their secret but even sourced such a large piece without their notice. It was a reminder of the danger in having too great a reliance on a single resource.

Tavza felt her connection to the Abyss drastically weaken under the sapphire’s influence, and the drops of true Abyssal Water withered too. It didn’t matter that the crystal’s grade was lower than the water’s. [Eion Starsource]was one of the few materials in the universe that had a directly suppressive effect on the Abyssal Lake and their bloodlines.

Half her summons were destroyed in the blink of an eye, yet Tavza remained unruffled. If these people thought some starsource was enough to do her in, they were in for a rude awakening. No matter how much they’d prepared for today’s encounter, there were some things they could not possibly have anticipated.

The three gemstones hidden within the waters behind her stirred. Inside each was a pitch-black grimoire reeking of death. Tavza briefly wondered what kind of expression that guy would make if he knew the truth. The value of the treasures that went into the refinement of Mox’s grimoires was staggering. The treasures she’d sourced from the observatory alone far surpassed what they’d collected since Zac’s arrival.

The Void inside Mox’s grimoires clashed with the Era’s demise, and the Abyss became the catalyst. All ended; all returned to the origin. Death reverted into Chaos. The group didn’t get the chance to react before a grey tear in reality opened before them. From it poured a storm of chaotic destruction that distorted defenses and dismantled flesh. Five cultivators immediately died, and at least a dozen more were saddled with festering wounds.

Most importantly, the Phusudor elite that controlled the bagua was consumed, killing him outright. The cosmic chart collapsed, yet the fallout made Tavza’s eyes widen in surprise. Instead of being erased by her Death as she had hoped, the Daoist scripture gained something akin to sacrificial strength as it rained down. Before she knew it, the bagua had reformed around her, creating an impassable cage.

“Did he know he was bait?” Tavza muttered as she touched the wall.

It was a seal of absolute separation. She could no longer attack, but neither could the alliance target her. She might be able to destroy it if she went all out, but what was the point? Even if she succeeded, she’d be too exhausted to accomplish anything else. Not to mention the storm brewing within her. Just keeping the chaos contained demanded much of her attention.

Having successfully refined Mox’s grimoires didn’t mean that using them was safe. Beyond the ingrained resentment, there were inherent risks to borrowing the power of Chaos. Since she was completely safe, she might as well deal with the internal danger before worrying about the threat outside. Besides, such a powerful banishment couldn’t possibly last very long on its own.

Tavza steadily gazed toward the closing gap as the small army poured inside. Beyond two people stationed to maintain the prison, the rest rushed into the observatory before the curtain could close.

“It’s up to you now.”
