The temporary health and armor from Last Stand wore off, and moments later his danger sense warned him of the incoming strike. He blocked the near-instantaneous cleaving talon strike but even blocked, the power of the attack smashed him up into the rocky wall behind him in a shower of blood and shattered stone. His health surged back up in steps as the Kobolds reacted to the damage, landing their biggest heals on him as he recovered his stance. He dropped down, ducking under snapping fangs, and retaliated with another armor-piercing strike, ensuring that the drake’s armor was weakened for the rest of the group to do damage. The Hobgoblins were certainly taking advantage of his skill, and the demonic spiders even more with high-speed flurries of attacks that flickered and glinted, spraying drake-blood into the air as a fine mist.

He was quickly getting used to the flow of battle with his new enhanced reflexes. He blocked another cleaving talon strike, taking a savage bite to his left shoulder, barely able to move his head out of the way in time. The fangs sunk deep into his hide, puncturing his armor with raw strength and power. His counterstrike broke the drake’s bite by tearing the fangs from his shoulder along with a sizeable chunk of armor and flesh. He ignored the pain, allowing the abundance of healing magic on him to rapidly restore his wildly oscillating health.

He roared, using Challenging Roar more to keep the drake’s strength debuffed than to taunt it, and, as if in response, one of the Hobgoblins shouted in concert with him, the booming voice of her skill filling him with power. That’s more like it!

He felt the breath attack coming, and before the flame even struck, quickly scanned the fight so that he would know where everything was when he lost his ability to see and braced himself up against the wall. The roaring flame washed over him, tearing into his face and body. He blocked another claw attack purely on Survival Instinct as the world faded from red to black. As the roar of flame faded and his sight was restored, he could feel the heat radiating from the red-hot rock behind him. Dragon-fire was insanely hot, and it easily outclassed the hellfire of the wargs in terms of how much of his health it burned away, but he would still take the dragon’s breath over the hellfire, simply because the pain was less, and the flames did not linger forever.

Suddenly, one of the spiders landed a whistling strike and the drake stumbled. It was only for a moment, but in that instant, Battlemaster triggered again. Oh, this is fantastic! he thought, taking full advantage of the opportunity to land his biggest hit yet.

Mato shifted to the side, moving out of the partially melted rock. It wasn’t much extra damage, but with the sheer volatility of his health, any damage saved was likely to be worth it. He settled in for the long haul, grateful for his regeneration and Battle Trance as he focused on learning how to defend himself against his magnificent opponent. Claws swiped and talons Cleaved in a dizzying conversation of violence and strength. When the chime finally rang out in his mind, Mato found himself filled with an overwhelming sense of triumph – but, laced through the emotion was a distinct undercurrent of disappointment that it was over.

Your group has defeated Armored Drake – Dragon – Level 76Swipe has reached level 36.Survival Instinct has reached level 27.Last Stand has reached level 8.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
