Ren let them out of the hug, and they all sat back down in their seats to finish eating. After breakfast, Ren took several pieces out to Princess, who gobbled them up faster than Ren could put them in her bowl. He eventually just tossed them to her one at a time and she had to take her time that way.

“We've got a lot of running around to do this morning.” Ren said and grinned. “I want you to do it in style.” He took out the pieces of armor and gave each piece to her. “Equip them, please.”

Princess put on each piece, and once she wore everything, the golden colored armor matched her hooves perfectly.

“The best piece for last.” Ren said and took out the custom made helm, then looked at the bare metal of the forehead. “Dammit, I forgot to add the diamond crest!” He said and stored the helm again. “I'll be right back.”

Princess huffed and Ren ran from the stable and to the gate. Teepo told him who was on guard, and Ren opened the gate to see that Kharpik was there.

“Good morning, sir.” Kharpik said.

“Good morning.” Ren said. “Leave it open. I'll be right back.”

“Yes, sir.”

Ren ran to the workshop and went inside to grab a dollop of molten metal to make a mount for a diamond. He took out one of the crates of diamonds and picked a nice oval, then enchanted it with the House Neram crest, granting the wearer a House Neram Aura with a 10 foot radius. Ren grabbed some of the molten metal, and took out the helm from inventory. He went to set the enchanted diamond, and saw the House Neram crest was backwards. Ren frowned, then flipped the diamond oval over.

“Well, would you look at that.” Ren said, then set the diamond onto the helm. “With the right diamond, you can see the reverse of what you enchant.” He ran his hands along the metal and absorbed the heat; so the metal would be cool when he handed the helm to Princess. He stored the helm and ran back down the road, through the gate, and into the stable.

“Okay, it's ready.” Ren said, and took out the helm again. “Here you go.”

Princess equipped it, and her eyes widened as she got a popup. A moment later, it was Ren's turn for his eyes to widen as he got a popup, too.

Notice!

Your mount's Intelligence stat is high enough to establish a basic mental connection with you, as if she were a familiar or a construct.

WARNING! Once the link is established, it cannot be undone; except upon the mount's death. Do you wish to initiate this link? Confirm: Yes / No

Ren looked at Princess. “Do you want me to?”

Princess stared back at him for a full minute before she slowly nodded.

“Yes.” Ren said, then felt a sharp pain poke him in the forehead and into his brain. “OW!” He hollered and rubbed his head. “Why does it have to feel like a god...damn... NEEDLE?!?”

Princess winced and shook her head slightly, as she'd gotten the same treatment as Ren.

“Are you all right?” Ren asked and pat her neck.

....wwwwwwhhhhhhhhhaaaaaaaaaattttttttttttt....

....dddddddddddddiiiiiiddddddddddd........ yyyyyyoooooooouuuu.......

....dddddddddooooooooooo...... ttttttoooooooooo...... mmmmmmeeeeeeee.......

“Holy crap!”
