But maybe he shouldn’t ask her for her opinion, anyway. This was his responsibility, after all. He didn’t want to saddle Jane with any possible guilt if her theoretical decision turned out to be ‘wrong’. Besides, he had grown a lot more confident in his magic and his choices since that time he needed Jane’s help to make a decision on his Class Abilities. He could do this on his own. He could do this right now.

Erick opened the blue box in question.

Rozeta’s Boon.

Make a decision:

(1) Reduction.

(2) Resilience.

(3) Recovery.

Jane had said in some of their talks that making your strengths stronger was one of the best ways to cover your weaknesses. For that reason, and because of his own ideas, Recovery looked like a really good option.

… They all looked like good options.

Erick had no idea what the words actually meant, but whatever they meant, they were all good things, right?

Right.

Erick thought no more on Reduction or Resilience, and mentally pressed ‘Recovery’.

Another box appeared.

This is a permanent option, with no ability to change later, unlike the vast majority of the rest of your Status. Are you sure you wish to pick Recovery? If you wish to proceed, then verbal confirmation is required, along with focused intent and the imbuing of your magic into this notification. ~Rozeta.

Erick smiled, piling intent into his words and pushing magic into the second box, as he said, “I pick this one.”

The blue box vanished. Ophiel trilled as Erick fell backward, onto his bed. His eyes grew heavy. He struggled to stay awake, but his arms weighed him down, like he was at the bottom of a world made of honey. Ophiel fluttered into the air above him, concerned, with eyes opened up and wings spread wide, as he trilled in flutes.

Divine fire filled the room like a swirling storm; an intangible flickering of white and gold flames that caught on everything and nothing at the same time. And then it was over. The thickness of the air turned hot, then calm, then vanished altogether, as the divine fire swirled away.

For a brief, interesting second, Erick just felt… good. Healthy. Vibrant, even. Like he had just slept for a day and come out of the experience better for it.

Then Ophiel dropped down onto Erick’s chest like a five kilogram cat. Erick grunted. He gently patted Ophiel as he caught his breath, running his fingers through white feathers, turning the [Familiar]'s flute sounds into gentle violins. Erick smiled, and another blue box appeared.

Rozeta’s Recovery

The sum of your Health and Mana Regeneration now applies to both Health and Mana Regeneration.

Immune to Health Fatigue and Mana Exhaustion.

Erick chuckled, whispering to Ophiel, “Is that why I feel good? Okay then.” He checked his Status.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 65, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 1,597,236,147,992,638/2,777,789,003,528,800

Class: 6/6

Points: 9

HP

2100/2100

29,700 per day

MP

6900/6900

29,700 per day

Strength

20

+50

[70]

Vitality

20

+50

[70]

Willpower

65

+50

[115]

Focus

65

+50

[115]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

He said, “Oh. Nice. It’s like a constant base [Rejuvenation]… or maybe a little less. And only while at Rest.” He added, "Base [Rejuvenation] with no Willpower bonus." He spoke to Ophiel, “This saves me from having to buy a healing spell, though.” He yawned.

He yawned again.

Okay. Maybe he wasn’t fully awake, like he had slept for a day and come out better for it. He might be immune to Exhaustion and Fatigue, but apparently he was still vulnerable to exhaustion and fatigue, and he certainly didn’t want to go back downstairs to read more about [Find Target] and [Identify].

[Find Target] failed when knowledge was incomplete, but [Identify] could usually point the caster in a new direction of inquiry. That was easy enough to understand. Erick skipped through that book rather fast.

But the topic of [Identify] was just so dry. Reading about that spell was like reading about databases, and the classifications of objects, and how to differentiate one from the other. Erick had read enough. The gist was, was that the more knowledgeable a person was, and the more that their [Identify] target resembled what they knew, the better [Identify] worked. If [Identify] was cast as a group, the same rules applied.

That sort of group casting was actually called Ritual Magic, or Cooperative Magic. This kind of magic multiplied the cost of the spell with each new person added to the link, while simultaneously greatly increasing the spell’s power. Everyone needed to have the same spell, though, and they all needed to be linked together in a cohesive [Telepathy] for it to work.

Cooperative Magic didn’t work with [Familiar]s, unfortunately.

And plus, it was hard to find a need for [Identify], most of the time. [Identify] was a niche magic that worked on a range of ‘touch’, and only told you what you might have figured out soon enough. In that way, you were just saving time. But if you weren’t very knowledgeable, you were wasting your time. Most people were often better off taking such stuff to an expert for exactly that reason, or using an [Identify]-enchanted encyclopedia.

[Identify] did have one major exception to the vagaries of its action, though, and that was with regard to magical items. If [Identify] was cast on a magical item, no matter the caster’s idea of what that magical item might be, it would return the nature of that magical item, and without fail. According to many of the books, this use of [Identify] was Rozeta’s personal influence on the spell.

But touching unknown, powered magical items was usually a very, very bad idea, so most people just wrapped them up in cloth and took them to a proper mage who might know the item without having to touch it.

Erick smiled as he got up and got ready for bed. Maybe, if he linked up a thousand people with the help of a few Mind Mages, he could brute-force [Cascade Imaging] into finding Messalina, or Messalina’s targets. Then he frowned. If it was that easy, they would have done it already. From everything Erick knew, Messalina certainly did not lack for personnel, or normal [Scan] magic. So. Yeah. Brute force wouldn’t work. Besides. Everyone needed to have the same spell for Cooperative Magic to be an option, and no one else would have [Cascade Imaging] for at least a year.

As Erick got back into bed, and Ophiel took his position on the covers beside his hip, Erick considered the possibilities…

And then he remembered the four other Elites the Headmaster had set to watching Windy Manor. They were a mixed group of people and they seemed nice enough, but at least one of them would always be directly watching Windy Manor from now on. That got Erick to thinking about how Guardmaster Merit always had someone watching his house in Spur, and that got him to thinking about how he didn’t like being watched so much. Erick had made himself the center of attention in a lot of places, and while that opened a lot of doors, it also made him a target. [Cascade Imaging] was certainly a good thing, but the Headmaster had said, very clearly, that if Erick left Oceanside with this theoretical [Polymorph Scanner] and without Oceanside’s protection, that he would be dead within the week.

Erick wondered what life would be like, if he just made a hole in the ground somewhere and sent out Ophiel to do everything he needed doing—

Nope!

He would not become a hermit. No way. No how. Not happening.

… But how would he go about being a hermit, if that was an option?

Hole in the ground?

… No … Well. Probably not.
