Seeing a pixie outside of his window when Eduard was divulging the particulars of his search for Messalina, to Silverite, was apparently enough to count as a ‘well known target’. Or maybe the Headmaster’s description of their stature and capabilities had been enough. Whatever the case, the dots moved slowly as they flew around the city. Some of them were high in the sky. Some of them were darting in and out of deeper buildings; vanishing into radio-shadows, or reappearing from them.

Erick said, “Poi. Alert the Headmaster. He has pixies in his city.”

- - - -

The Headmaster stood tall in the crescent, white-map harbor of Oceanside, as he loomed over the miniature version of his city. Lines of telepathic intent flickered from his head, out into the manasphere. His amber eyes glowed dim gold as he tracked a blue dot as it floated through the city.

There were no pleasantries for today’s visit. The Headmaster had appeared in a flash of gold, and after looking up at the white cascading orb above, and at the white map below, he strode right into the map, and saw the problem that Erick had spotted.

He had not said a single word, yet.

Erick just stood to the side, waiting, as the miniature white forests of Oceanside ringed his waist. Kiri and Poi, as well as Vinsez and Powell, all stood well outside of the map. Kiri and Poi stood beside the lemon trees. Vinsez and Powell stood toward the cliffside.

The Headmaster tracked the blue dot as it flew into a harborside building.

The dot suddenly stilled, then flickered back and forth. At the scale of this map, the dot flickered maybe twenty meters at most. But then it stilled, again.

The Headmaster smiled wide. He said, “Got him.”

The tension of the moment seemed to fade like a breaking fog revealing a mountain of gold. The Headmaster smiled well and truly wide, as he laughed loud. The map flickered under the dragon’s mirth, as the Headmaster tossed his head back and laughed like a sudden hurricane. Erick felt his bones vibrate, but he kept his cool, as the Headmaster dispensed with his joy.

The Headmaster calmed down. He brushed away some happy tears from his eyes, then said, “We have pixies on staff, of course. They are a people, after all. They’re not unequivocally beholden to Messalina, but there is a stigma there, so they don’t like to make themselves known. That one, though… That one was not on my staff, and no one else knew about this one.” He sighed. He said, “He might have even been the one who wormed you, or not.” He added, “Or he might be a unknown visiting relative. We’ll find out.” He gazed up, toward the flickering, cascading ball of light above, which was almost in line with the sun, then back down, to the white map. He said, “This is an impressive spell. I can hardly wait to see the equations that describe it all.”

Erick chuckled, saying, “Maybe in 50 years when someone else invents those.”

The Headmaster smiled, saying, “That is my expected timetable, too.” He added, “You seem to have this aversion to the math side of magic, but it really does help the rest of us to understand the unknowable. Magic is screwy. Math is a bridge, so that mortal minds might come to eventually comprehend the uncomprehendable.”

“… is that why Rozeta doesn’t tell anyone how magic works? Because it's too hard to explain?”

“Partially, I’m sure.” The Headmaster looked back down to the map. He asked, “Could you please search for a few things for me? I would like to test this spell's capabilities. The Problem of [Polymorph] might not be a problem for a spell like this, if you’re clever enough.” He added, “But I’m sure you will need to do something more to solve that particular conundrum.”

Erick said, “Sure. What’s the first thing?”

The first thing was ‘soul’, or more particularly, ‘Erick’s Soul’. This met with a predictable failure. Erick had no concrete idea what a ‘soul’ actually was.

“How can you not know what a soul is?” the Headmaster asked, smirking and disbelieving.

“I am pretty sure I have one, but beyond that… Where is it? What is it? Is it me, or is it a part of me?”

The Headmaster simply nodded, and moved on, repeating many of the same queries Erick had already performed, along with a few he did not think to test, like ‘people possessing [Polymorph]’. Of that query, the people all around Erick got a blue dot, because he was pretty darn sure that everyone here had the skill, but only one dot appeared all the way over in Oceanside; Jane’s dot.

‘Orcol’, ‘Incani’, ‘Human’, all produced predictable results.

‘Dragon’ highlighted the Headmaster, while the Headmaster was in human form. His was the only such dot on the map. Strangely enough, the Headmaster was also highlighted when Erick searched for ‘human’. The Headmaster smirked at that. Running through a few different tests with ‘light slime’ highlighted himself, while ‘unicorn’ highlighted Jane over in the hospital.

Identifying active spells, like [Ward] and [Scry] were easy enough, and those spells seemed to suffer no effects from being detected. Searching for [Telepathy] revealed a haze of magic layered over the city, and multiplied the radio-shadows so much that Erick might as well have started the spell from scratch; which he then did. This earned Erick a raised eyebrow from the Headmaster. Apparently [Cascade Imaging] could detect active magic that Erick understood; ‘understood’ being the keyword, there. Searching for [Invisible] turned up nothing. Erick had never experienced the spell, himself.

The Headmaster then asked him to search for several things that Erick had never heard of before. ‘Drakenslag’, ‘woodholly’, ‘Gnarled Pine’. Nothing showed on the map. When that round of tests were over, the Headmaster conjured lightwards shaped like trees. He indicated that drakenslag was a red tree with three-pointed leaves, with undersides of the brightest red; almost neon. Woodholly and Gnarled Pine were also trees. Once Erick knew what he was scanning for, blue dots appeared in the forests all around Oceanside.

The Headmaster eventually said, “[Cascade Imaging] seems to operate based on personal knowledge linked to form, in a standard [Find Target] sort of way, and with all those same assorted nuances. This is a problem, since you want this kind of magic to be a completely separate entity from your own understanding. You want more [Identify]; less [Find Target]. [Find Target] lies sometimes.” He added, “Without a proper [Identify] like quality, [Cascade Imaging] is more a mapping spell and a parlor trick than anything truly useful. But maybe I am not giving you enough credit; we'll see.” He looked up, adding, “And that orb is rather prominent, but I suppose it is necessary.” He looked back down to Erick, asking, “Do you want me to send you my books on [Identify]?”

“Yes. I’ll try to get through them tonight.” He asked, “But I’d much prefer the short, oral version.”

The Headmaster smirked, then said, “[Identify] is a major spell, much larger than you might think. A generalized casting of the spell would draw on your entire personal knowledge base in order to work, including whatever facts you might not fully remember, but used in this way, [Identify] is similarly as flawed as [Find Target]. The difference is, is that [Find Target] will just fail, while [Identify] might give you some clues as to what you are trying to understand, based on your own knowledge.

“If you want to [Identify] something properly, you must use something outside of your own faulty personal knowledge, and then you must enchant that item to use in your [Identify] magics. The Identinomicon, which is a yearly publication produced by the Arcanaeum Consortium, is specifically published for this exact reason. Each copy costs a grand rad, and it takes one more grand rad to enchant the book. Another, much more difficult method to [Identify] in a larger manner is to produce the spell [Libarium], which comes from [Identify], and then enchant a suitable library space with this second spell.”

“How is that different from [Find Target]?”

“Open the spells, and find out.”

Identify X, instant, touch, 50 MP

Discover the properties of an object.

Find Target X, concentration, close range, 5 MP + 5 MP per meter searched

Find a target.

“Ah.” Erick said, “They’re similar, but one is for understanding, while the other is for finding.”

“Exactly.” The Headmaster said, “They are used in conjunction a lot because they have a similar focus. Most [Scan]s eventually use both spells, but your [Cascade Imaging] already has the necessary ability to locate. Now, you just need understanding.”

“Can you link minds with many people in order to cast [Identify] with a larger knowledge base?”

“Ritual magic is a common workaround when the need to [Identify] is larger than the resources on hand, but conflicting knowledge results in Errors for the person outside of the consensus, even if the minority is correct. This is why most people will [Identify] with knowledge that has been picked over by vetted sources and put down on paper.” He added, “The Identinomicon is one of the most rigorously researched and vetted generalized knowledge bases on Veird, but even that book is wrong sometimes. We do strive to keep misinformation to a minimum, though.”

“Okay. Uh. Different question.” Erick asked, “How about if you wanted to find something— What about using a piece of the thing you are trying to find, to find the whole?” He added, “Sorry. I have the spells, but I never really practiced with either.”

The Headmaster nodded, saying, “In this way, you can track a target rather easily, unless they take any of a hundred different steps in order to evade such a measure. [Polymorph] is one of those steps, and by far the easiest.”

Erick threw out another idea, “What about enchanting a written account of what one person had done with [Identify], and then using that in a searching spell?”

“A poor [Polymorph] will not fool this method, but a middling [Polymorph] will.” The Headmaster added, “That is some nice lateral thinking. That method worked for about a hundred years in the beginning, but then people started training in [Polymorph] to avoid this failing, and now [Polymorph] once again reigns supreme. This book-making method is still routinely done to catch criminals if they stick around and make themselves a problem. It works, sometimes.”

“Okay… New idea: Can you search someone else’s past notifications to see if they match the deaths of someone you know?”

“Sin Seeker has a Class Ability that was made using this method, along with [Witness]; it's called Script Recall. It requires touch and a subdued target. Attempts by accomplished Sin Seekers to transform this Class Ability into a generalized spell have always met with Errors, though one Sin Seeker can use a Script Recall enchanted item that a different Sin Seeker has produced. In this way, the second Seeker does not have to have that Class Ability themselves, though most do.

The Headmaster warned, “Don’t try to mess with your Class Abilities, or the Class Abilities of others. This constitutes as messing with the Script, and such an attempt at tinkering will always be met with an Error, at the very least.

He added, “The problem of [Polymorph] has gone unsolved for 1200 years. Your spell can already do a lot of the necessary, basic searching, but only with a physical target you know well. And, I see that you have no problems keeping up with the mana costs of the spell. These two facts are more than enough to give me hope that you can finally put [Polymorph]’s supremacy to rest, but it won’t happen through magic that has come before.” He offered, “Though normal magic might give you some hints? I’ll send you the books in an hour.” He said, “But, for now, I have a pixie in custody that needs to answer a few questions.”

Erick said, “Okay. Thank you, Headmaster.”

The Headmaster said, “Good spell, Erick. I look forward to requesting your help to narrow down the locations of some dangerous targets in the future. Not all targets require the solution to the [Polymorph] problem, after all. Most of what I would ask you to do would be looking for particularly dangerous monsters in particularly dangerous locations, but with your [Familiar], of course. All that these requests would require is an understanding of those monsters, which I can give you as needed.” He added, “But as [Cascade Imaging] is a major step in the right direction, I would like to add some more Elites to your surroundings, if you do not mind.”

Erick was feeling really tired of being a target, but the Headmaster was right.

Erick said, “Sure. Thank you.”

The Headmaster nodded. He vanished in a blip of gold light.

The sun dipped down in the west. Erick had spent the entire day in his front yard, trying to understand [Cascade Imaging]. The spell had already reached level 10. Now, it was time to rain on Spur, and for an early dinner. And to make a decision.

- - - -

Erick sat on his bed, in his room. The books for [Identify] had shown up hours ago, and he had already spent a lot of time reading, but he was tired. Stars shone outside his window. Maybe it was time to sleep? Maybe he should make this next decision in the morning.

He had apparently missed Jane’s ‘awake time’ while the Headmaster was here. He wasn’t happy about that, for multiple reasons, but also because he couldn’t ask her opinion on what to take with this ‘boon’...

