Therrium Sailwinds knew of worse groups by far, at sea and on land. The Bloodtear Pirates, whose own members had created the Bloodfeast Raiders, were entire armadas of [Pirates] who could sink a fleet. There were more dangerous cults in Baleros’ jungles, larger organizations.
The Black Judgement of Chandrar—now there was a group that had wiped out entire cities and bloodlines before the King of Destruction had put them to the sword. He wasn’t as familiar with Terandria, but some of those kingdoms got up to—tricks.
Yet the Raiders were showoffs, and the scrying orb was showing him an uncensored image of slaughter. So the Drowned Man grimaced as he watched.
“We—I am asking anyone who is young or—to avert their eyes. Should we cut the broadcast? We—have to see—”
The Drake, Sir Relz, was floundering as he watched. Wavering between cutting the images and sound and reporting on the news.
Therrium suspected that the fact the Raiders had been posing for the scrying spell meant they wanted to be seen, so he would have cut the spell. But Wistram did not.
The [Captain] of The Passing Shadow, one of the famous ships among the Drowned Folk, got up and paced his swaying cabin. He was restless. Not just because rain was pouring down and he was anchored wrongside—that was, floating on the waves rather than under them—but because he was waiting for guests.
The sight of the Raiders sacking the hamlet was not helping his mood. He’d been on both ends of a slaughter, and this one was completely one-sided.
The Bloodfeast Raiders set the houses on fire in their first charge down the hill. The hamlet had been doing its best. Someone clever had put archers in windows, hidden warriors in buildings ready to come out and flank the Raiders. There were hundreds of villagers; they might be able to surround and overwhelm the Raiders.
But the first [Fireball] punching through a window and exploding the roof off a house showed Therrium there was no chance. One Raider swooping down on a flying carpet of all things took an arrow to the shoulder. It didn’t even pierce whatever armor he had, then he was leaping off, cutting the arms off one of the [Archers] before beheading another with a whoop—
“Nasty. Who are those bastards? Friends of yours, Therrium? Wait, this is the news. Chandrar? That’s a flying carpet, so that’s my guess.”
Therrium jumped and nearly drew a wand. He turned—and Rasea Zecrew stood in the cabin’s door way. Water was dripping from her hat and garments, but they were waterproofed, and she stomped into his cabin.
Her anglerfish side was a toothy grin. Her yellow eye in its socket glowed, and her Human one was alight with mirth as she met his gaze. Therrium forced his hand away from his side.
“Captain Zecrew. Welcome aboard. I would have given you a proper welcome, but—the news. It’s Bloodfeast Raiders. Izril.”
Rasea’s eyes swung to the orb and widened.
“I thought no one saw them.”
“No one knows who they are. They’re showing off. Wiping out a poor village.”
“Anywhere in the south by the coast? I always wanted to know what they were made of.”
Rasea’s eyes shone brighter, and Therrium glanced at the orb himself. Now that would be a thought. But they were far enough from Izril’s new coastline, let alone the old one…
“…No. North of the High Passes.”
“Damn. That would have gotten us all in the same bed. Hoi, Captain Jiupe! Get in here! You’re not going to like this. Is—ah. Both of you made it.”
A commotion outside. Therrium turned his head, but he felt the presence of the other two [Captains] before they entered his cabin. He was no man of auras, but each [Captain] and their ship was a unique thing.
Rasea was that spirit of reckless adventure. Even being near Therrium, she made him want to draw his sword and lock blades as they had at sea with the Titan’s [Strategists]. She was a light in dark seas, wild, honorable for a given sense of a [Pirate]’s honor, and her crew was as fearless and tough as her ship, the Illuminary.
By contrast—the other [Pirate] who came into the cabin smelled of blood. She felt like blood, red skies, and a wave coming at Therrium. Her crew and ship were that of no quarter. Captain Jiupe and the Bloodtear Pirates were killers on deck, and they made his skin crawl.
But even they had a code of conduct, though they’d stab you through the eyes if you made them mad. The Bloodtear Pirates had sent only one ship ahead of their armada.
Even so, the Jellyfish Woman had known what was going on before she saw the scrying orb—and the instant she saw it, she spat, and venomous spittle ran from the side of the orb.
“Bloodfeast traitors. Korizan’s mockery. Where are they? Close by coast?”
“North of the High Passes inland. Welcome, Jiupe. Should I turn it off?”
Therrium repeated himself. The Captain glared—but moderated her glare as she met his eyes.
“Drowned Captain. I’ll watch—and you have my thanks for putting me on your deck. Here.”
She slammed something on the table so hard the bottle of wine nearly broke—and Rasea placed another bottle herself. This was just a little formality, and Therrium gestured at some cups. He had a bottle too, some brandy he liked from Balerosian ports. All three bottles might be consumed before the meeting was over. Therrium spoke briskly.
“Pour a drink, Jiupe. Before you break something valuable.”
She grabbed a cup, glaring, and Rasea and Therrium let her busy herself without crowding around. Screamtouch Jiupe, famous for her poisonous jellyfish tendrils, was a threat even to them if she brushed their skin.
Especially because healing potions were so dear. Which was a huge problem with Nombernaught’s venture and Therrium’s own enterprises. He wouldn’t even have been here if—
“In the past, Captains, it was a courtesy to wait until all the bottles had been placed together and pour a drink mixed from each one. I suppose those days are gone. The swill was always foulest when you mixed wine with ale and whiskey.”
The fourth and final [Captain] to enter the cabin was the worst of the other three, to Therrium. Even if Jiupe was blood in the water with sharks abounding and Rasea was a challenge on deck…
The last person was like a crawling sensation on your spine at midnight. A scuttling in your hold. He was a handsome man…or had been, but his cloak revealed a face altered far, far too much by his passions.
The Alchemist Irurx and his ship were so close in the water that Therrium’s skin crawled. He’d ordered Irurx let aboard—and no one else.
I’ll have the hulls scrubbed, inside and out. But what the [Drowned Captain] did was nod.
“Captain Irurx.”
He even stuck out his Human hand, which could spark with electricity. His eel-side could deliver a jolt that could stop your heart, and his good eye, green like kelp, sparked with electricity when he was angry or passionate.
But Therrium reminded many of a statesman with his old doublet, worn velvet and faded brass buttons. He looked like an old [Lord] of Terandria, but the faded cloth and ancient style gave him the look of what he was—a Drowned [Captain], aristocracy of a different kind.
—Of course, Therrium deliberately had his [Tailors] find him clothing and even age it to give that old look as if it had been salvaged from a shipwreck. The faded brass was actually de-buffed with a cloth, and the entire ensemble was very comfortable.
Captains at sea had to have style. Each one was adorned in considerably more thought-out ensembles than their landfolk counterparts. Rasea had the classic vest, high boots, and jaunty hat of a [Swashbuckler] Captain.
Jiupe’s armored clothing was red, stained like blood, but definitely dyed, and she had a few tears in the cloth that had to be deliberate, as if she’d strode out of a fight.
Irurx…well, when he removed his robes and hood, they revealed burn scars all over his face and body. He had soot-marks in his hair, reddish eyes—all products of nearly being burned at the stake a long, long time ago.
In place of his alchemical robes, though, was a more modern dress, a skirt hanging from an entire ensemble in black with bandages wrapped around his hands and a full alchemical belt at his waist.
But what made him really stand out were the sigils lining his black clothing, which were…flags. Flags and nations and, Therrium realized, the emblems of each ship he had downed while crewing Shifthold, one of the legendary ships of the sea.
All of the four [Captains] represented their own kind of legend, but Irurx’s was the oldest. The pedigree of The Passing Shadow was older than Therrium, and he respected the ship he had won from its previous master. But Irurx was Shifthold.
In this moment, in this place, even the other three proud [Captains] gave him his due. Not least because he’d called this meeting. Therrium was merely the most neutral ground; he was respected and trustworthy, for a pirate.
Rasea’s ship was erratic, and her ship had less amenities. Bloodtear could throw a grand party, but they had an entire armada and could be—unpredictable with their grudges. No one would eat anything or step onto Shifthold if they had a chance.
Hence, here and him. Therrium gestured at the orb.
“Have you seen?”
Irurx raised his brows as his eyes settled on the orb.
“Bloodfeast. I remember when Korizan was said to be the next [Blood Admiral] of a fleet. I remember—”
A growl from Jiupe made Irurx pause, and the Drowned Woman drained a cup of the wine he’d brought to the table and drank another.
“Apologies. I forget the grudge is ongoing. It is an old one. Even for me.”
“You don’t—deal with Bloodfeast, do you, Alchemist?”
There was an edge in Jiupe’s voice, and Therrium cursed. This was not how he wanted the meeting to go.
“We’re on neutral footing here, Jiupe—”
“Nothing’s neutral about traitors. What’s my answer?”
Irurx didn’t look intimidated as Rasea sipped from Therrium’s brandy and then poured a full cup. He just raised his brows.
“Everyone has been a client of mine at one point, Captain Jiupe. Especially if they have few other recourses. If you are asking if I favor or help Korizan—no. My wares have found him by proxy, never in person. He is quite wary of the sea.”
“I don’t like that answer. Not sure the admirals will, either.”
Her oozing half of her face, jellyfish, stirred with her anger. Irurx was equal to the threat, though.
“We are here to negotiate, Captain Jiupe. A stipulation of your agreement could be…cessation of all aid even by proxy to the Bloodfeast Raiders. I would agree to that and force my buyers into compliance. I am sure it would interfere with Korizan’s dealings.”
She hesitated, and Therrium finally took a sip of Irurx’s wine. He grimaced.
Dead gods, the half-Elf was crafty and persuasive and his wine was delicious. He’d expect no less from one of the greatest [Alchemists] in the world, though.
“To business. Should I turn the orb off? It’s…not exactly entertaining. Bloodfeast has no class, even if they’re known.”
The slaughter, even from a remove, really was just brutality. And none of the [Captains] here had to pretend they knew the business. Irurx lifted a hand to show he didn’t care, and Rasea shrugged.
“I’m no fan of theirs. Jiupe?”
“Leave it on.”
So they did. Smoke was rising, and Sir Relz was trying to talk to…Therrium glanced once at the orb and decided it was unlikely any adventurer would rouse themselves to try and stop so many Raiders. It was too far, too quick—and this was familiar to him, even if it was the first time it was broadcast in its entirety.
Izril’s nobility had never stopped the Raiders before.
 
——
 
The talk between the [Captains] was quicker once the orb was muted and playing in the background. They drank, made light talk, and spoke of the news first before getting to business over a hand of cards.
With high stakes. Therrium tossed two cut emeralds into a golden bowl. They rang slightly as he peeked at his cards. Two Archmages. Not a bad hand.
“I’ve heard the Iron Vanguard’s moving from Baleros. Has anyone sailed those waters? I’ve been occupied with Nombernaught as most Drowned Ships are. And the Krakens are moving. Not a time to try the deep oceans.”
“I visited my sister. No luck here.”
Rasea folded. Daring as she was on deck, she was a surprisingly conservative gambler, and she sighed as her two silver-and-pearl earrings were lost.
The pot held no gold in it. Only jewels or other trinkets. That made it fun. Irurx tossed in a vial.
“That would be a raise. I have inquired—you would do well to stay away. The Krakenbane Destroyers are escorting their fleets. To say nothing of Rhir’s forces.”
All the other [Captains] paused. Even Jiupe looked up.
“Now there’s an army at sea. They must be wary.”
Therrium’s smile was twisted as he gave Irurx a nod of thanks.
“Of actual Krakens, for once. I’ll tell ships to stay clear—not that they wouldn’t. Has the Death of Magic attacked Rhir at sea again?”
“No…at least not the second fleet. The first one had troubles.”
Irurx’s eye glinted as Jiupe paused in the act of inserting a fat Flashwing feather into the cup along with placing a bottle of syrup next to the pot. She frowned at Irurx’s vial.
“Look who knows what sails above and below the sea. Are you sure that vial is a raise?”
“It’s just a fun hand. Come off it, Jiupe.”
Therrium muttered as they all tossed in their unwanted cards. He pulled out a third Archmage and kept his face straight. Aha.
“The vial is called the Scent of Soaria. Aphrodisiac. It’s highly sought after.”
“Mind-altering?”
“No. Just arousing. Very well received. It will go for quite a number of gold coins, and it is a significant hit regardless of species. I’ve yet to meet a disappointed customer. The feather is quite nice, but does the syrup…match the pot?”
All the other [Captains] peered at the vial, and Jiupe pointed at the syrup.
“That’s Yellowpopple Apple syrup. It’s good stuff.”
“…I put two emeralds in. They’re beautiful.”
Jiupe now had to defend her ante before they put their cards in. She glared at Therrium.
“That’s just jewels. This is taste. Here—hey, get a cut of that pork roast we had with the syrup on it! It’s a day old, but you should taste it. And that was the marinade.”
Nothing would do but for everyone to wait fifteen minutes while a cut of some old roast was presented. Therrium took a bite, expecting a sweet mess—but his eyebrows shot up.
“That is good.”
Irurx agreed after tasting as well.
“I will take it. Bloodtear Pirates were always good cooks. I forgot they are the rare exception—which was why I refused to dine on Captain Rasea’s vessel.”
“Hey!”
Rasea looked pained as she turned to Jiupe.
