Normen looked her in the eyes. Then he gritted his teeth, drew his head back, seized her arm—and smashed his helmet into Midias’ face.
“Midias!”
Lastere shouted and tried to stand despite his leg. But Normen had a grip on his wife’s arm, and the [Knight]—he raised the mace, and an arrow struck his hand.
[Disarming Shot]. He staggered—and Lastere’s wife screamed in a deeper voice.
“You—you bastard!”
The smith froze—and a sword appeared in Midias’ grip—no. A second Raider appeared. They were both disguised as his wife.
Then where was…the second Raider struggled in Normen’s grip. And someone called out in a calm voice.
“Enough games. Lights out.”
Darkness again. A shout—ringing of metal—and when the [Nightclouds] parted, the [Knight] was clutching at his hand. Bolts of electricity were springing off his armor, and the second Raider was gone. But when he looked around—
He charged straight at a boy, and the Raider appeared. This time, the [Knight] had no mace or shield—and the other Raider had a sword and was warier.
Normen took a slash across the breastplate—then he grabbed the Raider. How was he seeing? He was burning with that green flame as Lastere watched, begging him to win against all odds.
That green flame. It was in his very eyes. A man looking around into the hearts of those around him.
He saw no honor in some of the villagers. Just a void. But they were—
“You worthless—[Spark Slash]!”
A second jolt ran through him, and the [Knight] was punching now. The Raider—he was so strong.
[Bear’s Strength] potion. Enchanted armor. He had a dagger in his off-hand, and he was stabbing it towards Normen’s face.
The [Knight] had dropped his mace in the darkness. He was—weaker—than his opponent. Outlevelled. Surrounded.
He didn’t care. He did the only thing he knew. And that was to bring up his knee into his opponent’s crotch so hard the other bastard’s feet left the ground.
He felt that. The Raider made a choked sound—and Normen’s fist struck him in the face. Metal tearing skin.
“Y—”
He was still talking and even tried to slash again as he kicked Normen back, or tried to. Then Normen pivoted, and an elbow struck the Raider in the jaw. He staggered, and Normen’s uppercut sent him down. The Raider landed on his back, and the [Knight] stomped him in the groin. Normen didn’t kick. He just knelt on the younger man’s face—if that was who he was—and kept punching. He thought he broke a nose, but he was trying to break that skull in half.
“Oh shit. █████ got got. This is hilarious.”
The other Raiders watched, whispering. The [Bandit Lord], Korizan, just nodded to himself. He stopped staring up at the skies.
Do you see, my fellow [Lords] and [Ladies]? Can you do any better? 
He had been waiting for this, too. He had almost hoped it would be the [Brigadier] of Wales. A Gold-rank team or foolish militia would do. This? This was better. He pointed to the side.
“Someone rescue █████.”
A blur leapt at Normen’s back, and the [Knight] pivoted away, fists bloody. He reached for the sword—
“[Avalanche Kick]—!”
 
——
 
—bounced off something. He landed amidst broken wood and…a wall? His head was ringing. He didn’t know where—
Sword coming at him. Someone with a blade, slashing down. Normen rolled, or tried to, and his armored shoulder deflected one slice. Then a boot kicked him across his helmet, and his head rang.
“Tough armor. What’s the call, b—”
Normen dove at the legs. Take the other man down. Beat him to a—
The Raider leapt over him. And the sword went straight through the back of his armor. Then there was agony.
Sword of Pain. And—poison. The Orichalcum blade dug into his back, and Normen collapsed, but he was rising as—
An arrow struck him in the thigh, just above the knee, and his muscles spasmed. It dented the armor, and he stumbled. But he was still—
Still fighting. Eight figures, including the swordsman, surrounded the [Knight]. The screaming Raider he’d struck was begging for a healing potion. The rest were looking to a man lifting his blade out of the [Mayor]’s back.
“It’s one of the [Innkeeper]’s new [Knights].”
“Don’t kill him yet. Let’s see how good our newcomers are. Where’s our [Spearmaster]? Your turn, ████.”
Then the Raider with a spear was twirling it. Normen faced him as he stared at the sharp edge of the curved spear. He reached for his side—and he had no mace.
“Looking for a sword, Ser Knight?”
Normen said nothing. He just drew a belt dagger, and the [Spearmaster] laughed. But the one with the Orichalcum sword nodded, almost approvingly. The [Knight] expected no mercy.
And got none.
 
——
 
The [Spearmaster] ignored Normen’s attempts to rush him and kept backstepping, stabbing, stabbing, using his spear to strike his opponent. It could imbue itself with elements, so he tried to freeze the [Knight]—then shock him.
The spear would kiss the [Knight]’s armor, and smoke would rise as electricity ran through him. The other Raiders were demanding a turn.
And still, no Skills were working. The [Knight] was tough, though. Something—a Skill—was letting him fight despite three wounds visible through his armor and what had to be several burns and electrocution.
But he was slowing, and then the [Spearmaster] was showing off.
“[Needle Rush]! Damn—fall down already.”
Eighteen strikes to the breastplate, and the [Knight] charged at him. He threw the little belt-dagger and tried to grab the other Raider. But the [Spearmaster] just tossed something down, and a cloud of black ash engulfed him. He reappeared ten feet away, like an [Illusionist].
“Enough games. Take him down already, ████.”
One of the others, the [Sellsword], called, and the [Spearmaster] grimaced, annoyed at being told what to do. But then he advanced, lazily moving into a spear’s dance. The [Knight] was panting, bent over—but he was going to charge, and he had more energy than he was pretending to have.
Too bad, but he didn’t have a shot. The [Spearmaster] flicked his spear up—then ducked.
“Dead g—”
He screamed, his spear whirled, and the second attacker slashed at him in a whirl of blades. The other Raiders stopped laughing and shouted at once.
“[Rogue]! Watch out for the—”
“No, it’s a swordswoman! How did they get—”
“Kill her!”
A one-armed woman leapt forwards, slashing, and the [Spearmaster] turned, pivoting away from her deadly cuts aimed at his head. And then remembered Normen.
The [Knight] grabbed him and headbutted him so hard the other’s head snapped back—and now the leader of the Bloodfeast Raiders was on his feet. His eyes swung to the swordswoman, then he snapped.
“███████!”
The one with the sword slashed across Normen’s back, laying open the armor a second time. [Paralysis Cut]. Normen sagged—but kept trying to fight.
“He’s tough as a fucking Hob. You lot, kill the—”
The other woman was dodging, slashing, distracting the Raiders, but she wasn’t fast enough and was surrounded. The [Archer] loosed an arrow through Pekona’s midriff—
And the arrow passed straight through the Silver-rank [Bladedancer]. The [Archer] lowered the bow.
“What the—illusion?”
It was an illusion. Then, the other Raiders slashed at the woman, and the [Spearmaster] got to his feet.
“You—”
He and the Raider standing over Normen had a second to notice the flicker in the air. Then a piranha made of blue light swam out of the air and tried to bite.
Both sword and spear destroyed it in an instant, but a dozen more magical fishes swam out of nothingness and tried to attack.
“Normen, run!”
Pekona vanished—and then a woman was sitting in a chair in her place. The [Knight] got up—and the leader of the Bloodfeast Raiders exhaled as it made sense.
“Well, it’s the [Innkeeper] herself. Grab the [Knight]. Don’t kill him yet.”
And there she was. It disconcerted the older Raiders and, perhaps, even their leader.
His Skill should have stopped everything. But her theatre wasn’t exactly an active Skill, was it? And she—
She was panting. Her hat was aflame, but she was using everything up. The attack of the magical fishes stopped as the Bloodfeast Raiders destroyed the spell. She watched as another Raider, grimacing, a Drake with a knife, strode towards Normen.
“Sorry, buddy—”
He swung weakly at her, and she leaned aside. Erin pointed at the Raider—vanished—
“I see you.”
And the Drake leapt back with a wild scream. A burning eye, made of fire, appeared in front of her. A malevolent pupil—
Her dagger cut through the air, and the illusion vanished. The [Knight] lurched past her, looking around—an arrow struck him across the breastplate. He stumbled, and the sellsword ran a blade through his shoulder.
“Got him, boss.”
“Illusions. This is definitely the [Innkeeper]’s knight. Which one was the idiot who thought this was a good idea?”
The [Bandit Lord] actually looked amused. He motioned, and they dragged the [Knight] over. Then he glanced up.
“Well? Are you going to beg for spoiling our fun, woman?”
Erin Solstice was standing there, panting. She pointed at him.
“Let Normen go and leave this place. Or I will have vengeance, I swear it.”
They laughed at her, the Bloodfeast Raiders. But their leader did not. He just sat back, staring at Erin Solstice behind his mask. And for the first time—Korizan Reeles’ eyes came alive.
With anger.
 
——
 
They both knew they were being watched. Korizan might have realized it more than Erin Solstice. She only had eyes for her [Knight]. And him.
She spoke like she had to Magnolia Reinhart. To foreign [Knights]. To everyone.
But him?
He took his time replying. And when he did, he nodded.
“Kill that one.”
The [Archer] lifted a bow and fired it through the [Smith]’s chest before Erin could react. The [Innkeeper]’s head swiveled, and her face went whiter. The [Bandit Lord] nodded. Then he spoke, looking past Erin. Ignoring her entirely.
“We are the Bloodfeast Raiders. Applications are open. No one gets in our way.”
“You…let Normen go. If you kill him—”
He cut the [Innkeeper] off.
“You’ll do what, exactly?”
Korizan looked in her eyes and saw she didn’t know. She was, like everyone who had ever made a threat against him—filled with just self-impotent rage. It was a nice trick, the illusion, the long-range cast.
But she had probably gone begging to the Titan, and he’d told her that he couldn’t use his Skills. Tyrion Veltras was gone, and the Named-ranks knew better than to come alone.
Erin Solstice spoke slowly, looking at the other Raiders.
“Leave my [Knight] alone. Or I will find you all. No matter what I have to do.”
There it was again. That tone was one of the few things that annoyed Korizan in this world. So he turned again to his people.
“Cut off his fingers on his left hand to start with. Then—I tell you what.”
He turned to Erin Solstice as she made a sound and thought of the audience. Korizan thought of his Raiders and smiled. More than one had talked about her inn.
“Since we like to have fun, if you strip naked and beg on your hands and knees, I’ll consider it.”
That got a huge laugh and cheer. He just rolled his eyes internally. It fit his Raiders’ delights to see people humbled. Erin Solstice just stared at him. Then she looked at the [Spearmaster]. He was the one yanking at the gauntlets. Both he and the [Lord] with a sword wanted vengeance.
“Give me a knife. I’ll do it.”
Gilam was spitting blood, despite the potion. He grabbed a blade—and then Erin Solstice pointed at him. This time—Korizan felt a tremor in his blood.
“<Post: Heroic Quest>.”
Her voice echoed in the village’s square. It ran through his veins—and Korizan, about to take a theatrical sip from his flask—felt his heart leap in his chest. He felt a shot of something in his veins…and he slowly lowered the flask.
There was no clue what she’d done, but Gilam froze—and Korizan slowly looked around.
“—Find out what that was.”
It took Vendyne a second to query their base. Then…he slowly showed Korizan something. The Raiders clustered around, and Korizan stared down and then met Erin Solstice’s cold, hazel eyes. And then he saw the reason the Titan surely liked her.
 
<Secret Heroic Quest – Kill Him>
Limits: ???. Unknown identity. Male. Bloodfeast Raider. The one who tried to cut off my [Knight]’s fingers.
Kill him. It doesn’t matter if you know who he is. Kill that one. Turn on him. You will be rewarded even if I never know your name.
Quest Reward: Secrets of profane sword-school that should be lost. Zeladona’s Arts of Viscera.
 
She could post a <Quest> without knowing the target? And that description—Gilam spoke.
“I—she can’t—I’m not supposed to be targeted. H-how did she—?”
Everyone was staring at him. The other Raiders’, and even Vendyne’s, eyes were, for a second, calculating.
Secrets? Even if not the school itself—Korizan’s voice made his [Sellsword] start and glance away.
“It’s a trick. The Raiders support their own so long as they’re loyal. Back up.”
Slowly, he got to his feet. Now—he was no longer sneering at the [Innkeeper]. He was thinking now, hard and fast.
How should I truly hurt her?
She had just challenged his authority in the Raiders’ big moment. He had underestimated her. But her [Knight] was in his hands. Killing him…was not going to suffice.
“Erin Solstice. [Innkeeper]. Even the Raiders know you. You will pay for that.”
“And you’ll pay if you touch my friends. The only reason I didn’t post a quest on you was because my <Mythical Quest> is on cooldown. But if you want, I’ll wait. And then I will post a quest on you that will have everyone killing you in your sleep.”
He didn’t like how that made him hesitate. Anyone else, anyone but Magnolia—and it would only be money. But this woman—he snarled under his mask. Then calmed himself.
Show. It was a show. Korizan turned and spoke towards the air. Projecting his voice.
“There is now a bounty on Erin Solstice’s other [Knight]. The one called ‘Ser Solstice’ the ‘Goblin Slayer’. Twenty thousand gold pieces if he dies.”
Her breath halted a second. Korizan glanced at Erin Solstice with contempt. She stood there—then her voice replied.
“I’m adding a twenty thousand gold bounty to the Bloodfeast Raiders. For knowledge about who they are.”
The other Raiders stirred incredulously. Their bounty was not small. Twenty thousand gold pieces, though—
Was she really threatening the boss to his face? Korizan just stopped. He hadn’t remembered being this angry for years. Well and truly. Hearing that Salkis had run off and was showing off her Skills?
Like a pleasant dream compared to this. He spoke slowly.
