But the acid jar broke and covered Toreel’s back as he whirled. A splash of green liquid landed next to Ama, who had fallen, hands raised. She flinched. Then she looked up—and saw the half-Elf freeze.
His skin began to bubble. Then burn. Then—steam rose, and he began to melt in moments. He didn’t seem to realize it at first. When he screamed and began to claw at the green liquid, reach for a potion—
It was too late. 
 
——
 
“Toreel?”
Capoinelia stopped. The half-Elf she’d known from the start was screaming. Clawing at the back of his head. His face—he was melting.
A body hit the ground, and it was liquid. Blood and flesh and steam. He was dead. The other Gold-rank adventurers stared at the corpse.
“You—”
The shaking [Mercenary] raised his blade. He went to stab Dalimont in the back. Then he saw a figure charging at him.
Antherr brought his blade down, and the [Mercenary] felt his enchanted blade bury itself in the ground. He raised his hand as he tried to pull it up—
[Mighty Swing].
The Antinium cleaved through the man’s shoulders. His flaming greatsword left a bloody trail as Mickey screamed.
“No! You bastards!”
He threw himself forwards, forgetting he had surrendered. The man stumbled forwards and traded blows with Dalimont. He smashed into the man’s chestplate. He buried his blade in Dalimont’s armor, halfway into his gut.
The enraged Gold-rank Captain only noticed the wand poking his cheek through the visor of his helmet when the red rage cleared for a second. Then he saw Vess’ clawed hand tighten.
“D—”
The flash of light burned from Mickey’s helmet as Vess fired both his wands point-blank. The Arrows of Radiance bounced around in the steel helmet until black smoke rose. The Drake stepped back from the body as it fell, sickened. Then he aimed his wands up.
Jewel had another jar of acid. She threw it as Embraim walked towards the [Trick-Shot Archer] with his flaming blades. The [Archer] shot the jar in the air, and the mist spray ate at his scream. He looked at the Antinium—and threw down his bow.
“Stop! Stop!”
They were surrendering. Spoken Vow threw down their blades. The first to do it had been Riz, in fact. She had looked at Toreel—and put her blades up, even though she had had a dagger at Typhenous’ throat.
Arcsinger’s Bows kept fighting another second. There was still—
The Duelist of First Landing was bleeding. He had seen Toreel die, but it only made him fight harder. For a second.
He and Lehra were leaking red into the snow, and both refused to surrender.
 
——
 
Behind the dueling Named-ranks—Lord Xitegen stared at the dead half-Elf. He turned and spoke very calmly to Erin and the audience watching. Which was everyone, really.
“That was a war crime.”
He spoke it calmly, every word deliberate. Erin Solstice stirred. But it was another man who raised his brows.
Laken Godart’s head turned slowly, and the [Emperor] replied in calm, quiet tones.
“Not on my lands it isn’t.”
Then he smiled as the flowers of Izril shivered.
 
——
 
Cosmenaut saw Jewel walking towards him. Normen came to a halt. The Duelist of First Landing pivoted slowly, still attacking Lehra as she backed up, shield and sword in hand. Her fur was bloody.
Three on one? They’d foul each other up if they didn’t know teamwork. He’d defeat them all! Lehra was the only Named-rank. He’d—
He was waiting for the acid jar. Ready to dodge it, even at point-blank range. But he didn’t see Jewel make to throw it. She had it in hand, and she looked at Normen. Then…
A slash at his face. Cosmenaut ducked, scored a line of red down Lehra’s cheek, but he lost track of them.
What did they do?
He got his answer as Ser Normen walked behind him. The [Knight] swung his Demas Metal mace, a straight, crushing blow. Of course, Cosmenaut blocked it with a buckler as his estoc threatened Lehra’s eyes.
He heard not the familiar ring of metal on metal, but an odd sound. Cosmenaut’s eyes slid left—and then he saw something unfamiliar.
The [Duelist] thought it was an enchantment at first. Then he remembered that Demas Metal had special properties. Things clung to it. Flame. Liquid.
Or…the green liquid that collected on the flanged macehead, like a dewdrop clung to a leaf of grass. It rippled and moved with the force of the [Knight]’s swing. And when the impact of mace met shield—
The acid sprayed forwards in a splatter. Cosmenaut turned his head, and some drops struck his cheek. The mace rose—and he stared at that burned [Knight]’s good eye.
His acid-covered mace rose—and the Named-rank Adventurer dropped his blade. He backed away and raised his hands. He whispered, reaching for a healing potion as he felt his skin burning.
“I surrender.”
He was not prepared to die. Not like that. The [Knight] of the Order of Solstice raised his mace and looked around.
The fight left the Gold-rank adventurers. Capoinelia was on her back, staring up at Durene’s shield ready to hit her as the bloody half-Troll woman looked around.
Then—there was only Elia Arcsinger.
 
——
 
The most famous half-Elf in the world, the slayer of the Goblin King, had seen Toreel die. She was afraid.
She didn’t want to die. That man was pursuing her, walking through the trees.
A [Bowman of Loss] versus the [Nemesis of Goblins, Ranger of Renown]. She knew she could defeat him, maybe even reposition and take down the others if they didn’t take her team hostage.
She had always been more mobile with her [Arrows of the Traveller] than her team allowed. She had levels on Halrac and better gear.
But she feared him.
Was this what the Goblin King felt like, at his end? Outmatched, despite his great strength? Elia didn’t know. But she looked at him, and perhaps he didn’t realize it.
His face was so…grim. Like his nickname. He walked through the forest, bow drawn, ready to loose. He didn’t even seem to realize it. His tread was so heavy, and he always walked like he was weighed down, she realized.
So perhaps he didn’t even notice that he was on fire. It clung to him. To the trees and branches he passed by. It was in his footsteps.
A painful, dark blue flame. It was every sadness and regret that Elia had ever seen. It was in his arrows. It made them as heavy as guilt.
As unstoppable as tears. If she looked at those blue flames, she thought she saw men and women following him. Like some great procession, a funeral march.
“Arcsinger.”
She closed her eyes one second. Then, Elia stepped out from behind the tree she’d been hiding behind. She held three arrows in her offhand, like an [Archer] of old. She fired the last three arrows of the battle.
The first she shot up. The second she shot at him, at point-blank range.
[Impact Shot]. It didn’t stop that [Arrow of Regret]. It punched her in the chest, hammered her so hard into the tree she was sure she broke two of her ribs. She slumped down, holding her bow. The last arrow was in her grip.
“Arcsinger, surrender. Or—”
Halrac’s finger scraped his empty quiver. He was out of [Arrows of Will]. It didn’t matter. He aimed a regular arrow at her forehead. Then—his eyes flickered.
Why did she fire the first arrow into the sky? He craned his head up and tensed to dodge—but the arrow had gone far wide.
Then he realized what she’d done and loosed the arrow point-blank. Elia inhaled—
Halrac’s arrow thunked into the tree trunk. Halrac turned. He screamed.
“Arcsinger!”
He ran from the forest, looking where—
There.
She had chosen her spot, somehow. Sent an arrow spiralling up—and then down, onto the walls of the Goblinlands itself. Elia Arcsinger reappeared and got to her feet. She lifted her last arrow and turned. She drew it as Halrac shouted.
He stopped and drew an arrow and heard her speaking. As both [Archers] drew, he saw her head turn ever-so-slightly. She gave him a bleak smile.
Nothing in the world could stop her.
‘I can do two shots a battle.’
She’d told him that. She was aiming down, into the Goblinlands, at the greatest concentration of Goblins hiding in the mines. Her arrow wouldn’t stop. Rock couldn’t stop it. Steel couldn’t block it. No Skill below her level had a chance. Her arrow would shatter magic and destroy everything.
Halrac Everam drew an arrow faster than he ever had in his life. He loosed it at her back, and she saw it. That perfect [Archer] saw his arrow and side-stepped. She leaned back, and it missed, actually skimmed her armor as she turned. And the arrow—
“[Line-Ender S—”
The tip of his arrow cut something. Halrac heard her voice hesitate—
And the world—
Changed.
 
——
 
In the moments between Elia activating her Skill, something went wrong.
 
<Skill Activation: ‘Line-Ender Hot’> [Error. Error. Skill ‘Line-Ender Hot’ not detected].
<Searching…>
<Repairing…>
<Replace Skill: ‘Line-Ender Hot’> [Skill – Line-Ending Inferno assigned].
<Query> [What just happened?]
 
——
 
Her face turned into a mask of confusion. Halrac’s own despairing gaze grew wide-eyed—and then he heard the half-Elf scream.
The arrow in her bow vanished. Elia raised her hands. She stared at her bow—and then down at the ground. Her head turned to Halrac with a growing horror in her eyes.
“What did you d—”
Then—there was fire. There was…heat.
It sprang up from the ground. It emerged in a roar, like the erupting mountains of lava and fire he had heard about. It burned.
The wall vanished in an inferno of flames as the Goblins cowering there looked up. They saw a distant figure on the walls, their dread nemesis taking aim—
Catch fire. She had called forth the fires that none of them had ever seen—on herself?
Elia Arcsinger was on fire. She threw down her bow, began screaming. She stumbled away—but the blaze was pouring down.
She was on fire. More and more of it—it was engulfing the walls. A burning inferno, raining down on the forest, the area around the Goblinlands.
“What is going on?”
Lord Xitegen was staring. Erin Solstice swung her head to Laken, and he was clearly unsure. He thought it was her—
“Someone conjure rains! Now! Elia Arcsinger is—”
She was burning. Burning alive. A wordless scream on her lips. But the fear—she had heard the impossible. The Named-rank adventurer fell to her knees, unable to escape the flames falling around her. No one could get close. Halrac was backing away—shouting for water, water.
The [Witches] were calling on rain spells. Typhenous was trying to cast a jet of water—but it wouldn’t reach her in time. Elia Arcsinger was on the ground as Capoinelia shrieked.
“Mother.”
The Named-rank adventurer stared down as she tried to move. At that…
Arrow. Lying there. 
Then a foot crunched on the ash. A [Knight] picked up Elia and ran. The flames kept pouring down as water covered them both. But he had been burned once.
He did not fear fire. Ser Normen came to a halt in the ashes of everything. The walls of the Goblinlands burned. Arcsinger’s Bows knelt in defeat. And the Named-rank Adventurer, the Slayer of the Goblin King?
Elia Arcsinger’s head fell back as the nobles of Izril watched. As the scrying orbs focused on the silent figures bearing Zanze. The [Knight] of Honor’s Flame. Griffon Hunt and Halrac the Grim.
And on the cheering Goblins.
 
——
 
What, exactly, had happened on that day was a mystery. One that no one knew the answer to.
No one.
Only one man even had a clue, and he hid the evidence in his belt pouch. Not much had survived the fire, but the arrowhead had. When they asked him what he had done, he claimed it was an artifact, an arrow of last resort that he hadn’t wanted to use because he didn’t know what it did.
He’d gotten it from around Liscor.
That was the truth. But the real, unabridged reality of what had happened took a much longer time to process.
Three Gold-rank Adventurers were dead. So were Zanze and twenty-nine Goblins, who had been in the path of the first [Line-Ender Shot]. Elia Arcsinger had been burned. Not nearly as badly as Normen, but the image of Elia Arcsinger had been shattered.
In its place…came the Order of Solstice. For better or worse. Lord Xitegen’s expression when he finally walked away suggested that this was the outcome he would have wanted least. If he’d even dreamed it could occur at all.
The true consequences for Elia Arcsinger herself would become more apparent later. For now…it was done.
The Dragon watched from his perch until he heard what they were calling Normen. The [Innkeeper] stood next to that man who stood, despite his injuries, and called him an appropriate title.
All of them, by what they were.
 
——
 
“Knights. They’re the Knights of the Order of Solstice. The first members. No objections. No arguments. Each and every one of them who wants the class. I dunno if Griffon Hunt all want to be one—but I have my members.”
Erin Solstice was smiling, not happily with all the blood that had been shed. Not with Goblins dead. But with the painful light that this would never happen again.
She put a hand on Normen’s shoulder. He was sitting in her wheelchair, despite his objections.
“Unless you want to object?”
“Me, Miss Solstice?”
Erin smiled down at Normen. She did smile, despite the burned man’s face staring up at her with his flesh raw and bleeding. She looked into his empty eye-socket, and never once did she flinch or look at him as if he were broken.
She had seen a face like his, and the two men had found a dignity that defied the appearance of their flesh. Yet. She also squeezed his shoulders gently. Erin Solstice’s voice was light, her tone conversational. Even upbeat.
As if she weren’t falling to pieces, leaving parts of her heart on the ground. She replied, slowly, looking down at him as she gave him everything she could.
“The Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice has to give the annoying [Innkeeper] orders sometimes. I’m just—an advisor. After all, you’ll need someone who does horses or living animals. People to help manage stuff like finances. I nominate Furfur and Yelroan for that. Honorary members.”
He looked at her and had trouble getting past the first thing she’d said.
“Me? But Ser Solstice was…”
“He’s a silly guy. You’re the serious one, and he doesn’t want to lead. He’s the [Champion] of the Order. Not the one in charge. I asked him, and he agreed.”
Normen just blinked at her. Erin tightened her grip.
“Say yes, please. Now you won’t ever be alone again.”
