Halrac had been so focused on Erin and the center of the room that he hadn’t realized Numbtongue was hovering there protectively. Erin turned to the [Bard].
“Did I? He was ready—whomever that person was.”
The [Innkeeper] touched a hand to her head. And her voice grew unsettled and angrier.
“She? He? I don’t even know. They—were ready. I should have banned Normen. I should have. I should have had a plan. I just did a few illusions, and I couldn’t stop him. Just threaten him. I should have had a weapon.”
She clenched her fists—then caught herself and looked at Halrac. He spoke automatically.
“No one went. Not Jewel, who was there, not anyone else. It was insane.”
“I’m not blaming Jewel! Or Ama or Vess or Zanze or Antherr—no way. But I was the one who gave him his class. I should have…oh.”
Erin had half-risen, but she halted in getting up. She looked down, and the bowl of soup was spilling onto her lap and the chair.
“Aw. Someone get a cloth.”
Erin had completely forgotten she was eating. She stood from the chair and wiped at her pants.
“It’s just the chair and my pants, Numbtongue. It’s okay. Sorry, Calescent.”
She looked so lost that Halrac wished Revi were here with something sarcastically sassy to say. Or Typhenous. Or Briganda or anyone.
He…could just look at her. He wanted to say that it wasn’t her fault, that Normen would have gone and he was alive.
Alive, with one eye missing, and if Halrac knew his wounds—the man might never breathe right again. Being burned like that could have invisible scars.
He knew Erin was thinking the same thing. Instead of saying any of it, Halrac just cleared his throat, and Erin looked at him as Numbtongue went off for a cleaning cloth.
“I’m—I just wanted to check on them. I am glad they survived.”
“Do you want to stay? Eat?”
“No. I won’t bother you. I’ll get something from the common room if I need to. Thank you.”
“Okay. Okay. Thanks, Halrac. I should…Normen’s asleep. I’ll thank Niers, I guess. And then—I need to thank Antherr and Jewel. Where are they?”
Erin turned, and Ulvama replied, her voice both sardonic and kind.
“Eating food.”
“Where’s Mrsha and Nanette?”
“Eating food. Like smart people. And crying. Like smart people. They are going to make get-well-soon dolls, too. And you are going to go eat first, talk to the tiny man later.”
“But I—”
Halrac left the argument between Ulvama and Erin behind. He went to the common room and paused for a second, but when Rosencrantz asked if he wanted a table, Halrac found himself declining.
 
——
 
He went to Invrisil instead. Liska let him through with a warning that Erin’s door was low on power despite her Skills and he might have to wait for a bit to return.
He wasn’t needed in Riverfarm. Durene was on her way back, and Laken had ordered everyone to take a break in light of what they’d seen.
Halrac couldn’t discuss the attack with Revi and Typhenous in private; they were both going to go to The Wandering Inn and probably be social. Briganda was comforting Cade. Or perhaps it was the other way around, since the boy didn’t know why everyone was upset.
The [Bowman of Loss]?
He went to the first bar he could find. Halrac sat down as a [Bartender] turned. It was overfull, and the room had almost exclusively Humans in it, though he saw two Drowned Folk mixed in.
“What can I get you?”
“—Velrusk Claw?”
It was a half-question, and the purple Gnollish drink made the [Bartender] grimace.
“I’ll need to get it from the back. There’s a lot of people. It might be a while.”
“Then—how about a Terland Tint?”
The [Bartender] grinned and had a bottle of the pale, almost greyish liquid. It was still clear, but it had that odd color that made you suspect it was not fit for regular consumption. It was a popular drink up north. But it wasn’t that good to Halrac. It had just popped into his head.
“That’s a popular drink right now. You saw Lord Xitegen chasing off the Raiders?”
“I saw the attack.”
“You and everyone else.”
The [Bartender] indicated the full bar. Everyone wanted a drink after that, and there were two other [Bartenders] working at the same time. Halrac was sure that it was the same in Liscor—The Wandering Inn was a good example of it. People did the same thing when they witnessed tragedy or heroism like that.
But he didn’t want to go to an inn where he might be known. He just wanted to be one in the crowd, and the [Bartender] served him his drink, took a gold coin appreciatively, and gave him a big smile.
“This all tip?”
“Fill me up and keep the rest.”
“Yes, sir. I can do that.”
That earned him speedier refills, and no one chased him away as he sat in a corner of the bar. Halrac blended in, despite his enchanted leather armor and the shortsword at his hip. He could be, well, plain when he chose to be.
There was a reason his ‘nickname’ was Halrac the Grim. He looked like any other man with gray-green eyes, brown, cropped hair, and dark green clothing under the plain brown leather armor. He didn’t have magical eyes; they could contract to needle-thin pinpricks when he was aiming at a target, but few people ever saw him like that.
Halrac was in that kind of repeating thought that had no end. I should have gone. Look at what they did to him.
I can’t do a thing. Laken couldn’t.
My arrow.
Knight of Solstice.
What he couldn’t know was that his guilt was one of many. He had not even been…there. If Halrac had stayed at The Wandering Inn, he might have seen Ama staring into a cup that Ishkr had wisely filled with flavored water and told her was gin.
How many? How many, like Jewel, had seen the Horns go into the center of the Village of the Dead before? Or, like Vess, had jested with a group of Drisshian soldiers heading to the right wing to fight the ‘bug-strategist’ that Liscor’s army was so weak they had to listen to?
Ama was remembering another fire. Halrac? He was thinking of Ulrien. And wondering whether he would ever be high-enough level that these days never came again.
I should have gone.
But what he also thought was that—Erin was right. She had known what her Order of Solstice would entail the moment she helped bring it into existence.
No wonder she feared it.
“If only Ser Solstice had been there. That poor man wouldn’t have been alone. That’s what you’re thinking, right?”
Someone broke into Halrac’s circular thoughts and the silence that kept other bar-goers away like a forcefield. But when Halrac glanced up—he realized the bar had gone quiet. It was that kind of awed hush.
Not one he was used to, mind you. Erin didn’t provoke it that often. Nor Saliss. Nor Laken himself. Even the [Emperor] of Riverfarm didn’t go around stealing people’s voices.
That—suggested to Halrac that the awed hush was something you did when you thought it was what you were supposed to do. And appropriately—it was because a famous woman had paused in the doorway.
Elia Arcsinger. Her team was spread out around her, keeping onlookers back before they even gathered. She turned her head, and Halrac blinked at her.
Had he found his way into her favorite bar? But then he turned—and Capoinelia, Elia’s daughter, was sitting at the bar next to him. She lifted a shot glass of Terland Tint and nodded.
“What did I think?”
“Ser Solstice. You’re friends with the Order of Solstice and that [Innkeeper], right? Everyone was shaken up by the Raiders. Even my mother. ‘If only Ser Solstice were there.’ If only a bunch of us adventurers had up and gone together. Then we’d’ve have beaten the Raiders. That’s why they never strike too close to Invrisil.”
That was not what Halrac had been thinking. Beat the Raiders?
“There’s no way three Gold-rank teams would be able to beat them. They had the advantage and preparation. Killing high-level [Bandits] isn’t like killing monsters.”
“Ah, but what if Arcsinger’s Bows was there?”
Capoinelia gave him a significant look. Halrac gave her a blank one and hesitated in his response. She didn’t notice. Capoinelia turned and waved.
“Mother!”
Then Elia Arcsinger was walking towards him. And Halrac realized they were looking for him.
“Captain Everam. Am I disturbing you?”
Yes. Halrac shook his head.
“No. Captain Arcsinger. Do you need something?”
“A private word. I would have come to you, but it’s tricky. When someone mentioned they’d seen you in The Wandering Inn, I went looking only to hear you’d come to Invrisil.”
“We’ve got an offer for you, Captain Halrac. A significant one. I hope you’ll listen carefully, you see. You’re the third group we’ve approached.”
Capoinelia leaned over the bar, cheeks flushed. She was clearly used to having a shot or two, and she looked excited. Her mother glanced at Halrac’s face.
“Capoinelia, will you find us a quiet room? Assuming Captain Halrac has a second.”
“I can do that. Hey, [Barkeep]—”
Halrac noted the difference between the two. Elia’s Gold-rank daughter and the woman herself were a contrast. Elia looked embarrassed.
Halrac was used to all types in adventuring. He’d worked with Captain Todi, and if that was the bar—Capoinelia was smacking it with her head. She had that presumptuous tone some adventurers got when they thought their team was better than yours. Pecking order. And mentioning he was the third team they’d approached was not how he’d lead into a conversation.
But then—he was sitting next to a legend. Halrac pushed his glass away as Elia spoke.
“I apologize for my daughter. She’s excited.”
“I take no offense.”
Halrac nodded at her and felt better—right until a half-Elf with a bow pushed forwards.
“Elia, I can have a word with Captain Everam in private. No need for you to busy yourself.”
“I’ve got it, Toreel.”
The half-Elf had shorter ears than Elia’s. He also had a strange kind of leaf-armor. It was technically scale armor, but it cut off at the knees, a kind of archer’s skirt, and each scale was fashioned like a leaf and painted green.
Enchanted, no doubt, and the other [Archer] had a pair of longswords at his side. A dual-wielding [Ranger]? Halrac had never met a [Ranger] who used two blades like that before, but—he eyed the rest of the team.
A [Mage], a fourth half-Elf, with a ruby-colored orb for a staff. Two warriors, perhaps Izrilians, both Human, wearing enchanted plate armor. One had a hammer and a shield; the other was clearly a greataxe specialist.
“This is Toreel, our acting strategist. Angest, our [Mage], Lilntas and Anwyne, [Hammer Vanguard] and [Axemistress]—”
“Not like a fancy [Spearmaster] or those belled freaks, but it’ll do. Heya, Captain Everam! I’ve heard of you!”
The woman smiled and waved a hand. Halrac nodded, and Elia paused. Toreel turned his head, and Halrac had the distinct impression the half-Elf glared because Anwyne’s face fell and she went silent.
“Capoinelia, and we have our last [Rogue Marksman], Iloid. He’s a half-Elf as well.”
“A pleasure.”
Halrac did not want to meet the team, so he just nodded. Toreel glanced at him, and now Halrac had the sense the half-Elf was offended by him. But he just pointed.
“We have a room waiting, Captain Arcsinger. We’ll be out here. Listen carefully to her offer, Captain Everam.”
With that, the team waited for Halrac to get up and follow Elia into the room. And he thought—
What a dysfunctional team.
 
——
 
Halrac had seen bad teams before. He’d watched the Horns adventure with the Halfseekers and Silver Swords and his own team as a case study in inter-adventurer dynamics.
But he’d also met Named-ranks unlike younger adventurers. Many were rude or eccentric. The Champions of the Coast were an example of good Named-ranks. A loving couple, friendly and open.
Eldertuin? The same. The world knew Deniusth was arrogant but could be generous. Colth? He was too helpful and friendly. But Arcsinger’s Bows were definitely tied with Orchestra for throwing their weight around.
He had the distinct impression that Invrisil’s adventurers had grown tired of them, from what Typhenous had reported to him on his occasional visits to his home city. Arcsinger’s Bows took the most lucrative contracts, were the most famous lot, and had the pecking order at the Adventurer’s Guild. The same Gold-ranks that loved to bully newbies were getting that treatment from a Named-rank team, and they didn’t like it.
But also…the two [Warriors] were clearly not the same as the half-Elves who made up the permanent roster. They didn’t look like they fit or that they thought they were being well-respected.
Still, treating Halrac like a young Silver-ranker was not a good way to make friends. Elia didn’t even seem to realize he was annoyed as she opened the door for him and made a show of ordering a drink for him.
“I’ve got it. I know this is all an imposition, Captain Everam. May I call you Halrac? I won’t take up your time, but I imagine you might want to talk.”
“Halrac is fine.”
He did not thank her for covering his bill of a gold piece, and Elia paused as she sat at the table and received some wine.
Watered, she’d asked. Which meant…she wasn’t intending on getting drunk. He noticed she preceded and chased it with a glass of water—purified water, but still. Elia grimaced as she drank.
“The purified water has lost the purity. That’s what happens with bad storage. I apologize. Do you want anything else?”
“No, thank you.”
“I had meant to talk with you before. We both went to the Village of the Dead, but afterwards, I didn’t have a chance to discuss matters with your team.”
Halrac had heard Elia’s team had been arguing over the loot, but he hadn’t been in the mood to deal with it with the Horns presumed dead. He shrugged.
“I saw your team at work. Your Skill was instrumental in the battle.”
“Oh, thank you. The King of Avel gave me aid; I can’t shoot multiple shots like that, but I can do two shots a battle.”
“Really?”
He hadn’t known that. Elia smiled.
“Practice. I’ve had to show off that Skill almost every day for years. Speaking of which, I only regret I couldn’t do more. Eldertuin was very impressive…and the Horns were of course the stars of the hour. Have you gotten your share yet? Captain Ceria, I hope, is doing well. If you speak to her, please send her my congratulations.”
“I will. And I think we’ve gotten the gold.”
No one had pulled it from the Merchant’s Guild. Laken had a guild now in his lands, but it was definitely not going to honor fifty thousand gold pieces of withdrawal. He wondered what he’d do with it. 
“The Helm of Fire finally sold to…the Empire of Sands, I believe. I heard it’s going via ship if a Courier’s reached Zeres already.”
