“Very well! Liscor and the Walled Cities too! Where is Adventurer Saliss? Bring Chaldion and the Titan! Do you think the Five Families can endure being taunted when they make a stand? Come and test us! No side, including mine, will cross this line in the sand. Beyond there—is only Elia Arcsinger and adventurers. Come forth, Erin Solstice, and this will no longer be a war by proxy.”
He looked at her. And Xitegen’s eyes narrowed because instead of rolling forwards or doing something with her hat—instead of threats—the [Innkeeper] just gave him a long look.
It was the look of a woman who would see him dead. He had seen that look before. But what made Xitegen spin—
She no longer looked desperate. Instead…she seemed suddenly resolved. So did the [Emperor].
“Well then, Lord Xitegen. You have come to my lands and laid out your rules. An [Emperor] abides. Just beware of what you said. I intend to hang you with that rope of your words.”
Xitegen turned—and cursed. He counted and slowly looked back at Erin Solstice and Laken Godart. Then he shrugged and almost smiled.
“I do not recognize your authority, [Emperor]. This is not your land in my eyes. This is mine. This north of Izril. I have seen my family starve and seen every hand bloodied to hold back the Goblin King. You are an interloper. I do not recognize you.”
He said it so—easily—now. Easily, as if he were pulling an arrow from his flesh. It had been a long time, but Xitegen stared down at Laken Godart, and the [Emperor]’s wrath flowed around him. His eyes turned to the Goblinlands and he spoke quietly. Without even seeming to count the Goblins there.
“You have no right to stop me.”
He raised his hand—and a woman called out. Lady Rie walked forwards, finger raised. Pointing at him.
“You speak of rights and these lands as if they were yours, Xitegen. I throw those words in your face. How dare you? These are the places that were under House Valerund. I, too, was there. If there is any authority that matters—it was always mine.”
She came to a halt, and he gave her a pained look.
“Bethal. You, Rie. Tyrion himself. Magnolia Reinhart. How do you forget?”
Lady Rie looked like she had experienced a second youth. She stood there, filled with a vitality and the daring to face down Xitegen that left the other nobles watching speechless. She met Xitegen’s gaze full-on.
“I have forgotten nothing. But I am able to see what is new and remember the old. You wish to do this in the old way? Have a care, Xitegen, or I will turn the land against you until the river gets up and walks and the mountain comes down to smite you.”
Wiskeria’s head turned—and the [Witch of Law] smiled. Xitegen bit his tongue—and lowered his hand. He turned his head and counted the figures breaking past him. Then—he shrugged and, frustrated, stepped back. But his eyes still held that note of triumph, as did his voice, as he called out to Laken and Erin.
“If you wish to place your mark against the woman I saw kill the Goblin King. Very well.”
Every head turned—and Numbtongue, panting with desperation, nearly went running before Nanette and Mrsha tackled him. He looked up—and his eyes widened. Then he saw it. Erin Solstice turned, and someone shouted.
“How?”
He shouldn’t have been able to stand. Let alone armor himself. He had to be in pain with every step he took. But still—
That [Knight] ran. And he was not the only one. It was not one team. They were not adventurers, not even half of them. But one man was running ahead while he shouted at Briganda to keep back.
Halrac.
 
——
 
“Captain Everam? Captain Everam. Wake up.”
He woke and knew he’d been shot and wasn’t dead. Elia Arcsinger had shot him straight through his armor.
—She’d missed his heart. No—she’d aimed at his shoulder before someone had taken him down. She was…
Not trying to kill him. She was a Named-rank adventurer. He was a well-known Gold-rank Captain.
Her aim. He’d heard Arcsinger was more hot air than…Halrac’s arm was burning. His shoulder wouldn’t move.
He was bound up from head to toe. Not rope, either. Enchanted chains. The kind you used to capture a monster. Or enslave someone.
It was dark, and he was in a cellar. Clearly, the other teams had decided to capture and imprison him until they were done. It was the best thing to do. Assuming Halrac didn’t try to murder them once the Goblins were—
The Goblins.
Halrac tried to move. But he was also blindfolded, and he couldn’t budge the chains. There was no way for him to get free; an expert had bound him.
Yet who had woken him? A voice spoke.
“He’s awake.”
“So I see. Someone fetch the keys to his chains. Where are they?”
“I—I—I can’t give you—”
“Ressa, break his fingers one by one. Or something else horrible. We don’t have time for this.”
That voice. He knew that voice. Halrac still stared when, in the darkness of the cellar under the bar he’d been at—the blindfold was yanked back by a [Maid] and he saw Lady Magnolia Reinhart.
She was pursing her lips, consulting a glowing time-piece.
“They just left. They will be going for the inn, and a few mudshowers from the wagons might slow them, or some unhelpful crowds, but Captain Everam will be behind them. Ressa! Fingers!”
“Please! Lady Reinhart—”
It was a [Mercenary], one of the hired caravan guards standing watch over Halrac. They had surrendered—six [Maids] aiming crossbows at the other kneeling figures had inspired that decision.
“How?”
Halrac was dizzy and sick from the blow, but a [Maid] was offering him a tiny draught of potion.
“Apologies, Captain. We are forced to ration potions.”
“Give him the entire damn bottle, Noline.”
“That’s enough, Magnolia. They don’t have the keys. Arcsinger probably didn’t want chances. I’m unlocking it. Stand back and let me pick this damn stuff. At least it’s not Roshal’s. It’s just a simple tumbler…but there are six fucking locks. Got one.”
Halrac felt a click, and Ressa straightened with some lockpicks in her hand. She sighed.
“Move him.”
“How?”
He repeated himself. Then blurted out the obvious.
“The Goblins. Lord Xitegen—”
“I know. And Elia Arcsinger had an altercation with you at the bar whereupon her team decided to lock you away and assault Emperor Laken’s Goblins and make a statement to Izril. Captain Halrac, I will admit I’ve been a buffoon many times, but when I am in my city, my people do keep tabs on these things.”
Magnolia Reinhart was ablaze with energy. Her eyes were flashing, and the green glow from them seemed to illuminate the entire cellar as she swung her gaze around.
“—Xitegen would happily throw House Reinhart against House Terland and damn the consequences. Which is why I am not here and you did not see me. Do you know what must be done?”
He looked at her and kicked at the chains on his legs as Ressa undid two more locks.
“Yes. My bow? My gear?”
“Bag of holding. They did not rob you.”
“They’re heading towards Erin’s inn?”
“Yes…and I would have blocked them if you were dead. If you were dead, I would have arrested them myself. Do you know what to do? Understand me, Captain Halrac. There are ways for the nobility to do things. I can play Xitegen’s game. Are you willing to?”
She was looking at him almost like Erin Solstice did. With a terrible reserve in her eyes. She knew what she was asking him to do…but did he?
The Captain of Griffon Hunt slowly pushed himself forwards to let Ressa get at his back. His legs were pins and needles. His head was swimming, but he felt his frozen shoulder moving as the potion worked. He met her eyes.
“Yes. But I can’t do it alone.”
Magnolia reached down as Ressa undid the chains. She heaved him to his feet with a grunt of effort. Then slapped him on the cheeks.
It felt like that slap knocked all the exhaustion out of him. Halrac started—and Ressa tied the bag of holding to his belt. Magnolia Reinhart looked him in the eyes.
“Wait until they go through. Lord Xitegen will follow. A man will tell you when to go. As for the rest—Captain Everam. Do you think you will be alone?”
He looked at her. Then she stepped back—
And he ran.
 
——
 
When he’d burst through the door into the common room of the inn, everyone had looked at him as if he were crazy. Halrac hadn’t had time to explain. He’d just shouted—
And somehow, that [Knight] had heard him. He had woken, dreaming of green fire and the [Innkeeper] kneeling in front of him.
That was what had stunned Halrac Everam and the others. Magnolia Reinhart waking him up? Elia’s terrible deeds?
All of it, ordinary. Commonplace. Compared to the sight of that man putting a helmet on his face as he slowly walked down the stairs.
Alcaz was trying to stop him. Jewel said he shouldn’t be on his feet. He would die. He could not be standing.
Yet again, Normen rose. He came down the stairs and met Halrac’s gaze.
“You’ll be pariahs if you follow me. Your career as an adventurer might end. You will be marked. I can’t save you from the consequences. I won’t involve my team.”
Halrac had warned them all. The ones who followed him had looked at each other. And they thought the same thing.
I should have gone. The last time, they had seen that [Knight] go on alone. This time—they would have died rather than stay back.
 
——
 
That was who came to a halt as Elia Arcsinger aimed for the gates of the Goblinlands. Her team was excitedly shouting.
“We go in right after her first shot! She should take out most of the Goblins—wait. Who’s that? Lord Xitegen said—”
Toreel Branchwrath had his bow aimed and a silver-painted arrow nocked. But he swivelled uncertainly. Then swore.
“It’s him. How did—?”
Cosmenaut swung slowly and called out.
“Halt! Lord Xitegen has sworn to take vengeance against anyone who interferes! We are working under the authority of House Terland!”
They didn’t slow. But the man in front did come to a halt, almost a hundred feet away. He was panting; there was blood on his shoulder and a hole in his armor. But Halrac Everam aimed an arrow at Elia Arcsinger.
“Stop! Or we will—”
He hesitated, unsure of what to say. Another figure in burnt, ash-covered, cerulean armor halted, swaying, and raised a mace and shield. Capoinelia stared, and even the other adventurers hesitated.
A rasping voice bellowed across the ground. Ser Normen pointed the mace at them.
“Stop or we will put you in the ground.”
“What? Are they insane? They’re…”
One of Spoken Vow’s members made an incredulous sound. Their Captain, Mickey, already felt like they were in way deeper than Elia had said. She’d claimed this was easy. They were doing this for five hundred gold coins, and now—
An [Emperor] and Erin Solstice’s wrath was not worth this. But he was committed. The sight of that ragged line of people stopping—he counted.
Halrac’s side was outnumbered. But why…his eyes widened as a huge figure thundered into line.
Is that a half-Troll? She wore armor and carried a huge club and shield that looked like an actual door. But she stood next to a man he well knew.
“Captain Byres? What are you doing?”
Ylawes Byres didn’t answer. He didn’t seem to know himself. But he lifted his sword as a third [Knight] halted.
Ser Dalimont, alone. He was glancing to the left where he could see Lyonette and the other two Thronebearers.
“—Disavowed and exiled from my Order for this.”
That was all he said. Someone else panted as she came to a stop next to him, clutching at her side.
“I don’t know why I’m here. What about your [Princess]?”
Ser Dalimont raised his brows.
“She’d exile me if I weren’t here.”
“That…sounds like a cool [Princess], actually.”
Ama panted. She looked to her right, and Vess skidded to a halt. Someone caught him, and the Drake froze up—then nodded.
Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus adjusted his grip on his greatsword, and someone else strode into place next to him.
“I got lost in the snow, Ser Normen. I’m sorry. We are outnumbered. They are Gold-rank adventurers. Jewel?”
Ser Normen turned as a second Antinium, his eyes glowing with pink flame as he took a lantern from his side, adjusted his grip on his sword. Embraim had a battalion to lead. He was a [Soldier] of Liscor’s Army and a member of the 7th Hive. A [Crusader].
He felt like he had never belonged more to one spot in his life. The Antinium turned to a panting woman, and she straightened.
“I—don’t know. Get them.”
Jewel could count. She knew how many Gold-rankers were standing across from them. She pointed.
“That’s the Duelist of First Landing. Named-rank. And Elia Arcsinger. I’ll try to slow him down. Just fight.”
She looked so relieved. Her teammates were staring at her as if she were crazy, but Jewel was smiling. As if to say, ‘at last. I’m finally where I should be.’
 No regrets.
Another man wore the same smile as he clutched at his side.
“Shame I don’t have a wagon for cover. I’ve never been in a fight with blades. But if I can help keep them off Normen—”
Zanze gritted his teeth so hard they might crack. A [Driver] stood there where Gold-rankers and a City Runner had hesitated. It just felt right.
Jewel was not the only one who smiled. Durene was staring down the [Warriors] across from her.
“I’ll get as many as I can. This is what it means for my class. I get it now. This is what matters.”
Antherr nodded at her and saluted her with a free hand. Durene gave him a nod. And the others also felt it.
You only got one chance. Now, they formed a line as Halrac faced down Elia and her team.
Normen, Jewel, Ama, Vess, Antherr, Embraim, Dalimont, Ylawes, Zanze, and Durene.
Ten versus fifteen. The Gold-rankers were shaking their heads. That was—until they saw three figures slowly break ranks and pass by Lord Xitegen.
He let them go. But his disbelieving stare—didn’t phase the Stitch-woman [Summoner], the old [Plague Mage], and the woman with shield and hatchet looking back at her son.
Griffon Hunt joined them, and then it was thirteen. Halrac turned his head, and Revi punched him in the shoulder. Typhenous struck him in the side. Briganda checked his wound.
“Who gave you that?”
“And why didn’t you tell us today was an Erin-day?”
“You don’t have to be here.”
Revi stepped on his foot.
“Shut. Up. Pebblesnatch is behind that door. I was just trying not to be turned into a pincushion. You know we’re not getting reinforcements?”
“Yes. We have to take on Arcsinger’s Bows. The rest of you—stay behind us. We know how to fight adventurers.”
A Named-rank team was facing them down. Revi licked her lips, and Typhenous drew a blade.
“Riz. You’d better come straight at me. Or I’ll find you.”
“Yes, sir!”
