A warm glow. It felt like a breeze on her face. It felt like righteousness, knowing what she was doing was right. It was the memory of being a girl and lifting her sword in defense of every worthy cause.
But Arcsinger’s Bows screamed as if it burned. It knocked back both [Warriors] like a slap from a half-Giant’s palm. Toreel flung up his arm, screaming.
[Weapon Art: The Bonfire Rages]. Normen swung down his shield, and Antherr got to his feet.
“Get—”
The two [Warriors] advanced, only slightly burnt from the flames. They slowly stepped through the flickering green flames coating the snow and trampled grass. It burned from the limbs of the tree branches, but it did not eat anything away.
Honor’s flame. Yet still they came, even as it seemed to sap at their strength, question their will. A harsh flame that burned like pain at times. The fire that so many feared to wear, because it might burn their very bones.
Normen and Antherr stood in it—and as Lilntas and Anwyne advanced, a fifth figure emerged from the dying [Wall of Fire]. She charged straight at Lilntas; the [Hammer Vanguard] set his shield and raised his hammer—
And looked up.
Durene’s club crashed down on his shield, and he flinched. But he was a wall. A rock!
“Antherr! Normen! Spoken Vow is—”
Normen glanced over his shoulder and realized that only Dalimont and Ylawes were fighting an entire Gold-rank team on their front. Briganda was trying to keep Riz back as she came at them.
“We’ll hold them here. Antherr, go!”
The [Immortal] never hesitated. He charged back through the dying flames. Four versus six again. Iloid tried to stab at Jewel’s back, but she slashed with her parrying dagger in her offhand and stepped back as Toreel slashed with both swords from each side. Toreel pointed, trying to focus his group on one target.
“They’re tying us up. Take one out at a time!”
—But Capoinelia was stepping back. Normen had charged her and Angest, and they were forced to scatter.
“Lilntas, Anwyne, get him!”
“We’re trying! It’s—”
Durene was raining blows down on Lilntas’ shield. He was bracing, waiting for a moment to counter. That was how he fought. She was huge, outweighed him, but she had a door for a shield and her greatclub was cheap compared to his armor.
She might be big, but he was a Gold-rank adventurer. He had levels on her. 
—But his arm was shaking.
[Braced Shield]! [Reinforced Guard]. [Onslaught Defense]!
He had been hired to hold against any foe! The man was waiting, and he parried a blow with his hammer. He felt it as Durene hit him again with the huge club.
Yes—yes—
It was breaking. Durene noticed it, and her brown eyes flicked to the club with confusion. The weapon she’d used for so long was battered and worn with impacts, but she felt—
Anwyne tried to slash at Durene’s side. The half-Troll girl blocked it with a shield, and Lilntas raised his mace. But she had such long reach he was out of range! He stepped forwards—
And she brought her club down on his shield again. They both felt the cracked wood finally give. It snapped in an explosion of wood. Durene recoiled, holding the jagged half of her club as it ricocheted off Lilntas’ armor. He roared.
“Now! We’ve got—”
The hilt of her club punched into his helm so hard it rang. He recoiled.
[Steady Self]. [Lesser Bludgeoning Resistance]—
She was still attacking! He gritted his teeth as he held his shield up. Then he saw her drop the broken club.
“N—”
The edge of her door-shield hit him as she swung it two-handed. Lilntas’ feet slid in the snow and mud. He groaned.
“Anwyne, get—”
The shield slammed down so hard the wood cracked. Then she raised a gauntleted fist and punched his shield down. The [Axemistress] was trying to move around her, but Normen struck at her, and she backed up. She saw Lilntas waver.
Durene brought the shield up one-handed and slammed it down again.
[Shield Art: Shockwave Slam]! She saw his hammer-arm rise—she brought the shield down again. Backed up and hit him with it sideways. 
Again and again, like she was driving a stake into the earth to build a house. An arrow hit her in the arm, and she didn’t even notice. She brought down the shield on his head and realized his guard was down.
The Gold-rank adventurer fell down, and Durene turned. Anwyne backed up.
“Lilntas? What are you doing? Get up! Lilntas!”
“I need a weapon.”
Durene was panting. Her shield was in pieces, but she hefted it up to block another bolt of flames. She grunted as it burned her, but it wasn’t that hot—
“Here!”
Jewel kicked a blade out of Toreel’s hands as the half-Elf tried to cross his blades defensively. It fell, and she ran for it. Toreel cursed.
“Stop them! We are Arcsinger’s Bows! We—”
Iloid tried to leap at Normen from behind. He thought the [Knight] was distracted with Anwyne—until he saw the man’s one good eye swivel.
It was impossible. He was half-blind and half-dead.
Normen had been a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings. His armored fist backhanded Iloid in the face and knocked a tooth into the back of the man’s throat.
He brought the mace up to hammer the man’s chest—and an arrow punched him in the chestplate. It knocked him off his feet.
“Good work, Capoinelia—”
Toreel turned, and Capoinelia hadn’t fired the shot. Elia Arcsinger ducked an arrow and shouted.
“Shoot them in the legs and fall back! Don’t let them engage us.”
She nocked another arrow and loosed it into the distance. And again—
She struck Halrac’s arrow straight out of the skies.
 
——
 
She—was a peerless shot. Every time Halrac loosed an arrow directly at her, she would knock it down. He had shot at her daughter, and she’d intercepted the shot.
Halrac could split an arrow down the center with a Skill. Most Level 30 [Archers] could. But Elia Arcsinger—
She was proving why she was a Named-rank adventurer. It wasn’t Skills. She just saw where his bow was aiming and—
“[Curve Shot].”
She had to dodge that. But the second time he tried it, she shot the arrow out of the skies. Her return shot nearly went through his knee.
He was crouched, taking cover behind a tree recently felled for lumber. The branches and dead wood were giving him cover.
But she was just standing there, loosing arrows across the battlefield. Supporting the other adventurers. So long as they were trading fire, she could only do it when he gave her an opening.
Halrac drew another arrow from his quiver, nocked it, loosed. As fast as he could with the invisible bow he carried. She did the same.
They collided again. But as he reached for another arrow, he saw she was doing the same—
And she was faster.
She pulled three arrows from her quiver at once, holding them in one hand, between her fingers, by the fletching. Then drew and loosed, one, two—
Halrac ducked. Too late, he realized she wasn’t aiming for him. The first arrow struck the tree, and the entire felled tree jumped.
[Impact Arrow]. He reeled as the tree struck him. Then looked up.
Halrac rolled as an arrow she’d shot up came down. [Seeker Arrow]!
It thudded into the ground next to his arm, and he rose as she loosed the third arrow. It shot past her team and towards Spoken Vow.
“Ylawes—”
The [Knight] turned from his duel with Mickey, and the shot struck his shield. He slid back a step, but his shield just flashed with his Skill.
[Shield of Valor]. Elia switched back to Halrac as he rose. This time, the [Bowman of Loss] abandoned his cover.
He had to advance. He was a former [Soldier]. He reached for his quiver and realized he was out of enchanted arrows.
He’d fired twelve, and she’d blown each one to bits. Damn. A fortune in—
She had an arrow drawn. He grabbed it out of the air, and it burned his gloved hand as he stopped it. Elia’s eyes seemed to be glowing as she reached for another arrow. Halrac switched quivers. He delved for a second one, a smaller quiver below his main arsenal. Each arrow there wasn’t bought from a market.
It was hand-made. More primitive, and the shafts were local ash. The feathers simply cut. But the dark wood looked slightly…
Blue. He nocked one and aimed it at her.
He was striding across the ground, now, through the snow. Advancing. He was a [Soldier]. A former [Ranger] and [Scout]. A [Fletcher]. His path was less pure than hers, a pure adventurer. If they had not died fighting Drakes, he might never have quit.
Then, his friends had died to Griffins. Freak accidents. Traitorous Named-ranks.
Ulrien had been the last. Each step, Halrac felt, was sometimes taken in the blood of better men and women. He never forgot them. Never spoke their names to the living who had never met them.
But he would never forget. He was a [Bowman of Loss].
And these were his [Arrows of Will], crafted. This was his—
“[Arrow of Regret].”
He loosed the arrow, and a streak of blue, the color of sadness, left his bow. It shot across the air, a trailing line from him to her. And she saw it.
She hit it with her arrow—and wavered. His arrow didn’t stop. Elia pivoted—and the arrow glanced off her enchanted armor.
It snapped, the force reduced by her own arrow meeting it. But when it broke—
The air screamed, and Elia’s face went pale. She stumbled, and her limbs lost strength. She backed away as the air itself wailed—and raised her bow with shaking arms. Capoinelia flinched away, then saw Halrac striding at Elia.
Another [Arrow of Will] was nocked. Elia swung her bow up.
“[Instant Arrow]—”
Again, they met. And again—his arrow kept going as her painted, silver arrow exploded. Elia dove. She rolled, and Halrac aimed at her. Then an arrow struck him across one shoulder, and he winced. He swiveled—and Capoinelia shouted.
“Mother! I’ll back you up!”
Halrac broke into a run. He loosed another arrow, and Capoinelia took cover as Elia got to her feet.
“No, watch out—”
Capoinelia ducked as Halrac’s arrow reached her. It went wide, striking the ground next to her, and she laughed.
This man’s aim was so poor! He was a Human, slower, and a worse shot than half-Elves. They had all the time to train. 
She shot him in the side, and he staggered even as he kept running. Toreel was moving to stop him with one sword, and it was true. Even Capoinelia had better aim than Halrac. She was a [Markswoman], as talented as her mother.
He? Elia shouted as Capoinelia sighted, waiting for Toreel to distract him. She’d put an arrow through his neck this t—
“Watch out!”
For what? Capoinelia jerked—then looked down. And her eyes went round. The arrow Halrac had ‘missed’ her with—
It was a [Rope Arrow]. And hanging from the end of it was—
The Tripvine Bag exploded around Elia’s daughter, and Toreel snarled as he raised his sword. Halrac pivoted as the [Ranger] came at him.
“You should have—”
The sword slashed at Halrac’s chest. But to Toreel’s surprise, the [Bowman] didn’t back away. Instead—he blocked with his bow—then swung it across Toreel’s face. The tip snapped across the half-Elf’s face and tore open his cheek.
Then Halrac drew his shortsword in his off-hand. He punched the guard into Toreel’s face and ran past him. Capoinelia had cut the vines away from her as she got free of the Tripvine Bag’s reaches. She looked up—
He brought the sword down, and it went halfway through her bow, snapping the enchanted string. Capoinelia tried to slash at him with a scream—Halrac kicked her in the face. There was nothing glamorous about his swordsmanship—but it was far better than—
He brought the sword up—and the shortsword exploded. The handle twisted out of his grip, and he dove as Elia aimed at him. She was back on her feet, and now the Named-rank adventurer and Halrac were a dozen feet from each other.
Halrac raised his bow, desperately as Elia took aim once more. They both turned—and loosed. Elia staggered as an arrow punched her in the shoulder. Halrac clutched at his leg where an arrow had gone into his bone. He stood—and ran as she drew her bow.
Elia’s eyes widened. She swung the bow at him, like he had done with Toreel, but he ducked it. He tackled her, and then they were rolling, fighting for her bow. She tried to kick him off, and he threw a punch.
The Named-rank adventurer—was losing. She rolled away, nose bloody, aimed her bow at him—and he threw a vial.
It exploded, and both of them screamed as a Pepperspray Vial detonated. But when she tried to back away, unable to see, eyes streaming, he found his fallen bow. Halrac swung his bow like a cudgel. Clipped her. She blocked as he brought the bow down—he kicked her off her feet again.
 
——
 
“Arcsinger! What are you doing?”
Lord Xitegen was screaming, but no one could hear from the remove. They were all watching, though. Watching a Named-rank being taken down by a Gold-rank Captain few had heard of. Watching, where so few had ever seen her fight before.
Even her employers. She was quick and a beautiful shot. But her team was being beaten back by four fighters, and she was losing to Halrac alone now.
Was this really the woman who had killed the Goblin King? Even Lord Xitegen’s eyes reflected a kind of uncertainty. Unable to understand why Elia was falling behind.
The Duelist of First Landing was not the greatest of Named-ranks—but he was proving his name, at least. Lehra was barely keeping up, and he had scored wounds on her, despite the armor that the Blade of Mershi gave her.
He was like a flash of steel, attacking and defending with his blade in one move. But the Stargnoll, that youngest of Named-ranks—
Was changing.
 
——
 
She had a halberd in her hands as the Blade of Mershi changed.
“No, not that! Lehra, you idiot!”
The Gnolls of the Meetings of Tribes shouted. Some tore at their hair. The same weapon that had lost her a duel with Khelt’s champions—she executed a quick stab at Cosmenaut.
But he was not an opponent you could clumsily attack. He stepped to one side and then lunged the entire gap, sword aimed at her visor. Lehra blocked with one armored fist, but he pivoted around her, executing a heel step turn.
“[Cross Slash]. [Duelist’s Leechblade].”
His blade slashed in an ‘x’ pattern and the steel changed, glowed a lurid color. A green blade, stealing energy with every blow it struck, armor or not. He had faced armored foes before—
Cosmenaut’s confident smile turned into a look of alarm. He stepped back—
“Gyaaah!”
The halberd nearly took off his arm as it whirled. Lehra had swung it without even turning. Now, as she pivoted, it lanced out, flicking, and scored the first cut on him so far. He shook blood from his arm and retreated—
But she was charging. Off-guard—he thought she wasn’t used to the halberd. The Duelist of First Landing hadn’t realized—
