Liska glowered at Ishkr’s smug look. Erin didn’t really smile.
“What about you, Liska?”
“Me? I’d love a room. It’s not bigger than our apartment, but could I get breakfast here? Yes, please!”
Liska hopped up and down, and Ishkr sighed.
“I’ll get a key.”
Erin watched him head over to the keys, grumbling about never getting away from Liska, and she turned to the Gnoll.
“Thank you for all the hard work, Liska. Really. We’ll sort out your overtime pay and give you a bonus.”
“Oh, no problem, Miss Erin. I know it’s bad, and I’ll probably level. Um. Don’t worry about it. I hope Normen gets better.”
Then Liska remembered what he’d looked like, and her appetite was gone. She kept trying to eat, but there was a lump in her throat.
“He’s going to be okay, right? The [Healers] said he’d make it.”
“He’ll live.”
Erin paused a second. That was all you could say. The [Innkeeper] sat there and then added quietly.
“I’d make sure he wants for nothing again. If only he’d hate me. But he is still a [Knight]. I should have waited a year. There’s no excuse. I should have been a monster. Then I’d have been able to protect him.”
What did that mean? Erin was rambling to herself as well as speaking to Liska. The Gnoll stabbed into a bowtie noodle a few times and missed. Then she dropped it on her fur on the way to her mouth and picked it up and just ate it.
“Good. G-good. Because he was nice. You know? When I was working here, he’d always do that hat-tipping thing, and he helped me when I didn’t know what to do. And when you made him a [Knight]—I got really proud, you know?”
Ishkr was glaring at her, but Liska didn’t notice. She was saying things, but Erin was looking at her, and it seemed like the [Innkeeper] was really listening.
“Go on.”
“No. I…I didn’t know him really well. But he and Alcaz were nice. And I was proud, like I said. Really proud. I didn’t even know him that well. I don’t even know his last name. But when I saw him kneeling there, I was, like, the proudest I’ve ever been in my entire life. And I didn’t know him. But when he went out into the snow and everyone saw him fighting there—I thought I was going to tell everyone tomorrow what happened. And say ‘that’s my friend’. When he came back through the door, I mean. I was really, really…”
Her eyes were hot and misting up. Liska brushed at her eyes with her paw.
“Sorry. I’m glad he made it. He was really brave. I’m just—”
She began sniffling, and huge blobs came out of her eyes and her nose filled up. This was so embarrassing. But she couldn’t stop. Once she stopped working and thought about it—
Erin Solstice slowly rolled over. But Ishkr got there first.
“Liska. Here.”
He handed her a handkerchief, and she blew into it. Then dabbed at her eyes with a good part.
“Ser Lormel was also nice. And he—and he—I saw him run outside, and I didn’t even know what was going on. C-can I see them? I know they’re okay, but can I…?”
She turned to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] whispered.
“…Yes.”
She didn’t take Liska up the stairs, but into her garden and out. Erin didn’t even turn as she rolled through. A door was already waiting in front of her, and she opened it slowly. But she halted with one hand on the doorframe and turned to Liska and Ishkr.
“—This is what happens around me. Remember that.”
She met Liska’s gaze with her own, her hazel eyes shining like burnt-out coals. But Ishkr gently pulled the door wider.
“That’s the lie you tell. The Raiders were here long before you, Erin. Never once before did I feel guilty when I heard they had struck. I thought of them like a natural disaster. Now?”
His paws tightened on the door jam as Erin looked up at him.
“—You’re change. He’s alive.”
“I wish he’d blame me. Liska? Do you?”
Erin looked at the [Doorgnoll], and Liska gulped. She looked at Erin and whispered.
“…But he never looked happier than yesterday.”
The [Innkeeper] flinched. She looked at the two Gnolls, then they entered Normen’s room.
The [Knight] was asleep. They’d removed his armor from him, and he looked…Liska didn’t even recognize him at first.
What parts of him weren’t bandaged were red. Now—brown with scabs or black with soot, still. He had no hair. He looked like a version of Fetohep, but instead of dead, sun-darkened skin, his was scorched flesh.
It was worse, seeing him. Liska had to turn away—then look. The door opened, and Ser Sest raised his sword—but relaxed when he saw Erin. He nodded, closed the door, and Erin whispered to Liska.
“He’s asleep. Healing.”
“Will he be okay?”
“Valeterisa cast a spell on him. We used potions on him after that. He might be able to walk in as soon as a week, I was told. ”
Irurx had been hopeful that Normen would recover far better than he had, with self-made remedies and no medical aid. Normen had burned less, but the scars would remain.
 
——
 
Ser Lormel looked even worse. But Liska and Erin didn’t enter his room. A [Princess] was lying on the bed, asleep. Tear marks were on her face, and rather than move either, Dame Ushar had just covered her with a blanket.
He was hooked up to a weird stand with a clear jar of blood attached to one of those alchemical tubes that she had seen the [Driver], Rhaldon, bringing Octavia. It was inserted into his arm. His bandaged shoulder was bloody—but he wasn’t bleeding profusely. Liska went back into Normen’s room and sat with him for a while.
It was too much. After a while, Liska just whispered to Normen.
“You were really brave.”
That didn’t feel like enough. She stopped and, after a second, looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper]…Liska didn’t know what to say. So Ishkr whispered for his little sister.
“He’s not dead. When you get up, Normen—we’ll have a drink.”
That was such an Ishkr thing to say. But when Liska looked at him—the Gnoll was gazing down at him, paws hidden by his apron.
“No one from the Haven dared to even set foot in Celum. You were right there.”
Liska nodded as Erin looked between the two. That was right. Then, Liska got up. The Gnoll went to the door, and Ishkr had her room ready. But she stood there for a second.
Erin Solstice was sitting there, head bowed over the silent man. He never woke, and she sat in her chair, leaning forwards. Her tied-back hair was falling over her face, and Liska had the worst thought in that moment—that the [Innkeeper] looked attractive.
She pinched herself so hard she nearly drew blood because that wasn’t what should matter. But she did. She looked…older.
Wasn’t she supposed to be twenty years old? She looked far older than Ishkr and Liska did. Older than Ryoka. Her shadowed face was illuminated as some of the winter clouds passed over the window.
And instead of the tears that Liska was expecting—she saw such a strange expression on Erin’s face. It wasn’t the weeping tears Liska had. Nor was it the pure grief on Mrsha’s face that had turned her into a ball, hugging Nanette, as both girls cried themselves to sleep.
It was not that grim weariness of Numbtongue, or the watchful anger, the sense of walking forwards in pain that was in Saliss’ eyes. Nor even the guilt written on Jewel, who had drunk herself out of this world with Vess and Ama.
Even the Antinium’s strange looks, like Antherr’s, that silent Antinium who had sat there as if he wished he could have gone back and fought—and killed all the Raiders—not one person was a match for Erin Solstice.
Ishkr had a look of pain in his eyes as he held the door open. Pain and pride. As if he were watching a terrible moment. But the pride—for here was someone worthy of all the inn’s stories. And in that way—he was closest to Erin’s face.
She had a bit of all of it in her look. Anger beyond words. Sadness and guilt so great she couldn’t give voice to it. A terrible, terrible weariness of seeing this. But it was also there too.
Pride. A painful pride like she was still lying there, dying, bleeding to death with crossbow bolts in her chest. And she looked at Normen like that.
As if—Liska realized—she knew exactly what it was like. A knowledge beyond life in her gaze. She had been there and knew what lay beyond, and she was gladdest of all that he was still with them. She saw everything he had lost—and she had heard his last words and seen that strange, relieved smile.
So Erin Solstice sat. Just like that. Head bowed with pain. When she stared at his face—it was as if she were slowly raising her head to meet the gaze of—
A statue in her garden. She was looking at the sleeping [Knight], to see if he was satisfied. With all the regret in the world. Yet, she also saw his finest moments of glory and honor even as he lay there.
She was proud of him. In that moment, and in that second, Liska understood why the Goblins and Antinium would have died for her. And why so many had. She looked at Ishkr, and he saw it too. Gently, Erin Solstice lifted something, and she placed it upon the blankets. It danced there, the tiniest green flame. Then she turned away, and Liska…
She didn’t really sleep. But she lay there a long time, haunted by an image and thoughts she would never be able to give voice to.
Until the morning.
 
——
 
It was a tired Gnoll that admitted the first adventurers from elsewhere into The Wandering Inn. She did it mechanically, and the inn was dead silent.
The first one she let through had a look that fit this place. Yet he had not visited recently. It was just that he carried the same pain of ashes on his silvery armor and on his handsome face that looked—hurt.
Ylawes Byres looked around as Liska changed the dials.
“I’ve come to pay my respects. Is…”
“Normen and Ser Lormel are alive. They’re resting. You’re not the first. Go on through. Invrisil.”
“Three teams for Riverfarm, please.”
“I don’t care. Pay up.”
Ylawes Byres half turned and blinked at a bunch of semi-familiar faces. A few jerked back, and one, Riz, waved, and he half-nodded. But then he was striding into the inn.
Ylawes was not the only person who had arrived. In truth, he was one of the last. He had been sorting out his family’s business in the ruins of their estates in House Byres lands—then in Riverfarm, getting his parents situated.
Now, he was signing onto caravans headed to the New Lands for as much gold as he could command. Or supposed to be.
No one wanted to hire an Antinium or Goblin, you see. Rasktooth and Infinitypear. And the caravans said that right until he turned away—in which case they allowed they could accept a Gold-rank team plus Vuliel Drae and two new Bronze-rank adventurers.
For a reduced price.
Almost everyone knew what had happened to his family. But despite that, because of it, they thought they could get his services cheap, play upon the ‘objectionable’ pair.
Ylawes couldn’t stop thinking of his burned manor. The ruined mines and…it made him the best at negotiation he had ever been. With Falene and Dawil’s help, he had nailed down six prospective clients and was getting them to outbid each other.
He was tired. When he had heard of Ser Normen and the deliveries, he had thought he should help. It had felt right—then he had wondered if he should charge Erin for his help because he needed to earn gold and had been ashamed.
Now…he just wondered if there were enough good people left in Izril. Or rather, if there were so many monsters they were sinking into the sea. He didn’t know.
“Ser Ylawes.”
Someone recognized him. The ‘Ser’ came from a silent [Knight] sitting with his head bowed.
Ser Solton looked worse-for-wear after his own winter adventures, but his scrapes were the last thing on his mind. He was accompanied by an angry woman that Ylawes recognized.
“Isn’t someone going to do something? I’ll volunteer if anyone finds where them Raiders are hiding.”
“Durene, stop it.”
“But—he didn’t deserve that. He was one of the bravest men I’ve seen, and—I need to hit something. I—aaah!”
Durene’s fists were clenched, and her face was flushed. Ylawes slowly looked around the inn.
“Captain Ylawes. Is your team here? Can I get you anything?”
Ishkr appeared, and Ylawes shook his head.
“The others are…elsewhere. I think. Vuliel Drae’s following Rasktooth and Infinitypear around. I think they’re on an adventure.”
Infinitypear kept finding them, and Laken had allowed it if he split whatever he found with the Unseen Empire. Little adventures, and Vuliel Drae had agreed to mind them in case anyone panicked.
Not that they should.
“Falene and Dawil are in Invrisil and Pallass. Negotiating. They might be here tonight.”
“I understand. Do you want to see the [Knights]? They’re both awake. Miss Erin is asleep, though.”
“They are?”
That made Ylawes’ head rise. Ishkr gave him a tired smile.
“Everyone’s taken heart. Normen nearly got out of bed. Ser Lormel’s in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. I understand he’s receiving congratulations.”
“As well he should. There stood a [Knight].”
Ser Solton half-rose to his feet, then sagged.
“—I realize it may be forwards of me, but if he should want for an…escort to Calanfer, I will make it a mission to accompany him and see he wants for nothing, whenever that is.”
Everyone turned to him. The Knight of Haegris looked around.
“He can no longer serve. At least, not without training and rest. It would be best for him to return a hero.”
“Yes. I just didn’t think of it like that.”
Durene nodded after a second. She clenched her fists.
“It’s just—”
Then she went silent. Because Ishkr had put a finger to his lips and jerked his head to one side.
Jewel sat there, staring into her mug. She sipped from it. Next to her was Ama. Vess.
They hadn’t so much gone to sleep as woken up from drinking themselves under the table and pulled themselves upright. Well, they’d had half drinks, half flavored water, and exhaustion had done the rest. Now, they were trying again.
“Ishkr. This isn’t Firebreath Whiskey.”
Jewel waved her mug at him.
“No. It’s water. It comes with breakfast. Do you want some?”
The Gold-rank adventurer stared past Ishkr. Her hand shook as she put the mug on the table.
“Breakfast is for non-cowards. Again. I had the chance. I thought I was doing it. Then I froze up. I tried to stop him. I’m supposed to be an adventurer. And I keep…”
“C’mon, Jewel. That was crazy. You knew it was the Raiders. No one would blame you for—dead gods, you killed a bunch of Snow Golems the night before that! No one’d think you were a coward.”
