It was entirely possible he didn’t know and the finding out would be hard. Even for him. But the truth was that he feared [Bandit Lords] like Goblin Lords. Their ilk had killed Dragons, and he never forgot any danger.
Besides.
This was her responsibility. It always had been. Ressa only looked over after Demsleth had long vanished.
“You were crueler to him. I think Teriarch really did try, and he was ashamed to admit he couldn’t do it. Not without leaving his cave and stirring up a mess.”
Magnolia Reinhart shrugged fractionally. For once, she had no eyes for him. She was just staring at that collapsed figure. The [Innkeeper] still knelt there.
“He’s cruelest to himself. It was never his job, anyways. It wasn’t Erin’s. This is mine. I should have sent every [Assassin] in the world against them when they first appeared. Rooted them out. This is my job, and it is the truest failing you can lay at my feet and Tyrion’s.”
“Faces have died. We tried, Magnolia. They slip away. And everyone ends up like…”
Ser Normen. Or the Raiders would just avoid her traps. Slip through her fingers like malicious, bloody ghosts. This frustration had been hers every attack for over a decade, now.
And still, not a clue. She knew the name of their leader, knew something of his history. But no Raider had ever been caught alive or identified. They had even destroyed the body.
She had…one clue now.
“That was a Deathslayer Arrow from Rhir. That…is a hint.”
“We have always known at least some of the nobility may be aiding them. But it could have come from Roshal. Those arrows are sold and traded. Even if you asked Lord Deilan El to account for his two, he’d look guilty.”
That was because the House of El had tried to deconstruct both and destroyed a facility both times. Magnolia lifted a hand.
“It’s a hint, Ressa. Chase it. And they’ll dodge us. But we’ll chase it down. And fail.”
Ressa glanced at her mistress. Unlike other times, Magnolia was speaking softly, and her eyes were flickering, as if tracing something ahead of her quarry. A cat, laying a trap for a mouse where it had been following in vain for so long.
“You have a plan?”
“Yes. I just came up with it. I was unable, Ressa. Unable to do it until now. This time? I have a scheme. I will use it to bring them down. I swear it. It has nothing to do with cunning feints or criminal networks. That’s why it will work.”
She turned and clapped her hands briskly.
“Get me a budget sheet. This will be expensive. Have Zanthia on a speaking stone. She’ll be bound to know what’s going on. I need her to help me shake out the details.”
“Should I call back Demsleth…?”
“No. He’ll be useless. I need a second list, Ressa.”
The [Maid] had produced one sheet in an instant and had another with an enchanted quill ready to go. She flicked impatiently, and it drew neat lines for her to chart names and data down.
“Will you tell me instead of revealing it like some [Magician] hiding all the tricks?”
Magnolia Reinhart’s smile was weary. And guilty. She looked back at that orb, and Ressa thought it was unfair of that man to look so tiredly valiant.
Lord Xitegen stood there, as if he were the only flower of Izril to ever try to fight the Raiders. But Magnolia had never asked for credit, and now…now, at least, they had common cause in that. Terland’s Golems had done what Reinhart poison could not, averting the total slaughter.
But how to kill the Raiders, with all their danger and cunning? Magnolia turned to Ressa, lacing her fingers together.
“Of course I’ll tell you, Ressa. And you’ll tell me if it’s a stupid idea.”
“Every time.”
The [Maid] waited. So—Magnolia Reinhart selected a second quill, jotting on the second piece of paper in delicate cursive.
“I cannot stop them alone. I have lost the Assassin’s Guild. Any hammer on them must come like thunder from above. For them, I would claim the Crown of Flowers. But I have to know who they are. Like the Circle—they hide.”
And they had never really found who had overseen the entire Circle of Thorns. Ressa nodded.
“Then—you’re going to make an alliance with Tyrion through Ryoka. And Xitegen. Something everyone can agree on. Chaldion too. Right?”
“Heavens, no. Well, I will, but that’s what they’re expecting, Ressa. We’ll do it anyways and hunt them down, and they’ll outsmart us. Stay ahead. We can move our own agents, but they’re watching us. But right now? In the wake of their first publicized attack and outrage? This will be their downfall.”
Magnolia pointed at the list, and the first name made Ressa change the scrying orb away from the broadcast where Sir Relz was trying to recap everything, reiterating the bounty on the Bloodfeast Raiders that had been increased by both north and south, Walled Cities and Five Families.
Instead, Ressa scried the target. The two women saw—a pacing figure. Someone angry—angrier than even Magnolia was. And that was hard to be.
But the rage that burned in those eyes and the smoke that actually rose in the image of the orb? That was someone who would have been there if she could. Someone who saw a place that deserved her and a thousand like her.
A nemesis for the kind of monster that were the Bloodfeast Raiders. But unempowered, and frankly—the woman had probably never considered them as her direct foe. It was out of her domain, but she paced. Like a stalking cat smelling, in the distance, a foul den that had to be eradicated.
Her lashing tail stopped, and the Drake came to a halt in her office and stared about. Then she glanced at something and glared up suspiciously.
She must have sensed the [Scrying] spell. Ressa turned it off, but only after she’d gotten a good look at the woman’s face.
“Watch Captain Zevara. Why her?”
“I heard the Watch is expanding its roster, and she did not leap at being a [Watch Commander]. Which is perfect. It should be a Watch Captain. She is also placed in the dead center of Izril. She may not be a Human—but she lives in a city with Antinium, so in a sense, she’s as foreign to the Drakes as any other. She’s well-known.”
“They’ll mince her up in a second.”
Ressa had no illusions. Even if the Watch Captain was handy with a blade—Magnolia’s eyes glittered.
“Which is why we begin small. But there are excellent [Guards] across Izril. The proposal should come from…Celum, perhaps. Or maybe the Watch Captain will say it herself. Do you see it, Ressa?”
The [Maid] was struggling to connect the dots. She frowned at Magnolia as her hands hesitated over the quill and paper.
“Do you mean like some kind of organization of City Watches between north and south?”
“Partly. But Ressa, Salefenwool had no Watch. There is no one to chase a criminal outside the city’s limits. There is no one with the authority to lay down the law wherever they go. Terandria has [Knights]. Adventurers, the nobility, and so on do that job—erratically. But what if there was a body of the finest [Guardswomen] and [Guardsmen]? A…force of them that had jurisdiction everywhere and took on any crime. No matter how wide?”
High-level [Guards]. Experts, from every city, coordinating together, funded by the Walled Cities and noble families, able to pool resources and call on whomever was needed. Responsible for stopping…crime. Not monsters, crime. Like the Golden Pyramid scheme.
Or the Bloodfeast Raiders. But they would have to have the power that bridged north and south, and the power…Magnolia kept speaking, seeing something that made Ressa’s heart skip.
“Oh. Yes. They’d have to have the power to hold anyone to account. High or small.”
Ressa stared ahead and finally caught the thread Magnolia was pulling out of the air. A long plan that would change things. Izril had long been self-governed, the Drake cities sharing some rules, the nobility agreeing—but they needed something more.
That Watch Captain was the first. So Magnolia began moving things around her, organizing what she felt was necessary, perhaps just speeding up the inevitable and smoothing its path into existence.
“And when they find one, just one, Ressa. I swear I will kill at least one of my great foes and set fire to that entire nest.”
Magnolia did not look back at the image of the fallen [Knight]. She stared ahead at vengeance. It was easier. But Ressa glanced back at that fallen man being lifted gently into a wagon and spoke.
“It takes so long sometimes.”
Magnolia Reinhart turned back, and her eyes were bleak.
“Yes. Yes it does. I wish I were willing to gamble on stopping them here. Now. So that the next time is the last. But I’m too afraid of losing…you, Ressa. All of you.”
She bent back over the orb, and Erin Solstice still hadn’t moved.
 
——
 
When she ran, it was through the snow. Then she collapsed, and Ishkr brought the wheelchair to her.
“Erin, it’s dangerous—”
“Tessa, push me. Tessa, where are you? Someone has to—Octavia, Ulvama. Does anyone know how to treat burns?”
They were bringing him as fast as they could. Lyonette only convinced Erin to return to the inn by pointing out that she would get in Normen’s way. And reminding her Ser Lormel was hurt.
The [Knight] lay on a table in the inn, and Erin didn’t understand why—until she realized [Healers] were being called in from Invrisil and Pallass.
“Clear the room! [Healers] only!”
She shouted, and a wave of people stumbled back, some running to the sides or exiting as Erin forced them back. That left…
“Healer Demerra is here! Move!”
Grimalkin had brought the Gnoll who had treated Chaldion, Pallass’ finest. The Gnoll rushed in with her crystals—and Liscor’s local [Healer], Pemai, and a man from Invrisil were all working on Lormel.
The [Knight] was bone-white—and Demerra realized something as she saw glowing liquid splashing on his arm.
“The arrow’s cursed. The potions aren’t working?”
“No, we’re trying—”
They’d physically bound the limb. But blood was pooling, and the only thing that was keeping the man alive was…a tube wired into his arm. Demerra stared at it and pointed.
“Th—that’s the thing The Last Light was speaking of. How did—?”
The bloodbag and the transfusion line had not been any of the [Healers]’ first thoughts. It had been Joseph who had demanded it when the potions started failing.
A panting young man was clutching at his chest. He had made the run to Liscor’s blood bank, which almost everyone had forgotten existed—and up to the inn so fast he’d only gotten a light tan. Rivel, Fierre’s brother, had brought the blood transfusion and hooked it up.
The first transfusion of blood was working. Nothing else was. The [Healer] from Invrisil was inspecting Lormel’s arm as he spoke to someone via scrying orb. A Dullahan, demanding to see.
“Last Light, he’s losing blood, but his—artery—is not severed. No, something’s closed it—else he’d have bled to death before we could help. But—”
“I cannot heal him.”
Another worried figure backed away, and Demerra took a step back despite herself. Zimrah, the [Priest], raised her hands and looked around at the other Antinium.
[Cure Mundane Wounds] had completely failed on the wound. And…when Ser Normen arrived, it would fail twice on him. The reason was simple.
Both wounds were magical. Or alchemical, because the Raiders had lit Normen on fire with both magic and alchemy.
He was still, lying on his back, and when he arrived in the inn, he looked dead. There was not a part of him that was unburnt.
“He’s dying. I gave him potions. I’m sorry. I was afraid—I was afraid.”
Jewel helped put him on the table. She was tearing with guilt, but she had rushed him here without slowing. Erin looked up. Lormel’s bleeding had slowed. The arrow that had destroyed his arm almost completely had, ironically, stopped him from bleeding out from his arteries—by compressing bone and flesh.
But Normen? Demerra fumbled with her crystals, then dropped them.
“I need—does anyone have a Potion of Regeneration? He won’t survive long enough for my crystals to work.”
“It won’t work. I’m sorry.”
Zimrah lifted her hands. She had touched his burnt flesh so gently—and some of it had sloughed away from that touch. Her Miracle had done nothing.
“Saliss? Octavia?”
The Drake was there, and he had a balm, but he hesitated in applying it.
“I have a burn cream, but Erin—I’m staring at his innards. There’s nothing to apply the cream to.”
He was still alive though. One eye stared up at Erin. He might be unconscious—but she thought he was looking at them.
“Someone save him. I’ll give you anything.”
Erin looked around, and Ulvama hesitated, but Goblinhome was too far away. She had her own cures—but even the [Shaman] had few memories of anyone being this badly burned. Let alone living.
Saliss stared down grimly at the man and closed the tin.
“Send for Ilvriss’ potion.”
The Dullahan, who called herself The Last Light, stared down at Normen with a bitterly painful expression. She acknowledged Erin with a single nod, and the [Innkeeper] almost reached for her.
“Gen—can you help him?”
“Perhaps. Let me work.”
The woman replied quietly, but not unkindly. She was staring down at Normen, her eyes calculating. Weary and frustrated that she could not be there. But they were alight with the will—and the means to do something. The [Healers] listened to her like an apostle of a new age as she spoke.
“None of you have experience with grafting. You will have to attempt it. Use fish skin if you have to. Fresh fish skin.”
“Onto his skin? Are you—”
“Be silent. He requires liquids. You have to get liquid into him. Use a tube and insert it down his throat if you must. Is there a Selphid? Prepare a transfusion of blood. Do you know his blood type? Take a sample, and I will direct you in finding a suitable donor. But find me honey.”
“Honey?”
“Honey, and mix silver in the dressing. Honey for a dressing. First, begin removing his contaminated clothing and armor. If you have magical means, get them now.”
The [Healers] began scrambling to follow her orders. As they did, Ryoka Griffin leapt to her feet. She turned to Erin.
“I’ll go. I can get there and back in a day, maybe…two? If you can wait—can you teleport the potion?”
Grimalkin shook his head.
“Not that kind of magic. Fissival’s at war with Salazsar, besides. And there’s no more potion. It was lost during the Meeting of Tribes.”
Ryoka swung around, looking at the others in the silence. Even the [Lord] who had arrived and was forgotten by Erin for the moment.
“Does anyone else have anything? Magnolia? Someone? He’s—”
—Dying. Lord Tyrion shook his head slowly. Normen’s gaze stared up at Erin, and she almost touched his cheek. But she didn’t want to hurt him.
