He had to make it. She reached for her hat.
“I can try to make something. I’m out of craft, though. I’ll try.”
“You do not have time.”
Someone said that, and Erin Solstice’s head rose.
“I will make all the time I need, then. If I have to steal an [Immortal Moment]—”
She had never tried. But she was about to, now. Demand that time itself stop for her. For her [Knight]. Prolong his misery. Because he could not go. Not now.
“I was happy.”
She thought that’s what his lips were saying. She refused to hear it. Erin turned, about to run into her [Garden of Sanctuary], when someone spoke. A gaze that was horrified, slightly, despite all she had herself seen, not immune, not allowed to escape, fixed on Normen. And a hand rose as if she were a pupil in class.
“Have you tried magic? I could try a spell.”
Erin turned—and Archmage Valeterisa walked forwards as half the [Healers] made to block her way.
“Keep that woman away from the patient.”
The Last Light instructed sharply. But Valeterisa insisted.
“No. Truly. I have a spell that might work. I could cast…[Restoration].”
Erin’s head slowly swung to Valeterisa. Tyrion—twisted around, looking incredulous. And Ryoka’s eyes opened wide.
“You? You can’t cast—”
A hand shoved her aside. Ulvama. The Goblin was suddenly wide-eyed. She looked at Valeterisa.
“Yes. She can. Do it!”
“But that’s the Healer of Tenbault’s magic.”
Healer Demerra whispered. Grimalkin looked at Valeterisa incredulously. The Archmage of Izril was nervous, but she stepped over to Normen and looked down. She lifted her hands.
“I copied it. It might not work on magical wounds. The efficacy of—”
“Shut up and cast.”
Ulvama shouted in her ear. Valeterisa flinched. Then she looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] just nodded. So, Valeterisa concentrated.
It looked, to those who knew magic, as if the Archmage were trying to force the spell past something. Like a beam of light trying to shine through smoke or mists. She activated the spell—then poured magic into it. Valeterisa began to sweat after fifteen seconds of casting. She should have been able to cast the spell at least three times with her mana supply.
But she was burning through over half her mana pool in moments. Someone grasped her shoulder, and Valeterisa twitched—but her apprentice linked with her; Palt joined her along with Grimalkin in a second, adding their supplies to hers.
Ulvama poked Valeterisa from the other side, and the Archmage pushed. She drew on the magic of the inn, and the portal door went dead. The magic of Erin’s inn drained around her, like a swirling vortex in Erin’s eyes.
Valeterisa pushed—and the spell activated. For a half a second. Then she keeled over in a dead faint over Normen.
She nearly slammed into him, and Relc, who had been watching, grabbed Valeterisa.
“Hey, Archmage. Are you alright? Did—”
He looked down and suddenly exhaled. Erin bent—and she slowly reached down and touched Normen’s red, smoldering skin.
He was still burnt. His flesh was still raw. But it seemed as if several layers had regrown. His clouded, running, good eye had turned into a proper eye that closed suddenly in relief.
He jerked—and almost sat up.
“I…feel better—”
He spoke a second through hissing lips—then the pain hit him. Then—a paw shoved Erin aside, and Demerra was bending over him.
“Lie still! The spell didn’t work entirely, but his skin’s partially back. Saliss, the cream! Last Light?”
“Show me his injuries. I need to know how he’s breathing. His lungs, did the spell restore his hemoglobin or…?”
Erin was forced back, but she saw Normen’s head moving. He was in pain, now, as his nerves regrew, and a painkiller was the next thing Demerra shouted for. It was Saliss who had the answer.
“Get me some Faerie Flowers. There’s a top-level painkiller. Apprentice! Get the recipe for the pain-drops from Oteslia!”
Octavia went sprinting for her shop, and Erin? Erin collapsed. She never took her eyes off Normen.
He was alive. He was alive.
A Gnoll woman shoved people aside as she reached the inn. Krshia shouted.
“I have Ashfire Honey! Someone said he needed it—”
“Right here! Clear a spot! Move!”
Demerra turned in relief, and Krshia raised the pot. She looked at the second [Knight]—and then at Erin. The [Innkeeper] was thinking of Brunkr as well. She moved back, to give them room. Only after that did she let herself feel the guilt again. Then it felt like she was breathing.
Then—the anger and fear and loss came thereafter.
 
——
 
That night, The Wandering Inn was busy beyond belief. People were eating, moving through the inn, and Liska just opened the door and slammed it behind Halrac when he came through a second time.
“Who’s coming through for Celum? Everyone else, make a hole. No one comes through but essential people.”
“What about the [Knight]?”
“They’re both alive! Resting!”
Halrac stood to one side as a dozen people strode through from Invrisil. They were, he realized, the nobility and their entourages. A group of nobles he recognized from the Haven nearly ran into Lady Bethal Walchaís and six of her Petal Knights.
“Lady Walchaís. Are you for…?”
“Salefenwool? Yes, I am. I’m told anyone left alive is on the road and heading for Celum—under Lord Xitegen’s protection. Was there a plan beyond housing those poor people?”
“No…that is, we were going to arrange it and ask questions.”
Bethal stomped a foot as they all waited for Liska to change the door to Celum.
“What about housing?”
“We’re assured Celum will provide it.”
“Very good, Lord Renhurst. Then I shall let you ask the questions while I inspect the housing. Six of my [Knights] will wait in Celum. In case the Raiders come back.”
The nobles paused a second.
“—That is another matter to discuss. A full inquiry is needed. That arrow and the bounty—”
“Fat lot of good it will do. Lord Veltras’ forces lost track of the Raiders already. The man’s out there. Let’s go and—”
They were through the door and into Celum as Halrac watched. The [Bowman of Loss] thought it was something. He had heard Laken asking his [Witches] if they could track the Raiders in their own way, but they were worn out from managing to hex just one Raider.
They were going to get away again. And he had been useless. Now, Halrac realized that Lord Xitegen had managed to run all the way to Salefenwool and rescue the last survivors—and Normen—while Halrac had been held back.
Of course, the [Lord] had a Golem Horse, and he was a member of House Terland. The [Covering Fire] had come from his personal Retainer-Golems, who had used the door in Invrisil to teleport to Celum and fire upon the Raiders.
He was a hero, and many people were asking who he was. Halrac would declare that first.
But he had to see Normen himself. So Halrac went into the common room of the inn and found a crowd.
People were eating, talking, all upset, and Ser Lormel and Normen were nowhere to be seen. The first person to notice him was actually a Goblin cleaning mugs in a corner.
Inkpaper was not a helpful Goblin, nor even a good, friendly one. So Peggy had made him wash used mugs with a basin of soap and water. He called out as Halrac looked around for a familiar face.
“Hey, you. Pebblesnatch’s friend. You want Miss Erin?”
Halrac turned, and the Hob waved at him.
“Me?”
“Yeah. You…Riverfarm Goblin Adventurer Captain.”
Inkpaper had clearly forgotten his name, and his description for Halrac was broadly accurate. The Gold-rank Captain just stared.
“I’m looking for Normen and Lormel.”
“Everyone is. They’re upstairs. Resting. Crystals and guards. You won’t get in. The shiny [Knights] will kick you downstairs. Don’t land on your head.”
What that meant was that the Thronebearers were guarding both rooms, and they refused admittance to everyone. A grave Ser Dalimont nodded to Halrac when he saw him though.
“How are they?”
“Alive.”
That was—a telling statement in itself. Dalimont broke away for a second to speak to Halrac. There were a bunch of flowers piled up next to the door, and letters. It reminded Halrac of Erin. He hadn’t seen her, either, in the crowd. Or Lyonette. Dalimont lowered his voice.
“They’re both going to make it. I—think. The [Healers] have done all they can. Ser Lormel is in worse condition now. Archmage Valeterisa managed to partially heal Ser Normen. She claims both men were cursed. Magical wounds. Her spell won’t work twice, and she was unable to even help Lormel at all.”
An Archmage had healed Normen? That she had done it at all was astounding. Dalimont didn’t describe the wounds overlong.
“Ser Lormel’s lost his arm. Normen is burned…from head to toe. Ser Lormel, at least, didn’t lose much blood. I don’t understand how, but the [Healers] say it was luck from how the wound was made. Like a mace, a bludgeoning blow. He’s been given blood…”
“Blood? Oh—that thing Erin made?”
Halrac knew about the blood bank. Dalimont nodded gravely.
“He is resting. Normen was healed, and his life is out of danger. He will be…a very long time to recovery, but he has had potions, balms, and I believe Miss Erin is arranging the final bit of care for him. But he will be affected by the…he’s lost his left eye.”
Halrac’s face didn’t move, but he clenched his teeth together and exhaled.
“He’s alive. How about the villagers?”
“In Celum. There are enough nobles to fight off even a Bloodfeast attack. For now, we are keeping Miss Lyonette safe, and…I think we are all bearing witness to what has been done. Both men were heroes. Lord Xitegen as well.”
That was one word for it. And—no—it was completely accurate. They were heroes.
But Halrac’s sense of injustice and anger would not dissipate from that alone.
Nor his guilt.
He should have run. Maybe he would have been able to help. He had…
That arrow.
It felt like it was burning in his quiver as he marched downstairs and looked around the inn. It didn’t do anything magical. It didn’t—feel powerful like the Heartflame Breastplate did when he’d touched that Relic.
It didn’t feel like anything, but he was scared of leaving it alone, scared of putting it in his bag of holding. He didn’t know what to do with it, and he didn’t—
Remember what had happened when he apparently vanished. He had just felt his sword biting into that Drake’s neck, known what would happen, and braced for death or the punishment for interfering with Zeladona’s Trial of Blades.
Then nothing. Then he’d been starving, landing in the snow, and everyone had been screaming he’d been gone for days. All Halrac knew was that he had been somewhere else.
Because he’d been holding that arrow in his hand.
It was one of his arrows, and he was missing three. He hadn’t told anyone—nor that his bag of holding had been missing two cookies, snacks he’d had in there. Halrac had found, when he later inspected his goods, that he’d chipped the tip of his steel belt knife and the missing arrows.
That suggested…something. But what about the tip of his arrow?
He didn’t know, but no one, not Hedault, not the [Witches], not Erin, had been able to say what the stuff was, the gold-like substance on the tip.
It was…fragile. It could flake off, and yet, everything in Halrac screamed it was essential he treat it like a relic. But he had no idea what to do with it, and he was frankly worried about showing it to anyone. Even Laken didn’t know he had it.
Nor, for once, had the [Emperor] guessed with his ‘vision’.
It didn’t matter. Not now, but Halrac felt the arrow in his quiver because of the guilt in his chest. He should have gone to Salefenwool and fired it at the Raiders.
But he had not. Braver men than he had gone. Normen had paid for going with his eye and burned body. It was a miracle he was alive.
He had gone. Halrac was a coward.
 
——
 
Halrac found Erin in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. Someone was poking her insistently. And someone else was poking her from the other side.
She eventually snapped and took the bowl of soup and ate. The first meal since breakfast. Calescent and Ulvama high-fived, but silently. Erin ate as if she tasted nothing and kept speaking as she sat in her wheelchair.
“…Okay. He’s regrown a lot of skin. So should I do the second treatment?”
“Very good. Very good, Miss Solstice. Yes. I believe that will help him greatly. And the third may prevent the—scarring. I would like to extend my great sympathies to that man, when he wakes. It is an experience I am…deeply sympathetic towards.”
The figure Erin was talking to was a man standing with vaguely stylish robes. He was swaying…no, Halrac realized he must have been on a ship because his image was bobbing slightly.
A half-Elf? Erin ducked her head.
“Thank you, um…”
“Irurx. And thank you for taking my odd request.”
“Well, I owe you a favor. So Ceria said, and the burn treatments—thank you. I…think there’s something about you I don’t know. But thank you.”
Irurx smiled at her faintly and adjusted what Halrac realized was scarred skin. Former burns. The name halted Halrac dead in his tracks.
That foul [Alchemist]? But he just bowed slightly, to her, and then stared at the stone-faced Drake to the side with a hint of a mocking smile.
“I trust the competent Alchemist Saliss can prepare my treatments. Again, I am sure we may speak in other circumstances. But my sympathies—”
“We’ll forget this ever happened, Irurx.”
Saliss snapped, and the half-Elf lifted a hand. Erin thanked him again and then turned.
“Can you make the thing he said would help? Is it bad?”
“No…it’s all above-board. I’ll mix it up since it will help. Irurx is probably the world’s greatest expert in being burnt alive. Aside from Normen.”
Erin twitched at Saliss’ joke, and the Drake gave her a side-long look. Then he patted her on the shoulder.
“He’d probably laugh about it. Well, probably not. Someone would. Irurx would. Don’t beat yourself up too much, and don’t ever speak to him again unless I’m around. I’ll mix it in Octavia’s shop, then I’m gone for the night. Those Thronebearers have you and Lyonette and the kiddos sleeping in the Garden, right? Good. See you. Oh, hey…you…”
Saliss sidled around Halrac, and Erin glanced up. She tried to smile.
“Halrac!”
He descended slowly and felt like an intruder at once. He was just getting in her way.
“I didn’t mean to bother you. I just came to check on…”
“No, you’re not. It’s not like I’m doing…any good anyways. I’m just in the way, and they’re both asleep. I’m the idiot who can only talk to—and get Normen and Lormel hurt.”
“He went on his own, Erin. You helped.”
