She’d been practicing. And as she got too close for the halberd to swing properly, the Blade of Mershi changed. Lehra came up with a different weapon in her hands, and Cosmenaut—
Threw himself to the side. He hit her arm once, but her armor deflected the blow. And her whirling flail punched him on the shoulder and chest once before he retreated. Then it was a bow—
An ever-changing weapon. A blade with no peer. Cosmenaut panted. He looked right and left. Spoken Vow had to fight alone. He wasn’t losing, but—he looked up and nodded to himself.
There stood a Named-rank adventurer. She was coming again.
 
——
 
Spell after spell forced Riz to dodge back as she took on Vess, Typhenous, and Briganda at the same time. The old man was pressing at his stomach with the back of his knife-hand.
She’d knifed him once. He was slow to heal from the trial—and he was just old. He didn’t seem to notice the poison, though. He just grimly held his staff in one hand. Knife in the other.
He flicked an exploding orb at her—then threw the knife as she dodged. He wasn’t fighting like a proud expert of blades but who he was. A Face. A killer. Typhenous the Plague.
But she was so fast as she engaged Briganda, then danced back as the [Shieldmaiden] cleaved the place where her head had been. Vess swung back to Riz—then opened fire as Spoken Vow clashed with Antherr, Ylawes, and Ser Dalimont.
Sillias, the cat undead, was stalking left and right, its beautiful bones damaged from repeated impacts, and Ama was hurling insults even as she repaired her beloved undead. Revi was busy throwing spells at the [Archer] and [Mage]—
Stalemate all the way down. But Spoken Vow were Gold-rankers. If they could just overwhelm Ylawes, Antherr, and Dalimont—! The cat would go down when the [Necromancer] fell, and it couldn’t chew through Mickey’s armor.
Antherr and Dalimont weren’t Gold-ranks. Spoken Vow kept back from Ylawes, holding him off with Elia’s help as Riz tied up three of the enemy. She normally took down foes from behind while they—
“Take the Antinium down!”
Embraim was fighting in the midline. He had a spear, sword, and a torch in his four hands. Two held the spear, one held the sword, and the last held a torch. Zanze was throwing rocks, pivoting with his club, protecting Ama and Vess and Revi.
They weren’t Gold-ranks! The Antinium weren’t even Level 20! Mickey charged shoulder-to-shoulder with one of his friends. Dorid, a [Lanceman].
He carried a huge lance, which he could use to strike his foes almost as hard as a charging [Knight]—but he had no horse! He rammed into Ylawes, and Mickey got past.
“Got you!”
Mickey battered down the jabbing spear as Embraim backed up. The sword bounced off Mickey’s shoulder. Weak weapons! Mickey raised his sword—and Embraim raised the torch.
“[Blow Flame].”
The Commander of 8th Battalion, Glory, blew a stream of pink flames over Mickey. It burned. The man screamed and backed away, swatting at the flames.
Unlike honor, glory burned hot and bright. It seared. He felt a jabbing spear—and Embraim was burning. His eyes seemed to be on fire with the rest of his body.
The greatest deeds he had ever borne witness to and the ones in his future burned in his eyes. It was hot. He swung his sword.
“[Flame Slash].”
And again, the flames tried to burn Mickey alive. The man retreated. Embraim lifted the spear as Spoken Vow wavered, and he looked up at it.
It seemed for a second to those watching—that the spear changed. Relc, watching from a distance, thought he saw a Drake for a second. Captured in the Antinium’s memory.
A [Spearhunter], raising her spear overhead. Then—Embraim threw the spear.
It struck the [Trick-Shot Archer], and the adventurer hit the ground and lay there a second, stunned and reeling.
Embraim advanced. Spoken Vow was growing more desperate.
“They’re not even adventurers. Take them down! Take them—”
Toreel was screaming at them from their side. He stumbled away from Jewel, who had scored another blow as she faced Iloid. They were losing!
Because—because the Order of Solstice was matching them blow for blow, spell for spell. And because—
The flames were spreading.
 
——
 
Antherr’s greatsword had green fire on it. The same as Normen’s armor. He swung it, and the light was painful. It made his opponent squint. It dazzled—and he carved an arc through the air with every strike.
Embraim’s pink flames were bright, even under the day. He walked forwards, and they made everyone fight twice as hard around them on his side.
Do you see it? The [Knights]…were catching fire.
Three of them, for now. The others watched, and Ser Dalimont locked blades with a Gold-rank adventurer, a Gold-ranker. The other man had an enchanted sword; he was an [Artifact Mercenary]. A simple class.
A Gold-ranker with enchanted artifacts. He faced a [Knight], but a Thronebearer! The man snarled. They’d been dueling for fifteen minutes, but it felt like an hour.
He had better gear. He had to have more levels. So why—he cut at Dalimont’s chipped shield and used a Skill.
“[Activate Artifact: Incredible Effect]!”
His sword was enchanted to hit his opponents with increased force. When his Skill struck the Thronebearer, the ground quaked.
A spiderweb appeared in the earth behind Dalimont’s boots, and the man reeled. His head fell back, and he seemed like he might fall over. The [Mercenary] whirled his blade up—
And the sword struck him so hard he nearly sat down. He looked up, and the [Knight] was stronger. He seemed to fight like a dead man, reeling, but with the strength of—of—
A Ghoul? No, even stronger. Dalimont’s eyes cleared, and the [Mercenary] realized he’d been unconscious. The [Knight]’s nose was bleeding, his head ringing—
But he fought, and the [Mercenary] realized his golden armor was etched with a paint, pale silver. Old, even…unsettling. Like the markings of a tomb.
The sigils of Noelictus. Had his armor looked like that before? Ser Dalimont raised his blade. The oathsworn of a [Princess].
Seraphel’s [Royal Bodyguard]. [Two of Life, Two of Death]. His eyes burned, and the [Mercenary] whispered.
“D-Draugr?”
The [Mercenary] raised his sword and knew that if this man died—his corpse would still keep fighting. Who was this [Knight]? Weren’t Thronebearers supposed to be weak?
Then the [Mercenary] turned as he heard a shout and sagged in relief. Ser Dalimont hesitated—and grimaced as he swiveled. He heard the thing he had feared most.
“[Line-Ender Shot].”
 
——
 
Elia Arcsinger was wiping away the snot and tears from her face, splashing a healing potion in her eyes as Halrac yanked the arrow out of his leg.
She looked around at the battlefield and realized her team was losing. Or if not losing—
They might lose. Might lose…and there was nothing to gain here and everything to lose. She looked at her daughter, shouting for a bow, and then at Halrac.
Elia backed away. She swiveled her head—and saw Lord Xitegen was watching her. The [Innkeeper], [Emperor]. The damn scrying spells.
There was no running. So there was only one thing she could think of. The employer was always right.
Elia Arcsinger lifted her bow. Halrac got to his feet. She loosed an arrow—and this time leaned out of the way of his.
His arrows were too heavy to block. She had [120% Draw]—yet his felt heavier. If she had the mithril arrows, if she had one more Skill—
If she were Level 50, not Level 40. She backed away from the honest fight as her arrow struck him in the leg. But rather than go through, it lodged in his boot. Yet he registered no pain, because the tip of the arrow wasn’t in his flesh.
It was in the ground.
[Anchoring Shot]. Elia turned—and she shot an arrow left. Then dodged another arrow. Halrac took aim, refusing to try to free himself—
Elia Arcsinger vanished. His eyes widened. Then—he looked left and saw, where her arrow had landed—
The half-Elf had reappeared.
“[Arrow of the Traveller]. I have Skills too.”
She was panting. Elia took swift aim. Not at Halrac. She pivoted—and faced the walls of the Goblinlands. She spoke—and Halrac shouted.
“Arcsinger!”
Too late. Elia whispered, and her bowstring pulled back.
“[Line-Ender Shot].”
Even if she whispered it—it came out like a tolling voice across the ground. She drew back, and her arrow shone. A bright, unforgiving light. Oblivion.
Erin Solstice cried out in the distance. Xitegen shouted in triumph. But all Elia saw—
Was Velan’s face. Her arrow glowed. It turned red, a crimson like a Goblin’s eyes. Then—she let go.
 
——
 
Thunder.
No one saw the arrow travel, save Halrac. He saw it pierce through the gates of the Goblinlands, go through the wood and stone and vaporize a hole twice as wide as he was tall, a circular hole that left a smoking crater around it.
Everyone had seen and heard Elia draw her bow. Goblins had thrown themselves out of the way. Halrac knew this because—he was staring into the Goblinlands.
Staring at the trench of torn up ground, dirt still raining from the sky, at Goblins, cowering, looking up with wide eyes at the hole—and the trench.
It had blown through part of their village, gone through walls and destroyed everything in its way without slowing. It had hit the mountain, and Halrac saw—for a second—a hole before it caved in.
The arrow had kept going after that. It went through half a forest on the other side of the mountain before it stopped. 
A hole through the Goblinlands. Elia lowered her bow, panting. She couldn’t tell how many she’d killed. They’d been vaporized, but she saw too many Goblins staring at her.
“—Missed. One more shot.”
The Goblins hadn’t been behind the gates like she’d thought. Of course they’d been taking cover. She hadn’t killed nearly enough. She just had to hit as many as possible.
That might be enough.
An arrow hit her in the back and pierced her armor. She felt the tip of it cut into her spine.
“Arcsinger!”
Halrac Everam was on his feet. But Elia just turned and loosed an arrow that cut his cheek open. They locked eyes. She almost felt bad for him. Elia simply stepped behind a tree as she prepared to use her Skill again. She was panting with the effort, but—
She was an adventurer. She didn’t need to kill him to win. She could have, even now. But she didn’t want to kill these people. The more they fought—
Then the Gold-rank adventurers grew desperate. Elia closed her eyes as she heard a scream.
 
——
 
Ylawes had beaten Mickey down again. The other man was on his hands and knees, and he stared up at the sword aimed at his head.
“Drop your weapons. I will not give you a second chance. Tell your team to do likewise.”
“Keep fighting! You idiots, we paid you to do your jobs!”
Toreel screamed. He looked around, and Normen was striding away from Anwyne. The [Axemistress] was retreating as Durene traded blows with her. Angest had been knocked out by the [Knight]’s mace—and Jewel was taking down Iloid. The [Rogue] and Capoinelia were trying to beat the [Swashbuckler], but Jewel was winning.
Even Elia had been forced back by Halrac. They still had—
Vess was hammering spells into the [Mercenary] from the side as Dalimont engaged the [Trick-Shot Archer]. They had to take out the [Mages]!
A blow sent Toreel reeling as he tried to charge at Typhenous and the others. He stumbled—and turned as Sillias raised a paw.
“[Webwork Riposte]! Damn [Necromancer]!”
He cut—and the undead cat was tangled in sticky webs. It tried to remove them from its face and claws, and it was tearing—but Toreel charged at Ama, who screamed for help when she saw everyone was distracted.
“Ama, run!”
Briganda whirled. Vess shot arrows at Toreel, but the half-Elf [Ranger] deflected two. He snarled—they hurt! That wasn’t a normal [Light Arrow]—
A blow caught him across the face, and this time, he reeled. Blood spurted from a broken nose, and the half-Elf stumbled.
Who? He’d had a clear shot at—
“You bastard! Get back!”
A club smacked him on the head again. Toreel stumbled back—it wasn’t heavy, just a man’s swing. He looked up and realized—
It was the [Driver]. Zanze was striking at him, shouting. His skeleton retainer, missing an arm, swung a hatchet, and it struck Toreel’s other armored shoulder. Toreel cut the skeleton’s head off and it vanished, but the club hit him again and pain blossomed across his jaw.
“I’ve got him! I’ve got—”
He was turning his head like the amateur he was. Shouting, eyes wide, looking for Normen, who had turned towards the brave man. Zanze looked as if he might burst into flames himself. He stood there, facing Gold-rank adventurers with nothing but courage.
Toreel wiped at his nose with one hand. With the other, he ran Zanze through the chest without a word. The [Driver] stiffened—and the half-Elf tore the blade left, out of his chest. Ama screamed.
“Zanze!”
“—Ridiculous. Look what you forced us to. You fools.”
The Driver’s Guild might boycott them after this because one of their members was an idiot. Toreel shook the blood off his blade. That was his first thought.
Zanze fell over, still clutching his club, two-handed. He looked surprised, and then his eyes began to fade out of life. The blade had gone straight through his heart. He sat down and stared up at the sky.
An ember died just as it was about to catch flame. Ama made a choked sound as Toreel strode to her. Normen lowered his mace.
“Zanze?”
The Order of Solstice stopped a second, Halrac, Antherr, Jewel, Vess, Ama—looking down at the dead man lying there. Lips parted to shout. Then at the half-Elf. He was running, now, and they were going after him. But Ama was backing away, and Jewel—
Jewel was striding away from Iloid, but her face was white. Again. And again. And always, again, it felt like her fault.
She had been fighting with all her might. But—she should have just killed them. If she had, properly, a good man wouldn’t be dead. They had all fought like raging flames.
They should have been a forest fire. An all-consuming inferno. Zanze was dead? He shouldn’t have been here.
He had come because it was the right thing to do. He would have been—
He was a [Knight] of Solstice. Now, he was dead.
Jewel pulled something out of her bag of holding as she ran. She saw Toreel snarling, looking at her, Normen, Briganda—an arrow tearing a chunk out of one of his damned ears as he ran at Ama.
Something cold and hard sloshed in her grip as Toreel turned his head. Jewel had never dreamed of using it before. Now—
She threw it before she thought. Her arm arced up, and she hurled it like a fastball. It struck the back of the half-Elf’s head as he half-turned, sensing it.
