One of her two teammates, Toimt, tried to reassure her. Jewel didn’t respond. She just looked down at the table, even when Ishkr put a plate of steaming buns in front of her. They were odd and twisted, and Ylawes suspected Imani had taught Calescent another recipe. Jewel swiveled out of the way of the smell, and Ishkr moved it right and left until she took a bun.
“Where’s Zanze? And Antherr?”
“Antherr’s over there. I believe [Driver] Zanze just walked in.”
Ylawes looked about, and Antherr was sitting at another table, shoulders hunched, looking much like Jewel in body language, though he had no voice. He was sitting with the Beriad, and a rare guest was sitting with him.
“You could do nothing. Being unable to ride a horse is a physical incapability. Mourn. Embrace it. But do not harm yourself. That is the difference between acknowledging guilt and letting it rule you.”
Calruz stood up slowly. Ylawes stared at him, and the Minotaur froze a second when he met the [Knight]’s gaze. Then he ducked his head.
“I must return to my place. Excuse me.”
He walked past Ylawes, and the [Knight] said nothing. Not right now. It felt like all kinds of old faces. And new.
He had no idea who…no, didn’t he recognize one of the Antinium there? Ylawes didn’t know many, but he knew one of them. Like the Beriad—it was one of the Antinium who’d helped save them all at Orefell.
Embraim was sitting with Antherr and speaking.
“You were there. You mattered. He is awake. If you are ashamed—go up and speak to him. He is not dead. Erin Solstice’s flame will not go out. No matter who tries. The Order of Solstice she started is not one [Knight]. Or even two.”
The leader of Glory Battalion raised his voice, and it felt like a dozen heads in the inn stirred. Zanze looked over and made a bee-line for the others. A Runner, Herove, was sitting at a table by himself, white-knuckling a sandwich.
As if he didn’t know what the future held anymore.
There they were. There were others, of course. An old man with a haggard face was sitting by himself, not eating, looking as if he were waiting for someone to stand up and blame him. But his eyes were lingering on someone here.
Nobility came in and out, talking about ‘what must be done’, ‘lines in the sand’, and ‘Xitegen pushing boundaries’. Ylawes barely took notice.
Some people saw opportunity in this moment. He? He just saw a great injustice, and he no longer knew how to right it, because it was not something he could hit with a sword.
Perhaps if he had been ready, he would have noticed the little commotion in the inn behind him when he came in. Some self-important adventurers waiting in the hallway, including a woman trying to shield her face in case someone recognized her.
Liska never noticed as she processed them and let fifteen adventurers through the doorway. Arcsinger’s Bows, Spoken Vow.
The Duelist of First Landing, striding forth with swept blue hair and a fencing estoc in hand. Then—almost shortly after that, a man, striding through the door covered in glory.
It fell away from Lord Xitegen in this place as he asked Liska to change the door to Riverfarm as well. In fact, a number of nobles followed after, and Liska’s tired mind began to wonder why so many people wanted to go there.
Probably for the [Emperor]. Ylawes Byres didn’t notice. He was walking up the stairs to where he could hear voices coming from Normen’s room. Alcaz, Nanette, speaking for her and Mrsha, Numbtongue…he paused there, saw the gifts lined up, and wondered if he should have brought something.
When the cry came, when it rang out and came from the open door to Riverfarm and [Message] spells and Durene whirled in the inn and shouted—it felt like the smoke was still rising from Normen’s armor.
“Laken?”
They had all seen it all. And somehow—today, the morning after—even Lord Xitegen didn’t see how familiar it all looked. To them, it probably looked like the right thing to do.
—But when Normen’s empty eye socket opened and his good eye stared up, he saw it. Always, and always.
Elia Arcsinger drew her bow, and a line of adventurers walked towards the Goblinlands.
 
——
 
They’d been noticed within eleven minutes of entering Riverfarm. Elia had kept a hood over her ears. Her daughter was less circumspect.
But any adventurers that weren’t Griffon Hunt stood out.
[Witches] looked for such things. It only took one apprentice noticing too many half-Elves, recognizing a Named-rank adventurer…and then peering at Elia.
Then she ran for the closest [Witch] she could find. That turned out to be Witch Agratha. When the [Teacher] heard who was apparently walking through Riverfarm, she came to a common-sense deduction. She dropped her chalk, hiked up her skirts, and sprinted, shouting for anyone in earshot.
Emperor Laken had felt something as well. He was in his throne-room, talking about what to do if the Raiders hit Riverfarm with Rie and Prost when he held up a hand.
“…Someone powerful just came through the door. No. Wait. Two…plus nobility. I think we have guests.”
The shouting reached him three minutes later. Then Laken turned.
“What was that?”
“Arcsinger! Elia Arcsinger is here!”
Gamel started. Rie cursed—and Laken’s heart began to pound. He turned.
“Sound the—get Wiskeria. Sound the alarm! Now! Get Durene! Get to the—”
The adventurers began running the moment someone blew a horn. They looked over their shoulders, saw a bunch of [Witches] pointing at them, Riverfarm’s folk turning—and Elia shouted.
“Run! Don’t fight!”
“Some of them have bows, Mother!”
Capoinelia had her bow in hand, but Cosmenaut shouted excitedly, slashing with his already-drawn estoc.
“No blood! No deaths! I will not allow it! No folk of Izril, only monsters die! Once the job is done, we’ll surrender if need be! Run!”
And he set the pace. The adventurers behind him said nothing—he had not heard of yesterday. They sprinted over the bridge and towards the forest. [Farmers] tilling the fields looked over, and a few started towards the adventurers—but the Gold-rankers were far faster. And armed.
The Goblinlands heard the distant horn call, and the feeling of vague dread, the [Dangersense] that had gone off in many of their inhabitants turned into a kind of certainty.
“Is it today?”
Raidpear wondered. He was glad that Rasktooth and the funny Infinitypear weren’t here, then. Or maybe not. He grabbed a spear, and Leafarmor was calling every Goblin to the walls.
The folk of Riverfarm had gotten bored, and only children and a few watchers would pace along the double-walls or come to trade with the Goblins or just—talk or watch. But the Goblins had never given up their watch.
They had been waiting for this. Small Goblins could still hold a bow and hide behind cover. But as Raidpear ran with every Goblin warrior, he didn’t see the regular rotation of Goblins on the walls. Instead…he saw them fleeing towards him, some having dropped their weapons.
“Idiots!”
He grabbed at one and kicked another. Even if it was an army, giving up the walls was idiotic! They could hold off—
It was only when he saw the wild gaze on one of the Goblin’s faces and the tears running from Holdnose’s eyes that Raidpear placed a name to the feeling in his stomach.
Dread. Not just fear. Not just terror.
It felt like death itself was coming for him. He would have fought a Gargoyle bare-handed. But he wanted to run. When he got to the battlements—Raidpear saw what had caused the Goblins to flee.
A woman was marching on the walls. And he knew her. He saw his death—she raised a bow over her head, and the Goblins wailed. They screamed—and fled, dropping their weapons, unable to face her.
Arcsinger.
A little Goblin in the camps raised her head as she tried to make breakfast. Her silly, poofy hat fell off her head, and she heard that word and knew it was time.
The one who had been harbinger for the Goblin Lord’s death, for Tremborag, for so many had come for them at last. All Pebblesnatch thought was…
“Oh. It’s time.”
 
——
 
When Erin Solstice awoke and heard what was going on, she demanded to be pushed to Riverfarm. Now.
Tessa did just that, and Erin was one of the last to go through the door as a terrified Liska shouted about the adventurers and she hadn’t known and Halrac…
Too late.
She was not too late in getting there. The adventurers had not had that much of a lead, walking through the village and getting oriented before all hell broke loose. They’d run for the Goblinlands, but slowed when an entire army of the [Emperor]’s citizens, himself, the Darksky Riders, his soldiers, and [Witches] pursued.
Let alone the inn’s guests. In fact, word had spread so fast that Goblinhome was in alarm, sending Wyverns first towards Riverfarm—then as they realized how far it was, towards Erin’s inn.
Numbtongue was running across the grass with Klbkch, Calescent, Peggy, Relc—it did not matter.
For as Elia Arcsinger’s team hesitated and Laken Godart told them to stop, stop or be attacked, a man spoke. Even though he was on the [Emperor]’s lands—
Lord Xitegen spoke two words:
“[Covering Fire].”
A rain of arrows came from the sky, and Riverfarm’s citizens cried out. A [Knight] shielded Laken—and everyone had to halt. Erin Solstice skidded to a stop—and there he was.
The [Lord] of House Terland, standing between Elia Arcsinger and her adventurers and everyone else. He pointed at them as his enchanted bracer glowed, and his eyes were set. As confident what he was doing was right as he had been yesterday.
She almost admired him for that. For doing what he thought was right. Then she swore she would kill him if his plans came to pass.
“Ah, Erin Solstice and the famous [Emperor] laying claim to our lands. Halt. I am Lord Xitegen, and by House Terland and the flowers of Izril, I have promised Elia Arcsinger no forces will assail her. Cross this line and it will be war.”
A pair of Golem servants bowed behind him, and a line of [Lords] and [Ladies] stood behind him. Allies willing to stand up and be counted. Erin Solstice didn’t recognize many of them—they stood with Xitegen, unlike Alman Sanito and Lady Edere, in the crowd of observers.
That mattered. Not standing with the [Lord] of House Terland was a statement in itself. As for the [Lord] defying an [Emperor] on his own lands? Xitegen glanced over his shoulder and grimaced.
He had hoped Elia would be more—tactical. But it was clear she thought this was most expedient. And he had been resolved to stand here if need be. After all.
That was why he’d brought the Golems in the first place.
Erin Solstice looked at Lord Xitegen, and her voice rasped.
“If she kills those Goblins—I will send Shriekblade after you and Elia, Lord Xitegen.”
He turned to face her as voices gasped. Laken Godart strode forwards to join Erin.
“This is my land. Pull your adventurers off it or you will plunge Izril into strife, Xitegen. An [Emperor] and [Witch]’s word on it.”
He looked at them, exasperated, and the [Lord] refused to budge.
“No. And if it costs us war—so be it. House Terland will move for its son, no matter who. We are at an impasse. Any adventurer who intervenes, I will mark forever. The eyes of Izril watch you! Tread carefully, guests of The Wandering Inn. The Haven has bullied and persuaded and stood against the nobles of Izril. And well and good Innkeeper Larracel is. But even she listens when I tell you I stand here for war and nothing less.”
Erin saw Klbkch hesitate as Xitegen swung his finger to him.
“You too, Slayer. You Antinium keep asking when it will be war. It will be war if you draw your swords.”
“It’s just a handful of Goblins, Xitegen. Leave off! Is this worth this—this madness?”
Lady Bethal screamed at him. But Lord Xitegen retorted calmly.
“A handful of Goblins, Bethal? You, of all women? No. I will not besmirch your name like other cowards. Your choice is your own. This is mine. It stops here. Hold your people back, Erin Solstice. I will not have you nor that Goblin army hiding in the High Passes interfere. If they fly their Wyverns overhead, I will shoot them down. This is how we fight, we nobles of Izril. Either prepare to grind every Golem into dust from here to First Landing—or hold to.”
He was willing to die for it. Erin felt Laken’s aura like a great hammer pressing down and the wrath of [Witches]. Her own aura…yet that man stood there, and if he was not resolved to die, the sight of Shriekblade taking aim with one of her daggers would have made anyone hesitate.
But Xitegen did not waver. He just looked over his shoulder to where Elia’s team was approaching the barricades. He shielded his gaze as a bright red light glared at him.
“What is that obnoxious thing?”
The [Witch of Law] strode towards him and halted. Wiskeria, General, [Witch], daughter of Belavierr, had a sword in hand.
“If you kill those Goblins, you will violate the laws of this land, Lord Xitegen. And that will be just as deadly as if we attack you here. Are you prepared for it?”
Wiskeria was the calmest voice here. She just sounded…curious. Like someone watching a tidal wave oncoming or armageddon beginning and remaining unmoved. Xitegen looked at her and the moving traffic light. He hesitated, shielded his eyes, then retorted slowly, as if he were suddenly dancing to an unfamiliar tune.
But he was a surprisingly good dancer.
“…I…the laws of this land? I am of this land. I am of House Terland, and this is how it is done, [Witch]. Whatever you are trying to throw at me—it will not work.”
Wiskeria nodded slowly and almost respectfully. She lowered the sword and shrugged at Laken.
“He’s right. He had some cause. Sorry.”
Laken shook his head. Erin was whispering to Tessa. He grabbed her arm.
“Not yet.”
“Are you…?”
“Wait.”
The blind man opened his eyes once, and Erin Solstice held up a hand.
“Hold, Tessa.”
The Named-rank paused, and Xitegen, who had been watching her and Erin, frowned. He glanced up—and a voice called out nervously.
“I—I’m an adjudicating force, you know. I technically have a lot of power, and I’m also one of the nobility.”
Valeterisa said that behind a dozen magical shields. Xitegen spoke very politely up to her.
“Archmage Valeterisa. With the utmost respect for House Imarris and your own position in Wistram—if you intervene, I will have you shot with arrows. The same applies to damned Wistram and their spying orbs!”
“You do that, buddy, and I’ll stab you.”
Relc shouted. Xitegen turned and spread his arms wide.
