An [Emperor] coughed. Smoke was drifting from the burned Goblinlands, despite the water being called down to quell the blaze. It was turning to snow, which made extinguishing the fire harder, but they wouldn’t let it turn into a full forest fire, especially with all the snow. He’d seen several Winter Sprites debating whether they should protect ‘their’ kingdom so they kept their titles.
“Erin. Several members of your new Order…are [Knights] sworn to someone else.”
“Ylawes isn’t. He’s always been a [Knight] alone. He was always a [Knight]—but he can be part of my Order if he wants. That just means he gets backup. He can still be an adventurer. I like that. People can have lives, but they’ll be a Knight of Solstice as well.”
Erin smiled. Laken raised his brows.
“What about Ser Dalimont? And Durene?”
“Can’t a [Knight] be a member of two Orders?”
Laken hesitated.
“I feel like that’s illegal. And Durene is my [Paladin].”
Erin sighed and leaned over the chair. She spoke challengingly.
“Show me where it’s written down. Dalimont can be an honorary member so long as no one objects. A representative of the Thronebearers. As for Durene—she’s super-interested in joining. You said she wants a purpose.”
“Yes, but she’s my [Paladin].”
“Well, I’m stealing her. I’m giving you a mean smirk, by the way. She can be your [Paladin] and one of my Knights of Solstice. Or can’t you share?”
Erin gave Laken a sunshine smile. She left the [Emperor] temporarily without words. She looked around.
“If Lehra wants to be one as well—I won’t turn her down. All you have to do is—go to each other’s defense if you’re in the area. Just like you said, Normen.”
He looked up at her, and then he did smile as he recalled.
“When one of us calls—we come running. That sounds rather like the Brothers, Miss Solstice.”
“Well…maybe they do things right. You’ll be the first. Vess. Zanze. We’ll put his name down there. Ama—”
“A [Necromancer]?”
“Laken, I’ll kick you.”
The [Emperor] stepped smartly out of the way and turned to face Erin.
“I am just making the observation. You’ve made a stand today. How far do you want to push the bar? Antinium, a [Necromancer]—you’ve pushed the bar all the way to the edge. Gnolls, Humans, and a Drake. The only thing you could do that’s more outrageous would be to add a Goblin. But even you aren’t that crazy.”
Erin didn’t say a word. She just smiled as Normen tried not to make a sound. Laken, still blind, swung his head between the two. His voice grew incredibly suspicious.
“You haven’t inducted a Goblin. Or they would have shown up. But I will bet every gold coin in my treasury I’m being smirked at again. You—wait a—Ser Solstice—”
He made a strangled sound as he put it together. Erin shouted at him as he had to step back, clutching at his hair.
“That’s a secret! Remember, Durene’s in the Order now! You’d better be nice to them! Speaking of which, we need headquarters, Normen. Not Liscor.”
“Not Liscor?”
“Nah. Somewhere else. Maybe here? Or maybe multiple ones. I think you guys need a proper fortress, or at least, a place to sleep and put your things. It’s not my personal Order. That would make you more like hired mercenaries. Or thugs. When you go places, I want people to know you’re representing just you.”
“And what about your name on the Order?”
Erin shrugged.
“Inspiration? Once you all do something I don’t like, I think it’ll prove that you guys aren’t mine. I’d make you never get hurt. Ever.”
She looked sad about that and squeezed his shoulders gently.
“—But you’re too brave for that. So there. My valiant and honorable [Knight]. What do you think?”
Normen looked at her and then around at the devastation. He thought of Zanze. Normen felt every part of his body screaming in pain, and half of the light of the world was gone from his eyes. And still…
The man closed his eye and thought for a long second. Then he spoke.
“I believe before I go, I should speak to those Goblins, Miss Solstice. And apologize and talk to all who are here. Or perhaps after a rest.”
“We’ve got time. Yeah. How do you feel?”
Normen put his head back a moment, and he replied honestly.
“To tell you the truth, Erin? I’m in great pain. My heart hurts for Zanze. I feel as though I failed those villagers and the Goblins. I wish those three adventurers didn’t die. I fear for whatever side Lord Xitegen’s made and worry we’ve made enemies or we’ll let the brave people down, the new [Knights].”
Erin said nothing. She just listened as Normen poured out everything, honest as green flame. Then Normen opened his eye and stared up at her.
“—And one more thing. Truthfully, though I don’t know if I deserve it—I think that I’ll sleep well for the first time since I was a boy tonight.”
“The sleep of an honest man? A good man?”
She teased him lightly. Normen shook his head seriously.
“Of course not, Miss Erin. But the sleep of a fellow who’s trying decently hard.”
Oh, then, how she laughed at him. She put the gentlest kiss on his brow, and the [Knight] sighed in relief.
 
——
 
One more thing.
A [Knight] was walking in deep contemplation around Riverfarm after it was done. His armor was battered, but not scorched.
Ser Solton felt as if he had missed the opportunity of a lifetime. He had the feeling many had—that he could have been there.
Oh, he had not, and he accepted that the moment had passed. In truth…he felt like the Order of Solstice was for a next generation, but he pledged to at least ask Grandmaster Normen if the Order of Haegris and the Order of Solstice might consider a friendship.
It might be scandalous with their Antinium and their odd stances—but he thought many of his Order would agree it was worth it despite any reservations they had.
He had none. And he had heard Erin Solstice openly talking about having ‘trainees’, recruits and other people not ready to be full [Knights]. [Squires] and [Pages], in short. The men and women who had fought against Gold-rank Adventurers?
They were already full members.
Solton had only a few questions left. Such as—what this meant for Izril’s politics. Lord Xitegen had left, as his gambit had failed, but this would not end with one attempt, and he had essentially set himself out as another leader for nobles. What would happen?
Also—what had Halrac Everam done to Elia Arcsinger? Solton had good eyes. He had seen Elia use her Skill; the scrying orbs hadn’t the best view from overhead. But Solton swore that despite not seeing it on the footage—
The arrow had struck Elia Arcsinger. Then she’d erupted into flames. But if he wasn’t mistaken—she’d fired her arrow. Yet her [Line-Ender Shot] hadn’t activated. And the arrow that had struck her had already fallen to the ground in that split second. Maybe it was a delayed effect…but why had the flames come down thereafter like that? If he was a judge of things, and he was—
It almost felt like she’d used a Skill on herself that had backfired so spectacularly. But what kind of a stupid Skill called down fire on you?
It had to be his imagination. Ser Solton only stopped when he realized someone was walking next to him in the snow.
“Oh. Excuse me. Am I intruding on anyone’s lands, perhaps?”
Conscious he was in this new [Emperor]’s domain, Solton bowed slightly. But the slightly pot-bellied man just waved a cheerful hand.
“Not at all, young man. Apologies—Ser Knight. This is not my land at the moment. Someone else has claimed it for now, with that brash arrogance and thoughtfulness for others. But then—land lies fallow when untended. Perhaps he is asserting his control over the people here, but they seem glad of it for now. May it long continue.”
—That didn’t sound like a local. The man looked…familiar to Ser Solton.
“Are you perchance a guest of The Wandering Inn?”
The man replied with a slight, knowing smile. He had mismatched eyes.
“From time to time. You may call me…Teriarch. Though I go by many names. Some call me Demsleth. Others, Dragonlord of Flame. I too have been called ruler, though I was never truly a knight in spirit. Only honorary.”
Ser Solton gave him an affable nod—which turned into a confused look as the man walked beside him in the snow. No one was around, but as Solton turned and felt at his ear with a cold glove…
“Excuse me, sir. I must have misheard. Did you say…Dragonlord?”
He turned back—and a Brass Dragon, scales running like a molten river, was walking next to him. He was smaller than some stories said—but his scales shone like mirrors, and steam rose from his mouth every time he opened it.
The [Knight] nearly fell on his face in the snow. Teriarch exhaled.
“Hrm. That’s a most gratifying expression, Ser Solton of Haegris. I rather miss the effect.”
“You—you’re the Dragon who appeared in Calanfer!”
Solton knew who he was in an instant. Teriarch exhaled slowly.
“My, word spreads. How did the Order of Haegris hear about that? None of their members were at the banquet.”
His mind was racing, but Ser Solton tried to tell if this was an illusion or trick or…if it was real, what did it mean? He replied honestly as his head spun.
“We—heard it from one of the dignitaries. A member of Golaen conferred it to our Grandmaster—”
“Those talkative half-Giants. Mouths as big as…well. I suppose they never learned how to properly whisper. At least it saves us the introductions.”
Teriarch’s tail waved in the snow idly. Ser Solton gulped.
“Are you—may I ask why you’ve approached me, Great Dragon?”
“Oho. Someone knows the most basic of titles. Ser Solton—you are, of all men, in this moment, the mortal I most wish to confer with. I have been watching and thinking carefully, and it occurs to me that you and I might help each other.”
“Me?”
If this was flattery—Ser Solton was too shocked for it to work. Teriarch dipped his head.
“I have a great task before me, Ser Solton. One which I may share the broad details of—but it is to arm and prepare Izril, nay, much of the world for great strife. To help uplift and to guide, but not to carry. I must say, I am out of touch. I am…well, out of shape in more ways than one.”
He gave an embarrassed chuckle, and Ser Solton wondered if the Dragon thought he was fat. The scariest [Knights] Ser Solton had ever dueled had huge bellies—and enough muscle and fat to take a blow before laying you in the ground.
“I have heard of your stories, Lord Teriarch. There was speculation of which Dragon you might be—and I know you.”
The Dragon waved a wing, embarrassed.
“Forget all of it. Ser Solton, we will have more time to chat. But in brief—I approach you, Knight of Haegris, and I ask you whether your Order is one of good and noble intent.”
Ser Solton inhaled. It was a shocking question—but from this person? He answered slowly.
“Not all our members are as good and true as we could be. But I believe we try. I compare us to no other Orders. I admit our faults. But I believe…I must believe…that the Order of Haegris does what it must.”
Two mismatched eyes found him. Heliotrope and cerulean, ancient as days. That voice rumbled deep in Solton’s bones.
“Ah. Good. Then is your Order an intelligent one? Are they [Knights], or also men and women of reason, who understand when to use a sword and when to use a soft voice?”
Solton blinked. This time, he answered slower still.
“I…cannot claim that either in good conscience, Great Teriarch. But I would like to think we try.”
The Dragon nodded.
“That is what I believe and observe. And what I hope. You see, Ser Solton. It occurs to me I have been a fool. Imagine I were someone trying to start a fire—an apt metaphor, today. Yet instead of a great blaze, I have a thousand small ones. I have been flapping around, trying to nurture them myself. Deal with dangers. But I am old and out of practice—and I do not have the time. But you…I saw you at the marketplace. I heard of you doing deliveries of goods, and it occurred to me a [Knight] like that must know the hearts of people. It occurs to me you would be able to adapt. Tell me, have you ever taught a young man how to fight to defend himself?”
Ser Solton blinked.
“Teach a lad how to fight? Not often with a sword, but I’ve shown many a village how to hold spears or build a palisade.”
“And you understand logistics. You must be diplomatic. And your Order is large enough. Ser Solton. I have a proposal for you. I have locations of people who must be armed and made ready. A [Mercenary] boy who has sworn to start a great company. A fool of a slime breeder who needs someone to take him back from madness. Artifacts dug up that need to go to the right place. I need a man, I need an organization capable of helping me. Across all the continents. If I supply locations—your people would need to ride from place to place and do what must be done.”
The idea was astounding—and terrifying at once. Ser Solton’s stomach twisted.
“The Order of Haegris is large, Great Teriarch, but we are not the largest Order by any means! And—do you mean those visited by ghosts?”
“Yes.”
The [Knight] spread his hands.
“—If there are a thousand across the world, we would struggle to reach a quarter! Even with our means, we are, as you say, mortals.”
Teriarch nodded gravely.
“My thoughts exactly. Yet you are a thousand mortals, and I am one Dragon. The Order of Haegris must always want for gold and transport and quality goods for those they help, yes?”
Ser Solton’s hair was rising, and he had a sudden suspicion. He nodded.
“Yes…”
“Well, I possess a treasury and the means to send people at great speed anywhere they are needed. What say you, Ser Solton?”
The Dragon then smiled, and his teeth gleamed in the winter.
“—Have you ever heard of a [Knight] and Dragon joining forces to vanquish great evil? Let us talk. And if we come to a conclusion, we can present ourselves before your Order and let them decide. I can teleport us to Terandria if our negotiations and planning goes well.”
Ser Solton exhaled as the ball dropped. And thence…he decided the Order of Solstice was not the only Order that would change suddenly.
How the world moved and moved. The Dragon winked as Ser Solton tried to keep the smile from his face, both surprised, wondering, and delighted at what might be. And that was, of course, just how you were supposed to smile at a Dragon.
 
——
 
One last thing, then.
As the Dragon spoke to the [Knight], Lord Tyrion Veltras was walking towards Erin Solstice as she spoke to Normen and Laken Godart.
He was aware that this was not a good moment. But he never found a good moment. He never knew when to strike outside of battle.
