But there would always be men like Korizan Reeles. There would always be shadows under the brightest sun. Someday, there would be another Goblin King. Another great Creler War. Another period of darkness and another rise.
The trick was not to ‘enjoy the moment’. The [Bandit Lord] of northern Izril was a pragmatic man in his own estimation. He cared nothing for short-lived glory or the notion that goodness was its own reward.
He just wanted to be on the side that always won, even in times of calamity. Even if everyone lost, they took less of the loss, got to divide it up, pass it off. And when it came time for the pot—they took the lion’s share.
That was, of course, the nobility, the monarchy, the well-connected, or just the well-to-do. Sometimes it was the magic-users or a specific species, but it was almost always about money and influence in the right place.
If a [Bandit King] emerged, they’d need vassals, and the existence of a king implied a kingdom of riches. Korizan wanted a share, and if the seat looked nice enough, he’d take it too, if he could.
—But he just wanted to live comfortably. To reach out and drink anything he thirsted for. To buy anything and anyone. Power was, after all, freedom from consequences. He wanted to walk under the eyes of the law and have them conveniently go blind.
That was how he’d come up with the Bloodfeast Raiders. Because they got it, they truly did, those worthless sons and daughters he took in like a third parent, their real father, and turned into killers.
They got that rules were a convenient illusion that held things together—but which you could break.
They got that they could do anything, and doing anything was so fun—but being caught would mean the end of it all for them.
Most importantly—they got how worthless they were without him. Because they had artifacts and levels, but he had style, organization, planning, and imagination. Qualities they lacked, and he made them better and let them level, truly level, and discover their talent for death.
And just in case they thought they could go it alone…
Once you were in the Raiders, you were in for life. All these things meant that Korizan was ready for this turning of the age, this new-and-not-new moment in the world’s destiny. If he’d had twenty years, well, he might be too old, but he would have had two generations of Izril’s nobles in his debt.
This one would do. He put on a fur-lined hood and felt the cold of the morning in his bones as they left the hidden cabin. Flame spells were melting the ice, and half were already ranging ahead.
No one was allowed to get within twenty miles of the village before he moved. They waited, impatiently jostling, flirting, boasting, and trading threats and loud laughs. But they moved around him.
That—was how it always would be, Korizan knew. A strong man leading. Followers behind. He exhaled into the sky and wondered if they had anything good to drink. Then he steeled his impartial face into the hint of a smile.
“Ready for the feast, children?”
They cheered with all the enthusiasm he lacked. Korizan watched a Drake punch a fist into the air and thought Salkis looked less enthused than normal. He watched her carefully without letting her know, but he put on a show.
It was, after all, all for them.
 
——
 
You had to make the [Lords] and [Ladies] of both north and south Izril feel like they mattered. It didn’t matter if they were a Drake from one of the Walled Families or a son of a noble Human house.
They were alike. They stood in the shadows of their parents, often low-levelled, and the ones who found him wanted to do things they were not allowed to anymore. Even a generation ago, the rules had been different.
You had—liberties. Things you could do in private that the Watch knew better than to investigate. It was harder for Drakes, but a real switch had come, oh, with the passing of the torch.
Magnolia Reinhart, the Deadly Flower, had made life harder for the nobility. She had—rules. Break the rules and she couldn’t kill you—at least, not for a minor infraction. She was just one woman, even if she ruled House Reinhart. But she could pay you back.
Break the rules and she broke your fingers. Go against her? Well, they’d tried that, and she’d shown the flowers of Izril she could prune them wholesale. She was nicer now, and there were less of them after the Goblin King.
Yet all this meant that it was hard to indulge. Of course, all but the most insane just wanted to know what power felt like. It was Korizan’s job to make sure that as they indulged in dark delights, they not only slipped, but were pushed so far down they’d never emerge clean again.
—Which was why you worked with Roshal, obviously. No one but they knew the job well enough. And Korizan’s gang, his real gang, not the young Bloodfeast Raiders, were experts too.
“Vendyne. Where’s Lord Veltras at?”
A man turned with a long, purplish shortsword in his grip. It was wickedly edged in an artistic design reminiscent of an insect’s fang, and some might have taken it for a showpiece, not one worth using. But those idiots had never seen something made of Orichalcum before.
He was a [Masterwork Sellsword of Corruption]. Level 42. Not the best class—but good enough. He was one of the first and practically a ruler in his own right. That was what loyalty got you, and Korizan made sure everyone knew why Vendyne had his position.
What you could see of the man’s face behind the mask he wore was a lot of scars on his forehead, raised flesh between his messy black hair. Straight, vertical lines—scars from him drawing his own blood with a little razor blade before a fight.
A mask of blood made most warriors hesitate. Of course, it was from their days at sea. The Bloodtear Pirates had long since disavowed both men, and if Korizan ever went back to sea, he was fairly certain they’d try their best to hunt him down.
They had ‘rules’, however few. He did not, and he’d objected to the stupid rules they had. Mercy for prisoners they liked? Don’t slaughter innocents?
No one was innocent long.
“Veltras is doing those deliveries. Hat and all. He’s got to be at least eighty miles from Invrisil even riding around.”
Korizan grunted.
“Good enough.”
“Want to know where the Wind Runner is? Named-ranks? Ruinstrider’s at the Haven, and Arcsinger is apparently putting together a team. They could make it. Maybe. There’s also Shriekblade…”
“Forget about them. Arcsinger only hunts Goblins. Ruinstrider? If that’s all, we’ll be fine. Shriekblade is either suicidal or she knows it’s suicide. We have an arrow ready for any of them if they’re fools. Alright, start passing around the Selrite and get the spells going.”
This was a more dangerous raid. But he only really worried about the man who could bring an army at him. A single, untested Named-rank? Maybe that was a threat for someone else—
But not the fourteen men and women of various species that surrounded Korizan, let alone the forty-some others practically jumping to clear the ridge. Some were taking packets of bright red dust out and sniffing at them or drinking tonics or just battle potions.
Korizan’s inner circle ignored the merrymaking save to make sure none of the others would start attacking their side. They looked almost as bored as Korizan felt.
This was actually the most tedious part of the job. The part the Raiders loved, their leader didn’t care about. They were just going to erase a village.
If it was even close to a fair fight—he wouldn’t have been here.
Winds began to rise on the clear day, and Korizan glanced up at the skies. It had been blizzards for two days straight, and he’d cursed the idiots combining weather spells. Sitting in that cabin with them getting antsier and antsier was not entertaining. The weather was calm, and bright sunlight was glaring off the thick snow—even the roads were covered.
Hard for anyone to get around. Except us. Now, a wind was picking up again; it was no gust, but a thunderous gale. And where the skies had been bright blue…a dark shadow crept through the air like a spreading stain.
The strangest cloud in the world. The Raiders looked up eagerly and began laughing. Below—that village of a few hundred souls might look up and wonder if it was a spell or, perhaps, feel a prickle of true terror as they sensed what was going on. Maybe someone would, on a hunch, go for a hidden sword or pack up a few valuables. But it was too late.
“Children. When we clear this ridge, you’re going to stand there for ten minutes.”
“Ten fucking minutes? Boss—”
Someone—Gilam—began to protest, and Vendyne struck his arm. Hard. The young [Lord] nearly drew his sword, but simmered down. Korizan continued as if he hadn’t heard.
“Today’s a special day for all of you. Because you finally get your wish. You’re going to stand there and pose for the scrying spell. Check your masks. If any of you have a signature way of speaking or an artifact you haven’t told us about, you’d better hide it. Because if you’re found out, you’ll be dead before anyone asks questions.”
There was a moment of silence—then someone gasped, and there was a flurry as they felt at their masks. A Drake unsheathed his sword, and their resident [Spearmaster] lifted his spear with a whoop.
“Wait—we’re getting on the news? This is live?”
“From start to finish. Vendyne. Slip Sir Relz a tip…now. Enjoy the moment, children. And remember—your fellow Raiders are going to be watching. So put on a show. And don’t act stupid. Remember how we’re playing this one.”
Now they really began whooping—then lowered their voices. They spread out over the ridgeline, and Korizan yawned as he stared at the sky.
[Nightclouds]. They were roiling over the village. Another part of the ‘raid’.
He always gave them rules to follow. This one was fanciful, stupid, even. But it was dramatic, and they loved it because it was a show. Anyone could slaughter, but this was the kind of thing that provoked the mind.
Everything below those clouds was falling into darkness. A deep, unsettling darkness with virtually no light. Now they were passing over this little village, a hamlet in the center of the plains. What it grew, he had no idea. It probably raised herds. He did know it had two people over Level 30. They were marked. Maybe they’d put up a good fight, but…
There were sixty figures now spread out across the ridge in dark clothing. Not always black; Salkis was wearing a red mask and clothing as crimson as blood, only one dagger in her claw, and not her custom-made ones. She must have been trying to hide her identity. The idiot had fought with the Titan?
Just as well that he was gone. Besides, they were all able to avoid detection and identification no matter what spells came down on them. That was Korizan’s doing.
He was, after all, a [Bandit Lord]. And one of his great Skills was [Never Known, Never Remembered: A Crew of Masks].
He was a Level 52 [Bandit Lord of Scarlet Nobility]. Sometimes he felt like he was truer to the heritage of Izril than anyone else. Korizan stared up as shadows fell over the village, and he heard a warning horn, possibly from the [Shepherds], being blown.
Too late, too late. He raised his gloved hand, and figures leapt over the top of the ridgeline as he sensed a [Scrying] spell activate. But they’d need time to put this on television and work out what was going on.
He stared down at a village in the snow, roofs crusted with powder and people running, pointing up at the sky—then at his group as herds of sheep ran towards a barn. The streets were emptying, and he saw men and women and children briefly—but his eyes flicked over their thick woolen clothing, ignoring the screaming.
He finally found his targets: a woman stringing a bow as she urged a group of people towards the barn and a man shouting, waving his hands and pointing at them.
[Master Shepherd]. Level 33. And…a [Village Mayor], Level 36. Interesting.
No wonder this hamlet was bigger than most and everyone was fleeing so fast. There was even a militia gathering with commendable speed.
“Mark the [Shepherd]. No one kills her. No limbs, either.”
Vendyne glanced over.
“Not the [Mayor]?”
“Roshal likes artisans. Mayors aren’t that useful.”
That militia was armed with bows, spears, the kind of thing they’d use to keep wolves or monsters at bay. They even had a few low-power wands, and the [Shepherd] was making Korizan’s nerves tingle. She probably had a bow or Skills that could reach the Raiders from there.
In fact, she fired a single arrow, and it arced towards the silent figures. Someone laughed. Korizan saw it was heading for Salkis. She actually let it come within a foot of her before she leaned at incredible speed and slashed it apart.
The second arrow struck its target as they stood there. But it just shattered on the chainmail armor of one of the other Raiders. The young man with a spear waved down at the [Shepherd], and she lowered her bow.
Now, the nightclouds were overhead. And the militia, preparing for the attack, looked up as the darkness engulfed their hamlet.
What was its name…? Korizan picked at something in his teeth as darkness fell. He glanced behind him and nodded.
“Someone do the timing. Let’s call it—every five minutes, a minute off.”
“Five minutes between waits?”
“Good point. Make it a minute of darkness, two minutes of light. Children, the most kills gets their pick of pastimes back home. Kill the [Shepherd] and you’ll be exiled to the main room for two months!”
More laughter. Now it was a game. Some of them were waving up at the sky or producing scrying orbs.
“Boss, we’re on air! Look at Sir Relz! He’s practically choking on his monocle.”
One of them excitedly showed Korizan the image, and his first genuine smile appeared. This did make it more fun. But his sense of wariness also increased.
Now let’s see what happens. This village—Salefenwool, that was it. East of Celum, just below the High Passes. The damn storm had delayed everything—but then Korizan lifted his gloved hand, and the screaming began before he swung it down.
“Let the feast begin.”
 
——
 
The Bloodfeast Raiders were a nasty group, even objectively. They were Izril’s little plague and not nearly as bad as the Antinium, Goblin Lords, or most of the major threats to the continent.
Purely based on numbers, they didn’t kill that many. They probably did as much damage as a small Drake war per year, famous for surrenders and their code of battle.
What set them apart was how they did it. They found easy targets and wiped them out. They killed, tortured, took slaves…the fear of them was far worse than mere numbers indicated.
