His eyes were focused on Normen’s burned face, and if the [Lord] of House Veltras had respect for anyone…he was willing to speak.
Whether the [Innkeeper] would turn that tremulous smile into wrath or not—Tyrion Veltras marched forwards like the will of the land, steadfast tradition about to collide with the changing of days.
He only stopped when he realized someone was pacing alongside him and trying to shove him off-course with an elbow. It didn’t work, but Magnolia Reinhart got his attention.
“Magnolia. I am trying to be diplomatic.”
“And I am trying to get your attention, Cousin. Do I have it? Leave poor Erin alone for at least a day and step with me, now, please. I need your help.”
“Magnolia, I said I am trying to—my help?”
He was distracted by that. The [Lady] looked tired. But he had seldom seen her more determined. Lord Tyrion wavered, and he turned, against his will.
A [Deft Hand] as heavy as the rudder of a ship swung him slightly left, and Ressa tripped Jericha as the woman tried to stride forwards. Magnolia Reinhart knew that Tyrion could have literally shoved her to the side, but he was listening.
The two old rivals gazed at each other, and Magnolia spoke quietly.
“I need your help, Tyrion. I have a plan to combat the Bloodfeast Raiders. A subtle scheme. I would have you hear me out—and then I need you to throw your will behind mine. Whatever else we are, we are the stewards of Izril. It is time to prove it.”
He hesitated. Tyrion Veltras turned his gaze back to Erin Solstice, and the younger man—felt the calling in his bones. It was easy to want to ride into the dawn.
But a [Lord] listened. So he turned and slowly changed course. He bent his head and nodded.
“I can at least agree to listen.”
Magnolia gave him a look that was almost surprised. But then she was nodding.
“Do not repeat any of this. Give me five minutes for the privacy wards to go up. Nor is this going to be a simple checklist of funds and one-time actions, Tyrion. This will require subtlety.”
“I can do that.”
“—Good. Now…”
They walked off, one talking and the other listening. Both watching the other, mystified, wondering when they had changed so much.
 
——
 
Oh, and one last thing after the last thing. That evening, between all the levelling up, the consternation, the planning and chaos that engulfed the world—
A young woman was sitting in her rooms, exhaling before she went out to see the world. She was worried. Everyone knew Lyonette du Marquin was now at The Wandering Inn.
Or they greatly suspected if they couldn’t prove it.
What would that mean for her from now on? She didn’t know, but she’d done her duty well, and the [Body Double] of Lyonette just worried this would mean an end to the luxurious lifestyle she’d had.
Ah, well. She’d seen a bit behind the scenes, and being a [Princess] seemed—tough. Queen Ielane was endlessly polite to her, though.
Someone came into her rooms, and ‘Lyonette’ stirred.
“Oh, Dame Vensha? I am ready to make a public appearance. Do I have a script?”
One of the most senior Thronebearers in the Order, always attached to the Queen or King themselves, stepped into the room. Dame Vensha went to the curtains and opened them; ‘Lyonette’ kept them closed because everyone was looking for her at this moment. She peered out the window and turned to a second Thronebearer in the doorway.
“Not yet, Your Highness. Would you stand just there? Behind the bed, please.”
Puzzled, the young woman did. She stood behind the bed, facing the window, and frowned. She thought she saw a bird or something black in the distance.
“Dame Vensha, what is—”
The Thronebearer raised her shield as the third fragment of the Deathslayer Arrow blasted through the window. She heard the [Body Double] scream and cower as the window blew in, but Dame Vensha barely grunted as she lowered the enchanted shield she’d taken from the armory.
Practically spent of magic, especially in three pieces. She checked on the fake Lyonette, then rang a bell.
“Cleanup. Dispose of the arrow—carefully, and tell me we got that on the scrying orb.”
She walked out of the room, sighing, as the terrified young woman peered over the bed. Dame Vensha decided Ser Lormel had done a rarely decent job. At least there was one capable man among those idiots. Ushar had let her down, and Dalimont…well.
[Knights] would be [Knights].
 
——
 
When they gathered for the final time that day, it was not in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. They stood around the man who had fallen.
Zanze Envergall. No one but Normen had even known his last name. He was still lying there, and someone had placed three blades next to him.
Three other bodies had been taken away and covered in shrouds. There was no glory or honor or even a good meaning in how they’d died.
Zanze, though, stared up at the sky as if he had an answer. One he would speak to death itself if she asked if it had been…worth it.
Some men were so lucky enough to judge themselves. Now, as rain turned to snow and the last fires died, they gathered.
Those that had watched. The folk of Riverfarm. The guests of The Wandering Inn. Goblins. They came, all of them, to see one of the [Knights] who had died to stop Arcsinger.
But the group that surrounded Zanze was the Order of Solstice. Each one was wounded. Each silent, looking towards the man who knelt there.
Ser Normen, Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice, had no great words in his heart. But he did burn.
Burn, with honor’s flame. A green glow now sorrowful, like the blue flames that clung heavy to Halrac Everam’s shoulders. It stood in contrast to the fire blazing in Embraim’s eyes. A fierce pride. The Antinium would never forget.
Flame. That was what defined them. The Order of Solstice was flame and wrath. A line in the sand. But they were not heroes larger than life.
If they were—this man would never have been part of them. But there he lay, and the Driver’s Guild and common men, [Thugs], bore witness. Chaoisa stood with her driver’s cap mangled in her hands, her eyes on Zanze’s face, face expressionless.
The [Witches] took their pointed hats off their heads, and an [Emperor] halted next to an [Innkeeper] in the silence.
But none approached that inner circle. The [Knights]…burned.
Three flames, at first. But the fire was growing. A fourth had begun to blaze—but it was so faint that few saw it.
There was nothing glamorous about the way it clung to Vess. It was, to even Erin Solstice’s eyes, a dull flame. Grey. Grey and flat, the perfect middle ground between white and black.
Yet Normen thought it might be the sharpest of all. The Drake wore it as if he were unworthy, afraid it would cut him. But that was what had saved him long ago, and now it followed him. A memory. A warning. A need.
Four flames. Normen slowly bent, and a spark of green ran over the piled tinder and caught. Embraim stepped forwards after him, and Halrac knelt and touched the body. Jewel put her hand on Zanze’s a second.
“I should have been better.”
That was all she said. Antherr knelt, and whatever words in his heart were for that man alone. Durene’s tears fell, even as she touched his arm.
They rose and fell. Ylawes, Ser Dalimont, Ama, Lehra—they all beheld an end to the path they had chosen. And still.
Vess’ claw was the most tentative yet. But the grey flames joined the other three. Then, it seemed like the flames gathered and more bloomed into color along with theirs.
The audience turned to Erin Solstice, but she was just watching. Now, the pyre rose, and Ser Normen stepped back with the Order of Solstice. It was consuming the man, but Normen’s eye strained to take in the colors.
He had never seen them. Not the shades of brilliant red, somber brown, laughing orange, and…he stared awhile, because he would never see those colors again.
“I don’t remember those flames.”
Erin Solstice spoke softly. She looked at the fires burning from Zanze’s body and wondered what his fires would have been.
He should have lived a thousand years. Now, the [Driver] was burning away, and Normen turned. His gaze roamed the audience, as if only now realizing they were there.
Young and old. Mighty and weak. Goblins, Humans, Drakes, and Gnolls. He was no man of words, but he had heard the right ones before. Now, he spoke.
First, Normen looked to Menolit and Herove in the crowd. Then—to children staring at him up with tears in their eyes. Boys and girls who saw something in that fire that mattered. He saw the future—and looked to Zanze and bowed his head before he spoke.
“In the past, there were ages of dark skies. Shattered thrones. There have been times when monsters walked and spoke like men. These times shall come again.”
He met his audience’s eyes.
“But when they come, men like Zanze shall step forwards and count themselves. We are not perfect crusaders. We will never be heroes. What we do matters. Here fell a [Knight]. Zanze Envergall stood in Arcsinger’s path because it was right. So long as the Order of Solstice exists, we will remember that.”
Perhaps they were not the best words. But they were enough. Slowly, Normen took the helmet off his head. Then he knelt in the snow. Watching the fires of a man tell his story. Everyone had shame and guilt and poor deeds and sin.
But this flame was so beautiful as it faded. The Order of Solstice watched, chasing meaning in the falling snow.
The fire would never die again.
 
[Grandmaster Knight of Honor’s Flame class obtained!]
[Paladin of Fire’s Oath class obtained!]
[Knight of the Glittering Blade class obtained!]
[Indomitable Knight-Warden class obtained!]
[Pyre-Knight of Glory class obtained!]
[Knight-Artisan of Bones class obtained!]
[Magical Knight-Seeker of Mershi class obtained!]
[Spell Knight of Mercy class obtained!]
[Knight of Death and Dawn class obtained!]
[Knight-Archer of Lost Flames class obtained!]
[Title – End of a Legend: Arcsinger’s Downfall obtained!]
