She almost laughed at him and bowed. Mickey was calling out, looking between Elia and Halrac.
“This is insane. You all, back off. You’ll get killed.”
“You stand down or die. We know what we are doing. Do you?”
Embraim pointed at him. The Captain hesitated, and the finger swung to Elia.
Her face was white. She was staring at the sky and whispering.
“Scrying spells. No turning back. Capoinelia, fall back.”
“Mother!”
Her daughter shook her head reflexively. Elia looked at Xitegen, and he waved at her. She didn’t have his stare of conviction. But there was no way to turn back.
“This is a mess. I’ll disarm the Gold-rankers. Don’t injure that [Knight]—anyone!”
Cosmenaut gritted his teeth as he brushed at his hair with the palm of his hand. He was counting high-level foes, and he was the most confident person there.
…Until he saw the final person jogging towards them. She was late. And she too had abandoned her team. But they were cheering her name. Her hair was a mess, and she was disheveled. She’d almost slept through it.
“Saliss says he’ll start a war. But you needed at least one Named-rank. Is that the Duelist of First Landing? I’ll take him on.”
Lehra Ruinstrider walked into line, and the Stargnoll made the other adventurers shiver for the first time. The Blade of Mershi was glowing on her wrist, and she wore a smile like a real Named-rank for the first time in her life.
There they stood. Waiting. Elia was staring at the wall—and Halrac saw her bow slinging to him. The two archers locked eyes. Capoinelia sighted down her arrow, straight at Antherr’s face—until she noticed Vess had aimed two wands at her.
Two wands. The [Arcane Warrior] had gone running, shouting that he was almost out of magic in his wand. Then he’d tripped on the way out of his inn.
“Take this.”
And an old man had handed him a second wand. It felt like it was vibrating in his shaking grip.
Small things. Everything was narrowing into a focus. But they were waiting. The adventurers were hesitating now. But Normen?
He just turned, and that burned eye beneath the helmet turned to seek someone out. She had been sitting there, but now she stood.
Erin Solstice cupped her hands to her mouth, and she shouted. She felt it, just like he did in his bones. And so, she gave it voice. Shouted it past the fuming Lord Xitegen and gave it reality.
“Knights of Solstice! Protect the Goblins!”
Vess’ head rose, and he actually looked over his shoulder in relief. Jewel started, mouth opening into an ‘o’. Ama laughed. Antherr sighed as if he were coming to a great realization. Zanze laughed and then pointed at his chest, confused.
Halrac blinked at Erin.
And Normen nodded. Then he lifted his mace—and pulled his helmet off his head.
A thousand Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings waited. Then the [Knight] hurled his helmet towards the adventurers, and when it struck Capoinelia’s arrows, it shook the air and blew the needles off the nearby pine trees. Like a fireball’s wrath. It made the adventurers stumble—and the [Knights] charged without a word.
 
——
 
Were we on the wrong side? Perhaps—even Lord Xitegen hesitated when he saw Normen standing there.
The Gold-rank teams were nervous. They saw the [Emperor] and [Innkeeper]. They knew they were being watched, and they were fighting other adventurers.
The Knights of Solstice didn’t hesitate. They had all the conviction their opponents lacked. Even so.
There were two Named-ranks facing down the Order of Solstice, and they were better coordinated. Spoken Vow’s and Arcsinger’s Bows’ groups used to fighting side-by-side.
Lehra Ruinstrider charged Cosmenaut, raising a sword into the sky as her armor enveloped her and glowed a vibrant void-purple like the depths of space. Her armor shone with green and pink as it caught the light.
Ser Normen was burning with honor’s flame. Embraim had lit his sword and shield on fire. Durene thundered forwards, her huge club raised, shield at the ready as she headed for Arcsinger’s [Warriors].
The numbers were almost equal. But Ama and Vess and Zanze were hanging back as Revi shouted.
“Come to me, you creeping thing from the deep! Show them who they’re facing.”
She hurled something into the air—and a piece of amber glowed.
A Shield Spider the size of a house landed on the ground, and Riz slowed, her daggers drawn. She ducked a glowing green bolt of pestilence that Typhenous had shot and backed up.
“Summoner! Take out the—”
Toreel swung up his bow as Capoinelia got to her feet. She’d been knocked over by the blast from Normen’s helmet. They swung their bows up, and Revi ducked—but three arrows sang from the other half-Elves’ bows.
Toreel, Capoinelia, and Iloid loosed. One arrow went for her neck, one for her arm, one for her chest. Briganda threw her shield out and blocked one—
The other two shattered on a wall of shimmering air. Typhenous flicked another spell at Riz as Ama and Vess took cover with Revi. The [Summoner] was calling forth more of her summoned warriors.
 
——
 
“We have the numbers advantage! Get them! I’ll—”
Her Shield Spider was huge, lumbering—and dangerous if it got on top of you. It took two scuttling steps forwards, legs stabbing into the ground. Captain Mickey backed up as Spoken Vow retreated.
His team had grown after Orefell. They had lost one of their friends, but they were now a team of seven.
They had killed monsters like the giant Shield Spider before. It couldn’t be worse than dozens of Gargoyle Bossels. Mickey pointed.
“Riz, get back in formation. Eherne, give me a [Distracting Shot]. Take the legs on the left, then circle and surround the—”
An arrow flashed past his sword as the [Warrior] focused on the giant Shield Spider. It flashed over Antherr’s head—struck the spider in the head—and exploded. Mickey choked on his words as he looked over his shoulder at—
 
——
 
Elia Arcsinger adjusted her aim as her shot blew the Shield Spider’s head off. She loosed a second arrow, and it exploded in midair—this time from the force of meeting one of Halrac’s arrows. The [Bowman] stepped left. He and Elia each drew an arrow and loosed—Elia leaned out of the way of one arrow, sweating, and Halrac caught hers.
[Ranged Dodge]. [Arrow Catch].
One Skill used. Their eyes locked as they reached for another arrow, as fast as could be, nocked it—aimed—loosed—
 
——
 
“My spider!”
Revi screamed. It was down, fading into motes of light, within seconds of being summoned! All the mana she’d spent was dissolving into the air. Worse—one of her silvery apparitions, a Stitch-man with a longsword, charged across the ground and straight into a second blade.
The Duelist of First Landing beheaded her summon with a flourish of his blade, then stepped back, avoiding Lehra’s charge. And Embraim and Antherr, the two Antinium, saw a wall of protective flames spring up around Arcsinger’s Bows, an inferno of red.
Embraim halted. Antherr ran into the blaze. The [Immortal] kept charging as Spoken Vow turned.
 
——
 
“That’s it! Box them in against the flames! Flank the [Mages] and break the barrier! Support Riz! Toreel, backup?”
Mickey was shouting, but the half-Elves were ignoring him as the two [Warriors] stood behind the wall of flames. He cursed; they weren’t coordinating at—
They could win this no problem. Lehra took her first slash at Cosmenaut, and the man just backstepped, a [Duelist] fighting a [Magical Warrior]. He riposted, and his blade nearly touched her face before she twisted her head away.
They were veterans. It was one Gold-rank team versus two, really, and a few [Knights]. A Thronebearer and a burned man. Two independent Gold-rank adventurers.
Then the man called Mickey the Moored looked up and realized that ‘Gold-rank’ didn’t mean the same thing.
Another Gold-rank Captain reached enemy lines first. He was faster, faster than Durene and Normen and even Jewel.
Ylawes Byres, Captain of the Silver Swords, had begun running when he felt something happening to his—arms.
His sword and shield, the blades forged of silver and steel, the heirlooms of House Byres, were changing. His father, watching from the silent standoff—stirred.
It looked like the sword was elongating. Ripples of silver, stretching out, like a mirage or afterimage. Trails of light.
Like wings. His shield was doing the same thing, and the [Knight] was running faster. Then—he felt like he was flying. He couldn’t have said why—only that he knew it was right. So he tensed his legs—
Then he leapt. 
He was still thirty feet away when Mickey saw the [Knight] take into the air. He didn’t fly high, but straight at Mickey.
[The Knight Charged With Wings of Steel]. He was coming like an arrow, and Spoken Vow backed up as Mickey lifted his shield.
Ylawes’ face behind his visor showed two blazing blue eyes. A snarl of wrath. Mickey froze up and then took a step back. Then he braced—and heard a voice.
“In the name of the Silver Dragon! Yderigrisel!”
The name was like a bolt of lightning that caused silence. Spoken Vow’s [Mage] pointed a [Fireball] spell up—and it fizzled. It felt like his streams of mana had suddenly—fuzzed—
Then Ylawes hit Mickey like thunder, and the [Warrior] was reeling backwards.
 
——
 
“He flew! Ylawes—”
Lord Yitton Byres was having chills, and it had nothing to do with the weather. His son looked like one of the burned tapestries. That name—the way he’d struck down the other Gold-rank Captain—
Mickey was backing up, defending himself from an onslaught and clearly—losing. Ylawes only broke off to block a series of point-blank shots from the [Trick-Shot Archer]. He stumbled as one arrow swerved at a right angle and punched into his side. It didn’t pierce his armor, but it left a divot and threw him off-balance as Mickey tried to overwhelm him.
But Ylawes kept going. He brought his sword down, and Mickey’s own enchanted shield screamed as Ylawes tried to use his Skill.
[Shieldbreaker]! Another spell, a jolt of lightning, tried to strike him, but it fizzled out.
“[Negate Spell]! Get him, lad! Did you see that? He flew! My boy flew!”
A deep voice, panting, shouted, and Dawil hugged Falene’s arm. They’d both just arrived.
“‘My boy’?”
Lord Yitton turned to Dawil, but the Dwarf was shouting too loudly to notice. And then—
 
——
 
[Light Arc]! [Launch Kick].
Jewel flicked a crescent of cutting light through the flames, then kicked the ground. The [Wall of Fire] spell was shielding Arcsinger’s Bows, but they were shooting through the flames. Mostly at the stationary [Mages].
They had to be taken out. There were even a pair of skeletons, the first of which Toreel beheaded. The other was attacking Spoken Vow. Just—skeletons.
But who had summoned them? The [Necromancer]? Somehow, the Order of Solstice had an army at their back taking blows for them. Vess, Ama, and Revi were throwing spells back, but they couldn’t see their foes. Antherr had gone through the flames.
And so had Normen. Jewel kicked the ground and jumped over the flames.
She saw her [Light Arc] attack make Capoinelia duck—but Toreel swung his bow up. He loosed. Jewel—
[Quickslash]! She cut the arrow in half, then hit the ground as a second flashed over her head.
[Double Shot]. But her [Swordswoman’s Dive] had carried her out of the way. So many Skills!
They were all over Level 30—and she landed just in time to see Antherr stumbling back. He was bleeding, green blood running from his chest. Two arrows stood out in his carapace—and a slice had cut him across one side.
But the [Immortal] just lifted his greatsword and kept trying to advance.
“[Fourfold Volley]! It’s not falling—”
Capoinelia loosed her fourth arrow, and it wasn’t at full-draw. So it broke before it pierced his body. His shell was tough as steel!
But he couldn’t get past Lilntas and Anwyne. The [Hammer Vanguard] and [Axemistress] blocked his greatsword while the other attacked. A perfect duo—and Toreel stowed his bow and drew his longswords as he saw Jewel closing with Normen.
“Swords out! Capoinelia, covering fire! Iloid, disable them with a flank!”
The [Rogue] vanished, and Jewel cursed. Outnumbered. The small mercy was that Elia Arcsinger was loosing shots through the flame, ducking behind a tree. Halrac was distracting her.
Normen came to a halt, panting, smoke rising from his armor like a terrible echo of being burned by the Raiders.
But—Jewel realized, the [Wall of Flames] had barely burnt him. His skin should have been singed—Antherr had been. Yet Normen looked barely touched.
[Greater Fire Resistance]. A second jet of flames came from Angest, and Jewel backflipped out of the way, rolling into a tight ball. Normen shielded his face, and when he lowered it—
“I’ll take Toreel! You take the [Mage]!”
Jewel shouted. He nodded, and Angest backed up.
“Someone stop—”
The two [Warriors] moved to block Normen as he and Antherr tried to charge again. Normen raised his mace and brought it down on Lilntas’ shield as the [Hammer Vanguard] struck back. Normen caught a blow on his own shield and staggered.
He was hurt. Antherr was swinging left and right, trying to hit Anwyne, as Jewel slowly stepped left. Toreel was striking out with his two longswords in a confident pose. He thought he could beat her? A [Ranger] beat a [Swashb—
An arrow stabbed at her midsection, and Jewel twisted. Capoinelia’s shot made her flinch, and Toreel’s blade sliced across her cheek.
“Surrender or I’ll have to cut you down, rookie.”
He drew back as she deflected his second sword, cursing. Toreel circled, and she realized he was distracting her from the [Archer]! And the [Mage]…
“Watch out for the [Rogue]!”
Antherr had swung his sword. A Level 14 [Honorable Immortal].
[Mighty Swing]. The [Axemistress] shouted as she swung her axe.
“[Treesplitter Cleave]!”
He lost the trade. The blow twisted his blade out of his hands and bit into his shoulder and arm. He went over backwards, reeling.
“Now!”
The [Axemistress] turned as Normen backed up, covering Antherr. And Iloid crept behind him, daggers drawn. Normen raised his mace overhead as Jewel screamed—
“Normen—”
Then there was fire. Far more magical than the flames the [Mage] had cast. It looked like it came out of the skies. A finger of green flame from the clouds. It struck down on Normen and Antherr—but the [Immortal] didn’t burn as he sat up, lowering his hands, which were shielding his face.
It was honor’s flame, and it coated both Normen and Antherr. To Jewel, it looked like the same fire she had seen on Normen in the waystation.
