Snow. It was such a beautiful, entrancing thing to behold. It could mesmerize someone who had never seen it before. Children loved it. Adults…learned that snow meant a long season of cold. Dangers on ice. It could bury you, freeze you.
Snow was, like Winter Faeries, something that was better the less you saw it. Like a friend who was best experienced rarely. You could love them to death, but would rather you only did that once a year for a little bit.
If even that.
Snow was a killer. And it came in beautiful flakes at first, then in great clumps. Then it was so cold it drowned the world out, and you were left alone, without a flame of hope in it.
There were many ways to die. But the ways snow brought—freezing, starvation, burial—they were terrible ways. Snow was, then, a smiling [Thug] with a pleasant face and a hole instead of a heart.
It was something men and women were meant to fight against. Snow was a petty man lying in wait in back alleys that ganged up on you and deserved to be watched; for when he came in numbers, he had no mercy. He was a great foe because he was everywhere. And it was so hard to win and be everywhere.
The strong woman who laughed at snow melting on her skin in warmer climes forgot that in some places, it blanketed and suffocated. Snow was dangerous because it was in so many places and it preyed on the weak. In that sense—snow was a petty killer and deserved to take no lives.
An avalanche, a blizzard, was not an acceptable way for people to die, but one that was far harder to guard against. Snow—there was no excuse for someone dying to snow. There should not be. Not when it could be routed so easily, with effort, with care, with help and a bundle of firewood and enough flour to bake bread in an oven.
If it came through holes in the roof—that was not the fault of the person who had to guard against it. A thousand other weaknesses let snow drive in that final blow. But it could be stopped with just a few silver coins if it could be had. A small buckler of silver could halt the petty thug of snow, but getting that buckler, in some cases, was difficult.
Snow was, therefore, an analogy for income. If a few silver coins could drive it off, what of those who could not afford even those silver coins? Was that a fault of them or perhaps their incomes? The local economy that, yes, snow influenced? Laws? The end result when snow poured through your roof was the same as an actual thug waylaying you. But when snow arrived, it hinted at an underlying issue, like a poor Watch presence in a city.
Snow, in a sense—
—At this point, a huge foot kicked Ser Solton in the side, and the older [Knight] hit snow as he was booted from the rolling wagon. He landed, blankets and all, in the snow he was opining about before he got to his feet.
“I s-say, Miss! That’s quite—”
“If you keep talking about snow, I will drive off without you, [Knight]. Shut. Up. My head hurts, and I’m cold as shit.”
A woman barked at him, and Ser Solton hesitated. He was cold, nigh on frostbitten, and didn’t take kindly to kicks even if he was rested. He’d fought for his life last night against Frostmarrow Skeletons, a nasty type of undead, and his poor [Driver] had been killed.
In such circumstances, even the good-natured Haegris Knight would take umbrage with a kick. But the woman who had given the kick leaned over her upholstered seat, and she had a hold of a club.
She was also as heavy as Ser Solton was, armor and all, and not a lot of it was fat. She was a huge woman, and she had a scowl to match.
They called her Chaoisa, the Contempt of Man. At least, other [Drivers] did, and always under their breath and when she was definitely out of earshot.
She had two huge oxen lashed to her fairly infamous wagon, a heavy, steel-rolling monster that took heavy loads, rolled through [Bandits] and miserable swamps and bad weather, and stopped for no one and nothing.
She was an [Unstoppable Roller], a [Driver] whom you called on if the delivery had to get there, even if it meant arrows were flying or the sky was spitting up on you. And she did not care for Ser Solton’s analogies on snow.
Nor did she, apparently, care for charity because Ser Solton was going to get a bill for her taking the delivery over. His food and supplies for the village of Minarthe were lashed into the back where he had been sitting, and she’d informed him he was paying for the dead driver, her services as backup, and the overnight service.
The fact that anyone had come to pick him up after that blizzard, let alone a [Driver] who could make her way through chest-deep snow in places, made Solton unlikely to argue. As well as the distinct impression she could lay him out with the club she carried.
Chaoisa was not a woman you asked to drive you about, despite her level and vehicle. Even the oxen, both bulls, looked afraid of her and were storming ahead, steam rising from their flanks as they pushed on.
However—Chaoisa’s bad temper turned, of all things, into a saccharine smile as she addressed the other occupant of the wagon.
“Durene, how’s it going back there? You all right? Need more of ‘em blankets? They’re mostly what the bulls and horses use, but we’ve got plenty to spare. We’re bound two hours out from your spot. Tea?”
She even had tea in a huge canister she strapped to the wagon; enough for multiple refills. It was as bitter as sin, and she left bundles of tea leaves in there, which meant that by the time she was running out, the tea was pungent—and woke you up even if you were dead.
Durene had sipped half a cup, and Solton had managed two-thirds. The [Paladin] sat there and gave Chaoisa a smile.
“I’m warm, Miss Chaoisa. Thanks. I’m a big girl, so I don’t get cold.”
“Oh, you hush. Make sure your toes are warm. No one watches out for us large girls, and then you’ve got frostbite. There we are. Have more tea; it’s just a bit of boiled water, and I can always throw in another tea bag. Ser Knight, you back in yet?”
Solton got in the wagon, clutching at his side. He hadn’t healed all the way from last night’s fight, even with the potion Durene had given him. So Chaoisa’s kick really had been the spirit of…
He looked at her scowl and answered weakly.
“I shall desist from snow analogies, Miss Chaoisa.”
She got the wagon rumbling again without a word, and Solton shivered there for a bit.
What a thing.
Not just that Durene had saved his life in the snow. What a fight it had been! The two of them, laying around each other—then the sight of Chaoisa, hugging the embarrassed half-Troll girl as she literally ran over the last skeleton with her wheels!
The two were, apparently, acquainted, and it was to Solton’s great surprise that Durene seemed to be the one woman that Chaoisa would drive around. At a discount, no less!
“Your [Emperor]’s keen on getting you to safety. He’s saying he’ll send that precious [Cataphract] over to help—at least he knows to look out for you. Good fellow, is he? He seemed like a stuck up blind man, not an [Emperor]. But then, he was respectful, and if he likes you, he has good taste.”
Chaoisa’s famous contempt for almost everyone came out again, but she turned to Durene and smiled as Durene ducked her head.
“He knows to watch out for me, but he’s overprotective now I’m trying to do things myself.”
“Oh, that sort, is he? It’s either too protective or not at all! Well, well. Got a way snow’s like that, Knight?”
Solton had an analogy about snow just for Chaoisa and where she could shove the lot of it. He was cold, wet—but Durene whispered as she offered him a bite of a sandwich. It had horseradish in it, and it was big. He chewed and brightened up.
“I actually thought it was fascinating, Ser Solton. I didn’t know Haegris—‘scuse me, the Order of Haegris—thought about people like that. Needing money and such. I thought…it was the kind of thing only a [Farmer] or Laken would appreciate.”
“Ah, Miss Durene, you should hear my fellows argue. And ladies. There are ladies among our Order, but not as many as some. We’re not prejudiced! It’s just…we seem to attract fewer women.”
“Less women want to ride around throwing money and haggling while wearing a steel corset all day and tending to a nagging horse? I wonder why.”
Chaoisa shot back, but Durene just smiled.
“I liked what you said about a [Knight] swinging a bag of coins like a sword. Riverfarm’s had bad winters too. If someone had come by with just a bit of food…that’s why I liked Miss Erin’s idea so much. Laken says it’s all…American commercialism, but he doesn’t like Erin much, I think.”
“I have no idea about that—nation? But Miss Solstice believes in charity, which I take as a virtue, Miss Durene. Dame Durene, I should say, so excuse me.”
The half-Troll girl flushed beneath her grey skin.
“I’m not—Dame? I’m no fancy [Knight].”
Solton smiled as his shivering stopped, and he took another bite of the damn good sandwich. Farming communities had such high-quality food sometimes.
“I just had a conversation about this, you know. You are a [Paladin], Miss Durene? Such a rare class. If you are—then you are de-facto a [Knight], or at least, a type of one and therefore a Dame. And to insinuate otherwise is mere prevarication for reasons that are less than noble.”
He gave her a smile, and she looked flustered and delighted; even Chaoisa gave Solton a neutral grunt, which was practically a nod of approval.
Here they were, on the road, and Durene and Ser Solton were talking, well, about what it meant to be a [Knight] or to have a calling, nevermind Chaoisa’s comments and kicks. The half-Troll girl was waving at the winter landscape.
“There’s all kinds of monsters in the snow, even though I know you were making one of those analogies, Ser Solton. I’ve had to punch wolves, Snow Golems—so many Snow Golems—and those skeletons all winter.”
“And you’ve been doing deliveries on behalf of the Unseen Empire? All this time?”
“Yup. I used to go with a big group, but I decided to go alone to check things out. If someone needs supplies, I can clear the road and let them get there. But they don’t need me, and besides…”
Durene leaned over, and Solton leaned back a bit. She whispered in a carrying voice.
“—I want to do something myself, you know? Make a difference. I can’t do it if Laken gives me Beniar’s Darksky Riders and an army. Not that I want to fight that many undead alone! But I can. You see?”
She reminded him simultaneously of every young [Knight] he had ever met—and being unique. She was a farmgirl turned warrior, a cliché.
But she was a half-Troll girl too and fearsomely strong and tough. He had never actually talked with Dame Merila in private, but Solton was reminded of the other famously huge [Knight].
Mayhaps this is another legend being born on Izril. She’s shorter than Merila, but no less fearsome it seems!
“You’re working with an [Emperor], Dame Durene. That is a calling in itself, surely.”
“Oh, but he doesn’t want me to be his champion. Not that he gets fights. And he has an entire army under Wiskeria. And Griffon Hunt—I need to find my place. I’ve talked to Witch Hedag about it, and this is me—doing my thing. You should meet Witch Hedag, Chaoisa. You’ll like her.”
The [Driver] turned from sipping her tea.
“Is she the [Witch] with the axe? Another big woman—though she’s merciless, and I’m a sweet kitten compared to her.”
One snort and Ser Solton would have gotten another kick. He barely avoided another meeting with the snow as Chaoisa glared—and Durene exhaled.
“You’re a brave man, Ser Solton. I wouldn’t have done this delivery in the cold if I was your height.”
Solton hung his head, ashamed of her compliments for all they were genuine. That made it worse.
“A fool, Dame Durene. A fool. I got a good man killed—and the horses. And I nearly had my own head there too. I should have hired guards or gone with Ser Normen instead. The fact that my cause is just and my intentions good does not excuse failure. If it did, any fool of a [Knight] would be the best of us all. The Order of Haegris believes a [Knight] should be…sensible. And if we do more good demanding [Peasants] earn more than coppers for their work, so be it! I have often heard it said when we debate that Izril has a more egalitarian system without a full hierarchy of classes—but there is poverty, and the problems that come with it, everywhere.”
Durene propped her chin on her hands, fascinated.
“Well, what’s the answer, if there is any, Ser Solton?”
The [Knight] was only too keen to explain.
“Why, Miss Durene, it’s investment. Investment. Nobility and kingdoms do not often do it. They take a tithe, but do they put money into a road to keep it from decaying? Do they buy rarer cash crops for [Farmers] or keep banditry low? All these things factor into the amount of wealth an area generates. It costs more to deal with a flood bursting a dam than a few gold coins to shore up the dam every year, but that’s the first thing a local [Baron] cuts when he wants more gold for an artifact or his army. We believe that wealth is more than the gold you have in your pockets. So, yes, we often give goods or provide help to places that need it. But to use our logic—isn’t it better to give a handful of grain seed ahead of time instead of a wagonload when bellies are empty? As for issues of banditry…”
Chaoisa groaned, but Durene listened with great interest as someone who would have loved the Order of Haegris as a girl. And the [Paladin] and Ser Solton were there. In the snow.
And so was the Order of Solstice. It seemed, on this sunny day, that miracles could exist. That valor was real and stories came true. But what so many forgot was that if this were true—nightmares could also walk under the sun.
 
——
 
A great change was coming to Izril. Things were going to be different, forevermore. What a time to be alive, eh?
The turning of an age.
That was what they said, but it sounded the same. And if you were old enough—you might think.
…Didn’t I hear this twenty years ago?
Didn’t someone tell me that my generation would be the one that would change it all, do it all? We’d be the ones to bring about that new age.
Things are going to be different when we’re in charge. And what those bastards were probably thinking, behind their false, encouraging smiles, was that they’d heard that exact same thing.
Make no mistake. Make no mistake. 
The world was going to change—but it was also going to stay the same in all the large parts. Maybe a lot of people would die. Maybe there would be [Heroes] again. Perhaps nations would vanish, and yes, even the maps would be redrawn.
