And a second woman, wearing the same bloodstained apron, scorched with soot, was standing outside their burned home, carrying a hammer from the smithy. Her face was white and pale, and she was staring at…her duplicate, standing in the snow, sheltering two children behind her.
Then you saw their game. The horror on the [Mayor]’s face could increase no more. He was dying, his lungs filling with blood. He had no more terror or outrage to give. He just stared at it all with a bitter disgust that knew no end.
“Who…? How…?”
Shock lasted a second. Then the villagers realized what was going on and didn’t know who to trust. A girl looked at two men spreading their arms and shouting to come here and away from the other.
Two pairs of lovers, identical, halted, asking questions. Trying to identify the other.
“What’s my middle name? Antest? Antest, what’s my middle name?”
A knife in hand, a young woman pointed it between two young men grappling with each other and swearing, bare-handed. One of them craned his head back.
“Everfler! Rosere, it’s me!”
They reached for each other, and the other Antest, the fake one, stepped back. He raised his hands, and the desperate look became a huge grin.
“Aw. Oops.”
Rosere and Antest grabbed each other, and the disguised Raider applauded. Then he ripped a spear from his bag of holding and threw. The [Spearmaster]’s weapon ran both through, and screams filled the air.
And then there was darkness again. It lasted a minute…and when it resumed, the lovers were dead. But there were the villagers, clinging to each other, trying to find out who was who. Begging the Raiders to stop.
One woman ran, shrieking, from her husband, whom she had picked out as an imposter not because his illusion was imperfect.
—Simply because he looked so bored with blood dripping from his face and his neighbors lying dead around him. But the rest of the Raiders were giggling still. Now—they were having fun.
“Surprise!”
A daughter leapt from her family’s arms, did a cartwheel, and the six-year-old girl changed into a far older Raider who drew a wand and pointed at them. They were still killing. It was just that this prolonged it. Every time the lights went out, the villagers were safe. When the lights came back and the [Nightclouds] parted—that was when someone they trusted would begin snorting with laughter and someone would die.
They were doing this because they were being watched. That was the worst of all. A Raider would pause and wave at the sky, blow a kiss, or admire themselves on the scrying orb. This was the Bloodfeast Raiders’ moment on television, and they wanted their first big appearance to never be forgotten.
 
——
 
“Can anyone stop this? This is—I have been told that the Bloodfeast Raiders have issued a statement to Wistram. If the scrying spell ends, everyone will be killed. But this is just…can someone just kill these monsters?”
Sir Relz sat alone at his table, and for all the Drake had never spoken fondly of the north…he just stared and stared. As if he had never in his wildest dreams believed the Raiders were this bad.
He was looking at something.
“I have been told that this is out of the range of any Walled Cities. Past the High Passes. And it’s far from any noble domain or…you’d need an army to take down sixty people over Level 30 with enchantments. But surely someone? I am, again, warning anyone—don’t let children watch this. Just cut the feed if you’re in a public space. The Bloodfeast Raiders are…as you can see…”
He was watching. Unable to look away. Shielding his face with his claw at times. But waiting. Looking around.
Almost as if hoping something would happen. It had to. But the Bloodfeast Raiders were making an impact not just for the cruelty of their deeds but because—
…Because no one was doing anything.
They had seen this before, hadn’t they? Who—who, even if you didn’t love Izril, even if you would gain nothing from this—who with levels and power would not look at this scene and do something?
Reach out with the power and Skills you had and cease the village’s torment. If not save them—then throw just a single blow back in the Raiders’ faces?
Where were the Skills of monarchs and proud nations? Where was—
 
——
 
“[Aura of the King]. I said. [Aura. Of. The. King].”
The scrying orb cracked the angrier the King of Destruction got. There were holes in the war tent’s fabric, as if blades or great blows were tearing the enchanted cloth. Orthenon had to finally grab Flos’ finger.
“Your Majesty. It’s no good. They have some kind of protection.”
“How?”
The King of Destruction was incensed—and he was not the only one. Leaders and those who had been able to throw their Skills across the world before were finding, to their dismay and unease, nothing was working.
From the King of Avel to Flos, to [Strategists] and [Mages]—nothing was working. It was a cold-faced man holding the hilt of his sword who spoke.
Venith Crusland.
“They have a [Bandit Lord]. Maresar would have known why. They must be shielded. Like their identities. We can do nothing here. Stop wasting time, Your Majesty.”
Flos Reimarch looked around, breathing hard—then leaned on the table as a new scrying orb was fetched. But he did not leave the tent.
“I will see their crimes first, Venith.”
The [Lord] said nothing. Just bowed coldly and left. And Flos’ green gaze fixed on the orb with true hatred.
 
——
 
“[Mark Target].”
Niers Astoragon tried once. Then understood it was pointless.
“No good. See that one? That’s their leader. He must have an aura or something. My guess is, it’s big enough. If they leave his area—we’d do something. It must get magic too. Sensible.”
The Titan sat back in his chair. He was calmer than many watching. Like Therrium, like the Bandit Lord Korizan himself, he was used to it. He did not approve.
But he was tapping his fingers on the armrest of his chair. He knew this was deliberate.
Within the area of The Wandering Inn. He only hoped Erin…no. She saw the same thing he did.
“Can Magnolia Reinhart do something? She’s got [Maids].”
“She’s not a warrior. Her [Maids] fight [Assassins]. This is like an elite mercenary outfit. Sixty, all over Level 30 or armed like Gold-rankers. A Named-rank dies even if they were stupid enough to jump in there. Actually, Saliss of Lights might kill them all, but they probably stay far away from him. And he might not survive even if he blows everything to pieces. You’d get torn up even if you jumped them with your Level 60 capstone.”
Foliana nodded. So they watched. She was thinking the same thing Niers was.
“One woman won’t sit idly. Mm. And Tyrion Veltras. And other people I forgot. Enough to make them wary.”
Niers exhaled wearily.
“Concentration of force, Foliana. It’s our problem. They can’t be everywhere. They can’t. The Raiders are smart. So Erin won’t do anything. She does not want to make them her enemy. Not yet.”
He was nervous for Erin’s sake. And trying to rationalize all the things he, Foliana, and Erin surely knew. But the [Rogue] just looked up with eyes that saw more of Erin than Niers did.
“Spoken like an old man. If you were young like me and her…what would you do?”
Niers Astoragon almost snapped at her. He clenched a fist—then focused on what she was saying. Then he jumped to his feet.
“Someone tell me where that [Knight] is. Now!”
 
——
 
Someone had to do…something.
By the time the thought was in his head, Halrac Everam was striding down the halls of The Wandering Inn. Then he stopped—and went back to the doors.
There was a tense silence everywhere. It hung in the air—and Liska was not immune. The fact that she was by the door and still operating it was probably because Erin had told her to wait for the people from Celum’s side.
But the Gnoll was not about to let anyone through to Celum.
“Are you crazy? Everyone’s coming through—and I have to wait for Jewel and the others. Go there? The Bloodfeast Raiders are moving!”
“I know. I’m not stupid.”
So he was here…Halrac was arguing as Liska distractedly moved through the other locations. Invrisil—Riverfarm—Pallass—
And all the while, people were dying. 
Halrac had grown up in a village like that one. He hadn’t made it when Windrest was in danger. Hadn’t known.
He—wouldn’t get there in time. He didn’t have a horse, and even if the Raiders were taking their time, all he’d be able to do would be to shoot at them from a long ways away.
The door was like his flickering thoughts.
“[Lord] to go through now. Excuse me, Miss Gnoll. Don’t close th—”
“Halrac! Someone grab—”
“Where’s Erin?”
That last one came from Grimalkin of Pallass. He came through the door like a storm, stopping Liska from shutting it. He looked around, and the Gnoll squeaked.
“Um—theatre! She’s trying to stop—”
“Excellent. She’s not insane. [Message]. Grimalkin to Saliss. She’s not insane—”
He moved so fast he didn’t even notice Halrac standing there. And Celum—Liska slammed the door open to Invrisil.
“Who’s making a racket on that end?”
A man strode through. He was big, overweight—and he had the porcelain crest of a kneeling Golem on his chest, a bracer on his arm, and an angry look on his face.
“Lord Xitegen. What a nuisance it is to rely on—nevermind. Change the door, now.”
He dropped a gold coin in the bowl, and Liska blinked at him.
“To—?”
“Celum! I must see this myself.”
He tapped his foot loudly, and Liska raised her paws.
“No one’s allowed in Celum! Erin’s orders! You two, stand back. I have to check—”
“Halrac! Is Halrac here? Revi says he just went through! Don’t let him get to Celum, Liska!”
A cry from down the hallway. Halrac cursed as Lyonette came to the door, and Liska glanced at him. He reached for the door as Liska fumbled with the dial. But Lord Xitegen reached out, and because he could read, he flicked it to the yellow gem that was Celum.
“Hey! You can’t—”
Liska tried to block the man, and she was tall as he was, if not as big. Halrac hesitated and then jumped for the door, and Liska was trying to stop him and Xitegen.
The Gnoll and Gold-rank adventurer both slammed into something heavy in the air. Xitegen hadn’t touched them; he just stormed through the door, yet it felt like he had body-checked them—and he was a big man.
“[Out of My Way, Peasant]! With respect to Captain Ever—”
Then he was gone. Before Halrac could move, Grimalkin put a hand on his shoulder. The huge [Magus] gave Halrac a knowing look as Liska got to her feet, shouting curses at Xitegen’s back.
“It would be, even for both of us, suicide. Saliss claims they would be gone even if he got there—or he would be in danger.”
“I know that.”
Halrac shoved clear of the claw, furious now. But something about Grimalkin’s eyes stopped him.
“—What?”
“Normen is there. Come to the theatre. Our position has changed. If possible—somehow—we have to stop the tragedy from mounting.”
Then Halrac was running, running hard as he could, and when he burst into the [World’s Eye Theatre], he saw it.
Someone doing exactly what he had felt in his bones. And…Halrac’s gaze was pained, and the [Bowman of Loss] stared upwards.
Normen knew the consequences.
 
——
 
A green flame burned on azure armor. It was honor and magic. A [Knight]’s fire. It had never burned brighter on him than now, though it had only come to him twice.
It should have come a thousand times. He was still reaching for it, understanding it. An ember, not a raging flame.
Such a familiar man. Even hearing of him, and from his memories, the [Emperor] of Riverfarm imagined that other [Knight] who had brought flame to end a dark legend. Ser Raim.
He could only listen to the reports as Gamel described it. Imagine it from Sir Relz’s shouting. Hear it…
The [Knight] came over the hill, riding an undead horse as the sun burst amidst the [Nightclouds]. A flame—and the Bloodfeast Raiders turned.
Then they giggled so loudly he heard it even in the [Scrying] spell. Like mischievous children. Psychopaths who had forgotten any morality.
Sixty against one. The villagers were petrified, anyone with a sword dead or bleeding out. The [Mayor] stared up at the dark clouds with empty eyes. The [Knight] saw it all. He had to.
In Laken’s mind, he charged. He heard the shouting. The cheer of Riverfarm’s folk, cut off in seconds. The [Witches] hadn’t cheered, and they were watching.
“Gamel. What do you see?”
“They shot his horse out from under him, sire. He’s on his feet. Running. It’s dark now—oh no.”
Someone had blown the horse to bits. But as the [Knight] reached the village of Salefenwool, mace raised, shield braced—he looked around for the Raiders and saw nothing in the darkness.
And then, when light engulfed the town, a false hope—the villagers were shouting at him, some begging, some shouting.
“—stay away! They’re in disguise. Stay—”
The [Smith] was lying on a leg his ‘wife’ had sliced to the bone, and two women were shrieking at each other, trying to keep the other back. There wasn’t any hope in his tone.
Ser Normen’s chest rose and fell, and he was there. Alone. How could Erin have let him go? Laken’s fingernails dug into his palms.
Durene would have done the same thing. But he couldn’t do anything! Even his Skills—the [Witches] were murmuring.
“It’s a radius around their leader. At least a thousand paces. Possibly two. Does anyone know…?”
“I spat a secret on the ground for all to see. It only took a slice of my tongue to wag and treasures three. I divine it to be: [Aegis of My Contempt]. A ward of all Skills and magic. Nothing from us to them. Unless—”
Oliyaya’s voice, cackling. Laken’s head turned. He raised his head. Called out. Then the [Knight], looking around at the villagers’ desperate faces and the disguised [Raiders]—
Moved.
 
——
 
He brought the mace down on the first wife’s face. Or tried to. Lastere, the [Smith], saw Midias, his wife, backflip out of the way with a curse.
A Drake with a veil appeared, slashing, but retreating.
“Damn. Not you. How did—?”
Normen pursued a step, then hesitated. The other woman, whom Lastere was now reaching for, his wife, was running, sobbing.
“Oh, thank you, thank you—”
The man was aflame with fire. But he had such a desperate look on his face. A snarl and the same eyes as the mayor’s. Hopelessness.
Yet he had come. Lastere thought he had never seen a [Knight] before that looked braver. The man hesitated as he burned. Then he turned, and the woman grabbed his arm. She pointed at Lastere.
“My husband—”
