“Eighty thousand gold pieces on Ser Solstice’s head.”
That would have every worthless brigand and thug after him. Even a [Knight] would have a dagger at his back. The [Innkeeper] was shaking now, with anger.
“Eighty thousand more gold on the Bloodfeast Raiders’ identity.”
“You don’t have that money.”
Korizan snapped the words before he realized how weak that made him sound, how incredulous. And she threw it back in his face.
“Do you?”
He just…Korizan exhaled, and his mind went blank.
You’re falling into her trap. So this is how she badgered Tyrion Veltras and the rest into it. I thought they were fools. He looked at Erin, then sat back down. Spread his hands and laughed. He wasn’t amused, but it sounded good.
Calm.
“You really are an [Innkeeper] who could bully legends!”
He applauded her theatrically, and Vendyne and two other [Raiders] took it up, and Erin got a smattering of applause. But she just pointed at Normen.
“Let him go.”
Korizan stopped applauding and put his hands behind his head.
“Oh, please. Erin Solstice, I would never put a bounty on you. Everyone admires your quests, even me. But your actions have consequences, you know. Do you want to keep playing this game? Very well. Vendyne.”
He turned, and his [Sellsword] looked at him. Everyone else just heard ‘███████’. Korizan savored Erin Solstice’s face for a moment.
“Put an eight thousand gold bounty on that little Gnoll’s head. The one with the white fur. Pay it out to anyone who does her damage. Breaking one arm will pay out half. Both her paws for the full amount. Oh, and the same for her mother.”
Vendyne began to write with a laugh as Erin’s face turned pale with horror. As if she couldn’t believe it? Korizan smiled—
Right up until the enchanted quill snapped in Vendyne’s hands. The Raider blinked at the [Message] scroll. He tried to write on it again—and the second quill snapped. Then the scroll fell apart, cut into two pieces.
And then Korizan well and truly lost his temper.
 
——
 
They were, after all, watching. No one had a Skill that could even touch the Bloodfeast Raiders. The fact that Erin Solstice could project her image there at all was astounding.
Mysterious.
It almost justified Lyonette being there. But the child was always causing more trouble than she was worth. At least she was doing something for the crown.
It was tempting to do nothing, but Dame Ushar reported that the girl doted on the little Gnoll child called Mrsha. Like a dog, perhaps, though Lyonette was hopefully aware a child was not a dog.
Therefore and therefore. Queen Ielane sighed. One did what one must. She twirled her own writing quill across her fingers like a knife. It was gold, not a feather, and weighted. Ielane cut at the provision as they tried again, severing the words before they could post the bounty.
“[Royal Will: Annul Contract].”
A powerful criminal was no match for the [Queen] of Calanfer in the realms of statecraft. But her eyes were locked on the orb.
This was no game of houses that the [Innkeeper] was playing. And she well and truly feared her daughter’s safety would be put on the line.
She was right.
 
——
 
He had been humiliated in front of his Raiders and his audience. Korizan analyzed the situation.
He wasn’t sure who had stopped the bounty, and it didn’t matter. It proved Erin Solstice had powerful friends. Had he lost his image?
Perhaps slightly, but not overmuch. He should have just taken one of the children hostage and cut one of their fingers off whenever the [Innkeeper] opened her mouth. He had played her game, and now he was paying the price.
Doing that now was weakness. It showed that he had lost the duel of words with her. But the [Bandit Lord] had one last card to play.
“Just for that, Erin Solstice, when we leave this village, I will make sure all the children die slow. But you win. You win.”
He stood, hands raised, and she gazed at him, white-faced. As if she’d forgotten he’d do that anyways. Korizan pivoted left to his [Archer], Nerised.
He was so angry he had trouble keeping his voice steady. He ignored the warnings in his head that this might be a risk, even for the Raiders. He just wanted to see Erin Solstice look properly hurt.
“Kill the [Princess]. The one staying at her inn. Fire the Deathslayer arrow.”
Nerised’s eyes widened behind the mask. Then she grinned. And she slowly drew a case from her bag of holding as Erin Solstice whirled.
“Lyonette!”
 
——
 
Deathslayer arrow.
When he heard that, Lord Hayvon in Rhir sought out Their Majesties at once. They were watching the broadcast. Whether or not they had been before—
“King Othius. It seems the Bloodfeast Raiders of Izril have one of the Deathslayer Arrows.”
The old [King] raised his brows.
“So everyone has screamed at me. Perhaps that will aid their investigation. Those arrows only go to our allies as rare, rare gifts. I suspect the Five Families.”
A [Diplomat] was tearing their hair out.
“The archer is going to kill a [Princess] of Calanfer with one of our arrows, Your Majesty.”
Othius nodded gravely.
“A tragedy. But it would at least prove our arrows work. Which make is it?”
Her Majesty, Queen Coretine, murmured.
“We don’t give them the ones that can detonate or with more potent effects. It’s a seeker. The kind they can use to kill a monster. But it will pierce through anything. We used them against Silvenia when she took 5th Wall.”
On the scrying orb, the [Archer] lifted the black arrow to their bowstring. They drew back—and loosed.
 
——
 
The arrows of Rhir that were meant to slay one of the Demon King’s Deaths would pierce any barrier. Hit any target.
They were the most deadly manufactured artifact in the modern era. If other nations even had them, deploying them was similar to using Djinni or a spell like the one Thelican had unveiled against Pomle.
How the Raiders had it was impossible to know. But they had—seconds—
“Get to the [Garden]! Lyonette!”
Erin turned and screamed. The [Princess] was frozen in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. The arrow was locked onto her by name.
Lyonette du Marquin. The leader of the Bloodfeast Raiders knew the same thing everyone did. And the arrow was already in the air—
It was coming for her. Would the garden stop it? She only felt hands when the Thronebearers grabbed her. Then she saw Ushar grimly raising her shield.
But Ser Lormel moved first. He looked down at Lyonette as her head turned, red hair, features pale as snow with fear, as her daughter howled at her, and he drew his sword.
When he brought it down, he cut vertically. The smoothest slice he had ever performed. And he drew blood.
“Ser Lormel!”
Dalimont shouted. He was staring at the skies—but Lormel just reached towards the [Princess], who was sagging. He’d scored a long gash down her back. He was no swordsman. He was not as tested as Ser Dalimont had been.
But he had been assigned to the throne room to guard [Princess] Ellet. Like Dame Ushar—
He knew what had to be done.
So he took the object he’d lopped from Lyonette’s body. Her red hair. Blood was running down her cut, and he spoke.
“Apologies, Your Highness.”
Then he touched the blood and placed a bloody handprint on his shield. That should do. The hair he simply stuck to the shield with a talisman, fumbling at it.
“Ushar.”
“[Faint Presence]. Sest, the potion. Into the garden, now.”
Dame Ushar opened a scroll, and Lyonette’s presence grew faint. Even her breathing…slowed…and her shock turned into a coma-like state. Like the stories of a sleeping [Princess].
It all happened so fast that Ushar was dragging Lyonette towards the garden and Erin was shouting about a door—as Ser Lormel jogged out of the [World’s Eye Theatre].
Ser Sest should have gone with Lyonette—but he followed Lormel.
“Give me the hair, Lormel.”
“No time. Stand clear.”
Dalimont had half-followed them out. He must never have been assigned to guard a [Princess] except to escort Seraphel. He looked at Lormel and finally understood.
When the [Knight] halted, it was outside the inn. He skidded slightly, puffing in the snow. His heart was beating too fast. He wondered if his golden armor was polished, and his scrying wards told him he was being pinged already.
Almost…
“[Decoy: My Ward].”
It was a silly Skill that had no value for most [Knights]. He was, by his own admittance, a silly [Knight] best suited for making a little Gnoll smile rather than fighting. He hadn’t been much use during the war. An adequate bodyguard.
The Thronebearers of Calanfer were bodyguards second to none. Even these four knew what to do—no one had ever had a Deathslayer Arrow used. But the theory was the same.
Ser Lormel raised the shield with Lyonette’s hair attached and her blood on it. The real [Princess] was hidden, and enough of her blood and hair was here to make the [Scrying] spells and everything else think he was her. Indeed, his ward-spell was overloading with how many [Scrying] spells were finding ‘Lyonette’.
Ser Sest reached for him—then backed away as Lormel swung the shield at him. Ser Lormel looked up—and he thought he could see it.
Liscor’s walls were sounding the alarm. But so slowly. It had barely been one minute.
It was a fast arrow to travel a hundred miles in a minute. Very fast. It arced across the skies from the northeast.
A black line in the sky. A death for the Demons made in Rhir. Lormel looked up at it as he lifted his shield high and set himself. 
It occurred to him he should say something. But he didn’t know what to say. So he just waited.
As it came down—he saw the impossible happen. A head rose—and another bow twanged in the silence.
It was an impossible shot—but that Worker still made it. His arrow snapped as he tried to shoot the Deathslayer Arrow down. He actually hit it—but it still came down.
The Deathslayer Arrow never wavered as it tracked Ser Lormel. But the pained smile on his face turned to fear as it—split in midair. He thought Bird had split it like an [Archer] of legends—until he realized the Deathslayer Arrow had done that on its own.
It divided, and half went for him.
The other half struck the inn. The [Knight] could not see it dive and phase out of reality, nor did he hear Erin Solstice cry out as it tried to strike the [Princess]. As the 6th Princess of Calanfer hid behind a stone doorway in the center of the [Garden of Sanctuary], the wooden door that led to the garden shook.
If it had been one arrow, not split in half—the arrow left a scar across the door. It burnt away, leaving a single piece of twisted metal in the wood. And the other half fell towards him.
A warm glow. Ser Lormel’s breastplate lit up—and he realized that his [Princess] was trying to shield him. And so long as it lasted, she lived.
A boon like gold enveloped him, and he smiled in that moment and hoped half was enough.
Then the arrow hit his braced shield in the center of the handprint. And the blow felt like a thunderbolt. It drove into his enchanted shield, past all his Skills. It was so heavy it sent him to his knees—
And the arrow didn’t stop. It pushed him down the hill—driving him through the snow. Seeking her heart. But it couldn’t have her. The [Knight] held his shield up for the Eternal Throne as long as he could.
Then it pierced his armor. And flesh. He cried out—it burned, and he felt it tearing through him.
Until it stopped.
 
——
 
They were all watching Lyonette now. Or rather, the golden figure who had taken the blow for her.
Ser Solton, fists clenched, with Durene in the middle of a village.
Gamel, whispering to Laken Godart.
Ser Markus and Rabbiteater, on a ship at sea.
Knight-Commander Calirn and the heads of the Seasons in their headquarters.
The Order of the Thirsting Veil, the Knights of Drell—[Knights] locked on the place where the arrow had finally stopped.
What they saw were—the walls of Liscor. A trough of dirt had been dug through the heavy snows. Overturned dirt. The arrow had kept going—and its target had been pressed into the walls before the arrow halted.
There he lay. Golden armor ruined. Blood spilling into the snow. A fallen man.
A [Knight].
Then—he moved as two Thronebearers ran down the hill after him. He stirred.
“Impossible.”
The Bloodfeast Raiders were outraged. But as the [Knight] rose, he seemed as incredulous as they were. He rose—and when he got to his feet and looked at the crater in the wall where the arrow had stopped, he saw the same thing as everyone else.
He had left something behind. 
Ser Lormel touched his left hand to the blood running from his stump of a shoulder. Then—at the arrow which had struck its target. It had torn his shield and arm from his body. He staggered, and his blood touched the snow.
But the [Princess] was alive. She was running from the inn, screaming his name as he stood there.
In front of his family’s eyes. His Order and Their Majesties of Calanfer watching. All of Calanfer, perhaps, saw Ser Lormel touch at his shoulder and his face twist in pain. Then he looked up and did what no lesser [Knight] would have the presence of mind to do.
That golden [Knight]-for-show. That Thronebearer? He raised his good hand to the sky. Raised it high and smiled despite the pain across his face.
And his peers leapt to their feet and cheered him. For there stood a [Knight]. Arrogant with self-satisfied pride. He had fulfilled his every duty.
Then he fell, and his fellows picked him up. Amidst cheering and knightly honor and broken armor and blood.
 
——
 
The [Bandit Lord], Korizan, knew he had lost. Nothing was going his way. No [Princess]. The [Innkeeper] had returned—and they had wasted too much time on this.
“Reinhart’s carriage is coming, boss. They might actually come for us.”
“Fine. We won’t linger. Pack it up. Where’s the [Shepherd]?”
“Someone’s got her.”
“Fine.”
Korizan turned away—and there she was. Erin Solstice. She uttered no more threats. They were beyond it. She had that gaze he had seen on his former crew in the Bloodtear Pirates. If they ever met, one would die.
Join the lists of my enemies. He spat at her feet. He was tired. The [Bandit Lord] heard a whisper from his side.
“B-boss.”
Vendyne was nervous. Korizan swung his head slightly, and his visible eye widened dangerously. It looked like cracks of pale yellow amidst gray stone.
“I don’t want to hear it, Vendyne.”
“I know. But boss—someone wants to speak to you right now. About the [Knight]? It’s a Face.”
Korizan nearly drew his sword there and then. But he slowly picked up the stone.
“I am not in a good mood.”
“Then we won’t take up your time, sir.”
No guesses on who it was. Korizan just snarled into the speaking stone.
“That [Knight] isn’t one of yours. Which one is this? Wilovan or Ratici?”
