She would not say. But Jewel did. She had a [Message] scroll, and her voice rose in genuine fear.
“The Bloodfeast Raiders.”
Everyone but Antherr froze a second. Normen just reached for his helmet and put the gauntlet back on his hand that he’d been polishing. Ah. He had known it already, in his heart.
“H-here? But they—they attacked Celum, and it’s been blizzarding! The Raiders? Are you sure?”
Vess squeaked. Ama was looking around for somewhere to hide.
“We’ve got to get to the waystation. No, back to Celum! That’s why there was weather magic all over the place. How many?”
Zanze was more insistent as his head whirled, and there was a terror in his eyes too. Every [Driver] feared them.
“Where?”
Jewel was reading from the [Message] her teammates had sent.
“The village of Salefenwool. They’ve already started the attack. It’s on the news. Salefenwool. Is that close to Rheirgest?”
Normen didn’t need to look at a map to know the answer. He just met Erin’s eyes.
“Yes.”
Why else would she be here? Why else would she say…?
“Don’t go, Normen.”
He was swinging down from the wagon and approaching one of the thick, undead horses lashed to the front next to Sillias. The [Knight] reached for the reins—then just produced a knife and sawed at one lead.
“Normen? What’re you…?”
All he had to do was follow those clouds. They were distant—but the horses that Rheirgest had made were undead. They could plough through the snow, and—he judged it to be at least fifteen miles.
A long ways through the snow, but an undead horse could gallop without end. He might take half an hour to get there with all the covered roads. But the [Knight] was focused.
“Horse Two—gallop. That way.”
He gave the undead instructions, and it broke into a gallop so fast it threw him from the back. He landed, cursing, and Ama clapped her hands.
“Horse Two, stop! Return!”
It trotted back over as the undead obeyed the spells. Then there was a babble of voices around him.
“Normen, you’re not serious. There are sixty of them, and they’re the Bloodfeast Raiders. My entire team wouldn’t—”
Jewel. Another voice was speaking.
“Antherr, stop him. You—Vess! Stop both of them.”
The Soldier fell off the second horse. He was as bad at riding as Normen, worse because the Soldier had never been made to sit on an animal. But Normen could, however bony the horse was. It had been reinforced. He pulled himself up, and someone grabbed his arm.
“Normen. You heard her. It’s them. That’s no [Bandit] group.”
Zanze. Normen barely heard him over the sound of pulsing blood in his ears. He shook the [Driver]’s hand off him, or tried to.
“Normen—”
“Go back to Celum without me. But don’t stop me or I will lay you to the ground.”
Zanze hesitated. The earnest, brave [Driver] had a wild look of fear in his eyes. But when he saw Normen’s face, his grip firmed. He put another hand on Normen’s shoulder—
The [Knight] punched him. He felt bad, because he had forgotten he was wearing gauntlets. He opened a cut on the man’s jaw—and Zanze went down without a sound. Then—Normen was on the horse again.
“Horse Two, trot. That way.”
It broke into a slower gait. Shouting behind him. Normen clung to the horse, realizing the lack of a saddle and reins meant he could only grip at the tethers and bones as the animal surged forwards.
“Normen!”
Jewel caught up to him. The [Swashbuckler] ran through the snow, sword drawn. She took a swipe at the horse’s legs, but her enchanted blade only bounced off the strengthened bone. Erin must have told her to bring down the horse.
“Let me go.”
“You’ll die. Stop—”
He raised his mace and wasn’t sure when he’d drawn it. Only that it was burning—and Jewel halted as if she could hear the new Skill in the back of his mouth.
[Weapon Art: The Bonfire Rages].
He’d use it. It might come back by the time he got to his destination. But then a thought occurred to him, and he pointed.
[Gravesummon Skeleton Retainer]!
It appeared from an orange portal in the ground, dragging itself out of the snow. A grinning pair of bright orange flames in faintly yellowed bones. A simple helmet and worn set of chainmail on its frame and hatchet and shield in hand. It charged at Jewel, and she navigated around it—but the horse ran on.
“Normen! Stop!”
She was a [Swashbuckler], not a Runner. By the time she was forced to behead the skeleton, he had a thousand paces on her, and the horse had found some solid ground in the snow. So—no one could stop him.
Perhaps Ama could have, but she was not Pisces and couldn’t deconstruct undead that were not her own so easily. And Rheirgest had made these horses and entrusted them to him.
There was only one person who could halt Normen now. She stood there, appearing in the snow as he passed her by.
“Normen—stop.”
Erin Solstice tried to use her aura on him. He actually felt it, even at this remove. He flinched—it was like a pressing hand, and the undead horse faltered, but he kept going.
“I said stop. You aren’t ready!”
The second time, she appeared from behind a snowdrift he rode around. She pointed a finger—and something flashed out and hit the horse in the face.
How…?
He landed with a thump as the undead horse reared, as if it had been in actual pain. The [Witch] panted as a spark of—a magical fish?—vanished. She looked at him as he lay there, and he realized he had to speak.
His jaw was clenched so hard that moving it was difficult.
“They’re killing everyone in the village. Am I too late?”
He got to his knees and called after the horse. Erin looked at him, and he wondered what she was seeing. No, there were sounds behind her. She must be using the [World’s Eye Theatre] to see him—but someone was watching the scrying orb in the background.
The faintest sounds of a male voice speaking, a scream as faint as…and the sound of Lyonette telling Ser Sest to take Mrsha and Nanette away. Now.
His hearing was impeccable. He felt every movement in his armor. And he saw Erin looking at him. She was still on her feet.
“You aren’t ready, Normen. Not for this. If I thought you had one chance in a hundred…I’d consider it. You don’t have any chance. Not at all. Magnolia knows what’s going on. Tyrion, even Larra and Chaldion. If anyone can do something, it’s them right now. Or—Niers or someone else watching. Wistram is broadcasting it. They’re all watching.”
That gave him pause. Normen looked up.
“Can anyone make it?”
Her eyes flickered, and she didn’t say ‘yes’. So he got to his feet and pulled himself into the saddle.
“Normen. I will destroy that horse if I have to. I won’t let you kill yourself. That’s not why I asked you if you were willing to be a [Knight].”
She had tears in her eyes. She was seeing something and telling him to stop. He? He did not need to imagine what was happening. And he knew she was right.
Erin had a hand raised, and magic was gathering again. So Normen spoke. He was not a man of words, and he didn’t even think. He just said what was in his chest. That burning flame she had given him that called him.
Green flames flickering away in the distance. Eyes that saw honor—and if he turned away, now, he would never see it again in a mirror. Normen met Erin’s eyes.
“You asked me to be a protector, a champion, Miss Erin. A hero to those who don’t deserve a second chance. A man who will do what is right.”
“What if doing what’s right means nothing? If it’s pointless—”
She didn’t believe it. Normen began to ride. He looked at her as he passed.
“I would go anyways. You only get one chance. There is no next time. Not for them. Not for me.”
Erin Solstice reached out as if to stop him, her illusory arm grasping…and then she stopped. He passed her, and she had no strength to stop him. So he rode—and Erin shouted at his back.
“Then go, my [Knight]! And don’t die. I’ll send everything I have with you. [Boon of the Guest: Rabbiteater]!”
She shouted, and he passed under those first clouds and into darkness. But the [Knight] grinned like a Goblin, and he felt, for a moment, like a champion without equal. He felt like a dead man, and he wondered if Crimshaw were grinning wherever he had gone. Then he began to hum a familiar tune.
 
——
 
The Bloodfeast Raiders were not laughing. Laughter implied they found it all hilarious, the smoke rising from the village, the bodies strewn on the ground.
The senior members, the ones who simply stood and let the other Raiders rampage, were working. They were bored, even, or calculating, with the same look as the [Pirate] captains and the [Bandit Lord], their masked leader himself.
He stood out; his clothing was red like a stain of blood, and he sat on a broken piece of fence, sword planted in the back of the [Mayor]. Watching with bored eyes, the only visible part of his face behind the layers of fabric concealing his identity.
No one could remember his features afterwards, even if some knew his name. None of the Raiders stood out.
One was a Drake.
One was a spearman.
One had a flying carpet.
But even if these details were…there…the power of the [Bandit Lord] meant they just didn’t connect. Their artifacts meant that no one could put together any clues. And everyone had tried.
They struck at random, far from places where help could appear. Magnolia Reinhart had to watch the slaughter at Salefenwool. She had sent Reynold and a full carriage of [Combat Maids]…but Ressa had ordered them to slow.
There were sixty Raiders there. With her famed carriage, they might have had a chance. Without? She was not about to let Reynold and her people die to no good end.
The same with Tyrion. The same with the other Five Families. The Raiders did not fight where there was a chance they might be caught and held to task. Even if Mihaela Godfrey were to appear…
Even she would not. Not with this many.
Watch. The hamlet was burning. Half the thatched roofs were aflame, snow dousing parts of the fire, but the magical blaze was too strong, even in winter. Yet it was not a wildfire.
It was calculated to drive the hiding occupants out. Animals were fleeing the barns, and people were in the streets. Some had gone plunging through the snow—others were trying to hide in it. It was no use.
[Detect Life]. A bowman or bowwoman—it was impossible to say—was loosing arrows from a watchtower. The dead [Archer] they had killed was hanging from the side. The arrows shot into the snow, and there was, mercifully, no sound.
“If you want to live, don’t run! I see you! All six of you!”
The archer was shouting. They loosed another arrow—and gestured.
“Into the village! No?”
Another arrow followed. Then four figures stumbled out of the snow, hands raised.
And that sound rose. Not laughter. It came from the Raiders enjoying the moment, not their bored minders. It was…giggling.
Giggling, like naughty children doing something they knew was wrong. They probably thought it was laughter, but it wasn’t full-throated, genuine. It was the giggling of someone knowing what they did was wrong, taking no responsibility as they hid. Children playing a game with no consequences.
Look at the spearman. He was lazily taking on four desperate armed villagers. Two had spears, one a sword, and the last just a quarterstaff.
The spearmaster held them all off, whirling the enchanted spear, blocking, parrying, stabbing back—but only enough to keep his opponents from advancing. Showing off. It wasn’t a fair fight. He had levels, enchanted armor, and a spear. Only when he got bored did he stab the first man through the leg. The cry was followed by a choked scream as the [Spearmaster] buried the spear up to his hands in the chest.
“Aw. Gross. It’s stuck.”
He groused as blood ran over his hands. Then looked at the dying grip of the warrior. The other three rushed forwards, and the [Spearmaster] cursed.
“Bastards—”
The archer in the tower took aim, but he tore the spear through the body and whirled it.
“[Viper Strike]! [Needle Rush]—[Dance of the Mantis]!”
His jabbing spear took another villager through the head and then stabbed and stabbed another until he transitioned into a slashing attack on the third and cut them apart from the ribs. Three corpses fell, and some of the other Raiders laughed.
“They almost got you, ████.”
“This rabble? Never. That’s…seventeen.”
The [Spearmaster] did a count with a finger, hoisting the bloody spear across his shoulders. A Drake with a single dagger kicked another warrior off her blade and turned.
The [Mayor] was still alive. The sword was buried in his back, but he was bleeding out. He was trying to move or do anything, but the leader of the Bloodfeast Raiders just sat there, ignoring the man’s pleas and attempts to get him to stop. To do—anything.
This was the first five minutes of the raid. But many of the villagers were alive. The initial slaughter had slowed, and desperate men and women holding blades, even children, were backing away from the Raiders as they ceased their onslaught.
They were all staring up at the skies. The [Nightclouds] swirling overhead were allowing a ray of light to illuminate the village; it seemed as if the rest of the world were gone save for a spotlight of blue skies here. Then—someone called out.
“Here it comes! Get ready.”
The giggling grew louder. Then—the lights went out.
Darkness. The village of Salefenwool was plunged into it. The villagers screamed, then called out in confusion because they were not dead.
“What’s going on? What’s happening? Don’t flee. Don’t—”
The [Mayor] was gasping, trying to understand. He feared they were being butchered in silence. But then, after barely a minute of darkness—
The [Nightclouds] swirled away, and the light shone down. Only this time, the Bloodfeast Raiders were gone.
All of them. Including their leader. His sword was still there—but they were gone.
“What—what’s going on?”
The town’s [Smith] lowered a hammer, his other arm hanging limp, cut down to the bone by one of the knifemaster’s onslaughts until she grew bored. He looked around—and then called out.
“Mayor! Let me—”
“Stay back! It’s a trap! Get your family.”
The dying man screamed at him. He tried to raise his head, and the [Smith] halted. He looked around, chest heaving. Then shouted.
“Midias!”
His wife. The second thought he had was for—he turned, and a woman shouted.
“Lastere, here!”
He turned with relief, and a woman waved at him. Then a voice screamed, shrieked.
“No! Don’t go to her!”
The same voice. Midias’ twice? Lastere halted—turned—
