“Wilovan. Sir. And I might just say that you are entitled to your decisions as it were, sir. But, sir. We would like that man to live. And I speak for all the Brothers of Izril right at this point. If he dies, we will address our complaints to you in person.”
Korizan’s gloved hand crunched the speaking stone without a word. The [Innkeeper] was looking at him. He thought for a second, then raised his hand.
“Kill everyone in the village. Watch for a carriage.”
“And the [Knight]?”
A war with the Brothers? Korizan just shrugged.
“Let’s give him his chance. Cover him with oil and tar. Burn him alive in his armor.”
When they heard that, the Raiders grew excited. They called for pots of oil and produced alchemical mixes. The [Innkeeper] shouted.
“No. Stop! Normen—”
He was fighting still. Korizan heard the screaming begin as the Raiders began to wet their blades. He should have just ignored the [Knight], had him killed, then finished the slaughter. Next time, he wouldn’t make the same mistake.
He locked eyes with that [Knight] and saw wet liquid dripping from his armor. It gave Korizan no small pleasure as Erin Solstice cursed him. He took a wand from Vendyne’s hand and shrugged.
Korizan glanced down at the wild eyes in the man struggling to break free of his chains. He bent down slightly.
“You know. You could have not come. You knew it was going to turn out like this. All the bravado in the world I’d expect from a fool. But not a former Brother. Why did you come?”
He was curious. For a second, Korizan met Normen’s gaze, and the man rasped.
“Why?”
“Yes, why not wait? This was all pointless. You saved no one. Broke one person’s nose. Why now?”
The dead man stopped struggling for an instant—and looked up. And he spat back in Korizan’s face.
“Because it’s today, you bastard. Today, and never tomorrow! A man cannot wait for his hour to come again.”
The [Bandit Lord] gazed down at Normen, baffled. He understood the words, but he shook his head.
“Well said, I suppose.”
He aimed the wand down. Then a tongue of flames lit the man, and he began to burn in his armor. And this was no honorable green flame.
Tongues of black smoke seemed to cling to the bright blue metal, and the fire rolled across the Demas Metal in a fascinating way as Korizan watched for a second. It covered him in a flash, and he made not a sound as he struggled. They’d lashed him to a post with all the ropes they had, even a chain meant for someone they took for Roshal.
He was heaving—but he was burning in that metal, and brave as he was—Korizan heard a rising shout of agony at last. No one could burn without a sound.
The [Innkeeper] stared at her [Knight] as he burned. Korizan walked past her and gave her a salute with two fingers.
“Enjoy your victory, Miss Solstice.”
She didn’t even look at him. She just—stood there. She was reaching out, trying to touch him—and he thought she was speaking to that man alone. Standing so close as he burned and his flesh melted away.
When she turned—he hoped she noticed the dead. Korizan would have smiled then—but he was too angry. And when he looked up, he heard the faintest of voices. As haughty and self-righteous as that [Innkeeper]. Then Korizan snarled. Then he cursed them all and this changing world.
The voice was male and deep. It was breathless—
And it sounded like—
“[Covering Fire].”
 
——
 
Reynold was taking cover behind the carriage and exchanging long-range fire with the Bloodfeast Raiders.
He’d run into a [Fireball]—because it was that or be hit by one of the archer Skills. The [Maids], including Bekia, had bailed out, and they were using the wreckage as cover.
There was no chance they’d get to Normen in time. They were pinned down, and the only reason they were alive was probably because the Raiders were pulling out.
If he could have run them over—he was listening to Ressa as she snapped orders.
“They are slaughtering the villagers, Reynold. Can you get out of there and force them back?”
He peeked once and nearly took an arrow to the face. His magical legs were glowing, and he wondered if he could sprint out there. But they had at least one [Spearmaster]—
“I’m sorry, Ressa. I won’t make it. Bekia, keep your head down.”
“Understood.”
Behind Ressa’s tense face, Magnolia was shouting at an old man. Demsleth.
“That’s why you wanted me to fix your carriage? You do that with it?”
“How do you not—your worthless memories! Yes, that’s why I need them!”
“I thought it was because you just wanted to travel fast. I…”
“Can you stop them?”
The old man looked wretched as he stared at Reynold.
“I don’t think I can make it in time even if I could shut down the scrying spells. Do I have five minutes?”
“No.”
Then he closed his eyes. Reynold sat there and saw one of the [Maids] grasping at her belly. A shard of something had struck her there. They were bleeding, and she might be poisoned.
But they were so close, and the villagers…he closed his eyes. Normen had been the only person to go there when it mattered, and he was burning alive. A living torch.
Then Reynold opened his eyes as he heard the crunch of snow. And a loud voice. He looked up—and his mouth opened as the second person shouted breathlessly.
“[Covering Fire]! I said—[Covering Fire]!”
Lord Xitegen Terland ran past Reynold and the [Maids]. They stared at him. He was…sprinting through the snow.
A huge man, stomach moving with each step, a big eater, a [Lord] of the Terland family—and as Capoinelia had noticed—he had huge thighs.
He was running. Like all big men who could move fast, he sprinted across the ground, and his voice was followed by…
Nothing. The Raiders took one look at Lord Xitegen and stared. One took aim at him—and then another pointed up.
“Up! Take cover! Rhir’s hells—”
Then the skies turned black. A shadow passed over Reynold’s head, and he looked up as arrows began falling. Not one. Not a hundred. A thousand came down in the first volley. And then another.
“Who—”
No one in the world could fire that many. What kind of [Archer]? Bekia, a seasoned archer herself, was staring up in disbelief. Ressa snapped at Reynold.
“What’s going on? Who was that?”
“Lord Xitegen! He just called in thousands of arrows—”
They were raining around the village, and even the Raiders took cover. Ressa’s eyes widened.
“Xitegen? Arrows? Those must be his Golems! The ones he pulled from—”
Then it clicked. Reynold remembered the artillery-Golems that could spit thousands of arrows. He looked around, but there was no sight of them.
They could fire incredibly far. And if he was using a Skill—
The Bloodfeast Raiders were trying to target the [Lord]. But Xitegen was running without stopping, and his bracer was glowing. He pointed it at the furious leader of the Bloodfeast Raiders, and an arrow stopped ten feet from him as one of his rings flashed.
“Izril is the home of the Five Families. I will see your heads on pikes, you worthless, opportunistic maggots. To arms! Save those villagers and that [Knight]!”
He waved—and Reynold and the [Maids] abandoned their cover. They began attacking, firing wands and crossbows from their position on the ridge. But they were still outnumbered.
Kill the [Lord] and Reinhart’s servants. Their leader had lost his patience. The Bloodfeast Raiders began to charge—but then one looked up and uttered a soft oath.
“Oh shit. Boss? Xitegen’s not going to stop.”
The Raider backed up—and the furious [Bandit Lord] looked up, and his eyes widened. Lord Xitegen pointed at the Raiders. He said—
“[COVERING FIRE].”
The arrows rained down again without a good target. The [Bandit Lord]’s Skill was in full effect—but the arrows were still falling.
Did he just use the same Skill? Reynold turned his head—and Bekia growled.
“I am going to shoot the post that [Knight] is hanging on. Cover me!”
“Done!”
Xitegen heard her, and as the Raiders were poking their heads up, he sucked in more air. He was still running, dodging spells. Reynold remembered he normally stayed with the Terlands in their comfortable coastal retreats.
He had seen enough of war during the Second Antinium War. He’d nearly starved to death in a keep under siege. The arrows that had kept the Goblins back hadn’t filled any stomachs, and he had been the sole member of his family to emerge.
Lord Xitegen raised his hand and howled.
“[Again, and Again, and Ever Again]! [Covering Fire]! Until every arrow in Izril is spent—[Covering Fire]!”
Four times. His Skill kept arrows raining down, a fortune of wood and metal—and the Raiders realized he’d never stop. They began to retreat—and an arrow struck the post where a limp figure was hanging.
Ser Normen fell with a crash of embers and flames, and the Bandit Lord snarled. He pointed, and the Raiders began to fall back. But the rest were still trying to kill the villagers. One was just going around with a sword, beheading the kneeling figures as fast as they could.
The Raider looked up only when they heard the order to retreat. They turned—and saw a [Knight] on his knees. The Raider lifted the sword and ran at him.
He was nearly motionless as he pulled the helmet from his face. Erin Solstice looked down—and reached for the burned face, weeping. Hair turned to ash. Flesh red. Only one eye could see. His helmet fell to the ground, and he had no strength left. He was dying.
But—[His Hat Held Wrath]. The [Raider] swung their sword at his neck, and Normen threw his helmet.
 
——
 
Reynold ran into the village. His magical legs that Teriarch had given him plowed through the snow. A blur of motion. Even the Raiders shooting at him missed. 
The [Butler] had sword in hand, but he grabbed the [Knight] and began to drag him towards the [Maids] and Xitegen. The villagers were running.
He was prepared to be struck—but the Raiders were fleeing the arrows. But what had happened to…?
Reynold stared up—and slowed as he saw a Raider flying through the air. Then he ran faster.
 
——
 
The helmet had exploded. Korizan was sick of tricks. He was sick of Xitegen—but the first inkling of true danger was when he saw one of the younger Raiders being sent flying by Normen.
The [Knight] was burned to a crisp, but he had still sent the masked figure tumbling and flying through the snow. Their Ring of Stoneskin had saved them from harm—and the figure was getting to their feet, screaming bloody vengeance.
“Get over here! Now!”
Vendyne was shouting at them, but they were aiming a shortbow and a bunch of enchanted bolts they’d stolen from their family’s armories. But Korizan was eying how far they’d flown—and then he began running.
Too slow. Someone had been watching the entire battle, and they were not on Wistram’s delay, but a personal scrying spell. He felt it as the Raider, just outside his personal aegis, froze.
A finger pointed down, and a Fraerling spoke:
[Mark Target].
The Raider screamed as a bulls-eye appeared on their chest. They began running, and several Raiders reached for scrolls—but it was too late.
“There! [Pinpoint Volley]!”
Then arrows fell. And fell and fell and—
The first just snapped on the cloth armor. Struck the figure down—but more hammered into their back as they tried to crawl. Then they began piercing the cloth, overwhelming the enchantment. They rained down—and the corpse was already a needle cushion of arrows. But the arrows still kept following. And then—Korizan turned and grimaced. No potion would have saved them from that.
“They just killed ██████████.”
Someone whispered into the shocked silence. Korizan snapped.
“That idiot didn’t fall back. Let’s go.”
“We have to kill them. We have to—”
“Stay in the aegis!”
Vendyne snapped. Their archer, Nerised, reached for an enchanted arrow. Then she began to cough.
“Something’s wrong. Boss.”
She bent over, tore her mask from her face, and began vomiting…mice. Korizan turned—and saw one of her fingers flash. One of her rings exploded and tore the flesh away. He saw what skin was visible break out into huge hives—and she clawed at her face.
“Wh-what’s going on?”
Gilam panicked, but Korizan exhaled.
“Curses. [Witches]. Cut the scrying spell. We’re leaving. Someone torch the body after looting it.”
“But—”
The Raiders fell silent. Then Korizan began to laugh. He laughed, and some of the outrage, some of the annoyance vented from him as the young [Lords] and [Ladies] turned to him. They didn’t get it.
They thought this was a disaster. But—he laid it out to them as he mounted his waiting horse.
“Children. One of our number is sadly—dead. The [Lords] and [Ladies] of Izril, nay, world powers are after us. We have well and truly become the most feared gang of Izril. Your names will be legends—if ever they knew them. Next time, we’ll have to slaughter real opponents. It’s going to be miserable.”
They looked at him as if he were mad. Then someone whooped—and the Raiders looked at each other and realized they’d gotten what he promised them.
They were monsters. They were on the scrying orbs. They were…laughing as they went. Vendyne dragged the cursed Nerised away, and Korizan looked back the way he’d come. Then and only then his smile vanished.
Erin Solstice.
What an annoying woman. He hoped she suffered for her meddling. But if they were going to play a game of knives, she had made one mistake.
He didn’t really care about losing his Raiders. But she was still kneeling over that distant figure in armor. A burnt ember.
Her Knight of Solstice.
 
——
 
A long silence fell in that aftermath. Somewhere else—people were making noise. Magnolia Reinhart knew it full well. She was watching as her people surrounded Normen and the first of his friends made it.
An Antinium, finally reaching the village, greatsword in hand, a bounding cat made of bones and the terrified [Necromancer], Gold-rank adventurer Jewel…
She didn’t recognize the Drake or [Driver]. Magnolia just listened to Ressa giving orders. She spoke; her [Lady] was silent.
A long, brooding silence that was only interrupted as Demsleth turned away. He only paused at the door.
“You’re not going to ask me to heal them?”
“You would refuse.”
She still surprised him, sometimes. The old man wavered. She didn’t turn her head. He was the one who made an excuse. As if he needed to justify it.
“The [Healers] will never learn if I do it for them. That arrow was meant to kill—I was never a fine healer either. He has a chance. A decent one, I think, if…do you understand?”
“Yes. Farewell.”
And if I asked you to burn that group from the skies, as I have again? Or just tell me their names?
