“Mm. Not many of my acquaintances are happy about it.”
Elia fidgeted. Halrac was not giving her much to work with. She smiled slightly.
“Mine neither. Captain Halrac, shall I cut to the chase? I realize you may not wish to talk today after all the distressing events.”
“Mm.”
She faltered and then went on—
“But I must speak with you regarding a contract my team and I are on. A lucrative one. I’ve engaged two other teams to help me, actually. I was hoping to talk to yours about it.”
A contract? And she needed three teams including his? Halrac sat up a bit…and a part of his mind suddenly came awake. But he pushed the realization aside as he frowned.
“Which ones?”
Elia had to think a second.
“The…Spoken Vow, I believe a Gold-rank team. They’re a capable bunch of fighters, which my team likes. Do you know them?”
Halrac was grimacing.
“That’s a new team. They’re fairly green. They fought at Orefell and lost a teammate.”
“They were up to seven when I spoke with them.”
“They must have recruited. They’re a Gold-rank team, not all individually Gold-rank.”
Elia paused a moment and nodded.
“Ah. Well, they’re mostly there to hold any line and give us numbers. But we also have Cosmenaut, the Duelist of First Landing, with us.”
Another Named-rank? Halrac paused with his shot glass raised.
“He’s Gold-bell, isn’t he?”
“Mhm. He’s come from First Landing, albeit belatedly. Every Named-rank is heading south, it seems. The New Lands call.”
Elia didn’t seem called, but she did seem very happy to have a Named-rank on her team. If Halrac remembered right, Cosmenaut wasn’t actually much of a monster-slayer. He took on brigands and [Bandits]. He’d made a name dueling in First Landing, and you called on him to discipline other adventurers or take down [Pillagers].
The prickles on his spine were getting worse. But he forced himself to nod.
“Sounds like it’s mostly melee and bows. That’s…two [Mages] in total.”
“Yes, well, Arcsinger’s Bows doesn’t have that much magic, and my Skill tends to fill the gap. But we could use more [Mages].”
“And you want Revi and Typhenous?”
“Are those your teammates? No…that is, we would like to hire you. But it’s not exactly the same matter. I suppose we’re looking for a noncompetition agreement. I realize it might be difficult, but I’m prepared to recompense you.”
Now every alarm bell was ringing. Ringing…and Halrac played dumb.
“Why would we be competing?”
Elia was smiling, and he realized she was uncomfortable as well. She looked at Halrac. Away. Then she dropped the hammer.
“It’s my understanding you work for the [Emperor] of…the Unseen Empire, Halrac. As it happens—my team has been engaged to work in that region very shortly. I would like your team not to interfere with my team’s work. Tomorrow. I’m prepared to pay you in case this offends your employer.”
He knew what she was saying. Knew it, and it still took his breath away. He didn’t say anything, so Elia went on.
“I’m prepared to offer you two thousand gold coins. You needn’t take part. But I do not make it a policy to fight other adventurers, and I thought I would be up-front about the issue, rather than force you to lose face in the moment. I’m—”
“Goblins. You’re talking about the Goblins.”
Halrac said it, and Elia stopped. The famous half-Elf turned her head and gave Halrac a smile. He didn’t return it.
“—My team has been hired to destroy a group of Goblins in Izril, Halrac. A standard contract for us.”
“Those Goblins are under the protection of Riverfarm and Emperor Laken Godart.”
He hadn’t been mistaken. When she’d come to him, Halrac had thought at once it had to do with Goblins. But his first thought had been that it was for the Goblins of Goblinhome, and he’d been wondering if he had to warn them.
This? This was—incredible. Halrac spoke slowly.
“Emperor Laken is employing my team. He owns the entire region, and he has declared Goblins his citizens. They have their own lands. If your team was hired—I would advise you to retract your services, Captain Elia. Because the [Emperor] has an army.”
Elia frowned.
“And you think he’d use it to protect Goblins? On Izril of all places? The Goblin King’s rampage—and there was a Goblin Lord just last year!”
“I know. He was there. I was there. But he refuses to let anyone touch them. Your team would never get near them, Captain Elia. And my team would certainly be called to defend them.”
Elia fiddled with her bow. She had it strapped to her back, and now she took it off her back and flexed it. It was golden and had five crests pressed into the old wood. The Bow of Izril’s Shores, Arcsinger’s Bow.
Halrac’s was invisible and in his bag of holding. Elia glanced up at him.
“Captain, I’ve been hired to fulfill my calling. I am Elia Arcsinger—and I do not let Goblins thrive. I came to Izril to slay the Goblin Lord. Now, I have been hired by one of the powers of Izril to eradicate a possible infestation of them.”
Infestation. Halrac knew the term was an adventurer one, and he might have used it before. But it sounded so…odd, now. He frowned at her.
“Which power? Lord Veltras?”
“I’m not at liberty to say, Halrac. But I am asking your team to stand by. We would hate to force the issue.”
“I will not break my promise to Laken Godart. Griffon Hunt do not break contract.”
Halrac’s mind was whirling. Elia raised her hands.
“Oh, no. Captain Halrac—you needn’t do it outright if you think that will look poorly. Is that what you thought? Forgive me. Let me clarify: you could take your team far enough away that you couldn’t answer the call. It will be finished swiftly, I promise. That’s what I meant. Two thousand gold pieces and we will keep it between us.”
She smiled, looking relieved by the silly misunderstanding. Halrac? Halrac stared at Elia and shook his head.
“I am not going to take your coins, Elia Arcsinger.”
“Three thousand is the absolute most I can do, Captain Everam. And that would cut into our margins and the other teams’ as well. This is all compensation; the others are just here to hold off a few Goblins. My Skill should rout them instantly. They are mostly there to keep anyone else from interfering, really. It’s an hour’s job. I truly can’t negotiate, and Toreel would have started at five hundred gold coins. But I want to make sure you don’t feel cheated if your employer is angry.”
She sounded so reasonable. As if she were genuinely trying to do Halrac a favor against her advisors’ judgment. Halrac spoke slowly.
“Elia. I am not haggling over the price. I am saying—I cannot accept the gold.”
Elia’s smile faltered, and she developed a concerned frown.
“Oh. Then if your employer is too prickly, or you think it really will reflect on you, we could possibly arrange—”
“I am not going to let you kill those Goblins. Your team cannot do this, Captain Elia Arcsinger. Laken Godart will not permit it. And if you show up—tomorrow, you said? My team will be right there with an army.”
Then she froze up. Elia gave Halrac an incredulous look. She searched his face, up and down.
“—Captain Everam. They’re Goblins.”
“I know. There’s an inn that hires them. Have you never met Erin Solstice?”
Elia hesitated and bit her lip.
“Everyone talks about her to me. But I—no. I’ve exchanged words with her once, but never actually talked with her personally. She is clearly fond of Goblins, and I doubt she and I would see eye-to-eye. I have met rare people like that, you know. Who have never seen Goblins up close or who are ambivalent. Your [Emperor] must be one of them. But you, Captain Halrac, have seen Goblins. You must have. You’ve fought and killed Goblins.”
“…Yes I have.”
“Then you understand this is more than just a contract. Please, Captain. I know this may be difficult, especially if you are friends with the [Innkeeper]. But I have a job to do. And with all due respect—tomorrow, two Named-ranks will attack a handful of Goblins. Three teams. I have not often fought adventurers. I would not wish your team to be injured, or worse.”
She met his eyes, and Halrac stood. He shoved his chair back and looked her in the eye.
“You will be attacking an [Emperor]’s subjects. I will not stand by. You cannot buy my team’s silence, Elia. Nor do you understand. These Goblins—it’s not just these Goblins. They have attacked no one.”
“Yet.”
She met his eyes, alarmed, as if she were talking to a madman. Worse, he knew how she must feel. But Halrac just shook his head. He turned to the door, stared at the crack leading to the hallway and flickering light. Then turned back to face Elia.
“You won’t reach them. You saw Erin Solstice stand up for Numbtongue? The Goblin in her inn? She will bring down the wrath of Pallass, her inn, and all her friends on you. This is not a joke. I cannot allow you to kill them, and Laken has an army.”
“I have been assured that will not be my issue. Besides, my team needs twenty minutes. We could go through the door tonight.”
“Erin will never let you into her inn.”
Elia glanced past Halrac.
“I worried about that—and I wished you would agree. Captain, won’t you change your mind? You know what a Goblin King does.”
He just looked at her, and all the arguments that Goblins were not all the Goblin King, a silly Goblin with a poofy hat, the chance that they had—seeing a Goblin weeping for his brothers, being saved by them, and an [Innkeeper]’s slow perspective on Antinium and Goblins—
All of it flashed through his mind in a moment. But he didn’t say any of it. Halrac just turned—and his punch hit the first adventurer in the face.
The missing [Rogue Marksman] went over instead of touching Halrac with the dagger. He’d been outside. 
This was an ambush! A damn—Halrac went for the door as he heard a shout.
“Get him!”
He was in the hallways, and he saw the rest of Arcsinger’s Bows moving. Capoinelia swung her bow off her back, and he shoulder-charged into her. The two [Warriors] were groaning and blocking one side—so Halrac reversed.
He ran straight into a fist. The Captain of Spoken Vow, Mickey, swung into him with a punch that knocked Halrac down. He grimaced.
“Sorry, Captain Halrac. But you’re up against Elia Arcsinger. Be reasonable. Come on.”
Halrac just rolled to get up—but he ate a boot to the chest. Because it was his armor, Captain Mickey cursed at the impact. Then he froze as Halrac aimed an arrow at him.
His invisible bow was nigh-impossible to see, but the pose and arrow nocked wasn’t. [Dangersense] had to be going off.
“Hey now. Don’t do anything stupid. My team’s here and Arcsinger’s. Riz—don’t move! He’s got his enchanted bow!”
The other man warned Halrac, but with a nervous edge to his voice. Halrac got to his feet. One of the other adventurers moved to grab him—he swung the bow around and spoke.
“Try to grab me and I will shoot you dead.”
He was surrounded, and Capoinelia had a bow drawn; Toreel had his longswords drawn.
Both bad choices in a crowded hallway. He had Gold-rankers at his back; the rest of Spoken Vow emerged from their hiding places. But no one wanted to grab him. Even the one Typhenous had called a Face, Riz, hung back, daggers drawn and grinning, watching his arrow. No one wanted to move though.
Halrac would only get one shot before they took him out, but this close?
“It’s an enchanted bow. Halrac, put it down. You’re not getting out of here—”
“No one move. Got it? Captain Everam, don’t be crazy. Do you want your team to be slaughtered? Two Named-ranks—”
He had to tell Laken. Did his army have the ability to stop—
The [Witches]. Erin. Halrac spoke slowly.
“I am going to walk out of here. If you force me to fire, I will. And one of you will die.”
He slowly began to walk, and Capoinelia’s arrow was drawn—he stared her in the eyes as the other adventurers halted. Toreel looked like he might grab Halrac’s arm.
If he did, that arrow would go straight through his neck. Halrac’s eyes were wild and furious. He emerged into the bar, which had gone silent. The [Bartenders] were hiding, the patrons staring.
Loose the arrow, fire another enchanted bolt to make them take cover. Then turn and run. They might be waiting for him to lower his guard before they hit him with a spell. 
So long as he had his bow trained on them, clustered together, they were afraid for their lives, even the two in plate armor. Once he got to range…he just had to get to that door.
Two Named-ranks. His team couldn’t fight that. Would they? Could Saliss…?
Who would Erin ask to die if it came to it?
I should have gone.
This time—Halrac took one more step back and thought of what would happen if his team fought other Gold-ranks. They’d never set foot in Invrisil again. But he couldn’t put down his bow.
Pebblesnatch. Erin—
Fire an arrow and pull a frost one out. Three, two, one—
“Halrac!”
Then he heard a voice that rang like she was on a battlefield. Almost like a play. He saw a flash of golden hair, a fair arm—and Elia Arcsinger stepped out of her room.
Her entire team and Spoken Vow dove. Halrac aimed at her and loosed.
She fired at the exact same time.
Their arrows collided in midair. Halrac’s eyes wavered. He had been aiming for her arm. She’d hit his arrow—
His fingers were in his quiver when he saw that bow raise. And he saw, just once, what the Goblin King had last seen: that fair archer looking so incredibly guilty.
Then the second arrow struck him.
 
——
 
The commotion in a bar in Invrisil and Halrac’s absence didn’t get to The Wandering Inn. Liska had to work until past midnight, and when she finally clocked out, she put Halrac’s absence down to her missing him—or that he’d decided to come back tomorrow.
The inn was somber, anyways. Quiet. An [Innkeeper] sat in the center of the inn as Liska gobbled down weird, bow-tie pasta and sauce.
“This is so good. I’m so hungry.”
“Liska. Shut up.”
She glanced over, about to kick at her brother, but Ishkr was looking at Erin. The [Innkeeper] raised her head when she heard the whispering.
“It’s alright. Liska worked really hard. Do you want leftovers?”
“Um. Y-yeah. Thanks. We love leftovers. I’ve got to run back to the apartment anyways. Unless you can teleport back?”
Ishkr shook his head. Liska was groaning at the thought of having to get back at night. Even with street-torches down the main street and knowing the Watch was larger…she didn’t like it, even with Ishkr.
“Don’t go. We have to have spare rooms. You can stay here. Unless you like your apartment more? Ishkr, you never asked.”
“I didn’t want to take up the guest-rooms, Erin. Liska and I would be two rooms. Plus—I can teleport.”
