“I will need the recipe. And do you have more syrup?”
“Well, I’ll put it back in the next hand if we play it. Two pairs!”
Jiupe slapped down her cards, laughing. Irurx sighed as he revealed two [Kings] and almost a flush of moons, one of the suits. Therrium took the bottle of syrup and perfume.
“Excellent. Three Archmages.”
“You bastard. I’ll trade you a second bottle of syrup for the perfume.”
“Hm. No.”
They were so relaxed. Only Rasea even glanced at the Raiders’ attack with anything like concern for the people. Jiupe disliked it all, but her wrath was greater than any sympathy.
“Oh. They’ve stopped. Look. It’s gone dark.”
Everyone turned, and Therrium saw the skies over the hamlet had turned black. He recognized the spell vaguely—but the village was silent. He didn’t see any magical fire…and was uncertain why the Bloodfeast Raiders had stopped. They could surely see.
So why…?
Ah. When the darkness suddenly cleared, it revealed a group of people in the streets, many without weapons, trying to flee, or save each other, or…
The survivors were trying to hide in the darkness or creep away. When the light resumed, the villagers froze and looked around. And what they saw was—
Familiar faces.
The Raiders were gone. In their place, two women stared at each other. Both were white-faced, with identical cuts on their arms, the same clothing. They began shouting as duplicates…duplicates pointed and claimed the other was fake.
A father was shouting at his family from one side of the street, and the terrified trio were backing away from the same man, walking towards them with arms outstretched.
Desperate looks on both faces. Identical—except for when one grinned, unable to keep the look of glee off the copy of their face. Then—even Captain Therrium’s eyes darkened. Now that was filth.
“I have sworn to kill Korizan some day. He hides well, but if we ever find where he lurks, we’ll walk onto land, we [Captains] of the Bloodtear Armadas. No matter if it takes multiple armadas or we have to attack First Landing itself. But I will touch him before his end.”
Captain Jiupe sounded calm in the silence, and she flexed that jellyfish hand of hers. Poison dripped onto the floorboards, and Therrium decided everything needed to be cleaned—twice.
But then every eye fell on Irurx—because if the Raiders were one kind of misery incarnate, playing a game with lives and desperation as the clouds rolled over and the killing in the dark began—then stopped as the lights came on, a show of their true nature to the world—
That man who sat across from them all was an older legend still. And perhaps—worse.
Irurx sipped from his cup quietly.
“A fine brandy, Captain Therrium. And a disgraceful way to taunt those poor folk. I have seen far worse done—but I see no point in it. Unless, of course, it were my people there. Then, with respect to your sensibilities, I would not bat an eye.”
He took another sip from his cup.
“…Shall we get to business?”
Niceties were done and unlikely to return. Therrium spoke first. Rasea did not seem inclined, and Jiupe was silent. Bloodtear Pirates did have a code. But he had called them here.
“I came to listen, Alchemist Irurx. But I’m unlikely to agree. I have my own…tasks in the near future. In fact, I may make an offer like yours. With no rewards—but I will ask.”
He glanced at Jiupe and Rasea, and both stirred with interest and suspicion. Especially Rasea, who was not a friend of Therrium. Irurx exhaled.
“I would have appreciated your absence, Captain Therrium, despite the welcome. I dislike bidding wars.”
“The underseas know no fair fights, Alchemist. But perhaps you can buy us all.”
“It had better be a price to command an entire Armada. We have work to do. And your target…”
Jiupe paused. No one had asked which one, but there was only one reason you asked three other legends of the sea to join you. Irurx calmly shrugged, then rose to his feet slowly. He stared out the porthole window of Therrium’s cabin at the pouring rain.
Rain, this far south, rarely snow. It warmed as you got closer to Chandrar, and although this might be freezing rain…his voice was soft as he spoke, staring out the window. But intense, and it put a crawl on Therrium’s spine, for he had met Irurx before and seldom heard this—passion.
“My enmity is with few. Very few. Those I call enemies at sea or land—I have often dealt with or accepted my grievances as a matter for time to deal with. But the days change, and I have seen my chances and taken them. Unfortunately—things have gotten more difficult.”
How many ships had he sunk this month alone? Three? Therrium saw Irurx glance over.
“I am not making a light offer to Bloodtear, who I must have. The Drowned Fleets would be another welcome ally, and Captain Rasea has never fled a great battle. This will be one of history.”
Therrium shook his head.
“The odds don’t appeal to me. Even if we win, we will all be marked. You can claim levels or salvage, but there’s no salvaging ships in the middle of a war. And it will be a war.”
“The deed for your gain appeals to me little. That fight—we pick ours as we may, but you had better have a fortune to command a Blood Fleet.”
Jiupe warned Irurx as well. In reply, the [Alchemist] produced something and set it on the table.
“How would four thousand healing potions do? As payment in advance.”
Therrium thought he’d gone deaf for a second. He stared at the glowing bottle on the table and reached for it, but Rasea got to it first. She eyed the bottle, uncorked it, took one sniff, and blinked.
“That’s not bad. That’s…above mid-grade.”
“I could not make anything less at my level. Half now. Half upon receipt.”
Eight thousand—Rasea and Therrium’s eyes swung towards each other, and they almost recoiled. In these days of lacking potions—!
“You mean for Bloodtear.”
Jiupe sat forwards, suddenly very interested by Irurx’s offer. The [Alchemist] nodded equitably.
“I would have to offer far less to the Illuminary, and Captain Therrium’s price is to be negotiated. But for Bloodtear—I think that would appease, wouldn’t it?”
For the most active [Pirate] group at sea that took wounds left and right? When potions were virtually unbuyable with the Eir Kelp Island…?
“How do you have so many? Alchemist or not, that’s an insane amount.”
In reply, Irurx just smiled calmly.
“Captain Therrium. I am the [Alchemist] of the seas. I have every potion, and I can make those that other, lesser [Alchemists] like Saliss of Lights can only dream of. When I caught wind of the shortage, I bought all the remaining Eir Gel or acquired what I could. These are my potions. And I will spend a fortune of fortunes if I must. Money is no object. Captain Jiupe?”
“I…need to speak to the other [Captains] and our [Admiral]. But you have our interest. The payment is good. But is the cause?”
The Bloodtear’s Captain looked troubled. Irurx just sat there. He gave her a slight smile, but his eyes were—writhing now. Writhing with that rage that he never really lost. The mask…the Alchemist of Shifthold had many masks.
But his true face was always there. That burned flesh. His voice rose slightly.
“The cause? Captain Therrium, you speak of salvage and profits. I admit—I cannot pay you enough to make this a wholesale net gain. But think on the deed. You may not see it, but can Bloodtear not? I have simply chosen the target. Yet the Bloodtear Pirates have never even tasted glory half as rich as what I am offering to pay you for.”
Jiupe rose, eye flashing.
“You dare—”
Irurx looked at her, and his flesh crawled. Jiupe froze as Therrium’s [Dangersense] rang—he and Rasea were too-still, waiting. Irurx’s voice dropped an octave.
“I am offering you a war the likes of which will shake the seas, Jiupe! Do you think Rasea’s little skirmish with Khelt mattered? The Meeting of Tribes was a bloody war on land. This will be the greatest engagement at sea. The arrogance of Terandria sails south. Shifthold will break them and send them under bloody tides. Two navies of Bloodtear will be enough. The only question is—who else has the daring to humble a continent?”
He turned his gaze, and Therrium felt his blood running cold in his fish-half. Yet it stirred. If he did not have his own pledge of vengeance…he looked at Rasea and saw Irurx’s wild eyes.
How many [Captains] had he approached before this last meeting? Jiupe’s own gaze was aflame. Despite her distaste—Irurx was dragging her towards him like a whirlpool of hate. But what called her was the blood. She licked her lips.
“I hear your case, Irurx. I forgot you were a man that sometimes inspired even us. We may speak on that traitor, but—can I show them this? Are all your potions this good?”
She lifted a hand, and Irurx’s gaze cleared for a second. He smiled, passed a hand over his face, and his expression calmed as it blocked his expression. The mask was back, and he gave her the smile of an artisan.
“This or better. Captain Rasea? Captain Therrium?”
He turned, and neither [Captain] was fooled.
The Drowned Captain had to think, despite his own imminent tasks. This…he met Rasea’s eyes as he rose.
What Irurx wanted was madness, of course, but the [Alchemist] was mad. You could see it in his eyes.
Woe to his enemies. Woe to the foes of Shifthold. And now blood was in the water and…
Therrium exhaled. Then he glanced at the scrying orb. For there was darkness. False light and false hope as that village was mocked by the Raiders.
And oh…he saw a green flame, and Rasea’s smile was that of someone watching a friend dancing on the way to the noose. A proud, bright smile like death.
For a second even in darkness—there was always a spark.
 
——
 
The first thing the [Knight] thought, when he saw her face and heard the odd note in the [Innkeeper]’s tone, was—
‘Ah. At last.’
He had been feeling so wretchedly good and proud that he had felt it was an illusion. Even when they cheered him, even with magical flame in his breast, there was always a part of Normen waiting.
It was the tiny part of him that counted his sins and held them up to candlelight at night to inspect, all the dark things he’d take to his grave and held under his hat.
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were not good men. They just pretended to be. But they never said it. Good fellows. Men of style and hats.
But never good men.
He had seen it—on dark nights when you watched life draining out of someone’s eyes. Had Erin known?
Surely she had. She must have known the man she chose to be a [Knight] had listened to more final breaths and last, whispered words than most monsters that adventurers hunted down. And she had looked into his soul and, he thought, still given him a second chance.
Not to be redeemed, not ever. But to try.
That was what called every Brother like him to her banner and inn.
—But he had been waiting, and in that cold night, facing Snow Golems, he had thought he might die and been ready. Yet fate had waited for him to relax and be lulled by saving that girl’s life, helping a village. Now it hit him, and it came as they were leaving the village of Rheirgest.
“Everyone. Normen—there you are. Where are you? Leaving Rheirgest?”
“Miss Solstice? Is everything okay? Is my team…?”
Jewel sat up. The odd band of people dozing in the carriage on the ride back looked up as Erin appeared.
Zanze, the driver, held the reins to Sillias as the cat and two undead horses pulled the wagon. Ama watched, ready to intervene if he so much as scratched her beloved cat. Antherr read one of the spellbooks that the people of Rheirgest had given them while scratching his head. Then there was Jewel, who had been napping with an adventurer’s repose next to Vess, who was calibrating a piece of glass, a sight, on his wand.
Normen had been checking his armor for scrapes and dings. But when she appeared, standing—he knew something was wrong. So did they all.
Erin sounded—there was a note of tension that made Normen reach for his mace.
“Miss Solstice? Is it monsters?”
“I—no. No. You’re heading back? Hurry up and come back to the inn.”
Voices in the background. They were raised in clear distress. Erin Solstice looked around them, then peered…northwest, Normen thought, to judge by the rising sun.
“Is something wrong?”
He repeated himself, and her eyes swung back to him. Then—Erin hesitated. She stopped speaking for a long time and bit her lip so hard he thought she broke skin. Her hands were clenched, and then she gave him—not a smile, but a pretense at one.
“—Just come back fast.”
And it seemed to him like she regretted every word. But she said them.
“What’s going on, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t want to say. She knew something, but as they asked whether it was Liscor or something with Larra—it was clear it was not The Wandering Inn that Erin was worried about.
Then, Normen was getting to his feet in the wagon. He looked around, thinking there was no way he could see wh—and his eyes found the [Nightclouds].
“Dead gods! What is that?”
Zanze stopped Sillias, or tried to, and Ama raised a hand and peered up at the unnatural, black clouds in the sky.
“Is that more magical weather? I’ve never seen—it looks sort of like Noelictus’ skies, but even darker. What the heck is that?”
Zanze shrugged, glancing sideways.
“You’re the [Necromancer]. You tell me.”
She didn’t bridle like normal. Ama peered up at the clouds, and her tone grew uneasy.
“That’s not…no, that’s not my magic. That’s darkness magic. Different from death magic, before you lot say anything. It’s huge. What is that?”
She looked to Jewel, but the Gold-rank adventurer didn’t know. Only two people did. And surprisingly, it was Vess and Normen.
“That’s a [Nightcloud]. I’ve heard about them. Special forces use them in some cities. Isn’t it? But not even Luldem has access to the spell—I think. Maybe our best unit does, but they didn’t use them in the war with Liscor.”
Vess was wide-eyed. Normen glanced at him and spoke.
“They don’t use them for wars in the north. That is a [Nightcloud]. It turns everything dark. Like a [Blindness] spell unless you’re enchanted. It’s used by the gangs. But no gang…”
No gang would just conjure one out of nowhere. He looked up at the skies, and a dark conclusion reached him.
It couldn’t be. Not here. But they struck everywhere. And—he turned his head to Erin and saw her eyes tracing the clouds in the sky. She already knew what was happening. But she took a deep breath—and looked at him with her hazel eyes. They were pained, worse than he’d ever seen her.
“Come back to Celum. Now. There’s nothing you can do.”
“What’s happening, Erin?”
