Who knew? Maybe he wouldn’t have been an ally for the Forest Lord… Tala didn’t really know how to feel about that. In theory, it meant that Walden had been locked away for no reason, but she also didn’t know how such things worked.

It was possible that Walden could have risen to become a partner to the Forest Lord, his seeming opposition allowing him a separate Sovereignty that he would have then wielded alongside his sire, resulting in greater power for both.

Or, he might have been a check to the stagnation within the southern forests allowing for the whole region to be more prosperous.

The ancient Mages had seemingly had good reason for their actions, and Tala was still rather young and inexperienced in the assessment of such things. Still, it did leave her in a place where she believed she could see the potential for Walden to be freed one day.

Probably not soon… if ever.

Eskau Meallain was getting increasingly persistent in her demands to see Tala, but Tala was still a bit hesitant to have Lea meet her, and Tala felt like the two would be difficult to separate, meaning that when she met with the Eskau again, she’d be bringing Lea.

Tala wasn’t excited for that meeting.

Regardless of what she wanted, though, it did need to happen, and that time was set for a couple of days from then.

Lisa had agreed to train Lea around the arrivals of his kin, the first of which was already working to lock their home into the allotted space.

Lea seemed to enjoy the lessons so far, which were mainly just talking, and with Tala enforcing the fact that the fox-kin couldn’t make any deals with the girl? It seemed to be perfect.

Regardless, Lisa had come to mind as a potential extra party to be there when Eskau Meallain met Lea. The purpose would be to hopefully redirect some of the Eskau’s likely-to-be-bad reaction onto.

-That’s not very fair to Lisa.-

I’m sure he’ll be fine.

-I guess…-

But all of this was just a distraction from the Caravanner’s Guildhall, at which they had finally arrived.
