Ranthia gently set Clover down as she stepped forward. Her Bond was… less upset, at least. Though she wasn’t enjoying the crowd or how much attention was being directed their way.

“I told you.” The Maestro smirked.

“Can someone actually tell me what is going on?!” Ranthia demanded, her patience already frayed. Honestly, crowds of gawkers and fragmental answers were not doing her mood any favors.

“I think it would be easier if you just enter for yourself.” The Maestro beckoned toward… Sunny’s workshop’s door.

“She can’t enter; this is an investigation!” The unfamiliar elf screeched.

“You have read far too many mystery novels, Advestis.” The Maestro countered with an amused expression.

The two kept bickering, so Ranthia just sent an image past them and activated [Reflections of Reality]. She had permission and whatever was going on involved one of her closest friends—there was no way she was going to just stand there trying to get peeks with [Divine Eyes in the Void]!

Vlip. Clover materialized next to her almost the very moment she finished her shift. Whether it was out of solidarity or because she wanted away from the gawking crowds was a mystery Ranthia had no mind to explore.

Instead, she was transfixed by what she saw.

Unlike scant days ago, the workshop was clean. The mattress, hookah, evidence of ravaged snacks, and field of bottles were all absent. As were the tools and the wood. The only things even left in the eerily clean workshop were new additions that hadn’t been present beforehand.

Namely, Ranthia’s own severed head and letters scrawled in blood. Minor, normal things to find in an inexplicably abandoned workshop used by one of her closest friends.

Clover skittered away across the stone floor while Ranthia drew near, ignoring the outraged shouts from the doorway. It wasn’t actually her head—she was confident of that much, even without peeking through its softer layers with [Divine Eyes in the Void]—but the realism was uncanny. It was easily the most detailed and compelling piece she had ever seen out of Sunny’s… unusual sculptures. Which was all the more surprising, considering Sunny had admitted she never did heads because they were beyond her skill level!

Glass or crystal had been used to recreate the Skill-touched effect of her Void-aspected eyes. The hair was the exact shade of Ranthia’s own, cut in a close mimicry of her preferred hairstyle. There was even a pink tongue (again, familiar) lolling out of its mouth, pressed between sagging pink lips. And the blood that pooled around the severed neck looked fresh.

The words that surrounded the head were noteworthy as well. Seemingly painted in fresh blood, written in Creation: I’ll be back, my pretty.

“Fuck.” Sometimes, there just wasn’t anything else to say.

No one could find any trace of Sunny or where she went. Her (…surviving) family had no idea that she had even left, let alone where she could have gone. There were no witnesses to her leaving the city, but only the four seasonal entrances were actually monitored. It was somewhat unthinkable for a woman with no combat Skills or classes to wander off by herself, yet there weren’t any other compelling explanations.

Ranthia endured batteries of questions from the city’s guards, repeated her final interactions with Sunny so many times that she was considering reacting to any further requests for it with violence, and fought off well-meaning offers from her remaining friend. But no, even if Sunny had snapped and was out for revenge, Ranthia wasn’t going to let herself be worried about an out of shape elf with zero combat capabilities. Xaoc willing, she could talk Sunny down—assuming it was even intended to be a threat!

It wasn’t like Sunny’s tastes hadn’t been consistently morbid the entire time that Ranthia knew her. She was unsure enough that she decided to take the head home with her—along with the faux-blood letters. They turned out to just be a sticky, gel-like substance that readily peeled off the stone floor. The guards had wanted to keep all of it as ‘evidence,’ despite not being able to articulate what any of it was evidence of. But being associated with one of the most powerful women in the city had its perks.

At last, far too late into the night, Ranthia returned home with a snoring bunny in one arm and a disturbing likeness of her own deceased head in the other. Without Anthelleon there to stand guard.

She desperately needed whatever sleep she could get before she had to wake up again to meet with Ranger.

“Good morning! So, we had trouble last time, but I spent some time thinking. And I think the solution to your problem is that a ball is just so non-threatening! We should probably start with something more visibly dangerous, like spoons.” Of course he was a morning person.

Also, why was he hanging upside down from a tree branch?

“Why is a spoon…? Wait, no, not important. By any chance did you see a lone elf or a small group that included an [Artisan] wandering the forest at any point in the past day or two? I can give you more details if it helps.” Her thoughts felt… sticky and it took real effort to churn through them. Despite her plans, she had barely managed to sleep at all—tormented by nightmares during her brief moments of slumber.

Sure, she had stayed up for far longer than that without rest, but somehow the low-quality sleep managed to do outsized harm to her energy reserves. With her fatigue coupled to a mood that was even worse than it had already been… Well, she was struggling to not just complain to everyone that spoke to her.

“Um… Nope! Sorry, just a few Hunter groups, all tagged as you’d expect. Not as many as I’d expect though. Did nameless woman chase everyone off finally? I mean it’s not like I was going out of my way to look for people, but I am very observant. I even know about the Warden that keeps an eye on me! Not that he’s bothered to leave the city since I met with the woman that refuses to spread her name.” Ranger flashed her a toothy smile.

“Damn… Okay, thanks.” So much for that hope. And so much for getting a good night’s sleep ever again, knowing a freaking Warden was hanging around.

“Is everything alright? You seem a bit… sad, mad, upset, miserable, sleep deprived, cranky, moody, irritable, worried, lovesi—” In what universe was prattling on like that helpful?!

“I’m fine! I barely even know you, and I somehow doubt you’d really want to hear about any of this anyway.” Ranthia interrupted.

“I… Ah, hm. I hadn’t actually considered it from that perspective before, I must admit. Fascinating. Yes, that could explain a lot.” The man finally released the tree branch with his legs, somehow landing easily on his feet despite never seeming to move during his head-first descent.

“Do I even want to know?” Seriously, she had no idea what would happen if he expected her to open up about anything.

“No! …Wait, yes! Sorry, I was expecting you to ask something else. Way to drop the ball, Ranthia. Okay, so, I realized… you aren’t an elf! Shocking, I know. But seriously, for the past several thousand years, everyone that I’ve interacted with either had to trust me out of desperate necessity or had reason to trust me because of my established fame. None of that applies to you.

“What I need to do is build rapport with you, so you can actually trust me. Because trust is an essential component to learning! So, come on, a once in an immortal lifetime opportunity: you can ask old Ranger whatever you want.” The man spread his arms magnanimously.

And Ranthia found herself unable to think of a single thing to say.

At first, conversations with Ranger came in fits and starts. Awkward silences were all too common during their ‘social’ periods, at least until Ranthia mentioned Clover.

It turned out the elf that had been around since creation had some experience with Companion Bonds.

Sadly, he had no useful advice for helping the bunny grasp immortality, but hearing his stories helped. Even if the descriptions of his final bond—an abyssal centipede that he found in the depths beneath Pallos—were more than a little unnerving. She could happily live her life without encountering a multi-segmented insect that was twice as wide as she was, longer than most of the large dinosaurs that she’d encountered, and dribbled acid everywhere.

A lot of his advice mirrored what Litil had said—that she needed to trust Clover and let her develop into whatever she wished to be—but it was somewhat more reassuring to hear the words from someone that had proven them with his own experiences. She chose not to dwell on the fact that the man had never—not with four different bonds—managed to acquire immortality for his partnered beasts.

“So, did you know that our current goddess of fire wasn’t the first one to ascend to the domain?” Ranger had become far more conversational over the past couple of days.

Ranthia still dodged the dart that he tossed.

“Five correct calls in a row! Your best streak yet! We can pause for a happy dance, if you like.” His idea of a valid incentive was still somewhat dubious.

The darts were her choice, after she considered the various options for things to throw. They were, effectively, miniaturized arrows—a sharp point, a tiny shaft, and long fletching. The fact that there was only a finger’s width of space she could safely hold helped, it made it harder to overthink the projectiles. From there, she just needed to retrain her instincts and grow more comfortable relying on them. Or at least that was the best solution she had—Ranger’s oft-repeated advice of “You just have to feel the intent. Stop trying to use logic!” wasn’t exactly helping.

“Pass, but I’ll take the story you were about to share.” Ranthia waited for him to reappear in his designated position before she readied herself again.

“[Bard] Ranger at your service! Back during the chaotic period, also known as the first several centuries of my life, levels came fast. That was great. Less so was dealing with the constant death, terror, and destruction, but hey, I guess you can’t have everything. For the most part, the dragons were as eager to fight each other as they were to breed. And you didn’t want to be anywhere near either, trust me.” He began, with a wistful expression that was ill-suited to his words.

While he spoke, he hurled another dart. Ranthia braced herself and raised her bracer to deflect—and broke her streak. Ranger appeared a half-step away from her, shaking his head disappointedly while he snatched the dart out of the air. Not that he stopped talking during the process.

“One of the first Creator-made dragons was a complete jerk by the name of Arch Flare. Triple-classed Inferno, he could rain seemingly endless annihilation wherever he went. Now, I want you to remember that we barely understood anything about what was going on back then—the Creators were often absent, aside from brief experimental periods where they tried to micromanage us. Old Archie was the second being to reach level 4096 and ascend. And by that point, I think even his rivals were glad to see him go.

“Except he descended almost immediately and tried to attack said rivals. No idea what happened, I wasn’t on the right continent at the time. But one of the second-generation dragons—that is, one of the first dragons to hatch on Pallos—somehow got in the killing blow. Old Archie was gone, and through that feat Cyn’dire ascended as God of Fire in his place.”

The next dart came without warning, but Ranthia still managed to catch it, earning an approving grin from her lackadaisical teacher.

“You’d think this would be the end of it, but remember, we had no idea how anything worked. Cyndie desperately demanded prayers from anyone he thought he could bully into submission. His [Priest] later confided that the newly minted deity was utterly convinced that if anyone else ever ascended with a possible claim to Fire, they’d be able to battle him for the domain. The next dragons that reached level 4096 were a mother and son duo. The moment they hit the level, before they could ascend, Cyndie tried to descend and annihilate them in a sudden strike.

“No one walked away, and the mountain they fought over was reduced to a molten crater. I won’t give away her secrets, but I’ll tell you this much. Ildia, our goddess of fire? She wasn’t a dragon—they managed to have so much infighting that a completely different being managed to claim the domain!” Ranger punctuated the conclusion of his story with another dart.

And sent Ranthia diving desperately clear of the (probably) lethal throw.

“You’ve come a long way with your training, but alas, my time here is done.”

“Wait what?!” Ranthia snapped. She was still struggling to extricate herself from the bush that had snared her traveller’s cloak after her last dodge when Ranger spoke.

“I’ve been here eight days! That’s the longest I stick around anywhere. But hey, you got your streak up to twelve, that’s… well, try not to piss off anyone too far above your level bracket. Maybe some time to meditate—is meditating still trendy with the young folk?—will help you absorb what you learned.” Ranger tapped a finger to his chin before he shrugged.

“You didn’t think to warn me?” Ranthia finally freed her cloak while she sassed.

