“No way! Then you would have brought me a cake, and everything would be all emotional and weird and I’d start crying—nope, none of that! Just a proclamation and away I go to continue my aimless wanderings. Like a true legendary figure should. Oh, but don’t worry. I will come back around the area someday. I’ll send you a message when I do. Look for a pink arrow. Those are my message arrows.” Ranger started to turn away.

“Wait! I… you’re seven levels away from ascension!” Ranthia wasn’t entirely sure what she was grasping for.

“Oh, the sweet ignorance of youth. If I get even a level every decade, something has gone horribly wrong. I don’t get to fight things my tier—because anything my tier is something you don’t want fighting, especially not seriously. There was a time I’d hoped to ascend the day that we reached five thousand years since creation, but I sincerely hope I don’t make it. Seriously, our peace came at a horrible cost—I know you fought in a war, but the days before civilization were much worse.

“Sensible minds willing, I’ll still be around for a few centuries yet. So, when I say I’ll come back through, I mean it. You haven’t seen the last of me!” Ranger struck what he seemed to assume was some sort of impressive pose, turned to the side with his face partially obscured by his own hand. If anything, it called attention to just how filthy the undersides of his fingernails were.

“I… I’m not sure if I’ll still be here after a bit less than eighty years from now.” Ranthia chose to warn him.

“Does this have anything to do with why you’re pretending to be in mourning?” Ranger looked perfectly innocent as he asked a terrifying question.

Fuck. Ranthia accelerated her perception as she tried to figure out what to even say to that! Should she act offended? Should—

“Relax! It’s just the two of us. Well, except for that crystal-tuft monkey up there, but he’ll never talk.” Ranger pointed a finger upward toward a high branch. The monkey in question retorted by throwing a spiny seedpod, which bounced harmlessly off of Ranger’s forehead, only to get caught in his unkempt hair. “See? That means he considers us honorary members of his family unit. He’ll take our secrets to the grave.

“And our current privacy is part of why I wanted to take off abruptly—my Warden escort is still in the city, just sitting down to a meal. My monkey brother and I both promise you, we won’t tell anyone that whoever owned that hair is still alive. But you really need to start reminiscing about them when you find any excuse to do so, otherwise more people are going to figure it out. It’s been long enough that your refusal to speak of them is starting to get a bit strange. If they’re important to you, and this deception is actually necessary, you don’t want to be the one to screw it up.”

Ranthia took a deep breath… and exhaled an unintended string of profanity.

“Gods and goddesses, what can I even say about Avyna? I still don’t even know what to think! Our love had felt so… vivid, but now that I know she was lying to me…” Ranthia chose to speak. He already knew, what harm could there be in confirming his suspicions?!

Yes, even her own tormented mind immediately provided a long list of possible harms and dangers, but she chose to trust the man anyway.

“I… Okay, look. Confession from me: I’m not exactly the very best at… well, at people. That’s fine, we all have our talents, and I definitely don’t tell myself this almost every single night when I get lonely. Anyway! I get that whatever you’re feeling is a lot. I’m no [Mind Healer], but let me give you a little Ranger-style advice:

“You get to choose what you believe is real. You’re the only one who can decide who to trust and what parts of them to trust. Someone you can trust one hundred percent? That’s rare. Most of the time we can only trust anyone we meet to a limited extent, and there are things you can never let them know or hold. But those hundred percenters? They start in that category too. And some of them even make mistakes that set them back a bit along the way.

“Choose for yourself which parts of this Avyna you want to trust. And the answer isn’t zero—you would have never bothered with your deception if that was the case. Search your memories, decide for yourself what aspects of her and your relationship were real to you. Cling to those. Work from there.

“Or disregard me entirely, it’s been nearly two thousand years since my last romance—and he tried to kill me when we ended things. He was no Lelethica, in retrospect. And not just because she would have killed me had she ever decided she had cause to. Goddess of apples, by the way, if you ever want to say hi to her. We’re still on good terms, believe it or not.

“So, uh, take care. I’ll show up here again in a decade or six!”

Ranthia tried to offer her gratitude to the man, but he was already gone. Xaoc willing, the wind carried her “thank you” to his ear, no matter how far he had already moved.
