On the evening of the tenth day since Father Vytal had fallen ill, after Sweep had finished the evening sweeping of the sanctuary and was ready to go to bed, she was still thinking about Father Vytal. As she left the sanctuary, her gaze was caught by the door to the acolyte’s chambers, and she paused. Father Vytal was in there, still ill. He had been kind to her even though he didn’t know her; he had protected her even though she had strange, white hair.

For several minutes she stood still, staring at the door, not certain she liked where her thoughts were taking her, before she came to a decision. Quickly and quietly, she slipped through the door to the acolytes’ dormitories, hoping her terrified heartbeat wouldn’t give her away.

The halls were dimly lit, but she knew them well and hurried on silent feet to the door to which she had lead Father Vytal only a week ago. She paused outside the door and listened. She could hear nothing but her own nervous breathing. The only sign someone might be in the room was the scent of incense and candles. Carefully, Sweep pushed the door open.

The room was lit with dim lamps. The pungent incense was close and cloying. Lying upon the bed was Father Vytal, his face a mask of pain and lit from odd angles by the candles. The blankets were pulled up to his chin. Sitting next to the bed, in a comfortable armchair, was an acolyte. The young woman’s chin rested upon her chest and she was breathing softly.

Sweep closed the door gently and walked silently to the bed, thankful for the rug that muffled her footsteps. She ignored the acolyte and ignored her fear, looking down at Father Vytal. His face seemed paler, thinner, more deeply lined. His breathing was shallow and ragged.

Sweep slowed her breathing, quieted her thoughts, and tried to empty herself of self. She fought the desire to ask God to heal this kind man. She tried to open herself to the will of the Divine. The tingling buzz was familiar to her now and she welcomed the faint, ghostly chimes. She had always thought these were God’s manifestations and she hoped she was right, that He would look upon her and see her piety and give her what she wanted because she tried so hard not to ask for it.

A halo of light edged her vision, the faint tintinnabulation swelled in her ears, the buzzing tingle swept through her body. For a moment more, she knew nothing else, and in the next, her surroundings filled her.

She felt the acolyte, sleeping nearby, peaceful and resting. She felt the rug beneath her feet and the wooden floor beneath that, sturdy and still. She felt the low fire in the fireplace, its heat diffusing throughout the room. But mostly she felt Father Vytal. The aging man was ill; he was having difficulty breathing, and this difficulty was the root of the problem.

There was a silvery purple light deep within Father Vytal; she saw it in her mind. The light pulsed in time with his heartbeat and swelled to his breathing. And this light, she knew, struggled against the sickness, struggled to heal the man, but the process was stunted. There were black spots throughout, holding it in check.

“He just needs a little light,” Sweep whispered.

She imagined adding light to the spots of black, like lighting candles in the sanctuary, one at a time, and she felt the buzzing tingle within stir. It filled her, slowly at first, but increasingly quickly, and she fed it into the black spots, watching as they cracked, spilling light, and burst, allowing Father Vytal’s silvery purple to fill him.

Father Vytal sat up with a sudden shout. He coughed hard once, twice, thrice. He looked at her, gasping, his eyes bright and clear. Then sighed and lay back down, his face not so pale, not so thinned, not so lined. His eyes drifted closed, and he slept.

“What have you done?” the acolyte whispered.

Sweep started and spun to face the acolyte who stood over her, eyes wide and wild. She grabbed Sweep’s upper arm and pushed her toward the door. “Did you put your filthy hands on the Father? Get out, get out!” Her whisper became a desperate shout.

Sweep pulled free of the acolyte’s painful grip and turned to the door but before she could get there, she heard the distinctive stride of the Mother Superior and her body froze. A moment later, the door was opened and the Mother came in, face narrowed in anger.

“What,” she began to demand, but the sentence went unfinished. Instead, she looked at Sweep and shook with fury. The blankets she held dropped to the floor and she grabbed Sweep by the hair.

“I found her touching Father Vytal,” the acolyte said helpfully.

The Mother Superior didn’t look at the acolyte. “And how did she enter in the first place, Caroline? Did you abandon your watch?”

“N-no,” the acolyte stammered and said nothing more.

But the Mother’s focus was on Sweep. She strode from the room, her grip on Sweep’s hair keeping the girl firmly at her side. Sweep considered struggling, but even if she managed to escape the Mother’s grip, even if she tore her hair out to do so, there was nowhere to go, nowhere to run. And with that, fear killed all other thought.

The Mother Superior’s private rooms were well lit and warmed by a fire in a large, ornate fireplace. Small, delicate figurines lined the mantle. Thick tapestries hung on the walls. A plush couch stood in the center of the room with a pair of thick arm chairs. Sweep noted the details passively.

There were two acolytes Sweep didn’t know sitting at a work table in one corner, mending clothes. They looked up when the Mother and Sweep came in.

“Out,” she snapped at them.

The acolytes hurried to obey, leaving their work on the table and without bothering to bow.

The Mother dragged Sweep to the table where the acolytes had been and pushed her down over the tabletop. Sweep stayed where she’d been put, too frightened to do anything else, closing her eyes to stop the tears and clenching her hands to stop the shaking.

At the first blow across her back, she gasped and jerked forward into the table. At the second, she tried desperately not to cry out. At the third, all she knew was the pain, and, instinctively, she escaped it. She controlled her thoughts, felt the tingly buzz, and entered the room in her mind. Immediately, the pain was muted. It did not disappear completely, she knew the beating continued, she was aware of it in the same way she was aware of birdsong in the laundry yard when focused on washing clothes, or of the candles in the sanctuary during evening sermon; she was aware of it, but could ignore it.

The room in her mind was comfortable in its familiarity: bookshelf, chair, desk, chessboard. For several moments that might have been days or decades, she stood there, her shoulders hunched, her head bowed, trying not to think about what was happening to her. But she couldn’t. She couldn’t not think about it, and she realized that, here, in the room in her mind, she didn’t know what was happening. The Mother might be killing her and she wouldn’t know. She had escaped the pain, but not the beating.

Sweep closed her eyes, clenched her fists and took a deep, shuddering breath. In the next moment she willed her mind back to her body and screamed. She had been beaten from shoulders to knees.

Her scream must have startled the Mother because another blow did not land. Instead, there was pounding at the door then angry conversation.

With tremendous effort, Sweep pushed from the table, to her feet, and turned to see what was happening. The Mother Superior stood at her doorway, a length of dark brown cord hanging from her fist. Her normally immaculate hair had come loose from its bun and her face shone with sweat. In the doorway, two sisters stood, Sister Clarice argued with the Mother. The other sister, Sister Jayne, looked at Sweep with unconcealed shock. Sweep focused on keeping the pain at bay lest she collapse in a heap of shaking, wailing tears.

Sweep knew she had to leave. Whatever else happened, she knew with utter conviction that she needed to leave the Mother’s chambers right now. Carefully, she put one foot in front of the other, ignoring the pain lancing up and down her back, and walked stiffly to the door.

Sister Clarice cut off the conversation to look at Sweep and this brought her to the Mother’s attention as well. Normally the Mother’s attention would have induced a cringe or a flinch, but Sweep found herself meeting the Mother’s gaze.

“Pardon me, Mother.” She nodded painfully to the Mother then turned to look at Sister Clarice and Jayne. “Sisters.” She nodded at them as well. And she left the Mother’s chambers, the older women moving to allow her to pass.
