However, Jake kept going, turning his alchemy lab into a series of explosions for several more months, and slowly found success. He made more Lesser Primeval metal flakes and motes, but working with flowers still took longer. Jake could successfully empower the life energy within a Red Lavender, but the final part, where the entire flower did not explode, still eluded him.

During this time, he wasn’t disturbed by anyone despite people definitely being around and likely wanting to visit, but he guessed Villy kept them away. The Malefic Viper watched Jake at every moment, and when he used Invocation of the Malefic Viper to test things, he more vividly felt the Viper inspect everything.

When Jake crossed the year-mark since he first created that little unstable Gold Mote, stray thoughts that the Seat of the Exalted Prima event had to be approaching soon entered his mind, but Jake quickly squashed them as he kept focusing. His initial plan of just getting more familiar with Lesser Primeval Energy had long disappeared as Jake set out on his quest to learn how to actually make use of it in a beneficial manner.

Fortunately, his persistence paid off.

Despite it being just another regular experiment that Jake didn’t put much thought into outside of just wanting to do his best, things turned out differently this time around. Jake took the Red Lavender flower and created his “package” of Lesser Primeval Energy within his own body. He filled it with all of his intent, relying on the experience of having done this more than five thousand times already. Of course, the amount of energy used and the nature of the intent infused were slightly different this time around, improved marginally after his last attempt, but that didn’t mean he suddenly expected success.

Infusing the Lesser Primeval Energy, Jake felt the reaction start immediately. The life energy, as well as a few other conceptual energies tied to it, began growing in potency at a drastic rate, prompting Jake to step in and do his job as he tried to ensure that the entire “purification” proceeded in a stable fashion.

There wasn’t even a point where Jake thought this would be it. He was fully focused, relying on his experience and micro-adjusting whenever he felt he needed to. At one point, Jake did feel that things were about to fall apart, so he made one final push as he infused more stable arcane energy into the flower, full of intent. It merged with the flower, and then...

Success.

Skill Upgraded: [Alchemist’s Purification (Inferior)] – Attempt to purify any alchemical ingredient. Purification can help remove unwanted properties from a component, making the finished mixture purer. Must have suitable ingredients. Must have suitable materials. Purification does not require any additional tools or equipment, but the skill’s effect can be amplified using certain catalysts. Adds a minor increase to the effectiveness of Alchemist’s Purification based on Wisdom.

-->

[Primeval Alchemist’s Purification (Mythical)] – For the Primeval Alchemist of Malefic Origins to display his true potential, he needs proper ingredients to work with. Something that cannot merely be found, hence, he must purify and refine them himself. Attempt to purify and refine any alchemical ingredient through the use of Lesser Primeval Energy and arcane energy. This purification can remove unwanted properties from a component by transforming them into fuel, thereby enhancing desired properties. Lesser Primeval Energy will further enhance desired properties, while arcane energy will ensure stability; however, be warned that this type of purification is still inherently unstable. Caution is advised. Must have suitable ingredients and materials. Primeval Alchemist’s Purification requires the use of Lesser Primeval Energy, and can, in rare cases, be amplified using certain catalysts. Adds a noticeable increase to the effectiveness and chance of success of attempted purifications based on Willpower, Wisdom, and Perception.
