The old Kael would have immediately apologized and groveled for shouting at an Elder of the Tessellate family to leave. However, that meek version of himself died in that office. He was not some random Rift Born, he was Kael, friend of a god's daughter. There was also the chance that Stella was lurking in the shadows, watching and judging how he acted.

"Do you have the Princess's permission to sit here?" he asked without faltering, despite his instinctual desire to.

The Elder raised a brow. "Yes, I do. She invited us in, as we are here to assist her during her stay."

"Then obviously my announcement wasn't for you," Kael said and strode away, leaving the dumbstruck Elder in his seat. He soon came upon a gathering group of Rift Born he had hired.

Sending them away was going to be difficult, but when he imagined all of them having the same motives as Jared, it became easier.

"You're casting us out, Kael?" one of the first guys he ever hired said, a look of betrayal on his face.

"Not quite," he half-lied as a small group gathered around him, and tensions rose. "The Princess currently does not require guards, as the Tessellate family themselves are assisting her, and she brought a Monarch Realm servant with her. She also requested that all the decorations be taken down to make space for arrays she wishes to build. Therefore, casting you out is a harsh way of putting it. It's more like you have all become redundant. This was all supposed to be temporary anyway, while the food shortage lasted."

"Does that mean the food shortage is over?" another asked.

"The Princess will see that it is," Kael said. Now that he had a better understanding of her personality and priorities, he knew she would either pressure the Tessellate family into releasing the food they were supposed to, or she would buy it if it meant the people left her house quickly and on good terms.

Kael looked at each person in the eyes one by one. "I truly wish you all the best and will be in touch if any more work comes up. But for now, this is goodbye," he gestured toward the door. "Please take care of yourselves."

In return, he got some harsh stares, but they all left reluctantly. Letting out a sharp breath, as that had been more nerve-racking than he could have ever expected, he turned around and swore his soul almost left his body as he found Stella silently standing there.

"You looked kinda cool there," she said and smiled. "Keep it up."

"Uh—oh, thank you," Kael said and cursed himself for being so jumpy.

Stella gave a curt nod and left toward the waiting Tessellate family. He spent a few moments watching her figure before getting ahold of himself.

That's when the words of the Elder finally settled in.

Wait, didn't the Tessellate family come to start trouble? How come they are willingly assisting her?!

That's when Kael truly realized the difference between himself and Stella.
