“I don’t look that scary now,” he corrected, raising a paw. “But that is because I have spent years practicing my body language to appear as calm and unthreatening as possible. You see, one of the main things I observed about animals that humanoids keep as pets is that their body language is very different from that of wild monsters. It’s not easy for the untrained eye to see, but instinctively, humanoids can recognize it, and the body language of a wild monster puts them on edge. Here, allow me to demonstrate.”

Jag stood up, then gestured toward Elise and Jessie, who did the same. Jag stood over six feet tall when standing, so both Elise and Jessie had to look up to maintain eye contact, and while his figure was imposing, Elise certainly didn’t feel on edge. Yet.

“I may not look it right now,” started Jag. “But I am quite the accomplished hunter. I have killed countless monsters to get where I am now, and my body was quite literally designed to help me kill more efficiently. And before I worked on my body language, it showed. Observe.”

Jag slowly raised his upper body up until his head was more then seven feet off the ground, and he made a series of other micro-adjustments to his posture, and by the end, his point had been made abundantly clear. Elise couldn’t even put into words exactly what he had done, but despite his form being the same, he suddenly registered to her subconscious as a threat. The look in his eyes sent a shiver down her spine, and beside her, Jessie took a nervous step back.

“I– I see,” said Jessie. “I understand now.”

“Yes,” said Jag, his voice now deeper and more rugged. “This is how I first appeared and sounded, and this is why it was so difficult for me to speak with anyone.”

He shifted his demeanor back, and the pressure in the room vanished. The terrifying, 7th tier Firebreath Jagaur was gone, and the friendly, gentlemanly Jag had returned.

“With that, most of the work was done. This body language took a very long time to reach the stage it has now, but that alone was enough to earn me a few conversations. There are two more main tricks that I use, though. One is submissive behavior. This is also largely body language, but there are a few more obvious things, like lowering my head to be at or below eye level, or allowing people to have a clear view of my vulnerable points. Pet dogs use these quite frequently.

“The last, and perhaps most important trick, however, is ridiculousness.”

“Ridiculousness?” asked Jessie.

“Yes. Ridiculousness. That is the term I use to describe it, at least. Humanoids have an odd instinct to lose fear for anything that looks ridiculous. So, if I look ridiculous, I suddenly become an unfearable creature. There are more subtle tricks, like acting clumsy, which works well for horses, or making exaggerated motions with my head and limbs. There is one trick, however, that almost always works, and is a combination of ridiculousness and submissiveness. Behold, my masterpiece.”

With that, he lay down on the ground, rolling over to show his belly. Then, he slightly leaned to the side so his whole body was curved, tilted his neck, and let his tongue loll out of his mouth. Elise recognized it as the same pose that he had shown all those months ago at her first Ostra meeting. The one she had silently laughed at for being too ridiculous. When she realized that, a sudden thought hit her.

Wait… It was all on purpose?

She thought back to almost every interaction she had with him, from the moment they met till now. The way he struggled to hold plates with his front paws, the times he had tripped over roots in the Jungle, the absurd poses he showed off in the lesson… Everything was not only calculated, but it was the result of years and years of practice and research. Suddenly, Elise felt stupid for ever looking down on his lesson about appearing harmless. His act had worked so well on her that she had never even considered the possibility that he would need such an act. And she wasn’t the only one it worked on.

“Would it be rude to ask to rub his belly?” said Jessie's voice in her head.

“...If it was anyone else, I’d say yes,” replied Elise. “But I think Jag would be very happy if you did. It would be proof his efforts have paid off.”

“I’m gonna do it.”

“Can I rub your belly?” asked Jessie.

Jag’s breath caught in his throat for a moment before he choked out a response.

“Yes,” he said. “Y– you may.”

Jessie stepped forward and got on her knees, rubbing one of his bellies with each hand. Elise saw a small tear forming in the corner of Jag’s eye as his emotions turned into pure bliss, with a strong sense of relief. Elise smiled and watched for a few moments before she realized that she herself had never felt Jag’s fur, and that his belly looked quite rubbable. A moment later, she joined Jessie on the ground, enjoying the feel of Jag’s surprisingly soft and luxurious fur.
