But the conclusion was inescapable. Succeeding in summoning a conclave wouldn’t be free, and the Heirs would have to pay a cost. Just getting the chance to stand before the Questors and make demands was going to require sacrifices. Success would mean that they got a chance to argue their case, and losing that argument would mean that everything they did would be for nothing.

Then don’t lose. Start planning now.

Nathan spent hours lying in his bedroll, thinking through how he would convince a bunch of hedonistic gamers to give up a portion of their fun to benefit the NPCs in their game. He had the beginnings of an idea, but it didn’t feel any closer to the answer when he finally fell asleep, and he continued thinking about it when he woke early to take the last watch.

If anybody noticed his introspective mood when they were preparing to leave, they didn’t comment on it. Nathan was trying to decide if he should bring the topic up or leave it until after their little Esebus trip was concluded. His train of thought was interrupted by Khachi stepping in front of their exit, his fur glowing as if he were backlit by a rising sun.

“Our foes have fought through a dozen Endings.” The wolfman’s voice was deep and thoughtful. “But they have not survived all of those fights. They are Questors, and they cannot be truly killed.” He swept his hand to indicate all of them. “We can be. For us, every fight may be the final one,” He clenched his fist. “Hold that weight close. They are experienced, but they will not face true risk or exert utmost effort to ensure victory. We will. We can beat them.”

He paused and lifted his arms in benediction, glowing even brighter. “By my divinity, we shall find greatness. By our righteous cause, we will walk this path. For the future of Davrar, we will deliver victory.”

The blessing settled over Nathan’s compatriots, the golden glow of powerful divine magic sinking into their bones. It settled onto Nathan and evaporated away, giving him only the barest touch of calm certainty. It was enough.

We’ll figure it out when we get there.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 84400/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 572

Regenerative Focus: 5740/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 5

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 6

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 5

Veracity 2

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 6

High-tier Disguise 7

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
