That was Viv’s first solution to her impending demise. Three years of really shitty internship. With a boss who’s demonstrated he was an asshole and didn’t care about it. Could be better, could be worse, but Viv got the strong intuition he would ask her to do stuff she was morally opposed to. He would use her and her skills without remorse and probably leave her pissed off, but not enough to attempt to kill him at all costs. That’s the impression she got. The issue was that the books she'd found near the lich only confirmed what she suspected. Transitioning to part elemental alone was excessively difficult. She’d spent an entire week of effort with Solfis’ help and pushed her polymath skill to its maximum to turn the ramblings of a lone man into proper research notes. The lich had been a mage interested in bone magic of all things. He was also too weak to survive the dead lands on his own. Mentions of his path painted him as a hybrid caster. It was clear he never meant to share what he had found, therefore his notes contained many references to works Viv had not found, some of which even the Academy librarian could not help her with. Nevertheless, there were still a few valuable tidbits buried under the mountain of tangents. To change one’s body on a fundamental level required, invariably, to die.

To be clear, the casters had to be clinically dead and then keep casting.

This would require a willpower and drive Viv simply lacked. Only someone with monstrous stats or an overwhelming, almost divine need to live could manage it. And Viv didn’t have that. As a soldier, she was used to the possibility of dying. Oh, perhaps she would change her mind with a mangled chest and while feeling the cold grasp of death upon her, but that wasn’t enough to pull through. She wasn’t maniacal about staying alive, not in a way that would make a difference. In short, and even with the help of potions and allies, she would still fail even if she managed to piece together the proper method.

That left her with either Elunath or Solfis’ mysterious person. The golem still didn’t want to share and even indicated she should not try to learn more.

//Any knowledge you acquire now would serve no purpose.

//Additionally, they would harm you in case of interrogation.

//Therefore I sternly recommend your ignorance.

//For once.

“Then why tell me at all?”

//So you would be aware there exists another option.

The yellow glare of the golem had landed on Viv. His cruel eyes with the background of towers and the floating stones over Helock provided the most alien landscape to her.

//My role is not to decide for you.

//My role is to provide you with all the relevant knowledge to reduce uncertainty to a minimum.

//Whenever that knowledge is available.

There was a hint of regret in the golem‘s cold voice, one that only Viv could detect. Very few people knew Solfis could feel emotions to an extent. The truth was that elemental change scrolls and books certainly existed in the imperial library back in Harrak. Perhaps some of them had even survived the cataclysm hidden deep under shielded vaults, but Solfis had absolutely no records of them. The data stored in golems were almost exclusively related to war and the conduct of it. Only Irlefen’s desire to make Solfis grow had allowed the ancient war machine to keep entire historical and engineering records. That and engineers storing erotica in the hard drives. In any case, Viv was missing an entire facet of Harrakan society, not just magic but also art, culture, fashion, music… everything that had made the old empire something more than just an oppressive nation. It was gone, only remnants still conserved in dusty collections.

//Do you know what I mourn the most?

“Tell me.”

//Gardening.

//Irlefen loved gardening.

“You told me he would talk to you while he cared for his flowers.”

//Yes.

//Those were the only moments he could truly relax.

//I do not want you to be robbed of the choice to live and die on your own terms.

//Like he was.

“Thank you.”

//Though I prefer it if you could live.

//For obvious reasons.

“Thanks Solfis.”

//I mean to say that your heiress still lacks a certain maturity.

//And she craves gold too much.

“Ah. Well she is gone on a journey of self discovery.”

//One day, second princess Toreka traveled on a journey of self discovery against the wish of her imperial parents.

“How did it go?”

//She was pregnant upon her return.

“Ok shut up it won’t happen.”

***

Viv watched Sonagi exchange a quick array of spells with Rakan. The expert arena fighter looked sharper and fuller than he used to be when Viv had left. As for the young Hallurian mage, he had grown in confidence. Viv had learned that her roommate, Ereska, had taken him for a makeover. The gangly teen now sported clean-cut robes and an asymmetric hairstyle with long hair on top and shaved sides. It looked okay but she hoped he would not get a… a man bun. That would be weird.

As she thought, the earth under Rakan failed and the young man was sent rolling across the training grounds. He stood up immediately and gestured. Every piece of sand and debris fell from his robe at once. It wasn’t the first time, it seemed.

“Again with the calculations,” Sonagi warned.

“I know, I know.”

“Look, you’re distracted. Five minutes break.”

The pair went to sit by Viv who didn’t interrupt her shaping exercises. It was good training.

“So, the tourney? How does it work?” Rakan asked.

Viv frowned, not liking his ‘light’ tone.

“By far the messiest succession race on Nyil. Except maybe in the Shadow Lands. The Glastians have designed it to, ah, crystallize the hierarchy of alliances before a change of princes. Every form of manipulation short of outright murder is allowed.”

“Can you explain more?”

“Short version: you should not participate. We, in fact, should not participate. I know what you want,” the disgraced mage said with a pointed look.

“Long version please?”

“No, seriously. There are plenty of friendly contests for us to join if you want to sharpen your teeth on some two-bit duelist. Glastian tournaments are clusterfucks. They were always a bloody people, you know? Even before the tide.”

Viv just looked.

“You’re doing it for your man. Does he even need to join?”

“If you don’t join, you lose. That’s what he said. Sidjin stands on thin ice, especially with how dangerous and influential he is.”

“Assassins?”

“None so far but… there is no way a Glastian first prince will allow the humiliation of a traitor building gates for rival powers. I think the only reason he’s been left alone for so long was that the first prince forbade an attempt on his life.”

“You see him as a traitor?” Rakan interrupted, surprised.

“No. He protected his brothers in arms against his superiors is how I see it. But it doesn’t matter what I believe. What matters is the belief held by the people with the means to send killers.”

“But it’s not true!”

Sometimes, it was painful to see how young Rakan really was.

“Truth does not send armies across borders. Beliefs do. The world is not fair, Rakan. We have to live with it.”

“Right. Who cares what those idiots think?”

“Let’s get back to the matter at hand before the young killer gets his blood boiling,” Sonagi said teasingly.

“I’m not like that!” Rakan protested.

“Right. I understand that your lover boy must enter then, so listen carefully. Every heir will go through three stages, each one comprising several rounds. The heirs each have four contestants who meet across duels. Those who win the most duels move on to the next phase. The last one standing gets to dictate what everyone else does, except, of course if there are previous agreements. That’s the simple part. The difficult part starts now. First, it’s possible to draw.”

“Really?”

“Yeah, either when the contestants agree or if they somehow neutralize each other. Both cases have happened in the past. Now listen, if a victory between two heirs isn’t decided in the first four rounds, for example with two wins two losses, the winners meet in a second series of battles. Draws fight again. That’s just at the arena level. At the tactical level, if you lose as an heir, it’s not over. You can offer your support to another heir and lend your surviving fighters because only those who are registered at the start can compete. Stealing other combatants is acceptable. Ganging on someone is acceptable. Negotiations are free of rules. Hell, this is still just the second level. I heard things in the arena. Disappearing supplies, murdered fighters, intimidation…. There is no limit to what one can do for one of the largest of the free cities. You are shoving your hand in a viper’s nest.”

“I’m not letting them kill my boyfriend.”

“Does the boyfriend know you will fight by his side?”

“We have talked.”

“That means he said no.”

“I’ll fight as well!” Rakan said.

The two others watched him with naked disbelief.

“Look,” Viv softly said, “I don’t question your skills but you’re very young and not fully trained.”

“I got more training than most people sent to the front.”

“Not war mages.”

“And,” Rakan insisted, “I have seen some shit. When I escaped.”

“When your sister rescued you,” Viv corrected.

She knew she’d made a mistake the moment her words left her mouth. No young man appreciated being called powerless. Rakan’s jaw surged forward in a stubborn lock. His eyes grew defiant and his tan skin reddened. Viv’s leadership skill was an instinct whispering hints in her mind, drawn from her experience. He could be directed. He could be distracted, coyed. He would also probably know, and besides, it was a little late. She had spoken before thinking.

It was a terrible shame there were no skills to keep one’s mouth shut.

“I’m no longer a child. I don’t need to be coddled all the time. Professor Dirge said I’m better than most third years he’s ever trained.”

“On a dueling track in controlled conditions against other children,” Sonagi said. “Another round now, young killer.”

“Don’t call me that!”

The two duelists stood facing each other. Sonagi gave a subtle nod, and the duel began.

He looked different when he was fighting, Viv thought. Like a diamond cleaned of mud to reveal sharp edges, he acquired a deep gleam that made him seem more than human. Every movement was sharp, every step measured. He was a dancer wielding energies at the tip of his finger like a conductor and like a hunter. The pinnacle of the mage. Every primary shade of mana flowed for him with exacting precision as he summoned them. In front of him, Rakan fought with his feet apart, as solid as a rock. Their style had grown closer, yet it only served to underscore their difference. While Sonagi was an artist, Rakan was a scholar, his forms perfect but still too slow, too predictable. It did not take long for Sonagi to gain the ascendant, until Rakan pushed everything he had in a great gout of flame. A blue shield blocked the attack and Rakan’s robes shone with a flash, signifying that their shield enchantment had been exhausted. This marked the end of the duel.

Rakan was furious.

“A feint. FUCK! Of course.”

“You know your flaws, my dear boy. Still too emotive. Still looking for the perfect counter.”

“I KNOW! Damn you.”

“Two more years,” Viv said, “and you’ll—”

“The world won’t wait for me! All of you are fighting, growing and doing stuff. I’m stuck here playing mageling with entitled nobles. They only care about clan politics, which childhood friend they’ll marry. I know what’s out there. I won’t grow unless I’m with you. Stop training me if you’re just going to toss me with the kids as soon as the spells start flying.”

“Less than two years, Rakan. You’re good but I’ve seen people like you die from stupid shit because their skills didn’t make them invincible.”

“It’s Nyil, Viviane, not your magicless dustball. Here, you need to fight if you want to grow.”

Rakan left the Academy training room in a huff, slamming the door behind in the most dramatic of fashions. Neither Viv nor Sonagi made any effort to hold him back. It would have been pointless. She had experienced the same with her brother, back on earth. Damien had been near unmanageable despite being a great brother overall.

“You shouldn’t get him on board. It’s not just the lack of training. He doesn’t have the mind of a killer,” Sonagi whispered.

“Maybe that’s not a bad thing.”

“On a battlefield as part of a mage cabal, maybe, but not in a duel. He’s always trying to outdo his opponent when he should be trying to win. The goal isn’t to disable via superior magecraft. The goal is to disable, period. He gets too absorbed in the flow of spell exchanges, never tries to deliver a disabling blow unless I push him. Get him out of here.”

Viv watched the disgraced duelist with some curiosity. It was weird that he seemed to care so much. Especially with how difficult things had been at first.

“Wow, you have changed.”

“Look, Rakan walked me through steps to shrug off my… use. It wasn’t easy but stats helped. I feel like I have a purpose again thanks to the boy. It matters. A lot. So yeah, I care a little, and yeah, I want in with your prince. If he can get my mother and I out, I’ll fight for him. I don’t want to get back to this hell. I can’t. I’ll do almost anything for a proper way out.”

“Alright. Sidjin has means even as an exile. His teleportation network means he’s making bank. If it’s fine, you can come to my desolate little spot of land. We could use a dueling expert.”

“I thought you’d never ask.”

