If it weren’t for the odd company, sitting at the rest of his table, and the complete silence ever since they sat down and the food went out, Ezekiel likely would have savored every bite of the stewed meats and heavy sauces and rices and breads and all of the rest of the food. But this was not a nice, calm meal with new friends. This was…

Ezekiel wasn’t quite sure what this was.

Yorza, sitting to Ezekiel’s right, imperiously held her nose up as she daintily plucked at her tiny portions. Hangzi, sitting across the table, ate like a normal person who was scheming something.

Warzi, to the left, was trying so very, very hard to eat normally.

Honestly, Ezekiel should have seen this back when he first saw Warzi, back when the kid was spying upon Ezekiel’s lesson with Ari. Ezekiel had been distracted at the time, but now he was not.

Sensing someone else using their own mana sense was not an easy task. There were no markers upon the mana when someone ‘became one with the mana and borrowed how it saw the world’, which was the concise and therefore incorrect way to describe what one did when they used their mana sense. Mostly, when Ezekiel saw that other people were seeing him with their own mana sense, he had to figure that out from a sideways direction.

It was the small things that gave people away. Micro expressions. The increasing beat of the heart. Spontaneous sweat. Staring at someone through a wall and watching as they looked back your way. He was completely sure that he gave himself away all the time when he was mana sensing, for the things he looked for in others, were certainly present in his own reactions.

This was how he saw that Warzi was mana sensing, and also that something was wrong with the boy.

Warzi was seeing everything around him, for a longer range than Ezekiel, no doubt, and he was jumping at all of it. He was fidgety. Flighty. He spilled rice off of his chopsticks and dropped food onto his robes. Back when Warzi had been in that hallway, he had twitched at everything around him, then, too.

It did not take Ezekiel long to see this, now that Warzi was sitting in front of him and Ezekiel could see the boy with his actual eyes, and in a social setting. As a cook dropped a tub of rice downstairs, spilling it everywhere, Warzi turned his head in the direction of the spill, then turned his head back to his meal. When Odins fluttered above the pagoda, playing in the wind, one of them pulled off a daring twist and danced with another and Warzi turned his head that way. His mana sense drew him all over the place, and it seemed to have made him unable to have a normal childhood.

With a slight adjustment, mana sense could lead a person to all the other Sights, too. Like [Future Sight], and [Soul Sight], and even [Witness]. And it didn’t cut off abruptly at a set distance. Beyond Ezekiel’s max of around 40 to 60 meters, his mana sense was a fuzzy thing. This kid was likely subject to all of that confusion, too. The confusion of seeing ribbons of light in people. The confusion of seeing blood in the eyes of a loved one. The confusion of seeing the past and future layered all around.

It might have been because of those extra layers of confusion that Ezekiel hadn’t been able to correctly identify the kid as a kid, but truthfully, it was much easier to see something like this in person than it was to see through the mana. Maybe this was because the human brain was wired to recognize reactions upon faces, as a part of human instincts, but mana sense was something that needed to be developed, and which had no instincts.

So did this little kid grow up with a mana sense this wide? That would have sucked!

Ezekiel frowned a little.

Most people in the room were halfway through the first dishes sitting before them, but no one had spoken yet. Everyone ate in relative silence, though some of the Devouring Nightmare guards were speaking with each other with [Telepathy]. At least some of them were having good talks over dinner.

… Maybe they were talking about how best to kill Ezekiel if needed.

Or. Maybe. The more rational idea here was that they were waiting for him to say something, first. They were waiting for an apology, or something along those lines.

Best not disappoint them!

Ezekiel broke the silence, asking, “Warzi can’t turn it off, can he?”

Warzi fumbled his chopsticks again. They went clattering to the ground.

A pair of servants rushed forward and replaced the boy’s utensils while at the same time they cast a [Cleanse] upon him, erasing the evidence of his most recent fumbles and the small bits of food on the ground. The boy dropped his hands to his knees and sat there, trying to hold back his tears, going utterly still as the servants did what they had already done three times already. Then the servants retreated.

“Correct.” Hangzi said, “My brother was born with a wandering soul. That’s what the doctors call his condition.”

… His soul looked fine to Ezekiel.

“A colloquialism?”

Hangzi said, “Yes. The most we can do for him is to not stare back, and to ignore when he looks at us. As he grows, he will learn how to control himself better, but that usually doesn’t happen till ten. He is three years away from that.” He added, “If you have anything that could help him, I demand you do so while we are here.”

Yorza stopped being prim and proper. She openly glared at Hangzi, then turned her gaze at Ezekiel. She stabbed a piece of meat on her plate with a chopstick, and left the stick upright as she glared.

Warzi whined, quietly.

Ezekiel felt compelled to at least ask, “What will I get in return?”

“Devouring Nightmare will solve whatever problems your clan is having out on the edge of the Tempest Forest.” Hangzi said, “That is why you are here. To return home with forces at your back, as a conquering Patriarch. We will help you with this.”

Ezekiel let that line of questioning go, and instead asked, “How long are you going to be here? Until they figure out the cure to the Elixir?”

Yorza harrumphed, then said, “They better invent the proper treatment soon if even barbarian trash knows about this breakthrough!”

Ignoring his aunt, Hangzi said, “We are here to grant Star Song assistance defending against those who would see this miracle destroyed before it can be used against them.” He asked, “I thought you would have salivated for my offer, but you aren’t. So why are you here, Ezekiel?”

Ezekiel said, “I’m here to learn, and to make allies and friends.”

Hangzi inclined his head, slightly, as though reappraising.

Yorza sneered, “How is that going for you?”

“It’s going really well.” Ezekiel said, “So far, I can count several high-class people who seem friendly, and who I can work with. So far, very few people seem to be against me.” He added, “And I have no idea how to help Warzi, but Phagar is right there in the mana. Has Warzi ever tried to contact him?”

Warzi spilled his chopsticks again.

Hangzi sighed softly, but said nothing.

Yorza, however, lost some of her malice. After a moment, after glancing toward Warzi, and then away, she said, “The God of Death and Time is not an option.”

Warzi did not drop his food this time, but it was a close thing.

“Why not?” Ezekiel said, “Phagar is a fine god.”

If this aura control training didn’t work out, he’d ask for Phagar’s guidance, himself. It wasn’t his first backup plan, but it was high up there.

“Warzi is unwilling to speak to the ‘boy in the mana’.” Yorza said, “Therefore, Phagar is not an option.”

“Ahh.” Ezekiel said, “I think I understand. This is more a fear problem, than a mana sense problem.”

Yorza frowned, putting on false anger into her voice as she said, “Devouring Nightmare is not scared of anything. Fear is not the problem. Getting his mana sense under control is the problem.”

Clearly a lie meant to bolster, but this was not a helpful lie. Warzi was terrified of everything and ignoring that fact would not make it go away. It would only break the boy further.

Ezekiel said, “My next suggestion would be for Warzi to talk to some Mind Mages, for some therapy to help combat these fears.”

Yorza glanced longingly toward Warzi, then turned toward Hangzi.

Hangzi declared to her, “No.” He declared to Ezekiel, “Fear is a part of the Nightmare. One day, Warzi will use the fear he has now to make him a true terror on the battlefield, and he will never feel that fear himself, ever again. The only true problem we have is that Warzi is unable to turn off his mana sense.”

Yorza picked at her food, saying, “It is as Scion Hangzi says.”

A systemic issue, then.

“I have no solutions for that. But you already have spells that block mana sense. And he seemed calmer during the day when he watched my magic lesson?” Ezekiel asked, “Why not extend those solutions? A ring enchanted to block mana sense would do well.”

Hangzi frowned, angrily, saying nothing.

Yorza said, “We have potions for use in the day that assist with calming, but the side effects demand he only have one. It doesn’t last a whole day.” With a tiny hope in her voice, she said, “We’ve never had any luck with anyone enchanting a transparent shield that blocks mana sense, only. As the ultimate Sight sense, you need to block all the rest before you can block a mana sense.”

… Ezekiel’s [Sealed Privacy Ward] blocked mana sense, but did not block sight. Yorza was just plain wrong in that last statement.

But Ezekiel was a rare case, wasn’t he? But! Surely someone else was able to do what he could do.

Or maybe Devouring Nightmare had no one that could? What an odd problem. They were a High Clan, were they not? Were their resources truly this poor?

Ezekiel considered.

Backing up a bit, Hangzi had been startled to see Ezekiel was their temporary upstairs neighbor. Yorza hadn’t cared, because she didn’t know him; she just knew he was the guy who spied on her nephew. There had been a rough little conversation, and then Hangzi pivoted to inviting him to dinner. And now he was here! Eating dinner, and talking over Warzi’s problems. Surely they would have seen the [Sealed Privacy Ward]s that Ezekiel had occasionally put up in his rooms at the Sour House? But then again, those rooms always had [Prismatic Ward]s in them, too, which made it near impossible for someone to see that there was no one in there when both spells were active. Someone with a well refined mana sense could do it, but even people with mana senses couldn’t easily see through [Prismatic Ward].

Felair, the previous [Witness]er of Spur, couldn’t do it.

And yet… here was Warzi, and he could mana sense through that dense air.

And another thing! Did these people know how much help he had given to Star Song with the chelation treatment? Hangzi might know. But did they know his true identity? Likely not.

Or was this whole conversation only happening because Ezekiel had made it quite obvious that he had a very well tuned mana sense, back when he had called Hangzi a ‘child, with barely fused growth plates on his bones’? Maybe they guessed that Ezekiel had a solution that they wanted? Were they just fishing, hoping to catch a prize? Possibly. It cost them nothing, not even time, for everyone had to eat, so might as well invite the stranger to dinner, right?

Or!

Maybe the Worldly Path put all of them here, in the same pagoda.

Eh!

Elder Arilitilo put them all here in the same pagoda, which is why she wouldn’t be available tomorrow, because if she had been available, then Ezekiel would be directly asking her if, by doing this, she had some sort of goal. Oh. Yes. That sounded right.

Ha!

Wasn’t that something. Cunning lady, that. If anyone had the capability of setting this up, she (or someone in Star Song) did, for she was the only one who knew all of the facts, for sure. She likely knew that Ezekiel would gaze back at the kid who was gazing at him, and then all this, here, would happen, more or less how it was happening.

Hmm. Well. Knowing all that, Ezekiel could go down any of those conversational paths and ‘solve’ Warzi’s problem. But. That would be the bad solution.

Instead, he went in a better direction.

Ezekiel calmly said, “There’s more than enough fearful things in this world to go around, therefore I don’t think it is right that you are encouraging the growth of fears in a little boy. With his mana sense, he’ll see more terrible things than almost anyone else ever will. He likely already has.” He said to Warzi, “Sorry I scared you, Warzi. I did not mean to do that. I was not aware that you are truly what you appear to be, and I got scared, myself.”

Warzi stilled, but did not drop his chopsticks. He just looked down at his plate. Tiny tears fell from his face, but he did not make a sound.

A lot of people had likely said the same thing to the boy over the years, and if Ezekiel knew kids, and he thought he did, such an action would just further cement Warzi’s status as an outsider, and as a weirdo. Did he have friends his own age? There were none here that Ezekiel could see.

A lot of people probably never apologized to Warzi at all, and that would have been worse than apologizing.

Ah! Wasn’t that shitty. Poor kid.

Yorza ignored the men at the table, and looked to the boy sitting across from her. She wanted to speak, to comfort, but Ezekiel could tell that she could not. Tradition, culture, propriety, an eye toward the future; something held her back and that force was stronger than her desire to shield and protect.

Hangzi breathed out through his nose, and said, “Spoken like a man who has never known true terror.”

…

… What?

Ezekiel turned toward Hangzi, blinking.

The white boy’s pitying face was squarely directed forward, at Ezekiel.

“Ha.” Ezekiel laughed, once. And then again. “Ha? Ha!”

And then the laughter came out like a flood, into the perfectly silent room. And then a second burst of laughter came out from Tiffany, sitting at the table behind them. Paul chuckled, but he schooled that away, mostly. He would not be laughing right now, no sir! Or at least not so openly.

Ezekiel laughed for the both of them.

Hangzi’s face flushed with anger. The guards on their side of the room were not laughing at all. They were staring. Some guard slammed their mug of beer on their table. Tiffany and Paul’s laughter cut out, instantly, as the two of them stared at the offending guard.

Yorza whispered to Hangzi, “Don’t do it in front of Warzi.”

Ezekiel stopped laughing at whatever that meant.

