This was good construction, here. Ezekiel had once heard Al say that stone buildings could only be built from between 10 to 15 floors tall, and this Clan Mountain was much taller and much more complicated than a simple stone building inside Spur.

Yes.

He needed the [Graphene Treeshape] spell he was thinking of, and he needed whatever spell it was that helped them make these ‘clan mountains’, too.

Ezekiel hadn’t been in their new rooms for ten seconds, scoping the place out, thinking about graphene and trees and stones, before he said, “Okay! Looks great. Let me just set up the defenses…” After another thirty seconds, with dense air filling the rooms and [Alarm Ward]s set here and there, he said, “Let’s go check out with the Sour House.”

Magenta light whisked them away to their previous hotel. Clearing out of the Sour House took less than five minutes. Ensuring the proprietor that nothing was wrong took another five; they had just been offered some rooms in Star Song. After the mention of Star Song, and after some light obsequiousness on the proprietor's part to ensure that Ezekiel was, in fact, not unhappy, Ezekiel departed in another flash of magenta light.

When the proprietor went to clean the rooms, they’d find some extra gold and a thank you note. Ezekiel hoped that was good enough to soothe any hurt feelings.

Reappearing in his new rooms, Ezekiel packed his books and other stuff away in the small bookshelves provided, then went down to the kitchen to find out about dinner.

He got the distinct impression from the kitchen staff that they would prefer to neither be seen, nor heard, and if they had to be, then they’d be more comfortable talking to Ezekiel’s ‘servants’ instead of him.

… He let Tiffany take care of dinner, then. Tiffany gave him a polite nod, as he walked away, and she started talking to the cooks and Cooks, all of whom were suddenly much more relaxed.

Ezekiel went upstairs and made himself tea, then sat down by a window to read about medicine and wait for dinner. Paul settled in on the other side of the room, with his own books.

Soon enough, Tiffany came back, and with a slight smile, proclaimed, “Dinner will be served post haste, master Ezekiel.” In an easier tone, she added, “An hour.”

Ezekiel chuckled, then got back to reading.

Tiffany settled into another chair in the room, and picked up her own book.

- - - -

Ezekiel’s eyes drifted to the small knife he had sitting beside him, in preparation, but he frowned, and looked away again, back to his book, back to reading.

He had grabbed the knife from the kitchen in a spat of whimsy and consideration. But now… He was trying to get over the idea of self mutilation for the sake of magic. It was almost odd how he was having this feeling, now, after everything that had happened to him, and after everything that he had done to himself for the sake of magic. He had even ripped rads right out of his own chest that one time, and that had been no small thing!

That had fucking hurt!

But having unexpected pain from magic creation, while having a spotter, was a lot different than seeing a knife and knowing that the best way to learn healing magic was to stab oneself.

… And then he looked at the knife, again.

Tiffany noticed. She had noticed the knife when she had walked in and then again when Ezekiel had glanced at it, but she didn’t say anything.

She did now. “You gonna stab yourself with that?”

“I am thinking,” Ezekiel said. “It was Ari’s suggestion. But...”

She teased, “You want to stab my arm, instead?”

“Gods no!” Ezekiel exclaimed, “That’s even worse!”

Tiffany laughed. “Want me to stab you?”

Ezekiel considered. “… No.”

Without looking away from his novel, Paul said, “I did not expect you to have this problem.”

“I didn’t expect to have this problem either!” Ezekiel said, “Not the problem of needing to stab myself to have something to heal, nor the problem of being squeamish about it, either.”

Tiffany scoffed, got up, and plucked the small knife from the reading table. The ‘weapon’ wasn’t sized for orcol hands; it was little more than a paring knife. In her hands, it looked like she was holding a box cutter.

She stabbed the meat of her hand.

The knife! Just! Went in!

Ezekiel winced. He shivered. He went, “Erraughhh.”

Tiffany laughed as she retracted the blade and cast a grey magic over her hand. Her wound sealed completely. “Orcols heal better than you small people. It’s really not a big deal if you want to try some healing magic with me.” She held up the knife and exaggerated, “For my next [Strike], I’m gonna try again to drive it all the way through my hand!”

“No no! No.” Ezekiel got up and held out his hand, “Knife please.”

Tiffany smirked, handing him the bloody knife.

First he cast a [Cleanse].

He stared at the gleaming paring knife. Odin twittered on his shoulder, and also on the windowsill and on the back of his chair, unsure. He could do this. He could stab hims—

He stabbed himself. Straight down into his forearm! Full Strength! Wham!

The knife didn’t do jack shit. It skittered off of his magenta [Personal Ward]. The dense air of the room wasn’t a problem, for [Prismatic Ward] didn’t impede the people who were allowed inside. The problem was, he just had a lot more [Personal Ward] than he had the ability to easily damage himself.

Ezekiel said, “Ah. I’m not sure I want to lower my guard, though.”

Tiffany, now serious but playing it off like it was nothing, said, “We are being watched. Have been this whole time. And even before.”

“Yup,” Paul said, flipping the page of his novel.

Ezekiel said, “Kind of an odd person to pick to watch us. Odder still that he’s able to use his mana sense to see through the [Prismatic Ward].”

“He’s uncommonly skilled, but he’s surely not the only one.” Tiffany said, turning her gaze down, then to the left. “You could put up some actual privacy spells, Ezekiel.”

Ezekiel turned and directly stared at the source of the spying, and said, “It’s possible that he’s as worried about us as we are of him, but I’m not sure.”

Down on the second floor, the same white-skinned young kid who had watched over half of Ezekiel’s lesson with Ari, sat on his knees, with his eyes closed and his mana sense wide open. At Ezekiel’s and Tiffany’s words, and at their down-turned gazes, the kid looked up at them, and startled. His eyes went wide as he flopped out of his seated position and scrambled away, screaming, to touch upon a magical item.

A sphere of magic popped up around him. Other people near the kid, mostly guards, noticed the scream and the scramble, and started moving. Yorza rushed out of a side room, toward the kid, to comfort. Hangzi looked up, scanning around, but seeing nothing. No one down there but the boy had a mana sense, or the people who did were good at pretending to not have that capability, for none of them returned Ezekiel or Tiffany’s gaze.

But it didn’t take long for them to get moving upward, anyway. They had surely seen that new people had moved in, but they hadn’t needed to do anything about it until now.

With a sarcastic tone, Paul set down his book and chided, “Are we scaring children now?”

“Hey now!” Tiffany said, “The little shit was staring at us and probably reading Ezekiel’s books.”

Ezekiel said, “I just need to know if it’s a kid with a mana sense, or if it’s a [Polymorph]ed person, meant to spy on us for darker reasons.”

The Scion of Devouring Nightmare, Hangzi, and his obvious aunt, Yorza, rushed up the stairs, likely to inquire, probably rather strongly, about what Ezekiel had done to the younger one, Warzi, who was probably still inside his bubble. All three of them wore white garb with black ribbing; everyone else in those rooms only wore black.

Paul got up and said, “Let us ask them, then.”

Tiffany smiled, saying, “And it looks like dinner is ready, and the cooks don’t know this is happening up here.”

“Then hopefully the prospect of food will get everyone to calm back down, quickly.” Paul said, walking to the front door. “Hopefully.”

He opened the door just in time to see Hangzi and then Yorza rush onto his fourth floor. The two white-skinned demis glanced at Paul in the doorway, then looked past him, to Ezekiel. There was no recognition in the woman’s eyes, but Hangzi was a different story entirely. Hangzi stopped in front of Yorza, eyes wide, his heart suddenly beating hard as a tiny sweat broke out across his forehead. He was completely surprised. Yorza bumped right into him, cutting off whatever it was she was going to say.

Paul stepped to the side of the door, out of the way, and Ezekiel stepped forward, but not out of his room, or out of the dense air of the space.

Yorza ignored whatever was happening with Hangzi, went around him, and came up to Ezekiel. Still two meters away, she demanded, “There will be no spying on my nephew!”

“Counterspying,” Ezekiel said. “Not spying.”

Yorza went from mad, to apoplectic.

“You dare!” Yorza spat, “You shouldn’t even be in here! Who are—”

“Big Sister,” Hangzi said, stepping to her side. “This is Scion Ezekiel Phoenix; the one who found Tadashi and who dueled Scion Caina to a draw.”

Yorza glanced at Hangzi. Their black-armored guards had run out of the room with them, but they hung back on the stairs, and behind their masters, while Yorza and Hangzi confronted Ezekiel.

Ezekiel said to Hangzi, “Greetings, Scion Hangzi Devouring Nightmare. I did not expect to see you again so soon.”

Yorza turned back to Ezekiel. “I will not have you spying on my nephew. Do it again and I will have your head.”

Hers was not an empty threat.

And wasn’t this a novel situation! This was strange and new enough that Ezekiel wasn’t quite sure what to do with his sudden anger as that anger turned to rage inside his chest. She had threatened him. Openly. It was not an empty threat, but…

Her and what army?

Okay. She had an army, for sure. Somewhere. Wherever!

But even with her army!

He could destroy anything they sent at hi—

Ezekiel calmed himself, breathing out through his mouth, and deescalated, saying, “I merely wish to know if he is a gifted child or an impostor, and if so, are you a party to the facade, or not.”

Yorza’s eyes went wide. She yell—

“Big Sister!” Hangzi shouted. Yorza calmed, slightly, but also not at all. She was hiding her anger, just like Ezekiel was hiding his own. Something passed between the two people of Devouring Nightmare that was neither word nor telepathy, and Yorza stepped back, letting the boy take center position. Hangzi said to Ezekiel, “My brother is gifted. He has gone through many tests to ensure he is who he is. Do not broach this topic again. Do not scare him again. He is merely curious. Let him be curious and do not provoke him again.”

Hangzi seemed to be telling the truth as though his life depended on it. Ezekiel felt mollified, slightly, but he was still angry that Yorza had truly threatened him. But he had threatened Warzi, first, maybe?

Eh! He hadn’t, but the kid certainly took it that way? Little shit shouldn’t be spying on people. What did he expect to happen? What the fuck was this, happening in front of him right now? Some ploy?

Whatever the case, this reaction was over the top. This anger did not need to happen.

Ezekiel tried to let his anger go.

Ezekiel calmly said, “If one stares into the depths, the depths stare back. If he is not prepared for that, then he should close his eyes, or not use his mana sense in such an unprivate area.”

Yorza silently raged behind Hangzi. She was not willing to let her anger go.

Hangzi merely said, “We are aware, but he is special. He does not always understand what he sees, or who he spies, for he is only seven. I ask you for dispensation due to his youth.”

“Fair enough.” Ezekiel said, “But all we did was look at him.”

Yorza said, “Your [Prismatic Ward] intrigued him, and it is our legitimate right to see whatever we wish to see inside Highland territory! So let Warzi look if he wants.” She spat, “And don’t look back! As you say, dangers hide in the depths, and our depths are much deeper than yours.”

Ezekiel decided to…

Not push her.

He said, “Fair enough. Apologies, Mistress Devouring Nightmare.” He turned to Hangzi. “Apologies, Scion Devouring Nightmare.”

Yorza narrowed her eyes, searching for a lie. If she found any it would be a result of her seeing shadows where there were none. Hangzi stared at him too, no less searching than his aunt. On one hand, Ezekiel had no reason to antagonize Devouring Nightmare unduly, but on the other, a child with a mana sense like that only had two possible explanations, and while a prodigy was to be nurtured, a cuckoo was to be killed.

Yorza tensed for a moment. Hangzi’s expression turned fractionally harder.

Hangzi spoke, his voice filled with steel, “You have nothing to fear from my brother.”

Ezekiel said, “I believe you, and again, I apologize.”

He certainly had nothing to fear from a boy, even if that boy was an impostor. He also had nothing to fear from Hangzi, even though that was the implied threat given when Hangzi couched his statement with, ‘from my brother’.

On the second floor, the cooks paused as they saw the altercation upstairs.

A guard behind Hangzi whispered about dinner being ready.

Hangzi declared to Ezekiel, “I can overlook some uncouth behavior.” Hangzi decided, “But you will attend dinner at our table, and you will apologize to Warzi yourself.”

“… Eh?”

- - - -

On the fifth floor, in the dining half of the room, dinner was served at a large square table with seats for four people. The table could have fit eight and almost all of the surface was taken up with food. There was no way that Ezekiel could eat all of that which sat before him, but at least this wasn’t some ‘master eating before the help’ scenario, which he feared it could have been, and was how it was over in the Greensoil Republic. Tiffany and Paul were seated at a table behind Ezekiel, already being served by the cooks, while on the other side of the room, Hangzi’s people ate at other tables.

In Clan culture, everyone might not sit at the big table, but everyone ate together. Ezekiel appreciated that. He also appreciated all the food, but this much bounty was more a way for Star Song to show off their fortune, than for any real reason.

