Ezekiel happily declared, “Sorry! Once again; sorry! It seems I blunder about, don’t I?” He fully taunted, “I don’t need to be ‘shown any true terror’ while your brother is here.” He stared across the way, and smiled. “How about tomorrow? After lunch?”

Hangzi waved a hand backward, at his guards. They settled down. The boy Scion stared down his nose at Ezekiel, then leveled his gaze, and said, “A test of talents, tomorrow. After lunch.”

“Sounds fun!” Ezekiel said to Warzi, “And the man in the mana is not a bad guy. I’ve met Phagar tons of times. Almost became like a priest to him, but then it didn’t work out, and that was okay, too.”

Hangzi narrowed his eyes, suddenly wary, like he wasn’t sure if he had seen a monster in the dark, or not.

Yorza had a different reaction. She straightened at Ezekiel's words. She glanced at him with narrowed eyes, then turned back toward Warzi, looking hopeful.

Warzi met Ezekiel’s eyes with his own. He was fearful, but also something else. And then the boy startled as the first drops of an evening rain pattered against the pagoda and rushed across the land outside, filling the air with the sounds of millions of tiny taps.

The rest of dinner was quiet except for the small moments when something unexpected happened outside, or downstairs, or upstairs, or elsewhere, and Warzi startled. He managed to hold himself together through three distractions, but then the fourth distraction came, and he spilled his food over himself and dropped his chopsticks. He didn’t cry when his servants helped him, though.

Either the kid was a fantastic actor, or a kid. After sharing a meal with him, Ezekiel was leaning hard toward the second option.

Poor kid.

- - - -

Ezekiel laid in bed, reading medical texts and Blood Magic notes, when a thought touched his mind.

‘Hey, dad!’

He smiled, sending back, ‘How’s it going out there? Kill any large monsters?’

‘We razed an infestation of Moon Reachers, actually! 45 of them. They’re over here on Nelboor, too. Been plaguing a whole mess of Border Clans for months now.’

Ezekiel sighed, worried for a moment, then banished that fear for it was completely illogical. He put his smile back on, and sent, ‘If anyone is qualified to kill them, it’s you. What was your final count in the culling over in the Forest? Almost four thousand, right?’

‘3,940!’

‘I’ll put up an Imaging for those kinds of monsters if Sikali or whoever can guarantee no one else can see it.’

‘We considered asking you, but they decided against it.’ Julia sent, ‘They’re saving your obligation for something larger, no doubt. So how was your day?’

‘Oh! You know. Met Grand Elder Lingxing Void Song for lunch at the Void Temple, and Scion Devouring Nightmare for dinner, and I learned all about aura control and healing magic. You could Remake all of that right now, I bet. I met a scared kid who was born with a mana sense to rival Tiffany; the younger brother of the Scion, in fact. He’s only seven, and I’m pretty sure this is neither a cuckoo situation, nor a [Polymorph]ed infiltrator situation. He’s just a kid with a massive mana sense.’

‘… Huh.’ Julia said, ‘I got no idea about that, but tell me more about this healing stuff? I tried to remake most of that, but it didn’t work right. I don’t have an Elemental Body for Healing, so I kinda gave up on that.’

‘Oh! I read about that. Hold on.’ Ezekiel sat up, excited. That had been one of his questions for Ari, for tomorrow or the next day, and he had found the answer in his books. Flipping through his books with multiple tendrils of light, he read as he sent, ‘Yes. Elemental Healing. I asked Elder Arilitilo twice about Remaking the healing spells, and she never mentioned it, so I was confused, too, but I saw a note on that in one of these books— Here it is! Okay. This is actually a multilayered problem that stumped me for a while. Part of the problem is translation-based. They call the joining of Elemental Water and Light, ‘Healing’. But Healing Magic is more nuanced than the simple Healing Element. With Elemental Healing, you could probably Remake the healing spells as they are truly meant to be remade, but you’d have to be careful not to make cancers along the way. Healing Magic is actually a lot more nuanced than simple Elemental Healing.

‘This is also something I read, that Ari didn’t go over, exactly: Healing spells are one of the few spells that you can queue ahead of time; that you can cast into a glow on your hand, or something, and then tap a person with when needed. There is no need to directly cast the spell on a person.

‘So in this way, you can shape the healing spell properly before then applying it directly to the wound in the best way to overheal Health in an area and allow the body to remake what had been broken. And that was a complicated sentence, but you got it.

‘That’s all it takes to Remake the healing spells.’ He paused. He sent, ‘But it’s a lot more complicated than one sentence from me. Don’t try pure Elemental Healing on yourself; you’ll just get cancer. [Cleanse] clears out cancers, but if you get them in a bad spot, like a pancreas, you could screw yourself up very, very fast.

‘Looks like it’s gonna take me a few weeks to learn what she has to teach. Are you getting lessons with Loremaster Riri, or something? I didn’t hear anything about that today. Is that working out like how we bargained?’ He added, ‘And tell me about your day!’

Julia seemed happy on the other side of the call, as she sent, ‘No lessons yet, but I talked to her. Lessons soon, but not yet. Tomorrow we’re going to kill some rivergrieves that are terrorizing some of the northernmost border cities, up past Holorulo, and then we’re going to…’

Ezekiel listened to his daughter speak of her joy.

Eventually, Julia signed off.

Ezekiel laid in bed, the conversation with his daughter swirling in his mind. He flicked on his mana sense, to check up on the rest of the world.

Paul was asleep. Tiffany was on first watch, sipping tea as she read her novel.

Odins flitted about outside, also on watch. They sat on the sills of the windows and on the branches of trees; bright pink birds hanging out in the dark and the rain without care for either. The one behind Ezekiel, hanging out on his headboard, was there to watch over Ezekiel while he slept. Ezekiel reached a hand up and patted the little guy. Odin twittered in happy violins.

Hangzi was doing paperwork down in his office. His guards were half asleep, with the others stationed here and there around his apartments. Hangzi’s office was almost directly below Ezekiel’s bedroom, but not directly below his bed.

Two floors down, Yorza tucked Warzi into bed and then activated a magical night light nearby. As rainbow glows touched the room, and the world rained outside his windows, an opaque bubble of magic surrounded Warzi. Ezekiel couldn’t see through the bubble, but he could tell that, after a minute, the bed stopped shaking under the boy’s constant fidgeting. Maybe Warzi was finally able to relax inside that bubble.

Ezekiel got to thinking.

How could you turn off someone’s mana sense? The obvious ‘solution’ to him was to take [Sealed Privacy Ward] and flatten it, then wrap it around the outside of the body, likely combining it with [Personal Ward]. Or something like that. Then you’d enchant that into a ring. Would that work?

He cast a [Sealed Privacy Ward] into the air beside his chair, making it a flat, curved and closed surface. It was a bubble shape with nothing but outsides; even the inside was technically still ‘outside’ of the spell’s area of influence. The spell appeared like a barely-visible flex in the air.

To his mana sense, it was a solid sphere; impenetrable.

He got up out of bed and stuck his hand in.

In the exact edge of the sphere, where the spell effect actually was, his arm vanished. He could still see his hand and arm on the other side of the thin bubble, though, just in the way that he could look through a normal [Sealed Privacy Ward] and see what was happening on the other side.

Huh. Okay. That worked.

Well. No. It did not. This version of his [Sealed Privacy Ward] blocked all sound, too. Which meant that if this was made into a [Personal Ward], then the person inside could see out, but they couldn’t hear, so this was a failure.

Maybe he could make a simple tier 2 version of a [Personal Ward] that just blocked mana sense. That seemed easy enough. Probably.

… But anyway, there was still the enchanting problem. How could he put this spell into an item that Warzi could—

Ah. Julia had spoken of charms that could break to reestablish a [Personal Ward] whenever her first ones broke. This was a good idea! He could make a ton of those and hand the charms to the boy.

He held his hand up and channeled the sound of [Persona—

He stopped. It was late. He could do this in the morning, after he considered the problem a bit more. Besides that, he needed to experiment more with [Personal Ward]. Maybe, if he had an aura-permeable one, he could keep his [Personal Ward] up and continue to work on his aura control.

Ezekiel hadn’t experimented much with [Personal Ward]s because it was near impossible to make a better defensive [Personal Ward] than the base spell, and you could only have one [Personal Ward] active at a time. It was easy to attach other effects to [Personal Ward]s, though, like flight. Ezekiel had almost gone in that direction back when he first dropped on Veird. It should be easy enough to make a [Personal Ward] which stopped mana sense, but which allowed light through, as normal.

… Which, thinking about it, made Yorza’s earlier statement about this being a ‘difficult magic’, rather odd.

Meh.

A lie to get him to help her? Likely.

And he still needed to stab himself to learn healing magic, too!

… He’d do that in the morning, too, after lessons with Kaffi.

Ezekiel got back into bed, threw the covers over himself, and closed his eyes.

If he had (devouring) nightmares tonight, at least he knew who to blame!
