Stormhalt staggered back, surprised twice over by the sheer speed of Jessica’s attack and Shiv's sudden repositioning. “Talk telepathically from now on,” Shiv said, conveying his message through a burst of mana ejected from his Harbinger. “Your Magical Resistance is not gonna matter with her, and I need to speak with you anyway.”

Again, Havel listened without protest and tried to reply—

But Jessica was on them again, and Shiv could only guard and react. The Giantsbane tore across the room in a surge of terrifying speed as the wheels of fire beneath her heels exploded into existence for a half-second. Shiv's eyes widened as, instead of aiming for him directly, she leaped over him in a bound of momentum. The edge of Jessica’s practice sword flashed white, and the air stilled. A cutting projection was coming. Shiv's reflexes struggled to match hers, but she was holding back enough for him to better cover Storm—

Only for Jessica to dash again in a fiery burst that placed her inside his guard. It was there that he lost track of her altogether in a storm of flowing steel. Jessica interchanged cuts and bashes, using her pommel and blade in equal measure. Such was her simple solution to Shiv’s adaptive indestructibility. It took her less than a microsecond to coat his Scarforged Shell in countless brilliant scars, and though Shiv wasn’t weighed down in that instant, it slowed him substantially enough for her to roll under his lashing arm and snatch Stormhalt.

By the time Shiv turned to find where she was, he found her standing over the downed City Lord with a broken blade pressed against his neck. A half-second later, broken bits of adamantine rained down from above and bounced off Shiv’s platinum exoskeleton. “Really? You’re going to juke me three times?”

She shrugged. “Hey, it’s not my fault you kept getting faked out. You’re a pretty twitchy kid, you know that? You gotta learn which cut's actually real, and which one’s meant to screw with your head.” A low groan came from Stormhalt as he pawed blindly for his mace and shield—both items wrenched out of his grasp when he was taken. “Relax, Havel. You’re dead. I killed you. This spar's over; try again next time.”

“I thank you… for the lesson,” Havel choked out begrudgingly.

“They’re all feints and stabs,” Shiv muttered with annoyance. “The ones that make me flinch just end up being the former, and then when you see an opening, it turns into the latter.”

“Yep,” Jessica chirped with pride. “And you were doing so well for… well, a couple of seconds there. But then you let your new buddy get killed. Real shameful. What will his family say to you at the funeral? Anyway, reset, or do you want this to run a few minutes to an hour longer so I can finish your beating?”

“Reset,” Shiv grunted. “I got better odds with him fighting beside me anyway.”

Stormhalt stilled, and then lifted his gaze with surprise.

“Poor fool does not know this moment is partially engineered,” the Harbinger said with a laugh. “Jessica can see what you are doing. Battle builds camaraderie, and even if there is no shared love, you can find common ground in common struggle. He is simply too drowned in his emotions to notice the forced artificiality of this moment. Or perhaps he desires it unconsciously himself.”

The Giantsbane released her prey and pulled Stormhalt back to his feet by the scruff of his neck like a kitten. While she did that, Shiv set off to grab the Master's missing weapons. When they came back together, she looked over the two of them and sniffled. “Alright. Shiv, most of that shitshow at the end was on you. You can’t leave a Master open against an enemy Hero or Legend. Bad trade. And right after you exploited me being predictable, you let me make you predictable right back. Lesson’s not sinking in all the way.”

“Trying to figure out how to reliably ward you off,” Shiv said. “Frankly, you could have thrown me off at any time with your dashing. And I don’t think I’m good enough to fend you off and keep Stormhalt alive without doing the tumor-pocket.”

“Tumor… pocket?” Stormhalt repeated.

“No, no tumor pocket,” Jessica rebuffed. “You won’t always be able to take advantage of how Deathless you are. And I don’t think Master Stormhalt is good with being shoved inside you.”

“Inside him…” Stormhalt’s expression grew utterly horrified and increasingly lost.

“She’s making it sound sexual on purpose,” Shiv snapped. “It’s not like that. Jessica’s the one more likely to put you up her ass; I’ll just open myself up and wrap you in a protective cocoon of tumors and stuff while my ribs and organs hug you.”

A series of incomprehensible twitches played across the man’s face. “Are you… mocking me?”

“No,” Shiv and Jessica replied at the same time.

“It’s just reliable,” Shiv said. “And besides the pain and a little dizziness from the blood loss, it’s pretty good for the guy inside me. It’s worked before; it’s how I managed to finish my Toughness Delve.”

Shiv smiled reassuringly. Stormhalt looked like he was about to gag.

“Yeah, so, no tumor pocket,” Jessica repeated. “Figure out how to keep him safe the sane person way.”

“But sane people are victims, Jessica,” Shiv complained.

“I know; but being a victim is how you learn how to fight better.”

“You’re just saying that because you like beating my ass,” Shiv shot back.

“Yeah, but it’s also true.” She waved her practice sword in his direction. “Look. Your defense gets too static because you’re worried about what I’m going to do. And frankly, you do better defensively when you’re alone because you don’t keep worrying about what I’m going to do to the guy next to you. That gives me the initiative and makes you predictable. Defense isn’t you being hard enough and eating slashes for another guy; defense is keeping the attacker outside your guard—making a barrier between their hits and your person. That can be distance or stealth or evasion or whatever. When you just react and parry, that’s not defending; that’s desperation. And it makes you predictable. That’s how I opened you up like a tin can at the end.”

“So, instead of you being my puzzle defensively, you want me to be a puzzle for you?” Shiv asked.

“Yeah, something like that. Or just really inconvenient. Look. The big issue right now is that you’re an unbreakable wall, but still too simple. Simple is for striking. Warfare is not simple. Warfare is complicated. And if you’re going to contend with me blade to blade, well, I can make you competent, but I don’t know if I have the skills to make you my match in a duel even if we had a century or two. Some things are beyond theory and instruction. And there are decades of experience you’re simply missing right now.”

“But not him, though,” Shiv said, looking away from Jessica. He narrowed his eyes at Stormhalt and regarded the man with a smirk. “Any suggestions from that experienced mind of yours, Havel?”

“Address me properly,” Stormhalt rasped, recovering slightly from the barrage of madness he'd just suffered.

“Sure. Any suggestions, Master Stormhalt?”

The City Lord looked between Shiv and Jessica as he fell into contemplation. The moment was broken as Jessica yawned and started walking away from them. “Anyway, you boys can have a moment to recover and think. Shiv, you were due a break to begin with; Master-Inquisitor Stormhalt, figure out how to best use the Deathless—consider that the Councilwoman’s orders or whatever you need to be motivated. I’m going to give one of the juniors over there some pointers.”

An explosion of snaking fear-chains flooded into Jessica from across the room. The watching Inquisitors heard her and tried to flee, only for her to close in a flaming dash once more. “Oh, fuck, oh shit!” Shiv heard one of them scream.

“Alright!” Jessica barked. “Defensive drills time. You guys defend. Gotta get your Toughnesses up; that Tarrasque hits like a bastard, you know. Can’t die from the first glancing blow.” There was no lull between the point where her words ended and the sound of the flat of a blade smacking flesh began, followed by screaming and pleading. “Shiv, get that Biomancy of yours ready. Won’t hurt them too bad. Just welts, bruises, contusions, concussions, broken bones.”

He gave her a thumbs-up and went back to looking at Stormhalt. The poor man was wincing as Jessica disciplined the other Inquisitors assigned to the mission, his heart filling with sympathy and lament. “I forgot how traumatizing she is.”

Shiv blinked. “She is?”

Stormhalt gave Shiv a look that questioned his intellect—but that look broke apart as he remembered who he was talking to. “When her methods are applied to actual people, yes. Quite so.”

“Shit. Glad I’m not an actual person then,” Shiv quipped, swatting the insult aside. “Well, Master-Inquisitor Actual Person, you got a plan for how you want to make our next ass-beating less severe?” The City Lord wanted to speak, but withheld his first words as he regarded Shiv with wariness. “Oh, come on, I’m not going to hurt you. You know that by now.”

“I doubt I truly know anything by this point,” Stormhalt said darkly.

“Yeah, maybe not politically, but going off that, Veronica wouldn’t have stopped me even if I wanted to literally eat you and your entire family. Let’s get the ugliness out of the way here: I’m more valuable in her eyes, and that’s the way it is. Noble Houses are protected when it’s a civilian they’re dealing with. But the real value is power. You know that, even if it bothers you.” Shiv leaned over to greet Stormhalt up close at eye-level. “But I’m not interested in torturing you. Not anymore than I had to. I want you here because I fought you while you were the Endbreaker’s Avatar, and I think you’re going to come in useful again.”

“What is your game?” Stormhalt asked. “What are you playing at?”

“Not your suffering,” Shiv answered honestly. “Not sadism or brutality or revenge. I think I’m getting out of that. No. I just want to solve some problems before they become bigger problems. Settle some issues before they get out of control down the line. Thing is, even though I don’t think much of you as a person, Master Stormhalt, I still have a use for you as a Pathbearer, and there’s a lot more good you provide alive instead of dead.”

Stormhalt’s gaze went cold. “You seek to chain me to your will as a slave, then?”

Shiv scoffed. “Eugh. No. Slavery is degenerate. For your legend. For your culture. For your virtue. You really going to make someone else struggle for you? Have them take those levels while abusing them? For what?” He laughed. “I was Pathless just a few months ago. I was so envious of Adepts. I thought they were gods. I would have given anything for their power and status.”

“And now you have gone far beyond,” Stormhalt concluded grimly. “And so you realize that you are above your lessers. That I am not even worth shaming—not a slave, but just a thing to be used.”

“What a poor, wounded creature.” The Harbinger broke into a fit of saddened laughter. “He is defined by nothing but an original trauma. He never feels like he is enough, and everything he does is posturing and desperation to make up for how weak he feels before more gifted Pathbearers. He is no different from the martials we broke in the kitchens—our assassins who viewed their own worth as warriors and battle and nothing beyond. Georges would have despised him.”

Shiv glared at Stormhalt in turn, and let his eyes fill with enkindled flames. The City Lord took a step back in fear—but refused to flee, for what right warrior gave his back to death? “Don’t talk about yourself that way. You’re a piece of shit, Stormhalt. Someone I loved died because of you. You were going to spend the lives of your people to hurt another citizen of the Republic. You betrayed your own ethics and virtues over and over again because that hole in your heart won't stop bleeding. But you don’t get to debase yourself in front of me. I gave you respect; I called you by your title. You are rightfully a Master. So don’t use me as a puppet to call yourself a thing because you feel weak.”

Stormhalt damn near cracked in half from his words. Black fire spilled out of him—a flood of darkness pouring out from his diseased psyche. The City Lord’s expression turned to stone while everything within his mind and core filled with anguish.

“Cry if you want. Feel bad. Be sad. Hate the System. Hate the world. Hate me. I don’t care.” Shiv shook his head. “I can still see you. I can always see you. You can hide yourself in aesthetics and performance. I know what’s tearing through you, and I don’t care that much. But you will live up to that one part of yourself that’s good.” The Deathless planted a single finger on Stormhalt’s chest, and the impact sent a single tear falling from the man’s right eye—much to his horror. “You’re a good soldier. Good warrior. Maybe you’re not gifted, but you know what? Fuck them. Fuck the prodigies, fuck the monsters; they’re all pathetic in their own ways. Even me. Even Roland. The worst mistake someone can make is thinking any relief or actualization comes from power alone.”

The City Lord forced himself to breathe in and out to maintain his composure, but inside, he was on the verge of shattering—his confusion as to why Shiv was defending him from himself and the pressure the Deathless inflicted drove him to a point of near psychosis.

