“You should have focused on honoring yourself,” Shiv said. “You should have given yourself what you always needed. The culture of the Republic is diseased. This entire world is sick. We’re born in it. We suffer from it. But we don’t need to choose to inherit the sickness.” He dragged his finger up and placed it against Stormhalt’s forehead. “Use this. Be your own slave first. Be your own master for once instead of letting your heart abuse you. When you get a bit of that shit sorted and packed up, come find me. All the time you need. Jessica can wait. She will wait.”

“The Tarrasque,” Stormhalt choked out.

“Is just another problem I’m going to solve,” Shiv answered flippantly. “Like you. But I’m not going to kill it. Like I’m not going to kill you. The System’s going to need to try harder to make me. I see its chains, and think I’m going to pull myself on my own leash instead. For once in your miserable life, you should do the same.”

With that seed planted, Shiv simply walked past Stormhalt, where he once would have shouldered him aside, and decided to contemplate how to improve his defenses alone. But before that, a final hit of inspiration came to him, and he looked over his shoulder to finish hurting Havel the right way. “Roland never mentioned you much, if you were wondering. He hates you now, but I don’t think he gave that much of a shit about you before—not in the way you hated him. And I’m going to tell you right now: I’m not Roland, but he and I are going to be the same here. Rivals need to be respectable, and though you hurt Roland bad, that’s because he ignored you. That’s from scheming and playing the game. Again, I’m not Roland. Not in terms of skill yet. Not in terms of nature. But there’s no game to play with me. There is no way you match or beat me, Stormhalt. You find peace in your own worth, or you suffer my shadow until you break. Two roads. Choose the first.”

By the time Shiv was done, Stormhalt was shivering and hyperventilating again—and he was close to the edge. So close. But not yet over.

“And now we see what arises from the ruins of his personality,” the Harbinger declared. “What a terrible fate to be Havel Van Stormhalt.”

Yeah. Shiv sympathized. But fate alone wasn't a good enough excuse to become a degenerated version of who one was. If our wills are true at all, if we can choose, then that’s an evil too. An evil done against ourselves. A Pathbearer should be more responsible than that.

With that declaration, the substance of Shiv’s Pyromancy grew a magnitude hotter.

Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet 137 > 151
