“You’re going to have to fight alongside someone you don’t like at some point. It’s inevitable.”

You've likely heard the cliché before. You won't like everyone, and not everyone will like you. But I'm going to go beyond the cliché because life isn't just a platitude or a statement. Life is complicated, and war is complicated beyond that. When you fight next to someone, it doesn't matter if you like them or not; it matters if you can trust them and if you can rely on them. There's always a spectrum of “how much.” There are people you know you can trust with your life in combat that you wouldn't let near one of your loved ones.

And if you cannot be sure if you can trust or rely on them, then no, you don’t need to fight next to them, because they might be a knife in your back rather than a blade at your side.

Weird as it might sound, and love her as much as I do, my wife is one of these people. I can't imagine being without her on the battlefield or in my day-to-day, but there’s no world where I let her come with me if I'm heading into the capital to deal with some noble acquaintances. I know their habits, and I know hers. Only blood will come of that—and going outlaw when you have a family is an uglier thing than the stories might portray.

Trust and reliability aren’t binaries. They are conditional. You read about Whisper before—the orc assassin who was part of our band. You know how that ended. But I gotta tell you again that we all cared for Whisper. We really did. And we thought he cared for us the same way. Sure, he was a monster, but we thought he was our monster. He saved a lot of us, and was just accommodating no matter what the requests were.

But that changed in a flash on that farm. It didn’t last. And the same applies to people.

Some people you can’t fight alongside because they are, as nice as I can make it sound, sacks of shit. I’ve fought with Young Lords and Ladies who spent lives like coins for nothing in return. They usually died under mysterious circumstances. I fought alongside the agents of the Southern Gods and awakened monsters from the north. That usually went a bit better than with Whisper, but it was clear they didn’t think of me and mine as people.

Morale isn’t some invisible magical thing; it’s a very real currency that suffers or gains in combat, and if you and those around you don’t have that common bond or trust, and you’re not willing to die fighting for each other, then you’re going to break, and you’re going to lose. That’s the way it is. So, if you want to be a campaigner, you gotta vet those next to you if you can. Because if you don’t, it’s your life that gets used up.

—Memoirs of a Master-Tier War Mage

VII-64Balance (II)

Combat had a way of stripping a person down to reveal the bones of their truest self. It was hard to mask one’s character in the heat of the struggle; the skills on display whispered hints of one’s legend. Even without knowing every detail about another, it was easy enough to glimpse who they were and predict how they would act and react.

Everything was on full display as Havel Van Stormhalt fought alongside Shiv, and watching the older man parry and strike filled him with a most unexpected emotion: the bitterness of abject disappointment.

But Stormhalt wasn't a disappointment because he was a Master-Tier Pathbearer. Power didn't even come into the equation. He was an abject disappointment, paradoxically, because he was a truly competent Pathbearer. Shiv would go so far as to even call the man an ideal soldier.

What Stormhalt lacked in personal power, he made up for using experience and coordination. There was no jockeying for dominance when he fought. He didn't bark orders at Shiv or command him like an underling. Even though his feelings were rotten with misery and rioting at the thought of fighting alongside the Deathless, he mastered himself. He forced himself forward, and he stood in front of Shiv, playing the role of a Vanguard while letting the Deathless fight as his second. It wasn't a play of superiority; rather, it was simply the best position Havel could occupy.

His shield possessed a skill that placed down barriers of lingering force, wide enough to guard entire regiments from oncoming fire. When he swung his mace, pockets of pressure and explosive gusts of wind swept out, and he wielded his weapon in concert with his magic, buffeting and harassing rather than trying to smite Jessica directly. For he knew she was far beyond his reach as a Master, and so he left the matters of direct engagement to Shiv.

The City Lord was a veteran of combat; that much was obvious. He didn't waste time on trivialities such as trying to figure out who between Shiv and him was in charge. He simply barked out what he was trying to do as quickly and clearly as possible and allowed Shiv to adapt around him. It was in those displays of tactical acumen and strategic maturity that Shiv learned to value and scorn Havel Van Stormhalt.

Scorn because there was a special kind of tragedy in witnessing someone capable of extreme virtue in one aspect retaining the festering sickness of personal depravity in another.

As Jessica came forth, she struck, stabbed, and stroked with leisurely strikes. Her new greatblade glowed bright with nullifying enchantments, reducing her might, and quelling the cleaving sword projections that painted chasms across the span of horizons. Still in her casual attire, the Giantsbane kept her attacks slow and gradual, yet never slowed her momentum. The nicks and cuts she left on the translucent bulwark projected by Havel’s shield healed fast, hinting at a powerful self-mending enchantment. Of course, if Jessica so desired, she could cleave it and the man behind it in half with little effort.

But Stormhalt fought on, unashamedly, and, more importantly, he sought to make use of himself in whatever manner he could provide. He directed bolts of lightning from the head of his mace, and the strands of electricity broke into two lanes in an attempt to blind Jessica's eyes. Her arm curved up, and she shifted her stance ever so slightly. With no struggle at all, she deflected those bolts as if they were solid objects, causing them to ricochet off into the distance as she briefly flickered next to Stormhalt via the full expression of her Parry Skill.

But she didn't strike him down, for that wasn't the point of the exercise. Instead, she let the moment pass and returned to where she once was, wading forth in pretense of how a monster might fight. Stormhalt shaped condensed spheres of wind, launching them forth in detonating blasts to obscure and drive Jessica back. An additional wall of dense, shifting air reduced the shape of the Giantsbane to a mirage, but failed to move her whatsoever.

But such was expected on the part of Stormhalt, and he did something else at the same time. Something that surprised Shiv, who mostly watched as a passive observer for now, trying to get a gauge of the City Lord's baseline abilities. An air-sculpted clone of Shiv, made in exact replication of his body's dimensions, even sporting his posture and movement habits, charged into the fray.

An Aeromantic illusion, Shiv understood. That was a feat and a half: the amount of control it took to create and puppeteer an air-made construct was already substantial, but to see it designed to mirror Shiv so closely despite how little the man had seen him fight betrayed an artist's attention to detail. Once more, it reaffirmed Shiv's own lack of balance, the experience that typically accompanied a gradual gain in power and skills.

Stormhalt was but a Master-Tier Pathbearer, but he expressed the higher capabilities of his skills. Meanwhile, Shiv breezed past Master-Tier Biomancy within weeks and continued using his Heroic-Tier magics as little more than additional limbs to bludgeon or tear. And there was a rank injustice between them, where one was destined to achieve higher power at a pace the other couldn't hope to match, while the lesser was a greater warrior in truth, brought low by the innumerable flaws of his individual character and bottlenecks of physical growth.

“Opening! Take it!” Stormhalt shouted.

To Shiv's credit, he was already in motion—had been since his Aeromantic clone was summoned forth. Though Stormhalt was superior when it came to general mastery, Shiv was beyond battle-hardened. The sheer concentration of strife and conflict had honed his instincts and carved him bare of hesitation. He knew what the City Lord was trying to do and cooperated without fail.

He stayed close to his clone at first, for if there was too much distance, then Jessica could easily distinguish which one was the decoy. The first one, obviously. Always the first one. It was only as he came within a meter that he shifted his position. Jessica struck so fast that Shiv barely caught it, and that meant Stormhalt didn't perceive the blow at all. A wave of rippling force cleaved clean through the many-layered defenses Stormhalt had put up, and his shield sparked and parted along the middle—barely spared from a full bifurcation.

But Shiv had been waiting for her strike. He timed her cut with an attack of his own, launching himself a half-second back along his personal timeline to effectively flicker back to where he'd been a blink before, avoiding the aftershock of her strike, and then brought all the damage his body had accrued in his past into the present. A cataclysmic explosion of platinum scars detonated out from Shiv, cleaving gaps through the training grounds, shredding the floor, and launching Stormhalt off his feet. Even the remaining fortifications of kinetic reinforcement could only crumble beneath the weight of the Onus.

Against almost any other opponent, the sheer apocalyptic destructiveness Shiv flung off himself like patches of dead skin would have been enough, if not to kill them, then to break their concentration.

But Jessica Hawgrave was a Legend above Legends in her own right, and what followed was a defensive display that left Shiv laughing in awe.

She performed nothing but masterstrokes, starting with her first parry—the blow deflecting a colossal blade of platinum resplendence that gashed the ground and ceiling alike open. Dimensional mana spilled into the air as the entire chamber shuddered and groaned. The instability grew worse as the scar she'd nudged aside crashed into a chain of following cuts and saw the barrage tangled in clashing impacts that sent Shiv’s ejected Onus slicing in all directions. The wounds he tried to return got in their own way, and Jessica stepped through the chaos with ease, swatting aside the few other attacks she couldn’t avoid as she ducked behind another building-sized scar of blinding platinum—and vanished.

Shiv reacted off pure instinct. He didn’t know where she was coming from, but he remembered the first place she'd stabbed him last time. Jessica had a habit of spiking her size to obtain a force and reach advantage before pushing in and shrinking down so she could work Shiv’s insides. Her size-changing ability allowed her to enjoy the benefits of being the taller and shorter fighter at the same time, and dealing with it was damned annoying in general, mainly because she always went for the most awkward spots to block.

Shiv snapped his dagger in front of his left armpit, and he felt a resounding impact as the edge of his adamantine blade cracked—but he kept his dagger moving as he caught the next hit coming for his left carotid and then a half-sword meant to geld him if he weren't unbreakable. As the third hit connected, Shiv felt his knife shatter. Without hesitation, he dropped it and tried to grapple with Jessica, whom he only glimpsed as a blur dancing through the chaotic winds still swirling about.

He clutched nothing but air as she shrank a meter in height faster than he could perceive. But before she could capitalize on his mistake, he launched himself back across his timeline using his Harbinger, her blade passing through empty space.

“Good!” Jessica praised as Shiv reappeared where he'd stood a moment before. She strolled toward him as she yawned, rolling her sword in her left hand. “Caught me doing the predictable there. Predictability kills. Remember that.”

“Eh, I probably would’ve still been graced with a few holes instead of a victory without Havel here masking me.” Shiv looked over his shoulder as he noticed Havel was still trying to rise from being flung away what felt like a heartbeat ago to Shiv. Never mind Legend, the speed differential between a Hero and a Master was already obscene. “You good, Master Stormhalt?”

“Stop talking and focus,” Havel snapped, his agitation born more from offense at Shiv’s unseriousness rather than his personal animosity. Shiv accepted the rebuke without rebuttal and took the position of Vanguard now. Jessica halted her advance in the meantime as she gave the Master among them time to reorient and compose himself. “Shift strategies. I will obscure—”

But the moment Stormhalt tried to play the mastermind, he made himself a target. Jessica slashed out, knowing Stormhalt was an easy victim—but could still dramatically increase Shiv’s threat profile. Unfortunately, Shiv knew the same thing and reappeared in front of Stormhalt in a second time-skip. Anticipating the strike allowed him to drain the force out of Jessica’s blow, and so he gained no scars and reaped a wealth of Shapeless Tides in turn.

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 564 > 567

Inertial Overdrive 381 > 383

