They only had Foliana’s word for it, but it said a lot that the Fraerling guests were now not so welcome to leave. Perorn had politely requested they stay until this was all sorted out.
How well the Centaur or Foliana could act on that request was…questionable. Ekrn had told Heish he could get them out. They were far too far for a long-range teleport from Feiland if headquarters were active, or probably even Paeth, but Elvallian was still a Tallfolk settlement. The Fraer-ways were convenient access to all of the academy, and they were optional.
Not to say that there weren’t Fraerlings on the staff of the Forgotten Wing Company. It was just that, by and large, they were young.
“You’re not being prohibited from leaving your quarters, Tallguard. But access to the aviary is prohibited for now.”
A Fraerling guard informed Ekrn very politely. The Tallguard [Sentry Leader] looked up at the young man, who might be in his twenties at best.
The Titan’s recruiting children. More like the ones who wanted to see the big world, but weren’t able to do it alone. So—Tallguard new recruits or city or village-folk.
Ironically, the Titan would never find Fraerlings to match his stature if he recruited them from settlements or even Tallguard. The real crazy ones were like…Gindal.
Gindal, who lived in the Dyed Lands with other Fraerlings, a thing considered suicide by Tallfolk. Was he really from there? Vuul from his city?
Suspicion was a terrible thing. Once it infected you…Ekrn was worried.
And it was here Guidance Heish, most proactive, most sensible of Paeth’s Architects, let Ekrn down.
“It might have just been someone wanting to see the Titan’s quarters, Ekrn. He is our hero. Besides—can you really say you weren’t tempted to check on his files for any information? I was.”
Ekrn turned on Heish.
“I understand that, Guidance. But I’m thinking of what that Squirrel said. [Greater Invisibility] ring—that’s not casual equipment we have lying around. If it were someone just looking, they’d be far less prepared. They went there deliberately.”
Heish fiddled with her luggage. She hadn’t brought much, but she had brought a few record-crystals, so she could chart her experience. She was going back through them now, but Ekrn wasn’t in the mood to play detective.
Perorn was asking some questions of the representatives, and Foliana had vanished. The problem was…the Tallfolk weren’t going to find answers.
“I just can’t imagine someone would act against our people. Fraerling settlements disagree, naturally, but traitors? Are you suggesting someone’s…selling us out?”
Giving away locations of Fraerling cities? The look of disbelief on her face was absolute. And naive, to Ekrn.
“Fraerling cities have made war against each other before.”
Heish spoke politely.
“…No.”
“Feiland’s records record it all. Paeth probably has some.”
“I’ve never seen any, even in our records—”
“Maybe the Architects didn’t like highlighting it. We’ve gone to war. If there is a traitor to the small here, it’s on us to find them.”
That was the problem with city-Fraerlings. With Tallfolk, too. Foliana might be the greatest [Rogue] on Baleros for all Ekrn knew. The Great Company could investigate the issue.
But they wouldn’t find the truth, even with truth spells. At least—their truth spells. Fraerlings could do all kinds of nasty things to truth stones, from evading the spell to disabling it and making it look like it was glowing.
High-tech vs low-tech. The irony of it wasn’t lost on Ekrn. Heish murmured as she checked her crystals.
“Let me see if I can find anything useful. I…have a lovely view of Elvallian. Meeting Commander Foliana, Perorn, those precious students, and our tour of the academy.”
“And absolutely none of other Fraerlings.”
Heish looked abashed.
“I have a few of our introductions, but no…that’s not the kind of thing I record. I’ll check my records.”
Ekrn nodded curtly.
“Do that. The Tallguard will escort you wherever you’re going from now on. Bathroom, walks—don’t leave their side.”
Heish frowned at Ekrn.
“That sounds paranoid. And what will you do?”
Ekrn checked his shortsword and ring. The activation word was buzzing in his mind. One word and it would be primed, ready to fire.
“If we have a traitor or an idiot, I’ll find them. I have a good idea where to start, too. I gave my crossbow to someone. I’m going to get it back.”
Heish watched as the Sentry Leader vanished into the Fraer-ways. She went back to her recording crystals, but after a second, put them aside.
Neither one was exactly a [Detective]. Heish couldn’t believe it herself. So she rose…and slipped out of her quarters as well. This was a matter for the small. Even Commander Foliana couldn’t help; she could hardly fit into the Fraer-ways, and she was so…obvious.
 
——
 
Fraerling secrets were hugely important. Their most important secrets were the locations of their homes. However, when they trusted you, or you just happened to make their acquaintance and they really needed your help, well, that was different.
Luan Khumalo thought the true binder between them that had won even Ekrn’s respect, was because it was a secret mutually shared.
He knew where Paeth was roughly. Paeth knew of Earth.
There were more secrets to be had, of course. Resk and Noa shared a few. They actually didn’t seem to think their high level of magical advancement was that secret. However, some things were still slightly confidential.
Like…The Last Box.
“What is that, exactly? A doomsday weapon?”
The United Nations company was a flurry of people moving about. Ken was meeting with Quallet and trying to talk Fezimet out of eviction. Word had spread about the United Nations Company leaving, and the Rustless Guard and Captain Eldima had formally protested the decision.
Some of the citizens of Talenqual were more expressive. Luan wondered if they were still throwing mud at the Featherfolk Brigade’s headquarters. Lizardfolk were quite direct; chase them away, and they’d be back again in minutes.
Geneva Scala had won a lot of goodwill for her clinic and work in the city. Everyone from their [Landlady], Miss Hastel, to a lot of the general citizenry were on the Humans’ side.
However—Fezimet was the least of Luan’s concerns. His army was a lot more important. Daly himself had stopped by after arming the Bushrangers with the newest Fraerling-enchanted technology. He’d tried them out on Stelbore, the tough-as-nails creatures that the Bushrangers couldn’t kill.
Luan remembered Daly telling him about that encounter where the Stelbore had shrugged off the crossbows. Luan had lent him the one Paeth had made, and Resk had enchanted the rest to be far more deadly.
Dawson was still raving about it as Daly let himself in.
“We hit them so hard that every crossbow bolt shattered, but they felt it. We’re going to need to use steel from now on! I aimed at this bird a thousand feet up or something, and guess what I’ve got to eat, Kirana!”
“…Did you get it plucked? How old is that, Dawson?”
The young man spluttered.
“Nevermind that, I guess. We also just sold an entire Stelbore to the [Butcher], and we’re eating pork tonight! We were hitting it, but like I said, we still couldn’t break through its hide. Then Daly pulls out the crossbow Luan gave him, and one shot—!”
Straight through the eyes. Daly offered the crossbow back.
“I tried to find the enchanted bolt, but I think it went all the way through and into the earth.”
“Keep it for now. I’ll get it back when I’m on a delivery.”
All these weapons. Luan had not ever wanted to be a [Soldier], but it was inevitable. Paeth was in danger, and yet everyone still gathered around to talk with the Fraerlings.
Because they were so…fascinating. Noa had been given a bunch of fat, purple grapes, and she was stacking them in a pile as she yanked them off the sprig that Resk was holding. She sliced one in half, and Resk ate it. They were as large as watermelons for the Fraerlings, so he held it up and took big bites.
Noa used the biggest grape as a stool. She bounced on it, delighted, as Resk frowned.
“The Last Box? That’s confidential…but I suppose it can’t hurt to give the basic details. You know what the Architects do, don’t you?”
“Follow the plan the Gnomes gave you? Fucking Gnomes. Are you sure they’re dead?”
Paige looked heartbroken at the thought. Resk sighed.
“To my knowledge, the last ones died on Baleros long, long ago. All we have are records.”
“Why? Don’t tell me something got them.”
“Got…oh, you mean like the other species? Harpies are mostly extinct, Halflings and Jinn. Spiderfolk died out thanks to Centaurs winning that nasty war. I hope we still have Minotaurs?”
“We still have Minotaurs.”
Resk sighed.
“Good. Good. Well, Gnomes didn’t get wiped out by any one species if that’s what you’re asking. Elves did die out completely.”
“Wait, you know Elves?”
“They definitely existed. But if you’re asking for exact records…we don’t have much. Almost every First Founding city in existence was destroyed at one point, and records are patchy. They existed—and slowly became half-Elves. Genetics, you know? Elves can only produce Elves if they co-mingle. And there weren’t any left. So you have half-Elves who always create more half-Elves…it’s like Dwarves.”
Luan itched to write this down. But he didn’t—mainly because Siri was already taking notes. Daly noticed and nudged her.
“Hey Siri, write this d—goddamnit, Siri.”
She kicked him so hard that Luan’s shins felt it. That was probably a joke she’d heard too many times. Resk was still going on, but Noa was laughing so hard at the amusing Tallfolk she fell off her grape.
“Do you want something to eat, Noa?”
Aiko offered. She had an obsession with watching the Fraerling nibble on food. Well, fair was fair—so did Luan. Noa sat up.
“What about…do you have some ice cream Luan was talking about?”
“I’ll get some!”
By the time Aiko came back, Resk was done pontificating on the loss of knowledge in Fraerling libraries. However, he beamed around.
“The one thing that’s never lost are the Plans, though. Thanks to The Last Box. You see, the Clockmakers had the kind of foresight to predict calamities—if not the exact ones. The Last Box is indestructible, almost immovable unless some very specific steps are taken—”
Paige interrupted, stuttering.
“W-what did you just call Gnomes? Clockmakers?”
And there it was again. Resk’s eyes lit up.
“Yes, of course. It was one of their names for themselves. Or attributed to them? You see—and this is something fascinating, I should have brought one—we have these things called clocks. They tell time accurately, far more than your sundials. You don’t have to look at the sun or use hourglasses—”
“We know what clocks are.”
The name! Luan looked at Siri as Resk stared at a smartphone.
“My word! You aren’t complete savages after—I mean, Clockmakers. Gnomes have tons of nicknames. Noa…what are the others?”
Kessice glanced up from her lodestone bracelet as Noa stared at a bowl of ice cream and her mouth fell open. Aiko had even gotten a cherry and whipped cream.
“Aiko, you’re going to kill her with that much!”
Resk instantly hurried over and waved at Kessice as Noa climbed onto the edge of the bowl and looked down.
“Not with me helping her, ah—carrying this burden! Kessice, do you want some?”
“In a second.”
“Where was I? Noa, give me half of that cherry. I love cherries. Names. Gnomes called themselves a few things. So did we.”
“The Wise Giants?”
Resk chuckled as he was handed half of the cherry.
“Oh yes. Fraerlings called them that. Other races had names like the Laughing Tricksters of Baleros. Gnomes did love their pranks. That’s recorded. So intelligent they made every other race look slow. They liked referring to themselves as Clockmakers and—this is an odd one—‘the Second-Farthest Travellers’. I have no idea who the furthest were.”
The clues. Luan felt his skin tingling, and if a certain other Courier were here…well. Resk sighed.
“But they did pass away. Not of war. Old age, actually. They were famously aloof to all but our species. Nations tried to hunt them, and Gnomes would laugh and trick their armies and greatest champions.”
“Old age? But didn’t they repopulate?”
The Alchimagus shook his head.
“They refused to. I don’t know why. Their last great work upon this world was to give our people, the smallest, their Plans. It has kept us alive as a species, and we will always be grateful to them. The Last Box is that plan. Oh, we can share blueprints and copy knowledge, but The Last Box is a puzzle. We solve their assignments and discover magic and technology. We’ve been doing it for thousands and thousands of years, and we’re still finding more.”
It was like homework across aeons. Luan’s mouth was open. No—it was like if aliens had come to Earth and left clues, like people thought the pyramids were.
“So what’s in The Last Box? I assume there’s something, then. Hasn’t anyone solved it? Or do you know what’s inside?”
Resk grew serious as Noa looked up from lifting a giant teaspoon of ice cream to her face. Aiko handed her a napkin, and the Tallguard smiled up at her.
“Inside? Oh, that’s a question that every single Fraerling has speculated on since they were first given to us. No one knows what’s in Paeth’s box. But each one is different. And…The Last Box can’t be opened until every puzzle is solved.”
Now that sounded…ominous. The Humans looked at Resk.
“So you have no idea what’s in there. No one’s tried using force?”
Resk lifted a few fingers.
“Indestructible, immovable—unless you know exactly how. They don’t even seem magical. You can waste Skills on them and nothing works. Not that it’s wise to try. We don’t exactly want to destroy our Last Boxes, you know. Not every city has them; only First Foundings do.”
“You keep mentioning Paeth’s one of those. That means an original city?”
“A descendant, yes. It means it has a Last Box. That’s all. So Paeth falling is as terrible as Oierdressql…but it also means that if it falls, someone will have to retrieve the Plans, no matter the risk. As for opening it—do you know the sixth continent of Tiernas? The Continent of Glass, built by peoples of every race?”
Luan shook his head. Resk’s face was somber.
“Well, to my knowledge, The Last Box was only ever opened…or perhaps cracked? Once. [Archmages] and corrupt Fraerlings on Tiernas conspired to open it. Geniuses of every class, to force open all the knowledge.”
“And what happened?”
Paige whispered. Resk looked around gravely.
“…Do you see Tiernas anymore?”
