Xor had rearguard duty since he’d been injured. The [Sergeant] had promoted himself to [Captain], but he’d fallen behind Quexa, ironically. Still, he was a stoic, good fellow…and currently in awe as he held his head up to address the giant figure patiently kneeling in their camp.
One look explained it all. Quallet Marshhand saw a familiar War Walker and familiar Dullahans too. He stopped, and the War Walker instantly rose and placed his head on his shoulders.
“Commander Marshhand. I am Bastiom. If you would hire my fellow Dullahans and I, we would fight under your banner. We came together, not apart.”
The Dullahans turned, and Quexa nudged Quallet. He just looked up, and it all came flooding back.
This was Bastiom, a giant of metal. Unlike half-Giants who were flesh, Dullahans were part-metal, part people. Like crabs—a comparison that would earn you a punch if you made it—they wore armor over their vulnerable insides.
Bastiom was hardly as glowing as Xol of Ingrilt, but his armor was still reinforced steel. Unlike regular Dullahans, though, his armor was scarred from battle and clearly patchworked in how it had been repaired.
Most Dullahans would die of shame; poorly-maintained armor meant you were poor, but a War Walker was so vast that covering their bodies was expensive beyond belief. Some wore wood or lesser materials, and even then—
They were a terror. Large targets that could die fast, but still, there was nothing that made the infantry break like looking up at a figure with a foot raised to stomp you flat.
However—Quallet introduced himself on autopilot and asked Bastiom how he and the fifty-odd Dullahans all wearing steel had come here. To buy himself time.
He was thinking hard and fast.
Did he want a War Walker? Even a free one—and they could charge enlistment fees in the thousands?
The answer was not always ‘yes’. An idiot said yes at once. War Walkers were a problem for any commander. Not just in how you kept them alive; they required a lot of food. And maintenance. If one broke an ankle? Repairing that armor?
War Walkers made the choice to become large to fight, sometimes for a cause, others, sacrifice or just because they desired strength, but they were a drain in times of peace.
Moreover, these were Razorshard Armor veterans. Even if he hadn’t known Bastiom, there was only one reason they’d come to Quallet. As Bastiom explained in his operatic voice—
“We have no recourse. No other Dullahan-led company will take us after our disgrace. The Razorshard Armor company has disbanded, yet I am impelled to battle. I cannot exist in peace, and my fellows joined me to find you.”
They needed employment. Bastiom’s words were a bit artful, but he was telling the truth. He’d die of starvation without some job to pay his costly food bill and so on. Quallet came to a decision fast.
“Do you stand behind the Razorshard Armor company’s actions, Walker Bastiom?”
The giant Dullahan’s eyes flashed; he had a small head compared to his body. That was one aspect of the Dullahans that didn’t change as much.
“No. I refused to desert and survived by luck. However, I resigned my commission the instant our battle-contract ended.”
…And he was the one who had helped save them by guaranteeing Geneva’s passage. She had saved him in the most amazing medical procedure that Quallet had heard of; reattaching his arm sinew by sinew. The War Walker waited.
Nervously, though the Dullahans hid it well. Quallet looked them over.
Steel-grade armor. Veterans, all. There would be problems with his people who remembered what they’d done. If he had any of the United Nations Company, they’d be really upset because it was the Dullahans who had executed some of their number. The ‘Americans’.
However, Quallet had made up his mind. He turned to the Dullahans and nodded.
“Will you…discuss a contract with me over a brief repast? We are heading towards a battle come mid-morning, so it must be regretfully short.”
Ken had taught him that. Quallet knew Dullahans, but he went the extra mile and sat with their heads on pillows, as formality and their customs dictated. They had a contract within twenty minutes.
That was how Quallet got himself a War Walker. Metoish herself turned pale at the sight of the giant Dullahan taking the field. And he didn’t acknowledge her stone-gaze. She instantly tried to kill him, of course, armor-piercing arrows and spells taking him as a target.
But Bastiom was still someone with levels and Skills. Before he could become a focused target, he charged across the battlefield with the veterans. Quallet ordered a full-charge after the War Walker and saw him fighting Metoish.
Give credit to the Medusa—she dodged the first terrible swing of the axe, avoided the shield, even dodged a [Flash Blow] during Bastiom’s [Rampage Run].
She backed up from Bastiom as he whirled, screaming at her forces to climb him and bring him down! Bring him down! The Medusa backed up—straight into the Dullahan veterans. One hit her with a [Dizzying Shieldbash], and she stopped just long enough for that axe to come down.
That was the end of the engagement, and Quallet reported his victory to the amazed and relieved employers who were as good as their word when it came to pay. Bastiom’s presence probably wasn’t necessary; you had to have a good reputation, and Quallet might turn into a bigger problem than Metoish if he weren’t paid.
However, no one argued over their contract when he stood there. Bastiom was the first War Walker that Quallet hired, and the cheapest by far.
The Centaurs from the Roving Arrow company came later. And the other War Walker a month after that.
 
——
 
Most Centaurs from the Roving Arrow Company wouldn’t get near Gravetender’s Fist for fear of retribution. Quallet would have spit on them or done worse if they’d asked to enlist.
Except for, perhaps, one group that had also demanded a ceasefire. Guess which Centaur group asked if Quallet wanted a group of archer-specialists?
The very same ones that had demanded Geneva Scala’s aid in rescuing their [Captain] came to hire on. But not every story was a neat one; the Dullahans almost resigned when they heard Quallet had employed them, and it took a visit to Talenqual and Ken’s diplomacy to keep them happy.
Also…the male Centaur leading his reduced band was their leader. Not the female [Captain] that Quallet remembered. The same woman who Geneva had worked so hard to save had died in the fighting after it resumed.
That was a mercenary’s lot. However, Quallet took the Centaurs on, and they fought in far fewer life-or-death battles. With a War Walker and so many veteran fighters, Quallet could literally earn money from guard-duty.
As in, he could garrison a town or occupy a location and dare another company to attack. You could get paid for that kind of guard-duty, although it could escalate. But a War Walker?
Monster hunts were now available. Yes, a Hydra was a terrible threat, and Bastiom could not take one on alone without considerable danger. But he was all too happy to charge with a bunch of soldiers pinning the Hydra down and begin hacking.
The second War Walker was almost inevitable after the first. Quallet had not studied War Walker economics, but he learned that War Walkers tended to join companies if they heard one of their own was there and happy.
Companionship. So Quallet was now fielding two War Walkers, expert Centaurs, Dullahans, and he kept growing; success was like a mudball rolling downhill. It picked up momentum and speed.
And he owed it all to the United Nations company and Geneva Scala. Quallet knew it. That…was an odd feeling. He didn’t just ‘owe’ them for Bastiom and the Centaur [Captain], Ekeroof, either.
Quallet began getting veteran [Mercenaries], even smaller groups reaching out and asking if he was affiliated with the Last Light of Baleros. Those cured of the Yellow Rivers or seeking employment gravitated towards Gravetender’s Fist for that dream.
If I’m wounded, the Last Light might save me. If you were looking for someone to join, why not at least bet on a company like Gravetender’s Fist, who had her friendship?
During the Yellow Rivers pandemic, which mostly quieted down after a cure was developed, Gravetender’s Fist made money hand-over-claw-over-hoof. They feared the disease far less, having Geneva’s expertise in mitigating the risk. Quallet engaged in four major battles over the intervening time, all of which were victories.
By the time Kenjiro Murata sent him a request to move Gravetender’s Fist to Talenqual to assist in a difficult matter, Quallet was wondering if he should find a place to claim. He had sped past every goal he’d set in his thirties. Which was why the request was so difficult.
He had known it would come, someday. The thing about debts was that someone always called them in. And Quallet…sat with his [Sorceress Major], Quexa, Bastiom’s head, Ekeroof, and his other officers as he pondered his reply.
“It’s obvious why Ken’s asking us to return to Talenqual.”
Quallet spoke at last. Ekeroof turned; he was kneeling on some cushions. The Centaur frowned.
“It is?”
He was…not exceptionally bright when it came to matters outside of where to gallop and shoot people. Quallet just nodded.
“Think of the current situation around Baleros. The United Nations company…the rumors about Jungle Tails making a comeback. There’s only one thing they could want.”
He sighed.
“…They want us to back them up and keep the Featherfolk Brigade from evicting them from Talenqual.”
It was obvious if you read between the lines of Ken’s message. Ever since the Last Light had mysteriously vanished, the United Nations company’s position had been in jeopardy. They were not a company like Gravetender’s Fist, who numbered close to ten thousand by now—and they were still far smaller than the Featherfolk Brigade, who were four times as large.
However, another company in Fezimet’s city must have gotten under the Quexal’s scales and feathers. Quallet’s officers muttered.
“We cannot take the Featherfolk Brigade in the field. They are almost exclusively Lizardfolk, but they have a Naga contingent in the hundreds. Possibly as many as a thousand combined.”
Bastiom pointed out the obvious. Quexa saw Quallet scratch at his chin.
“We don’t have to. It’s a standoff. How much are the Featherfolk Brigade willing to push the issue? It’s not fun to have us as an enemy. But we get to weigh how badly we want to make enemies of a bigger company. I’m…considering the issue.”
Bastiom and Ekeroof eyed Quallet, and he glowered.
“I said, I’m considering it. Do you want to fight the Featherfolk Brigade?”
He knew how they’d vote if he asked. Even Quexa, perhaps. Quallet though—was conflicted.
The United Nations Company called for help. And what did Quallet Marshhand do?
He didn’t dislike them. On the contrary, Quallet was grateful, he saw their useful knowledge, expertise, and…background as invaluable, and he liked individual members.
Am I willing to go to war, though? How far was he willing to go? How much did he owe them?
“The Last Light—”
Ekeroof began. Quallet cut him off.
“—Isn’t there. Frankly, I’d tell the Humans to pack up. I know they made a place for themselves, but it isn’t worth a hostile company. If Fezimet wants them gone—they’ll be gone. Even if we keep him from evicting them, do you really want a hostile company running the city?”
That was true. It was a stupid request. Even so…Quallet sighed.
“Let’s march.”
Quexa looked at him, alarmed, but Quallet clarified.
“I’ll talk to Ken and whoever’s in charge with Geneva Scala gone. The least we can do is escort them to another city. Strike the camps. We’ll leave just enough forces to satisfy our current garrison contract. Quexa, tell the Featherfolk Brigade we’re entering their territory and planning on escorting the United Nations company.”
Now that his company was so large, even entering another company’s territory could spook them. Quallet did not want to make an enemy of Fezimet, but he knew he had to answer Ken’s request. He’d lose Bastiom and Ekeroof if he refused.
However, he had no intention of coming to blows with the Featherfolk Brigade over a damned lodging issue. Quallet was braced for an unhappy Quexal’s response as Bastiom marched down the road, leading Gravetender’s Fist to Talenqual.
What he was not prepared for was a cordial response from the Quexal inviting him to Talenqual at all haste. And a personal contract on a search-and-destroy objective in the nearby forest. What, exactly, the Quexal left unclear, but he was offering a joint contract to Quallet.
That was when the [Mercenary Commander]’s senses began telling him that he was about to enter another hairy situation.
 
——
 
Umina Caxical’s head hurt. Mostly because someone had just hit her.
“Umina!”
The shouting in the night and figures fighting in the dark jungle, crashing through bushes that sometimes unleashed their wrath upon anyone stupid enough to touch them, was chaos. Umina’s head rang, but the enchanted helmet saved her once.
Tallguard Cotm raised a crossbow and shot the Naga through the hissing mouth before it could run Umina through with the sword it held.
A tiny bolt…which promptly exploded and blew the entire top of the Naga’s head off. Umina recoiled, staring up at a Naga, one of her people’s leaders, as the corpse fell, headless. Oh Nagas…
Marian galloped forwards, loosing an arrow through another Lizardwoman’s chest as Cotm reloaded, aiming around.
“Retreat! Retreat! Ambush—”
That came from the enemy side. The Featherfolk Brigade were trying to flee, and this scout-group was running in every direction. Unfortunately, sometimes they ran into enemies.
Lizardfolk were fighting Lizardfolk, and the confused Featherfolk Brigade had at first assumed the friendly group was one of their own [Scout]-parties. Right up until a Centaur had galloped out of the trees and put an enchanted arrow into the Lamia leading them.
Unfortunately, things hadn’t been so textbook after that. The ambush had gone south when two Nagas charged, and Umina nearly died. The Lizardgirl aimed her wand around, still reeling, as Cotm spoke.
“Both Nagas down. I’ve got eight unfriendlies left. You see them?”
“[Friend-And-Foe Vision]. Yes.”
Umina felt sick. She bent over to throw up as the Lizardfolk mercenaries attacked the confused scouts. The Featherfolk Brigade just saw fellow Lizardfolk—their armor was a bit different, but they hesitated.
Umina’s hired mercenaries from her home city of Nassiquel didn’t hesitate. Mainly because they could see the enemy. Umina’s Skill applied to her entire unit—perfect for confused melees like that.
“Did any of them get a [Message] spell off?”
