The Titan of Baleros was on Izril. Not just on Izril, he was leading a Gnoll army with Goblins in tow—and Antinium—and Doombringers, whatever the heck those were—against Drakes.
Classic Niers. When news of his confirmed survival spread, many who knew him or his reputation were unsurprised. However—that did not mean all was well.
The Titan had found his adventure and a war. Another had snuck up on his company from behind, and to anyone with a brain, his entanglement in Izril…could not come at a worse time. If anything, those who put themselves against the Forgotten Wing Company hoped that Niers Astoragon either lost horribly…or won so much that he didn’t come back.
Actually, it didn’t matter. Even if the Titan took a Courier by sea, even if he evaded the Iron Vanguard casually hanging out on the eastern coastline—even if he took birdflight to Elvallian…
He might well be too late. The fall of the Forgotten Wing company was not months or weeks in the making, but days.
Fraerling cities were under attack. A foreign company and the traitor, Peclir Im, had planned their moment well, pressuring the Forgotten Wing to move their forces to their wide holdings. In hindsight or now-sight…it was obvious.
 
——
 
Perorn looked down at a map and counted. Just…counted. Hotspots.
She counted fifty-two.
Fifty-two major crisis areas. Niers called them something else. She referred to them as ‘pivot points’ in class. Areas where one side could, by triumph, gain momentum or force another opponent back.
One was something that Niers himself would almost always check on, even if he left it to an underling. Fifty-two?
It was not just one enemy. Perorn knew that. The problem with Baleros was that everyone was for hire, and there were things that you couldn’t pay anyone for…
But if you had enemies, things got cheaper. Or deferred payment became an option.
For the Forgotten Wing? Their land was as much a lure for their enemies as gold itself. So for payment or just because they saw this was the time—even the other Great Companies were moving in.
“The Bannermare is raiding our trade routes. The Adaz Plates are encroaching on a gem mine—and the alchemical city of Fizzyxel has just defected. Reasons as yet unknown. I advise giving up on the Bannermare; just lock down the trade roads. We need to force the Adaz Plate to abstain from an attack. Poison, armor-piercing, or high-magic forces might deter them…unless the Iron Vanguard makes war official. In which case, our entire border is suspect. Barring that? We can go after Fizzyxel or let whoever’s claimed it go. I recommend letting them go.”
“Mm. No. Send someone to fix it. Which would be who? How many? How many do we have left?”
Perorn’s legs ached. She had taken wounds, and the infamous Fleethoof still remembered when one of her best students, Tulm, had injured her to the point where she would never run again—not without major magical help or…a [Doctor].
She put that aside. No time for such things. It only came up because she would paw the ground with one hoof when she was annoyed, a visible tic. She was doing it on the shag carpet because she was exasperated.
“Foliana.”
“That’s commander. Mm. Or captain? Can we do it without…a lot of forces?”
“Yes, but—”
“Do it. How many? Where? When?”
The Squirrel Beastkin scratched at her fur. She had burrs stuck all over it. Little, annoying burrs that a servant was gingerly removing one-by-one without tearing her fur.
“I…can send our Pale Divisions. Two could do it. Three’s safer. No losses.”
“Send three. Next?”
Perorn looked up, hissing in exasperation, and met Three-Color Stalker’s eyes. They had known each other for a long time. So long that Perorn had been a filly—a young Centaur girl—when they had first met, and Foliana…
…Had definitely changed. Decades lay between them, and they had not always served on the same side of the battlefield. Foliana had been a Gold-rank adventurer, Named Adventurer, retired, the leader of a new company called the Forgotten Wing company, and then leader of a Great Company of Baleros. Someone who remained constant all that time was odd. Odder than Foliana herself, even.
Even her eyes changed. There was a time when Three-Color Stalker had only had one color to her eyes. Then two. Then three. Perorn still remembered when pink had entered her eyes, bleeding into the green and yellow which had mixed together, like liquid. She had never asked, but she suspected it was a Skill. That—or a byproduct of some magical event. It was not hereditary, Perorn knew.
Foliana had not always been like this. There was a time when she did not go ‘mm’. She had picked up that habit…when? Ten years ago? Twenty? Dead gods and hoof rot, that was an age ago.
A secret about Foliana few knew: she interjected ‘mm’ into all her sentences because she thought it made her sound distinguished.
Times past, she would have been easier, more talkative, and far less…stubborn. Perorn rested her hands on the table.
“Foliana.”
“Commander.”
“Commander Foliana.”
“Supreme commander?”
“Commander Foliana.”
“Mm. Pity. What?”
Perorn gestured at the table.
“I can deal with all three hotspots. I can deal with nine, or even fifty-two. I’m no Niers, but the Forgotten Wing company is more than just him, and we’ve built it into a true Great Company. We will not fold over just because one army comes calling, or eight. But if we deal with all fifty-plus crises in the same way, if we keep dividing up—”
“We expose our hearts. I know. You said.”
The Centauress [Strategist] had seen the danger coming months ago. Yet still Foliana insisted they take from the one place where Perorn knew they had to keep their strength: here.
Elvallian. Where the prestige, resources, and heart of the Forgotten Wing company lay. Where Foliana, Perorn, and a number of the most high-ranking officers of the Forgotten Wing company were. Niers’ academy—if it fell, it fell, and there were times when Perorn would abandon it. But a Great Company that lost its headquarters? That was a sign.
It would have been easier if they were the Howling Maelstrom, or Iron Vanguard, or even Eyes of Baleros, all of whom had headquarters deep within their territory. The Iron Vanguard had a fortress, Howling Maelstrom had theirs in the center of the plains—which was Centaur land a hundred miles in every direction—and no one knew where the Eyes of Baleros’ was exactly; it was in the deep jungle.
But Niers had wanted his as a trade capital, as a beating heart of Baleros. It made them rich. It also made them a target, and this was no Walled City.
“You have to abandon some places. Listen. I’ll make a list of our lowest-value holdings and—”
“No.”
Foliana peered at Perorn, and her eyes narrowed.
“I am Foliana. Supreme Commander of the Forgotten Wing Company. Supreme…Muffin…Almighty Commander of the Forgotten Wing Company. I promoted myself just now. I order you to keep it all.”
And there it was. This was not an issue that normally cropped up with Niers, but what did you do as a subordinate, as the acting second and top [Strategist], when your boss was giving you bad orders?
Perorn ran a hand through her hair and changed tack.
“I…Foliana. We know who the enemy is. These attacks? The ones who went after Fraerling villages, the companies who have suddenly gone quiet or begun moving in our direction? The Silscale Company? Featherfolk Brigade? Tailtail Army? They hid it at first. but we figured it out; they can’t keep it secret. and they don’t have to any longer. It’s been Lizardfolk. Not uncommon in any army, but the Fraerlings reported Naga of all types joining in the attacks. Medusae, Lamia, Gorgons, Quexals, Indishei, and more. It’s Lizardfolk. It’s…the Jungle Tails Company.”
Foliana said nothing. She just nibbled on some silkap. Gnollish delicacies. Did that mean she was trying to figure out what was happening in Izril? Or did someone enjoy silkap here? Or…did she just like the food?
Perorn waited for a response as Foliana nibbled. Jungle Tails. Niers had famously overturned them—Foliana too, but Niers had essentially pushed them so hard they lost their status as a Great Company. They wanted it back, clearly, and this was a long-laid plan.
And a worthy foe. Few groups could challenge a Great Company—even nations would think twice. But a former Great Company who’d removed the Titan, waited for their chance to strike?
When Foliana did speak, it was classic Foliana. She glanced up and shook her head.
“If we die, mm. I will never live down the embarrassment of losing to them. Let’s join Iron Vanguard first. No, Howling Maelstrom. We all cede ownership. Mm. Good plan.”
Perorn rubbed at her forehead.
“Foliana, I’m being serious.”
“So am I. I will write a letter. We’ll put it somewhere in here. If Niers and I both die…wait, you’re dead too. We’ll have someone post it before a full surrender. Just so no one writes we lost to them.”
That was the…pettiest thing, but for some reason, Perorn smiled. She liked it. Even so—Foliana brought up what Perorn had been afraid to so casually.
This could be it. It could really be it. It felt unreal. But Niers had nearly died in an assassination attempt—he was a continent away.
And they were coming.
“We are playing into their trap, Foliana. Tell me you have a plan. Tell me you have a plan…and I’ll keep taking from our forces here.”
That was all the Centaur said. For answer, Foliana put down the bowl of silkap and looked at Perorn.
She had been perched on a stool in the war room, like any squirrel, big or small, in existence, nibbling as Perorn zoomed in on different parts of their magical map. This was a private conference, and so no officers sat in the chairs or stood around, or were fiddling with other maps, strategy boards, or furiously arguing. It felt empty. The academy was not holding classes, and many students had left…on their teachers’ advice. Their safety could not be guaranteed.
It was tense. And yet—Foliana just sat down fully and tangled her furry feet on the stool. She looked calm. Incredibly calm. Niers swore, got mad, and paced, turning into a flurry of movement—albeit tiny movement—when the worst came to the worst.
Foliana? She never seemed upset. Perhaps, Perorn realized, because she lived in stress. She was a [Rogue]. Part of her job description was deactivating traps that would literally blow parts of your face off if you made a mistake. Perhaps that was why she was the commander, not just Niers’ aversion to the highest posting.
“Perorn. Do you know how to defuse a trap?”
“Specifically, or is this an analogy?”
Foliana hesitated, then narrowed her eyes. She dipped her paw into the silkap bowl and flicked some at Perorn. The Centaur swore at her, and Foliana went on.
“I know traps. I see traps. This is a big trap. Laid long in advance. Peclir…mm. He always seemed very loyal. Too loyal. Too good. But he never slipped. I should have fired him.”
She frowned.
“But I did not. This is a trap, and it is still springing. Niers is alive. We have a chance. But you want to get us out of the trap. I don’t. You know why? Because I know traps. Even Level 5 [Thugs] know that to defuse a trap…you set it off.”
“And you die if you’re standing in it. You want to take that blow? We don’t have to. We evacuate the capital. We push towards another base, consolidate, and bleed, but wait for Niers to get here, maybe leading a Gnoll-Goblin army and with an Antinium alliance. I don’t know. Stranger things have h…no, that would be new.”
The Squirrel-woman scoffed.
“No. No. See? This is why I’m in charge. Not you. You know something? After four years…Peclir never understood me. He was always uneasy, and that was genuine. He knows you. He knows Niers. You two are strategists. You’re acting like one.”
The Centauress raised an eyebrow.
“By prioritizing valuable assets? By being logical?”
“Exactly. We can do it your way. Or we can do this.”
So saying, Foliana slowly curled up, squirmed around on the stool in an amazing display of dexterity and gymnastics, and then sat on her head. She balanced on it as her tail drooped over and Perorn stared at her.
“Unexpected.”
“I can see our enemies trembling already.”
However, Perorn was seeing what Foliana was getting at. It was certainly unexpected, but was that smart? In chess, moving a queen into a sacrificial play for a single pawn was unexpected…and also just plain stupid. Yet Foliana was confident.
“Let them come. They’re coming here, you said. I have made preparations. Niers has.”
“Even with that…it’ll be an army, Foliana. I can’t guarantee we’ll survive it.”
Three-Color Stalker never blinked even as she balanced on her head.
“I know. Make a bigger target. Push our limits. This is a gamble. Niers does not gamble. He is unpredictable. But I am unexpected. I gamble. And because I do, it’s a better bet than your way.”
It could all be true. Perorn gave up. She felt better now that they were committed, so she sighed and nodded.
“Then it’s a gamble with the fate of a Great Company on the line. Supreme Muffin Commander Foliana, it will be done. I’ll make the orders—just one more thing?”
Foliana frowned at Perorn. Then she hopped—rotated in the air—and landed in her familiar perching position.
“Hmm?”
“Most of the incursions aren’t bad, and we’re essentially countering them with a force so they won’t come to blood—at least not with third parties. Jungle Tails will want a fight, but they’ll think about where they want to bleed. But there’s a big problem. Them. We’re honor-bound to it, but the Fraerlings will be an issue.”
This time, Three-Color Stalker nodded.
“Yep.”
Perorn had no markers, no lists, and the locations were too important to even put on the war table. But she nodded up to a little door set in the wall with a ramp that led downwards. Tiny passages for tiny folk.
“I have eight representatives of eight major Fraerling settlements all demanding our aid. Not all are directly affiliated with us via contract…but all eight claim they are in danger of falling.”
Fraerlings, Niers’ people. Suppliers of Signim and assets that even other Great Companies lacked. Valuable, fragile allies. Damn Peclir. Did he have no morality? A single settlement would have hundreds of thousands, maybe millions? At least one had been wiped out. Perorn looked at Foliana.
“They want eight armies. Eight armies, each of which can repel a mid-sized company. I can’t spare that, even if we spread thin. You need to address their demands; I don’t even know where half are.”
