Marian was panting. She trotted around, and another Centaur emerged from the brush. Umina jumped, but Cotm was already inside her belt pouch again.
“Strategist Marian. We’ve cleared the last of the enemy. Positioning?”
“Fallback Point 1. Umina, get on my back. Let’s go. [Quiet Hooves]!”
Lizardfolk and Centaurs streamed through the forest, not bothering to do more than loot the fallen of potions and weapons and bags of holding if any carried them. They had to move fast.
Umina clung to Marian’s back, still sick, and the Centaur shuddered.
“Umina. Please tell me you’re not wiping your claws on my flanks.”
Umina stopped, guiltily, as she wiped the vomit off her mouth.
“…No? How’d we do—the ambush, I mean?”
“I think we lost one.”
A little voice spoke in both Marian and Umina’s earpieces—speaking stones. High-grade ones, but so tiny they had needed to attach them with sticky glue next to or in their ears. Earhole, in Umina’s case.
Fraerling magic. Umina was still spinning on that, but the ambush…
“Confirmed. You lost one.”
The Tallguard Fraerling was a serious fellow. Or was gloomy the word? He seemed depressed…when he wasn’t throwing up like Umina.
Apparently, Cotm was a Tallguard, a defender of Fraerling cities like Paeth, the very place that Umina and Marian were trying to protect by wiping out the Featherfolk Brigade’s scouts. Umina didn’t know where it was, and Cotm refused to even give them a rough area.
They were under attack; one city had fallen. He demanded their help as students of the Titan, and Umina and Marian had agreed. Cotm had taken a huge risk coming to them, but the Tallguard was resolved to die in defense of his city and stall the Featherfolk Brigade or keep them from finding the location.
He was not prepared to ride in defense of his home city, though, or row, or locomote in any other sense of the word. Cotm could maneuver through the trees like an airborne predator. He was a crack-shot with his crossbow.
And he threw up if you so much as jiggled him on top of a box while riding a wagon. The Fraerling hadn’t realized he got sick from vehicles either; he did not make a habit of riding Luan’s scull or Centaurs.
His voice, then, was slightly trembling as he went on.
“I…urp…didn’t detect any [Message] spells outgoing. And you assured me that’s all average Tallfolk [Mages] can cast.”
“You’re not a [Mage], though.”
The Tallguard [Arbalest] muttered under his breath.
“I have sensor artifacts. And I graduated Tallfolk basic camp.”
“…Which means?”
Umina and Marian exchanged a glance. Cotm hesitated.
“Basic magic training Tiers 1-3. Don’t Tallfolk have training camps? I thought you two were [Strategists].”
“Not Tier 3 magic for non-magic users!”
“Oh.”
Like other Tallfolk, and like other Fraerlings, there was a definite disconnect between what the others expected and what they got. However, unlike Resk, or Noa, or Kessice, Cotm just fell silent.
Kessice was his partner, and the [Ranger] was better at talking. Cotm wished she were here. The two giant female [Strategists] were whispering, and he heard them.
“…We didn’t account for the Naga charge. It’s not like practice.”
“But we mostly got them. We shouldn’t have led the encounter, but I have my bow and you have a wand…”
“Right. But we’re acting like Venaz. Next time, I’ll take up a sniping position with you.”
Cotm’s analysis was that the ambush was fine. It sucked, but it was fine. He tried not to throw up in a corner of the jolting pouch that bounced him up and down.
Tallguard ambushes would have them in the trees and planting trap spells in advance. But they had to be that precise. Cotm would happily sit in position for three hours rather than spend another ten minutes riding on Marian’s back. If Kessice were here, she’d be talkative. He was not, but he was still glad she wasn’t with him. He wished she were here and was glad she was not, if that made sense.
…Because he was going to die far from Paeth’s walls.
Cotm just knew it. The odds of Fraerlings surviving alone were remote. Even the bravest Fraerlings who founded villages without the magical protections Paeth and the largest settlements enjoyed—crazy even by Tallguard standards—didn’t do it alone.
Here he was, leading four [Strategists] and various mercenaries in defense of Paeth against over forty thousand Lizardfolk, and they were in service to a Great Company. Cotm was a dead Fraerling.
But if he died…the Fraerling felt the world vanish under his feet. For three seconds the Fraerling flew as Marian leapt something and kept him weightless, pressed up against the top of Umina’s belt pouch.
Then Cotm landed and covered his mouth. Umina and Marian winced as they heard a loud and horribly precise sound of someone upchucking what they’d eaten.
 
——
 
“Ancestors. Are they dead? What is that sound?”
Kissilt nearly tore the tiny speaking stone out of his earhole as he heard the horrible gurgling splutter and coughing. Cameral winced as he consulted their map in their camouflaged camp.
“Cameral. Checking in. Marian?”
“We’re fine. One down…our ‘guest’ is, uh, sick.”
“Ancestors.”
Kissilt repeated himself. It was about the eighteenth time he’d said it this entire week. The normally-prickly Drake looked at Cameral, then turned to the others.
“Attack Group 2 is incoming.”
“Roger, Strategist.”
Someone crisply saluted then performed a hand-gesture, and Kissilt nodded. The Drake irregulars sighted Marian and Umina’s force a second later—and still called it in.
“Counting thirty…five on approach. Numbers line up.”
The Drakes watched as Centaurs and Lizardfolk slowed as they approached the camp. One called out.
“Hail. Salazsar’s Gems?”
“Fuck you. We’re not doing this every single time.”
One of the Lizardfolk, perhaps Umina herself, made a rude gesture. The Drakes glowered back, but opened the camp they’d set up. The Lizardfolk and Drakes glared at each other.
Kissilt met Umina and Marian and felt less of that instinctive hostility between Lizardfolk and Drakes. But it was there.
Drakes hated Lizardfolk. As it turned out, it was not an entirely one-sided dislike, although Drakes certainly harbored a grudge from old wars and the Naga Incursions.
However…Drakes could get on Lizardfolk nerves, which was actually fairly amazing to Dullahans, Centaurs, and Baleros’ Humans. It was all their regulations. The Lizardfolk had not appreciated having to call out passphrases that changed every day whenever they went for a walk or used the latrine or just at random.
What a weird force. Kissilt was a Manus-trained [Strategist]. Umina and Marian were natives to Baleros, and so was Cameral, although he came from much further north. In this camp, Lizardfolk, Centaurs, and Drakes were all joined in small numbers, less than a hundred total, to fight the Featherfolk Brigade.
Just three weeks ago, Kismet Securities had been the Drake’s focus, but now he was conducting a sabotage guerrilla operation that might land him dead if it were discovered in service to one of the mythical Fraerling cities.
All things considered, he felt like he was finally moving up in the world.
“How’s our ‘guest’?”
The first thing they did when they entered the command tent was check on Cotm. Cameral was orchestrating their three attack groups. No Dullahans…they were too slow, too notable, and he hadn’t been able to pull a group without going through official channels.
Marian, Umina, and Kissilt had, so Cameral was in charge of all the busywork to make up for it. The Dullahan felt like he was letting them down, and since he was, Kissilt was willing to let him make it up to them.
The Drake, on the other hand, had provided no less than thirty veteran mercenaries from the few Drakes abroad in Baleros. They’d all responded to his Grade-6 clearance passport and asked no questions.
By contrast, Umina had hired some local Lizardfolk from her city, who were decent fighters…but so unprofessional. Marian had only gotten six Centaurs from her herd-tribe or whatever it was, but they were all expert archers.
“Cotm? We’re in the tent. I—oh Nagas.”
Umina pulled Cotm out gently and found he was covered in—Cameral hurriedly offered a water-flask, and Kissilt plugged his nostrils.
Just wonderful. The sick Fraerling recovered after a few seconds, and at least he was professional.
“Group down. Are you…what is our status?”
“The Featherfolk Brigade have lost three scout groups. I’m detecting a larger force enroute; we’ll strike camp and fall back.”
“Again? We’re ten miles away from the furthest they’d search, Kissilt.”
The Drake glared at Marian, who looked weary.
“I’m not risking it. One whiff of us and they’ll encircle our location. Do you have a location, Tallguard Cotm? Any path?”
The Fraerling shook his head instantly.
“None. Pick whatever direction you want.”
Kissilt sighed inwardly. No hints, even by obfuscation, of where this ‘Paeth’ was, then. Not that he’d sell out the Fraerlings! But Manus would like to know.
“I’ll send the order. Cameral, strike camp.”
Marian glared as Kissilt nodded at the Dullahan, and Cameral strode out. She disapproved of Kissilt taking command, but he was in charge.
What a rag-tag organization this was. Here they were, attacking scout groups—admittedly with a wonderful kill-to-death ratio—with no idea what they were protecting, underforce, and with multiple groups of varying military disciplines not used to working with each other.
Kissilt would have never done this normally. In fact, he would have balked at even involving himself in the affairs of the Featherfolk Brigade and direct Cotm to the Titan. But here he was, risking his life for an admittedly noble-sounding cause.
In fact, he’d used Kismet Securities’ funds to hire Umina, his, and Marian’s forces. A small fortune! He was laying it all on the line because he was definitely going to level…
And because Cotm was paying well.
“I have a list of our targets, sir. We can expand it if I pull more forces. Umina could hire a local Lizardfolk force, and Marian assures me she has trustworthy Centaurs. A Dullahan force is much slower, but we might drain the Featherfolk of nearly a thousand. I’m not willing to commit to an all-out battle as it reveals our position and the Featherfolk Brigade are fast. However, if you would like to upgrade our services…”
“Dead gods, Kissilt.”
Marian rolled her eyes as the Drake showed Cotm their statistical breakdown of the damage they’d done. At the very least, they’d slowed the Featherfolk’s progress considerably. Cotm eyed Kissilt with dour approval.
“I guess I have to pay for all the rest?”
“Or Paeth. Happy to help, sir. In fact, if you’d like time to leave and, ah, acquire more goods in kind, I have a wishlist of items I’d happily invest gold for. We have a budget underlined here…”
Kissilt had nearly six thousand gold pieces to invest in Cotm’s war. Not all earned from Kismet Securities; he’d written to the Merchant’s Guild and been assured he could take a loan out. Manus had good financing; Kissilt’s debts would not default, even if he died.
He was willing to spend all of that and more for Cotm. Mainly because the tiny, tiny transceiver crystal that the Fraerling had given Kissilt was worth it. True, Kissilt had to manipulate it with a needle and amplify the sound via [Loud] spells, but it was his.
And it picked up every speaking stone in a ten mile radius.
Fraerling magic. Cotm sighed.
“I can request…what do you want? Ring of [Greater Invisibility]? Ring of [True Sight]. Ring of Protection. [Steelscale] or [Steelskin] equivalent…”
“Or an amulet. I’m not picky. Just so long as it works and transfers the effect to me. So something my size…”
“What about us, Kissilt?”
Marian snapped. Umina nodded rapidly, and Kissilt glared at them.
“I’ll pay you back. Umina’s got her Belt of Dexterity. You’ve got, uh…I’ll pay you back!”
Cotm looked up and gave Kissilt a level glance.
“I gave you my artifact already. That’s worth six thousand gold pieces to Tallfolk since you don’t have it.”
Kissilt began to sweat a bit.
“Yes, Tallguard, but this is a risky situation. And—Manus is capable of the equivalent magic. Swear on a truth stone.”
Although it was something only a top [General] would ever be able to requisition. Cotm paced about, eying the list. He seemed to be willing to negotiate, though—or he just knew Drakes.
“I’ll leave for…five days. No. Three.”
“Can you make it wherever you’re going in three? Let alone back?”
Everyone looked carefully at Cotm, and the Tallguard glared about. Kissilt itched for a quill to write down…Paeth possibly in range of three-day travel by Tallguard. But how fast could an [Encyclopedia Scout] move? He had no data.
“Who said anything about me coming back? Keep fighting. You…any one of you. Meet me in Talenqual. That room that Umina has.”
“Hm? Talenqual?”
The [Strategists] were surprised. Cotm nodded.
“I’ll be there. Three days. Just put me outside the camp.”
“Do you need a Skill or…? I can boost your speed a lot.”
Marian trotted to the door, eying Cotm. The Tallguard just shook his head.
“I’ll manage.”
He was…doing something. Kissilt squinted and saw the tiny, half-foot man adjusting something on his wrist. It was making tiny, tiny clicking sounds. Was that a bracelet? He had no idea what Cotm was up to.
 
——
 
The thing about Cotm was that he wasn’t stupid. He knew Drakes. He’d read up on them, hadn’t he? Kissilt fit the classic Drake archetype.
Greedy. They had an actual desire as a species to accumulate. Just like Lizardfolk needed socialization. Cotm was also aware the four [Strategists] were intelligent enough to want to know where Paeth was. He didn’t trust their intentions.
Like Kessice, Cotm was a serious Tallguard when it came to security. Noa was the overeager one, the adventurous sort. But Cotm…no. So he fiddled with the odd object that Kissilt had seen.
It looked like a bracelet made up of tiny, pale stones, each with a letter. There were nine, all strung on a band of mithril with a little tag that read, ‘#31’.
Each of the nine stones was cut such that it represented four facings, and a tiny letter had been inscribed on each. Or number.
What Cotm was doing was turning each stone to the letter or number he wanted, and then clicking the final stone, which had only two settings. And what he was doing was using a trick of Fraerlings, especially abroad.
