“Did you see how he enchanted Paige’s strings for the crossbows right off? Mithril-grade toughness. Fraerlings can do that. Just—an average Alchimagus bloke.”
Siri nodded as Daly closed the door to Paige’s workroom, the only other place he was sure was free of any eavesdropping. He inhaled a burnt scent, metal, sulfur, wood, and varnish from the crossbows Paige made. This was one of the largest rooms in the basement, behind a metal door, and everything was laid out, secured, and widely spaced.
So there was little chance of anything falling or breaking. Even so, Daly and Siri didn’t touch anything, especially not the secured jars of dark powder.
Daly stared at the blackpowder now. He kept going.
“They can make mithril enchantments. Luan said they have Adamantium gear? That’s Named-adventurer level. And did you see that Noa girl?”
She’d walked up a wine bottle to stab it with her sword and lever the cork out. Magical boots. Daly would kill for the Bushrangers to have boots like that. In fact, Noa had demonstrated how she could zip around with her grappling hooks, and one look at Luan’s crossbow and Daly had realized the Fraerling Tallguard were a complete version of the Bushrangers.
They had the gear, training, and levels his Silver-rank team didn’t. Siri nodded. She sat down on a chair in front of a half-finished crossbow design with wooden pulleys and looked at Daly.
“…And despite all that, they fear someone’s coming after them. Someone is trying to destroy their city. Someone nearby…with an axe to grind against the Forgotten Wing Company. A powerful force. Maybe a company?”
The two traded looks again. Neither one wanted to say it. But when you said that…even rumors aside of the weakened Great Company? Even if you made an idiot of yourself and took out any other relevant information like the testimony of Fraerling survivors about the attack…
There was only one major company in this city. It was conceivable there was just this second, random company skulking around in the jungle attacking Fraerlings. But then, either they were also stealth masters, or the Featherfolk Brigade knew about it.
And if it were them? This situation just got a whole lot more messy.
“Paeth might be able to hide itself. I dunno. What do they want?”
Siri had a copy of Resk’s list.
“Ironically? Not much mithril. They just want a lot of basic stuff. Sage’s Grass, raw iron ore…no steel. That’s underlined.”
“Must be shite stuff compared to what they can make. Give it here? Yeah…we can get that. Maybe Paeth hides. But honestly, Siri. Do you think it could be Fezimet and his company?”
Siri looked up, and Daly glanced around the room as if the walls had ears. The [Ranger] chewed on her lip.
“If they are, the Fraerlings might see them if they’re wandering around in the forest. I doubt they were stupid enough to put their badge on their uniforms. But if they are—they’d have put a lot of people on the job, right?”
“Right. Do you know if they have?”
Siri gave Daly an unhappy look.
“As it happens…I’ve heard a few divisions are on a training exercise. Not on a regular contract.”
Daly began swearing instantly. He paced around the room, then stopped. He turned to Siri.
“We can’t fight an entire company!”
“Not alone. We’ll keep it secret—no one but us knows about the Fraerlings. We get them what they want asap. But if it is the Featherfolk Brigade…”
“…We hope they don’t find Paeth.”
“And if they do?”
The Swedish girl waited. She looked around the room at the secret project Daly and Paige had been working on. The thing that had caused so much trouble with Geneva. But that was for a Gold-rank team. Self-defense. Not for taking on a company with over ten thousand soldiers in it. Daly sat down. He heard footsteps descending and saw Paige open the door. She slipped in with the four enchanted crossbow strings.
“You all had the same thought I did? This…could be really bad. What’s the plan, Daly?”
She looked at him as if he had more than a dozen members of a Silver-rank team and some other teams that worked with them, like the Rustless Guard led by Captain Eldima, a Dullahan that Daly rather liked. His stomach churned at the idea of Fezimet learning the Fraerlings were here—aside from him being an overt enemy. He’d met the Quexal, and Fezimet had struck him as a cold, pragmatic bastard with an ego.
There was no actual army in the United Nations of Earth. They had a peacekeeping force, and what they did was draw from their individual nations. If push ever came to shove, and two major nations—their membership—came to war, they relied on words and pressure to stop a war.
And that didn’t work. It, historically, did not. The United Nations company of Baleros was not at war. They were helping Paeth. But just in case…hypothetically…Daly looked up.
“Paige? Let’s get Ken. I think we need to send word to our allies to head on by.”
The only ones they had. Paige glanced worriedly at Daly, and Siri just nodded.
That very night, Ken sent word to the only company affiliated with the United Nations company, an actual army. Gravetender’s Fist acceded to their request to talk on the very same day that Commander Fezimet of the Featherfolk Brigade publicly announced that he was ejecting the Humans and the United Nations Company from Talenqual.
Relations further broke down after that.
 
——
 
Fraerlings under siege, a missing Titan, a war between Great Companies, past and present. Earthers, worldwide events…amidst it all, here was a question no one was asking:
Whatever happened to Quallet Marshhand?
Quallet. Quallet Marshhand. The [Mercenary Captain]—well, now [Mercenary Commander]—of Gravetender’s Fist. Famous for…his involvement with the Last Light of Baleros and subsequent United Nations Company, which included Luan Khumalo, the Rower?
That might explain more about Quallet than anything else. He was famous by association. Quallet had a career as a [Mercenary] that most companies would respect. He could walk into any company in the world and probably get a job.
Even a Great Company would take a look at Quallet’s Level 36 class and say ‘that’s someone who could really become an asset if we get those last four levels’. He was honorable, brave, a good fighter, and he’d led forces through really hairy situations, like the time when two companies had attacked neutral parties.
But famous? No. If anything, Quallet felt that he should have made his name in five years. Five years to hit Level 40 and really launch his company. By then he’d be old as roving [Mercenaries] went, but he’d have the last of his thirties and forties to really build up—maybe take some land. Either join a greater company or make alliances. By fifty? He’d hopefully have a real legacy.
Quallet’s vision of the future kept neglecting finding family, and he always tried to squeeze it into his plans. Just…fall in love, get married, have children, uh, soonish.
The truth was that Quallet was a career mercenary. He had big dreams, but he lived understanding the next battle might be the last. He had lived like that into Level 30, which was a huge marker and told anyone that he survived, win or lose.
An intelligent leader would respect Quallet not for his outstanding talent in one area, but because he had pulled himself up to this point, sometimes with piranhas and mud trying to eat and drown him. Quallet himself considered his doggedness his best asset. Not that he made dog-like metaphors. He’d call it his Dullahan-headedness.
…Which was why Quallet was a bit perplexed by the state of Gravetender’s Fist now. He attributed it with little difficulty to recent events. Even so. It was wild.
 
——
 
Four months ago had been when it began. Gravetender’s Fist, hot off nearly getting murdered in a horrible war between the Roving Arrow and Razorshard Armor company…suffered a 60% attrition rate in casualties and the enlisted soldiers quitting the ranks.
A disaster. Frankly, Quallet was so grateful he could have wept. That was not a battle where you counted casualties. That was one where you woke up, sweating, like he did, and thanked the Nagas he’d survived it.
Evercut Arrows. War Walkers. The Tripartite Law company spreading plague and fire. And both companies ignoring the code of war and attacking his forces?
Both companies actually disbanded after that battle. Not immediately, but in the two months that followed, the sheer stain on their reputations and the way they’d massacred each other meant that they had no chance of holding onto the damn gold mine they’d fought so hard over.
The irony was not lost on Quallet. But as the United Nations company eventually found Talenqual, he hung in the area, rebuilding Gravetender’s Fist.
It was at that time Paige and Daly would provide his forces with crossbows and Geneva gave him medical advice and checkups. Quallet hung around Talenqual, although he was careful to cosy up to Fezimet and the Featherfolk Brigade. His company was small Lizards compared to Gorgon-class companies like theirs.
They didn’t really care at first, and Quallet was busy recruiting, turning Gravetender’s Fist into a full mercenary company, and finding work. He’d decided he was out of suppression company work; he’d nearly been killed, and he might as well have a proper army.
Besides. He had higher-level survivors to build a good force around, and Paige made a lot of crossbows. A lot.
Cheap, wooden ones at first. Then weird, experimental, torsion-style crossbows that looked ungainly—and were—then iron, steel, even changing the design. She did it cheap, and Quallet essentially only had to pay for parts and labor. It benefited Paige, who was designing them for her Bushranger friends. Quallet? Quallet got a lot of crossbows of varying design, and all he had to do was feed her gold.
He did, for a few reasons. Firstly, he thought the mysterious Humans were good to have as allies. Geneva alone made up for it by identifying illness and treating patients at low cost or doing what [Healers] couldn’t. During Yellow Rivers, his company was spared of that plague because of her stringent measures.
Second? Crossbows. Quallet began revolving his entire company around that one tactic.
Crossbows. Other tactics too, but when you got down to it…mostly crossbows. Bolts were cheap, reusable, and even if some bows were crap, hand every single [Soldier] a crossbow and you had a lot of free archers. And what couldn’t they solve?
Charging [Knight]? No problem. Crossbows lanced armor.
Ranged [Archers]? You had more crossbows, and even an idiot could point and click.
Spellcasting [Mages] with barrier spells? More crossbows.
[Innkeepers]? Well, Quallet didn’t have a problem with any specifically, but crossbows were exceptionally effective there too.
…No, but there were a lot of enemies that didn’t acknowledge crossbows as a valid tactic. Entire Skills could nullify a ranged advantage, so Quallet learned.
Metoish One-Eye. Now there was a nasty battle. After the first month of reorganization and proving Gravetender’s Fist was excellent on guard-duty thanks to their ranged capabilities, Quallet took on a very lucrative contract to push the One-Eyed Bastards—a company named after their leader, a Medusa.
They were raiding a collective of settlements over a fifty mile radius, and it spoke to Baleros that they were still able to be called a company and find work when they got bored of pillaging. Quallet was given a handsome offer in tens of thousands of gold pieces.
…If he beat Metoish. Failing that, he’d be paid for every confirmed kill and the effort. Quallet had to try it. It was a sizable war chest. Unfortunately, he ran into the first enemy that crossbows didn’t instantly solve.
In the first battle, he was reminded why the various types of Naga on Baleros were so well-respected at high-levels. Metoish was his level or higher.
True, the Medusa had lost one of her eyes and some of her snake-hair, and contrary to popular belief, they didn’t grow back in a blink of an eye. But even so, her gaze had turned bolts to stone, forcing Quallet to charge or retreat.
He retreated.
Quallet was an old hand at this. He’d chosen to retreat and divide up, inviting the One-Eyed Bastards to come play. The vanguard under Metoish did well and pushed Quallet’s forces, but those without her magical gaze ate crossbow bolts…then learned to ambush Quallet and nullify his ranged advantage.
Two weeks of fighting in a running war, and Quallet was grimly counting costs. He could recover arms, and soldiers were cheap to replace; you could always find volunteers. But if they didn’t get Metoish or she won…
This was when it happened the first time. Someone walked into Quallet’s tent, muddy from fighting, with a slight hobbling gait. Quallet looked up and saw Quexa.
She was a Lizardgirl [Sorcerer]. One of the survivors of the ill-fated contract he’d taken where he met the [Doctor], the beginnings of the United Nations company, and put aside the suppression company work for the life of a full mercenary commander.
However, she’d elected to stay with his company, and he’d taken her on and let her command Lizardfolk in his forces. Quexa was now his [Sorcerous Captain]. Not a bad class, if slightly generic.
“Tell me Metoish hasn’t received reinforcements.”
A weary Quallet stared at Quexa as he tried to find a way to encircle Metoish on the map. The ever-optimistic Lizardgirl just gave him a big, tooth-filled grin.
Since he was a Balerosian swamp-lad who’d rubbed shoulders with Lizardfolk all his life, and Dullahans too, Quallet took that as a good sign.
“Nothing like that, boss. Just a quick question. Um…do you want to hire a War Walker?”
Quallet’s face went slack.
“Do I want to hire…”
Quexa hurriedly raised her claws.
“Sorry! I misspoke, commander.”
“Ah, of course. Not a War Walker.”
Maybe a Dullahan on the way to becoming one, changing their armor up as they grew and grew. Quexa leaned on her good foot; the other was a peg-leg. If they ever became famous, Quallet had promised to buy her a magical prosthesis and damn the cost.
“Do you want a free War Walker, boss? No hiring fee? And about fifty veteran Dullahans?”
Quallet Marshhand had one of those faces that reacted to surprise by turning stony. Rather appropriate given his current foe. As Quexa waited, he was aware this might be a prank.
There was a way with Lizardfolk to make sure this was not a stupid game—and they’d play stupid tricks at any time, even during a siege.
“Swear to Nagas?”
Quexa instantly touched her chest.
“Swear to Nagas. It’s real, boss. I had to check myself…but just come and see. They’re with Xor on the rear.”
