Foliana exhaled. She looked…upset for the first time in that briefing. The Squirrel Beastkin tried to hide behind her tail, and she grew fainter, slowly fading to invisibility.
“Commander.”
“I don’t want to. I don’t like them.”
Now there was the Foliana that Perorn knew. The Centaur glared at the invisible patch of air. The main reason Foliana didn’t like the Fraerlings who had come to beg for aid wasn’t because of their distress, incidentally. Or any prejudice against Niers or anything important.
It was only because Foliana kept trying to sneak up on the Fraerlings…and kept failing.
 
——
 
Sentry Leader Ekrn and Guidance Heish were the two representatives of Paeth on the Coast, one of the largest Fraerling settlements in existence. A proper, true, First Founding descendant city. They had come, at great risk, with a small escort of the Tallguard of Feiland, of whom Ekrn was one, to demand assistance.
Paeth was in danger, and their location had somehow been leaked—if not the exact coordinates, enough for their fellow city of Oierdressql to fall. A disaster.
More than a disaster. Such a loss of life Ekrn couldn’t process it. A full half of Feiland had died, including his commanding officers. Hundreds of thousands of refugees had fled, and far fewer survived the journey in the wilds to get to Paeth.
All from Tallfolk. From, if the Centaur, Perorn Fleethoof, was to be believed, the Jungle Tails company or their cronies.
There will be a reckoning. Ekrn vowed that, but he was concerned most of all with making sure Paeth survived. Oierdressql was not a First Founding, but it had been functionally equivalent to Paeth…and larger in population.
To survive, Paeth had to hope it was either too well-hidden—a poor hope given their neighbor had been found—or that they found allies. Tallfolk. Right now, they had one hope in the Forgotten Wing company and another in Luan.
Of the two, Ekrn trusted Luan more than the Forgotten Wing Company, for all a Fraerling was second-in-command. But he expected material aid from a Great Company more than…Luan.
Which was why he was so angry, distressed, and confused by eight settlements, including himself, all demanding full armies from Foliana.
“This is a disaster. I didn’t think the Titan was an idiot—a pompous, arrogant hothead, yes, but not an idiot. How could he have leaked intelligence about eight settlements—eight or more, since they’re all representing different regions? To a [Chamberlain]?”
Guidance Heish shrugged. They were guests of the Forgotten Wing Company and residing in Fraerling-sized guest rooms. Since there were so many guests, they had to live in the staff quarters. Ekrn didn’t care; he’d learned to sleep strapped to the underside of leaves while raindrops as big as your head were landing all around you. A bed was paradise compared to that.
Guidance Heish was young, a popular Fraerling voted into her role by Paeth’s citizens as the Architects, the leaders of a Fraerling city, were. She was beloved, progressive, something something—Ekrn didn’t care. Inner-Fraerling politics didn’t matter to the Tallguard that much, but he had to work with Heish.
He was glad she wasn’t a complete fool, as some Fraerlings were, who had no idea of the outside world. Heish had actually failed out of Tallguard training—not really a black mark. If anything, Ekrn had more respect for her than the others. Tallguard training was intense.
“I don’t believe the Titan was that careless, Ekrn. I don’t think he knows the exact locations of so many settlements.”
“Oh, then we’re all suddenly under attack purely as coincidence?”
Heish gave Ekrn a frown, and he moderated his tone slightly. The Sentry Leader adjusted his bandolier and checked his weapons purely out of habit. Even here he went armed; the shortsword-crossbow combo was standard across most Tallguard scouts. Along with a panoply of other Fraerling-quality artifacts, which meant real magic. Grappling hooks, boots that let you stick to what you touched, enchanted armor—Fraerlings had magic Tallfolk didn’t dream of.
However, for this trip, Ekrn hadn’t taken chances. Since he was the leader of Feiland, he had pulled out some weapons from their armory that were generally reserved for dire emergencies. So he had Vortex Bolts—which generated tiny fractures in space that tended to kill whatever they hit—and he’d upgraded his Shortsword of Lightning—which gave most big creatures a damn good jolt on every strike—to a Shortsword of Vampirism. Ekrn hated the feel of sucking life out of things, but it might be useful. His armor was likewise top notch, but the real deadly weapon he’d requisitioned was a ring on his finger.
It was perfectly blank, pale white, and made Ekrn itch while he wore it. Itch with nerves. He had triple-checked the manual on using it, but even so.
The Ring of Disintegration was the kind of weapon you only pulled out if you were going up against a Mothbear or something. True, it was a Fraerling-sized [Disintegration] spell, but that was Tier 6 magic.
Heish probably had no idea what Ekrn was wearing. She had been given a sword and crossbow for the journey, along with significant protective artifacts, and she had been given a Sword of the Dancer.
In short, a sword you pulled out, tossed into the air, and watched as it cut your foes while you hid behind a bit of bark or something. Credit where credit was due…Ekrn would have taken one as well if it wouldn’t have put him over his magical interference threshold.
“If Niers Astoragon didn’t know where the Fraerling settlements were, why are they under attack?”
Ekrn turned to Heish, and the Guidance shrugged.
“I don’t know. But he didn’t know where Paeth was, only the general region. We’re not allied with him; we’re friendly. We didn’t tell him where we were, and I very much doubt Feiland did.”
“Us? Never! But one of the previous Architect groups probably…”
“Sentry Leader Ekrn. I don’t insult Feiland. Give us credit. We did not tell him where Paeth is. Not my group or any predecessors. Some things are too important to be fools about.”
Heish snapped, and Ekrn recoiled. He saw her glare and slowly ducked his head.
“Apologies, Guidance.”
“Taken well, Sentry Leader. Or is it Commander?”
“…Sentry Leader will do for now. We don’t have enough to fill the ranks. Is there any word from Paeth?”
Heish consulted something on her wrist. They didn’t dare risk [Message] or any other spells. Keeping Paeth secret was essential, but Fraerlings had ways that couldn’t be traced, even among their own kind.
“I have had no word. Which is good news. I will only be updated if a crisis emerges. So back to your point, Ekrn. The enemy, Jungle Tails, might have some idea from Peclir Im where our settlements are. But I doubt the Titan was careless, do you?”
“…No.”
He might have been the Fraerling who interacted with Tallfolk, but Ekrn had met Niers. Once. Well, a few times, but once personally. A Fraerling who had served in the Tallguard and grown up in a big city wouldn’t ever forget the most important rules.
“So how did all eight get attacked, then?”
Guidance Heish shrugged.
“I suggest we socialize. Mingle. It’s not often we get to talk to other cities, and some are ones I’ve never heard of—or heard of only in that they exist. Would you be willing to join me?”
Ekrn hesitated. Then he nodded.
“Of course. We have to share intelligence, and we’re all of the same height. Lead on, Guidance.”
Then he was grateful for her help. Especially as the Fraerlings of Paeth soon found that they would be staying longer than they wanted. Aid was not immediately forthcoming from the Forgotten Wing company for a few reasons. Mostly because the Jungle Tails began to move in the open soon enough. And…other reasons.
 
——
 
While Ekrn and Foliana remained at Elvallian, facing what could be said was the pivotal moment in Balerosian politics, a Meeting of Tribes was going on and the Ailendamus-Dawn Concordat war. All three events were concurrent, but it was notable that Baleros got lowest-billing news wise.
It wasn’t a visible war, and battles were so common on Baleros that few cared. The Titan was on Izril anyways! Plus, there were no cameras where all the action was really happening.
Mainly because no Fraerlings studied at Wistram. Another pity because, if they had, the Academy of Mages would be learning from them. It might have been small stuff—but when Fraerlings got up to anything, it tended to leave an impact.
For instance, magic. Fraerlings had magic. Most species had magic.
Fraerlings had better magic than you. Not just ‘Selphids’ or ‘Drakes’. They had better magic than you, your aunt, your Gold-rank friend, and anyone else you knew. Including most Archmages. They rarely showed it since they rarely showed themselves or left their cities. And when they did, attracting attention was something they disliked.
Plus, the Titan of Baleros was a [Strategist] and had no magical ability. Fraerling magic was smaller; even their [Fireballs] were Fraerling-sized, so no one noticed. Perhaps Peclir had communicated to his superiors just how advanced Fraerlings were, among the other reasons why he had justified the attacks on the settlements. In any other time, Fraerlings would never share their knowledge.
But for Luan Khumalo, a man from another world, for a friend of Paeth, because this was a desperate hour, and because a single [Mage], Resk, had left his home on this mission of mercy, Fraerling magic was loose. And Fraerling-magic was…
“[Fortification of Mithril]. Whew. That takes it out of me. Pour me another cup of mana potion? I’m close to getting mana poisoning, but I can do two more today.”
Alchimagus Resk was not a pure [Enchanter]. He just happened to know the spells. So a non-specialist in the field cast the Tier 5 spell on the crossbow strings, and Paige nearly died on the spot.
“Wh—but—mithril? How long does it—how long does it last?”
Resk looked up as Noa dangled her legs on the mana potion and scooped out a big cupful from the giant bottle, taller than she was, with a ladle. Resk crooked a finger, and the ladle and potion floated over and he sipped from it. Tallguard Kessice, the last of the three, kept writing down notes as she stood over a giant map of Baleros.
Paige, Luan, Ken, Daly, Aiko, Kirana, and Siri looked down as Resk exhaled after draining the entire draft of mana potion. He made a face, grimaced, and wiped at his mouth with a sleeve.
“Phaugh. What was that, watery Sage’s Grass? I need another cup, Noa. Hmm? Young woman, what do you mean, time limit? It’s a mithril enchantment. Lasts until you cut the string or something. Good to put on your crossbows. I’d enchant the wood, but it’s too much for a non-specialist.”
Paige’s mouth fell open. Noa peered upwards and realized she could have walked into Paige’s mouth if she ducked a bit. She gave the Tallfolk much the same look as they were giving her.
Wonder, shock, awe, and on Luan’s face, a delight in sharing their existence. For their part, the Fraerlings were nervous. Kessice especially seemed like she was on pins and needles, for all she was playing it cool. Noa was elated. And Resk?
Resk just looked amazed as he poked at something floating in his second ladle of mana potion.
“It’s a bit of magemint. Just…a giant bit of it. Floating here. Disgusting. Unground, poor-quality, and I just bet the water isn’t even purified—thank you for the hospitality! I’m sure you don’t even notice what you’re drinking.”
He beamed around at the Tallfolk and fooled exactly no one, including himself. Resk looked embarrassed, amused, and perturbed. He stared around the room that everyone was crowded into, a bit too warm in the Balerosian heat, even in the fall, and distinctly hotter from the shut doors and windows.
That was as secure as the United Nations company could get for Luan to show his friends to his people. They had been amazed he was alive, but to even show Noa and the others, Resk had elected to cast several privacy wards.
Now, he waved a hand, and a gust of cold air blew from him, cooling the room down. The Alchimagus shook his head.
“Wood walls. I mean…decent wood. Looks lovely. Unenchanted wood walls, dirt streets…not a single mage-light I saw. And your windows don’t have glass? I thought Tallfolk cities were—different.”
He was trying to be diplomatic and failing. Noa glowered at Resk, but he didn’t really notice. He was from Paeth and, unlike Tallguard, had no understanding of the outside world.
Ironically, that meant that he was on the same level as the Earthers. Daly just rested his head on his arms, blinking like a boy.
“Fuck me. Am I dreaming? Pinch me, Siri.”
She stomped on his foot, but lightly, and he yelped. Kessice looked at him warily, and Daly held up a hand.
“Sorry! I’m…what’s the name for them? I’ve seen giant serpents and monsters and zombies, but this is…wow.”
“Lilliputians.”
Paige muttered. Noa frowned at her. She’d heard of Luan’s fairytales of small people and resented the comparison. Yet Resk was just nodding.
“And I, young man, have heard of your world, and I must say, it was more what I was expecting. Roads of stone, glass and metal…not too far from Fraerling cities, the big ones at least. We have lifting tubes and farspeakers. You have—what did you call it? Air conditioning? We have cooling spells. This city is…well, I suppose I didn’t realize we were near a provincial town.”
The United Nations Company traded glances. Talenqual didn’t have stone roads, but it was still a fairly active port city held by a rather well-known company, the Featherfolk Brigade.
“The Walled Cities are more your speed, Resk. I’ve heard they still have a decent amount of technology in them. This…Talenqual didn’t even exist on some of our maps. You’ve lost five cities in the larger region. Our intelligence is wildly, wildly out of date. The immediate area is fine, but our maps are thirty years old.”
Kessice interrupted. Everyone looked at her, and Luan took a seat. They had been talking and introducing themselves, so the shock and elation was mostly over. Still, Daly stared, and Siri gazed in delight at Noa, who waved at her with a giant smile.
“She’s so cute. I want to hug her!”
Aiko whispered to Kirana. Luan looked up.
“No doing that. Be very careful with them—and we have to make sure they’re safe from rats and other pests.”
Aiko nodded guiltily, and Kirana spoke up.
“Can I…can I offer you some food? Are you hungry?”
They were ravenous after Luan’s amazing trip, so all three Fraerlings plus Luan looked up.
“What do Tallfolk have? A single…apple would do us all. No, wait. Um, one roasted rat, please, Miss!”
