He’d just left her there! But the Seelda Fraerling shook her head instantly.
“She’s not. I just saw her. She and [Emissary] Vuul just met—right before he arrested her with his people, and went after Dosiel and Keshel in the Dark’s group!”
“What?”
Both Ekrn and Gindal turned. Vuul had done that? Where was Heish’s Tallguard escort? But if those idiotic guards were actually high-level Fraerlings pretending to be incompetent…
Or if Heish had gone out alone like an idiot city-Fraerling? Ekrn cursed.
“Where are they? Let’s find one of the Tallfolk—no. Let me get my Tallguard.”
The Seelda representative nodded, face pale.
“Hurry! He’s arrested multiple groups.”
“With stun-batons?”
Gindal was incredulous, but Ekrn was stepping back. Seelda’s representative was eying him, and she turned to Gindal.
“Can we join your group as well, Explorer Gindal? Given Vuul’s actions, I think we can safely trust each other.”
“Maybe. Or maybe not. Ekrn’s activated his Ring of Disintegration.”
Every Fraerling froze and stared at Ekrn’s plain ring. The Fraerling Tallguard saw Gindal’s hand on his crossbow handle.
“Hold on. Stop. Stop…this doesn’t have to come to blood. You two are armed—let’s not be hasty.”
The representative of Seelda said it as she boldly…hid behind her bodyguards. She peeked at both with her silk robes trailing the carpet as she shocked her bodyguard with static electricity. Ekrn and Gindal relaxed slightly.
“No one wants Fraerlings to kill each other. Abeixis.”
Ekrn slowly deactivated the ring as a show of goodwill. Gindal took his hand off his crossbow hilt.
“Paeth is definitely a First Founding city. I’ll give you that…but you can be everything you claim and still be a traitor. I agree; let’s find my people first, then yours, then we confront Vuul. Agreed?”
Ekrn looked at Seelda’s representative. The odds weren’t high that both were working together, so he nodded.
“If Seelda joins us…your people first.”
The Seelda Fraerlings breathed in audible relief as Gindal nodded after a moment. The [Explorer] jerked a thumb.
“This way.”
He led them at a brisk trot towards his area. Seelda’s representative was chattering in relief.
“Thank goodness. We have to stop Vuul! First Founding cities have to stick together. And, er, the doughty [Explorers] on the front.”
She smiled and went to link arms, and both Fraerlings edged away. Even the woman’s bodyguards stayed away from her—again, because of the silk trailing on carpets.
Static charge. Just enchant the stupid silk robes! They even had nubs—the imperfections in poorly-spun silk. Huge ones. Someone’s city was far from Paeth.
“Right.”
Ekrn sighed as the representative chattered on.
“This business with traitors aside, we must have aid. I know your cities are in danger from Tallfolk in the area, but Seelda is under siege! Why, we’re considering moving our Last Box out with any children we can. I asked your Guidance if she was willing to take our people—if Seelda falls, perhaps Paeth can keep them safe?”
Ekrn frowned as they passed by that blank corridor again. The [Explorer]’s head turned.
“…I know that wasn’t there.”
He looked back at Ekrn, and the Tallguard raised his brows. He knew that too, and he was sure Gindal would remember the layout of the Fraer-ways perfectly. Seelda’s representative didn’t notice. She went to hold Ekrn’s hand.
“Tallguard. Would you consider…?”
Ekrn jerked his hand away before she could touch him. The female Fraerling blinked as her fingers missed the Ring of Disintegration. Ekrn spun, drew Gindal’s dagger, and planted it in the ribs of the Fraerling trying to sneak up on him. Gindal aimed his crossbow up, and Ekrn shouted.
“You’ll kill us all!”
Gindal cursed as he realized it was loaded with the Vortex bolt—which would drag them all into the abyss. He dropped the crossbow, drew a fang-blade, and ran a Fraerling from Seelda through as they grabbed their weapons.
“Traitors! Abeix—”
Ekrn bellowed as he drew his own shortsword. Someone struck him across the face, and he stumbled, swearing.
“Kill them! How did they realize it?”
The traitorous Fraerling hid behind her bodyguard as they attacked. Gindal backed up, springing nimbly away, but Ekrn wasn’t so fast. He made it five steps as a sword glanced off his armor, and he swung around.
Steel weapons. A few were enchanted, but on the level of Gold-rank Tallfolk. Of course, Seelda could be desperate and poor.
However, a First Founding city? One clue was their representative’s poor robe that shocked people and was made of Tallfolk silk. Only they would think those giant imperfections in the cloth were worth it. Unenchanted? She had neither city-guards nor Tallfolk as bodyguards.
But the real clue that had tipped Ekrn and Gindal off was the request to take refugees from Seelda. A fair ask…but the Fraerling had made one mistake as someone not of a First Founding city.
You didn’t move The Last Box. The fact that she’d said that had confirmed they were walking into a trap.
Even so—Ekrn’s shortsword severed one blade and went into a chest. He felt his body surge with terrible vitality, and the deep gash across his jaw closed slightly as a Fraerling died.
“Ekrn! Back up!”
“No! Get your people and—”
Gindal was hesitating, but Ekrn could count. It was sixteen versus two and gear or not—his shortsword whirled and met a blade. Ekrn threw back one sword and four more struck him.
Three glanced off his leather armor. The third broke the enchantment or bypassed it. He stumbled backwards, bleeding onto the carpet.
Traitors amidst the small. But three were dead, and Seelda wouldn’t escape so easily. Gindal was running, and Ekrn retreated, trying to fight eight at once. His Shortsword of Vampirism was the only thing keeping him alive; he smashed a potion against his bare flesh, but they were pressing him backwards.
Ekrn stumbled down the hallway and felt sick. Signim? No. I can’t. Not here. He looked around and ran towards the dead end. The traitorous Fraerlings chased him, thinking they had him cornered.
They did. Ekrn backed into a padded wall, his footsteps heavy. Put your back to a wall and die well.
Tallguard tactics. Ekrn shouted as blood ran from the hole across his mouth, multiple stab wounds.
“Tallguard of Feiland! Come and get me!”
The traitors hesitated, looking at his shortsword, but Ekrn didn’t have his crossbow. He could have used it. One bolt past them and…
“Kill him! Hurry up or we’ll be caught!”
The Fraerling screamed, and they advanced. Ekrn saw five charge at him and knew he’d never dodge five blades. If only he were in the open with room to maneuver—
Take two down. Ekrn raised his blade—and something dripped onto his head. The floor moved, and the Fraerling almost stabbed the ground as the floor…carpet…tongue…moved.
Foliana closed her mouth on Ekrn and then grabbed two of the Fraerlings with her paw. The others saw Ekrn vanish, giant ivory teeth descend, and the amazing, piercing eyes of magic, the wide stare of Three-Color Stalker appear. Then her paws lashed out, striking into the Fraer-ways.
Half of Seelda’s Fraerlings died so fast that Ekrn didn’t even hear their cries. Not that he could see—Foliana spat him into her paws, and he saw they were bloody. Then he saw the bodies and the fleeing Fraerlings.
“Wh—how—?”
The Squirrel-Woman calmly produced a potion and dunked Ekrn in healing liquids. Then she peered into the hatch she’d opened in the Fraer-ways.
“Damn. Running.”
A screaming Fraerling and a few others were pounding down the hallways away from the Tallfolk. Foliana had killed half their number in her sneak attack. Ekrn saw their mangled bodies. She hadn’t stabbed them with daggers, and the two she’d grabbed hadn’t fallen victim to a Skill.
She’d just punched them and broken every bone they had.
Tallfolk.
Yet how had she snuck up on him? She…the greatest [Rogue] of the Forgotten Wing Company that they’d spotted so often…
So often that they thought it was easy. The [Rogue] answered that question for Ekrn.
“Mm. Fraerlings are so arrogant. Deceive your allies first.”
Ekrn scrambled up as she put him back in the Fraer-ways.
“It’s Seelda. They’re traitors. We have to catch them!”
Foliana nodded instantly.
“Trickery. Can you subdue them with help? Mm. Or do we need to do it for you?”
Ekrn didn’t need to think.
“Get me to my Tallguard safely and we can. They’re not armed well. They’re not from Paeth or a real city—but they’ll hide, and we might lose them before they leave the academy!”
Fraerlings were impossible to catch, even by their own kind. The world was too huge! Yet the Squirrel Beastkin shook her head.
“Nope.”
She raised something to her mouth and spoke into it crisply. A speaking stone.
“Lock down the Fraer-ways. Emergency code: Titanfall. Or something.”
It took twenty seconds, but then someone began blaring an alarm, and Ekrn saw the hatch Foliana had opened snap closed. He saw a magical warding rune appear…locking him in.
From the outside. Suddenly, he found himself in a sealed environment and looked around.
No windows out. Doors sealed…he looked at Foliana, and she shrugged.
“Niers made sure he could defeat his own kind. Let me find a map. We can turn off the air except for where we want. And close entire corridors manually. Box them in.”
The Titan had thought of everything. Ekrn glanced uneasily at the hatch and then down the corridor. It shifted as Foliana pressed it into the wall. Locking Seelda away from Ekrn.
“That wouldn’t…stop dedicated groups. Like Crelerbane. You can’t crush them or take away their air supply.”
“I know. But we want these ones alive.”
Three-Color Stalker turned to Ekrn, and he looked at her. The cunning [Rogue] who was hardly as incompetent as she appeared nodded to him, and he saluted her with his sword, briefly.
“The Titan plans well after all. Thank you, Commander.”
She just sighed.
“Don’t thank me yet. Your city is in danger. They’ve wasted our time. Come. Let’s get them.”
 
——
 
It did not take long to capture the renegade Fraerlings. Seelda’s representatives surrendered, asphyxiating, and Ekrn himself took them prisoner with Gindal.
It turned out they were on the same side. Shamefaced, the [Explorer] offered Ekrn the crossbow, and Ekrn let him keep it.
They hadn’t been sure, and Foliana had been following Fraerlings around trying to see who was doing what. She had been clever—but ironically, the most clever person was Guidance Heish.
Seelda had fed Ekrn and Gindal a half-truth. It was true that Heish had left her Tallguard and gone to Vuul. However, that was because she’d had an idea.
“Truth detection. Tallguard don’t maintain the law, but the one group that would be able to enforce law and order would be Fraerling [Security Personnel]. Vuul put me into protective custody, and together we began clearing other groups. We confronted Reiryul and took the entire lot prisoner—that was when Seelda panicked.”
Two groups of the eight had been fake! Reiryul and Seelda, both of whom had claimed to be under actual siege to panic the other representatives, were full of fake Fraerlings. Or rather, Fraerlings who didn’t belong to any great settlement.
It explained their low-quality attire and why they had been so stridently adamant they were under immediate attack.
So they could steal the Forgotten Wing’s forces. And take a look at the Titan’s personal files.
Perorn Fleethoof was beside herself with anger. She paced back and forth in front of the Fraerling congregation.
“After some checking—very discreetly—Guidance Heish has informed me that neither Seelda nor Reiryul are where I directed my forces. Nor, as it transpires, is either city in danger. They sent no representatives.”
It was all a trick that played on the paranoia of Fraerlings. It had almost worked, too—and it had in the sense that the Forgotten Wing Company had lost precious time. Ekrn was ready to stab all the Fraerlings under custody, but he had one question they all shared.
“Why? Why would you sell out your own kind?”
He looked at Reiryul and Seelda’s traitors in turn, and the Reiryul [Emissary] raised his hands.
“I’m sorry. They found our town. They promised to let us go if we found out where another city was.”
“You’d sell us out?”
“They have us captive! One [Fireball] and we’re all dead!”
The Fraerling looked at the others, and Gindal swore. Force Commander Nobre turned to Ekrn.
“If this is true—if—we have to rescue them. The Tallguard will do it. This—will not go unpunished. It also seems like some of the reports of cities under attack are false. That’s what threw my settlements into a panic.”
“Paeth is not lying. We need forces now.”
“We’ll send them.”
Perorn promised Ekrn gravely. However, the Reiryul Fraerling pointed an accusing finger at the Seelda Fraerling.
“Wait. They’re not from our city. I don’t know where they’re from, but it’s not a settlement. They worked with the Nagas on this plan to find our city—they pretended to be fleeing, and when we took them in, they led the Tallfolk right to our door.”
Ekrn saw Gindal load a normal crossbow bolt, and everyone turned to the seven surviving Fraerlings. Their leader sneered at Ekrn as Gindal glared at her.
“What’s your reason? Answer, before I lose my temper.”
“Careful…we need to interrogate them.”
Perorn cautioned Gindal as he aimed at one of the seven Fraerlings. In response, the [Explorer] aimed right between the Fraerling’s legs. Yet the female Fraerling garbed in silk still looked defiant.
“You haughty cityfolk think you’re all of our kind. You d—”
Twang. Gindal fired and put another bolt into the crossbow. The enchanted crossbow had enough force to punch into the wood floor of the Fraer-ways. Nothing else slowed it. He aimed at the female Fraerling’s groin next.
“Trust me—it hurts no matter who you are.”
A screaming Fraerling went under a [Silence] spell as the others began to speak. Ekrn listened and realized who they were.
Exiles. Outcasts. The Fraerlings who were kicked out of a city because they were truly unable to fit in. Some—most cities like Paeth didn’t have a death sentence and prison for decades…they just exiled Fraerlings instead.
However, the jump from criminal to active traitor was still a big step. The female Fraerlings gave the only explanation that made sense to the outraged representatives with a huge smile.
“Potion of Gluttony.”
“…What?”
Heish looked incredulously at the Fraerling, but the traitor just smiled dreamily.
