The entire room went silent with deep unease. Resk gazed into Luan’s eyes—and started laughing. Noa fell over the bowl, and Kessice rubbed at her eyes.
“Just kidding! No, Tiernas died for completely other reasons. No one’s ever opened one. Can’t be done. [Archmages] loved to try.”
Fraerlings. Luan exhaled hard as Daly laughed and Siri crossed out a note, looking amused. She turned to Resk.
“But Tiernas did exist, then?”
“Of course it—once this is over, I’ll get a history book and bring it back, alright? The things you don’t know.”
Frankly, Resk had done a lot of illuminating to Luan. The Last Box was one of those big mysteries, but Luan had only one more, burning question.
“You’ve really answered all our questions, Resk. Can I ask one last thing? What…does Signim do?”
All three Fraerlings looked up, and here Resk hesitated.
“Oh. Signim. Well…that’s tricky. You are a friend of the city, but if you don’t know…hm.”
“He’s a friend! Come on, Resk. It’s not like the Titan doesn’t have them. In fact—”
Noa was giddy on her sugar rush and beaming around. She began to speak, and Kessice was there. She grabbed Noa.
“Excuse me, everyone. Noa, come here.”
“But I—”
“Right now. By the Gnomes…”
She dragged Noa away, and the younger Tallguard lost her smile. Resk turned, but kept eating, and Kessice dragged Noa around a giant teapot on the table. Luan, exchanging looks with Aiko, Daly, Paige, Siri, and Kirana, heard two whispering voices.
Whispering…but Fraerlings had loud voices when they wanted, and the room was so silent it was fairly audible.
“Have you lost your mind, Noa? Signim are Tallguard secrets. They are not to be shared, even with Luan and his friends!”
“But we told them about Paeth and the rest—”
“That’s Resk recounting history. Not military secrets. I don’t care how much of a friend you think you are with Luan, you are endangering us all and I expect you to be professional. Resk is a city-Fraerling, but you’re treating this like some big game when everyone’s life is on the line.”
Resk slowly popped another bit of cherry into his mouth and eyed the others. Luan heard Noa protesting.
“I’m just—”
“You were about to tell them what Signim does. You know we’re trusting Luan, but we can’t be sure. Cotm is risking his life out there, and Sentry Leader Ekrn and Guidance Heish are too. I know you’re brave enough to volunteer to come out here, but stop acting like a child. You are a disgrace to the Tallguard.”
“I—I—just—”
“Stop stuffing your face and keep an eye on your lodestone bracelet. Got it? Now, when we go back out there, I want you to focus and get these Tallfolk moving in Paeth’s defense. Not acting like some kind of [Performer].”
“Okay, Kessice. I’m sorry.”
“Alright. Alright, I know this is an adventure. Don’t cry. Here. Take this and blow your nose. You can have ice cream. I like it too—just don’t tell them about Signim and secrets?”
“Okay.”
Someone blew their nose faintly, and after a few more moments, Noa, slightly red-eyed, walked around the teacup. Kessice smiled up at everyone.
“Sorry about that. Signim is a bit…classified. Let’s all have ice cream and discuss next steps, shall we?”
Resk eyed the Tallfolk, and Luan looked at the others. Kessice’s bland smile faltered a bit.
“We heard all that.”
The two Tallguard and the Alchimagus looked up at Luan, and both Kessice and Noa turned red.
“What? No you didn’t.”
Paige leaned on the table.
“We definitely did.”
Daly lifted a finger.
“Yeah, and we can hear when you pass gas too. And smell it. Shit’s loud.”
Resk coughed and instantly created a breeze spell. Kessice and Noa exchanged looks. Luan rose.
“You’re right, though, Kessice. We don’t need to know everything. Paeth is in danger. So…what can we do? I’ll do another delivery run, but Daly?”
The Bushranger grimaced.
“We’ve got funds from that Stelbore to give, Luan. I’d take the Bushrangers into the wild and harry the Featherfolk’s [Scouts], but…we’d get torn to pieces. We’re not used to fighting people, and we’re outlevelled. Maybe we have weapons now—but we don’t have the numbers. Quallet’s forces…”
He trailed off. Luan nodded, and Kessice coughed.
“You…may not have to worry about the scouts. The Featherfolk Brigade has been stymied fairly well. They’re advancing, but Cotm has checked them.”
“What, by himself? Cotm?”
Resk and Noa exclaimed. Kessice smiled with faint pride.
“Yes. So just focus on getting us deliveries for now, eh? But on that note—”
She sombered and looked at Luan.
“—You’re a Courier. Do you know how to cross the sea? Have you learned how to use the Archmage’s Jet?”
“What? No. That’s—I’ve heard that’s almost suicide unless you have an amazing vessel.”
Which he did have, come to think of it. But Luan wouldn’t try that unless…Kessice shrugged.
“Something to bear in mind. One option I just got from Sentry Leader Ekrn revolves around fixing this entire situation with the Forgotten Wing Company. And they need their Titan back.”
Everyone turned to look at Luan. He gulped. Sculling at a record-breaking speed along the coast was one thing. But the ocean?
“How are things at the Forgotten Wing Company? Did Ekrn say?”
Kessice’s face didn’t change, but she flicked her eyes to Noa, Resk, and decided to tell everyone.
“Bad. Fraerlings might have…a traitor.”
 
——
 
The representatives of eight Fraerling settlements did not meet or walk about as freely. Like their people, they retreated to their own corners, and only a few exited to walk the Fraer-ways.
They were so quiet. So…empty. Niers had clearly designed the carpeted hallways and many meeting rooms and exits for countless Fraerlings.
They had never shown up. He had a staff, but he was a Titan alone. It was not safe.
It was never safe. Ekrn walked past a hallway clearly in-progress; it led to a dark dead end devoid of furnishing or wallpaper. He wondered what the Titan’s end plan was. Make an entire Fraerling city in Elvallian?
Perhaps. And perhaps there was something there—but this incident would ruin his credibility with the settlements.
Unless it turned out one of their kind had betrayed all. In which case…
“—Not sure where Paeth is coming from. Feiland’s apparently destroyed, but Oierdressql falling is something we only have their word for. I didn’t hear of—”
A few Fraerlings broke off speaking, and a fellow Tallguard looked up from talking with a frontier-Fraerling as Ekrn passed by. He slowed.
“Have you seen Gindal?”
“I think I saw him up two floors. That atrium place with a view of the city?”
“Thanks.”
Ekrn walked past as the Fraerlings eyed him. Then he turned and stomped back.
“Feiland fell in defense of Oierdressql. Get your Farspeakers to check!”
“We would, but our cities are hiding. Locked down. Awfully convenient, Sentry Leader Ekrn. Force Commander Nobre—not in charge of a First Founding city, but I lead the Tallguard of Yaeth. We’ve met.”
Ekrn briskly shook the Fraerling’s hand and looked at the other.
“And you’re…”
“[Monster Hunter]. One of the frontier villages. We’ve got Tallfolk poking around the region. They have no idea where we are, but they’re making a ruckus.”
Ekrn grunted.
“And you want a damn army.”
The [Monster Hunter] shrugged.
“Do you want to fight a thousand Tallfolk? Like everyone’s saying—kill a dozen and a hundred follow. We need the Forgotten Wing to run them off. We know they’re looking for us. They’re not exactly subtle. They’re asking to ‘negotiate’ with us, and they’re placing offerings like we’re intelligent animals or something.”
“Really? They’re that direct?”
The Fraerling snorted as Ekrn blinked.
“Oh, aye. They’re miles off sometimes. They have no clue where we are at all—but they know our location. Which is interesting because even the Titan wouldn’t know where we are…but yes. A few hundred Lizardfolk.”
“Wait a second. A few hundred? I thought you needed an army.”
Ekrn turned to face the frontier-Fraerling, and the [Monster Hunter] froze slightly.
“We do. We don’t want to go the way of Seelda and Reiryul.”
“But you don’t have more than a few hundred. We have an entire company of thousands breathing down our necks!”
“So you claim.”
The Force Commander noted. Ekrn felt like he was close to bursting a blood vessel. Yet both Tallguard were eying the [Monster Hunter], who raised her hands defensively.
“Listen. We do not want to get wiped out. Maybe we exaggerated a bit, but we’re not the ones poking around the Titan’s rooms.”
“Care to swear on a real truth spell about that?”
Ekrn challenged her, and the Fraerling shrugged.
“Sure. Got one?”
“…No.”
That wasn’t something Ekrn needed. He wasn’t a [Guardsman], and the Tallguard fought and patrolled, not administered the law. He stared at the two foreign Fraerlings then turned and pointed.
“Would you stop that?”
Two giant, glowing eyes stared through a glass window at the three Fraerlings, and all three groaned. One even took off their shoe to throw at Foliana.
“Damn.”
“This is unacceptable, Commander. I know you want to find out the truth—but it is really discouraging for the highest-level [Rogue] in the Forgotten Wing company to act so…shoddily.”
The Force Commander glared at Foliana as the [Monster Hunter] hopped over to retrieve her shoe. The Squirrel-woman backed up.
“So hurtful. I’m doing my best.”
She waddled off, vanished in a corner, and then left the room for good when the Fraerlings pointed out they could still see her.
[Invisibility] just wasn’t what it was cracked up to be. [Greater Invisibility], now…Ekrn frowned.
 
——
 
He found Gindal in the glassy atrium, frowning around.
“I could have sworn I saw…oh, it’s you. I thought it was that [Rogue] sneaking up again.”
He noticed Ekrn, and the Tallguard snorted.
“Not exactly the stealthiest, is she?”
“Tallfolk. I wager that [Invisibility] Skill is good enough for most of them. My eyes see invisibility by default.”
Gindal tapped his eyes, and Ekrn noticed for the first time that they were square pupils, set amidst cloud-grey irises.
“Huh. Is that your class?”
The [Explorer] smiled, but far more guardedly than last time they’d met. He was carrying Ekrn’s crossbow, the Fraerling noted.
“You’d be surprised how many monsters in the Dyed Lands are invisible or camouflaged. All that color…well, not surprised, actually. Hey, have you seen an unfinished corridor?”
“Back that way. Two floors down.”
“Huh. I could have sworn I saw it around here. Nevermind. I’ve been checking out the Fraer-ways that the Titan built. Quite nice. But as we know—unguarded. His staff are young. They wouldn’t notice someone with a real infiltrator artifact or Skills sneaking by. Seems like a flaw.”
The two Fraerlings faced each other, and Ekrn placed his hand on his belt. He had the poisoned fang-dagger he’d been given, and Gindal noticed it.
“True. But the Titan probably didn’t think he’d ever have to worry about his own kind.”
“The Titan making mistakes? Well…I guess we all know it can happen. Do you need something, Sentry Leader Ekrn?”
The Tallguard hesitated a moment, embarrassed.
“I…do. It’s unfortunate, but I’m going to have to ask for that crossbow back, Gindal. Given the situation. I’ve brought your dagger.”
The [Explorer] watched as Ekrn drew the knife and offered it to him.
“I’d rather like to keep the crossbow, actually. The Vortex bolts are genuine. I tested it; nasty. High-grade magic. You’re definitely from a First Founding city.”
“…Waste of a bolt. I only took twenty-four.”
Gindal shrugged.
“I had to know. And you know—that’s the kind of magic us frontier-Fraerlings don’t get. The kind that could make a [Greater Invisibility] ring.”
Ah. So that was why he was so suspicious. Ekrn folded his arms.
“Funny. I was about to say that an [Explorer] in the Dyed Lands was already hard to believe. But if I did believe it…it sounds like that kind of spell or ability would be really useful too.”
Gindal raised a finger.
“One point for me, one for you. But I know I’m not the one. So you’ll forgive me for being suspicious. Then again—you’re probably thinking the same thing unless you’re lying. So—impasse.”
Everyone was suspecting one another. Ekrn pointed at the crossbow.
“I’ll have that back.”
“No, I don’t think you will. And before you try and grab this one, just know that I passed out the Vortex bolts among my people. Just in case.”
Ekrn had never had reason to regret his generosity now, but his pale white hair was beginning to rise. He calmly muttered.
“Abeixis. That’s just too bad. Listen, I think we can sort this out. All we have to do is prove we’re innocent.”
Gindal had a hand on the crossbow.
“Surely. What did you have in mind?”
“Oh, I was going to question you first. After I got my crossbow back. We don’t have to be stupid about this. If there is a spy or traitor among us, all we need to do is identify who’s faking their city being in danger. I’ve already learned that your settlements and at least one other aren’t facing actual armies.”
“We may have exaggerated. So what did you have in mind?”
Ekrn gestured with his non-ring hand.
“I have my Guidance with me. She brought some memory-crystals.”
Gindal’s expression didn’t change.
“Oh, so you want to check her footage? Good idea—but you can fake memory-crystals. And I don’t think we’re qualified to investigate, do you? I’m an [Explorer]. Frankly, I’m just going to head out. With the crossbow.”
Ekrn’s teeth were clenched. He was watching Gindal hard.
“Not my intent. I have something to show you…the Guidance didn’t get a convenient full-sweep of all things happening here. But she did take a recording of Oierdressql’s refugees.”
Along with Luan the Giant. You could fake images, but that…?
That was if Gindal could trust him, and if Ekrn was willing to turn his back on the [Explorer]. Which he wasn’t about to do. And yet Gindal looked just as unwilling to follow Ekrn.
“So I just go with you to an empty room?”
“Get a friend. Get three. Equal to us Tallguard. My Guidance is waiting in her quarters.”
“No, she’s not.”
A third voice entered the mix. Gindal and Ekrn turned and saw a group striding forwards. Seelda’s. They were all armed—and very nervous. Ekrn spun, and Gindal frowned.
“What’s this?”
He looked at Ekrn hard, and the Seelda representative turned to glance over her shoulder. The haughty Fraerlings gazed hard at Ekrn.
“Are you lying, Sentry Leader?”
“I’m not. Guidance Heish should be in her rooms.”
