“Feiland’s seniority are dead. I am Sentry Leader Ekrn, Emissary Vuul. Over two thirds of Feiland died at Oierdressql. Not just our commanders, but Crelerbane armor as well as Tallguard veterans. Level 40 Fraerlings. They still died.”
The Fraerlings had been chatting in a large room over very plentiful food that the Forgotten Wing Company was only too happy to provide…since it was about the cost of fine dining for a few people.
Everyone turned to Ekrn, and Vuul paled.
“Your Crelerbane forces fell?”
“You have Crelerbane armor?”
Someone else demanded incredulously.
“Less, now. Paeth is a First Founding.”
Ekrn said what Heish was too modest to, and there were several gasps and murmurs of respect. The dynamic…shifted as Vuul looked both embarrassed and indignant.
Even among Fraerlings, there was a kind of ranking. A First Founding city like Paeth had…the Plans. Not just a copy or fragments they got from other cities. The full, unedited version of the Gnomes’ plans. Their last gift to the Fraer-folk, which had included Signim and most major advancements of their kind. And The Last Box.
Stupid name for it. Something that gave Ekrn nightmares at night should have a better name. Like the Gnomien Ultimatum or…no, wait. The Last Box would do.
“Crelerbane armor. And Oierdressql still fell?”
“The Tallfolk came by the thousands. Even the best enchantments fail if you hit them with a thousand [Fireballs] from Tallfolk. No matter how advanced we are.”
That was the blunt truth of it. The other Fraerlings nodded, and another came to introduce themselves.
“It’s true. But we’ll fight them to the last. We’ve got nowhere to go; they found us. Even in the cave. Keshel in the Dark. We’ve been under attack. Dosiel. [Emissary].”
Ekrn saw a pale Fraerling, his clothing tattered and far from the fine enchantments of Heish. No citizen of Paeth would wear that unless it were some stupid fashion. Not any magic on…
“You’ve been under attack? Actual attack?”
Dosiel nodded tiredly.
“Just a few. They loose arrows, try to break our walls—obviously not working, but they know we’re there. Strategist Perorn is sending an army, but our [Mages] counted so many…I hope they’ll make it. I’m petitioning her for more. I know you’re all in need of help, but—”
The other six groups began voicing their grievances as well.
“They’re almost on top of us—”
“Not more than a few thousand despite the Lizardfolk knocking on our doors!”
“My city was attacked too!”
Two cities had been found, and the other wore decent clothes…but no magic on them either! Ekrn saw silk cloth, but far from high-quality. Even so, the Fraerling strode over with an air of importance.
“My city and Keshel are both in great need. I understand the rest of you have Tallfolk nearby—but we’re in danger. And the other settlements in our area!”
“What city is yours, exactly? I am Heish, Guidance.”
“Ah, the Architect of Paeth? Well, my city is Seelda Under Rains. First Founding, obviously.”
Yes, obviously. It only mattered because of The Last Box. Ekrn rolled his eyes as Heish played nice. This Fraerling had clearly seen better times…but thought her city was still the best.
The other five groups, even Reiryul, were in less danger and had varying degrees of equipment. One had a Tallguard escort, who nodded at Ekrn, recognizing his ring. The rest weren’t Tallguard, but the smaller villages had tough Fraerlings with gear that Gold-rank Tallfolk would have thought was fitting. Or the stupid stun-batons.
Both cities in danger had armed their escorts with simple steel and plain weapons. It must have been bad. Ekrn had a terrible suspicion that these escorts might not have been the first.
Sending Fraerlings out in hopes one made it to the Forgotten Wing Company. Disastrous. Ekrn couldn’t fault Reiryul or Seelda for demanding aid. In fact, after the first meet-and-greet, Heish revealed something astonishing.
“Reiryul actually told Perorn where they were. They’re that desperate. I suppose if their enemies know where they are…”
Ekrn shook his head.
“That’s madness. Desperate madness…and Seelda?”
He’d seen their snooty representative pulling Heish aside. The Guidance shook her head, looking pained.
“She…asked if they could send children to our city. I told her I couldn’t guarantee safe travel. It would have to be air—or a mass teleportation, but even if they had the mana for that—it would reveal us.”
Ekrn gnawed on his lip. He checked his crossbow.
“…Do they have any experts? If they pushed out during a lull, if they’re not encircled, we could—could call that damn Rower! If they get to sea?”
Heish looked up. Ekrn was counting, trying to figure out how many Tallguard he could conceivably send. How would Luan transport them? A raft? If they created a giant container or sent their emergency vessel…
 
——
 
Reiryul and Seelda’s plight was not lost on the other Fraerlings. That evening, one of them asked to meet with Ekrn.
“[Explorer] Gindal. Torteth of Colors. Not that it’s anything to brag about. Dyed Lands.”
“No.”
Ekrn politely looked at the Fraerling, who wore a kind of strange hide armor even he couldn’t place. For answer, the Fraerling man offered him a dagger.
“There’s still poison on the damn thing, even though the tooth of the snake-thing I took it from is now eight years old. A gift.”
“I…thank you. I can’t offer…”
Flustered, Ekrn checked his gear, and Gindal glanced at his belt.
“I’ll take your crossbow if you have a spare. Are those enchanted bolts?”
“Vortex.”
“Vortex. You First Founding types are impressive. Although when I saw poor Seelda, I thought it didn’t matter. Trade?”
It wasn’t equal, but Ekrn traded at once. The tooth came from a beast that even an Adventurer’s Guild couldn’t name. And this Fraerling…lived on the edge.
“Why in the name of Gnomes would you settle on the edges of the Dyed Lands?”
Ekrn demanded—politely—when they sat down for a drink. Gindal just laughed at him.
“The Titan isn’t the only one who craves adventure. The Tallguard told us we were mad to do it.”
“They were right. I wouldn’t patrol that area even if you were in my radius.”
“And we don’t ask them to. We’re on the cutting edge. Some of what we find has helped with the Plan. You know the discovery by Gais on the Rocks? Fifteen years back?”
“The…depth discovery? No. Containment.”
Contained space, for deep-sea exploration. Or perhaps even building something in the deep, thousands of feet down. Gindal nodded.
“We helped come up with that. There’s a creature—well, it’s contained almost perfectly. To survive an area where even the air is so toxic that it’ll seep into your skin and kill you. We sent it to Gais, and they figured out how it worked.”
That was the kind of Fraerling who pushed the limits. Ekrn, despite himself, admired the tough [Explorer]. But the Fraerling just waved it off.
“The one thing we don’t stint on is magic from the cities. I have to confess—I stole your crossbow for a gift. A trophy for something you can replace. I need these bolts. There are things in the Dyed Lands that I would use that ring you’re wearing to distract them. The brave ones are the Tallfolk. They go in there with enchanted rocks and live.”
That prompted Ekrn’s memory. He leaned forwards.
“I…happen to know a story about a Tallfolk who was an [Explorer]. Lived by himself for months.”
He didn’t mention Luan; the other Fraerlings would flip if they heard a Human had found Paeth. Although Earth…the Architects would get to spread that message, later. Gindal frowned.
“Which zone?”
“I don’t know. Only that he passed away.”
“Oh. I think I know what you’re talking about. Chalk-white? That’s one of the zones. We noticed him. Interesting Human. Was it a Human?”
“Yes.”
The Fraerlings kept track of most Tallfolk in the Dyed Lands. Gindal had seen this Human, if briefly.
“Something got him. He was sharp. A real [Explorer]. Then one day in the winter—something rattled him. He got sloppy. I’d say unlucky, even.”
Ekrn felt his skin prickling. Luan had not said much of…why…he had been swimming for weeks to shore after being marooned, but he had mentioned something at sea.
“Unlucky? What, are there luck-monsters out there?”
Gindal hesitated.
“There’s all kinds of nastiness. To tell the truth, Sentry Leader, the Tallfolk sniffing around our home seem as nervous of the Dyed Lands as we are of them. But they’re close to one of the cities, so they begged us to come and plead their case. And if there is an attack—well, it’s only two dozen adventurers, but kill them and more come.”
Ekrn froze, lips touching a huge tankard of the Titan’s own drinks, plundered from his cupboards.
“Wait. Two dozen? I thought there was an army!”
The [Explorer] shook his head.
“I never said that. An army might follow—that’s Reiryul and Seelda who are under siege. We heard them shouting that, and the cities got worried. So they sent us. By the sounds of it, Paeth is in danger.”
The two were sitting in a glass sitting room in the Fraer-ways, actually exposed to the Tallfolk’s domain. It let the Fraerlings who were in Niers’ academy mingle and talk…and it was about then that Ekrn realized they were being watched.
So did Gindal. The two Fraerlings turned their heads and slowly glared upwards.
After a second, a very upset Squirrel Beastkin appeared. She glowered down at them, a rare look of dissatisfaction on Foliana’s face. It had been less than five seconds since she stalked over, and they saw her.
Foliana, who had crept up on Named Adventurers and leaders of nations. Discovered in moments. Why?
Well, firstly, Fraerlings were higher-level than average. They had magical counters on par with one of the Great Companies of Baleros, and Gindal and Ekrn were veterans of fighting giant folk.
…But mostly, Foliana was just too big. She did her best and pouted as she stopped on the rich carpet.
“How did you see me? I didn’t make the carpet move.”
Indeed, she stood on the bristles of the carpet, not disturbing a single part or revealing herself by her weight. Ekrn snorted, and Gindal pointed up.
“Dust. We can see you breathing.”
Foliana looked up. Her magical gaze focused on the bright motes of dust floating in the air through the moonlight. She scowled.
“I told the [Servants] to dust. Ever since Peclir left…grumble. Grumble.”
She hopped away. Ekrn rolled his eyes. Gindal looked at him.
“I must say, I was disappointed to hear the Titan was gone. One of the reasons I came was in hopes I’d meet him.”
“Spare yourself the trouble. He’s charming, but arrogant and mad as a loon. You think [Explorers] are insane? The Titan’s worse.”
Gindal’s eyes lit up.
“Met him, have you?”
“Once.”
Ekrn reluctantly confessed. Gindal leaned forwards.
“Tell me! And if Paeth comes under attack—let me connect you with our group. I can’t promise aid, but if they reach us…they’ll be safe.”
“Thank you.”
 
——
 
“Grumble. Grumble.”
Foliana’s voice died down after she left the Fraerlings. Then she was a shadow in the night, an invisible force flitting across her academy. An unseen—
“Commander Foliana. Please stop trying to listen in on us!”
Someone threw a cup, and Foliana ducked as Guidance Heish and Vuul turned. She looked incredibly hurt.
“How did you know?”
She’d spent a good fifteen minutes listening to the two argue about a mutual aid pact. But the two Fraerlings had begun noticing her as she peeked into an open window. Invisibly, yes, and she’d hidden her breath, but…
“Body heat. The room got warmer with a giant Tallfolk furnace around. Is this really a good use of your time in a crisis?”
Foliana glared at Vuul, and the [Emissary] promptly hid behind Heish.
“It is if I think it is.”
Well, that was two-for-two. Enough being discovered for one day. Foliana followed a [Servant] around for the next twenty minutes, happily stealing towels as the bewildered man kept trying to put fresh laundry around.
That made her feel better. She left him with a gold coin tucked behind his ear and heard his shout of alarm thirty seconds later.
Fraerlings were far more adept. They were hard-mode, and Foliana appreciated the challenge. But she would have been far more appreciative if this were not a crisis.
Aid to the cities. Jungle Tails. Stupid name. Niers doing Niers things on another continent. Danger. Danger. Grumble. 
She retreated to the top floors and prowled around her shared rooms with Niers, the dining room she didn’t use because it was too empty, and thought [Rogue] thoughts. She was waiting. Doing a bit of prep work with her hiding, getting into gear.
But waiting.
A single thing made Foliana stop her invisible rounds as she paced by one room. She went to the door, frowned at it, and slipped through the door without opening it.
Even so, there was nothing inside. Just Niers’ room. A glowing chessboard sat on the table where his bed was, and his immediate files. Around the room lay reference materials, the opening to the Fraer-ways…Foliana walked over to the chess board.
It had not moved for a long time. She stared at it, then messed with the pieces. Foliana walked left, looking at his notes, his strategy. He lived for his job. So did she.
“The company is our life. Or we live for the company? He does. It’s mine.”
She confessed to herself in an autobiographical way. This was her company. Everything was hers. She didn’t know what Niers got. A challenge? A cause? Foliana sadly went over to his table. She put her head down, ear to the wood. Then she spoke.
“Even if you [Muffle] yourself, I sense your vibrations. Mm.”
The Squirrel-woman rose and slapped the table so fast her body was a blur. Even so—she missed. Her eyes swung around the room, trying to track a tiny figure bounding about.
[Haste] and [Greater Invisibility]. Foliana cursed. She leapt for the Fraer-ways, to block them. Her eyes scanned the room and saw the ring of light on the far end.
Fraerling magic. They can telep—
Foliana’s dagger hit the place where the invisible figure had been, lodged in the wood, and then exploded. The bang of sound put the entire academy onto immediate alert. Perorn came running, half-naked, a sword in her hand, to find Foliana staring at the dagger.
“Foliana! If this is some kind of prank—”
The Squirrel Beastkin was perched on Niers’ desk. Perorn stopped and saw Foliana sorting through some papers that had been taken out. The Squirrel Woman looked up calmly as Perorn halted.
“We have a traitor in our midst. Again.”
 
——
 
Traitors amidst the small. The very possibility of it made Ekrn sick to his stomach because it explained so much.
If true.
