Kessice nodded at Kirana, and the [Housekeeper]’s face went blank. Where Resk expected more, Kessice expected less.
Noa, the happy middle since one of their number, Tallguard Cotm, had vanished on his own mission, was just enthusiastic about everything.
“Kessice! Luan’s civilized! What do you have? Wait…do you have a Nali-stick? C-could I get one?”
“What, one? For…oh.”
All three Fraerlings looked up. A single Nali-stick, while thinner, could be taller than them. The pure sugar treat? Resk’s eyes lit up hopefully as Kirana listed some foods.
“We have curry, some roti from last night, but if you’ll wait just fifteen minutes, I could make—paneer? And get you Nali-sticks! But I’ll have to make a smaller meal—”
“Ah, Kirana. Don’t bother. Get them all a bowl. Each. They might not finish it all, but they’ll probably eat it.”
Luan had seen Fraerlings packing away their body weight in food. And indeed, the idea of good food cheered the Fraerlings to no end. Kirana hurried away, and Ken himself brought back refreshments.
When Kessice saw a glass of cold tea with ice as tall as she was, she changed her tune on her dire mission at once. Noa took a giant stick of white sugar and stared up at it, eyes sparkling.
“You’ll actually give yourself health problems if you eat all that, Noa. The [Healers] would probably let you eat only a third. So give a third to me.”
Resk commented as Noa chopped the stick in half to share around. It was still a log of pure sugar, and she couldn’t fit the entire stick into her mouth, so she took a giant bite and began vibrating instantly.
“Hah! You mean diabetes?”
Daly asked with a grin. Resk turned to him, scratched at his pink beard, and hesitated.
“…You mean, eating too much sugar and developing problems? We call it Callisic. Fascinating. Luan didn’t get enough time to tell us all about Earth. So you Earth-Tallfolk have figured out problems like that, too? Amazing!”
Amazing? All the Tallfolk gazed at Resk in awe, then Paige broke out of her stupor. She scooped up the strings Resk had enchanted.
“Wait a second. Alchimagus Resk, you know about medical conditions like that?”
The Alchimagus was insulted.
“Of course we do! Paeth is a modern city. Villages where Fraerlings are living out in the wild and banging hammers on metal to get steel might not be able to treat it, but even they have encyclopedias. Sometimes we get frontier-folk who make the trip back so our people can cure them.”
Luan sat there, accepting a bowl of reheated curry and a promise for a lot more food asap from Ken, and just enjoyed being alive. Learning about Fraerlings was his favorite.
They didn’t have time. Paeth was in danger. But, for a second—he just listened and realized that Fraerlings had advanced in technology—or rather magic—in ways Earth had yet to dream of. This was the magic he had come here for.
Paige and Resk were swapping terms for diseases and other phenomena like physics while the Fraerlings ate. If Geneva were here…well, even a layperson’s understanding was enough to shock Resk.
“We have no idea about atoms. Magic gets weird the smaller you go. Maybe that’s what our finest [Engineers], [Alchemists], and such stare at all day, but there’s all kinds of damn particles. Mostly magical. We can make sure something’s almost completely pure, though. Explain that thing again? Where your skin grows out of control?”
“Cancer.”
“Uh…ah, I know what you’re talking about. Overgrowth Syndrome. Occurs mostly naturally, but a few spells can cause it. And some damn rocks and monsters. Solved it.”
“Solved it?”
The Tallfolk chorused. Resk picked at his teeth.
“Yep. Same with your diabetes. Give me another.”
“I…that’s two of the biggest. What else? The Black Death? Herpes? The common cold?”
“We can cure the common cold. What, you can’t? I bet Tallfolk in this world can.”
Everyone turned to Aiko, who was a [Nurse] who helped Geneva. She shook her head.
“No…Geneva told me never to give someone a potion who had a cold. It makes it worse, sometimes.”
Resk slapped his knees.
“Healing potions you mean? Of course you can’t give that to—Eir-gel based potions are accelerants! Get yourself a purifying-based healing potion at once!”
He looked around.
“…You don’t have them, do you? Wait. Please tell me you know about basic sanitation?”
“We wash our hands, yes.”
“W-with soap?”
How low could you go with Tallfolk? Resk’s eyebrows, which, again, were pink like the rest of his hair, rose upwards and stayed there. He looked…incredulous.
“Let me understand you. You do have a level of machinery even we lack. You can fly without magic and have engines of oil. I suppose someone who can’t cast [Flight] finds a way—our top [Engineers] were raving about Luan’s concepts. But you didn’t bother to solve—hair loss? I went bald for a bit. Then I drank a tonic when I realized my head kept getting cold. I colored it pink too. Can you do that?”
The dream of balding men everywhere. Daly and Ken, who had a history of hair loss in their families, focused on Resk’s bountiful and styled hair. Paige, now on the defensive, pointed at her own hairline.
“We can dye our hair. I’ve done it a few times.”
“Dye?”
Even Kessice was incredulous as Paige explained the act of bleaching one’s hair and then proceeding to dye it—as if that were a natural thing. The Alchimagus slowly raised one hand.
“I drank a potion. My hair’s pink. All my hair. Forever. Want to check?”
Everyone stared at him, and he showed them his armpit. Pink. Resk began to look dismayed.
“I know your world lacks magic, and this one clearly suffered some disasters. Kessice, why are five cities missing?”
“Goblin King, probably. They were big ones, too. Tallfolk regularly suffer calamities.”
The Tallguard looked sympathetically at the Eathers. The Earthers…began to look a bit stung.
Luan was not, because he’d seen the inside of a Fraerling city and seen citizens casually flying around thanks to their city-wide enchantments. He had seen their Crelerbane forces, garbed in Adamantium armor. And they had made his scull, which could let an amateur beat the fastest man or woman on Earth by sheer virtue of the magic.
But he understood the Earthers wanting to say they had something Fraerlings did not. Like a worldwide industry! Airplanes! Television! And Fraerlings did lack that. Tallfolk also had a lot more of what they had. But Fraerlings did have magic.
“Listen. Fraerlings are alchemy-magic experts. We fall behind on metalworking and your electronics, it seems. But we follow the Architect’s plans, and they came from Gnomes. Gnomes, the greatest inventors of any age. We follow their plans. So yes—props to your flying machines. I can cast [Levitate]. Your interwebs and this smart-phone truly do impress me. But Fraerling cities still sound nicer than yours.”
Kessice and Siri were arguing over who had better what. It turned out Siri, who came from Sweden, had some patriotic pride. Mostly around the quality of living. They were trading arguments.
“We have moving pictures.”
“So do we. It’s called art. We—oh. You mean movie things. Well…we could do that with illusion magic!”
Resk coughed behind Kessice.
“Nope. Definitely not on-demand. Even if we charted out an entire ‘movie’, mass-producing that sounds like a pain. We could probably do one spot…”
“Shut up, Resk. We have literature. Plays! That’s this concept where we have a fictional world, Miss Siri, and…”
“We have plays too! And we can communicate across the world with the internet.”
“Really? Well—we could do that if it weren’t dangerous! What do Tallfolk do for fun? Count your cabbages you grow?”
“How about karaoke, or going on trips, or swimming by the beach? We can travel anywhere in the world.”
“If you have enough money.”
Siri glared at Daly, and he retreated. Kessice looked at Noa and Resk, who refused to wade in.
“Well…well…we have giant monsters larger than we are! Most Fraerlings can’t leave our cities, it’s true.”
“So Earth is better! Safer! Sort of.”
“Yeah, well—”
Kessice spluttered. She turned to Resk, as did Noa.
“Resk!”
He jumped and nearly stopped trying to eat a cube of paneer as large as his stomach. He looked quite happy and hesitated when he saw Kessice glaring.
“Yes?”
“You’re from Paeth proper. What do you do for fun?”
He hesitated.
“After my job? Well…if I were in a relationship, I’d probably go home, kiss someone, ask my child what they learned in school, and pet my aphid or something. Since I would rather die—I would socialize with some friends, go for a walk in the park, swim—”
“Wait, you have indoor pools?”
Resk shrugged.
“Indoor seas, yes. They double as our backup water supply. Don’t worry—it’s purified. You should see the sunbathing on the canopy level. Libraries…I have a huge book collection. I suppose it really comes down to what you’re willing to spend your Allotment on for the real entertainment. Tallguard get a huge amount when they vacation, and I have seen things.”
He shuddered. Noa and Kessice hesitated.
“What’s Allotment?”
Daly asked and had to be told what the Fraerling’s magical allowance was to keep themselves hidden. Everyone got a stipend per week, and they could ‘give’ some of theirs to big projects in votes or use it individually. Tallguard, as valuable members, got large amounts to spend.
In fact, Resk, as an Alchimagus, often catered to their whims.
“It’s not just enchanting crossbows. Oh no. I cannot tell you how many Polymorph Potions I have to brew for Tallguard holidays. And there’s always some idiot who doesn’t stay in the confined zone and goes out as a bird and gets winged by some citizen.”
“P-polymorph potions?”
Resk nodded.
“Yep. It gets boring. I tried turning myself into an ant, a doggo-thing, even a cat…Fraerling-sized, obviously. It’s so hard to walk with four legs. And what’s the point? Smelling exactly how bad everything is? Flying? With wings? I’ll hover, thank you.”
He shuddered.
“That’s the biggest Allotment expense I have to cater to. Mind you, we can afford shapeshifting alchemy reagents. Someone who wants a permanent shapeshift to be a different identity has to join a queue. There’s also, uh, Potions of Ecstasy, but I’m not delving into that one, and I think we banned them two years ago. Children sometimes petition for things like Potions of Firebreath, but that’s a bad idea…what?”
He looked around and saw the Earthers staring at him. Paige sat down, and the Fraerlings realized that Resk had won the war. Some things that Earth wanted were realized in Fraerlings.
But the one thing Fraer-folk would never have…was a world ruled by one species. Not that they were necessarily dreaming of conquest, but Fraerlings were not the dominant species by far. Anything from a hamster on up was a threat. And that was why they’d come. Daly extended a finger, and Noa fist-bumped the tip.
“We could use your aid in getting everything Paeth wants. Hopefully to keep hidden!”
She beamed at them all, but the expression slipped as Kessice glanced towards a window.
“I know it might be a lot, but I hope you will keep our secret. Not that you know where we are exactly. Luan does…but we trust him. We need to hurry, though. If Paeth is found—we can stop a hundred Tallfolk. Or even a thousand. However, an army destroyed Oierdressql.”
Everyone sombered, and Luan nodded.
“You have our help. Anything we can do—we’ll do. Right?”
He looked around, and Daly, Ken, Aiko, Kirana, Paige, and Siri nodded instantly. The Fraerlings smiled, but they were worried smiles. Noa beamed up at Luan, on the adventure she always wanted. Kessice was reserved, wary, but trusting enough. Resk? He looked around and shook his head.
“Not like home at all. I’m sure you’re all very happy. But I always thought being taller meant you’d be happier.”
That was all he said. It was such a silly comment that no one responded to it. A comment fitting of a sheltered Fraerling. Taller? Whyever would that make life better? There was always something or someone bigger.
 
——
 
Daly Sullivan, no relation to Cara O’Sullivan, left the Fraerlings to secure a safe spot to rest and left Luan to actually lie down. The newly-minted Courier had rowed an amazing race just that morning, survived a shipwreck at sea, and swam to shore after all.
“That guy isn’t Human. He’s a monster.”
Siri nodded. They’d both noticed how the [Athlete] had kept up with the Bushrangers and how he’d never been exhausted…physically, that was. Luan had the kind of physique you saw on television.
Actually…not. He only showed anything like a six-pack when he was super-dehydrated. Daly still thought Luan was more in shape than even Gold-rank adventurers. Hell, probably even Named-rank.
He was in a league of his own, but what Luan couldn’t do, what even Geneva couldn’t do when she was here…was be Daly and Siri. Occupy the role that was the Bushrangers and, to a greater extent, security for the United Nations company.
United Nations. How had they come here? Daly still remembered the days when he had appeared in Baleros, not knowing what the hell was going on, with an entire crowd from an airport. He remembered some of them splitting off, the poor Americans…
If he’d known what he did now, he would have told them to stay. Stay—taken charge, knocked heads together, and saved them. Instead, they’d died and leveled and later formed this company after the harrowing battles as a suppression company where they’d met Geneva Scala, the Last Light of Baleros.
When they had formed this company, the name had been unanimous. No one had really had any other ideas. What sounded of Earth but didn’t sound too foreign? What linked them? United Nations, a concept, an organization from Earth.
Of course, there was a lot of irony there too. The United Nations, as Daly well knew…was not exactly the gold standard of international communication and teamwork in most countries’ eyes. Ken hadn’t known as much about it, but Daly could list grievances, and he didn’t even keep up on it.
Bias, a small group of nations who made all the real decisions, power-games, and an inability to actually hold other nations to account. It also did good work and had some organizations that did real good like the World Health Organization and so on.
However…Daly was being haunted by the name they’d chosen on the spot. Not because Australia was about to dictate how everything would go to the mixed nationalities or they were about to disband. Mainly because the advent of the Fraerlings, as wondrous as they were, was making him very, very nervous.
