“If I drink it—I’m able to eat without filling my stomach. I can eat as much as a Tallfolk or more, and it doesn’t fill me up. I’m never hungry, but I always taste food as if I were starving, and I can eat without stopping. Every bite as good as the last. Everything. Tallfolk have so much. Do you know how easy it is for them to make a keg of mead? I can drink all day and night without stopping. If I succeeded, I’d do that every day for the rest of my life.”
“Just—just so I understand. You’d throw over hundreds of thousands of your people, entire cities—for yourself.”
Heish whispered through pale lips. Gindal aimed up, and Ekrn stopped him. The Fraerling grinned up at Heish.
“They’re not me.”
Perorn Fleethoof was consulting with a [Mage], who was frowning at the Fraerling. She looked at the representatives, some of whom were stunned.
“Every species has the unredeemable. Although…the Naga of the Jungle Tails Company might have had a hand in creating her. She’s compromised. Her class is [Hedonist].”
“What?”
Ekrn stared at the dreamy contempt for anyone but herself in the Fraerling’s gaze. Guidance Heish murmured.
“Oh. The disease in the heart of paradise.”
Everything had its class. And this was one that struck in places like Khelt or the Kingdom of Keys or so on without management.
Foliana was done with the treachery of Fraerlings. She turned to Perorn.
“Paeth is in most danger. Mm. Send forces to them.”
“If we can. It’s far, but I will pull every soldier I can, Foliana. Just…”
Perorn was looking at the Fraerlings and then at Foliana. Ekrn had a sinking suspicion as well.
“What is it, Strategist?”
The Centauress shook her head.
“If I were the one sending saboteurs into the enemy—I’d arm them with death spells if they had important information. Perhaps…unknowing death spells if I were that cruel. But if they were expendable, I’d just give them a way to let me know they’d been found.”
Ekrn glanced at Heish, and Foliana stopped chewing on a victory muffin. She looked up and nodded.
“Ah. At last. Here they come.”
 
——
 
The trade-roads of Baleros saw their advent first. But they were everywhere. Neutral cities, mostly of Lizardfolk, began to fly a familiar banner. The [Messages] flitting across Baleros contained a name:
Jungle Tails.
They were back. Their supporters talked about it like a comeback, a triumphant resurgence against their enemy.
Their foes called it treachery. But even their worst enemies had to admit—it was well-planned.
The trade-roads that connected Elvallian to the rest of Baleros were the most direct route to the Forgotten Wing Company’s capital. Also, the easy way for the Great Company to send reinforcements to other locations like Paeth. They had no sea route thanks to the Iron Vanguard’s control over the water.
So the forces marching down the trade roads were both attackers and a way to stymie fast reinforcements. The [Soldiers] heading for Elvallian came from many neutral companies like the Featherfolk Brigade. A continent-wide muster to kill the leader of the Forgotten Wing company and seize their capital.
Naga by the thousands slithered down the road. Not just ‘ordinary’ Nagas garbed in armor, but Medusa, eyes locked ahead as their ‘hair’ of venomous snakes hissed and stared in other directions. Mighty Gorgons, towering above almost all their kin.
Quexals too, fluttering with wings as they glided across the landscape. More species as rare as Lamia—although Star Lamias were so rare that Archmage Nailihuaile would have still been unique amidst this horde.
And Lizardfolk. Countless Lizardfolk, whooping, cheering as they followed their older kin.
They were going for the Forgotten Wing’s heart. A bit too early, but the Fraerlings must have failed. It was still going to plan, though; the plan was robust enough to account for variance. All they had to do was slay Foliana, Perorn, and sack the capital or occupy it, and the Forgotten Wing would be dealt a blow they would never recover from.
If the Titan had already been dead, everything would be perfect. But plans didn’t work out perfectly.
Indeed, Peclir Im, watching the grand emergence of the Jungle Tails company into Baleros once more, had one regret. And that was that this part of the plan, which was arguably as important as killing Foliana, was not going well.
He had done his part in removing Niers Astoragon from the game…but Peclir realized he missed Niers.
The traitorous [Chamberlain] missed the Titan. Oh, not the man himself. Not the buffoon who had an ego larger than a Giant’s. The strutting fool who couldn’t see the truth before his eyes. Who was like a child when it came to affection and love.
Niers, who’d walk around at night, bored and depressed by turns when there was no war or excitement in the last five days. Who couldn’t see himself with anyone who wasn’t a [Queen], Level 50+ expert, or the world’s greatest in some way.
That narcissistic gloryhound who always had to have the last word, laugh, and be the center of any room. No, Peclir Im did not miss him.
What he missed was the efficiency of the Forgotten Wing Company. When Niers Astoragon said to do something, it was done. If it were not done, you were clearly a problem. Or the system was. Either way—that problem would not happen again, and it would be fixed.
When Peclir helped reorganize Jungle Tails, he’d keep that part. Even the leadership had admitted the old company had lost focus, hence their fall. Perhaps no one was more emblematic of that weakness than the nervous Quexal watching the scrying orb and Peclir.
The [Chamberlain] had stayed in Talenqual because Fezimet and the Featherfolk Brigade were incompetent. While everything else was going smoothly…
“Setbacks, Commander Fezimet?”
Peclir stared out a window—and then walked back far out of the range of sight and any [Snipers]. He hadn’t gotten this far by being a fool.
“Come now, Peclir. This isn’t the time to discuss such matters. Jungle Tails has returned! I will put the banners over Talenqual!”
The Quexal was trying to be ingratiating. It stank to Peclir of excuses—something Niers didn’t tolerate. The [Chamberlain] refused to be distracted.
“Your forces have slowed their search in the jungle. Why? Paeth must be found and taken.”
Fezimet was a Quexal with feathered wings, gloriously radiant scales…and no actual hands. He twisted up around himself nervously, but there was also a good bit of annoyance as he replied. He did not like a Human talking down to him.
“We…have encountered forces who are attacking our lead elements. Centaurs, Lizardfolk, Dullahans—even Drakes.”
“The [Strategists]. And you haven’t killed them…why?”
Peclir knew Umina, Marian, Cameral, and Kissilt had been here. He’d even told Fezimet who his opponents were. The Quexal spread his wings defensively.
“Peclir, it is not my business to gainsay a representative of Jungle Tails, but you do not understand war as well as I, a [Mercenary]. They are striking from nowhere. Falling back—it is classic guerrilla tactics.”
The [Chamberlain] looked at Fezimet.
“I understand strategy. I served the Titan under guise. You are a company forty thousand strong. You have deployed less than six thousand into the jungle.”
And they were searching for Paeth tree-by-tree. In a rather simple way: they hit a tree with an axe, and if it could be damaged, they marked it and moved on. It was how they’d found Oierdressql. Fraerlings would begin to attack once they got too close.
Peclir was willing to let Fezimet employ that rather stupid tactic, but the raids were taking the Featherfolk Brigade to a standstill.
“By rights, you should have twenty thousand soldiers combing the forest. Paeth is not without means. Before Fraerlings organize—and they will—you must bring it down.”
Paeth was important. It was a First Founding, and Peclir knew what that meant. The agents sent to the Forgotten Wing Company had been tasked with finding more First Foundings—but at the least, buying time for this one to vanish.
Fezimet bit back something and responded, a touch more curtly.
“Hah. You say these things lightly, [Chamberlain]. But you should know of all people—yes, the Featherfolk Brigade are mighty! And yes, we may be forty-three thousand strong, but we control Talenqual and the entire region. My company are the Watch in part, army, enforcers, judges…we patrol roads, occupy strong points, fight bandits. I can’t just muster them all, and I sent you several thousand of my finest.”
He reminded Peclir sulkily. The [Chamberlain] didn’t snap back deliberately.
“Jungle Tails requested them, and you pledged yourself to their cause in response to their aid. If you cannot muster all forty thousand—then more than six. These [Strategists] cannot have more than a thousand in the jungle. Send eighteen thousand. Strip garrisons if you must; you can return them quickly.”
The Quexal lifted his tail like someone raising a finger hesitantly. He knew he was failing, but even so, he writhed.
“The cost of having eighteen thousand soldiers in the wild each day…”
“You will be reimbursed for all you’ve spent, Commander Fezimet. I’m sure you’re keeping a tally.”
Fezimet’s eyes flashed, but Peclir knew he was right. The thing was…Fezimet was clearly unwilling to mobilize so many for such an involved task. The expense would be high, and he…
He was hedging his bets. No mercenary liked unpaid work. He was supporting Jungle Tails, but just in case they failed…
Peclir decided enough was enough. Fezimet, like many commanders, took Peclir Im as the useful Human who’d removed the Titan, the useful traitor. Peclir walked over to Fezimet’s desk and leaned over it.
The Quexal swayed back, then held still, so close that the two could feel each other’s presence. He narrowed his eyes, but Peclir spoke directly to him.
“The Nagas know your name, and they know exactly how much you are contributing to Jungle Tails’ revival because I am here, Commander Fezimet. I am not a flunkie. I am giving you orders and watching you carry them out. Exactly how well you carry them out will be noted in my report.”
Fezimet’s eyes widened. He wavered between anger and obsequiousness and chose the latter swiftly.
“But Chamberlain Im—I am working as hard as I—you told me Paeth needed to fall, but we are making progress. Eighteen thousand, you said? I will muster as many as I can! Within the hour! Talenqual’s garrisons will send them out by nightfall, you have my word.”
He smiled in an oily way at Peclir, and the [Chamberlain] reflected that at least Fezimet was unlikely to have him assassinated. But he heard Peclir.
The [Chamberlain] was still a [Chamberlain]. And a good one at that. He knew how to manage people. That was the poison. Time for the nali-stick. He turned to the window and walked over to it. Like Fezimet would, staring down at Talenqual.
Peclir felt vaguely ridiculous, but he motioned Fezimet over, and the Quexal sulkily joined him. He seemed to perk up at the position of power over his city, and Peclir spoke.
“Paeth is more than one target. The leaders of Jungle Tails want it gone. Not just the Naga, but the top. Wyrmgraced themselves have conferred with Dragontouched and sent me to you, Fezimet.”
“Really? It’s that…important?”
Fezimet’s eyes lit up with curiosity, and Peclir nodded. He leaned over and murmured.
“I will share this—but Paeth’s technological insight is what Jungle Tails needs. You know how advanced they are.”
“Slightly more than we are. Yes, I suppose.”
Peclir did his best not to roll his eyes. Arrogance. That was another thing Niers tried to beat out of his subordinates—but not himself.
“Not just slightly, Fezimet. Hard as it may be to admit—no Lamia in Jungle Tails has a tenth of the knowledge that a Fraerling city like Paeth has. They have…something…there that will not only help put Jungle Tails back as a Great Company, but elevate it beyond all the others. Do you know that Fraerlings can change their forms like Lizardfolk? [Polymorph] spells. They have them when [Archmages] of today have forgotten.”
Fezimet’s eyes widened.
“R-really? And more magic like that? I can see…but they’re so small.”
Peclir shook his head.
“We can copy their magic. A few survivors, their…records? And we will experience an advent to end our decline. Not just that. Fraerlings have knowledge, magic we lack. Think bigger than what you are.”
He poked the Quexal gently on one rainbow scale, and Fezimet looked at him, surprised.
“Greater Naga, Fezimet. Beyond Quexal. Do you think you have achieved beauty, fame, the peak of Lizardfolk’s evolutions? Think again.”
The outrage on Fezimet’s face faded, and a naked greed shone there.
“I…I can see why Paeth needs to fall. Before the Fraerlings evacuate or reinforce it. I’ll send everyone I can, absolutely.”
Peclir still wasn’t satisfied. Now that the attack had begun…it meant the Fraerlings knew they’d been duped. It wasn’t out of the question for every city to send a force of their Tallguard, and if they did…they could hold off the Featherfolk Brigade long enough to steal away with their entire city. If five Paeth-sized cities all sent forces and magic…
There had to be a better way than just hitting damn trees. But [Mages] couldn’t find Paeth as long as it was magically hidden. They had to force the Fraerlings over their ‘Allotment’ or do something else. A shame they didn’t have a prisoner—they should have sent some.
The Human had studied Fraerlings for a long time to get this much knowledge. He was mulling over how to expedite Paeth’s fall when Fezimet interrupted his thoughts.
“Purely as a question, Chamberlain, but will you answer a burning question on the tip of my tongue? I must ask…you have done so much in service to Jungle Tails. What is your reward? I know mine is to be a vaunted position as a [General]…but what will you receive?”
For what reason would Peclir work for so many years and make an enemy of Three-Color Stalker and the Titan? It was a fair question, and because they were on the topic, Peclir felt compelled to answer.
“Look at me, Fezimet. What do you see?”
The Quexal stared at Peclir. Peclir, the plain, slightly balding man who wasn’t heavy or lightset. Fairly nondescript. A competent middle-manager who turned out to be one of the best middle-managers…but hardly more than that.
“A loyal servant to Jungle Tails?”
He hazarded a guess. Peclir gave him a flat smile.
“I want to be taller, Fezimet. I would like to be as fit as a Named Adventurer.”
Or that Courier, Luan. The Quexal frowned.
“You could…train yourself. There are Drathian tonics. And some classes—”
