That was why everyone was preparing for the worst. And if putting all the Fraerlings in one city sounded stupid, well, it was. But they were not coming to be idiots about it. Paeth was a First Founding, and that mattered.
But also, it had the most resources, the most magic, and it was a proper place to stand—or evacuate.
“Forty of our Crelerbane forces? Forty?”
The Judiciary was pulling his hair out. He was arguing with a distinctly different Fraerling duo. Man and woman, both from different settlements. They didn’t have ‘Paeth’ clothing—which was machined, beautiful cloth.
And indeed, they had no colored hair, fun accessories or tattoos, and so appeared a cut below the city Fraerlings who were looking at their cousins with deep surprise. Cotm recognized them and slowed a moment to hear what they were saying.
Frontier-folk. These were Fraerlings who founded towns or villages. Tallguard still protected them, but instead of Paeth’s magic, they had literal small settlements with as much magic as they could enchant. They fought off raids of insects, hunted larger animals…
They were true [Adventurers]. Fraerlings did long for the outside world. Sometimes young Fraerlings trained all their life, created a movement, and…left. It could be disastrous. Or they could found a city that would one day become as large as Paeth.
Still, they were all maniacs. The female Fraerling had armor that was enchanted, but as much style…no, it was all style, little accessory.
Her armor was made of bones of magical creatures and enchanted. Whereas the male Fraerling was bare-chested but had a cloak of some jungle predator on his back. They were leaders of their cities and in talks with the Architects, who were as much put upon by their counterpart’s odd style and confidence as the aggressive negotiations.
“We can’t keep that many civilians safe. Forty Crelerbane and some of your Tallguard; we’ll provide the rest of the security. Every Fraerling in my village can fire a bow—but we can’t take all the children and kids.”
“Nor are we going to risk a long trip. I’ll take them north to Staetnere. The riskier trip is by sea. But I need a list and people ready to go. If Paeth is found.”
They were preparing the evacuations. One by land, one by sea. If Paeth fell…or came under siege, they’d take as many as they could.
The Fraerlings had known they might lose this place a long time ago. So they had two contingencies. A land-tunnel that took them a long way north, underground, and a giant ship.
To Humans, it was probably only the size of a smaller ship. A dinghy? But imagine how many Fraerlings could ride in it with Paeth’s dimensional magic?
Even so—crossing the sea meant running into predators, storms, and even [Pirates]. These were desperation measures, and both leaders, despite being monster slayers—for their size—were demanding twenty Crelerbane warriors armored in pure Adamantium. Each.
Cotm hurried on as the Judiciary argued…but eventually gave in. Thus far, Paeth hadn’t even been found by the scouts. If he got his way—he’d keep them from finding it.
“Your gear, Tallguard Cotm. Are you going to take it?”
Cotm stared up at a giant plate of metal made of orichalcum and mithril taller than he was. He looked at Ilekrome and saw the two rings and long, coiled string of enchanted metal. He shook his head.
“I need to take it to Feiland and teleport out to Talenqual.”
“Teleport this? Are you mad?”
Ilekrome’s eyes popped. The ring and maybe even bowstring would fit in Cotm’s bag of holding, but his wasn’t large enough to carry the metal plate. Cotm folded his arms.
“Not mad, Enchanter. I need teleportation. A few [Mages] could do it.”
“We can’t do it! We’re busy using every mage to locate the Tallfolk—”
“Three days, Enchanter. In three days.”
Ilekrome stopped raving. He lowered his hands and some of his hair, which he’d actually torn out, and hesitated.
“Oh. We can do three days. Carry on.”
Cotm nodded and studied his bribes for the [Strategists]. If they didn’t pull out everything, he would personally shoot that Drake.
“Can I find the Tallguard’s [Quartermaster], Smith Rittl? I need to pull more gear.”
The [Master Smith] smiled at Cotm.
“Making Tallfolk friends?”
“More like making them fight each other.”
The [Smith] laughed. He slapped Cotm on the shoulder.
“That’s proper Tallguard fighting! We have a headquarters here; I’ll let you rest. Three days? We could have waited on the gifts! Ah, well.”
“I’ll teleport out tomorrow if I can. One of them—a Centauress—might be able to make it back in a day. There’s no time to waste.”
Rittl nodded. He gestured at the gear.
“Bribes? Tallfolk don’t have that kind of magic.”
Cotm nodded. It wasn’t what Kissilt wanted, but it was enough to really impress him and keep him hungry. Cotm would promise him more if Paeth survived.
But what the Drake would get was a ring of [Invisible Fireball], [Deepwood Barkskin]—powerful protection and offensive spells that Cotm thought would go to the Drake and Umina. Especially since the Lizardgirl put herself in danger.
The bowstring was obviously for Marian. She could get a bow made—and the [Bowyers] would actually kill him if he ordered it—if she saved Paeth.
Each gift was practical and meant to make the [Strategists] use everything they had. The final gift was actually meant for the one who had been most reticent to call upon his resources.
Rittl nodded at it.
“What’s this last one? Too small by far even to be called a buckler. For us, it’s a giant shield, but you didn’t want handles or anything. I didn’t know why. But I’m guessing the edges are the clue.”
Cotm had ordered them beveled slightly and given an interior edge to clasp something hard. You could lock it into place with a solid, simple mechanical connection. Even a Tallfolk [Smith] could probably work it out. He nodded at it.
“One of my Tallfolk that I need to bribe is a native of Baleros. Want to guess which?”
Rittl looked back sharply at the metal piece. He narrowed his eyes. It looked like a rough heart, minus the divot in the middle. A shield-like plate of curved metal that would go perfectly in…Rittl snapped his fingers.
“Genius. Dullahan!”
It was a bit of metal that you could easily socket into a suit of armor. Dullahans normally wanted all of their armor to be one plate, but if you put an orichalcum metal over your heart, say, you have a nigh-unbreakable bit of metal protecting a vital organ. And the envy of every Dullahan who saw it.
“You get to make more. A gauntlet or something if we save Paeth.”
Rittl grumbled.
“Making each finger will take me a week! It’s one thing to make a sheet of it—we’ll do it. Make sure that Dullahan brings something to the table.”
“Oh. He will.”
Cotm promised. When he went back to Talenqual with his four pieces of payment in tow, Kissilt took out a four thousand gold loan. And the other [Strategists] began calling all their favors in.
 
——
 
Luan Khumalo’s first shipment of goods arrived in Paeth two days after he left. To be more precise—it arrived and was picked up.
By now, Paeth was under lockdown. Cotm had left for Feiland’s headquarters to teleport out and had been advised that he would not have a route back. The Fraerling city was hidden…and not even Luan with Noa, Resk, and Kessice would be able to so easily return.
However, they did have goods. A canister of mithril dust, as much Sage’s Grass as could be bought, magicore, elements to hide Paeth’s magical signature, and raw iron. Even things as mundane as fish.
Not magical fish. Not alchemy-usable fish. Just…fish. Paeth needed food. Fish was nice. Crab too. Someone had begun ordering a hundred pounds of shrimp before Guidance Heish reminded everyone at the time that this was not what they wanted but needed.
A huge amount of the stuff. How would Paeth get it if Luan didn’t carry it back?
The point was, it was a lot of goods, even for Luan to carry. So to let the Fraerlings haul it to Paeth, Luan deposited it at the shore. They’d have to take a Crelerbane unit to haul it back—but not much, even giant crocs, would want to tangle with them.
But so much stuff. It would take so long for so few to make the trip—unless they did it in one big trip. With, say…
A chest of holding. Luan had nearly bankrupted the United Nation’s coffers to make all these purchases, even with his Courier delivery. He’d promised to repay them, and Resk was doing all the enchanting Paige asked for; he’d even drawn cooling runes, which alone justified the price tag to most of the company.
However, the real reward was seeing twenty Fraerlings lift the giant, enchanted chest onto their shoulders and march with it through the jungle. A croc stared at a moving chest, then the snack-sized people walking past. Right up until one of them shot it in the tooth.
“We’ll get more of what they need. Don’t worry. We’re in lodestone communication. And if they’re still asking for goods—Paeth is safe.”
Resk assured the others as Luan rowed away, pretending he hadn’t seen the tiny folk. It was a very short stop, and no scrying spells were on him, but he felt nervous.
Nervous and hopeful. Apparently, someone was helping distract the Featherfolk Brigade. Kessice was cagey on who, but Luan knew it was Cotm’s doing. Quallet was on the way, and even if Fezimet had announced he wanted the United Nations Company gone by next week…they could move. Just so long as Paeth survived.
 
——
 
However, things were not going nearly as well at the Forgotten Wing headquarters. Sentry Leader Ekrn and Guidance Heish learned they would not be immediately receiving an army, and Ekrn lost his temper.
“This company is attacking our cities because of your company. What do you mean, you can’t spare it?”
Strategist Perorn addressed him, eyes narrowed, but trying to be civil.
“I did not say that. I said that it will be difficult supporting Paeth if we do not know where it is, Sentry Leader. And since it is not found—I can put two thousand jungle-experts in your hands. In fact, I believe some of our students are actually attempting to stymie the Featherfolk Brigade—the company searching for you—as we speak.”
Ekrn had heard of Cotm’s plan and, after blowing his lid, had admitted that Cotm had done the right thing. Credit to the Tallguard. He was far less impressed with the response of Niers’ company.
“Why not an army? You know the Featherfolk Brigade is behind it—deal with them!”
“Sentry Leader, hear Strategist Perorn out.”
Guidance Heish was the other person present in this personal meeting regarding Paeth. The other Fraerlings were talking with Perorn, but privately. They were all Fraerlings, but the locations—even in vague—of their cities were private.
Which was funny, because they probably knew where each other’s cities were more than Perorn or even that Foliana-person. But they had to hide it from the Tallfolk.
Perorn trotted over to the map of Talenqual. It was Heish who had identified the problem, and Perorn repeated it to Ekrn.
“We cannot attack a neutral company like the Featherfolk Brigade out of nowhere, Sentry Leader. Even if I were inclined to spare the forces necessary to eliminate them on their home ground—what do you think would happen if the Forgotten Wing did that at random?”
“You could call them allies of Jungle Tails.”
“Yes…but why would we attack them? To save a certain Fraerling city? The cure would become as bad as the issue, unless you disagree?”
Ekrn growled, but that made sense. Perorn shook her head and rubbed at one hoof with another. She had a scar running down that leg, a pale patch of fur over chestnut.
“I will send our forces at once, Sentry Leader, but unless Paeth is in imminent danger…it might be best just to hide. You are a Fraerling city. You can evade most regular detection, can’t you?”
“Yes.”
It was true that Paeth had a lot of functions, but Ekrn didn’t like it. Perorn gave him a tired bow.
“I am sorry, Sentry Leader, Guidance. But all seven representatives have also requested forces, and some are not only nearby, but claim they are facing huge armies practically upon them as well.”
Just like Paeth. This was a disaster on a scale that Ekrn couldn’t imagine. To his knowledge, Fraerlings only had Baleros. They might be…elsewhere, but if they were, they were so far that even Paeth had no records of them.
If all those here were wiped out, almost every major Fraerling settlement, and most of the minor ones in…the middle two thirds of Baleros, would be dead. Dead or homeless, which was almost as dire.
Paeth was a First Founding descendant. That meant…
Well, Ekrn clamped his mouth shut. He couldn’t demand more aid because of that. It wasn’t fair; all Fraerling cities were equal. But it did matter.
Perorn gave him a tired nod.
“You can stay here as long as you wish—although I must warn you, our headquarters may come under attack, Guidance, Sentry Leader. I will update you on our forces’ progress. They will be enroute by nightfall.”
“Thank you, Strategist.”
Heish answered for Ekrn, and the Centaur nodded. The two Fraerlings returned to the Fraer-ways, and Ekrn kicked a wall.
“A damn waste of time. We should have just tried to make contact with a more distant city.”
“I think we must talk to the others. Seven more cities…we have to know what is going on.”
Ekrn agreed with that. So, rather than leave as soon as they got Perorn’s few forces and an offer to send more if Paeth was in immediate danger—Ekrn and Heish met the other Fraerlings.
 
——
 
Other Fraerlings. They were not all cityfolk, but most were. Five out of eight represented cities like Paeth, if not as sprawling, and three came from smaller collectives.
Of them all, Guidance Heish was the most senior and surprised all the Fraerlings who met her.
“An actual Architect? Paeth must be in danger indeed—but Reiryul is as well. Reiryul Crystalhome. Not that we told that Tallfolk Centaur that last bit. How is Paeth on the Coast doing?”
“By the coast. Very well—until recently, of course. Feiland have ably protected us.”
“Until Oierdressql fell. Feiland allowed that?”
The representative of Reiryul was direct, wore semi-luminescent clothing that came from a polymer made of the crystals of Reiryul’s environment—and almost as rude as Ekrn. The Sentry Leader still had him beat as a member of the Tallguard, though. The city-Fraerling saw the Tallguard turn and glare at him and almost hid behind his bodyguards.
Bodyguards armed with stun-batons. As Ekrn had observed of Paeth, he could take them all on with his bare hands and probably win. He was actually amazed this [Emissary] had made the trip. But desperate times…
