Guidance Heish, Ekrn, Kessice, and all the Tallguard had one of these. In fact, Kessice’s bracelet was moving in exact accordance with Cotm’s at this very moment. As was a series of stones in Feiland’s headquarters being monitored by a specialist.
Fraerlings were well aware that you could hack [Message] spells. They could cast long-range communication spells, but it was so damn risky, and their entire motive was secrecy. So they’d developed simple counters that even [Archmages] couldn’t easily hack.
One of them was…lodestones.
Lodestones were neat objects that moved in-sync with each other. The Titan himself had commissioned a board on that principle; when one piece moved, the other did likewise. Cotm’s bracelet was much less magical and thus less noticeable; it was just that when one of his stones moved, say, to a letter, two other lodestones moved with it.
Thus, what he was doing was moving each letter, then twisting the ‘confirmation’ stone to indicate that was the letter he wanted. It was slow, arduous…but Cotm could send a message back to headquarters. Or to allies. And he could use the bracelet in his sleep.
This was his message when written down:
 
Ctm stp. Retrieve reqst stp. Monitor stp. Friendly Tall stp.
 
‘stp’ was short for ‘stop’. The rest told Feiland who Cotm was, what he needed, and the situation.
By the time Marian put him down on a branch, Cotm was receiving a response. He hid his bracelet from her curious eyes.
“Three days. I’ll have something worth it. Make sure that Drake pushes the Featherfolk Company, got it? I’ll pay his price—and all three of yours. Whatever you can get—whatever you can call in without revealing yourselves openly, do it.”
“Very well. But do you need a Skill? We can’t trace you, and it’s safe.”
“Nope.”
Marian hesitated, but ducked her head and stepped back.
“Best travels, then.”
“Thanks.”
Cotm aimed his enchanted grappling hook upwards and caught a branch. He tensed as the enchanted hook caught—then felt it yank him upwards. He jumped in tandem, activating his boots’ jumping magic, and soared.
To the Centauress, it looked effortless as Cotm leapt upwards, before alighting on a branch just below the top. There, he deployed a camouflage spell to keep the damn birds from attacking him. Cotm had a crossbow drawn, and he checked his corners.
No evil caterpillars, no bugs, no horrible squirrels…clear. He saw the Centauress lifting a hand, watching him go.
She kept watching, incidentally, for a good minute…then two…before realizing Cotm wasn’t going anywhere. He sat, legs dangling on the branches, and washed his mouth out with some barley tea. Then he pulled out a snack, a bit of cheese that Umina had given him, and sat there.
“Um…are you waiting for light?”
It was dark in the forest, and Marian could well imagine nocturnal predators interfering with the Tallguard’s progress. Cotm replied.
“Nope.”
“Do you…okay. Er…should I go?”
“If you want. I won’t take long.”
Marian stood there, staring up at Cotm as he finished communicating with Kessice. Telling her ‘no’, he didn’t want to meet even though he was going to Talenqual.
The [Strategists] should not know he was there. Cotm had gone on his quest. Paeth had to be saved. So, he waited.
After another minute, Marian glanced over her shoulder and saw her fellow [Strategists] peeking out of the camp at her. She looked back to Cotm and blinked.
The semi-invisible Fraerling sitting on the branch looked up as he finished his cheese. A small…ring of light appeared around him. He held still and calmly looked down at Marian as her eyes grew wide.
“No way. You can do that?”
“It beats riding. See you th—”
Cotm vanished as the teleport spell yanked him. Marian’s jaw fell open in a very pleasing way.
 
——
 
Teleportation didn’t make Cotm sick, which was why it was so upsetting that everything else did. Yes, the feeling of warping through dimensions for a few seconds had been known to make even veteran Tallguard vomit, but Cotm didn’t mind it.
It was not common that Tallguard requested it, and it was a huge waste of mana. Desperate times, though. Besides—
Feiland was being abandoned.
Cotm reappeared in headquarters, and five Tallguard were waiting for him. One, the [Mage] who had scried his position and pulled him in via the handy marker stones that let them calculate exact coordinates, was already loading up the marker stone he’d put in Talenqual.
“You’re working for Tallfolk now? Report. Ekrn’s upset.”
“They’re part of Forgotten Wing. They already destroyed seven scouting parties. I, Scout Cotm, made the decision to engage their services on my own volition. Can I request resources or is this going to the top?”
The Tallguard Fraerlings nodded at Cotm and led him through Feiland. It was not in Paeth; they had a headquarters that spanned multiple settlements. However…it was being abandoned.
Recruits were packing everything in sight, and they were actually in the process of transferring their gear. One of the other [Sentry Leaders] grunted.
“The top is Ekrn or me. Everyone else died at Oierdressql. The evacuation order has gone through to every settlement outside of Paeth. We’re running escort missions nonstop and evacuating to Paeth as well. You’re not going to have another teleport aside from Paeth…and it’s under lockdown for any outgoing magic.”
“How’s the Allotment? How close are they getting?”
“We’re hiding our signature. As for the Tallfolk…they’re combing the forest. Nowhere near Paeth yet, and our [Druids] are riling up the wildlife. Carefully. What do you need?”
Tallguard had a lot of autonomy. A [Sentry Leader] was not a low-level position. Nor was even a basic Tallguard. They were few in number, but each was issued a Signim, hugely expensive to manufacture even for Fraerlings, and any one of them could pull rank.
“I need some gear—Tallfolk sized. Bribes. Can I get it from Paeth?”
The [Sentry Leader] chewed it over.
“Sure. We’ve got a chipmunk or you can wing over. Bluejay, I think.”
Cotm turned pale, and the other Tallguard laughed. His aversion to travel via animals was well-known.
“Give me wings if you can. And can we send something to Paeth?”
“Lodestone room. Send it in. The Architects will have to approve it…but they’ll approve it.”
Within ten minutes, Cotm had his order put into Paeth, and then he was strapping into the Bluejay flight. He wished he hadn’t eaten the cheese as the Fraerling [Sky Rider] looked at his passenger and groaned.
I have to teleport back to Talenqual. But that means I’m doing it from headquarters, so that’s two Bluejay rides, there and back.
The horrible bird took off, and Cotm flew into the air. Every Fraerling ducked as he turned white, then green.
 
——
 
Paeth on the Coast was flooded with refugees, and the normally-peaceful Fraerling city was in chaos.
No…it was often in chaos. Paeth had lots of problems. For instance! They had that horrible scandal where it was revealed that the manufacturers of aphid and other pet-related foodstuffs were instituting terrible, low-quality goods and even semi-rotted grain with a few purification spells mixed in!
Fraerlings had gone to prison for that. Also, the voting this year had been contentious around the ‘magi-limb’ issue. That was the trend of young people replacing body parts with magical prostheses even if they didn’t need them.
Guidance Heish’s election had come over a much less progressive candidate, who had been about to ban all non-critical augmentations. And then there was…
Well. City politics. But Fraerling city politics. That a full First Founding settlement like Paeth didn’t qualify for Paradise-status was only because the rest of the world had no idea what they were like.
And moments like these, when every life was in jeopardy. Paeth was in true danger, and all those old worries and arguments…seemed so small.
Right now, the yearly Allotment was being burned through on a daily basis, and all their stockpiled nullifiers were being used to keep Paeth hidden. Fraerlings were not using their Allotment for personal gain; all the magic was needed for real issues.
Like [Geomancers] currently shaping hundreds, thousands of homes in the stone for people who needed housing. [Druids], [Farmers], and other sectors of agriculture doubling stocks. They were also harvesting animals and plants nearby, but the greatest use of magic was going to the manufacturing.
Alchemy, magic…and steel. All three major sectors were working around the clock.
Producing arms for a war.
The Tallguard had equipment, but the regular security in Paeth used stun-batons, paralysis-enchanted gear. Now? They were producing attack wands, crossbows, weapons designed for use against big opponents.
It was one of the smithies that got Cotm’s order ahead of his arrival. A [Master Smith] turned.
“A Tallguard wants what?”
“Two rings and a bowstring. Mithril. Oh, and you’ve got to pull whatever you have. Adamantium or truegold. He wants…”
The [Smith] got a request for an odd shield-pattern design in metal. He rubbed his face, then turned.
“Cats and cockroaches damn it! That’s more mithril than—does he have to have mithril?”
“No…it’s for a bow. A Tallfolk bow.”
That got the [Smith]’s attention. He bent over the further, more comprehensive description and grunted.
“Oh. Gear for Tallfolk? Are we working with more than just that Giant? Luan?”
The messenger hesitated.
“I don’t know, but the Architects approved it. It’s priority.”
“Well—we can do the rings. They’re just bases.”
The [Smith] dismissed that at once. The [Enchanters] just wanted two rings that could hold the magic. He whistled.
“Hey! Get two rings set up. Big. Tallfolk. Pull out the molds and fill them with something. Uh…uh…Burnished Ruby and maybe just pure magicore for the other.”
“That means we have to lacquer the other one. With what?”
One of the junior [Smiths] groaned. The [Master Smith] snapped back.
“Quartz. It’s enchantable. Just get it done. Now…halt the main press! I have an order! We’re making mithril-alloy!”
The thing about Fraerling [Smiths]…was that they tended not to hammer on things with other bits of metal. A huge, magical press stopped pounding raw metal and rose, steaming, as the Fraerling strode over to confer with the others to calibrate the smelter and smithy.
They had the closest thing Luan would ever find to a modern foundry—just magical. For instance, instead of a smelter with charcoal or something else providing the heat, the Fraerlings just created a sealed chamber and made it hot. It was akin to how Naq-Alrama smiths did their work. Although even Fraerlings thought that Tannousin were freaks about cleanliness.
“Truegold? This Tallguard wants Truegold, Adamantium, or…does he think we’re made of rare metals?”
Adamantium was rare! So rare that the Crelerbane forces were using armor thousands of years old, forged in desperation during the Creler Wars. And he wanted how much?
Even if Tallguard knew the outside world, they could be idiots about metal. The senior smiths running the manufacturing smithy spent a good ten minutes cursing Cotm’s name—then they got to work.
The thing was, Cotm wasn’t stupid. He was actually intelligent enough to know that Kissilt was trying to rip him off, and so he was willing to play the Drake’s game. But just not give him a Ring of [Greater Invisibility], thanks.
Two [Enchanters], including Enchanter Ilekrome himself, came to enchant the rings as they cooled in the molds. Ilekrome nodded.
“We need to make this Tallfolk grade? That’s a lot of magic…but fine. Reusable. Resizable? Basic protection on each ring. What enchantments on each?”
Someone offered him the wishlist Cotm had sent. By now, Cotm was landing at one of Paeth’s entry points and navigating through the city’s outer security. Ilekrome sighed.
“Link eight and draw from our mana reserves. First enchantment…[Fireball]. No. Wait! Ah…[Invisible Fireball]. One cast per day. Second ring? [Deepwood Barkskin]. What do we put on the bowstring?”
“Strengthening and long-range shots, Enchanter. It’ll be done.”
“The armor plate thing? What…is that?”
It was like a giant shield—no, more like a kind of stylized heart. But it wasn’t a shield; no one was cutting holes in it. It was slightly curved and was made of gleaming orichalum cut with mithril. The [Master Smith] sighed as he rubbed at his face.
“Protection, Enchanter. Can you do it within the hour?”
Ilekrome made a face.
“It’s just Tier 5 advanced magic at most. Enchanting it for permanency is a pain, and making it Tallfolk grade would kill our Allotment any other day. But we’ll get it done.”
The [Master Smith] nodded and went back to supervising the shield-thing. One of his apprentices ran over, excitedly waving something as the Fraerlings worked.
“Master! Master! I did it!”
The [Smith] turned and saw an odd tube-thing at the end. It looked…useless. Maybe you could use it as the casing for some kind of weapon, but it was plain steel. Oh, and there was another perfect cylinder that you inserted into it via a metal prong.
“Apprentice…”
The warning rumble in the Fraerling’s voice didn’t stop the excited young Fraerling. She showed it to him.
“Sir! I figured it out! This is that cylinder-thing the Human Tallfolk was talking about! See? You’d attach this to a few fulcrums which you could get to constantly pump. I’m not sure about the combustion, but we were thinking—”
The piston-cylinder in her hands disappeared as the [Smith] snatched it. In front of the staff, he bent the steel prototype and then shouted.
“Stop wasting time on your stupid projects!”
The apprentice wilted. The [Master Smith] roared around.
“Paeth is in danger! You can fiddle with steel all you want later—shove it up your butts if you want! When Paeth is safe, you can have fun. Until then, I want every hand working on weapons or armor! Get moving!”
Ilekrome looked up as the [Smith] hurled the piston to one side. It was the kind of thing that would seriously put his job in jeopardy as the apprentice ran off, shocked. You didn’t say that kind of thing in Paeth. But then—the [Master Smith] was Feiland’s. The Tallguard were coming here to make a stand.
And the other settlements were evacuating.
 
——
 
Cotm pressed through Paeth and had never known it so crowded. Fraerlings from other settlements were arriving non-stop, and the entryways were packed. Tallguard were running escort on the ground, sky…
Fraerlings would die just by travelling, but if Oierdressql had fallen, nowhere was safe.
Not even Paeth.
