“It’s not the hunger. It’s not the insects or the way your mind is made up or how you like your meat raw. This moment. This choice. Your next series of actions decide whether or not you are a demon. Tell me, will you put it all on the line to stop that horror, or do you allow something like that to escape? To ravage worlds? To end species?”

I let my arm drop.

“Because their blood will be on your hands. That's no different than doing it yourself. Your inaction makes you into the beast you’re trying to avoid becoming.”

Plazia’s insects ceased their swarming. They silenced, only the howl of escaping wind whipping between us. Plazia gazed at me, hatred oozing from him.

“You. I despise you. I despise your species. You’re hideous home planet. All of it. It’s my greatest failing to join your cause.”

My stomach sank, and I blinked. Plazia walked over to the spear before picking it up. The sun’s opening closed and he reared his arm back.

“Centuries of effort all put on the line for flesh bags I don’t care about. Why? Why do I do this to myself?”

He sliced open a warp. Within was a writhing, molding mass of flesh. He gestured to it as it began writhing out.

“Then let us go into its belly and become its last meal. Let it ooze into my mind and make me what I abhor.”

I smiled, Event Horizon disintegrating the mass. I pulled us inside, yanking the pocket world with me. Within, endless tissue surrounded us but at a distance. Event Horizon carved a hole in the beast, its body shifting like a writhing sea of pulsating organs and blood. Plazia’s hands shook with a palpable fear as he focused himself. He carved into space-time once more, forcing himself to open the gap to Blegara’s star.

His aim was off. I could tell even as he sliced.

In an instant, I molded my body between Plazia and the tear, jerking him away. The jetting gas siphoned at us. It sapped my arm and shoulder into the void, the dense metal of my body like a thick jelly pulled by a vacuum. Half my body wrenched apart as I held a sad smile on my face.

To the star, I was no different than the hydrogen and helium it powered itself on. Even after all these years, I wasn’t much in the face of the celestial. My impotence aside, I still chose to maximize the portal’s efficiency. I turned the warp, pointing it in different directions. It both erupted with flames and siphoned in flesh. The colossus around us gored into the gap as if made of nothing. I turned the all-consuming void, wielding the tiny blot like the mouth of a dragon. The Spatial Fortress screamed out with no sound, space stealing its roar but not the death by fire.

Miles of the mass turned into disintegrated specks, all of it a memory of horror. That memory turned to us, rushing in. I condensed Event Horizon, guarding Plazia from the rush of tissue. It disintegrated near us, unable to tolerate the sheer punishment of the aura. Its body disintegrated into mana, feeding me but leaving me curious.

How could I convert it into the mana of the Old Ones with my aura? I would need to find out.

As the colossi's body fell apart in chunks, we peered out between the gaps the starthrower left behind. At that moment, amidst absolute devastation, I fell silent as the beauty of space stunned me. Galaxies spiraled, their size incomprehensible. Nebulas drifted, colors splashing across them like a celestial painter's canvas.

And yet, Elysium’s vessels acted as ugly silver on the beauty behind them. Their warriors watched us tear the spatial fortress apart, cleaving it into portions of nothing.

As I left the entity devastated, I turned to Plazia.

“You alright?”

He marveled at the destruction.

“It’s...Good to watch it die. The apex of us is nothing before the might of a star. Fitting that the beginning of all life carries the potential to end it...As if the suns of planets are the gods so many hope to find.”

I gazed at Elysium’s ships.

“Why hasn’t anyone tried this before? This seems like a pretty foolproof-”

I struggled to keep the portal stable, using several dozen minds to maintain its size and direction. Plazia cackled.

“Isn’t it obvious? Wielding a star’s breath is paramount to suicide. You’re maintaining that for now, but how long can that last? What of this-” He raised the spatial slicer, Schema’s weaponry glowing violet. “It barely holds onto its last breaths, its lungs filling with phlegm and fluid. It chokes on its gasping, final breaths as you waste away your time.”

“How much longer can it last?”

“Minutes at most. Schema also controls these spears. Should it so choose, it may cease its magic at any moment, and a normal portalist would have their body torn apart by the sheer volume of magic required to maintain this portal’s stability. We'd all wield stars by now if Schema’s technological isolation didn't keep these tools from us mere mortals.”

I grinned.

“Oh, I think he’ll do everything he can to maintain this one.”

“It would be wise. Once this is over, we will need to clean up the mess.” Plazia’s insects swarmed within his armor as he gazed at floating blood. “A drop of the fortress’s blood spells the end of a world. To stop it, we must turn this void into a desert. It must dry up the last remnants of its lifeforce.”

“On it.”

I flew around, extending the destruction of the starthrower in my hands. More like my dimensional wake’s grasp, but whatever. After several minutes of incineration, I left the spatial fortress wounded beyond repair. Disparate globs floated in the void, nine-tenths of it swallowed into Blegara’s sun or burned by its breath.

It had taken minutes to undo months of Elysium’s efforts, but there was more to be done. We closed the starthrower and warped toward the most massive remaining chunks. Opening a starthrower once more, we torched the majority of what remained before tearing down any remaining ships Elysium left behind.

Now, the faction already abandoned the effort, most of them escaping as I tore apart any nearby vessels. Wherever we passed, we left behind voids where vessels once floated in the vastness. Within the hour, Plazia and I both floated in the shadow of Blegara’s moon, the planet like a scarred blue marble. A portion of the planet shined with obsidian specks, portions of it having been glassed.

I gazed at it as I thought to Plazia.

“How is the fortress so vulnerable to heat while still able to glass worlds?”

Plazia shook his head at Blegara’s wounded surface.

“It was not complete. In a few weeks, it would’ve consolidated its size and strength, becoming a true, fully formed fortress. The Hybridization slowed its evolution down before accelerating it as it succumbed. There would be no Blegara if it had turned back to the planet after rising from it.”

I frowned.

“The starthrower isn’t exactly usable on a planet.”

Plazia turned to me.

“You’re still using that ridiculous name for that tactic?”

I shrugged.

“Come on now. It’s literally perfect. Somehow succinct yet entirely understandable.”

“And incomplete. It siphons as it spews. How does that merely throw the star?”

“Alright then, what’s your name for the starthrower?”

“The portal to the nearest star used against our enemies.”

I shook my head.

“That’s a mouthful.”

“It is accurate.”

“You sound like the Overseer or Sentinels.”

“You sound like a nameless grunt trying to name something they don’t understand.”

I swung my hand.

“Exactly. This name isn’t for us. It’s to let people know what we’re doing.”

Plazia rolled his head around.

“I tire of this farce. Since you're so insistent, we'll call it a starthrower.”

I pumped my fist.

"Hell yeah."

Plazia turned to the leftovers of the battle.

"We have much to do before this hell is upon us once more."

I nodded. A path of carnage lingered behind us. Mountain-sized chunks of eldritch floated in the distance, and debris from the destroyed vessels shifted in all directions. Plazia maintained a field around himself, protecting his insect body from the void of space. The magic trembled as his hands shook, the eldritch hivemind having confronted one of his many demons. I was proud of him.

He stared down at his shivering fingers.

“I can’t believe I was convinced of that insanity. It will haunt my dreams.”

I patted his back.

“Welcome to the club. Trust me when I say you’re in good company.”

"And what, pray tell, is your solution to nightmares?"

I grinned.

"Never sleep."

I spread my hands at the carnage.

“And we gained a solution for the Spatial Fortresses.”

Plazia pinched his brow.

“Schema will only allow this against his enemies, not our own. He may purge your world whenever he chooses.”

My stomach sank.

“That’s true. We’ll need to reverse engineer the cipheric tech that he’s using.”

“It will take you millennia to understand the cipher to such a level if you ever will.”

I raised my palms.

“Hey, let’s handle this one step at a time. Besides-”

Blegara’s scar shone like a necrotic wound in the light. I let out a sigh with no air for breath or medium for sound to travel in.

“We’ve got a lot of work to do.”
