As he finished his words, the enormous flesh moon moved. It writhed along its surface with ripples larger than mountains. It began pulsing towards portals before I connected to Plazia. The hivemind hissed its thoughts.

“You’ve wasted enough of our time speaking to the mad and deranged.”

I scoffed.

“You know as well as I do that we can multitask. Well, I’ve thought of how we’re going to kill that damn thing in the meantime.”

“Know this, Harbinger - I will not touch it. It disgusts me.”

I gazed at what was the sun for Blegara.

“Oh, don’t worry. You won’t need to.”

Chapter Begin

I pointed at the colossal star.

“If you open up a warp to that fireball, I think we can use the funneling energy to disintegrate the Spatial Fortress.”

Plazia shook his head.

“Folly. Stars are not trifles that can be wielded when convenient. They are utter and devastating. If I open even a slight tear near its surface or core, the resulting torrent could leave all of Blegara devastated. We would be putting all of the planet at risk.”

I motioned with my arms.

“I can wield the warp, moving it like…Like a star flamethrower. A starthrower.”

Plazia put his hands on the sides of his head.

“I…That is the most idiotic idea I’ve ever heard.”

I shrugged.

“I mean, is it really that bad?"

"I've lived for millennia, and that is so disparate and insane that I can hardly comprehend it."

"All I've heard is some serious doubt without any reasoning. In fact, so far, you haven’t poked a single hole in my stroke of genius.”

Plazia tilted his head at me.

“They are enormous fusion reactors fueled by gravitation. They exist on a scale that mortals cannot touch. Entire planets are specks of dust to them. We are specks of dust to planets. We exist as less than nothing to stars, and attempting to wield them on a tactile level will lead to our obliteration.”

“Ok, but I can still just move the warp.”

“Your arms will be disintegrated. We will be disintegrated.”

I shook my head.

“Look, Plazia, there’s no time for me to explain how I’m doing it. Just know that I’ve been practicing moving warps for a while now. I can at least aim one, even if it's vomiting out star stuff.”

Plazia pointed at me from within the pocket dimension.

“You’re willing to put Blegara and its moon at risk for your theory?”

I gestured at the giant eldritch above.

“We’re at their mercy, and you’ve seen what they’re willing to do to those they use. Imagine what they’ll do to their enemies.”

Plazia snapped.

“Fine. I will take no blame for the outcome of this stupidity.”

I rolled my fingers in my hand.

"I'll hold you to that."

I opened the pocket dimension’s warp, and Plazia sliced his spear. He angled his strike, making the rip face the eldritch instead of the planet. Plazia even left space only thinned and not shredded. Plazia gestured at it.

"If you wish to open a sea of fire, then do so."

Taking a breath, I grabbed the portal, putting my fingers through the thinned spatial line. One savage wrench later, and it tore open. The feeling in my fingers instantaneously disappeared, and a pit of unending fire opened. It erupted. It plumed outwards with volition and force, a cataclysmic might unleashed.

Ravaging all it faced, a star’s fury cried out, and I struggled to contain the force, trying to mold the vent towards the fortress. It warbled, the warp struggling to sustain the absolute power. I put over thirty minds to the task, and we fused our might into a singular, potent blade of mental will and clarity.

It shifted the warp, but it didn’t turn. I slowed down time to a crawl, crushing down my dimensional wake. With the temporal boost, I wielded all the might of my immaterial aura. I bent reality. Molded it. That will turned the warp, keeping it from spiraling out of control. As I maintained its control of the absolute weapon, the starthrower did more than spew fire.

In fact, there wasn’t any fire involved.

It operated on two paradigms. The first was obvious: it spewed a jet of heated gas. The plasma spread outwards with a level of heat and might that defied any and all reason. Even behind the outcry, it left my body molten, and I pocketed my remaining elemental furnaces only moments before their obliteration.

This stream carried an absolute, ending heat. It did not melt. It did not alter. It vaporized; the fabric of atoms was sent into such a frenzy that no matter near could maintain itself in the wake of this heat. If anything, it was as if matter was an illusion, and the forces of nature exposed how fragile all life really was.

On a planet, this would leave nothing behind, leaving the world’s ecosystem ravaged. It disintegrated all into disparate atoms, the star’s call for dilution utter and complete. I wielded that in the palms of my hands. So, to speak, at least. I could only turn the portal using my dimensional wake. If exposed to this torrent, my body would simply crumble.

The second axis it operated on was something I hadn’t expected – gravitation. To get near the force was like peering down at the edge of an endless cliff. The gas it plumed outwards was a cry into the unending silence, and it screamed with a voracious hunger. It wanted, desired, and craved for anything left to feed it. Every morsel would be savored. Every life it stole would be relished.

However, it carried a tiny, circular point of gravitation that siphoned everything into the portal. It jetted the plasma out at the escape velocity of itself, but other objects pulled towards the warp within this tiny laserbeam of gravity. In the distance, the Spatial Fortress suffered as the initial waves of plasma burned its body to cinders.

Even from this distance, the portal siphoned in a portion of the spatial fortress's body. This tiny slither in space-time took out a red tube from the spatial fortress, carving lines out of its body. The sanguine tendril mirrored blood sausage, and it evaporated under the plight of plasma. Despite the grip of gravitation, the giant didn’t mind.

It let a small piece of its body be torn asunder, knowing that regeneration would be a simple matter. The next planet it harvested would recover it splendidly. A shiver ran down my spine as I watched it near its escape routes. Flashes of Earth being consumed popped up into my mind. Those fears seeded deep in my skull like a growing cancer, and I took a moment to mentally carve that fear out of my head. Knowing this wasn’t enough, I opened the other warp that led to Plazia.

The hivemind marveled at the war between worlds, one celestial body of flesh and the other of fire. The sound of howling wind and dying insects erupted from the tiny world I carried, and it gave the void a voice. We both ignored it as Plazia telepathized.

“You gained control over portals by carrying ones such as this?”

My eyes widened with frenzy.

“That’s not the problem right now. This isn’t working fast enough. You can see it out in the distance. Pieces of this monster will still escape.”

Plazia nodded.

“As is expected with a planetary threat. We cannot eradicate all of it, but we will leave a gaping wound.”

“That’s not enough. We have to kill this thing, and down to the atom. You know that as well as I do.”

Plazia scoffed.

“We may cripple it, leaving fragments behind. How is that not enough considering our limitations?”

I shook my hand at it, a continental-sized chunk heading towards Elysium’s portals.

“Does that look like a fragment that’s escaping?”

Plazia spread his hands.

“We could argue the definition, but yes, it’s only a portion. We’ve secured a victory amongst a defeat.”

I put a hand on his shoulder.

“We don’t have time for this. Close this warp.”

Plazia slapped my hand away.

“That is the only source slowing the behemoth down. Why would we close our only source of resistance against that disgusting abomination?”

“Plazia…We need to open another warp but closer to the monster.”

Plazia took a step back, his feet on the plain world as he stared into the vastness of the void.

“I will do no such thing.”

I raised my hands in frustration.

“We don’t have time for this. We need to act and we need to act now.”

“I’ve already taken risks in coming here, but I’m no one’s tool. Not yours. Not Schemas. Not even my own hunger will rule me.”

I gazed up.

“Is that where this hesitation comes from? Fear? You’re afraid you’ll get tainted by that thing?”

Plazia’s words reverberated through the screaming air.

“I’m not afraid. I have knowledge. I know what will happen when I make contact with that mass. It will consume me, mind, body, and soul. I will cease being to become a portion of the collective. All that I am is nothing in the face of its assimilation.”

I spread my hands to Blegara.

“You stopped it before, but we can do more. We can put an end to it now, and to do so, we have to be decisive. We can’t wait around and lose this chance.”

Plazia peered at the fortress.

“You ask of me to act as if I am invincible. As if I cannot die. Not all of us are made of metal to our core. Some of us can still perish regardless of your absurd confidence to the contrary.”

I frowned.

“You searched for centuries to find some way of stopping the eldritch from spawning out of the ether. You told us it was a hollow thing to fight against your nature and try to be something more. You’re right. That was a life without hope. I’m letting you know right now that we have a way of pushing back and stopping this, but we need time. A base. Somewhere to build up our resources long-term.”

I shook my hand at the colossal ball of flesh.

“How in the hell are we going to achieve your goal when Elysium can uproot, threaten, and destroy our planets in seconds? That will land upon any planet we settle on and eat it to the bone. We’ll live on wastelands.”

Plazia hissed.

“Why does that matter?”

“How can we offer the untainted eldritch a home if we live on barren rocks? We’ll be living on my mana converted into food. We’ll be isolated into tiny, protected homes deep beneath the surface, hiding from probing eyes. And why would Elysium want the eldritch gone anyways?”

Plazia glared at me.

“It’s their stated goal to stop the eldritch threat.”

I raised a hand.

“If there’s one thing I’ve learned from politics, it's that the game revolves around incentives. Elysium’s primary manpower comes from the Hybrids, and they’re not something that’s easily replicated. To better serve Elysium’s current iteration, they’ll keep the eldritch coming so that they’ll have a consistent stream of soldiers.”

Plazia turned away.

“We will be tools either way.”

I pointed a finger at my chest.

“But I don’t need the eldritch. I can just use my armor enhancements in place of the system, and I can better satisfy my own self-righteousness by helping you guys out.”

Plazia squeezed a hand into a fist.

“Even if I accept that the behemoth must be stopped, it changes little of my own risks. You and your guild are a means to an end. If I die in facilitating your goals, I undo my own.”

I shook my head.

“In guaranteeing your safety despite your principles and goals, you’re proving yourself as the monster you don’t want to be.”

Plazia leaned forward.

“My sanity is a fragile thing, and you ask me to place it upon a thin line. You may walk on that edge, but you will walk that line alone. I will not. I have fought for centuries to maintain what little of myself that is left. I will never throw that away to protect your interests instead of my own.”

Plazia’s glared at me, the insects within writhing. Though he spoke with clarity and composure, it was an act. His hands trembled. The insects within clattered against each other, the smooth flow replaced with clattering bodies. They were running into each other in chaos instead of the smooth swarm he usually maintained.

If not for my presence, Plazia would’ve run long ago. He braved this because I stood between him and the monster he feared becoming. But he was wrong. I took a breath of the air flowing out from the pocket world.

“Listen to me, Plazia. You’re going to have to get this through your thick skull, alright?”

Plazia snarled.

“You argue against my mind? My intellect? It is far vaster than your own.”

“Intellect is irrelevant here. We’re talking about becoming a monster. Well, let’s talk. Do you think that the fortress is a monster because it lacks a mind?”

“Obviously.”

I shook my head.

“Is a tree a monster? Is water? They are more mindless than that blob, yet there’s nothing monstrous about soil or air or stone. What makes that thing a monster isn’t its mind or lack thereof. It is defined by the actions it has taken and the ones it will take. By what it will do.”

Plazia threw his hand to the side, his spear sliding halfway into the ground.

“And that is why I evade it. I am not going to become what it is. I will be more. I am more.”

I seethed.

“You’re watching that abomination go out to end worlds, and you’re choosing to let it.”

“That beast’s actions are no responsibility of mine.”

My armor bristled.

“If I stole the last meal of a starving child or watched a man be murdered in cold blood, I become a monster. You are watching an ender of worlds escape, and you hold its end in your hands. You can stop it, and you’re choosing not to. That is what makes you a monster.”

Plazia’s hands stopped trembling. I pointed at him.

