The Headmaster said, “The roast aer’delard is a fine dish.” He looked to his own three smaller plates, filled with various tapas-like vegetables, and meats, and even tortillas. It looked absolutely spicy, and smelled even hotter. Jane could almost feel her nostrils twinge from the red scents coming from his plates. He said, “But I always get drits and flats when I come here.”

Jane asked, “Where does that come from? I need to visit these places that cook with these things.”

The Headmaster laughed a hearty chuckle, then said, “The Spice Coast of Nelboor for these kinds of flavors. Or you can try the Spice Islands of Archipelago Nergal. They tend to add sugars to their dishes, though.” He lifted a hand to the air. A gold blip brought their waiter instantly to him. The Headmaster gestured to Jane, saying, “My companion would like to sample some spicy dishes of the Spice Coasts.”

Jane felt her heart swell. She smiled, as the goldscale man stepped away.

Dinner was good.

Jane abandoned her initial meal and took up with spicy foods from all over the world. Her father eagerly traded for her ‘beef wellington’; it was one of his favorite specialty foods. His roasted bird got split up between the three of them, much to Erick’s joy, but Jane could tell there were going to be leftovers.

The Headmaster spoke of monster invasions, while her father negotiated pricings for [Cascade Imaging]s, while offering help for any Ballooning Spider attacks that had yet to touch down around the world. It wasn’t long from there that they started talking of the weather, but instead of it being a casual discussion of average rainfall, they had spoken of desires, needs, and how to create artifacts.

Broadly, the Headmaster suggested looking into Grand [Prestidigitation] Stoves for inspiration on how to create a [Weather Control] machine. Her father wanted to make something hand held, but the Headmaster said that such an item would be rife for abuse; better to make a complicated stationary machine than a sword easily wielded for war.

It wasn’t long till dinner was over, and dessert came out on fluted, gold dishes. Three scoops of ice cream, or ‘icies’ as they called them on Veird, rested in each dish. One scoop was light pink, another was light teal, while the last was caramel colored, while cut fruit supported the scoops from below. The scoops were too uniform to be scooped out of anything, though. And they weren’t that directly cold, either. Maybe they weren’t icies?

“What is it?” Jane asked, “Icies?”

The Headmaster smiled. “Almost. I apologize for ordering dessert for you, but this truly is the best item on the menu, and it hardly ever gets ordered.” He held his silver spoon up as he said, “They’re called ricies. It’s a sweet rice dough-covered icie. It is considered a commoner dessert, which is why no one orders it up here in the Azure room, when you can get them to-go at the shops on the streets down there. You usually eat it with your hands, but this version has fruit and sauces.” He stuck his spoon into the teal ricie, revealing a thin, almost translucent layer of rice dough, covering a bright teal core. “It’s much better to have it this way.”

“It’s mochi-covered ice cream,” Jane said, smiling. She stuck her spoon in the pink scoop, revealing a deep red center; an icie made of berries, no doubt. “I love mochi ice cream.”

“I am glad to hear.” The Headmaster teased the rest of the world by agreeing with Jane, saying, “It’s so hard to find someone with good taste in desserts.”

Conversation turned to talk of Candlepoint. Jane mostly listened to the two of them talk, but she almost raged when she heard about Valok.

The Headmaster said, “They hardly ever torment people with spectres of the dead, but it does happen. There’s a reason it’s called the Dead City.”

“… Oh.” Jane said.

Erick just stabbed a ricie, clearly unhappy. He said, “How are they able to do that? Was it really Valok?”

“Of course not.” The Headmaster said, “Resurrection doesn’t exist.”

Erick stared at the Headmaster.

The Headmaster said, “Life goes one way; to the End. Never backward. Never repeating. Death is death, and to consider otherwise is to put yourself under the power of another who is trying to take advantage of you in some terrible way.”

“Change of topic,” Erick said.

The Headmaster nodded.

Erick said, “I want to learn [Duplicate] to try for [Gate]. Would you be able to provide assistance?”

“Yes.” The Headmaster said, “But this is a greater discussion than what we were having. This would be transaction on the level of a bargain of trade, with an overarching necessity that you do not spread this information around, to anyone.” He looked to Jane, saying, “Anyone.” He turned back to Erick.

“I get it.” Jane said, “I think I ought to leave you two alone for a bit to talk more spooky Spatial Magic, anyway. Any suggestions on how to make a [Familiar]? Dad says he won’t let me know that Spatial Magic until I have one.”

Erick, surprised, asked, “You want a [Familiar]?”

Ophiel, on his shoulders, echoed that surprise with a faint trilling.

“No. I don’t.” Jane said, “But I might need one.”

The Headmaster said, “I would not help you make a [Familiar] if you do not wish to have one. It would be foolish for all parties involved.”

“There’s the verdict, then. No Spatial Magic for me.” Jane turned to her father, saying, “You’re just going to have to make me a ring of [Gate] someday.”

Erick smiled. “That’s one of the plans.”

“Good.” Jane glanced down at the scattered remains of her dessert. It was mostly just a creamy puddle of some blueberry-adjacent fruit she did not like. She said, “I am utterly full.” She slid her chair back, as she stood up, saying, “But I have magic to make, and you two seem like you need to talk. This was a great meal, Headmaster. Thank you for the invitation.”

“Anytime, Jane.” The Headmaster grinned, as he said, “Good luck with your Prismatic ability.”

Jane said, “Thank you.” She turned to her father, saying, “See you back at the Manor before you go back?”

“Of course!” Erick said, “See you later.”

Jane blipped away.

Dinner and dessert and discussion had drawn on for at least two hours, and it might go on for a lot longer than that. Jane was glad to be gone from there.

- - - -

Jane had been lost for a while, never advancing. She had killed an Ancient Unicorn, but that was only with the help of her father. If it weren’t for [Pure Reflection Ward] she would have died in that moment. If she didn’t make something like a [Physical Reflection Ward] she would certainly die going forward.

Her father would try to save the shadelings of Candlepoint, but he was on the chopping block with how much Bulgan had targeted him. Jane had truly kept her rage in check when her father had spoken of Candlepoint in the Azure Room, but now, free of propriety, Jane collapsed onto the couch and screamed into the seat cushions. She didn’t scream long, or loud. Just enough to vent some anger.

She was weak, and she knew it. With how easily Professor Tinawa had laid her out with three short [Strike]s the first time they met, Jane knew she would have died if she had ever found Bulgan, back when she was serving a stint in Forward Base in Ar’Kendrithyst, looking for the former-man. She would certainly die if she attacked him now, now that he was a fully stable and secured Shade.

Bulgan could attack Spur, or anywhere, any day now, and Jane would have to watch her world crumble under his fists.

So she asked herself: Why the fuck was she taking so much time with her Class decision? And what would be the best way to attack and/or defend against a Shade? A blade that cut through anything? Or evasion, so that enemy attacks could never hit? Or a defense that made an enemy’s hits meaningless?

Jane sat up, lifting her face from the couch cushion. A dark blue fire burned in her eyes, eclipsing her natural brown tones, as she decided, “Defense, to block and soak and evade; to keep the evil at bay. I already killed one Shade, but the only reason I didn’t die was because he toyed with me and wasn’t expecting a counterattack.

“I won’t be toyed with again.”

She stood up. Shadows wrapped around her, as she moved from the dense air of the living room, to the outside of the house, where gardens grew and grass extended to the edge of the cliff. She stepped once, and was at that edge. Salt-touched breezes flowed up from below.

Another step took Jane further away, to one of the many spots she had been before in her exploration of this place. Another step, not through shadow, but across scattered rocks, brought her to the water’s edge on a stone-filled beach, where the ocean stretched out to the west and cliffs loomed high above. The night sky was a dark omen, littered with points of light and the slivers of three moons, just above the western horizon. This place was empty according to her shadowy investigations, but Jane didn’t care if anyone saw what she did next.

With another flicker of shadow, every item she wore laid in a nice pile, away from the water, safe by the cliffside. Another shadow shift brought together several piles of driftwood that had rolled up onto this darkened cove some time in the past. Jane flickered to heat, turning her body into fire, as she stepped onto the driftwood, urging it to burn. As she stepped out of the flames, she turned to air, joining the sea breeze coming from the ocean. She briefly rode the wind upward, before diving down.

Wind shifted to water. Jane flowed down into the ocean, spreading her senses wide.

Someone had been watching her. There was a shadow in the sea. A density, just out of reach. It was no threat, though; it spurted ink, and the octopus zoomed away, fearful of the vibrations Jane churned in her waters.

Jane let the mana take her; let whimsy and flow guide her forward. It had worked for her [Conjure Armor], her [Conjure Weapon], and her father, so why not see what the world had to say about her Prismatic self? So far, she felt the tingling of a possibility, just out of reach. But she could strive for it. Maybe she could find an answer. Maybe she had already seen her answer?

To be mutable was to survive, wasn’t it? To change form to overcome any obstacle?

It was a good thought.

Jane chased that thought.

Jane smiled, and the ocean smiled with her, as she lifted from the depths and took to the sky as an owl. Somehow, she had ridden the waves out to sea, but she had not gone far. The land was right there, so she flew toward the cliffs, racing faster and faster, for what were cliffs, when one was already a part of the land?

Bird met rock, and bird became rock, flying into the depths on wings made of stone. Sight failed her in here, and feathers did nothing for her, so Jane twisted into a droplet of silver metal. Suddenly, the world turned radiant, opening up for her experience. She saw the wonders of the deep places. She spied the holes where people made their homes in the dirt, and the twists of metal deposited by old eruptions. She went deeper, faster, and saw the tunneled Underworld below, as she avoided other monsters that lived in these stony depths she trespassed upon.

She felt the bones of the island, for they were, perhaps, truly bones. Jane had read that Veird was made from the collected corpses of dead gods and dead worlds, but she did not think that there were truths to those tales.

Jane felt something primal swell within her as she witnessed the world below. How was she moving this fast? How was she seeing this far? But none of that mattered. The only thing that mattered was that she was exploring, and she was seeing, and that was everything to her.

A change of angle brought her up, back to the surface, near a volcanic vent, under the ocean.

Stone became water, and Jane changed again, into a droplet of water herself, but tiny water slimes were not meant to survive in these depths. She was uncomfortable, so she became an ooze made of flame. Water boiled at her presence, but she could be water and fire at the same time, so she was.

She boiled and bubbled her way back to the surface, becoming multiple conflicting things at the same time as she burst from the water and became something else. She became stone of flesh but fire incarnate to float above the waves as she dipped down and transformed yet again into a one-horned terror made of shadows and light that became something else, entirely, as she raced back to land, back to the beach where she had started her journey.

If someone were looking at her, they would have seen a unicorn made of ooze made of metal made of feathers, with eight legs and too many eyes, racing across the water and through the water and above the water. Or, if they were looking a second later, they would have seen a woman, racing on the water, made of prismatic light, untouched by the world, but also a part of everything around her.

Jane saw everything. She was everything. But she was also just a person. Her run slowed as she neared the cliffs. She stood on the water, just before the rocks. She stepped onto the darkened beach. Her hair floated around her head like she was underwater. A part of her still was.

Which was why, when a two meter long, bright white claw and the darkness it was attached to, descended upon her, all bright power and utter night, Jane did not move. She did think to move, for she was not really where she appeared to be. The claw pierced right through her unmoving body, followed by a four meter wide dragon’s paw and four other claws similar to the first that settled down, into the stone, crunching rock with its world ending weight.

