Jane stepped out of the air, and the water, and everything else at the same time, to stand beside the dragon’s blackscaled foot. She was still glowing, still prismatic. Her eyes were fire, but her notions of Reality were not quite solid, at that particular moment. She had lost herself and gained herself on her run through a tiny part of the world. If she had been all there, she would have recognized something normally very bad was happening to the cliffside.

The claws and the paw that had descended onto her were a part of a much greater whole. That first limb ended in shadowy depths attached to the cliffside, but above that swirling darkness, there was more. Shadows gathered along the edges of broken stone, spreading out, becoming.

A person-sized snout, fifty meters up, poked from the cliffs, and kept coming, jaw and cheek, whiskers long and flowing, and glowing white eyes, fully opened, that illuminated the night like two full moons. Horns, curling and rough stretched behind a head larger than some houses, on a neck thicker than some trains. The beast’s mouth opened, revealing fangs as large as orcols that also glowed white, almost as bright as the Dark Dragon’s eyes.

He craned his neck out from the stone, stretching, stretching, covering the moons with his massive head and horns and fangs, covering Jane in further darkness. Out of the corners of her eyes, and perception, she saw wingtips slip from the cliffsides. The tiny driftwood fire she had created before her run was still there on the beach, still sending tiny glows into the night, but it seemed like nothing compared to the Darkness looming above.

The Darkness turned to her, and smiled.

Jane had enough strange presence of mind, to ask, “Where’s my laptop?”

Melemizargo chuckled. Cliffs broke. Waves crashed. Air thrummed. The tiny fire Jane had conjured upon the driftwood instantly gutted and the pieces scattered back into the ocean.

“The laptop is in the city of Kendrithyst. Strive to collect it, if you wish, my little Prismatic Paladin.”

“I’m not a Paladin, yet.”

“Not without a God’s Blessing, you’re not.” He thrummed the world, asking, “Would you like my Blessing?”

“No thanks.”

“A pity.” Melemizargo moved his head down toward the water, twisting to view still-glowing Jane on the beach, head on. All Jane could see were teeth, all she could feel was a hot wind blowing, as he said, “I could use a house cleaner.”

The dark sky returned as the Dark Dragon retreated, into the stone, away. Wings flapped but there was no wind. Stars twinkled up above. The moons shared their slivers of light with the world, once again.

What was she doing, again?

Jane blinked. She looked at her hand, and saw flesh made of light and shadows and everything in between. Recognition of the magic brought solidification, and also dissolution, as shadows peeled away and light faded. Fire and stone cooled to meat and bones as water and air became blood and breath.

A blue box appeared—

The massive paw and claws next to her, retreated into the stone, white claws briefly lighting the night before going pure dark, crunching rocky beach as the appendage slipped away, back into hiding. Jane broke out in a cold sweat, despite the cold night air and her complete nudity. A scream almost tore from her, but an echoing laugh came from the cliffside, demanding she keep her wits about her.

High above, something broke from the wall. Several tons of rock dropped down from above, landing not ten meters from Jane, crashing into the beach and the ocean.

And that was more than enough of that! Thank you very much! Time to go!

Jane ripped her pile of clothes into her shadow—

Something was inside the nearby shadows.

Touching her familiar magics was like stepping into a room and seeing it occupied by a stranger. Jane instantly switched to air, grabbed her clothes, then swished away, back home, away from the beach, away from the Dark Dragon lurking in the cracks of the world.

Back in the Manor, Jane panicked for a good minute. Then she made herself a nice, tall glass of Sunset Red, and downed the whole thing. Then she put on her clothes. Then she collapsed on the couch and checked her most recent notification.

Prismatic Body, instant, long range, 25 Mana per second + Variable

You are here.

Jane said, “Simple, but effective.”

The air blipped white. Her father stepped into the house, looking a little haggard in the eyes.

“Heeeey, daaaad,” Jane drawled, unsure of herself at the moment.

Erick said, “I’ve been conscripted for a few Ballooning Spider Horde drops that they expect to happen in a few days.” He glanced to the open bottle of Sunset Red sitting on the table in front of Jane. “Still drinking?”

Jane waved him off, saying, “I can barely get drunk anymore. This is basically just better tasting water.”

“That’s a lie.” Erick sat down across from her, picking up the bottle. He downed a shot straight from the source, then said, “Tangling with dragons is rough.”

Jane just smiled.

And then she told him what had happened to her, not ten minutes ago. He might have his secrets about gods, but Jane decided on transparency; it was the better strategy going forward, considering what was coming down the line from Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick had a minor shit fit. He also congratulated her on her new magics, but then he went back to sputtering anger and undirected worry. It wasn’t long before other people were involved, including a few Elites and the Headmaster.

The Headmaster was much more calm, simply saying that, “His last words are concerning. Do with his words what you will. As for the rest of your experience… This is also concerning, but not overly so. He usually appears to interesting individuals, and you two certainly qualify.”

Jane sent her father off, back to Spur, as the sun rose on Oceanside.

“I love you, Dad,” Jane said, hugging her father one more time. “I’ll be home, soon.”

“I love you, Jane,” Erick said, hugging his daughter, again. “See you soon.”

- - - -

In a well-protected room behind a Script-blue door, Jane sat across from a petite, older incani woman with large black horns and dull red skin, named Alanaria, while a large blue box of options hovered to the side.

Jane smiled as she saw what she wanted, near Polymage and Paladin, but right beside Prismatic Paladin. She said, “Prismatic Polymage. Yes. I choose this one.”

Alanaria nodded, then pressed the air a few times. The large blue window vanished.

A smaller blue box appeared, directly in front of Jane.

Class Quest!

A True Prismatic Ability, Skill, or Spell 1/1

AND one of:

Abandon your initial Familiar Form 0/1

OR

Acquire an aquatic Form 1/1

Acquire an aerial Form 1/1

Acquire a fiery Form 1/1

Acquire a grounded Form 1/1

Acquire a hidden Form 1/1

Acquire a mesmerizing Form 1/1

Reward: Prismatic Polymage Class

Jane smiled. She accepted the quest, and then she completed it.

A brief pulse of change rippled through her, breaking down barriers, expanding, expanding.

Jane came back to herself. She checked her Status.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 71, Class: Prismatic Polymage

Exp: 8.413 e15 / 49.845 e15

Class: 1/6

Points: 8

HP

4800/4800

4800 per day

MP

6360/6360

6360 per day

Strength

30

+51

81

Vitality

30

+51

81

Willpower

55

+51

106

Focus

55

+51

106

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Prismatic Polymage

Unlock Monster Abilities

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

She focused on her Shadow Spider form, and an extra blue box appeared. It was a bit skimpy on the details, but she didn’t really need details. She knew how these skills worked, already. Mostly. Looking at the Form with the Class Ability to Unlock Monster Abilities gave her a few nice surprises.

Body:

[Spider Mind]; always active

[Thread Control]; replenish basic threads, 50 Health

[Mana Sight]; always active

[Vibration Sense]; always active

[Toxic Venom]; replenish basic venom, 50 Health

All:

[Erase Presence]; 5 Health per second

Jane smiled. The ‘Body’ designation meant that she would have to have that body part if she wanted to use that ability, but now she could mix and match abilities and have them cohesively integrate into a whole. [Mana Sight] as an owl. Envenomed fangs as a metal slime.

She quickly checked her other forms. There was some overlap. Both spider and slime had a [Vibration Sense] but the slime’s was called [Stone Sight]. This would take a lot of experimenting and getting used to, and so much trial and error.

But it was the ‘All’ category that had Jane really happy. Those were the abilities Jane didn’t need to transform to use.

[Aura of Freedom], from the Unicorn, exactly as expected. [Erase Presence], from the spider, unexpected! And fantastic! Water slime had nothing, as expected, but her metal slime had [Stone Sight], which was great. Her owl had [Freezing Aura]; Jane would have to experiment with that one, but if it was anything like the original’s, Jane could freeze and shatter at a touch. Flame ooze had [Burning Aura], which Jane had never considered a magical effect. Flame oozes were basically lava, after all. But it was still a nice, unexpected bonus.

Alanaria asked, “Would you care to discuss Class Abilities, now?”

A large blue box with dozens of Class Abilities appeared to the left, hanging in the air.

Jane tore her sight away from her Familiar Forms, to read the larger, hanging box in the room. Her eyes widened. She said, “I did not expect that!”

Alanaria grinned, saying, “We have lots of time to discuss every Ability on that list. But before all of that, since you have chosen this Class, I have been informed by Rozeta to tell you that ‘Paladin’ is not always a Class. Sometimes it is a sub-Class gifted directly by a god, in addition to what you already have.”

Jane blanked for a good ten seconds. Then she laughed. “Good to know!”
