She transformed, again. Glowing light turned into devouring darkness, as everything about Jane went negative. White fur turned black. Rainbow eyes turned into hollow pits. Shadows gathered around her hooves and her tail and her mane, as a normal horse mouth turned into a slashing, slippery nightmare of tentacles and fangs.

Erick went silent. He breathed. He said, “No.”

Jane laughed again, and this time it was full of unintended terror, with slapping tentacles and gnashing teeth.

Erick repeated, “No.”

“Okay okay!” Jane flicked her horn, imperiously, then turned and disappeared behind the divider.

Erick demanded, “Something cute this time, please!”

Jane laughed again. She heard her father shiver, as she transformed again.

Fur turned to feathers. Hooves turned to hands, to wings, and also to clawed feet meant for grasping onto buildings and carrying away cows. Her head poked above the divider. With eyes a foot across, but locked forward, Jane turned her head to see her father. He looked less than thrilled to see a giant bird poking up to stare at him.

Ophiel, however, took to the air, twittering in happy violins. He blossomed out to a much larger size, to take up a decent portion of the airspace of the house, but Jane was still larger than him, by far. She giggled, making chirping sounds that did not match her size, either.

Ophiel chirped back. Chirp chirp chirp!

Erick said, “Beautiful bird, but… It’s… Big.”

“Yeah.” Jane did not move from her spot; she didn’t want to tear up the wooden floors with her talons. She was already visible, anyway. “I also didn’t take into account that barely any birds are able to move their eyes independent of their head.”

Erick connected some dots, and said, “So if you’re going to get rid of that form anyway, then why not turn it into a flying form mantle, or whatever you’d call it?”

Jane tilted her head back and forth, thinking.

Ophiel decided to mimic her, turning himself over and back, his wings and eyes flowing across his mutable body as he kept up with Jane’s motions.

“Oh gods.” Erick said, “That’s making me sick.”

Jane laughed a frosty cackle, then purposefully twisted her head all the way upside down. “It’s not that bad.”

Ophiel’s eyes widened, as he chirp-chirped and then tried the same movement, but he had to flow his wings back into a proper position in order to stay aloft; he could not fly upside down.

Erick’s eyes went almost as wide as his [Familiar]’s. “No,” he said, emphatically.

Jane laughed again, as she transformed back to herself, behind the divider. When she was back to human-mode, she took a moment to use her new [Clothe] spell. It was slower than just using her shadows, but it was still a free spell. Maybe there were useful higher tier versions of [Clothe]? She’d research that later, but for now, she stepped out into the light, to see her father. She chided, “That’s a pretty weak stomach, Dad.”

“[Polymorph] is freaky! I don’t understand how you can do it!”

Jane laughed again. She said, “[Polymorph] is great! I...” Her voice trailed off, as she thought, then said, “I really like [Polymorph].”

Erick smiled. He thumbed at the darkened windows, asking, “Hungry for something besides cake?”

She teased, “Don’t you have to get back to your minders?”

“Actually, the Headmaster pinged me. He invited us to dinner whenever we were through, here. If you want to go?” He joked, before Jane could, “Want to go get eaten by a dragon?”

“Haa! Yes.” Jane said, “Let’s go tempt fate.”

Erick nodded, sending off a streamer of intent into the air. After a moment, he said, “Let’s take ten minutes, then go.”

“I’ve got to put away the cake, anyway.” She added, “And sober up a bit.”

“Not too much, though.”

Jane agreed, “Not too much.”

- - - -

The Azure Room was the entire top floor of one of the business towers, in the northern crescent of Oceanside. It was not the largest tower around, for that designation belonged to North Tower, one of the three classroom towers of the city, but it was certainly still rather tall. The Azure Tower, and the Azure room at the top, were as cream-colored on the outside as all the rest of Oceanside’s buildings, but on the inside, the Azure Tower absolutely lived up to its name.

Erick and Jane blipped onto the seventh floor. The floor was cerulean stone. The wardlights were blue crystal chandeliers, adorned with white glows. The walls were cream, with blue accents, while lifelike paintings of ocean life occupied central positions, and blue stone vases and sculptures sat atop cream-colored stone pillars, separating the paintings from each other. A curving staircase of blue stone, much larger than the one staircase back in Erick’s home in Spur, swirled up from the ground in front of Erick and Jane.

Everything looked like it cost way too much. Jane felt underdressed.

Erick said, “I feel underdressed.”

Jane giggled, then said, “Let’s go. I hear music playing.”

Erick nodded. Ophiel was already dancing on his shoulder, as he said, “I hear it too.”

Jane led the way up the staircase.

Faint musical notes became clear harmonies and sweeping rhythms. Beyond the staircase lay solid blue crystal double doors, that were already opened. Beyond the doors was a goldscale manservant, wearing something resembling a dark blue tuxedo.

The room beyond was a thirty meter wide decadence of high class culture, and half blue. Blue gems encrusted the walls, and the high backed chairs that surrounded a central cream-colored wooden table, laden with elaborate silver sconces, while blue gem chandeliers hung from the ceiling. Blue-robed musicians played on a small dais set to the side of the space. Massive picture windows gave a full 200 degree view of the west, including the northern crescent arm of Oceanside, and the ocean itself. The sky was dark, but lights illuminated civilization, and the deep depths in the center harbor of the volcano-ring city.

The goldscale waiter greeted them with a short bow, saying, “Greetings, Archmage Flatt, and daughter Jane Flatt. The Headmaster awaits your arrival.”

Her father took the lead with Jane falling in behind, as the goldscale led the way down a short flight of stairs, to the gem-inlaid, white marble floors, to the only table in the room; a round wooden antique, for sure, with two empty seats and one occupied.

The Headmaster remained seated, as Erick and Jane walked his way, looking every part like an old emperor with his immaculate gold-white robes. He had been watching them since they came into view, at the double doors to this room, but it was only now that he spoke, “Welcome, Erick and Jane.”

Erick said, “Hello, Headmaster. Thank you for the invitation.”

Jane said, “Hello”. She almost asked why there was only one table in this huge room, but she was certainly a hanger-on, in this scenario. The Headmaster likely only invited her to get to her father.

Erick added, “This is a lot more upscale than I thought it would be.”

The goldscale man gestured toward one of the chairs, then pulled it out for Erick, while he moved on to the next, for Jane. When he had completed his job, he took two steps away, and waited.

The Headmaster smiled gently, saying, “The Azure Room is generally booked for months in advance. Sometimes years. But today’s guest has come and gone, and we are lucky to have the location for this night.”

Oh. This place always only had the one table.

Erick sat down, saying, “Glad to know I’m not putting anyone out.”

Jane sat down; silent, listening.

The Headmaster said, “I am glad we are able to have this talk, but also glad to finally have a reason to come here. They make the absolute best, well, anything! One of the few ten star restaurants on Veird, with Harvesters that scour the world for only the best ingredients, and Cooks, each with their own Perfect skills; Perfect Bake, Perfect Grill, Perfect Fry, and more.”

The goldscale man waited for the Headmaster to finish, before stepping back to the table. Single tablet menus appeared in his hands. He set one down in front of each person, before standing straight, and asking, “Would sirs and madam wish for any specialty drinks?”

The Headmaster ignored the menu, as he said, “A bottle of Eidolon Violet Red for the table, to start, and whatever my guests are having.”

“I don’t know what that is, so I’d try it,” Erick said.

“Same,” Jane said.

“Two bottles, then,” the Headmaster said, adding, “And I will be employing security measures.”

Jane smirked as the Headmaster confirmed this as an important conversation. The goldscale man bowed, then stepped away. The Headmaster flickered gold, causing a barely-there bubble to encompass the three of them and the table, and another two meters out. The sounds of the quiet band continued to fill room and the interior of the bubble.

The Headmaster said, “It’s a one way bubble. They can’t see us perfectly, or hear us at all, but we can see and hear everything that happens outside of this space. I don’t expect us to speak of anything too important, but the option is there. If you wish to change this precaution, then let me know and I can put up something stronger.”

Jane felt some dark joy in her heart, as she said, “Nothing to speak of?” Jane had not planned on poking the dragon, and certainly not literally poking the dragon, as she was about to do, but with those words from him, she couldn’t help herself. “I just learned that you can remake Basic Tier magic from the Elemental Bodies.”

The Headmaster smirked. He said, “That is a secret tightly kept, you know. I hope you won’t go telling everyone.”

“But why?” Erick asked, clearly interested in the answer.

The Headmaster asked, “Are you not in touch with the Wayfarer’s Guild right now? Learning how dangerous it is to make Spatial Magics? That is why. Spatial Magic is only the most egregious offender; remaking Spatial spells kills more young people in more magical accidents than any other single branch of magic.”

Jane said, “That is half a truth.”

The Headmaster smiled wider.

The goldscale man returned, carrying two large glass bottles into the bubbled space. No one said anything, as the man uncorked one bottle, and poured for the Headmaster first. The Headmaster sipped, declared it good, then the goldscale filled everyone else’s drinks and took their orders. Jane barely looked at the menu before deciding on ‘Fillet Evereach’; it was some sort of pastry-covered meat thing but she wasn’t quite sure. The goldscale left with their orders.

The Headmaster agreed, “It is a half truth.” He said, “Here is the full truth: the Copy Mages and Spellthiefs of the world gain a huge variety of power, but the Class is a dead end. Stolen power creates stagnation, and for some reason, breeds more Hunters than you have ever seen. That is the true danger of the Copy Mage, and of the Recreation Quests you have begun to complete.”

“But can’t Rozeta just make those Classes harder to get?” Jane said, “I was able to make my first decent tier spell in a long time after learning this knowledge.”

The Headmaster frowned a little, but his expression was not of displeasure, but more like someone who gazed upon a set of numbers and saw that they didn’t add up. He asked, “You did? Congratulations, but at the same time, would you care to show me the spell?”

Jane handed over the box for [Mutable Aegis]. The Headmaster read the box for a moment, then looked to the air. He hummed.

The Headmaster dismissed Jane’s blue box, as he turned to her, saying, “That is strange. The series of events you are describing is how it happened, but correlation is not causation. More promising mages have fallen victim to their own falsely held ideas, than to too much work to ensure that their ideas were true.”

Jane asked, “Were you looking at my Status?”

“Oh no.” The Headmaster said, “I would not do such a thing without your consent, and certainly not in a location like this. But I do have [Witness], and you just described a most peculiar series of events, so I had to check myself.”

“Oh.” Jane said, feeling slightly foolish. “Yes. Of course.”

The Headmaster said, “As a suggestion, with the recreation of three spells, you’ve likely unlocked Spellthief. I would caution you against choosing this Class. You have expressed difficulty in creating spells before, but you seem to be having a breakthrough of some sort. Choosing Spellthief would erase that growth and lock you to whatever you have right now.”

If Jane was the skeptical kind of person, which she was, she would have thought the Headmaster’s words another half-truth, but she was also a prudent sort of person, and she didn’t want to be a Spellthief anyway, so she said, “Good to know.”

“It is no trouble. I am here to help students of all kinds.” The Headmaster said, “Ah! And here comes the meal.” He smiled, adding, “They are so quick here, too! Utterly delightful.”

The goldscale server pushed a silver cart out from the doors to the kitchen. Three plates occupied his cart. In an expertly delivered minute, Jane was sitting in front of a pastry-encrusted, fist-sized hunk of meat, a mash of orange root vegetable, and long, tender shoots of some green not-carrot. The butter was copious, and the smells divine. She looked over to her father’s plate.

Erick sat in front of a large, roasted bird, like it was Thanksgiving and he had ordered a whole twenty pound turkey, just for himself. He chuckled, saying, “Oh this looks great.”

