A length of shadow twisted across her palm, expanding outward. She gripped the magic, holding it tight as Force coalesced outward into a length of darkness two meters long. The weapon was made of fractures near the base, broken except for where she gripped the darkness, and a single edge made of sharpness. It was almost the exact same sword she always summoned, but denser and thinner at the same time.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you already have Conjure Weapon, here you go:

+1 point!

Erick cheered, “Wooo! Good job, Jane!”

Jane’s face almost hurt from smiling so hard. She said, “Thank you, Dad.”

“That was all you! I just helped a little.”

She opened her palm, releasing the magic. The sword vanished in a rapid series of crackling dark fragments. “That was more than a little help.”

“I respectfully disagree.” Erick smiled. “Now, to make [Conjure Armor]!” He added, “Oh! A thought! Make the original spell, then make an aura version, so that you don’t have to remake it every time you change [Polymorph] forms!”

“Ha! Good idea.” Jane sarcastically said, “It’s magic, right? Shouldn’t matter if there’s a physical barrier.”

With a serious tone, Erick said, “Magic can be anything you want it to be, Jane.”

Jane didn’t know if she truly believed that, but crazier things had happened, like falling to another world, for one. She smiled to herself, as she channeled mana through her upturned palm again. Sounds of defense and safety echoed from a thin blue-black layer of light that hugged the air just about her skin. She held onto that sound, and feeling, as darkness crawled across her skin. She grabbed the mana around her, and formed it into armor.

Simple as that. A notion, a form, a pressure, and it was done.

Erick laughed. “Now that’s some fantastic armor! Much better than a gambeson!”

Jane looked out through a clear bubble of Force that was dark blue at the edges of her vision, but didn’t seem to impede her breathing at all. She looked down. Dark scaled armor held against her hand, forming hard plates of blue-black Force that covered her forearms. Her chest and stomach was covered by thick, many jointed plates, but she twisted, and her ease of movement showed that the construction of her armor was beyond an instinctual understanding of how it worked. Jane conjured a [Scry] orb into the air, just to see what she actually looked like. She gasped.

Like a cross between dark, blue crystal and hard steel angles, Jane’s armor would have fit in with any part of the jumbled, dark kendrithyst growths in the deeper reaches of the Dead City, or in an artisan’s exhibition of heavy armor. Her pauldrons were thick with overlapping protection, but she moved her arms, and there was no restriction. She twisted her head around, and felt no resistance, though her helmet fully covered her head and neck, while ridges started behind her head to trail down her back, looking like jumbled crystalline spikes that tapered down to nothing just above her butt. That ridge, and the layered plate to both sides, looking more than able to protect her spine and her kidneys from most heavy blows. Her legs were fully covered by hard, overlapping edges, but as she jumped up and kicked out to test her range of movement, there was no restriction there, either.

She slammed her gauntleted hand against her stomach, [Strike]ing herself. Hardened plates of Force moved against each other, individual scales refusing to break, even though Jane had used more than enough force to fracture normal plate [Conjure Armor]. The ease at which plate conjured armor would break under normal stress was why Jane never used such designs. But this form here seemed to transfer the [Strike] across multiple plates, lessening the blow to her body by a considerable amount.

Jane had tried to make heavy armor like this, before now, but it never worked, so Jane had abandoned all hope of ever wearing heavy protection. But she had succeeded this time, even if she hadn’t done it on her own. She had made something wearable. Something that made her inner, childish paladin turn flips, and her stomach roil with butterflies.

As she took it all in, understanding what she had made, and felt good, a blue box appeared.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you already have Conjure Armor, here you go:

+1 point!

Jane laughed—

Ah! Her face was fully covered by translucent force, but there had to be holes down in the overlapping scales around her neck. She could still breathe just fine. This was awesome.

“Good job, Jane,” Erick said, looking like the happiest father in the world.

“I was never able to make my armor this fast… It always took ten seconds, or a quickened construction. But this… This is good?” Jane said, “This is good.”

He asked, “What else do you want to make?”

“We’re on a roll! Let’s try aura-armor.”

Erick smiled.

Ten minutes later, Jane had created the first spell she was proud of since she made [Invisible Rejuvenation], all those months ago, in her first experiments in magic on Veird.

Mutable Aegis, instant, self, aura, 10 Mana per second

Coalesce ethereal armor onto your body. After supporting Mutable Aegis for 10 uninterrupted seconds, you may choose to substantiate your aura. If you are already wearing conjured armor, activating Mutable Aegis will turn your armor ethereal.

Jane stood apart from her father and the furniture of the room, and turned on her new aura. Ethereal blue darkness took hold across her skin, like jagged, scaled plates, made of almost-invisible glass. It looked funky, almost like a craftsman took way too long stringing together plates of glass. But it felt good. She moved her arms, and rolled her shoulders. She twirled one leg in the air, then the other. There was no resistance.

The strange, crystalline [Conjure Armor] Jane had made when she remade the [Conjure Armor] spell had been as easy to wear as heavy clothes, and slightly more restrictive than her usual gambeson, but [Mutable Aegis] was like wearing nothing at all. It felt great.

Ten seconds passed. Jane flicked her armor solid, with a thought. Near-invisible glass turned into solid, dark blue plates, overlapping and protective. Her total ease of movement turned into something lesser, but still acceptable. Jane grabbed the air, and flexed her arms. She kicked. She stood tall.

“This is good, Dad.”

“You still need some sort of Prismatic spell or skill, right?”

Jane dismissed her armor, saying, “Yeah. Still not sure what that would look like, though.”

“That’s fine. We can work on that, too.” He clapped his hands together, saying, “But for now! I want to see all your new Familiar Forms! It’ll be a dress up party, like when you were ten— Ohh! Jane! Do you remember your little dragon costume I made for you when you were eight? You were so cute!”

Jane groaned, but smiled, as she held a hand to her face. She did remember that little green costume with the sequined scales and floppy wings. She giggled, then said, “Sure! Dress up party!” She pointed at him, saying, “I want to see what your [Conjure Armor] looks like, though!”

Erick stepped away from leaning against the kitchen table, beginning to glow, as he said, “I barely ever use this spell. I like your armor, though. How’d you envision it all?”

“I didn’t plan on it, it just happened. I’d have to test the scales in combat before I start really using my armor that way.” She conjured a divide in the center of Windy Manor, saying, “I won’t be showing off flame ooze, though. That would burn this place down.”

Erick flickered white. Solidifying mana rushed across his shoulders, simultaneously wrapping over head, forming a hood, as it flowed down his body, around his legs and arms before flaring outward, turning into draping fabrics as it coalesced into leather-like boots and gloves. Metal curled around the stiffer shoulder pads, while small feathers and unmoving eyes accented his gloves. He was an indistinct white glow under his hood, with his eyes brighter than the rest of him. And then he cut his [Lightwalk].

Jane withheld her judgment, for the moment.

His smile returned, along with his gentle eyes, as he pulled back the hood of his [Conjure Armor]. He poked his own clothed chest with his not-leather gloves, saying, “I was thinking about that graphene stuff you talked about, whenever-ago. I think this armor came out okay?” He conjured a knife in one hand as he pulled taut the robes over his chest with the other. He poked the robes, but the knife did not go through. “Seems okay?”

She said, “That’s all rather loose and billowy. It looks good, but as armor? I’m not sure.”

Erick dismissed his mage armor, revealing his normal clothes underneath. Today, her father wore a plain white shirt that was practically a tunic, plain tan pants, and the same Earth shoes he fell to Veird wearing, with their rubber soles and bright white leather exteriors. Jane couldn’t blame him for the shoes. She’d wear her own pair of Earth shoes if she wasn’t transforming all the time. They were comfortable, after all, but for now, they were in a lockbox in Spur’s bank, along with her phone.

Her father, though… For all his money and power, her father certainly didn’t dress as well as he could. Jane almost said something about the rest of everything he was wearing, but she held her criticism to his armor. Flowing robes were not good armor.

Erick said, “Maybe you’re right. I’ll try again.” He shooed her off to the divider she had summoned, saying, “You go change, too.”

Jane went behind the divider—

“Oh yeah!” Erick said, “I learned this spell called [Clothe]. You take off your shirt and set it aside, then you pick it up and activate your Elemental Body, pulling the shirt into the effect. Then you put it on. I shredded my shirt once, but then I made the spell.”

Jane had already discarded her clothes in a quick shift to shadows, but now she looked down at the small pile, asking, “Is that all you did?” She picked up her shirt. “Because I’ve done the same thing.”

Beyond the divider, a white flash came down, as her father asked, “You have? Then you should have gotten it, too?”

Jane was a hundred percent sure she had already done what her father had suggested. Quick changing clothes was one of the first hurdles to learning how to be a Polymage, if you were the shy kind of person. Some guides even listed [Clothe] as a good utility option for those embarrassed or afraid of being caught naked out in the world, but those words certainly did not apply to Jane.

But another free spell would be nice? Why not?

Jane put on her clothes, exactly how she had done many times already.

Her shirt appeared on her body, while a pair of blue boxes appeared in the air.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you do not already have Clothe, here you go:

Clothe 1, instant, touch, 25 mana.

Touch a garment you have worn and wear it again. Maximum transferring range of 10m.

“Well that’s just fucking weird, is what it is,” Jane said, already discarding her shirt back to the floor. She called out, “Looks like it worked this time. Strangely.”

“Good!” Erick said, “I want to see your metal slime!”

Jane smiled, as she shifted. Flesh and bones became bright silver liquid metal, as the world got much larger, and Jane shrunk down to an eighth of her original size. Eyesight turned indistinct and greyscale as she began to sense the world in every direction more with vibrations than with any true sight.

She rolled out from behind the divider, plopping and flopping while doing a little fashion twirl in between. Coming to rest a few human-sized steps from her father, Jane spread two pseudopods into the air, like two tiny arms, as most of her attention faced the blobby shape that was her father.

“Ta-da!” she said, with [Prestidigitation].

Erick chuckled. “That’s really cute. But… It’s not too small, is it? You’re the size of a watermelon. A small watermelon.”

Jane mocked offense, “This is a perfectly good form! It’s tiny and basically indestructible. Perfect for most smaller missions. I don’t like having the core, though, so maybe I’ll upgrade to ooze in the future. But not right now. Eyesight is pretty bad, but [Greater Shadowalk] takes care of that.” To prove her point, she flickered shadows into the house, saying, “Now— Oh. That’s much better armor, Dad!”

Layered white fabrics, like Jane’s armor but softer, covered her father from his hooded head to his thick boots. He looked ready for a battle, or for infiltrating a snow-covered base hidden in some mountains somewhere. He’d stick out like a sore thumb almost anywhere else, though. But still! This design looked a lot safer than his first creation.

“Looking good,” she said.

“I modeled it from yours.” He dismissed his armor, saying, “It’s a bit stuffy, though. I’ll work on that.”

“Armor is stuffy. No way around that, but aura armor kinda helps.” She rolled back toward the divider, saying, “Next form: Unicorn!”

Erick giggled a little, as Jane transformed.

He gasped as Jane’s twisting, prismatic horn appeared above the divider, followed quickly by her rainbow eyes. She walked out, fully into view, taking center stage in Windy Manor like she was the most majestic creature for a hundred thousand kilometers. A long, white mane flowed down a graceful neck. Powerful hooves, capped by thick, fluffy fur, clomped across the wooden floor. She was pure white, with bright eyes and a flickering tail. She stood proud.

Erick said, “Beautiful, Jane. But that’s just the hidden form, isn’t it?”

Jane nickered a horsey laugh, then said, “Oh yes.”

