Having a chance to survive, Obolis breathed out a sigh of relief. I gazed up at the swirling shield of blue mana above while murmuring, "Oh yeah, I don't think this lottery was an attempt by Schema to purge the corruption of the elites or to take resources from everyone either."

Obolis raised his brow, "Then what could possibly be the purpose of the lottery?"

I gazed at Leviathan, "I believe this was Schema's punishment for the rulers who abandoned him. This chaos is his roar, and the dead are the victims of his wrath. I think the next time he calls for help, there will be more who listen."

Obolis seethed, "If that is so, then Schema has simply fed Elysium more rebelling planets."

We agreed on that, and that thought swirled in my mind while I passed through the alleyways leading to the other rulers. Streaks of light beamed between openings of the algae above, giving glimpses of Leviathan. Torches of mana lit the roadways like lanterns, and those blazes waved toward me as I walked.

The reinforced marble helped open the space up, as did the tracing lines of glowing rainbow bone used to embellish the buildings. Those adornments prevented anyone from feeling suffocated while living here. At least, I hoped that would be the case while I walked up to the other survivors.

Finding them facing Shalahora, the shadowed Sovereign sat near the city's center, engaging many of those present with telepathic conversations. I waited for him to finish, and after a few minutes, the writhing miasma opened its blue eyes. He turned towards me, "Is that the contract? There's nothing written on it."

I pulled the glowing letters from my grimoire, "Yet. One sec."

From the charged grimoire, glowing letters of the cipher floated upward. They landed on the panels of my dimensional fabric, which hovered around me. After the runes singed into the metal, I tossed the sheets to Shalahora before I crossed my arms,

"Any updates on the spies, or did everyone wait until I could oversee the memory checks?"

Shalahora's shades snatched the panels out of the air while he glanced at the cipheric markings. After a few moments, he murmured, "There are several spies within our camp whom I've captured already. They lacked psionic abilities, so even a quick mental glance was enough to uncover them."

"Who were they?"

Shalahora peered up from the metal documents, "The perpetrators are several of the food managers and those responsible for managing the life support systems in the lower levels of the survivor's base."

"Huh...I expected Iona to be in on it."

Shalahora shrugged with his shadowed shoulders, "I did as well, but there are no signs of such. Her mind shows no signs of tampering or manipulation, and her short-term recall of what occurred aligns with her stance with Schema. If anything, she seems to feel betrayed by the AI."

I thinned my gaze, "Yeah, that's something I can understand. Still, she's been suspicious since the start, so we might need to dig deeper into her memories if Iona continues being suspicious. Anyways, where are the spies?"

Shalahora pointed at another building near the city's center. I walked in with the shadow at my side, and on the wall, five different rulers wrestled against liquid darkness. As I stepped in, they all were other species and colors, none of them being races I knew.

However, each of their gazes carried familiar emotions. A bubbling mass of fear, acceptance, and hate spread over them as they glowered at me, but that was all they could convey with their bodies submerged in gloomy blots. I pointed at them while talking to Shalahora, "You can go ahead and get what we need from them if you'd like. Either that or you can sign the contract first."

Shalahora peered through the details of the cipheric document before he tilted his head at me, "Are you certain of this?"

I nodded, "Yeah. It doesn't change much anyways since my goals are already set. This gives me another ally to get what I need."

The shadow reread the contract once more before condensing a finger. It flared with umbral fire, siphoning and sucking the light from nearby. He etched into the dimensional fabric with difficulty, his signature leaving a trail of dark flames. Taking the contract from him, I channeled mana into it.

While I charged the energy, Shalahora peered at each spy for a time. With each passing second of the shadow's stare, the spies writhed and squirmed like worms over a fire. Their vessels swelled under their skin while blood dripped from their noses, eyes, and ears. After a few hours, their eyes glazed over, each of them given the mercy of comatose.

By the time Shalahora finished, every alien had fallen unconscious from the mental probing. I grimaced, "That looked...Painful."

Shalahora peered away, "It was painful, certainly, but they experienced far more as they relived their lives. They lived through agony, joy, love, and rejection in the passing moments. I merely extracted what they relived in its diluted form. The speed of the process is what afflicted them, not my technique itself."

Shalahora didn't give any signs of lying, but while I gazed at the aliens, everything pointed to the contrary. Blood pooled under the aliens like someone spilled a dozen paint cans under them, each bucket carrying a different color. They slushed into the hard floor, their pulped bodies mixing ever so slightly.

Shalahora found his reflection in that smoothed, mirroring pool, "They know little or nothing aside from their own circumstances. They signed cipheric contracts to help bring their families or clans out of servitude in exchange for ruining the survivor faction. I understand their plight, though it has ruined any chance of their survival here."

"What'd they do?"

"They've caused many of the mechanical issues the Survivors struggled with. The psionic fluid was a desperate last move to stifle your remodeling from recovering the Survivor's position. To these spies, the faction was like a tree. Since they could no longer tear the branches, they chose to poison the roots."

I gazed at the aliens with distaste while considering my options. I understood why they did what they did, but keeping them here would only endanger our situation. We also gained as much info as possible, so I raised a hand, ready to blend their heads with gravitational vortexes.

Before doing so, the contract in my hand finished siphoning energy. It plumed outward with a reality-warping surge. As it crossed over us, Shalahora's eyes disappeared for a moment. When they reopened, he turned to me with a different look. He bowed, "It is done."

I shook off an odd sensation as if my blood boiled without pain,

"Er, good."

A laugh echoed in the distance, but I ignored it. Pulling myself back to the moment, I inspected the spies once more. Figuring I could get more out of them than simple executions, I ripped them from the walls and floated them out of the room. Around the corner,  the other rulers gathered near the city's center. I hovered myself up and over everyone before shouting,

"Everyone, we've inspected those present and found these were the members poisoning you all. They crippled your attempts at recovery by ruining several of your life support systems."

The rulers whispered before one of the braver ones shouted, "Where's the proof?"

Shalahora materialized beside me, and he reached up a hand. As he had when we first introduced ourselves, Shalahora telepathically linked to everyone present. Using that connection, Shalahora dispersed the spies' memories over us like spilling someone's life story out of a cup. Shalahora contained this flow, pinpointed several specific events, and locked away the other parts of their minds.

I blinked, overwrought by the flow of information. That sensation settled, and I analyzed the memories within. Though they lacked clarity, the recallings carried a different volume than other information mediums. While a movie, book, or story compelled emotion through techniques and hard work, these memories were infused with a feeling regardless of the circumstance.

What they lacked in resolution, they more than compensated with their emotional weight. In that sea of feeling, the most damning evidence arrived with the affirmation in the worker's minds. They understood what they'd done and resolved to do, and they couldn't forget that fact. I glared at everyone here, "As you can tell, Shalahora can pry out any secrets you've kept. In this case, if you work with Elysium, you will die."

I squeezed my hand, and all five spies pulped into different colored mush balls. The memory field spread over us blipped out of existence like letting go of a warm hug. Pulling all of the aliens' remains into a singular ball, I flung the corpse slush out of my city for the primevals to fight over. Accustomed to the brutality, I raised my brow at the other survivors who struggled with the display. Before they complained, I waved a hand, "You can all choose a room. There's plenty of space in this city and the others nearby."

The icy Alctua raised her voice, her scales sheening under Leviathan's light, "You have more than one city here?"

I nodded, "I have many."

My golems marched around the perimeter, fixing anything out of order or patrolling the grounds. Primevals flew in the distance, their howls ominous. They lacked the lethal edge of the converted primevals who devoured the blended bodies just outside. The rulers watched their hidden enemies get torn apart, any sense of relief washed away by fear.

I gazed at them with hard eyes. Before panic overtook them, I spread the Rise of Eden washed over them. The dimensional wake gave them an enormous boost to their stats, emboldening and strengthening them. They stood taller while I raised a hand to them,

"Since coming here, you all have struggled. The reason is simple - you were taken advantage of by forces outside your control. Schema and Elysium both had their way with you all. It was as if he tied you to a stake in the sun and watched crows peck at your eyes until you were blind."

I squeezed my hand into a fist, "That stops now. You'll be taken from the sun to the shade, and your eyes will be restored so you can all see. Until now, you lived on a killing floor. Now you thrive on a training ground. You will be given every means of enhancing and augmenting your abilities. I'll grant each and every one of you the supplies necessary for what needs to be done."

I raised a finger, "My resources arrive with expectation - I will hold you responsible for walking away from this hellhole better than you walked in."

Fear turned into the beginning of hope as I shouted, "No more turning back. No more shouting that this is unfair or undeserved. This is real, and we will face it head-on as the rulers of our worlds. Your nights have passed and now is the beginning of your dawns."

I shouted in defiance, "If they want a war, then they'll have one."

Rulers shouted, most of the lesser rulers elated at a chance to survive. A few of the diplomats from higher organizations peered at each other nervously. Ignoring them, I turned and raised a hand, twenty of my golems falling in line.

I turned a palm to them, "These constructs will assist you all in your  development, whether that be constructing more infrastructure or helping rulers learn to wage war."

I raised my brow to Shalahora and telepathically said, "Is it possible to leave a shade with each of the rulers so we can keep tabs on them?"

Shalahora nodded, "Of course, Harbinger."

I peered at the rulers, "Well then, it looks like we have a planet to escape from, don't we?"
