Reaching out a hand, I smashed the display in a gravity well before pulling three blue cores out of the mess. After heating the pulp into a moldable mass, I pulled it out of my city. A construction golem cleaned the singe marks by scraping the stone and making new rock over the torn surface. The rulers gawked before I gave them a tight smile,

"So, who's with me?"

Chapter Begin

Several rulers looked around in shock, while a few lost themselves in thought. Others peered around with their eyes wide and frantic, the nobles chewing their nails or grooming fur with spilling, nervous energy. One of them fell onto their knees, losing all of their composure. However, most stood tall, facing something uncertain.

Obolis led that group, and he turned a palm to me, "So what will we need to prevent our destruction, precisely?"

I put my hands on my hips, "We'll need you all to help me get as much information as possible about our current situation. Scouting, spying, all of that is essential right now, but the hardest part will be allowing your memories to be checked right now."

Obolis tilted his head at me, "That could easily be worse than death, and it will be done by that shadow no less. We've all seen what that monster did to Malos. Why should we trust that abomination now?"

I furrowed my brow, "You just told me you'd do whatever is required, and now you're immediately rescinding what you said."

A few rulers peered at Obolis before the Emperor snapped, "You still haven't given us a compelling reason for why we should trust Shalahora."

I deadpanned, "Because he's saved all of your lives multiple times at this point. Aside from that, you have no other alternatives. You will all die without my intervention, and this is a requirement to get my protection. Otherwise, you're on your own."

I pointed outside,

"And out there, no one will hear you scream."

In the distance, two primevals wrestled, the horizon molding to their battle as algae sheets ruptured. A solemn gloom crushed everyone, one I sympathized with. Obolis raised his brow, "And this perusing of our memories is necessary because of Elysium?"

A couple voices rippled through the crowd, and I nodded. I shook my head, "Yeah. It's a shame, but Elysium will pry your minds apart to figure out what happened here too. They're resourceful and relentless, as you've all seen and felt. To stop that, Shalahora will help us get our footing back so we can brainstorm solutions to that problem before we're sent back."

Obolis raised his brow, "Hm, perhaps a psionic shackling will do."

I narrowed my eyes, "Maybe so, but either way, they'll know I'm hiding something since you'll all return with locked memories. Still, that's one way to get some breathing room after returning to my home planet. I'm open to other ideas, however."

Rulers in the crowd murmured,

"Elysium? Weren't they locked in a war with Schema? They're still putting their claws into events like this."

"They infiltrated the lottery...And to what extent?"

"That's why everything is going to hell. They undermined us."

Obolis bristled with discomfort before he steepled his fingers, "I'm not attempting to weasel my way out of this current predicament, but is there any way to avoid having our memories seen?"

I peered up, "Huh, alright, how about this - if you can stop Shalahora from infiltrating your mind, you won't need your mind checked. That guarantees Elysium hasn't infiltrated your psyche anyway."

Obolis turned to Shalahora, and the shadowy Sovereign menaced, "Your confidence wanes, doesn't it?"

Obolis blinked, "Hm, then may you at least oversee the memory checking at the very least?"

I leaned back, "Of course. I will try to make this as unintrusive as possible, but it must be done. We're getting the spies out of this camp. End of story."

From a blot of oozing darkness, Shalahora murmured, "Know this - Elysium will simply unlock the shackles I wrap around your minds. While I have no experience facing them, they've controlled powerful entities like Lehesion or Valgus. That is proof that their psionic abilities are impressive."

Shalahora shrugged, "As individuals, they likely couldn't match me. However, they are more than a single entity. As an organization, they carry iron-clad goals with a difficult-to-dispel resolution. This makes them overwhelming in many cases. If you wish for greater safety, I could disintegrate the memories of this place and its workings altogether."

A fearful ruler asked, "Will there be any permanent damage from something that? It sounds dangerous."

Shalahora's eyes widened, "Aside from the memories themselves, no. I am precise, so you will not lose any more than what is necessary to lose. It will take time, however. Rooting out the spies would simply require perusing your short-term memories that are relatively surface level."

I pointed at Shalahora, "Can you handle their questions and probe for spies? I need to draft up the cipheric contract for us."

Shalahora nodded, "Let it be done."

With the rulers chattering behind me, I headed out. Two buildings away, I found a quiet room to begin writing in the cipher. It was an emptied home like all the places here, though the second story remained above ground level. I formed a marble chair on that floor, pulled out my grimoire, and began etching in its silver pages.

The chair couldn't hold me up, so it was mostly for show and ambiance. I digress.

A few minutes passed before someone skulked in. It was Obolis, the Emperor peering around at my workspace. He kept his distance from me, the heat from my etching enough to ignite his fur. The albony ruler scoffed at my carving, "It would seem you weren't joking about signing that shadow's contract."

I nodded while continuing to write. Obolis interlocked his hands behind himself before stepping back and forth at the side of the room, "So tell me...Why have you decided to accept such an absurd offer from Shalahora, assuming the contractual obligations haven't changed from what we heard earlier."

"Why do you want to know?"

Obolis shrugged, "Let's call it curiosity."

I considered not answering before deciding to tell a half-truth.

"Well, it's because I intend to take out every Old One, not just the one he wants me to eliminate. Therefore, it makes no difference in the long run. The time limit is very forgiving as well."

Obolis shook his head, "Aside from the fact that such a feat is impossible, you're tying your potential down with a cipheric contract. Those are immutable once formed. You understand that, don't you?"

"Of course."

Obolis turned a hand to me, his voice rising, "So then you'd put your sovereignty on the line for the allyship of an esoteric shadow? I've always considered you an intelligent arriviste, someone with unbridled potential that had yet to manifest. However, you're shackling yourself to an impossible ideal and for nothing. It's foolish, and in time, this will be the anchor that ceases your upward trajectory."

I sat in silence for a moment. Obolis interrupted my train of thought, "Well, nothing to say for yourself?"

I raised a finger, "You have something against Shalahora...What is it?"

Obolis grimaced, "I've been at war with psionics. They have destroyed my species' prosperity. They've committed genocide against my people. They want to turn us into a sack of blood for their leech mouths to suckle from, so my distrust of another psionic like Shalahora is merely my method of displaying wisdom and caution."

I sighed, "If I'm honest, I don't like psionic-based warfare either. That being said, I have to fight fire with fire here. Otherwise, I'll be burned to a crisp with nothing to show for it, and this contract guarantees I'll get the full use of Shalahora in the meantime. And he's the most powerful psionic I've ever seen, so it seems like a worthwhile risk."

Obolis considered my words for a moment, mulling over them like someone tasting a fine wine, "I'll admit he would be a powerful ally, and a cipheric contract guarantees your satisfaction in that regard. However, that neglects to consider the sheer folly of what you're trying to do - killing an Old One is inconceivable."

A while passed before I turned to him, "What's your reasoning?"

Obolis shook his head, irritation spreading over his face, "You've just entered a pool, yet you're trying to speak of its depth. Listen, Daniel, you have no perspective, so you have no idea what you're trying to do here."

I raised my brow, "Why do you even care?"

Obolis sighed, "You've assisted me on several occasions. That, and I don't want to watch someone with so much potential throw it away for nothing."

I pinched the bridge of my nose, "Ok, let's level then. Do you think the Old Ones will be our enemies in the future?"

"They are our enemies now. However, this does not mean that we can kill them. It's like trying to kill gravity or time. You can work around those constructs, but attempting to kill them simply showcases a lack of understanding of what they are. The Old Ones are the same."

I tapped the edge of my chair, "Alright, fair enough. Let me present another argument from a different angle. What do you think our chances of survival are over the next 100 years?"

"Assuming we survive this lottery, we will live out 100 years easily."

"What about a 1,000?"

Obolis peered up, "Hm...The chance of that is likely in the double digits for us both."

"What about 30,000 years?"

Obolis scoffed, "I'd liken that question to fanciful thinking. It's simply too far into the future."

I spread out my hands, "That's how long my contract term is, so what am I trading with Shalahora? It's nothing that important."

Obolis's eyes narrowed, "You know what you're giving away here, and you know better than anyone whether you'll succeed over that length of time. Considering that you're entertaining my inquiries means you like your odds."

I tapped the edge of my seat, "My problem is that everyone I know, love, and value will be gone by then. The only person with a fighting chance to make it that far would be Torix, but that's about it. Everyone else I could hold onto will be gone, and everything will fade, including the future of my species and others I harbor."

My words splashed over us both like icy water,

"Time will erode everything I want to keep until nothing is left."

Obolis furrowed his brow, "You honestly have no hope for your future?"

I shook my head, "Long-term, no."

Obolis peered off, "That...That is saddening to hear. Given your age and circumstances, you shouldn't believe that way. You are far too young to already be living life like that."

"I know. That's why I'm making this deal."

Obolis considered what I said before his eyes widened, "Ah...So this isn't selling your soul. This is your attempt at keeping it since you know it will be lost eventually."

"That's right. I know I have many enemies, but I can wrestle them all down with some time and help. In this case, Shalahora will fill in the need for psionic abilities and stealth, neither of which I enjoy or am good at. This gives me time to focus on ways to develop my skills, which I'm sure you can relate to."

Obolis tilted his head, "Certainly. Delegation is a necessary skill for a ruler. Still, trusting Shalahora seems foolish to me. He could be an agent from an Old One that's steadily trying to pry its way into your life. Aside from that, touching or feeling an Old One hasn't been done. Few even know more than their names, let alone how they could die. Tell me, do you have any answers to those obvious realities?"

I crossed my arms, "My problem with those questions is how they're framed in the first place. They assume that the Old Ones are forces of nature beyond our understanding. Even if they are, let's compare them to lightning and thunder."

I turned a hand to him, "For one, my species assumed that gods created storms, but now we know that isn't the case. Hell, with enough people, we could make storms now. I'm willing to bet the Old Ones are like that; they're mysteries we haven't solved yet."

Obolis tilted his head, "Hm, there was a time when my species considered that to be the case, but that truth doesn't defy any of my points. Let's not forget you're betting your life on this."

I shrugged, "My main claim is that what our ancestors did with lightning, I can do with the Old Ones. We assume they are all powerful, but if you ask me, I think the Old Ones are lying. They use their abilities and distance to lie to us about their limitations."

Obolis blinked, "It still sounds as if you're taking a bet with your life on the line and over an enormous assumption. It seems...Dubious at best but foolish at worst. I expected more from you."

I turned back to my dimensional fabric, "And I thought more of you too, but over time, I learned that you have many limitations. For instance, do you think you could defeat me in combat right now?"

Obolis rolled his eyes, "Does it matter?"

"It does for proving my point. When we first met, I assumed you'd slaughter me before I uncovered more about you. Now I know I could give you a run for your money if we fought."

Obolis sneered, "Perhaps, but how does that defy what I've stated?"

"Because I've seen that same pattern over and over again."

Obolis answered by gawking at me like I was stupid. I kept etching as I talked, "When I first met Yawm of Flesh, he seemed beyond my comprehension. His powers were utterly absurd. He had developed a philosophy and charisma I couldn't compare to. He even threw away everything he worked for on a whim. The guy was so sure of himself that he did something like that without a second thought."

Obolis furrowed his brow in confusion, so I answered his unspoken question, "Yawm had a developed organization, but he killed them after they failed him several times. When we met, he was an individual. Anyways-"

