I stopped etching, "That was all a facade. Yawm was a broken warrior who followed a twisted ideology. He'd been chewed up and spit out by Etorhma, and I was tasked with handling that abomination's leftovers. I wouldn't have been able to do something like that if Yawm was in full glory, but he wasn't even a shade of his former self."

Obolis spread his hands, "So because of one enemy's false pretense, you believe all enemies are hollow? He was an exception, and exceptions simply serve to prove the rule."

I continued welding into the page, "That'd be the case if I didn't have other examples. Here's another one; Lehesion seemed like some emboldened, invincible god with an absurd lifespan and unknown knowledge. Everyone spoke about him as a legend, and they revered him."

I raised a hand, "When I met Lehesion, he was a god but a shattered one, like a beautiful vase plastered back together poorly. He looked whole, but the cracks in his persona began to show when he was tasked to handle anything. He'd start to leak out from all of his imperfections."

I turned to Obolis, "In reality, Lehesion was running from all the mistakes he made in his reincarnated life, which has been far worse than his original one. Why? Because he couldn't make any excuses anymore. Even with everything handed to him, he found a way to fumble it all, so his failings were his own. Instead of taking responsibility, he escaped by letting Elysium destroy his ego."

Obolis rolled his hands, "So let us assume your point is true. What evidence do you have that the Old Ones are comparable to sentients like us? From what I've gathered, they exist without limits outside of the self-imposed ones they've decided to take upon themselves."

I shook my head, "I've spoken with four of the Old Ones, and all four of them wanted my help. There's a reason the Old Ones are always asking for avatars, and I'll figure out why."

Obolis raised his brow, "And that's supposed to guarantee that you can eradicate them? Isn't that a colossal leap in logic?"

I peered at my contract, "It's not as much of one as you'd think. I mean, I'm a simple sentient like anyone else. Despite that, all of the Old Ones are knocking at my door. Even with all of my limitations and weaknesses, they all need me. Baldowah said it was because I was immortal, but I don't think he's giving me the full picture. None of them are."

I heated the silver page before tracing into the steel with heated, telekinetic contact points, "They're all lying while asking for my help as if I were an item at some auction house. Doesn't that say something about them?"

"It could, but that's not a guarantee. You can't base your life on some arbitrary assumptions."

I turned to Obolis from my work, "What are you even talking about? Everyone does that every day. We assume we'll continue living past our next few moments. We assume we'll have food every day. What I'm doing is no different."

Obolis considered for a moment before he turned a palm to me, "There is a difference in magnitudes between those assumptions. Your mundane examples have been proven time and time again. One does not assume they'll receive food every day until they've managed to secure it for some time."

Obolis shrugged, "Your assumption about the Old Ones is a hunch based on other hunches. Your example is a false equivalency because it ignores scale and context."

I blinked, Obolis's answer making a lot of sense. Still, something about his replies rubbed me the wrong way. It wasn't like him to dig this deeply into someone else's business unless he had something to gain. I got this sneaking suspicion that he was trying to manipulate me, and I intended to stamp it out before he succeeded.

I met Obolis's eye, "At the end of the day, I've made big promises to a lot of people. I promised Yawm I'd change Schema. I promised someone else I'd save the eldritch. Now I'm promising Shalahora I'll kill an Old One. Every one of those goals seems impossible, but I've learned that isn't true."

I raised my brow, "Half of the hardships involved with doing something is convincing yourself that it's possible. Think of all the time spent on worry and hesitation. That's a lot of what makes life a challenge. If you eliminate doubt, you're removing a lead cloak from your shoulders."

I peered at my palm, "I know I have an opportunity because I've been lucky in many ways. I'm aiming to take full advantage of it, but I need help to make that happen. Shalahora is a means to that end."

Obolis gave me a slow nod, "Hmm, are you certain this isn't an idea planted by the Old Ones you're looking down on? Even if it stretches into tens of thousands of years, this contract will still be a blink of an eye to them."

I shrugged, "In that case, I'm abusing their sense of time, so regardless of what they think, I'm getting a good deal." I frowned, "After all, the Old Ones look down on all of us. That's a weakness that's easy to take advantage of."

Sensing he couldn't change my mind, the Emperor walked to a window, "Hm...Then we shall see the results of your decision in time. It will either be bold or be a blunder. I also hope that Shalahora doesn't come to disappoint you. I say so as I've been rather discontented with these supposed 'rulers' for quite some time."

Glad for the change in topic, I blinked, "Ah...You expected more from them too?"

"Of course. They're incompetent considering the sheer amount of resources they were given."

While turning back to my unfinished contract, I murmured, "Yeah, I couldn't believe how ineffective they are, but being fed that psionic fluid hasn't put them in the best position for mental clarity."

Obolis's face wrinkled, "Indeed...It would appear they were crippled from the onset. I'm certain Shalahora shall unmask whoever has committed that crime, in particular. None of us can stand against his psionic might after all."

"Yup."

A moment passed before Obolis coughed into his hand, "Ahem, that is to say, I have a bit of a confession to make."

I turned to him, my eyes sharp as razors, "Oh man, don't tell me you're working with Elysium? You know what that means, right?"

Energy charged around me, the air turning thick like a liquid. Obolis raised his palms, "Steady there. I would never ally with those mongrels. Elysium is destroying my Empire as we speak, so there's no means of reconciliation with them. Rather, I'm making a confession regarding my place in this lottery."

The energy dispersed from around me, "Ah, alright...Then let's hear whatever it is."

Obolis took a breath before saying, "Hm. How to say this...I was contacted by Schema well before this lottery began. It was meant to be a cleansing of galactic corruption, so to speak."

I put my hands on my metal panel, "Ok, so Schema does that by killing everyone? Seems a bit much to me, but what do I know?"

Obolis raised a finger, "I disagree. This exercise was meant to expose the gluttony of the current nobles that rule over the masses. That's precisely why the current crop of rulers here has been so disappointing - they are byproducts of a cushioned life. One given to them, not earned by their own efforts."

I didn't know much about the heart of Schema's society since I'd only experienced worlds on the outskirts of Schema-owned space. Well, aside from Obolis's planets. Curious about that central core for Schema, I finished a page before turning to Obolis, "So you're telling me that every single one of these rulers inherited what they have?"

Obolis furrowed his brow, "Not all, but most. These are not the founders of their territories because a ruler merely needs to own a large set of territories. How they obtained those territories is irrelevant. Even I have well over fifty family members that classify as rulers, yet most of them hardly live up to a ruling title's implications."

Bitterness leaked into his voice. Obolis turned a hand, "These rulers here are the same. They are beneficiaries of great sentients and grew fat on that unearned privilege. So much so that they mistook their birthright for an earned advantage. It led to a mental delusion where they believed themselves better."

Obolis bristled at his words, "Until now, where the difference between the spoiled and the spoilers has become clear."

That subject sounded personal. Peering down at my contract, I wondered if I'd deal with the same issues with my guild or family. Hell, could I even have children in the first place? Obolis interrupted my thoughts as he grabbed one of his gauntleted wrists,

"Though...At times, I do worry about several of my kin. Helios or Victoria? They shall be fine. Florence? Edward? Many of my own will struggle, and that is...Unfortunate. Very unfortunate."

I wondered if anyone in my faction carried the requirements for the lottery, but I doubted it. Dismissing that worry, I kept focused on the cipheric contract while saying,

"You won't have to worry about Florence. That guy knows when to get the hell out of a dangerous situation." I etched some more while raising my brows, "But it does seem weird that Schema's killing everyone instead of just taking what they all have. Dead workers are unproductive workers."

Obolis shrugged, "Schema isn't allowed to seize property unless it's obtained through inheritance. The exchange is where Schema is allowed to force deference to his wishes, similar to taxation. The lottery can also be contrived as a challenge, so there aren't many restrictions for Schema in decimating we weaklings."

I leaned on my desk, "Huh, inheritances...I guess that's another reason for Schema to dislike immortals. He can't get whatever they own, at least not easily. Anyways, is this the confession? Because it's not exactly the end of the world."

Obolis rolled a hand, "I wish that were the case. You see-"

I flatlined, "Obolis. I don't have time for your theatrics. Out with it."

Obolis bit his tongue before turning a hand to me, "I was offered a quest by Schema to undermine the rulers in exchange for a portion of their resources."

I finished the cipheric markings, and a couple of other minds drafted up different versions of the finished manuscript. A moment passed, and I edited out my simplest mistakes. Other psyches dwelled on what Obolis said, and the Emperor waited until I finished my task. Once handled, I closed my grimoire before picking it up and charging the pages.

I tilted my head at Obolis, "Ok...So you've been hired by Schema to kill the rulers here?"

Obolis fidgeted, "Essentially, yes."

With my free hand, I dragged my fingers down my face. I gazed at Obolis like a disappointed friend, "You were desperate to save your empire, huh?"

Obolis couldn't meet my eye, "There seemed to be no other way, and this opportunity was too much to ignore. In hindsight, I know that greed defied my inner sense of reason. It was foolish of me to accept the task, but what's done is done."

I bent my head sideways, "And now you don't want Shalahora or me to expose what you've been doing to the other rulers? Is that it?"

Obolis raised his hands, "That...That is the heart of this issue."

I peered down at Obolis, "So what have you done to the rulers so far?"

Obolis took a breath before lowering his hands, "It's more so a case of what I haven't done...Yet, that is. I have access to far more resources than many of these rulers, but I've generally kept that to myself. I've also ensured these members couldn't properly manage their information systems."

My grimoire hummed with mana as I nodded, "Ah, so that's why you wanted to take the rulers off of life support when I first arrived. You wanted a slice of what they had for yourself."

Energy coalesced over the closed pages, crystallizing and melting like cruor disintegrating back to blood. Obolis frowned at the glowing mass, "To some extent, I wanted what they owned. However, by the time that situation had come to pass, I realized the gravity of our situation. Schema needed no help culling these people, and I would soon struggle to survive once I was one of the few left alive."

I shook my head, "Damn...Well, that's not so bad that I need to cut you off or expose you. At least you didn't help Elysium. If you had, I'd probably be forced to kill you."

Obolis's eyes narrowed, "Thinly veiled threats, hmm? I thought we were above that."

I raised a brow, "Thinly veiled? What? And anyway, wouldn't you try to kill me if I colluded with Elysium to destroy your Empire?"

Obolis's face contorted at the idea. I stepped over and put a hand on his shoulder, "Exactly." I lowered my hand, "I have to head out."

Obolis murmured, "Then so be it...But before that, when did you learn to use the cipher so well that you can draft contracts now? I watched the entire time, and it seemed spotless after the edits."

Obolis didn't know I dilated time while I sat there, and a dozen different Daniels argued, conceded, and championed the document until it was perfect. It would've taken hours without those strategies, but Obolis had no idea. From his perspective, I breezed through the process like an experienced contractor.

I had no intention of shattering that illusion as I'd seen how effective those facades could be. I shrugged, "Eh, I found the time to practice since the lottery started."

Obolis's left eye twitched before he winced, "This entire event has been nothing short of a farce. I'll never know how Schema expected us to manage these circumstances with such limited information."

My grimoire finished charging, a pulse radiating through the room. Obolis coughed into a hand, "Ahem...It would seem it's time for you to go to your shadowy friend. I hope you'll keep what we've discussed in mind."

As I left, I tapped the room's outer wall with my fist, "Depending on what you've done, I'll consider not telling anyone anything. That's a big if, but we'll see. We'll discuss your repayment after I uncover what you've done."

