After hours in perfect resonance, our soul bond is complete.

Our Celestial Energy cycles slow down, as we've reached a point where it cannot be refined any further.

I feel as though I should be fatigued, as I've released more energy than I ever have in any battle; yet instead, I feel refreshed and stronger than ever before.

The entire massive room we're in is perfectly clear to my eyes.

There are flat walls, two statues at the back sides, and shattered soul weapons and armor all over the floor.

After laying together and enjoying the moment of peace, as our bodies and minds create no disturbance between each other at all, this silence is finally broken by a light sound of cracking.

It makes the floor vibrate ever so slightly, and even the statues begin to hum and give off extremely dull white glows.

I can see the Demonic Statue to my back react with the red aura I pour out into the air, and the angel statue behind Maria glimmers with a blue tint.

Deep within the center of both statues, I see a single glyph that seems to power them. It is identical and looks extremely familiar... yet I cannot remember what it means or where I've seen it before.

We both accept our moment has come to its natural end and stand up as the floor starts to shake even more.

Both of us pour tendrils of concentrated red and blue aura out from our souls to collect all of the blood-bonded and soul armor crafted from thousands of nobles, and in seconds, they reform all over our bodies.

Our new auras mend them and strengthen them even further than their original forms.

–

Outside, the four stairways tremble, and fractures begin forming all over them.

A pressure fills the void and overwhelms the senses of all the Noble Demons that still try to climb these stairs. Dragons fall from the sky, and all of the movement for thousands of kilometers in every direction halts as the whole temple glows with a faint white light.

It starts at the bottom, but the cracks move all the way up to the top, causing the structural integrity of this pyramid to waver.

The lone Royal Demon in this Ravine has wandered far away, as he became uninterested in waiting any longer.

However, even at the furthest edges of this darkness, the eerie pulsing and white light that comes out from these cracks hit his senses. It is unlike anything he has ever felt in the Ravine before.

This dark-skinned Royal finishes up what he is doing by releasing a ball of darkness from the tip of a spear-shaped soul weapon, sending it down on a pedestal where half a dozen Nobles stand. He finds one that looks like it is near the verge of a High Noble breakthrough and considers training it for a few millennia, but instead, he's found something else to satiate his boredom.

The ball of dark black celestial energy obliterates the pedestal, and every demon within hundreds of kilometers of the blast dies on the spot. For over ten thousand kilometers in every direction, the shockwave knocks out even Nobles, flooding through the web-like pathways of the ravine.

This Royal doesn't even look down at the destruction; he only smirks and lets go of the spear to let it float up above his head again and takes a step forward into the darkness in the direction of the temple.

"It's them. The humans. They... survived..."

The Demon disappears, and its cloud of darkness dissipates into the atmosphere where it once floated.

–

I watch the dark black barrier that sealed the outer edge of this temple's walls from the outside ravine fade.

Once I can sense what the outside of this room looks like, I'm able to mentally piece together how we got here.

After losing the battle with that Royal Demon, we fell into the crack of this temple and recovered on our own. Why the Demon did not follow us down here and finish us off, I'm not sure, and why the sensory barrier is being lifted now is a mystery to me as well.

I begin to watch the temple crumble all around us.

The stair fractures grow too large and collapse under their own weight.

The battlefield at the top of this structure breaks and falls away as there is no longer anything supporting its weight.

However, the floor below us moves upward, and the fading protective barrier makes all of the falling black stone rubble fall to our sides.

Even the walls and ceiling of this room start to crack and fall away.

Once the barrier fully dissipates, leaving us out in the empty air of the Ravine, all that remains of the temple is a raised pillar of black stone reaching up even higher than the pyramid was before.

A massive amount of rock has ejected from the ground to raise us up, and at the highest point of this monument, the now glowing statues of a Red Demon and Blue Angel with a white glyph in both of their chests glow like a beacon into the darkness.

Yet, the darkness of the ravine isn't as eerie and disorienting anymore.

The feeling of suppression, like some kind of heavy seal that was blocking my senses; it's far weaker.

I can see far out into the endless caves and valleys of black stone with my own eyes as clear as a night with a bright full moon.

There is even a recognizable fluctuation in the darkness rocketing our way from far out in the Ravine, but noticing its presence doesn't affect my calm mood at all.

Maria and I float up in the air, even higher than the raised temple and its statues.

Our own red and blue auras outshine the pale imitations below us.

Our extremely refined Celestial Energy finally has space to expand, and the result of healing our minds after the immense mental trauma from that Demon has brought our energy control maturity to a far higher level.

There is no longer any tension in our vibrations.

Nothing holds our minds and souls back from showing everything and allowing our powers to bloom.

Red and black waves of energy flow like lava out from every pore on my body, seep deep into my armor, and saturate my entire being from head to toe. It is a fluctuating mixture of destruction and creation in harmony that reveals my true Royal state of existence.

The liquid energy even covers my face and forms a set of horns on both sides of my forehead to perfectly reflect the portion of power I've absorbed from demons, and as I summon my sword into my hand, it glows bright red, flickering with flames of life representing the human side flowing through my soul.

Maria sparkles and glimmers as though a new level of beauty has been unleashed into reality. Source Resin flickers over her smooth skin and enhances her vision, leaving white reflective sparkles behind her every movement.

Her Soul Energy core is perfectly calm.

There is no longer any black hole in its center, nor is there any invisible thread of energy holding it back from realizing its full potential.

Her entire being only exudes a pure, powerful blue Royal glow.

The infinite sources of Celestial Energy are pouring out from every single cell of her being, like a countless number of cores are being activated at once. The energy is flooding into her armor, and creating the aura of a woman that is filled with the confidence to be herself and dominate reality around her without any doubts.

As her sword is summoned from her soul, it glows and sparkles with the same glimmer her eyes exude, and her aura becomes filled with an icy wave of light.

The manifestations of sparkling angel wings grow from her back to reflect the depths of her soul.

Our Royal Vibrations flow in unison and invigorate each other's weight in reality.

This power is no longer a mysterious passive additive that strengthens our attacks; instead, it has become so deeply tethered into our souls that I feel myself unconsciously casting tens of thousands of layers of intent just as I move my arm upward to raise my sword.

What took intense concentration and pure focused willpower to develop layers of vibrations in my attacks before we fell into the temple now feels like a child's measly attempt at imitating the real thing.

My eyes are layered with thousands of new Royal Vibrations to enhance their abilities every time I shift my pupils.

The aura of corruption and celestial fire that swirls through my being and around my body is constantly triggering millions of layers of vibrations just in its resting state, ready to unleash far greater power at the mere thought of it.

There are no longer any distractions or barriers of doubt holding back my ability to follow my path to rule.

We have become True Royals.
