"Precisely. Since we know that at least one of the propositions in these documents is true, it means the other proposals gain validity."

I shook my head, "Damn...Alright, what's left then?"

"There are two other claims here. The first I'll mention is the mana farms. Here it mentions many high profile mages disappearing at random. All of them carried tremendous mana generation, and therefore it concludes they are being used to power Schema's system."

I scoffed, "Uh, no. That's impossible."

Torix leaned back, "To dismiss it so rapidly, perhaps you may explain where your confidence stems from?"

I pointed at myself, "My mana generation is literally thousands of times higher than anyone I've ever met. From what we've seen, I'm very responsive to Schema's alterations too. Despite all of that, it takes an enormous amount of time to implement even small adjustments onto me."

I lowered my hand, "If that's the case, then there's no damn way normal mages could power the system. If anything, I think Schema is burning matter for energy like Yawm or Helios. If that's not the case, it's coming from a different dimension or something like that."

Torix nodded, "Hmm, a logical manner of thinking. I would agree, yet I find myself wondering how you understand the mana constraints involved with system augmentation. Is there an elaboration is in order?"

I pointed at my runes,

"This is what Schema's using to enhance people. Runes. The big AI in the sky probably has a huge database with specific cipher inscriptions for every individual. He pumps mana into those inscriptions based on the amount of 'experience' someone's earned. I can't think of any other way he does it, at least."

I tilted my head, "That's actually why I think Schema increased my level cap. He's pumping the same amount of mana as he would for a normal person. I just end up using it more efficiently. Once again, just a guess."

I raised my eyebrows, "I mean, if we use that line of logic, it's also why you have my bonuses. Your new body just uses mana and the cipher better."

Torix's jaw went slack. He stayed silent for a moment. I waved a hand over his face,

"Uh, you ok?"

"Ahem, certainly. I was simply astonished. I've never deduced such a likely method of Schema's enhancement. It was a mystery for me until you just dissected it in front of me with ease." Torix stared at me,

"To have gained such insights into the inner workings of Schema, and to do so from such disparate observations...I must say, I'm impressed."

I coughed into a hand, a bit embarrassed by the compliment, "I mean, I wouldn't say it's perfectly accurate. Schema might be using something else. That's just my guesstimation."

Torix waved a hand, "Please, don't belittle your findings to me. That was a very sound and logical method of handling system augmentation. In accordance with Occam's Razor, that's almost certainly correct. I do find myself wondering what you meant by a cipher, however."

I scratched the side of my face. It might be time to tell him about it.

"It's a code that lets you change the laws of our universe. I use it. Don't learn it, or else you'll be exiled from Schema's system."

Torix raised a hand, "Ah, that's why you've never spoken of it. Forbidden knowledge. I will pursue it no further per your wishes."

I turned towards where Spear waited for us to return,

"Let's talk while we walk."

"Let's."

I turned towards the army before jumping from the ground. Torix paced onto a condensed ball of dominion mana, pulling himself up with it. We reached Spear, who helped us warp everything here to begin with. He meditated at the top of a flattened spire.

Several saysha beetles crawled over his armor, each of them confused by his existence. As we approached, Spear awakened. He stood, turning towards us while brushing the Saysha beetles off. Spear looked Torix up and down. Spear crossed his arms,

"Hm. You might be more imposing. Time will tell."

Torix steepled his fingers, "Indeed, it shall."

Spear stared for a moment before giving Torix a slow nod. Spear turned to me, "I like the change already. The lich is more confident, and confidence leads to victory."

I pointed towards the army, "That's exactly the plan. Those guys are going to help us out with that, but we have to get back to Elderfire."

Spear gave a curt nod before leaping down onto the metal below. He crashed into steel, the matrices caving under his heft. After walking over towards the army, he cleaved through space-time. As the soldiers walked towards an empty side of Elderfire, I turned to Torix,

"Alright, so what else did they find in the reports?"

"Ah, yes, the reports." Torix skimmed through them, "It also mentions that Schema is purposefully stalling eldritch research."

I yawned, "Yeah, and?"

Torix fumbled his words, "W-what do you mean yeah and? This is a revolutionary discovery."

"I'll be honest, I've thought that ever since I met Yawm forever ago. He hypothesized the same thing, and his logic was sound. Considering how limiting Schema's research and whatnot is, it only makes sense that he's doing it for a reason."

Torix waved a hand, "Then why haven't you disclosed this information with us? Also, why haven't we done anything about it?"

"Schema exiles anyone that doesn't do what he wants when he wants it. I didn't want you guys involved, and the information isn't exactly helpful. I mean, at best, we risk our guilds and lives for a chance at changing Schema. At worst, we're all exiled before we even get the chance."

I shrugged, "It just seems like a lost cause. I mean, look everyone who's tried. Yawm was a monster. The Adair Family is turning people into monsters. Everyone who's tried ended up going way past the deep end. They're insane, and not because they know Schema isn't perfect."

I rolled my shoulders,

"They're insane because of what they're willing to do to change the system in place. That's why we're working hard to stop them. How much do we need to know about them before they're considered enemies?"

Torix cupped his chin, "Hmm, perhaps you're correct on that account. I understand the need to put them down. I was simply feeling a bit left out is all."

I grinned, "Now you know what it felt like when you streamed my fights without telling me."

Spear turned towards us, "I find it odd. You both are very critical of Schema."

I raised an eyebrow, "I understand what he does is hard. That's why I'm helping out. I just understand where he could use some improvement. That's all."

Spear put his spears back into their magnetic sheaths along his back, "If so, then that is reasonable." He turned to the shrinking horde, "The army is almost back in Elderfire. What's the next course of action?"

Torix walked up to the portal, the desert contrasting the metal hellscape of the silvers. His legion of infused undead covered several dunes worth of sand, their numbers many. The lich turned towards us and cackled,

"We sharpen our claws and bloody our teeth for war."
