That night, she dreamed of a squirrel sitting on a throne carved from an acorn, a tiny Titania sitting on its shoulder and whispering in its ear. This was almost a direct scene from one of Oberon’s stories about their early days conquering the area that would later become Everspring. Seeing it rendered in her dreams made her laugh, but she woke up feeling sad.

That day, Elise’s morning classes passed by uneventfully, and she expected Aetheric Illusions to be the same, since it was a lecture class and not a practical one, but as soon as she got inside, Jessie hit her with an absolute nuclear missile of a telepathic message.

“Elise!” she said, practically vibrating with excitement. “My {Rune of Fate} changed last night!

In the divine realm, Titania was known as one of the most cheerful goddesses, always smiling, and never taking anything too seriously. She was easy to befriend, mischievous, and all around a lively addition to any conversation.

None of those traits were visible on her face as she watched over the conversation between Elise and Oberon. Her face was stony and emotionless, and her body was limp as she lay in a bed, staring up at the display hovering above her.

Where did it all start to go wrong? she wondered.

It wasn’t supposed to be like this. She and Oberon were supposed to be together. She thought he would follow her. He always had before, but this time, he had not. In fact, he had resolved himself never to follow her.

Her Divinity Quest had been simple. Confusingly so. After what she and Oberon had learned, she was expecting something impossible, but hers was neither. All she had to do was choose to ascend.

She didn’t mean to do it when she did. She had just been laying around, thinking about how she would like to be a goddess, and the System evidently deemed that was enough. Her resolve was her decision. She had chosen to ascend, so the System decided when. It was so simple. Too simple.

And it was only after she ascended to godhood that she realized why. Her Divinity Quest wasn’t impossible, but it did force her to leave part of herself behind. That part was just not what she had expected. Unlike Oberon, she had no qualms with ascending. Becoming a goddess did not go against her principles. All it did was tear her from her other half. From Oberon.

“You can go tell Titania that I will not be joining her, and that I do not care if she dies, though she’s—”

Titania cut off the feed of the conversation. She couldn’t watch any longer. For a while, she just lay in her bed, staring blankly up at the starry sky of her divine realm. Then, she slowly turned her head to the side to look at the presence that had joined her just a moment prior.

“Took you long enough,” she said.

An enormous dark silhouette with slitted yellow eyes stared back at her from the empty field she had laid out a few days prior.

“You are not resisting?” he rumbled.

“What could I do against the dragon god?” asked Titania.

“I am pleased that your intelligence was not just a rumor.”

“I’m flattered,” she replied. “But is this really necessary? Does the great dragon god really need a hostage to threaten his newly ascended daughter?”

“Of course,” he said. “She is my daughter, after all. I’m sure she’s preparing all kinds of things for me. If I am not forced to use you, I will be disappointed.”

“Is it not cowardly to not only use a hostage, but to wait in ambush for a new goddess?”

“Perhaps,” he said. “But if anyone can overcome this, it is my daughter.”

“You have an odd idea of what it means to be a parent.”

“So I’ve heard. Now, enough chatter. Are you going to make me carry you?”

“You are here to capture me. I should at least make you do some work.”

The dragon god chuckled, and Titania felt a gentle, but inexorable mass of mana wrap around her, lifting her off her bed.

“I’ve prepared a lovely cage for you,” he said. “I hope you find it comfortable.”
