His risk of death from that kind of summoning was a question mark, since he had no idea what the success rate of knight missions was or how much weight the Artonans put on keeping the Avowed they brought with them safe.

He did think his chances of survival would be much, much higher if his profile stayed a lie. And that was without even considering the quagmire that would be everyone’s opinions on what should be done with a wizard from a species that wasn’t supposed to have them.

If the Artonans find out about Bearer, about the authority sense, about how the skill is going to grow…

His auriad tightened on his arm. He wondered if he’d have any major choices left at all, or if, from that point on, he’d just be trying to survive the lifelong version of that wave bowling him over—icy, black, and unstoppable.

“—ratches.”

Startled from his spiraling thoughts by the sound, Alden stepped around the foot of the bed and walked over to look at his host more closely.

“No more gokoratches,” Stuart said in a quiet but annoyed voice.

His eyes were closed.

I didn’t know Artonans sleep-talked, Alden thought, worries replaced temporarily by amusement. Kibby had snored sometimes, but that was all.

He waited for a while, but Stuart was silent.

Well, thanks for bringing me back to the present, anyway. I guess I don’t have to figure out everything right now…even if it is all coming my way faster than I’d like.

******

******

Stuart woke about three hours later.

Alden was kneeling on his learning cushion and watching his tablet with his headphones on. He’d briefly texted Boe earlier, but now he was watching duel footage to pass the time. He’d been at it longer than expected. Stuart’s cushioning spells had given out a while ago, but instead of waking right up, he’d been lying on the hard floor.

“Good morning,” Alden said in Artonan, watching his host fight his way out of his covers.

Stuart finally freed himself and stood. “It’s not dawn,” he pointed out.

“True,” Alden agreed. “What do you say to someone who wakes up when it’s still dark out? Good waking?”

“That’s nice! It sounds like you’re happy I didn’t die in my sleep.” He started folding up the blanket.

“I am really glad about that. Can you imagine the conversation I would have had with your family?”

Stuart brought the blanket over to put it in one of the drawers set into the platform that the bed rested on top of.

“You’re on your cushion,” he said in a pleased voice when he was finished. “Should I leave you to your learning?”

“I’m ready to do whatever you like. I’ve been talking to a friend back home and studying for school, but I don’t really need to keep at it.”

Boe wasn’t likely to have time for a long text exchange today. He’d been stuck in serious conversations with worried or annoyed authority figures all morning. It was a predictable consequence of vanishing for months and then showing back up at school out of the blue with the intention of re-enrolling, but Alden still felt vicarious pain at the thought of how awkward all the questions must be.

“This is just a video of students at my school dueling with their powers,” he explained to Stuart. “We’re going to start training this way on Wednesday evening, so I was supposed to observe a few.”

“Avowed dueling? May I see?”

Alden gestured at the tablet. “Of course you can—“

Stuart was already hurrying toward him eagerly.

Alden took off the headphones and turned the volume up. There wasn’t much in the way of conversation on the video, but occasionally someone on the sidelines shouted something of interest. And Stuart would probably want to hear any spells that were being cast.

Not that any had been in this duel so far.

The battle was between an Adjuster and Francis, the Sway from the B-list. It had been filmed around half a year ago.

Alden really didn’t need to watch this fight. Reviewing one-on-one footage from other classes had mostly been assigned to them so that they wouldn’t show up on Wednesday with no clue what was going on, and he had a handle on the basic rules for a dueling session down now.

But the hero program had almost no Sways. And he had been curious about how Francis actually made progress on his “Beat the A’s” goal.

In this duel, at least, he seemed to be doing all right.

“I don’t understand what’s going on,” said Stuart.

“The bell sounds the rings on his fingers make let him slowly build a suggestion in the listener’s mind. And then when he finally triggers it, they have a harder time resisting. He focuses on making people lose control of their own bodies. That’s why the girl he’s competing against is chasing him around the dueling block and trying to kick him instead of casting. He’s made her forget how to use her arms, and she’s an Adjuster…that’s the name of the class that relies the most on spell impressions.”

Stuart watched Francis, who was panting and more serious than Alden had seen him during club, as he barely leaped away from his opponent before a foot could catch him in the gut.

Ding ding.

Is he much stronger than her?” Stuart asked.

“No,” said Alden. “I don’t know exactly what talents either of them chose, but she’s one rank higher according to how Earth ranks Avowed. Normally she would have a skill and three or more spell impressions that go with it. If she’s developed a little more she might have a second weaker skill, but probably not yet. They’re in one of the beginner combat classes in this video.

“I only know a little basic information about the boy with the bells. He can’t build the suggestion very fast, so I think they must give him permission to start using his powers at the start of class instead of waiting for duels to begin. So I imagine it feels unfair to his opponent.”

Stuart watched them. “I think she’d win if she stood still and focused on using her spell impressions instead of running around. They should be castable even if she’s lost limb awareness.”

Alden filed that info away in case it ever came in handy one day.

The fight finished with a time call and no real victor. Both participants looked angry about it as the Adjuster went to the bleachers for a break and Francis headed toward another dueling block to face a different opponent. As was typical of classes held in the gym, there was a minimum of wasted time. There were several blocks, and people were always moving in and out of them as they were assigned new partners.

Stuart leaned over Alden’s arm, trying to see a pair in a corner of the screen better.

“Do you want me to show you the close-up footage for that particular fight?” Alden asked.

“Whatever you would normally watch is fine. I’m not very familiar with what human Avowed your age should be able to do. I do recognize some of the weaponry, though.”

Alden tapped on the corner Stuart had been looking at and held his finger there until the tablet offered him the option to focus on the Meister vs. Meister match-up.

The weapons in question were a javelin in the hands of one boy and a diamond-shaped shield on the arm of the other. The javelin-wielder was an A-rank, the shield user an S.

It was not a fair fight.

Alden winced as the S-rank pressed forward easily, every strike against his shield seemingly contributing to a wall of force that appeared to cover every inch of him except for the shield.

“How are you supposed to beat that?” he groaned.

“By overwhelming the strength of the arm holding the Laughing Silver Denial,” said Stuart promptly. “Or by transmogrifying it a little bit. Or by altering the floor beneath his feet. Or…”

He kept going, naming all kinds of things the javelin-wielder definitely didn’t have the ability to do.

Alden completely stopped paying attention to the tablet to listen to Stuart.

“Do you like dueling?” he asked finally. “Is that something you do a lot of?”

“Of course. But magical dueling takes many forms. Does dueling at your school always involve combat?”

“I think the part of class called ‘dueling’ does. High-rank Avowed do have a lot of combat abilities, so…fighting. The school thinks it’s one of the best ways for us to grow more powerful.”

“Mmmm…” Stuart looked thoughtful.

“What did that humming sound mean?” Alden asked curiously. “Do you disagree?”

“No. I don’t. But anything that promotes <<the fruitful striving of the self>> is useful. There are many goals to strive for. I’m sure the Avowed of the icorlax species would <<stagnate>> and wither if fighting were the only way they could grow.”  He glanced at the tablet, then back up at Alden. “You’ll be doing this soon?”

“Why do you sound so worried?”

“How will you use your skill if you don’t have teammates?”

“Whatever rope I bring to class will be entrusted to me before the duel starts. And then I’ll have to make sure not to drop it.”

Stuart looked doubtful.

“It’s fine if I don’t win a lot of duels,” said Alden. “It’s about improving. Striving.”

“That’s an admirable attitude. And you did say you were attending the school because you wanted to throw yourself at something challenging. Do you want to duel me before you go back to Earth? Maybe before third meal?”

Alden dropped the tablet. In a futile effort to make it look intentional, he let it slide off his knees onto his learning cushion without reaching for it again.

“I didn’t mean a fight,” Stuart clarified. “You’re in a squishboot. Really I didn’t mean any kind of proper duel since the word implies a similarity of…but I would be helping you practice your skill so that your missed days of schooling were not wasted.”

“If you want to, that would be f—”

“I’ll revise the itinerary again,” Stuart said eagerly, bouncing to his feet.

“Shouldn’t you send me a copy of this itinerary you keep mentioning?” Alden asked, looking up at him.

“I could make you your own version. Yes. I’ll do that.”

“I can’t see your version?”

“No. It has personal notes on it.”

That made Alden want to see it more, but he’d just have to live with the curiosity. “What’s next on the list for today then?”

“I need to go to the house to get our first meal,” said Stuart. “And select some things for my spell.”

“The grand presentation.”

Stuart made a high noise so faint that Alden barely caught it.

A nervous sound?

“You don’t have to think it’s grand. Maybe I should have called it interesting. Or worthwhile?”

******

******

A short time later, they were down by the stream, releasing their zansees. Alden’s jar full gave them one final flash when he bent to pour them into the gentle flow of the water.

“Zansees are hyektch,” he said, as the two of them headed up the hill toward the main house.

With the jars emptied, they didn’t have much light, but Stuart didn’t seem to need it to navigate his own backyard. “That’s a good way to use hyektch. I think I said the same thing the first time Father showed me the stream at night.”

Alden, following close behind him, tried to picture a man who could chop giant demons in half carrying a tiny boy down to the water to show him the pretty lights. It was surprisingly easy.

And somewhat sobering.

“This place is beautiful, Stu-art’h. Thank you for having me as your guest. Properly this time.”

Stuart took a few more steps, then stopped. When Alden stood beside him, he said, “The forest here is special.” His face was turned toward the dark canopy above them. “It’s quiet for a forest. But it’s much more alive than even the jungle around LeafSong. In its way.”

“I know,” said Alden. “I feel it.”

“Do you?” Stuart was still gazing up. “What does it feel like to you?”

Alden wondered if answering honestly was a little dangerous. He did so anyway, as well as he could. “It feels peaceful, but not in an accidental way. There’s purpose to the feeling.”

He waited for Stuart to comment, but after a few breaths passed, all he said was, “Come on. If we don’t <<dawdle>> we can probably get in and out of the house without running into too many people.”

“Do I get to meet any of them today?” Alden asked. “Your father maybe? Or I could say hello to Evul-art’h face to face for the first time.”

Look at me. I’m just volunteering to say hello to the Primary. Hi, Mr. Jeneth-art’h. It’s me, Alden. The last time you saw me I was wearing a pair of wings. We held hands and I told you about how I used to stare at one particularly awful corpse…remember? Because I’ll never forget that one.

Bet you didn’t think I’d be wandering around your house as a guest one day.

“I’d love to introduce you to Father,” said Stuart, sounding surprised. “But he’s not home.”

“He’s not?”

“I’m sorry. I would have mentioned that he was gone, but I’m so used to everyone just knowing things about him. For some reason, it didn’t occur to me that you wouldn’t. He’s been away from the Mother for months, and he’ll be away for many more, unless something goes wrong.”

“Oh. All right.” He doesn’t plan to be here for Stuart’s affixation? Or after?

It seemed like the kind of occasion where a person might want their closest family nearby.

“Years ago, he decided to delay a <<long-sought>> goal. A <<campaign>> to re-open the way to a place that was abandoned to chaos not too long before our people discovered yours. He returns to that campaign now.” Stuart started walking again. “If he and the others who’ve gone ahead think it’s still <<feasible>>, more will follow. Esh-erdi and Lind-otta discussed it with him when last they were here. They’ll go in a year or so.”

“It’s a long campaign?”

