“Shit,” the captain swore. He stopped his advance, then took a few steps back.

Lana blinked. The sensation faded as he backed away, but her heart was still beating like it was trying to jump out of her chest. What was THAT? She glanced at Fredek, then back at Rain.

He looks…

“I’m sorry, Lana,” Rain called to her. He gestured to Gigs. “Get her something warm to eat and a blanket. It’s cold out here, and she doesn’t have a coat.” He looked back at her, pausing as if considering something.

Why does he look…sad?

The captain shook his head. “Lana, I’ll ask someone else to talk to you, but she probably won’t be here for at least an hour. Her name is Ameliah. She’s the one who was healing people in the city a few days ago. If you don’t want to wait for her, I understand. Fredek and Gigs will take you back to the city if you ask.” He sighed, looking like he wanted to say more. Instead, he turned, then knelt to pick up his helmet. With one last glance at her, he slipped it back on his head, then walked away.

Lana watched him go as her heart rate gradually decreased back toward normal.

What a strange person.

Ameliah dropped lightly into the camp, canceling the remaining duration of Flight and wrapping her cloak tightly about herself. It was too cold for flying to be comfortable—not that it ever was— but she hadn’t felt like walking the whole way back.

Not seeing Rain anywhere, she made her way over to Tallheart. The cervidian was sitting at a table with Staavo, Myth, and Reason. The four of them had their heads together, bent over something she couldn’t see from where she was standing. As she approached, Tallheart looked up, making Staavo swear and jerk out of the way of his pivoting antlers.

“You have returned,” Tallheart said, his eyes flicking to the wooden door they’d installed last night to block the tunnel through the wall. “The others?”

“Vanna’s leading everyone back,” Ameliah replied. “They should be here in about fifteen minutes. They’ll be safe enough without me for that long.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. He looked back down at the table, picking up a Telscribe as Ameliah moved to peer over his shoulder.

“What are you working on?” she asked.

“Aluminum,” Staavo said before Tallheart could reply. He picked up a twisted piece of light-gray metal and tossed it to her. “See for yourself.”

Ameliah deftly snagged it out of the air, then blinked and looked down at the irregularly shaped nugget. “It’s light.”

“Yes,” Tallheart rumbled. “Rain was correct.”

“He usually is with stuff like this,” Ameliah said. She pushed her thumb against the metal, and with barely any force, a small piece snapped off. “It’s weak, too, just like he said.”

Reason sat back in his chair, wiggling his hand at her. “Yes and no. We think it should be stronger than this. There is a lot of junk mixed-in that we haven’t been able to remove yet.”

Ameliah raised an eyebrow. “Did you just speak normally?”

Reason winked at her. After a moment, he laughed, Myth joining him and jostling him lightly with his shoulder.

Staavo rolled his eyes, then held out his hand for the piece Ameliah was holding. She passed it to him, and he tossed it into a glass bowl with a few other small fragments.

Tallheart suddenly grunted in annoyance. There was a flash of disrupted mana from the larger piece of metal he’d been scratching at. He set his Telscribe down with a click, then rumbled discontentedly as he sat back in his chair. “Another failure.”

Myth reached over and patted his shoulder lightly, then looked at Ameliah as he explained. “We’re having problems getting it pure enough to make it into a filter for filter-refining. Tallheart says he hasn’t been able to work out its intrinsic rune yet, so he can’t make a targeting rune for the medium. Without that rune, the filter needs to be made of aluminum for it to work on aluminum. It’s fascinating, really. I never knew runes were this complicated.”

Tallheart nodded, though he looked upset.

“As for Reason and I,” Myth continued, “our skills don’t work very well on metal in the first place. We don’t have the metamagic for it.” He looked at his partner. “Chemical Intuition is helping, at least. We’ve confirmed that it’s an irreducible medium.”

“An element,” Reason said, giving Myth a look. “We decided to use Rain’s terminology, remember?” He cleared his throat. “He who seeks clarity should strive for brevity.”

“No, I don’t remember, Reason,” Myth said. “Irreducible medium is the accepted term in the profession.”

“Too many syllables,” Staavo said without looking up. He was fiddling with a balance scale, weighing out a quantity of some whitish powder, which he then added to the glass bowl.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. He picked up the piece of metal he’d been working on, then started breaking it up into smaller chunks with his gauntleted fingers. He spoke as he added the pieces to Staavo’s bowl. “It is frustrating. This metal does not wish to be separated from the other elements it is, hmm, bonded to. I did not have this much trouble with tungsten. This should be no more difficult, and yet…”

“Didn’t Rain say something about electricity?” Myth asked. “I vote we try that next instead of the acid again.”

“If you can get a coherent procedure out of Rain, then by all means,” Staavo said. “I don’t think he actually knows how the process he was describing works.”

“He has been right about everything else,” Reason said. “I am beginning to change the way I see the very nature of chemistry. The things he knows…”

“Yes, yes,” Staavo said, reaching for a glass flask of a clear liquid. He poured it into the bowl, which began to smoke lightly as the powder dissolved around the chunks of metal. Then, he sat back and drank the remaining liquid from the flask. “What?” he asked when he saw Ameliah staring at him. “It’s just water.”

“I told you not to do that, Staavo,” Reason said. “A careless chemist is a dead chemist.”

“Bah,” Staavo said, setting down the empty flask. He fanned at the smoke rising from the glass bowl with his hand, and Ameliah had to stop herself from asking what the powder had been and why adding the water was making the metal smoke like that.

Can you powder acid?

Truly, it was interesting, what they were doing. The discovery of a new metal would have all sorts of implications, especially if it proved to have unique magical properties for enchanting. However, as much as she wanted to know more, what she truly wanted was to find Rain.

Ameliah took another look around the camp, frowning.

Nothing much had happened after the second kiss, despite the rumors. It had been late, and once the excitement had died down, they’d both gone to sleep, exhausted—her from flying and running half-way to the mountains and back, and him from lying awake and agonizing about her departure. She really needed to talk to him about it. To explain herself.

She smiled. And also kiss him again. That too.

“He is in there,” Tallheart said.

Ameliah jumped, seeing the smith pointing toward one of the sleeping rooms.

“Who’s in the where now?” Staavo asked, looking up from the smoking bowl.

“Ameliah is looking for Rain,” Tallheart said. “I can tell from her heartbeat.”

“You can not,” Ameliah said, giving him a playful shove, careful not to disturb the table.

Tallheart rumbled with amusement, and Ameliah rolled her eyes as she walked away, heading in the indicated direction. The teasing that she and Rain had been enduring for the past few weeks had only gotten worse. If Carten hadn’t fallen off the wall in his excitement and thus earned himself a share of the mockery, it would have been unbearable.

I can’t believe I just kissed him like that in front of everyone.

Ameliah could feel her cheeks heating as the memory washed through her mind, vivid and crystal-clear. Rain had been using Winter at the time, because of course he had been.

She was still smiling as she pushed aside the curtain separating the sleeping room from the rest of the camp. Her smile widened further as she saw Rain sitting there, Dozer on his lap. He was facing her with his helmet off and his eyes closed, clearly meditating.

Then, her smile vanished abruptly as she noticed the tears dripping down his face.

What?

Hurrying over, she crouched down, then had to fight off Dozer as it pushed itself desperately against her hands. She could tell the slime was upset, and it was obvious why. Whatever Rain was experiencing inside his soul, it wasn’t anything good.

“Rain,” she said gently, jostling his shoulder. “Rain, wake up.”

“Huh?” Rain said, blinking. “Ameliah, what…?” He paused, blinking again, then raised a hand to his face and touched the wetness that had collected there. He looked down at his gauntleted fingertips as he took his hand away. “Oh.”

“Here,” Ameliah said, fishing in her pocket and removing a cloth-wrapped ration bar. She unwrapped it, then passed the wrapping to Rain and tucked the ration back into her pocket. He accepted the cloth, using it to dab at his eyes.

Then, he blew his nose into it.

He stared at the soiled scrap of cloth for a moment before handing it to Dozer, who grabbed it immediately.

Though she tried to stop herself, Ameliah let out a strangled snort at the ridiculousness of what had just happened. Rain looked up at her, and she tried to force a concerned expression back onto her face. This was made difficult by Dozer, who was slowly pulling the rag through its membrane, clearly savoring the flavor of its contents.

Rain smiled at her, and Ameliah felt her heart unclench as he began to laugh.

He’s okay.

“What was that noise you just made?” Rain asked, pointing at her. “You sounded like an elephant.”

“I have no idea what that is,” Ameliah said. She shifted off her knees to sit across from him.

“An elephant is…”—Rain tilted his head—”…a giant…trumpet mouse?”

Ameliah gave him a look. “Let me guess. It lives in the same place as the cat snakes.”

“They’re real, I tell you,” Rain said with a wry smile. He sniffed, then cleared his throat. “I’ve never actually seen one in person, though—an elephant, not a ferret. Elephants are much bigger. Like…as big as a house, bigger. You should have them here. You have gazelles, after all.”

Ameliah smiled skeptically as she shook her head. “If you say so. I’d think I would have heard of a non-magical animal that large.” Something brushed her hand, and she looked down to see Dozer offering her the cloth, freshly cleaned. She hesitated, then shrugged and took it. “Thanks, Dozer.”

The slime bumped her offered hand, then oozed back into Rain’s lap.

“How was it over by the crack?” Rain asked as he absently petted the slime. “Did you find any other chasms? Anywhere the Stumper might have come from?”

Ameliah looked up from tucking the cloth into a pocket. “We didn’t have any trouble, but something ate all the evertorches we left behind yesterday. Monsters were lurking at the bottom. No more Stumpers, but I think that’s probably where it came from.”

Rain was looking at her with his head tilted. “What do you mean, something ate the torches?”

“Exactly that,” Ameliah said. “Have you ever heard of a Fire Eater?”

“No.”

“It’s exactly what it sounds like. They’re supposed to be very elusive. Resistant to Divination and so forth, maybe even invisible. I’ve never seen one myself, but there are lots of reports of them stranding people in the dark.”

“Damn. Sounds like a really annoying monster,” Rain said, rubbing at his eyes.

“Mmm,” Ameliah agreed. “Vanna thinks we should just move our camp over there for tonight so we can watch out for it.” She paused, glancing at the curtain. It wouldn’t be long before the others were back. She looked back at Rain, who had let his head fall into his hands. If she was going to say something, now was the time.

“Rain…” she hesitated, but he didn’t look up, so she continued. “Are you…okay? Why were you crying?”

Rain shrugged, still without looking at her. “My body must have started doing that on its own once I was inside my soul.” He took a deep breath, then let it out slowly. “It’s…been a hard morning for me. I’ve been thinking about stuff in circles.”

Ameliah felt her heart clench once more as Rain looked into her eyes, wearing a forced smile on his face. There was only one correct response to that kind of look. She pushed herself onto her hands, then scooted forward so she could wrap her arms around him.

“Thank you,” Rain said softly as he returned the embrace, pressing his cheek against the side of her neck.

They stayed like that for a few moments until the position grew awkward. Rain loosened his grip, and Ameliah released him. Instead of sitting across from him again, she moved next to him so he could lean against her side if he wanted to.

“It’s just…” Rain began, then he sighed. “I’m stressing about my soul. I need to fix it.”

Ameliah nodded. She laid her head on his shoulder to reassure him with the contact. She didn’t say anything, letting him speak.

“There’s a woman out there in the camp that I need to talk to, and I can’t… I can’t get anywhere near her without her staring at me like I’m some kind of monster. Everyone says my soul feels…terrifying.”

“You’re not a monster,” Ameliah said. “Don’t be stupid.”

“But it’s my soul,” Rain protested. “It’s who I am. Being…inside it, it’s made it even more apparent. There’s something wrong with me, Ameliah, apart from the hole in my paling. The chaos… It’s not right. I’m…worried.” He was shaking slightly as he continued. “I want to be a person who people can trust! Who people can come to to solve their problems! Not someone that makes them want to run and hide.”

Ameliah shifted awkwardly, unsure of what to say. She settled for wrapping an arm around his shoulders. “You’ll figure out how to fix it,” she finally said, squeezing hard. Stupid armor. “I’ll help you. I’ll try to replicate whatever it is you’re doing, and if it works for me, we can compare notes. Two minds are better than one, right?”

Rain shook against her side again, and it took Ameliah a moment to realize that it was a laugh and not a sob.

“I still can’t believe that rhymes in common,” he said. “It sounds so cheesy whenever anyone says it.”

Ameliah smiled and opened her mouth to reply, but a sudden cry from atop the wall cut her off.

“Party returning!”

