Rain sniffed, then sighed. “Back to work.” He pulled away from her, and she let him go. He ran a hand through his hair as he got to his feet, displacing Dozer in the process. “Vanna’s probably right,” he said. “We should move camp. And we need to deal with the woman I mentioned.”

“Who is she?” Ameliah asked, getting up as well.

“You remember Lana? The washerwoman Mlem said Hegar had taken a fancy to?”

Ameliah nodded. “Yes, I remember. What’s she doing here?”

“I asked Jamus to sketch her from Mlem’s description, and then I sent a few teams into Vestvall to see if they could find her and figure out what was going on in more detail. Covertly, of course.” Rain sighed. “Apparently, Tarny wasn’t specific enough in passing on my instructions to all of the teams. Fredek and Gigs found her, then brought her here instead of just observing like I wanted.”

“Do you want me to talk to her?” Ameliah asked.

Rain nodded. “Please. You know what I’m worried about. I need you to get the specifics. Find out if they gave her a choice.”

“Of course,” Ameliah said, frowning. If they’re hurting her… “What will you do?”

Rain sighed. “I don’t know. I obviously can’t send her back to them if what I think is happening is happening, but it will likely cause an issue if I don’t. Hell, it might have already caused an issue. They’re going to think we snatched her, because that’s definitely what it looks like, no matter what Fredek says. First things first, make sure to ask her what she wants. I could be way off base here and not even know it. Hell, she might even be the one who seduced them.” Rain dragged a hand over his mouth. “I should be the one dealing with this, not you, but I can’t.”

Ameliah laid a hand on his elbow. “I’ll handle it. Go play with Tallheart. He and the other tinkerers are trying to make aluminum, and it will be a good distraction for you. Let Vanna and me handle all the important stuff for a little while.”

Rain smiled. “Aluminum, huh? Okay, that does sound like it would get my mind off things.” He paused. “Thank you, Ameliah. For everything.”

Ameliah smiled, then kissed him lightly on the cheek. “Come on. Let’s get back out there before people start jumping to the wrong conclusions about what we’re doing in here.”
