Monsters that repopulate? That sounds like a videogame. Or maybe some kind of different realm magic? I mean the knowledge I have about my magic, the different levels to the Paths and Harmonies screams quantifiable system or game as well. Maybe this place is just another thing like that, or that's just how we can understand or make sense of it, a way for us to find patterns in something we can’t otherwise perceive or understand?

One thing was sure though, and Reka was right on that too. He wanted to explore it.

They met up again sometime later, Silvie informing them about what she had heard while they made their way to the eastern part of town, where the Willard Inn was located, the preferred spot of the Silver Wolves whenever they were in town. Cheap, clean, and reliable, according to Silvie.

“It's not been confirmed by the Guild but everyone I talked to mentioned that the creatures of the dungeon seemed more agitated and aggressive in recent weeks and months. More chaos beasts roaming higher than usual but not to the extent where the layers have become significantly more dangerous to anyone who knows what they’re doing. Just something that many have noticed and warned me about.”

“First time I hear about something like that,” Reka said. “They didn't think we should be concerned?”

“To an extent. But I mean the dungeon is the dungeon. It's dangerous anyway.”

“Do you think this is connected to the more frequent attacks on the road, the Herasar, and the potential dungeon branch in the Teriam range?” Hayden asked.

“Leave that to the brains in Leiveen to figure out,” Silvie said.

“We don’t know. But we know how to fight, and we’ve been to the Gutter many times before. You both feel confident? And Veron, you still feel comfortable going down there?” Reka asked.

Everyone agreed still but Veron could tell the others were a little concerned, still perhaps unwilling to back out now that they had made the journey north. He himself found the news intriguing. And it led him to a thought he wouldn’t share with them.

Maybe this has something to do with why Envolon sent me here?

Veron didn’t know why or how that was relevant. He was grasping at straws, trying to find meaning and connections in what he saw. That’s what the brain did after all. Until he knew more, it was all just speculation.

“There were a few mentions of the war. Skirmishes near Honfell, and more interestingly, Norkamm was closed to both travelers and citizens of Felrak. Some adventurers just barely made it out before the gates were shut,” Silvie said.

“King Orven has died, of course they would have internal struggles,” Reka said.

“Assassinated,” Silvie said.

“We don’t know that,” Reka said. “Nor does it matter all that much. There is war in the east, but Lyrie and Anvakar will stay out of it.”

“I hope you’re right,” Silvie said and hummed.

“Anything about Anvakar?” Hayden asked.

“Nothing much that seems new. New gangs keep popping up and disappear again. Outside factions keep pushing for more influence, the Hunter’s Guild keeps pushing back. I feel like it’s become harder to get information on the city politics in recent years but I mean the city’s been chaotically stable for decades. I don’t expect that to change anytime soon.”

Hayden grunted.

Silvie started talking about the Gutter afterwards, her and Hayden discussing the route they would take through the dungeon on the next morning. Veron listened in but he lacked a lot of context to gleam much useful information. As if two people talked about navigating a city he’d never been to. The town around them was as busy as it had been upon arrival, but by now, he was filtering out most of the noise. He would spend time exploring the alleys, shops, and cafes, but he would take his time. Right now, Veron was thinking about their dungeon delve on the next morning.

The Willard Inn was located close to the easternmost mountain that loomed over Anvakar, meaning it took a while to get there from the city center. The building was a large and mostly square chunk of stone and wood, looking more like a warehouse than an inn. Inside however, the atmosphere was warm and welcoming, a hall with dozens of tables set up and adventurers in all kinds of gear having dinner or drinking. Laughter and live music from a band resounded throughout, several hearths providing warmth. Veron even saw an open training area with straw dummies and some people sparring. A few counters served food, two more served other requests.

“Do you mind bunking with us?” Reka asked. “I think it would be six silver a night if we take it for a full month. bit less than three hundred silver, divided by four makes between seventy and eighty silver.”

“That's fine,” Veron said. If he had any idea what he was doing and how much money he really had, he may have preferred having his own room. But right now, he felt like a child with his three guardians, staying close to them seemed like the best choice.

Reka talked to an attendant, laughing a few times before she returned with a room key. “Got one on the second highest floor, view of the city included.”

“Yes!” Silvie exclaimed.

Having had dinner already, they went up the five floors of stairs and found their room.

It was small. Just enough room for two storage units and two bunk beds. The reasonably sized window with a view over much of the city more than made up for the cramped space though.

“Toilets are shared, end of the hall. And there’s a bath on the ground floor,” Reka informed.

Veron nodded absentmindedly, looking out onto the bustling and chaotic city from the fifth floor of the Willard inn. He could even spot the Guild, and quite a few other prominent structures he had no idea how to place, including what looked like another castle near the top of the western mountain. He heard the occasional shouts, horses, and music, but with the absence of cars and industrial plants, it was pretty quiet for a city this big. He wondered how many people lived here.

Silvie joined his side when he spotted the gap between buildings where the dungeon entrance was located.

A strange magical dungeon, and the main reason why so many people flocked to Anvakar. Veron felt a cold wind flowing into their shared room. He connected to it and found that for once, it didn’t call for him to go out into the wilderness. No, this time, it seemed to call him down into the depths.
