“Say 'ah'.” Gretchen said from beside him, and he turned his head to look at her. Her face was slightly red and she held a puff pastry close to him. Ren opened his mouth and leaned closer, and she moved her hand in closer as well. He very slowly took a bite out of the dessert, and her face flushed completely red.

Ren felt her emotions shift to a need for retreat, so he used a hand to brace hers and held it steady. Gretchen couldn't tell him to let her go, since she had offered the pastry to him, so she didn't try to pull away. He gave her a little smile and took another bite, then he ate the last bit of it to leave her empty-handed, except for some whipped cream on her fingers. He leaned back in and opened his mouth to lick her fingers, and he felt her panic.

“That's okay! I got it!” Gretchen said and pulled her hand back without any resistance from him. She was surprised that Ren hadn't been holding her hand tightly at all, and Ren held in his amusement at her emotional turmoil. He looked at her fingers and then at her with raised eyebrows, and she resigned herself to her decision. She stuck out her tongue and licked her fingers clean, and her face went to an even deeper red as she saw how Ren and the succubi had watched her.

“You liked seeing that, didn't you?” Gretchen asked, a little annoyed that Ren had made her do it.

“I really did, mainly because you actually went through with it.” Ren said.

Gretchen raised her eyebrows at him in a silent question.

“I expected you to just wipe them off, not lick them clean.” Ren said with a big smile. Gretchen's mouth dropped open in shock, because she hadn't even considered doing that, and he laughed.

“That's another dinner!” Dana exclaimed, and everyone laughed.

Ren picked up a puff pastry and held it out for Gretchen. “Please allow me to make it up to you.”

Gretchen's eyes flicked from the dessert to his face and back again, several times. Ren felt her trying to discover what the trick was, so he gave her a happy smile and moved the pastry from side to side. After another moment of hesitation, she sighed and took a bite of it. It was just as delicious as the first time she had taken a bite, and she took another and the pastry was gone. Ren was left with some whipped cream on his fingers and she thought that was the trick he was going for, so she frowned at him.

“That's okay. I've got this.” Ren said, which almost repeated her words, then he very slowly and methodically licked his fingers clean. Gretchen had watched every single flick of his tongue and every movement of his lips as he did so, and she couldn't help herself as she imagined him licking and kissing something else. Her face went bright red from embarrassment as that thought crossed her mind, and then his non-licked hand was suddenly on hers.

“I'm sorry, Gretchen. I was caught up in teasing you and I took that a little too far.” Ren said, his own face was slightly red. “Please don't be embarrassed. It was my fault.”

“Th-that's okay.” Gretchen said.

“No, it's not.” Ren said. “How can I make it up to you?”

“You don't have to do anything to...”

“I think I know what to do.” Ren said and smiled, then turned away from the table and activated his Craft Wondrous Item ability. He edited the recipe for a helm and made it look like what he wanted, then added the appropriate colors and crafted it.

“What are you doing?” Gretchen asked, her embarrassment quickly fading because of her curiosity.

“It's done.” Ren said and turned back to the table as he quipped the new helm.

“BWAHAHAHA!” Dana burst out laughing as she saw that Ren now had the head of a giant chicken.

“I call it the Helm Of Cluck.” Ren said, then the helm let out a loud chicken squawk. “BAKAAWWK!”

Everyone at the table started laughing, as did several people at the next table over.

“Every time I finish a sentence, it will make a noise.” Ren said. “BAKAAWWK!”

“Oh, my GOD!” Gretchen laughed and covered her mouth with both hands.

“Hurry up and finish the desserts.” “BAKAAWWK!” “We need to clear out before we get in trouble with the other customers.” “BAKAAWWK!” “Then again, I think we should take them to go and free up the table.” “BAKAAWWK!”

The whole restaurant was laughing at this point, and Dana and Gretchen had tears in their eyes from laughing so hard.

Ren raised his hand to wave at the waitress. “Check, please.” “BAKAAWWK!”

The waitress came over, her face locked into laugh mode and handed him the bill. Ren took out enough gold to cover the meals, the desserts, the tip, and included a little extra for disturbing everyone. He stood up and quickly dispersed the remaining desserts onto plates and stored them, then he switched out the large table and put the two normal-sized tables back.

“Ladies, it's time to go.” Ren said. “BAKAAWWK!”

The group of women with him could barely stand because they were laughing so much; but, they all managed to walk out of the restaurant without incident.

“Thank you... for choosing... Nathalia's Nourishment!” The hostess said between laughs. “Have a great day!”

“You, too.” Ren said. “BAKAAWWK!”
