Another person she was getting worried about was Titania. She knew that gods typically didn’t respond to every prayer, but Titania had historically been good about responding to hers until not long ago. Now, it was total radio silence. Her {Rune of Fate} blessing still worked, which meant she wasn’t dead, but the fact that she wasn’t responding couldn’t have been good. She mentioned that to Oberon as well, but Oberon had insisted he didn’t care.

In Intermediate Unattributed Spells, Elise had managed to complete both Skill Quests over the course of the month, and started working on the third and final one of the class, {Mana Barrier}. The only difference between it and {Mana Shield} was that its size and shape could be changed more freely, allowing for the creation of large walls, or domes, or even spheres around the caster. The process of unlocking it was simple as well, as they simply needed to make a square {Mana Shield} more than ten feet across. It was by far the easiest Skill Quest, which was why it had been saved for last. It was also the easiest to practice, as the shield could be maintained indefinitely with only a little mana bleed, and she could work for a long time without needing to recharge her mana pool.

And she was doing exactly that as she walked through the campus toward the Dungeon entrance. It had been a while since she went in alone, but Attalaya had been pestering Elise to get to Platinum for a while, and since they had that Friday off for some kind of holiday, Elise decided to make the most of the long weekend. It would be a little annoying to need to spend her weekend in the Dungeon when she couldn’t even level up properly without risking {Subtle Royalty}, but she would want her Platinum Pass for the Dungeon Competition anyways, so she might as well get it.

However, when she reached the lift that was supposed to bring her down to the domain of the Crawlers, she found that it had quite a few more guards than usual, and as she approached, she saw them turn away a group of three students.

“What’s going on?” she asked as she walked up.

“This entrance is off limits for the time being,” said the guard nearest to her. “There have been some monster anomalies, and three days ago, a student went missing.”

“Monster anomalies?” asked Elise. “I thought those were over.”

“So did we,” said the guard with a shrug. “This one seems to be more localized, though. The first one was something deep below that affected a huge portion of the Dungeon. This one is just right here, and we already have some early reports about what might be causing it. Apparently they had already noted the monster a while ago. Some unique spider Evolution that’s been preying on the Crawlers. They didn’t bother with it before because it avoided humans and wasn’t considered overly dangerous, but now, it’s finally evolved.”

“Ah, I see. That’s a shame.”

“Yeah, sorry. The other entrances are fine, though, so you should have plenty of time to get some hunting in, if you want.”

“Yep, thanks.”

Elise turned to walk away, but stopped after only two steps.

“Wait, did you say a spider monster preying on the crawlers evolved?”

“Yeah.”

Oh no! thought Elise. Charlotte!
