This time, the rift formed, and instead of being instantly overcome by the overlapping domains, it held firm. While Stella had poured far more Qi into its creation and it took longer than usual, there was something about the rift to the aether that made it unmistakably hers. Almost like a chef who had deviated from the recipe and created a new dish, one that they could slap their name on and nobody would question whose food it was.

Stella had made hundreds of rifts to the aether, but this one felt special. While a small victory, it stood as a testament to her closing the gap. Its presence filled her with a sense of hope that perhaps one day she could stand proudly among the Monarchs.

"Come on, Jasmine, let's get out of here," Stella said, taking one step into the rift before looking over toward the intense battle happening in the distance. "Beat that dragon black and blue, Zeph!" Stella cheered. While she had a little empathy for the dragon, she didn't like being referred to as a lesser being and having her consciousness frozen. Before some stray icicle took her head off, she jumped into the aether. Moving through it posed a whole new challenge as it seemed the Monarch Domains leaked into alternate planes of reality, too.

After what felt like forever, she finally broke free, stepping out far above the chaos and closer to the Frozen Star Sect. Below her, the swirling storm seemed to stretch as far as the eye could see, blanketing the frozen land in darkness. In the eye of the storm, which was now only the size of a small mountain, the battle was in full swing.

To Stella's surprise, Ao was managing to put up a good fight. But it was ultimately pointless. Zephyrine could manipulate the full power of the surrounding storm to blast the dragon with lightning, drown him in rain, pelt him with hail, and throw him around with winds. She could also use the storm defensively to deflect or block attacks and even to empower herself, like the lightning earlier, giving her more speed.

"Ao Lingxuan, you fool!" a voice boomed across the land.

Stella glanced toward the voice and saw a blonde-haired cultivator hurtling toward them from the Frozen Star Sect. It took Stella a moment to realize, but wasn't this her brother, Janus? The man suddenly teleported, appearing over the eye of the storm. He was pissed.

"I told you time and time again that if you tried to fight my sister, this would happen, and you didn't listen!" he yelled down at them. "Cease this madness at once!"

"Don't worry, brother," Stella said, grabbing his angry gaze. "Zeph is just teaching Ao Lingxuan some manners, that is all. I'm sure it will be over soon."

"Sister," Janus blinked in surprise. "You really came."
