After accidentally commanding an entire group of people to thank her cousin, Emban took up a post on the right side of the hauler, where she could keep her face turned toward the desert and hide her embarrassment. Ryada was on the left side, waving at Bithe’s group. The child had taken his pouch full of fish over there to eat it in her company.

Stuart and Alden now had the front to themselves.

“Master Leeter-zis is still telling people he’s a professional celebrant,” Stuart was saying. “And he may be living as though it is a profession. Bithe said he heard someone else mention that this is the eight hundred and fifty-fourth consecutive day in which Leeter-zis has been in attendance at a celebratory event.”

“That is a lot of consecutive days. Stuart?”

“Yes?”

Show me the shade spell again sometime, thought Alden. Slowly. I couldn’t hear you clearly or see everything you did with your hands.

“Thank you again for the shade,” said Alden.

“I had to do something. I should have had a faster magic prepared. I’m sure there was an option at home I could have brought.”

What does it feel like? To not have an affixation at all, to reach for anything, with all of yourself…won’t you miss that?

I think maybe I miss it, and I’ve never even had it.

“I have a question, but I’m afraid it’s one I shouldn’t ask.”

“Then ask it silently. I did bring something for this! I put them…” He dug into a pocket, then out of the pocket came a bag, then out of the bag came a box with a trio of rough stone rings inside. “Take one. They’re very old, and they don’t resize themselves.”

Alden took a ring with as much care as possible because if Stuart said “very old” he didn’t want to think about what the exact number of years involved might be. He slid it onto his right pinkie and curled his hand into a fist to keep the heavy ring from going anywhere.

Stuart was sliding on his own. “These should make sure our words reach no other ears.”

Alden took a little bit longer, trying to think of how to ask what he wanted to without sounding like he doubted Stuart’s choices. “You told me what being a wizard was like. Moving through reality with true awareness of your own freedom. Will casting spells be different for you when you become a knight?”

“Oh.” There was a note in his voice Alden couldn’t identify.

“Less frequent,” he finally answered. “My thoughts may be more <<bittersweet>> about it. But when I am casting, it should feel similar. Why do you ask?”

“Because…I know it’s big,” Alden said. “What you’re going to do is big. I think I’m just trying to make sure I understand it in the same way you understand it.”

“Everything I can do now, I will be able to do again,” Stuart said. “Don’t worry for me. Everyone else worries for me too much.”

“I didn’t mean to seem worried. Should I change the subject?”

“No. You may ask me anything.” He sounded like he wanted the subject changed.

“Actually, now that you’re not quite as busy I wanted to ask you about something else. The gift the village master gave. It’s very important?”

“It’s not the kind of wand you’ve seen me use. It’s one bound to the wizard, almost like an auriad. Tass-ovekondo has made a profound gesture of respect and affection by giving it, and Uro-bor will put it in a place of honor in her new home.” Stuart flicked his eyes toward Bithe’s hauler. “By some ways of thinking, she could now change her surname. Uro-ovekondo. I’m not sure if that’s something that’s followed here, though, and she hasn’t had much time to consider it.”

Alden’s auriad squirmed in protest against his ankle when he thought of it being taken as far away from him as they currently were from the village.

“Does that hurt Tass-ovekondo?”

“Yes. No?” Stuart hesitated. “I don’t have personal experience. I think it should be a joyhurt, since she did it by her own choice. Giving away a treasured belonging to a treasured person might make anyone feel loss and pleasure at the same time. It does put the wand at risk, since it will be very fragile so far from her. But Uro-bor…you’ve seen how she guards it. Bithe has one eye on it most of the time, and I look toward it often, too. It will survive this trip, and since Tass-ovekondo will probably outlive Uro-bor, it will return to her one day.”

Alden had already gotten part of the story from eavesdropping on other conversations. The village master had lost her first spouse years ago and her second more recently, and a combination of grief and a couple of failed healings had made her more likely to experience future healing failures.

“One of her sons seemed unhappy about the wand.” Alden tried to point surreptitiously at Leeter-zis’s cart. The man who’d been angry on the patio after the event at the village meet hadn’t shown up to help load everything, but he was there now, riding along with them all.

“Him,” said Stuart. And there was, if Alden wasn’t mistaken, a faint distaste in his voice.

“Do you know him somehow?”

“No. But Uro-bor’s family has been telling Bithe of him. He is the only one of Tass-ovekondo’s children who wanted to take over the village, and the only one who couldn’t do it. Neither she nor her people would support him in it. Considering how much they care for her and she for them…”

He’s too shitty for them to work for, thought Alden. Got it.

“And I checked his diploma. He’s barely competent.”

Alden found himself turning to stare down at Stuart. “You checked a man’s diploma?”

“Why wouldn’t I? It honestly wasn’t much of a diploma at all.”

******
