Odd. But she is a great listener, and we sit together long into the night. I tell her stories, and she tells me of this world. Magic and adventurers and a gaming system.
Dinner that night is marinated mushrooms, again thanks to me marathon watching Ramsay videos. It’s good that I remember so many vegetarian dishes; Durene likes meat, but it is apparently a rare delicacy for her, despite the pigs she introduced me to earlier today.
We don’t have any vinegar, but Durene’s garden is plentiful, and everything is so high quality that we barely need any seasoning to make it go down. Fresh water from the stream completes the meal, and Durene eats four times what I do. Good thing we made a lot.
Sometimes I wish I could see. I have no idea what it would be like, and usually I don’t ever care. But when I’m having a bad day or I’m frustrated and wish things were easier, I wish I could see.
But now, I just want to see her face. Even though it seems like Durene is self-conscious about it.
I wonder why. I wonder as I tuck myself into her bed and listen to her snoring outside.
At least I know she’s not a Troll. The ones from the Hobbit turn into stone in the morning, don’t they? Maybe people just grow really big in this world.
Maybe. But she’s still a good person, regardless.
 
Day 3
 
Apparently, one of Durene’s obsessions is fish. Understandably so; she can’t catch much game and she sells most of her pigs rather than eat them. Her occasional chicken only comes when one dies, and as I’ve observed, she has trouble cooking even the most basic of meals.
But fish? Fish is hard to get wrong, and Durene has a crude fishing rod that she tries to catch fish at the stream with almost every day. Apparently, she has little success and I figure out why quite soon.
“You need some bait that wriggles. Worms are better. And you’re moving the line too much. Let the fish bite before you pull it out of the water. See? Patience is key.”
It’s amazing. But no one’s ever taught Durene this, and she observes me fishing with rapt attention. I feel—
I feel happy to teach her, and supremely annoyed no one ever taught her something as simple as this. Do people in her village not know how to fish?
Or is there another reason why she lives alone?
I get half my answer after I yank the second small fish out of the stream, much to Durene’s delight. I hear voices, laughter; the sounds of several children. And then I hear the voices.
“Freak! Come out, Freak!”
Beside me, on the grass, Durene goes still. I pause, the crude clay mug Durene gave me half full as I scoop water out of the stream.
“Where is she? Freak!”
I hear merry laughter, running, shouts of joy at odds with the words and tone in the childrens’ voices. It doesn’t take them long to find us.
“Freak! Freaky freak! Fr—who’s that?”
I turn my head as the sounds of running feet stop. I counted…six kids? All young; probably around ten. Mostly boys, although there’s one girl in there. They pause uncertainly.
“This is Laken. He’s a stranger to these parts.”
Durene tries to explain. I smile and introduce myself, but the instant the children discover I’m blind, respectfulness vanishes.
“He’s blind!”
“A freak! Freak’s gotta friend!”
“Freaks!”
Is there something in the water here? Or is it just them? I frown at the kids.
“That’s not a word you should be using about Durene.”
“But she’s a freak!”
One of the boys protests. Then I hear a yelp and the girl speaks.
“I think he don’t know. He can’t see her!”
“That’s right!”
More exclamations.
“You should run, Mister! Durene’ll eat your heart out!”
“No I won’t!”
“Aah! Run from the freak! She’s gone mad!”
Durene stands up in anguish. And then I hear her yelp. Someone’s tossed a stone at her! I hear it plop into the stream.
“Eat dirt, Freak!”
Okay, mudballs. Another one flies. Durene’s not doing anything to defend herself, so I stand up. The mug of water is still in my hands. For a second I’m tempted to hurl it but—that wouldn’t be right. The children go silent. What should I say?
“It’s nice to meet all of you. Cheers, mates.”
I raise the mug of water in their general direction and then drink from it. Honestly, it tastes a bit like clay. I look at the kids, or rather, in their general direction I hope.
“Now piss off.”
Silence. I keep my face still. I’ve never actually stared anyone in the eye mainly because I could miss, and I can barely keep my eyes open for a staring contest in any case. My eyes still get watery even if I can’t see.
But I am good at holding still and remaining calm. The children aren’t. After a few more seconds I hear them retreat.
I sit back down next to Durene. She’s trembling.
“You okay?”
I keep my tone light as I reach for the fishing pole again. I can’t find it, but then Durene silently presses it into my hands.
“Do you know what I meant when I said ‘cheers’? It’s an expression from another culture. It means, well, it’s something you say before you have a drink, or at a party.”
“Really?”
Her voice is quivery, but it is curious. I nod and smile.
“I met an Australian guy once who could make that word sound like a threat. He said it to a bunch of soldiers who were bothering us and—well, it’s not always polite. It’s all about nuance, you see?”
More silence. I hear Durene gulp.
“I—I’m sorry. What they said—”
“—Is none of my concern. Those little wankers were being obnoxious anyways. They’re too good to be called brats. Do they harass you often?”
It’s nice to know more than one culture. It helps when you want to add to your repertoire of insults. Durene laughs shakily, then goes quiet again.
“Sometimes. I mean, they come by sometimes but they don’t do more than throw things.”
“Like rocks?”
Silence is my answer. I clear my throat.
“They’re miserable little monsters; don’t listen to them. Anyways, they’re just kids, aren’t they? Can’t you chase them off?”
“I couldn’t do that! I might hurt someone, and then—”
She sounds genuinely shocked. And afraid. Is she worried about the mob of stereotypical farmers with pitchforks? But that had to come from somewhere. Maybe she’s right to be passive.
“I’m sorry if I got you in trouble. But I couldn’t stand by and let them harass you.”
“It’s okay. I think. Yes, it’s okay. But I’m surprised you weren’t angrier when they called you a freak. You’re not.”
Again, her tone suggests…what? Depression? Low self-esteem, certainly. But the clues aren’t all there yet, even if I know most of what’s going on. As for me…I shrug.
“I used to be a lot angrier than this. But I’ve gotten calmer now; I don’t lose my temper that much. I’ve been called names too.”
“Really?”
I smile again, but this time with an edge.
“Everyone gets called names. I’m just an easier target since I can’t see anything coming. Then again, I get it. When you’re a kid, anything weird is a target. Anything different or scary…it’s easier to shout insults than get to know the person. That doesn’t mean I think what those brats did was right, of course. Next time one of them calls you names, hit him. Or just call him names as well.”
“I couldn’t hit anyone! And I’m not good with insults.”
“What? Insults are easy. Come on, try one. Call me something.”
“I—I don’t know. What would I even call them?”
“Unexploded pimple? Pitiful asshat? Cowardly mushroom? Insults can be anything you want them to be.”
The laugh that comes out of Durene is more like a bark of amusement, but it’s genuine and real.
“Tell you what. Let’s grill up these fish and I can teach you some of the really pithy insults I’ve heard of, okay? You might want to cover your ears though; some of them could make a sailor blush.”
She laughs delightedly and I smile again. It’s a better day, despite the kids. And the fish isn’t even burnt this time.
 
Day 5
 
I find myself spending almost all my time with Durene day by day. She’s an open person and easy to talk to; she likes listening more than she likes speaking, but she can break down this strange world into easy-to-understand fragments for me.
She’s in the middle of giving me a history lesson about some version of Alexander the Great when I hear a shout. I’m ready for the kids this time, but to my surprise, only one comes running.
“Durene! The wagon’s lost a wheel! Come and lift it, our Da says!”
“What? The wagon? I’m on my way!”
Durene jumps to her feet with amazing agility, and then hesitates.
“I have to go help, Laken. Will you be okay? I can take you there—”
“I’m fine. Go. I’ll be okay until you come back.”
Again, being blind is not like being porcelain. I let Durene run off with the kid and think of what to do. Twenty minutes later, Durene thunders back to the cottage looking for me.
I’m fishing.
“Durene. You’re back. Is everything okay?”
She smells a bit of hay and some other animal scent. And a bit more of that musky odor that’s probably her sweat. I hear her clear the stream in one jump.
“Everything’s fine. I helped Mister Prost with his wagon; that’s all. The axle of the wheel broke, so he had Finnon go get me.”
“Huh. Do they always call on you for help? It seems like they’d need a team of people to move a busted wagon.”
She shifts next to me. Uncomfortably? It’s surprisingly easy to tell when someone’s hiding something even if you can’t read their face.
“Oh—it wasn’t that hard. I just had to help lift it up a bit, that’s all.”
She doesn’t even sound winded. But she ran off and came back in less than ten minutes and helped a farmer put a new wheel on a wagon?
Odd. Odd, odd, odd, odd…
“You do repairs often, then? That’s pretty handy of you.”
“Well, I don’t have a class. But if they need help lifting or, you know, raising a barn—”
“Gotcha. So how bad is the damage?”
“They’ll have to fix it later, but it looks like it was just the axle that went. I just got the wagon back to their home so they could give old Evera a rest. She’s their plow horse and she gets tired quickly.”
Okay, so she pulled a wagon which might or might not have been full of produce an unspecified distance. Hmm.
It could just be her class. Durene said she was a Level 6 [Farmer], but she has one [Enhanced Strength] skill already. Apparently that makes her way stronger than normal; when I asked her to demonstrate, she lifted me up with one hand as if I was a feather.
But the skin? And the things those kids said? What could that—
Bah. What am I, a detective? The answer is no, because I can barely solve a Sherlock Holmes mystery, let alone figure out those stupid wire puzzles. And Durene deserves respect from me, if no one else.
She’ll tell me when she’s ready.
 
Day 6
 
“I need a class.”
That was what I told Durene when she woke up in the morning. I get up before she does; not that either of us are late sleepers. We’re both morning people actually, although I tend to function just as well in the dark as in the light for obvious reasons.
But I do like to hear the birds sing and feel the sunlight on my face. I don’t mind relaxing for an hour or two by myself in the mornings. As Zoe once told me, I’m the chillest blind guy she knows, which is to say I’m the only blind guy she knows. She knows a blind girl—Teresa, but she and I don’t get along.
I hate Teresa.
Durene is silent for a long moment after I tell her this. We made doughy crepes this morning and added some wild berries, but she stops eating them now.
“Why?”
“Isn’t it what people do in this world? You told me no one you know didn’t have a class.”
“That’s true. But…”
I wait, yet no further thought comes. I explain myself while I try to see what’s making her upset.
“I’ve put a lot of thought into it, and I need to have a class to survive in this world. I can’t just rely on your goodwill forever.”
“But a class—that means you’d go and get a job, right? You’d…leave.”
Oh. Oh. I feel like an idiot.
“I don’t want to be a burden, Durene. I’m already making you sleep outside and now you have to feed two mouths.”
“That’s not a problem!”
The table shifts as Durene moves. She apologizes, and then her tone changes, becomes more pleading.
“I don’t mind the grass! I don’t! And you eat a lot less than I do. I wouldn’t mind you staying! I…like having you around.”
What do I say? What do I do? Whatever it is, it must be something that won’t break her tender heart.
“You know I have a home, Durene, and a family. They’re probably worried sick about me. I want to get back to them.”
I can almost feel her drooping at the other side of the table. I clear my throat and go on.
“But I do enjoy staying here with you. If you’re sure I won’t be a burden, I’d love to stay here. I just mentioned a class because it’s fascinating, really.”
“You’ll stay here? You’re sure?”
It’s not pathetic how eager she sounds, how hopeful. It’s heartbreaking. Who left this girl alone? I nod.
“I doubt there are many jobs for a blind person in your world anyways. Unless I can learn magic? I’d love to learn that.”
“I don’t know. I’ve heard of spellbooks, but I don’t know if mages learn any other way.”
I make a face, mildly outraged as I eat more crepe. Even in this world I’m handicapped by a lack of braille books? And I very much doubt there’s any kind of audio spellbook.
“Well, that idea’s out. I guess I’ll have to sleep on it.”
Then I have another idea. I suggest it to Durene as I help her wash the pottery dishes. She doesn’t use soap, but hot water works pretty well. She can tolerate the heat far better than I, though. But her hands are clumsier, so we both work slow.
“Why don’t you show me around your village?”
Durene nearly drops the cup she’s holding. I push it back into the bucket of water just in time; the splash gets water all over my clothes.
“What’s wrong? I haven’t introduced myself, and I’m sure they’re curious about me.”
“I—I wouldn’t want to bother you.”
“It’s fine. I like meeting people. Besides, I have to meet them sooner or later, don’t I?”
“I guess.”
 
Day 8
 
It takes me two more days for me to convince Durene to take me into the village. She resists, stonewalls—not so much out of reluctance to visit on her behalf, but for fear of how the villagers will treat me, I think.
And how do the villagers treat me?
With kindness.
