I don’t dream of seeing. But I do dream of adventures. I think every boy does, and I never forgot that dream even when I grew older.
Yet it’s one thing to imagine being transported into another dimension or to another world, and quite another thing if it actually happens. Upon reflection, I think I would have rather eaten my quiche instead before I left, but we can’t have everything.
 
Day 1
 
When I found myself in another world, I picked up on it right away for a number of reasons. First: I’m pretty darn sure that a food court doesn’t have grass inside of it, or trees. Second, it just felt different.
The air smelled strange to me immediately. You think I would have noticed the sun on my skin, but it was the stark difference in the way the wind smelled to me that stood out first. It’s like…honestly, it’s like the difference between living in a polluted city like New York – no, scratch that, somewhere really polluted like Hong Kong or Beijing – for a few months and then going somewhere where the air is pure and clean.
There is a quality to the air. In bad places like airports, it smells sterilized and stale, and that goes double for airplanes. In a polluted place, it’s more pervasive than anything else; after a while you get used to it, but then the fog is in your lungs, making even breathing harder than it should be.
The difference between clean air and polluted air is tangible even to people who don’t take that much notice of it. But the difference between the relatively clean food court and the place I was now in?
Unimaginable.
I look around, the bacon quiche still in one hand, my walking stick in the other. I feel like I should be freaking out but honestly, I don’t want to start running about. I can’t tell what’s around me right now except that I’m now standing on the grass, and I’d hate to run into a tree, if there are any in the area.
If you haven’t guessed by now, I’m blind. That’s not legally blind, of which there are many variations. I mean I see nothing. Not blackness, not a distinction between light and dark—nothing. That’s fine by me, but most people I’ve met make a big deal about it.
Normally, I get on just fine no matter where I go. I have good friends, my parents are overprotective, and I can always ask for directions or help in a pinch.
Which would be now. The only problem is, I’m getting the distinct impression I’m alone. My best friend Zoe is not sitting at a table a few feet ahead of me, and I can hear birds.
I sweep the ground cautiously around me with my cane, pausing as I feel dirt at the tip and grass. That’s definitely not ceramic tiles. Either someone’s playing an amazing prank on me or—
“Hello? Zoe? Is anyone there?”
No response. This is like a bad dream, the kind I used to have as a kid where I’m lost in a huge building with no cane and no one around me. Only then I kept imagining something was sneaking up on me and it was dark.
“Hello?”
This…place is clearly somewhere in the light. I can feel sunshine on my skin, and I’m pretty sure it’s early morning judging by the dew on the grass. I know that because I’ve sat down.
Some people freak out when the unexpected happens. If I were someone else I might run around screaming, or panic. But being blind means that you learn bumping into things at high speeds is a bad idea. Plus, I still have the quiche in my hand.
I rest it on my lap as I sit to think. Well, I’m somewhere else. Not in the mall. I might have suspected a prank, but Zoe isn’t nearly that cruel, and it’s not as if I’ve blacked out or been distracted. I literally just took a step and found myself…
Here.
“Is it a forest? Or a meadow? A hiking trail?”
I touch gingerly at the grass and ground. Yep. That feels like morning dew. The grass is long and uncut—another sign? I’m not on someone’s lawn here. And then I find a flower.
It feels soft under my fingertips. The petals nearly stick to my skin, and I recoil when I realize the head of the flower is wet. What kind of flower is this? Has a bird or something pooped on it?
“…No. Nectar.”
It smells sweet and odd, and like nothing I’ve ever smelled in my world. Already I’m at the other world conclusion, but this time I’m pretty damn sure.
The flower smells spicy-sweet, but also dark if that makes sense. It smells dark like I imagine the shade appears to people—not that I’ve ever seen it for myself. But I can imagine the shade—a wet, creeping thing as wide as an ocean that sucks up sunlight. That’s closest to the smell of this flower.
It’s like nothing I’ve ever smelled before, and I have a good memory. I’ve visited huge greenhouses and even flower gardens across different countries in the world – the Keukenhof Gardens in the Netherlands were my favorite – and never come across this unique smell.
Cautiously, I reach down and pick the flower. I feel a bit bad, but I have to touch it, feel it. I’m aware it could be poisonous, but I don’t care. I smell it again, and this time realize the center of the flower was indeed sticky with that nectar.
Do I dare taste it? No, that’s probably too risky. But that adds to my theory. I am somewhere else, and something…strange has happened to me.
“Magic? Teleportation? Some kind of ultra-vivid hallucination?”
It can’t be real. But some part of me whispers ‘yes it is’. Yes it is.
This is real. You’re in another world.
And that makes me smile. Even if the curtain falls down in the next second or it turns out I’m being tricked. For a second I believe.
The air smells different. Cleaner. Sweeter, even. For that matter, even the sunlight feels…odd. I could have sworn it was quite warm in San Francisco—warm enough that Zoe and I went into a mall to cool down. But today feels like a crisp autumn day.
A breeze ruffles my hair. I smell grass and that strange otherworldly smell of flowers I’ve never seen before. And I hear a bird warbling off in the distance. That at least sounds normal.
It’s such a pleasant day. I could get up and walk into uncertainty, but right here the grass is soft. It could be I’m sitting right at the edge of a cliff and I’d never know. But here is nice.
How long did I sit there, holding the quiche in my lap, just listening to the wind and birds? An hour, maybe. I sat and listened and grew more and more convinced that I was somewhere else. Somewhere special.
That’s when I heard the voice. It was distant at first, and then grew louder, accompanied to the sound of branches crackling. Something wails and I hear a thud off somewhere behind me and to the left.
I get a bit worried. Okay, stepping into another world is a jarring experience, but I was keeping calm by rationalizing it as a Platform 9 and ¾’s experience. But no one wants to meet a monster.
Or a bear. Forest + large thing = bear in my mind. But this bear has a voice. And it’s upset.
Behind me, I hear the thing stop, and then hear what sounds like sobbing. That’s reassuring for me, but then I practically feel something punch something else. It sounds like a tree from all the branches rustling from the impact.
Is it a person? I listen hard. Contrary to public belief, being blind does not confer supernatural senses to me. I just use what I have more efficiently. I can sort out the sounds—yes, someone’s crying. They’ve got a deep voice which is why it sounded so odd. And they’re hiccuping.
I already feel a bit sympathetic for this person caught in their grief, although the thumping aspect I don’t like. If they’re hitting that tree, then I’m listening to it splinter from the impacts.
But there’s no helping it. I stand up and raise my voice.
“Hello? Is anyone there? Are you okay?”
Immediately the crying stops. I hear what sounds like the intake of breath. I call out again, turning towards where I heard the person.
“I think I’m lost. I’m sorry, but could I ask you for some help?”
“Help? I’m coming!”
It is a person! I never thought that would be the highlight of my day. But not only is it a person, it’s apparently a female person. At least, that’s what she sounds like. But she has a very deep voice; not that I object to that. Her voice sounds soothing.
Immediately after she speaks, the mysterious person runs over to me. I hear her crashing through branches as she makes a beeline in my direction.
“I’m here! What’s the prob—oh!”
Her footsteps make the ground tremble just a bit as she walks closer. I hold my ground and sense her as best I can.
Heavy. She’s definitely that. And big; that’s my general impression. And she smells. Not bad per se; but she smells…not exactly normal, I guess is the best way I could describe it. She’s certainly perspiring a bit, but that’s not unpleasant.
And then she speaks again, and I hear the worry in her tone. Her voice is deep but smooth, and she has good diction; it’s rare to hear someone enunciate as well as she does.
“I’m here. Are you lost, stranger? Are your eyes hurt? You have them closed.”
“What? No. I’m—”
I lift my cane a bit and I can feel her recoil backwards. I hear her take a step back. Did she think I was going to hit her? I lower the cane and raise a hand.
“I’m sorry. I’m blind. This is my walking cane.”
“You can’t see?”
The voice sounds shocked. She didn’t recognize my cane, either. It’s pretty universal—am I really in another world?
“Not at all. I can’t see you, but I can hear you.”
An intake of breath. I feel like whoever’s standing in front of me is huge; or at least their lungs are.
“You can’t see my face?”
“No. Is something wrong?”
Silence. And then—
“No. Nothing’s wrong.”
I smile. I’m not sure if I’m smiling at her, but it helps. It always does.
“That’s good. I heard you and didn’t want to interrupt, but I am in a bit of trouble. My name is Laken Godart.”
I offer my hand, and I sense hesitation. But then a hand engulfs mine.
A big hand. But it gives my hand such a delicate squeeze that I barely feel a thing.
“My name is Durene. How did you end up here, Mister Laken?”
Mr. Laken? How odd. Is there any country I know of that uses that kind of title? I smile ruefully.
“I’m not quite sure how I got here. I was at a mall, and I must have turned the wrong corner? Something happened because I was suddenly walking around here.”
“Mall? I’ve never heard of that town. I’m sorry.”
My eyebrows shoot up. Either she’s a brilliant actor and this is the greatest simulation of all time, or she’s serious.
“Can you tell me where I am?”
I think she nods. I’ve been told people do that a lot although I only understood the gesture after someone showed me exactly what they were doing with their head.
“You’re near the village of Riverfarm. In the forest, actually.”
Riverfarm? At least I was right about the forest bit.
“Is that near a city? I was in San Francisco just now and I have no idea how I got here.”
Another pause.
“I’m sorry, but I don’t know where that is. Is it a big city?”
“Very big. What’s the biggest city near here?”
“That would be Bells. It’s over thirty miles away, though.”
“…Is that anywhere in America?”
“America?”
…
This is probably just a dream. Or a mental breakdown, although the psychiatrist my mom hired gave me a clean bill of health for the last few years. This is any number of things, but what I really want, a tiny bit, is for this to be real.
“Sorry Durene, I’m going to go out on a limb here, but…could you tell me what the year is? And what nation I’m in?”
“Nation? Year? I—don’t keep track of the years. I think we’re around 22 A.F.? And, um, we’re not in a nation. No one rules Riverfarm but the village head.”
“Oh my god. I am in another world.”
“What?”
“I must be. Durene, do I look…unusual to you?”
A pause. I can feel her drawing slowly closer. I can’t tell, but I think she’s looking me over.
“Well…you dress a bit oddly. You have unusual clothing. There’s a strange symbol of a triangle on your shirt. It looks…colorful.”
I smile, a tiny bit. Being blind means my fashion sense is a bit skewed. I know I’m wearing shorts and a t-shirt, apparently with a logo of the Illuminati eye on it. Zoe told me it looked good, but I have reason to doubt her fashion sense.
“Have you ever seen anything like it before?”
“Not so vividly. Are you a noble? A merchant who sells fabric?”
“No. I’m just blind. And I think—yeah, I think I’m very far from home.”
“Oh. I’m so sorry.”
I shrug.
“It’s not your fault. I think. If it is, I’d love an explanation?”
“What? No! I’d never—”
She’s so easily distressed. That makes me feel a bit guilty.
“I’m sorry. It was a joke.”
“Oh.”
What to say? I’m usually a decent conversationalist. Or at least, I can always find something to talk about even if it’s not well received.
“I heard you crying. Are you alright?”
“Me?”
I’ve heard of a blush as well. Based on people’s descriptions and the one time I touched someone while they were blushing, I imagine heat filling their face. That’s certainly how it feels to me, and I suspect, Durene at the moment.
“It—it was nothing. I was just upset, that’s all. I didn’t think anyone was around.”
Her voice is rough with emotion. I pause, but why not follow this? There’s nothing to be gained from holding back. I learned that a long time ago.
“It’s fine if you don’t want to speak about it. But if you want to talk—”
“No.”
I nod. But I can feel her hesitating. So I wait.
“Someone called me a name. That’s all.”
“Ah.”
So many years, so much feeling can go into a single word. I face in her general direction, and I know she’s looking at me. And then I hear something funny.
Rumbling. Gurgling. A massive stomach. And I remember I do have something in one of my hands. I smile even as I sense Durene shifting and presumably, blushing.
“Durene, would you like to share this quiche with me?”
“Are you sure?”
“Why not? Let’s sit and talk. You seem like a nice person.”
I sit down on the ground. After a second, I sense someone sitting next to me. I don’t have a fork, but it’s no trouble to lever the quiche out of the tin container and break it apart. I give the bigger section to Durene over her protests and we eat and sit and talk.
That was how I met Durene, and my introduction to another world. As I said, I would have liked to eat my quiche first. It was only lukewarm at that point, but at least the company was nice.
 
Day 2
 
When I woke up, I once again confirmed that I was in another world. I didn’t freak out.
