That mildly surprised Durene, when she found I was up and quietly exploring her house. She lives in a rather large house next to a stream. I can’t imagine it as a whole yet, but my exploration and her descriptions of the building give me the sense of a building of wood and rough stone, but carefully patched to avoid the elements or nature getting in. The stone floor is only slightly rough on my bare feet, and the lone window has no glass.
In short, this is a medieval building, and from what Durene told me in our hours-long chat yesterday, this is a medieval world. With magic. And only a limited grasp of technology. She was amazed to see my fiberglass cane; she exclaimed over the material as if it were alien to her world, which it was, in a sense.
Now I sit at a table, feeling like a midget in the chair Durene put me in while she clatters around the kitchen. I can smell something cooking, and it sounds like she’s making eggs. The scent of warm bread is already filling my nostrils.
“Here you are, Mister Laken. I’m sorry it’s a bit burnt.”
“It smells delicious. And call me Laken.”
I hear and feel the big plate being placed in front of me. After cautious exploration with a fork I find the eggs—only slightly runny—and the toasted bread. Yes, it’s crunchy, but it is quite good, and I tell her so.
“Thank you for letting me sleep here. I think I took your only bed. I’m sorry about that.”
“Oh, no! It’s nothing. And I like sleeping outside.”
“Pretty liar.”
Well. I think that’s the first time I’ve ever startled someone into silence so quickly. I hear her shifting, clearing her throat, and then she bursts out.
“Aren’t you worried?”
I raise my eyebrow. I have no idea if it looks good, but friends assured me it did, and I fell in love with the idea after reading a story where the main character did it to great effect.
“About what?”
“Well, you said you’re lost. Alone. In another…another world? How are you so calm?”
That makes me smile. I may act calm, but I spent a good bit of last night while Durene was snoring outside freaking out and trying to affirm I really wasn’t hallucinating. I have a sore arm from all the times I’ve pinched myself.
“What’s the point of freaking out? I’m more excited than anything else, actually. I’m in another world, one with magic. There’s no magic where I come from.”
“But you told me you have so many strange things. Like these ‘cars’ and ‘malls’. It sounds amazing.”
“I’m surprised you believe me, to be honest. If I heard someone talking about my world, I’d assume they were crazy.”
“But you make it sound real. And that stick you have which folds up—”
Another miraculous invention by her standards. I think it was actually that which convinced Durene I was from another world. That, and my iPhone. I think Siri scared Durene more than anything else.
Yes, it turns out I have no wireless, and without battery I turned Siri off to save energy. But having an iPhone, even one with limited power, is amazingly useful in a survival situation, which is what I find myself in.
So is having a friend. I smile at Durene.
“I don’t think my world is that special. But I am glad you found me, Durene. I’ve always found that I can trust most strangers.”
Another pause. Another hypothetical blush.
“Really? But you can’t even see—and you just trusted me to help you. I could be—”
She pauses.
“Someone bad.”
“But you’re not. And I have a good sense for people, or at least, I like to think so. You seem like a very nice person, Durene.”
“I—thank you. But you can’t see—”
I smile wryly.
“I do notice some things. For instance, I know you’re taller than me. And stronger. And you have calluses on your hand, your table is cracked here—and you have a big appetite.”
It’s hard not to notice her chomping down her food, to be honest. Durene shifts in her chair, making the wood creak.
“I’m sorry.”
“What? What are you sorry for?”
“Um—”
“I quite enjoyed the eggs and toast. Did you make it yourself?”
This time I think she nods, because there’s a bit of silence before she speaks.
“Oh! Yes! I eat a lot. So I have a big garden and I um, raise chickens and pigs and other animals. But I can’t cook well because I don’t have any Skills.”
“That seems rather harsh. Your food tasted good to me.”
Silence. And then—
“Thank you. But I have to buy a lot of food anyways. The villagers sell me lots of things I can’t make by myself.”
“So you live in a village? How many people live there?”
If it seems odd we didn’t cover that yesterday, well, there’s a lot of explanations and confirming to be done when you think you’ve ended up in another world. Another part is convincing a scared young woman that you haven’t trapped a person in your iPhone.
Is she young? Durene sounds like she’s a bit younger than I am. Of course, I’m terrible at judging ages so she could be anywhere from my age to still in her teens. Girls grow up quicker than guys, after all.
Back to the conversation. Durene apparently lives in a small village of around sixty souls, most of whom live closer to each other. They inhabit a lovely area of farming land fed by a river, hence the name Riverfarm. The people there grow crops and raise animals—they have a blacksmith, and a dedicated person to go and trade for them at a town, that person having the most skill at buying and selling.
The people in this village live together in large families. The children often go out to learn jobs in other towns as they grow, or manage the family business. It’s rare to see a single new face in a month, let alone a group of people aside from adventurers or Runners now and then.
Oh yes, this world has adventurers and the weirdest postal service I can imagine. But what stands out to me in all of Durene’s explanations is an odd…lack of detail. Namely herself.
Durene doesn’t live in the village. From what she says, the only other people who live alone are bachelors or bachelorettes or those who have lost their partners. But Durene is far too young to fit either criteria, and she tells me she’s never met an adventurer, despite them being popular with all the kids.
I smell a rat. And Durene. She still smells…off. If I met other people I might understand what’s different about her, but until then I just keep the conversation going and tell her a bit about where I come from.
That’s me Laken Godart, blind son to two fairly affluent parents, one a lawyer, the other a businessman. I’ve travelled more places than Durene’s heard of, and I’m blind. That’s a basic description, but the key to selling yourself is embellishment.
And all too soon, I find that Durene’s big breakfast has affected me in another way. I clear my throat politely.
“Uh, Durene? Can you help me get to the bathroom again?”
Yes, it’s embarrassing to have to ask someone you’ve just met to help you out, but I’m used to it. Don’t want to walk into the ladies’ room now, do I? But then, they’ve always been quite considerate the two times I’ve done it by accident.
Anyways, it’s always easier if I ask for help, especially since any door could be the wrong one. And Durene is happy to help.
“No problem. This way—oops! Let me just push this aside—the door’s over here.”
She’s very considerate. Normally people have a hard time directing me, but she’s gotten the hang of it quite quickly. She lets me grab onto her arm—I can feel her muscles rippling every time she shifts—and she walks forwards at a reasonably fast pace.
It’s not as if I have trouble moving around, and I can sense whether she’s walking up an incline or stepping around something. It’s natural to me, and once I explained that to Durene she got the trick of it quickly.
Her bathroom is an outhouse located outside of her home and a ways away from the stream. She has to wait at a respectful distance afterwards, but I don’t take long. There’s only one problem.
“Do you have any toilet paper? Uh, anything to wipe with?”
“I’ll get some leaves!”
“Leaves? Hello? Durene?”
It turns out toilet paper is a luxury so rare Durene’s never heard of it before. But the leaves she gives me are serviceable, and my butt doesn’t complain too much.
The outhouse is definitely an outhouse in the sense that I know there’s no water below me as I toss the leaves down. But it smells nice; Durene’s put some fragrant herb there to chase away the smells. I say as much as I leave.
“Your home seems very nice, Durene. I’m envious.”
“It’s nothing special. It’s really not. It’s—crude.”
“I don’t think so. But uh, do you have anywhere I can wash up? And some soap?”
“Soap?”
It takes me a while to get across the basic idea of hygiene to Durene. That’s my first worry. But she boils some hot water for me and when I’m reassured it’s not scalding, I use that.
“You really need to wash your hands, Durene. In my world, countless people died in the past because they didn’t keep themselves clean enough.”
“Really?”
It’s amazing, flattering, and humbling how Durene takes all my statements at face-value. I tell her about the Black Plague, and within minutes she’s swearing up and down to buy some soap the next time someone goes into town.
Before I know it, it’s lunch-time. I could certainly use something to eat, and Durene takes me around the garden, letting me feel the growing plants and the bunch of potatoes she yanks up.
But then we hit a problem. Durene goes into the kitchen to cook them while I sit outside and listen. But after twenty minutes I know something’s wrong. I can hear her trying to be quiet, but the clattering and the burnt smell can’t be so easily hidden.
“Is everything okay? Durene?”
“I—I’m sorry.”
There’s a catch in her voice when she comes out and tells me she’s ruined the potatoes. I don’t get it, but if there was a fire alarm in her house it would be blaring. She doesn’t even let me inspect the ruined food; apparently it’s so burned she just dumped it outside for the pigs.
“I can’t cook potatoes. I’m sorry. I normally eat them raw.”
“Well, we can’t have that. Let me help you.”
“Help? But you—”
“I can’t see, but I can cook. Come on!”
I reach out and touch her arm. It’s a big arm, and she recoils instantly. But I soothe her and guide her back to the kitchen.
It’s an odd thing, cooking while mainly instructing someone else. Odd, but fun. Only for me at first, but then Durene gets into it.
We make sautéed potatoes. It’s an easy recipe, but I have to show Durene how to cut properly at first. I hear her cut herself twice before I realize her form is off.
“Like this, see? If you’re cutting leaves like this rosemary—do it like this.”
Durene gasps, but I place the knife at my knuckles and roll it across the cutting board, slowly slicing the herbs into small slices.
“Easy as anything. Don’t worry; even if you can’t see, there’s no way to cut yourself like this, see?”
“I do! That’s incredible!”
“It’s not. Really. Now, let’s get to work on the rest of those potatoes, okay?”
“Okay. The chopped potatoes are…here. We boil them?”
“That’s right. Is the water boiling? And you added the salt? Put them in. They’ll go there for about four minutes, okay? Now. Where’s the pan?”
“I put the oil in.”
“Now the potatoes. Flat side down. There. Doesn’t that sound good?”
The sizzling oil makes my stomach wake up. I smile as I hear Durene clumsily sliding the sliced potatoes around the pan.
“Is it crispy golden brown? Okay, let’s reduce the heat. Now…a bit of butter. Just a bit…and the rosemary…doesn’t that smell delicious?”
“It does! It does!”
Success. We sit down and Durene eats her food as if it’s the best food she’s ever had. Apparently, it is.
“I’ve never cooked anything like that before. Do you have a Skill? You must!”
“I wouldn’t call it skill. I just learned from a great chef.”
Thank you Gordon Ramsay. I might not be able to see them cook, but I do love chefs who tell me exactly what they’re doing.
“Are you a [Chef]? Is that your class?”
That’s an odd way of putting things. I shrug, a bit embarrassed.
“I wanted to be a professional chef, and then a professional food critic when I was younger. I gave up on that when I found out someone else had already become blind Masterchef. And, it has to be said, I’m not that good at cooking.”
“But this—”
“It’s not nearly as good as something professional chefs can make, believe me. And you did all the hard work.”
“You know so much, though.”
I want to squirm a bit with embarrassment.
“I just studied a lot of different professions, that’s all. Chef, food critic…at one point I wanted to be a billiards player, but that’s not actually possible. I wanted to do anything that wasn’t boring, so I tried a lot of things.”
“That’s so amazing. So much better than I am.”
I think she’s staring at me. I can feel her proximity towards me. Her voice is also much more intent—she sounds fascinated. I can’t help but smile.
“You’d be surprised what you can pick up if you work at it. Forget cooking—I once disassembled and reassembled an old computer by hand. That’s…like a complicated device.”
“I wouldn’t know. I…I only have the [Farmer] class.”
There it is again. Class? I frown.
“Classes? Do you mean jobs? You mean, you get assigned a job?”
“No. I’m just a [Farmer]. Level 6. Do you not have classes in your world?”
“Oh wow.”
Is it obvious? Did I not notice it because I can’t see? But Durene assures me she doesn’t have her class and level floating above her head like an MMORPG. Even so, my mind is blown because now I realize I’m in a video game. Or something like a video game.
“You mean, you played games with the fates of people?”
“No! It was all just pretend. But it’s exactly like how you’re describing your world.”
“Oh.”
We sit together, in her garden, talking. By this point Durene and I are comfortable enough to sit closer than before, and yes, she is tall. I’m not short myself; apparently I’m around 184 cm, or around 6’1’’ for people using the horrible US measuring system, but Durene is at least a head higher than I am. Possibly bigger; she hunches over as we talk.
And she is huge. And conscious of that; she treats me even more like a glass object than people who just know I’m blind. I am grateful in her case, though; it does feel a bit like a giant is keeping me company.
Hmm. A giant?
One last detail: Durene’s skin is rougher than normal. Her inside palm is fairly smooth, if callused, but the few times I brushed against the outside of her skin, it was surprisingly rough and even felt cracked in places.
