Another week passed, and the town, along with the Allwarden compound, continued to grow.

Mixed in with the migrant workers coming to Riverwall to find work at the construction sites were the first new mine workers who were following the rumours of the mana crystal deposit. They were still at least a full season out from having a road finished to the Living Vault, but that didn't stop the hopefuls from trying to jump ahead of the pack.

The town guards were soon filling the holding cells with people who had tried trespassing north, into the Hungering woods and toward the crystals.

Clearly, these people were motivated by money more than good sense.

Angeline had jumped at the opportunity and drafted them into road work crews, and had set them up to join the teams working on the road up north. She had them sign a contract for a small parcel of land within the Living Vault if they completed the road to its destination. The prospect of lawfully owning land chained them to the work just as well as any actual chains.

Niala saw increased clientele at her shop, but also a sudden glut of middle-aged and older people coming to her for “personalized potions”. She was more than happy to try and help them, but many were coming to her with what she thought were actual health problems.

As adept as she was at dealing with symptoms and general healthcare, she was not a trained and licensed healer. She still provided them with basic fortifiers and energizers, even if it was nothing but temporary relief.

Had she been a greedy, soulless merchant, she would have rejoiced at that; these people would become recurring customers, coming to her for potions to alleviate the symptoms without actually curing anything.

But she was not a greedy merchant, and as such needed a solution.

She turned to Cassandra, the bearkin healer who headed the small Riverwall clinic. The healer thanked Niala for bringing this matter to her attention, though she noted that people ignoring relatively minor but persistent symptoms was unfortunately all too frequent.

Niala offered an arrangement where she would refer anyone who came looking for personalized potions to this clinic, where Cassandra and the other healers would diagnose them. Anyone with serious health issues would be treated, and everyone else would be given a prescription, addressed to Niala, who would then devise a personal potion plan for them.

While she liked the idea, Cassandra wanted to test Niala before she agreed. Even if she had heard that the catkin was quite adept at brewing healing potions, treating long-term health issues was quite different.

The healer thus had Niala shadow her for a week and quizzed her on what her recommendations and personalized potion plan would entail for the patients who would have qualified.

By the end of the week, Cassandra was trying to convince Niala to attend a university to obtain her own healing certifications, even offering a recommendation to get fast-tracked into the program.

Unsuccessful in that regard, the bearkin nevertheless agreed to Niala's plan. She became the clinic's official auxiliary caregiver, with all of the boosted reputation that such an endorsement carried.

But for Niala, the really important part was that she could help the people properly.

Linzy, flanked by #67, carefully deposited the small crate on the low table in front of David and Niala. With a grin, she took off the top, revealing an interior filled with balled up cloths, and four glass sculptures.

Or rather, after a second look, hollow glass sculptures with a threaded neck at the top.

So not sculptures, but intricately shaped glass bottles.

Niala's eyes opened wide in delight, her ears twitching and her tail swaying. “By the saints! They're amazing!” She looked up at Linzy. “Did you have them made?! Are they for a special occasion?”

She got off the couch and knelt in front of the crate, putting her hands on its border, just short of touching the little pieces of fragile art. “Is that one a frog? And is that one a stormy cloud? And is that...” She tilted her head and blinked. “Is that Rinka sleeping in her bed?”

Linzy rubbed the back of her head. “Ah, yeah. I don't think we'll use that one, but it's tha most detailed one, so I thought I'd include it.”

One of Niala's ears folded down as she turned her head toward the slightly leaning golem. “Did you make all of these, #67?”

Its body jerked as if electrocuted, and it directed its two eyes at Niala. “All yours for two payments of – your firstborn – five ninety-nine!”

She assumed it meant yes and returned her attention to the bottles. With a silent question to Linzy, and her approval, she slowly picked up the frog bottle. It was elaborate to the point of absurdity. Every single facet, down to the tiniest details. And yet, it was nowhere as fragile as she had initially thought.

She gave it a few claw taps, and the deep, hollow sound told her this was high-quality, thick glass. The same kind that her regular potion bottles were made of, so they could survive the rigour of being carried around.

Niala turned toward David, holding out the frog-bottle. Wordlessly, he leaned forward and took it, observing it in his hands while his wife ogled the other three. He looked at Linzy. “How long does he need to make one? And how did you get him to form glass when he hasn't got lungs to blow with?”

The goblin woman grinned. “Tha frog took him about three-quarters of a bell, including heatin' tha glass sand and formin' it. Sixty-seven is a really quick learner! As for how, that's a goblin trade secret.”

The golem's head tilted to the side as it put a finger where its mouth would be if its head weren't tilted. “SSSSSHHHHHH!!!!” It nearly shouted.

David slowly nodded, pulling his eyes away from the golem and back to Linzy. “That's really fast. I'm guessing you want to start selling special-edition potions with these bottles?”

The goblin's smile was all teeth, sharp and angular. “Ya got it! I've been thinkin', something like a special collectible edition. Get ta potion ya want in the bottle ya want, use ta potion, then keep ta bottle! Or buy it as a gift! Just good business all around!”

She pointed a thumb at 67. “Plus, ta guy luvs it. Ya should see his eyes spin around while he's forming ta initial glass ball.” She scrunched her mouth. “He keeps randomly making sleepin' Rinkas though, like, one out every ten bottles.”

David narrowed his eyes at 67, but eventually shrugged. “We really need to get him a proper name.”

Niala's heard snapped to him. “Yes! We can't keep calling him 67!” She turned toward the golem. “What do you think, 67? Do you want a new name?”

The golem's eyes began slowly rotating, doing a full zoom around his head, and re-aligned forward. It lifted its head up at Niala. “My friends ca-call me – rustbucket – Charlie!”

Niala blinked. “Do... you want to be called Charlie, then? Can we be your friends?”

The golem remained motionless for a moment and then stepped toward Niala. From the crate, it picked up one of the cloth scraps and tore it in half. He offered half of it to Niala. “It's cold out there – go die frozen – don't forget to dress up!”

She extended a tentative hand toward the piece of cloth. The golem let it drop into her hand and then slapped the other half on top of its head, while it kept staring at Niala.

She looked between the scrap of cloth and 67, eventually, slowly, bringing the cloth to the top of her head and depositing it there, mirroring Charlie.

The golem gave her a thumbs up, turned around and marched back to the corner of the room. The piece of cloth flew off its rounded head as it did.

Niala glances back at David, who moved his head left and right a few times. She turns back toward the golem. “67?” She asks.

The golem did not move.

“Charlie?”

It did nothing.

She frowned. “Rustbucket?”

No reaction.

Her ears wiggled. “Callme?”

The golem remained motionless.

She sighed. “Charlie? Do something, please.”

Nothing.

David hummed. “Let me try something.” He got up and retrieved the piece of cloth that had fallen off the golem. Walking up to it, he put it back on its head.

The golem jerked alive. “Ooooh darlin', it's so cold up here! I almost froze solid waiting for you!”

David looked back at Niala, who shrugged. She looked at the golem. “Charlie? Is that the name you want?”

The golem – Charlie, grabbed the small piece of cloth on its head with two fingers and made a hat-tipping motion with it, the cloth flopping around. “It's a pleasure to meet you, Princess Twigglebottoms!”

David's head snapped back to Niala, eyes wide open. “Twi-”

“No,” She declared.

He let it go.

For now.

Niala was in her workshop, fiddling with the Landretti distiller, when she heard the reverberating bell of the weldtree announcing the opening of the fairy portal.

She made her way out, with Sybil coming in from the backyard's side door to investigate the noise, to find the tree's glitter-fall already underway. She held up a hand toward Sybil, letting her know there was nothing dangerous, and waited.

Soon enough, a small figure walked through the opening doors of the portal, resolving to be a sunglasses-wearing and sharp-dressed fairy; Totori.

Niala smiled. “Totori! Hi! How are you?”

As the portal closed behind her, Totori chewed once on her gum, blew out a bubble which snapped, and smiled back. “Niala! Good to see you! I'm great! More than great!” Turning her head toward Sybil, she pulled her sunglasses down and looked over them. “And who's your armoured friend?”

“That's Sybil, she's a part of our house guard. Sybil, this is Totori, a friend of ours, and our agent in the Fairyland.”

The Scion guard kept a neutral expression plastered on her face, though her eyes were glinting. She managed to remain silent and slightly bow.

Totori tilted her head and looked back at Niala. “House guard? Was your house raided or something? Do you need automated defences? I'm pretty sure we could make some lightning generators work in the Mundaneworld.”

Niala shook her head, her ears twitching. “No, no raiding. It's... a bit of a story? If you have time?”

The fairy smiled under her shades. “Darling, I'm your agent! For you and David, I have all the time!”

Sitting on top of the booster seat, Totori drained her tiny cup of fruit water, slamming it down on the table. “So, now you and David are royalty!? We haven't had a royal family in the Fairlands ever since the great Lieprechaun cleansing. Of course, all the royals back then were Lieprechauns, so it was a two candies with one crunch kind of deal. After that, I guess fairies thought having a noble caste wasn't very fair.”

She pursed her lips, swinging her legs. “Though, we have a lot of fiction with noble fairy families, or about fairies who get transported to mundaneworlds or the like, where there are nobles and kings... hmmm...”

Niala's ears wiggled. “What are you thinking about?”

“Oh! Nothing! Just an idle thought!” Totori replied, smiling. “Anyway, I came to catch up on you, and also to give you an update on what I've been up to!”

“Oh, well, that's good. Let's wait for David, and we can get started? I actually have something to ask you, as well.”

Totori tilted her head and smiled. “Hmm?”

David showed up not long after, and Totori brought them up to speed on their Fairyland ventures. The CBC, the agricultural cooperative tasked with growing the Old Woman herbs, had expanded greatly, buying out most of their surrounding competitor, though their current cash flow was entirely coming from David's massive amount of funds. The Fairyland-side Old Woman brewery was ready to start operations, however, and only needed Niala's recipe and instructions to begin.

Totori was forecasting total market dominance within two years. The marketing campaign was ready for deployment. Future breweries and distribution centres were already being built. Corporate headquarters were being staffed.

The Old Woman corporate merchandise was stockpiled and just waiting for the aethernet page to go live.

The eventual conquest of the Fairlands' energy drink market aside, the mana-testing lab requested by David and Niala had also been acquired and was waiting for their visit. That bit of news led to Niala asking Totori to contact Kevin and ask if she would be willing to visit the Mundaneworld for some experimentation.

The last bit of news from Totori's side was that the Cherry Lollipop institute was ready for David's next visit; the latest AAA competition had concluded, and a new team of students was waiting for him.

They spent the rest of the afternoon and evening chatting and enjoying Niala's cooking, and fending off Totori's repeated attempts to get the recipe.

Niala asked her if there was a way they could let Totori know that they wanted to talk, or even talk to her directly.

Totori said that she'd look into a solution. Whatever it ended up being, it wouldn't be cheap, but David could afford it.

The last topic Niala brought up was the feasibility of purchasing mana-collecting technology. Totori said she'd ask around but was confident it was doable, if needing a formalized trade contract.

Eventually, the fairy said she had to go back, as she had business meetings the next day.

They said goodbye to their agent, and David and Niala retired for the night.