The giant looked down on him with a wail as he continued to take from it, its lifeforce slowly ebbing away, and attempted to crush Markus, taking a single hand and pressing down on him hard, looking to squash him against the ground beneath.

It wasn’t half as strong as it had been. What started as an intense pressure against his back that threatened to burst Markus like a ripened fruit soon mellowed out into smooth inertia as the giant lost such strength that it couldn’t even keep up its attempts, its arm falling to its side as it gently flailed in an effort to dislodge him, to no avail whatsoever.

One good cast of [Detonate] had done a lot to him, that and the sheer force behind the spear in his chest and Markus’ persistent drain were enough to make the creature wholly ineffective.

And as he continued to drain from the monster, his leg began to heal. The bones were slowly repaired, skin itching so much that he felt he’d had a cast on it for six weeks, the entirety of his calf shifting as bones were forced back into place and broken skin and ligaments were repaired and rejoined.

It still felt numb, and still slightly damaged, but it was at worst bruised after a minute of taking this creature’s Life Mana, perhaps a bit swollen. He’d paid Markus back for everything he’d done to him.

“Gra… Granttt…”

Markus released his drain on the creature, forcing himself to his feet. He reached up as high as he could, retrieving his glaive from the creature’s chest and stabbed it in the belly.

“Grant…”

The creature fell to the floor, dying, and Markus devoured its core, glad to be done with this once and for all.

Still he had these annoying things buzzing around him… Maybe if he could find a way to trap them, he could—

“Marr… Marr…”

Wait, what the fuck was that? That voice, it was different. It wasn’t the giant. He’d killed the giant. It was definitely dead. So what was…

Oh.

Oh, shit.

Two more giants emerged from the shadows, one armed with a stone pillar, the other a long metal pole. They took one look at their fallen kinsman and immediately began to march in Markus’ direction, no care or respect whatsoever for the fact he could use a fucking breather right now.

Whatever. Just don’t get hit this time! How hard could it be?

He’d levelled again at least once from that kill, and if he wanted to survive this shit, he was immediately dumping points in the ten seconds he had before that gruesome pair managed to bridge the gap between them.

But with so little time to choose, what the hell did he invest in?
