"No, it's fine. Bring Jasmine with you when you return to Red Vine Peak Zephyrine." Stella said. "I thank you both for running this sect on my behalf, and I will see you both back at Red Vine Peak soon."

Ao Lingxuan, follow me. You will be my ride back home.

She left with her new Monarch dragon pet in tow. Once they were outside the dragon's old palace, Ao transformed into a massive dragon at her command, and Stella hopped onto his head. In view of many members of the Frozen Star Sect, they took to the skies and headed eastward toward Red Vine Peak.

***

A few days after Thanatos's grand appearance on Floridawn's land, Ashlock had seen a sharp increase in sacrificial credits. The initial surge came from his own Ents slaughtering the beast tide to turn them into Ents, and these sacrificial credits were then tripled in the divine stock market by the spreading of his name.

Idletree Daily Sign-In System

Day: 3735

Daily Credit: 32

Sacrifice Credit: 12086

[Sign in?]

"A little over twelve thousand sacrificial credits, not bad at all," Ashlock said. He had been watching the growth closely and had noticed it stall out in the last few hours, meaning it was time to spend.

First on his list was one of his original skills: Eye of the Tree God. Having served him well until now, it was starting to show that, as the skill that had given him his name, the All-Seeing Eye, it was beginning to show its drawbacks as an A-grade skill when trying to spy on Monarchs with perfect control of their surroundings.

It desperately needed an upgrade.

"System, upgrade Eye of the Tree God for me."

[Sign in successful, 3872 credits consumed…]

[Upgraded {Eye of the Tree God [A]} -> {Gaze of the Tree God [S]}]

[{Gaze of the Tree God [S]} This upgraded skill provides a permanent omnidirectional aerial view over an immense area, which can be expanded or focused at will. At the cost of Qi, you can also ignore physical and spiritual obstructions, including walls, illusions, domains, and formations.

Also, everyone within the range of your roots will now have a subtle feeling of being watched at all times. Those you focus on or mark will feel this more intensely and have their mental defenses slowly eroded. Furthermore, those infected with your Cursebloom Sap will feel this intense feeling of being constantly watched, regardless of distance or being inside the range of your roots.]

Ashlock decided to test this right away. His vision blurred as he traveled south and arrived at Floridawn. Immediately, he noticed the difference. Not only was his view range many times what it used to be, but it was also omnidirectional, meaning he could see in all directions at once if he so wished. He quickly turned that off as it was a little headache-inducing, but he could imagine how unfair having omnidirectional vision would be in a fight.

What was more important was that he could now see the grand formation pulsing below Floridawn in all its cursed glory, and how it fed off the World Tree's lifeforce to power itself in keeping her soul restrained.

The sight of it made him sick. This could have been his fate if not for his system empowering him, Stella's efforts, and a lot of luck.

"Focus, Ashlock, that's not why you are here." Ashlock quickly located Councilman Faelorian Lysanthos's mansion. It wasn't hard to find, being the largest and lording over all the other residences from atop a World Tree root. Until now, the building had been heavily protected by formations, making it impossible for him to peer inside with spiritual sight, even with his roots now tunneling underneath.

But now, if he poured Qi into his new {Gaze of the Tree God [S]} skill, he could simply peer through all those layers of defenses. Councilman Faelorian Lysanthos reacted to his intrusion immediately, but unlike before, he couldn't pinpoint where Ashlock was looking from. The white-haired man frantically looked around as the feeling of being watched settled on him.

"Where are you?" he roared, his nature Qi igniting across his skin. "I know you're here, you bastard! Show yourself!"

Ashlock laughed. "You're fighting ghosts, my friend."

He then decided to mark Councilman Faelorian Lysanthos, so the feeling of being intensely watched would remain as long as he stayed within the range of his roots, and he could easily track him. That would likely come in handy when he finally decided to send the Covenant after him.

"Take that, you tree-torturing bastard," Ashlock muttered as he left the Councilman to swing his sword at the air.

Returning to Red Vine Peak, he still had many credits left to spend, and he guessed his new skill upgrade might help him weed out those Silent Thorn members that the Celestial Warden had warned him about.
