“Nuée.”

Viv’s spell traveled over the heavies with a loud whomp, then the thick dark ball expanded in a malicious cloud of devouring miasma. The ravenous fog traveled across the plane with a terrible hiss, leaving behind nothing but half-voided corpses. To her left, a beautiful cloud of moisture covered the allied ranks with a calming mist. A quick glance revealed where the water came from. An entire company of Neleti had been turned into so many desiccated corpses, and yet, it didn’t matter. New squads sprinted over the distance, impaling themselves against the heavies with desperate fury. The men held their ground with grime determination, yet even their formidable armor could not protect them entirely. Blood was spilled.

The savagery of the foe left Viv flabbergasted. Gone were the methodical attacks and breaks of before. Now, the strange lizard beings assaulted her army relentlessly and the focus of their hatred was clearly and concerningly, her. There wasn’t a single moment of respite for the One Hundred. Every enemy that fell was instantly replaced by a fresh one. At least, they could not cycle-charge into her ranks.

“Dammit.”

Viv interrupted her next spell when she saw the arcing forms of crimson divine spells heading straight for them. All of them. The siege engines spew flames across the skies.

“Need some support there,” Viv said.

The spell arrays were several hundreds of meters away and she wouldn’t have the opportunity to do anything but defend.

“On it,” Sidjin said.

“Calibrations complete,” a voice clicked.

The first yries projectiles launched, much faster than spell. They crashed against a blood-colored shield without much success. Soon, she had problems on her own.

“Aspect of the Guardian.”

Her first interception spell split the enemy attacks without breaking them. They fragmented, yet they could not be made to change course. They would land where Viv was and that was it. It was their fate to collide, it seemed.

//Your Majesty!

“I got it! I got it!”

Viv was forced to use Durandal spells at point blank range, the aspect shortening her range. She managed to detonate most of them but the rest hit the huge shield, sending drifting shockwaves across its surface. Viv replaced the damaged segments as fast as she could. The pressure increased dramatically while her reserves melted. She was forced to pick apart attacks designed to land no matter what. Her focus narrowed until the battle faded from her perception. There were only shimmering hexes wrapped in divine mana aimed at her, not the place she was, not the tank, her specifically. Viv peeled off the spells and broke it apart in a contest of will between her and the Nemeti’s unshakeable belief that she should not exist. With so much of their mana above her, she could almost taste their horror, their rage at her nature. The duel continued and she realized she was losing ground. More and more damage accumulated on the array. The Nemeti were going through her aspected defense by throwing everything they had.

And then, the assault lessened a little. Her focus broadened until she saw servants coughing and holding their throats, the siege weapons discarded. Sidjin’s answer manifested as a portal blinking into existence next to another pair of arrays. The portal closed almost immediately, leaving behind a small sphere hovering above the ground, which the Nemeti fled from in an instant. It wasn’t enough. Unfurling like a flower, a transparent grinder pasted everything in a thirty meters radius including servants and several machines. So, that was what he’d been working on, Viv realized. She realized he had just created a mid-range attack that went through shields.

She’d have to steal it somehow.

The pressure decreased and her shield regained its luster. Unfortunately, that was not the end of Viv’s woes. More reinforcements were rushing in from over the horizon, confirming what the Hallurian speaker had said. Now that some of the Nemeti had made contact, they would converge like flies drawn to a wound. There was blood on the water and they were here for it. This was merely the beginning.

“Brace!”

In front of the One Hundred, a large gap had formed. The distant, hooded figure had regained control of his troops and now she had to contend with his intellect as well. Cavalry was massing ahead of the thin line of spears and Viv didn’t dare release her aspect lest the spells still falling towards her might still pierce her defenses.

“The knees,” Poacher screamed, “Get their fucking knees! KNEES!”

The marksmen commander rallied her troops. Feathered bolts lanced the scaly legs of the Nemeti mounds as they gathered, many falling before the attack could start. A part of Viv knew this was a lot of ammo, more than they could spare, but they had no choice. She had to rely on them now. It was their war as well.

Needled and exposed, the Neteli mounted riders charged before they could truly form up. Three-meter tall, velociraptor-mounted warriors were still a terrible sight to behold. And she couldn’t help. There were still too many incoming spells.

“Tighten the formation! BRACE FOR CAVALRY,” Ban roared.

As one, the heavies raised their spears up and planted their shields down. The back ranks placed their hands on the shoulders of those before them while the markswomen fired nonstop. The velociraptor’s skull plating made killing blows difficult despite the crossbows’ penetrating power. Viv suspected a skill was involved.

“Cross fire,” Poacher ordered. “Right to left, left to right. Get them!”

Around Viv, the Sisters turned their weapons at an angle, attacking in diagonal where the eyes were exposed. Ululating warcries rose when their quarrels found tender flesh. The charge collapsed because the mounts kept dying, blocking those who came behind. The effect on the Nemeti was devastating yet, if anything, the witchpatchs’ prowess only seemed to anger them further and the survivors still made for her with maddened determination. Fiery explosions bloomed across the struggling ranks, adding to the chaos. Rakan’s touch. He was coming to support her, but he wouldn’t be on time.

In clumps, the remnants of the cavalry assault fell on the heavies. Ban stood among his men. He lifted a battle standard displaying the black and white flag of his nation.

“Harrak eternal!”

Viv felt him come to life. Mana rushed through the lines and the One Hundred, normally silent, roared in defiance. Raptors claws fell on their shield and the monster pushed back the man, but not his companions. Feet dug in, hands holding shoulders, the line buckled and yet, despite the difference in weight and power, it didn’t break.

And then it bounced back.

Spears thrust up, skewering tender underbellies. The heavies hacked and punched through scales with steel fury and the riders died with their mounts, except for one. A large red specimen didn’t stay with his mount. Instead, he jumped up and above the heavies just as the charge came to a grinding halt.

Viv watched him, the beady, slitted eyes, the crimson scales, the stony armor above it. The Nemeti was easily twice as tall as she was and it was a mass of lean muscles. Two bolts jutted from his forearms yet he showed no signs of pain. Twin dark scythes descended on Viv.

She didn’t break the shield, only watching him impassively, because she knew she wasn’t alone.

At the apex of his jump, the Nemeti slowed, then as if tied to an elastic string, he was pulled back. His muscular body crashed on the ground between Viv and the heavies.

//NOT SO FAST.

Solfis released the creature’s heel. The two deadly combatants faced each other. Even the maddened Nemeti knew Solfis was not the sort of opponent one could ignore.

//I NEVER HAD A SKULL QUITE LIKE YOURS.

Viv didn’t listen to what the Nemeti spat back. She guessed he was one of the ruling class ones. If so, they were throwing a lot of assets in order to kill her. Her eyes searched the battlefield for what was happening. Sidjin was holding the right. His group had linked with Duke Falstag’s rough soldiers and now they anchored in a defensive position. Sidjin protected them by the expedient means of mincing anything he perceived as a threat. The enemy seemed to pace themselves as a result. In fact, the entire Baranese group had rallied and they were now advancing, covered by their archers and mages. More spells reached the Nemeti shields which forced their priests to focus on defense as well. On her left, Lana’s group was contracting and turning to prevent them from being flanked, denying the engagement. She was also turning the ground to mud at their feet which made charges that much more difficult. Nevertheless, the Children of the Scales was the most battered group.

It was really the center that was getting the most pressure.

Viv swore and focused on her defenses again. All the siege weapons were aiming at her and only at her. Some of the more armored Nemeti companies were rotating behind their lines to move towards her, larger creatures with giant hammers. They wanted her extra dead. She’d never felt so flattered before.

Despite the difficulties, pride filled her chest.

It was working.

Her setup was working. The tercios were functioning just the way she’d hoped. Right now, the Harrakans were out-performing everyone else and they were doing so with minimal casualties. So long as those shields were maintained, her people would make it. She just had to keep them up. It was all up to her.

If she died…

No, she wouldn’t. Not now. Too much depended on her. The Nemeti wouldn’t be so enraged if she wasn’t a threat. So she allowed herself one tiny smile, then she returned her full focus to keeping the shield up. For a moment, the stalemate was maintained which was costly for the Nemeti, but soon drums redoubled their sounds and the enemy disengaged.

“They’re going to charge again, Your Majesty,” Ban said. “We have to keep up with them.”

“But the markswomen…”

“Can still cover us well if we move up by thirty paces.”

“Alright.”

The One Hundred were the first to close the distance, preventing the Nemeti from charging again. Viv noticed they didn’t use their charge skill and she knew why. The day was nowhere close to finished and the men would tire quickly.

Infantry moved forward across the entire frontline. They ran down the slope to engage the retreating Nemeti while archer lines moved forward. The southerners were particularly effective in that. Viv heard great bellows coming from their ranks and the battle grew fiercer. The fight seemed to shake the Nemeti, somehow, and their fervor cooled. They were still determined.

The battle devolved into a brawl which the Nemeti were losing, badly, thanks to the Harrakan mages. Viv still focused on defense until the surviving siege engines withdrew after one more Sidjin-bomb teleport.

Soon after, something changed. The drums rolled again and their forces retreated slowly over the flatter ground. The Paramese couldn’t follow there. They would be overextended.

A mountain of bodies were left between the two armies. Horn signals and a few runners ordered the Harrakans to pull back. On their way, the witchpact recovered as many bolts as they could, finished off the enemy wounded and rescued everyone they could find. Camp followers soon appeared with pots of food, with squads taking turns to eat and drink. Many of the heavies sat where they were, eyes searching the horizon.

“What’s the ammo situation?” Viv asked Poacher.

“Got girls ferrying more bolts from the camp. At this rate we’ll go through all we have in two days.”

“Even if we recover lost bolts?”

“A day if we don’t.”

Dammit that was bad news. More bad news appeared on the horizon in the form of reinforcements. Groups of Nemeti arrived ready for battle, possibly having stopped in their camp to drop supplies. She noticed that a great many were also dragging dead away from the no man’s land between the armies. She knew what it meant. They were having a late lunch as well.

That cut her appetite.

“Your Majesty?”

Viv turned to see a runner, a young girl who had recently joined the temple as a healer.

“Yes?”

“We have a problem with our healers and the refugees. Brenna said not to worry and that they were on it and in the meantime, our wounded are being healed by servants of Enttiku who recently arrived. We just wanted to let you know.”

Viv remembered that Brenna was the leader of the temple healers. She was in charge of the Harrakan infirmary.

“What sort of problem?”

“I… I dunno, ma’am. She wouldn’t tell me.”

“Hmm. You may leave, thank you.”

Viv considered the message. Had she made a mistake? She supposed she would see soon enough. The Nemeti army was reaching critical mass again. Their numbers blotted the plain to the closest ridge and beyond in disciplined squares of ready fighters. She could feel the weight of twelve thousand pairs of eyes searching for her hated presence while the priests intoned instructions. She felt the intensity of their hatred. It wasn’t clear why they detested her so much. Perhaps she was dangerous, or perhaps her presence went against their outlook as Children of Fate. It wouldn’t surprise her if they saw her as a freak accident that needed to be erased.

The drums beat again down in the valley. The Nemeti finished their preparations and soon, strange growls and hisses surged from their massed troops. They had split their cavalry in smaller groups now. There were also more squads of Nemeti wielding bolas, javelins, sometimes even stones. They were learning quickly but they still didn’t have an answer to the human casters. In fact, the siege machines were all hiding somewhere beyond the nearest ridge.

