There were so many of them and yet more kept coming. Viv wondered exactly how many of the Nemeti were present at the beginning of the invasion for so many to be left after crossing Halluria, not to mention crossing the isthmus. It must have been an army of armies. A horde.

What was the Empire of Dawn and exactly how powerful was it? Viv hoped she wouldn’t have to find out any time soon. There were already enough of them advancing towards her position.

Viv watched the Nemeti slowly make their ways up the slope. When they were close enough, they charged into a devastating torrent of magic. This time though, more troops tried to turn them.

Viv lost herself in the flow of battle. While she ravaged any enemy in a cone in front of her, she was forced to pace herself in case the artillery engines returned. Worse, the rest of the casters were tiring. Sidjin, Rakan, and Lana had been fighting for hours and they were running on fumes. Only a trickle of spells still lashed at the Nemeti lines, mostly where the more dangerous elements converged. The air grew thick with the stench of smoke and the coppery notes of Nemeti blood.

The two armies danced a strange back and forth over the course of the next hour. The humans followed the Nemeti while they retreated to prevent another free charge. Sometimes, they would stand and fight. Other times, they retreated, leaving the humans to recover their arrows. By that point, only Viv’s spells still spread devastation though the Shrill made pinpoint attacks, sending hives to sting bola squads to death. On the third return, the human lines started falling back by order of Jaratalassi. The Harrakans still held the left flank and by then, Viv wasn’t sure the Children of the Scales would have time to withdraw if the line collapsed somewhere else. And then, just as the Nemeti were sprinting up the slope, horns rang.

Viv turned to watch a forest of spears exit from the pass, many-hued flags dancing in the wind. More horns came just as the Nemeti slowed down, unsure on how to proceed. The call of their drums grew more confused.

The distant shape of the red-robed Nemeti moved to a group of advisors and Viv knew that for them, it would be too late. With Duke Eikart at its head, the human cavalry charged down. First slowly, then with increased speed as they tightened their ranks and lowered their spears, the charge caught the Nemeti at the exact sweet spot when they were slowing down. Harrakan troops cheered when they recognized the black plates engraved with blue roses on their flanks. Rollo was leading the left wing.

The weirdest thing was that the Nemeti didn’t slow down. Instead of massing, they just kept running forward. It was as if they had never experienced a heavy cavalry charge. Perhaps, Viv realized, they hadn’t.

The Paramese cavalry made contact with predictable results. There was a terrible clash, cries of terrors and the furious, blaring call of horns when hundreds of knights made contact. For the first five seconds, they barely even slowed down. Barded horses mounted by expert warriors trained from childhood backed by advanced skills and the best gear skilled artisans could produce showed their worth and for a moment, it seemed the entire Nemeti army would collapse here and there. Viv didn’t receive the order to charge, however, so she didn’t. More wounded were ferried to the back. Everyone was taking time to recover.

Down in the valley, the robed figure finally regained control of his soldiers. He tried to cut the retreat of the cavalry by having squads close around them. Fortunately, Eikart and Jaratalassi easily saw through the ploy. They smoothly led their men back up. Once more, the Paramese alliance was left in control of the hill overlooking a mountain of cadavers.

Just as Viv was preparing a new series of spells, the drums rolled again and the enemy… left.

It was over for today.

***

Strangers worked in the Harrakan field hospital. Vi pushed back the sense of annoyance she felt at seeing unknown people on her territory, touching her more vulnerable people. It was misplaced. Those were servants of Enttiku doing their best to help as was their vow.

“How are things looking?” she asked the head priestess resting against a wall.

“Ah?” the woman replied, eyes glazed.

She shook her head and Viv caught tufts of messy black hair tucked under her cowl. The woman was clearly exhausted. She also smelled a little ripe, possibly due to wearing heavy robes in a warm tent at the edge of the desert. Now that she was looking around, quite a few of the bandaged men and women lying in their cots were sweaty.

“Oh yes, Lady Viv. Or was it Your Highness? Forgive me…”

“Lady Viv will do fine.”

“Yes. Greetings to you, milady. We have done what we could. Alas, sixteen of your people have ascended into the loving embrace of the goddess. The rest will make it.”

Viv bit her lips. It was probably not bad for a day of intense fighting. One of her earth teachers used to tell her that most middle age armies lost people to exposure, disease, and during routs. On Nyil, superhuman bodies and powerful healing magic offset the results to a great extent. Divine healers could repair damaged intestines or mangled livers in a day, not to mention soldiers surviving blood loss that would have killed any normal human. It was staggering. It was still sixteen people she’d led to their death. The elation she’d felt at the success of the tercios melted. On an intellectual level, she knew it was a worthy cause and she was at the front herself. On an emotional level, there would be funeral pyres tonight.

Viv buried her angst and resentment. She moved around the cots, greeting the wounded who were still awake and thanking the nurses of Enttiku for their work. Once she was done, she exited the tent to find Solfis and Zero Five looking around with vigilance.

“Guys?”

//Zero Five feels something.

“The shadows whisper. Blood will be shed tonight.”

“A surprise attack?”

“No,” Zero Five replied, shaking his bald head. “Some like us. Assassins.”

“Nemeti assassins?”

“Perhaps.”

“Fuck, I need to tell the other leaders.”

Viv sent a runner to the command tent but she didn’t go herself. Her first action was to go and find Lana.

“Yes?” the prim mage asked her at the entrance of her private quarters.

Lana didn’t have a single hair out of place. She looked like she was five minutes away from attending a function.

“I was wondering if you have any temperature control tools?”

“Of course, I do, as you know very well.”

“That was a rhetorical question leading to a request. Could you refresh the healers’ tent? It’s stuffy and I’d like everyone to be more comfortable. If that’s fine with you.”

“The hospital? Oh! Oh yes, I can help. And I can improve the hygiene as well. I shall gather supplies and help them by setting enchantments. An excellent initiative, Your Majesty. Was there anything else?”

“No, thank you. It will help.”

“I shall be there right away.”

There was one more place she needed to be. Asking around, she was directed to a remote camp by the forest surrounding the witch gate. Plumes of smoke rose above the improvised and unfortified camp. She walked there with an escort of One Hundred who didn’t take no for an answer, finding a pair of temple guards standing near the entrance. They tried to wave her away.

“What is going on?” she demanded.

“You can’t be here, milady. There is a plague!”

Viv frowned. A plague? A disease? Ban leaned towards her to whisper.

“Ma’am, if there is a magical plague and it escapes, the entire Paramese alliance will be at risk.”

That was, Viv realized, probably the plan all along.

Anger burned through her chest. Pure outrage locked her jaw as she struggled to maintain her composure. Those Nemeti had done that? The fuckers.

“You get back. Zero Five too. Solfis stays with me.”

“Your Grace?”

“I’m immune to diseases because I’m half-elemental.”

“What if you carry the disease with you?’

Viv tilted her head. He was right. She couldn’t get close.

But she could get above.

Viv used a spell to float around the camp at a decent distance. Many of the guards were currently asleep or resting with difficulty while those who could still stand kept guard. Some of the prisoners were helping by carrying water and cleaning around. She noticed the healers hard at work trying to keep both refugees and sick temple guards alike though she would have preferred if they kept their strength to hep their own people. When the prisoners spotted her, they regained those bovine expressions of empty adoration she had seen this morning, to her dismay. The healers were more subdued. Most of them meditated, trying to recover from the ordeals of the day. One of the shapes on a nearby bed turned out to be someone she was familiar with.

“Koro?”

The brave amazon warrior slept fitfully in a half-open tent, the twilight sun showing her pale tone. She coughed.

Brenna walked up to her at a slow pace. They stopped at a distance, Viv still hovering above the camp like the world’s most useless angel.

“A plague then?” Viv asked in a calmer voice than what she thought she could manage.

“Yes. It attacks the lungs and the digestive system as far as we can tell. The patients get dehydrated too quickly.”

“And… I assume it cannot be stopped?”

Brenna shrugged, exhaustion plain on her features.

“It’s always the same thing. We do what we can to make them comfortable. We quarantine ourselves and those we can quarantine, like Duke Eikart’s interrogators.  We use healing spells to repair the damage, then…”

She sighed.

“The disease will spread among the healthy and the healers until we run out of mana and exhaustion sets in. Then people will start to die. It never changes. Such rotten luck.”

“No, not luck.”

Viv knew exactly what was going on. The Nemeti had sent the group ahead expecting someone to answer and that someone would have come in close contact with the enemy army, spreading the plague. The Nemeti were probably immune due to their different physiology. The absolute pieces of shit.

“Ok,” Viv said to herself. “Ok, you want to play it dirty? I’ll fucking show you dirty. Just you wait.”

Anger rekindled like a sweet poison.

“Where are their leaders? Where is the Speaker?”

“They were already interrogated, milady.”

“Not for spreading the disease.”

Brenna blinked, clearly misunderstanding.

“They are vectors of contamination!” Viv exclaimed.

“What?”

“Urg. They are sent to infect people!”

“But… no one would be foolish enough to try and weaponize a plague? It is a plague! A terribly dangerous curse!”

“You guys don’t know about biological warfare yet. They’re doing it on purpose. They’re pushing sick people forward to engage armies first so when the Nemeti arrive, we’re all coughing and feverish. The absolute rotten pieces of shit. I’ll turn the desert into a mountain of skulls, starting with that eastern guard traitor.”

“Wait!”

Brenna breathed in and out a few times.

“Before you summarily execute prisoners, let us ascertain the truth. If they are consciously helping the enemy, we will handle them ourselves. Your… theory certainly has merits, but plagues and other body calamities are the domain of, well, I won’t say his name here. Please, exercise restraint. Those people are too harried and desperate to be malicious and diseases are common among weakened refugees. Do not assume that they are evil when they could merely be… not too sharp.”

“Come on, they crossed the entire isthmus and they couldn’t put two and two together?”

“I appreciate you possess an outlander mindset, however I assure you, only the most foolish of humans would willingly act as an agent of the bloated one. If there are any here, we will track them down. I doubt it, however. We were quite thorough.”

Viv smoldered but in the end, those assholes were not technically her prisoners. They were subject to the rules of Neriad. A part of her found comfort in the fact that, if the prisoners were indeed typhoid maries, Neriad’s punishment would be fast and really painful. She’d see the inquisitors do it.

And she had better things to do.

“Alright, I will be right back. There is something I can do that will help.”

Viv flew away towards the nearby mountain. She landed near a suitable rock, then started to carve small pillars. Solfis raced to her soon after.

//Your Majesty?

“I don’t know how to help with magical plagues because I know too little about what causes them. Intent is a defining aspect of spellcasting.”

//I know.

//I taught you that.

“I’m just setting the stage, Solfis. No need to activate the smartass module. Yes, I know! It’s always on. In any case, ‘kill hostile microscopic lifeforms’ is too vague. The glyph language is ill-suited to my needs and I don’t even know what the bacteria look like. It could also be a virus or a parasite. Or just a plain curse. Ugh. I really don’t know how to proceed.”

//You did mention difficulties.

“There is one thing that should help, though. Light.”

//Light?

//Could you confirm this statement?

“Yes,” Viv replied, carving glyphs on the first stone rod. “Light. More specifically, ultraviolets and more specifically, UVC.”

//I do not know this term.

“It’s something I read about when I was studying epidemiology. There is a… a wavelength to light. It’s very small, but ultraviolet is pretty close to the visible spectrum and I have a light spell…”

//With a slider to alter the wavelength.

//Thus altering the color.

