“Yes! So I just need to make the slider longer. The spectrum humans can see ranges from around 740 nanometers to around 380 and the germicidal range is between two and three hundred, so using a linear scale…”

Viv finished her light spell. She pushed the longer slider from the default light blue position to a deeper cobalt then to violet, then it was invisible to her.

//I can still perceive the light, Your Majesty.

“You can see outside the visible spectrum? Wait, of course you can.”

//Irlefen believed it would be a useful ability.

“Ok at least I know it’s working. We’ll just drop these around the camp. It should help reduce the transmission.”

//Are there side effects?

“Nothing compared to death by plague. They should be fine in the short run.”

Viv worked on a couple of more of those, then decided to add a second slider with a soothing blue light on top of the other just for the placebo effect. She delivered the constructs soon after and received warm thanks from the healers. They were probably just glad to feel supported. Using the same technique, she ‘air-dropped’ more supplies. She used one last UV lamp to disinfect herself and hoped this would work. She was no real doctor, so that was the best she could do at the moment.

Her next stop was the yries camp. The Shrill had gathered at the edge of their camp along with their parked vehicles. They rarely mixed with their human allies. Viv suspected it was half shyness and half rabid xenophobia. The Shrill really didn’t like humans very much if their choice of projectiles was any indication. They seemed to tolerate her though. Maybe because she’d killed a lot of humans.

“Yes!” Lak-Tak said, urging her in one of their mana-woven caves. While Harrakan structures were built with all the elegance of brutalist architecture, the yries always spent time and effort making theirs look natural.

Viv appreciated it. It dulled her concern and some of her anger.

She would still make the Nemeti pay, of course.

“We apologize. Today, not very useful,” he clicked. “Nemeti skin. Tough. Stingers won’t work well.”

“But you have an idea?”

“Yes! Two. Come see.”

Lak-Tak guided her to a table where a Nemeti corpse waited, spread eagle and professionally dissected.

“Wow.”

“The Nemeti. They are lizards.”

“I noticed.”

“No. Cold blood. Need heat. Store heat. Spend heat. Move very fast.”

“So that’s why they attack in bursts?”

“Yes. Dangerous. By day!”

The gears in Viv’s mind clicked into place before Lak-Tak could even finish his sentence.

“The nights here are cold. Continental climate. A night attack?”

“Yes! But not now. Too many of them. Overextend. But they have a weakness.”

“Which is?”

“Their mounts. Hard to control. We noticed.”

“Uh, really?”

“Yessss. Many resist. Powerful. Yet double-edged. We turn them against their masters. Use pheromones.”

“How soon can you do that?”

“Tonight.”

“I’ll help.”

“Yes. You do. You are decoy.”

Viv frowned.

“I’m not sure I like that plan. Can we not use stealth?”

“You cannot. Fate cannot be hidden. Tonight, they come for you. And we go for them. Fair bargain, yes! You stay here as decoy.”

“Ooookay. Fine. It’s a good start. I don’t suppose you have diseases that only work on Nemeti?”

Lak-Tak shook his head.

“Not yet. No know-how. Allies sick?”

“The Temple Guard, yes. A plague. I don’t suppose you have something that can help?”

“We do.”

“I… Wait, you do?”

“Yes! Follow.”

Viv walked after the strutting owl-man. His long ears twitched with excitement as he led her into a buzzing room. There, in the center, stood a massive hive.

The wax construction felt organic and terrifying at the same time, a little too sinister in the way it curved, reminding her of her worst walls. More strangely, it was a light brown with bright blue spot which gave off the strongest ‘I am poisonous’ vibes she’d ever seen outside of an Australian aquarium.

“Honey bees!”

Viv assumed the yries used the same word for ‘bees’ and ‘finger-long wasp’s scarlet misbegotten cousins with nasty hooked stingers’. That was the only reasonable explanation.

“Errr.”

“Oh yes.”

The yries removed a piece of cloth from his pocket which he used to pat Viv’s armor. Her keen senses picked up a whiff of pungent, animalistic smell. Pheromones, probaby. The hovering cloud of definitely hostile insects drifted away as she sighed in relief. Lak-Tak approached the hive and pulled on a cleverly disguised drawer. Viv could hardly believe her eyes yet here it was. Honey on comb. She would be salivating were it not for the strange color.

“Blue?”

“Yes. Made from special mushrooms. And Harrakan roses.”

“I don’t remember mushrooms having pollen?”

“Crimson dancers produce sweet liquid. Lures insects. Eat small ones.”

“Ok?”

“Also mildly poisonous. Good poisons! In small doses, medicine. You take. Purges the body.”

“And it will work on humans well?”

“Yes. Magical! We take honey before battle. Soothes the mind. Helps us get closer to the Dreamer in the Depths.”

A terrible chill crawled up Viv’s spine.

“The what now?”

“Our God. The Dreamer in the Deep.”

Images of big tentacle monsters and cities of chthonian architecture sleeping in the abyss, in some long-forgotten recesses of the world the rays of the sun never touched, and… ok that was definitely a little too lovecraftian for comfort.

“Hmm. And the god… does what?”

“Listens to our woes and brings comfort and peaceful dreams.”

“That doesn’t sound too bad.”

“The Dreamer is kind and we wish to say goodbye before we are not. Take a pot! Bring it to your people. One spoon each.”

Viv received the small jar with gratitude, then she was off again, ignoring a messenger telling her she was summoned to the command tent. The sick had priority here. Soon, she landed next to Brenna as she tended to Koro, Solfis tailing her just in case. The tall warrior was still on her cot, resting feverishly with her eyes closed. A tent covered most of her body but the head was left exposed in the quickly cooling air. She was sweating heavily.

Viv liked Koro. Koro had married Kazar’s most handsome concubine and named her first kid after Viv. Koro had lost her arm and then Viv had found it again. Koro was one of the few left from the early days of Kazar, still herself after all that shit. Viv would save her if at all possible.

With religious attention, Brenna dropped a dollop between the warrior’s blue lips. Koro licked them, then she opened her eyes.

“Ooooh that is… Oh, that is REALLY good.”

Brenna placed a hand over Koro’s forehead. A light gold radiance lit the evening air. When she removed it, she was smiling.

“It’s working. The infection is being pushed back. Thank you so much, Viviane. This medicine is nothing short of a godsend. Please, tell the yries how much we appreciate it.”

“Oh, I will.”

“But why does the honey need to be hallucinogenic?”

“It’s what?”

“The effect is mild, I will grant you that. I still believe the medicine would be better off without it, especially because this specific patient has a history of charging through town naked to propose when subjected to significant excitement.”

Ah.

Lak-Tak’s mentions of ‘getting closer to god’ suddenly made an extraordinary and really upsetting amount of sense.

“Your Majesty? Vivane?”

But she would not answer. Viv’s mind was stuck trying to reconcile ‘I am a serious leader whose tactics carried my people through the day’ with ‘My entire artillery contingent goes to war high as kites on shrooms honey’, and no stats in the world could make that struggle any easier.
