“I'll just go around it for now.” Ren said. “If I try to remove it, it might leave a hole that anyone could fall in.”

“Including us.” Teepo said, and Ren nodded.

“I'll come back later and see if I can shift it around, or even break it up and remove it.” Ren said and climbed up on top of it.

“Hey, I see Princess!” Teepo said. “She's coming over the road now.”

Ren jumped off the rock and went to the farm vehicle to store it, then ran over to Fern and told him he was taking a break for a while, possibly for a couple of hours, and looked at Russell.

“Hey, snap out of it.” Ren said and snapped his fingers in front of the boy's face a couple of times. Russell looked at him with wide eyes and then blinked a few times.

“Sorry, mister.”

“It's all right.” Ren said. “Put on your boots and get out of here.” He said. “Tell Patty she wants you.”

“Yes'sir!” Russell said, slipped the boots on, then stood still as a post when he saw what they did.

“I said GIT!” Ren yelled at the boy.

Russell was startled and jumped back about 2 feet. He'd only meant to jump about 6 inches, and he started to laugh.

“Move it! Move it! Move it!” Ren said, and Russell took off at a run. He tripped and stumbled a little; but, he caught himself before he fell and kept laughing. He got his feet moving properly a moment later and ran down the road faster than he ever thought was possible.

“That was a little harsh, wasn't it?” Fern asked. He had been startled at the yell, too.

“You can't let surprising things stop you from acting.” Ren said and turned back to Fern. “Sometimes a good scare is just what people need to get them moving.”

“I don't think I agree with that.” Fern said.

“It got you to react, didn't it?” Ren said and grinned.

Fern frowned at him for a moment, then it changed to a small smile. “Ha.”

Princess came around the corner of the field at a solid run, with Janice on her back and the cart loaded with sand. She slowed down and came to a stop in front of Ren.

“Long time, no see.” Ren said, and got two different reactions. Janice nodded and said it had been a while, and Princess knew he was joking and brayed a little. “Let's go to the main house.” Ren pat her neck and climbed up into the driver's seat of the cart. “See you in a little while, Fern.”

*

“Yeah.” Fern said and waved as Princess took Janice and Ren down the road. He turned and looked at the field and at the trails of wheat bundles. “How the hell am I gonna get them all done up for delivery?”

Fern reached up and scratched the top of his head while he thought about it, and after a few minutes, turned to look at the village.

“FALLA!” Fern yelled, and less than a minute later, Falla came running over to him.

“Yes, Daddy?”

“Go and get your mother... and Nessie... and you might as well tell your friends to come, too.”

“What for?” Falla asked.

Fern pointed at the rows and rows of wheat bundles. “We need a carry train to the storage.”

“Yay!” Falla said. “We can all play together!”

“That's right.” Fern said and smiled. “Now go and get everyone I said.”

“Okay!” Falla said and ran back to the village. She met her friends at the edge of the village and told them they could play carry train, and they split up to tell the other children.

This is going to be an even more fun day than it already is! Falla thought as she ran to get her mother and aunt.

*

Ren, Janice and Princess arrived at the Main House a few minutes later, and Ren hopped down from the cart. He went to Janice and helped her climb down from Princess' back, then unhooked the cart from Princess and stored it. Janice gave him the helm and Haste wand back, and he stored them and untied the straps on Princess.

Ren put the straps in her saddle bag when he transferred the glass forge to his own inventory, then told her to only go 10 miles in each direction if she was going to run. She licked his face and ran off without any burdens on her at all.

“Wow, this place is really nice!” Janice said as she looked at the Main House, then she looked at the 50 houses behind it. “Look at all those houses!” She said. “There's almost as many here as there was where I lived!”

“There's going to be 5 times that many houses going to be built there.” Ren said and pointed at the other subdivisions he'd already prepared.

“You're kidding!” Janice said. “Where are all the people coming from?”

“You saw the village.”

“That was a village?!?” Janice exclaimed. “I thought that's where they kept the animals!”

Ren chuckled. “No, those were the houses.” He said. “I haven't seen where they keep the livestock.”

“Geez! If the houses look like that, I can't imagine what the barns look like!”

“You're assuming that they have barns.” Ren said, and Janice stared at him.

“You're kidding, right?”

Ren shrugged. “I won't know they exist until I see one.” He said. “Anyways, do you want a house among the others, or do you want one across the road?”

“Excuse me?”

“I have to build a glassworks anyways, so I need to know if you want a separate house or do you want to live beside or above it?”

“Are you serious?” Janice asked.

“Sure.” Ren said. “I've only got one glass furnace, though.”

“YOU HAVE A GLASS FURNACE?!?” Janice yelled, and Princess blew a raspberry at her for being so loud when she passed by, and Ren laughed.

“I'm standing right here, you know.” Ren said and stuck a finger in his ear and shook it. “That kinda hurt.”

“I'm sorry.” Janice said. “I was just surprised.”

“I told you I'd take responsibility for costing you your job.” Ren put a hand on her shoulder. “You came with me to start a new life in a new place. You're going to have everything you need to do what you want.”

“Ren... you...” Janice shook her head. “Why are you doing this?”

“What do you mean?”

“I'm nothing to you.” Janice said. “I'm just a waitress you met at a girly bar.”

“There's a very simple explanation for that.”

“What is it?”

“You let me touch your butt.” Ren said and grinned at her, and she laughed.

“It's not that nice of a butt.” Janice said.

“You didn't cry foul, or say I was taking advantage of you, either.” Ren said.

“But...”

“Before you argue that I'd paid you, that happened right after we met and before I tipped you.”

Janice thought back and then her eyes widened. “You're right.” She said. “It was.”

“Hey, I'm always right.” Ren said and she laughed.
