Some were beings of pure fire that burned and raged, resembling a house filled with screaming victims trapped and howling for their children to escape. Others were vampires—recreated in vivid detail. They often bore leashes with barbed collars, inverted so that the hooks would bite into Umbral flesh. More than a few sisters bore deep psychological scars, having faced or survived encounters with the slave hunters. It disgusted Uva to create such things, but she lacked the knowledge to control her new skill, and thus found herself actively culling these pseudo-vampires out of philosophical outrage alone.

There seemed to be no limit on how her Terrorspawn could form, and their numbers were radically rising, pouring out from Uva's Psychomancy and flooding free from her dimension-breaching flesh. Part of her was irrevocably bound to the Outside now—an unwilling gift cast upon her by the Dreamtaker. Thus she became a channel for both sides. She derived horror as substance from Integrated reality, and she served as a living anchor and gateway for all the Outsiders and eldritch magic that emerged from the primordial soup of siphoned dread.

And so Uva became more than a Psychomancer. She became an existential hive, unmoored from the common limitations of militaristic logistics as she generated entire armies from mind and mana and supported them through a near-perfect psycho-communication network where she could highlight or suggest targets for them. More savage still was how she could cast through her Terrorspawn and spiderlings, for the analogy of the gateway went both ways.

She was a conduit for them, and they were a conduit for her.

Even as they flung themselves in blind charges, she was capable of enforcing a modicum of strategy or cunning, and she flung spells of golden ice to form impossible barricades shaped from temporal stasis and frost entwined.

And that wasn’t even getting into how her Terrorspawn were slowly growing stronger… slowly gaining more and more intellect.

In fact, everything she touched was stained with a budding sensation of consciousness.

So much so that the walls and air began to echo with memory and thoughts of battles that recently transpired within the halls before fading back to normalcy.

Voyeur of Darkest Dreams 331

This Web of Nightmare and Wonder 27

Hivelord of the Unshattered Correspondence 256

I, Genius Loci 33

Moment of the Shattered Stasis 399

Matryoshka Dilation 405

Initiating Encounter (2/5)

Encounter 2 Objective: Occupy 65% of Weave and defeat all conventional forces deployed against you.

Uva pressed her lips together. “Quite the escalation.”

“Hardly,” Harkness interjected—though she held the most acerbic parts of her tongue in check. “This is what you are practically made for. You have the central access point in the city, and you captured it without raising any major alarms. I suspect the rest of your Order will suspect something soon, but not fast enough to change their fate if you strike at all major headquarters and facilities across the city. You know where they are—and your Awareness, Multitasking, and Reflexes make you a strategic threat for anyone to face. Hivelord is a fitting title for your Physicality; I suggest you live up to it.”

The Seeker let out a very Shiv-like grunt of discomfort. The System was intent on forcing her down this path of butchery. More of her people were to die by her hand; it was preying on her own fear of mutating beyond her nature and becoming something wrong like almost all the Outsiders she faced. Worse still was how she could see herself divorced from morality. All the darkness she drank in from her victims was leaving a mark on her; she wasn’t Shiv. She could process, compartmentalize, and reuse, but her mind was still more stone than plastic. There were imprints left on her even now—a weariness that was fast approaching the point of numb apathy. Pair that with all the deaths she faced, and even the foulest atrocities and grandest massacres became feeding spots—or something to study.

“Don’t be a fool,” Harkness spat. “Outsider or not, alienation is inevitable. It is our lot.”

Uva almost cleaved Harkness’s mind to leave her hollow, but hesitated as she considered those words. “Why?”

“Because that's just what evolving does to you. It makes you stronger; it lifts you beyond your previous limitations, but it also banishes you from the taste of consequence that once kept you in check.” The words came from behind Uva, and her body stiffened. Uva, having access to her mind, knew they spoke on Harkness's behalf. As she spun, forming a long blade shaped of geometric fractals cast from shattering spiders, she found herself facing the faint-blue visage of Hades Hymn—with Valor looming behind him.

Uva blinked. “Hymn? What are you—”

“I'm not part of the Delve,” Hymn deadpanned. “Please don't stab me. Or maybe you might free me from my worthlessness.”

“Legend Hymn,” Valor chided.

The Headmaster just sighed. He looked positively wretched to Uva—though his face was as gaunt as the Seeker remembered, there was a dullness to his stare that disquieted her, and his mind radiated an aura of heavy despair that reminded Uva a bit too much of someone trapped in the darkest recesses of depression.

“What happened?” Uva asked, her own trials forgotten. She didn't much like Hymn—in fact, she held him in quite low esteem after his display of cowardice before the Challenger. But disliking the man didn't mean she found any pleasure in his suffering.

“Ask your dearest Deathless after we're done,” Hymn responded with a sigh. “That boy possesses a horrific aptitude for breaking and then putting people back together. It’s like if you stitched both Veronica and Kathereine together, changed their sex, and stuck them in the body of a man-shaped Tarrasque.”

“Shiv attacked you?”

“Not directly; but enough about my existential suffering—let’s talk about yours instead.” Hymn looked around the control room Uva controlled. The bodies of shredded Umbrals, Weaveresses, and automata littered the ground while spiders crept along the walls, connected to Uva physically by kaleidoscopic threads which mirrored the coloring emanating from her body’s contours. “Well. I see the System did the expected thing and decided to dance on your psychological wounds. How long did it take for you to work up to this? How many attempts are you on?”

Uva hesitated before answering. “Technically, the third attempt. But this is the first time I finished an encounter. It—I took some time to… process and configure my mind so I could accept what needed to be done.”

Rather than mockery, she noted a genuine look of sympathy from Hymn. “No shame in it. I’m not here to judge you; I was in a far more pitiful state than you when I was forced to start my first Psychomancy Delve.” A near-unwilling laugh sounded from him, and his mind screamed with a pitch of raw and old pain; the psionic equivalent of a stinking wound that was never fully drained of its infection. “My first encounter was just to kill my parents. Normally, that would be easy considering what they did to me, but the simulation started with them treating me well. They—they made me dinner and acted like they loved me instead of using me as a means to further their understanding of the Outside.”

Hymn stared off into the distance. “The System sees everything, and it will drive its fingers into your injuries if only to provoke you toward strife. I wanted to stay in that simulation forever. I did stay in that state for a month, if only to learn how it felt. Killing them to move forward was the hardest part of that Delve. All the encounters that followed were nothing; murdering myself was practically cathartic. So…”

“Why… Why are you telling me this?” Uva reacted, unnerved by Hymn’s openness.

“Because I, for the first time in years, have been emotionally compromised, and now everything I held in is coming out in a grand carnival of shame and self-inflicted humiliation.” Hymn snorted. And then giggled. “The Deathless was right; disgustingly right. Him being an idiot boy just made the truth cut deeper and worse. My story never came true. I am not who I mythologized myself to be.”

“Hymn,” Valor repeated, his tone gentler this time. “This is why I told you to take a moment.”

“A moment wasn’t going to solve this… this malaise,” Hymn replied. “No. The boy was right about the other things too. These feelings—I learned this lesson some decades prior, that action comes first. But sometime after that enlightenment, I lost it again, and I went back to pretending. I suppose it was easier. Ah. Enough. Again, this isn’t for me; we have need of you. Uva. Has your Legendary Skill taken shape yet, or are you still unevolved?”

“Still unevolved,” she answered.

“Good. We’re early enough that we just might be able to shape this.”

A burst of paranoia rang through Uva—but it weakened as Valor gave her a nod, as if sensing her apprehension. “Why? You wish for me to develop a specific skill evolution.”

“As Within, So Without,” Hymn answered. “It is a specific Legendary Psychomancy deviation that Seekers pacted to the Dreamtaker can evolve. And you, right now, there is no one more perfected for such a skill evolution than you. Well, in theory. In function, the Dreamtaker is no more, and you are the closest thing to what she was since you’ve inherited the remnants of her dimension, so who knows what wonderful and terrible Legendary Skill you might evolve.”

“And why am I to evolve this specific skill?” Uva asked.

“It’s for Adam,” Valor answered instead of Hymn. “His mind—”

The mention of Adam’s name alone convinced Uva. “Tell me what must be done, and I will do all I can to claim this evolution.”

A shared silence overcame both Valor and Hymn, but where the former radiated with pride, the latter was breached by slight surprise. “Just like that?” Hymn asked. “He didn’t even explain what the skill might do to you.”

“I don’t care what it might do if I can save Adam. That’s what the evolution might be for, isn’t it? Mending or supporting his mind somehow?”

“Yes, but—”

Uva interrupted Hymn. “Then it is enough. There is little I wouldn’t give for Adam. And little he wouldn’t do for me. I understand; now let us commit to the task. What do you need from me?”

“Failure,” Hymn answered. “We need you to continue this Delve until you fail, and then, and only then, will you gain your first partial legendary skill evolution. But it is also essential that you guide and shape your Legendary Evolution in a specific way, and that you fail in a specific way. As Within, So Without is more than a Psychomancy skill—it's meant to exceed the limits of one's mind and allow you to establish a field where your mental world and the material realm you reside in overlap. And it will also let you pull things from the material over into the mental as an inverse—and this is what we need to aid Gate Lord Arrow, for if you can reach into his mind and create an expanded construct based on his unstable consciousness…”

“I see the purpose,” Uva breathed. “Even if I lack the expertise of a mind-mender, I can adapt his mind into a tangible model so that we can make precise repairs to his consciousness.”

“Such is the hope,” Hymn answered.

“Very well,” Uva said, a new resolve filling her. Before, sieging her home and slaughtering her comrades was a difficult prospect, with the sting of every kill barely dulled by the promise of power with her unprepared ascension to Legendary-Tier. Now, there was a greater, nobler purpose driving her.

Initiating Encounter (2/5)

Encounter 2 Objective: Occupy 65% of Weave and defeat all conventional forces deployed against you.

She glared at the objective and initiated her first move. For now, her spiderlings and her spawn were to stay in place and hold Passage. Anyone who came in was to be intercepted and resolved. But her physical forces weren't to sally out, not yet, not until Weave was already disrupted and crumbling at the seams. Instead, she sent her psychomantic threads out, and they glided like hairs carried by the wind. They surged in all directions, some heading high, most falling low.

Uva meticulously avoided patrols and scans by bedding pieces of herself within passing demons or bystanders. The simulation rendered a vivid detail, showing its crystalline heights playing those bewitching notes that echoed forth from the Composer's grand cocoon. But there was a level of lifelessness to the people and beasts she lurked within. Their thoughts were simplistic and looped through a series of conditioned behaviors and actions.

That told her the System's power had an unknown limit, or at least it wasn't willing to exert that much fidelity for a single Delve. When she engaged the first of Weave’s inner defenses, however, her suspicions evolved, and she wondered if all this was being created by her own mind alone. Most of the magical resources were given to the foes she faced, for they felt like full people, for they reacted and struggled as living, breathing entities would.

But though her selected targets tried to resist, they were unprepared for what was to come. The quiet war to conquer Weave began not with the casting of a pyromancy spell that would induce towers to slag and armies to ash. Nor did it commence with a blaring of war horns as a mighty vampire Vanguard breached Passage, leading hordes of blood-starved monsters in their wake to feast upon the vulnerable. No, it began far more insidiously as she targeted the critical communication networks and the specialists who ran them.

