As Within, So Without is something I would describe as the actualization of an offensive Psychomancer’s capabilities. Connected to the Dreamtaker's pseudo-domain, it allows the Psychomancer to transcend their previous limitations. That being the subtle art of the mind made vulgar. Now let me elaborate: When the Psychomancer uses their power, they are primarily striking at the metaphysical concept of a mind. The mana-based construct reaches into someone's consciousness and usurps both their biological and higher spirit-bound functions of intelligence.

From there, a great many things can be done: The mind can be broken in an act of utter ego-dissolving brutality. The mind can be reinforced. The mind can see its memories scrubbed clean or made clearer. The mind can be reconstructed. Personalities can be reforged.

All truly depends on the intelligence, creativity, and understanding the Psychomancer possesses over their lore.

However, as subversive and dangerous as the art of the mind is against any creature that thinks, it faces more absolute limitations when it comes to the material and non-evolutionary intelligences. Machine intellects and other creatures that have divergent ways of expressing their consciousness can usually be interfaced with, but not easily manipulated by a Psychomancer. The reason for this is relatively simple: even if your thoughts are the same, the architecture is not. The epistemology matters. If you don't understand what epistemology is, please come back after finishing your basic education. Aside from beings of alternative intellect, some drones have scarce to no intellect, yet are capable of executing pre-programmed actions, along with things that have no consciousness at all, but retain a measure of high intelligence. That, though extremely aberrant and often an eldritch creature in its own right, also serves as a complete counter against the Psychomancer. Besides this, there is also the matter that Psychomancy is the softest of the magical lores, even softer than Animancy, for Animancy can see even matter dissolved if you configure its fundamental nature to perform as such.

But the same limitations do not apply if you're operating in a realm of thoughts, or more likely, a realm of dreams. This is where the Dreamtaker's domain comes into play. For there, there is little difference between the mental and the material. In fact, the mental is the material, and so the Dreamtaker spawns interesting creatures that are formed from thoughts and memory. Thoughts, memory that become your clay as a Psychomancer. If you can reach this highest echelon of evolution, you will be able to project your mind outward, creating a cityscape forged from the substance of your memory, of your Psychomancy, of your psychology. Once you're able to weave such a city, the rules change. Those who enter your mind must operate on the basis of mentality, and so the mental will usurp the material, granting you an absolute advantage rather than facing an absolute disadvantage in specific situations.

But the skill can go further than that. You can draw in aspects of the material and hold it within a constructed psionic realm of your own design, how much is partially influenced by your mana and also determined by your memory. For you need to hold the skills there in the back of your mind. The memory is not an absolute modifier; however, it is primarily a means for you to ensure that which you absorb does not see its fundamental shape altered. After all, remembering the exact details of a person will keep them alive, while simply pulling them in and recalling them later will see them disfigured and slain again. The elder dimension breaks the rules, but how much it breaks the rules and how much the system allows its rules to be broken is constantly in conflict and up for debate…

-Hades Hymn, Name In Progress: A Compilation of Eldritch Skills

404 As Within, So Without [I]

Delve Quest Gained: Conquer and collapse Weave from within.

Reward: Finalized Legendary Skill Evolution

Failure: The simulation is reloaded.

Uva converted trauma into focus as she drove her blade deeper. The Honored Mother struggled beneath her, her spider-like limbs pushing against Uva, but she didn't have the strength, nor did she have the proper instrument to see Uva struck down. The Weaveress flailed, striking Uva repeatedly, but her blade bounced off as if Uva's body was elastic. Never once did the steel score blood. Never once did it nick bone.

Uva’s physiology was beyond the means of any mundane metal to bleed. Her body was more than non-Euclidean now. It folded in ways neither flesh nor material could mimic, and it connected her to a place at the very edges of the System's reach.

Meanwhile, Uva's blade was shaped from razor-thin geometries. Fractured spiderlings glided along her hand to form a thin shortsword that cleaved through the Cherished Mother's hide and split her heart in twain.

“Uva… why…” The last words left the Weaveress in a miserable, mournful sigh, and as if the System wasn't vicious enough, it carried the voice of her mother. That voice Uva refused to forget, had used her Psychomancy to retain and engrave.

The Weaveress fell, her massive body curling in on itself as the final death throes came over her. Meanwhile, a series of active massacres unfolded across Passage—massacres engineered and enforced at Uva's will, for her mind was the hand that guided those she compromised. She drove her summons against her Sisters and Mothers, striking down those she couldn't control first and culling the rest in slow and calculated sweeps.

Encounter Complete (1/5)

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

This was her third attempt. It was also the first time she managed to muster enough will to do what needed to be done. The Delve simply didn't continue without her slaying everyone she served with, without her destroying Passage and flinging open the portals. The five encounters were designed in opposition to everything Uva trained for. She now operated at the will of the System, representing old enemies: the agents of Aviary for one, the First Blood for another, everyone who intended to do harm to the Composer, to Weave, to all the people she swore to defend.

Why did the System desire this? Why was she tasked to be the opposition? Likely to torment her, to increase the strife burning inside of her. Perhaps, just perhaps, the System was a cruel monster, and it wanted to exact a toll from her.

Or maybe it was more than that. Maybe it was trying to teach her a greater lesson. Within her Black Gnosis was an ego that attempted to bring down Weave the same way. Not so long ago, Eileen Harkness led her birds in an attempt to collapse the Passage and leave Weave vulnerable. Now she was back in spirit, advising Uva on what to do—well, more berating than advising.

“Pitiful. Absolutely pitiful. If I had your abilities, if I had your favor, I would have collapsed Passage in scant seconds. Do you understand how blessed your Psychomancy is? Do you realize how far your power can reach? Do you understand that you don't need to be here in person, killing and butchering using your own hand like some kind of… of pawn?” Harkness snorted with absolute derision. “If I am to suffer as a spectator in your own mind, then at least appoint me as a worthy advisor. I have no taste watching you fumble with your power, with this potential. You are an Owl right now—you watch. You strike from the dark. You are solitary and above; let the ravens and sparrows bleed and die, and—”

“I am not an Owl,” Uva replied coolly. She deconstructed her geometric blade into its component spiderlings and allowed them to skitter back into her Physicality. “And this is not an act of sabotage, but a full invasion. I understand what this Delve is trying to teach, but you also need to understand that you are a figment of my mind. I have granted you latitude not because I find you worth enlightening. No, I have ripped what I needed to from your mind already and use your memories to chart my actions here. I allow you to speak because I don't care about you, but you are venturing dangerously close to annoyance, and it's affecting my effectiveness. Now, if I were you, trapped in a superior Psychomancer's mind, unable to break free, I would keep to my silence and hope to reserve my bitterness, lest I see my mind slit in a spontaneous lobotomy. So. You can continue being a spectator and shed your ego, or you can be nothing at all.”

The reconstruction of Harkness fumed so hard that Uva felt a spot of her mind come ablaze, but it was an impotent rage, for this wasn't Harkness—not truly. This was just a replica of her behaviors stored in Uva’s consciousness by a powerful feat.

“So you command.”

“So I command indeed.” Uva turned her attention to her pawns as they swept through and secured the rest of Passage. The bulk of her forces were constituted by the fractured spiderlings spawned from her Physicality. That was an aspect that was uniquely hers, something that was shattered but unbroken, capable of severing matter and rending space all at the same time. Despite their lethality, they were uniquely brittle, and meticulously-shaped spells or the right kind of Toughness would see them slain en masse.

But though the reeling defenders fought with dignity and discipline, their fates were sealed from the start.

Uva understood her enemies. She knew how they operated. She knew how they would respond. She knew their strategies and contingencies; how their communications functioned and who to target first along the chain of command. Loathsome as she was, Harkness provided a wealth of clandestine details revealing hidden passages and corridors to exploit compromised assets already in play. And worst of all, the simulation spawned Uva at the heart of the complex without anyone knowing where she was.

It wasn't a fair fight, especially not from the perspective of the defenders. When Uva breached their minds, she glimpsed their confusion, their terror, their trauma—and she fanned the flames of their inner discord while drinking away their madness as fuel. But she never mentally enslaved them. She couldn't. Even if she hadn't reached her newfound epiphanies about self-determination and the trauma that came with seeing one's consent stolen over and over again, these had been her people. These were her people. Even if they were System-created replicas she needed to overcome if she wanted to complete this Delve at all.

The situation was radically different from their perspective. They faced a foe they couldn't comprehend—couldn't hope to defend against. The Arachnae Order was well-versed in facing subversive foes. Vampires were elite shape-shifters capable of altering their flesh down to the most minute of details, requiring equally formidable Biomancy screenings to sense any hints of deception. The Compact issued bribes and targeted the most corrupt elements within society, and even the perfect culture would find a demoralizing amount of turncoats between the cracks.

Uva wasn't just a subversive power. Uva was incomprehensible to them. Her Psychomancy functioned along no known rules, with her threads moving of their own volition, slithering through matter and striking from all angles. Her control was so fine, and her field was so expansive that she managed to avoid all detection until the moment of attack, and where one strand broke there were ten thousand others waiting to strike. The first to fall were Passage's leeched psychomancers, Uva's closest comrades—mothers and sisters in the lore of the mind.

Even the strongest among them stood no chance. She was already specialized to counter enemy intelligence and Psychomancers; they were her designated prey from the start. But with how far she veered away from the foundational rules of her lore and how they were still grounded to their fields, unable to face her on equal ground, there was little hope. Not even for the greatest among their number. Not even if they all faced her at the same time.

And by now, her Psychomancy was perhaps one of the least esoteric skills she had at her disposal. Harkness wasn't wrong in her complaints. Uva could have seen Passage subverted by simply reaching into the minds of her sisters and others, turning them with a thought and bending them to her will. That would have given her an immediate army, one she knew how to use. But she was driven to live up to her newfound ideals. More importantly, it wasn't necessary. It was a callous thing to admit, but it was also liberating.

The worst thing about being a psychomancer at times was lacking proper resources or conditions to exploit. Faced with an army of mind-dull dimensionals or automata, her effectiveness as a mage would plunge into the nadir. And she would find herself at a severe disadvantage if she was tasked with fighting a few elite foes possessed of extreme magical resistance or psionic immunity.

All those weaknesses were remedied by her new skills.

Though her fractured spiderlings formed an easily disposable vanguard, other creatures spawned from within her, created by the horror and terror that she inflicted upon her enemies. The Terrorspawn she created were raw and elemental. Most of them resembled feral weavers—for how else are the defenders of Passage to interpret this attack? But as Uva seeped her Psychomancy into the compromised minds of the defenders, she incubated new, more diverse monstrosities.

