Master-Tier Diviners were struck down first. Then the psychomancers. Then those who possessed more esoteric skills. She kept to her oath even now, enslaving no one but leaving mind-dead husks to eliminate them from the battle. Then she focused on devastating the enchantments and demon-summoning networks across the city. Only after that did she turn her collective minds and threads to target individual Pathbearers.

Heroic-Tier Psychomancers, Diviners, commanders, and more. They existed as the functional spine of Weave’s high command beyond the Composer—and they were among the strongest Pathbearers within the pocket dimension. Eliminating them required a supreme concentration of mana rather than relative superiority, and through it all, Harkness whispered strategies to her, and Uva listened.

For even if Harkness was arrogant and vile, she was also a century old, with fifty years dedicated to the toppling and surgical slaughter of enemy elites. Uva’s specialty was counterintelligence, but it was only her favor and eldritch evolution that elevated her beyond Lady Eileen Harkness of New Albion. The former Owl knew just what to sabotage and when to scatter Weave’s defenses and thin the elites of their guardians. She also knew who Uva could overwhelm in a surprise attack, who had to be isolated and overwhelmed through struggle, who needed to be killed physically, and who Uva had to spend entire percentages of her budding eldritch army to bring down.

But more importantly, she instructed Uva on the tempo of such an operation. “It needs to start slow and quiet—but then it needs to ramp up dramatically. You don't want them to think of this as an invasion. You want them to think of this as a cascade of different crises, as long as possible. That's why you want to put gaps between your attacks, because if they think that this is a conventional assault or assassination, then they will hunker down and the odds of you being successful will fall. Thus, you need to create the facade of chaos: crush the minds of a few experts. Make them think one of their locations is compromised. Cause an accident somewhere else. Start a blaze that eats up a facility—and make all the local hydro and pyromancers go missing at once.

“Take hold of your gifts and recognize yourself for what you truly are. You're not just some hive mind leading an army that can replenish itself from the carnage you spread. You are an orchestrator. So plant thoughts of homicide in exposed minds. Fan the flames of existing jealousies and grudges so the nearly willing get that final push they need to do the unthinkable. Defeat this city in detail by exploiting all its existing illnesses and prejudices—the kind you spent an entire lifetime covering up; the ferals at the bottom; the rampant class prejudice you see, but choose to uphold. And only when every resource is stretched to the brink do you strike! Strike! They aren’t real, and even if they were, it is them or you! It is your will or theirs, and what right Legend would accept a lesser state? What true Legend would allow such weakness to linger? Strike! Strike! Strike!”

And Uva did. Her offensives were silent on her end, but from the outside of Passage came a building percussion—the sound of buildings collapsing and explosions following; the noise built like a disordered chain of impacts on a drum, hinting at the maddening symphony to follow.

Hence, the second encounter in the Delve played on—and ran the span of hours. Where the first was a tactical victory turned strategic, this was war on a scale Uva had never fought before, and her tactics were found wanting. But she was an anomaly. She was an Outsider. The city didn’t know her like, and its defenses weren’t made to face anything like her, and so the initiative was always hers, allowing her to pick her engagements, allowing her to set the terms of every crisis that followed.

Cradle—the medical epicenter of Weave—was damaged as an Umbral Pyromancer went insane for seemingly no reason and started a raging inferno from within at the cost of his own life.

A series of captured monsters and vampires were broken free within the Elaboration's most secretive holding cells, forcing Weave to divert elite Trapdoor assets to see the worst of the beasts contained. While they were distracted, the disposal centers meant to cut down on the feral problem suffered a series of explosions, and the infected Weavers spilled out across the floor of the city—forcing the Arachnae Order to scramble all emergency forces.

Only then did a few of their commanders sense something amiss—for there were already too many sudden comas tearing through their chain of command, especially among Psychomancers and Diviners, forcing their Jump Mages to pull double duty as logistics, communications, and scouts.

Through it all, Uva felt her new eldritch skills blossom and grow. The tension spiking across the city invigorated the Terrorspawn burgeoning within the Web of Nightmare and Wonder connected to her, and with every mind she touched, her surroundings were stained deeper and longer with echoes of budding consciousness.

“Why… are so many things happening? Why is so much going wrong?”

“Composer… where are you… We hear your song, but why won’t you protect us?”

“Too many Weavers. Killed too many. Our children. We’re killing our children. I’m just so tired.”

“Is this the First Blood? Is this the end? Are they already inside Weave?”

Uva’s personal trauma climbed alongside her power. The atmosphere around her echoed with the pain harvested from her people, and at several points she had to stop before her own mind broke from the atrocities she was inflicting.

“And it’s always atrocity,” a nearby wall seemed to say, bearing Uva’s morose voice. “My power is never used to bridge people together. Ever since my favoring, I am just a weapon. I just break things. I just break people. I am deadened inside because if I felt, then I would tear and break. I see too much, and then I use all that to make things worse. There is no peace, there is no peace…”

“Stop,” Hymn suddenly said. It was only him now; Valor had vanished at some point, but Uva could still feel a part of him present—connected to Hymn via Animancy or some other magic. “You need to stop.”

“No.” Uva shook her head as she tapped into her strings once more. Screams greeted her. Death. Despair. Hell. She was turning her own home into hell. The System dangled a gift in front of her; a Legendary Skill Evolution. It was something she could have never dreamed of before her favoring, and would have been overjoyed and honored to gain. But now she hated every second of this, and pushed on because Adam needed it, and this wasn’t real.

It wasn’t real.

But it still felt real.

And that made it hell enough for Uva.

“Stop,” Hymn repeated, rolling his eyes and seizing Uva by the face.

She broke out of her stupor, offended that the Surfacer was touching her without her allowance, but then Hymn brushed away the tears she was shedding and—

“When?” Uva swallowed. “When did I start crying?”

“Start? I have no bloody idea; but you haven’t stopped for the past few hours.” Hymn snorted, shaking his head at her. “I can see why he got so attached to you; you’re a single-minded machine of a girl, aren’t you? The mission, only the mission. Duty, only the duty. Don’t think, perform. Focus. Always more focus.”

Uva stepped away from him. He didn’t follow her. A welling of vulnerability and shame washed through her—and inside, Harkness’s judgment burned. The former Aviary agent held to her silence, but Uva sensed the scorn there all the same. Harkness would not have been so weak, nor would she have let herself get so attached. She wouldn’t need a moment to parse all this trauma, for she wouldn’t be traumatized at all.

“Tell the idiot in your head that she wouldn’t have gotten this skill anyway, so her boasting isn’t grounded in anything but her own delusions.”

“Oh, what does this pathetic wretch know about delusion?” Harkness snarled from inside Uva. “Legend. How disgusting. The fact someone like him managed to reach that threshold stains the entire Tier in dishonor.”

“Oh, I’ll accept the dishonor; I’ve never been the most decent of men,” Hymn smirked. “The fact that you failed to reach a Delve at all indicates a more fundamental failure on your part, though, fake-owl. But consider this before continuing down this road with me: I have the power you want. I achieved it literally; you imagine yourself to be better theoretically. And between the two of us, only one of us has been humiliated by a child in direct combat.”

“If I had your power—”

“You would go insane,” Hymn laughed with genuine amusement, ignoring Uva to bully Harkness. “Agh. The lesson I got from the boy is painful, but it’s reminded me of a few things I tried to bury; I’m not who I imagine myself to be, and you’re absolutely nowhere near who you want yourself to be. So what if you have enough psychopathy to feel nothing when it comes to murdering and exploiting your own people? If you think that gives you strength, you’re blind! Just blind! At least I’m an honest parasite. I survived because I operate on the borders of acceptability always. If I was like you, the Stranger would have snuffed me out before I slipped the leash; and then the Councilwoman would have finished the job otherwise.”

“I would have eliminated them,” Harkness insisted; Uva was a distant thing to her now as the fullness of her agitation was given unto Hymn.

“Yes. You, a failed, opportunistic little bird would defeat Veronica Chandler through… What, exactly? There’s nothing you have that she doesn’t exceed. Oh, you’re so caustically innocent; you really think your cruelty and indifference will guard you? That’s just a facet in the grand scheme of everything. Whatever benefits they give will be squandered because you can’t survive the thought of being inferior to anyone. And that’s why you’re inside the girl at all: Because you kept picking fights that didn’t need to be fights. All that knowledge and cunning and ability—lost because you just had to show your enemy how much better you are. But were you better in the end?”

“It was a fluke,” Harkness seethed.

“Oh, a fluke. System! Give her a do-over!” Hymn was truly grinning now, and Harkness was absolutely boiling in anger.

Caught in the middle of this spontaneous argument, Uva wiped her face and blinked. “Your remarkable ability to bully the most obnoxious person I know aside, how do you hear her? Is your Psychomancy capable of slipping through mine?”

“My Psychomancy is one with my Divination,” Hymn replied with a breath. “I made a specific bargain when I Delved; highest knowledge over highest power. The former is almost always more valuable than the latter, because omnipotence is impossible with omniscience. Secrets are my prey. And if Lady Eileen Harkness still imagines herself to be an Owl, then I am the night above, the dark she relies upon, and the wind that carries her scent to the hateful crows that will come to find her while the light of bitter day falls.”

Uva scoffed lightly. “Now who’s being hubristic?”

“Her,” Hymn insisted. “I can do all these things; she just imagines. And the thing about imagination is that when used poorly, it ends up leveling your Coping Skill instead. Which is an embarrassing skill to evolve.”

Uva stared at Hymn. “What Tier?”

“As of my most recent breakdown, I am a Master of Coping.”

“Did it help?”

“No. In fact, it made things worse.” Hymn cringed slightly. “Not my finest showing, but it is no great loss. The other Legends never thought much of me to begin with, though that look of pity in Dunwen’s eyes wasn’t ideal. Not sure if she’ll want to have a rematch later.”

“Dunwen?” Uva paused for a moment as a most peculiar feeling came over her. “You know Ikki’s first name?”

Hymn stiffened for the briefest of instances—his reaction was so subtle and quick that Uva would have missed it, if not for her stacked consciousness accelerating her mental processing to obscene levels. “What is that look on your face… I… You…” Somehow, Uva’s raw intuition triggered. “I… I put her there to annoy you and to stop you from harassing me, did you… what did you do?”

“I didn’t do anything,” Hymn defended, adopting a demeanor of nonchalance. “She was the aggressor. She was attempting emotional terrorism on me and my state of mind. So, I used my Legendary Skill to learn her first name and unnerve her—”

“Lie,” Harkness said, betraying any grievance she held toward Uva to aid in Hymn’s unraveling. “You can feel it: He was with your subordinate. Intimately.”

“Again, I wasn’t the one who started this,” Hymn continued. “In fact, if you find this outcome offensive, then you should have engaged with me instead of dropping her nearby and letting her harass me.”

Uva’s right eye began to twitch. “Hymn. Did you use your mind magic on her?”

“No,” Hymn replied with a look of disgust, his nonchalant expression fracturing as offense took hold. “Absolutely—” He let out a growl of discomfort. “I’m not a good man, Seeker Mettabon, but never accuse me of that. Not after all I survived. Not after what the Stranger forced on me through my parents, what they… what they....” Hymn’s face tightened as he mastered himself. “I know. I don’t value many things, but I know how that feels. And I certainly don’t want anyone else to know.”

