“Hymn,” Uva asked as she drew her Psychomancy threads back, unwilling to take in what her Terrorspawn were doing across the city. “How do I defeat myself?”

The older Seeker regarded her for a moment, and the look on his face became almost inscrutable. But then she saw it, that glint of appreciation in his eyes. It was the right question to ask. “I'm going to be darkly honest with you right now: I am more than optimized to eliminate you. In fact, I am more than optimized to eliminate most esoteric enemies. The great benefit of having a fused legendary divination skill is that you can strike people using the System itself as a target designator once you know they exist.”

“Are you telling me to keep a high-tier diviner alive and use them as a puppet to counter my eventual clone?”

“Not a bad idea, but that would go against your currently developing ethics, wouldn't it?” The Headmaster shook his head. “Don't betray yourself so soon. Besides, it's better to do things the hard way sometimes. The rewards are greater if you succeed or fail brutally. If you want my judgment, you’re the hardest person to kill among your little trio.”

That statement gave Uva a pause. “I would have expected that to be true.”

“Oh no, he's not exactly hard to kill if you know what you're doing. In fact, I would argue he's quite easy to kill—even now. It's simply that he doesn't stay dead. No, you remain the most annoying and problematic among the three simply because it's hard to engage you on even ground. You're always wearing another body, your mana field's detached from your person, and your field is so scattered that ripping through a few strings doesn't amount to anything at all. Then there are your summons and how you can squeeze and contort yourself into absurd shapes—casually stretching across horizons to step away if all else fails. You must see now why certain eldritch skills are coveted even among Pathbearers who despise the Outside. We ignore existing rules. Fights are never fair, but they become outright ridiculous when we're involved.”

“So I need to force my opponent to engage me along the lines of symmetry.”

“Oh, I don't think you need to force yourself. I think it's quite direct for you to fight another version of yourself. You, perhaps more than anyone else, are geared to wrestle with yourself because you possess the exact same skills. You already have a symmetry, and the battle therefore becomes simple if you wish it to be. It is your Psychomancy against hers, your mana clashing with hers. And from there, I suspect fortune, circumstance, and who has more resources to draw upon will determine the final victor.”

“I doubt the System will let it be that easy,” Uva said.

“You doubt, right, and you should doubt more, because you're likely going to evolve a partial legendary skill before you ever get to face yourself. Then you have to learn the nuances of your new skill and also how to overcome a clone that possesses the very same abilities.”

That made sense, except for one part. Uva didn't know how she was supposed to fail any part of the Delve aside from a battle against her clone.

As he said, it was hard to counter her, and her forces and resources were renewable—inexhaustible.

“Ah, don't be like me,” Hymn shook his head. “There is only enough arrogance for one of us here in this Delve. And you don't nearly have enough to contend. You're ready for the third encounter, whatever it brings. Just a warning, though: usually, on average, this is when someone gets cut down.”

Uva mustered her willpower and reached back out across Weave. She integrated herself among her Terrorspawn and sent slithering strings to call them back to focus. “Let's see if the System has what it takes to stop me then.”

Initiating Encounter (3/5)

Encounter 3 Objective: Defeat the Composer’s champion and breach her sanctuary.

The instant the notification loaded before Uva's eyes, a loud strum shook the world. A wave of rippling strands spread through reality, creating a resonant web that vibrated and revealed the location of every single living entity across Weave—including Uva.

“And now they see you,” Hymn said.

“And now I'm gone,” Uva replied, unraveling into a mess of Psychomancy as she wove herself into one of the few remaining survivors in the city's middle districts. She didn't intend to steal the weaver's body or to use them as a battle slave. Instead, she wanted to test how much the Composer’s vibrating webs could reveal before the champion—

A second string was plucked. This one was a single note, a pitched note, that made Uva's mind rattle, that made her spirit shiver like clattering teeth.

She sensed him before the skies above changed color. The Composer's cocoon went from a dense layer of glistening strands to an azure blue hive that blazed with incandescent energy.

And then from within he emerged, his wings like inverted pyramids, his arrow an exalted flame, his head bearing a crown of bright blue fire bearing a glistening dawn. Beneath his heroic presence, Uva's Terrorspawn burned—their bodies reduced to ash before his searing domain.

“Oh,” was all Uva could say.

Hymn laughed. “Oh, indeed.”

And with that, Adam Arrow's eyes flashed a bright violet, and he suddenly turned toward Uva and loosed a shot with contemptuous ease.

She ferried herself to another body. It didn't matter. He wasn't targeting a body. He was targeting her soul. When his shard struck, she was banished from the flesh she possessed—and then combusted from within.

The enhancements Evanescia provided to Uva's shield-turned-armor allowed her to survive the first impact. But Adam was thorough. There was always more than one arrow in flight, and as they ripped across dimensions in an instant, she was struck three more times. They burst through her and boiled her, and she was smitten thrice over for the evil the System forced her to perform.

Her death came.

She couldn’t stop it.

The last thing she saw was Adam holding up a fist—and the Composer manifesting behind him—mirroring his gesture with her harp held high.

Uva was suddenly reminded she was really quite mortal after all.
