“Truth,” Harkness said, her tone suddenly softening as well. She still judged both Uva and Hymn for succumbing to humanity, but there were certain things that were regarded as unpalatable and pointlessly cruel choices even for the amoral agents of New Albion.

“The Outsiders share a disregard for what their Seekers want, do they?” Uva asked gently.

Hymn shrugged. “What we want doesn’t matter. We are just extensions of them, after all. Or that’s how they see things—if they’re capable of seeing things at all.”

A beat of awkwardness followed. Uva closed her eyes and sighed. “She’s not a child… But compared to you, she still might as well be.”

“You might as well be,” Hymn shot back.

“I know. Which is why I am going to make this clear: She is a Sister of the Arachnae Order. She is an adult. Her choices and mistakes are hers. But they must be her choices and mistakes. If I discover any manipulation on your part, if this is anything but that, there will be consequences, Legend Hymn. Do not mistake this as a threat from me: I don’t expect to deal out any punishment at all; I am not nearly so prideful to think I can best you even if I have accelerated toward Legendary long before my proper time. But Legend Valor, however…”

“Never mind him,” Hymn said. “Deathless has gouged me to the quick and left a piece of himself in place. There’s no avoiding him now. And no matter how far I can run, I don’t think I’ll ever be able to shake that Inland Embassy of his. Not while I’m conscious. Funny how things work: Experience, power, skills… all that, and there will always be someone who’s just properly evolved to put you down. We are all puzzles made by the System, but at the same time, some of us are each other’s solutions. I can escape from Valor for a time, but I remain a hopeless roach at the foot of House Chandler.”

“Inland Embassy.”

“Oh. He gained a new feat.”

Uva nodded, not even annoyed anymore. “Of course.”

“By talking the Stranger into accepting a peace settlement.”

Uva nodded harder as Harkness started choking on her metaphysical tongue. “Naturally.”

“He’s disgusting.”

“Yes.”

The two Seekers stared at each other.

Hymn sniffled. “At this point, I'm uncomfortable enough that I would like to warn you about one of Dunwen’s revenge schemes.”

“Oh, please, Composer, no. Please don't tell me she has some kind of revenge voyeurism planned—some horrible idea about me walking in on the two of you.”

The Headmaster frowned. “Have you been reaching into her mind somehow?”

“No, I just know Sister Ikki a little too well; her stumbling across me and Shiv seems to have her thinking it would be appropriate to inflict the same act back.”

Hymn hummed. “She is a walking incarnation of chaos, isn’t she?”

“Yes. Dear Composer, yes.” Uva sighed. “Hymn. Again. She’s quite dear to me—never tell her I said that—so please do not hurt her.”

“I won’t; now you tell her not to bully me when you finish with this Delve.”

“I’ll do you a greater service and make it an order.”

“Your nobility is greatly appreciated, Legend Uva.”

She cocked her head at that. “I’m not a Legend yet.”

“You might as well be; I’m here, after all.”

Uva squinted at him. “Hymn, has anyone told you you have a unique gift of oscillating between the deeply sympathetic and utterly obnoxious?”

“People usually just accuse me of being the latter.”

“How unsurprising. I would have been more amenable to speak with you before if you were more the former.”

“Hm. I guess becoming Master-Tier in Coping did some good for me.”

She couldn’t help but smirk. “Back to the encounter then.”

“No. You’re still winding down; I told you not to rush things. If you break yourself, there is no Psychomancer in play. You have to be functional and focused if you want to prevail.”

“But am I not trying to rush toward a defeat?” Uva asked. “You say a partial legendary skill only evolves after the first failure.”

“It does, and how you fail matters. A sloppy failure followed by a lack of understanding as to why you were specifically defeated will delay your final evolution at best or lead you down the wrong path at worst. Take your time. Lose right. Lose only after forcing this Delve to throw absolutely everything it has at you. Young Lord Arrow… isn’t fine, but he’ll stay as broken as he is now until you get out. However long that takes.”

A slight grimace clung to Uva. “It didn’t take Shiv so long to complete his first Delve.”

“Yes, and as far as I'm aware, his first Delve was simply wrestling a series of absurd creatures to death. Now, let me ask you: how long do you think it would take him to finish your Delve?”

All of Uva’s expectations promptly evaporated. “I'm not even sure if he can.”

“Well, I'm absolutely certain he can't. He can't beat an entire city into submission, even with legendary Physicality and Magical Resistance. And frankly, it will take an obscene number of years for him to use that disgusting psychology skill of his to talk everyone into surrendering—if such a thing is possible at all. He's a monster, but he's no army; terrible zone control, really. As the saying goes, 'Comparison is the thief of joy,' but let me add something to that: ‘Improper comparison is the act of seeking misery.’ Don’t seek misery. Plenty is already waiting in the wings to hunt you down the line.”

“How inspiring.”

“Thank you; the Fingerlings I’ve mentally bound to my soul must also agree—they have no choice otherwise.”

A sudden snort slipped out of Uva.

“Oh, was that a laugh?”

“A yawn.”

Hymn developed a Cheshire grin as he mimicked Harkness. “Lie.”

***

It took twelve hours for Uva's manufactured invasion to be complete. Nine of those hours were set up; during that time, Weave fought an invisible foe they couldn't comprehend. Some among the defenders figured out they were being manipulated by a hostile psychomancer. Uva threw them off by allowing them to destroy a considerable amount of her threads and going silent thereafter—at least in that section of the city.

While she let the heat cool in high-threat areas, she diverted her focus and mana to secure other zones. As waves of feral weavers started clambering up and spreading their infection, Uva brought a few of her strands to the very bottom of the city and found the most sparsely populated locations to serve as her incubation centers. Terrorspawn began to fill buildings, emerging from her Psychomancy in their multitudes. The rawest trauma she harvested went to creating more fractured spiderlings, but they were held in strategic reserve; the spiderlings she could control meticulously, as they were a part of her Physicality.

As such, she deployed them only when she needed to force a breakthrough or to bring down a particularly troublesome foe.

While she prepared, Weave devolved into anarchy. Entire sections of the city collapsed, consumed by spreading flames. Summoning stations were overrun or disabled, rendering sections of the city trapped without the aid of Jump Mages. The teleporters themselves were being hunted, stalked, and slaughtered by Uva's psi-strands lurking in wait.

And as the Order was spread apart and exhausted by emergency after emergency, Uva ordered her forces to strike, and they spilled out in a tide of nightmarish horror. She didn't guide the Terrorspawn. She let them do as they would and turned her focus away. She didn't want to see what they did to the people. She didn't want to face what her powers inflicted. But though she could close her eyes, she couldn't hide from the screams, both physical and mental.

The System was a bastard. Shiv had said that before. Uva had felt that before, but now she tasted that hate, pure and deeper than ever.

As her ever-growing, ever-replenishing army of Outsiders swept through the city from the bottom up, the sisters and weavers of the Order fought valiantly, holding their little patches of safety until they were drowned by a literal tide of bodies. Ultimately, valiance didn't matter. Uva possessed strategic, logistical, and informational superiority. Even where she faltered in terms of tactics, she had a critical mass of force, and she defeated her own people in detail.

Every spiderling and Terrorspawn lost was a trifle to replace when she had an entire city's worth of fear and trauma to draw from. And with the Order ignorant of her exact location or true nature after the massacre that ripped through their diviners, this battle was Uva's to win by sheer attrition alone. The adepts of Weave had little hope of matching her spiderlings on average, even in direct engagements. The masters might be able to hold off a few dozen, but Uva was an unleashing force in the dozens. She brooded them by the hundreds, and they built up to be thousands, and eventually they were more like natural disasters crashing forward in multitudes upon multitudes.

And when her Outsiders weren't enough on their own, she tilted the struggle in their favor by unleashing her Psychomancy, Cryomancy, and Chronomancy, all at once through her minions—without any risk to herself.

“I want you to appreciate your current skills,” Hymn said, his eyes glowing violet-bright as he witnessed Uva casually murder a Low Legend Dynamancer of Trapdoor. The weaveress fought well; her power proved immense, and in her desperation she crushed entire blocks, turning towers down to rubble and flinging that rubble into a hurricane of shrapnel that tore through tens of thousands—devastating Uva's army by a tenth.

But it wasn't enough. Not nearly enough. A critical mass of surviving spiderlings was directed to surround her, and rather than flinging more forces and wasting them all against the crushing gravity well that rippled out from the weaveress, Uva simply bombarded the rival Legend with ceaseless showers of sharpened hail.

Sharpened hail that was imbued with the power to freeze time.

The storm that followed left entire sections of the city trapped in stasis. The weaveress, concentrating her power to form a protective bubble of gravity around one of the few remaining fortresses in the city, made a terrible mistake—she surrendered the rest of the city to Uva, and remained passive. The Weaveress Legend was in Dynamancy; her control over the fundamental forces was absurd, but it meant nothing when she couldn't strike at her foe, and it meant nothing when proper asymmetry was applied. Dynamancy failed to save her when the weapon was shaped from time, when the weapon never stopped raining, when the enemies never stopped amassing, when a few thousand threads of Psychomancy built and slithered through that shield of gravity, striking the overwhelmed Weaveress at once.

When she fell, so too did that rain of tarnished gold, and all those she tried to protect were trapped in an unmoving cage of time.

Across the city, other Legends faced the same fate, and the source of it was, she realized, how vulnerable Weave was, how damned and doomed they would have been if the Composer wasn't there in person to guarantee their safety, if her songs weren't there to guard all of them.

In Uva's darkest moments, she had heretical thoughts about the Composer, wondering if her goddess was too soft or simply not competent enough to purge Weave of its ails.

Now Uva saw that things were a mixed bag. The Composer wasn't perfect. In fact, she was remarkably weak for a goddess, being only partially divine—closer to Adam in terms of power than the Challenger. But she still managed to hold her own against all comers. Small and meager though her divine flame was, she remained one of the major faiths, even if they were the least of the five.

And what she lacked in management, what she allowed in cultural instability and prejudice, what she failed to mend through song, she ensured, by martial might and that rarest of gifts among the gods—that general decency and willingness to care—that her children, adopted or otherwise, were well guarded.

Moment of the Shattered Stasis 399 > 401

Encounter Completed (2/5)

Uva knew her invasion to be abridged. Weave possessed far more defenders than the ones she swept across, but she counted 50,000 deaths at her hands—and countless more to feed the appetites of her Terrorspawn. Something told Uva that if she was particularly motivated, if she was possessed of malicious intent, she could do this or far worse to Weave itself. Because what counter did the Order have against an Outsider? What did they understand of her nature, of her limits?

Her Psychomancy field was untethered. Each string could move in any direction, and when a sufficient amount of them latched onto a mind, Uva could stride across immediately. That meant wards and containment were impossible. She boasted no great skill in direct combat, but could constantly summon more and more forces to serve as a nigh-inexhaustible vanguard and take the hits she couldn't evade. And that was if the hits managed to hurt her at all. Her physiology had changed dramatically. Normal blades wouldn't be able to pierce her flesh. Normal impacts would simply cause her to distort and bend, but suffer no true harm.

The only way she could imagine herself being countered was if an elite group of diviners and Jump Mages were deployed after her. If they could destroy all the bodies she could bind herself to and overwhelm her shield-armor’s Magical Resistance, then and only then could she see her death ensured.

But that required them to know exactly where she was in an instant and continuously repeat that feat. With a few strands, she could be out of the fray, and wearing a new vessel entirely.

