“Ah. Yes. Actually—I’m only distantly related to this inn. I’m from Pallass, you see—the [Innkeeper], Miss Solstice was in the same bar during the Wyvern attack.”
Ekirra’s father, Evink Silverfang, part of the Silverfang tribe, stared at Felkhr.
“The…Wyvern attack. And you are from Pallass?”
“Yes. Actually, they call me the ‘Flying Gnoll of Pallass’, yes? I have this project—I’m trying to fly, so I jump off the walls—I haven’t flown yet, but I haven’t died yet—”
Ekirra’s parents stared at Felkhr. They slowly edged backwards as the Gnoll tried to explain. Across from him, Rufelt sighed.
“Felkhr. You have the worst way of introducing yourself. Ever. Pardon me. Rufelt, owner of Tails and Scales. And this is my lovely wife, Lasica…”
“Charmed.”
The Drake smiled at the Gnoll couple. Ekirra’s parents relaxed in the presence of sanity. Rufelt smiled as they shook hands.
“Oh, it is a delight. Are you a [Bartender]?”
“I am. And Lasica is a [Chef]. Not that she’s practicing—”
Lasica elbowed Rufelt in the side. He grunted.
“I mean to say—she doesn’t need to work, so why would she—”
This time she kicked him. Ekirra’s parents edged away again. But then Ekirra’s mother sniffed the air. She hesitated, and then smiled at Lasica, suddenly content.
“Oh! I see. Is it your first time?”
Lasica hesitated. Then she smiled widely and leaned forwards.
“Yes. And Rufelt’s just being protective…”
“Gnolls always are. Evink was the same way. You think this is bad, just wait until they’re born. Evink once tried to chase off Guardsman Relc with a rolling pin…”
“Did someone call?”
Relc looked around, failed to spot the others, and went back to picking up a piece of cake that had fallen on the floor. Wing Commander Embria tried to pull him up while attempting to cast the [Invisibility] spell on them both out of sheer embarrassment.
“I’m not super early, but Gnoll cubs do grow fast. Yes, about…two months into? Progressing very fast. Isn’t it…six months if it’s a Gnoll? That’s what my [Wet Nurse] tells me, but Pallass doesn’t have as many Gnolls as…”
“Yes, yes. Six months. I don’t know how Humans and Drakes manage nine—well, it can be ten for Drakes. And Centaurs? Have you even heard…? You used a fertility spell, obviously?”
“Tweaked to allow cross-species pregnancies. Yes, I bought it from Wistram and they’re very reliable. It was almost the first night. Well, I say, almost, but…”
Lasica and Ekirra’s mother began gossiping. Rufelt and Evink shifted uncomfortably. Rufelt looked around at the other parents.
“So—you are all friends of Mrsha’s, yes?”
“We—Ekirra knows Mrsha. They play together. And we were happy to attend this, ‘birthday celebration’. But we had no idea it would be…”
Evink waved a paw around weakly. Rufelt nodded. It was—something. The Wandering Inn could shock the uninitiated. And today?
“Hey! Do I know you?”
Saliss of Lights, Named Adventurer of Pallass, imposter in his body at times, and famous [Alchemist], stared at a table with two people sitting together. He was passing by with a pair of drinks for his table with a very sulky Xif.
He was also almost completely naked. And yes, in front of the kids. To make up for that, Saliss had consented to wearing a tiny little box around his groinal region. But only that.
Grimalkin of Pallass didn’t blink twice at Saliss. He just sighed. Lady Pryde Ulta however, stared at the box. She stared at Saliss.
“I am here to observe.”
“Oh, well feel free.”
Saliss posed. Pryde stared at the box. She stared at Saliss.
“Why are you here?”
“I could ask you the same thing. I’m here because this party needed class. My class. [Alchemist]. I thought you were banned.”
Saliss winked at Pryde. Grimalkin sighed.
“We’re speaking on weight-lifting issues. Lady Pryde Ulta…refused to go.”
“The [Innkeeper] is free to try to remove me. If she wants to start a fight.”
Pryde ignored the glares she was getting from around the room. There was no Xrn or Klbkch—which was a small mercy—but Erin Solstice herself had not been happy about Pryde.
True to her nature, the [Lady of Pride] had refused to go and even insisted on being served cake. Which she would get.
“Lyonette! Hurry up and spike that cake with the hot peppers and stuff! The death-peppers for that Pryde-jerk!”
Erin hissed at Lyonette as she kept serving cake. The [Princess] frowned as she scooped more ice cream and stared at the plate Erin was pointing at.
“That one? But I already gave you the hot-pepper one for Lady Pryde…”
She and Erin looked at each other. Erin Solstice paled.
“Uh oh—”
“Oh dead gods, it’s hot! Ancestors!”
A shout came up from Keldrass’ table. One of his teammates was screaming in agony. Keldrass and the other Drakes clustered around with Bevussa.
“It’s not hot, it’s cold! You breathe fire, you idiot! Suck it up!”
Keldrass bellowed at the Drake. Erin slowly edged over. But Palt smoothly flicked a finger and the plate with the deadly cake and ice cream vanished. The [Illusionist] winked at Erin.
“It’s in the kitchen. If you want to pull a prank, you might as well ask an expert. Here’s a hint: don’t use too many spices or that [Lady] will think you’re trying to assassinate her. She’s got to have at least one ring enchanted against poison.”
She turned red. Lyonette breathed a sigh of relief and all was well—except for the stricken Drake. She was begging for water as her uncomprehending comrades mocked her.
“This cake is good.”
Kevin amiably listened to the screams in the background as he watched the excited children eating. Because that was what this was about. Children. All these other perspectives?
Meaningless. Including Beza and Montressa eagerly listening into the Earther’s conversation. They knew, of course. And they wanted the seven, oh yes. But a few things kept them from grabbing the Earthers.
Politics. Palt being on Erin’s side. The fact that Erin herself was ‘not from Earth’ as far as Wistram knew. Wanting to be on Erin’s good side. Also—Erin threatening to send Saliss, Relc, and every Gold-rank team she knew after them if they tried a kidnapping.
“I need a drink. Can we do a chocolate liquor? I think—I need it.”
Joseph stared at his shaking hand. He considered that he might…might have a problem. Rose ignored him.
“They are so. Cute.”
She pointed at Mrsha. The Gnoll cub, who was fluffy, white-furred, and yes, very cute, had a birthday hat on her head. Conical, decorated with silver-painted stars. And she was busy licking a bit of frosting off Visma’s cheek.
“I’m going to die. Where’s my iPhone? Ryoka has to get it back to us.”
The others agreed. Mrsha was cute. Another Gnoll who’d been invited trying to lick ice cream off of his nose was also cute.
Too much of the cutes.
“Write that down, write that down! We know this Ryoka exists. And she has all their devices?”
Montressa nudged Beza as they scribbled. The Minotauress [Spellscribe] was actually able to take down all the voices as they were happening; she wrote faster than they spoke.
“Ice cream? Who am I missing? Sit down, Relc!”
“Here! If you please!”
Wesle rose and gave an exaggerated bow. Erin laughed and hurried over. He and Griffon Hunt were sitting together. Halrac refused his cake.
“I’ll have a Minotaur’s Punch.”
“Halrac! Not even one slice? Okay, then. How’s some onion rings? Yes? Yes? Am I hearing a yes?”
“…Yes.”
“Okay! Great! Imani! One order of—oh, I’m sorry!”
Erin saw a girl flinch from the kitchen. Imani, who was helping serve food mainly by getting the required dishes, was all flinch. Erin hurried over to apologize. Imani was in her good books. She felt really bad for Imani.
The others? Leon and Troy were arguing.
“Look, it’s not bestiality. That’s only from our world. I’m not a furry. You’re not a furry—”
“Well, hold on. I just said that—”
Erin nearly walked into a wall and into the Garden of Sanctuary. She had problems. But for today at least—
“Is everything good over here? Sorry, I can chat after the rush calms down.”
“Hello, yes. Thank you for the…cake?”
The [Princess], Lyonette, paused in front of Maviola’s table. The [Lady] smiled up at her. And next to her, Olesm’s cheeks were bulging. From onion rings. They were a new hit.
“This is so good. Thanks for having us.”
It was two days after Maviola and Olesm had entered into a meeting of the minds. Also, Maviola had moved into Olesm’s apartment. For now.
The Liscorian Gazette was circulating the city and of course it was doing well. Bird happily sat in front of a crowd of awed Antinium including Pawn.
“Olesm asked me to write about Birds. And so I did. I have many opinions. You too may be part of the newspaper. But not my section. Olesm will add more sections, but my section is for me.”
So many perspectives. All tying together, like the Gentlemen Callers, who had decided today was not the day for a covert investigation, as it were. But they didn’t matter.
Because it was the children who mattered. Mrsha most of all.
“Okay! We have cake! We’ll open presents later! But we get to play today! Who wants to play?”
Erin strode over to the table with the kids. On a sugar-high, they all bounced up. Erin laughed. And she—was good with kids.
This was how good. Erin Solstice raised one fist into the air.
“Party! Party! Let’s go to the park!”
And the children went nuts. The [Innkeeper] ran down the hallway, arms flailing, and the birthday children rushed out after her. She had the same energy. She could incite children to madness, which, admittedly, wasn’t a hard task. But Erin could be as fun as childhood.
The children rushed after Erin, a responsible adult in theory, towards Liscor and the park. The adults remained behind, but the responsible parents all ran after Erin.
Not because they didn’t trust her. But because they…didn’t trust her. Which even Erin would admit, was fair.
 
—-
 
The park of Liscor. A magical place with high swing sets, a fortress full of balance beams, little towers—all set in a natural park. Enchanted so that children falling from heights, as they loved to do, wouldn’t die.
There was a sign in front of it.
Erin Solstice is banned from entry by order of the community and the Watch.
The [Innkeeper] skidded to a stop in front of it. Ahead of her, parents or guardians were watching children play around the park. There were some dangers—the park couldn’t stop kids who thought it was a good idea to throw stones, or who got into fights.
But it was safe. And all Erin Solstices were banned from it.
Because of a legendary day. The playground heard the screaming. And they saw Mrsha, Ekirra, Visma, and a half-dozen little Gnolls and Drakes running forwards, hepped up on ice cream.
And the [Innkeeper] read the sign.
“Aw.”
She was banned. And Erin knew why. The panting parents following her were relieved as they saw Erin standing in front of the playground. Mrsha looked back over her shoulder and saw Erin standing there. The [Innkeeper] looked wistfully up at the playground. And the parents and children there turned to look at her.
“Oh Ancestors, it’s her. Cessi! Come on! We’re leaving!”
A Drake mother freaked out when she saw Erin. She had been there too. The Drake girl, who was twelve and clambering near the heights of the playground looked down and saw Erin. She raised a claw.
“Miss Erin!”
She shouted joyfully. Erin Solstice looked up. And she laughed. Mrsha waved urgently at Erin. It would be fun without her, but it would be most fun with her! And it was her birthday! Don’t let the silly sign stop her!
Erin had visited the park once and been banned thereafter. It was not a story which the [Bards] sung of. But those who had been there remembered.
And the rumors had remained. Spreading among the free. The children looked down and saw the [Innkeeper] standing there. Erin Solstice carefully studied the sign as Ekirra’s, Visma’s, and the other parents sighed in relief.
Then she casually pulled the sign out of the ground and tossed it to one side. The adults froze. And the children saw the [Innkeeper] striding forwards.
“Oh no. Call the Watch.”
Someone whispered. But it was too late.
Erin Solstice looked at the children. They looked at her, perched on the playground. Mrsha saw little Gnolls and Drakes poking their heads out of windows nearby. Even a pair of Human children frozen in their corner, looking at Erin.
The young woman took a breath. Then she thrust one fist into the air. She shouted.
“Riot! RIOT!”
And the legend grew two sizes that day.
 
—-
 
Ekirra got hurt while playing in the park,
Leaping about with childish glee;
As Erin Solstice led the kids on a lark
Sugar and riots, too much for me!
As he ran wild, as he ran mad,
As he punched and bit and rolled in the dirt,
As he picked a fight and made Visma sad,
He got pretty hurt.
 
…The point was that Ekirra got hurt. It was something you could predict. Especially if you were—anyone who knew kids.
(Sugar + a park + the excitement of a birthday) * Erin Solstice = wild children.
It was a simple equation, but incredibly, Erin herself hadn’t envisioned the scenario that occurred. Which was again, Ekirra running about, growing increasingly more wild as he pushed children, even punched and kicked and bit.
His parents shouting at him couldn’t stop the excited Gnoll and after he’d shoved Mrsha and Visma off the top of the playground twice, the little Drake had had enough. She scratched Ekirra on the face.
Hard. Drake claws were no joke. The howl of pain as Ekirra ran, bleeding, to his mother, cast a damper on the party.
Erin Solstice stopped waving the little flag she’d made on top of the playground and the children stopped their battle to be on top of the playground with her. Mrsha’s ears and tail drooped. Watch Captain Zevara and a squad of [Guards] saw Erin look around guiltily as Ekirra howled in pain.
Zevara needed a drink. Ekirra needed a few drops of healing potion and Visma got scolded, which made her upset because it wasn’t her fault that Ekirra was bad first! The two little friends began quarrelling, which made Mrsha upset because it was her birthday and no one should be unhappy!
“I’m sorry. Uh—is he okay?”
“He’s fine, Miss Solstice. He gets hurt worse than this all the time. One time he ran onto a nail. And the [Healer] had a dreadful time with that…Ekirra, say sorry to Visma. Now.”
Ekirra’s mother reassured Erin. The [Innkeeper] was relieved, but her metaphorical fire was out. She couldn’t exactly climb back onto the playground and start a riot again. Especially because Zevara was hovering behind her with a club not-quite-raised.
