Hethon was nodding impatiently as Tyrion’s mind spun across what would have been but for Magnolia. His blood still boiled, thinking of her. Then his son raised one hand as Gelden trotted back towards Ullim.
“But father. What did the people of Liscor do? They didn’t kill mother. Why do they have to die?”
The [Lord] halted. Gelden pulled up. Hethon looked at his father. Tyrion Veltras hesitated. His talk with his father, which had been so clear and reassuring—had not gone like this.
At last, he answered.
“Nothing, Hethon. I doubt very much they were part of the plot to kill Salva—kill your mother. That was one of the Walled Cities. Manus.”
His fist clenched on his reins. Hethon looked at his father, uncertainly.
“Then why did Liscor have to fall?”
“Because they stand with our enemies, Hethon Veltras. It is not an honorable thing to say. But [Lords] are not [Knights]. I would have…spared the civilians if they surrendered. But a [Lord] is seldom kind. Do you…understand that?”
Tyrion Veltras looked down at his son. Hethon looked gravely up at him.
“I think I do, father.”
“Good.”
The [Lord] reached down. He clasped Hethon’s shoulder. He’d seen Pellmia do that with his boy a few times. Hethon smiled.
Not like Tyrion at all. But somehow—Tyrion felt as though the talk had been as productive as he had once had with his father. He found himself smiling again.
“Lord Veltras. We have Hethon’s mare ready, if you two would like to ride—”
Ullim, steadfast Ullim, was already mounted on a destrier and leading a much smaller mare. The old man looked comical on the massive horse. But then—Ullim had ridden with Tyrion’s father in times of war.
“No need.”
Tyrion waved the horse away. Hethon and Ullim blinked, but Tyrion’s son obediently began checking the ground.
“I can jump down—”
“No. You have the practice lance. I’ll show you how to tilt. Unless you don’t want to?”
Tyrion frowned at Hethon. His son looked up, suddenly ecstatic.
“Can I?”
“Of course. Hasn’t Ullim let you…?”
“I’m not that advanced yet.”
“Hrn. Well then. I’ll teach you. Raise your lance, just like I showed you. Ullim! Set up the practice dummies. Rings—all but the magical ones.”
“Yes, sire!”
Ullim rode off. Hethon looked alarmed as he saw the willow ring target.
“Do you think I can do that, father? Should I start with…?”
He pointed with his free hand at the targets made of conventional targets. Tyrion smiled thinly.
“Are you afraid you’ll miss the hoop target?”
“I—don’t think I can hit it.”
Hethon replied truthfully. He looked up anxiously, waiting for condemnation or disapproval. But he didn’t know his father very well. Four years had passed since Hethon’s mother had died. And they were strangers.
Because Tyrion Veltras smiled.
“You can hit it. I know you can. I’ll use one Skill to help you aim. And I’ll call out to you and manage the horse. You just focus on the hoop. Understand?”
“Me? But—”
“If you miss, we’ll try again. Seasoned [Lancers] miss all the time on a windy day. But you should try rather than fear failure, Hethon Veltras.”
The boy looked up at his father. And he felt a steady hand, like stone, guiding him, adjusting his grip.
“Ullim, clear the field. Hethon is tilting at the hoop-target. Remember. It will jump as the wind blows. Anticipate, Hethon.”
“O-okay.”
The [Lordling] gulped. But his father was there. And he let go of Hethon’s hand, but he was behind him, speaking.
“Gelden. Tsek!”
The war horse began trotting, and then moved into a canter. Faster. Then—Tyrion whispered.
“Gelden. Sav! Sav!”
The stallion heard the secret commands [Beast Tamers] liked to use and accelerated. Hethon yelped.
“Father—”
“Steady. You can do it. Don’t bite your tongue. Now—aim. Feel the wind?”
They were shooting across the long training course as [Workhands], the staff of the mansion, Ullim, all watched. Veltras [Soldiers], staff, and more saw the [Lord] riding with his son sitting in front of him with the silly lance held in front of them. But they were moving at a full tilt, faster than most [Knights].
“Aim. [Peilspear Formation].”
And the [Lord] whispered a Skill. One that improved focus. He and his son rode, a formation of two. And he saw Hethon forget his fear, sit up, aiming.
A breeze picked up as they charged. And the little yew hoop of wood danced like an insane butterfly, twirling, defying Hethon to strike it. Without a Skill, even Tyrion would have been hard-pressed to hit it.
As the two charged, Tyrion watched with that perfect detachment. He looked around, feeling Gelden surging forwards, loving to just run.
The sun was warm. The air refreshing. The Vail Forest’s breeze brought the scent of nature to him. The [Lord] inhaled.
They passed the training dummy. Tyrion slowed Gelden, although the warhorse needed little encouragement. He began speaking, absently. This was the hard part. What did he say to Hethon?
Salva was so good at being…he wished she could have shared this day. He missed her.
“A glorious summer’s day. We can try again. Don’t be discouraged; I don’t think I would have hit it. Lancework is tricky. Practice and building the muscle for it are—”
“F-father! Dad. Look! Look!”
Tyrion Veltras broke off from the tricky speech. He looked down.
And he saw a little wooden hoop on the end of the practice lance. It had snapped off the training dummy, as it was meant to. Hethon was pointing at it, wide-eyed.
“I did it! See?”
“You did.”
The [Lord] was blank-faced. In his head he was…calculating the odds. Even with his formation Skill, an untested [Lord] with no applicable [Warrior] classes hitting something at that speed…
Luck only went so far. There might be real talent there. Tyrion slowly dismounted from the horse. He walked to the end of Hethon’s lance and took the hoop, inspected it for flaws.
Then he looked up. Hethon was beaming—but the smile fell away as he looked at his stern father, face unchanged. He was hesitating, checking himself.
“You did use a Skill. I got lucky.”
“No. It wasn’t luck.”
Tyrion Veltras looked at his son. He tried to smile. But it wasn’t what he did. He looked at Hethon.
He didn’t have his mother’s eyes. He had Tyrion’s father’s eyes. A more angular nose, softer features. He didn’t look like Salva. Or Tyrion.
But here was Tyrion’s son. The [Lord] reached out, and offered Hethon the little wooden hoop.
“Very well done, Hethon. You may have hidden talent as a lancer. Exemplary work.”
That was what he would have said to a [Soldier]. It wasn’t enough. But Hethon’s eyes lit up because even that was more than he got. He beamed as Ullim came over, waving the hoop.
“Ullim! Did you see? On my first try!”
And Tyrion heard applause. The Veltras folk were applauding the ecstatic young [Lordling]. They were laughing and cheering. Tyrion looked around, surprised.
But Veltras folk loved their [Lords] and [Ladies]. House Veltras had always been custodians of the land, of the forests, of their people. And Tyrion was a poor [Lord] in areas outside of war.
But good enough in other ways.
“Save the ring. It will be a trophy. Replace it on the training dummy.”
Tyrion instructed Ullim as he lifted Hethon out of the saddle. Ullim gave him a mildly exasperated look, as if there had been a question of it going back.
But Hethon was beaming. And he wanted to try tilting again. So up they went in the saddle. And they rode through that summer’s day.
Tyrion Veltras loved being outdoors. Riding, hawking, hunting, even fishing. It was in his blood. He paused, marveling.
“He hit the target six times out of ten. Even without my Skills.”
The [Lord] commented to Ullim. The [Majordomo] was beaming.
“He might have a true talent, sire. His eyes are excellent. I’ll ask the tutors to focus on it in his lessons.”
“I can teach him myself. Assuming I’m here.”
Tyrion hesitated. Already tonight he had to go ride south. Sixty miles along the Vail Forest was an overactive Mothbear clan. Too far for most to ride quickly towards. But Tyrion Veltras could do it in a night with a small escort. He was faster than most law-enforcement and preferred hunting the monsters that attacked his people from the forests.
“I’m sure Lord Hethon would love to learn from a master, if you have the time, sire.”
Ullim was looking at Tyrion hesitantly. The [Lord] thought of his commitments, grimaced.
And then—came to a quick decision.
“I’ll…make time. Tomorrow, at dawn—”
The [Majordomo] shook his head. Tyrion hesitated.
“…Morning?”
He got another look. Ullim was a perfect [Majordomo], not nearly as combative as Ressa or treacherous as the…unfortunate Sidel. But he could still get his point across with a single glance.
“…Late morning?”
“Perhaps before lunch, sire?”
“Fine. Push back my meeting with the [Druids], then. I’ll teach Hethon then.”
“Most excellent, milord.”
Ullim bowed. Tyrion looked around. Hethon was speaking animatedly to a [Stablemaster] who was riding towards him.
With one leg. And one-legged though he might be, but he rode his older mare with a grace Tyrion lacked. The [Lord] paused, then strode towards him.
“Stablemaster Tell. I didn’t think to see you about so soon. Can you ride? Rest, if not. Your work will wait for you.”
His voice was closer to a snap, which made Hethon jump. But Tell Hidam, the [Stablemaster], just grinned.
“Trick is balancing, Lord Veltras. I’m all right. Those potions you had sent took any pain away. As for the rest—leg’s gone. Back to work.”
He shrugged. Calm as could be. He hadn’t been when they had to take off his leg. But then—the infection had gone too bad, and even the best [Healer] hadn’t done much.
“If you’re unwell, rest. I won’t have you falling out of the saddle and injuring yourself so soon after healing.”
Tyrion instructed Tell. The man just bowed in the saddle. His old mare whickered at Gelden. Fast as Tyrion’s warhorse might be, even the [Lord] would hesitate to put all his money on a race against Tell Hidam and his mount, Daisystream. Well, until recently.
Tell had lost a leg. And he’d never ride as surely as before. But he’d not lose his job in the Veltras estates. Few people were rich, unlike the Reinhart or Terland or Wellfar families who had coin to throw around. El and Veltras were poorer.
But no one went hungry here, either. And they were not tossed away, as Terland was wont to do. Tyrion Veltras sighed as he looked at Hethon. Now—Salva would have…said…or done…? She was so good at being—kind. For all she could be a fiery as he. She had once told him he was like ‘a rock carved out of Veltras pride and stubbornness, only not nearly as soft’.
He missed her. But he looked at Hethon, still waving his trophy of the wooden ring about. And felt proud.
 
—-
 
“Tonight, we’ll dine on Hethon’s favorite dish. A treat. And allow him a pick of one of his books from the [Bookseller] whenever they next visit.”
Tyrion’s announcement made Hethon’s eyes light up. Ullim was smiling too. It was rare for Tyrion to reward anything, but the demonstration of martial competence had put him in an unusually good mood.
“Perhaps some of the gelato as well? That Terandrian dish? Pellmia prevailed on me to try it. Have some prepared, Ullim. For Sammial and Hethon.”
The [Majordomo] hesitated. His smile flickered.
“That might be trickier, sire. The trade war of Lady Reinhart has shut down most major trading routes. And while it isn’t affecting our lands—”
Tyrion had not sent one of the black roses. But—funnily—the [Merchants] had some idea that he and Magnolia weren’t exactly friends. Tyrion’s brows snapped together.
“You can’t get it?”
“At cost—sire—”
The [Lord] frowned darkly. He looked at Hethon and the boy held his breath.
“For this? Get some. Hire a Courier if you have to. Hire—the Moonlight Rider. Tritel.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras!”
Ullim beamed. It was unlike Tyrion in the extreme. Except for hiring a horse-based Courier. That was like him. But Hethon was practically dancing with excitement. He couldn’t wait to tell the others. They’d all had ice cream—the young [Lords] and [Ladies] his age. But Tyrion had deemed it a waste until now. Hethon couldn’t wait to tell Eliasor. She’d told him it had tasted like—
Like—
Oh. Hethon’s glee faded a bit. He hadn’t seen Eliasor in a few months. He might not, now. [Assassins] had killed her mother.
A sobering thought for a moment. And then Hethon felt happy again. Tyrion was debating with Ullim about letting Hethon try the magical dummy—with Tyrion protecting him, of course.
“Milord, you don’t hit the dummy unscathed!”
Ullim pointed accusatorially towards Tyrion’s chest, where a magical bolt of energy had seared his clothing along his shoulder blade. Tyrion frowned.
“What about the flying target? Yes, if not the battlefield simulation—set up the jumping target. Hethon, I’ll control Gelden. The goal is to learn how to hit a target while in the air—”
As the training fields were buzzing and some of the [Workhands] were dragging out the dummy with wings attached—there was a commotion. Hethon, smiling and bouncing to try to impress his father again—heard a voice.
Crying loudly. Every head turned. Ullim’s face fell. So did Hethon’s. He recognized the voice. And the tantrum.
And the rider, carefully but swiftly escorting a young boy back towards them. Tyrion turned his head. And Hethon saw his younger brother, riding behind Jericha, Tyrion’s [Aide], [Mage], and retainer.
“Sammy.”
Hethon saw Sammy, or Sammial Veltras, ten years old, screaming and howling with tears as Jericha rode him back. He was small for his age, but rather fit.
“Lord Sammial. What’s the matter?”
Ullim hurried towards Sammial. The [Lord] was bawling. Red-faced.
He was very much a kid compared to Hethon’s distinguished fourteen years of age. He cried a lot when he didn’t get his way, threw tantrums—got mad—
But there was this for Sammial. He was…something. Hethon saw every head turn and people hastening to see what was wrong as Jericha, naturally grey-haired, tried to help Sammial down. He punched at her, enraged over something.
The thing about Sammial was…the thing was…
When people talk about Hethon, they said things like ‘he’s studious’. Diligent, a bit quiet, but level-headed. A credit to his class, really. Interested in books, which is grand, isn’t it? Knows when to listen, thoughtful—
When they were polite. Well—there wasn’t much they said that was bad about Hethon. Or…so he thought, from eavesdropping on the servants. And that was well and good.
But Sammial. When they spoke of Sammial Veltras, they said only one thing.
