“I think the children should go back to playing, Miss Solstice. By themselves, if they so choose.”
Erin eyed Zevara. She looked at the club, and then at Ekirra, who was in no mood to play.
“Yeah. Sorry. Maybe I got them too hyped up.”
They went back to the inn, a bit subdued. Mrsha anxiously ran between Visma and Ekirra, trying to play the peacemaker. Still—all was not lost.
There were still the presents.
“Happy Birthday, Mrsha! This is from us!”
The Horns of Hammerad saw Mrsha’s anxious face turn into a beaming smile as she opened her present and found…a tiny hunting horn! Wide-eyed, Mrsha blew into it and it emitted a toot of sound. She took a breath and blew.
Every Gnoll and most of the other adults clapped their hands over their ears. Typhenous, a master of dealing with children, instantly pointed and cast a [Silence] spell on the trumpet. Mrsha happily blew it.
“It’s just a small gift, but we thought it’d really help Mrsha if she wants to make sound. You know? And it’s uh—a pun.”
“What? Oh. The Horns of—that’s hilarious!”
Erin began chortling. Ceria grinned and Ksmvr opened his mandibles wide, but Pisces and Yvlon both looked embarrassed.
“I just got it! Dead gods, that’s amazing!”
Saliss sprayed his drink over Xif as he laughed. Relc nudged Embria and Jelaqua grinned—they were about the only people in the room who appreciated that level of humor. Mrsha ran about excitedly, but Lyonette had to call her back.
“There are more presents, Mrsha. Thank the Horns.”
Mrsha hugged them all, and then the next present was placed before her. Erin eyed the…tower…of presents.
“Whose is this? There’s no nametag…”
“Oh, that’s me! Hawk and I bought it! Open it, Mrsha!”
The Gnoll opened the package Selys had wrapped and past the colorful paper she saw…a mirror.
A hand mirror, set with beautiful wood, that reflected Mrsha’s face. The Gnoll blinked into it as some of the guests with an eye for quality oohed.
“It’s so—fancy! Wow, Selys.”
Erin blinked at the delicate tracing on the wood; someone had hand-burned lines onto the mirror, giving it a more Gnollish aesthetic without gemstones. But the glass on the mirror was perfect, without flaw, and it was enchanted.
“It’s more than that. Mrsha, I had this trick added. See that little bit of topaz near the top? Touch it.”
Mrsha did. Then she stared at her face in the mirror. A puzzled Mrsha stared back. But the face wasn’t moving.
“I think she broke it. Oh dear.”
Ksmvr commented. Selys laughed. Mrsha waved the mirror, fascinated.
“No—it takes an image of what was reflected, see? Just one. If you touch the topaz again—”
Mrsha saw the mirror begin reflecting normally. She looked up, ecstatic.
“I was also thinking of Mrsha—this way she can show you what she wants. Do you like it, Mrsha? There’s also some fur dyes here—”
There was in fact, fur dyes, little cheap bits of gemstones you could add to your fur and make it sparkly—Gnollish beauty products. Mrsha heard murmuring and Visma stared at the lineup of makeup.
“Wow, Selys. This is amazing. Really.”
Erin was blown away. It must have cost at least a few hundred gold. Especially for an enchanted mirror! But Selys waved it away. She leaned over as Mrsha took a picture of Ceria making a face and then ran around showing everyone.
“It wasn’t that expensive. And its Mrsha’s first birthday here. To tell you the truth, I was going to get a scrying mirror, but Hawk said it might be too much.”
The Rabbit Beastkin rolled his eyes, looking a bit…he smiled when Selys glanced at him.
“No, no. The mirror was a great gift, Selys. Just…great. To buy for a child. She shouldn’t take it out of the inn. Thieves and stuff…”
He coughed as Selys narrowed her eyes. Erin found herself agreeing with Hawk. It was so expensive.
“Mrsha! We have more gifts! You can play with it later! Who’s next?”
“Me!”
Relc shouted. He had a clumsily wrapped gift—a wire puzzle. But Wailant and Viceria wanted Mrsha to open their present, which was a miniature set of [Farmer]’s tools. Oh, and Griffon Hunt had bought Mrsha a little bow and arrows which was a dubious present if you considered…aim…
Bird had wrapped up his favorite feathers, Numbtongue had found a large nugget of silver and Pyrite had turned it into a perfect ball you could roll about. And at this point, Erin Solstice realized…
Selys hadn’t broken the bank. She’d just set the bar and some of the gifts were nudging it. Like a potion from Saliss of Lights that made small little Gnolls glow in the dark.
Actually, that was a thoughtful, price-restricted gift. Numbtongue on the other hand…didn’t really know what to give children, so the ball of silver was completely impractical in that it would be stolen anywhere but the inn.
Mrsha loved it, of course, but there were so many gifts. Each one of the Halfseekers had gotten Mrsha a gift rather than going by team. Krshia, Elirr, Raekea, every Gnoll invited had a gift. All the children had brought gifts.
A. Pile. Of. Gifts. On the table. Mrsha had to begin opening them and quickly hugging the people who had gifted them rather than take the time to process each one.
And the other children stared at the gifts. Birthdays were a thing in this world. But the tradition of having to give a gift was new; a child could expect a new ball, like Ekirra got for his birthday from his parents. Nothing more.
Mrsha had four new balls and counting, including the one made of silver. And Erin, watching the kid’s faces, saw this next part coming.
“I want a birthday like Mrsha!”
One of the Drake friends (not Visma), began shouting as he saw Mrsha blink at a small pile of savory dried meat snacks from Elirr. And how not? The Drake boy began stomping the floor.
“I want presents! I only got one!”
“Tiss! Be quiet!”
Mortified, his father hissed at him. But the little Drake was also in his hoarding phase and Mrsha’s pile of gifts was triggering him.
Frankly, most of the Drakes in the room and Typhenous, Seborn, Wailant, Pisces, and anyone with a thieving background were getting hot and bothered too. Erin looked around. She saw Ekirra staring at Mrsha’s new balls. Mrsha was looking around, overwhelmed by the presents…
“Visma! I saw that! Don’t you dare!”
The little Drake jumped. She had Mrsha’s new mirror behind her back. She instantly ran off with it. Her parents chased after her.
“Uh oh. I think…hey! Take five, everyone!”
The room looked at Erin. Pryde was busy pouring a handful of gold coins into a bit of wrapping paper—she hadn’t known about the party—and the children were either throwing tantrums or just pure jealous.
“Five what? Five eggs?”
Ceria looked around blankly. Erin sighed.
“Take a break! Lyonette, quick family meeting! Mrsha, why don’t you uh—play ball in the Garden with everyone? We’ll open the presents later.”
She hustled Lyonette into the kitchen. Mrsha, somewhat relieved, grabbed one of the balls and waved at her friends. They followed her as the other guests looked at each other. The tantrum-throwing children, Mrsha’s clear discomfort at being the recipient of too much—was putting that uncomfortable smile on the faces of the guests. Jelaqua winced around hers.
“Uh oh. I think we got her too many presents. I told you we should have gone all in on one present, Moore. But you said—”
“Ulinde said that. Don’t put this on Moore.”
Seborn pointed at the Selphid who was sipping from a milkshake and vibrating slightly. Jelaqua blushed orange.
“Oh. Right. Er…we should have listened to you, Ulinde.”
Ulinde blushed, ducking her head. Moore just looked after Mrsha, playing awkwardly with the balls in the garden. Then he glanced at Erin as she slipped into the kitchen.
Inside, Erin took a deep breath and looked around.
“I think this party might be a bit—too—fancy. Mrsha shouldn’t unwrap all those presents, especially in front of her friends. And we can’t keep all of them! Right?”
Lyonette stared at Erin. Numbtongue and Bird had come too since it was a family meeting. The Hobgoblin and Antinium scratched their heads.
“…Why not?”
“It’s so much! Mrsha doesn’t need all of it. I mean, the horn, the mirror—they’re all great gifts. But she’s got too much!”
Erin explained to Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin nodded, snapping his fingers lightly with understanding. But Lyonette just folded her arms.
“I thought it was fine. Perhaps the other children don’t need to see all the gifts being unwrapped, but it’s appropriate. My birthday was like that.”
Erin Solstice stared at Lyonette. The [Princess] didn’t see the problem. Mainly because she was a [Princess] and Mrsha’s mother.
But motherhood, or rather, parenting, wasn’t an easy game. Erin looked at Numbtongue and Bird. And got no help.
The Hobgoblin [Bard] was listening to Pyrite, who was informing him about spoiling children. But Goblins were bad at birthdays. A Goblin birthday present was getting to live another year, nothing else.
And Bird? He had been alive for two years, so he was technically younger than Mrsha. Lyonette clearly thought this was everything Mrsha deserved.
So Erin had a moment of introspection. She closed her eyes. Thought about the badly-timed riot where Ekirra had gotten hurt, this minor debacle. Then she opened her eyes.
“Oh. I get it. We should have had a birthday party with twelve people, tops. It should have been small. And a larger gathering without gifts later.”
The others looked at her. Erin looked about. Then sighed. She went out to salvage the party—mainly by delaying the gifts until later where Mrsha would thank everyone individually and putting the presents out of sight and out of mind.
“Hah. See that? I could’ve told her this idea was cracked in the head from the start. Too much gold turns even the most honest man at sea to a backstabbing traitor.”
Wailant commented, highly amused by the entire affair. He eyed Mrsha. She was happy—but the emotions were mixed. Ekirra’s injury, the presents—
It wasn’t a bad birthday. Just not a perfect one. Bittersweet, and still mostly sweet. Like chocolate. Viceria nodded; the two experienced parents were sharing that knowing feeling of superiority that made less-able parents want to throw a drink in their faces.
“Erin and Lyonette are new at being mothers. I’ll have a talk with them about proper parenting later.”
The daughter sitting with her parents at their table turned and gave her parents a disgusted look.
“Mom. Dad. I caught you two running around naked with Numbtongue just a few weeks ago!”
Her parents gave her a blank look. Wailant took a deep gulp of his ale.
“And? You’re grown up now. This is obviously for children.”
Rufelt and Lasica were taking notes as well. Although, privately, Lasica didn’t mind the amount of presents. Drakes and [Princesses] shared commonalities there. It was a lavish party. And even if that wasn’t the best party—the presents would remain even after the hubbub died down.
Felkhr had gotten Mrsha a little flying top you could spin and then chase after. Grimalkin had gotten Mrsha a few kid-sized weights. Pisces was quite relieved he hadn’t made that custom, miniature bone-pet. Yvlon and Ceria had talked him out of that one…
 
—-
 
“I say, Ratici. It seems there’s a spot of bother about the party. Quite an amount of coin being represented in those presents. I hesitate to ask—but this is a special day for a young Gnoll lady. You wouldn’t be tempted to spoil that, would you?”
Wilovan leaned against one side of the doorway in Invrisil, carefully lighting a pipe. Ratici gave Wilovan a deeply disturbed look as he adjusted his cap.
“Wilovan, that may be the most wounding thing you’ve ever said. It may be that stealing from babies and children is easy, as it were said by my peers, but is it honorable? I’d soon as cut one claw off.”
“I apologize deeply, Ratici. Just checking. Even the best of [Thieves] might be tempted by pickings such as that.”
“Yes, but a [Gentleman Thief]?”
“I do regret my facetious comments. Let me buy you dinner to make up for it.”
“That may soothe my wounded pride.”
Huffily, Ratici adjusted his clothes. Wilovan nodded, eying the full inn. Then Drassi hurried over as a bawling Drake was carried off by his parents.
“Sorry! No one in the inn—oh, it’s you. Mister Wilovan?”
“Just taking our ease, Miss Drassi. By all means, change the door.”
The Gnoll tipped his hat at her. Drassi smiled gratefully as the parents carried their kid, the first casualty, out of the party.
That was Mrsha’s birthday. Erin Solstice and Lyonette had done their best. But despite it all, that night, Mrsha would still end up bursting into tears over the overstimulation. It would be a minor bit of sadness.
But it was still a mistake. Erin Solstice did indeed know the hearts of children. But knowing was different from parenting. Too much of a good thing was bad. Like sugar. Or water.
 
—-
 
The Same Week Prior.
 
Children were screaming. Also, laughing. It was a lovely sound, full of innocence and delight.
…If you thought about it. In reality, children playing sometimes sounded like Harpies shrieking. Children could be annoying. Snotty. Vicious, and thoughtless. They were animals.
Ryoka Griffin knew that full well. She didn’t—like—children. Not in the way a parent loved their kids. Ryoka, in her vague dreams about the future, had never envisioned having children. She could both remember being a kid and being a hellion to her parents and how she felt.
Kids were not for her. She wasn’t good with them. The young Asian woman had no predisposition to coo and adore children.
“Hey! Be careful!”
The City Runner’s aggravated voice rang out across the walls of Reizmelt. Human [Guards] leaned on the battlements of the walls, chuckling as they saw Ryoka jogging after a gaggle of children. The boys and girls were screaming.
Playing, in the wind. The same glorious summer day was shining down on Ryoka’s head. Warm—but the wind was blowing strong around her. Providing blessed cool.
There they were. Children, being blown about by the wind Ryoka had called for. They were racing.
Little boys and girls had stolen sheets or cloth and tied them into crude sails, attached them to wheelbarrows, handcarts, anything with wheels. And the wind was pushing them around. A few kids had just tied parachutes to their backs and were being tossed around. The gusts of winds could actually pick up the lighter ones and carry them, wiggling, through the air, for a few feet.
They were having fun. And it was all Ryoka’s fault. The City Runner watched, anxiously, as a cart overburdened with six kids all balanced together went careening past her. The cart wobbled and Ryoka thrust a hand out.
