Hethon fidgeted as his father looked him up and down. Not quite as a father might, but as a [Lord Commander] and one of the most powerful [Lords] in the world with his own personal army might. Appraisingly, seeking all of Hethon’s weaknesses and finding them.
Scrawny, bookish. Not the reincarnation of Tyrion. Just—Hethon.
“As you say, Ullim. However, I have an abundance of time. Those Drake saboteurs have been dealt with. The realm is…at peace…for now.”
He leaned on his horse as he gazed about. The estates of Tyrion Veltras’ lands were flush with nature. The keep rested next to a large forest—or part of it.
The Vail Forest, one of the largest forests in all of Izril lay smack dab in Veltras lands. And you couldn’t but ride anywhere without seeing part of it. The Veltras Keep, heavily fortified, as much a mansion as stronghold, lay next to it.
This tilting and training area was where Tyrion loved to be when he wasn’t managing his estates or out attending to his affairs. As was so often the case. And this summer’s day was…
Father-son time. In theory. It had mostly been Tyrion showing Hethon his morning routine.
“Perhaps it’s time for a snack?”
“We had breakfast two hours ago.”
Tyrion saw his [Majordomo] sigh. Ullim did his best, he really did.
“Young Hethon is a growing boy. Perhaps a few snacks might not go amiss? There’s some wonderful sugar-coated walnuts from Baleros, milord.”
The [Lord] frowned. ‘It’s a waste of money and I ate a fulfilling breakfast’.
…Was what he didn’t say. Mainly because he caught Ullim’s meaningful look. The [Lord] paused again.
“Very well. Hethon, have a snack. Then you can try tilting at the dummies.”
He rode off, waving at the [Workhands] to reset the magical dummy. Hethon watched longingly as his father rode at the dummy, dodging the flashes of light.
“Ullim. Am I bothering my father?”
He spoke plaintively as the [Majordomo] had a [Servant] bring some of the candied nuts. Hethon helped himself as Ullim, fussing as was his wont, made Hethon eat them off a handkerchief in one hand.
“Not at all, Lord Hethon. Your father is just—unaccustomed to your presence. But he’s made time, and he is doing his best. He simply doesn’t know—”
The old man hesitated. His face wrinkled up as he realized he’d gone too far. And Hethon finished his sentence.
“Know me?”
He looked at the old man. Ullim’s hands shook as he gently wiped at a bit of grass stuck to Hethon’s clothing.
“You or Sammial, Lord Hethon. Lord Veltras doesn’t know children.”
Hethon frowned darkly.
“I’m not a child. Sammial is.”
Sammial was his ten year-old brother. He was on a ride with Jericha. Ullim bowed.
“Or young folk such as yourself, excuse me, Lord Hethon. Lord Tyrion is a [Commander] as much as a [Lord]. He’s…doing his best. But your mother, Five Families honor her, was far better than Lord Tyrion.”
Hethon went quiet. He nodded slowly.
“Mother was.”
Ullim nodded anxiously. He looked at Tyrion as he struck the training dummy with a sound that reverberated and sent a distant group of goslings flying into the air.
“She was a welcome influence on your father. The two were a fine pair. As fine as…”
He trailed off. Hethon ate the candied walnuts, ignoring Ullim’s look. He’d heard it all before. Salva Veltras was a blessing, the influence Tyrion needed; the two of them had been perfect. A power couple, even if Salva hadn’t been as influential as Tyrion Veltras.
If she had lived—Tyrion might have had the support of every noble in Izril by now. But she was dead. The Drakes had assassinated her.
Everyone knew that. It was old history. Hethon remembered his mother. So did Sammial. It hadn’t been long ago. Four years.
Four years. And Hethon, grown now, still talked to his father once in a blue moon.
“Done with the snack? Hethon, mount up. I will teach you to joust.”
Hethon and Ullim jumped. Tyrion cantered over, his horse happily munching on another lump of sugar. Hethon looked nervously at his father.
“I can’t ride quite right, father—”
“Lord Veltras, Hethon is still starting his studies. He wasn’t apprenticed like you were…”
Ullim looked worried. Tyrion Veltras had been born to warfare. Not only had he fought against Velan the Kind and the Antinium, he was known as the most powerful martial [Lord] in existence—aside from perhaps Lord Hayvon, Lord Belchaus, and Lord Seagrass.
Tyrion had been trained as a [Squire] when he was nine. Hethon on the other hand…
“Ullim. Enough. Hethon can sit a horse, can’t he?”
Tyrion brushed aside his [Majordomo]’s worries this time. He motioned to Hethon.
“Come here, Hethon. Quickly now. Gelden won’t bite.”
He sounded impatient. But he always sounded impatient to anyone he spoke to. Brusque, the fancy word was. Hethon approached the massive stallion hesitantly.
Gelden was one of Tyrion’s war horses, and he was trained to kill enemies in combat by kicking them hard enough to break their necks. Just a fun fact Hethon was always aware of. And Gelden had been trained by a [Beast Master]; he gave Hethon a look as the boy approached.
Watch it, kid. I could eat you. Just because your dad’s making me give you a ride, doesn’t mean we’re friends.
That was the message Hethon felt the horse was giving him. But Tyrion just leaned down, grabbed Hethon’s arm, and pulled him up onto the saddle.
“There. You see?”
Hethon gaped as the world changed around him. Suddenly, he was on Gelden’s back. High off the ground. Gelden was huge, and Hethon felt as though everything was smaller. He looked up—and his father, stern, serious, black hair goatee and clean-shaven elsewhere, was looking at him.
“You look as though you haven’t ridden a horse before. Has Ullim been stinting on your lessons?”
The young boy ducked his head. Worriedly, Ullim called up.
“No, Lord Veltras. But Lord Hethon has a number of…”
The Lord Veltras blinked a few times at Ullim and Hethon’s worried faces.
“That was a joke, Ullim.”
“Oh.”
“Oh.”
The two exhaled. Tyrion sighed. He looked at Hethon, sitting in front of him, and then nodded.
“Have you ever tilted, Hethon? I don’t presume the [Tutors] have taught you that.”
“No, sir.”
Hethon breathed. He looked at Tyrion’s lance. Just wood—weighted perfectly to make Tyrion build muscle as he used it. And then—the [Lord] offered it to him.
“Here. Try lifting it.”
Hethon grabbed the lance awkwardly. He tried to lift it, but even with both hands, it was impossible. Tyrion’s lips quirked slightly.
“Too heavy? Then—Ullim, get me a long wooden pole.”
“A training lance, perhaps, sire?”
“No. Too heavy. Hethon will never manage it.”
“I can try—”
Tyrion ignored his son. He grabbed a lance as one of the young [Workhands] rode towards him and tossed it to him. Well—lance was an overstatement. It was just a pole of wood. Hethon deflated as he looked at it.
“Don’t be ridiculous. You’re not trained and you don’t have Skills. Here. You can still hold it like a lance. Just so. Copy me. See?”
Briskly, like a drill instructor, Tyrion made Hethon copy his posture. The young man messed up three times, but Tyrion effortlessly corrected his posture.
“It feels—awkward.”
“It’s meant to. Don’t hit Gelden in the head.”
The horse ducked as Hethon tried to control the pole of wood. Even that was hard for him to manage; he’d never have done an actual practice lance, however light. Tyrion pointed.
“You hold it on the other side of Gelden’s head. There, see? Now, try to keep it steady. Gelden—tsek.”
The [Lord] gave a riding order. Gelden’s ears perked up and he grudgingly trotted forwards.
Hethon felt as if a mountain were moving underneath him. But the horse was just trotting. It was nothing like the ponies and mares and geldings he’d ridden. Riding Gelden was riding an avalanche. And if he hit something?
The boy found himself smiling. And when he glanced up, he saw Tyrion was too. The [Lord] glanced down and his smile froze.
“Are you enjoying yourself?”
“Yeah!”
Hethon was trying to balance the lance. Tyrion showed him how to move with the horse to avoid it bobbing.
“Don’t fight it. Anticipate the movements in the saddle.”
“I can’t—get it still—”
“It’s practice. No one holds a lance steady their first time. Just ride. We’ll do one lap of the training fields. Mind your tongue or you’ll bite it.”
That was a common mistake most riders could make. If you chattered while riding and the horse came down hard, your teeth would snap together and possibly bite straight through your tongue. It didn’t always happen. But it could.
The [Lord] took Hethon around the training grounds, moving faster and faster. Hethon gaped as Gelden sped up, outpacing the [Workhands] and [Hostlers] and so on who were allowed to try their hand at tilting and riding during their time off. He knew Tyrion was one of the fastest [Riders] in the world, especially among the [Lord] class. But to experience it—
“This is amazing!”
Tyrion Veltras was smiling again at his son’s delight. He looked down, genuinely mystified.
“I didn’t know you liked riding. Ullim didn’t bring it up.”
“I don’t. But I like this! How fast can you go? Do you ride this fast when you’re in battle?”
“Faster. I can go three times as fast if I combine my Skills. For a few seconds. A lance is a proper [Knight]’s first weapon, Hethon. And a [Lord]’s. Gelden and I can dodge arrow fire, even lightning bolts. And few things stop an enchanted lance.”
“Not even that Great Goblin Chieftain? I heard—”
Hethon’s teeth came together hard on his tongue. He yelped and Tyrion slowed.
“Let me see. You’re fine. No bleeding. Watch your tongue.”
The [Lord] stared at Hethon’s tear-studded eyes from the pain, but Hethon just gulped and nodded, uttering no words of complaint. Which was the right thing to do. Tyrion ignored Hethon’s tears as the boy furiously swiped at them. And continued, as if nothing had happened.
“I did kill that…Goblin. A Great Goblin, I think they’re classified as. I thought we killed all of them with that Goblin King. It wasn’t a match for me, even if it hadn’t been wounded. Even so—it killed a Gold-rank team. Goblins aren’t to be underestimated, Hethon.”
“But you killed it? Yourself?”
Hethon tried to ignore the pain on his tongue. Ullim would give him a bit of healing potion. Tyrion glanced at him and nodded.
“Nothing to be proud of. It was just duty, Hethon.”
“But you killed it. By yourself!”
Hethon insisted. He was going to tell the other boys—[Lord]’s sons and [Ladies]—that he was allowed to socialize with the next time they met. He’d heard about it before of course, but now he could tell them he’d heard it from his father.
“I won’t hear you bragging of it, Hethon.”
Tyrion frowned absently. Hethon’s face fell. Why did he have to understand what Hethon wanted now of all times?
“But—”
“It was my duty. Not my pleasure. Duty compelled me to deal with the Goblin threat, Hethon. And Liscor.”
Suddenly, Tyrion was lecturing. Hethon sagged.
“I know, but—”
“A [Lord] does not gloat over their foes. Or boast, Hethon Veltras.”
“Yes, Father.”
Tyrion looked at his son, who was suddenly not enjoying his ride. He cleared his throat, suddenly, uniquely, awkward.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras would have preferred to be on the road, attending to some monster or on campaign. His son was…odd.
Not unwelcome. Just odd, to Tyrion. A strange animal who couldn’t be tamed or reasoned with. Not a beast—but not yet a man. Hethon was moody, didn’t take to his studies all the time even though he had a gift, and could be quite irrational.
In short, he was a boy. As Ullim kept saying. But Tyrion didn’t know if he’d been like that as a boy. In fact—he knew he hadn’t been. He just didn’t know what to say to Hethon, who was different.
Salva would have. But Tyrion looked at the boy—still too young to hold anything but the makeshift lance and felt…conflicted. He cleared his throat. Suddenly, he was uncomfortable.
“It is our duty, Hethon. You understand why I rode against Liscor?”
“Because you were going to take the city? You nearly did. That Magnolia Reinhart stopped you, though.”
Tyrion frowned. First knowing about Tremborag and now this. Was Ullim telling his sons…? He shook his head.
“Not just that, Hethon. It was also part of duty. Duty informed both decisions.”
He saw his son glance up suspiciously.
“How was duty part of it, father?”
Tyrion explained. This felt right. His father had given him this talk—it was past time Hethon heard it from him.
“Duty is a [Lord]’s task. We have duty. To our family, our house, to our people, and to the realm and then to our peers. Not necessarily in that order, Hethon. But duty informs each decision. Why did I rally against the Goblin Lord? Duty to the realm, yes. To protect those whom the Goblins would slaughter or rape. But that was also duty to our people, Hethon. And to you. If the Goblin Lord continued—you would have been spitted on their pikes, along with every boy in Izril. You see, it was duty to many things that made me combat his threat.”
Hethon hesitated. Tyrion Veltras was also poor at speaking to children.
“But why did you go towards Liscor?”
Tyrion paused.
“That is more complex. That ties into my battles against the Drakes. They are our enemies. Our house has long opposed them. They make war with us, Humans, each year. They sent saboteurs, infiltrators against us. We are never at peace.”
Hethon nodded dutifully. Tyrion went on.
“However, that is a longstanding grudge between our species. I would be…less inclined to make war otherwise. The north has its own issues. However. My duty towards my family comes first. They killed your mother. For that alone, I should drown Izril in Drake blood.”
He said it so calmly, unlike whenever he had to talk sensibly to Hethon—let alone Sammial. That was easy. And it all made sense, like when his father had explained it to him.
But Hethon just gave Tyrion a blank look.
“I know, father. But why attack Liscor?”
The [Lord] hesitated. He leaned down and blinked a few times at his son.
“Because they killed Salva, Hethon. Was that not clear?”
“No. I mean, yes. It was. But what did Liscor do?”
“They’re a staging ground. Liscor is difficult to take and it makes establishing a foothold impossible so long as they exist. They can be reinforced quickly—but for the Antinium, they used to be impregnable. If you couldn’t take the city in a week, the Walled Cities would have an army of three hundred thousand marching on Liscor. If we’d taken it, we’d be poised to venture further south…”
