“He’s a Veltras born. Fiery as his mother. That Veltras rage in him, and command. A [Lord] of [Lords].”
At ten years of age, Sammial Veltras had outstripped his brother in one thing. Not education, understanding his father, however slightly, control of his emotions, and certainly not knowing when to shut up.
But he had more force. Sammial, age 10, already had an aura. His will manifest, as Ullim had explained it to Hethon. Not necessarily a good thing; it was just that Sammial had the power to influence those around him.
“I hate you!”
Unfortunately, it was a boy who had that power, not an adult. Well—it could be bad either way. But Sammial was screaming at Jericha.
“What happened?”
Tyrion looked mystified. Shamefaced, his [Mage]-[Aide] bowed towards Tyrion. She was high-level, competent, as close to a babysitter as Ullim to Hethon. More than once Jericha had minded him. Hethon liked Jericha. So did Sammial—mostly. He usually suffered Jericha more than Ullim.
Not today. The young [Lord] was screaming in pain. He had blood dried around his mouth.
“We were riding, Lord Veltras. Lord Sammial—bit his tongue. Hard. I treated it, but he insisted—”
Sammial let out an ear-splitting wail as Ullim pried his jaws open. The [Majordomo] looked inside the mouth and tsked.
“All healed already. Jericha healed you, Lord Sammial.”
“But it hurt! It was her fault!”
“Sammy, you’re not supposed to blabber and ride.”
Hethon was exasperated. Sammial always forgot. He’d probably asked Jericha to ride really fast like he liked and begun talking. Sammial sniffed.
“But she made me bite my tongue! It was a rock!”
“I jumped a small one, sire.”
Jericha was exceptionally embarrassed. Tyrion just blinked at her. He shook his head slightly, clearly totally uncomprehending the issue.
“Sammial, you were warned. And you were healed. Are you still feeling pain?”
“No! But it hurt!”
“But the pain is gone.”
The [Lord] saw Sammial grudgingly nod. He turned towards Jericha.
“Don’t trouble yourself, Jericha. Clearly, Sammial is overwrought. Sammial Veltras. A [Lord] does not whine. Calm yourself. And if you behave, I will let you joust—”
Hethon held his breath. He didn’t know if he wanted Sammial to stop whining before Tyrion got mad—or if he didn’t want Sammial to show him up. Sammial was very good with most athletic things. His [Fencer] instructor said he was a natural with a sword. Tyrion had actually considered making him a [Squire], but for his temperament.
“Jousting?”
Sammial quieted, sniveling. Tyrion nodded.
“Jericha or I can have you ride while you tilt. If you stop complaining.”
“I don’t want Jericha.”
Sammial’s response was sullen at once. Tyrion nodded.
“Then, I will ride with you. Or Ullim. But you will first apologize to Jericha.”
“Why?”
Even Jericha looked mystified. Tyrion’s frown intensified.
“For striking her. She did nothing wrong. You were warned to watch yourself while riding.”
“No.”
The ten-year-old boy glowered at his father. Tyrion blinked a few times.
“You won’t apologize to her?”
“No. I hate her.”
“Lord Sammial, I deeply apologize for the mistake. It won’t happen again. Won’t you let me ride with you? I will do my best.”
Jericha knelt, smiling at Sammial. He looked at her. And Hethon, hoping, praying though he didn’t know how to—saw Sammial’s eyes flash with rage.
“Shut up! I said, I hate you! Go away! You’re not my mother! You’re just a servant!”
He spat at Jericha. The [Mage] recoiled as Sammial got angry. The same angry that would lead to him beating up someone five years older than he was—or attacking a feral dog with a stick.
The Veltras rage. Hethon even felt it in the air, a prickling, painful sensation. He flinched as Jericha drew back. But then—the feeling faded.
Cold oblivion pushed it back. Tyrion Veltras was smoldering. And Veltras fury? Jericha, his second-in-command and Ullim both stood up.
“Lord Veltras—”
“Perhaps Lord Sammial—”
“Sammial Veltras. You will never speak to your people like that!”
The [Lord] snapped, his voice a battlefield roar. Sammial paled, his aura going out in front of the adult’s. He turned to run back into the mansion. Tyrion caught him in three strides. He was of course, a lot faster even without a horse than a boy. Even one like Sammial.
It was fast. Tyrion grabbed Sammial, put him over one knee, and began to spank him. Hard. Sammial shouted with fury and then pain. Then he began crying and trying to punch his father.
Tyrion Veltras wasn’t known for mercy. Nor—for spanking people lightly. Hethon flinched with every blow. By the end, Sammial was hanging on his father’s knee, just crying.
When Tyrion let go, Sammial somehow had the energy to stand up. He turned, crimson-faced, crying.
“I hate you! I wish you’d died too!”
He screamed in his father’s face. Then he ran, sobbing, into the mansion. Ullim ran after him. Lord Tyrion Veltras just stood there.
Stone-faced.
“Lord Veltras?”
“Father?”
No one knew what to say after that. Jericha, looking pale, approached Tyrion. So did Hethon. A moment ago—they had been so happy. But when Tyrion turned, his face was blank.
“Time to investigate the Mothbear attacks. I’ll be back late, if at all tonight. Hethon. I will see you tomorrow. Jericha, my usual escort.”
“Yes, sire.”
Jericha cast one agonized glance at Hethon. The boy stood there. He wanted to say—‘no’. But if Tyrion stayed, with Sammial so upset—would the gelato even matter?
He stood with the little wooden ring in his hands, on that glorious summer’s day. And it was a glorious day.
Tyrion Veltras felt it too. Such a beautiful day. He looked back at his son once.
But Hethon—was more of a stranger. A stranger who understood how his father worked. And Sammial? Not at all. And Tyrion didn’t understand him at all.
Ullim was a poor mother. Jericha was only Jericha. The boys lacked a mother. And Tyrion—preferred killing monsters to raising sons. One of those he was good at. One of those he could make a difference in doing.
The [Lord] rode away. He understood children not at all. He understood women only a bit more. But he had a duty. To some, he was a monster. To others, a symbol of humanity, at least on Izril.
The undeniable truth to all though was that Tyrion Veltras was just a man.
…Who was pretty bad with kids.
 
—-
 
Yes, A Week Ago.
 
At the exact same time, someone screamed. Happily. A little Drake girl pointed as every head turned. The children sitting around a table went wide-eyed. Then—an [Innkeeper] leapt out of the kitchen.
“Happy Birthday, Mrsha!”
Erin Solstice carefully waved the cake over her head and danced about. The children went crazy. Visma’s jaw fell open as Erin Solstice brought over the carefully-frosted chocolate cake to the table and put it down. Behind her came Bird holding a cold tub of strawberry ice cream.
“I have brought the ice of cream. Please, celebrate me.”
It was unnecessary instructions. The children were going nuts. Ekirra was practically vibrating out of his chair.
“Hold on! Hold on! No grabbing! Remember, I said there’s an order to this? See the candles? We have to sing the song! Alright, everyone! Happy birthday…”
Erin began singing. The children and adults blinked, and then began trying to copy her. It was…about as bad as most renditions of happy birthday songs. In that—the bar was low enough that even untrained singers who didn’t know the words couldn’t lower it much further.
“Okay! Now blow out the candles, Mrsha! Try to get them all in one go. That’s good luck. I think.”
The little Gnoll bouncing in her seat with an imitation party-hat on her head eagerly blew. The candles winked out. Erin cheered and people copied her.
“Good job! Oh, shoot! Make a wish! I mean, you should already have made a wish. But don’t tell anyone what it was!”
She put a finger to Mrsha’s mouth. The Gnoll’s eyes went round and she closed her eyes, concentrating hard.
“…Dude. Do you think they actually think the wishes come true? This is nuts. How do they not have birthdays?”
At a distant table, Kevin looked at the others. Rose sighed.
“Kevin. They have birthdays. Just not cake.”
“But the wishes…okay. Do we get cake?”
“Everyone gets cake! Who wants cake? And ice cream? You can have both!”
The Wandering Inn was filled with hands. And Erin Solstice, beaming, began slicing the cake up into pieces. It was a special day, as the cake and bits of ice cream went around the room. Gnolls and Drakes and yes, a few other species, ate happily.
There was a pile of gifts on one table. Erin was beaming as Lyonette gave Mrsha a little hug with the first slice of cake and ice cream she was doling out.
It was Mrsha’s birthday.
…And that was it. Mrsha’s birthday.
Nothing else. No grand events in The Wandering Inn. No confluence of events—well—only a few—
But primarily, just a birthday for a special little Gnoll girl who savored her first bite of strawberry ice cream and chocolate cake.
It was perfect. But she knew it would be, because she’d helped decide which flavor cake and ice cream to make. It had been a hard choice. But she was happy with this over lemon, vanilla, lime, carrot, mint, or the other inferior flavors.
Especially carrot. Hah! The only person sad about that was Hawk, who was attending with Selys near the back.
Of course, Selys was there. And Rufelt and Lasica. And Moore—of course he had to be there. And the Horns of Hammerad, and Griffon Hunt and Krshia and Elirr and Jasi and Wesle…
So many. It was a kind of event that only the door being in Invrisil could conjure. Somehow—all of Mrsha’s friends, friends of the inn could make it.
Except for Ryoka Griffin of course. But no one had spoken her name today. And Mrsha hadn’t thought of Ryoka. She was too focused on the cake.
“Cake! Cake! Cake! Mom! Mooooom! Look! Cake! Can we take some back?”
Ekirra was drooling over this cake. He waved at his mother, a Gnoll. She was very embarrassed as she waved back. But Erin was laughing merrily.
“Sure! If there’s leftovers! But you can come over and have more, Ekirra!”
“On special occasions!”
Lyonette hurriedly added. But this was the most special of occasions.
“Hello. I am Bird. Check my Bird Reviews section in the Liscorian Gazette. Have some ice cream. It is made of strawberries, not blood. Hello, I am Bird. Would you like some ice cream? I have opinions about birds.”
An Antinium was helping pass out ice cream. At the same time, a Centaur was flicking plates of cake towards Erin with his fingers and levitating them around.
“Enough cake for everyone! Wait, didn’t I serve you twice?”
Palt narrowed his eyes at Relc. The Drake hid a plate behind his back.
“…No. I, uh, inhaled mine. Can I get another?”
“No extra servings, Relc! Except for Moore.”
Erin passed out a huge chunk towards Moore and the Halfseekers. Jelaqua beamed as they received their cake.
“Maughin. Hold on, let me serve you. You’re going to love this.”
She bent over the Dullahans’ head on the table and began to feed him the cake and ice cream. The Dullahan smiled as his body did the same to Jelaqua.
Seborn made a sound like vomiting and moved away from the table. Moore sighed, but he was more beaming with happiness for Mrsha. The Drowned Man moved to another table.
“Sup, Crab-boy?”
“Strongheart.”
Seborn acknowledged Wailant, Viceria, Garia, and Numbtongue and Octavia. It was…a likely group to sit together, really. If you thought about it. The Drowned Man slid into a chair and Wailant laughed.
“This is something, this birthday idea, eh? At sea, we just get the bastard stinking drunk! I’ve heard of birthday gifts, but—”
He eyed the table with presents. It was…a table with presents.
As in, you needed the whole table for all the presents. Not one of those dinky tables either, but a proper, round table that you could eat your dinner off of. And not like ‘oh, you could use a smaller table’.
No. A proper table, for an amount of presents. They had to be heaped up. It was the kind of birthday children across the world dreamed of. Presents.
Because, obviously, Erin had invited everyone. And due to the nature of her guests—a lot of them were rich. There were…over…Wailant had to count.
“Hold up. Halfseekers are 4, Horns make it 8. Griffon Hunt makes it 12—that’s easy. Then you add that Garuda lady—”
“Bevussa. And that’s Keldrass and his team.”
“Right…plus those adventurers there. Silver-rank? Gold?”
“Silvers.”
“So there’s over thirty Gold-rank adventurers here. Plus Saliss of Lights. All who brought presents.”
“Yep.”
Seborn looked at Wailant. Both [Pirates] looked at the table full of presents. It was…tempting them. Mildly.
Severely.
And that was just the adventurers. Hawk shifted as he tried to copy Jelaqua. Selys brushed the fork away from her face.
“I can feed myself, Hawk!”
She snapped. Hawk sighed.
“Isn’t it cute, though?”
“Cute, and impractical. Where’s my gift? Is it being squashed?”
“Nope. But Selys, don’t you think it might be a bit too costly? Even if the other adventurers…”
“No, I don’t. This is Mrsha’s birthday. She’s been through a lot. Eat your cake, Hawk.”
“But it’s not carrot—”
The two began bickering quietly. Selys glared at Hawk and did not look at Pisces and the Horns of Hammerad.
“Cake. Cake. Cake. Cake. Cake. Cake. Cake. Cake.”
Ksmvr was chanting as he bounced up and down in his seat. Yvlon sighed.
“Can I get something other than cake and ice cream? It’s just sugar. I’d settle for those onion rings.”
“I’ll take her cake.”
Ceria and Pisces both raised their hands. They began fighting for the slice of cake. Rather than…die…Lyonette let go and backed away.
Adventurers. A half-Giant friend. A [Necromancer] fighting with a half-Elf over a piece of cake. Oh, yes, and the Antinium, the Black Tide of Izril, also sitting and politely eating ice cream since the cake did bad things to their digestions. A Hobgoblin sipping from a glass of milk while a giant Ashfire Bee sat on his head.
And amid this all—the ordinary parents. Ekirra’s family, Visma’s, and four other families sat in the inn. Visma’s mother stared at Councilwoman Krshia and Councilmember Elirr, who had invited Hexel, the Lamia [Architect], to this gathering. Of course, they’d all brought gifts.
Ekirra’s father coughed a few times. He eyed the Gnoll sitting next to him. He was relieved it wasn’t a Selphid. After a moment of waiting for his cake to arrive, he spoke nervously.
“This is our first time at a ‘birthday party’. You must be friends of the inn, yes?”
Felkhr, the Gnoll sitting next to him looked around blankly. He smiled.
