One Week Ago.
 
If you got the invitation, well, that wasn’t anything special. If you attended—that meant something. But not much. If attendance was a sign of complicity, then at least a quarter of Izril’s nobility were guilty.
But they weren’t. And dangerous as being publically known to be a member of the Circle of Thorns was—there were levels of commitment.
Most nobles got an invitation from someone connected to the circle. And some had been part of the circle in decades past. For, you see, the Circle of Thorns was not new.
It was as old as the Five Families. As old as the flowers of Izril, and their millennia-old conquest of Izril. The Circle of Thorns was a reaction to the power of the Five Families.
Few members of the Five Families ever joined the Circle of Thorns. Yet individuals were invited, and the Circle didn’t necessarily hate the Five Families. Indeed, they had been known to move on behalf of the Five Families.
The Circle of Thorns was…a sign of objection. It was made of the nobility. ‘Lesser’ nobility, which included the likes of even Ieka Imariss. Anyone not of the original Five Families. And the Circle—as Lady Ieka understood it—was meant to censure those with too much power.
Who watched the [Watchman]? Well…everyone. [Thieves], busybodies wanting to make sure they were being protected, fellow [Watchmen], his superiors, bored children, rabbits…the list went on and on.
Who watched the nobility? Again, everyone. But who could hold them to account? So very few. Peasants? Hah. That was what War Golems were for, or private armies. Adventurers? Hardly likely. They were the labor.
Izril had no monarchs. Or at least—it was famous for not having any. No [Kings], no [Emperors], no [Tyrants]. That was why the Five Families had colonized Izril. To get away from all that.
But that meant a [Lord] was a class second to none. And to keep a powerful one in check like…Magnolia Reinhart, there had to be a group. A secret group.
The Circle of Thorns.
“In the past, the Circle was more public. It was a symbol of opposition, even a political group. Only in the last few hundred years has it become more…secretive.”
Lady Ieka was hosting Lady Rie Valerund at her very comfortable mansion. Lady Rie inhaled as the cool, magically-chilled air kept out the summer’s heat.
They were finally back at Ieka’s estates. It had taken some time for Ieka to return after the business with the Stitch Witch. She didn’t have a magical coach.
Well—she had several, but none as fast as Magnolia. For anyone but Magnolia Reinhart, Tyrion Veltras, and a few others, travelling across Izril was a journey that took weeks. And Ieka was glad to be home.
The [Lady] Imarris reclined in a chair made out of Deguree Rabbits. Just…the rabbits. From their pelts to the cotton on their tail. It was stuffed with the oversized tails of the Deguree Rabbit, rumored to be one of the softest substances on in the world. And it felt wonderful. Ieka sighed as Rie accepted a cup of wine and sipped.
“Pardon me, Ieka, but I don’t see the point of history. I am aware of the Circle’s history.”
Lady Rie was…objectionable. Ieka opened one eye, annoyed. Rie Valerund, a lesser [Lady] whose family had been all but erased during the Goblin King’s rampage and the Sacrifice of Roses—was distinctly below Lady Ieka’s richness, prosperous lands, and magical ability as a [Mage Lady].
But they were both members of the Circle of Thorns. And irksomely—Lady Rie was higher in rank than Ieka.
After a moment, Ieka dipped her head, graciously.
“Of course, Rie. I was just remarking—we have been more overt.”
“The Reinharts drove us into hiding. Lady Suvelta Reinhart battled the Circle of Thorns. And lost. We curtailed her power, albeit at the need to hide. Later Reinharts have also fought our Circle. And lost.”
Rie’s voice was calm. Ieka hesitated. Rie might know more of the history of their little group than Ieka. And the way she spoke—
Covertly, Ieka glanced about.
“Sidel, another glass of wine for me. Thank you.”
She smiled at the young woman attending her. Sidel, a newly-made [Maid], blushed. She was new to her role, but Ieka had selected her. She had—a passion for women. One that was more acceptable in Wistram, when she had been a [Mage], but now was a…private interest. Lady Rie made no comment as a second glass of wine was brought.
In many ways, Ieka was a revolutionary. She was a Wistram Academy graduate, a rarity in a first-born noble scion. And she believed in magic. Like the Terland family, she had instituted a number of magical reforms in her lands, like self-drawing wells powered by magic. Ieka was a visionary.
But the Circle of Thorns was well in the past.
“Lady Suvelta. That was the Reinhart Vampire, yes? A terrible monster.”
Ieka swirled the wine in the glass she was given, drinking lightly. Rie raised one eyebrow.
She was—cool. Few things riled her, in Ieka’s experience with Rie. For all the indignities heaped upon her—having her mansion sacked by Goblins, serving this new [Emperor], of all things—she was very calculating. And willing to do anything for the circle.
That was the thing. Ieka shifted as Rie took a sip of wine. Rie’s gaze was very direct as she replied.
“A terrible monster. An immortal Vampire. With the ability to fight a Named Rank adventurer on even terms with her sheer…nature. And with levels. She ruled Izril too long. But that is why the Circle is needed, Ieka. We killed her.”
Ieka felt a slight chill at that. She had read the records. Publically—Lady Suvelta had been a long-lived monster. Few had known she was a Vampire even after her death; but her end had been the end of Vampires. But she had lived, and been a Vampire. With levels, as Rie said. They had been exterminated, the Vampires. Too dangerous to live. Suvelta might have ruled Izril like a new [Queen] for…forever; that had been her ambition.
But the Circle of Thorns in her era had been…powerful. They had fought against the Reinhart’s power from the shadows. And when they killed Suvelta, they had done it to send a message. Suvelta Reinhart had died screaming in the sunlight, tortured for sixteen days and nights before she died.
That was the Circle of Thorns. But that was the one Ieka knew. The past Circles had been dangerous, as the circumstances dictated. A few iterations of her group had fought back invasions from Chandrar and Baleros. They had humbled Khelt when it invaded—thrown back the Six Great Companies of Baleros two thousand years back.
They waned and grew as the era demanded. Sometimes they were protectors, other times watchers. Mostly—useless.
The Circle of Thorns. If you were offered an invitation, especially six years ago, it would have been to a small group of nobles like you where you could eat good food, complain about annoying nobles (assuming they weren’t in the room with you), and relax. It was a social thing, a little reminder to the Five Families that they weren’t unopposed.
But this new Circle was…different. More like the old times. Lady Rie fished out the Thorn of Speaking from some secret compartment on her person.
“The Circle awaits, Lady Ieka. Will you join the Petals of Death?”
Ieka nearly laughed at Rie’s terms for the inner council. Not the petty outside, with all their pretensions at being part of ‘the Circle of Thorns’. But the real movers and shakers. The…scary ones.
She hesitated, and took another sip of her wine.
“Of course. I…hope you will prompt me on what to do?”
Rie gave Ieka a look. Neither one was part of the Petals of Death. But Rie was second only to them—one of their agents. She had the authority to listen, even recommend to the Circle what to do. Ieka was a member of the Thorns of Contempt. Which was—two ranks up from someone who’s just been introduced to the Circle. Powerful. Able to ask for…favors.
Like now. Rie took the carefully-sculpted flower made of glass and magic. She was no [Mage] and probably couldn’t even see the enchantments woven into it. Ieka, as a graduate [Mage], could. It was an old artifact. And one with—requirements. It was a special kind of magic, one that had a tenuous relationship with the law.
Blood magic. Ieka saw Rie delicately run the glass flower down her hand. The razor-sharp thorns opened her skin in a moment. She made a sound; her blood ran across the glass rose.
And the blood twisted and changed. Ieka saw it seeping into the rose; confirming Rie’s allegiance. Opening a…gateway. Albeit for sound alone. And she heard a voice.
“Traitor.”
Ieka and Rie froze. But the voice wasn’t directed towards them. It was…male. More than that Ieka couldn’t tell; the spell scrambled the voice’s intonations, tone, made it flat, dispassionate.
“Magnolia Reinhart has betrayed the North. She has gone to the Drakes. It is beyond time to deal with her. She must be—removed.”
The time was one week ago. Only a few days since Magnolia Reinhart’s dramatic entry to Liscor. Then—now—Lady Ieka felt the same boiling hatred towards Magnolia she always did.
But the speaker on the other end was dispassionate. So were the other voices. There were only…six. No, seven? Rie and Ieka listened, holding their tongues. There might be many agents of the Petals of Death. But only a select few were members.
“Magnolia Reinhart is an asset. She is a high-level [Lady]. We do not kill assets, even problematic ones. She fought the Antinium twice.”
“And she has compromised herself.”
A flat, female voice. It could have been anyone. Any [Lady] in Izril; entry to the Petals of Death wasn’t based on sheer power, or Ieka would have been one already. It was loyalty. Commitment to the Circle.
They had changed from the organization of squabbling nobles Ieka remembered a decade ago. This Circle did things.
Even if the Assassin’s Guild was somewhat inefficient as a tool, they’d stolen it back from Magnolia. Murdered some of her fellow [Ladies]. In cold blood; that had bothered Ieka. But better to have the vipers on your side than against. Now, the Petals spoke over one another.
“She is no longer an asset to the North. Clearly—she intends to ally with the Drakes. Her arrival at Liscor and Pallass exemplified that fact.”
“She may still be within reason. Killing her weakens us. And the Drakes and Antinium are a pressing threat. We could approach her.”
“Magnolia Reinhart is our enemy. She does not bend. Not on this. Removal is more expedient.”
“But we guard the North. If she is removed—who will guard her lands?”
Silence, then. Ieka listened, heart pumping. Rie only had that inscrutable, polite look on her face. Her perfect guise. She looked so—trustworthy. But how many deeds had she undertaken for her masters? Ieka couldn’t fathom. She…felt uncomfortable as she waved for the young [Maid] to refill her glass. Sidel did so, clumsily, and Ieka had cause to regret employing her as a [Maid]. But she’d been so taken…
She had what some might call an ‘unhealthy relationship’ with her maids. In that many were lovers. Some were just competent, but Ieka was a…deviant. As Izril’s people understood things. Certainly by Terandrian and Drake standards.
It was one of the reasons she was part of the Circle of Thorns. They asked only loyalty. What you did with your own affairs was meaningless so long as it wasn’t public. And Ieka needed to have her secret lovers. Her hatred of Magnolia Reinhart was another reason for her joining the Circle of course. She couldn’t stand Magnolia. And that—her perfect maid, Ressa—who was so—so, unflappable, especially since Ieka had tried to bribe her away from Magnolia for years for exorbitant sums.
Ieka was certain Magnolia and Ressa were in a relationship. But she couldn’t prove that. And the Petals of Death didn’t care.
They…were cold.
“If Magnolia Reinhart dies, she must die. No examples. The Couriers made a fool of the Assassin’s Guild.”
“Better that than the death of Couriers. The North must endure. The war between Ailendamus and the southern Kingdoms in Terandria—”
“If Ailendamus wins, time to be concerned. The North should not move unwisely. Focus on Magnolia Reinhart. Does she die?”
Ieka listened. The Petals fell silent. The Circle of Thorns was meant to defend Izril. Only—from within as much from external forces. That was their modus operandi. But in practice, it was self-interest as much as anything that moved the Petals. But killing Magnolia Reinhart?
“Yes.”
“Yes.”
“No.”
“Agreed.”
“She dies.”
“It is unwise. No.”
Four out of the seven. Ieka felt a chill run down her spine. The last had not spoken—but he seldom did in her experience. She took a gulp of wine. Just like that, it was done.
“Track her movements. Have the Roots report in. The Guild of Assassins will ensure her end. No mistakes. No casual attempt. Death or destruction.”
Roots. The Roots of Contempt—the group Rie was part of. Not just the nobility, but high-level agents the Circle employed. They had to be cautious, going up against a member of the Five Families. But the Circle of Thorns could be said to rival one of the Five Families in scope.
“She dies. But we must have an agent. If Reinhart dies—who leads the north?”
A pause. Then—the male voice. The seventh. Possibly their leader. Ieka listened, noting the slight difference in speech pattern; no inflection or anything else. The magic made it impossible to detect.
“If Reinhart dies—choose Veltras. Approach Tyrion Veltras. With our support, he could take Liscor again.”
Another pause. Then, voices.
“He has lost his wife, hates the Drakes. Sound opinion. I agree.”
“Tyrion is stubborn. Disagree.”
“Who else of the Five Families can lead publically? Agreement. The House of El has lost their ruler. Maviola El. Terland and Wellfar wane…”
“If Ulva Terland and Petria both lived—”
“They do not. She is shattered. Wellfar is too focused on the sea. Agree. So—Tyrion?”
“Approach him. Kill Reinhart. If Veltras refuses, we may need to raise one of our own to the level required. The Antinium must die. The Drakes must fall.”
The Petals of Death debated, but agreed. The vote was cast—five to two to reach out to Tyrion Veltras. Ieka listened, spellbound, but with words instead of magic. And then—the Petals spoke.
“Rie Valerund and Ieka Imarris. You listen.”
Ieka jumped. They knew. And they used her name without honorifics. She adjusted her posture, as if they could see her.
“Yes, Honored Petals. I am—”
The Petals of Death ignored her.
“Valerund. Is this [Emperor] Godart an ally or not?”
Ieka’s mouth snapped shut. Rie, calm as ever, replied.
