“Hey! Too many people on that cart! Only—three! You’ll get hurt!”
The wind blowing the sail-cart lessened. The kids shouted obscenities and curses at Ryoka, but after a quick fight, three slithered off.
“Miss Wind runner! Blow me! I want to go high!”
A kid with two parachutes was screaming on the walls. Ryoka turned.
“Oh no. Absolutely not! Get off the walls!”
“I’ve got him, Miss Wind Runner. Off you go, you brat.”
A [Guard] forced the disappointed child off the walls. Much to the relief of Ryoka and anyone who had suddenly had a vision of the kid dive-bombing off the walls and trusting the wind to save him.
“No jumping! No pushing! Don’t run into each other!”
The Wind Runner of Reizmelt bellowed at the children. And—amazingly—they obeyed. Mainly because she controlled the winds. Or—the winds listened to her.
It was a funny thing. Ryoka looked around, exasperated, trying to keep all the kids in her line of sight. She wasn’t content to let them just play, even with her winds providing the entertainment.
Of course, she had agreed to let them play. Which wasn’t like Ryoka. But they always begged. And—funnily—their parents had agreed.
None of the parents were even watching their kids being blown about. They were at work, or relaxing, free from the burdens of parenthood. Which was funny. In Liscor, the parents wouldn’t ever have abandoned their kids to the Crazy Human of Liscor’s care, let alone her inn.
But Reizmelt’s parents had let the Wind Runner of Reizmelt take custody of their offspring for a few hours. Despite Ryoka liking kids a lot less than Erin. Perhaps—because Ryoka never took her eyes off the children. Much like a concerned parent, actually.
And she had to. Ryoka pointed.
“Hey you! Don’t you dare throw that.”
A boy froze with a rock in one hand. He was aiming at a girl who’d passed him by on a little hand-made sailcart. He looked challengingly at Ryoka.
“Or what? Whatcha gonna do, Miss Runner?”
He was old enough to backchat adults. And his challenging look made Ryoka want to shout back. Something like—‘Or what? Throw that rock and I’ll shove it into an orifice, you monstrous little shit.’
But you couldn’t shout that at kids. Nor could you play their game. Ryoka folded her arms and thought for a moment as the boy taunted her. Then she smiled evilly.
“I can’t stop you. Go ahead if you really think you’ll be safe. But I’m warning you: you’ll make the wind angry.”
The boy from Reizmelt hesitated. He would have accepted Ryoka’s threat to box his ears or lay him out with a punch as acceptable consequences. But this sounded like a…warning. He narrowed his eyes.
“You’ll just make it do something.”
Ryoka widened her eyes innocently.
“What? Me? No, not me. I don’t control it. I just persuade it to play nice.”
She gestured. The boy felt a swirl of wind tugging at his clothes and the parachute tied to his waist by a rope. He weighed the odds that Ryoka was lying, and then tossed the rock down with a sigh.
Kids. Ryoka sighed. She wasn’t good with them. She jogged after a wailing girl in an overturned cart with a curse, already feeling for her healing potion. This was too dangerous. She never should have agreed to it.
And as Ryoka Griffin attended to the crying girl, healing her scratches with a few drops of healing potion, making her laugh as the wind blew her hair and cautioning her to be careful since the wind wasn’t always nice—she was being watched.
Serafierre val Lischelle-Drakle thought it was funny. She lounged in the shadows of Reizmelt’s wall, a thick hood over her head despite the heat. Ryoka Griffin didn’t understand why kids liked her, or parents trusted her. But she was quite poor at looking at herself. Even worse than Fierre, who didn’t appear in mirrors.
The Vampire girl watched as Ryoka found another kid whose foot was run over by a cart. She checked the foot, picked him up. He clung to her as she bore him back into the city. The children followed her; the wind followed Ryoka.
“I’m really sorry. His foot got run over—I don’t think it’s broken. Just bruised. I put some healing potion on it—”
Ryoka apologized to the parents as the kids played in the street. The wind caught a child about to crash into a wall, blowing him backwards. The parent, a [Carpenter], laughed as she checked her son’s foot.
“He gets worse all the time. Don’t worry about it. Thank the Wind Runner, Thein!”
“Thanks, Miss Runner.”
The boy sniffed. Ryoka awkwardly waved at him. She turned.
“Okay, that’s all for today. One hour’s all I can manage. Scram!”
“Aw!”
The children complained. But they obediently began packing up. Ryoka was exhausted. Kids made her so tired. Still—she’d entertained them three times this week. She might have kept them entertained, but the injury with the cart and the boy’s foot had rattled her.
She had a…thing about legs being run over. Ryoka shook her head. She turned, as a slim, short figure materialized out of a shadow.
“Done playing?”
Pointed teeth grinned at her. Red eyes fixed on Ryoka’s face. The City Runner wiped some sweat from her forehead.
“That would be a lot creepier if you were a tall, old man. With a cape.”
She looked down at Fierre, who was a good head shorter than Ryoka. Well—Fierre was a bit short for the average woman’s height. She looked a lot younger than she was, which was twenty five. More like she was sixteen. And she was pale, covered in dark clothing—not exactly imposing.
“Is that what you think a proper Vampire is?”
The Vampire girl had to look around before whispering at Ryoka. The City Runner grinned. Fierre was no Nosferatu, or Dracula. The two whispered as they went down the street, a soothing wind blowing at their backs.
“No. I mean, yes, I do imagine that sometimes. But I just meant if you were an old man watching me in the shadows, you’d be scarier, Vampire or not.”
“Fair point. Although if it happened to me, I’d call that ‘lunch’.”
The two laughed merrily. The joke was that Fierre didn’t drink Human blood and wouldn’t ever call attention to herself that way—although she could probably turn any casual would-be assaulter into paste.
“You know, there was this…legend of a you-know-what who hunted other you-know-who’s. He called himself Alucard. It was a great show—er—I mean, story.”
Ryoka stumbled over her words as she tried to describe a crossbow-wielding Vampire. Fierre wasn’t impressed.
“Arrows are easy to dodge. Old Bamer once shot a bow at me for training and I could dodge the arrows.”
How about bullets, then? But Ryoka didn’t say that.
“How about that V—”
She bit back the word as they passed by an old [Alchemist], Miss Kelysta. The woman called out to them.
“Oh, Fierre! We have more of those damned herbs to grind. It’s nasty, so wear your mask! And Miss Griffin, I have a delivery going by way of Invrisil. If you could get it started, I’ll be so obliged.”
“Yes, Miss Kelysta! I’ll be there tonight.”
“I’ll see about the delivery. No promises.”
The two young women called out to the [Alchemist]. Then they turned back to their conversation. Ryoka whispered.
“The half-Vampire with the sword?”
“You’re making that up. There’s no such thing as half-us. And why does he go around hunting other Vampires?”
“Uh—just the evil ones?”
Fierre considered it. She screwed up her face in thought.
“…Maybe. I doubt the half-Vampire story is real. But Old Bamer would know more. As for powers? Shapeshifting, regeneration—I totally believe that. Turning into—what did you say? A mass of monsters? That sounds like really old powers.”
“But it could happen?”
Awesome. Ryoka’s inner imagination was going wild. Awesome and terrifying. Fierre shrugged.
“It’s definitely not something any of us today can do. But the legends talk about…really impressive stuff. I’ll ask when I go home. Bamer or my mother would know. They love talking about the old times.”
“What about your father?”
That would be Himilt val Lischelle-Drakle. He was the most ‘Vampire’ of all Fierre’s family, for all her mother spoke vith the accvent and put on airs. But Himilt, a humble farmer and shepherd though he might be, made Ryoka feel as though he was just pretending to be normal.
He scared her sometimes, but then—so could Fierre. But they were friends.
“You can ask him. But he never talks about the old days. He probably knows…something. You can try to get it out of him. Why don’t you visit again?”
Fierre glanced at Ryoka slyly. The City Runner smiled crookedly.
“Maybe in another week. I’m not hungry for extra-rare meat yet.”
“We cooked yours properly.”
The Vampire girl scowled at Ryoka. The City Runner laughed.
“But it was all meat. Don’t you have salads, even if you don’t eat them? Also—there’s nothing to drink.”
“We have wine.”
“Your mom mixed blood into it.”
“Oh, right. Sorry.”
The two laughed again. They were just hanging out. Talking about Vampire lore.
Not just that. But it was a shared interest. Actually, Fierre and Ryoka often talked about immortals.
“You know, Old Bamer says he met a Unicorn, once. While poaching.”
“Really? What happened?”
“It nearly killed him. Ran him through the chest. Unicorns are evil.”
“Get out of here. I thought—well, the lore is that they’re peaceful. Virginal, you know?”
“Ryoka, they have a stabbing horn on their heads. How peaceful do you think that is?”
“Okay. But Pegasi—I found a bestiary that apparently has copies of actual illustrations of each creature. Let me show you the Unicorn. It’s a beautiful drawing.”
“Right. Until they stab you through the stomach.”
They had reached an inn that stood mostly deserted in Reizmelt, despite it being such a bustling town on the way north to First Landing. The Huntress’ Haven, run by Mad Madain was as always, mostly empty.
But the food was cheap, Madain himself was reasonable on his good days, and—Ryoka liked it here. She understood having a bad day.
“Griffin!”
A voice rang out as Fierre and Ryoka entered the inn. Ryoka braced for Madain, but the voice was younger. Alber, the [Fistfighter], strode up to them.
He was—usually—quiet. So much so that Ryoka hadn’t spoken a word to him for two months. But she had gotten to know him recently, after an encounter. And Alber, while quiet to most, could be—
Intense. The [Fistfighter] had on his protective gloves. He barely nodded at Fierre as he bounced on the balls of his feet.
“Are you free? I’m ready to spar and I want you to show me those hooks again. I’ve been doing them wrong the entire time but I’m noticing the difference.”
“Oh—I have time. Fierre, I promised to help Alber. I forgot. Do you mind…?”
The Vampire girl suppressed a grimace. She gave a toothless smile to Alber and Ryoka she didn’t mean.
“I have work later. Go ahead. I’ll watch.”
Grumpily, she saw Ryoka turn to Alber. The two immediately broke into a lingo as foreign as her and Ryoka talking about Vampires.
“So what’s the problem?”
“It’s the motion. It’s so compact. When I pivot like this—”
Alber demonstrated a hook from Ryoka’s world, which did look incredibly compact. Ryoka was nodding.
“I know you’ve extended it, but you lose so much force. Let’s find a space so I can show you—you keep pressing in. How’s the fistfighting?”
Alber smiled tightly. He had a boxer’s face. His ears and nose had both taken a lot of impacts. He made money challenging anyone to try and knock him down or last three minutes in the ring. He had been moving from city to city, but of late he had remained here.
To learn.
“I’m making a lot more money. Still can’t knock down a Gold-rank. But I won money off an entire team of Silver-ranks. All six of them in a row.”
“Really?”
Fierre scoffed as she shadowed the two. She could do that. Grumpily, she watched Alber and Ryoka find an open space. The [Fistfighter] went through a boxer’s workout he and Ryoka had worked on as Ryoka lifted some training mitts she’d had made. Alber punched as Ryoka set up the mitts. He panted after he took a break.
“I’m feeling—faster. Your theory and the punches—I’m leveling. I’ve been running too. It really helps. I wouldn’t have had the—endurance to take on all six a month ago.”
“Hey, that’s great. Okay, see the range of the hook? Like—that—fuck.”
Ryoka saw the hook coming and braced. But the impact still blew her hand wide. She shook her mitt out as Alber stopped.
“You okay?”
“Yeah. You just punch like someone twice your weight.”
Ryoka looked at Alber. He would have been around the featherweight class—if he made the effort to hit the weight limit. As it was, he was probably around…super welterweight? Still, very light.
But he punched fast and like someone in the heaviest weight classes. That wasn’t a joke, either. Alber had [Fists of Iron] and he was leveling since working with Ryoka. She shivered. Someone who moved as fast as Alber and punched as hard as a heavyweight shouldn’t exist. Even if he didn’t have a sword, he was as dangerous as any [Warrior].
“You could light me up in a second.”
Alber shook his head as he set up for another hook and Ryoka held the mitts up.
“You’re pretty good yourself. If you had my class—”
“Pass. I’m not that good at fighting. I used to think I was good—until I picked a fight with a Minotaur.”
“Huh. They’re good fighters. Beat one, once. I’ve lost to…thirty eight, though. Mostly on ports. Used to work around First Landing.”
“You were at First Landing?”
Fierre glanced up from imitating one of Alber’s punches. She could copy him—but Ryoka refused to let her try sparring. She’d nearly broken Ryoka’s wrist once. Alber shrugged. Not a big deal. He was like that in everything but his passion.
“Yup. It’s good money, but there are too many high-level clients. I couldn’t take the heat. Plus, it’s too expensive. I’ll head north once I hit Level 30. If I’d known how to do half these punches—check my jab?”
“Sure. Give me your best.”
Serafierre watched Ryoka blocking the jabs, calling out to Alber. Then they stood around and commentated on their forms. Is the arm best like this? What if they come at me like—
The Vampire girl was yawning. But this too was one of Ryoka’s passions. She only got interested when Alber tossed a spare set of gloves at Ryoka.
“Let’s spar. Come on. You have to show me some of these techniques.”
The City Runner tried to refuse.
“It’s not a good idea, Alber.”
“I’ll hold back.”
Ryoka hesitated. But a gleam lit up her eyes. Condescension, even kindly, poked at her ego. Fierre grinned from the shadows as she saw Ryoka put on the gloves.
