“You don’t need to hold back that much. Okay. Three rounds. Don’t break my jaw. I’ll show you a new trick. It’s not legal if we were in a more—organized fight, but—”
Alber and Fierre gave Ryoka a searching look. She sometimes did that. Ryoka would hint at…something. Fierre itched, trying to put that piece together. She was an Opener, an information broker, with fingers in a lot of pies in the underworld. But she had no idea where Ryoka was really from. Her best guess was—Terandria. Or a utopia. Perhaps Khelt. But Ryoka was cagey and refused to answer anything directly.
At any rate, the sparring match was short. Fierre watched as Ryoka and Alber went at it.
It was a fairly good match if Alber held back a bit. He could indeed punch far harder than Ryoka, but she was quick and had done this before. They went back and forth, exchanging punches, keeping their guards up.
At first they stopped when one of them saw something interesting, like Alber noting how useful the hook was as a block. But then Ryoka punched him straight through a gap in his guard. Alber’s head rocked back as Fierre laughed, and they got a bit more—competitive.
“Oh shit.”
Ryoka hadn’t made a mouth guard yet, so she was grateful to Alber for avoiding her head. But after her shot to his face, he came for her.
[Ten Second Rush]. She knew the Skill and saw him coming at her. Ryoka put up her guard, but the punches began backing her up hard. She hit a rope in the little ring they’d set up and swore internally. Then Alber threw a punch and caught her in the side.
Ryoka’s guard went down. She felt one punch land straight on her solar plexus and felt everything go out of her. Another fist went for her face—
Alber stopped the punch. Panting. The [Fistfighter] caught Ryoka before she stumbled.
“Sorry. Got carried away.”
“Told you—you could get me. Nice rush.”
Ryoka panted. She saw Fierre watching her anxiously. She waved a hand.
“You done?”
“One more round. Let me try the trick. You’re going to like this.”
Alber nodded. He reset himself. Ryoka, wincing, thanked the stars she hadn’t been hit on her liver—and that Alber wasn’t punching as hard as he could. And he still couldn’t beat Gold-ranks?
“Ready?”
“Ready.”
“Ding!”
Fierre slapped the wall. The two shot towards each other. This time Ryoka came in fast. Alber had learned modern boxing theory well and he was practicing infighting. In that he would now stick to his opponents like glue until they wanted to die. Not that he hadn’t been good already, but boxing theory from Ryoka’s world had made him even more dangerous.
And they had lots of tricks. And this wasn’t boxing so much as fistfighting. Which meant—Ryoka jabbed twice, watching Alber’s guard go up. Then—she took a chance. She spun—and her body flashed around.
Her backhand caught the tip of Alber’s chin as he jumped back. He wobbled, but Ryoka had missed. Alber swore, lowered his guard.
“What was that?”
“Spinning backhand.”
Completely illegal in a boxing match due to the spin. But since this wasn’t boxing, Alber could go for it. He watched as Ryoka demonstrated.
“Spinning kick, spinning backhand—you just love to twirl about, don’t you?”
Fierre commentated from the side. Ryoka and Alber both gave her looks of mild wrath.
“It’s a good surprise move. And it could lay Alber out. Like I said, if we were just going pure boxing…”
“I get it. Let me try it, though.”
Ryoka put up her gloves. Alber spun—missed completely. Fierre laughed herself off the barrel she’d been sitting on.
Sometimes Ryoka got the impression Fierre didn’t quite like Alber. And Alber was distinctly…polite to Fierre. They were distant.
But Alber was a new friend. Since the events with the Earthers at Magnolia’s mansion, in fact. He loved only one thing, which was boxing, or his version of it. But Ryoka was happy with that.
“Good workout.”
She wiped sweat from her brow. Alber nodded.
“I’ll let you know how the hook goes. And the spinning. I’ll try it out.”
He was all warmed up and ready to beat down some poor travellers who thought they could knock Alber down. Ryoka felt sorry for them.
She sighed, shaking out her limbs. Fierre slipped off her barrel. She avoided a patch of sun as she stuck to the sides of Madain’s inn.
“You free?”
“I thought you were going to help Miss Kelysta with the grinding.”
“Oh, damn.”
Fierre grimaced. Ryoka glanced sideways at her.
“You don’t need to anymore, though. Right? I thought the information business was doing really well.”
The Vampire grinned at Ryoka with the toothy smile she’d only give her friend.
“Better than ever. But Kelystra’s old and she makes those poisons for adventurers. Anyone but me gets really sick. Anyways, she’s good for information.”
Ryoka nodded. She walked with Fierre out of the courtyard.
“Poison doesn’t get you.”
“Most poison. In exchange, I can’t do garlic, silver, and light.”
“Pretty good trade, except for that light stuff. Okay, I’ll see you later. Maybe tonight. I’m just doing local runs. Won’t be long, but I might get caught out.”
“Sure. Show me that book later?”
“Absolutely.”
Ryoka promised Fierre with a smile. And the Vampire girl smiled back. Perhaps—she only imagined Ryoka’s smile turn to a clouded expression out of the corner of her eye.
The City Runner stood alone. Restlessly, Ryoka looked around. Then she went for a walk.
 
—-
 
“Miss Griffin! Hello! Thank you for minding the children!”
“Did you see the latest on the scrying orb? That battle at sea?”
“I need something run north. I don’t suppose you’re going that way…?”
It was a funny thing. Ryoka Griffin walked through Reizmelt. And people knew her. People smiled at her. Children liked her.
She hadn’t gone on any major runs recently. Well—nothing like the one for Laken or Bethal. She made good money, but she’d been sticking around Reizmelt. Being properly Human.
Being…a friend.
Ryoka boxed with Alber, hung out with Fierre. She’d been to the van Lischelle household once for dinner, and thankfully not been part of the menu. She’d watched the battles at sea and kept up with the scrying orb news.
And she had more friends.
“Ryoka! There you are!”
The instant Ryoka entered the Adventurer’s Guild, Mousey sat up. The Aldasian Warhound looked at Ryoka and Levil, Bram, Lamont, Tally, Keima, Ullica, and the other dog, Makki, who made up Pithfire Hounds waved at her.
“I heard you arrived. Hey everyone. Hello, Mousey.”
Awkwardly, Ryoka bent down and received a lick after Levil murmured the ‘all safe’ command. She had a bond with Mousey, whom she’d run with.
With the Pithfire Hounds. In a way—Ryoka had saved their lives. It was…history. And they were continually grateful, for some reason.
“It’s great to see you. Buy you a drink?”
“I have to run later. I’ll take some water.”
“Water for the boring City Runner!”
Tally shouted. The others laughed good-naturedly. Ryoka smiled. And for a little bit—she was content.
“We got work after we headed south. Fighting some stray Ogres. There were raids a while back—one of the bastards nearly kicked Makki. But we brought ‘em down.”
“How dangerous was it?”
Ryoka leaned forwards. She was asking because it was a story, and also because she wanted to know. That was…what being a friend was. Levil twiddled his fingers and produced a miniature ball of flame.
“Not bad. We fought a group of three. That’s as much as I was willing to handle, but there weren’t any huge gangs. Now, forty and we’re running for it. But Lady Ulta smashed one group and I heard some [Knights] did for another. Just good pay. I leveled, and so did Keima. You got our [Messages]?”
“Congratulations! And—yep. Thanks for doing the escort mission. I know it was hard—”
The Pithfire Hounds all sighed. Ryoka grimaced. They had been escorting Rose, Joseph, and the others about a month back. Part of the way; Ryoka had arranged more escorts on their way south. Levil gave Ryoka a crooked grin.
“It wasn’t the worst. But between you and me, Ryoka? Only for you would we escort that lot. Just insane. You know one of them was drunk the entire way?”
Joseph. Ryoka closed her eyes. Oh, she knew what a handful that lot was. She opened her eyes.
“I appreciate it. And believe me—I know. We had them for four days. I had to get them moving or Fierre would have killed them. Alber refused to come to the inn after the second day.”
She felt guilty over sending them to Liscor. But hopefully—no. Where else did they have to go? Ryoka’s stomach twisted. She reached for her bag of holding unconsciously. Then stopped herself.
“Thank you, really. I’ll repay the favor.”
“You pulled us out of that situation with the frogs once. As far as I’m concerned, we’re still not square.”
Levil raised his mug. Ryoka turned red from the embarrassment. She exchanged a few more words, promised to drink with them later. Rose.
Left.
 
—-
 
The Runner’s Guild next. Ryoka didn’t know if she liked knowing the [Receptionist], Alime, by name, or the Runners.
“Ryoka! We just got a big request to run a delivery. Nothing dangerous, but let me have it? Please?”
Melodie caught Ryoka at the door. The City Runner raised her hands.
“All yours. I’m not running far.”
“Thank you!”
The young woman hugged Ryoka. For a moment, Ryoka smiled and remembered a pinched girl’s face, arguments with Fals. Then it was gone and Melodie was trotting towards the desk.
“Alime, I’m looking for that delivery to Lupp. And I promised to head south, so if I swing down that way, what can you give me?”
The [Receptionist] smiled at Ryoka. And the City Runner belatedly coughed.
“Uh, sorry. Hi. How’s it going?”
“Well, thank you, Ryoka. And I have Mister Lupp’s delivery…I can give you three, if that’s alright? Nothing but copper and a bit of silver.”
“Works for me.”
Ryoka took the deliveries. She put them in her crowded bag of holding. Then jogged out of the Runner’s Guild.
Out of the city. The day’s light was fading. The [Guards] called to Ryoka.
“Miss Wind Runner! A breeze?”
The young woman raised a hand and they shouted their thanks. Ryoka felt the wind blowing at her back. She had more control over it since visiting Riverfarm. Just a bit.
But she couldn’t conjure the tornado made out of wind and fire she had when she had been at the heart of witchcraft. Nor did she run nearly as fast. She ran, drinking from a stamina potion when her pace faltered.
About two hours later, Ryoka finished her last delivery as she ran towards a small farm with towering corn stalks. A scarecrow was sitting outside the field. Ryoka hopped over the locked gate. And she ran towards the scarecrow.
“Lupp! Lupp, is that you?”
She approached the person-sized scarecrow warily. Ryoka walked around the scarecrow and saw—
A painted face. She heard laughter. And the farmhouse’s doors opened to reveal Farmer Lupp. The old [Farmer] walked down the steps, waving at Ryoka. She grinned at him and trotted over.
“Ah, Miss Ryoka. You’re back again. So soon?”
“I have your money from Lady Bethal and something from your daughter. Also—the stuff you ordered.”
Ryoka began pulling objects out of her bag of holding. Money—and a receipt from the Runner’s Guild for the full amount. A little jar from Lupp’s daughter. And a few bottles.
Alcohol. Lupp sighed as he eyed the gin. He’d asked Ryoka to bring him some. The [Farmer] took it all eagerly, then did a double-take at the gold mixed with the silver.
“Dead gods, but that [Lady] kept her word. Gold for corn. Who’d have thought it?”
“You say that every time. When are you going to stop?”
Ryoka teased Lupp gently. The [Farmer] just stared at the small fortune he’d been given. Then he closed the money pouch and looked around.
But his farm was isolated. And his beautiful fields of corn were growing again.
“I’ve made three harvests. Figured that Lady Walchaís would get bored of the corn.”
“She’s not eating it all. It’s going to a market.”
“Still. It’s worth all this? And she sends a wagon by each month, a proper fast one. As if my corn’s…well, it is some of the best you’d ever eat.”
The [Farmer] caught himself, straightening with pride. Ryoka grinned. She liked Lupp. The lonely farmer…she understood. Perhaps more than even Fierre, or Alber. They had parts of Ryoka’s passions.
But Lupp stood there, looking grateful just to talk to someone. He nodded awkwardly towards the bottles of gin.
“Fine stuff you brought. As good as the gold. Did my daughter say aught?”
“Just that you should stop sending her gold.”
“Hah. What else do I use it for? She can…thank you for running it to her. Here. A tip.”
Lupp fumbled for a gold coin. Ryoka put her hand out.
“It’s fine—”
“No. No. Take it. It’s too much otherwise. You do these regular deliveries when I know you have better paying work.”
Reluctantly, the young Asian woman took the money. Then she smiled.
“Thanks. People have been too kind to me.”
“Oh? And you’re the first person I’ve seen the last three days. What did you do today? Er—come in. Can I offer you some of the gin?”
“I wouldn’t want to prevail—”
The [Farmer] glanced up under his hat. He eyed Ryoka.
“Not at all. I’d take it kindly. But if you’re busy, don’t mind me, please.”
He had no artifice. Ryoka hesitated in the face of the naked choice. She ducked her head after a moment.
“…I’ll stay. Thanks.”
Alike indeed. That was how, as dusk fell, Ryoka Griffin found herself in Lupp’s farmhouse, sharing a meal. It was—corn. But delicious. You could eat it raw, boiled—and Lupp’s corn was the best.
Especially with some gin. The two drank as they ate. Ryoka related her day, Lupp speculated about a mega crow he’d seen leading the pack. That reminded Ryoka of Mavika.
“Watch out for crows. I met a [Witch] once—”
“That crow bitch?”
Lupp was already on his second shot. He slammed down a fist and Ryoka jumped.
“You know her?”
“Of course. Anyone living far from cities knows…and my corn is the best! She tried to make me an offer. No crows for a year for two harvests. I turned her down so her crows took a crap all over my house. Damn [Witches]. How d’you know her? Don’t tell me you got on her bad side. She’s a nasty one.”
“I actually met her in Riverfarm. It was this entire scene. I—it’s hard to explain.”
“Tell me. Unless you have to be anywhere tonight?”
Ryoka glanced out the window. Then she looked back at Lupp. The lonely [Farmer] was the best kind of audience. Hungry to know. She took a breath.
“…No. Okay. Listen. Do you know about…other [Witches]?”
 
—-
 
