“I believe so. I am working on him. But I have exposed none of our plans. He is—a singularly unique individual. I do not know where he hails from, or how he knows what he does. But I believe I am in his confidences. Give me time.”
“We run short on time. Investigate. Make him an offer. If he is unwilling to be an ally—settle it yourself.”
Rie hesitated. But Ieka saw her gaze flicker.
“Yes. It will be done.”
The Petals of Death murmured. Two asked for plans of the trebuchets—Rie didn’t have them. They ordered her to retrieve them regardless of this [Emperor]’s death or not.
More power to the Circle. The conversation ended abruptly, voices ceasing to speak. Rie and Ieka sat there until the last was gone. And Ieka Imarris wondered.
The Circle of Thorn was dangerous. They killed without hesitation. This was like the same group that had slain Suvelta. Or—trying to be. Ieka had her doubts.
There were many groups in Izril among the nobility. And the Circle, powerful and old though they may be, weren’t the only ones. Ieka saw Rie straighten after the call ended. And Ieka, smiling, gestured towards her.
“Well, it seems we have our orders. None for me, but I am—delighted to aid you in any way you need, Rie. Simply let me know. As for myself—I will wait for the Circle’s orders. May I offer you refreshments? Rest? Or will you return to this, ah, Unseen Empire, at once?”
Rie smiled like a viper in Ieka’s parlor, and the [Mage Lady] shivered.
“I will return forthwith, Ieka. If you would be so gracious.”
“Of course. And please—as I said, anything to help you.”
Ieka stood. A bit unsteady with how much wine she’d imbibed. But Sidel swept back in. And Rie smiled at her.
Sidel, that was. The [Maid] smiled uncertainly back. Rie, that low-level [Lady], that…agent of the Circle of Thorns, looked at Ieka.
“The Circle appreciates your commitment, Ieka. However—we would prefer you quit your cabal with the other [Ladies] under your association. Ladies Bedai and Therris have refused our offers. We would appreciate you bringing them into our folds. Rather than your own personal mage-circle.”
Ieka froze, choking on her mouthful of wine. How did they know about—? They’d been so secure!
Sidel’s eyes were wide, uncomprehending. She didn’t know about Ieka’s other little circle of…allies. But Rie did. And the Circle was old. Not like Ieka’s alliances. She smiled again.
Like a Demon wearing Human flesh.
“You may also wish to speak to Miss Sidel. As I understand it—she is in the employ of Wistram. Who know your tastes. Well, a number of factions.”
The [Lady] politely indicated Sidel. The [Maid] turned white. She spun to run.
“[Gracious Invitation]. Stay a moment. Lady Ieka surely has words for you.”
Rie pointed. Sidel froze in place. She should have drawn a weapon. [Lady] Skills were too powerful outside of combat. Rie saw Sidel turn, then clasp her hands behind her back and bow.
“I am at Lady Ieka’s disposal, Lady Rie.”
A polite answer to Rie’s Skill. Only Sidel’s wide, rolling eyes betrayed the fear in her. Rie looked at Ieka.
“I will take a carriage back. And leave you to the unpleasantness. My condolences, Ieka.”
Ieka Imarris, the [Mage Lady] who could blow a hole through an unenchanted castle’s walls…felt a pit of cold in her stomach. She looked at Rie, and saw a true [Lady]. Someone who was as powerful in social circles, in the realms of intrigue and politics as a Named Rank [Mage] throwing [Siege Fireballs] around in a battlefield. She saw Rie tactfully make her way to the door. Ieka had no doubt she’d find her way back to Riverfarm.
Ieka looked at Sidel. The young woman—just gorgeous, beautifully orange of hair, almost similar to Terandrian hair coloration, and stunningly fit, in the prime of her life like Ieka liked in her lovers—trembled.
“Lady Ieka, I only—I had to feed my family, and—”
“I trusted you. I made you my personal [Maid].”
Ieka was still stunned by the revelation. If Sidel had been conscientious enough to deny Rie’s allegations, Ieka might have even believed her. Sidel? A spy?
“I—Lady Ieka—I can—”
“I loved you.”
Ieka Imarris whispered. Her eyes shimmered. With unshed tears. With magic. With betrayal. Sidel flinched. And as Lady Rie Valerund left—Lady Ieka Imarris was further pulled into that inner circle.
The Circle of Thorns. And their plans shaped Izril.
But then—that was a week ago. And for all their machinations, they were just people. Powerful people, yes. But who sometimes forgot that they didn’t control every part of the world. Didn’t understand the hearts of…
Children.
 
—-
 
Still One Week Ago.
It was indeed a funny thing. But when he was not the great rival of Magnolia Reinhart, the head of the Veltras family, terrible foe to his enemies—Tyrion Veltras presented few of the qualities that made him so hated.
He stopped outside the keep that was his family’s ancestral estate and looked up. The war stallion shifted underneath him, too well-trained to fidget. And for a moment, Tyrion Veltras just inhaled the fresh morning air. He closed his eyes. And reveled in the summer.
Tyrion looked around. Across the grass was a tilting dummy. One of several set up on the open straightaway. He raised the lance he carried, almost a third hand. And the [Lord] rode at the dummy.
Faster. Faster. His stallion snorted and dug into the earth. Tyrion Veltras galloped forwards, accelerating.
He had started four times further than a regular [Knight] would away from the tilting dummies. But that was because his Skills afforded him incredible acceleration. And the max speed his mount could reach—
Was closer to lightning than man. The Lord Veltras rode faster, until he was a blur, moving faster than a horse and rider should be able to. Towards the little training dummy.
If you had perfect eyes—you could see his target. A bouncing, little ring of wood. So light that the wind was blowing it, twirling the hoop of wood around. And it was that Tyrion rode at. His lance’s tip bobbed, following the ring, steady despite the galloping horse.
He struck forwards, bracing as he passed the training dummy. From his seat, Hethon Veltras, 1st Son of the Veltras name after his father, saw the [Lord] flick his lance tip up after he passed.
The wooden ring was on it, of course. Tyrion Veltras slowed his mount, soothing it and rewarding it with a bit of sugar. He looked—pleased.
As pleased as stone could look, that was. Tyrion was famous for not smiling. Or if he did—it was like a lion smiled. Unaccustomed to the feat. He rode back towards his audience and heard the applause.
Hethon Veltras, who was fourteen this summer, applauded politely for his father. Tyrion—regarded his son, perplexed.
“Good strike, father.”
Hethon was thinner than his father. Less robust than the famed [Lord] who was, according to some lists, the second-best [Lord] in the world. Only—mentioning that would only make Tyrion unhappy.
And indeed, perhaps that was because his son didn’t know Tyrion any more than the Circle of Thorns. Tyrion leaned on his saddle horn.
“Good strike, Hethon? Why?”
He sounded like a drillmaster. Hethon hesitated. And his compliment turned to confusion.
“You…got the ring, father. Isn’t that hard?”
Indeed, snagging the little ring with the tip of your lance at full-tilt was difficult. A master [Lancer] would train like that, but not at the speeds Tyrion could ride. But the [Lord] just shook his head, mystified.
“Hethon Veltras. That is a warm-up. Save your compliments for true feats. A [Lord] should not be overly generous with their words.”
The young [Lord] turned red as his father gave him a stern look. He ducked his head.
“Sorry. I just meant—”
He didn’t have words to finish that sentence. And it didn’t help that Tyrion was clearly waiting for them. After a second, someone cleared his throat.
“Perhaps, Lord Veltras, the young Lord Hethon simply doesn’t understand the difficulty of your true regimen. It would be instructive for him to watch.”
That comment came from an elderly man. Ullim, the [Majordomo] of the Veltras household. And—much like Ressa, a force as equally powerful within his domain. Although Ullim would not be the target of an unrequited Lady Ieka’s affections. Maybe someone else’s, but…
He had been balding. And he was safely in his early sixties, white of hair—thanks to the expensive tonics he liked to buy.
That was his one vice. He’d buy [Alchemist]’s draughts to maintain his fraught hairline. And sometimes he was handsomely haired, like a white fox—or goat—other times, the potions backfired and he was stately in his baldness.
The [Majordomo] had to be. He was composed as he patted Hethon reassuringly on the arm. Tyrion blinked. He looked at Ullim and nodded slightly.
“Most evidently, Ullim. Have you never seen me practice, Hethon?”
“Um—um—”
“No, Lord Veltras. The last time might well have been a year ago. You were occupied with the Goblin Lord business. And you seldom tilt competitively in public.”
The [Majordomo]’s voice was kindly. And he was like…a second father to Hethon. Not a mother. Perhaps an uncle, but never a mother.
Hethon’s mother was dead.
Tyrion Veltras also respected Ullim’s words. He nodded and abruptly reached for his bag of holding.
“I will demonstrate, then. Hethon. Watch. What you just applauded was a basic [Lancer]’s training. But if you choose to pick up the lance, this is what you should aspire to in training. Ullim, set up the magic targets. Battlefield lancework.”
He turned. Ullim bowed and called out. A pair of [Workhands] rushed across the field. Hethon saw two young boys—nearly his age, maybe a year or two older—setting up a second dummy. Clearing the others off the field.
Tyrion on the other hand was dismounting. He quickly withdrew something from his bag of holding and began fastening it to his stallion, who snorted grumpily, knowing what was coming.
Horse barding. And Tyrion himself was putting on a helmet. Just a helmet, with a visor. No breastplate or other armor; he was in his riding clothes for the morning. But the helmet was the very same armor he would put on for war. And he seldom wore that helmet. Hethon began to understand why as one of the [Workhands] shouted.
“Activating the dummy! Off the field!”
He waved a magic wand linked to the dummy. And Tyrion turned as he mounted up. Hethon saw, about two thousand paces distant, a straw dummy planted into the green grass.
His eyes were beyond perfect. A gift from his mother’s Skills. Hethon could actually see the dummy. It was made of straw, like most dummies. But this one was…magical. It was armored in some kind of scale-covering and while it had a shield hanging from one arm—
The shield was magical. It sprang to life and a pink-violet aura surrounded the target. The training dummy’s face—which looked like a Drake’s, however crudely—lit up. The two eye sockets blazed with pink magic.
And then—the training dummy began to fire magical arrows made of light at Tyrion, Ullim, and Hethon. The [Majordomo] and the young [Lordling] saw dozens of magical arrows blasting upwards.
Basic spells. Tier 1 spells. But dozens of them. They arced, curving towards them and Tyrion. Arrows made of sand, light, fire, stone—Hethon gaped until Ullim yanked him off the little bluff of grass.
“Lord Veltras!”
The [Majordomo] had a shield in one hand. He had been a [Retainer] once—a good one. And like Tyrion he had a bag of holding. Tyrion glanced at him. He raised his shield.
“The training guide must sense you as combatants. Hold still, Ullim. This won’t take long. [Barrier of Pride].”
A stationary field appeared around Ullim and Hethon. Tyrion Veltras ignored the arrows smashing into the golden barrier in the air. He narrowed his eyes at the magical training dummy. Then he leveled his lance and dug his heels into his horse’s flanks.
The stallion shot forwards. Hethon had thought it had been going fast before, but now the horse flickered across the ground. Tyrion Veltras rode at the dummy.
And the magical spells exploded from the angry training dummy as if it was possessed by some angry ghost of vengeance. The long-distance hail turned into bursts of magical arrows, lances of light—all trying to strike at Tyrion.
They weren’t just illusions either. Tyrion kept his shield up, deflecting the magical spells, weaving his horse back and forth. He dodged underneath a beam of light, deflected a blast that made the air ripple—Hethon watched him charging the enchanted target, forgetting the danger to himself.
“Ullim! Ullim, what is that?”
“That is how your father trains, Lord Hethon.”
Old Ullim watched, fondly, as Tyrion closed. His shield was constantly moving, blocking attacks to him and his steed. But his lance was on-target.
And the magical shield around the training dummy’s target—Hethon saw Tyrion point. His horse disappeared—
The training dummy’s shield exploded into a shower of light particles as the [Lord]’s lance blasted through the protective wards. Tyrion put his lance up as his stallion, panting, turned and cantered about.
This time Hethon was applauding on his feet when his father came back. He stared at Tyrion Veltras. The [Lord] even allowed himself a small smile as he removed his helmet.
“Not a bad performance. I’m in decent shape, Ullim. No strikes to me or Gelden.”
He meant his horse. The [Majordomo] lowered the magical shield he carried as Tyrion’s [Barrier of Pride] flickered out around them.
“A fine showing, sir. I’m sure Hethon is duly impressed. One might have hoped he would have been out of range. I will speak to the staff about putting him in danger.”
His words gave both Tyrion and Hethon pause. The [Lord] blinked at Hethon and then looked at the distant dummy. Which had, frankly, put out enough firepower in a few seconds to vaporize Hethon twice over.
“I wouldn’t have let him come to harm. And you’re more than capable of blocking those kinds of spells, Ullim.”
Tyrion addressed Ullim stiffly. The [Majordomo] bowed.
“Of course, sire. I was here, but age does take its toll, Lord Veltras.”
“I wasn’t afraid, father.”
Hethon added hurriedly. The [Lord] hesitated. He glanced at Hethon, but then looked at Ullim. He—listened to Ullim. And Miss Jericha, another of his retainers.
Few others. After a second, Tyrion stiffly inclined his head.
“Hethon should begin learning to ride a horse and protect himself. He’s—fourteen. He would have been a [Squire] already if he was a [Knight].”
It wasn’t quite a question. Ullim nodded.
“Of course, sire. But we had discussed that it wasn’t quite appropriate…?”
