Erick searched for [Sleep]. He had seen Alibeth cast that spell enough to hear the sound it made multiple times. He imagined he would get at least one hit all the way at the hospital, which was barely at the edge of the map, just in front of the foggy edge. After all, there was at least one rune there that was constantly charged with that magic, in Jane’s room.

Nothing appeared on the map.

He searched for ‘Jane’. Her dot appeared exactly where it should have. ‘Alibeth’ returned a blue dot higher in the hospital tower. They weren’t currently interacting, so that meant that Jane was certainly sleeping—

Erick just cast a [Scry] on Jane. Yup. She was sleeping.

He dismissed that spell and returned to himself. He searched for [Teleport]. It was an instant spell, but there was a slight delay between the cast time to the activation time, which was mainly due to people needing to really picture their destination before the spell would activate. [Blink] was usually much faster than [Teleport], because all it took was looking at the destination, and blip, there you were.

After a minute of waiting, and explaining to Kiri what he was waiting for, one blue dot appeared, near Oceanside. Erick smiled. That blue dot faded, but other dots soon came into sight. Those too faded, as the spell was no longer there after it departed that location.

Erick searched for [Teleport] and [Dispel] at the same time, hoping to come upon some of the anti-[Teleport] runes that were surely in Oceanside. And sure enough, a few dozen blue dots appeared here and there in the city. Erick’s eyes went wide. He quickly searched for the color ‘red’, to clear the map as fast as he could. By successfully searching for [Teleport] and [Dispel] he had found every single secured location in the northern half of Oceanside.

Whoops!

Kiri said, “That was an anti-[Teleport] search, wasn’t it.”

“… Maybe.”

Kiri just laughed. She said, “This means you need to buy some of those restricted-by-law spells, too. [Invisible] and [Force Trap] are the big ones.”

Erick paused. He asked, “Is that what this means?”

“Oh yeah.” Kiri said, “Merit is going to love you. Killzone too, probably. He was always going off about how much he hated [Invisible]. Two-copper adventurers always thought that they could sneak into Ar’Kendrithyst without getting noticed, and sometimes they could, but mostly they’d get caught and their bodies would get waved at Forward Base because they didn’t properly enter the city.”

Erick stared down at the map floating around his waist, and considered a scan of the Dead City. Ar’Kendrithyst was about 140 kilometers in diameter with an average depth of 50 kilometers, and full of kendrithyst crystal towers. [Cascade Imaging], cast from Spur, could likely see the whole of the top layer of the Dead City, but the middle layer and the bottom layer were out of the question; that evil place ran too deep into Veird.

This spell was not a solution on how to assault the city; to find defenses and eradicate them in a methodical, terrible manner. But it was a long range [Scan] that others would know how to use properly. Other people like Merit or Silverite, or probably Killzone, now that he thought about it…

Yeah. Killzone would know how to use this to best kill every single Shade.

But getting to that point would take some time. None of the leaders of Spur desired the destruction of Ar’Kendrithyst, and it wasn’t because of reasons the Headmaster believed. Spur was not profiteering from the Dead City. The Dead City was simply too strong. Every single Shade was as powerful as an immortal archmage, and each of them controlled enough shadowy creatures to each count as the general of their own personal army. It took a Champion and her whole team to kill a single one of the more powerful Shades, and Jane only managed to kill one of the weaker Shades because circumstances placed them both in a sea of antirhine shards, and her in a position of absolute power, wielding an antirhine mace designed to kill magic-users.

So getting everyone into the mindset of needing to kill the Dead City would take some time.

Whatever they were planning in there, whatever the rumors were about Ar’Kendrithyst shifting around into a new internal structure, political or magical or theatrical or whatever, whatever it was that was going on in the deeper shadows of the Dead City…

It would likely be terrible and vast. But it would also likely mean that others, aside from Erick and Jane, would soon desire a final end to those monstrous Shades.

But for now, there was one final string of testing.

Erick asked, “Kiri. Can I have a drop of your blood?” He thought for a second, then added, “Ah. Wait. No [Polymorph] form, right?”

Kiri frowned a little. She said, “Not yet… I was thinking of light slime, though. I... I want [Lightwalk].”

“That would be a good form, then.” Erick said, “Talk to Poi or clear it with Calzin or Merith, or whoever you need to. Do you think you could get it done in an hour?”

“Yes.” Kiri asked, “Then we test [Polymorph]?”

Erick nodded.

- - - -

Kiri returned to the front yard of Windy Manor wearing nothing but a green [Conjure Armor] in her normal design; mostly cloth, done up like normal-looking clothes, but constructed like Jane’s [Conjure Armor], with tight, kevlar-like threads, and plates inside the cloth, over her chest. Her armor was slightly brighter than her own green scales. She walked through the map to Erick, and used a talon to nick a finger. She placed a bright red dot of blood onto Erick’s hand, then walked out of the map.

Erick searched for ‘Kiri’. A blue dot appeared on the map exactly where she was.

He ignored the drop of blood in his hand as he searched for ‘Kiri’s DNA’, trying for a purely mental idea of a search; one where he wouldn’t need a part of the person he was searching for. The map turned white; nothing found.

Erick focused on the drop of blood in his hand, and searched again.

Nothing.

He channeled mana through [Cascade Imaging], into his hand. A bright, splashing orb appeared in his palm, around Kiri’s drop of blood. He searched for her DNA, again.

Swaths of blue layered through the house, and the yard, and many different places in Oceanside.

Kiri looked from Erick’s hand to the map, saying, “That’s unconventional.”

Erick smiled. “I can search for people based on blood.”

Kiri seemed stuck between concern and surprise. “Blood magic?”

“Oh? No. Not actually blood magic.” Erick said, “I could do the same with a hair or something. Well. Not the hair itself. But the biological material at the root of the hair, I think. Or a scale, in your case.”

“Connection searching, then.” Kiri smiled small, relieved. She added, “Onto the next test.”

“There are traps out there in the forest, so be careful.” Erick said, “I’m pretty sure that Tyli’s spell was [Stone Trap], and it’s cast in more than a few locations.”

Sunny lifted off of Kiri’s shoulders; she would stay here for a little while.

In a brief moment, Kiri transformed from a young dragonkin woman in [Conjure Armor], into a bright ball of white light nestled into the neck opening of her [Conjure Armor], on the ground. Her voice came out of the air, “This is such an embarrassing spell. I don’t know how Jane does it.”

Erick smiled, looking down upon his blobby apprentice.

“So just go anywhere?” she asked.

Erick looked down at the map. It was still covered in blue. He pointed to a white spot out in the forest. “Here. Or anywhere that you might think of going that isn’t already blue.”

Kiri, still on the ground, said, “I can’t see where you’re pointing.”

Erick pointed up at Sunny, floating in the air above, looking down at both of them. “You can’t?”

“… Right. [Familiar].” Kiri paused. Sunny turned attentive and dropped down on top of the map. Kiri said, “Okay. I see where I need to go.”

Erick added, "Also, we can use [Telepathy] through Sunny, since I can't send directly to you while you're a slime."

A tendril of thought connected from Kiri to Sunny, then to Erick. 'Sure.'

'Oh good! It worked!' Erick sent back. 'The books said it would, but I wasn't sure.'

Kiri gave a gentle, mental nod, then vanished in a blip of green. Her [Conjure Armor], now separated from her body, began to disintegrate into the ambient mana.

Erick watched as an unexpected dot of blue appeared where he had pointed.

“That shouldn’t have—” Erick said to himself, “Right. Contamination. Probably a rub off from her armor.” He sent, ‘I need you to blip again.’

‘I see… Yeah...’ She paused.

Another blue dot appeared in another blank part of the forest, not too far away. The first unexpected dot began to dissipate, but there was still a blue smear on the forest floor where she had been. DNA just got everywhere, didn’t it?

Kiri sent, ‘I’m still there?’

‘No. This is a cross contamination, for sure. If you were a flame or acid slime I doubt this would be a problem because you would have already destroyed your outermost layer. Go take a dip in the ocean, or one of the lakes in the interior, or something. Get really clean then come back to somewhere else in this white space.’

‘Sure.’

Kiri’s second blue dot began to dissipate as a third dot appeared down the cliffside, on one of the tiny beaches near the vertical stone wall. Kiri’s blue dot did not move, but instead slowly faded as it began to spread out. Erick felt a spike of worry.

‘Are you okay? Your dot is spreading out a lot!’

‘Just a [Watershape] bath.’

‘Oh. Okay. Good. I didn’t expect it to look like that.’ Erick said, ‘Saltwater on a slime can’t feel good.’

‘It’s not pleasant, for sure. I feel like I’m drying up, but I’m okay.’

‘Try a [Cleanse], too.’

‘Already done.’

‘… And yet it didn’t change the blue smear.’

After a while, the blue smear near the water went still.

‘Looks like that did it.’ Kiri said, ‘Whatever you were tracking did not track me here.’

Erick looked down at the map. There were no new blue dots. ‘Where are you?’

Sunny dropped down into the map, pointing her tail at a white space. ‘Here.’

Erick sent, ‘That solves that. Cross contamination will ensure tracking until measures are taken to clean the target. So it’s kind of like scent tracking, but better. This is good.’ He added, ‘Come on back. We’re done. It’s time to go back to Spur.’
