I blinked, and everything returned to normal in an instant. My hands trembled, my guild's destruction leaving me hollowed out inside. Taking a deep breath, I sent another message to Shalahora. The shadow oozed from the ground, his eyes as clear as cyan glass.

He murmured.

"You wish to tread into the gloom once more?"

My eyes hardened as I nodded.

"Until it's no longer dark.

Chapter Begin

Death. Rebirth. Death again, a cycle that existed in a cycle. I experienced that cycle, and I forged myself into a different creature from it. In many ways, it was a living hell as my mind fell apart like flesh peeling from bone. In other ways, I learned who I was from the effort. It reminded me of what I was willing to do if need be, and that gave me a wounded but steadfast confidence.

Shalahora whispered through my mind.

"How close are you to a psionic death?"

I spit out my words, my mouth drooling.

"I'm...I'm 70% the way there."

Shalahora's silence left me scrambling. I revised.

"60%?"

"No. You're only at half your abilities."

A dozen of my minds died each second, my psyche a pulverized vase trying to hold water. As stress and strain poured through the cracks, Shalahora took those shards and stomped them.

"You need to understand where your limits lie, Harbinger."

I trembled on the ground.

"I'm doing what I can."

"It is in your name. Harbinger. One who omens. The progenitor. The precursor. The pathfinder. Your birth brings forth a cataclysm. You must be ready for what you usher. Tell me, is half your mind enough to face a god?"

I remembered being obliterated by Eonoth.

"No."

Shalahora's form rippled in the wind.

"You whisper your words as I do."

I slammed a fist into the ground, the hill quaking.

"I said no."

"As long as you are aware. Now, again."

Before he culled more of my minds, I gawked at my hand. The fist slam was an instinct rather than a conscious action. Cutting my thoughts short, seven of my psyches died at once. Shalahora simmered.

"You recoil from so little. We will fix that."

The night dragged on, becoming a kind of purgatory. Unable to think of any cohesive thoughts, I scrambled forward off of instinct alone, my body learning to adjust. I gained a kind of momentum in my actions. I was able to move or stand even if my soul shattered under Shalahora's onslaught.

It was the same instinct that pulled your hand back whenever you touched a hot iron. It didn't require a mind or thought. The body understood, and it acted. I gained something like that but dispersed across many actions. Standing. Mana manipulation. I could do that and more as the hours passed.

It gave me agency in a hopeless situation, something that could save my life if I ever fought someone like Valgus again. Even as I bolstered my determination, time stretched out in front of me. Every second elongated into eternity like each hour was the passing of an epoch in my head. Having so many minds endure such an undertaking made time seem even longer than normal.

My temporal compression added to that fact, but it was desperately needed. It was one of the few tools I used to close the gap between Shalahora and me. And the chasm stretched out like a sempiternal gorge. It reached out to the limits of my comprehension, a conceptual barrier I could not cross.

Still, I found hints of progress.

My deaths no longer occurred without my awareness. I felt the demise coming, letting me hand off that psyche's actions and thoughts before the mind died. Whenever Shalahora approached me, I perceived more of its sheer size. The psionic ocean still stretched out to the horizons, but more of the waves and currents came into my awareness.

That subtle growth gave me some respite from the onslaught. As the morning arrived, Shalahora gazed at my shambling body.

"You can move while dead?"

I took a hobbling step.

"I have my psyches continue what the others were doing. It lets me-"

I fell forward, the ground rumbling below. Pulling myself up with sloppy, desperate motions, I got to my feet.

"It lets me keep doing what I'm doing. It's...Hard."

I hobbled forward again.

"Hah. For now."

Shalahora watched me scramble forward before I fell again. He stopped killing my consciousnesses, turning away from me. I regained my coherency within a second, but my body recoiled at the prospect of more punishment. I forced myself to stop shaking before I cracked my neck.

"Are we finishing early?"

Shalahora's form rippled. His hands subtly squirmed, and his eyes evaded mine.

"Yes...We are finished...For today. You need rest."

I lifted a shaking arm.

"Oh no, I'm fine. We've still got a few hours."

Shalahora took a breath.

"No. You need the rest."

I clasped my hand, trying to get it to stop. I couldn't.

"It looks worse than it is. I'm going to be-"

Shalahora shouted.

"I said no."

I leaned back, his voice a call through my entire being. Ice ran through my veins, and my stomach sank. I murmured.

"Are...Are you ok?"

He reached out a hand, squeezed it, then pulled it back.

"I...Yes. I'm fine. We will only train at night. I-It's whenever my powers are strongest."

I wanted to protest. Something in my chest muted my words.

"Of course. Let's...Let's do that."

With a heavy quiet lingering from his absence, Shalahora faded away. Standing on the hill, I sat in the silence. Shalahora made so little sense to me sometimes, but I understood something about him. He hated hurting people. Things. Anything, really. Peering at my hand, this training was a thing of profound hurt, a misery for anyone.

And I wasn't the only one suffering.

It brought to light other questions, like why Shalahora scrambled the frog ruler's mind on L-7 that one time. Those thoughts tumbled in my mind as I regained my bearings. Furthering that end, I emptied my mind of all distractions after a while, letting the portal on my back grind away. By now, it might as well be a back massage.

My meditation let me recover from the training faster, and considering the difficulty these entailed, mental recuperation was essential. It was a strange fact I learned from this advent: even if the mind was fine, the body remembered. I couldn't stop shaking until twenty minutes passed. After a half hour of doing nothing, my executive golem ran out of the bushes.

He waved his arms in excitement.

"Ah, there you are."

I opened my eyes.

"You've been waiting in the trees for the last forty minutes."

The executive's runes flared.

"Ah, caught red-handed, aye? Well, you looked like you could use a breather after whatever that was."

He was more empathic than I expected. I tilted my head at him.

"What's the chat for?"

He waved finger guns at me.

"So, the announcements are today. I sent some documents from someone else. Are you ready?"

In my inbox, a dozen messages from Torix glimmered, all of them left unopened. A wave of anxiety passed over me.

"Pshh, of course, I've read them."

The executive towered over me once near. These guys were huge. The executive counted on his fingers.

"So you've handled the speech, sorted the gear, and created all the golems?"

My eyes widened.

"Dammit. I forgot to make the gear."

The executive swung his arm.

"Don't even worry about it. I'm flexible. Let's just, oh, I don't know, schedule a show with the other head golems to buy you some time. Yeah, yeah! That'll work. It's as Juvenal said, 'Two things only the people anxiously desire - bread and circuses.' We'll start with both."

He turned around and strode off.

"Ah, I have to get the food ready ASAP. And what do humans find entertaining? I'll have to make something with razzle-dazzle. A few people are going to have to cancel some workdays."

I raised a brow.

"Cancelling workdays?"

The executive waved his arm.

"Oh, what? Yeah, workdays. I'll have a few civilians commissioned into the project. They'll be compensated for the inconvenience."

I frowned.

"Alright, just make sure you don't step on too many people's toes."

He shrugged while jogging away.

"Hah, what can I say? I have big feet. It happens sometimes."

Crows flew out of the treeline as the executive darted across the ground with utter ease. As he disappeared, I took a breath to center myself. I flew over to my golem facility, and I took a few of the extra metal bodies down from the gravity hangers. I melted them down into their base fabric.

The heat of the building mounted as the air blurred around me. I stood at its center, a forge master crafting one sword after the next. I mean that literally; I stood upright while floating everything around me. I picked up, molded, sharpened, and carved in runes, all via telekinesis and gravitation.

This let me smash down my temporal acceleration. My psyches swirled in the ether, more comfortable than ever in an intangible form. Even after only two nights of Shalahora's special training, I exerted greater control over time and the dimensional shard I carried. As Shalahora reiterated, I got closer to my limits.

Better able to tolerate the psionic displacement, I pulled more of myself into the two tasks. I blended my minds, their unmade form like a soup of thought. They kept my wake dense and palpable, turning the intangible material into something with substance. My pain offered weight to the world.

Mirroring that reality, my torment did the same for my own dimension. At the same time, other minds balanced the delicate dance of forging before me. It gave me enough space for my mind to wander. And wander it did. I contemplated Shalahora, Amara, and Diesel. Each of them expanded into new territories, and their expansion came with growing pains. As one of my knees buckled, I scoffed.

They weren't the only ones adjusting to changes.

Pulling myself upright, I remade my newest artifact, the fresh shield dented from my mistakes. After about two hours of effort, a pile of shiny gear glowed beside me. I waved my arm, and it cooled while spawning a wave of condensation that misted off the tools. As crystallized mana glistened, a bead of guilt spawned in my throat.

A whisper of doubt pierced into my thoughts - was I bribing these people to head off into unknown territory and fight for their lives? That thought tumbled in my head before another crushed it. I remembered how Diesel showed me how much my guild progressed and how little I let them do.

On the one hand, I couldn't think of everything from every angle, even if I owned all the minds in the world. A population's ingenuity dwarfed my own, and that was the good news for me. It meant my guild held enormous potential in the form of many talented, intelligent members. By taking on every task, I stopped their growth and my own in tandem.

Giving them certain tasks gave them experience and freed me up to take on the burdens I was made for. After all, I wasn't talented in everything. In fact, my list of talents was glaringly short, so instead of trying to take over every little thing, I had to let go. All that would wait until after this ceremony either way.

I lifted the fresh gear with ease, getting a speech ready in my head. Memories of our guild's feats sprang up in my mind. The victories and sacrifices told a story all on their own, and I organized that story while I floated out of my facility. Torix waited for me with Althea outside my golem center. I raised a brow.

"How did you guys get here without me noticing?"

Althea smirked.

"You get distracted when you're working."

I smiled back.

"It looks like I have something to iron out."

She hopped over to me before leaping. A flip later, she landed on my shoulder. She leaned down.

"Please don't. I like it."

After we kissed, Althea hugged me. Giving us just enough time, Torix gestured to the side of Mt. Verner.

"It would seem to be the time for our recognition ceremony, wouldn't it?"

I nodded, picking us all up with gravitation. We darted across the skyline, each of us chatting away in excitement. Crossing Mt. Verner's peak, we reached a marble venue humming with activity. The executive golem directed a flying ceremony of Eltari and a band of gialgathens, humans, and an eltari. Chrona led the bunch, her eyes brimming with joy.

The gialgathens tapped ornate glassware with their tails while the Eltari flipped around fire and ice. At times, they charged through the flames, and the crowd oohed and ahhed as the blaze bloomed into colors and shapes.

The executive swung his arms like a composer the entire time. His movements matched the show, his practice evident. They finished with a flurry of movement and sound, and the Eltari landed on several pillars at the front while the gialgathens roared near the back wall.

We clapped as we arrived on a platform. Covering the fortification, a mural showed our guild's victories over Yawm, Blegara, and the eldritch. Several architects carried out my artifacts as the show ended, and the entire affair carried the energy of a rock concert and award ceremony wrapped in one.

Everyone overflowed in excitement, and as the music finished, the executive walked over.

"Hah, ok, done. That's all I got, creator. Good luck."

I gave him a thumbs up.

"You did great. By the way, I didn't know you could compose."

The executive let out a laugh before shaking his head.

"Me? Compose? Oh no. My research uncovered that people think more of a show if someone is conducting it. It makes everything seem more official."

Althea gawked.

"So you're lying to everyone."

The executive put his hand on his chest.

"What? Lying? Pshhhh, this is showsmanship. Besides, that display by them matched any show I've ever seen."

Torix's eyes flared.

"You've never seen an act of entertainment, have you?"

The executive pulled on an imaginary collar.

"Woah, ok then. Tell me, guys, are we playing an assassin build in a video game? Because you guys are being pretty critical."

Althea laughed before Torix crossed his arms.

"Hm. Fair enough."

The executive tapped my shoulder.

