Once finished, Torix walked over to the golems. I stood and watched as a queue formed to take on the mission I laid out. They stretched out well into the forest and beyond. A thousand people waited, and it was more than enough to fulfill our projects for sign-ups. Before handing a golem to anyone, I explained how to use them alongside their gears.

As I signed off a golem to each member, I met many guildmates for the first time. They stood out to me. They were warriors; every person carried scars, grayish skin, and fierce smiles. Hardly human, their steps powdered marble under their heels, and they carried quiet confidence with piercing eyes.

Being ten feet tall didn't hurt their presence either.

I was so worried they wouldn't be able to handle the mission. Seeing their obvious ability, I learned that I was a fool. For once, being wrong put me in a good mood. A great one, really. After all, it was good to be wrong sometimes. With the golems' assistance, these fighters would be more than fine.

Adding to that, they each took pieces of gear from the pile I had made earlier today. After finishing distribution, we tallied up the number that signed up. It was over twelve hundred people in total on the first day alone. It floored any of my estimates, and it made me proud. This was one of the best days I'd had since I founded my guild.

And it made all the hard times worth it. The training. The suffering. It had meaning.

Interrupting my serenity, a message popped up in my status, being selected as urgent.

Florence Novas, Of a Golden Tongue and Honied Words(lvl 9,000 | Class: Speaker | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion) - Daniel, I know this may seem sudden, but I do believe that I have utterly botched one of the negotiations with the diplomats. I mean, I really, REALLY messed it up this time.

A few of them are demanding their rulers back this instant, and it's become an unruly mess. If I'm rather honest, they're irate over even the slightest of provocations. It's difficult to avoid hurting their feelings, and they seem...How to put this. Ahem. Unstable.

I'll be dousing some fires as you read this message, but the flames are burning brighter by the second. I'm just letting you know ahead of time. Ah yes, please don't blow up any ships should they appear. Consider it as a favor to me.

My gaze soured as I reread the message. I despised rulers at this point, from their pompous attitude to their inherent entitlement. I saved them from the brink of death, yet I gained no gratitude whatsoever. I dragged my hand down my face as another note popped up in my status. It dinged with a special notification symbol. I couldn't close it, so I sighed and opened the thing.

Arming Schema's Warriors(Lvl 20,000+ | Quest Rank S | Party Size: Any | Guild Affiliation: The Harbinger's Legion) - Forces enact their will onto Schema owned space. One of your personally crafted artifacts has been found useful. Others are in need of its properties.

Request: Grant 10 million personalized artifacts granted to Schema's armory free of charge.

Award: 10,000 levels of experience, fully maxed core points for your current level, +5,000 to level cap, and an Unknown Skill Compendium.

Note - The core points gained include the level-ups from this quest.

Time Constraints: 10 Earth Years.

My jaw slackened at the rewards. Though a welcome addition, levels meant little at this point, as did the bonus stats. However, the unknown compendium gave me any skill I could conceive, all without needing to grind it out on my own. I considered the possibilities before the space above Mt. Verner shifted.

My armor stood on end, flowing like water. None of the others noticed the warping space-time aside from Helios. He sprinted towards me, his voice a roar.

"Daniel. Something's coming."

Above, a series of colossal spacial rends split the sky. Clean and neat, the portals exposed the void of space above them and a barren planet below them. Even a cursory glance exposed the planet's scars, the Hybrid infestations riddling its surface. A fleet of these ships flew out of many, many warps, their orichalcum hulls glistening in the sun's light.

They dwarfed the size of skyscrapers. It was like a large metropolis floated over our heads. As the shadows covered our guild, Hybrids fought on the outer hulls, many having drilled their way inside. Behind the vessels, the void of space howled out, feasting on Earth's air. Helios reached up with his gauntlet, closing the warps. My runes flared with violence, and Event Horizon smothered the entire fleet.

I reached out with a charged hand, ready to disintegrate them with singularities. With a telepathic wave, I thought over.

"What are you doing here?"

A cacophony of voices screamed back via telepathy.

"Help. Please."
