"Oh yeah, big guy, can you show them your full size? It leaves more impact."

I expanded my frame, but I left enough fabric to prevent the warp from closing. As I did, Torix leaned closer.

"Have you uncovered some kind of spatial magic?"

I waved my hands a bit.

"What? No. I'm pulling off some shenanigans."

Althea leaned against my head.

"Hey, they say magic and shenanigans are hard to tell apart at a certain point."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"Certainly so, and wise of you to know. Blegh, that rhyme ruined my point. Regardless, are you ready, disciple?"

I bit my cheek.

"As ready as I'm ever going to be."

Althea hopped off my shoulder as I stepped forward. My form towered over the stage, nearly thirty feet high. The guild gazed up in wonder, most on the ground but a few hoisted up in trees. Gialgathens' heads popped up between the treeline, and the Eltari sat at the top of the trees. I raised my voice, not needing magic to amplify the sound.

Being big had its perks, after all.

"It's good to see everyone. Most of you have known me. For those that don't, I'm Daniel Hillside, the Harbinger of Cataclysm."

A roar erupted, and they cheered until embarrassment rose up my side like a pulse of heat. I waved my hands down.

"I'm glad you're excited. We'll need excitement for what's to come."

A silence crossed over everyone, only the sounds of nature piercing the veil. I raised a hand.

"I remember a time when we stood at the brink of destruction. We were about to face a wave of abominations and Yawm himself. At that time, we saw monsters in them, and I reminded you all that they saw monsters in us. In those battles, we needed to bring out our worst. It was so they would learn fear."

A smiled.

"And they did."

A cheer erupted. I continued.

"But, the era has changed, and we must change with it. We're no longer at the mercy of forces larger than us. We have time for peace and prosperity. To build and create lives worthy of living. Of relishing. Of dreaming for. This new age is one we forged on our own, and we've earned every second of well-being that comes with it."

Another set of cheers erupted. I smiled.

"Guildmates or family. Eltari or gialgathen. Vagni or skeptile."

I squeezed my hands to fists.

"We seized ourselves from the brink, and our victory tastes ever sweeter for it."

The gialgathens roared. The Eltari's cawed. The humans raised hands and let out booming yells. They'd all tasted despair, and this was their victory, one that would last forever.

Well, hopefully. I spread my hands with a confident nod.

"But we do not settle. We do not relent. Our guild is one that moves forward. One that endures, and we must help others endure. Around us and far in the distance, Earth suffers. People starve, and they are eaten. They are trampled. We have the means to help them, and with our position finally secured, we will."

I gazed at the many eyes of the crowd.

"We are a people of industry and ambition, but also generosity. We'll bring others into our fold. To those willing to volunteer, you will be tasked with helping a population center. You will not be alone; a golem of mine will stand by your side. You will also act as recruiters for capable individuals so that we may offer them entry into our guild."

My runes hummed with energy.

"This is no mandate. You may choose to continue aligning with your duties here. There is no shame in that. However, sometimes in our lives, we are presented with a crossroads. On our current path is Mt. Verner's success. On the other is humanity's revival."

I gestured a hand.

"There is no doubt in what this will accomplish. It is a tangible good, and it's one we were never offered. What I would've given to have someone save us when Yawm loomed over our heads. Now, we may give that grace to others, as we did for the Eltari and gialgathens. We can help those who struggle. We can bring Earth out of the stone age and back to our previous glory."

The palpable invigoration of Event Horizon crossed over all those present.

"But must we stop there? No. We will go further beyond. We will achieve a glory humanity has never before seen. Those who tread this path will be the origin of Earth's new history, one of triumph. One of victory."

I roared.

"One where we rise."

Another series of shouts echoed into the horizon. It continued for a while after, and people began standing. They stood and clapped for far longer than I deserved. As it died down, I gestured my hand to my followers. All of them stood there, aside from Florence. Having read my updates as I spoke, I boomed my words.

"Florence is forging alliances with others across the stars. He'll arrive later. The others here are the strongest of our guild. I'll begin with the first."

Torix floated over, his hands interlocked behind him. I put a hand on his shoulder.

"This is Torix Worm. He is known as our erudition; that is, knowledge obtained from study and research. Don't worry. I had to look that up, too."

The crowd laughed. I smiled.

"Torix has enlightened us since the dawn of our guild. He led the battle against Yawm. He organized the clearing of Springfield. He fought on the front lines at Blegara and Giess alike. He is our guild's most powerful tactician, a necromancer that raises those we kill for us."

I walked over to the pillar holding his relic. With deliberate steps, I paced back, and the staff sheened with primordial energy. Even the core radiated power. I held it high.

"He'll be given a new body for his many contributions along with this staff."

Cheers erupted. Torix gave an elegant bow before taking the artifact. Althea followed him. I turned a palm to her.

"This is our guild's greatest destroyer, Althea Tolstoy. As she may seem slight, within her is the ability to kill gods. She cleared Springfield. She slaughtered Lehesion and others who fought against us. Now, she works for the goodwill and welfare of our guild's children. She is an idol to us all.

I grant her this necklace. It redistributes force, making her unbreakable. May she continue to serve as our guild's sharpest sword."

I did the same walk to a pillar showing the artifacts. In the back, a few soldiers whistled as I put the choker on Althea. She blushed with fury and fire under her skin. I turned a palm to Kessiah as she peered at the ground.

"It is one thing to be a champion who always stands tall. It is another to have been broken, find the mauled pieces, and begin again. That is the tenacity of our guild's greatest healer. Kessiah is the backbone of our guild's medical care, and she teaches students how to help others who are dying."

Another walk. I gave her the belt. She grabbed it, a tear in her eye. I grinned her way.

"This is given so that she may be as undying as the guildmates under her care."

She gave me a hug before walking off, covering her prize. Hod walked over, his expression goofy as could be. I raised the talon covers.

"These are for-"

Hod squawked.

"Why give Hod back scratchers?"

I scoffed.

"Because Hod, you are a being of duality. You carry the will of a people who had lost all hope, and from the brink of starvation, you shepherded them into a different world. You fought and killed Yawm, and you've assisted our sharpest sword in killing those who wish to harm us."

I handed him the talon covers.

"So I felt the need to make you some backscratchers. May they always get to the itch you cannot reach."

Hod put them on before giving me a hug.

"Hod thank Harbinger. Hod know Hod a lot sometimes. Hod thank Harbinger for Harbinger love and care. Hod not know what Hod do without Harbinger."

I hugged him back before he hopped away using the talon covers. Amara walked out under the light. I gestured a hand at her.

"Amara has been a steadfast presence in our guild. When fighting Yawm, she allowed me to continue leveling even after Schema isolated me from the system. She's done the same for other members of our guild unjustly thrown from the system. She's helped with our missions and cipheric needs as well, all while researching the eldritch to find their weaknesses and maybe one day a cure."

I handed her the amulet along with an advanced AI that I had procured earlier.

"These are to assist her in her research and studies. May her contributions be recognized for what they are - incredible and necessary."

As she grabbed the artifacts, she murmured.

"I'm sorry for scratching you."

I scoffed.

"You're the one walking away wounded...But thanks."

Chrona landed beside me, her form radiant and silver. I grabbed the tail cover, holding it up high.

"The gialgathens are a people of redemption. They lived and grew fat on the slavery of the espens. Now, they grow lean and strong from toiling to build a new home. Chrona has been one of the most loyal members the gialgathens have given us. You've all seen her in battle, her magic a fortress for any who would try to pierce it."

She slipped the tail cover on, the gravitational augments locking it in place snuggly. I tapped it.

"May she continue granting us her unmatched might and learned wisdom for centuries to come."

She bowed to me.

"Thank you, Harbinger."

She left as Krog walked over. Chrona smirked at him as she murmured.

"Look who was the first to be called between us?"

Krog sneered.

"This species has a saying - save the best for last."

Chrona rolled her eyes as I pulled up another tail cover. I held it over my head.

"Krog is a wise general, a commander of our army, and one who never shied away from the front lines. His power over sound has helped mute our enemies and has given us a voice. May his voice continue its roar for ages to come."

Krog slipped his tail cover on before letting out a roar. The other gialgathens under him growled out into the wind. Krog walked off with rumbling steps before Helios sauntered up, his cape covering him. I raised his new gauntlet.

"Helios and I have had a storied past. When we first met, I wanted to kill him. He's lucky I didn't try. Over time, he's learned the error of his ways, becoming a reliable and steadfast ally. Whenever we need to travel between worlds or regions, he is our shepherd."

I handed him the gauntlet. He raised a brow.

"You're still grating me over our first meeting?"

I raised my brow back.

"Oh, and I will for a long time to come."

He frowned while placing the gauntlet over his uncovered hand. Interest sprang over his face.

"Hm. It speaks...Interesting. Perhaps dealing with your madness will be worth it."

He moved his hand, the gauntlet lifting several trees in the distance. Helios laughed.

"I suppose time will tell, though the situation seems promising."

As Helios left, Plazia-Ruhl oozed out of the ground, walking out of magma. I handed him a shoulder pauldron.

"Plazia is a misunderstood soul. He has fought his nature since he was born millennia ago. I believe he may rise above it, and he's shown the capacity to do so. He drove Elysium from our world without killing anyone. He offers intelligence and will clear Blegara of their infesting eldritch."

As I handed him the pauldron, Plazia's voice rumbled from the ground.

"Thank you, Harbinger."

The hivemind left the way he came. From a slight crack in the marble, Shalahora oozed out of the ground. I turned a hand to him.

"Most of you have no idea who this person is. He is Shalahora, the Sun Swallower. His level exceeds 60,000, and he was pivotal to my continuation during the lottery. Without him, we wouldn't own Leviathan-7, and I wouldn't have survived it."

Whispers of the planet's harshness radiated through the crowd. Wild rumors ran rampant. Despite their lofty claims, those rumors understated the danger.

I handed the earrings to Shalahora.

"May you continue helping us survive well into the future."

He bowed, his arms outstretched for the artifacts. An odd sensation struck through my chest. Shalahora could kill me at a moment's notice, along with everyone here. Despite that, he bowed the deepest of any of my guild members. There was something odd about that.

The last to be given their gift was Diesel. Feeling out of place, he shuffled up with his head down. Before he could leave, I gestured to him.

"This is Diesel. He could have many titles. Former of golems. Maker of weapons. Designer of arms. He helped with Mt. Verner's initial construction, and since then, Diesel has assisted in the background. He was a man who never needed someone to bring his achievements to light."

I gave him his compass.

"Until now. Well done."

Diesel gawked at the palpable energy radiating off the artifact. It left a grin on my face. His rise to power was a sign to all that anyone could make it, even someone who seemed ordinary at first glance. By the time the cheering stopped, Diesel turned a hand to me.

"Can I say something?"

I leaned back.

"Oh, uh, yeah. Of course."

Torix walked over, giving Diesel a platform and sound augment. The engineer gazed at his compass.

"This whole system thing has been a mixed bag. Since it arrived, I've felt like it was the end of the world. It was on a couple of occasions. It was like Schema arrived as a nightmare I couldn't wake up from. I know I'm not the only one who felt like that. Especially when Yawm first arrived. Those were dark days."

People nodded in agreement, a solemn air passing over the guild. Diesel raised the compass.

"But we're pulling it back. Each of us. I never thought I'd stand here. I count every day as a blessing, and it still doesn't feel real to have all of you in my life. It's-"

Diesel's voice cracked.

"It's more than I deserve. Thank you."

I choked up a bit, the unexpected emotion a nice finalle to the ceremony. With everything wrapped up on my end, I handed the ceremony off to Torix. With his usual dramatic flair, he handed out his own documents of academic achievement.

