“4 star quests usually involve some nasty monster that’s decided to wander into the Crystal Forest from elsewhere, or that burrows up from below as a part of its natural life cycle. Wyrms are the usual wanderers; there’s at least 50 known wyrms out there right now, but finding them is half luck, half destiny. They gorge themselves on mimics, staying far away from each other and from Ar’Kendrithyst. You usually gotta go through two teleports and days and days of searching via flying to find one. But they always have at least 3 grand-rads inside of them, so they're worth it. Desert Roses are a life cycle kinda monster; picture a bright blue flower the size of the trees out front, but fond of [Force Beam Bolts]. Very difficult to kill without specialized tactics. This isn’t the season for Roses, though.

“5 star quests are stuff like the weaker Shades, later stage Desert Roses, and old wyrms. Cloud giants vacillate from 4 to 6, depending if you caught them hunting the Forest for food, or near their cloud castles, which are usually invisible.” Mog spoke seriously, “Shades, on their own, are 5 to 7, but together, they’re an 11 star threat; which is why killing a Shade is illegal in almost all scenarios.” She added, “Except for 2 of them, that is. You can kill Bulgan if you see him; he's a 6. Planter is fair game now, too. Planter is 4-stars on his own, but he’s 7 at his home in the Arbor; maybe only a 6 in the Garden. A lot of the Shades are like that.

“Everything above 5 is ranked at the discretion of the guild overseeing the quest.” Mog said, “We try to be exact with our rankings, but we always rank stuff inside Ar’Kendrithyst with an extra star. This quest to kill Planter is ranked 8, just so you know. Some people could get really lucky and find him outside the Garden, planting a new trap, but I doubt it.”

Erick listened. When Mog was done, he asked, “What sort of reward are you offering?”

Mog smiled wide; little fangs showing on her lower jaw. “What are you offering? I thought that was why you came in tonight, and with two guards, too.” She added, “I’ve been hearing some fun things from the Army.”

Erick smiled. “Single gem rings I can get up to 31 or 32 in a Stat. If I link two of those, I can get 60 in a belt, or a crown. Maybe a bit more. That 55 Strength belt you tried on? I made that with three gems. A bit of testing has revealed that each new gem I add to the product halves the time to losing a point of resonance. So: Your choice. What would you like? You'd know better than I.”

“If you’re offering...” Mog grinned. “I’ll take one of everything.”

Erick liked the flirting, honestly. But he didn’t know what it meant, either in orcol culture, or on Veird, so he kept his reaction professional, though his 20 Vitality certainly had something to say about how Mog moved one massive arm and pushed her ample chest forward.

Erick swallowed, then tore his eyes upward, to say, “I’ll fulfill your request to the best of my ability.”

Mog laughed. She said, “I’m sure you will, fill it right. Up. Good.”

Ignoring that particular flirt, Erick asked, “How is Draz and his class, doing?”

Mog sighed, her smile fading, as she said, “He’s doing a lot better now that you’re not there. That’s not a personal dig, but… He once saw an allied archmage welcomed into his camp, who then immolated herself and almost his entire company. When he came to Spur he wanted to start over and leave all of that behind, but archmages still freak him out.”

“… Oh.” Erick said, “I’m sorry, then. I suppose it was strange for me to be in remedial lessons.”

“Don’t make a big deal about it and you’re golden. Draz is already embarrassed that he let it get to him.” Mog said, “I can’t let you take a 5 star quest right away, but if you want to do some 4 stars, hunt a wyrm or take down a cloud giant, then I could see about approving you for a 5 star quest.”

“Sounds fine to me.”

Mog giggled, and Erick flushed red.

She said, “You’ve never seen a wyrm, have you?” She stood up. “Let’s go to the armory.”

“Oh…? Okay?”

- - - -

Mog led the way. They didn’t have to go far. The ‘Armory’ was on the second floor of the guildhouse, past an open aired walkway that ran beside and above a sandy arena Erick recognized.

The armory was a library. Erick laughed.

A small, cozy library, with ample lighting and a bored incani girl on duty, the ‘Armory’ served a purpose: to instruct people on the capabilities of the monsters they would be facing. Mog didn’t have to tell Erick that; the sign painted across the archway into the library did. It read, ‘Learn their weaknesses and take their heads!’

“Knowledge is power!” Mog said, as she pulled a book from the shelves, shoving it at Erick. “A book of wyrms! Read up then sign up for a quest. Paril should have your paperwork done by then.”

Erick took the book, saying, “Thanks, Mog.”

“You can thank me...” Mog smiled. “By coming back with some battle experience.” She walked away, swaying her hips.

Erick watched her go.

It was a wonderful sight.

- - - -

Erick read.

Gnashing teeth and biting claws, a whipping tail and glaring flaws that draw you in so they can strike, from up above or with a spike pulled from their backs, quickly regrown; wyrms eat and rage, they are renown for killing teams, down to the man, they eat and eat until they burst. They’re naught but meat that lives a semblance of a beast; it certainly looks like a cheat when they stand on limbs made of the deceased. Wyrms will give your heart a pause, for how’d you ever catch this monster? In the middle of a cycle? It obeys no natural laws! All it does is live to slaughter. With brand new scales shining in light and fangs flexing in working jaws, watch now as the beast takes flight, with gnashing teeth, and biting claws.

… Uh. Wyrms seemed pretty damn far out of Erick’s league. If [Domain of the Withering Slime] didn’t work…

He would need to kill the monster anyway, using Decay magic, which the book said was an absolute necessity for fighting a wyrm. The book recommended a minimum of Scion of Strength to harass the creature into one spot, along with exceedingly high mobility in whatever ranged attackers joined the fight. Erick had the mobility and the Decay, but he would need to buy several new spells...

He was still going to do this. There was nothing in the book about wyrms having [Teleport Lock], though they did have magic. What they used was a blend of high tier magic unique to each wyrm and rapid fire basic spells. Erick would not know what he was flying into until the fight started, but he should expect fireballs, [Force Bolts], and [Blink].

[Blink]ing horrors; now there’s a nightmare for ya.

Erick set the book down, and turned to Poi. “Have you ever killed a wyrm?”

Poi had kept his face neutral this whole time, but now, he frowned a bit. “Yes, sir. They are difficult fights but ultimately necessary, like all the quests here at the Adventurer’s guild.” Poi added, “Except maybe the mimic quests. Wyrms roam down from the northern mountains and kill unprepared adventurers all the time, so if they’re not culled, they will eventually roam all the way down here.”

Teressa giggled.

Erick shivered to hear Teressa giggle. It was as disturbing of a sound as Erick had ever heard, because her giggle echoed inside of her armor, and Teressa rarely ever expressed herself. Erick turned to her. She chuckled again, then lifted the faceplate of her armor. She was smiling wide, but only exposing the tips of her lower fangs.

Teressa said, “I love hunting wyrms.”

Poi grumbled.

Teressa said, "Please. Let's go hunt a wyrm."
