As Erick sat down, and Yetta sat down across from him, he asked her, “Your friends? They don’t want to join us?”

“Not right now. This is a private conversation between you and I.” Yetta asked, “Do you know how they made the Daydropper?”

Erick answered, instantly, "I have an idea of how they made it, but I don’t know how they did it exactly.”

Yetta paused in thought as she stared at Erick.

Poi entered with platinum coftea and lemon scones. Erick almost complimented him on his speed, but this conversation seemed to be a serious one, so he waited for Yetta to break the silence. Erick picked up a lemon scone and sipped his coftea as Poi exited the room. Erick nibbled while he waited for Yetta to continue.

She looked to the dessert, and broke the silence with, “What are these delightful yellow breads?”

“Scones. These are made with the yellow-fruit lemon trees you might have seen out there. Lemons are useful in all sorts of foods.” Erick added, “Put some in cream to make sour cream, and though the name is unimaginative the product is amazing. Great on potatoes, for example.”

Yetta tasted the scone. She nodded. She set the scone down then picked up the platinum coftea, and took a sip. She nodded. She set the drink down.

Erick politely waited for her to organize her thoughts, but he was really hoping that she would have said something good about the platinum coftea. Everyone else seemed to love it.

When she said nothing, Erick realized that Yetta was playing the part of a guest, only putting up with her role long enough to get to what she came here to say. There was a certain clarity to Yetta’s personality that Erick liked, but she seemed completely out of place in the social setting Erick had prepared.

Eventually, Yetta said, “I want to rid the world of all Daydroppers. Can you help me with this goal?”

“Yes, I can and I will help you with this goal. But there are certain things I cannot do. One of these restrictions is that neither myself nor my magic can enter Ar’Kendrithyst. Archmages aren’t allowed in there.” Erick added, “I would like to kill every Shade, but I don’t believe I could without them retaliating in kind.”

Yetta nodded, once. “I have heard this restriction.” She asked, “Could you help us in the Republic, to take back Odaali and the surrounding lands?”

Erick paused. He wanted to say 'yes', but...

Yetta continued, “Since you are an Avowed Pacifist, I will not be asking you to help us against the Halls of the Dead. But the Corrupted City has turned back even our strongest magics and people. The Daydroppers that killed the city are much stronger than we feared. If a person is not under a [Cleanse Aura] within twenty kilometers of the Corrupted City, they will die, and their deaths will feed the growth of the Mother Vine. We suspect it’s already level 90.”

“Wha—” Erick coughed to the side, spilling his coftea. He turned back to Yetta. “Level 90!”

Yetta slowly nodded. “All of the vines that sprouted that day killed many people, gaining a lot of power. The larger vines born of that atrocity killed their smaller cousins as they mutated into even larger, active hunters.” Her voice turned solid. “I will not allow my homeland to become like Continental Nergal, with monster plants infesting the land. I would like your help. Any way you can give it.”

Erick thought. He said, “I want your people to kill Planter. When you do, I’ll gladly assist you in taking back your city.” One way to help immediately sprung to Erick’s mind. He asked, “Do you have masks that allow you to breathe clean air?”

Yetta smiled softly, and in that one moment she looked like a happy 20-something, without a care in the world. “And thus, we strike a bargain.” The happy moment passed. She said, “We have [Cleanse] masks, yes, but they’re a detriment when facing higher level monsters who can rip them away; useful for the rookies holding back the tide, useless for striking at the heart.”

Erick frowned. “Are the vines sapient?”

“They learn, like any high-level monster.” Yetta stood, and bowed; but only a little. “In exchange for the killing of Planter, you will assist us in clearing Odaali of the Daydropper threat. Any assistance past this will be met with gladness, but is not expected.”

“I agree.” Erick stood, saying, “I have some help I can give you right now.” Erick pulled out of a pocket five rings he had picked out of the pile, in case his conversation with Yetta went this way. He held them out to her, saying, “They’re very well enchanted; but you can’t wear them with any other Stat items. They destroy other Stat items.”

Yetta looked at the rings, not frowning, though her eyes did narrow. She took them, glancing at the ring on Erick’s finger. “You wear one, too?”

“Yes. 22 Strength. The ones I’ve given you are all 30 Strength or 30 Willpower. There’s a little ‘S’ or a ‘W’ on them to tell you which one is which. They’re pretty good, from what people have told me. One of these kinds of rings went through 33 iterations before it dropped 1 Stat point.”

Yetta held the rings a bit more cautiously.

Erick added, “They also consume cursed items, but they can’t do that many times before they turn to ash.”

“… Huh.” Yetta said, “Thank you for… Thank you for your contribution to the cause.”

“So, you must tell me: I’ve never been in a situation like this. Do you have any suggestions for preparing for my time in the Republic?”

Yetta blanked. She quickly found her words. “Most people are not this willing to accept that they will have to keep the bargains they have struck with me.” She put the rings Erick had given her into a pocket. “Nor are they so willing to provide such monetary assistance.”

Erick smiled. “I’m sure that’s untrue. Your friends are helping you, right?”

Yetta held still, then she nodded, ever so slightly. She said, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt.”

“You can call me Erick.” He added, “What should I call you? Do people actually call you ‘Champion’?”

Yetta nodded, slowly. “‘Yetta’, is acceptable.” She added, “Any 5 star quest at an Adventurer’s Guild would prepare you for your time in the Republic.”

“I will go do that right now, then. Oh! Do you have somewhere to stay in Spur? There are lot of extra rooms in my house; more than enough for each of you to have one.”

Yetta grinned for a moment, then her grin was gone. “We already have lodgings, but thank you.”

And then she walked out; out of the sunroom, out of the house, taking her people with her. None of Yetta’s entourage said anything to Erick on their way out. Their combined exit was rather abrupt. Erick kinda just watched them go, not sure if he had done something wrong, or what. Upon asking Poi, Teressa, and Rats of their experience with their guests, they all said that Yetta’s people were perfect guests, but completely silent, except when turning down the refreshments Poi had tried to offer.

Erick said, “So they’re going to kill Planter, and then I’m going to help them take back Odaali.”

Poi did not frown; he didn’t have to. His displeasure came out in his words, “I suspected as much.”

Erick added, “And to that effect, Yetta suggested I try out a 5 star quest at the Adventurer’s Guild to get a feel for what attacking Odaali will be like.”

Poi frowned. Teressa hummed, slightly smiling.

Rats laughed once in disbelief, then said, “It can’t be that bad! Odaali’s only been dead for, what, 15 days?”

Poi’s frown deepened. “It’s a Kill and Exterminate Quest, Rats.”

“I get that.” Rats said, “But 5 Star, already?”

Erick cut short whatever argument Rats and Poi were getting into, by saying, “I want to go to the Adventurer’s Guild and see what a 5-star quest looks like for myself.”

Poi said, “Of course, sir.”

- - - -

The crowds in the Adventurer’s District were as large as they had ever been; maybe even larger.

As the sun dipped down in the west, the four, several hundred foot tall trees of the district glowed from below and within, the light of hundreds of lightorbs chasing out all shadows in the entire district, leaving not a speck of darkness in the streets. People in armor walked around, laughing with friends in robes, eating fried things wrapped in paper. Dragonkin in leathers spoke with people wearing hooded cloaks. Voices filled the air, right alongside the scents of meats and breads and all sorts of foods and their various spiced ways.

And not a single restaurant, or apartment building, or shoppe, or hotel, stood vacant; there were even signs of new construction on top of the smaller stone buildings. The bars were absolutely packed.

More than a few people noticed Erick walking in the crowd. Some waved; Erick waved back, though he did not know the people who waved at him. Some took a look at Teressa, in her full grey armor, and Poi, at Erick’s side, and quickly went the other way. A few guards said hello to Erick; one pair jokingly asked if they were going to get Stat rings, too. Erick paused, taking a moment. He told them he’d bring it up with Merit and Silverite. The pair of guards left, happy and hopeful.

The Adventurer’s Guildhouse was a sprawling, log cabin wilderness mansion, under four enormous trees, surrounded by an [Environmental Ward] of some sort that made stepping onto the property like stepping into a thousand year old forest. Wardlights illuminated everything, but light still spilled out from the two open doors of the main structure.

Erick walked forward, into the building. He had been here for classes a week or two ago, but even in that short amount of time, the place had grown even larger. The front room which had been split into two floors, was now split into three. There were at least two full restaurants; the largest remained on the bottom floor, to the left of the entrance, but tables had been strewn everywhere. High up, on the third floor, Erick saw people sitting near the railing, sipping drinks; Erick had heard about the restaurant up there, but only those with permission to enter Ar’Kendrithyst were allowed up past the first floor, and Erick had yet to even get his adventurer’s license. The main adventuring board had been moved to the back left part of the thousand-square-meter main room; people stood in front of it, studying the requests and the rewards.

A young tealscale man approached Erick through the crowd; he was wearing the tan with cyan-accents uniform of the Guild. “Hello, Archmage Flatt. How can I assist you?”

“I’m going to sign up as an adventurer, but I’m probably only going to take one or two quests and then call it there. I just want to know how everyone does this sort of thing; you understand?”

Tealscale nodded, his eyes going wide for just a moment, before saying, “I will be happy to assist you with this. Please follow me.”

Tealscale brought Erick to another tealscale teller at a booth similar to the style at the Mage’s Guildhouse, saying, “This is my sister, Paril—”

Paril smiled on the other side of the metal bars and marble counter that separated the receptionist space from the public space. “Hello, Archmage.”

“—who has many years of experience, and who I am sure can help fulfill your needs of experiencing the life of an adventurer.”

“Thank you, Wade.” Paril said, “I’ll take it from here.”

Wade bowed a little, as he moved away.

Paril smiled wide, her sharp draconic teeth showing for a moment, as she said, “Welcome, Archmage. Are you finally going to sign up with us? Get yourself an official badge?”

Erick smiled. “Yes. I’m also interested in 5 star quests. What are those, exactly?”

Paril stilled for a brief moment, then said, “You certainly don’t start off small, do you?” She slid some paperwork under the metal bars, across the marble counter. “If you could please fill this out. Since you’re already affiliated with the Mage’s Guild, we can use that badge, if you want, and link all of your dealings here with your dealings there.”

Erick began filling out the paperwork on the marble counter, using the quill set out for just such a purpose. “Is that what everyone does?”

“It is very common, yes.” Paril said.

As Poi said, “Yes, sir.”

Erick took off his mage’s badge and placed it on the paperwork, which was surprisingly easy to fill out. Do you have at least 600 HP? Check. Do you have at least 600 MP? Check. Can you comfortably spend 1000 HP or MP per hour? Yes. Name, age, city of residence; each of which were optional declarations according to the paper. There were a few other minor questions regarding a Mage Guild affiliation, which Erick filled out truthfully, because that part linked his Adventurer’s Guild badge with his bank account. Then he slid the paper, and his badge, toward Paril.

Paril took the paperwork and his badge, and said, “This will take twenty minutes.” She looked over Erick’s shoulder. “It appears Guildmaster Mog is here to see you.”

Erick turned around. Mog stood there, smiling.

“You’ve finally decided to join my guild!” Mog said, “Took you long enough.”

Erick smiled. “I promised the Champion of Atunir if she killed Planter, that I’d help her assault Odaali. She said it would be similar to a 5 star quest, so I came to see what that actually meant.”

Mog whistled low, then said, “That’s a high bar to set for yourself.” She frowned a little. “Let’s talk somewhere a bit more private.”

Erick followed Mog across the main room, past people at tables talking amongst themselves, up a staircase to the second floor, then up one more staircase. She sat down at a table near a railing on the third floor that had sightlines to the receptionist area and the front door. Erick sat across the table from her.

Mog asked, “Do you know how the star ranking system works?”

“Mostly. Jane said that 1 star quests were about killing wolves in town.”

Mog smiled. “Those quests are almost all gone, now. There’s still sewer slimes and repair jobs down below, but the starting quest level in Spur is 3; Crystal Mimics. They’re actually really tough to take down in a fair fight.”

Erick smirked. “Why would anyone play fair?”

“Because, my dear archmage, you can’t always stoneroll your problems into the dirt.” Mog added, “Usually.”

Erick asked, "What are the other 3 star quests like?”

“Venturing into the Sinkhole up north to step into the Underworld to fight Ar’Kendrithyst’s rejects. That’s a solid 3 stars. Sometimes 4, sometimes 2. 3 stars is also the start of the Hunter quests; to kill known killers. Exiles sometimes get kill quests attached to them as they’re booted out the gates, but those only get put up a day after the booting.

