Coughing into his handkerchief, Shing Du Yi sat bundled in his blankets and waited for the reports to arrive. Not like he had any other choice, his days of gallivanting about were long past him, his bones unable to handle the chill autumn air. There was nothing wrong with him aside from having a ninety eight year old body, and while a healer might ease his aches, even if he were inclined to seek their aid, there were better uses of a Healer’s efforts. Like nursing the battered Nian Zu back to health. Unlike himself, Nian Zu could still make a difference.

Had Du Yi devoted more time to meditation in his youth, perhaps he might have eked out another twenty years, but as things stood, every morning he woke breathing was a pleasant surprise.

Who would have thought there’d come a day when he missed those foul teas brewed by his daughter? In a mere seven months, his health deteriorated to a point where he no longer accepted audiences with his Lieutenant Marshals, keeping his condition a secret. Others might suspect but without proof, there would be no action. Once word of his imminent demise got out, his enemies would undoubtedly strike against Yuzhen without fear of reprisal, as who would bother paying debts to a man laying at death’s door? Though his daughter had performed phenomenally during her foray in Sanshu, seizing all of the city's wealth for the province, it only made her death all the more tantalizing to his enemies. Situ Jia Ying had withdrawn from the fray, undone by her brother’s blunder here at the Wall, but there were others lurking in the shadows, his clansmen first among them. Flocks of vultures circling his position, each waiting for him to die before divvying up his title and wealth. None dared make the first move, all hoping to be the fisherman who benefits whilst the Sandpiper and clam tussle.

Giving Yuzhen his title as Marshal of the North was akin to hanging a target on her back, but who else could he trust to succeed his position? Now more than ever, the North needed an unrestricted and incorruptible Marshal to keep its people safe. At least she’d drawn the Bekhai to her side, though her methods left much to be desired. Gerel seemed like a fine, upstanding young warrior, but he was so humourless and cold, hardly a man to spoil and cherish his wife. Would he treat Yuzhen well or was she merely the means to an end? Ah, so troublesome, every father hoped his daughter would become a phoenix, but it was merely raising her for another to come snatch her away.

As if summoned by the thought of him, Gerel entered the room and handed him a sheaf of papers for inspection. The young man was dutiful to his future father-in-law, Du Yi gave him that. Unable to make out the words, he broke the seals one by one and had Gerel Send the contents to him. Though technically a crime since Gerel lacked the ranking to read these reports, it was hard enough finding a literate servant he could trust, much less one who could Send. It made him appreciate Falling Rain’s efforts to start a school and educate the masses, but Du Yi feared things would not go as smoothly as the boy hoped. The sheer cost of feeding so many mouths would beggar all but the wealthiest nobles, and though the boy amassed a considerable fortune from robbing the Council, it wouldn’t last the winter if not for Du Yi supplementing the boy from his own pocket. Rain's heart was bigger than his wallet, not a terrible flaw, but something to be noted for future use.

Bah, his mind was drifting again, so bothersome. Refocusing on the task at hand, he asked Gerel to start from the beginning. This latest attack on the Wall went well for the Empire, an overwhelming victory by any measure. A slaughter in fact, with the Defiled charging forward in droves and rushing to their deaths. Senseless and illogical, with none of the clever machinations he’d come to expect from their fearsome foe. Only a few thousand deaths comprised mostly of the old and feeble. Probably thinning the pack for the coming winter, but it could also be a probing force, though Du Yi doubted it. It seems like the Enemy had retreated, leaving the North in peace after months of endless fighting.

To the best of his knowledge, their canny foe had withdrawn the moment the Defiled broke through the West, which further proved the Enemy had a means of long-distance communication. Oh if only he could do the same, he’d give those idiots in Central and East a piece of his mind for abandoning the West without even pretending to care about the millions of lives lost. Not a single citizen in the empire would rest easy knowing the Emperor cared little for their fate, and with winter soon upon them, unrest would fester as bodies laid idle and hunger gnawed at bellies. Worse, now Central was left wide open to the Defiled hordes. There were no convenient choke points between West and Central, the wide plains and open sea routes giving the Enemy plenty of avenues of attack. How long before the Defiled horde marched upon the Central province, cutting off North, South, and East in one fell swoop? Perhaps the Defiled hordes only retreated from the Southern and Northern Walls to march west and join their brethren, gathering together for one concentrated push into the heart of the Empire.

At least the North was well guarded, with only the points of access at the Wall, the Society, and the North-West passage, but they lacked the population to hold all three points.

Settling back in his chair, Du Yi sighed and sent Gerel away before ordering his manservant to pen two messages, one for his daughter and one for the Justicar. Victory or defeat, whatever lay in store for the Empire, it wasn’t his fight, not anymore. The North would need to be unified, which meant the sooner Yuzhen took office, the sooner she could consolidate her base of power. The fate of the Empire laid in the hands of the next generation, in the hands of veterans like Baatar and Han BoHai, or younger heroes like Gerel and Falling Rain.

All he could do now was get out of the way.

Staring at the letter in his hands, Shing Du Yi did his best to verify its contents, making sure every character was in place. The words pierced his soul one by one and soon, tears clouded his vision and forced him to stop. How had things come to this? Why did they refuse to listen to reason, leaving him no option but to resort to such extreme measures? With a regretful sigh, he stamped and sealed the confession to his part in the death of a visiting Imperial Prince. It had all been a tragic accident involving too much alcohol and with no one to blame. He’d only known about it after the fact, playing a small part in the cover up, but it didn’t matter one whit. Once he placed this confession in the hands of the Justicar, it meant the death of his entire clan for the crime of regicide.

Himself included.

But not Yuzhen, a half-beast who shared no blood relation. Even better, the Imperial Prince’s death predated Yuzhen’s birth, so there was nothing to worry about. Nian Zu and the Bekhai would see her safe, and even the Emperor himself had no say in who would become Marshal of the North. So long as Yuzhen did as he taught her, all would be well.

His clan could only blame themselves. Did they truly believe he wouldn’t do everything he could to protect his daughter from their assassins? Short-sighted fools, was there any father in the world unwilling to die for his daughter? An example must be made if Yuzhen was to take power without fear of reprisal. Only then would the others understand Du Yi’s threats were not idly made. If need be, he could bring every faction in the North crashing to its knees, but what good would it do him? The North needed them alive and well, not crippled and broken. Thus, to show his determination, he would ruthlessly eradicate his own flesh and blood, wiping his nine familial relations from existence. Only then would the others understand the depths of his conviction. Yuzhen would be Marshal of the North, or they would burn in the Father’s Maw alongside him.

Such is a father’s duty, to give his daughter the best chance he could offer.

No matter the cost.

A shame he wouldn’t get to see her in a wedding dress. A damn shame.

Chapter Meme
