To this end, I collect a dozen gourds and set to crafting Chi-infused water, falling into a cycle of Devouring Chi, depositing said Chi into water, and keeping Ping Ping and Pong Pong from consuming the fruits of my arduous labour. Emptying my Core feels like taking part in a gruelling mental marathon, albeit one which only lasts five minutes. Still, it’s exhausting, but since it takes me an hour to fill my Core up, I have plenty of time to rest between sets. Even then, it takes thirteen hours to finish filling all the gourds with Chi-infused water and an additional hour of Devouring Chi to make a tub of Chi Tea for the turtles. When all is said and done, for the second night in a row, I slip into bed alone and fall asleep the moment I lie down.

Note to self: remember to steal Mama Bun and Blackjack away from Song before she goes to bed tomorrow. Also, see about getting her a pet mouse or weasel. There’s no accounting for tastes, but if she wants a dirty rodent, then she can have one.

The next morning, I ignore another scolding from Guan Suo about pestering him with my Purity and settle down to experiment. Turning Water Chi into Spiritual Water is more intuitive than deliberate, so I see no reason why it should be different when turning Chi-infused water into counterfeit Heavenly Water. Just do it. Don’t think about. Let it happen. Almost immediately, I stumble across a problem I probably should’ve seen coming. If I can’t tell the difference between water and Chi-infused water, how do I tell the difference between Chi-infused water and counterfeit Heavenly Water?

A quick study of my first gourd of counterfeit Heavenly Water tells me it doesn’t look, feel, smell, sound, or taste any different from the other gourds, or even a gourd of regular water. Marking the container of counterfeit Heavenly Water, I hold it in my right hand and take a gourd of regular Chi-infused water in my left. Holding both out to my sides, I look to Ping Ping and see if she’ll favour one or the other, but her eyes dart between both. Pong Pong is the same, though he’s far less patient than Ping Ping, throwing a tantrum after not getting to drink from either gourd and stalking off to sleep. Giving him a whole tub of Chi Tea to appease his anger, I am then treated to the sight of a pocket-watch sized turtle drinking an entire tub full of water, then refiling said tub with turtle piss.

I don’t understand... Where did he physically store all that water? How is he not dead from pissing out so much fluid? Why did he pee directly into my tub? I suppose it’s better than him pissing in the dirt and flooding the area, but still... that’s my bathtub. Well, at least Ping Ping didn’t try to drink it. To keep things fair, I make a barrel of Chi Tea for the big princess too, who is gracious enough to relieve herself like a proper lady, over by the latrine pits. Pong Pong may be a True Divine Turtle, but Ping Ping has heavenly manners, so I like her more. Taking a break to empty and wash the tub, I set to work scrubbing while my mind muses over what I’ve accomplished, though I continue Devouring Chi as per usual. On the surface, it seems as if I’ve had this great epiphany and am on the cusp of discovering something great, but all I’ve accomplished is wasting an entire day making Chi Tea and letting Pong Pong piss in my bathtub.

This is my problem, lack of focus. I made good progress yesterday, but today I happened across a half-baked idea and here I am wasting my time instead of doing something productive like practising the Forms or Chi skills. Now, I’m not saying this counterfeit Heavenly Water idea won’t bear fruit, but I shouldn’t pin all my hopes and dreams on it either. I know why I’m doing this too, because I’m terrified of Pudge the Water Abomination. Spiritual Guns were supposed to be my secret weapon, but those turned out to be a dud. Unless the Tyrant develops a Runic bullet and sells them to me, or Taduk figures out how to make them himself, then my guns are fucking worthless. None of my soldiers who received one have said anything, but I know they’re upset about being stuck with a sub-par Spiritual Weapon, yet I’ve learned nothing from my mistakes. Here I am, right back at it again, hoping to discover some technological wonder weapon to use against the big scary monsters of the world, when instead I should be hard at work training to become a monster hunter.

...You know, when I say it like that, it sounds really stupid. I doubt I could match Pudge and his brethren even with a hundred years of practice...

After scouring and rinsing my bathtub clean, I head back and make five more gourds of counterfeit Heavenly Water. This leaves me with six gourds of Chi-infused water and six gourds of counterfeit Heavenly Water, and all that’s left is to find a Demon to test them on. Preferably something much, much, much weaker than Pudge, like one of those piddly Demons Gerel kills like cabbage. Do I need a control group with regular water? Yea, I should do that, just to be safe. Shit, I should also test to see if I need an entire Core’s worth of Chi per gourd. I put the same amount of Chi into the bathwater which is at least fifty gourds worth, and Ping Ping doesn’t seem to mind. How am I gonna carry all these gourds? Also... how do I keep all this a secret? I should talk to Lei Gong, he already knows about Blobby so this shouldn’t come as too much of a surprise. Maybe he has a few ideas.

With a growing list of things to do, I take a deep breath and decide a floof break is in order. It’s been over twenty-four hours since my last snuggle session, and I’m not sure I can survive much longer. During my search for Song, I see that I’m not the only person on edge, the overall mood one of tension and agitation. It’s nothing as obvious as outright fighting, but I can sense it in the way they sharpen their knives and scowl over their dice, polish their armour and stare west into the distance, the strained silence hanging over the camp like a dark shroud of anxious apprehension.

Seeing this, I switch targets and look for Rustram instead, finding him training in leaden armour outside his yurt. Asking him what’s got the men so riled up earns me a look of surprise. “It’s the Defiled, Boss,” he replies, as if the answer should be obvious. “We haven’t been attacked since we returned to Sinuji, which has everyone on edge.”

“Right.” Totally didn’t notice. “It’s only the second day though, right?” No big deal.

Nodding as he smooths his moustache, Rustram’s eyes dart to the horizon as if searching for hidden enemies. “Today marks the third since we last saw hide or hair of the Enemy. The patrols should be home safe by tonight, but word is Colonel Hongji ordered the next wave of patrols delayed until he hears from High Command.” Seeing my lack of comprehension, he whispers, “There are rumours floating about which say we haven’t seen the Enemy because they’re lying in wait to attack the returning patrols. Hearsay without substantiation, but still possible. Even if they aren’t targeting the patrols, the Enemy could be amassing for one big push on Fort Sinuji, their numbers too great for patrols to punch through, whether they’re going out or coming in.”

Heart skipping a beat, I turn to stare west and hope this isn’t true. Though Zian and Yan are camped on the other side of Sinuji and safe until the next set of patrols, BoShui is out there in the wilds, as are thousands of soldiers of the Empire, warriors we will need in the trying times to come. “Well,” I say, trying to keep my voice light, “I’m feeling a little bored, so I think I’ll pay the good Colonel a visit and ask permission to go out for a ride. Mister Rustram, ready the light cavalry as an escort, if you will.” Remembering Jochi is out of commission, I speak over my shoulder while moving away. “Oh, and find two spare quins for the Lord of Thunder and Lady Tyrant.”

I’ll be damned if I ride out in search for an Enemy army without my Peak Experts in tow.

Chapter Meme
