They would see it as a victory, but Yuzhen intended to show them how pointless their games were when dealing with true Warriors of the North.

After Sending instructions to Akanai and Huushal, she strode in with head held high, ignoring all the Central nobles seated at the sidelines and noting every face so she could balance the scales whenever possible. Stopping short of the platform where the seated Legate waited, she took her place next to Nian Zu while the Warrant Officers and Turtle stood off to one side before dropping to her knees and kowtowing. “Ten thousand years of boundless longevity upon the Emperor. Imperial Servant Yuzhen greets Imperial Legate.”

Lowering her head, she waited as Akanai gave her greetings beside her, who was then followed by Huushal, proceeding as if they’d been called in individually. Technically, they should have bowed together, but it was a calculated ploy. Since the Legate was kind enough to spare the citizens, he should also be willing to overlook this tiny lapse of conduct especially considering their rank and status deserved as much. Thankfully, the Legate paid no mind to their political manoeuvring and allowed their greetings to carry on without interruption. Once Huushal finished and took his place, the hall was filled with silence as they waited on the Imperial Legate’s blessing. The sound of the slow, unhurried breaths of the Guardian Turtle filled the air as they continued to wait, punctuated ever so often by the quiet squeaking of Rain’s armour as he shifted his weight from foot to foot.

“What a magnificent creature.” In a lapse of protocol all his own, the Legate left his throne and stepped off the dais to approach them, eliciting a few surprised gasps from the watching crowd. Waving his Royal Guardians away, the Legate strode past the group of senior officers and officials and right up to Rain and his turtle. Unsure whether this would be a blessing or curse, Yuzhen covertly studied the Legate out of the corner of her eye. A svelte, lanky man younger than she’d expected, the Legate didn’t look a day over twenty five, but that didn’t mean much as far as Martial Warriors went and this man was undoubtedly a warrior. Dressed in gold and black Imperial Robes and sporting a similarly coloured hat, the Legate was an impressive sight where others would look downright gaudy or ostentatious. He fit her tastes, but that wasn't why she was so intrigued. Despite standing in arms reach of the greatest Warrior of the North and biting range of the Empire’s largest turtle, the Legate moved with a warrior’s confidence and an expert’s caution, hands crossed behind his back while keeping a respectful distance back. Tilting his head, he addressed Rain directly in yet another breach of protocol. “Will she object if I move closer to pet her?”

Oh Mother above, another idiot animal lover. Hurriedly Sending to Rain, she coached him through what to say, making sure he remembered to remain respectful. “Er... Imperial Servant dare not command Imperial Legate,” Rain said with head bowed and hands clasped, “but Pi.. er... the Divine Turtle is a wild creature not under... this Servant’s control. She... er... The Divine Turtle is here of her own free will, though why... this Servant is at a loss to explain.”

If only he’d stop hesitating before calling himself a servant or making those unsightly faces. At least it went unnoticed, lest he be accused of dissatisfaction with the Emperor. Why else would a man scowl every time he referred to himself as the Emperor’s servant? She understood his reluctance to pledge servitude to a man he’d never met, but this was the Central Province, and even with the Smiling Slaughterer at his side even... a foreign dragon... cannot...

Wait. Where did Guan Suo disappear to? For that matter, where was Gerel’s Mentor? Taking a quick tally of her surroundings, she discovered three more missing from her delegation, both of Fung’s guards and the wolf-eared Senior previously napping in the harness strapped to Huushal’s back. When did they slip away? Digging through her memories, she realized they’d been missing even since the stables, but to what purpose she couldn’t guess.

Praying they would all behave, she returned to the present and almost threw a fit as she watch the Legate pet the Divine Turtle. If an Imperial Scion came to harm, everyone present would lose their heads, yet here he was stroking the ancient turtle’s beak like it was some favoured pet. “Long have I heard of the Divine Turtle’s splendour, and today, I, Shen Zhenwu, have finally seen it for myself. Wonderful.” Pulling a fan out from his sleeves, the Imperial Legate opened it for all to see and decreed, “Hear me. The Divine Turtle’s presence in Nan Ping is a sign of the Mother’s Blessing. Any who seek to harm her shall be branded as a traitor to the Empire and a heretic of the Father. Thus hath it been said, and thus shall it be.”

Well... that was fortunate, and the Legate wasn't done. Pointing at a fearful, sweaty man standing to the side of the platform, who Yuzhen belatedly recognized as the Magistrate, the Legate commanded, “See to it that the Colonel General, Marshal, and Lieutenant General are housed in an estate with room enough for no less than a thousand guards  and two-thousand servants. Each. They’ve come to defend the Empire and I’ll not have them slighted.” Turning to Rain, the Legate asked, “You, Falling Rain, have been chosen by the Divine Turtle, so tell me, what sort of environment does she prefer?”

“Well she... uhh... Imperial Servant reports,” Rain stuttered, aging her by a decade with his near slip, “The Divine Turtle is fond open spaces and enjoys swimming in the Azure Sea. Our current encampment on the northern beach is suitable as any.” At least Rain was smart enough to avoid staying in the Magistrate’s Palace. Living in proximity to the Legate and so many of Central’s arrogant nobles would be a disaster waiting to happen. Much safer for him to stay as far from the city and its inhabitants as possible.

“Yes, yes, she is no tamed creature but a child of the Mother, so she must be free to go where she is needed.” Clapping Rain on the shoulder, the Legate made a second decree. “Hear me, as the Divine Turtle’s Attendant, Warrant Officer Second Grade Falling Rain is henceforth given free rein within the Empire to carry out his Holy Duty. Any parties caught hindering said Duty will be executed without trial. Thus hath it been said, and thus shall it be.”

The chorus of surprised gasps and outraged mutterings were like music to Yuzhen’s ears. Who would have thought all her problems would be solved by her greatest trouble-maker? Turning to silently thank Rain, Yuzhen’s smile froze as she spotted the young Legate’s cold, calculating look, so devoid of warmth or affection. It was only there for a moment and gone so fast she worried she'd imagined it, but it brought to mind her old man’s description of the Imperial Clan.

‘A devious, manipulative bunch who will feed you shit and make you thank them for it’.

She’d underestimated this young Imperial Legate, this Shen Zhenwu. Though named ‘true warrior’, he was also a true politician, or, more likely, there was another older, craftier Imperial Scion controlling the Legate from the shadows. How could the nervous and apprehensive Magistrate dare openly insult the highest ranking officials in the North, right in front of the Legate no less? Everything had been done on the Legate’s orders, fostering resentment between the North and Central and placing the northern officials in his debt for his ‘fair and just’ approach. Rain’s new appointment might be the same, since he was given the authority to carry out his ‘Holy Duty’ without detailing what those duties were, allowing the Legate to condemn Rain for overstepping his bounds should the need arise. Repressing a shiver, Yuzhen bowed and thanked the Legate, worrying if she’d made the right decision to come here. While she knew people would die in this war against the Defiled, she had no intentions of allowing her people to be slaughtered wholesale, and seeing firsthand how manipulative the Legate could be was far from reassuring.

It might’ve been safer to close the northern borders and openly rebel, but it was too late now.

Chapter Meme
