Something about ripping off his entire school of spells in a couple of days.

The construct settled down the slope, in front of the distant gate of the guard compound.

It took some time for people to react. Far more time than he’d expected, which was strange considering every mana sensitive person on the island must have felt that one. Rakan even made sure to bleed some mana by making the construct sloppy. The mage should be up in rage right now.

As several lights progressively appeared over the port, he finally realized what was going on.

This was the middle of the night. It was cold and windy out here.

Of course the mage would be sleeping right now.

What followed was a tense minute during which the first to react were, in fact, the ‘citizen guards’. The common law prisoners. They gathered in a loose throng carrying not torches, since those needed wood, but strange spheres engraved with coarse runes he realized were lights made from silverite ore. They were led by a tall, incredibly hairy man — Boss Stone, he presumed — who walked up the slope with a cudgel and a confidence that Rakan believed to be misplaced. He was just being fucking stupid at this point.

When a magical phenomenon happens, you do not walk into it. That was common sense. It was a miracle how these westerners managed to survive to adulthood, sometimes. Not that he missed Halluria.

And so the citizen guards marched confidently into Rakan’s construct, which he triggered. They slowed as if time had left them behind. A sound like a hiss reached the Harrakan line, as well as a puff of very, very cool air. One of the Hightrees sneezed.

As for the citizen guards, they were frozen solid. Rakan had never killed so many people at once. Those few that were at the edge stumbled away, and the cries of alarm that came from the fort were laced with surprise.

“Neriad’s bollocks, that was nasty,” Iria whispered.

It made Rakan a little proud though he tried his best not to show it. As the surviving citizen guards hid in the shadows, sounds of violence started to emerge. It didn’t take long for the mage to finally appear from the fort after that.

While the citizen guards had advanced confidently and stupidly, the remnants soldiers did so with circumspection, protecting the mage in a loose formation. Even then, it was clear their gear was not up to par with the mission. They wore warm gambesons, targes, and cudgels. The perfect weapons to put down a rowdy prisoner, but nothing to stop an actual liberating force. The oversight would cost them dearly.

As for the mage, he shared some eerie similarities with Frosthawk.

In fact, the two might have been related.

“Damn. And he let Frosthawk’s wife die.”

“You are trespassing upon the property of the Harrakan empire under his Majesty Emperor Marus, scoundrel! Show yourself!” the mage said with a commanding voice.

“I will send a Hightree greeting,” Hush offered.

Rakan agreed. The mage had to have a shield up against spells.

An arrow whistled through the air. A blue shield appeared on impact, blocking the projectile. The mage screamed something in the local creole Rakan didn’t get but he would bet a silver talent against a mushroom peel it was insulting. His men raised their targes and advanced at a solid pace. Hush landed the next arrow in someone’s throat. The formation contracted.

He did it again a second later.

And again.

The mage was forced to react. A cold wind howled towards the mine’s entrance, water condensing in the air like powdery crystal. Rakan raised his own shield and infused it with red mana, then he gave it meaning.

The heat of the desert near his mushroom farm wasn’t something that burnt brightly, like a fire at night. It was the sun. For hours upon hours upon hours, it beat the rock with a heat that never seemed to end, and under which all life stopped or suffered a withering death. It was a lingering heat, a stunning, debilitating one that grabbed at him even as he hid in the shadows, blinding all those who dared it.

Cold and heat met in a contactless struggle that made the wind howl. Rakan felt another meaning push against his defenses as a clash of opposites. The frigid gale of a winter sea demanded he drop the shield and let the false warmth embrace him so he could let go in peace, but Rakan was still a child of the desert, and of the coldest nights that it brought. He would never be fooled by this false promise. Icicles carrying powerful payloads aimed for him in an attempt to puncture the thin shield through brute force, so Rakan drew from the brown gem to lift a stone upon which the attack spent itself. Volley after volley came at him while the remnants troops made their way up the slope under the protecting cover of the mage’s expanded shield. Rakan kept concentrating.

A bit more. Just a bit more.

The remnants left the ‘citizen guards’ compound behind. The place where the women were held. They now stood on open ground.

No more collateral damage, as Viv put it.

Rakan could finally let go.

He lifted his staff and pulled freely from its reserves.

And for a moment, he felt like himself again. All colors of mana flooded his conduits freely, removing a stress he’d taught himself to ignore. It was an enormous amount of mana, even more than what he had before his core cracked. He was, for a brief moment, healthy. Rakan.

The blessed genius.

The ground turned against the remnants. The air in their lungs betrayed them. Their blood boiled in their veins. The night itself conspired to blind them, the darkness gnawing at their throats. They died in an instant. There was no contest. The mage was a caster, but Rakan was magic itself. Every color available to humans… Was that how it felt to be a dragon?

“Sir?”

They were dead. Rakan was about to ask the Hightrees to assist the prisoners, but the people had not waited for him. Even now, the night was alive with light enchantments and the citizen guards were dragged from their hiding holes and killed with absolute savagery.

“Let’s get to the compound to free the captives there. After that, I’ll open the portal while you gather everyone. It’s time to go home.”

“And the silverite?” Hush asked innocently.

“Oh, we’re going to grab that too.”

Solfis was going to be delighted.

***

Viv had stopped for the night. She always did, so the citizens behind her could rest and recover. And also because she still needed to command the operation. During the day, the trail of people following her expanded like a fat tail across the countryside, growing by the hour. By night, her people moved from group to group to offer medical assistance, food, and take stock of what each village would need in the coming weeks. Those were already hers.

News had come from everywhere. The Knights of the Blue Rose under Rollo rolled Remnants troops across the land westward towards the coast. The first caravan carrying tools had been recovered with a third of its people dead, another oversight on Viv’s part. Now, the Order Master had taken things in hand and they would converge on Frostway at the same time as Viv would.

Lim’s diversion functioned perfectly. The zealots took over Arana’s valley, though they’d been… a little too zealous, as it were. Right now, they were moving against reinforcements with support from Lak-Tak (of the Order of the War Crime as she was referring to him) and Witchpact squads. She wished she could be there but she was doing her thing by walking north. It was important. She could feel it.

The biggest unknown was Rakan. The news was less than a few hours old but he’d been on a ship sailing towards the gulag. Well, she called it a gulag. Others would pick another world.

It was ironic that they’d chosen an actual archipelago to set it.

As she considered sending help, a bodyguard knocked on the tent’s support. It wasn’t required though. She could feel a visitor’s mana well enough.

“Your Majesty…”

“Let him in.”

“Right away.”

Frosthawk walked in. The old mage looked even older now, his white beard in a mess and the pockets under his eyes dark and foreboding. He looked gaunt.

“Take a seat?” she offered.

“Yes. Yes… Thank you.”

“A drink?”

“Yes. Something strong?”

“I have just the thing.”

Viv usually didn’t drink due to… an unfortunate family background. The shit she’d heard in the past few days made her want to mark the occasion though, even though alcohol could no longer get her drunk. She offered the visiting mage a goblet filled with clear liquid — imported Enorian flower booze made from a local cereal. His eyes watered.

“Hmm.”

“To the departed,” she offered.

“Yes, to them.”

They drank. She let Frosthawk resume the conversation on his own time.

“Five months. She’s been dead for five months.”

Viv knew he was talking about his wife. She had seen the kids come through the portal. She knew who was missing.

“I sent her letters telling her that I loved her. To hold on. I was negotiating with Arana. Creating a perfect oath. Heh.”

He took a deep, shuddering breath, then his gaze hardened and it returned to Viv, like he was seeing her for the first time.

“They’ve taken me for a complete imbecile and they were fucking right.”

“It’s not easy fighting against your entire world,” she allowed.

“Maybe, but if I had, my wife would be alive right now.”

Nothing much to add to that.

“I want you to let me have her,” he finally said.

“I cannot promise that because the list of people who want to kill her is expanding constantly. I can only promise that you’ll get a go at it as I will not be intervening.”

“I will freeze her arms off and crush them to dust while she watches.”

Viv didn’t comment. It wasn’t even the worst threat she’d ever heard.

“I actually have a related task for you, if you do not mind,” she said while Frosthawk fumed.

“Say it.”

“I need you to make sure she doesn’t exterminate the magical school when we approach. I’d also like you to intercept departing ships in case she tries to escape.”

“She will not. If she loses control fully, her path will shatter.”

“And if she stays, she dies. My associates have already neutralized her spies.”

“Your… associates?”

Viv took another gulp of alcohol. It was actually really tasty with a pleasant aftertaste. And the first sip would also kill any and all bacteria in her mouth.

“It’s better than saying my pack of mostly loyal genetically-engineered master assassins.”

“You have gathered the strangest people to your banner.”

Viv couldn’t wait for the Merls to create an outpost.

Then she would have collected members of every non-genocidal species and culture on Param into Harrak. Like a pokemon master.

“Will you do it?” she finally asked.

“I can have my apprentices evacuate.”

“Then do so.”

“It will be better if your paramour joins me.”

“Ask him.”

Frosthawk gave her a measuring look.

“You do not order your own people?”

“My place is here with the remnants I am freeing because that is where fate is placing me. All of the elites of the empire are here, doing what they do best. I have given the orders and now, it is up to them to accomplish it however they see fit. I trust them and I trust you to work with them to save your apprentices. I am not controlling everything you do. You are not children, you are leaders in your own right. Surely, I am not mistaken?”

“No.”

“Then go save your apprentices and make sure Arana doesn’t escape. That is my… ‘request’. Get all the support you need and only come to me if there is a problem.”

“You are very different from Arana, you know?”

“And that is why she has already lost.”

***

Marruk watched Koro eat an entire leg of meat on the road, with her fingers, just like that. Those humans ate entirely way too much meat. Maybe that was why they were so aggressive, always trying to kill something so they could eat it.

“Want some?” the tall amazon offered.

Marruk schooled her expression. The temple guard was a good person. She couldn’t let her animosity get the best of her.

“No, thank you.”

“I’m eating a lot because I’m with the child again! Ooooh I hope it’s a boy this time!”

“Oh, hmmm.”

“Don’t worry, I’m good for a couple of months. There’s just morning sickness. Always a pain to waste food. Anyways! Have you ever hunted a southern tribe?”

“No,” Marruk said.

Koro nodded, her thick braids dancing with every step. Marruk wasn’t sure why the muscular woman never had that one canine regrown but it gave her smile an unhinged slant that made Marruk nervous. It didn’t help that Koro was the second best spear wielder in Harrak just after Wamiri. The knights didn’t count. Horses were horrible creatures, therefore placing a pointy thing in front of you while it charged could not seriously be considered as an ‘art’.

“It’s easy! First you need to find out what kind of tribe it is. That’s the first step. Hey if they are merchants, you can even get away with talking assuming you can understand them!”

“No talking!” Cerus said.

The archer perpetually bit his lip with stress. Marruk understood well. She would do the same if it were her family being held by enemies. The thought was unbearable. Fortunately, Kark blood feuds involved no prisoners. It was a cleaner, much more civilized option, she thought.

“No no I’m serious, talking is always better. You get what you want, then you come back later with your brothers and get the payment as well. But I don’t think those are merchants. That leaves two options. The first is slavers. Very likely!”

Koro suddenly seemed embarrassed. Marruk frowned.

“Yes, very very likely,” the tall woman insisted.

“What if they are not slavers?”

