She was far from home. However, her people were here, behind her.

And she would guide them.

The wave crashed against her with a loud thud, like a stone crashing against a wall. Her shield bent at the bottom. Her toes slipped into the mud, boots groaning under an unseen pressure. The screaming pain in her muscles redoubled until she gasped but she didn’t let go. Her skill fought against a spell and, eventually, the spell fizzled.

Marruk was left a panting, sweaty mess. She stared across the last of the field beyond the charging armored commander bearing down on her, to the shaman who had one foot lifted for the next cast.

Would be nice if… ah, there it was.

An arrow crashed into the bone helmet. The ceremonial coif attempted to stop the steel broadhead arrow and failed miserably. Part of her scalp flew off in a spray of bone and brain matter.

Marruk stretched her shoulders while the warchief hesitated, aware of the reinforcements now attacking from another angle.

“Here I come!” Koro bellowed with that persistent smile.

“No,” Marruk bellowed.

He was hers.

“Then good hunting, sister,” the temple guard guffawed before charging into the fray. The Kark mangled the tribal line, steel against fur, warriors against hunters, with predictable results.

“Right. Come at me then.”

The steel-clad commander accepted the challenge. They approached each other. He extended his arms, daring her to make the first strike.

Marruk smashed her flanged mace into her enemy’s flank with satisfaction. He grunted in pain. His eyes shone red, and he struck her back even harder.

Marruk received the blow on her shield.

She struck again, denting the armor on the chest, then damaging the articulation near the shoulder. He roared and let fury increase his strength. His hammer slammed against her shield.

Again, she received it at a proper angle.

A few more strikes followed. It was clear the man was gaining strength as he got more wounded, a valid strategy, but as Marruk saw him from behind her visor, it had a very clear limit.

Mainly, Marruk had sparred with Solar himself. Hell, even Lorn hit harder and he relied on precision and on infusing mana into his blows. The warrior might be strong but it was a strength that had not forged itself against the crucible of talented elites. It was brittle and untested, and Marruk was anything except that. So she broke him apart, piece by piece, starting with the armor, then his right arm, and once he failed to block; his head.

That was it.

As Marruk looked up, she realized she had failed to order her men. Instead, she had focused on being a champion and it… had worked. The tribesmen were on the run, the bodies of their combatants littering the ground.

“Nicely done,” Koro said.

“THE ANCESTORS MUST BE PLEASED,” some screamed.

But Marruk didn’t feel pleased.

“Why are you lot still here? Why are you not freeing the prisoners?”

“Relax, Cerus is on it. We’re covering this angle. Come on.”

Marruk left the bodies unplundered with middling regret. She didn’t have the time but old habits were hard to shake, especially after being poor most of her life. The last of the slaves were being freed as she approached. In the distance, wardrums rang.

“They’re regrouping,” Koro said. “They'll be on us very soon.”

She winced.

There was one cage left to open, slightly deeper and to the side compared to their entry point into the village. Unfortunately, they were out of time.

“Neriad doesn’t encourage suicidal charges. It’s just a shame…”

Cerus was the palest among them.

“We’re still missing… but if we get caught with my kinsmen now… We can’t defend them all.”

It was her decision, she realized. She led this warband.

The right choice was to leave. She was no Bitter Heart. Seconds slipped between her fingers as dread mounted.

‘Leave no one behind’. That was something Viv often said. The Harrakan military had the Bitter Hearts. This expedition had her. There HAD to be a way.

Her eyes traveled up, to the hut though to be fair, it was more of a massive longhouse.

The hut made of dry wood on a warm spring afternoon.

Oh, that could work.

“Get me torches. We’re gonna save them, but first, let’s give the tribe a warm reminder not to fuck with us. And something to keep them busy.”

“I have a skill that can help,” Cerus offered with a concerning level of enthusiasm.

“Let’s burn shit down!” Koro exclaimed.

At least she could rely on humans to be humans.
