“Well then hmmm. I cannot believe you do not know this despite living next to them!”

“We are not allowed to raid their villages. Were not allowed. Too risky, weh!”

“Cannibals.”

That certainly put a damper on the mood. Marruk shook her head. This was where the humans’ love for meat inevitably led them. They should just eat more tubers and bread, which were delicious and didn’t try to bite back.

***

Marruk looked at the body of the dead southerner. He had an arrow through the skull. She had to give it to Cerus: he and his guardians were well trained, and now that they had iron arrow tips, their marksmanship truly shone.

This was a scout. So even if the Remnants never attacked the tribe, they still had patrols out. Cautious folks, and for good reason.

Damn but was that southerner pale. Almost like a winter Viv. Marruk shook her head, again.

She really hoped those would not be cannibals.

***

“Slavers!” Koro whispered excitedly.

Marruk inspected the valley from her vantage point near its entrance. The tribal encampment spread before her like a sour wound, each node a small, fortified spot linked to the other by dirt paths. Tiny fields and a handful of orchards alternated with forest patches without apparent logic. Marruk had to give it to the tribals, however, what she could see was very well crafted. Without metal. It reminded her of home.

The main point of interest was near the middle. A massive hut stood before what may have been a muster field or a gathering spot, but those were cages that occupied this space now. Even from far away, she could see tiny hands gripping the wooden bars. This was her objective.

“It’s... it’s them,” Cerus whispered by her side. “Look. More cages. There.”

He was right. Much like everything else, the cages were spread over the settlement.

“Right. Show me where they all are,” she asked the scout.

“We have to get them out.”

Marruk sighed, then she grabbed his shoulder.

“What?”

“Focus. Show me where you are. There are a hundred of us and many more of them. We’ll need to act swiftly.”

“Swiftly?”

Marruk cursed her bad luck. After spending hours learning Harrakan, the only time she would really need it and her counterpart just couldn’t speak it properly.

“We need to move quick. We need to move well. Look and show me where your family is.”

“My family. yes. Cages over there, there. And there.”

Cerus pointed. Marruk did her best not to swear. The cages were spread out evenly on her side of the valley, except for one.

“Split? I take right side,” Cerus said.

“No.”

“No?”

Marruk sighed. This was not her first time leading people into a battle, but it was her first time being in command of a fully human group besides her own. She had to remember what Solfis had taught her. And what Viv favored. Viv combined groups that complemented each other.

“No. You will split your group in halves. The first comes with me and you take half of my people as well. I come from the main entrance while you come from the mountain path. Attack on my signal.”

“They will have traps,” Koro warned. “In the forest.”

“I know traps,” Cerus said, though Koro didn’t seem convinced. Marruk remembered that Koro used to be a huntress before she became a temple guard.

“Fine. Koro, go with Cerus. We attack on my signal.”

“What signal?” Cerus asked, impatient.

For the first time in days, Marruk smiled.

“Don’t worry. We Kark are very loud.”

“Fine. I lead the second group. Eliminate sentries then attack on your signal. Got it.”

“Right. After this, I will follow the main path to the central hut and free the prisoners along the way. You take the secondary path and free them there,” she pointed, “and there. We regroup at the hut.”

This would be a two-pronged assault that would hopefully converge on the enemy’s main stronghold — where most of the slaves were held.

Very daring. Very risky.

“Remember, what was it Viv said? Shock and awe. Do not stop for anything. Free the slaves, keep them at the center of the formation then move on.”

“What if they cannot move?” Cerus asked.

“Have them carry each other,” Marruk replied with a cold voice. “Get out first. The rest can wait. Do. Not. Stop. Follow their paths to avoid their traps. Good luck, and I’ll see you at the main camp.”

“May Neriad bless our endeavor,” Koro said with enthusiasm.

The others left. Cerus seemed nervous and so were his men. Those were their families in those cages.

Marruk led her men down to the main road, slightly out. She did find a few traps but most were a couple of days old, covered in dead leaves, and not very well concealed. Someone had made an effort. Just not a very good one.

She spotted people at the end of the path but those were mostly young boys idly playing by themselves. Marruk had around forty Kark warriors and half again that number of guardians with bows. She sure wished she’d asked for a caster to accompany them. Marruk ordered her soldiers in a column, then they waited.

And waited. Cerus’ group would take more time. She just had to be patient.

After ten minutes, there was a commotion. Not really much yet, but enough of a hubbub with several cries of alarm that she knew what she had to expect. The second group had been spotted.

“Alright, my tribesmen,” she said in Kark. “Let us show them what the People of the Steppes can do. LET OUR ANCESTORS HEAR US!”

Marruk winced at the wall of sound produced by forty overeager young warriors, each one hoping to be paid in iron. To their credit, the young twerps still followed her in good order as she ran onto the beaten path. The young sentries watched her charge with expressions of utter disbelief.

“Hetta! Hetta!”

It probably meant intruder.

“They think you are forest spirits that eats many children,” Cerus’ second helpfully translated.

Every fucking time.

Marruk roared and the kids scattered. A few warriors came carrying javelins with silex tips but they also fled when they saw her. She rotated her tower shield to deflect a lone throw.

Her people were a symphony of grunts and screams, as well as quite a few unlikely boasts and at least three bad questions about their foe’s parentage. It must have been scary for those southerners.

“Ignore them! Push through!”

The world was thrown into sharp relief. The fields, so tiny from her prior vantage point, were now well-ordered spots covered in footprints, dotted with the occasional scarecrow. Naked children with bone ornaments in their hair watched her run by with dazzled expressions. It smelled of growing things, loam, and the excrements used to nourish them. A mother screamed and grabbed her spawn. Lone warriors came to meet them, only to race away when they saw their numbers.

The first real resistance came with the first enclave. A group of young fighters had gathered near the entrance and she could see the terror in their eyes when she charged them, her armor clanging with every step. She saw their knuckles whitened over wood and bone weapons. They knew the futility of it all, but still they stood to defend their homes. Marruk respected them as warriors, but they were also slavers, and in her way, and so they would die.

She lurched and struck sideways, letting a hasty spear thrust bounce off her shield. Her heavy mace had a reach that always surprised people. She felt the impact when it brained the first warrior. Blood and gray matter splattered the others. They recoiled. She punched through them.

Behind her, the head of the column finished them off. She didn’t look back. She trusted them to know what to do. In the small courtyard between several low houses were the first cages. Marruk placed her mace on the ground to reach for her dagger. She cut the rope in a single strike.

Inside, there were four people huddling behind an old man who stood defiant in the face of his doom. That would be a waste of time, except her decision to split the guardians proved salutary.

“Oppia! Oppia!” one of her humans said.

“Lerish?” the grandfather replied. “Och sun free. Go! Go, weh!”

Another guardian took care of the second cage while the rest helped the freed prisoners move. Her people had assumed a circle formation to protect them as expected. She heard a Kark warcry to her right, slightly behind. The second team was making progress as well.

“Right, we go again. DO NOT SLOW DOWN!”

“For the tribe! For our ancestors!” her warriors replied.

“Their mothers guzzle pure league spu—”

Marruk was off again, and the column reformed behind her. There were now dozens of warriors keeping pace with the assault without daring to come close. Others raced ahead of them. They must have guessed her intentions by now. It didn’t matter.

The first guardian arrows whistled through the air, catching the more daring southern tribesmen unaware. The survivors dispersed.

Marruk kept running. The second node had a bigger guard contingent ready for them. Silex arrows clicked against her shield.

“Turtle formation!”

The Kark raised their shields to block the attack, weak as it was. A muscular old warrior with a stone hammer pointed his weapon at her. Clearly the ‘officer’ here. She charged him ahead of the column.

He feinted. Marruk knew he would. She let the attack slide over her shield and lowered her head. The stone hammer clanged against her solid steel helmet at an angle. Her neck hurt, but the blow was deflected.

And her mother always told her she was thick-skulled.

The warrior had clearly expected her to fall down, that was why he was really surprised when her charge ended with her mace in his chest.

[Mace of the Steel Hoarder] activated.

The flanges penetrated his skin from the violence of the blow. He fell with blood on his lips. Again, she did not look behind when the rest of her men crashed into the shocked tribesmen with war cries. There were three cages here. This time, there were no issues rescuing the people inside.

She turned to see the recently freed ‘Oppia’ carrying one of the young girls on his back. He nodded at her.

Had to keep going.

Marruk kept running, feeling the weight of her plate armor as a comfortable reminder she was protected by the steel she owned herself. The third node wasn’t defended at all, and the slaves had not been executed either. Once she approached the cage, she realized there was an issue.

Those were southerners, from another tribe if the ritual scarring and paintings were any indication. She barely hesitated a second before setting them free. No one deserved to be a slave because of their tribe. To their credit, the other humans helped them as well.

Marruk ran again. This time, the tribal warriors had had the time to run ahead to the main encampment. The tiny roads had played against them because of the speed of Marruk’s advance so far, but it was over now. A mass of warriors with javelins and bows assembled at the entrance next to a man in actual steel armor, probably taken from the remnants, and a shaman. That one wore bone armor. Though she’d never practiced herself, Marruk’s mother had been a wise woman, and she could almost see the mana shimmering around the ghastly figure.

Marruk bit her lip.

Shamans were normally not good at warcasting, but anyone who could use spells had something they could kill with.

Get too many wounded and her troops would be bogged down trying to escape. The tribal warriors were obviously furious at the intrusion. Too many dead and… yeah.

She had to believe in herself here.

“Alright. We slow down. My brothers and sisters, loose formation, two thick. Prepare to charge. Guardians, try to keep the shaman’s head down.”

“Lady, they have a caster.”

“I know, dammit. We’ll deploy on that field to the right.”

This time a little slower, the Kark and their allies advanced to form a line. The timing would be… difficult for Marruk. It was in moments like these she wished she had a dragon as well.

She could see the tribals very clearly from the front of the line. Damn, there were a lot of those humans but for once, it was them using wood and stone and the Kark covered in metal, an almost perfect mirror of back home. It was almost a bad jest. Marruk signaled, then she started running.

She hated screaming but… sometimes, it really was called for.

“OUR ANCESTORS WATCH US. CRUSH THE HUMANS!”

‘RAAAAARH!”

Thankfully their human allies didn’t speak Kark.

Marruk picked up speed. The enemy steel-clad warrior moved to meet her by angrily pushing his fighters out of the way. It was the shaman that she was looking at, however.

“I am a pillar of my people,” Marruk whispered.

She had to believe it.

The air shimmered and the shaman stomped a foot. The ground buckled under Marruk’s feet, not much, just an echo. This was the first step after all.

“I am a pillar of my people.”

The steel warrior was now charging her. Javelins and arrows filled the air but most found only steel. Some of the guardians yelped in pain. They were too close for their gear to make a difference.

The Kark behind her kept charging. She had to keep going. She had to be the first. The shaman yelped and Marruk realized this was a wise woman. She almost faltered here, remembering her mother, before wincing under her helmet. No. Those were slavers. They deserved what she would do to them.

The shaman stomped her feet a third time. In front of Marruk, the earth buckled. A wave expanded outward, leaving the tribesmen alone but carrying with it the promise of shattered knees. Right. This was it.

“I am a pillar of my people. I am the [Pillar of the Kark].”

Marruk howled as she activated the skill. She WAS the pillar, if she wasn’t, she would be. The tower shield groaned when she planted it on the ground. Her skill anchored her to mother earth.

