If this old man weren't wearing an invisible helmet right now, I'd try socking him in his creepy face.

I knew the old man and lady would be trouble the second I saw them, but things are turning out for the worst. Being the second strongest person in the village, I was responsible for standing front and center when Scholl arrived. And if Scholl sent anybody else to our village, I would've gone unnoticed.

I would’ve liked nothing more than to remain back at the front of the village with everybody else, but master and I are the only ones capable of standing up to these two monsters.

And as my luck would have it, the lady and old man haven't taken their eyes off me since we started walking them through the village together. The quiet lady is unnerving, but the old man is relentless with his staring.

I'm guessing the lady isn't dangerous until she unseals her power, meaning I'll aim for her first if a fight breaks out. The old man, on the other hand, is a different story. The more I scan him, the more I'm convinced I'd be unable to scratch the cocky geezer.

I only have a general sense of the runes inscribed on his armor, but I can tell it isn't just invisibility. His armor is not only the most robust alloy I've ever seen, but it's also enchanted to reduce the impact of magic as well. And that isn't even including the fact that it's fuckin invisible!

His armor alone is enough to make me want to run rather than fight, and I haven't had the chance to scratch the other magic items he has spread all over his body. The sword on his hip is at least ten times better than my scimitar, and who knows what other enchantments he has on him.

My original plan was to have master grab Camden and run away while I overpowered my flame spell again as I did with the bandits. However, the more I look at the old man, the more I realize my plan wouldn’t work.

The only way I'll be able to hurt him is if I can freeform my own spell as I did against the soul eater, and I doubt he'd stand still for me.

I tried lying about the spears, but judging by the old man’s growing smile, he isn’t falling for it.

“I’m curious, why stay out here? With your talent, you could’ve walked into Olebert’s capitol and demanded the best master accept you as his disciple. Why limit yourself?” The old man drills me again.

“I don’t know what you mean,” I try to deflect again with my skills active, but it doesn’t work.

“I think you know what I mean,” he confidently smiles at me.

Shit, playing dumb is getting me nowhere. The old man is just pushing me further into a corner.

I glance away from the old man for a moment and see we’ve become everyone’s focus. Camden and Master are nervously watching me while the aid, which I think was called Jason by the old man, scampers over to the woman who's also nervously watching us.

I harden my resolve and look the old man in the eye. "You're asking a lot of personal questions for someone who has yet to introduce himself."

The old man throws his head back and starts laughing. “You’re right, I haven't given you my name yet, have I? You can call me Pacore. In my homeland, I'm known as Master Pacore the deathless, one of the pillars of Scholl."

As the old man gives me his name, his aura changes. The pressure radiating off Pacore becomes a physical weight on my shoulders. Out of the corner of my eye, I see master readying to strike while Camden and Jason have dropped to their knees.

I look Pacore in the eyes and with all my resolve ask him, “are you done yet?”

The pressure vanishes, and Pacore laughs at my defiant look. "Good, very good. Not even my commanders can stand up to me when I release my pressure. You know how strong I am, and yet you aren't afraid; that's commendable."

It's my turn to snicker. It's not that I don't fear him; it's just that I've come face to face with a monster scarier than he is, and no matter how intimidating Pacore is, his presence is nothing compared to literal gods. Even if he's high leveled, he's only a man.

Pacore’s smile slips momentarily when I start giggling. “I have to say that’s not the reaction I was expecting,” he notes my seemingly weird behavior.

This is the first time the old geezer has lost his footing, so I capitalize on the opening. I confidently step closer to him. "I have seen much scarier than you. What is one man compared to the monsters of this world?"

Everything turns silent after my question. Pacore and the unnamed lady are taken back by my sudden change in demeanor.

Pacore's expression hardens, and we stare at each other. There isn't a trace of anger in his eyes. I get the feeling he knows all too well where he stands in this world. He’s seen a monster just as I have and lived to tell the tale.

“And what monster has a level 74 child seen?” Pacore asks me in a curious tone.

Like I'll let you retake the lead.

I activate Sense Soul and zero in on Pacore’s and the woman’s soul. Both of them twitch under my gaze and look at me in wide-eyed wonder.

“Why don’t you tell me about the beast that haunts your dreams first?” I challenge Pacore. “I’m curious what beast someone at level 152 and 127 finds dangerous?”

The tension in the air becomes palpable after I reveal their levels. Pacore turns and looks at the woman behind him, and the two of them share a silent conversation with their eyes. It almost looks like they didn't know each other's levels.

Master Pacore eventually turns back to me and asks me in a cold voice, "my level is one of my kingdom’s greatest secrets. How are you going to compensate me for revealing it?"

I can’t back down now. “I guess we’ll have to keep each other’s secrets then,” I respond using the same tone.

Tightening my grip on my axe, I ready myself for his attack.

Pacore snorts and closes his eyes; bringing his hand up, he starts stroking his beard. "This is quite the predicament I’ve put myself in, isn't it?" The fact he's willing to close his eyes in front of us shows how little of a threat he considers us. "You just had to go and say my level in front of the general, didn't you?"

What?

I don't understand what he's talking about. I know I should keep quiet, but my curiosity gets the better of me. "Why does it matter if I say your level in front of your companion?" I ask Pacore.

Pacore lets out a tired sigh. "I guess It's my fault for bringing her with me in the first place," he mumbles before opening his eyes, looking straight at me. Pacore points over his shoulder at the woman standing next to Jason, "she's my prisoner. You gave away my level to one of Olebert’s top generals.”

Camden, master, and I look past Pacore and stare at the woman standing behind him.

She's a prisoner?! Those magic bands she's wearing are not to hide her power but seal it completely.

A high-ranking general captured by Scholl. That means she can only be her, "you're General Pitz!" I exclaim in shock.

“I am,” the general mumbles in a defeated voice.

“So, you see why this is a problem,” Pacore cuts in. “One, I can only see a single solution to.”

Does he think he can silence all of us!? If that's really General Pitz, then we only have to worry about Pacore. He may have a high level, but if master and I work together, we might be able to take him.

“You’ll have to take responsibility…,” he tells me.

With my life, I know where this is going. As soon as he moves to draw his sword, I’ll attack. As soon as Pacore starts his next sentence, I rush forward.

“By becoming my student,” Pacore boldly proclaims.

Axe raised over my head; I stumble forward after hearing Pacore’s demand.

“You want me to what?” I ask in disbelief.

Pacore, unperturbed by my raised weapon, grins at me. “I need compensation for releasing my level to Scholl’s enemies, and I can’t think of anything more valuable than taking you in as my newest student.” Pacore starts laughing with all the confidence in the world.

Mouth open, I stare at him dumbfounded.

***********

Master Pacore the Deathless’ Point of View:

It's excellent seeing Aaliyah's shocked reaction. She was ready to charge me just now, but it looks like she's forgotten all about that.

That look of confidence in her eyes as she raised her axe was beautiful. She honestly thought she and that stone kin could defeat me. Her courage is commendable. Stupid, but commendable.

She makes such beautiful weapons.

She can see through my strength and accurately determine my level, a feat that hasn't been done since I passed level 110.

And she has the courage of a cornered beast, with the level to back it up.

I shudder, thinking about what other talents she might be hiding. If I make her my student, I'm sure she'll pass me one day and take my place as Scholl's pillar.

Resources, money, expertise, I can give her everything she needs to become a paragon in this world.

In a few years, she might even grow strong enough to help us defeat the dragon!

The knowledge of my level leaking is nothing in comparison to what this young girl represents. She will be my greatest…!

“I refuse!”

Did the world just stop turning? I stand frozen in place, not comprehending what I just heard. “What was that?” I ask Aaliyah, not sure if I heard her correctly.

“I said, I refuse,” she calmly repeats herself.

Are the gods themselves playing a joke on me?

"I already have a great master," Aaliyah tells me before looking at the Stone kin and smiling. The Stone kin shakes his head in a reproaching manner, but the smile on his face contradicts himself.

Everyone else is just as surprised as I am; even the village's headman looks shocked she turned down my offer.

I…

I’m at a loss for words!

"What happens now?" She asks me like she didn't just turn down a once-in-a-lifetime offer.

Everyone looks to me for my answer, and I'm still stunned in place. I fearlessly faced down a dragon, one of the most feared creatures in this world, without pause. And here I am, rendered speechless by a village girl, a mere fraction of my age.

“Master Pacore?” Young Jason calls out to me.

“I think you killed him,” I hear General Pitz snicker behind me.

I should be mad. A commoner turned me down. I have a right to be furious.

“Why?” I calmly ask her. “Do you know what you’re turning down?”

Aaliyah gives me an awkward smile. "I can roughly guess," she responds.

“You would receive anything you need,” I point out to her. “Scholl would give you training, materials, anything you could possibly ask for, it would be given to you. You would stand above thousands, hundreds of thousands! My majesty would give you land, a title!”

Aaliyah's smile becomes more strained like I'm an ordinary merchant trying to force his wares onto her.

"Tell me what you desire, and it will be yours," I hold out my hand. "Become my apprentice, no, my successor."

Everyone but Aaliyah gasps at my offer including her master who’s standing next to her. But I don't care about anyone else right now; I keep my eyes focused on Aaliyah.

When she lets out a tired sigh, my heart drops.

“And what if I ask for freedom?” Her voice rings in my ears. “If I took you up on your offer, would I be allowed to travel the world? You see me and are impressed with my strength, but the two of us use our strength for different purposes. You asked me why I’m out here? The answer is the same reason I’m turning you down right now.”

The more she speaks, the more resolve I hear in her voice.

"You want me to eventually take over your position, to lead Scholl's armies to victory?" She asks me, shaking her head. "That is not who I am. I have fought monsters, both beasts from the forest and those who look like you and me. I may enjoy the challenge, but I don't enjoy killing. You'd ask me to swear allegiance to your king and help win your wars. It's the same thing as being shackled to any other noble. That’s why I haven’t left my village yet. I’m not strong enough to stand on my own.”

“I can help you gain that strength,” I quickly offer.

"I can gain strength by myself," she says stubbornly. “Through blacksmithing and hard work, I’ll reach your level with my own two hands.”

Preposterous! Does she think she can reach my level through sheer hard work and willpower?! It's only thanks to his majesty's backing and the wealth of a country that I've made it to where I am today.

I want to grab the infuriating child and shake some sense into her, but her eyes…

Her eyes have no uncertainty in them. She has the look of someone who has no doubt she’ll reach her goals.

Such passion!

Such Drive!

Why did she have to refuse me?!

A heavy silence hangs over all of us. Now that Aaliyah has thoroughly turned me down, a choice needs to be made.

If I leave her be, she could become a threat to Scholl in the future. General Pitz knows about her, and once she's ransomed back to Olebert, the general would be a fool if she didn't send people out to secure her. The weapons Aaliyah makes are already reason enough to fight over her. In the future, she might even rival Stone kin masters.

If I try to drag her back with me, she and her master will fight to the death, that I'm sure of.

Do I kill her now, or leave her and hope Aaliyah doesn’t turn on Scholl in the future?

I glance over my shoulder at General Pitz to gauge her reaction and see she's gritting her teeth and clenching her fists. So, she's ready to attack me, too, even though she's sealed.

Things continue to become more complicated by the minute.

I take a deep breath and let out a long sigh. Decisions like this shouldn’t be made lightly. I’ll need time to think things through.

I turn my attention to the village's headman. The man flinches backward, seeing my emotionless face. "What's your name?" I flatly question him.

“Camden Downs, my lord,” he bows his head, unable to hold my gaze.

