"Headman Downs, my people will camp in front of your village." I leave no room for him to negotiate or argue. Looking back at Aaliyah, I see her spirit has remained strong and that she hasn't changed her mind in the slightest. "We both need time to think. I'll be back to talk with you tomorrow."

Aliyah's eyes widen in surprise, but she doesn't say anything as I start to walk back towards my men. "Jason, hurry along, and don't forget to bring General Pitz with you," I call out behind me.

“Yes, sir!” I hear him shout. I keep my pace slow until I hear his and General Pitz's footsteps catch up to me. Neither of them says anything as we make our way back through the village.

When we approach the villagers, still ready to defend their village, the headman's son watches our lone approach with worry in his eyes. "Where is my father?" He points his sword at me. The level 50 archer stands next to him, but I'm too mentally exhausted to answer him.

The young man's face becomes strained as I walk past him without saying a word. He looks ready to order an attack when young Jason answers for me. "Your headman is back in the village, unharmed."

The boy motions for someone to go check on his father, but I don't care about that. I release a bit of pressure and the villagers part in front of me.

“Master Pacore, sir?” My commander walks up to me, seeing the complicated look on my face.

“We’re camping here for the day. Have the men set up the tents a little way away from the village,” I curtly issue my orders.

The commander must realize I'm not in the mood to talk. He salutes me and takes off, issuing my orders. My tent is prioritized first, and I soon have a quiet place to retreat to.

Leaving my armor on, I collapse on my bedroll, going over every option I can think of regarding Aaliyah.

“Do I really need to kill such talent?” I question the gods.

Silence is my only answer.

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

My heart pounds in my chest as we watch Pacore walk away.

When Pacore and his group are out of sight, all the tension leaves my body, and I collapse to the ground. For a second there, all my instincts screamed at me to run. I was sure he was going to attack after I turned him down. Is he going to attack the village because of me? I start trembling, thinking about all the repercussions everyone might face because of my actions.

Master walks over to me and bends down. He starts rubbing his hands in circles on my back, trying to help me calm down.

“I can’t believe you did that,” Camden mumbles, clearly shaken up just as much as I am.

Hearing Camden makes me second guess myself even more. Should I rush after Pacore and take him up on his offer? The last thing I want to do is get the village destroyed because of me.

“What do you think I should’ve done?” I ask Master.

"You should've taken the deal," Master bluntly tells me. My heart drops; even Master thinks I was wrong. "But I'm happy you didn't."

I look to master with tears in my eyes, “really?”

Master Del firmly nods. “You stuck to your beliefs. I can’t fault you for that.”

“What do we do now?” I ask.

Master and I look at Camden, who has his head buried in his hands, lightly groaning. Everything had just become a lot more complicated for everyone involved.

This is why I didn't want to leave the village. I knew something like this would happen eventually, but I never thought it would happen so soon.

“Headman Downs!” Our brooding is interrupted by someone running over to us. “Are you all ok!? We didn’t see you return with Scholl’s people.”

Camden jolts up, realizing we let that monster walk through our village by himself. It's understandable how everyone must be reacting, seeing how we didn't return with Pacore.

Camden quickly straightens himself up and puts on a brave front. "Everything's fine," he lies to the messenger. "Go back and tell my son to leave Scholl alone for now. Tell him, we'll set up a watch and that everyone is to hold on to their weapons for now."

The villager nods and takes off back through the village.

“We’ll need to have a meeting to discuss what happened,” Camden walks over to me. “I’ll grab my children while you find your family. Come to my house when you’re ready,” he tells me. “I need to organize the village,” Camden briefly explains before walking off, an invisible weight added to his shoulders.

“Come on then,” Master helps me to my feet. The two of us walk together back to my house.

When we get there, I knock on the door. “Mom! It’s me,” I call out.

There are heavy steps on the other side of the door as Mom rushes to let me in. She flings the door open and launches herself at me, wrapping me in her arms. "Are you ok?" She asks, sniffling.

“I think so,” I tell her.

“I’ll go find your dad,” master leaves the two of us alone.

Mother pulls back and looks me over, searching for the slightest scratch. “Did everything go according to plan?” She asks me, noticing I don’t have a single smudge on my armor.

I briefly think about lying to Mom to make her feel better, but that will only make what comes next that much harder. “No,” I hang my head. “Things didn’t go according to plan.”

Concerned, Mom asks me, “what happened?”

"I'll explain in a little bit. Can you just keep hugging me for a little while longer?"

Mom wraps her arms around me again, no questions asked. We stay like that until Master Del returns with Dad.

Dad moves in and joins our hug, while master awkwardly stands to the side. After a minute, I tell them, “we need to head to Camden’s house.”

It’s a somber walk for us. Armed villagers are returning to their families, unsure of what’s happening to the village. Scholl is camped right outside our front door, and the tension in the air has only increased.

A few scared people are standing outside Camden's house when we get there, but Sarette, who's standing outside, shoos them away when she sees us coming. "I'm happy you're all ok," she rushes over and hugs mother. "My boys are inside; they said Camden will be back soon." Sarette leads us into her house.

We all shuffle into the drawing room. Sarette places some tea on the table, but no one takes any. Dad and Mom sit on either side of me while Master stands nearby.

We wait like that for nearly twenty minutes before we hear the front door open.

Camden walks into the room, followed by Ronald, Anastasia, Markus, Ezekiel, Brother, and Sandra. The drawing room is packed with people nervously glancing at one another.

“What is happening, Camden?” Loud Markus is the first to speak up.

Camden looks at me, seeing if I want to explain, but I shake my head no. Mother and Father put their arms around me for support.

Camden lets out what has to be his 100th sigh of the day and starts explaining what happened with Pacore. Everyone but those who were there during the meeting pales in fright when they hear his level. The fact that the woman with him is the captured General Pitz doesn't do much for morale either.

The room explodes when Camden explains how Pacore asked me to become his student and my subsequent refusal.

“You killed us all!” Markus yells at me. Normally, I'd have something snappy to say back, but I'm afraid he's right this time.

“We aren’t dead yet,” Camden tries to calm down everyone in the room.

“Yet!” Ezekiel exclaims. “The monster is probably deciding how to burn down our village this very moment!”

“Say that again!” Dad stands up, towering over Ezekiel.

But Ezekiel is panicking. "We're screwed! We can't stand up to someone like Pacore, not even if the whole village tried to kill him! And it's all her fault!" Ezekiel points an accusing finger at me.

That finger is all it takes to push Father over the edge. He reaches and grabs Ezekiel by his vest and hoists him into the air. Markus, Ronald, and Nicolas try to pry Ezekiel out of Dad's iron like grip, but they can't match his strength. It isn't until Del moves across the room and punches Dad in the gut that he finally drops Ezekiel.

Mom yells as Dad drops to the floor, clutching his chest. She rushes to his side while I give Del a disapproving glare, despite fully well knowing it was the only thing that stopped Dad from ripping Ezekiel’s head off.

“It’s your fault!” Ezekiel continues to rant even after being freed.

Master, who just freed Ezekiel, turns around and slaps him upside the head. Ezekiel drops to the floor, unmoving. If his chest weren't barely moving, I'd swear that slap had killed him.

“Why did you do that?” Markus stares at his unconscious friend. “You just saved him?”

Master snorts at Markus. "I stopped Darrius from killing him; that doesn't mean I'm going to stand here and listen to you badmouthing my apprentice."

Markus looks at master like he just grew another head. “Your voice!”

Master was so worked up he forgot to use his broken speech around Anastasia and Markus.

“We’re getting off track,” Camden tries to reel everyone back in. “Arguing won’t solve anything.”

“You’re not going to do anything about him!” Markus points at Master while yelling at Camden.

“I won’t,” Camden calmly responds to Markus.

“And why not!?” He continues to shout.

"Because I was about to do the same thing," Camden's response causes Markus to take a wary step back. "You can't blame Aaliyah for not wanting to join Scholl's army. If you’re going to continue to yell, you can take Ezekiel and leave.” That finally gets Markus to shut his mouth. “We need options for tomorrow.”

The room goes quiet.

“Are the two of you able to beat him?” Anastasia asks Master and me.

Master hangs his head while I shake mine. "I'm not even sure we can get past his armor," I honestly reply.

"Armor?" Camden looks at me, confused.

Oh, yeah. I'm the only one who could see it. "He's wearing a set of invisible armor," I explain to the stunned room. "It makes my stuff look like paper."

"Then fighting isn't an option," Camden grumbles. "Any more ideas?" He asks everybody.

“We could run,” Mom says in a quiet voice.

“Silvia!” Sarette gasps at her friend.

"If it keeps our family and the village safe, it might be our only option," Mom points out to her friend.

"Even if your family leaves, that doesn't mean the village will be spared," Camden shakes his head. “Fighting may be our only option.”

“But you just said!” Markus whines.

“Do you have a better idea?” Camden challenges him.

I feel tears welling up in my eyes. Whether it’s my parents, Master, or Camden and his family, all of them are trying to think of a way to save me from Pacore. Not once have any of them suggested that I turn myself over. I’m not sure if I deserve this.

Mother notices my tears and pulls me against her. There is only one way I can guarantee everyone will be safe.

“I’ll take his offer.”

The room goes silent again.

“What was that, sweety?” Mom asks me.

“I said I’ll take Pacore’s offer,” I repeat through my tears.

"You don't have to…" Camden starts, but I shake my head.

"This is the only way that guarantees nobody gets hurt. Besides, he said I'll get anything I want," I try to smile to prove I'm ok with the decision.

Everyone but Markus frowns. Mom pulls me even closer and holds me tightly.

To save the village and the people I care about, I can do anything. This is my second life, after all; I'm playing with extra time on the clock.

When I meet Pacore tomorrow, I'll take him up on his deal; I'll join Scholl's army.

**********

Master Pacore the Deathless’ Point of View:

“Master Pacore, I brought you dinner.” Young Jason calls out to me from the other side of my tent flap.

"You can bring it in," I permit him to enter.

Young Jason enters my tent, followed by General Pitz. I forgot I told him to watch her, I’m surprised she didn’t take the opportunity to try and escape.

"Here you go," Jason hands me a bowl of hot soup. I wordlessly reach out and take the piping bowl, unaffected by the heat.

Removing my helmet, I start shoveling the stew into my mouth.

"What a day," young Jason pretends to be tired and sits across from me. General Pitz joins him, and they both watch me eat.

“If you have something to say, spit it out,” I snap at the boy.

“I just,” Jason stammers, unsure how to ask his question.

"He's wondering what your plans for tomorrow are," General Pitz finishes Jason's thought.

I look the captured general in the eyes. "You're wondering if I'll destroy the village." Young Jason is horrified by my bluntness, but General Pitz just nods.

“You would really do that!?” Jason asks me, looking afraid of me for the first time since I met him on Drey’s walls.

“If I must,” I coldly answer, in between bites of my soup. I ignore my shocked aide and turn my full attention to General Pitz. “You knew she was out here, didn’t you?”

General Pitz's expression turns downcast. "I did. I planned to come out here after the war was over and recruit her to my house,” she honestly tells me.

“And were you aware of her skills?”

"Do you think I would've waited if I was fully aware of her abilities!?" The general sneers at me. "I knew she was a talented blacksmith, but I had no idea her level was so high. I was just as shocked as you were."

I need a drink. Reaching over, I pop the lid off my canteen and drink a mouthful of alcohol. The fumes from my drink are so strong, young Jason coughs until I close the canteen. "Then what would you do?" I level General Pitz with a challenging look. "How would you deal with the most talented individual you've ever met in your life?"

