That last part is what gets me a response. "It was not easy; I merely stated that it was easier to find a defensive shelter. The Blood-Flats is nothing but rocks and caves; you couldn’t go more than a few feet before running into one.”

“We’ve walked past a few large burrows; what about one of those? Would that make you comfy?” I suggested to her and immediately regretted my decision.

"Are you not thinking?" Tabitha goes into full-on lecture mode. “Any number of beasts could dig in or overturn one of those, or did you not notice they were empty? We need someplace strong…. out of the way…. has a good line of sight.”

She continued to lay out everything we needed, and the more I listened, the more I thought such a place didn't exist. The lizard's nest checked many of the boxes but not all of them.

Was Tabitha overacting, or was I underestimating the night that was about to come?

Maybe she should pray to the gods for help? Looking up, I chuckle to myself, and in doing so, I see a flash of color for a brief second up in the trees.

“Tabitha, hold on!” Before I even finish calling out to her, Tabitha is next to me with her hand on her sword. It didn't matter if we were bickering a moment ago; as soon as she heard the change in my voice, she closed the distance between us and went on high alert.

“What is it?” She whispers in a calm voice.

“Three trees to our left, up high. It was red; I only saw it for a second,” I tell her. We were still far away from whatever it was, but if I could see it at this distance, it was big. Not to mention anything with bright colors was certainly strong enough that it didn't need to hide.

"We move slowly," Tabitha directs me to follow her.

Silently, we circle the tree I pointed to until we arrive at a better vantage spot. And that’s where I see it, the most enormous bird I've ever seen in my life!

It only took a glance at its soul to see that its level was in the high 70's, a strong beast.

“Tabitha, I think we should…." I was about to suggest we leave it alone but stopped when I saw the manic look on her face.

"On, no!"

“Yes,” Tabitha grins at me. “Do you see what I see?”

“A big ass bird,” I answer bluntly.

“That too, but look where it is,” Tabitha points at the colorful monster, and I see what she meant.

The bird’s nest was in a large hollow in the tree. It had a great vantage point, the trees’ bark was as strong as metal, and it was definitely out of the way, the perfect place for us to spend the night. Now, if only there weren't a giant bird guarding it!

“Alright, go get it,” Tabitha slaps my back, gesturing me forward.

“By myself?!” I looked at the armored woman like she was crazy.

“This beast is perfect for you," she ignores my pleading eyes. "Not only will we gain a place to sleep, but you’ll earn your first feather too. Lucky you.”

“Yeah, lucky me,” I roll my eyes. Then, craning my neck up, I size up the bird and let out a sigh before making up my mind. Turning back to Tabitha, I quickly lay down some grown rules instead of rushing in like earlier today. "If it's protecting babies, I'm not going to fight it; the same thing if it flees.”

Tabitha rolls her eyes but surprisingly agrees to my terms. “Fine, but hurry; I want to be up in the tree by the time the sun starts to fade."

“No pressure then,” I roll my shoulders and crack my neck. Then, drawing my hammer, I prepared to fight the large colorful bird.

Well, I did say I wanted to fight something stronger.
