Ezekiel gave his opinion on the evening, saying, “There will likely be some reprisals. However… I doubt any of them will be centered on me, or us, despite the talk of the evening and what happened at the end. They all think I’m someone I’m not and that makes them wary… I think.” He added, “I’m not sure who they think I am, but Arilitilo wanted to keep the game going, and so we will.”

Julia countered, “That Patriarch was ready to take your head off.”

“He just looked like that.” Ezekiel said, “He was more scared than anyone. He needs Tadashi’s treatment to succeed, and fast. He has some people breathing down his neck as well, no doubt.” He added, “Everything about tonight, about us, was all the rest of them bouncing ideas off of the outsiders to see how the rest of them reacted. That’s why we were invited to the gathering at all. At the most, Elder Arilitilo wants to use me in order to facilitate some sort of power play of her own.” Ezekiel paused in thought. Then he said, “Or maybe she wants me to prevent some sort of power plays from happening. The faster they roll out this transformation of the entire landscape of Clan Society the quicker they can get a hold on the future past that.”

Tiffany focused. “This was a big shift. Why reveal it at all before it was ready?”

Julia said, “I heard Diligent Scribe fucked up but no one at my table was willing to speak on how; they were all postulating on what it was, but some of them already knew. I could tell by the faces around us. And then, you know, when the Elders up and told us that everyone already knew what was going on.”

“Some people in the gathering didn’t know.” Ezekiel said, “A lot did. I believe that most of the surprise displayed was based around the disbelief that Star Song would pick this route of open cooperation.”

Paul said, “It was either open cooperation, or assassinations and theft. Star Song chose to call on the Compact of Songli and to share their bounty before it was taken from them.” He added, “However, sir, your declaration that you were ‘put there to make a decision' is what really pushed them all away from the brewing illusion war.” He added, “And then Caina seemed to come down on your side.”

Julia said, “That was a lot.”

“Quite a bold declaration, boss!” Tiffany said, “I don’t disapprove, but I feel like I’m on a target range, now.”

“We always have been; sorry about that,” Ezekiel said.

Tiffany smiled, revealing her large bottom fangs. “This is what I signed up for.”

Ezekiel nodded, and said, “Someone is going to come for us. How do you want to handle it? I get the distinct impression that murdering them right back is okay as long as they are in the act of trying to murder us. If they manage to get away, confronting them in the open would be bad for us, since we’re the outsiders, and the clans would tell us to go fuck ourselves— I mean. They’d be nice about telling us to go fuck ourselves, for sure. But the outcome is already known.”

Julia asked, “Who will come after us? Got any ideas?”

“Probably not the guy that you stabbed!” Ezekiel calmed, then continued, “But maybe Scion Yaro Red Ledger.”

Julia looked ashamed for all of half a second before moving right along, exactly as Ezekiel had done. She said, “We could rent out this whole hotel. Or we could find a smaller place outside the city. We could even make a hole in the ground somewhere between cities and stay there.” She rapidly added, “And that guy was perfectly happy to get stabbed. It was just a game.”

Tiffany said, “It was a test to see if you would break hospitality if given the opportunity.”

Paul nodded, silently.

Julia paused. “… I guess— Yeah. It was a test. But it was just a test to see how willing I was to risk injury and of my willingness to cause harm, disguised as a test against the thread I spun. They weren’t trying to get me to break hospitality… were they?”

Tiffany said, “Nobles will take losses and turn them into wins, and they never allow themselves to be diminished in front of their contemporaries, unless that diminishment comes from a power that they cannot hope to beat.” She added, “So, yeah, I think that you were tested to see if you’d break hospitality, under the guise of several other tests. But then your father blew all of those small plans to shit when he talked about being put here to make a decision. He made himself a much bigger target than you, and it was only because of that, that you’re not being targeted right now.”

Paul said, “Zalindi also threw out a lot of those smaller plans before they could happen by calling the gathering to order and displaying Tadashi.”

Anger appeared on Julia’s face, but it seemed she was angry at herself, more than anyone else.

Tiffany asked, “What I want to know, is do we need to move? Or abandon this part of the world altogether?”

“We’re not abandoning anything. This is the Path. I am walking it.” Ezekiel said, “But, to that end, I wouldn’t worry about anything that happened tonight. We’re strong enough to protect ourselves from almost all threats, and Odin is on high alert. There is going to be some sort of attack, though.”

“Just a matter of waiting,” Paul said.

Tiffany put on a happy face, saying, “Looks like we’re back to watches! Two to a shift?”

Paul said, “Layered defenses, please. Let’s not pretend at weakness anymore.”

“Odins are already in sunform.” Ezekiel said, “And I can also do this.”

A flush of magic filled the suite as layered [Prismatic Ward]s took hold of the space. A few Odins, with magenta shields of thorns, melded into the light at the very edge of the room. Pink glows held across windows and doorways while thorny shields held against the exterior walls, like gently moving wall decorations. Not even a [Chaining Ward Destruction] or non-Domain magic could get through those layers.

Ezekiel explained the defenses, then added, “But the Void Song is at least partially a Domain, so… You already know what I’ve said about those.”

Julia asked Paul, voice hard in a way Ezekiel had rarely heard, “Can they walk in here and kill us at their leisure?”

Everyone looked to Paul.

Paul said, “… I don’t… think so.”

“Better odds than usual.” Tiffany said, “I’ll take second watch. I’m ready to sleep.”

“Okay,” Julia said, similarly accepting of the situation. “I’m on second watch, too.”

Ezekiel turned to Paul. “I’m going to make some tea, then. Want any?”

Paul nodded. “Yes. Thank you.”

- - - -

Surprising everyone, nothing happened that night to Ezekiel, or Julia, or Tiffany, or Paul.

Or even Odin!

- - - -

The dawn rose in the east, heralding the start of a new day.

Ezekiel stood before the eastern entrance to the Void Temple, watching the sun rise above the city, coloring the iridescent white temple in the oranges and blues of dawn. He was not the only one present. Several other people had shown up with him, though he was by far the best dressed, aside from his own people, of course. Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, stood off to the side, while he waited with his fellow petitioners in front of the open eastern doors.

The Void Song carried on the air, deep and thrumming. The crowds of the temple were a bare fraction of what Ezekiel had seen yesterday. The crowds who walked atop the cloud bridges and spun the great cardinal bells were still present, but they were not a constant stream this early in the morning. The bells seemed to do fine spinning on their own for a while, when gaps in the stream appeared. Ezekiel watched as the eastern bell went untouched by a hand for a few minutes and never slowed.

He would have talked to his fellow petitioners, but no voice could rise above the Void Song, and that was just as well. No one looked willing to talk to the noble in their presence, anyway.

Soon enough, a Singer strode down the staircase, just inside the massive doors. Ezekiel was briefly surprised, but maybe he shouldn’t have been.

Singer Kaffi, the older demi woman of pale skin and bright red eyes, wordlessly welcomed them into the Void Temple.

They followed her up the staircase.

In an alcove on that second floor, seven Singers waited for the eight petitioners who had come. Kaffi rapidly assigned people to their Singer, introducing them and then sending them off. When the crowd was gone, she turned to Ezekiel.

Kaffi said, “We’ll speak more in a different room than before.”

Ezekiel followed her up a wide staircase to the right, while everyone else went up a staircase to the left. His people followed. So far, his mana sense showed nothing untoward, but who knew what was going on after the events of last night.

The hallway up the left staircase was filled with individualized rooms of a useful, but not overly large size; it was the same hallway as the day before. The hallway of today, up the right staircase, was small, but it held three massive rooms. All of them were unoccupied and empty to Ezekiel’s mana sense.

Kaffi led him into the one on the right, saying, “Bring your people in here, too. Truth is important, and you won’t be able to have the kind of conversation we need to have if they’re not in here. Also, your teaching fee just went up.”

A spike of worry lodged into Ezekiel's mind. He glanced at his people.

Paul’s eyeridges suddenly scrunched, but he nodded. Tiffany shrugged. Julia eyed Kaffi, but said nothing.

The four of them followed Kaffi into the private, amphitheater-like space, with an open central floor and rising, concentric stone ledges all around. The rise continued for several steps, until the rounded wall went straight up, into a mirrored amphitheater-like space directly above. The room was not a perfect sphere, but it was most of one.

Kaffi shut the door behind them. She announced, “I’m turning on the privacy functions.”

Ezekiel instantly had two extra Odin flit into the space, already in their sunforms and already decked out with full protections. He saw no reason not to comply with Kaffi’s demands, but he need not make himself too vulnerable. “Sure.”

Kaffi turned a dial near the door. The world outside of the amphitheater vanished. All that existed was a single stone room, filled with silence and the beating of hearts, and the breathing of lungs.

Kaffi breathed out, visibly relaxing, seeming to lose thirty years from her face and body as she smiled softly and shifted her head, briefly fluttering her blonde hair in the motion. She walked along one of the ledges of the room, seven steps, then she twisted, and sat down on the stone, breathing out relief. She gestured to the stone, saying, “Please! Sit. Let us talk.”

Ezekiel tensed. Sister Kaffi was a taciturn woman according to what he had seen yesterday. This… was different. Ezekiel said, “Sister Kaffi gave me the impression that someone else would be teaching me today.” Ezekiel sat down, three meters from the Singer, saying, “Are you actually her?”

Kaffi smirked. “Of course I’m Sister Kaffi, but I’ve also had many other names over the years. So far you’ve only had two, but I expect many more in your future, Erick Flatt.”

Ezekiel went for the joke, saying, “I hope my teaching fee won’t go up too much.”

Kaffi laughed. “Not too much. Just by a factor of ten, which I know you can pay, but the main thing here would be a promise from you, to us, that you won’t go spilling Tadashi’s magics all across the rest of Nelboor.”

With sudden steel in his voice, Ezekiel said, “I would tell the entire world how to fix Elixir poisoning if the problem was more widespread than among Nelboor’s elite.”

“Can you? Cure the Elixir, I mean,” Kaffi asked, with genuine curiosity.

“I’d have to give it an actual effort. But yes. Not many people deserve to have magic taken from them.” Ezekiel focused on the actual concern at hand, asking, “Who are you? Who do you actually represent?”

Kaffi smirked, then decided something. She said, “Funny story, there. I am who half of those people at the party last night think you are: A secret Enforcer for a High Clan.”

Ezekiel frowned.

… No? That can’t be right. Zalindi, Arilitilo, and Tadashi, had to know the truth. Ezekiel didn’t come right out and say it, but he got pretty damn close. And everyone else had… been… looking at him with odd eyes. An Enforcer, though? Ezekiel had considered that his presence would be misinterpreted, but to this degree?

“I see you are unconvinced, but is it truly that hard to believe? Here you are, some unknown person, first finding Tadashi, and then getting involved in last night’s gathering like you did. Of course they think you’re an Enforcer! It makes a lot more sense than the truth.” Kaffi sighed, then said, “Sometimes, my ability to lie really fucks up my ability to be truthful. Honestly, I shouldn’t have been tagged to—”

Ezekiel reached over with his sunform and turned the privacy dial back to ‘open’.

The room did not open.

Ezekiel's frown remained.

Kaffi continued, “That’s my Domain wrapped around us. You can escape if you truly put in the effort, but I do not mean you harm and there’s nothing waiting for you on the other side of the blockage. I just want to have a true talk before we move on to the day’s lesson.”

Paul stood behind him. Tiffany and Julia were to his sides. They were ready to attack at a moment’s notice, but Ezekiel hoped… He wasn’t sure what he hoped, at this point.

He sent a wordless question to Paul.

Paul said, “She’s too confounding to tell fact from fiction, but now that some of her veil is lifted I can say that she believes she is a Clan Enforcer for Void Song.”

