The ghosts of the past, his past, relinquished control over his psyche, if only by a little.

For in that little, rested a new beginning.

As he walked over to the beast’s carcass, system notifications began to pop up in the center of his vision.

[You have successfully inspected a Level 2 Twilight Boar, Trial Classification: Evolved predators from Earth’s fauna, after its demise.

[Description: Originally a Eurasian Wild Boar, this native planet creature has been blessed by the Divine Flames, significantly strengthening its natural defenses and granting it the ability to cultivate via a beast core.]

[Congratulations upon successfully inspecting an enemy one level above you. Inspect has reached level 2!].

[Congratulations on successfully killing an enemy one level above you with skill, Qi Blade. Qi Blade has reached level 2!]

Jack flinched a little as the Twilight Boar’s carcass burst into ethereal blue flames, forced to fight down his instinct to flee as he realized that it was pure soulflames, or more simply, Qi, flowing towards him.

He offered no resistance as the soulflames wreathed him in their embrace, feeling no pain or discomfort as they seeped into his body.

A set of images flashed in his mind’s eye, allowing Jack to observe as the blue whirlpool of energy first rotated inwards, sucking in the excess Qi flowing into his body, almost doubling in size before its growth slowed down.

In a quick followup, the whirlpool of energy reversed its flow, beginning to disperse energy through the venous network, a mimickry of the heart pumping out oxygenated blood to every part of the body except, with every cycle, the whirlpool grew smaller in size.

At the end of the process, the whirlpool was only slightly larger than before as it stabilized.

[You have received 884 (soul) experience for successfully slaying the Level 2 Twilight Boar!]

[Swordsman (Basic) has reached level 2! +5 Free Points, +1 Qi Pool has been awarded. ]

[You have unlocked a new skill: Qi Pulse!]

Once again, ingrained instinct flowed into his mind, forming a specific neural pathway that chained together a set of instructions into being recognized as a cohesive whole by his mind— resulting in the creation of a skill.

The entire process took less than a second, making Jack once again marvel at the ability to essentially 'download’ information into his mind, the ethical and philosophical questions being set aside for the moment. There naturally had to be constraints or laws that this otherworldly ability subscribed to, for otherwise the concept of levels was just a meaningless charade.

The Arbiter had made it clear that this alien incursion held a deeper purpose behind it and the arcane being had little incentive to lie to, well, an inferior lifeform.

[Looting Twilight Boar….

You have received 56 Tutorial Points + 26 Tutorial Points (First Kill Bonus).

You have recieved Qi Gathering Pill x1. It has been deposited into your inventory].

The grin on Jack’s face grew wider.

So the more I fight, the stronger I'll get, He thought, noting how both Inspect and Qi Blade had reached level two after he’d used it on the Twilight Boar.

And the more I kill, the greater my odds of survival, He thought, referencing the 82 Tutorial Points and the Qi Gathering Pill he’d received for killing the Twilight Boar, along with the soul experience boost that had garnered him another level. While he didn’t yet know what Tutorial Points would allow him access to, the Qi Gathering Pill was already immensely useful on its own.

[Qi Gathering Pill, Basic-Rank Alchemic Pill

Description: Doubles the Qi pool’s rate of regeneration for upto a maximum of five regenerated points across a maximum of twenty four hours.]

Even that brief stint with Qi Blade that had lasted a minute from the point of activation had shaved off an entire point from his Qi Pool, highlighting both how lacking the size of his Qi Pool was and the inefficiency of his skill.

Thankfully, leveling up his skills addressed both those points.

Statistics, he thought, and another blue screen popped up before his eyes.

[Name: Jack Anderson

Cultivation Stage: Qi Gathering

Race: Human [Unrefined]

Class: Swordsman [Basic]

Class Level: 2 (384/1000)

Dao Mark: Inert

Minor Dao Fragment: -

Skills: Inspect (Lv.2), Qi Blade (Lv.2), Qi Pulse (Lv. 1)

Statistics:

Strength: 6

Constitution: 6

Intelligence: 9

Wisdom: 7

Dexterity: 8

Perception: 8

Free Points: 5

Qi Pool: 10/11

Tutorial Points: 84]

Invest three in constitution, two in perception, Jack immediately thought to himself, without the slightest inkling of hesitation.

For, standing in an open clearing, as unguarded as he was, there was little time to mull over the decision. Constitution would help shore up his natural defenses and perception was a stat he prioritized over pure physical or mental attributes— the ability to sense an oncoming attack or an ambush even a few tenths of a second earlier could very well mean the difference between life and death.

A golden spark ignited in the blue whirlpool of energy that regulated and directed his Qi Pool, spreading like a wildfire as it dyed the vortex in a radiant golden, only for a single cycle before it was dispersed to the rest of his body through the venous network.

His muscles began to wildly spasm and writhe unnaturally, subtle enough that one would not notice if they were not studying him carefully, but Jack knew that he wasn’t imagining it.

It was uncomfortable, like an itch that he could not, despite the best of efforts, manage to scratch, but never did it approach even close to the threshold of pain, it’s intensity limited to a mild, throbbing discomfort.

Immediately after, his gaze felt like it sharpened, his pupils alternating in a cycle of rapid dilation and contraction, causing a strong wave of vertigo to wash over him. The process only lasted for a few seconds or perhaps, even less; it was hard to gauge as his head began to spin, but he managed to power through.

Damn, was that a trip and a half, Jack thought, as he waited for the wooziness to clear away.

Stretching his left hand outwards, he clenched and unclenched his fist, tracing the palmistry lines in an effort to seek out a modicum of familiarity in his own musculature. His body felt more robust, his senses keener; all in the matter of seconds.

Jack wiped the smile off his face, though perhaps the damage was already done. He took a few seconds to observe the Twilight Boar’s dilapidated carcass, it’s muscles losing its stringiness as the Qi empowering and holding it together was sucked away by him.

At this point, the others probably thought him insane. Bipolar, perhaps. A veritable madman, most likely.

But in his eyes, the world had gone insane first.

He was merely adapting to it.

“Incoming!” A shrill, panicked voice exclaimed, snapping Jack out of his reverie. His gaze immediately shifted to the source of the utterance, finding Trent, his glowing arrow tip pointed towards a thicket that rested at the very periphery of Jack’s line of sight.
