Though it was the fanciest junk post he’d ever gotten. And thought-provoking whether he wanted his thoughts provoked or not. He didn’t need to open the booklet, since the letter explained what it was, but he did anyway.

He stared at it. He thought about the contents.

What was inside made him remember the clarity he’d found on that night when he’d been asked to sweep up the splintered shards of a carving Hazel had thrown. He remembered finding a condom in a school desk, the sound of dice rattling in their bags, the taste of the brownie he’d eaten in the locked dressing room with Jessica on the day he’d announced his selection.

S. Baby, you’re going to be an S-rank! For the rest of your life, nobody can take that from you.

And then a more recent memory—the way he’d felt running right into one of those dark, dangerous neighborhoods that others had only seen from the rooftops of the safe buildings the System had sent them to.

Lute had trained his fingers for harp strings. But he’d bent steel with them there in the dark and then reached with them for the only man he felt like calling a father. So fearfully careful. So soft.

Pianissimo.

The gentlest of notes, played by a boy who finally saw how life might be hard even for the people who lived in the sky.

“Yep. This is junk post.”

He’d keep it, though, and turn it into an art project. He dialed his ears up once more and listened to the dorm. Down the hall, someone else had received the same kind of delivery, and the musical knocker—a professional courier, Lute decided—was banging out “Ode to Joy” on a door upstairs.

Curiosity satisfied, he stopped eavesdropping. He had a long trip back to the comfort of his bedroom floor. He turned the video back on to entertain himself during the journey, but the interviewers were letting the councilor eat now. Instead, they were prattling about how SAL could do anything, anything at all, and how they felt the councilor really had it right. Anesidora needed a more prepared populace.

Lute had heard some news earlier this morning and yesterday with this same tone.

“And you know,” said one, “I’ve got to say that Aulia Velra also has a point. She’s been talking abou—”

“Aghhh.”

Lute shut them up by shutting them off.

My life isn’t normal. All I did was be born, and it came out like this. Why is it this way?

A new sound all of the sudden.

Ka-click, ka-click.

Lute turned his head toward the noise. The robot vacuum was waking up. He was in its territory.

Whirrrr!

“So this is how I die.”

******

******

Haoyu came in a little while later and bent over to stare into Lute’s eye. “Why are you in the middle of the hallway letting the vacuum circle you?”

“It’s bullying me,” Lute said. “It knows I’m too weak to escape.”

“Should I move you for it?”

Lute frowned. “Aren’t you supposed to ask if you can move it for me?”

“It cleans. You just lie around in its way.”

“Fair. Drag me to my room and leave me there to rot.”

Haoyu grabbed Lute’s arms and dragged him the rest of the way into his room, then hopped up to fetch the fried egg pillow from the loft bed.

“My life is a mess, Haoyu.”

“You’re just having an interesting time.”

“What if all of our lives are like a television show the System is playing to keep itself entertained?”

“Did you cast a wordchain that makes you loopy?”

“I could be its main character for this season. It would explain a lot.”

“Why would it want you as a main character when it has me?”

They made fun of each other until Lute was too exhausted to keep up, then Haoyu left to do math.

Lute covered his face with his mail to block the light instead of asking Haoyu to come back and hit the switch. He dozed for a while, drifting in and out of awareness until he heard Alden’s voice.

He was back. And offering food.

Lute put in a very realistic and small grocery order that was soon being mocked by two jerks. He tried to channel his affront into a desire to scoot again.

Tacos sounded good.

******

******

“You guys are going to enjoy this. I hope. It’s the…what’s the best kind of steak?” Alden stood at the counter, waving his hand above the surface of an electric skillet he’d borrowed from the community kitchen.

It had been an uneventful trip back to campus. He’d swung by the MPE building on the way, wanting to see the terrible anti-B-rank protest that Liam Long thought might change the fate of Celena North if they didn’t fight back. But he’d found no protestors whatsoever and plenty of chattering teenagers heading to and from class.

“Filet mignon,” Lute said from where he was slumped at the table.

Alden stopped hovering his hand over the skillet, satisfied that it was around the same temperature as the hot rock he and Stuart used to sear meat petal.

“I’ve liked every steak I’ve ever tried.” Haoyu was using a marker to write “Duck for Van Nutmeg” on the bag of precooked chicken tenders Alden had bought when he couldn’t find anything more similar to the rilletes Lute wanted.

Lute hadn’t noticed yet. He was resting his chin on the table and staring at the stack of ramen Alden had dumped in front of him. He’d said that the wordchains he was paying off would end soon enough, and he’d be able to eat. At the moment, though, Alden was worried he was going to fall out of his chair and hit the floor with all the grace of a half-cooked pancake.

“Hey!” Haoyu protested as the chicken tenders were snatched away from him by Lexi, who’d come back to the apartment to attend a video lecture in the peace and quiet of his room. He’d changed course at the sight of all the groceries sitting around.

“I was labeling that!”

The tenders were already going in the fridge, and Lexi was looking at the two baguettes accusingly. They must not have fit in with his organizational scheme for the shelves.

“Ribeye,” he said, stacking the bread in the corner. “My Dad likes ribeye. And I do. It’s good.”

“Then this is the ribeye of plants,” Alden announced, opening the bundle of meat petal Stuart had given him and holding it out to show off the identical pinkish slices of vegetable.

“Looks like a cross between salmon and watermelon,” Haoyu said.

Lexi stepped closer to see better. “It’s not going to hurt us if you cook it wrong, is it?”

“No.”

“That’s right. If it digests meat, and we eat uncooked pieces of it, do our stomachs win versus it? Or does it win versus us? I’m sure I’ll survive as a Dura Brute, but what about the rest of you?”

Lexi frowned at the meat petal and then at Alden.

Lute lifted his head a few inches. “Digested from the inside out.”

“Meat petal is safe when raw! Do you three think I just walk around eating poisonous things?”

A recent memory crossed his mind as he said that. He turned hastily to the pan and dropped a piece of the meat petal on it. “It’s really good. You’ll see. Lexi, I’ll even let you grill some with Writher if you want.”

“I’m not going to grill with—”

“You could make grill marks with it. In all kinds of patterns.” Haoyu looked at the whip.

“You’re both confusing me with Jeffy. I’m not going to grill food with it.”

“Why not?” Haoyu asked. “You open bottles. Alden got you all these new marshmallows to practice with. Don’t just practice picking them up this time! Think grander thoughts. Grill them to perfection.”

“You just want an excuse to make s’mores.”

Despite Lexi insisting he needed to get back to work and Lute looking about as vibrant as a sodden dishrag, it wasn’t long before the four of them were sitting down at the table together around a hot pan of meat petal.

All the condiments Alden had bought to go on the tacos were scattered around the skillet. Haoyu was ripping the top off a bag of shredded cheese, and Lexi was opening a tub of pre-sliced peppers. There was a snapping sound, and part of the plastic lid broke off in his hand. He dropped the container and the lid fragment and stared at them.

“So strong. Honorary Brute,” said Haoyu, adding pieces of steaming meat petal to a tortilla.

“Next thing we know you’ll be ripping the knobs off the doors,” Lute said.

Lexi was still frowning at the lid. “I think it was a faulty package. Not me.” He picked up the container and held it toward Alden. “You try to break it.”

Alden had just taken his first bite. As he’d suspected, meat petal was a natural fit for Mexican food. Cruel circumstance had caused it to evolve on the wrong planet.

He swallowed. “Do you seriously think I’m weaker than a plastic tub?”

“I just want to know if I made a mistake or if the packaging is bad.”

Lexi wasn’t the type to clumsily destroy things. If Writher wasn’t involved, anyway. But he was the type to worry excessively about mistakes.

Alden took the container and pried on the remaining lid. Almost immediately, he heard a snap and saw a crack forming.

“Yeah, it’s brittle. You weren’t unnecessarily destructive or anything.”

Relief spread across Lexi’s face.

“Alden, this is amazing,” Haoyu said suddenly. “It tastes a lot like steak. The texture’s different, but I like it. Why don’t people import this?”

“Right?” said Alden. “I should quit the hero program and take business classes. Found a company that brings better meat substitutes to Earth.”

“Become richer that the Grandwitch.” Lute was speaking into the wooden tabletop now. “Buy all the things she wants before she can have them. Steal the politicians. Take all the real estate. Burn her evil empire to the ground.”

“I think you might be projecting your own dreams onto mine there. Speaking of people quitting the program…did any of you hear about some kind of protest? One against B-ranks being allowed in Talent Development?”

“No,” said Lute.

“You’ve barely left the dorm.” Lexi carefully arranged three slices of pepper on his tortilla then reached for the meat petal. “Not that you would have noticed the protestors anyway unless you were in the right place at the right time. It was only a few idiots. Instructor Klein scared them off about twenty minutes after they showed up.”

“Six people carrying embarrassing signs without a protest permit isn’t much to think about,” Haoyu added. “You’re not worried, are you?”

“I just found out about it from a guy I ran into at the store. He made it sound like a crisis for all the B-ranks in the program…but he’s not the most logical person I’ve ever met.”

“Let me guess. Were the protestors a group of A’s who couldn’t make it into the high school hero program, and who probably won’t make it into the uni one either, because they were raised to think a special letter would open every door for them?” Lute asked. “And now they’re shocked and appalled to discover that Apex is full of other high ranks who don’t find them impressive.”

“Wow,” said Haoyu. “You sat all the way upright for the first time since you came in here, and you used so many words. Are the wordchains finished?”

“Not quite. Almost.”

“You’re running on pure judginess then. Impressive.”

“That was accurate, though,” Lexi said after swallowing a bite, blinking, and then giving Alden a rare look of approval. “So many people tell themselves that they barely missed the cut-off for Talent Dev. That they had unfair interviews, unfair fights…some of them are probably right, but a lot of them who aren’t right are going to blame anything and everything but themselves.”

“Those protestors must have killed whatever chance they did have of entering the program in uni, though,” Haoyu said. “Waving a sign that says, ‘Why a B Instead of Me?’ in Max’s face while he was minding his own business on the way to class did not make them look like they’d be good representatives for Anesidora or the school in the future.”

Alden agreed that bothering current students and Instructor Klein during school hours was a nail in the coffin for those few peoples’ chances of getting what they wanted. But being bold enough to make a scene in the first place meant they expected some others to agree with them, didn’t it?

He remembered the huge crowd that had come to observe the advanced gym class. And Max pointing out that it didn’t even include all the teens in F-city who would have been watching through interfaces because of restricted travel.

“A couple of weeks ago, Max was thinking that the applications for January entry into the program might be more than normal. A lot of first years from our Science and Arts programs and the other Apex schools came to the observation period for Talent Development this time. He thinks it might have been good that he and I got in when we did.”

Haoyu and Lexi exchanged a look.

“I have heard that it will be big,” Haoyu offered.

“A lot of people are going to apply,” Lexi agreed. “Have applied. Some have been mentioning it in classes. But…I wouldn’t think Talent Development would quit accepting B’s altogether.”

“I want to comment on this.” Lute let his head flop back onto the table. “Just give me ninety-four seconds and a taco, and then I’ll be ready.”******
