In the stream, the zansees were flashing. When he lay down in bed, he thought he’d probably still be awake to see the water bugs’ light show end with the rising of the sun. It was earlier than his usual bedtime, after all, and he had so much to think about. But not long after he started searching for the fix to the nightmare again, his musings about dreams became the actual thing. The whistle was there, as clear as ever. And he was running around, panicking, the same as usual.

He woke up a shocking twelve hours later, feeling like he’d spent the whole night doing aerobics—something that might not have been that far off the mark judging by the fact that he’d traveled across the giant bed, scrambled the covers, tossed the pillows, and somehow wound up with his head hanging off the foot of the mattress.

He was alone, but the piece of stationery he could see perched on top of his suitcase a few feet away was probably a note from Stuart saying something like, “At school. Stay inside, and don’t let my family manipulate you.”

Alden closed his eyes for a while, trying to figure out if anything was different. He wasn’t irritated, like he might normally have been, to find that even though he’d slept twelve hours he still felt a little tired. And he was less nervous than he should have been to be lying here in the middle of a bunch of art’hs with only a cottage for a buffer instead of a Stu.

Probably some residual calm from the walk and the steeping.

He was thinking that just walking in that place, with Yenu-pezth adjusting the weight and giving him prompts, might be the same as sitting through weeks or months of nonmagical therapy.

It makes sense that it would be, considering who got me the appointment.

And it wasn’t even a normal appointment slot; Yenu-pezth was giving up her free time to slip him in. He needed to get her the most enormous fruit basket. He also needed to work on problem solving the nightmare more, so that he’d be ready to take full advantage of her abilities next time.

He rolled off the bed and grabbed Stuart’s note. Sure enough, it said what he’d expected, but with added advice about how Alden shouldn’t do anything stressful this morning because he’d gain more benefit from last night’s experience if he took it easy. Stuart was expecting to be done with school for the day in about three hours. He hoped he’d see Alden this afternoon, but if Alden needed to leave he could.

Then he went on to say that he’d thought about it, and Alden shouldn’t attend Engaging with the Unexpected, because his classmates created an environment that was not conducive to healing and reflection.

Alden hadn’t planned to skip classes today if he didn’t have to, but the idea of having heavy conversations and arguments about the Submerger disaster when he was working on a more personal problem was no good. He wasn’t going to waste the lasting calm that seemed to be helping him right now for that. He would follow Stuart’s advice, pretend he was still in his grotto, and keep himself stress-free until the Artonan came back. They could talk for a bit, and then Alden could arrive back on Earth just in time for Intro to Other Worlds, which was a peaceful class.

Unless Yenu-pezth wants to let me onto the path again tonight. Then I’ll just stay here prepping my answer for her.

She totally wasn’t going to do that. If he remembered her final instructions correctly, the date of their next appointment wasn’t set, and he was supposed to call her and talk to her before it would be.

I feel like I made it right to the edge of something last night without quite getting there.

He imagined he was going to be very frustrated about that over the coming days, but for now…maximum serenity. He ate a large savory cookie-thing Stuart had left on a plate for him and went to take a shower. Unsurprisingly, the shower at the cottage would do everything short of scrubbing your body for you if you knew how to adjust the settings. Alden had kept it simple the last time he was here, and he did this time, too. But, absentmindedly, he kept changing the pressure to be a little harder and the heat a little hotter, until he was standing, eyes closed and back pressed to the wall, in a shower that felt like the one he’d used at the lab.

It took him a while to realize he’d done it. As soon as he did, he turned the water off and stood there dripping. Not supposed to be thinking about the lab shower. How is that going to help me rewrite the nightmare?

The nightmare started before he ever made it back to the lab with Kibby. The grass, the whistle, the first hours of the chaos—he needed to fix it from there. For both of their dream selves.

Find Kibby. Get us to the lab again safely, I guess. That’s not much of a fix, though, just a nightmare that really happened.

He swallowed.

If it really happened again, I’d be able to do a little more. Like, I could at least…wait…could I…?

So many of the memories he’d taken close looks at yesterday, and the fears, drifted through his mind. He was still staring at the shower wall minutes later, piecing together something so astounding that his heart had begun to race.

Not quite. I don’t have enough information. I need to know a lot of things.

And he needed to know them right now.

All thoughts of serenity and a calm morning forgotten, he flung himself from the shower. He had windows open on his interface, and his tablet was out of his bag before he thought to grab a single stitch of clothing. He stumbled through the bedroom, yanking on his silk pajamas with one hand and trying to make a feature of the tablet he basically never used work with the other.

I think we could almost do it.

Almost isn’t good enough.

******

When Stuart arrived a few hours later, he was carrying two cups of grain tea and being followed by his ryeh-b’t.

“You stayed,” he said when he entered the cottage. His smile was excited. “We can sit together and discuss our thoughts if you…want…to do that.”

His expression changed as Alden sprang up from the floor, where he’d been leaning over his tablet’s holographic projection of Moon Thegund and drawing lines on it with his finger.

“You’re back so soon!” He leaped toward Stuart and almost slid on one of the sheets of paper he’d ripped out of a notebook a while ago when he was making a list of even more things he needed to know.

“It’s the time I told you I’d be back.”

“Good! I need your help. More of your help. You help with so much, and I feel like I don’t do anything for you in return. Ask for a favor sometime, please. But for now—”

“Are you all right? Do I need to call Healer Yenu?”

“I’m excellent.”

“Excellent at what?” Stuart asked, his voice so concerned now that it snapped Alden out of his frenzy.

He took in the tea. Other Alden had just slipped into the cottage behind Stuart’s ankle, and she was beelining for the suitcase. Stuart was in his school clothes.

“Sorry. I’m excited. I didn’t mean excellent like that. I mean I’m very well, and I don’t need Healer Yenu yet. I’ve realized how I want to change the nightmare, but I’m not sure it will work. I want it to be more realistic than dreams usually are. So I need you to help me figure some things out, if you have time and if you don’t mind.” He smiled. “Thank you for the tea. My manners are bad right now.”

Stuart handed him a cup, then leaned around him to see the globe of Thegund. “Of course I’ll help.”

He still looked worried though. Alden pulled himself together more.

“Come in.” He tried to sound calmer. “Let’s sit down and discuss both of our days. You first, or I’ll just overwhelm you with questions.”

Stuart turned to shut the door behind him. “You can ask your questions.”

“No. Really. Tell me about LeafSong. Or did Emban-art’h end up keeping you from classes again?” He went to move the tablet and some papers, then he sat down on one of the cushions by the floor table and sipped his tea to prove he was a good friend, too.

Stuart came to sit across from him, and after a few more glances around the room and one commanding whistle at the sight of his ryeh-b’t biting a suitcase wheel, he did seem pleased to have been asked about his day. He talked about an assignment he’d been given to achieve an accurate effect from a “successive wand” spell when one of the wands that would normally have been used was missing. Alden didn’t have to feign interest, but he was sorry that all he could do was ask questions. Stuart struck him as the kind of person who would really enjoy an in-depth discussion about magical theory with a peer.

Even if Alden had said, “I altered the results of a flashlight spell!” he wouldn’t have been able to contribute much more knowledge than the fact that it had happened.

Though if I did that, I’m sure the conversation would stop being happy spellcraft chatter anyway.

“You’re frowning,” said Stuart. “Should I explain the effects of yethwood wands again?”

Alden shook his head. “No, I was just thinking I must be boring to talk to when it comes to your school. I can’t have a conversation about it at your level.”

“You’re not ever boring to me,” said Stuart. He took an orange out of a pocket—it was his second hidden piece of Earth fruit since they’d sat down—and sniffed it deeply.

“Oranges smell wonderful,” said Alden.

“Yes! And in your language the color is named for the fruit!”

He had looked up fruit facts for everything he’d received yesterday. Peeling the orange so carefully that Alden was sure he already had a specific plan for the rind, he said, “What about your day and your questions?”

Alden felt a stir of excitement. “I need to know how much a very specific car weighs, and I want to know if a certain kind of sprinkler can pull water from the ground all over Thegund or if they only work in some places. Kibby can answer the first question. I don’t know how to find the answer to the second.”

Stuart blinked. “I’m sure it won’t be too difficult.”

“And,” said Alden, “I want you to help me figure out how to kill a demon with my skill.”

Stuart blinked again. “Why?”

“Just one,” said Alden. “I never even saw it, but it was there. And this morning I realized if Thegund happened today to the person I am now…I might be able to get out with Kibby. I might be able to keep us both alive for as long as it would take to reach people. I almost have the ability to do it. I think. There was at least one big demon roaming around out there that could ruin everything if we ran into it.”

“What kind?”

“I don’t know,” said Alden, remembering the trails in the grass. “But I want it dead so that I can leave with her that day. In my dream, I’m going to find her, and we’re going to outrun the corruption together. We’re going to escape. We’re not going to live through it all again.”

******
