Switching over to my anvil, I had to be careful as I juggled my tools. First, I checked the ingot's internal mana structure to see if it shifted during the heating process. It did, but only by a little. Next, I flip the bar over and give it a few test strokes to see how it moves.

I’ve gotten used to working with kaglese alloys, but you can never be too sure. Forging is difficult as it is, and even more so for me because I need to do it in a way that doesn't ruin the material's mana conductivity.

I spend what feels like hours shifting the ingot to and from my forge, working it so everything lines up perfectly. Then the real fun begins.

I draw out the part of the ingot that will be the blade, but only a little bit. Then, I grab one of the tools I specifically made for this job, a long thin steel cone, even smaller than a pencil. Using my hammer, I carefully drive it into the block of metal, creating the small cavity I need in the spine of the dagger. The dagger I'm making is thicker than what I'd usually make, but that’s because I need it to stay strong despite the void in the spine.

I have to make sure there isn't a single flaw in my metal; if there is, it would only take one lousy strike for the blade to shatter. But unfortunately, I spot two such imperfections that I have to take care of before moving on, doing just that.

The world around me drifts away as I sink deeper and deeper into my work. While using Sense Mana on my budding dagger, I sense Tabitha and Sandra standing next to one another by my workbench, but I don't let their conversation distract me from what I'm doing.

The forge's fire reaches through Mana Skin and makes me sweat as I continually use Precise Strike. This dagger will be all precision, so my other two skills were worthless here.

I work the dagger's blade until it's perfect; it must be before moving on.

In the end, I couldn't make the dagger in two parts as Sandra suggested. That said, making the dagger in stages did end up being the best way to go about this.

I would forge the blade of the dagger first, then remove the cone currently in its spine and let the dagger’s blade cool a bit. I wouldn’t quench it yet, but I didn’t want the blade to move as easily as it currently was.

Then, once the blade was completed, I would use the second form I made to create the dagger’s handle.

Unlike the blade where I could drive my mold into the metal, I had to be more careful with the handle. If I moved too quickly or brought my hammer down in the wrong spot, I could cut off the handle from the shaft running down the dagger’s spine. Doing so would almost certainly ruin the dagger, and I'd have to melt it down and start all over.

So, I slowly mold the handle into what I need, taking my time.

Hours later, after a lot of hard work, I finally had something to be proud of. But I wasn’t done yet.

I examine it for any flaws and go over my mostly completed work with a fine-tooth comb. I still needed to make the cap that would screw into the daggers pommel, wrap the handle, and most importantly, do the enchanting part.

Once I was sure there wasn't anything structurally wrong with it, I placed my dagger back into the forge, just long enough for me to grab my enchanting pen and heat it back up again. Pulling my dagger out of the fire, I take a deep breath and settle my emotions. The next part was arguably the hardest.

I practiced what I was about to do multiple times, and it worked most of them, but that didn’t stop me from second-guessing myself.

Picking up my engraving pen, I start channeling my mana into it. The tip of my pen glows, but no ink comes out of the reservoir; it is empty.

I bring my pen down to the still glowing metal of the dagger and stop just before I touch its surface. If I wasn’t channeling mana into my pen, the heat radiating off it might melt my pen being made out of pure mithril.

Using my pen to focus my mana, I activate Magic Threads. A tiny hair-like thread of mana snakes its way from the tip of my pen and into the glowing dagger. I push my mana through the metal, forcing it to part like a tiny drill.

I came up with this while Sandra, Master, and I were discussing ways I could put small holes in my blade without compromising its structure. We bounced around a few ideas, but Master shot them all down, saying any tool we would use would make too big a hole and ruin the blade itself.

I thought about my Magic Threads skill in a stroke of genius and remembered how I would use them to burrow into the earth below me and anchor me in place. It works by having my mana snake into the ground and fuse with the mana naturally there, but what if I didn't let it fuse? What would happen if I focused on keeping my mana together and not spreading it out?

What I got from my experiments were magic threads that could physically burry through the dirt. The new threads weren’t as stable as my other ones and took a long time to push through the harder stuff, but with Sense Mana, I could see that they were tunneling through the ground and left a void when I retracted them.

Using my engraving pen without ink was Sandra’s idea. She thought it would help me focus my mana into a small but powerful thread capable of digging into hot metal.

It wasn’t easy forcing my mana into the dagger; my mana naturally wanted to break up and spread, but I couldn't let that happen.

Slowly, less than a millimeter at a time, I pushed my mana into the metal. I didn’t take my eyes off my mana as it pushed forward, not even blinking. I pushed until I felt it pierce into the chamber in the dagger’s spine.

I wanted to celebrate my success, but I wasn’t done yet. That was only one opening; I needed to make eleven more, six on each side of the double-bladed dagger.

This was going to take a while.
