Even worse, Baatar and Gerel of the Iron Banner were seen as heroes of the citizens, peerless warriors who came from the outer villages. While a large number of people lived in the cities, a majority still lived out in the wilderness, farmers and woodcutters, shepherds and herdsmen. For those people, Baatar and Gerel were an inspiration, and for the Society to challenge them so soon after their emergence would reek of squashing rivals whilst they were still weak. To do so, and openly at that, would earn the Society the scorn of the Empire. While the strong ruled, the weak provided, and even the weak had say in who they would sell to. This fiasco could even invite an Imperial Inquiry, considering a Lieutenant General was now involved. The entire endeavor had been a disaster. Why had those damn savages acted so lowly, with so great a backing?

Without warning, the needle on his compass reversed itself and Bolin came to a stop. He had passed Chilok? Returning slowly, he scanned the area slowly. Returning to the ground, he walked a circuit around, watching the compass closely, fixating upon the location of the token.

His chest tightened when he spotted it, a patch of loose dirt. Chilok was dead, and it could bring retribution down upon them. Digging with his hands, he frantically moved the earth aside, ignoring his pride and scrambling in the dirt, near panicked. After minutes of clawing, he reached the body, pulling it from its impromptu resting place. Chilok, dead, bisected at the waist. If Chilok was dead, then it was likely the others were as well, but how? If the savages had the strength to deal with five elders, it was unlikely they would have been pressed so hard. A hidden expert, or reinforcements brought by that Lieutenant? Bolin checked the body, praying as he did so, almost shouting in joy when he found the clan token. They had not checked the body, and left behind the only proof tying the Situ Clan to the attacks. Falling back onto the ground, he sat for minutes, giddy in relief.

Taking the two halves of the body with him, Bolin returned home, new worries fresh upon his mind. There would be harsh punishments for this failure, and Bolin was the only surviving Elder to accept them. If only he could step back through time, and slap himself across the face.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tong Da Hai stood with Brigadier Xue Chang in the command platform, both men exhausted from five long days of combat, yet still fighting and keeping up appearances. Both of them were injured, Chang's arm in a sling, while Hai had half his face wrapped in bandages, the result of an errant spray of demon ichor. There were fewer and fewer orders to give, every person capable standing upon the walls by now. In a mere day, they had suffered numerous casualties, the enemy relentlessly charging the walls. He had witnessed new groups of Defiled arrive throughout the day, joining the fray as they were reinforced from behind. The enemy chose to grind the city beneath the bodies of their solders, and Hai was glad to oblige them. Even if Shen Huo were to fall, he would make them pay dearly for it.

His eyes were scanning the enemy for the hidden threat, a single Demon, a stocky red creature, almost human in appearance. A single combatant, yet it had almost single-handedly won the battle for Shen Huo. Appearing without warning, it killed Exarchs and Officers with ease, turning the tides and crippling their efforts at stemming the horde of demons and the Defiled experts. It was hunting down experts, striking while they battled other demons or Defiled martial masters, a coward of a demon. Even without the advantage of surprise, it was a difficult opponent as Hai found out first hand, his attacks barely able to leave a mark on it's hard blood-red flesh, its face twisted in a mockery of human emotion as he fought it back. Chang had ordered the Exarchs and officers into pairs to help deal with the threat, but still it managed to kill and slip away.

The enemy horde seemed near endless, even with only the infantry charging forward, carrying ladders and rams. The demons had managed to break through three sections of the northern gate, with two more remaining. Should those be broken, the enemy would send its cavalry and monsters through to rampage throughout the city, and Shen Huo would be lost within hours. Hai watched as wave after wave of Defiled scum crashed into the walls as the soldiers of his fine city threw them back, again and again. The demons were dwindling in number as Hai and Chang hunted them down over the past day, killing when they could, throwing back when they could not. The other officers had done well, Man Giao having killed his fourth demon only hours earlier. The nobles of his city had turned out in full force as well, holding the other walls, sending fresh guards to relieve his soldiers. It truly took a common enemy for them to all come together. That didn't stop them from secreting away their heirs and wealth, all being ferried to Shen Bin, but if his son were here, Hai would do the same.

A crash of flesh and metal sounded by him, several Defiled experts fighting their way to the command platform, more of them coursing their way up the ladders. They broke through, charging towards him, hoping to take his head. Smiling at them, Hai incinerated them to ash, taking great pleasure in their dying screams, while more continued to charge in. Chang brought his axe to bear, crashing forward into the line, fighting alongside his soldiers as he barked orders.

A flash of red crashed into the Brigadier, the two of them sent rolling to the floor as they struggled to kill one another. Their hunter had appeared, along with two bestial demons, one graceful and sinuous, the other large and lumbering following close behind. Moving to intercept them, the Divine Flames tore into the smaller demon with a wave of his hand, sending it reeling from the room. The second demon charged him, a slow speed that matched its size. He danced with the beast, burning its flesh as it smashed about, killing soldier and Defiled alike in its frenzy to injure Hai. A simple pattern of attack, the beast was easily avoided, but proved difficult to kill, an appropriate creature for this task of distracting him. He needed to aid Chang, but could not do so until he dealt with this nuisance. Drawing all the strength he could muster, his palm struck the beasts shoulder, sending it prone to the ground, as Hai brought his foot down upon the unholy monstrosity, smashing through close-packed flesh and compact bone, crippling the creature before him.

A heavy impact landed on his back, the second demons fangs tearing through his flexible armor to find purchase in his flesh as he stood. With a roar of pain, Hai pierced his hand into the beast's snout, and with a thought he ignited his chi, exploding the creature into a mist of acidic fluids and jagged flesh, injuring all around him. The power of the Heavens surging through him, he threw out a line of focused flame, wrapping about the Red Demon as it tried to eviscerate Chang, the flames barely able to mark its skin. Chang stood and lifted his axe with his single good arm, bringing it crashing down upon the demon, driving it through the floor. The brigadier swung again and again, unable to kill the demon as it struggled against Hai's bindings.

His strength failing, Hai pitched the creature from the platform, his remaining flames igniting as it sailed through the sky, erupting in an explosion as it crashed into the Defiled. Too strong, it seemed near unkillable, they would not survive another encounter with the Demon. Hai stood feebly as healers and soldiers rushed in, and they finished off the crippled demon, killing and pushing back the remaining Defiled, once again taking the wall. Struggling to stay awake, Hai watched Xue Chang stride about with his guts spilling out, giving orders with a vigor so at odds with his grievous injuries. The man was steel, unbreakable. Hai collapsed into the arms of his healer, unable to stand any longer, listening carefully as his eyes began to close, not sure if he was imagining the noise. It was a beautiful sound he had heard in his youth, a sound he would never forget.

The piercing cry of several thousand arrows, arcing through the air in unison.
