They engaged in more small talk, and Thomas had to fend off light attempts to recruit him into the Ross-Astor. No thanks, he'd rather be a free agent. But at least now he and Robert were on a first-name basis.

"And you've had no medical training?" Robert asked.

"No," he said. "I was working in a law office before this. Healing was just a... interesting surprise."

"Hmm." Robert looked out the window. "Well, we're here."

The estate was every bit as massive as he expected it to be. It had a huge vista of the nearby Folsom Reservoir and sprawling grounds that suggested about half the water went to maintaining lush greenery.

"You mentioned you needed a reconstructionist," Thomas said. "Can you give me any more information?"

He probably should have asked before, but he really didn't want to psych himself out of this. If he couldn't fix it, then the deal with the Coven would likely be off, and they'd all be screwed.

The man's lips pressed into a thin line. He looked briefly angry, but Thomas didn't think it was at him. He was angry at himself.

"I know the news has been suppressed, but you're local enough to have probably heard what happened downtown. The dungeon overflow?"

"Yes." Also, it hadn't escaped his notice that the dungeon overflow had been of electric wisps, and the Ross-Astors seemed to have lightning powers. His guess was that it was their dungeon.

"My daughter was accompanying me into the city," Robert said. "I was attending a meeting. We were separated by a few floors, and... one of the creatures got to her. We did what we could with healing crystals, and the talents and expertise of some of our magical healers, but they couldn't save everything. Then, I did some checking and heard rumors of a possible healer somewhere in the Lake Tahoe-Reno area."

Thomas felt a little cold. Had Derek been talking? "Oh?"

"We have contacts with the National Guard, and it seemed they were finally able to pass off a shard that they'd been trying to find someone compatible with. If the description of that shard were to be believed, that person would be able to help my daughter."

Thomas nodded. That helped explain why he had been so respectful to him from the start. He'd suspected who Thomas was.

"Zach and I were called in to help with the Brighten dungeon when it was on the verge of an overflow," he said, because there was no reason to keep that to himself at this point. "We cleared the dungeon, and it seemed to have reset the curse, or whatever they did to it to make it so difficult for level 1s. But we don't have the Hollow Shadow mana."

"If Tabatha Brighten lost it, her father would be very displeased, and as you can imagine, as the leader of a coven of dark witches, that is not a favorable place to be. It's no wonder she sent her creature after you," Robert sighed, then added, "I regret that Tad Woolworth was pulled into it. He comes from a good family."

Thomas made a noise, neither agreeing nor disagreeing. He sensed Robert would really like it if he forgave Tad for trying to feed him to the dark wizard. Nope, and he was definitely not giving that mace back, even if he never used it again. Screw that guy.

Their car finally came to the end of the long estate driveway. There was a manservant or butler or whatever the PC term was, waiting for them. Robert spoke to him, and several people were sent out.

One returned with a slim black box that almost looked like a jewelry case, which was presented to Thomas.

Thomas's greedy loot heart gave a thud as he saw three level three Healing crystals lying on a velvet cushion, and one precious level 4.

"Payment for you, and obviously the mana that you need to do this," Robert said diffidently. "Let me know if you need any more."

"This is a good start." Thomas took the box and tried not to clutch it too hard. "Please, let me see her."

****

The little girl was, at first glance, not that bad off. She was sitting with a nanny on a blanket under the shade of a tree. About nine or ten years old, she was playing with a plastic tea set and expensive-looking toy ponies.

Seeing her father approach, she got up and ran with a limping gait, and when she threw her arms around her father's waist, Thomas saw that she was missing most of her fingers.

The crystals had healed her of any burns or scars, of course, and left the stumps behind. Same as it had with Derek.

"Emily," Robert said, "this is Thomas, and he'd like to see if he can help you."

"Are you a healer?" she asked, looking at him with no fear.

"I am," he said. "Let me see those hands of yours. Oh, ouch. Okay, let's see what I can do. You had twelve fingers and twelve toes, right?"

"No!" she laughed. "I had ten! But now I only have three fingers and four toes."

Oh yeah, she had definitely been healing-crystalled in the head. That wasn't the official term for it, but no kid who had just lost so much could laugh about it so soon. Either that, or she had faith in her father and thought that this was a temporary situation. Imagine being able to grow up with magic.

"Okay, let's sit down," Thomas said, motioning to the shade under the tree. "This might feel a little weird, but it shouldn't hurt."

Thomas absorbed the level four healing crystal, which washed through him like a hit of the really good stuff. Then he took the girl's hands into his own and concentrated on his Living Architecture skill.

Twenty minutes later, the girl was again playing with her ponies, running back and forth with them in an imaginary race. Her grip was perfect, as was her gait.

Meanwhile, he and Robert walked across the lawn to the main house for a cold drink. It was hot in the valley.

"She can't be the only one in your Family that needs healing," Thomas said.

Robert nodded in acknowledgment. "No, but she's my daughter. My heir."

"Let me see the others," Thomas said. "If you give me the mana, I'll heal them."

What good were loot and mana crystals if you didn't use them?
