She rolled her eyes and gestured him to follow when the people had passed. “Now,” she said as Veron stepped next to her, the view before them opening up to reveal a three-hundred-meter-wide hole in the earth. He could barely make out the people on the other side. Mechanical lifts were set against its side, adventuring teams sent into the depths below while others climbed down on steel chains fastened to the railings that lined the entire circular pit. They carried large packs and weapons slung around their backs.

Looking down into the abyss, Veron saw torches set against the stone, dozens of broad arched entrances leading into the earth at various heights of the descent. Deeper still, all he could see was darkness.

Silvie coughed. “Welcome to Anvakar!”

Veron watched and listened to the people shouting and discussing, the straining metal ropes and the many geared up adventurers ready to enter the dungeon.

Looking down into the darkness, he could almost feel a pull, as if both the earth and winds were calling him there. To the depths, and whatever lay within. “Yeah. That’s a big hole.”

Silvie laughed and slapped his shoulder. “You have no idea, Veron.”

He wondered how it all worked. It excited him, to think about taking one of those lifts and going down there himself.

In due time.

He was also hungry and he assumed there was food at the Guild as well.

Silvie led them along the edge of the massive hole and then onto the broadest road Veron had seen so far in Anvakar. And the only one so far that had any trees, the last golden leaves of autumn hanging on to the high reaching branches. At the end of the road, he could already see a large and towering burg built onto an outcrop of rocks in the middle of the city. He assumed that was the Guild. Three large banners fluttered from the tops of three towers, their red color visible against the gray skies.

Veron looked up when a snowflake fell on his nose. The first of this winter.

The stores here looked both well stocked and well protected, close to the dungeon entrance and most certainly out of his price range. Polished plate armors and fancy weapons were displayed behind broad glass windows. Teams of adventurers excitedly discussed whatever they were looking at but it was clear by most of their gear that few of them could afford what was sold here.

“This is Main Street. Never buy anything here, they're the richest crooks around. I'll happily recommend sellers with reasonable prices for whatever you will need,” Reymond said. He didn't linger on the topic nor seemed to wait for a reply from Veron which made him feel like the old merchant at least believed his own words.

“I don't think I'll be buying anything fancy anytime soon,” Veron said.

They walked along the road, soon reaching stone stairs leading onto a bridge. Below, Veron could see more streets, narrow like all the others he had so far seen in the city, bustling with life and noise. Past the bridge, a broad and arching stairwell to the right led up towards the burg. To the left, he saw a single large oak in the middle of a square.

Up they went, soon reaching a massive open gate, steel grates visible above. Here, there were guards. Two figures in dull and slightly dented full plate armor, one standing with arms crossed and watching the passing crowds, red feathers on his helmet and a massive hammer sitting on the floor next to him. The other supposed guard lounged against the castle gate, a two handed sword leaning against the thick wooden gate much like they did. Neither spoke.

The space within the burg opened up into a courtyard, various torches lit, magical or mundane, Veron wasn't sure. Several gates led deeper into the vertically built structures, some of them shut. A large red banner with five golden swords crossed at its center hung above the largest entrance, and Silvie led them there.

“Time to become an adventurer,” Hayden said.

“Yeah,” Veron said with a smile. He looked at the large banner before he followed.
