How’s the saying go? People always rise to their level of incompetence. When judged by your successes, a person moves up in the world until they reach a level at which they are no longer competent, and are therefore no longer promoted. In contrast, I wouldn’t say I’ve reached my level of incompetence. I’ve surpassed it. It’s so far behind me, I can’t even see it anymore. Imperial Consort Falling Rain. What does that even mean? So what if I’m part of the Imperial Clan? Who cares? It’s not like I have any connections, the only Imperial Scion I know is the Legate, though I guess Luo-Luo counts too. Besides, I’m hardly the Legate’s best friend or anything. If the Defiled rip through our defences and he retreats to the Eastern Province, I doubt he’d care enough to bring me with him.

I wouldn’t go even if he did. Better to stay behind and defend my loved ones, no matter the cost. If my life is all it takes to ensure they get away safely, then I’d call that victory in death.

Taking a cue from Lin, I knock on Taduk’s door and barge right in, leaving a small pause in between to make sure I’m not interrupting anything important. Thankfully, my teacher is packed and ready to go, carrying his empty bowl in hopes of finding a new, Spiritual Algae-covered stone to fill it with. “Rain my boy,” he says with a hug and a smile. “I see you’ve brought the rabbit with you today.”

“The decision is out of my hands,” I reply, angling aside so he can see her grabby paws. “She’s dug in and refuses to let go, which is why I’m still wearing my nightclothes.” They don’t look so bad, as long as they’re tucked into my pants. “I think she’s tired from grooming her five adopted quin pups, a long and lengthy process considering they’re bigger than she is.” Belatedly, I add, “Blackjack is here too, buried somewhere around her chin.”

“Well, no harm.” Leading the way, he steps out of his yurt and greets Ping Ping with a pat on the beak, eliciting an adorable squeak from the overgrown turtle. Sometimes, I think Ping Ping only loves me for the water I feed her, because she’s much friendlier with the people around me like Taduk, Lin, and Mila. Consumed by jealousy, I follow Taduk to the beach where Guard Leader waits with our skiff, and Guan Suo materializes from out of thin air to take his seat in the centre, puffing away at his pipe without a word of greeting. With Guard Leader at the helm (or whatever it is you call the rowers seat. Boat language is confusing), we set off into the orange-red bay as the sun rises on the horizon over the verdant plains of Central, a sight which takes my breath away no matter how many times I see it.

If it weren’t for all the bloodthirsty spirits encouraging people to become homicidal cannibals, I think I’d fall in love with this beautiful world.

Twenty minutes and many kilometres later, Mama Bun stirs in my arms and releases her grip on my shirt, yawning and rubbing the sleep from her eyes, a sight which never fails to put a smile on my face. After showering me with bunny kisses, she settles down in my lap with Blackjack for a hearty, hand-fed breakfast while Sir Inky peers over the lip of his pot and fumes in silence at this blatent discrimination, smacking the metal sides every now and then to remind me of his existence.

Mother in Heaven, it’s only been a few days and already he’s turned into an entitled prick. Go find your own food, you lazy slacker. This here is a floof and feathers only pet menagerie. Yea, I said it. Go back to the ocean where you belong, you damned tentacle miscreation.

Mid-way through her meal, Mama Bun raises her head and twitches her nose, scenting something off in the distance. Leaving the dry comfort of my lap, Mama Bun bounds to the deck and makes her way to the side of the skiff, standing on hind legs to peer westward outside the safety of Nan Ping’s bay. Noticing Mama Bun’s actions, Guard Leader immediately veers our ship towards the deep, dark waters, exactly where everyone said to avoid. Neither Taduk nor Guan Suo seem to mind, and my silly teacher even seems excited by our new heading, bouncing in his seat like a child going on a trip. Beside us, the quins squeak up a storm of warnings before turning to head back for shore, though Mafu pokes his head up in chittering concern. “Go back,” I tell him, pointing at the shore. “Home.”

Wishing with all my heart I could go with him, I watch him swim away to safety before voicing my concern. “Er, are you sure we should go so far from shore? In case you forgot, there are worse things than sharks out there. Out here,” I correct. Holy shit we’re moving fast. Is Guard Leader working harder or are we caught in a current?

“Nonsense, Rain my boy.” Carefree as always, Taduk leans over the side for an unobstructed view ahead. “We’re well equipped to deal with anything lurking in these waters. Look to the turtle, see how calm and carefree she is? You’ve nothing to worry about, promise.”

While Ping Ping is still in the mood to loop and whirl about, it’s Sir Inky’s reaction which concerns me more, the angry invertebrate seeking shelter inside his pot for the first time all morning. Gathering the tiny hare into my hands, I give it a kiss on the head and stroke its cheeks, more for my comfort than Blackjack's as I pray nothing goes wrong and expect everything will.

Whatever. It’s not like I’m missing anything important going on back in Nan Ping, just another day of gratuitous cheers and unfounded celebrations. Who knows, maybe this’ll work out for the best and all my problems will be solved in one fell swoop. Find the missing Blobby, figure out how Spiritual Algae reproduces, and have an epiphany which makes the whole world make sense once again.

And maybe the next time I squat down for a shit, rainbows and happiness will pour out of my ass and flood the world with cheer and joy.

It could happen.

Chapter Meme
