"Good. Whisper, you're back in. No more fucking around with knives—just focus on the meat. Band. Use your dimensionals if you want. It is efficient. Just don't have them do this quarter-assed. They are not the performers. The meal is the performance. The taste is a performance. This is showboating. No one can taste your song. Focus on the godsdamned food.”

"Yes, Chef," Band said.

Shiv sighed. “I don’t know where you got that knife, but I know it isn’t from Georges. He would have never accepted this shit. You would be gone. On the spot. So. We’re going to be having a conversation about that knife after we make something acceptable. If. But congratulations—the mystery you tried to build up earlier is gone now. Nice job.”

Band flinched.

Silver Tongue 25 > 27

Shiv continued. "This was not acceptable. Showing off skills and humiliating me is fine if the dish is finished and finished well. It felling wasn’t! We're going to be chefs, then we're going to do it to the bone. That means that we need to be great alone and perfect together. Not scattered. Not a mess. Tight! Together! Like a fist!" He held out a fist, and he shook it at the orcs. A few of them nodded, repeating the act. He didn't know if they were playing psychological games, trying to appeal to him to make him lower his guard, but right then, he didn't care. The dish came first. “Do it right. Or you’re just wasting your time here. There is no dominance in half-assing.”

He turned to Adam and Uva, and now they were looking on, both of them seeming entranced by the sight.

"Adam," Shiv said, slightly apologetic. "It's going to take a while longer for me to finish this."

"What?" Adam blinked, breaking from the stupor. "Oh, no, no, it's fine. It's just... Take as long as you need to." He nodded. “Did… did you just chew out a group of orcs?”

“No. I chewed out a group of chefs,” Shiv replied. “And they’re going to do it right now. Aren’t they.”

“Aye, chef!” The orcs called out. “As long as it takes!”

“Good,” Shiv said. “Let’s get this done right now.”

And as the Deathless and the orcs attacked the recipe with renewed vigor, Adam leaned closer to Uva. “I think… I think this might work. I think Shiv might be able to control the orcs.”

“I don’t know about control,” Uva said, an equally surprised look on her face. “But compel? Command the respect of? Yes. He… He seems to have an intuitive understanding of their nature.”

Both watched as Shiv shouted commands and the orcs obeyed.

Adam let out a breath and rubbed his face. “Ascendants. We’re going to be saving Blackedge with an orc army. How the hells did I get here?”

The Chef Unwavering 60 > 62
