“Heck no. I’ve given her a lot of frights. To say that the entire planet is untenable under normal physics? No thank you.”

“Yeah… Now that you mention it, that’s probably what would happen if the Script vanished.” Jane smiled, as the coftea finished brewing. “So you’re sure you haven’t told that theory to anyone else?”

Erick saw the glints in Jane’s eyes. He said, “Don’t you go telling Kiri that, either! I’ve given her more than enough upsets to last a lifetime.”

She laughed. “I won’t.” She added, “I hadn’t even considered the planetary weight angle, though. That’s a scary sort of armageddon.” She asked, “But that just brings up the thought that if the Script is keeping the Underworld and the Surface supported, then the gods and Melemizargo would know of that issue. Would they really make a world so geologically unstable? Seems like asking for trouble down the line. How would you even prepare for such an— Ah.” A lightbulb must have gone off in Jane’s mind. She asked, “You saw the quest to make a vehicle capable of leaving Veird, didn’t you?”

Erick smiled. “Yeah. I did. That was the first thought that came to my mind, too, when I saw that quest. But then I got distracted by other affairs.” Erick said, “I don’t think there’s much of a worry, as long as that quest remains incomplete and Melemizargo has yet to kill the wrought off.”

Jane poured coftea for both of them and added milk to Erick’s. She brought them over, saying, “Have you ever read any of the literature of the Cult of the Dark Dragon?”

“No. I’ve purposefully stayed away.” Erick sipped his coftea, and it was good. Jane always brewed it best. He asked, “Why? Have you?”

Jane sipped her coftea, then said, “Yes. All of the bigger works. Gotta understand the enemy, after all.” She added, “And you actually have. ‘The Foreigner Mage’.”

“… What?”

“That little green book. You told me about it before. That’s one of the Shade recruitment tools out there. But it’s also a very truthful book.”

“… What.” Erick said, “No. Wait. Nooo. That’s written and published—”

“By shadow publishing houses across the world. Ha. Pun not intended.” She added, “That little green book is also considered widely true, so people use it, but are still punished for having it in their possession.”

Erick had no idea. He asked, “Really?”

“Yes.” Jane joked, “But what self-respecting archmage would call themselves that without a few banned tomes in their possession?”

Erick sat silent, in contemplation. He had been using a Shade-written book? That book had been given to him by Hocnihai. Hocnihai had a quest involving his final tomes posted in Candlepoint. What was going on there? He asked, “A series of coincidences? Or something else?”

Jane asked, “Thinking about how you and I fit into this mess?”

“… I wasn’t. But now I am. I was thinking about Hocnihai’s final tomes. I have a full copy of each one, and a few more besides. He’s the one who gave me ‘The Foreigner Mage’, too.”

Jane nodded, then said, “So let’s have a talk about Candlepoint. I heard that you said you want to flatten the place during a major public meeting of the minds in Spur’s War Room.”

Erick had said that, and he did want to flatten the place. Ar’Kendrithyst, too. Erick said, “It’s the right choice.”

“It’s the right choice for me to say something like that.” Jane said, “But… A lot must have happened while I was sleeping or away… A lot more than what you’ve said. Because the Erick Flatt I know would never have jumped at the responsibility to murder anyone or anything; monsters included. Especially since the people in Candlepoint might be actual people.”

Erick smiled a little to cover the break happening inside. He said, “I’ve learned a lot since coming to Veird, and shadelings have backstabbed the world before.”

“I heard that part of history, too. And don’t get me wrong. I appreciate that sort of attitude. But it’s not who you are.” She said, “And I fear I may have done you a very, very wrong turn, in pressuring you to ‘get with the program’. I’m sorry.”

“Don’t worry about that. You were right. This was a necessary change.”

“You don’t believe that.”

“Sure I do,” Erick said, believing and disbelieving his own words at the same time.

“… Okay.” Jane added, “But if you want to run away and ignore Candlepoint and all of that… You can. You can disappear and plant a garden. Maybe a smaller city in a less dangerous part of the world. See nicer sights than battlefields. Maybe take in a few concerts or plays in the bigger cities. Or even come to Oceanside and give a class and never step foot on a battlefield again. This place is a good place to be, Dad. I’ll support you in whatever you do.”

Erick sighed, a tiny fraction of a breath. He said, “But you’re going to go to war.”

“Yes. Because that’s my decision. You don’t have to decide to be a warrior.”

Erick laughed, at that. “I already have, though. Have you ever seen what the Crystal Mimics are capable of when they reach green land?”

Jane rolled over Erick’s objection, saying, “I’m not pressuring you either way. I just want you to be… I want you to be okay. Okay?”

“I’m pretty far from okay, but I’ll live, and tomorrow I might be better.” He needed to change the subject, so he spent 10 points to complete a quest, and showed Jane the blue box as he said, “So I’m going for Particulate Force, next. Gotta have weapons in the war.”

Ability Slot Increase Quest Complete!

10/10 points spent.

Return to a Registrar to increase your Ability Slots by 1.

Jane’s face flickered from disbelief, to wonder, to reserved and thoughtful, then right back to ‘concerned daughter’, all in the space of a second.

Erick asked, “And when was the last time you were at the Registrar? You should go and see what sort of stranger Classes you qualify for. I’m apparently qualified to be a Blood Mage because of [Cascade Imaging].”

Jane instantly said, “That spell is bullshit, and you know it. Radiowaves are meters long! How the hell can that image DNA?!”

“That’s your objection?” Erick laughed. “It’s magic!”

Jane countered with, “Whatever.” She added, “And that’s still a ‘NO’ on Particulate Force. You’re gonna kill yourself with that Ability, Dad.”

“Not if the Shades kill me first.”

Jane closed her eyes tightly as she crossed her arms and sighed. After a long moment, she opened her eyes. “… Fair.” Jane took another long moment to say, “Then… Fine. Go ahead.” She stressed, “But don’t do that sort of magic without someone with [Greater Treat Wounds] and [Regeneration] and [Blood Renewal]! You should get a good Healer this time. Someone with actual healing skills.”

“I’m sure Rats had some—”

“He was useless when you almost died making [Zone of Peace]. He used you to get his [Greater Treat Wounds] Spell Quest done. All he had was basic healing. [Healing Word]. [Rejuvenation].” Jane said, “I asked. He had almost nothing except a disastrous need to get out of the active Army. He was fucking up everywhere on the front line, so he got kicked to you. The only competent person under you is Poi.” She added, “Teressa needed a break, too, but at least she managed to keep it together and pull herself together.”

“… Yeah. Maybe.”

She said, “You have a hard time being mad at who you should be mad at, and that’s great when everything is going great, but that’s bad when everything goes sideways and people turn out to be far less good than you expect of them. Very few people are like you.”

Erick shook his head, and said, “That’s more than enough of the bad stuff that’s happened! Tell me something good? Have you gone and gotten your Terminator slime yet?”

“Terminator slime? You never even saw those movies!”

“I knew about them! That one guy had a liquid metal body, right? Almost like a wrought~” Erick sing-songed.

Jane smiled, then said, “Yeah. It’s pretty neat. I’m probably two weeks away from [Stone Body], too, but I’m probably going to have to cut that promise short, if war begins.”

Erick frowned.

“We have to talk about this stuff, a little.” She offered, “For a little while longer.”

“Fine… I get it. So what was that ‘soulbound’ thing you mentioned, earlier?”

Jane said, “The Headmaster has gotten samples of every single item from Candlepoint. One of them is known as a ‘soulbound stone’. What you do, is use it on a real item, of any sort, and that item becomes a soul-mantle item. Technically: it attaches to your soul, and it can never be taken away from you, because as soon as it is, it turns to mana, and dissipates. You can reform the item by spending mana. Effectively: it becomes a Script skill, almost. It gets its own blue box, and then you pump mana into that box, and the item appears on your person, and is usable once again.

“The Headmaster bought several of those stones, after the first one proved what it could do.

“The stone breaks when the item breaks, and almost all magical items break. But he did use a stone on one of your rings, and that ring remains with the person who used the stone. They can take it out and put the ring directly on their finger with 50 mana. It was only an 11 Strength ring, though; one of the earlier, weaker ones you made.”

Erick listened, and that was all very interesting. It was also concerning. He said, “Seems dangerous. I don’t know much about soul magic, but… I can’t believe that— No. Wait. I’m sure the Headmaster has access to the best necromancers on Veird. He probably knows what every single item does, or is, or how dangerous they are.”

“The Headmaster’s necromantic tests were conclusive: the creation of a soulbound item does not affect the soul of the person wearing it.” Jane’s eyes sparkled, as she said, “But you don’t know why the existence of this sort of item is so truly interesting, do you?”

“… No?” He said, “It’s just more crazy magic, right?”

Jane chuckled, and said, “Melemizargo has my car!”

“… What?”

“And probably my laptop, too.”

What followed was a whirlwind story of Dungeons and Dragons and a laptop in the trunk and how Jane and all of Savral’s group had journeyed across the Crystal Forest, trying to retrace Jane’s steps. They had succeeded, but when they got to the car, it was gone.

Erick had heard this story before. He even knew about Jane’s laptop and such in the trunk. And then she reminded him of the D&D book that she slapped onto Irogh’s desk, and the extra Stats of that ‘game system’. She had even gone to Irogh later, without Erick, and asked if the Registrar over in Kal’Duresh would have interfered with her car. Irogh, and even Kal’Duresh’s Registrar, both told her that he had done nothing with their vehicle.

She had never been able to find it, but she had kept looking. And then Candlepoint popped up.

“I don’t know where they’re keeping it, but there were a lot of things on that laptop. If all it took was a [Mend] to make it work again, then who knows what they could have seen. Of course, I could just be imagining it all.” Jane said, “But most telling are the extra Stats they’ve added to the Script, as well as the quest for a spaceship. And then there’s all the weirdly named items. You’ve got the soulbound stuff and Immovable Rods, the Instant Fortress and the Bag of Holding. Don’t forget the Flame Tongue enchanted items, either.

“[Flaming] is the skill they use to enchant fire magic onto weapons, Dad. Not ‘Flame Tongue’. That’s a whole new thing for Veird.” She excitedly said, “And! And! I’ve been looking for a Bag of Holding since I got to Veird, but they just don’t exist! True Bags of Holding require dimensional fuckery or at least [Gate] magic, so they don’t exist, but Bags of Tiny Size do, though they’re more novelties than anything real. They use [Alter Size]. They don’t last very long, at all, and retrieving something from them is a chore. But apparently Candlepoint has ‘Bags of Holding’!” She added, “They’re still just novelties made with [Alter Size], though. Apparently even Shades can’t get that one right.”

Erick stared off into space, then looked down at his daughter. She was smiling. He was not smiling. “So what does this mean?”

“I don’t know!” She added, “But if you’re worried about physics textbooks being on there, or whatever: Don’t. It was literally just a reference laptop. I stored all my gaming books there in one convenient package. If anything, all it had was overviews of ideas of horrific monsters and magics, but there was absolutely no physics or real-world stuff on there.”

“Okay… That’s... better than I thought it would be.”

“There were literally dozens of tabletop gaming systems in there, though. So. There you go.”

“… But what does this mean?”

“Short term, it means I’ve been spilling every bit of gaming knowledge I have to the Headmaster and in return I’m getting my Stone, Air, and Water Elemental Body skills for free. I’ll be back in Spur soon enough, without needing to kill monsters for him like one of his Elites.” She pointed back to the kitchen table, where an empty plate sat. “I was actually just sitting down for a snack to get the taste of stone out of my mouth, when you showed up. And then it was back to grinding [Stone Body].”

Erick was very happy for that change of plans. “That’s amazing, Jane.”

“I thought so, too.”

