He smiled wide. “Speaking of the Elemental Body skills: [Lightwalk] is pretty interesting. When you got the skill, did it feel like completing a puzzle to you, too? Oh! And have you managed to remake any spells? There are ‘Remake Spell Quests’ or whatever they’re called, in the Script, open for every single Basic Spell out there. I’ve remade [Blink] and [Teleport] so far, but I think I want to eventually try for every single spell.” He spoke seriously, “But don’t do Spatial spell remakes until you get a [Familiar]. The only way I survived remaking [Blink] and [Teleport] was because I used Ophiel. I talked to the guildmaster of the Wayfarer Guild in Spur, and he lost an arm when he went and remade [Teleport].”

Jane sat, slack jawed. “You can do that?! Get extra points? Just like that?!”

“I know, right? I was surprised, too.” He joked, “It’s pretty dangerous, but what self-respecting archmage would get to that position without risking death by their own magic?”

Jane faked a long laugh, “Haaa.” She stared off into nothing. After a moment. She asked, “[Lightwalk] felt like completing a puzzle, to you?”

“Well yeah.” Erick asked, “What did it feel like for you?”

“Like a grind.”

They talked for a while, about magic and gaming, about Candlepoint and Shades, and everything else. The sun began to set outside, while they drank coftea and talked. It was a good talk. By the time Erick left, he felt a lot better.

When he got back to Spur, Kiri greeted him with an assortment of pizzas she had rolled out and topped herself, then placed under [Cold Ward]s, to wait for Erick’s return.

Later that evening, as the sun set outside his windows, and Erick read about Mana Altering in a comfy chair, he sent Ophiel out to the place where he had cast [Vivid Gloom]. Staying up in the air, high above the ground, Ophiel did okay. But as soon as he hovered down to get a closer look at the remains scattered across the land, he began to decay. Erick quickly wrapped Ophiel in a [Lightmask], stopping that decay. He continued his investigation.

There were no living mimics but there were lots of slumped and dead ones, with limbs full of milky white clouds and dried blue and brown babies nestled in the crevices near the center. No worms popped up from the ground, either. Even the crystal agave looked strangely ‘dead’. Ophiel flew closer to the standing agave. They were clear as crystal, but Ophiel touched one of the limbs, and that limb cracked and broke from the central stalk, causing a cascade of structural failure. The entire crystal agave broke to the ground, tinkling like shattering glass as it fell.

Erick felt a profound need to clean up his mess. He didn’t prepare, he didn’t harmonize his magic, he just cast, taking his primal need and mushing it into a body. [Cleanse] and [Conjure Force Elemental] mixed together, along with a 500 mana Mana Shaping, as Erick hoped for something along the lines of his Withering Slime.

Thick air tumbled out of the clear air, forming the mirage of an animated breeze around a sphere of clear, glass-like nothing. And then it moved. That core slipped through the wind, navigating the energetic breeze, the whole monster acting like a kid in a candy store that had been told to get whatever they wanted. It slipped across a dead agave and left behind crystal. It carved across the sands, turning brown bits underneath to thick air. It settled over a mimic, briefly, and left behind nothing.

Erick watched the mirage slime for a while, barely seeing the central summon through its secondary cloud of thick air, feeling better as it cleaned up his mess. Eventually, he came back to himself, and saw a blue box.

Mirage Slime, instant, close range, 750 MP

Summon a semi-sentient mass of [Cleanse] to clean up all messes. Lasts 1 hour.

He smiled. He had guessed the name right, too!

He went back to his books, but this time, he stopped when it was time to sleep—

He had forgotten to ask Jane about Delia. Eh. She’d probably say something along the lines of ‘I can’t believe that little shit stole from you!’ And then Erick would explain how he had promised and blah blah blah and then Jane would say ‘No. Screw her,’ as she promised to ‘teach the brat a lesson’ should she ever see her. And then Erick would say—

But. Maybe Erick wasn’t giving his daughter enough credit.

He’d call her up in the morning.
