She composed herself back into her feminine form, walking across the room. Keratin spikes disintegrated in her gelatinous frame, those near her giving the razor queen space. She made her way to the snack bar and began indulging in said snacks with great abandon, shoving down unreal volumes of food. Beside her, Hod followed suit. After a minute, they locked eyes.

A competition spawned at that moment. Slime queen and birdman began eating food at an even more voracious pace. Nearby waiters walked past them, dropping platter after platter of exotic delicacies. These foods were wasted as both Hod and Wrath sucked down enough food to feed the rest of those here.

They were both massive balls by the time they finished. The two bulbous, swollen guests turned to each other as Hod finished a single bite more than Wrath. She gave Hod a nod of respect,

"You eat without end."

"Hod hungry."

Wrath scoffed, "I like this imbecile. He is both uplifting and a great devourer in his own right."

They made merry, a crowd around them clapping at the impromptu entertainment. I peered around, looking for other oddities, and I found Althea talking with Caprika, Victoria, and three other albony noblewomen. Kessiah was at a bar, drinking other mercenaries and guards under the table. I hoped she kept it under control, considering her history with drinking.

Florence and Torix showed up a while back, each of them discussing the intricacies of etiquette and politeness. That might have been the only point those two could relate with, but it was somehow bringing them together despite that fact. After my searching glance, everyone continued enjoying themselves. I took a moment to breathe, soaking in a moment of relaxation. Beside me, a portal appeared as Obolis stepped out. He carried a subdued black gemstone in his hand. It revealed markings of the cipher that looked even more ancient than the kind Obolis wore.

Obolis raised it up, inspecting it as he said, "Look behind us."

I turned, and Giess was shown near the central star of its solar system. Half of the planet was lit, and it cast a shadow behind it that widened with distance. It looked outright minuscule by comparison to the star, hard to even make out amidst the shining light. A section of the transparent panels powered up, electricity tracing the glass substrate via the gray reinforcement. A red circle cropped over Giess, and this circle magnified our view of it so that everyone could see with ease.

Obolis sighed, "Soon, the glassing will commence. It is time I make my mark here."

With a gravitational wave, Obolis lifted himself up into the air. He took a glass and tapped it as he did before, the resonations silencing the massive crowd gathered around. As they silenced, Obolis spread his arms.

"Hello, my honored guests. We are here today to celebrate many things, the least of which is the death of a world that has spawned an untold number of horrors."

Many of the albony here raised fists and roared. Obolis raised a palm, settling them down,

"You might ask what could exceed the importance of such an event? I shall tell you - we are celebrating our allies during these dark times. As you all know, my Empire is at the center of this rebellion. Three of our planets have been attacked, the Adair family rallying with the rebels on those worlds."

He squeezed a hand into a fist, holding his anger back,

"Their disobedience has resulted in the death of millions. They fight for subtle freedom, one that holds no guarantee of safety or prosperity. What madness drove them to such depths, I will never understand. What I do understand is this - we will win this war."

Albony and other aliens who supported Schema gave out shouts of approval. Obolis grinned,

"But we cannot win alone. The Adairs are a cunning and prepared force, their methods both brutal and effective. During these trying times, I will be dipping into my Empire's treasury to fund the war. Just as well, I shall be taking choice treasures from my personal vault and giving them to allies who show grit, valor, and a desire to win."

Obolis gestured a hand to me, and my heart sank.

"Here is the Harbinger of Cataclysm. He, too, lies at the center of this rebellion, acting as Schema's spearhead. He has earned his titles through his many deeds. He killed the Destroyer of Worlds, Yawm. He has fought against Lehesion, the Shattered God, and been victorious. He has killed more of the Adairs than all others combined during his siege of Giess."

Obolis raised a fist, "And he has barely scratched the surface of his potential. This behemoth has chosen to ally himself with my Empire without asking for compensation. Such is the extent of his moral backbone that even when faced against this mighty foe, he chooses the greater good."

Obolis was really playing this up. He accentuated choice words with a pointed finger,

"Yet our Empire does not accept kindness without returning the favor in kind. In my hands, I carry an ancient elemental furnace. It has been crafted from an umbral jade, ancient runes carved over its surface. It can handle tremendous volumes of mana, even when compared to other furnaces."

He turned the jade to me,

"Please, take this as a gesture of goodwill."

I raised an eyebrow, wondering what he was doing. The solution popped in my head a second later. The guy was pulling a classic layering technique. Since he was already going to give me an elemental furnace, he figured why not make it into a show of sorts? It would make him many new allies, and it solidified our earlier deal. Clever.

I saw no reason to argue, so I let the guy have his win. I floated the furnace over, snatching it out of the air. I inspected it for a second, the cipher carvings truly incomprehensible. Yup, this was the real deal. I gave it a slow nod,

"Impressive. Thanks."

Obolis turned to those present,

"After you all see Schema's might firsthand, know that you fight on the winning side if you choose to join me. Schema will not be alone in rewarding your valor, as I have just demonstrated. Thank you all for listening and enjoy the rest of your viewing. It will be an explosive show."

Obolis's speech aside, I peered at the furnace closely, and it was incredible. It used dual layering, triple depth etching, even matching the strata of the stone, adding complexity to its message. It was beyond anything I'd ever seen. Someone must have spent decades searching for just the right stone to convey this particular message. Now it was here, in my grasp.

Oh man, once I figured out how to work this damn thing, Lehesion would be quaking in his boots. Or claws. Whatever, it didn't matter. I put the furnace in my dimensional storage, peering at Giess as Althea walked over. I eyed her, and her beauty was so stunning that my eyes could not be torn from it. We hugged each other, waiting for the glassing.

A moment later, and it began. A vast dimensional crack formed in the distance. A pulse crossed the entire solar system, our dimension wavering. The others around me struggled to sustain this wave, many made nauseous. I stayed standing, unaffected by the sudden shift. As I did, I held Althea up, the shapeless arbiter grabbing her head.

Those around us shook off their unease as an enormous, gray behemoth rose in the skyline. It floated towards Giess, the size of a small moon. Writhing masses of plated flesh rose from its surface. It pulsed with radioactive energy, many fusion reactors brimming underneath its skin. Its many eyes stared in all directions, hunting for more flesh to devour.

It found Giess, pulsing itself towards it. This was a Spatial Fortress in all its might and fury. Even as those around me trembled at its sheer size and malice, a knot formed in my stomach. This wasn't enough to kill an Old One or even Lehesion. Don't get me wrong, the Spatial Fortress was impressive in its own right, but it just wasn't comparable to an Eonoth or Etorhma.

Whatever they used to chain that massive eldritch had made it docile and weak. It moved with a sluggish crawl. Its instincts gave way to controllers who lacked the same voracity. It looked starved for nutrients. I couldn't kill it, but I know who could.

I clenched my teeth. This was going to be a long day.
