"To them, it is more real than meat and bone. I sense the truth in their words. They say you bend the laws of nature to your will, and you wield the very fabric of dimensions in your hands. It is written across you, stories of your dominance, and immortality."

Obolis raised a hand, "Is she referring to your cipher inscriptions? I understood you were channeling mana, but I didn't think of it as devouring yourself. That seems quite illogical, even for the eldritch."

Obolis's eyes widened,

"Unless...you're using blood magic."

I frowned, not saying anything. Obolis grabbed his chin, "Ah, so that is how one can explain it...That is why you're able to manage so many strengths. Hmm, interesting. This changes the situation entirely. No wonder you wish for an elemental furnace to such an extent."

Obolis grinned at me, "You would be able to not only build yourself using the cipher, but you would also be able to rejuvenate from any harm in an instant by turning mana to flesh."

Wrath leaned forward, "This monster wishes to devour this universe as well?" She turned to me, "You are no different than the eldritch then."

I spread out my hands,

"Eat the universe? Really? Holy shit, guys. The scale is different. I'm not over here eating people or planets. At most, I'd be converting rocks or dirt into mana and using that for my cipher augments. I don't understand why that's considered so strange to the eldritch. To me, it just makes sense from a pragmatic perspective. That's all."

Obolis frowned, "Perhaps it's merely a difference in perspective then? You are an anomaly, of that I'm certain. Using the cipher as you do would normally result in a stark shift in your personality. It would be as if you were rewriting who you are. Instead, it affects only your physical body, and your mind remains unchanged. I've deduced as much since meeting you."

Obolis raised a finger, his mind revving up,

"Your personality is constant, only shifting as you naturally grow. In that way, your mind and body must be separate entities entirely now. Otherwise, the cipher would warp you into a caricature of yourself. I've seen it happen in others. I wouldn't wish the same onto you."

I remembered Yawm and what happened to him. The big plant man acted like a megalomaniac, some kind of obsession controlling him. Yawm was also covered in cipher runes that helped him use otherworldly powers. The runic configurations might have manifested in his personality and resulting god complex. That explained why he was so...off.

Those same side effects didn't apply to me. Otherwise, I'd be acting more differently than I do if what Obolis said was true. My face saturated with confusion as I thought about it further,

"What would that even mean, though? My mind isn't in my body?"

Obolis shrugged, "I've no idea, honestly. Your lack of precedent comes from being unique. This means there's no history of this before; you walk into uncharted waters alone. In many ways, we can only pray you do not drown in those waters."

I frowned, "Man, you really know how to cheer someone up, you know that?"

Obolis waved off my concerns, "Perhaps these implications will manifest at a different time. For now, I'd rather discuss more earthly concerns, such as the deal between you two."

Wrath pointed at Obolis, "Why does it interest you so?"

Obolis stood up straight, "It is simply beneficial for me to be involved. I cannot offer you anything you value, Wrath, but I can offer Daniel quite a bit. He can offer you something you need, but you have nothing you may grant him."

The surface of Wrath's body quivered as she seethed, "I own many things I can reward the Harbinger with."

Obolis crossed his arms, "Such as?"

"I...I can give him my children to feast upon."

I winced, "Ahem, no thanks."

Wrath turned to me in despair,

"They are delicious, I assure you. I've eaten my species children many times, and I promise you that-"

"Actually, I'm still good with not doing that. I don't actually like eating children."

Obolis spread out his arms, "My point exactly. We can create a triangular deal, and I may act as an intermediary so that all parties remain satisfied."

I narrowed my eyes, "What will you be offering me? Killing someone like Plazia would require a hell of a deal."

Obolis turned towards me, "Several elemental furnaces, along with instruction on how to use them. I may also grant you a meeting with Baldowah. He is the most predictable of the Old Ones, and he has shown interest in seeing you."

I raised a palm to him, "I'd actually rather not meet anymore Old Ones."

Obolis narrowed his eyes, "Ones? You've met more than one then. You haven't met Baldowah based on what you just said, so that leaves Etorhma and...I don't know."

Obolis's eyes lit up with fascination, "What was the entity like?"

I grimaced as thoughts of Eonoth passed over my head,

"It was loud. Very, very loud."

Obolis rolled his hand with impatience, "Anything else you can add, such as its philosophy, the intensity of the meeting, perhaps its name?"

"I mean this when I say this. You should not mention that thing's name. It might just talk with you. If that happens, you'll end up melting into a pile of mush from just the echoes of its voice. Even I nearly died from it."

Obolis smirked, "I assure you, I'll be fine."

My face darkened, "I assure you, you will not."

My expression contorted further as memories of my blood vessels liquifying washed over me. I nearly drowned in my own blood when Eonoth and I first met. Obolis might not be so lucky. The Emperor met my eye at that moment, and something in my expression conveyed genuine concern.

Obolis looked away, biting his tongue. He gave his eyebrows a quick rise while shaking his head in disappointment. He peered back at me,

"Perhaps you are right. I'll drop the issue for now. Moving yet once more to the deal, I was wondering if my offer was satisfactory?"

I nodded, "Yeah. It was for me. I don't know if I'll take it yet because I have responsibilities to my guild."

Obolis turned to Wrath, "What do you think of the deal? It's a pleasing proposition, isn't it? We would all prosper in the wake of it."

Wrath turned to me,

"I would be pleased with this offer. I can throw some of my children in as an incentive if the need-"

I raised my hands, "No, no, that won't be needed. At all." I leaned towards Obolis,

"I wanted to bring something up that I noticed. I know you planned for this. If you try to take advantage of me, I'll learn about it, and I'm not an enemy you want to make. Ask the Adair family if you want to know why."

Obolis's face turned somber. He chose his next words with care,

"I watched you ravage the planetside, and the memories of it linger in my mind like the echos of a foregone battle. Know this - you offered to help us without asking for anything in return. The Empire pays its debts in full. This is how I wish to do so...In fact-"

He raised a hand, "I'll add a grimoire to the deal. It's a spellbook written in the cipher. It gives incantations of all kinds, though many are admittedly enigmatic. Perhaps studying it will be more useful for you than I, given I couldn't fully understand it."

He gave me a knowing grin, "Consider the tome an extra gift given your past services. You may even use the team granted to you for Blegara to assist with your efforts against Plazia. Though young, they are all competent albony. They should serve you well both in battle and in planning."

I gave him a begrudging nod, "I can't say yes just yet. Let me think about it for my guild's sake."

Obolis's eyes narrowed, but he swallowed his disappointment, "Take your time."

I turned towards space, the vastness making me feel insignificant. That was a refreshing feeling since the options laid out to me involved the fates of wars and rebellions alike. Since the possibilities seemed overwhelming, I took a moment to break things down before thinking things over.

For starters, an elemental furnace was a given no matter the scenario. Obolis would hand one over after a few victories on his behalf, regardless of what I decided on doing. Knowing that fact, the furnaces shouldn't weigh into my decision. On the other hand, the grimoire was interesting. It could hold a few secrets about the cipher I didn't know.

Each breakthrough could result in a massive power spike for me, my golems, and my crafting. If I constructed better armor and weapons, my guildsmen would be more potent because of it. Even more so, if I ever eclipsed Lehesion, then nothing would stop me from getting Earth on the right track. Colonizing other worlds wasn't even out of the question either.

This new deal also handled several issues I had with my scheduling right now. Helping out the Empire and the ahcorus would kill two birds with one stone. I could get to helping out the vagni and earth earlier rather than later.  With all those factors in mind, I narrowed my eyes and raised my eyebrows, trying to look skeptical. In all honesty, I was already sold.

Before I could say I'm in, Obolis took the bait and turned a palm to me,

"If you accept this deal right here and right now, I'll grant you an elemental furnace immediately. Tell me, what will you do?"

It turned out that pressure was a great way to muddy someone's judgment. That extra incentive made my decision for me,

"Alright then, consider it a deal."

That's what the grizzled warlord got for stirring the rest of his partygoers to interrogate me and my guild. Obolis noticed my satisfaction in an instant, his eyes widening. He gave me a slow, steady nod,

"Ah, I've been played."

I stopped myself from grinning but poorly,

"I don't know what you're talking about. I'm just using my resources wisely."

Obolis placed a hand on Wrath and my shoulders. He looked at me then Wrath, "Well then, as the deal states, I'll get an elemental furnace that suits you right away. While I'm grabbing it, you may both work out the details of this arrangement as you need to. The glassing will occur soon, so don't dabble on the details for too long."

Obolis walked off, "It would be a shame if you missed the event in its full fury."

As he warped away, I turned to Wrath, "It will be good to finally work with you."

"Likewise, Eater of Monsters. I shall stay on Svia, our homeworld, and help you hunt Plazia. We know where he lies. We simply cannot conquer his fortress."

I nodded, "I'll see if I can't help with that then."

"When will your kind be allowed to come?"

I tapped my chin, "Within a week, I'd say. Our guild just finished taking Giess on, and now we're all settling down on my homeworld. We need some time to rest and recuperate. After that, we'll head over and meet up to make a plan."

Within Wrath, several glowing spots danced around as she hissed in happiness,

"You give us hope, Harbinger. It will be the end of our plight, long though it may be."

I sent her a friend request, "Don't get your expectations too high. I'm not exactly sure I can take Plazia down. I'll definitely try."

Spines extended and submerged across her back,

"I...perhaps, you are right. You are our last chance, however, and if I cannot find hope in you, then my hope will die."

I frowned, "Am I really the best option? I find that hard to believe."

Wrath peered out at space,

"I have spent years parsing the galaxy for the greatest Fringe Walkers. What I uncovered was a simple truth - none of them can destroy Plazia. They specialize in the hunt for many, but never in the hunt for one. The one I hunt is an ancient hivemind, the deadliest of all known eldritch. This hivemind's cunning is unmatched. Its armies are neverending. It knows of Schema, and it knows Schema's limits."

Wrath shivered with fear, "Plazia dances around those limits without fear, its mind unrestrained by morals or emotion. It has cleared rifts on its own to prevent the glassing of our planet. This has let it linger for so long without retaliation, biding its time as the monster builds its strength. We need more than what we are to fight Plazia. This is why my hunt for Plazia's eater ends with you, Harbinger."

She wriggled outward, her form destabilizing a bit. She expanded, golden claws extending out of her deep blue body. She seethed,

"That hivemind is our greatest failure and shame. Our kind could have stamped the mongrel out. It would've been more than possible if we attacked the being before it was this strong. We fought amongst ourselves, vying for territory and glory instead. Now all that we fought over is left to Plazia, and we fight over the scraps it leaves behind."

I crossed my arms, "So why not just hire a team of Breakers? They sound like just what you need."

"They would rather fight against bounties that guarantee wealth rather than assist our kind. We are poor by comparison to many species, our economies built on flesh and bone instead of steel and cores."

I scoffed, "No wonder you offered your children then. They're what you consider valuable."

"But of course. Our larvae are delicious, and they are considered the spoils of war when one colony conquers another colony."

A set of claws sprung out of her head, creating a mandibled mouth. Some kind of acid drool leaked out of her face,

"And I have partaken in the spoils of war many, many times."

I looked back and forth, wondering if there was just a cultural disconnect here. Maybe, maybe not. Either way, I created a gravity well to catch her saliva, not letting it burn the ship. I'd have Obolis thank me later. Wrath's fangs retracted as she turned to me,

"I will send you the necessary coordinates for my homeworld. May our kinds prosper, together, feasting forever."

I got the confirmation she accepted my friend request as I blinked,

"Yeah, uh, sure."

