“I absolutely agree.”

“You must cast it away. Destroy it.”

“Well duh, I’m not carrying a completely cursed item around like some kind of moron just waiting for a catastrophe to happen. I have a solution that will solve this problem forever.”

There was silence.

“What?”

“You have tempted the fates before. You have rescued us.”

“You are not cursed?”

“And Solfis.”

“Still not cursed.”

“You have gathered many things that you were warned not to collect.”

“Prejudice isn’t a curse, it’s just people being irrational. Anyway, don’t worry, we’re getting rid of it as soon as we’re back at camp.”

“Very well…” Irao said in a voice that meant he’d kept a very close eye on her. “I want to ask something else. Why let the girl go? Mercy?”

“My dear Irao. If you want to win without a fight, you need a reputation. If you want a reputation, you must leave survivors. And what about you? Not tempted by the Dark Blade?”

“No. Bad tool. I don’t need it.”

“You could kill an avatar with that thing.”

“Viv.”

“Yeah?”

“I don’t need it.”

***

A shadow flew south, high in the clouds where the world became a cotton labyrinth that left dew on her white wings. The shadow could not enjoy it, however.

Ten gold talents.

Ten gold talents.

This is a good price.

And for a good cause.

Ten gold talents.

The shadow approached the center of Enoria, near Regnos and its lone volcano. Far below, Enorian warpriests hunted scattered defiled creatures of cancerous flesh. The aberrants fought back with dumb viciousness.

The shadow approached the crater from up high. Thick smoke escaped from a vent, and below glowered the reddish embers of the planet’s blood.

The shadow dove.

It’s ten gold talents.

The shadow dropped the Dark Blade into the vent, where it slowly sank into bubbling heat.

Mother wasn’t sure that the artifact could be destroyed, but if it could, then an extended magma bath was a pretty good bet.

Ten gold talents.

The shadow flew away on quick wings, thinking dark thoughts.

I am NOT a glorified courier service.

I do this for the gold.

I am a smart dragon.

Ten gold talents is ten gold talents.

***

With their preparations underway and their troops on hold, the Red Tribe had accidentally regained the strategic advantage. The Lutenese raiding party was a slow and cumbersome beast. Normally, this wouldn’t be an issue since the kark were drawn to them, but normalcy had left the way of the dinosaurs. No Dark Blades meant the horse riders were afraid to leave or risk the same fate. Hadal and kark scouts predicted which landmark the ethnic cleansers would visit next and warned people in advance. The enemy had plenty of supplies for now which Viv wasn’t eager to destroy, but they were stuck chasing an elusive tribe that knew the Steppes like the back of their hands. The kark too had enough food for the rest of the year because their population had collapsed, so there was more for everybody. Silver linings.

That meant they had some time, and Marruk used this mercilessly. There was no need to make the kark better spearmen but they did have to adapt, so she focused on squad tactics and movement. Viv learned that the favored kark infantry tactic was something that reminded her of a Schiltron, a Scottish formation that was essentially a hedgehog of pike-wielding footmen. It worked decently well against cavalry and archers thanks to solid shields which explained some of the kark successes. Viv knew a mage cadre would just rip through it but apparently, the Pure League mages had held back from the decade-long campaign. She wasn’t sure why.

Marruk was changing that. She had smaller groups formed by splitting youths from several clans and gathering them in ad-hoc squads she then trained to maneuver more quickly. Her own soldiers were familiar with the practice so they helped with drilling. The older warriors were not invited.

“Too stubborn. Too set in their ways. The younglings have adapted, thankfully,” Marruk commented.

“I thought there would be more friction,” Viv replied. “Don’t they have blood feud and generational grudges?”

“Of course. That is why I have them spar all the time while the girls watch.”

“What?”

“They tire themselves. Also sparring with warriors of a clan is an important part of wooing the girls from that clan. Important kark mating ritual. And also it makes more girls want to join. I have already recruited twenty-seven spear maidens! It is a good harvest.”

“I approve of your recruitment practice.”

“I have learned from you. You provide men with glory, witchpact horny girls, and good metal. You are very crafty.”

“Why thank you.”

“Practice will continue for now. My people are proving very patient with me. I thought they would push more.”

“They will run out of patience eventually, but don’t worry. I’ll help keep them entertained with some nice reveals.”

“Reveals?”

“Thanks to Viv’s portable military-industrial complex, I bring armament solutions everywhere on the continent at affordable geopolitical prices.”

***

“It is my pleasure to introduce…. The pakar nose armor! With the collaboration of beastmaster Surth, we have worked on a design that would protect your dear companions’ adorable appendages without too much discomfort. No snoot shall be booped without consent!” Viv announced in northerner.

“Ah?” Matar screamed.

“It means the Pure League won’t be able to shoot them in the face like they always do. Unfortunately, we only have enough spare metal for a dozen but that is enough for most lead animals. We can get you more in the future.”

“Such a great gift! But we can never spare so much metal.”

“Oh but we have the metal. I am sure that I can come up with some exciting trade opportunities in the future.”

“The steppes have much to offer!”

“And we will love to hear it after we’ve beaten our common enemy,” Viv said, her smile spreading across her lips.

The Golden Scale Bank and Exchange was going to expand massively.

“So it is!”

Viv suddenly froze in her tracks, realizing what she was doing.

Proxy war? Check.

International weapons trade? Check.

Deploying shady (and possibly autistic) operatives? Double check.

“Holy shit, I’m speed running the whole evil imperialism thing, huh.”

Solfis was going to be so proud.

***

Viv adjusted the diagnostics spell one last time, focusing on the old kark’s scarred leg. There was nerve damage near the knee that would force a limp for the rest of this man’s life, but in battle, he ought to be able to push through the discomfort.

She quietly eyed the old shaman standing by her side. His breath was raspy, his eyes unfocused. He could do no more this morning. Perhaps no more this day, period. She couldn’t heal that person entirely without spending two days fixing everything.

“Let’s just fix the arm. Be ready to heal while I reform the limb,” she said in northerner.

The shaman nodded. He called upon the ancestors, and Viv waited.

Kark shamanic magic was strange, and that was with witnessing male magic only. She knew most tribes segregated casting by gender roles. Traditionally, the female shaman of the tribe would have been in charge of healing. It would have been Marruk’s mother here, but she and her sisters were dead.

Black mana moved by the meaning of change, turning the pile of worm meat into an intact limb. Slowly, the slurry reformed healthy red kark flesh. Viv patiently waited until they regrew finger by finger as her magic guided the process, then it was time to reattach it. She quickly severed the stump to attach the replacement while the shaman called upon his healing powers, a gentle light filling the tent. Kark divine magic was on the slow and soft side. She was pretty sure the ancestors’ souls didn’t stay or she would have felt them, but there was clearly something remaining from those who had come before. Pride. Love. Fear. The muted emotions came and lingered like a sweet aftertaste.

“We thank you, ancestors,” the shaman finished with a trembling voice.

The light dimmed over the tent. The old warrior woke up, his gaze falling on the regrown limb. Its pristine surface made the rest of his battered body that much more impressive.

“It will take some time for the mana channel to…”

Viv didn’t get to finish her sentence. The old man bowed and left, pushing through the atrocious agony of regrowing magical pathways with grim determination. Even after watching Solar regenerate them in moments through sheer strength of will, Viv thought nothing could surprise her anymore but it was just how weirdly consistent those old fuckers were in facing pain in the most direct and showy way possible.

“This is the fourth great warrior you return to us,” the shaman wheezed.

“I wish I could do more.”

“I apologize. It is I who is holding us back. If only I were younger and more prepared…”

He shook his head.

“If only the Dark Blades had taken me instead of my son.”

“I’m sorry. If it’s any comfort, there is always someone new to heal. It never stops.”

The old one chuckled.

“True. And if the younglings knew they could reattach fingers in an hour, they would taunt each other into shoving their hands in skarn’s dens to prove their worth.”

Viv could only assume it was a sort of Russian roulette.

“If… when we throw off the Pure League, you can send more veterans my way. I’ll heal them back on my land. Against compensation, however.”

“There is so little we can offer…”

“I accept service. For some, it would be a second chance.”

“Yes… A second chance…”

The old shaman grew wistful. With a gesture, he waved towards a tea set that he and Viv retreated to between healing sessions. The root concoction he drank seemed to help him.

“You have a god for second chances now, I heard?”

“Yep.”

“Do you think my people will get a second chance?”

Viv went through the motions of preparing the tea, even warming the water with a bit of arcane magic for which the exhausted shaman proved grateful. She waited until he had rested a little before placing a hand on his frail shoulders. She felt like he needed to know and understand.

His eyes met hers. His were dark and old and terribly human, well, not human, but people. Viv gave him a moment to gaze into the viridian abyss of her own. His melancholy soon faded, replaced by something darker. Fear.

She smashed his mind with her aura. Her soul sense and leadership allowed her to focus on him and him alone so that even the sentries around the tent didn’t notice something was off. The terror was so deep, so visceral that he could not even unclasp his fingers from the earthen cup.

“I’ve told you I’d help but you don’t seem to understand, maybe because you’ve heard promises of success before and they never happened. You no longer believe in happy endings. So believe in a sad ending instead. For the Pure League.”

She allowed him to gasp under the soul marks that showed exactly how many fates she’d extinguished.

“You’re taking me for some happy-go-lucky rebel captain with steel and a bit of luck. I’m not. I am the Calamity, the Black Witch of Harrak. I rebuilt an empire from the ashes of the past and the bones of my enemies. I’ve poured gold down a prince's throat and stabbed a fifth step through the chest. I’ve killed a necrarch that was older than civilization. Look well into my eyes and realize that changing history is my thing, whether it is willing or not.”

***

The days went on and the Red Tribe was turning into a proper force. Honestly, they already knew how to fight so it was just about making minor adjustments. In the meantime, Frosthawk’s smiths worked day-in and day-out to finish the last adjustments to weapons and armor. By now, the Beacon had been stripped of all available metal except for a couple of steel crates Frosthawk kept for repair and for a ‘special contingency’ he wouldn’t elaborate on. There was also one more gift they had for the kark, and this one, Arthur actively worked on. It was a gesture of appreciation for her borgling friend who had smuggled her food when she was small, and that apparently counted for a lot. Events pressed Marruk long before she could finish all her intended preparations: the Pure League expedition was coming for them.

Viv wasn’t sure if they’d been detected, somehow, or if it was just bad luck. It didn’t matter. The kark wouldn’t wait any longer, so Marruk gathered all of them on the plains before they would march.

“There is no more time,” she began. “No more time.”

Rather than the shy and stoic Marruk Viv had grown used to, this one was tearing up. Viv knew the importance of showing emotion but she would never do that. A leader had to appear strong and, more importantly, always confident. Viv was the woman with a plan. That had always been the case even when her plan could be written on the back of a lottery ticket and have about as much of a chance at success. Humans needed to believe in their leader’s flawlessness.

Kark were different.

“If I had more time to give you, I would. If I had more steel I would give that too. All that I possess. Just like Echna to Pariah shed for her tribe. I don’t have anything more to offer you except the strength of my arm and the fire of my anger because…. they killed my mom.”

Viv saw Matar tense like a string by his daughter’s side.

