“They killed mom. I saw her dead. They’ve killed your moms and your dads and your brothers and your sisters and your cousins and the ancestors weep for all we have lost, all the people who should be walking by our side and cannot because they are dead. They shouldn’t be, but they’re dead. No more. No more! We won’t lose any more mothers to them. Not any more friends and loved ones. This ends now. I have given you everything I could. Now take it. Follow me. We end this. We free the Red Tribe from over ten long years of suffering. By our ancestors, we shall bring an end to this nightmare.”

The kark bellowed their approval and it was raw, not just with anger, but with grief as well. The timing was perfect.

“There is one last thing,” Viv said in northerner, and Marruk instinctively translated for the others.

The kark stopped to pay attention. So far, Viv had brought steel, reparative surgery, and death to the Dark Blades so for once in her gods damned life, she was a messenger of good news.

“Under the Sky-Mirror Lake, She-Who-Feasts-On-Many-And-Collects-Much found a gift from the gods: a stone fallen from the heavens… an iron meteorite.”

Whispers, well, kark whispers, spread across the crowd.

“Out of this meteorite, She-Who-Feasts-On-Many-And-Collects-Much, the smiths, Archmage Frosthawk and myself forged and enchanted a weapon to carry you to victory, a symbol of your strength and resilience. It is my gift to you as friends and allies, that you may forever remember a time when you were desperate and still stood, and if the gods are willing, still won. I present to you: The Red Spear.”

The smiths brought a full steel spear of good size enchanted with runes of strength and fire. The magic involved gave it a bronze finish that looked red under the sunlight. It was a last minute creation and more of a symbol than a true game changer, yet the kark, then the world itself, reacted beyond Viv’s expectations. Marruk grabbed the spear and gave it to her father who raised it to the heavens, and as he did so, the description changed.

[Hope of the Red Tribe, artifact. Forged from sky metal by a master crafter, then enchanted by a friendly elemental and a friendly dragon, this weapon carries the hope of a beleaguered people. The wielder can call upon dragon fire and elemental black mana to attack and protect themself. Its power increases the more united the Red Tribe is against the enemy. Current power: Maximal.]

As soon as he brandished it, a black shield formed around him while fire roared upward.

“Incredible,” Frosthawk muttered nearby.

Every time mother crafts something, it becomes an artifact.

Arthur fiddled with the pouch around her neck.

Also, the Spirit of the World says my fire is better at attacking than your black mana.

“No, it means you need to practice your shields, young lady.”

I have scales!

The ecstatic kark celebrated with hugs and songs. Viv didn’t think they’d achieved much yet but hope, well, that was valuable in itself.

At that moment, the wind died down. Pennants hung from their polearms while the people quieted, watching. It slowly picked up again. First, a few bursts, then a continuous stream.

“The winds are changing. They blow east. Towards Luten,” Marruk whispered.

“To battle then?”

“To victory.”

The new warchief hailed the troops, who formed cohesive squads behind a tight formation of pakar riders. The civilians left behind prayed and sang with the passage of the warriors. Viv held back a bit. It was their moment.

Frosthawk landed by her side.

“So, we have given them steel and training.”

“Yep.”

“I assumed you would work on their grit and spirit. You speak of them so much.”

“Those are nice. Superior gear is better. You can get grit and spirit more easily if you get good gear.”

“How very pragmatic,” Frosthawk said in a neutral tone.

“What? You sound surprised.”

“I just expected you to help them barely enough to harm the Lutenese without them becoming a threat. The tools of today are the enemies of tomorrow.”

“It’s because your previous masters saw everybody as threats rather than potential allies that they’ve lost. Paranoia can only carry someone so far. The kark are honorable to a fault, and Param’s greatest blood feud practitioners. It would be absolutely idiotic to backstab them.”

“But kark…”

“In my world, the greatest conqueror of all time was a steppe warrior. Let’s not underestimate them just yet.”

***
