Narhilda reached out a hand and lifted his head. “My shining white knight.” She said, tears in her eyes. “You came into my life, on the heels of my daughter, and reminded me of the things that I've lost. You've taken over my husband's work, and gave it meaning again.” Narhilda said and reached a hand for her daughter. “You've reminded me of the things I still have.” She said as the tears flowed freely. “Now you've given me back the only thing that... I've been trying so hard... to keep from losing all these years.” Narhilda started to sob.

Ren took her into a hug and let her cry. She gripped him tightly and she continued to weep for several minutes. Ren whispered sweet words into her hair as she soaked his uniform with her tears. He kept repeating that everything would be okay, that nothing else was going to happen, that her House would be strong again, and that people will know her husband's name far and wide. Narhilda eventually calmed down and Ren let her go. He gave her a scrap piece of cloth to wipe her face, then he smiled.

“You know, if I wasn't seeing someone already... and if you were 40 years younger...” Ren said to her and grinned.

“Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed.

Her mother laughed, took Ren's hand in hers, and smiled. “I know you're only joking, but I appreciate the compliment just the same.”

Ren smiled as his own words were repeated to him, and he bent over Narhilda's hand. “Now that this has all been settled, I've got a lot of uniforms to make.” Ren said and let her hand go.

They went inside and shut the gate, locking it this time, as they didn't want any more unwanted visitors. Ren worked hard for the rest of the day, and with Ruck's help, finished the uniform order just before nightfall. He got 2 more points in Dexterity and Agility, and 1 in Endurance. He still had 3 more days to make the delivery, but since it was a speed test anyways, what better way was there to impress them with speed than by finishing early? Ren stored all the uniforms, helped Ruck back into his cabinet, then ran all out to the Garrison. Teepo chittered the whole way. Ren went to the Commander's office and knocked.

“Enter.”

“Sir! House Neram thanks you for your order, sir!” Ren said, then looked around. “Where should I put them? They won't all fit in here, sir.”

The Commander stood up from behind his desk. “It's not nice to joke with a commanding officer, Recruit!”

Ren started pulling out uniforms and stacked them on the floor. He made a pile about the width of the desk, and when it got to about chest height, the Commander told him to stop.

“Alright, alright! I believe you.” He said and sat down. “Take them to 8F4R, and come back here.”

Ren followed the directions and dropped off the 1000 Warrior uniforms at the Garrison's uniform dispensary, then backtracked to the Commander's office about 20 minutes later, and knocked.

“Enter.”

Ren entered and stood at attention. “Sir! Delivery completed, sir.”

The Commander nodded and handed Ren a medium-sized bag with 70 platinum coins.

Quest Complete!

You have impressed the military with your prompt delivery of 1000 Warrior uniforms, well before the set deadline.

Rewards: 5000 XP

Fame Bonus: 30%

Efficiency Bonus: 20%

70 Platinum Coins (Quoted cost for bulk orders 7gc each)

Influence: 500

Honor: 100

“Sir! Thank you, sir!” Ren said and saluted.

The Commander saluted back. “Dismissed.”

Ren left the Commanders office and went back to the main gate. He ran as hard as he could back to House Neram. He fed Princess, and went inside to eat himself. Ren could feel the warmth and welcome that Nathalia, and her mother Narhilda, gave him as he entered the kitchen. He still felt bad about the duel, but he enjoyed a great meal anyways, and afterwards Ren told them he'd completed the order. Much to both women's surprise, he handed over the sack of 70 platinum coins. Narhilda accepted the bag graciously, then took out 10 coins and gave them back to Ren. He tried to refuse, but she pulled the puppy dog face on him. She had the 'big sad eyes, and curled up bottom lip' look perfected, and he tried his best not to laugh. Ren eventually gave in and took the coins.

“I might be 80 years old, but my feminine wiles still work!” Narhilda said and laughed.

“Actually, I think you're just too darned cute to refuse.” Ren said and grinned.

She opened her mouth, blushed, then closed it as her daughter Nathalia, laughed.

“I really have to get to bed, though.” Ren said and yawned. “It's been a long day.”

“Goodnight, Ren.” Narhilda said, still slightly blushing.

“Night, Ren.” Her daughter Nathalia said.

Ren nodded to them both and went to the old bedroom. I'll be gone for a little bit, Teepo, then I'll be back to sleep. Ren thought and lay down on the bed to get comfortable. Goodnight.

“Goodnight, Ren.” Teepo said.

“Logout.”

********
