That rage and hatred, I wielded it. The boy forged in fires of his own self-loathing. Tempered by that fire, that child grew into a man made of metal. Haunted by the powerlessness of his past, he fought for his future. He fought to never be so powerless again.

Relentless, unyielding, and uncompromising, that hatred burned scars deep into him. They were no weakness. They became his greatest strength. Using that strength, a strength born out of humiliation and agony, a monster was born.

And so, I surged with the ascendant mana within, letting me carve through the armor in a fit of the very emotions that made me strongest. It drove me forward. It let me ignore my own suffering, turning the pain to power. Like a ichor of a dark god, I let the ferocity consume me as I etched in the runes.

But at the core of my being, I remained calm. I kept composed. That rage gave great strength, but it would steal my mind if I allowed it. I would never allow it. I crushed the anger, beating it into submission. I turned the untamed into the tamed. I bound the unbounded.

With chains of my own choosing, I shackled that inner turmoil. I turned it from something wild, something malicious, something that could not be controlled, into the most stable part of my being. Like the eye at the center of a boundless storm, I decided where my path of carnage would carry me. I decided what I left in my wake, for I am the master of my fate. I am the captain of my soul.

I carved the new runes onto my arms, my legs, my palms. In the spur of the moment, I carved two more runes. One a across my back, going off feel and using my extreme flexibility. The other across my chest.

Once I finished, I forgot to maintain my telekinetic field on the table. It snapped, flopping me face first into the ground beneath me. Since so many people walked here, there wasn’t any grass anymore. That meant a face full of mud.

It squeezed in between my helmet before I pushed myself up, lunging off one knee. I pulled back my helmet, shaking my head to sling the mud away. Even odder than the fall, sweat poured down my dirty face. Without even noticing it, I was literally steaming. I didn’t even notice, but without my runes, channeling my ascendant mana caused this.

That’s probably why the surge of emotion during the carving process was so intense. Reigning all that in made for some interesting results though. I glanced at the runes on my arms and legs. They were jagged, rough, like serrated teeth. This wasn’t the result of sloppy craftsmanship though. This was entirely intentional.

It was like the rough strokes of a calligraphist. In all the chaos, there was a certain kind of order. Menacing and powerful, like the hulking frame of a monster. No, this was a thing that ate monsters. It was me.

Glancing at my notifications, I saw another element that worked in my favor.

Breakthrough! Carving into Oblivion(lvl 72)--->(lvl90) Breakthrough maximum level reached.

I didn’t even see the notification when I was carving. My guess, I was too in the zone.

Now I was out of that trance, I was eager to test the new runes out. First though, I reached behind me and felt the rune on my back. It didn’t feel like I could do something like that. The rough metal grated against my armored fingertips, just like the etchings on my arms. Thinking about it, I must have looked like a freak as I did it.

Glancing around, I one hundred percent did. Several steel legion guards still stared at me, wondering what the fuck had possessed me. Considering the guards still looked at me like I was inhuman, I must have really given them something to see during the process. The ominous red mana ebbing off me mustn’t have helped either.

I shrugged, knowing I couldn’t really do much about it. Picking up Althea’s plate, I walked off towards her tent. There was no point in dwelling on how weird they thought I looked. Or, well, how weird I actually did look.

Without wasting any time, I passed through the camp, ignoring the whispers around me. A minute later, I walked up towards Althea’s tent. I gave it slight tap, but she didn’t answer. I gave another tap. After a groggy groan, Althea walked outside.

In a tanktop and shorts, I could see her blue gray skin, almost like dull silver. Her purple hair still looked crazy, but silky and flowing, unlike dyed hair. I never paid much attention to what Althea or Kessiah looked like, mainly because I knew I was only 17. Or 18, I didn’t know what normal day it was now. I was almost certainly 18 now.

Anyways, that meant I could lose my shit if I was around a sexy girl. I’d already seen Althea naked, but the circumstances prevented it from sinking in. Wearing casual clothes, Althea looked good. I mean really good. That could have easily have been the hormones talking though. Either that or my preference for a sort of messy hairstyle in girls.

That’s how Althea’s hair was at this point. She had just woken up, looking tired. When she saw me, she raised an eyebrow,

“What is it?”

I handed her the plate, “Here it is. It might save you some ammo when you fight. I didn’t know what else to give you, considering your bolts already pierce.”

She frowned, taking he plate and inspecting it. She lifted it overhead, turning it as she tried deciphering how it was supposed to be used. I noticed.

“Turn your arm into the biotic rifle thingy.”

She nodded, altering her arm into the interlocking plates of bone that composed her rifle. From her other arm, a spine of bone fell out before she cocked the rifle, letting out a hiss of steam. Putting the bolt into the chamber, she pointed it at the ground,

“So what do I do?”

I grabbed the biotic rifle, surprised by how brittle it felt. With a care I didn’t think I needed to use, I placed my plate of metal onto the rifle.

“Now you just grow ropes or whatever to latch around the holes I made. It should give you a solid grip. Kind of acts as a shield and an ammo saver. Figured you could use it.”

She grinned, “Wow…This is super cool…Why did you make it with holes? You could have just made a barrel or something for my rifle.”

I shrugged, “Eh, I thought you wouldn’t want something like this being hard to remove. Even if you morph your hand into a giant monster arm, this plate will stay on. Figured the more open design gave you a bit more freedom.”

She blinked, creating white strips of tendon that latched the plate onto her rifle. She aimed and fired a bolt. With a bit of steam floating off the barrel of the rifle, her grin grew,

“I can’t believe it. It costs half as much to use bolts.”

Without my helmet on my face, I scratched my nose, “Heh, try morphing your arm.”

She expanded her arm, the plate remaining locked. She might as well have smiled ear to ear. Her monster arm deformed as she went in and hugged me,

“Thank you, thank you, thank you.”

Utterly shocked at this sudden hospitality, I glanced around, making sure Torix and Kessiah weren’t playing a prank on me. No one busted out to laugh at my reaction, so I assumed they weren’t here. I had my arms up in surprise, mainly because I almost leapt back when she had hugged me. A second later, I gave her a second-long hug,

“Uhm. No problem. Glad you enjoyed it.”

She glanced up at me, raising an eyebrow,

“Are you…uncomfortable?”

I glanced around, suppressing a blush with sheer power of will,

“Hell no. Fuck you.”

She grinned again,

“Wow. You’re blushing.”

I blinked twice,

“No, I’m just not used to being in contact with a murderous eldritch lady.”

She lifted me up, her strength well beyond what it should have been for her size, “Join the murderous eldritch club.”

She dropped me, letting my feet smash into the soil. I rebalanced myself, standing upright. Althea continued,

“If you saw what you came back from after Kessiah hit you, then you’d know what I mean.”

I shrugged, “Eh, it couldn’t be worse than some eldritch I’ve seen.”

She walked back into her tent, setting the plate on an office table she dragged in there,

“I wouldn’t be so sure. She tore you apart. Your limbs were just so bent out of shape. Blood was everywhere. When you came up, your armor reached out in little tendrils. I don’t know if it ate the blood around you or not, but it helped you heal that’s for sure. Then you snapped your legs back into place. Bleck. gross.”

I smirked, “You got to do what you got to do.”

She smiled, “Yeah, I guess so. It’s was kind of cool watching you shrug it off. Anytime someone stares at me after I transform, it burns my soul. I don’t know why, but I hate it when people look at me.”

“Why?”

Althea shrugged, “I don’t know…probably because I think I’m gross too.”

I spread out my hands, “I mean, I can see their point.”

She frowned at me, but I continued with a devilish smile, “Doesn’t mean I agree though.”

She rolled her eyes before tossing me a fork. I caught it, snatching it out of the air and bending it. She opened one of the drawers under her desk and pulled out a few cans with her fingers. She made her hands larger than normal, letting her grab three cans in each hand.

The reformed before she tossed me one. This time I caught it without crushing what she threw me. She smiled,

“Want to have lunch? It’s boring doing it by myself all the time. It’s fun having company.”

I glanced around, looking for someone else. Finding no one, I turned towards her and pointed at my chest, “Uh…me?”

She grew pointed claws at the ends of her fingers. After piercing the top of a can with three of her fingers, she rotated her hand with laser like precision. Her fingers sliced through the metal with ease before she pulled off the top.

“Yeah you. Kessiah’s fun sometimes, but it can be hard to relate about her stuff. And Torix…” She shook her head, “I’ll have lunch with Torix when I want to listen to another lecture.”

I laughed a little, “Yeah, it’s like he’s in love with the sound of his voice sometimes.”

“I know right? It’s ridiculous. Yesterday I asked him about how to optimize my rifle, and you know what he told me?”

I walked into the tent, making telekinetic pads under my feet. The force of it compressed on my sides, but it wasn’t uncomfortable. I leaned back against the tent, making another telekinetic field to withstand my weight.

“What did he tell you?”

She raised her hands, “He started stuttering before going on a tangent about how magic is better than technology. By the end of the conversation, I just wanted to say, ‘You don’t know anything about rifles, do you?’”

She lowered her hands, taking a spoonful of some canned beef stew, swallowing it, “I didn’t tell him though…I didn’t want him to feel bad. He’s just trying to help.”

I shook my head, smiling a bit, “I would have just told it to him straight.”

She nodded her head, stirring the brown broth in the can, “Yeah…I think so too.”

I reached out a hand towards her. Althea glanced at me, confused at first. She pointed at her stew, “You want this?”

I nodded, but she pulled it towards her,

“Hell no. This is my favorite brand and flavor. It tastes like heaven compared with those rations.”

I pointed at a can in the drawer, “What about that flavor?”

She glanced at it before I snatched the can from her hand. She reached out for it, but I put a hand on her forehead. The ascendant mana poured into my hand, generating heat that warmed the stew. She stopped struggling for a moment before I handed it back.

She narrowed her eyes, staring at me with suspicion before taking another spoonful. She perked up,

“It’s good. Really good.”

I nodded, “Yeah, you’re supposed to warm stews and soup up before eating. Well, for the most part.”

She glanced at the can, trying to find that information, “Really? Here I thought these were just puzzles with food for rewards.”

I busted out laughing before she frowned at me,

“What’s so funny?”

“Nothing. Sometimes I forget you’re an alien from who knows where.”

She pointed the fork at me, “And sometimes I forget you’re a human from Earth.”

I poured the soup down my throat while crushing the can. I swallowed it before raising an eyebrow,

“You seem like you really like food. I remember finding some cooking books here before.”

The inklings of a blush formed on Althea’s cheeks as she glanced down,

“Uh. Yeah. Just trying to figure this cooking stuff out. It uses names for all kinds of stuff, but I don’t know what any of it is. I mean what is paprika? I have to look it up, then I have to figure out what a teaspoon is, then I have to figure out what tea is. It’s exhausting.”

I set my empty can on her desk, “I can teach you how to cook.”

She rolled her eyes, “Yeah, sure. You know how to cook.”

I crossed my arms, “Well, I’m not Gordon Ramsey or anything, but I can teach you the basics.” I raised my right hand, “Like what a teaspoon is.”

She narrowed her eyes, “I don’t believe you.”

“I can prove it. I’ll come by tomorrow and make us lunch.”

She laughed, “Really...Ok, I’ll bite. Let’s see if you can make something edible.”

Uncrossing my arms, I raised my palms at her, “I’m not saying it’s going to be amazing or anything.”

She pointed a finger at me, “No, no, no, you can’t worm your way out of this one.”

“Not trying to. I’m trying to set up some reasonable expectations.”

“Hmm, ok. I doubt it’ll be better than this canned stuff though.”

I grinned, a quiet confidence lacing my words, “I can make better stuff than off brand beef stew.”

“If you’re lying, I’m firing a bolt between your eyes.”

I laughed, “Your standards for taste are just incredibly low. And I mean low.”

