She relented, heading for the sled to retrieve a second blanket. The walls were plenty thick enough, and the others would be fine without her for a few hours. Blanket in hand, she walked over to her pack, which was a few stride away from where Rain was sleeping. Dozer tracked her the entire time, stretching for her as best as it could. The slime didn’t have enough control over its membrane to form a proper appendage.

Shaking out her blanket, Ameliah lay down and draped it over herself, using her pack as a pillow. A small effort of will forced the earth beneath her to shape itself to her body, creating a comfortable indentation as she closed her eyes.

Just as she was starting to relax, Ameliah was startled by a sudden wet popping sound, as if a bubble of swamp gas had pushed its way up through thick mud. She opened her eyes and turned to see Dozer still reaching for her. As she watched, the slime quivered, forming an indentation in its surface that quickly closed. After a moment, the sound repeated as the slime forced out the trapped air.

“Seriously?” she demanded. Maybe it does know what it’s doing…

The slime quivered, then stupidly resumed its efforts to reach her, still clinging to Rain’s arm. Ameliah closed her eyes again and sighed, resolving herself to ignore it. Depths, I’m tired.

A few moments later, there was another pop. Then another. Then a third.

Ameliah scrunched up her face. Damn it.

Without getting up, she used Earthmolding to scoot herself closer to Rain, a rock jabbing uncomfortably into her ribs before she pushed it away. She stopped when she felt Dozer grab her shoulder, still leaving plenty of space between her and Rain’s slumbering form. She reformed her indentation, then raised a low wall of dirt between herself and Rain to keep him from jumping to the wrong conclusion should he wake before she did. She left a gap in the wall for Dozer, even going as far as to shape the slime a small depression of its own, all without looking. The thing was happily clinging to her shoulder, so she knew more or less where it was. “There, you got me to come over here,” she told it, still not opening her eyes. “I hope you’re happy. This is as much as you’re going to get.”

Tallheart poked his head through the door, then rumbled softly, amused to see the slime and the wall of dirt between the two slumbering forms. He smiled as he turned away, shaking his head. Humans.

“Is Rain in there?” Jamus asked, nodding toward the doorway.

“Yes,” Tallheart said, turning to walk away. “He is asleep.”

“Damn,” Jamus said. “Let’s find Ameliah, then. She’ll know what to do about—oh. Never mind. I found her. Huh. Are they…?”

“Not yet,” Tallheart said, smiling to himself. It would be good for them both, but they are too afraid of their own feelings. I should speak to them about it. They are wasting time.

“Well, if you say so,” Jamus said, also smiling. “I guess I need to wait for one of them to wake up. Thanks for helping me look for them. I guess I’ll go see what Meloni’s up to.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said.

“I’ll come find you for dinner, okay?” Jamus asked.

Tallheart nodded again. “I will look for you, Jamus…” He hesitated. “Bring the dog. And Meloni, if you wish.”

“Sure thing, Tallheart. Sounds like fun. She’s been wanting to meet you properly.” Jamus laughed as he walked away. “Bring the dog, he says.”

Tallheart hummed softly as he walked through the camp, happy, and yet somehow sad. With Jamus gone, he felt even more conscious of the wary looks the unfamiliar humans were giving him. He wondered once more if he had been too harsh with his threat, but set the worry aside. Too harsh was better than not harsh enough. Rain said they were good people, and Tallheart wanted to believe him, but it was…hard. It would take time. It didn’t help that Rain was so free with his trust that his opinion held little weight.

He only sees the best in people. Tallheart smiled softly. Even me.

He didn’t stop until he reached the outer wall, climbing the stairs and sitting with his legs dangling over the side. He remained there, breathing the cool air and thinking about human foolishness as lazy flakes of snow gradually began falling from the sky. After a few minutes of silence, he looked up at the clouds, then closed his eyes. I think even you could have grown to like him, Lilly.

“…ke up, idiot. Hey, slime…thing, what do you think you’re… No, don’t even think about—gahbplepppt!”

Disoriented, Rain blinked, clearing the sleep from his eyes as the voice pulled him from unconsciousness. Staavo? Was I dreaming?

As the world came into focus, time froze. Ameliah was staring at him, her head resting on her pack. Her blond hair was loose and partly covering her face, coated with a thin layer of snowflakes. She reacted at the same time he did, both of them jerking away and rapidly sitting up.

“…What?” Rain asked, looking around. There was a wall of earth between them, but where their heads had been, there was a hole dug into the ground that had allowed them to see each other.

“Pppt…gah!” Staavo gasped.

There was a splut as Dozer landed on the dirt near Rain’s feet, the noise momentarily stealing Rain’s attention. There was a flash of determination from the link, and the slime bunched itself up, preparing to leap again.

“Damn it, Rain, stop that thing, or I will!” Staavo yelled, raising his hands threateningly.

[Dozer, down! Come!]

As Rain pushed his thoughts at the slime, more details of the scene wormed their way into his groggy brain. It was night, the sky above blanketed with dark clouds with a hint of moon through them. Snow was falling lightly, the flakes lit by the evertorches burning along the walls. He was in the same open-roofed room he’d been in when he’d fallen asleep. Ameliah, though, hadn’t been lying next to him before. That would be the kind of thing he’d have remembered.

“Well, that’s one way to wake up,” Ameliah said, stretching as she got to her feet.

Dozer reached him, then pushed himself into Rain’s arms. The slime was feeling satisfied with itself for defending its human, and also content about something that might have been togetherness, or maybe family. Rain was less interested in the slime’s feelings right now than his own, however. He felt his cheeks heating as he watched Ameliah brush the snow from her hair. She was so close. If not for that wall… I’m assuming she put it there, but why did she leave a gap in it so we could—

“Hey!” Staavo snapped his fingers, tearing Rain’s attention away from watching Ameliah. “You two love ducks have slept long enough. I’m losing my mind out there.”

Rain looked at him, still groggily trying to come to terms with what was going on. Love…duck? Why a duck? And we’re not… He shook his head. That line of thought wasn’t productive. “What is it?” he asked. “How long was I asleep?” He glanced up at Ameliah. “And why were you…”

Rain was probably imagining it, but Ameliah’s face might have been a bit red too as she looked away. “Dozer wouldn’t stop bothering me until I moved next to you,” she said, indicating the gap in the wall. “It insisted on being able to touch both of us before it would stop blowing bubbles at me and go to sleep.”

“Oh,” Rain said, peering at the slime. You… After a moment, he snorted. [Nice work, Dozer.]

Happiness and satisfaction at a job well done flowed back across the link, the slime jiggling contentedly in his arms. It blew a bubble to demonstrate, making a wet popping sound like someone had stuck a plunger to a tile wall.

Staavo gave an exasperated sigh. “Damn it, Rain! Stop playing with that overgrown booger and get up! They’re driving me insane!”

“Who is?” Rain asked, gently dumping Dozer onto the ground. He threw off the blanket—also a new development—and struggled to his feet. His body was stiff and unresponsive. Damn soul damage.

“Everyone!” Staavo shouted, marching up to Rain and gesturing wildly. “They won’t stop asking me about their builds! As if I’m supposed to know every single skill in every single tree that’s ever existed!” Staavo stuck his finger in Rain’s face, causing him to jerk back. “You’re the one that’s wasted gods know how much experience unlocking every last skill in the depths of the—hey!”

“Stop yelling,” Ameliah said, pulling Staavo roughly by the arm to get him out of Rain’s face. “You’re being an ass.”

“And you two are being lazy!” Staavo snapped, jerking his arm away from her and rubbing at his shoulder. “Gods, woman, I know you’re silver, but aren’t you supposed to be a mage? What have you been eating? You practically ripped my arm off.”

“Neither of us slept last night,” Ameliah said, sounding annoyed. “Try to show a little consideration. Or maybe gratitude. What exactly have you been doing, other than tinkering with that project of yours? Did you help set up the evertorches like I asked you to?”

“That’s not important,” Staavo said, trying to step past her. “Come on, Rain, I need—”

“Did you help, or didn’t you?” Ameliah asked, stopping him with a hand.

“Well…no,” Staavo said. “But—”

“Quiet.” Ameliah didn’t speak loudly, but her tone brought Staavo’s teeth together with a click. Or maybe it was her hand on his shoulder. Staavo looked like he was in severe discomfort as he tried to pull away from her grasp.

Rain chuckled. Okay, I’d better defuse this before she hurts him, not that I think she will. He cleared his throat. “It’s fine, Ameliah, it’s just Staavo being Staavo.” He walked forward, addressing the old man as Ameliah released him. “I’ll come get them off your back, and then maybe we can talk about the steam engine, but only if you help out around the camp like Ameliah asked you to. Maybe get us some dinner.” He checked the time, wincing. “I don’t know about her, but I slept through two meals. I’m starving.”

“Oh fine,” Staavo grumped, muttering something that might have been in Vejik, judging by the harsh and unfamiliar syllables. Rain flared Winter, locking it in his mind. It was always good to have a wide variety of curses to draw upon. He could ask Myth or Reason what the words meant later.

“So, Ameliah, um…” Rain said as the three of them headed for the exit.

“Yes?” she asked, an unreadable expression on her face.

“Uh…nothing,” Rain said, looking away. “Sorry.”

Staavo rolled his eyes. “Kids.”
