The crowd laughed, but Carten just gave a good-natured scoff and waved the comment away. “So anyway, I’s a lad, and I think ta meself, I wanna be on one o’these big teams, right? Well then. They’ll need a Defender, then, won’t they? And there ain’t many ta go around, that helps me chances, right? Now, most idiots woulda stopped there. Jus’ gone fer it and ended up like one o those fools Rain mentioned. Me, though, I did me research. Helped that I weren’t awakened yet, an’ I had the time ta hang ‘round the Guild. Anyway, me mum, ya see, has been all over the continent. She’s seen cities bigger’n Fel Sadanis, ones with right proper Guild branches’n all tha’. Whenever she’d come home, I’d ask ‘er all about her travels an’ the Defenders she’d seen. That’s how I came up with me plan.”

Carten raised a thick digit. “Step one: get awakened. I’ll spare ya all the in-between steps fer figurin’ out how ta do that. Rain’s got ya sorted, there.” He raised another finger. “Step two: get indestructible. Still workin’ on that part. Shieldwieldin’ tree, passives fer me Endurance, an’ so on. Ask me later, an I’d love ta tell ya all about it. Not important right now, though. Third part’s the key.”

Carten raised a third finger, then grinned. “Step three: be fuckin’ irritatin’!”

“I thought you were still on step two, Carten,” Jamus interjected. There was another round of laughter at the comment.

“Har har, Jamus, but no, I ain’t started this one yet,” Carten said when it died down. “I’ve told ye all this before, so shut yer hole. Don’t got the skill points fer it, and still not done with step two.” His response to Jamus had been good-natured, but he sounded genuinely frustrated when he mentioned the lack of skill points. He took a second, combing a hand through his beard before he continued.

“Anyone heard ah the tree called ‘Threat Attraction’?” Carten paused for a moment, then nodded. “O’course ya have. S’kinda a joke, ain’t it? The useless tree fer gettin’ yerself killed. Well, obviously, it’s there fer a reason. World wouldn’t a made a skill tree that ain’t got no purpose. See, this is what me mum said. Whenever she’d tell me what she’d heard ‘bout one of the big teams, she’d say ta me, ‘Carty, I don’t want ya bein’ a Defender. Them’s always the ones gettin’ hurt.’”

“She called you ‘Carty’?” Val asked. “Can I call you Carty?”

“If ya do, you’ll be the one who’s gettin’ hurt,” Carten said, shaking his fist. There was another round of laughs at this, and Carten grinned. “Ya knew what ya were in fer when ya asked me ta talk, Rain. Anyhow, ya all get it, right? Defenders in big teams is the only ones what gets all cut up, an’ that must be cuz they got the Threat Attraction tree, ya see? Them teams, they got a Defender ta take the damage, an’ a Healer ta patch em back up. Threat Attraction makes the monsters go fer the Defender, an’ the Defender only. It’s a right stupid skill tree outside a team, an’ right stupid if ya ain’t got the defenses ta survive it. Point is, Defenders can handle it, and it keeps the team safe.”

People seemed to get it, and Carten nodded. He raised his hand again abruptly, this time with four fingers showing. “Step four: Get’ hired on to one o these big teams and get outa the shithole what’s called Fel Sadanis.” He grinned. “Looks like it worked.”

There was another ripple of amusement at this. Carten spread his arms wide and bowed, then hopped down from the forgewagon.

“Thank you, Carten,” Rain said, clapping him on the shoulder, then climbing back up. “He’ll be signing autographs after the show. Anyway, he’s exactly right. The job of a tank is to force the monsters to attack them instead of their allies. The word for this is aggro.” Rain flared Winter. “I expect you all to remember it. Monsters aren’t like animals, and they aren’t like people. Who they attack depends on who they can get to, and the perceived level of threat.” Rain nodded to Samson. The man had proved surprisingly knowledgeable on the subject. It was actually a little disturbing to hear some of the things he’d said and to have his own suspicions confirmed. The uncanniness of it all had sent Rain down another spiraling path of doubt concerning his reality.

“An effective party has a tank, as I said.” he continued, pushing those thoughts away. “The tank’s job is to control aggro. That’s the next two slots. Carten’s great, but he’s just one man. We’re going to want more than one tank in the company, for obvious reasons. With dedicated healers, our new tanks will be able to take Threat Attraction sooner without worrying about being quite so indestructible first.”

Rain reached to his waist and untied his canteen, taking a sip more to give the audience some time to think than because he actually needed the water. Instead of retying it, he set it on Tallheart’s anvil, then cleared his throat.

“Three fundamental roles for combat. DPS, Tank, and Support. You can quibble about the lines between them if you want but it comes down to those that do damage, those that take damage, and those that make sure the other two can keep doing that indefinitely. Let me paint you a picture of a properly structured party, just to give you an example.

“Frontline, we have a dedicated tank with a hammer and a shield as the anchor. Add to that two melee DPS. We’ll make one a brawler type with a sword and a shield. She can help the tank, and cover any gaps in the defense, while still doing damage as her primary goal. The second we’ll make a specialist, such as a rogue, to deal with any traps the party might run into.

“Backline, let’s add in some more DPS—you do need damage to get the job done after all. Let’s have some regular elemental mages to make things simple. One Fire, one Ice, because monsters that are resistant to opposed elements are rare. Let’s also add in an archer to handle armored targets. We’re up to six, now. One tank, and five DPS.

“To fix that imbalance, we need supports. Let’s have a healer, obviously. For flavor, we’ll make him a priest of Dystees, not that you’re likely to find one of those around here. I’m the wrong person to ask about the difference between what they do and what’s in the Restoration tree, if there even is a difference to begin with. Either way, it’s the same in terms of role in the party. To round things off, let’s have another support, but of a different type. I know you’ve all heard of this build, even if you might think I’m crazy for classifying it like I am.” Rain paused. “A Chemical Malefactor.”

“Ah,” Mlem said, snapping his fingers. “I see what you’ve done.”

Rain smiled at him, but his gaze was pulled to Mahria as she cleared her throat. “It’s the Rousers,” she said loudly, cutting through the chatter, a complicated expression on her face. “My grandfather’s team.”

“Yes,” Rain said, nodding to her. And one of the only teams I actually know something about. “Just an example, like I said. I don’t actually know much of their history, just scraps I overheard at the Guild. Obviously, though, they were quite successful. The Fire Mage is Burrik the Volcano, now Guildmaster, and the archer is a Citizen. There’s a reason people are still talking about the team. Which one was your grandfather, Mahria? I don’t actually know.”

“The rogue,” she said, then shrugged. “I never met him. He died after the team broke up, but before I was born.”

Rain gave her a commiserating nod, then shifted his gaze away, continuing before things got awkward. “A Chemical Malefactor,” he said, bringing them back on track. “A support, but of a different type. Some would argue that a better word is ‘controller’. Someone who debuffs enemies or changes the terrain to shift the battle to the party’s advantage. Still, I call a Chemical Malefactor a support, because something like Malaise doesn’t actually do damage; it just makes it easier for the rest of the party by debilitating their enemies.”

Rain rapped his knuckles sharply on Tallheart’s anvil. “This is what I want our combat parties to be like. Not exactly like the Rousers, but with the same kind of balance. All three roles, filled. A good variety of elements, covered. Utility skills for trap finding, divination, recovery, and traversal. Each member, specialized for their role. Weaker individually, yes, but as a team, stronger than any party of generalists could ever be.

“And it goes even further. Ascension is not a party. Ascension is a company. If we’re against a Cold lair, we send Fire Mages. We build a party suited to the task, based on the challenge before us. Further still, as a company, we can afford to have members not suited to combat. We have Myth and Reason, who can make potions, materials, and constructs for us to multiply the strength of those that do go into combat. And then, of course, there’s Tallheart.”

Rain hopped down, motioning the smith forward. True to his word, he hadn’t asked him again about making equipment for Ascension. Tallheart had come around on his own, pulling Rain aside earlier this morning to tell him that he’d changed his mind and wished to address the crowd. Rain wasn’t sure exactly what he was going to say, and in truth, he felt a bit bad about the circumstances. If he had to guess what had changed the cervidian’s mind, it would have been listening to the recounting of the events that had occurred inside the lair. If things had gone just a little bit worse, all of them could have died. Needless to say, both Tallheart and Ameliah had not been happy that they’d continued after the incident with the Spiritcaller, not when it had been clear that it wasn’t a normal lair they were facing. As if we would have had any way to know what’s ‘normal’ for a lair.

Tallheart snorted at Rain’s expression as he walked over. He didn’t climb up into the forgewagon; he simply turned to face the crowd, then frowned them into silence.

“I will not make equipment for those I do not trust,” he said. He paused, then nodded to Rain as he continued. “I will make company steel. I will make no enchanted weapons that might be used against my people. Of the weapons that I do make…” He rumbled ominously, narrowing his eyes. “If I learn that any of you have used one for any dark purpose, I will hunt that person down as your people have hunted mine. That is all.”

Tallheart wordlessly retreated to stand by Ameliah, then turned in the silence and looked at Rain, his pale eyes as hard as granite.

Several hours later, Rain collapsed in the corner of one of the sleeping rooms, beyond exhausted. It had taken him a while to get things back on track after Tallheart’s pronouncement, and he’d had lots more to cover after that. Even once he’d finished with his planned speech, he hadn’t been able to take a break. He’d spent at least an hour fending off endless questions—and the occasional attempted bribe—as he tried to help Vanna set up the logistics for the selection.

Finally, he’d managed to slip away. He needed to rest. Tonight, he’d have to interview all the applicants individually to verify their proposed builds, then set up the drawings, and THEN actually deal with the blue.

Right now, he was too tired to even consider any of that. He didn’t even bother to dig out a blanket, or even to wrap himself up in his cloak. He just plopped his head on his discarded pack next to his helmet, closed his eyes, and let oblivion claim him.

“Rain, are you in here?” Ameliah asked, poking her head into the room where Vanna had said he’d gone to get his pack. “Oh,” she said, frowning. Oops. He’s asleep? Unless…

Walking swiftly but quietly, Ameliah crossed the room and knelt next to him. She’d swapped out Tissue Scan, but a few seconds of watching him breathe was enough to convince her that he was just asleep, not dead or injured somehow. She really was concerned about what he’d done to his soul, but this just looked like normal exhaustion. That, she could understand. She hadn’t slept either, not since they’d arrived at the lair. She’d stayed on watch all night, too worried about the delve team to even consider rest. She had the required stats to ignore fatigue for quite a while with only minor repercussions. Rain, not so much.

Leaning back to sit on her heels, Ameliah snorted, then smiled. Idiot.

She glanced around the room, spotting a sled containing a few piled blankets, and she got to her feet to retrieve one. While she was busy with that, Dozer arrived, entering the room by dropping over one of the mud walls. The slime landed with a loud plop. Rain twitched at the sound but didn’t wake.

“Shh,” Ameliah hissed at the slime as she walked back to Rain with the blanket, carefully draping it over him. Dozer, of course, didn’t understand. It was headed right for Rain, but she intercepted it before it could climb on top of him. “None of that,” she whispered, herding the slime with her legs to keep it away. “Let him sleep, Dozer.”

Ameliah sighed as the slime doggedly continued its attempts to get past her. “Okay, fine, be like that” she said, bending to pick the ridiculous creature up. To her surprise, it didn’t immediately try to escape her arms. Instead, it relaxed, then snuggled against her stomach. Ameliah smiled as she took a step toward the door. “Come on, let’s go.”

Dozer began to struggle the moment she started moving, its efforts growing more frantic as she continued. With a sigh, she stopped, not even halfway there. Dozer relaxed slightly, pushing out a section of its membrane toward Rain as if reaching for him.

Ameliah yawned. “Fine.” Turning, she walked back and squatted down to set the slime on the ground next to Rain. “You do know to not block his mouth, right?” she asked as it investigated the blanket.

Dozer ignored her once more, snuggling against Rain’s shoulder. Rain didn’t react, entirely out of it.

“Happy, are you?” she asked the slime. It certainly looks happy. She got up, then looked at the sky. It will be night in a few hours. Should I go recheck the walls?  With another yawn, she glanced back at the slime, then blinked. It hadn’t moved, but now it was reaching for her, just as it had reached for Rain a moment ago.

Ameliah smiled when she saw that. It is kind of adorable sometimes, but then again, I’m reading too much into this. It’s just a monster. It doesn’t know what it’s doing. Probably some weird slime instinct or something. She glanced back at the sled with its pile of blankets, fighting off another yawn.

Oh, fine.

