It was a perverted application of the golden rule: Don’t hassle other adventurers for grave robbing if you don’t want them to hassle you for it in return. He’d asked around the Guild concerning relatives of the deceased, but all he’d gotten in response were confused or even offended looks. In the end, no one had come forward to claim anything, not even the accolades. He hadn’t mentioned those explicitly, but it wouldn’t take a genius to realize that he had them.

Rain and Cera chatted awkwardly for a few minutes as they waited for Essence Well to do its work. Rain tried to involve Nails and Arnal in the conversation, but the workers were reluctant to speak. Rain’s soul leakage probably wasn’t helping, but there was more to it than that.

Cera, like every other non-Watch awakened that Rain had talked to, didn’t feel anything wrong with his soul. No, the issue with the workers was far more basic. The water mage was outright dismissive of anything that they had to say on the rare occasions that Rain got them to speak at all.

Her general attitude toward the workers rubbed Rain the wrong way. It was as if she didn’t even see them as people. His initial impression of her had been positive, but the longer they spoke, the more that changed.

Unfortunately, Cera’s view of unawakened as something lesser seemed to be disappointingly common among Guild members in Fel Sadanis. She’d swept up Nails and Arnal to drag the cart of water barrels, not wanting to waste mana on Internal Reservoir if she didn’t have to. That was fine, it made good sense, even. It was the way that she’d done it that bothered Rain. He was getting the impression that she hadn’t asked for their help, but rather demanded it. The worst part was that Nails and Arnal just seemed to accept the way that Cera was treating them.

Finally, mercifully, Cera told him to stop, saying that her mana was back to full. Rain released Essence Well and switched back to Winter as he checked the time again.

Six minutes, ish. 3.56 mana per second, times 360 seconds, is 1,281.6 mana. That’s less than I expected. Does she not have Intrinsic Focus? Oh, wait, she probably does, just not at max rank. Assuming she’s around level five like Khurt said, she’s got 60 stat points to play with. If she put 30 in Focus, 10 in Clarity, and spread the rest across the others, she’d have a mana pool of 800 and a regeneration of 200 per day, not including any Intrinsic skills. I’m positive that Intrinsic Focus and Intrinsic Clarity both get experience one-to-one with general mana use experience, so if she used 200 mana a day, ranking up Intrinsic Focus would take around—

“You’re doing it again,” Cera said, amusement bubbling in her voice.

Rain snorted and glanced at her. “Sorry.” I’m probably off with my guess at stat allocation. I’ll think about it later.

Cera nodded at him, still smiling. She was polite to him, at least, even if she was trying to pretend that the workers didn’t exist. “Thanks for the mana. I should be good for the rest of the day. I don’t do well with mana potions, and this is probably going to have the same effect on me, so I don’t think I’ll be coming back for more once I finish with this load.” She gestured to the barrels. “I don’t want a headache tomorrow. Plus, you’ll probably need your mana for other things. Maybe I can come back later in the week?”

“Tomorrow,” Rain said. “The headache means you are pushing yourself past your limit. The only way to improve is to work through it.” She’s not fully synchronized either, it seems. Can’t even handle as much as Val could. That would slow down her progress even more.

“I know,” Cera said. “The headaches really hit me hard, though. I don’t want to overdo it.”

“Still,” Rain said, gesturing to the fog. “Tomorrow. We really need your help. Think of all the people who are benefiting from your power.” He hesitated for a moment. “This fog is really something. I’m impressed.”

Cera smiled and stretched like a stroked cat. “Praise me more.”

Rain could tell she was just hamming it up, but there was a hint of genuine pride buried in her voice.

Got her. She’ll be back.

Rain nodded deliberately. “Right, I have to go. Carry on. See you later, you two.” He waved to Nails and Arnal. “If she gives you a hard time, just let me know. I’ll throw her in the river or something.”

“Hey!” Cera said in mock outrage.

Rain grinned at her. “I’m quite serious,” he said. He turned to look at the workers. “Don’t let her push you around.”

Nails hesitantly smiled back, looking between him and the water mage. Arnal looked uncertain.

Cera was about to say something, but Rain didn’t want to get tied down any longer, especially not in a debate about class politics. He’d already spent too much time as it was. “Keep up the good work,” he said, turning sharply and walking off into the fog, wishing that he had his cloak for dramatic effect. He resolved to always take it with him in the future.

Rain did his best to avoid getting tied down as he threaded his way through the huge crowd of people surrounding the bathhouse. He kept his helmet off and a serious expression painted on his face, leaning on his soul leakage to help convince people that he was too busy to stop and chat. This got him past those who didn’t know him personally, but it wasn’t quite enough to get him inside unscathed.

“Oh, there you are,” said someone from his left. He would have pretended not to hear, had he not recognized the voice.

“Hello, Meloni,” he said, looking over at the woman. She was wearing an apron and had her graying hair tied back, likely having come here from the alchemistry shop in the middle of her shift. She was also towing a barrel behind her in a handcart. He slowed down but didn’t stop. “Sorry, I’m in a bit of a hurry.”

“That’s alright,” said Meloni, hurrying after him. “If I follow you, I can get to the front of this depth’s cursed line.”

Rain smiled. “You’re not wrong. How’s Cloud doing?”

“Better,” Meloni said, beaming at him. “Much better. Reason worked through the bells to finish a new batch of potions, and he gave me one to use on him. Cloud barely even needed it. He was recovering on his own, but now there won’t even be any scarring. He’s still tired, but he’ll be back to his wild self in no time.”

“That’s great,” Rain said, relief clear in his voice. “You don’t know how happy I am to hear that. I was worried that I was too slow.”

“Nonsense,” Meloni scoffed, waving his words away. “If not for you, he’d have died in that alley.”

“Any idea what bit him?” Rain asked. A warm, jumbled-up mix of satisfaction, pride, and modesty was tumbling around in his chest. I’m some sort of hero, now, aren’t I? I mean, I saved a dog. That makes it official.

Meloni shrugged. “Myth thinks it was just a big rat or something, and that it happened long enough ago for infection to set in. Reason says it was a ‘Beast of Toxin and Terror,’ whatever the hells that means. Honestly, that man doesn’t know when to give it a rest.”

Rain laughed. “Yeah, he really doesn’t.” He came to a stop at the entrance to the bathhouse, where workers were busy distributing water and taking containers from the gathered citizens. “I’d love to stay and talk, Meloni, but I really need to take care of a few things.” He motioned to one of the workers, then indicated the barrel Meloni had brought. “Fill that, Kip, would you kindly?”

“Yes, sir!” said the worker, jumping forward to take the barrel from Meloni’s handcart.

“Sir, huh?” Meloni said, looking at him.

Rain groaned. “I told you not to call me sir, Kip. Just Rain is fine.”

“Yes, sir!” said Kip, slamming a fist to his chest in a crisp salute.

Rain shook his head and smiled at Meloni. “You see what I have to deal with? They’re doing it to annoy me on purpose at this point.”

Meloni laughed. “I’m sure they are. Anyway, Rain,” she said, emphasizing the lack of title,” I just wanted to find you so I could thank you again. I’m sorry that I called you a Ha—”

“Shh!” Rain hissed, cutting her off as he looked around at the workers. “Don’t even say it. I don’t need another nickname.”

Meloni smiled, then winked at him. “Probably for the best. Anyway, here.” She reached into a pocket and pulled out a pair of glass vials. The contents swirled with the characteristic green of Reason’s health potions.

“As a personal thank you,” Meloni said, offering them to him. “It’s not much, but Reason said I could take them. We’re actually doing fairly well now. He’s got plenty of charge left in his equipment, and demand has never been higher.”

Rain hesitated, then accepted the bottles. “Thank you,” he said. “I was just doing what anyone would.”

Meloni shook her head, still beaming at him. “That’s not true, and you know it.”

Rain chuckled, fiddling with the glass bottles as a memory ran through his mind. Ameliah had likely felt the same way when he’d thanked her for helping him over a month ago. With a little concentration, her voice ran through his mind. [You’re giving me too much credit. I did what anyone would have in that situation.]

Damn, I really want to talk to her. So much has happened… He shook his head and looked at the bottles in his hand. He had to finish his business here first. There was just too much to do.

“Say, Meloni, before I go, question,” Rain said, holding up the bottles. The glass was low quality, cloudy with imperfections. “Why does everyone store potions in glass? Wouldn’t something else be better? Glass is really easy to break.”

“True,” Meloni said. “But metal would drain the magic from the potions. Something like wood or hide would react with the chemicals. Even pottery isn’t safe, always. Glass is the easiest and the cheapest. Myth used to fortify the glass with Alchemy to make it shatterproof, but I convinced him to stop. Most people don’t want to pay for it. It triples the cost.”

“I’d pay,” Rain said, tucking the bottles into a pouch. “Maybe have some in stronger bottles as an option. For adventurers, you know? I wouldn’t want to need a potion and then find all of mine broken just because I got tossed through a fence by some monster. Oh, and maybe give people a discount if they bring the bottles back. Then, you can reuse them.”

Meloni cursed. “Damn, why didn’t I think of that? That is actually a really good idea.” She smiled. “Myth will be happy; he’s always looking for things to do. By the way, that Forceweave you ordered was finished a couple days ago. Myth said the binding of the Crysts to the wool went smoothly. I was impressed by the quality of the fabric; it’s softer than Cloud, which is saying something.” She smiled. “Myth really outdid himself. Mlem picked it up to take to the tailor’s.”

Rain blinked, having to play back what she’d just said. He’d been distracted half-way through by a sudden flash of excitement from his link to Dozer. “That was fast,” he said, pushing the slime’s feelings aside for the moment. He had his own excitement to contend with. My order might be done by now, then. How long does it take a tailor to tailor something?

“There you are,” Vanna said from over his shoulder. “I need to talk to you.”

Rain jumped, then pivoted to face her. “Oh, Vanna, where did you come from? I need to talk to you too. Sorry, one sec.” He turned back to Meloni. “I’ve got to go. I’ll stop by to see Cloud when I can, but no promises. Oh!” He slapped his head. “You’re good friends with Jamus, right?”

Meloni nodded.

Rain grinned. “He’s here. Outside of the barrier, in the Lee.”

Meloni’s eyes widened. “Really?” She made to dash off into the crowd, then cursed, looking at the full barrel that Kip had just rolled over to them.

“Don’t worry. He’s not going anywhere,” Rain said, helping Kip load the barrel into Meloni’s cart. “I’m planning to go talk to him and my other friends out there once I’m free. Maybe I’ll run into you if you’re still there. Oh, bring a notebook. I don’t know if Jamus knows hand code.”

“Right,” Meloni said, lifting the handles of her cart. “Thank you again, Rain. Now, I’ve got to go, and so do you. I’m sorry for keeping him, Miss…?”

“Vanna,” Vanna said, her expression softening.

“Vanna, right. Nice to meet you. I’ll talk to you later, Rain.”

Rain opened his mouth to reply, but Meloni had already turned away and started pushing through the crowd. Wow, I guess she really likes Jamus a lot. The way her face lit up when I mentioned his name… Rain smiled, shaking his head.

“Friend of yours?” Vanna asked.

Rain nodded. “Yeah, I know her from…” He trailed off, seeing a sudden expression of alarm on Vanna’s face as she looked over his shoulder.

“Hello, Officer,” Vanna said.

“Hello,” Officer Bartum said, then nodded to Rain. “I got your message. We need to talk.”

“That was fast,” Rain said. Why must people keep sneaking up on me? “I didn’t expect you so soon. I’d have thought you’d want to organize some patrols or something.”

“Mmm,” Bartum said. “It’s just me for now. It’s not that I doubt your word, Rain, even through a messenger, but I want to make sure I understand what brought about this change before I risk the entirety of the Watch.”

“You know each other?” Vanna said, relaxing slightly.

“Yes,” Rain said. “Vanna, this is Officer Bartum. I told you about him, remember? Bartum, this is Vanna. She’s something like my second in command for this,” he gestured vaguely, “operation.”

“Ah,” Bartum said, offering her his hand. “Pleased to meet you.” He turned back to Rain. “Is there somewhere we can talk privately nearby?”

“I have a meeting room,” Rain said. “No fancy wards, though. It used to be a closet.”

“That will do,” Bartum said, chuckling. He turned to Vanna. “Perhaps you should join us. I take it Rain came here to speak with you for an urgent purpose. I can think of no other reason for him to send me a messenger with such important news, rather than come himself.”

Rain winced. “Yeah, sorry, Bartum. I was planning to visit you afterward. You’re right, though, it is important. Let’s go. It’s just through here.”

