Bartum paused, stroking his beard. “Hmm. I need to think up some reason to explain why Velika is letting us retake control. As you said, we have a narrative problem.” He got to his feet. “A difficult puzzle. Of course, the fact that she’s trapped with us will all get out eventually, but the longer we can prevent that, the better. We want the city to stay calm.” He nodded to himself. “Before I go, is there anything else you need? We’re not as strong as we were, not without our sentinels, but you have our support for as long as we have yours.”

“I…” Rain hesitated, then looked between Vanna and Bartum. He could feel all of his pent up stress and worry crashing down on him like a wave, making it hard for him to speak. The nobles deciding to help, the Watch retaking command, Vanna and the others offering to work without pay, his fears about his soul, it was all too much. He’d been running himself ragged every day for days on end, and he’d had to fight for every last step of progress. Now, the work that he’d started was finally starting to maintain its own momentum, to accelerate, even, like a boulder rolling downhill. He felt tears of relief welling up behind his eyes, and he had to take a deep breath and fight to control his expression. “Thank you. Both of you.”

“Of course,” Bartum said.

Vanna reached out and grabbed his hand from where it was lying limply on the table. “You don’t have to do everything yourself, Rain.”

Rain looked down at her hand covering his, not trusting himself to speak.

Dozer ruined the moment.

The slime launched itself up onto the table, fixated on Vanna. Rain had lost control of the link, and his emotions had leaked through. The slime couldn’t process the complicated feelings that Rain was experiencing, and it had decided that he had been attacked and that Vanna was the perpetrator.

After the ensuing chaos had died down, Rain was secretly relieved. No real harm had been done, and Dozer’s intervention had saved him, though not from the threat that the slime had perceived.

Ameliah shot to her feet as she spotted Rain walking through the south gate of Fel Sadanis. She’d been sitting near the barrier on-and-off all afternoon, wrapped in her warm white cloak against the chill. Even in the shelter of the Lee, it was bitterly cold. The ground was hard with frost, though it had been cleared of the deep snow that had swallowed the rest of the world.

There he is. What took him so long?

“He’s here,” Ameliah said softly. Tallheart, who was sitting nearby with his eyes closed, opened them and pivoted his antlered head to follow her gaze.

“Mmm,” he rumbled. “Why does he have a crystal slime?”

Ameliah shrugged, not having missed the small monster trailing after Rain as he approached unnaturally quickly. Wisps of wind swirled after both of them, showing that Rain was using his Velocity aura.

“He is a tamer now?” Tallheart said, smoothly rising to his feet. The large cervidian was wearing his magnificent armor as always, with not so much as a cloak as a concession to the cold.

Ameliah shook her head. “I don’t think so. He wouldn’t have had the skill points. I’ll ask him about it, just to make sure. By the way, you should really learn hand code. It isn’t that difficult.”

Tallheart frowned, the expression barely perceptible on his stony face.

“I’ll teach you later,” Ameliah said, smiling. Neither of them had any doubt that Rain would have learned hand code by now, of course. He’d said he was going to the last time that she had spoken to him. That was ten days ago, and it was Rain.

Ameliah looked over her shoulder toward the fires, set deeper within the shelter of the Lee. Staavo and Jamus were seated near one of them. The two of them were much less tolerant of the cold and had retreated to the warmth when it became clear that Rain wasn’t going to immediately rush over. She waved to them, but they didn’t notice, probably locked into the same inane argument that they had been since she’d found them in the forest.

Looking back at Rain, she blinked. He was already much closer than she’d expected. He’s gotten faster.

She watched with some amusement as Rain crashed into the barrier right in front of her, having failed to stop his momentum in time. The muddy ground hadn’t done him any favors. Unlike the shattered terrain outside, Fel Sadanis looked more or less the same as it had ten days ago. It seemed that Rain hadn’t been successful with his cooling project.

A flash of white light appeared as Rain picked himself up and cleaned the mud off with Purify. He was wearing the armor that Tallheart had made him, including the helmet, as well as his full black cloak. He waved to them, then removed the helmet, revealing his face.

Ameliah blinked. He looks good. His face is thinner, and with the beard and the shorter hair…

Rain grinned at her sheepishly, making a show of brushing himself off even though he was already clean. “Oops,” he signed.

“Tell him, ‘that is one way to stop,’” Tallheart said, amusement crinkling the corners of his eyes.

Ameliah laughed. “Tallheart says that is one way to stop,” she signed.

“I missed you,” Rain signed slowly. “Both of you. Soup and books, too. So much has happened.”

“What did he say?” Tallheart rumbled.

Ameliah tilted her head. “He said he missed us, then something about soup and books. I’m not quite sure what he means. Hang on. I might have misinterpreted.” She looked back to Rain, signing and speaking out loud for Tallheart’s benefit. “We missed you too, Rain. What do you mean, ‘soup and books’?”

Rain pointed toward the camp situated under the Lee and then signed quickly, his motions much more practiced as he used phonetic signs to spell out a pair of names.

“Oh,” Ameliah said, then laughed. “He named Jamus and Staavo. Spelling out a name takes time with signs, so people usually take a word or two as their callsign, to make things faster.” She glanced at Tallheart. “Yours is easy. It’s still Tallheart.”

Tallheart nodded. “Soup and Books…” He nodded. “He has chosen well.”

“Tallheart says your names for them are good,” Ameliah said, signing the same thing slowly. It had been a long time since she’d learned, and she was rusty. She felt a little better about it, seeing that Rain was also far from perfect. He clearly knew the signs, but was having trouble forming them, his hands moving awkwardly.

“What is your name?” Rain signed, Ameliah repeating his words for Tallheart.

“You don’t have one for me?” she responded, smiling.

Rain smiled back. “Since you know hand code, I think you already having one. Mine is ‘Rain,’ obvious.” The sign that he used for ‘rain’ was one of several. The one he had used meant a warm, cleansing rain in spring. Knowing what Rain’s name meant in his native language, Ameliah agreed with his choice.

“Hello, Rain,” she signed, following the traditional pattern. “I am Tiger Eye.”

“Tiger Eye,” he repeated the sign. “I don’t know that word.”

“It is a brown and gold gemstone,” Ameliah said, motioning to her face. “For my eyes. My sign teacher chose it, not me.”

“Oh,” Rain signed, smiling. “It fits. Your eyes do look like gemstones.”

“Thank you,” Ameliah said, a bit embarrassed having repeated his words for Tallheart. “Flatterer.”

“What?” Rain signed.

Ameliah shook her head, not wanting to explain. “I like the beard, by the way. You look much less scruffy.”

“Thanks,” Rain said, scratching at his chin with a goofy smile on his face. He had to pause and fight off the slime, which had jumped on him for some reason.

“If you are done flirting, please ask Rain about the Vekuavak woman,” Tallheart said.

Ameliah swatted at him, but the surprisingly nimble smith darted out of the way.

“What?” Rain signed, having freed himself from the slime. She set aside her own growing list of questions. Tallheart was right; they had more important things to discuss. She was happy to see Rain, but it was difficult to forget that the Lee was the site of a battle where hundreds, if not thousands of people had died.

“Nothing,” Ameliah signed back. “Tallheart wants to know about the Citizen. Bubbles said that she had a fight with the Watch. Is that true?”

Rain’s smile faltered, then broke as if it had been nothing more than a facade. He suddenly looked tired, grim, even. He shook his head slowly and ran a hand through his hair.

“We’d better sit down,” he signed, looking up at her. “I have a lot to tell you.”

“Rain, what—?” she signed, stepping forward and looking carefully at his expression. Now that he wasn’t smiling, she could see bags of fatigue under his eyes. “Are you okay?”

“No,” Rain signed. He took a breath and forced an unconvincing smile onto his face. “But I’m trying.”
