Rain led Bartum and Vanna through the entry hall, then motioned them back from the door to the storeroom as he opened it. Dozer shot out and would have hit Rain directly in the face had he not been ready to intercept the slime with his arm. His link to the monster faded with distance and time, but it never really went away. He’d felt the slime’s unhappiness at being trapped all throughout his negotiation with Velika as a little knot of sadness pointing vaguely in the direction of the bathhouse.

As he’d approached the building, the bond had strengthened. The flash of excitement that had distracted him during his conversation with Meloni would doubtless correlate with the moment that Dozer had realized he was back. It had taken the slime a while to connect the strengthening of the bond with his presence, which didn’t come as much of a surprise. The slime’s mind was adorably uncomplicated, which was a polite way of saying that it was dumber than a can of paint.

Bartum laughed as Rain struggled with the excited slime. “Still having problems with that slime of yours, eh?”

Rain grinned despite himself, trying to shake Dozer free from his arm. The feelings coming through the link were much stronger with direct contact, and he could feel the slime’s happiness infecting him, whether he wanted it to or not. The monster had completely forgotten that Rain had been the one to lock him up in the first place, and was reacting like a puppy at the sudden return of its owner. Dozer had really taken a liking to him over the past week, now showing a fierce loyalty in place of its initial curiosity and indifference.

“Damn it, Dozer, get off! I told you not to jump on people!” He swung his arm in a rapid arc, causing Dozer to lose purchase on his hand and fly through the air to splatter against the wall. The slime reformed quickly, completely unharmed, as Rain had known it would be. Dozer sloshed himself backward, preparing to leap again.

“Down!” Rain shouted sharply, pressing his will against the slime through the link.

The slime hesitated, and Rain immediately sent it a feeling of happiness. “Good slime,” he said, walking over to it. He could feel its desire to jump build as he approached, and he quickly shifted his happiness to anger. “No…” he said, giving it a look. Dozer quivered, but stayed down. The monster’s excitement was warring with its dubious understanding of what Rain wanted.

“Good,” Rain said, laying his hand on the slime and feeding it a puff of mana. That went much better than last time. That’s promising; it means the positive reinforcement is working, and that Dozer’s memory isn’t so bad that he can’t learn. It’s just going to take a while.

Vanna laughed, then walked over to Dozer and sat in a chair next to him. She and the other workers had grown to accept Dozer as something of a mascot. She reached down to pat the slime as if it were a cat, and Dozer engulfed her fingers immediately. “Hey!” Vanna said, fighting to free her hand from Dozer’s grip.

“Just ignore him,” Rain said. I thought she would have known better by now. “Come in, Bartum, and close the door. We need to talk. Sorry about Dozer. He’ll settle down in a minute. Throw some coins on the floor, Vanna. That should distract him.”

Rain sat, then steepled his fingers, trying to suppress the feelings coming from the overexcited slime. He breathed deeply, concentrating on the link. It wasn’t perfect, but he’d found he could mute the feelings somewhat, though it took concentration to maintain. Once the slime calmed down, he’d be able to relax that concentration, but until then, having its puppy-like enthusiasm bubbling in his head was worse than the effort of maintaining the suppression.

Bartum took a seat as Rain battered his emotions into submission. The slime’s happiness slowly drained away, leaving Rain alone with his tension and worry.

“Right,” he said with a sigh once he was feeling back to normal. “I’ll go first. Bartum already knows this, but Velika is stepping down. The Watch is back in control of the city.”

Vanna’s eyes widened. “What?! Why?”

Rain shook his head. “What I’m about to tell you could be dangerous if we don’t control the narrative. I trust you both, but I want to make sure you understand before I say anything else.”

“I won’t tell anyone,” Vanna said.

“I cannot promise the same,” Bartum said, “But I will keep things within the Watch. Just a few of the senior officers, if I deem it necessary.” He gestured to Vanna. “She is telling the truth, by the way. She’ll keep her word.”

Rain looked at Bartum levelly. “I already said I trust her.” Vanna jerked her head to look at Rain as he said this, a pleased expression blossoming on her face.

Rain smiled, nodding to her, then looked back at Bartum. “That’s fine, I guess. You can talk about it with the other Watch leaders, but be careful.”

Bartum nodded.

Rain released a pulse of Detection, making sure that there was no one in range to overhear. The coast was clear, but he spoke softly, just in case. “Citizen Westbridge is dead, and he was the only one able to control the barrier. Velika can’t lower it, and nobody else can get in. There’s no help coming.”

Vanna gasped, but Bartum merely raised an eyebrow. “Did Velika tell you this herself?” he asked.

“Yes,” Rain said.

“Impossible,” said Vanna. “It’s got to be a trick. She’s lying. There’s no way she can’t—”

“He believes it,” Bartum interrupted, turning to Rain. “What makes you so sure she wasn’t lying?”

“She’s given up,” Rain said. “She’s broken.” Rain tapped his forehead with two fingers. “Up here. I don’t know, it’s like depression, but it’s more than that. She hasn’t left her room for days. She knows she’s trapped in here with us, and she thinks that it’s hopeless.”

“Hmm,” Bartum said. “What you say confirms our own suspicions.” He looked at Vanna, who still had disbelief painted across her face. “The usurper already controls the city. There is no benefit for her in trying to deceive us.”

Rain nodded. “She only wanted to be a Citizen so they would help her raise her cap. She wasn’t told that she’d be locked in here with us. Whatever game Westbridge was playing, he needed a pawn, I think. Maybe a scapegoat. Someone disposable, at any rate. Velika was talking to him for days after the barrier went up, and he flat-out told her that he was working on finding her replacement. Whether that was just some test to see how she’d cope, or if he was serious, I don’t know. What I do know is that there’s no point in waiting for him to come back. She felt him die through that link of theirs. Someone killed him, or he choked on a chicken bone or something.”

“It could still be a trick,” Vanna said. “Maybe Westbridge faked his death.”

Rain shrugged. “I mean, maybe, but it doesn’t really matter in terms of what we need to do about it. Velika believes he’s dead, and that’s that. She’s not going to help us, which means we need to help ourselves. If Westbridge isn’t dead, great, he’ll show up and let us out when we least expect it. Otherwise, we need to get access to the artifact generating the barrier as soon as we can. That’s what I wanted to talk to you about, Vanna. I want you to send a few crews over to where Westbridge broke the ground and get them digging.”

“I thought you said only Westbridge could lower the barrier,” Bartum interjected. “How do you know that gaining physical access to the artifact will help?”

“Because Velika already tried it,” Rain said. “Getting her to talk wasn’t easy, but I did get some information out of her. She couldn’t make heads or tails of how the artifact worked, but that doesn’t mean it’s impossible. It has an interface, and if it has an interface, it can be hacked. Oh, sorry, hacked means, um, accessed without authorization.”

“And she gave up, just because she couldn’t figure it out?” Vanna asked. “What about hammering on the barrier, or starving it of mana or something? There’s got to be a way.”

Rain shook his head slowly, then shrugged. Physical force wasn’t going to do it, judging by the massive column of stone that formed the Lee. The weight of that much rock pressing down would be far more than they could muster against the barrier, even if the entire population spent days going ape on it with hammers.

Starving the barrier of mana could work, depending on how efficient it was and whether it had an ongoing upkeep cost, but Rain had categorically decided against discussing Velika’s so-called plan for freeing herself. He was almost one hundred percent sure that she wouldn’t do what she’d threatened, but the possibility still weighed on him. Her mental instability was a constant threat hanging over the city. The best thing he could do to prevent Velika from snapping would be to make visible progress toward freeing her.

“Okay then,” Bartum said when it was clear that Rain wasn’t going to elaborate. “I’m convinced. I’ll get some patrols going once we’re done here and start restoring order. You’re sure she won’t object to that? Did she set any limits on what we’re allowed to do?”

Rain shook his head, surprised and relieved that Bartum wasn’t going to press him for more detail. “None. Everyone is free to do whatever they want, as long as they leave her alone. She even disbanded her guard, though I think she only did it to get me to shut up. By the way, Vanna, if a kid named Kettel shows up and says he wants to help, find something useful for him to do that keeps him away from anything flammable.” He turned back to Bartum. “Just to make sure we’re on the same page, the Watch isn’t going to stop me or anyone else from using magic to help the city, right?”

Bartum nodded, though he looked like he’d just taken a big bite out of a lemon. “No. As long as they don’t hurt anyone, we won’t make an issue of it. Incidentally, I heard about your little stunt with Refrigerate and those looters on the bridge. You neglected to mention that the last time we spoke. That is exactly the kind of thing I don’t want happening.”

“Sorry, I was just trying to scare them. I wouldn’t have actually done anything.”

“I know,” Bartum said. “But still. Be careful.”

Rain nodded. “Anyway, Vanna, do we have the workers to spare?”

“Yes, and then some,” Vanna said. “That’s what I wanted to talk to you about, Rain.” She reached into a pocket and pulled out a bag, sliding it across to him. “That’s all the money you gave me for today’s payroll. No one’s going to take it.”

Rain blinked. “What?”

Vanna smiled warmly. “You don’t need to pay us, Rain. We know you don't have the money, and we’re not blind to what needs to be done. You’re better off doing whatever it is you do, not scrambling for bits. All of the crews got together and talked it over. We’re all still with you, and Tarny says more are joining by the hour. I had to send most of them off on errands to keep them from getting in the way.”

Rain shook his head and pushed the bag back. “But what about food and stuff? People need money.”

Vanna shook her head, not reaching for the bag. “Money won’t save you when you’re stuck in the depths. We’ll be fine. Lady Par…I misjudged, I think. She said she’d help anyone who doesn’t have enough, as long as they are working to restore order.”

“Wait, what?” Rain said, staring at Vanna in disbelief. “She really said that? I couldn’t even get her to lower her prices yesterday!”

Vanna nodded. “I was as surprised as you were. I think it just took her a little time to realize what six weeks of food really meant. Word is out about that, by the way. It might as well be common knowledge by now. A few more of the nobles have joined Lady Par in helping us, too.”

Rain blinked at her. “I…did not expect that.”

Bartum laughed. “You seem to have a very low opinion of nobles, Rain. Understandable, given that they cause us almost as much trouble as the Guild does, but nevertheless. They aren’t stupid, and they aren’t heartless. They’re just as trapped as we are.”

“Yeah,” Rain said. “I mean, I get that, and I hoped they’d come around, but I just expected to have to fight them every step of the way.”

“Sometimes, the battle wins itself,” Bartum said. “By the way, you might want to talk to Lady Summerland. I’ve heard that she has an interest in the Majistraal. She might know something about their artifacts that could be useful. Don’t get your hopes up too high, though. Information on them is scarce and full of speculation as you well know, but she might have a credible book or two in her library.”

“Really?” Rain said, still reeling as his mind tried to process the implications. “Lady Par didn’t mention that.”

No need to pay the workers? The nobles actually helping for once?

Vanna laughed. “Why would she, when she could tell us about the woman’s sex life instead?”

“Officer Tanner also has some knowledge of modern enchantments,” Bartum continued, the corner of his mouth quirking up in a smile. “It’s not anywhere near the level of the Majistraal, obviously, but he’s good enough to maintain the wards and such. I’ll send him over to you once your people gain access to the artifact. I’m sure he’d love to look at it.”

“That would be a huge help,” Rain managed.

Bartum frowned. “I’d like to send some officers to help dig, too, but I’m afraid I’ll need them all for patrols at first. We need to make our presence known. There might be trouble with the Guild, specifically Rankin.”

“I’ll get Khurt to help,” said Vanna. “He should be able to keep them in line.”

“The silverplate?” Bartum said, raising an eyebrow. “He’s a part of this? I hadn't heard that.”

Vanna nodded. “Oh, you’ll be taking the Fells back too, right? Rain had me send a crew there a few days ago. They’ll have blocked it off with stone by now.”

“A sensible precaution,” Bartum said. “We’ll leave it for now. We need to be out on the streets.” He turned to Rain. “Let us handle it, Rain. This is our city. You and your people focus on the water and the artifact. We’ll take care of the rest.”

