Moving tables and chairs aside, the crowd cleared a wide space as the two experts approached. Arms crossed and head held high, Ryo Geom-Chi pointed at BoShui. “Step forward. I can turn a cheek to the barbaric child’s words, but you are old enough to know better. Come. I, your father, Ryo Geom-Chi, shall teach you a lesson.”

“Impudent whelp!” This time, it was the Major General’s turn to strike his table, his Chi-augmented voice startling everyone present. “Since when did I have such a boorish brother?”

As Ryo Geom-Chi blanched in fear, the drunk Guard Captain brushed all of Song’s optimism aside with a wave of his hand. “Come now, Major General,” he said, chuckling as he wiped his chin. “No need to take his words to heart. Let the younger generation resolve their own conflicts.” Pulling out his token for all to see, the red-faced Captain waved it about. “So long as you all remember the Legate’s guidelines. Keep your weapons sheathed and exhibit restraint. I’d hate for this relaxing evening to turn into real work, understood?”

After bowing to the Guard Captain, Ryo Geom-Chi smiled at the panicking young patriarch, who looked around for help. “Fear not,” Geom-Chi mocked, “Out of respect for the Legate, I’ll leave you with your dog life.”

Seeing BoShui’s obvious reluctance to reap what he’d sown, the crowd jeered and laughed, ready to see him eat crow. With a heavy sigh, Tam Taewoong shook his head and gestured for Fung to step forward. “Let’s not waste time. Our food will arrive soon. Take care of both at once.” Glancing at Master Rain and Song with contempt, he sniffed and added, “I’ll not have it said Tam Taewoong bullies slaves or children. Remain seated and learn your lesson well, brat.”

Trading glances, Fung and BoShui shrugged and stood to meet their opponents. Contrary to his timid demeanour, BoShui took the initiative to approach Tam Taewoong, a mistake in Song’s eyes. While he might have had a chance against the swordless Radiant Sword, the Benevolent Asura was a master of unarmed combat, much like BoShui himself. Eyes narrowed, Tam Taewoong took BoShui’s decision as an insult, having been deemed the weaker of the two. “You choose poorly,” he said, speaking through clenched teeth as he clasped his hands. “I intended to let Geom-Chi handle both of you because he’s not as heavy-handed, but now you’ve raised my ire. Take care and try not to die, fool. I find it difficult to contain my strength when -”

Ignoring Taewoong’s warning, BoShui opened with a left jab which almost slipped through his opponent’s defence. Snarling in anger, the Benevolent Asura rushed BoShui with a flurry of kicks and punches, all which were parried or dodged with the audible smack of flesh against flesh. The crowd cheered and yelled for blood, their voices growing strained as the bout continued. Watching the chaos unfold, Song tilted her head in confusion as BoShui traded blow for blow with a former Hwarang. How curious. BoShui wasn’t any stronger or faster than usual, but Taewoong’s performance left her disappointed. When old Master Kai had her accompanying his son Jin-Tok day and night, she’d been fortunate enough to witness Taewoong’s rise to glory, the duel in which he defeated his opponent and joined the ranks of the Hwarang for the first and only time. Back then, she thought him a dragon among men, far and above her in strength and skill, yet now, little over five years later, he seemed lacking despite his officially undefeated record.

Had he grown lazy or was he holding back? Not to belittle BoShui’s hard work these past six months, but how could he be a match for the Benevolent Asura?

No, not a match. Their cheers dying on their lips, the crowd’s fell silent as it became obvious which fighter held the upper hand. While Taewoong’s attacks were unable to pierce his opponent’s defences, the reverse was not true as BoShui landed blow after blow, all aimed at the Benevolent Asura’s painted face. The match continued until Taewoong took a staggering left-right combination which rocked him back on his heels. Supported by the crowd, they kept their local hero from falling to his ass while he wheezed and panted. Cosmetics smeared by sweat and blood, Taewoong looked a sorry sight compared to the huffing BoShui, the clear winner in everyone’s eyes. “Your name?” Taewoong asked, his voice slurred from swollen lips.

Clasping his hands in a salute, BoShui answered, “Han BoShui, Disciple of Han BoHai and Expert of the Empire.”

The crowd exchanged questioning looks and helpless shrugs until one hesitant voice asked, “... The Paper Tiger of the Han Clan?”

Grimacing, Taewoong glared at the speaker. “If he’s a paper tiger,” he said, voice dripping with fury, “Then what am I?”

While Taewoong stepped back to nurse his wounds, Ryo Geom-Chi remained in place, unperturbed by his friend’s loss. Looking Fung up and down, he said, “So you must be Tong Da Fung, champion of the Contest.”

“Disciple of Akanai and Expert of the Empire,” Fung replied, flashing his smug, self-satisfied smile, standing tall with hands clasped behind his back. “Not to mention young magistrate of Shen Huo and most handsome, eligible bachelor in the North." Adressing the crowd, he added, "Don't forget to tell your sisters.”

Ignoring Fung’s frivolous words, Geom-Chi smiled. “I hear you’re a swordsman yourself. It would be a shame to face you without weapon in hand.”

Feigning a shudder, Fung recoiled in mock disgust. “It’s unnerving to admit, but I was thinking the same. Practice weapons?”

After checking with the Guard Captain who magnanimously gave his consent, both men exchanged dulled weapons for inspection. With his sword back in hand, Fung swung it about in a slow circuit, warming up for the match ahead. “It’s been a while since I fought with a sword, but I could use the practice.”

“Hmph. No need for excuses.” Taking his stance, Geom-Chi bared his teeth. “It is your honour to be defeated by the Radiant Sword. Begin!”

The crowd did no cheer or taunt, nor was there the ring of steel of clash of blades as the two warriors faced off on the second floor of the restaurant-turned-duel grounds. The only sounds to be heard were the thumping of footsteps and the rustle of wind as they went back and forth, striking and counter striking without ever touching blades. Having never seen Fung use his sword, Song was amazed by his high level of skill. Each time Geom-Chi moved to strike, Fung countered with a killing blow of his own. Realizing this and unwilling to settle for a draw, Geom-Chi would switch to an active parry in an attempt to knock Fung’s blade aside and win a decisive victory, but Fung would retract his sword and avoid contact. When their roles reversed, the same sequence of events would play out, leading to a unique sort of stalemate she’d only ever read about.

Lacking in spectacle, both combatants danced from stance to stance without ever attacking, but in Song’s eyes, this was a true match of blades and wits. Neither warrior would commit to a blow because doing so meant mutual destruction. Instead, they tested their opponent’s defences time and time again in search of an opening and found none as both were equally matched. Darting Fang countered by Fluttering Raindrops, Reverse Bite foiled by Hidden Ambush, Parting the Underbrush warding off Pierce the Horizon, this was a true dance of swords, a test of pure technique. Speed, strength, stamina, all stood second to skill, and it was skill alone which would determine the winner.

Then, as quickly as it began, the match ended with a single chime of their swords, humming as both combatants stepped back. “Well fought,” Fung said, clasping his hands.

Returning the gesture, Geom-Chi nodded and exhaled. “You let me win.”

“It’s true.” Fung shrugged. “I heard the Ryo family’s third daughter is a vision to behold, so you can introduce me to her as thanks.”

“I’ll consider it.” Geom-Chi smiled and added, “If you can defeat me. It would be my honour to face you again.”

“Great, now everyone get out of the way.” Interrupting their exchange, Master Rain shooed the crowd aside. “Food’s been ready for awhile but the waiter can’t get through.”

Dispersing like obedient little soldiers, the spectators put their tables and chairs back in place as all four duellists took their seats and prepared to eat, pretending like nothing happened. Extending his hand once again, Master Rain rested his fist on the table and nodded towards it. Finally understanding his intentions, Song’s cheeks flushed with embarrassment. He didn’t want her to hold his hand, he wanted her to make physical contact so he could Send. Why didn’t he just reach out and grab her wrist?

Perhaps because he didn’t want to scare her?

“Heya,” Rain Sent the moment her fingers touched his wrist. “Sorry for worrying you. The Major General noticed those two pretty boy’s and told us to start a fight. BoShui needs to raise his reputation before his dear old daddy arrives and this was too good an opportunity to pass up. With the Guard Captain here, we don’t have to worry about our opponents going too far or complaining to the Legate, though those two seemed like okay fellows.”

Nodding, Song withdrew her hand and waited for permission to eat. Tam Taewoong and Ryo Geom-Chi, two prominent young experts who perfectly matched against BoShui and Fung. Seeing the jealous respect and grudging admiration won by the young patriarch and her martial brother, Song felt a twinge of envy. She was stronger than both men but no one would ever respect or admire her, not even if she defeated all four warriors at once. No, she was merely a slave, a weapon, a tool, someone who could never bring glory to Mama or the Bekhai.

“Ah, sorry. Feel free to eat, Martial Aunt.” Piling choice cuts of meat into her bowl, Master Rain smiled and added, “No need to wait, you’re among friends here.”

Eyes widening at the feast before her, Song tossed aside her sorrows and indulged herself in food. It was silly how happy this made her, having someone place food in her bowl. Not just any food either, but all the Central delicacies previously denied her like Nan Ping Duck, Phoenix Tail Shrimp, steamed jade-eyed fish, and bird's nest soup. Biting into a juicy, succulent drumstick, Song closed her eyes and savoured the taste, content with her happy little life.

Best to enjoy it while she could. Who could say how long these good times would last?

Chapter Meme
