Hey everyone! It’s time for my second book in my series to launch.

Today marks the launch of System Universe Book 2: Torith. It’s now available through Amazon’s Kindle Unlimited, Kindle, Paperback, Audible, and even Hardcover.

Adam Verner continues to bring life into the characters via Audible.

Now, I was going to write something funny about book 2 being the perfect Valentine’s Day gift whether you’re single or in a relationship, but I’m not feeling well enough to do that. Sorry!

Available through these links:

Ebook: https://www.royalroad.com/amazon/B0BKNSTM49

Audible: https://www.audible.com/pd/Torith-Audiobook/B0BS73P4YF

Now, as for how people can support the release, there are a couple things, if you were here for the last announcement, you already know this:

-Ratings and Reviews: On Amazon (Also, keep in mind that anything below a 5 is basically bad because of how their rating skew) ratings and reviews are the biggest help for authors. Also, you don’t have to buy the book to rate it, which is good because you most likely already read it here. Though, I would for sure love for you to pick it up again on KU or Audio to get in on some of that good editing and narration. XD

-Kindle Unlimited Downloads: With the way Amazon’s algorithm is, reading the book on KU or even just downloading it helps a ton. The more downloads/reads, the more Amazon likes the book.

Woot! Woot! Here we go!

New system? Check. Companions? Check. An accidental soulbound murder bunny with aspirations of becoming a chef? Check.

It’s not easy being a System Traveler. Well, the traveling part is hard, at least. But once Derek got his feet under him, he hit the ground running, saving an entire area from a massive dungeon overflow in the process. He even found some companions to help ease the massive hole inside him formed from spending decades alone in the void.

Now, it’s time to move on to another adventure–from small villages to a city.

His only experience with a noble left a bad taste in his mouth, and cities are full of them. Hopefully, that experience was an outlier. Surely his view of nobles is just swayed by tropes beaten to death in popular fiction, right?

Well, he’s about to find out as he takes a step into his first city in Cydaria, Torith.

Don’t miss the continuation of Derek’s adventure with a new System, complete with the unique combination of LitRPG, isekai, and slice-of-life genres. Just what is an overpowered protagonist to do with a foreign System in foreign land? Whatever he feels like.

I want to thank everyone who read book 1 and left me kind reviews and messages. You are all awesome!

And as always,

Thanks for reading!
