“Now, come, sit, sit. My desk has chairs for folk with feet and those without. Tell me, how have you enjoyed Talenqual this far? Are you well? Tell me everything.”
Daly and Geneva warily sat down. The Australian cleared his throat, but it was Geneva who spoke up.
“What do you want to know, glorious Fezimet?”
Both Daly and Fezimet started. But Geneva was smiling politely, friendly even. And her tone and the way she spoke—it was Okasha, Daly was certain. Fezimet hesitated, clearly thrown off-guard for a second.
“Well, I suppose I’d want to know if the legends are true. You are the famous Last Light of Baleros, aren’t you?”
Geneva-Okasha shrugged lightly.
“Some call me that. But I only participated in a few battles.”
Fezimet nodded knowingly.
“That’s all it takes. One or two to make a legend. Especially one so…unique. Would you mind telling me how you started? A [Doctor] is surely a rare class. What drew you to the battlefield?”
The [Doctor] raised an eyebrow.
“What else? Money?”
“Ah…”
“But I wanted to save lives as well. I did that. But I grew tired. If you’re asking how I came to join the United Nations company and form it, it was when I met some kinsmen from Terandria by chance. To begin with, I had joined with the Raverian Fighters…”
Not for the first time, Daly caught himself wondering at Okasha. And he was especially relieved that she was with Geneva in this situation; the Selphid spoke on Geneva’s behalf, acting enough like the [Doctor] to almost fool Daly, but smoothly giving Geneva a more sociable personality, and incorporating some lies with her story. Fezimet listened, asking a few questions, and the food Daly had requested seemed to appear in no time at all. The young man sipped from his drink and took a bit of the shrimp as Fezimet ate what might have been roasted rat, listening to Geneva’s story.
“And you decided to form a company. Well, I understand the reasoning; after two betrayals, why not stick with kin? Reasonable, reasonable. But after your company formed, why did you decide to come to my city?”
He stressed the ‘my’ a bit. Geneva paused. She glanced sideways at Daly and he jumped in.
“Well, we’d heard Talenqual was a very safe place. Very safe and prosperous, with everything you could want. Harbor, strong economy…why not work from here?”
The Quexal looked pleased at the answer.
“Hm! True, very true! But did you choose it because of my company?”
The Australian hesitated.
“No. Should we? We, uh, didn’t think to ask which company ran the city. We probably should have; I knew the Featherfolk Brigade was a mi—was an upper-tier company, but I’ve never heard of a Quexal before. What makes you…you, if you don’t mind me asking?”
The question received an arch smile in return.
“Ah, I see what you did there. But I’ll entertain it because you should know. You ask what a Quexal is? Feathers and scales. Wings, too.”
Fezimet spread his wings again. He seemed not to tire of keeping them open. He chuckled as he saw Geneva and Daly’s eyes go to his bright colors.
“Like all Lizardfolk, I was once one of my smaller kin. But I achieved this rare radiance for my unmatched abilities. Quexal are rare. Rarer than Lamias or Gorgons. There are few of us on Baleros, but those of us who remain are powerful. We do give up a lot. Hands, for one thing. But I don’t miss them. And yes, we can’t use swords that well, or other weapons, but most of us know some magic. I think it’s a requirement; I can blast my enemies from afar, but I prefer to crush them with my tail. Or bite them. It’s not hard.”
He smiled, and his serpentine face revealed a row of teeth that would probably take off Daly’s head in a single bite. The adventurer eyed the fangs: venomous, he had no doubt.
“Quexal are the fastest of the Lizardfolk evolutions, bar none. We can jump and even glide depending on the circumstances. We are mighty, and a Quexal has always led the Featherfolk Brigade. Hence the name. That answers your question. Now I have mine. What do you want to do in my city?”
This time Daly didn’t know what to say. He glanced at Geneva, but she was frowning, and Okasha must not have known how to respond. So Daly went for it.
“Honestly? We just want to find more of our friends from home, ah, glorious Fezimet. And we’d like to earn money ourselves. More than just enough to survive on.”
“Ah. So you aren’t planning on joining with Gravetender’s Fist? Are you intending to go to war? I hear the Bushrangers are quite capable. Will you expand your ranks? You’ve already made one alliance with the Rustless Guard.”
He knew a lot! Daly gulped.
“Not at all. We’re a part of the company, but most of us aren’t fighters. We got enough of a taste of action with Gravetender’s Fist.”
He thought he saw Fezimet relax a bit after hearing that. Did the Quexal have a [Detect Lies] spell or something?
“I see. And so your company wishes to make ends meet. To partake of the riches of my company’s city. Well, well. I suppose that’s acceptable. And you two don’t seem to be lying about that. But this [Doctor]’s business…”
He pondered for a moment before glancing at Geneva.
“I’m told you can deliver a baby free of complication by cutting a mother open, is that right?”
Geneva nodded slowly.
“I can do that. It’s not risk-free, but it’s less risky than a childbirth if there are complications.”
“Of course. But you know Lizardfolk don’t need to give birth? We lay eggs.”
Geneva shrugged slightly.
“Eggs can fail to hatch. Or something can go wrong inside. Nothing is perfect. My job is to try and save lives.”
She met Fezimet’s eyes calmly. The Quexal looked from her to Daly.
“I see. As noble as they claim. Well, I’m content with what I’ve heard. Your company has permission to remain in my city. You don’t seem like troublemakers or a threat, and you’ve saved at least one of my [Landladies]. As for your new…practice, I’ll send one of my Nagas over to watch sometime. Just to make sure it’s alright. Then we can talk about compensation.”
“Compensation?”
Daly hesitated. Fezimet smiled.
“For working in Talenqual, of course. After all, you knew it was such a glorious city when you came here, didn’t you? But let’s not talk about that. Eat more of those shrimps. I’ll have one myself. Now, tell me, Captain Daly, about your team. I hear they’re practically invisible in forests…”
 
——
 
Two hours later, Daly wished he hadn’t eaten so many shrimp. It wasn’t that they were undercooked; it was just that there was a limit to how many crustaceans he could eat. And he’d had too much gin. He should have asked for water and crackers.
“Steady.”
Geneva murmured as she helped guide Daly back down the street towards their headquarters. He erped and tried not to throw up.
“That damned feathery snake can drink like no one’s business. Think…we’ll be okay?”
“I think so. Hold on, Geneva. I’m helping your liver filter all this. You’re going to need to pee bad…let’s get Daly inside.”
She opened the door. Instantly there was a voice.
“They’re back! Get Paige!”
Daly found a few hands steadying him as he lurched inside. He went straight for the kitchen—not to throw up, but to drink some tea to settle his stomach. Then he drank more water, and looked at Paige.
“What happened? All the others said was that a Naga came and took both of you.”
She looked worried. Daly shook his head.
“It’s sorted. I think. Nothing big. Tell you later. We’re having a meeting tonight. Is Luan awake?”
“Not yet. We’re going to have lunch. Uh…”
“Pass.”
Daly spent the rest of the day slowly sobering up and trying to digest too many shrimps. He had an appetite by the time dinner rolled about, and Luan was up. They ate, and Daly listened to Luan’s stories without bringing up their encounter with Fezimet. Only after the dinner had ended did Paige stand up.
“Alright. The company leaders are meeting. Everyone else, you can talk to Luan later.”
“Aw!”
“Come on, what’s this about? Is it the Naga…?”
“We should be allowed to listen!”
Paige scowled at the protesters, who were all mostly older people around her age.
“No, and no. Some of what we have to talk about is potentially dangerous or…”
She glanced at Daly.
“…Or would be bad if it’s gossiped about. We’ll tell you everything we can. But later.”
“Who elected you?”
Someone grumbled that. Michael, probably. Paige opened her mouth, and Ken smiled.
“Should we have elections? I think it would be dangerous to make this a vote. After all, the responsibilities of our job are sometimes…a lot. And we cannot share everything, so if you wanted to vote for someone to listen with us…”
He trailed off. The murmurs fragmented, and most of the group shook their heads. That was Ken, framing the idea as not much of a solution at all. Daly lurched upstairs. The others found him with his head in his hands in their meeting room. Paige closed the door last. Luan yawned.
“You look worse than I do, Daly. What happened while I was out?”
“Too much to drink. We had to go meet the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade. Fezimet the fucking glorious or something.”
The other’s gazes sharpened at once. Ken sat up, looking mildly worried. Paige sat down across from Daly.
“What did he want?”
Geneva frowned, and Okasha answered.
“I think he was scoping out our company. Trying to figure out if we’re a threat.”
“How?”
“Oh, you know. Taking control of parts of his city, sowing dissent, just whether or not we’re easy to work with…”
“Did you reassure him we’re no threat?”
Daly grimaced and shrugged.
“I tried. I think he bought the line that we’re only here to make money. But he hinted—strongly—that his company wants a cut of what Geneva’s doing.”
“Shit.”
“It’s just a tax. I think he was really curious about Geneva. But he’s…something. His company’s also massive. There were tons of Nagas and Gorgons—I wish Ken had been there. He might have figured out more of what Fezimet wanted. Okasha’s right. I think he was just trying to scope us. And he got me pretty good and drunk.”
“If he calls for us again, I will try and speak to him.”
Ken nodded. Aiko sighed, looking relieved.
“But it means it isn’t a problem, yes?”
“For now. But we’re getting heat from a big company. I guess that means we should keep an eye out to avoid pissing anyone off. Good work, Daly.”
Paige drummed her fingers on the table. Daly gave her a weak grin. He wasn’t drinking gin again for at least a month. Siri, who would have done well in his place, looked around with a frown.
“In that case, maybe we should listen to Luan. You said he had something to say?”
Luan nodded. He looked at Siri for a moment and then reached over.
“I think we’ve met. Paige told me you’re working with Daly? I’m Luan.”
“Siri. We met once. Briefly.”
He shook her hand.
“I’m a [Rower]. I’m aiming to be a Courier, but I’ll settle for a good position as a City Runner. And I’ve been working hard, perhaps too hard of late, but the money’s been coming in, and I’m glad it helped with…”
He gestured to the room around them. Paige nodded.
“We can start putting the money towards a better boat and gear for Daly’s team, Luan. We’re finally making more money than we need for the essentials. Which means you shouldn’t take so many risks. You brought in more gold than anyone by yourself at the start. You deserve at least a week’s rest.”
Everyone nodded at that. Luan smiled, but traced the gold ink on his arm.
“That’s good of you to say, Paige. But I have a job in three days I can’t get out of. Remember all that gold I dropped off two weeks back? Well, some of that was an advance payment. Listen, while I was getting my tattoo done in one of the cities, I met this Minotaur…”
Luan relayed the short meeting with Venaz to the others. Daly sat up, frowning and trying to think about why a [Strategist] would want to hire Luan for a delivery in three weeks.
“And he said it was all above-board?”
“He did. But I don’t know if I trust that. I did some digging, and I found out he is who he says he is. He’s a student in the school run by the Titan of Baleros himself.”
Several of the people sitting around the table drew in sharp breaths. The Titan of Baleros. One of the heads of the Four Great companies. And one of his students was hiring Luan? The [Rower] looked around the table.
“I’m committed. And I may not have had a [Detect Truth] stone, but I think this Venaz was telling me the truth. I could ruin his reputation, and what’s the point of me taking a really dangerous job without knowing?”
“Still, it’s suspicious. It sounds like you’re getting involved with something political, Luan. I don’t want you making enemies.”
He nodded.
“But I am committed, Paige. And I’m a City Runner; this is what we do. If anyone takes offense…well, I’ll be careful. I need to row out to my destination in two days. But I had a thought.”
He paused and drummed a hand on the table.
“…We’ve been looking for allies. Quallet’s company is one, and it sounds like Daly’s allied with a Dullahan team. But a Great Company has the resources to protect anyone they want. If this Venaz is a student of the Titan, perhaps he had connections. Perhaps I could meet with someone high up in that company. Talk to them about Geneva’s abilities. We were saying that a [Doctor] with her talents would be useful even to—no, especially to a big company who doesn’t want to lose valuable leaders, right?”
He looked around the table. Daly did too; Paige and Siri were frowning, Aiko was troubled, Geneva was pensive, and Ken was staring down at the table. Paige slowly replied.
“It’s true we were trying to get Geneva’s name out there, Luan. But that was before we discovered she could deliver babies. This way is safer. It doesn’t pull her into politics, and…”
She looked around. Aiko and Ken nodded, but Daly wasn’t so certain.
“Hold on, Paige. That’s true, but didn’t we just get warned by the Featherfolk Brigade? And our position isn’t that stable here. One bad war comes our way, and we need to run. It might be risky getting involved with a Great Company, but if the Forgotten Wing company’s decent—”
“Ken, what’s the Titan’s reputation?”
“Some are terrified of him, some respect him. Most agree he is honorable, but he is known for winning, sometimes in underhanded or sneaky ways. He is a formidable opponent. But it is said that he is generous, and his company is very good to the areas it controls.”
Ken looked around the table. Daly nodded a few times.
