Paige set the bomb down. Daly hesitated. Then he turned and ran. He found the incline and, panting, crouched down behind it. He glanced up and saw Paige running after him. She tumbled over the rise of dirt and panted.
“Get down!”
She lay flat. Daly hesitated.
“Hold on, we’re far enough, aren’t—”
“Get down, you idiot! Or do you want to be hit! Cover your face and stay down! Shrapnel could still hit—”
Maybe this fuse was faster, or the run had taken longer than Daly thought. Either way, this time the explosion made his heart stop. It was so loud, he heard his ears ringing.
They had to have heard that in Talenqual! What if someone investigates?
Daly nearly got up, but Paige held him down. She waited for ten seconds. Only then did she get up.
“Let’s see.”
This time, the blast was hard to miss. As was the destruction. Daly stared at the shredded tree trunks, and then at a tree. It had fallen down, and he could see a few bits of metal embedded in the trunk. Shakily, he looked over at Paige.
“You could blow up a house with that! And you had that in your workshop?”
“I kept it locked away. But yes, I did. And you asked me to make this thing.”
That was true. But Daly still couldn’t believe it. He shook his head.
“You made a bomb? Just like that?”
She nodded. Paige looked around, but there weren’t any pieces of the bomb’s casing left to find on the ground. She slowly shook her head and bit her lip.
“I’m not happy about this, Daly. I know I said I could do it. But it was too easy to make. Once I had the ingredients, it took me three days of careful experimentation to figure out the right ratio of sulfur, saltpeter, and charcoal to make the gunpowder. I did some tests with containers. After that, I had a [Blacksmith] make a shell like this and bought some metal scrap. Daly, it took me less than a week to make this. Imagine what happens if Quallet got ahold of this? Or a larger company?”
“I had—I didn’t ask you to make one of these to sell, Paige. Geneva would kill me first. But we can use them.”
“You’re sure? After that, you’re sure you want one of these?”
Paige looked up questioningly. She stared hard at Daly. For a second, he hesitated. He understood what she was asking, why she’d shown him this in private. You want me to make more of these? And for a second, the decent part of him agreed with Paige. But…he looked around at the jungle and clenched a fist. Then he slowly replied to Paige.
“When we take on monster contracts, we have to weigh how dangerous our target is against the reward. We took a risk on the snakes, and we spent two days preparing and another scoping out the nest. We needed ropes, we had to team up with the Rustless Guard…and it was still closer than I’d like. Those snakes are the baddest thing we can take on. Give us some of these and we can take on almost anything.”
He kicked at the blown up earth. Paige just stared at him.
“You want to bomb monsters?”
“You want me to fight them with crossbows and swords? Paige, maybe the Bushrangers shouldn’t earn money like we do. But aside from Luan and Geneva, we’re the only source of income the company has. And after seeing some of the monsters we fight, I think adventurers are needed. I don’t think this world needs bombs. Especially not Baleros. But give me one of these and no one can copy it, right?”
“Not unless you don’t use it.”
Paige folded her arms, deeply troubled. She stared again at Daly.
“You really want more?”
He closed his eyes and nodded.
“I asked. And I think…yeah, I think we do need them, Paige. You saw the snakes we brought in, didn’t you?”
“I saw parts of them.”
“Well, they were a lot bigger in person. Say we go up against them again. I’d like to use these. Just our team. Just when we have to. We don’t show them around, we only bring them when we know there’s a fight that involves them. Deal?”
He saw the [Engineer] nod.
“Agreed. No one gets these, no matter what.”
“And with that said…I want three of them. Make sure they’re sealed perfectly. I don’t want a chance of them going off.”
“Three. You want three? I can do that. I can do it. But I need more ingredients.”
Paige scrubbed at her hair distractedly. She looked at Daly. Then she shook her head.
“I suppose you still want the ballistae, too. Or those oversized crossbows you were thinking of?”
“The big ones? Yeah. If we can mount it, or use a stand, we could pierce even the serpent’s hide. What, can you make them?”
For a second, Daly wondered if that was an out. But Paige shook her head.
“I was talking with Blake. Apparently ballistae were made with something called torsional force. As opposed to draw force, like what we have with bows and the crossbows I’ve made.”
Daly raised his eyebrows.
“Okay? What does that mean?”
“It means they did something else. Blake said that he thought it involved skeins of rope or something, but he wasn’t sure.”
“How does he know all this stuff, anyways?”
“Video games. Apparently the models in some games are quite close to real life.”
“Huh. So he doesn’t know how this torsional thing works, though, right?”
“Nope. And I bet if I had a YouTube video I could build one from that. But no one’s downloaded a video on their phones, and the internet’s not exactly around. So until I can figure out how the Romans did it, I can’t build anything stronger.”
“Oh. Then I guess…”
Daly indicated the bombs. Paige nodded. She stared around the unnaturally quiet forest, and then gestured back at Talenqual.
“We should probably head back. They might try and see what that sound was.”
“Of course.”
But neither Human moved right away. Paige kept staring at Daly. At last, she spoke.
“You know, I was really hoping you’d see what the bombs did and say ‘No, don’t make any more, Paige. Absolutely not.’”
Daly’s heart twisted in his chest. He held out his hands helplessly.
“Paige. We need those.”
She rounded on him.
“Do we? Do we really need those?”
Her finger shook as she pointed back at the blast zone.
“Daly. I feel like I’m a terrorist. Look at that. You want me to make more of those?”
Daly nodded. Paige halted and stared at him, but he pointed back at the explosion. And this time, he wasn’t as scared of the weapon as before. He was remembering something else.
“Ever seen a [Fireball] explode? It’s just as nasty. Worse. Remember the battle between those companies? They were throwing around spells like that. And some monsters can take a [Fireball] to the face and keep on coming. Those serpents could. If we want to hit Gold-rank, or go any further, we’ll need those, Paige. We’ll use gunpowder on monsters.”
“So long as it’s just monsters.”
She stared at him. Then she turned her back and began walking away. Daly followed her.
“Paige, I swear, if I thought—”
“Don’t. You convinced me, Daly. Don’t justify it.”
He fell silent. The two walked on, pausing to hide as a group of [Guardsmen] did indeed pass them by, looking for the source of the sound. After that, Paige and Daly went back to the main road and pretended to be coming back to Talenqual. They walked together in silence, and the triumph of this morning felt like a long way away to Daly.
Good news and bad. Daly walked back to his bed, and Paige said nothing else. He was troubled, like her. But they needed an edge. And if that meant making bombs…he fell asleep, wondering if he’d said the right thing.
 
——
 
The next day, Daly woke up, ate food, lounged about, and did things he forgot about five minutes later. Around midmorning, he found the Bushrangers relaxing after their big job and ordered them into the living room. It was time for a lesson. Siri was in charge with Tofte helping her. They got ten minutes in when Dawson looked up and complained loudly.
“Daly. I have to ask. Why do we have to study another language in a world that speaks only fucking English?”
He glared at the alphabet Siri had written down for them in her native language. Daly sighed, but he explained as patiently as possible.
“We have two Swedish speakers, Dawson. If we need to talk when the enemy might be around, or warn each other, another language is perfect. It could be a huge advantage. That’s also why we have hand signals and need to be able to write in Swedish too. We can leave each other messages.”
“And why’s it got to be Swedish? Can’t it be pig latin? Or something easier? No offense, Siri.”
“Offense taken.”
Daly waved a hand for silence. He frowned as he replied.
“I thought about Japanese, or one of the languages Kirana and the other girls speak, but apparently there is a nation of islanders about that speak some kind of weird language. Drathians. They sound Japanese, so that’s out. And Siri and Tofte already know the lingo; this makes the most sense. Plus, it’ll help because Sweden isn’t that big a country, so the odds of running into another Swede are a lot lower than someone from India.”
“What does that—”
Dawson was frowning, but Siri looked sharply at Daly. She replied for him.
“He means if we have to go up against people from Earth.”
The Bushrangers fell silent. Daly saw some of them look at each other uncomfortably. Dawson swore.
“Fucking hell, mate. What are you planning?”
Daly’s voice was cold in his own ears.
“Nothing. But I’m preparing us for everything. You heard Blake and his lot’s story about the [Bandits], right? We need to be careful. From now on, any hint of survivors from earth, we investigate cautiously. We watch them before we take them in, and we put people on them for the first month.”
“Jeeze, Daly.”
“It’s what we have to do. It’s not a question of ‘if’ we’re going to run up against some nasty people from home, it’s ‘when’. Or do you want to be the idiots who get stabbed in the back? Don’t worry, though; we’re already looking into buying amulets enchanted with [Detect Lies] along with getting a [Repair] spell.”
That didn’t cheer up the group much. But they did sit still as Siri went over the alphabet and a few basic words. Daly didn’t have the heart to push them to learn more than a few words despite his speech; but he did warn them they’d need to remember.
“Siri’s going to ask you, and so will I. Just remember the words for now. Got it?”
The others nodded. Dawson looked very uncomfortable. So did everyone else. Siri was frowning at Daly. She’d been the one to suggest using Swedish, but she seemed curious. She drew Daly aside as the others began to get back to lazing about. But she never got a chance to ask her question because the door blew open and Michael burst into the room, shouting.
“Luan’s back!”
Daly whirled about, his spirits suddenly rising. He heard an oath from upstairs, and Paige appeared in the stairwell. Kirana rushed out of the kitchen, and more members of the United Nations company rushed down the stairs.
“You serious, Michael?”
“I just saw him! He’s coming into the docks! Come on, let’s go greet him!”
“Alright!”
Dawson was on his feet. The Bushrangers all got up, but Siri and Tofte, both of whom didn’t really know Luan, weren’t as excited as the others. She looked at Daly with a big frown.
“Why are we running to meet him like children?”
Daly paused, about to go out after the others. He beckoned at Siri, and she and the rest of the team followed him. The [Axe Warrior] spoke as he led them in a brisk walk.
“Look, we’ve got three big leaders. Geneva, Ken, and Luan.”
“And you and Paige.”
Aldenon interjected. Daly hesitated.
“Well, yeah, but they were the original three, you know? The ones who started it all. And they’re all…well, look at it this way.”
He tried to explain to Siri, who was raising both eyebrows skeptically.
“Ken’s a nice guy. Everyone likes Ken, but that’s his thing. He’s not scarily good at what he does like Geneva or Luan. And Geneva’s amazing, no question; no one can do what she can in this world. But she’s…”
Daly hesitated and looked at the Australian members of his team for help. They pitched in cheerfully.
“Depressing?”
“Too serious all the time?”
“Got a medically implanted stick up her butt?”
“Distractingly hot?”
Daly rolled his eyes as the others laughed.
“Thanks, Kami. What I mean, Siri, Tofte, is that Geneva’s good, but she’s doing something she’s learned. She’s smarter than any [Doctor] in this world. But Luan? He’s genuinely just…better. At rowing. You know? He can do what Centaurs, Dullahans, Lizardfolk, all of them can do, but he’s the best, never mind if they have magic or special abilities. You remember Humans can do things better than the other species when you’re around him. And he always comes back with a lot of gold.”
They thought about that. Siri shrugged.
“Gold’s a good enough reason for me. Let’s go.”
And so they did. Daly reached the harbor docks just in time to see Luan finishing paying the [Harbormaster]—it wasn’t hard to spot where he was; a good number of Humans were standing around him, and the tall [Rower] was laughing and trying to answer a dozen questions at once. He looked good. Tired, but good. And then Daly saw just how tired and pushed his way through. His was the voice of authority.
“Alright, give Luan some space!”
The others drew back reluctantly. Luan turned. He grabbed Daly’s arm, and the two hugged briefly. Daly was grinning, and Luan had a weary smile on his face. Genuine, but very tired.
“Luan, mate, I missed you two weeks back when you dropped off a ton of gold. You didn’t even stay a full day! You’re pushing yourself too hard!”
“Hah. Well, I’m back now, aren’t I? Sorry I didn’t send a [Message]—I just finished a three-day trip. Hello, everyone! Paige, Kirana, and…are there new faces around here? Have we new people?”
Luan had spotted Nicoletta in the crowd along with Blake. He began to walk forwards as Daly started to explain, but then he stumbled. He caught himself and shook his head as Daly reached out to steady him.
“Sorry. I don’t have my ground legs yet.”
He smiled, but Daly was instantly concerned. He gestured at Luan’s face.
“You’ve got bags under your eyes, mate. And you’re swaying where you stand.”
Luan stopped.
“No, I’m not.”
He yawned hugely. Daly looked at him and Paige folded her arms. The South African man hesitated, then gave them a sheepish grin.
“Okay, I know. But offers are coming in faster than ever. People are hearing about ‘Luan the Rower’ and I can make enough to keep us afloat. I’m faster than anyone but a Courier on the water, and I can take the riskier deliveries because it’s so hard to catch me…”
He yawned hugely again. Paige shook her head as she looked Luan up and down.
