He nodded and trotted off. Daly sighed as he leaned back. It was amazing how many linguistic similarities this world had with his. But the concept of a ‘bill’ was still foreign to most places, especially since that was a waste of paper, parchment, and ink. He waited until everyone had a drink and downed half of his mug. Then he decided to order an appetizer.
“Got any snacks?”
The Centaur raised his eyebrow.
“How do you feel about prawns? Sautéed?”
“Beautiful. Give us a plate and some for that lot.”
“Four plates, then?”
“Sure.”
Daly smiled as the Centaur left and came back minutes later with some hot, spiced shrimps that earned him another cheer. He leaned back.
“Captain Eldima, help yourself. My team’s eating at headquarters, but a snack’s welcome.”
The Dullahan nodded appreciatively, but she still waited for Daly to snag one of the shrimps first before taking one for herself.
“Indeed it is. You’re quite generous with your team, Daly.”
“Ah, well…”
Daly grimaced. He was a bit embarrassed, actually. Drinks weren’t expensive, and neither were a few plates of shrimp. Compared to the amount of gold still resting in his belt pouch, he was stealing from his team. But it was gold that the entire company would use, so he tried not to feel too bad. He’d definitely ask the [Bartender] to buy a bottle or two for tonight, though.
“I’m not sure about generous, but after a day of hard work, we’ve all earned a break, Eldima. How’re you feeling? Your team?”
The Dullahan stopped chewing and swallowed. She answered slowly, glancing from Daly to Siri. She’d put her head on the table and was feeding it to eat. Daly knew he shouldn’t stare, but Dullahans were still fascinating to him. Half of Eldima’s team was doing the same thing, placing their heads on the table rather than keeping them on their shoulders.
“I would say my team is in very good spirits, Captain. As am I. This was one of the smoothest hunts we’ve had. And the least bloody. Not one member of my team was badly hurt, and against those giant snakes? It was refreshing to get back at them.”
She grinned toothily, and Daly and Siri nodded. Eldima paused.
“I hope your subordinate is well, though. What happened? I didn’t see one of the snakes attacking him.”
“Ah, that? He fell when he was rappelling down.”
“Rappelling?”
“Using ropes to descend the trees. I didn’t see what happened either, Daly. What was it? Did Dawson let go?”
Siri glanced at Daly. The Australian grimaced and took a longer drink before waving for a refill.
“Nope. His, uh, gri-gri broke midway down. Damn thing just fell to pieces.”
Eldima looked confused. Siri drew in her breath sharply.
“I thought they were in good condition!”
Daly grimaced.
“So did I. But I guess the [Blacksmith] who worked them up didn’t forge them quite right. Paige is going to be pissed.”
She was the one who’d come up with the idea for the Bushrangers, after all. Although it had been Paige, Dawson, and a few others in their company who’d had the experience with climbing to redevelop the tools from home. Still, just knowing how to tie a figure-eight knot, how to belay, and use a gri-gri had provided a huge advantage. Eldima looked very impressed.
“Perhaps the [Blacksmith] is not entirely at fault, although I do not know the mechanism he made. I’ve never heard of a team with the type of gear your team used, Daly, Miss Siri. I know some that can fight in heights, but the way your team went down the trees so quickly…it is profoundly different from how my team operates. No—most Dullahans would not ever dream of climbing trees. Perhaps throwing an arm up for an ambush, but sitting in the trees? The limbs would break under my weight.”
She gestured to her armor. Daly nodded.
“It’s a new tactic for us, too. But I like it. Assuming we can make sure there are no more accidents, we’re going to use this a lot. Sitting in a tree and shooting a Stelbore would be a lot safer than the ground.”
Eldima nodded cautiously.
“The Bushranger’s ability to ambush and lay traps is quite amazing. Those ropes simplified a difficult fight, as did smoking the snakes out of their lair. But I hope our teams can continue working together?”
She looked hopeful. And no wonder; over the last two weeks, both her team and the Bushrangers had participated in a number of jobs together without so much as a hitch. This latest one had put more gold into Daly’s pockets and Eldima’s than any job he’d done prior to this. He smiled reassuringly.
“No doubt about that. Your Rustless Guard has exactly what my team lacks, Eldima. Armor and heavy weaponry. If you’re willing, we’ll definitely work on other jobs. Say in two or three days? Unless a really good job pops up.”
The Dullahan nodded rapidly.
“Of course. This will be a welcome break, and we have money to spend. I will contact you if I see anything. Otherwise, I thank you again for a job well done.”
A smile played over her lips. Daly smiled and lifted his mug as his refill came just in time.
“Cheers!”
 
——
 
It was only an hour later when Daly left the tavern. The rest of his team he left to their drinks, having covered his promised amount. He might have stayed longer, but he did want a proper meal at the headquarters. And he wanted to check on Dawson.
Siri came with him. Daly had told her she could stay, but like Eldima, who’d taken off at the same time, Siri didn’t quite ‘fit’ with the rest of her team. She looked at him as he stuffed the bottle of wine under one arm. She was carrying some of the Seamaster’s Gin, which she’d taken a liking to.
“I’m not quite one of the team, Daly. You and I are team leaders. I can’t always hang out with them.”
“True enough.”
There was a disconnect, sometimes. Daly liked his team, and they worked hard, but if it came to something hard to do—like breaking up a fight, assigning punishment, or telling someone off, he had to do it. So did Siri, and that meant friendships and relationships were different. Also, they were the ones who made some of the big decisions for their team.
They were the only ones who knew about Okasha, for one. For another, they were the two who Paige called upon when she talked over problems in their group. Ken, Aiko, Geneva…they made up an inner circle. It was a known fact, and no one had accused them of being dictators. But still.
“Where’s Dawson? Geneva’s clinic?”
“Probably headquarters. She wouldn’t need to treat him that long. She told me she can fix a shoulder or even broken bones quick.”
“If she can cut people open and get to the issue, she can pour healing potion on the bone, yeah. I just wish she had anesthetics.”
Daly shuddered. Siri nodded. Both of them had been patched up by Geneva, and the process was more effective than any healing potions thanks to her many Skills. But it hurt. Geneva spot-treated injuries with healing potions, and to do that for, say, internal bleeding, she had to slice your stomach open. While you were looking up at her from the operating table.
“Headquarters it is. Hope Dawson likes this.”
The two headed off one of the main streets and down a fairly well-paved road. Normally they would have had to do a few more turns and twists to get to a poorer street where their cramped headquarters was. But not this time. They reached the United Nations company headquarters ahead of time. And it was a proper headquarters now. A pair of double-story buildings were theirs, and two streets over was Geneva’s clinic, a small place, but very clean and with thick doors. To muffle screams and crying.
“Hoi, Kirana! Is Dawson here?”
Daly opened the door and shouted into the apartment. He heard a voice, then someone pushed out of the kitchen. Priya, one of the Indian girls, pointed shyly next door.
“Kirana’s in the other apartment. Dawson is there too.”
“Got it. Thanks, Priya. Where’s Paige?”
“Same place. Dinner’s here. In twenty minutes.”
Priya pointed to a sand hourglass placed outside of the kitchen. Both Daly and Siri perked up.
“Awesome. In that case, we’ll be right back. And can you send someone here to get the Bushrangers? They’re at…uh, the Lizardgirl’s Frill.”
“Yes.”
That was that. Daly waved as he closed the door. They didn’t have a convenient door linking apartments yet, but Paige was talking Miss Hastel into letting them make one, and Daly had assured the Centauress [Landlady] that he could do it himself if need be. And both buildings were a lot bigger than their previous setup.
Nevertheless, a third building would be nice to avoid people sleeping so close together. And maybe with this…Daly pushed open the door.
“Hey Dawson, you bastard! You’d better not be hurt! We’ve got a job tomorrow!”
“Fuck off!”
A loud, cheerful voice came from a couch. Daly saw Dawson lying on his back, eating some snacks as Kirana and Paige sat in chairs around him. He glared as Daly came into the building.
“I thought you’d be checking on me right out of the clinic! You had a drink, didn’t you? Don’t lie!”
“Everyone had a drink, Dawson. But don’t be too upset or I won’t share this bottle with you. Fancy wine or gin?”
“Wine! Who bought the stinking gin?”
Siri went over and handed the bottle to Kirana as the young woman stood up.
“Me. How’re you doing, Dawson?”
The burlier fellow sat up and grimaced.
“I’m good. Doctor Geneva set my arm, which hurt like—but she fixed my foot too. Says I need two days of rest, but if we really have a job…”
“Would I do that to you?”
“Yes.”
Daly grinned as he offered Dawson the bottle. Dawson grunted appreciatively; he liked wine better than beer or spirits, especially the sweeter varieties you could buy. Kirana tutted.
“No drinking from the bottle, please! Here.”
She went into the kitchen and got a cup for Dawson. He poured himself a big drink as some more people came down the stairs.
“Hey Lorenzo, Nicoletta.”
Daly greeted the two Italians who were walking downstairs. Lorenzo waved and spoke in somewhat mangled English.
“Hello, Daly. You came back?”
Daly paused and enunciated clearly for their benefit.
“From adventuring? Yeah. We got back. We have wine. Want some?”
He pointed. Lorenzo and Nicoletta brightened considerably. But Kirana fended them off, much to their dismay.
“At dinner! Dinner! We can have some.”
“He has some.”
“He fell out of a tree!”
“Out of a…?”
“Tree. Yeah. It’s…Nicoletta?”
“Albero. È caduto da un albero.”
“Oh! How?”
Daly laughed. He tried to explain while Paige helped herself to some of Siri’s gin. Kirana took the two bottles away before more could be shared as the others came back. And soon it was time for dinner.
“Oh boy. What’re we eating today?”
“Dum aloo—potatoes and a curry sauce with rice. Also, we have some salads, some sweet muffins for dessert that Priya has baked. But our main dish is steak.”
Daly’s mouth began to water at once. Dawson heaved himself up.
“Steak? I love the sound of that!”
“Sit back down. We’ll bring it over.”
Paige pointed at the couch. Dawson lay back, grinning happily. Then he frowned.
“Wait. I thought Indian people can’t eat cows or something.”
“Beef. And that’s not an issue.”
The two Australians frowned.
“Why wouldn’t that be—”
And then Daly realized. He roared in outrage.
“Wait a second, we’re eating snake?”
 
——
 
“To be fair, it was really good snake.”
Daly burped. He had to hand it to Kirana; she’d turned the snake meat from the giant snakes into something that wasn’t only palatable, but tasty. Everyone had stuffed themselves on meat, while the vegetarians that were left had eaten the dum aloo, which really was delicious.
Daly had to admit, ever since Kirana had begun managing the kitchen, the food had turned from passable to downright delicious. If you added that to their new living environs, their teamwork with the Rustless Guard, and all the little updates since Geneva had made her big breakthrough…he actually felt good. Strange as that was, Daly felt good about life here. And how crazy was that?
It wasn’t perfect, of course. It was just better. Paige had taken one look at the Bushranger’s gold and told Daly a third building wasn’t an option.
“We can’t afford the rent yet. I want to have gold in case of emergencies, and even with our jobs, three buildings is pushing it with the other projects we’re committing to. Miss Hastel is charging us as little rent as possible, but we still need to pay her.”t
“Hey, I get it. No worries, Paige. We’ve got a lot more room than we did in the old place, even with this. Where’s Geneva?”
Daly hadn’t seen her at dinner. Paige sighed.
“At her clinic. She’s working on a new procedure or her antibiotics or something. If she’s not back in an hour, I’ll get someone to fetch her.”
“Gotcha. Ken and Aiko, how’s your side of things? Anything happen while we were on our trip?”
Ken relaxed next to the others at their small table. They were in an upstairs room next to Paige’s private workshop. Downstairs they could hear voices, laughter, someone shushing loudly—the others were watching a movie on a laptop with the last of the wine and gin. The mood was good. Ken smiled.
“I did well. My job is mainly listening and talking, so I ended a few fights.”
“What about?”
Paige sighed.
“God. Remember Michael? Well, some of the others have joined him. They’re not getting along with people praying. Especially since some of them want to pray to Mecca. And guess where that is?”
She waved a hand. Daly grimaced.
“So they’re mocking them?”
“Yes. And worse, there’s fighting about which direction they should be praying towards and if there is a god. And let me tell you, that’s not a fun argument to have. Ken sorted it, and I don’t know how.”
The young man nodded modestly.
“It is my job. After that, I went around the city.”
That meant he was doing the rounds, as some of the others put it. Ken had no set job; the United Nations company didn’t have far-off contacts as of yet. But they did have allies, and Ken made a point of visiting everyone from Miss Hastel, to the Silver-rank teams that Daly knew, to [Shopkeepers], [Captains], and so on at least once a week.
He’d go out and buy small gifts, or treat them to a meal, or buy a drink. Small things that he was budgeted for that made everyone favorably inclined towards him. It was an excellent use of a little bit of coin. Ken pretended it wasn’t nearly as important as Daly’s job, or Geneva or Paige’s, but he had been the one who’d been able to call an army to save Eldima and the others back then. Ken just turned to the young woman sitting next to him.
“Aiko was working at Geneva’s, so I do not know how she is.”
