“No more deliveries right now, Luan. You’re staying put and getting some rest. No rowing for at least four days. The doc’ll back me up on this one.”
He hesitated and then nodded slowly.
“I could do with some sleep. I’ve been—”
He yawned a third time and brought his right arm up. Daly saw a flash of bright color and stared. There was something on the inside of Luan’s arm. No…not something.
Gold, tattooed into dark skin. It shone as Daly stared at it. Two names.
Nandi. Lubanzi.
Luan lowered his arm and saw Daly’s stare. He didn’t hide the tattoos; rather, he held out his arm so Daly could get a better look. His smile was bitter, sad, but mainly just tired.
“I’ve been pushing myself harder. It helps me stop thinking. But I don’t forget anymore.”
Daly hesitated. Paige stepped in for him, grabbing Luan’s arm and placing it around her shoulder. She was shorter than he was, so there wasn’t really much for Luan to lean on, but it made him smile.
“Come on. Aiko’s worried sick about you.”
Daly nodded. He turned and waved a hand.
“We all are. Hey, you lot. Grab that boat-kayak and bring it with us. We can fit it somewhere in headquarters; better than paying rent on it.”
Several of the Bushrangers grabbed the boat and lifted it out of the water. Luan looked surprised.
“You sure there’s room? Also, it’s called a scull. It’s a single scull…I need to upgrade it. If we can afford a bag of holding, I can get a new one—it’s not a kayak, Daly. I’ll have to hurt you if you say that again.”
“Yeah, yeah. We can talk about that. We’ve got tons of money, so I guess you can use some of what you’ve earned…this way. Hey Siri, nali-stick? Or just a stamina potion.”
Siri disappeared and came back with one of the sweet sticks and offered it to Luan. He thanked her and bit into it. The sweet rush of sugar perked Luan up enough that he was walking steadily by the time they reached the United Nations company headquarters.
“What is this?”
He blinked up at the building, realizing for the first time that they weren’t at the old headquarters. Daly grinned hugely.
“You didn’t know? We’ve upgraded, Luan! Miss Hastel gave these two buildings to us for a song, and we’re looking into a third next door! Come on inside; it’s a lot nicer! And we’ve got proper couches!”
“If I sit down in one, I’ll fall asleep.”
Luan joked as he came inside. But he didn’t fall asleep; the crowd gathered around him was probably part of that, as was the reheated snake meat. He ate it ravenously as he tried to speak about where he’d been and gone.
“I’ve been to several big cities—this is good, what is it?—and seen a lot of wonderful things. Some danger. There was this group of [Sea Raiders]—but I’ll tell you later.”
“What cities did you see, Luan? Come on, tell us!”
One of the younger members of the company, barely fifteen, was practically hopping with excitement. Luan smiled.
“Tell you? I borrowed a smartphone. I can show you.”
He pulled out a phone out of his pocket. The others immediately fought for it until Paige ordered them to stop fighting before they broke it. There was only a small charge left, but it was enough for a few minutes of browsing. Daly craned his neck to see as the others exclaimed over it.
“Whoa! What a city!”
“Is that a dancing Lizardwoman?”
“And a dancing Centaur? I didn’t know they danced!”
Luan nodded.
“They were having some kind of festival. I have a few videos too. And a few pictures of some shops, potions…I tried sneaking a picture of a spellbook when I was browsing, but, well…look.”
He showed the others a picture of a book. But the page was…white. Not blank; it was pure, eye-searingly white as Daly stared at the photo. Only after he’d looked away did he see a faint coloration to the painfully white photo. Luan gestured to it and shook his head.
“It’s like this with videos too. You can sort of see some colors, but the pages just turn white. Some spells look different on screen, too. Some are invisible or different colors than what I see.”
“Maybe the pixels can’t represent the full color scale. Damn. It was worth a shot.”
Paige was disappointed. A few seconds later, the phone died, so she went and had someone get it charged with a [Repair] spell. She also chased off some of the crowd, telling them Luan would relate more stories over dinner. Daly was all set to bring Luan up to a room for some needed rest, but the athlete asked for some strong tea instead.
“I should stay up. I do have something I need to tell you, as well as stories. And you have something to tell me, it seems!”
He gave Daly and Paige a short and meaningful look both understood. Then he listened attentively as the others told him about the battle with the giant snakes, Geneva’s delivery of Miss Hastel’s baby, and their new home. He’d heard some of it the first time, but he hadn’t stayed long. And by the time the story was done, even Geneva had come back to greet Luan.
“You did all that by yourself? I have nothing but respect.”
Luan looked at Geneva. She smiled faintly at him.
“It’s just my job. Good to see you, Luan. You need sleep.”
He sighed, but gently.
“In a bit. I want to know more about your new clinic. You say you’ve been getting patients? That’s exactly what we wanted, isn’t it? And what about delivering babies? Is it profitable? Do you have many clients?”
Aiko nodded excitedly.
“She’s done eight Caesareans so far. A lot of mothers are worried about giving birth, or they have complications…one even came from fifty miles away when she heard there was a [Doctor] here. Word is spreading like lightning!”
She gestured at Geneva proudly as the [Doctor] coughed, embarrassed.
“Funny. A [Doctor]’s only popular on the battlefield. But [Midwives] and mothers gossip a lot faster and wider.”
Paige looked amused. Aiko smiled.
“And I helped! I know how to do a lot for mothers. But it is new! And scary! It is hard to deliver babies well across other species; their bodies are all different. And the last delivery was frightening! Geneva delivered the baby and then…the head fell off! Geneva was so shocked, and everyone panicked but the mother! Because it was a Dullahan baby, you see?”
“That wasn’t funny.”
Geneva shuddered as she remembered that moment. Everyone else was laughing. Luan closed his eyes, a broad smile on his face.
“That’s wonderful. It really is.”
Daly thought he might not open his eyes and fall asleep just like that. He coughed, trying to think of something else to say. His eyes went back to the gold writing on Luan’s arm.
“So, Luan. About your tattoo. Aiko told us about what you two had figured out. and we’ve confirmed it. No one remembers home unless we really try. Our family, our friends…it’s like a blank spot in our heads. We remember tech and politics and everything else. But we don’t feel nostalgic unless we try to remember.”
Daly looked around and realized everyone had gone silent. For a moment, they remembered home, and the smiles went from everyone’s faces. Paige elbowed Daly hard in the stomach.
“Nice going, Daly.”
Luan opened his eyes. He nodded heavily.
“I’m glad I’m not the only one. I thought…well, we can talk about it later. But I think I’m actually falling asleep right here. I take it back. Can I get a few hours’ sleep before dinner?”
“Of course.”
Instantly, everyone was solicitous. Luan went upstairs and fell asleep immediately after putting his head down. Daly walked outside with Geneva as the others talked, the phone having come back so they could look at more pictures again. He stood outside as the [Doctor] stood with him. Both were uncomfortable together. Geneva broke the silence with all the grace of a beached whale.
“It’s surprising you brought up the tattoos. I thought it was my job to depress everyone.”
He glanced sideways at her.
“That’s two jokes in two days. Careful, or we might think you’re Human after all, doc.”
She smiled at that.
“I do have a sense of humor. It’s just buried by experience. I’m working on it. Okasha’s not helping; her jokes are worse than mine are, if you can believe that.”
“Hey!”
Daly laughed. He stood outside with Geneva and glanced north. Last night flashed into his mind. He casually glanced to the side.
“Hey, Geneva. Paige was talking to me last night, and, uh…”
“Mister Daly? Miss Geneva?”
Someone interrupted them. Daly bit his tongue and looked around, annoyed. He stopped glaring as he saw a Naga approaching them. Like Xalandrass, the Naga was tall, sinuous, and stood out even in Talenqual’s busy and diverse streets. The Lizardfolk stood back respectfully as she stopped, her tail coiling around itself as she stood straighter. She smiled down at Daly and Geneva, both of whom looked up at her with surprise. Daly hesitated.
“How can we help you, Miss Naga?”
She smiled at him.
“I’m glad you asked! You can follow me. I was told to get two of your company, and you two are the leaders, aren’t you? Our boss especially wants to see you, Miss [Doctor].”
“Boss?”
The Naga nodded. She gestured down the street, pointing to the center of the city and the tallest, grandest buildings.
“That’s right. I’m part of the Featherfolk Brigade. And our leader wants to speak with the United Nation’s company leadership right now. Will you follow me?”
 
——
 
The Featherfolk Brigade. On the walk to the building that housed the company’s leadership, Daly tried to remember everything he could about them. He knew they were a company, mainly Lizardfolk, that had claimed Talenqual.
According to Ken, they weren’t the biggest players around, but they certainly weren’t small-timers either. They had the numbers and firepower to defend a large city—Ken had called them upper-middle tier, which meant they were way above a tiny company like the United Nations company, or even Quallet’s Gravetender’s Fist.
Normally, the two groups would never interact; if the Featherfolk Brigade took part in a conflict, one of their subdivisions would account for all of the United Nations’ personnel in a fight. But their leader had asked specifically to meet them. To meet Geneva.
Daly wished Ken were with them. But the Naga hadn’t let them get reinforcements. She’d asked, politely, that they come at once. But Daly had sensed it wasn’t really a request.
“What does your boss want with us, uh, Miss?”
The Naga turned her torso while she slithered forwards and gave Daly a smile. She had brilliant pink and red scales on her upper body, and she was practically naked except for a breast band.
“He wants to see you, of course. You’re a new company in our city. Why wouldn’t he be interested? And she’s the Last Light of Baleros. Don’t worry. He’s not angry at you. I think.”
Hardly encouraging. The Naga brought them to a huge, almost castle-like building with six floors that dominated the center of the city. It was a literal hub of activity, and Daly saw that it was both home for many of the company’s soldiers, an administrative building, and more.
Lizardfolk dominated the halls, but Daly saw a number of Nagas and even some other Lizardfolk evolutionary variants he couldn’t place. They stared at him as he passed, and he sensed very little hostility, only the Lizardfolk’s ever-present curiosity. But he couldn’t help but grow more tense; some of the warriors looked incredibly strong, and he was quite aware of how vulnerable he and Geneva were. He glanced over at the [Doctor], but saw she was walking as steadily as ever. He had to admire her cool. Or was it just indifference?
The Naga stopped at a pair of impressive, wooden double doors. She gestured towards them.
“Right inside. He’s waiting for you.”
There was no use waiting. Daly looked at Geneva and opened the doors for the both of them. The doors opened and revealed a room rather like an executive’s office. Only, this room was wide enough to make any CEO jealous, and there was, in fact, no glass front.
The office was open to the outside, and the city lay beneath! There were a pair of curtains that could be swept forwards, but walk too far and you would fall six stories down. Despite that, sitting on, or rather, around a comfortable cloth chair, was a Lizardfolk. Only, he wasn’t a Lizardman. And neither was he a Naga. He was…something else. Daly stared.
Where his arms should have been were two massive, beautiful plumed wings, the feathers changing from gold to green at the tips. The strange Lizardfolk’s body was a brilliant light green as well, with a softer beige underbelly. His scales looked like plates as he slowly slithered upright, and Daly realized the reason for the huge building; the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade was over seven feet tall as he drew himself upright, and that wasn’t even counting the rest of his tail wrapped around his desk and chair!
The stranger drew himself up as they entered, and his wings spread. When he spoke, his voice was lighter than Daly had expected, but still powerful and melodious at the same time.
“Good morning to you, Humans. You must be Daly of the United Nations company, and Geneva, the Last Light of Baleros. My name is Fezimet. I am the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade. And before you ask, I’m a Quexal. You’ve probably never seen anyone like me, am I right? Tell me I’m right.”
He smiled widely, and Daly blinked as Fezimet waggled his resplendent wings. Daly immediately placed the Quexal as one of the vainer subtypes of Lizardfolk like Nagas and reacted accordingly.
“I haven’t! And it’s an honor to meet—did you say a Quexal? I’ve never even heard of your kind before. Incredible, isn’t it?”
He covertly nudged Geneva. She, like him, stared at Fezimet’s scales as the Quexal drew himself up, basking in their attention.
“Yes. Impressive.”
He laughed delightedly.
“You know something about Lizardfolk! That’s rare to see among Humans not from Baleros! Come closer. Sit, sit. Do you want something to eat? Drink? I have all of Talenqual’s finest delicacies to call on.”
“I’m fin—”
“We’ll have some, uh, Seamaster’s Gin and some shrimps if you’ll indulge us, Fezimet.”
“Of course! One moment.”
The Quexal reached for something on his desk. He didn’t have hands. His wing-arms seemed quite flexible, but his only true appendages for grasping were lower down, and they were a pair of long, bird-like legs. But they were incredibly dexterous; Fezimet delicately grasped a bell with the tips of his claws. He rang it gently, and he was clearly adept at using his appendages for humanoid tasks. Even so, it was disturbing on another level as well.
The door instantly opened, and Fezimet addressed the Lizardgirl and repeated Daly’s request. The Lizardgirl nodded and dashed off.
