She nodded. She had a coil of rope slung over her shoulder and her crossbow in her other hand, loaded and aimed at the ground.
“Got it. You want me to shoot the eyes out?”
“Apparently we can get as much as a gold coin for each eye. So no, not unless they’re struggling.”
Siri nodded. Daly jogged back through the trees. He found Dawson sitting with his back to the tree. Tofte was covering him with a crossbow and shortsword. The young man from Norway looked up sharply.
“How’s it?”
“All sorted. Dawson, mate. How’re you doing?”
The Australian grinned palely at Daly.
“Fuck me, Daly. I think I’ve dislocated my shoulder. And my leg’s twisted or—my damn gri-gri broke!”
Daly nodded. He’d seen the metal piece snap off during the descent. He couldn’t think of anything to say, though. Sorry it happened? Too bad?
“Glad you didn’t fall further. Too bad you didn’t fall on your head, though; you’d be fine, then.”
Dawson laughed, swore, and cursed Daly at the same time. The Australian breathed a sigh of relief. He straightened and looked at Tofte.
“We’re going to need a stretcher.”
“I can walk. Just give me a shoulder—”
“Forget it. We’ll get Eldima’s squad to help us out. For now—let’s get one worked out. Tofte, break out those blankets from the packs…”
And then it was over. Eldima’s squad finished off their serpent without more than a bite on one of the Dullahan’s arms, and healing potions sorted out the rest. They came over, panting, drinking water, stamina potions, or healing potions, and gathered around Dawson. Daly started giving orders after a short break.
“Alright, we’ve nearly got a stretcher worked out. Tofte’s got crafting Skills. Eldima, anyone in your team have any classes in crafting?”
The Dullahan shook her head. She was washing her iron armor off; bugs were already landing and circling.
“I’m afraid I don’t. How is your man? Is he injured beyond a healing potion?”
“Shoulder’s dislocated. According to Geneva, we don’t want to use a healing potion. She needs to set it right. And his leg…I’m not sure how bad it is.”
“Doctor G will put me right. Don’t you dare pour a healing potion on me.”
Dawson groaned. He was fading. Daly looked around quickly.
“Siri.”
“Right here.”
The Swedish girl was cutting some rope up to help make the stretcher. Daly nodded in the direction of the main road, some three miles south of here.
“See if you can get to the road with…Kami. Your arms alright, Kami? Good. Then go over there and find a Runner or someone willing to give us a lift for Dawson. I want him back in Talenqual fast. Make sure it’s a smooth ride—and then call for our friends from the Runner’s Guild. Uh…”
“Pihava and Bault?”
“Exactly. I want them and…make it two other pairs with big wagons. We’ll get Dawson to the road.”
“Got it, boss.”
Siri and Kami turned and grabbed their packs before heading out at a jog. Daly looked around.
“Eldima?”
“Sir?”
The Dullahan straightened. Daly saw her team glance up and caught himself. They weren’t in a combat situation, so he took a breath.
“Sorry. Captain Eldima, I would be very grateful if your team would assist us with butchering the serpents. The critters are already gnawing at them, and I want to save the meat.”
The Dullahan smiled at Daly.
“Of course. My team is free for whatever you need.”
The Australian nodded.
“Excellent. Then—can you begin cutting the snakes up? Hack them into pieces we can actually carry to the wagons? Try and get them in pieces so we can harvest big chunks of their skin.”
“Of course.”
Daly nodded. He looked at the rest of his Bushrangers.
“As for our team…I’ll help Dawson with that stretcher. Aldenon, Tobi, you’re both on lookout for anything smelling blood. The rest of you, let’s make up something to help drag the snakes towards the road…”
And so they did. It wasn’t as easy as Daly made it out to be; without her [Razor Cut] Skill, Eldima and her team had a hard time making precise cuts, and the bloody snake parts were being covered in bugs. The Dullahans swore and their armor got bloody and dirty, as did the precious snake parts. And dragging them through the jungle was a hellish ordeal; Daly had to come back and help once he had helped lift Dawson up with two Dullahans and bring him towards the road. Three miles of walking through forest, and then flatter ground, was no fun for Dawson. He fainted when they dropped him, but he said little. He just gave Daly a thumbs-up when he got to the wagon.
“Sorry for falling back there, Daly.”
“You did nothing wrong. Your device broke, Dawson. You just rest up. Geneva’ll see to you as soon as you get back. You’ll be on your feet by the end of the day.”
There was hope in Dawson’s eyes as he leaned back in the small rickshaw Pihava had galloped over with.
“That’ll be nice. Hell of a thing, healing potions. Back home, this would have…”
He trailed off. Daly checked him anxiously, but Dawson was just unconscious. Daly looked at Kami.
“You go with him. Tell Geneva to check out your arms. And put in a message at the Adventurer’s Guild that we have oversized snakes ready for dissection. They’ll probably direct you to a [Butcher]’s—have them meet us at the gates.”
“You got it.”
Kami swung herself up into the rickshaw. Pihava pawed the ground anxiously.
“Your friend’s okay?”
“Right as rain, Pihava. He’s not badly hurt. Thanks for getting here.”
The Centauress smiled.
“No problem. And your other wagons are on the way!”
Daly waved her off, then went to help pull the snakes out of the jungle. Three miles of carrying bloody, buggy, smelling snake parts, sometimes as a group of eight, balancing the bloody harvest on their shoulders. That wasn’t the part of adventuring you ever thought about, but the snakes were money. As much money as his team would get for killing the damn things. Daly sent off one wagon full of the bloody cargo for immediate butchering in Talenqual; he warned the drivers they’d have to wash off the meat first. The Centaur, Bault, just laughed.
“Don’t worry. Our [Butchers] will get good cuts. And they’ll make sure nothing lays eggs in the meat. Good thing you went to the Adventurer’s Guild; they’ll hire quality butchers.”
The other three Centaurs shuddered as they turned and began lugging the laden wagons back with them. Daly grimaced as well; he knew the bugs of Baleros were nasty. Imagining one of the hordes of bugs swarming the snake meat laying eggs he might eat…well, his stomach was already turning, and he was covered in guts and blood. Best not to think about it.
“Is your team coming with us, then?”
The final wagon pulled by two Centaurs eyed Daly’s team apprehensively. It was a crowd. Daly shook his head.
“Not us. We’ll call for another pair of wagons, I think. Can you pull your wagon a bit off road? Sorry, but we have one last stop to make.”
The Centaur shrugged.
“You’re paying us. You’ve got more stuff for us to carry?”
“Yeah. Little snakes and eggs.”
The Bushrangers hadn’t forgotten the would-be dungeon and snake’s lair. A final return trip took nearly an hour, which made Daly regret hiring the third wagon; they got paid for waiting about. But it was fruitful. Cleared of their adults, the Bushrangers and Rustless Guard found two baby snakes the size of doors and a heap of eggs.
“Oh my god! I’m gonna throw up.”
Tobi looked green at the sight of the pile of giant eggs. Daly almost laughed.
“This bothers you?”
“It does when they’re so big! And they almost look like chicken eggs!”
Aldenon shook his head. He eyed the eggs mistrustfully, as did Eldima’s group.
“Are we smashing them, Daly? Burning?”
“Neither. We’re taking Eldima’s suggestion. We take the snakes and eggs. Alive and intact. Come on, we’ll take the eggs in pairs. Wrap those snake babies up.”
More work. By this point, both teams groaned, even the stalwart Dullahans, but Daly and Eldima egged their teams on, partly with bad puns, partly with the thought of how much live snake eggs were worth. Daly shouted as his team lifted the eggs, groaning at the weight.
“You want to earn some spending money? Think of how much a [Beast Tamer] pays for a serpent egg! Or how much it’s worth to someone who likes eating the stuff! I’m sure some Lizardfolk [Chef] will pay gold for these. Drop it and you drop our income, got it?”
That did the trick. In the end, Daly bullied, coerced, and flattered the teams into filling the Centaur’s wagon. By that point, two more wagons had returned with Pihava and Bault leading one, and three wagons returned to Talenqual. The bloody, dirty, sweaty adventurers sat in the back, washing themselves off with the last of their water. They were tired and exhausted. But the instant they saw the city, their spirits rose.
“Drive us straight to the harbor, Pihava, Bault! I’m jumping in the water!”
Aldenon called out to their Centaur Runners. The two chuckled. Daly would have loved to join them, but he regretfully called the wagons to halt.
“I’m going with the eggs and little snake babies. Adventurer’s Guild, please.”
“I will go with you.”
Eldima looked like she could have used a dip in the ocean too, but she offered and Daly accepted. Their wagon went to the Adventurer’s Guild. Happily, a Centauress [Receptionist] was already waiting for them with Siri.
“We thought you’d be back earlier. What’s this? Eggs? And…”
The [Receptionist]’s eyes widened as she saw the snake babies. Siri blinked at the large serpents, still very young but still as big as any snake Daly had ever seen in Australia.
“They’re adorable!”
“They weigh a ton. Miss, can we sell these? And these eggs are all fertilized, so they contain live snakes. No telling on when they’re hatching. Can we sell them to the Guild?”
The Centauress blinked hard, but selling giant snake eggs was, in fact, a situation she’d been trained for.
“Of course. We’ll need to find buyers quick. But I can quote you a price now. Or we can negotiate on what the Guild gets…”
“We’ll let the Guild do the sale and take our cut, thanks.”
“Of course. As for the little snakes, let me contact a [Beast Master] right now.”
The Centauress trotted off quickly. Siri peered at one of the snakes that Daly had roped up to prevent it from moving.
“It’s cute. Could we keep one, maybe?”
“Keep—you want one of those? As a pet?”
“We could try. Imagine having a fully-grown snake if one of our team became a [Beast Master]? I could try.”
Siri gently stroked the little snake’s head. It was quivering a bit; Daly stared at it. It was cute. But…he sighed.
“We can’t feed one of those yet. Sorry, Siri. But imagine how much meat it’ll eat? And finding a place for it? No.”
She looked so crestfallen, Daly had to throw her a bone.
“Tell you what. If we find a cuter, smaller animal on another hunt, we can talk about keeping the babies. If we find them. Deal?”
“Deal.”
She smiled. Now Daly would have to worry about Siri suggesting monster hunting contracts from now on. Then again…he did feel a pang of regret as he imagined a giant, fully grown snake for a war pet. But the sight of a [Beast Master] Lizardman hurrying back and the gold he gave Daly for the snakes and three of the eggs was very soothing in itself.
Daly waited for the Centauress to give him a receipt for the remaining eggs, the money from the [Butchers] who’d dissected the snake parts, and then he claimed the bounty for the destruction of three giant snakes and their nest.
Money, money, money. Daly counted it all, put it in a bulging coin pouch, and then he had to go to the harbor and wash the blood and filth off him. Siri and Eldima joined them. The Dullahan sighed as she splashed the salty water on her armor.
“At last! I was about to become sick.”
“Bloody oath! That’s a good feeling!”
Daly dunked himself twice, sighing as he felt so much cleaner. A fish swam up and nibbled at a bit of snake; he watched it flit away through the water, then turned.
“So. How was that for our first big team-up? Captain Eldima, mind joining us for a drink? Because I think we deserve some congratulations…and we should talk about how it went.”
The Dullahan paused in the act of scrubbing at her hair. She’d taken off her head to more easily tend to it, and Daly was curious to see how the water interacted with the vacant gap between her shoulders, from which light red mist was drifting. To his surprise, the water just flowed over the opening, and the mist disappeared, but a red light shone from inside the Dullahan’s body when she dunked herself. The head glared, and Siri poked Daly.
“Don’t be lewd.”
“Lewd? I, ah—come on! Sorry, Captain Eldima.”
The Dullahan blushed a bit.
“Eldima is fine, Sir Daly.”
“Then Daly’s fine, at least when we’re not, uh, working. A drink?”
She nodded as she fastened her head to her shoulders. Daly chose the nearest pub and wasted no time; the Bushrangers and Rustless Guard were waiting, so he handed Eldima a stack of coins.
“This is your team’s share. We’ll get more later, and sort out the exact numbers, but pass this out, please, Eldima. And as for you Bushrangers…”
He passed out a gold coin apiece. Eldima looked shocked; her team had taken the smaller cut and each member of the Rustless Guard was still getting a good bit more than that. Siri smiled as she explained.
“It’s company money. This is their bonus.”
“Ah. I see.”
The Dullahan nodded a few times. Daly nodded as well and waved a hand. He raised his voice.
“We’ll see about the rest, and I’ll get this to Paige. But for tonight, your first three drinks are on me, both teams!”
They cheered loudly at that. Daly smiled as the Humans began shouting orders at the Lizardgirl server who came by, and the Dullahans raised their hands, letting their team go in order of importance. He excused himself and took another table with Eldima and Siri. They settled down, and Eldima looked at Daly. He lifted a hand as a second [Server], a Centaur, delicately navigated around the tables.
“Excuse me. I’d like a mug of whatever beer you have.”
“We’ve got several. Have a preference?”
“Uh—your best bitter.”
“That will be a Calian lager. And who’s next?”
The Centaur looked at Daly. Both he and the Human were keenly aware that rank mattered, so Daly instantly turned to Eldima.
“Eldima’s next.”
She nodded appreciatively.
“I will have some dry Seamaster’s Gin.”
“And for you?”
Siri paused.
“I’ll try the gin as well.”
“I’ll have your drinks in a moment. Are you paying for that table?”
“That’s right. Send the bill over here, thanks.”
The Centaur blinked a few times. Daly clarified.
“We’ll pay.”
