“Good! We saw two patients, both of whom had Yellow Rivers.”
Aiko shuddered. She shook her head.
“But they wanted fast cures, not what Geneva told them to do. Even though her patients in Quallet’s camp got better! I think they will be back, hopefully before it gets worse…but there are a lot of mothers asking about Geneva’s C-section! She doesn’t want to give many, though.”
“Principles.”
Daly sighed. Paige looked annoyed.
“She’s right that not everyone needs them. But we’re getting a steady income from her now. Add it into the jobs people are working and the Bushranger’s money, and we will be able to afford a third building soon. Unless we have anything else we should be spending money on? My workshop and Geneva’s experiments eat up some of our coin, but what should we save up for now?”
The Japanese [Diplomat] twiddled his thumbs absently. He looked up and nodded a few times.
“I think it is time to invest in what Daly called the ‘big things’ now. After the third building, perhaps?”
The others looked at each other. Paige sat up a bit, and Siri stopped sipping the last of her cup.
“You think so, Ken?”
He nodded carefully.
“Perhaps not all of our money should go there. Paige’s emergency fund is very wise, I think. So how about this? We save up enough money for her fund. Then we put the rest towards the apartment and rent for a month or two. And then after that? We allocate…twenty percent to paying for things everyone has been asking for. More regular [Repair] spells. Books. Proper beds. Um…”
“Toys?”
Paige suggested a tad bit sarcastically. The [Diplomat] hesitated and gave a [Diplomat]’s response.
“Not toys, but fun tools for everyone to use. A chess set, perhaps. Things like that. But that is twenty percent. The rest should go to buying Daly’s team magical equipment or Paige some magical wood. Spellbooks. And the boat Luan mentioned last time he was here.”
All eyes turned towards Daly. He felt a skip of excitement in his chest.
“That would be the turning point, sure enough. We’ve been keeping our heads above water. But if we can spring for some actual magical gear, like proper armor, or get Paige the materials she needs to make a magical crossbow…”
So far the Bushranger’s income had gone solely towards the company and putting a roof over everyone’s head and feeding them. Daly hadn’t begrudged that, although it had been hard. But now, if all the money everyone made was going towards equipping them…he held his breath. He wasn’t going to push for it. Ken looked around.
“Do you think it’s a good idea?”
“I’m sold. Especially since I’ll get more things to work with. And I want to try and learn magic. I think we all do.”
Paige leaned forwards, nodding. Siri did too, as did Aiko. That meant all of the current leaders were in agreement, and Daly didn’t think Geneva would object that hard either. He smiled.
“Then it’s settled. We’ll all draw up a wish list and take turns getting what we need. I’d be happy to make that a first priority after a third building and a spellbook. The Bushrangers have added a few of our own, but if I could get two or three [Mages] working with us, we’d be able to do a lot more.”
“Count me in. I want to learn magic.”
Siri nodded. Aiko was sighing. Everyone was, actually. Magic. Now that would be something worth all the struggles. Ken clapped his hands lightly, pleased.
“In that case, I think we have done well. Daly, thank you and your team for working so hard.”
The others murmured their agreement. Daly grinned at Siri.
“Ah, it’s nothing. We’re going to be loafing around for a day or two anyways. But I’ll light a fire under the asses of the Bushrangers, and they’ll work twice as hard once they hear they’re going to get some gear. That’s all I’ve got. Anyone else have something to bring up?”
They didn’t. So that night’s meeting of the United Nations leadership adjourned. Daly stretched as he got up.
“I need a bath.”
“Me first.”
Siri pushed past him. Daly sighed, but let her go ahead. Baths were a luxury, given that you had to get the water yourself. He glanced around as he filed out of the room. Paige was still seated, and she was giving him…he paused and let Ken and Aiko pass by.
“We should call this the security council meeting or something. Of the United Nations? Only, we actually like each other and get things done.”
Aiko laughed a bit. Ken looked blank.
“Is that a joke? I’m sorry, I don’t understand it.”
“You know, the security council from…never mind.”
Daly put his head against the doorframe. Ken smiled again, and Daly heard him ask Aiko something in Japanese—probably for an explanation. They left, and Daly waited a beat before looking back.
“Something up?”
Paige slowly got up from her chair. She nodded at the door, and Daly tilted his head. Everyone else was out of earshot. She walked past.
“Let me get some things. We’re going for a walk.”
“Why?”
She didn’t reply. Curious, Daly went downstairs and found that Geneva had finally returned. She was eating in the kitchen as the others watched Les Misérables on a laptop. Daly waved at her as Geneva munched on cold snake steak.
“Hey Geneva, how’s it going?”
“Good.”
He waited. Geneva chewed her bite and looked up. She paused.
“I didn’t have anything extraordinary happen to me. I saw Dawson; he wasn’t too badly hurt, but the fall could have been worse. Be careful with that climbing.”
Daly nodded.
“It was the, uh, gri-gri that snapped. We’ll check our gear carefully, maybe get more made and test them out.”
“Got it. I heard you killed some snakes.”
“That’s right. I think you’re eating some of them.”
The [Doctor] paused in her next bite. She hesitated, then took a bite. She chewed, and Okasha’s voice, higher-pitched and decidedly more cheerful, came out of Geneva’s mouth.
“Not bad!”
“Hey, Okasha. Take care of Geneva for us, will you?”
“Will do. Don’t get upset, Geneva. It’s just snake…”
“I hate snakes. Why did it have to be snakes?”
Daly snorted and left before Okasha could ask what was so funny. Geneva had a sense of humor? He was about to tell Paige about that as she came down the stairs. Then he noticed the look on her face. The hint of tension, hidden, and the very large, and very bulky object she had wrapped up in a sack that she was carrying oh so carefully. Daly hesitated. Could she have…?
“Where to?”
“Outside.”
Paige stepped behind the glowing laptop’s screen, and Daly followed. No one else commented; they were too busy watching the movie. The two Australians walked out of the building, down the steps, and then down the street. Daly eyed Paige and the thing she was holding. It was round, and she had a smaller burden clutched in one hand.
“Can I take…?”
“No. Take the smaller one and, for the love of god, don’t drop it. And don’t let anyone see until we’re out of the city.”
“How far out?”
“To a place no one can see. It’ll take twenty minutes. Come on. This is heavy.”
Paige picked up the pace. Daly glanced down at the small object she’d handed him. It too was concealed in a sack, but as he looked at it, something on the back of his neck began to prickle. Daly didn’t have [Dangersense], but if he did, he thought it would be going off right now.
And his intuition was good, so he followed Paige swiftly, bearing his small burden as carefully as could be. As they walked through the dark streets of Talenqual, both he and Paige stayed well away from anyone carrying a torch, a lantern, or any kind of fire.
 
——
 
Fifteen minutes of power walking later, Paige and Daly were well outside of Talenqual and in a private area of trees, off the main road. It wasn’t so deep that they couldn’t run for Talenqual; you could even see the city if you walked back a bit. But it was private—they’d passed by the outer farms and orchards to the left and gone off the main trade road.
It wasn’t exactly quiet about; the local wildlife had a cacophony of their own. But Daly sincerely doubted they had an audience.
“Alright. What’ve you got to show me you didn’t want to tell the others about?”
Daly turned to Paige. She bit her lip as she slowly and gingerly lowered her burden down.
“It’s not that I didn’t want to tell them. I just don’t know whether I should. Especially Geneva. Siri will need to know, but you asked for this, and I…wanted to get your opinion first. Remember what you asked me for? It’s done.”
She reached out and took Daly’s much more lightweight burden from him. She opened it up and gingerly pulled something out. Daly’s pulse skyrocketed at once.
They came in many shapes. And they didn’t look like the ones you saw on TV, most of the time. Except that at some point, they probably had. And the little, papier-mâché sphere the size of Daly’s hand looked exactly like one of those cartoons. Except that the orb was a whitish-grey color, not black. And the fuse was a lot, lot longer than normal, and it wasn’t lit. Otherwise? It was a bomb.
“Fuck me sideways. Is that a grenade?”
“You asked me to make one. So I did.”
Paige hunched her shoulders. She stared down at the explosive—no, the grenade-sized bomb in her hand. Daly’s skin crawled. I was just holding that! He looked at the little sphere.
“Is it safe?”
The [Engineer] looked up irritably.
“I wouldn’t have given it to you if it wasn’t safe! Don’t worry. I’ve thrown these things, knocked them about—at a distance—even put an arrow through one. They don’t explode unless there’s fire, and the sphere is sealed tight. But yes, this is a grenade. Packed with gunpowder. You want to see what it does?”
Daly nodded. He stared at the little orb. Paige had actually made…? His skin was crawling with unease. He’d never seen a real weapon like this up close. She took a few breaths.
“Okay. I’m going to light it, toss it, and it’ll go off. I didn’t fill it with anything but gunpowder, so it’ll explode, but we’ll be safe. I’ll throw it there. See? I have a clear shot.”
She walked a good bit away from the bag she’d put down and reached for her belt. She cursed.
“Damn it. I forgot to bring a lantern or something. I need to make some fire. Give me a second?”
“Sure.”
“Hold this.”
Daly froze as Paige tossed the bomb at him. He swore as he caught it.
“Don’t do that!”
“It won’t go off. Stop being a baby. You said you wanted this and I made it.”
“Yeah, but I don’t juggle explosives. Isn’t there a chance it could ignite?”
“Probably? But it’s humid. Here. Hand it back.”
Paige had a small, burning candle in one hand. Daly gingerly handed it back, and the girl took a breath.
“Okay. Here goes.”
She swiftly lit the fuse with one end. Daly saw the flame slowly burning down the waxy rope, and Paige turned. She threw the orb far and fast between a group of trees; it hit the ground and rolled for a moment. Daly watched the fuse burning. The fire didn’t exactly race down it. Still, he held his breath. Until he realized it was going to take a bit.
“Sort of slow.”
“I haven’t figured out how the fuse works best yet. And I’ve made them long for a reason.”
“Still, if we’re using this in a combat situation—”
“Just watch this one, okay?”
Daly shut up and did just that. He shifted from foot to foot as the fuse slowly burnt away. It really was too long, but Paige’s eyes were locked on the little orb. Daly wondered how much of a bang it would make. Surely not much? Grenades were small, but weren’t they filled with…higher-grade gunpowder or something? Paige had just gotten the ingredients for the stuff a little while ago. So surely—
Bang.
That was the sound the orb made. But it wasn’t a ‘bang’ or a mere pop of sound. It was a full explosion that made Daly half-duck and shot his heart up into his mouth. The sounds of the jungle instantly stopped. And the explosion was a lot larger than he’d thought. He felt the wind change from where he was standing, and when he stared at the spot where the orb had been…
“Damn.”
Daly had to force himself to inspect the blast spot. It took a moment to find the actual impact spot; some of the forest floor had been blown away, but the actual zone of impact was very small. He looked at Paige.
“That was a lot bigger than I thought it would be! But the impact…”
She shook her head.
“If you’d have been standing next to it, that wouldn’t have been fun, believe me. But grenades don’t do damage because of the explosion. It’s the shrapnel that does it. And I used paper and nothing else. That was a demo. What do you think?”
“What do I think? I think you just made a grenade, Paige! In what, two weeks? Who’s a rocket scientist, then?”
Daly grinned shakily at her, but Paige didn’t look pleased. She pointed at the bit of overturned earth.
“If I gave you some of those, Daly, shortened the fuses, and packed them with some rocks or metal, they’d be like grenades. What do you think? Would they help out your Bushrangers against those snakes you fought this morning?”
The adventurer hesitated. He looked back at the blast zone and forced himself to think. If they were filled with shrapnel and he threw, say, four of them…if you tossed one in a snake’s mouth, that might be different, but if it hit their armor? Reluctantly, he shook his head.
“I don’t think so, Paige. Grenades were anti-people weapons, right? You could shred some people if they were bunched up with one of these, but not a monster. Ironic, huh?”
He glanced up. Paige shook her head slowly. Slowly, she bent and reached for the second sack, the much larger one.
“I was afraid you’d say that. Okay. In that case, I’ve made this.”
This time she pulled out a bomb. Daly recoiled; this wasn’t a grenade. It was a bit smaller than a basketball, with an iron outer shell and a wick. It looked like a bomb from a cartoon, but the way Paige held it, and the look on her face…
“You carried that around?”
“What am I supposed to do, cart it? And if you use this—if anyone does, they have to stand some bouncing. I’m going to light this, so you and I need to run at least a hundred feet out of the trees. See this fuse?”
She indicated the very long piece of string. Daly stared at it.
“A hundred feet? We won’t even see—”
“You don’t want to see it any closer. Believe me. You get back. I’m lighting this thing. I’ve filled this with shrapnel. A hundred feet out of the trees, at least. I’m running for two hundred, and you and I are staying close to the ground. There’s an incline over there; we take cover behind it.”
