“This is the report I will be tending Queen Yisame. Tiqr’s vanguard is yet considerable. I would prefer to surround them and wear them down with a joint-force. Their main force are the Grand Elephants and their riders. They give Tiqr a powerful vanguard, even outnumbered. We must slowly kill each one to prevent them from healing. When they are gone, Tiqr’s hammer is gone. Compose a message to that effect.”
The [Strategist] nodded silently. A slave rushed forwards and Thelican turned.
“Additionally—I request the usage of the Named Adventurer, Alked Fellbow. Consult the [Quartermaster]. Arm our best [Archers] with poisoned arrows. Our [Javelineers] on chariots likewise. The Hemp will advance using polearms. Pike formations. Withdraw the 1st and 3rd divisions. Move forwards the 8th, the 9th, and the 10th. Commander Calin, Savere’s forces will supplement ours. I assume your irregulars have poisons?”
“You’re going to keep fighting after that?”
Commander Calin pointed at the carnage, her face disbelieving. Thelican frowned.
“The chariots were a loss. But the foot were only Hemp. Tiqr’s army will tire. Mine has yet to bleed. We will be wearing down their elephants first. This was one setback. The battle is far from over.”
He sat back down, deliberately took a cup of water and drained it. And he did not look at the Empress of Beasts. She was riding down the ranks of her warriors, screaming as she held her spear aloft. And they roared, and the animals howled.
They charged again, like thunder. The Reen Plains ran with blood. The String-warriors turned to thread. And they fell. Flesh, thread. The dead.
 
——
 
“They’re stalemated across these battle lines. Multiple armies fighting, forcing Tiqr’s forces to split or cede ground. The main forces are fighting and retreating here.”
Pisces pointed. Erin nodded. The other armies were advancing. Surrounding the opponent, like an army of pawns. They couldn’t jump or do much that was special, but they could bring down even a queen. Slowly, one by one.
But—slowly. She looked at the parchment.
“It’s six days since the fighting began and they only got that far? They were here when they started fighting.”
She pointed to a position on the map, Reen Fields, barely past the current lines. Pisces nodded.
“Tiqr is posing a sturdy defense. A systematic withdrawal; guerilla tactics. That is what their troops excel at, given their animal components. We can infer that from the reading. But look here.”
Another line.
“Battle at the Yov Oasis. This time between Deimos’ army and Tiqr’s. Tiqr holds it. The Laughing Brigade confirmed spotted on the front. They begin winning some battles. Wait, who are the Laughing Brigade? Is that a mercenary group or something?”
“No. A unit. A royal force. It is a Skill of the Empress of Beasts.”
“…How?”
Pisces paused to explain the concept of a unit to Erin. She had never met the Darksky Riders, but she got it after a minute.
“Units. Huh. So they’re like, elites?”
“Not quite. Say rather that they all possess an ability granted to them by nature of being in their unit.”
“I don’t get it.”
Pisces drummed a hand on the table.
“Units are…special existences. They are granted power just for existing. Some have magical abilities each [Soldier] may call upon. For instance? The ability to ignite their blades at will, regardless of the enchantment on the blade or their own magical ability.”
The [Innkeeper] frowned.
“What, any time they want?”
“That’s right.”
“Any [Soldier]. In the unit.”
“The Scorchblades were a Terandrian force numbering six thousand who all possessed that ability. Ordinary commoners without a shred of magic inducted into the unit could ignite their blades for twenty minutes at a time. Not just in battle. A unit can be astoundingly versatile or powerful. There are limits. But it is essentially a free Skill granted to them simply be being part of that unit.”
Erin considered this. The hair on her neck tried to rise.
“That’s not fair.”
The [Necromancer] shrugged, trying not to look too jealous.
“That would be the difference between a [King] and lesser classes. Royalty provides benefits. Of course, I have heard of [Commander]-type classes gaining such Skills. Even examples of high-level [Captains] who could lead a unit themselves. But a [King] may have multiple such forces among their Skills. The King of Destruction notably had three.”
Erin whistled. She was beginning to see why people didn’t like this Flos guy. She looked down at the parchment.
“This Laughing Brigade. What can they do?”
Pisces frowned. He raised a finger and consulted the notes.
“…I don’t know.”
“Are they funny?”
 
——
 
The Laughing Brigade struck during the night. Deimos’ army was resting after a day of skirmishing. To his credit, [General] Heic had deployed sentries and fortified the camp. It still did no good.
The first sound that broke the night was laughter. Giggling. It was coming from the [Sentries]. Their reliefs found them standing at their posts, laughing uncontrollably. It was uncontrollably chuckling. And their howling, hysterical laughter. They laughed uncontrollably as they tried to blow into the warning horns.
The warning came too late. General Heic awoke to the sounds of laughter. Loud, harsh, echoing through his camp. He struggled out of his bedding as his slaves found him his armor.
The camp was under attack. Dark shapes and bounding animals tore through the camp. The laughter was everywhere. It wore at Heic’s ears. He felt at them, shouting questions. And then he realized the laughter wasn’t just auditory. It was in his head.
He couldn’t hear anything. That was it. His hands came away, bleeding. The laughter was all he heard. He saw [Soldiers] fighting, unorganized, some even attacking each other in the darkness. Their [Officers] couldn’t restore order with their voices.
And the laughter. A hyena leapt out of the darkness, bringing down a man. Others attacked the camels, fighting alongside the Humans who leapt forwards, attacking and retreating in the confusion. They were laughing too. But it wasn’t laughter. It was mocking. A hyena’s high-pitched cackle. It drove at Heic’s ears. He screamed orders, grabbing his sword and donning his armor.
The Laughing Brigade fell back as dawn rose. And they left their dead among Deimos’ wounded. Not enough, but they had died, hyenas and men. It was only a Skill, a trick. But the laughter stayed in Heic’s ears, long after they had left. And no one in his camp laughed or smiled long after that.
 
——
 
“Hit-and-run tactics, I see. They might have been quite effective; you see here this gap stating that the fighting did not advance past Tiqr’s borders for the first six days? Ultimately, however, they could only slow the inevitable. It was one unit, one nation against nearly a dozen others. And some of them had their specialist forces deployed too. Note this line.”
Time was accelerating. Erin had heard of the war progressing. Now she saw the lines break in places. Pisces calmly noted dates, showing her the coalition advancing slowly.
“Illivere’s army breaks lines; Savere’s [Queen] takes to the front. Lines broken.”
“What’s so special about Savere’s Queen? Does she have a unit?”
Pisces frowned.
“None as far as I know. Her army is mostly irregular. What makes Savere dangerous is their [Queen] herself. She commands a very powerful water magic.”
 
——
 
“The Illivere Federation must send two hundred more Golems to the front. We have lost nearly as many. However. Report to General Thelican that Tiqr has lost eighty-six Grand Elephants this day.”
Femithain leaned on a staff. The words rasped in his throat. For all he hadn’t taken a single blow, he felt—wounded. Armsmaster Dellic nodded. He moved slowly, assessing the battlefield.
Tiqr and Illivere had met in battle. And Illivere had won. But what a victory. Femithain looked across the battlefield. All he saw was gore.
Illivere’s Golems stood silent, unmoving after the battle. The [Artificers] were tending to them, repairing cracks in their bodies, replacing entire limbs. Some Golems couldn’t be salvaged. Many were broken, the command spells shattered to the extent that it would be easier to make a new one. And most had fallen to—Femithain saw a fallen mound, grey, mixed with red.
An elephant. It had died ramming into a stone Golem. The Golem was snapped in half. But the elephant’s skull was crushed. More had died, their riders and the animal falling as the Golems bore it down. Femithain’s two Steel Golems had killed four themselves.
The Magus-Crafter felt no joy in it. He looked at the dead elephants and spat bile out of his mouth. He turned.
“What news from Savere’s front?”
“Magus-Crafter. The Siren of Tides has pushed through Tiqr’s lines.”
A weary [Mage-Artificer] raised her head. Femithain paused.
“Nothing else?”
“She killed the elephants. And the [Soldiers]. Animals too. [Water Shot]. A tidal wave, apparently. Her [Pirates] can fight in the tide.”
Femithain nodded.
“But the elephants. How…?”
“She drowned them. Encased them in water.”
The [Mage] shook her head. Femithain paused.
“Cruel.”
That was all he said. But he looked at the ones who had died here and couldn’t say anything more. At last, Dellic came back.
“Magus-Crafter. General Thelican sends his most sincere regards.”
“I suppose he does.”
Cynically, Femithain wondered if Illivere and Savere had done better than Nerrhavia in these two engagements. He leaned on his staff, shook his head.
“We will wait for reinforcements before pushing in. Instruct Illivere to march the golems without pause to our location.”
“Magus-Crafter. Will we see more fighting like today’s? Those elephants—”
One of the younger [Artificers] began hesitantly. He was nearly silenced by Dellic, but Femithain shook his head. Today’s battle had been—gruesome. Illivere’s Golems had gone to war with a huge wing of Tiqr’s elephants. And despite losing nearly half their animals, Tiqr had managed to do an incredible amount of damage.
“Possibly, Artificer Azef. But that determination I will discuss with General Thelican. Tiqr’s forces are slowly reducing in number, however. Their war animals cannot be replaced like our Golems.”
“Yes, Magus-Crafter. It—it seems to be a shame.”
Femithain didn’t respond. He looked at the dead elephants. And he remembered seeing one on parade. The Empress of Beasts riding hers.
“Repair the Golems, [Artificers]. Illivere will need them in the days to come.”
 
——
 
“Battle at Be’neld Oasis. Tiqr retreats. That was ten days ago, right?”
Erin looked up. Pisces nodded. Tiqr had just lost another oasis. And they were in full retreat, trying to guard the land around their capital city. Erin shook her head.
“How do they keep fighting? Don’t their armies get…killed?”
Pisces shook his head.
“I suspect as the war winds on, more citizens of Tiqr’s cities join their army. They are either conscripted or volunteer. They would be low-level, but they would fill the losses in Tiqr’s armies.”
“But they don’t have [Soldier] levels. I mean, if you went into Liscor and got like, a thousand Selys’, they’d be weak. Right?”
Pisces’ lips twitched at the idea. But then he shook his head.
“I believe this can be attributed to the Counter-level Effect.”
“The what? Are you making that up?”
“Not at all. It is a well-known fact that during war or in disadvantageous conflicts, the defending side will level faster than the superior aggressors. Zel Shivertail was one example of it.”
“Oh.”
The young woman went quiet. Then she looked up. Her interest in Tiqr’s war had stopped being a silly exercise to pass the time. Now it felt—
“But that only works if they’re losing.”
The [Necromancer] straightened his robes, pushing his bowl back.
“True. For every new [Soldier] who survives the fighting, dozens will perish. This is an act of desperation. And see. Not everyone is fighting. This is where some of the other nations take part.”
He tapped another line. Erin read it. And this time—she could imagine it.
Tiqr’s citizens fleeing conflict shelter at Pomle. Standoff at Pomle’s borders between Savere, Nerrhavia. Pursuit not attempted. Pomle continues to accept fleeing citizens.
 
——
 
Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle, stood at the borders of Pomle. At least, the borders in any way that mattered. Sometimes they changed, but this time, the ring of colored stones that connected two canyon walls meant more than an arbitrary concept.
It was a boundary. And the two small armies that had come had halted a stone’s throw in front of it. They both bore banners he recognized—well, one did. The other looked more like [Bandits] to Orjin.
Savere’s raiders. But the second army, led by a group of chariots were distinctly Stitch-people. Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Orjin counted.
About six thousand from Nerrhavia. Two thousand from Savere. They would account for a good amount of Pomle’s population alone. They had been moving fast; they were all mounted. Pursuing Tiqr’s fleeing citizens.
They were behind Orjin. Several thousand…people. Many carrying packs, some without anything. They’d nearly collapsed after passing through Pomle’s borders. Now, it was a standoff. Orjin stood at the border as one of Nerrhavia’s [Commanders] called out cautiously to him.
“By the order of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, we request that Pomle gives up Tiqr’s citizens! They are formal enemies to Nerrhavia!”
There was a bark of laughter, and then the [Raid Leader] from Savere rode forwards. She glared at both the String-warrior and Orjin.
“Those are our captives. Savere takes them, by order of the Siren of Tides. Move aside!”
Orjin didn’t reply to either leader. He was still looking at the refugees. The [Martial Artist] stood, his arms folded, his posture perfect. The First-Chariot hesitated. Savere’s [Raid Leader] spat.
“Hey! You! Muscles-for-brains! Did you hear me?”
Orjin didn’t even turn his head. He’d been standing like this for about ten minutes. Thinking. He had no doubt that Savere and Nerrhavia were after the people here for one reason: slaves. There was no benefit otherwise. Well, perhaps they intended to kill them or ransom them, use them against Tiqr.
“Hey!”
Orjin turned his head at last. The woman was glaring at him. She was in fact, a Drowned Woman, half her body armored. And one arm looked like—Orjin frowned. Half-shrimp? A beady eye and antennae-like whisker twitched at him. The other half of her face was snarling teeth.
“We have two armies here. Hand them over. Now.”
