“Some. But Tiqr is a place of animals. Why wouldn’t they have [Druids]?”
“They left yesterday. When I was at Esthelm.”
“Yes.”
 
——
 
Empress Nsiia sat on her throne. She had not eaten. She had not moved. General Vasraf had taken to the front, to lead a retreat. She didn’t rise as the congregations of [Druids] entered the throne room. Nor when they told her they were leaving.
Thef was dead. Slain. Alked Fellbow, the Named Adventurer, had brought him down. Nsiia only moved once. And it was to look up. Wildkeeper Jvaile looked at her. The woman was a [Druid]. First of her circle.
“You are leaving.”
“Yes, Empress. We cannot remain. Half our circle has perished in this war. We have given all we can. No more. We are leaving.”
The Wildkeeper bowed. The other [Druids] knelt. Nsiia looked at her. Her throat worked; she coughed. Dry from lack of water. A servant hurried forwards and she drank from the bowl. She coughed again.
“Where?”
“The Kilalle Steppes. The Garuda tribes will allow our presence. Further still, perhaps. Empress. We beg your pardon—”
“Good. Take my people with you.”
Nsiia saw the Wildkeeper look up. The Empress of Beasts moved. She looked out of her throne room.
“The herds too. The young. The elephants. All the animals. Take them with you. All that will go.”
Wildkeeper Jvaile hesitated.
“You intend to keep fighting, Empress?”
“Yes. This is Tiqr. We will not yield.”
The [Druid] hesitated. She was no politician.
“I have heard it said Savere extended an offer of surrender to Tiqr.”
“Yes. And Nerrhavia. Our surrender would be absolute. We would give our people to slavery.”
The [Empress]’s eyes flashed. The Siren would see her in chains, groveling. Nerrhavia’s Queen was little better. The Wildkeeper bowed her head. She and Nsiia were of one mind about her answer to that.
“Empress, this war cannot be won. The herds have fallen.”
“Yes.”
Thef. Was. Dead. The [Druid] paused.
“We will take the young. There are young Grand Elephants, and regular ones. They will not end. But—Empress—”
She looked up, meeting Nsiia’s hollow gaze.
“—the elephants have seen the blood. They know the death.”
Nsiia nodded. Elephants remembered.
“The elephants’ memory is as long as ours. Longer, sometimes, I think. This is their home. And they will remember it forever.”
The [Druid] whispered. Some of her fellow Wildkeepers were stirring. They had wept for the dead of Tiqr. Animals. Ah—they had died for their home along with the people.
“Just so. But this war has changed them. Many of the young have felt the death of their kin. If they grow to maturity, they will be wild. They will remember death, Empress. Death, and what people have brought.”
“Mankillers.”
Another [Druid] murmured. He waited for a response. But all the Empress of Beasts did was reach for her side.
The war-mask was cracked. Fellbow had aimed for her head as well. Slowly, Nsiia put it on and rose. She looked down as Jvaile shuddered.
“The herds remember death? Then they remember it properly, Wildkeeper. As I live it. Tiqr will not forget these days so easily. I only hope that some remain to remember it. Go.”
They left. Nsiia walked through her throne room. Her honor guard fell in beside her. Over half of them had fallen. Only a few war elephants remained to Tiqr. The army had been beaten back again and again. Now the last citizens were choosing to fight.
Nsiia stood at the steps of her palace. She spoke from behind her bone mask, looking at each of her warriors in turn.
“If you wish it, you may leave with my blessing. If any so ask, let them go now.”
None of them moved. Nsiia nodded. She looked around.
“This is our home. We cannot leave it like the [Druids] do. For this land has been our home. It is our home. Can we surrender? Give ourselves to slavery? Let all that Tiqr has built fade without fighting to the last?”
No. In the silence, Nsiia raised her hand. She could see the Wildkeepers moving. They had already prepared a caravan. Better they go now. The [Empress of Beasts] raised her hand.
“[Empire: Wild Riot].”
 
——
 
A detachment of Nerrhavian [Soldiers] paused as they patrolled Yov Oasis. This area was far from the front lines by now. And it had been taken, almost completely intact. Tiqr’s army had refused to fight near the oasis, refused to destroy it.
All the better for Nerrhavia. It would be some work establishing a foothold in Tiqr, but this oasis was worth more than gold to the Chandrarian kingdoms. It was a source of water, vital and precious. Which was why Nerrhavia had left a garrison here, to claim it before the end of the battle.
The [Commander] was still alert for guerilla strikes, though, for all even they had been pushed back to around Tiqr’s capital. He sat on horseback, talking to another [Mage] of the Silk caste. The [Mage] was frowning at the water.
“Something wrong?”
The [Mage] glanced up at the alert tone in the [Commander]’s voice. He chuckled and shook his head.
“Nothing magical, [Commander]. It is simply—I have never seen the quail-birds flying in that formation.”
He pointed. The Stitch-[Commander] looked and saw there were indeed a number of small quail flying in an odd spiral around the oasis. He frowned.
“Is that truly unusual?”
“Well, only insofar—”
The [Mage] got no further. Both Stitch-men felt the Skill pass through the earth. It was a shudder, a lurch in his stomach. The [Commander] looked around.
“What was—”
Then he heard the shrieks. The quail dove, beaks open. They flew down, attacking his patrol. The [Commander] was so stunned at first he didn’t bring his shield up. Then the first beaks tore at his flesh, tearing at the silk of his body, drawing blood and pecking flesh that turned to thread.
“Dead gods! What’s—”
“Animal attack! Kill the birds!”
One of his officers screamed, and the Stitch-warriors drew their blades. They began slashing at the birds, but they were everywhere and the blades were useless against so many. The [Commander] screamed at the [Mage].
“Cast a spell! Cast a spell!”
The Stitch-[Mage] was trying. He raised a hand and lightning burst outwards. Dozens of birds screamed and the lightning crackled off the [Commander]’s armor.
“[Lightning Bolt]! [Stone Arm—”
The [Mage]’s voice cut off in a scream of agony. The [Commander] turned. He didn’t see where the [Mage] was until he tripped over the fallen Stitch-man. He was dead. His face was torn away, his eyeballs removed. The [Commander] raised his shield.
“Form up! Backs to each other!”
His warriors did. They slashed at the sky, shielding their eyes. Slowly, the birds fell. The last of them lay on the ground, and the Stitch-warriors stomped, cursing. More than one was eyeless. That was only a temporary injury, but their faces had been torn apart. They would need to be sewn together.
But mostly, everyone was shaken. The [Commander] stared around. What had happened? Some—powerful [Druid] spell? A [Beast Master] nearby? Then he heard a shout.
“Commander! The horses have gone mad!”
“One patrol is under attack! From—termites!”
“The birds—”
“One of the pet parrots took the eye of—”
It was coming from across the camp. No—across Tiqr. [Messages] were pouring in of horses going insane, birds attacking—even the insects! The [Commander] listened, and then began to give orders.
“[Mages]. Any swarm of animals you see, destroy at range with spells. Understood? Kill every animal you see. Every last one.”
He shuddered. The Stitch-warriors stared at him. But the [Commander] didn’t have anything else to say. Tiqr had gone mad. The Empress of Beasts—
 
——
 
Stood alone. She watched as the last of the animals fled. Not all of them had listened to her Skill. But those that hadn’t were fleeing. It was a choice. It was always a choice.
Like this one. She stood on her palace, addressing her soldiers. They were fortifying the gates and walls of her city, trying to build them up. This would be their last stand. The war elephants blew their trumpeting calls, screams of fury. But not yet. Not yet. The other nations would surround this place. And then it would be the truest end.
They wanted her to surrender. Savere’s Siren had threats of how Nsiia would live. Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia offered more amicable terms. Nsiia left the letters unopened. They had made their decision. And so had she.
“For generations, this has been our land. When he rode through Tiqr with his armies and a force large enough to topple nations, my father sat here. On this very throne. And he dared the King of Destruction to take Tiqr, for we would bleed him to the last. Instead, the King of Destruction offered us an alliance and we followed him to war because he left our home ours. Do we bend now, and let them tear this land apart, each nation devouring a piece? Will they leave anything that is us?”
Her army stood before her. Waiting, knowing the answer. Nsiia shook her head. She raised her headdress. Only the Roc’s feather was left. One last battle.
“Never. Let them crawl over the dead to claim this place. We do not bow to these traitorous monsters. We offered no war. All we did was remember friendship. So let us die. Tiqr will be empty before it falls.”
They screamed at her words. And Nsiia raised her spear. Soon. These other nations would count this victory in the blood of their own. Tiqr would fight to the last before it fell.
But it was falling.
 
——
 
The end of the updates was sobering. Erin sat at the table and read the last lines in silence with Pisces.
Tiqr’s army retreats to the capital, Oliphant. Illivere’s army begins a siege. Savere’s army moves to reinforce. Nerrhavia’s army moves to reinforce.
The Laughing Brigade is defeated in battle by a joint attack led by Savere and Nerrhavian forces supplemented by soldiers from Deimos and Relaaquil.
[Druids] fleeing Tiqr confirmed to have left the border. Large number of animals and people in their company. No pursuit given.
That was today. Today, the siege had begun. Erin looked at Pisces. He raised his brows. Reached for a last slice of blue fruit.
It was breakfast. And all this war was so far away. Erin was now caught up on Tiqr. But what happened next? She stared at the parchment.
“So we don’t know what happens next?”
“Presumably, the other armies would initiate the final battle. If not today, then certainly tomorrow. Tiqr will no doubt have a final stand, but they lack the, ah, position for a protracted siege. Few walls, you see, no choke points. I imagine today or tomorrow we will receive news of Tiqr’s fall. Quite interesting that the King of Destruction never intervened. But in the end, I suppose it was not expedient.”
The [Necromancer] sighed as he chewed and swallowed. Erin nodded slowly. She blinked down, and then frowned.
“Hold on, we’ve missed something.”
“What?”
Pisces blinked. Erin pointed at a little note at the very bottom of the parchment.
“It says there was an addendum to the report about the Laughing Brigade. But it was extra and you didn’t pay it. See?”
The young man leaned over the parchment.
“An addendum at extra cost? They bothered to write this, but not include the actual information? What did I pay for? I specifically requested all information! The Mage’s Guild does not decide what is superfluous to my interests!”
Pisces was outraged. He stood up. Erin stood up with him.
“Yeah! What happened with them? Can we find out?”
“I intend to.”
The [Necromancer] straightened his robes huffily. He stalked towards the door to Liscor and Erin followed him. Lyonette looked up.
“Erin. Where are you going? I need you in the kitchen.”
The [Innkeeper]’s shoulders hunched. She looked over her shoulder and then hurried Pisces out the door.
“Ican’thearyougottagoI’mwithPiscesbye!”
“Erin!”
Lyonette got up, but Erin had already swung the door closed. The [Princess] scowled, but sat back down as Mrsha scampered over to her.
“She’s going to be making food all day when she gets back.”
 
——
 
“Excuse me. What exactly do you call this?”
The [Scribe] working day-shift at the Mage’s Guild looked up as Pisces thrust the parchment in front of her. She was a Gnoll, which surprised Erin for someone working in the Mage’s Guild—until she saw the ink stains on the Gnoll’s fur. The [Scribe] sighed.
“What? Sir.”
She seemed to know Pisces, from the snappish tone she had. Pisces sniffed.
“I requested all the relevant news on Tiqr, did I not? What is this—this extortionate nonsense about an addendum?”
The Gnoll bared her teeth at him as she sat up at her desk.
“Exactly what it says. Sir. The addendum is not necessarily verifiable, but it is being offered by the Mage’s Guild. Which is why it was not included. If you would like to read it, I can easily copy you the relevant information.”
Pisces paused huffily. Erin peeked around behind him. The Mage’s Guild wasn’t a place she used often.
“I suppose that would be acceptable. How much?”
“One silver coin and two copper.”
“One silver coin? That is more than I paid for the information on Tiqr! Preposterous!”
The outraged voice made the other employees and visitors look around. Erin winced, but Pisces was in full indignant mode. He placed both hands on the counter and tried to glare at the Gnoll. She was taller than he was and just narrowed her eyes.
“One silver coin and two copper is the price…sir. The length of the report alone justifies the cost. Do you want it or not?”
Pisces hesitated. Erin poked him in the side. That was a very Gnollish action. She smiled at the Gnoll [Scribe] apologetically.
“Sorry about him. Pisces, just pay her!”
“It’s an indignity!”
“You don’t even know what it says. Pay her! And say sorry!”
“Very well, but if it is not sufficiently worthy of the price…”
Pisces passed the coins over. Then, when Erin poked him harder, muttered what might have been an apology. The Gnoll smiled at Erin, who smiled back, and reached for a quill. She produced a roll of parchment, placed it on a writing board and clamped it, then picked up another bit of parchment and began to copy with a practiced hand. Erin was impressed; the Gnoll’s writing was very good and very fast! Pisces just sniffed and folded his arms, the picture of pique.
When she was done, the Gnoll [Scribe] lifted her parchment, blew on the ink, and handed it to Erin, not Pisces.
“Thank you!”
Erin beamed at her, and pulled Pisces out of line. She investigated the parchment. It was, much to her surprise, packed with writing. More like a page from a book than the factual reports. She whistled.
“Hey Pisces, look at this! It’s a lot of writing.”
Pisces stopped harrumphing long enough to look at the parchment. He blinked and snatched it from Erin.
“Hey!”
