The Wandering Inn had breakfast. It had breakfast every day, in fact, except on rare days that involved calamity, monster attacks, or breakfast turning into brunch because everyone had been up last night partying. It happened every single day.
And it generally wasn’t interesting. It was, in the scheme of the day, a quiet opening to the more interesting events that took place. For example, this morning the inn’s customers had breakfast.
Lyonette was serving a yogurt mixed with sweet blue fruits. There was toast and butter if anyone wanted any. The Horns of Hammerad were there. Seborn and Moore were eating with Lyonette and Mrsha. Jelaqua had not returned last night. There were a few other regular guests, including Bevussa, alone, who had come for the blue fruits. She had a sweet…beak.
Relc was here. He wasn’t talking about drinking or moaning about his familial relations. He was eating two huge bowls of yogurt and fruit after a late-night of patrolling and yawning. He was drinking it down with a tankard of mead, but that was about it.
At his table, Pisces the [Necromancer] was eating just fruits. He was reading from a parchment scroll and frowning as he ate. Ceria yawned as she picked at her toast.
“So, yeah. We’ll have to go into Liscor with the other teams tomorrow for the Bloodfields briefing.”
“Mhm.”
Yvlon ate with a fork, maneuvering it with some grace despite the metal arm guards she now almost always wore. She only took them off when the skin underneath needed washing and then—carefully. She had an infection, just a bit of red swelling and pus along where the metal was fused with her flesh she hadn’t told anyone about. She chewed as Ceria went on.
“I think we’ll take it easy today. I’ll practice. Obviously.”
“Got it. Need help with the hot tub?”
“That’d be good.”
“I will heat the water, Captain Ceria.”
“Thanks, Ksmvr.”
Not even that was funny. Pisces kept eating. After a few minutes, a familiar voice echoed through the room.
“Hello everyone!”
Erin Solstice bounded into the inn. Everyone looked up. Erin turned around, beaming. She’d been out this morning. To get her hair cut. She turned.
“How do I look?”
“Good.”
Erin wavered. Her inn’s guests had all looked up and some had suffered from that instinctive rectal and stomach-clenching that they had learned to associate with Erin and sudden and often dangerous events. But her cut hair? They went back to eating. It was almost a letdown. Erin sulked as she went over to the table.
“It looks nice.”
Lyonette tried her best as she let Mrsha feed her slices of blue fruit. The Gnoll waved a paw and nodded encouragingly. Erin sighed.
“Thanks. I mean, I’m not expecting applause or anything—I just got it cut. But it’s nice to see people noticing.”
She looked around meaningfully. Seborn looked up from his bowl. He stared at Erin, nodded once, and went back to eating. Erin sighed. She sat back at the table, yawning.
It wasn’t that she’d had an eventful morning; she’d gone to the [Barber], and sure, he’d been a snazzy Gnoll (since Drakes didn’t have hair, obviously, that was a real issue Erin hadn’t thought about), but he’d been very excited to do her hair! It had been a fun experience, but…Erin yawned again. She’d had a more interesting day yesterday.
Not that anyone cared. She’d told them a bit last night, but it was still low-brow stuff compared to the usual. It was sometimes good that way. Erin stared at Mrsha, feeding a smiling Lyonette, Relc, yawning and muttering about sleeping for twelve hours until his next shift, Pisces reading while he kept missing his bowl, and Bevussa using her talons to eat.
Erin frowned—she was going to talk to Pisces later for that thing this morning—and then noticed a shivering Drake sitting at a table as far away from hers as possible. Erin called out cheerfully to him.
“Hey Teliv! What’s wrong? Want more breakfast? I can get you other food if you don’t like yogurt!”
Teliv the Drake [Host] and sometimes [Negotiator] jumped at Erin’s voice. He looked up.
“What? No! No, no thank you, Miss Erin. No more food. I’m not hungry.”
He pushed his barely-touched bowl back unsteadily. Ceria looked up, her mouth full, and glanced at Erin. Teliv had a familiar look in his eye; she knew it because she’d had it about half a year ago when she first visited the inn.
“Erin, did you do something to Teliv?”
“Me?”
Erin tried to look innocent. She shrugged.
“No…we just went to Esthelm. Nothing big.”
“Hah!”
Teliv’s bark of laughter made some of the other diners look up. Relc scooted his chair closer, looking sleepily interested.
“Ooh, I know Erin went to Esthelm yesterday with some of the Watch. I didn’t get to go. Captain Z said I was unsuitable for diplomatic missions. What’d Erin do? Burn it down?”
“Relc! I wouldn’t do that! It was fine! We went, they loved us, especially the food and the stuff we gave them, and we signed a deal! Liscor’ll get some ore and we’ll even get visitors!”
Erin protested. Ceria raised her brows and the guests in the inn looked at Teliv for his take. He shook his head.
“That happened, but—the Hobgoblin entered the city! He snuck in after following us! That was only the start!”
He pointed at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin looked up and grumbled something. This time Seborn glanced at Erin.
“That wasn’t a huge incident?”
“Whaaat? No! I mean, Esthelm’s cool. Cooler than Liscor. They didn’t get that upset. In fact, some of them knew Numbtongue!”
Erin smiled at Numbtongue.
“He was like a hero! Only, he didn’t get a parade and it was mostly awkward. But they let him in! And they liked me and him. They even gave me a hat. Let me get it!”
She hurried into the kitchen, remembered she lived upstairs, and came down in a clatter with a wreath on her head. The flowers were still fairly fresh, but showing the first signs of wilting after being outside so long. Now, in the inn, they’d be preserved forever in their near-freshness.
“See? I got one for Numbtongue, but he must have lost his. It was only a bit of a fuss.”
The Hobgoblin had left it with the graves. But that wasn’t a breakfast topic. Nor did he speak. He just folded his arms, content in silence. Teliv shuddered.
“Only a bit of a fuss? We came so close to a diplomatic incident. Four times! The Hobgoblin wasn’t even the worst of it. She encouraged a near riot!”
He pointed a claw at Erin. She tried to look innocent. Bevussa opened her beak in a grin. She turned as Relc began munching on some toast and sipping his drink happily. Erin hesitated as Lyonette, Mrsha, and Moore stared at her. Seborn drained half his mug of water and went back to polishing one of his daggers.
“I wouldn’t say a riot. Look, there was a jerk. He was all about stealing people’s money and charging ‘travel fees’ and stuff. Like [Bandits]. I…helped get rid of him.”
“She organized a coup.”
“Well, not really—”
Ceria raised her eyebrows and nodded to Yvlon. The woman nodded back. They had the same thought as most of the guests. Definitely a coup.
Well it sounded like Esthelm had been interesting. Noteworthy, even. But this was breakfast. Erin’s protests became weaker as Teliv found himself recounting the tale to those who were interested in the story. He began relaxing as they shared their first ‘Erin moments’, and he found someone had bought him a round. They began talking over breakfast.
And that was about it. Nothing interesting was happening. No one cared about her hair. Erin sighed. It wasn’t a fancy cut. Neither she nor her [Barber] had quite trusted that; he was good at styling fur, not Erin’s mane. She edged away from the conversation around Teliv so she wouldn’t have to hear all the embarrassing and mainly accurate things they were saying about her.
What to do? Well, she could clean a pot in the kitchen that had some caramelized sugar stuck to the bottom of it. Or get ready for lunch; Lyonette had her in the kitchen to replenish their food stocks. And maybe later today Erin would see about getting a nice bath since she was somewhat hairy from the cutting. Then she could visit some people in Pallass, maybe. But Erin wasn’t intending to stir up trouble.
“Some days are quiet. Nice.”
Erin sighed wistfully. She was done with trouble. Even Esthelm had been pushing it. And she really hadn’t started a coup. She wandered across the inn, and came to an almost abandoned table. The Horns had all left Pisces to go about their business; the [Necromancer] was still absently eating.
“Hey. Pisces. Psst. Pisces. Whatcha reading?”
Pisces looked up. He blinked as Erin slid into a chair next to him. He rubbed at one eye, yawned; Erin yawned too since she’d had a late night.
“Ah, Erin. Merely refreshing myself with a summary of the latest events. This is just a small collection of newsworthy topics I purchased at the Mage’s Guild.”
Erin blinked blankly at Pisces. He sighed and lowered the scroll, keeping it unraveled with one hand. She noted cramped handwriting and what looked like dates.
“So, you’re reading a newspaper?”
Pisces paused a moment, and his sleepy gaze flicked up towards Erin’s face before relaxing. He spoke casually as he speared a bit of fruit.
“I have no idea what you mean. But if you are referring to something similar to Olesm’s chess newsletter, you could say so, yes. However, the difference is that I requested the requisite information and paid a nominal fee for it. Normally I could get some information from [Criers] or gossip, but I prefer it to be tabulated and organized.”
Erin frowned. Newspapers were still a thing of mystery to this world, probably because paper was still somewhat expensive.
“I don’t get it. Explain it to me again. And does this have anything to do with the reason you woke us all up this morning by screaming?”
Pisces flushed. He had indeed woken the inn up with an ear-piercing shout, another pre-breakfast oddity. But he’d rushed out of his room to assure everyone that nothing was wrong. Erin assumed he’d stubbed his toe. Now she glanced sideways at the [Necromancer] and detected a bit of embarrassment and—Pisces coughed.
“That was purely an accident, Miss Solstice. A happy one, I assure you. I was simply unprepared for…well, a happy accident.”
“Does it have anything to do with the huge bone thing in your room?”
He jumped and stared at Erin. She shrugged.
“Mrsha peeked. I did too. It’s filling the entire room! What if we need to clean it?”
“I’ll thank you to respect my privacy! And it’s an ongoing project. A rather…tricky one.”
Erin bet he’d scared himself. And no wonder, with all those bones jumbled up! But she let Pisces collect himself and sniff haughtily a few times.
“Okay, so what you bought from the Mage’s Guild for…how much? It’s a…news…parchment. That has all the latest events?”
Pisces sighed.
“No. It cost me, let me see—nine copper pieces, since I provided the parchment. Hardly expensive, although then again, fairly steep to the layperson given how simple the task is. But I suppose that is how the Mage’s Guild earns some of its revenue.”
“Spare me the economics! How’s it different?”
Erin waved a hand. Pisces sighed, longer this time.
“I asked them to write down all the information they had on the Tiqr conflict and they did. Happy? This is all the information on the event publically available for the last—”
He checked the parchment.
“—month. I am refreshing myself. Of course, I knew some of the information already, but one must keep up with the latest events to be truly cosmopolitan.”
“You just want to be a know-it-all. What does it matter what’s happening in Chandrar?”
Erin narrowed her eyes at Pisces. He looked mildly offended.
“Erin, Chandrar is an entire continent. It is also home to the King of Destruction, who was once in a position to threaten the entire world. I believe even you know of him? Why would I not care what is happening in the world outside of my immediate area?”
The young woman hesitated, and this time guiltily. That sounded a bit too much like her…her mind fuzzed for a second. Her dad…? She skipped over that fact to reply to Pisces.
“Well—okay. Sure! Being globally aware is great. Sorry, I take it back.”
“Thank you.”
“Even if you do like being a know-it-all. But that Flos dude won’t really affect Liscor, will he?”
“Time can only tell. The odds of him reconquering Chandrar are remote, or so I feel. But other continents can affect ours. Just look at Terandria.”
Erin dutifully looked around the room. She needed to get a map for the walls. That would be a great decoration when the inn’s remodeling was done!
“Go on.”
The young [Mage] sat back in his chair, looking pleased at his audience. He spoke in his lecturing tone that Erin had first hated so much, now much improved. It was lecturing, but not sneering.
“Well, Terandria has always had a rocky relationship with Izril. I could delve into the ancient blood ties that link the Five Families and other noble houses of Izril to Terandria’s own gentry, but to be brief—and simple—sometimes Terandria makes war with Izril. Northern Izril, since they are closest, but they have been known to send armies against the Drakes as well. On the last occasion, they landed along a coast and, well, invaded for nearly a decade. They expanded and attempted to claim part of Izril.”
“Why? I bet all the Drakes joined up to get rid of them. That sounds like a stupid idea.”
The [Innkeeper] wrinkled her nose. Pisces nodded, smiling.
“Oh, assuredly they did. It wasn’t technically a colony—Terandrian kingdoms are well known for founding those too, on Baleros and Chandrar, but it led to a decade of conflict in contested regions. Very political. Is it actually open warfare or just ‘hostilities’ between roaming bands of not-armies and so forth. Terandria reaped a number of benefits from the fighting, however, in the form of looted treasures and whatnot. And incurred heavy losses when they were smashed by an expedition led by the Walled Cities, including Archmage Zelkyr—”
“Zelkyr? Wait, when was this?”
“Nearly a century and a half ago. It was an instructive example! In practice, nations trade with each other all the time and wars can even be fought across oceans, although this is generally reserved for only larger conflicts. But [Pirates] raid Izril’s coasts, and sometimes a nation will send forces to other lands. All this to say that other continents might well affect Izril, as they did in the Second Antinium War.”
Pisces sat back, waiting for a response. Erin pondered for a moment and shrugged.
“Cool.”
“That’s it?”
He looked askance. Erin rested her chin on the table.
