The Nerrhavian officer looked uneasy. It was true. Both armies were armed for a fight and they outnumbered the few warriors. But he also knew why Pomle was independent. His eyes flicked behind Orjin.
Pomle’s warriors stood silently in the gap that sheltered the nation of martial artists from the rest of the world. The canyons were stiff, tall, and there was a natural choke-point that Orjin held. Some of the warriors stood on the cliffs, armed with spears or slings or just their bare hands and rocks.
The rest were lined up behind him. Barely a hundred [Martial Artists] and [Warrior] classes. But they had the high ground and the Nerrhavian [Commander] knew it. He was more intelligent than the Savere [Raid Leader], or at least, more aware of Pomle’s legend. He waited while she swore at him, losing her patience. And Orjin just thought.
Not about what to do next. More—about how he’d attack if it came to a reply. He’d probably have to split Nerrhavia’s charge first. It would be a nasty fight, but they could break the chariots in this pass. Reinforcements would arrive fast, but—Orjin narrowed his eyes. Yes. He could kill both leaders if they moved back. Then—straight into the chariots while the others held this ground and the refugees fled. It was a working plan.
The [Martial Artist] moved at last. Savere’s [Commander] rode back a pace and the Nerrhavian officer placed a hand on his sword. But Orjin kept his arms crossed. First, the message. He’d had to give the speech about Pomle’s peace a lot recently.
“This is Pomle. I am the Strongest of Pomle, Orjin. Thirty years ago, we claimed this land and fought every nation who tried to impose their rules on us. For thirty years, Pomle has known peace. We have little, but any who wish to train are welcome within our land. Pomle is neutral. This is our peace.”
Both leaders stared at him. Orjin went on, gesturing at the citizens huddled behind him.
“These are guests of Pomle, regardless of their identity. They have claimed Pomle’s peace. If they say they wish to train, or rest, or merely step within our boundaries, they may do so without fear.”
“Do they wish that?”
The Nerrhavian [Commander] began uncertainly. Orjin turned his head. The refugees nodded rapidly. Orjin paused.
“They say they do. Therefore, they are guests. As for your armies…”
He stared at the lines of [Soldiers] and shook his head.
“Begone. The peace of Pomle does not extend to foreign armies.”
That was it. Savere’s [Raid Leader]’s eyes bulged.
“That’s all you have to say?”
Orjin didn’t reply. He waited. She looked at the Nerrhavian commander. He was sweating.
“We have orders not to violate Pomle’s peace—”
“Bullshit. There are a hundred of them. They’re not some legendary army, just a bunch of tree-punching idiots.”
The woman rode forwards and the Nerrhavian [Commander] tensed. Orjin did not; tensing was a bad move. He was relaxed. As the woman rode forwards, he spoke.
“Step across that line and we will remind you why Pomle is free.”
She paused incredulously. And then the [Martial Artists] behind Orjin picked up the stone spears. They aimed—past her at Savere’s armies. The [Raiders] looked up as Pomle’s warriors aimed bows at them. They began to laugh. And then it died away when they realized Orjin was serious.
The Strongest of Pomle waited for the woman to move. He hadn’t moved. She was eying him, eying the line of colored stones. He could see she wanted to dare it. But—she might have had [Dangersense]. Certainly, some of her [Raiders] did, because they were whispering among their ranks. And the eager attitude among her force vanished. Some even began looking over their shoulders.
The confidence drained out of the [Raid Leader]’s face. She looked at Orjin, assessing them, and more blood fled her hands and face. She backed up, turning her horse roughly. Then she spat on the ground and rode away. The Nerrhavian First-Chariot hesitated. But when Orjin turned to him he shook his head.
Without a word, both armies withdrew. Orjin sighed. He stared as they kicked up a dust storm as they rode away. Pomle’s warriors waited for his nod, and then walked off, returning to their tasks. Casually, as if nothing had happened. The refugees watched as Orjin walked past them, shaken.
“Excuse me! This way!”
A voice called out in the newfound silence. The refugees turned, and saw a Drake striding towards them. Salii, Pomle’s only [Secretary], was hurrying forwards with her clipboard.
“Everyone, with me. You are quite safe now; please form an orderly line.”
“But what—”
“All questions later, please! We will bring you to one of the temporary camps. Excuse me, follow me. My name is Salii. Come to me if you have any questions or issues. That is Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle. Now—”
The people found themselves obediently shuffling after Salii before they quite knew what was happening. Orjin left the Drake to do whatever she wanted. Pomle had guests. And that was as far as he intended to deal with the matter. For that matter, most of Pomle’s warriors ignored the new influx of people. There was only one thing that concerned them, and so Orjin sighed. More work to do.
That night, Orjin sat on the ground in the darkness, waiting. It was at roughly the same spot he had been. The line of colored pebbles was still there. This time, though, he was looking down on them from a height.
The canyon’s walls were steep. High. But any [Martial Artist] could climb them. And so could a number of other classes, it seemed. Shadowy figures, dressed in black clothing to hide themselves in the night scaled the canyons. They carried blades, and they were fairly stealthy.
Not stealthy enough, though. A few had Skills; Orjin knew from the breathing that one was invisible. He was trying to locate the invisible one by their posture in the dust. The figures paused, then they crossed the line that separated Pomle from the rest of the world.
Normally that mattered little. Normally people got a second or third chance and guests, even armed ones, were welcome in Pomle. But these ones had already been warned.
The first [Martial Artist] dropped out of the skies where she had been hovering. Her [Axe Kick] shattered the skull of the invisible [Rogue] and the Garuda took wing, hunting for her next target. Orjin sighed. He’d been off on the Drowned Woman’s position. Oh well. He saw more of the properly hidden [Martial Artists] rise up.
One of them was a Dullahan armed with the crude spears of this morning. She threw the spear and it went through one of the shadowed figures and buried itself in the stomach of the next. The shocked infiltrators shouted, drew their weapons; Pomle’s warriors closed in.
It was a brisk fight. Orjin only moved once. He kicked a [Rogue] off the canyon before he could slash one of the [Martial Artists] with a blade. The man fell, screaming, and hit the ground. He survived the fall, although Orjin was sure he’d broken an arm, and got up. He ran surprisingly fast. Orjin stopped the shamefaced Garuda from going after him. Orjin looked around and shook his head.
The rest of the attack group was dead. A few [Martial Artists] had been tagged, and one might have been poisoned. The others were inspecting the injury, debating remedies. They dispersed again, a few pausing to check the bodies for valuables. Many, like Orjin, didn’t care and left them to be devoured by animals or the elements.
Savere’s [Pirates] and [Rogues] might have all the experience in the world in fighting in darkness, but Pomle’s warriors had trained for it. Orjin returned to his space near Pomle’s oasis. He found Salii waiting for him.
“Are they…?”
“Dead. One fled.”
The Drake nodded and made a note of this for some reason Orjin didn’t understand. She took a breath. Orjin was stretching before he meditated and slept.
“Orjin, this latest group was a thousand two hundred and eighteen strong. They were over five times that number when they set out; the rest were captured or killed.”
“I see.”
The Strongest of Pomle kept stretching. Salii tapped her clipboard.
“Many have failed to bring enough food. If more continue arriving, Pomle will be out of food soon.”
The Strongest of Pomle paused. That was a problem. However—he looked around.
“It is not Pomle’s duty to feed these people. Nor can we.”
It would mean Pomle’s warriors would have to go hunting as the oasis’ resources were depleted. Perhaps even the water would be used up. That would be an inconvenience, but one Pomle’s people could handle. The refugees on the other hand, well, they’d starve. Orjin saw Salii pause.
“I’m aware of that, Orjin. However—I can handle it. I think. There are people among the refugees with useful classes and Skills.”
“Can you feed twice Pomle’s numbers? How?”
Orjin was fairly certain Salii couldn’t make food appear out of thin air. And she would need to. But the [Secretary] only tapped her clipboard.
“Trading. Scavenging. Organization. Orjin, let me try. If you’re the strongest [Martial Artist] in Pomle, I’m the greatest [Secretary] in all the Walled Cities. Give me access to Pomle’s stores and I’ll barter for food and clothing and everything else we need and secure the rest.”
The boast made Orjin smile. He paused, and then nodded to Salii.
“Do what you wish. You created Pomle’s stores to begin with.”
“Thank you.”
She smiled and left. Orjin wondered if she’d succeed. Perhaps. She was certainly good at ordering people around. But if she didn’t, Pomle would endure. The [Martial Artists] had survived times when the oasis had run dry, starvation. It was part of their training.
However, one thing did keep Orjin up as he tried to meditate, calm himself and order his thoughts before he slept. He kept staring west. He could smell blood on the wind. And it made him restless. But he held his ground, stilled his thoughts. This was not his war.
Yet, he was the Strongest of Pomle. It was a duty. One no one who truly belonged to Pomle wanted, but it was important. He had to guard Pomle. That was the sum of his duties, and Orjin had always thought of it as simple. Remove murderers and those who caused trouble. Kill monsters, sometimes people. Organize Pomle’s warriors in case of an attack.
But what if an army came? Pomle would fight, of course. But this war bothered Orjin. All these other nations attacking Tiqr, which bordered Pomle. They had come for Tiqr as a result of the peace he had helped to offer. Tiqr had done nothing wrong as Orjin understood it. If they came for Tiqr, would those same armies one day march on Pomle?
He was no [King]. But those thoughts weighed heaviest of all. Orjin sat in silence late into the night. He stared ahead blankly. And then he realized there was another invisible intruder in camp he’d somehow missed. It had been a mistake to sneak up on him of all the others. The person might be [Muffled], but they smelled of blood. Orjin got up with a sigh.
 
——
 
Tiqr was falling. City by city, part by part. Like a plague, the invading armies took it apart, slowly working their way to the capital city. Now Tiqr’s armies were retreating every battle, moving further and further back.
No one had come to help them. And the other nations were continuing onwards. Why not? They were winning.
“The nation of Reim continues to refrain from movements on any border. Only naturally.”
Pisces read the note, which seemed to emphasize…nothing. But nothing was apparently significant with the King of Destruction. Erin read one little addendum.
King of Destruction appears on southern border with Gazi the Omniscient and Mars the Illusionist. No movement. Nerrhavia reinforces border.
“Gazi.”
But he’d done nothing.
 
——
 
By now, the jeering from Nerrhavia’s side was background noise to Mars. But today the chanting went silent. The Stitch-warriors froze. And their [Commander] sent word back on [Message] spell, shouting orders. They formed a double line, setting themselves.
He was here. The King of Destruction. Flos Reimarch regarded the force across his borders. He looked at Mars. His expression was intense. He was not happy.
News of Tiqr reached Reim as well as the rest of the world. Now—Mars looked around. Flos had not ridden here unaccompanied. Three hundred [Riders] flanked him, and Gazi, her main eye closed, had followed him. Flos jerked his head at Mars.
“My [Vanguard]. Ride with me.”
Nerrhavia’s forces reacted as Flos began to ride across the border of Reim. They pivoted, setting themselves, watching as Flos rode—not towards them but perpendicular. Just…riding.
He rode with Mars, Gazi, Venith, and Maresar at his back. Two of his Seven. Three hundred [Riders] followed him. And Nerrhavia’s army was silent.
If he charged, it would be forty-to-one. If you added the infantry, then thirteen-to-one. Still a vast difference in numbers. Some began to jeer, taunting the King of Destruction. He turned his head and they fell silent.
If he charged he’d forswear every oath. Fight a battle against thousands of Nerrhavia’s elite. The King of Destruction rode, turning his head, regarding his land. And Nerrhavia’s borders. In the distance were the garrisons, fortifications of actual stone. Beyond them, cities, garrisons of hundreds of thousands of warriors.
The King of Destruction paused. And he turned his horse towards Nerrhavia. For a moment he leaned on the saddle. And he stared past the army on the border. Then he turned and rode back the way he’d come. Without another word.
None of Nerrhavia’s warriors made a sound after that. The two armies withdrew further in silence. Mars, who remained, stared across the vast distance and leaned on the horse she’d borrowed. She heard nothing from the other army for a long time. They could have laughed. They could have jeered or taunted him. Her [King]. But if they had, neither she nor they were certain he wouldn’t have charged. He probably wouldn’t. But the world still watched.
“Remember that, you arrogant silk handkerchiefs.”
Mars spat in the dust. But she turned. He wouldn’t have charged. Her [King] had made up his mind. He just hated it.
 
——
 
Tiqr was falling. And now, Erin could see it. Almost. In the dry, factual sentences, an entire empire breaking apart. People fleeing. An army reeling from—what? Defeat? No, just breaking under too many casualties. Giving ground. Pulling back. The citizens fleeing.
“Tiqr’s alliance with the local [Druid] factions collapses. Mass exodus west towards the Kilalle Steppes.”
Mrsha looked up at Erin. She was sitting on Erin’s lap, now. Watching Erin and Pisces’ faces more than understanding the abstract concepts. Erin looked at Pisces.
“I didn’t know they had [Druids]. Aren’t they solitary?”
