Chapter Six - Velvet Paws"Political situation deteriorating as one of the undersea internet cables connecting the United Kingdom to the rest of Europe was severed last week. It was discovered that the break was man-made, and not caused by an undersea Antithesis incursion as initially reported. Tensions are currently at an all-time high as European governments point fingers."--Knighly News Now headline, 2031***When Lucy arrived, we did the usual things. A welcome-back hug, some more hugging, a bit of grasping, some more hugging, and a kiss that would have made the most libertine person blush a little.One thing led to another, and eventually we rode up to our home, only we had brats to watch over and couldn't just have a bit of fun. Besides, Lucy was brimming with gossip. I could tell. It was one of her top five favourite things, and she always got a little excited when she had some good tea to spill."So, how was your day?" I asked as I hopped up onto the counter.Lucy shrugged a shoulder before tugging the fridge open. "Not bad, all things considered," she said. "Actually, no, it's better than 'not bad.'""Oh?" I asked.She nodded along while pulling a few things out. She looked at a closed plastic container and frowned before clawing it open and sniffing. "Ew," she muttered. "This is from two weeks ago. Urgh, anyway. News about the conference got around, as you'd expect, and now everyone that was a kitten who participated is looking real good.""Popularity boost?" I asked."More than that. Did you know that Tankette gave everyone free snacks? Princess gave everyone a little tiara as well."I blinked. "Really? Why?""Because her sister told her to, and Knight has at least some political training," Lucy said as if it was the most obvious thing in the world. "We did the same.""We did?""Well, I did on your behalf, because I'm perfect," Lucy said. "And I stole the idea because it was a good one. I had Rac print out a bunch of little badges with your logo on them. They have serial numbers and everything.""Okay?" I said.Lucy looked at me, then shook her head. Obviously I was missing out on something. "People care about stupid stuff, Cat," she said. "Little badges, tiaras, snacks, anything branded. It's a cool sign that they're appreciated, but it's also exclusive. It's not something people can just buy. It proves that they were there. Beyond like, the images and selfies and whatnot that people took. Those could be faked.""So could badges," I pointed out."Sure, but that would be harder. Besides, that kind of stuff comes with a story. And today was a good day for that. People were telling stories, and because they were the tellers, that made them popular. It won't last, but for this week, at least, the Kittens that helped will be the top of CIAL's... social thing. They can feel proud of themselves and rub it in."Well, I supposed that I kind of understood it. It felt kind of vain, but then again, I was a vain kind of woman, so yeah, I got it. "Good for you, mostly. I bet a lot more people will want to join.""Oh, a ton more," Lucy said. She was appropriately smug about it. God, she was so hot. "Anyway, I had to handle that today. It was interesting, but mostly pretty chill? What about you? Going back to classes this week?""Eh... yeah, I suppose. I might be missing a few. I told you about Quebec and Deus' bullshit, yeah?""Mhm.""Well, I was looking into it some more and it might be more fucked up than I thought. At least a little. It looks like someone's been hiding stuff. Covering up the news and whatnot. Kinda shady, you know?""Oh?" Lucy asked. "There are some valid reasons to do that.""Sure, but it's suspicious as hell. The army--I called them up--aren't sure what's going on either. Then there's this. Someone sent me an email.""Really?" Lucy asked.I stepped up and helped her balance some of the stuff she was taking out of the fridge. I didn't know what she was planning, but there was cheese involved, so it was going to be good. "Yeah, I know," I said. "Chick called Crisis Mode. Here, I'll send you a copy."I watched her eyes glow for a bit after I forwarded her the email. Her lips moved a little as she read, which was very cute. "Huh. Sounds desperate."The story has been stolen; if detected on Amazon, report the violation."I know, right?" I said. "Sounds like she's in a heap of shit. Still don't know why she's contacting me, specifically.""Because you do good work?"I shook my head. "No way. It could just be that she asked everyone in New Montreal, maybe anyone close enough to Quebec that had their info available to look up, but... yeah.""So, you're going to head over then?" Lucy asked."That was always the plan. I chatted with Delilah about it. We're heading out in two days. Tomorrow will be prep."Lucy paused in the act of cutting open a container. "How long will you be out for?""Uh... I don't know? A few days?""Hmpf," she said.Truth was, I don't think we'd ever gone more than like, two days without seeing each other in... well, since we'd met. It'd be weird."If you and Delilah stay out of contact for more than a day I'm going to seduce Franny and send both of you racy pics."I laughed. "Hah! You say that as if it's a punishment!""Maybe it is! I might develop a taste for desperate redheads.""I can dye my hair," I replied.Lucy paused. "Huh... we might have to explore that a little.""Noted," I said. "Anyway... uh. You do know that it's not so far that I can't fly back, right? Like, worse case, I'll sleep over there, but I can also autopilot the Bastion back. I'd much rather sleep in my own bed.""Much warmer.""Exactly," I said."Hmm, fine! As long as you let me know. I don't want to come home and find you missing without knowing about it beforehand.""Clingy."She sniffed. "Shut up. Now, cut these onions."I groaned, then took a knife from a rack and started to butcher some poor... were onions vegetables? Whatever. I chopped it up real good while Lucy went on to prep some other things. It was starting to smell kind of good, especially when she got the garlic out and the oil and things started to sizzle on a pan."Once things are secured, maybe you can come over as well?" I asked. "Might be fun.""Sure," Lucy said. "Never really left New Montreal before. It'd be nice to see other places. I heard that Quebec is romantic.""Sure! Would be nice to go on a date.""Oh, that would be nice. Maybe see if the city is still standing first? Did you reply to that Crisis Mode woman yet?""No. I probably should. Uh..." I wiped under my eye, then cursed under my breath. I should have bought goggles or something, I was tearing out of my left eye. "Myalis, can you... uh, dictate?"I certainly can. But the word you're looking for is transcribe."Right, that," I said. "Okay.. dear... wait, is 'dear' too formal?""It's a little informal, if anything," Lucy said. "But mostly it depends on if you want to come off as a grandma or not.""Point," I said. "Just start it with 'Hi' I guess. Uh. Shit, I'll guess I'll skip the pleasant bits. My friends and I are heading over to Quebec in two days and we're bringing a brigade of soldiers with us. We should be between two and four samurai. Don't expect too much from us, we're all relatively new, but we can hopefully solve some of your problems with enough fresh firepower. We'll be airing around noon in two days. See you then. Signed... Stray Cat.""Very professional," Lucy said."Thanks," I replied. "Hopefully Myalis will make it sound all good and proper."I'll see what I can do.I received a message from Myalis.Hi,My friends and I are heading to Quebec in two days, and we'll be bringing a brigade of soldiers with us. There will be between two and four samurai in our group. We're all relatively new, so don't expect too much, but we should be able to help deal with some of your problems with some fresh firepower.We're arriving around noon in two days.Loves and kisses,Stray Cat"What's with you and the 'loves and kisses' thing? You're setting up a false expectation here," I said.Just making sure you're paying attention."Sure. Snip that out and you can send it, please. Hopefully that'll keep Crisis Mode happy.""Mhm. Set the plates? This is almost done. And after supper... desert? To remind you that you have something to come back to."I liked the sound of that.***
