Chapter Thirty-Seven - Armed and ready“The human form is far from perfect, especially against something like the Antithesis who take biological weaponry to an entirely new level with each iteration.Now, keeping that in mind, you might wonder how the Vanguard, the ones who are accountable for the most Antithesis kills, manage against such large numbers.The truth is, for them, the form to which they’re born isn’t the end. Additional limbs, cybernetic upgrades, or even just exoskeletal augmentations. The variations are innumerable, but the essence of it all is that the Vanguard learn quickly that being human isn’t enough. So, they become more.”--Essay by Professor Vernes of the French Académie des Sciences Extra-Terrestre, May 2032***I had to strip down from my jacket, shirt and bra to put on my newest piece of gear. Even then, it was a little bulky and cumbersome to put on, but, on twisting around to see the reflection of my back in a glass, it was totally worth it.The Hydra Autonomous Targeting Mount was a long, sleek piece of blue metal with overlapping plates that ran all the way from the small of my back to the base of my neck, with two little arms fitting over my collar. It even had faint pinkish lights glowing from between each plate. The biggest part over it were two curved bits over my shoulder plates.It stuck to my back, warm and not-quite-wet, each articulated joint pressed close to me and moving with the shifting of my spine and hips. It would make wearing a shirt a pinch awkward, so I left the tattered remains of my t-shirt on the floor and slid my auto-loader jacket on instead.The Hydra raised the two boxy parts up as I put my jacket on, then lowered them back down over the jacket, two little arms sneaking out from just behind my neck to hold everything in place.“Right, how does this work?” I asked.It has already synced with your targeting software. Bring a weapon to a point five centimeters above your shoulder.I zipped up my jacket, then pulled out my Trench Maker and held it over my shoulder. The box over my right shoulder blade unfolded a little arm reached up and grabbed the gun’s grip in a pair of clamps while a smaller, more articulate tendril gripped onto the trigger. There was a little camera set up tied to the arms, no doubt meant to aim.“Cool,” I said.I looked around, and the Trench Maker moved with the motions. Aiming where I was looking.The software has a target designation system that allows it to pick targets based on a priority system. I would suggest buying a pair of guns specifically made for the articulated system. While it can use standard arms, it isn’t as efficient or as accurate.“Alright,” I said as I reached up. The arm deposited the Trench Marker in my hand, then folded itself away in less time than it took to blink. It was really fucking cool. “What kind of guns do you have for these babies?” I was really digging having three arms. It was better than my usual one.Seeing as how you still have a decent number of points. Two Model I Lancejets would cost you forty points. They fire gyroscopically stabilized micro-rockets, which means little recoil and decent accuracy. They use drum magazines with sixty rounds each that can be magnetically attached to your mounting along your back for rapid reloading.Enjoying the story? Show your support by reading it on the official site.“Do they explode or light things on fire?” I asked.... That could cost you more per magazine, but it can be arranged.I nodded, a stupid grin pulling at my lips. “Nice. We’ve been kind of wasting time. Let’s buy the toys and hurry off.”How many extra magazines?“How many can I fit?” I asked as I ran my hand over my back. Feeling cold metal there was a bit strange. “Is this thing armoured?”A little. And you can fit eight. They’ll cost three points each.“Do it.”New Purchase: Lancejet Model I. Two units.Points reduced to...116New Purchase: Magazine of High Explosive Flechettes. Eight UnitsPoints reduced to... 92A case appeared at my feet instead of the usual cheap box.For a moment I wondered if I’d gotten the wrong package, but opening the case revealed two boxy gun-like things, and eight cylindrical magazines with flattened sides next to them.I picked one of the magazines up, then tried bringing it over my shoulder. The mounting behind my back unfolded and snapped the magazine away, then slotted it against one of the plates over my back. “Alright,” I said as I started passing the device all of the magazines one-by-one. Then I handed over the gun.The little boxy arms slid into the bottom of the gun, then locked in place with the zip of a drill spinning up. The gun twisted this way and that, then came to a hover over my shoulder. I was grinning as I picked up the second one and moved it over my other shoulder.“They can reload themselves?” I asked.Of course.I could get used to getting all of these toys. “Right, let’s move on,” I said as I pushed the case aside. Having two guns the size of one of those energy-drink cans twitching next to my head was a little strange, it kept making me look to the side whenever it slipped into my vision, but it was also damned cool, so I wasn’t going to complain.I moved on, feeling a little more confident in my step. I still had some points to spend, but not all that much time to spend them in. Maybe if I was going to be stuck here after the others left..I set that thought aside. That little burning kernel of betrayal I felt was entirely misplaced.The next stairwell up had me reaching the museum proper. It was a little strange stepping back into the same corridor where we’d hidden in the vault.Less strange was seeing well over a dozen Model Ones pecking at the bodies we’d left behind, Antithesis or human. I pulled back around a corner and grit my teeth.“How do I fire these things?” I asked.Use your new sensor. Look to the corner with the targeting reticule, then let the system pick out its targets. Saying ‘fire’ will do the obvious. I can also control parts of it for you, if you’re otherwise too busy.I looked around until I spotted the symbol in a corner of my vision. Looking at it for just a moment made the projected screen before me glow a faint pinkish colour. The moment I poked my head around the corner little red dots appeared on all of the Model Ones.I stepped out from cover. “Fire.”
