Hey everyone!Good news! The SCS Fanfiction contest is back, and better than ever! This year we'll be asking you to really test yourselves, because the category for this year's contest will be: 'Civilian life in the SCS universe.'Now that doesn't mean you can't have a samurai, Antithesis, or an incursion in your story, it just means the main point of view needs to be that of a civilian. Don't think that means you NEED to write an action story, you could also write about a corporate CEO planning to tear down an orphanage, an undercity ganger setting up a deal, or just an average person going about their day. Whatever you want.The top three authors will get artwork of their OC / Samurai, commissioned by Raven's Dagger, and the top stories will be shared / linked in the main SCS story thread.The artists involved are:Mingrix - https://www.reddit.com/user/mingrix/Eduard G. - https://www.artstation.com/edwardthygeeJegsuuu - https://jegsuuu.artstation.com/The first-place author will get to select which artist they'd like to get their art done by, and the second-place author will get to choose from the remaining two!Submissions will be accepted from May 1st to May 31st. Submissions will be voted on by Raven's Patreon, and a winner will be decided before July 1st.You can submit here: https://forms.gle/UJm1irKok4jHi43p6Below is an explanation of some further rules:A case of content theft: this narrative is not rightfully on Amazon; if you spot it, report the violation.You can find the story submission form above, but the full rules are just below:Stories must be over 1,000 words long. Very long submissions are accepted, but be aware that they might tax the judging process. Ideally, 3,000 or so words should be your upper limit.Submissions can be made via Google Doc files. Please remember to set permissions so that everyone can read! I, and others, enjoyed leaving comments, criticism and chatting about a story as I read it, so please make this accessible if you wish.To submit a story: Fill out the form at the following link (same as above) : https://forms.gle/UJm1irKok4jHi43p6You are allowed to change, update, and refine your submission until the 25th May! Give us your best!The voting process this year will be limited to paying Patreons only to avoid any tampering or confusion. As with last year the votes will be split into three steps. Each one will cut the number of submissions in half.Submissions are open to anyone!On the subject of copyright: You own yours. This contest only gives us permission to distribute your work to participants and voters. I will be asking for permission to post the winners entries at the end to a wider audience!You need to have written the work yourself. No AI please. Though using AI for inspiration and notes is acceptable.No cover is required. Please submit the story in this format: STORY NAME - YOUR NAME.And finally, good luck!
