Interlewd OneI trailed kisses up Lucy’s leg while my hands fumbled with the zipper of my autoloader jacket. By the time I’d reached her thigh and her hands fell onto my head and started scratching into my scalp in a most delicious way, I was tearing the coat off. “Cat,” Lucy said. Her voice was breathy and husky and sending shivers down my spine. “Yeah?” I asked.“When’s the last time you took a shower?”“Uh.”“You smell like... rubber and smoke,” she added.“Yeah, I was a bit busy yesterday, with that kind of thing,” I admitted. I leaned down and gave myself a sniff and... yeah, I needed a shower. That splashed some cold water onto my libido. “You know, the showers here are really big,” Lucy said. “And I’m already dressed for a shower.” I looked up to see her casually slip out of her top. “Oh,” I said. I got up a little awkwardly, then extended my hands to Lucy to help her onto her feet. She was so light that I barely felt the strain of lifting her, and the little two-step she did to slip her panties off her feet made the blood rushing to my ears sound like a pulsing waterfall. “Let’s go?” she asked. I nodded, bent down, then scooped her up into a bridal carry while she squeaked. “Always wanted to do that,” I said.“Give a girl two arms and all of a sudden she’s all gallant,” she said before bending forwards to press her lips against mine. For a moment I forgot that we were supposed to be going anywhere.But Lucy reminded me by trailing a hand behind me and pinching my rear. “Get moving,” she said. “Your new arm is cold.” She wiggled her legs, both currently draped over my new forearm, for emphasis.The en-suite bathroom was huge, with two sinks (why?) and a shower that was bigger than the entire bathroom back at the orphanage, with glass walls and a tiled backdrop covered in little carved flowers. I set Lucy down only for her to push against me and seal her lips against mine. Her hands fumbled at my belt while mine slid down her back and pulled her closer. She pulled back for a moment, then gestured at my shoulders. “You’re wearing that into the shower?” she asked. I swallowed. “Oh, right. Uh.” I couldn’t recall how to remove the back-mounted guns, not through the haze in my mind. “Myalis, how do I get this off?” You only had to ask. The mounting running along my spine undid itself with faint little pops and it fell to the ground, tail and all. Lucy looked up to me. “Is, um, Myalis... watching?”If it reassures her, I have performed full-body scans of her already. There’s very little to hide.“That really doesn’t help, Myalis,” I muttered. “It’s okay,” Lucy said. “It’ll be my first threesome.”“I really don’t think it counts,” I said.Please inform Lucy that I’m very much not interested in procreating with a human.“What’s that even mean?” I asked. “What?”I feel like a third wheel here.“She’s being a pain,” I said. With my hands now a bit more free, I tossed my pants down and bent my legs up one by one to tear my socks off. “So, uh, I don’t think I can shut her out? Is that... a problem?”Unauthorized tale usage: if you spot this story on Amazon, report the violation.Lucy shrugged. “I guess not.”I let my shoulders slump a bit. I was worked up enough that Lucy calling it off would have been disappointing, to say the least. “So, how good is this shower?” I asked.She grabbed onto my hand and pulled me towards it. “Alone? It’s alright,” she said. “Shower, on. Hot.” The shower came on behind her, its door silently sliding open. “Fancy,” I said before ducking down for another kiss. We stumbled into a dozen jets of water so hot it almost hurt. My hair plastered down around me and I had to move it out of the way. That allowed me to take in Lucy in all her splendour, dark hair contrasting against her mocha skin, her eyelashes fluttering as water collected on them, her lips wet and twisted up in a genuinely happy smile. “Look at this,” she said. “Shower, soap!” The water turned into a stream of warm bubbles that fell down around us and turned the world white. I laughed. “Does it do shampoo too?” I asked. The amount in the water alone... that was such a waste. A decadent sort of luxury that I couldn’t imagine getting used to. “That’s for later,” Lucy said before she pressed herself against me, all wet and smooth and soft. “You need to scrub up first.” Her hands, just a bit cooler than the soapy water around us, pressed against my ribs, then slid around to my back while moving in little circles. I reciprocated, my flesh and blood hand touching her almost timidly at first before I recalled doing this kind of thing with her before. I reached up a little and gently grabbed at her breasts. “Cat! I’m not the dirty one here,” she admonished. Then because she liked down there, she pinched my rear again before pulling me so close that I had to let my hand drop. Her arms wrapped themselves around my chest and she tucked her head in against me. “I was afraid, you know?”The sudden turn left my mind spinning for traction. “Oh?” I asked.“You left and... I guess it doesn’t matter now.” Her lips pressed down on my clavicle, then my neck while she kept rubbing little soapy circles across my back. When her hand came around and squeezed my breast I had to hold back a little moan. “Am I clean enough yet?” I asked. “Hrm?” she asked, turning the purr into a question. “I don’t know.” I was about to ask something, but the question was lost when Lucy pushed me back and I encountered the cold tiles of the shower wall. I gasped at the sensation and pushed forwards only for Lucy to meet me with another kiss. Her hands wandered down, grabbing at my hips.“Lucy,” I said.“Cat?” she asked as she pulled back a bit. She was still close, very close. “I love you.”She grinned, big and happy and a bit silly. “I love you too,” she said.

Hi! It's me, RavensDagger.

So, because Royal Road moved onto Apple and Google's platforms, it doesn't allow lewd content anymore. for that reason... well, the lewd part of this interlewd was moved off site. But it's okay! You can read it, entirely for free, on my patreon. Link right here: https://www.patreon.com/posts/91219188
