“You can tell me that as well; but, I want to know what the most important ones have. Or could have. Or would want.” Ren said, and she laughed. He discretely took out the Vasalor Statue and activated it.

“You're going to miss leaving on Adventurer's business.”

“Don't worry about that right now.” Ren said and walked back over to her, then motioned to the table in the kitchen. “Have a seat and I'll make us something while you tell me everything I need to know about how to properly equip Mistresses.”

“You're going to cook.” Tatya said as she sat down facing the counter. “Just for me.”

“Anything you want.” Ren said and equipped an apron. “Is there something you would like to try?”

“You said that your ex-fiance was a great baker.”

“Like you wouldn't believe.” Ren said and smiled. “So, what would you like?”

“A cake.” Tatya said and smiled. “The most delicious cake you have ever made.”

“Do you think you can handle it?” Ren teased.

“If you can cook it, I can eat it.” Tatya said, and he laughed.

“One scrumptious cake coming right up.” Ren said and started to gather the ingredients together. “I'll warn you, though. You're going to make a mess eating it.”

“We'll see.” Tatya said with a big smile.

While Ren was mixing things, Tatya felt his deep love for Nathalia and it saddened her a little.

Ren stopped cooking and reached a hand out and took hers. “We still love each other; but, it's tempered by time and distance.” He said. “We aren't together, even now with nearly every obstruction between us removed.”

“But...”

“I hope to change that when my banishment from the dwarf lands is lifted.” Ren said and let her hand go. “Even after we get back together, I plan on living my life and enjoying it.”

“How?”

“When my Adventurer girlfriend lifted my self-imposed restriction on sleeping with other people, I quite quickly started sleeping with a lot of women. Well, even more women.” Ren admitted, and her eyebrows raised and he felt her emotions. “You're not turned off by that.”

“You can satisfy several women and have no problem with gaining concubines and possibly sleeping with them, too.” Tatya said. “I assume your confidence is extremely high, since I can feel that you don't see it as a daunting task at all.”

Ren chuckled. “The only daunting thing for me is time, and I can make as much of it as necessary.”

“Wait, what?”

“I hadn't planned on using it here in the kingdom of Pervaria; but, what happened when I transformed into the Dire Werewolf made its use necessary afterwards.” Ren pointed, and Tatya turned her head to see the Vasalor Statue that was positioned on the shelf. She caught her breath as she identified it.

“It's on right now.” Tatya said. “How long...”

“We can be in here for a day or so and only a second will pass for Yuwen and the others.”

“A... a second.” Tatya stared at the statue. “Only a second.”

“It's not set to its highest setting.” Ren said, and her head whipped back to look at him with wide eyes.

“What... what is...”

“We don't have Tiyaphi here to calm you down if I told you.” Ren said. “I'll just say that you won't believe it, and leave it at that.”

Tatya blinked her eyes for a moment and felt that he was adamant in his answer. “All right.”

“Does it matter what kind of flavor for the cake?” Ren asked. “Chocolate... vanilla... lemon...”

“Surprise me.” Tatya said.

“Oh, I will.” Ren said with a grin. “Now tell me what I need to know about concubines.”

Tatya nodded slightly and watched him cook, and she told him all about the proper outfits and adornments that both normal concubines and royal concubines had.
