Once, twice, and five times more he stabbed at the creature, not daring to stop until it stopped struggling entirely.

When the monster was finally dead, and the crowd were finally sated, an explosion of notifications graced the exhausted Markus’ eyes, mainly level ups, stat increases, and skill increases.

He slumped, eyes half-lidded. He didn’t attempt to read it all.

Amongst them was a cryptic offer, one he noticed even amongst the shower of text for how much it stood out:

[Devour the Core of the slain creature?]

Markus immediately selected ‘yes’. If he wished to grow strong, he couldn’t hesitate here.

His system erupted in fresh notifications as the core was absorbed into his body, but before he could read even a single word of it, a voice erupted from the stands.

This new voice interrupted the barking of a stunned announcer, one who’d been so adamant he’d die horribly just minutes before, and was now attempting to piece together what the fuck had happened for the sake of the just as confused audience.

This new voice didn’t care. It was louder. More impactful. It carried its weight and strength so naturally that it didn’t even sound magically amplified, that it carried a different kind of force to that of the announcer, who immediately stopped talking.

This was the voice of a god. Markus knew it before he even saw the entity looking down on him from up above, standing inside a fabulous booth that directly overlooked the arena’s chaos. Drathok had said something about gods before, and it’d confused him at the time, but now, seeing this entity stood above him, hearing it speak, he knew within his heart that gods were just as real as demons, and they looked fucking terrifying.

The god waited for silence, and then he spoke:

“You.” The god pointed at Markus. “You appear to have potential. Do you wish for a life beyond this?”

“Preposterous!” another voice sounded from beside the god, just as imposing. “I expressed interest in this one first! How dare you proposition him before me?!”

Before Markus could even react, the arena exploded into a fresh bout of noise, confusion, and chaos.

Maybe getting eaten would’ve been easier.
