“Simple, Trey. The Jerios Bazaar is an annual gathering of [Merchants] and other sellers of goods. It has more treasures to be bought and sold than most nations will ever possess. It is an important place to visit should you desire valuable artifacts.”
“Right. So why does the King of Destruction want something from there? And if he wants something—why not take it?”
“His Majesty is not a thief.”
Gazi looked reprovingly at Trey. She turned and nodded to a speck in the distance.
“Besides which, if my lord wanted to seize the treasures of the bazaar, he would have to send a very large army to take it. As it stands, we who have come with him are a capable escort of defending him, but little more.”
“You’re joking. Aren’t you a Named Adventurer? And isn’t Mars—”
Trey looked at Mars riding ahead of them, making ribald jokes with a [Mage] carrying a parasol. Gazi nodded.
“Mars is formidable. But the [Merchants] have many guards and artifacts to defend themselves with. She is only one person in the end. As for myself—I would not arouse the wrath of the entire bazaar at any cost. The sellers and buyers unite in the face of threat, and there are most likely a number of individuals there that could best me.”
“Really?”
A nod. Gazi gestured to her closed middle eye. Trey had never seen it open, but he had seen the pus and liquid that had trickled from it in the first few days, when Gazi had returned to the kingdom. He wondered if it could heal—Flos had talked about finding a healing potion strong enough to regrow Gazi’s eye.
“Without my main eye I would be considered a high Gold-rank adventurer, not Named. My lord as well.”
“Flos? But he’s—”
“Strong! But not that strong, Trey!”
Flos had overheard their conversation. He rode back, laughing as he gestured to the sword at his hip.
“I am strong, Trey, and an experienced warrior. I could best a Gold-rank adventurer with the strength of my arm alone, but that does not make me a Named Adventurer! To become a famous hero known across the world, I would have to be truly outstanding in some way. Gazi obtained her title thanks to her eye—she is virtually impossible to ambush with it, and she can cast spells with it. Her armor and blade is also of the highest quality.”
“But you’re the King of Destruction!”
Flos laughed again.
“What is a [King] without an army, Trey? The answer: he is still a [King], but again, without an army. And this king lacks both armor and sword. Had I my old arms, I might have been a Named Adventurer, indeed. But I have neither armor nor sword nor any of my enchanted rings or other equipment. That is one of the reasons I ride to Jerios—to find a sword capable of surviving more than a few blows in my hands.”
He gestured at the steel sword at his waist. Flos did have a habit of wrecking the swords he was given. His remarks made Mars turn her horse backwards, frowning.
“What? My King, what happened to your old blade?”
“I gave it away.”
Flos smiled as Mars gaped at him.
“That was a national treasure!”
“I know. But I had no need of it and so I gave it to a [Soldier] when I went into my slumber. I wonder where it is.”
“But your sword—what about your armor? Your helmet? Your lance?”
“Those too. I gave each piece away.”
“Your rings? The [Ring of Health], the artifact that you took from the treasury of Armil?”
“And that. All gone. I regret it, in hindsight.”
Flos laughed hugely as Mars spluttered. He waved a hand as if brushing away all his lost treasures.
“Mars, they served no purpose in my grief. Besides, it is more entertaining to rebuild my armory this way. I hated my old armor anyways. It was enchanted with a [Featherweight] spell, and I hated having to strap it down or have it bounce about every time I moved. I’m in mind for some heavier armor, enchanted, of course, but with a different focus…”
They rode on as Flos began talking animatedly about armor with Mars, arguing for certain enchantments, vouching for armor enchanted with magical shields, disputing the notion that swords enchanted with [Sharpness] were better than swords enchanted with [Weight], and so on.
Trey listened with half an ear. It sounded like a discussion between people playing a tabletop game or a video game, but it was all real and those discussing it were in deadly earnest. He watched as a collection of tents came into view.
The Jerios Bazaar was based around an oasis, and it was a sprawling, noisy affair this early in the morning. It was also magical. Trey could see [Shopkeepers] and [Traders] displaying artifacts, showing them off by conjuring water out of the air, or letting customers test their products. But he also saw signs of the visitors’ wealth—there were summoned servants flying through the air, djinni who appeared as sometimes humanoid, sometimes outlandish shapes that were half-corporeal, embodying the element of air, or fire, or some other aspect.
And beyond them? Trey saw someone sitting on an elephant, arguing with a man on a camel on where he could rest his mount. He saw a magic carpet flying through the air and a screaming man drop—
The entire caravan groaned, and Flos grimaced as Trey looked away.
“Ah. That’s why no one rides those things. Looks like the bazaar is just waking up.”
“You call that just waking up?”
Trey stared as a [Mage] arguing with a [Merchant] at a stall turned and vanished in a puff of smoke. The Jerios Bazaar was filled with amazing people, and surprisingly, very few of them looked inclined to cause trouble. Indeed, if there was thievery, it was only going on in an economic sense. Pickpockets and thieves were in grave danger in the bazaar. Trey saw a man turn as someone grabbed a pouch at his belt.
“Stop, thief!”
The cloaked figure ran with incredible speed through the crowd. He got fifteen paces before a man in a skullcap with a huge chest thick with hair stabbed him in the chest. The [Thief] ran backwards, screaming, and was enveloped in flame, shot with two arrows, and struck by a being made out of lightning. His corpse was quickly tossed out of the bazaar.
“Don’t cause trouble.”
Flos smiled as he approached the bazaar. Trey eyed him with trepidation because the King of Destruction was nothing but trouble. However, Flos touched an amulet on his chest and Gazi and Mars both twisted rings and they turned into different people as they approached the bazaar. Flos grinned down at Trey through a face ten years younger, with dark skin and black hair.
“Surprised? I wouldn’t walk into the bazaar with my face, Trey. Believe it or not, I can be cautious.”
“Won’t the [Mages] be able to tell you’re under an illusion?”
“Oh, most definitely. But anonymity is prized at the bazaar—many of those visiting are wearing a disguise of their own.”
Flos flicked his fingers dismissively. He eyed Gazi—the half-Gazer had turned into a woman with starry eyes and long, flowing locks of blue hair.
“Gazi, that illusion is ridiculous.”
“Blame Mars. She lent me the rings.”
“They’re for my use, not yours.”
Mars, a redhead dressed in impractically revealing armor, shot back. She gave Flos a charming smile.
“Shall we, Your Majesty?”
“Indeed. Let’s set up camp a ways away from the Bazaar. Hasil, Fellif—”
The leader of the Serpent Hunters, and the [Mage] who spoke for Parasol Stroll, rode towards him. Flos nodded to the bazaar.
“Don’t let more than eight of your people enter the bazaar at once. Keep the rest at camp—I will be going into the bazaar for the day.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Hasil, the dark-skinned Stitch-Man bowed, his hand on his poisoned scimitar. Fellif, the Human [Mage] with a sharp goatee nodded.
“Do you require an escort, Your Majesty?”
“No. Mars and Gazi will be enough. Trey and Teres will follow me naturally; I will browse quietly. Weapon stalls I think, although Gazi will look for a healing potion for her eye.”
“We’ll split up? How much coin do you have, Gazi?”
The half-Gazer reached for her belt pouch.
“Hm. Enough. I have several thousand gold pieces and enough to barter with. My lord?”
“I have ten thousand gold pieces in my bag of holding.”
“Ten—”
Teres choked as she stared at the small bag at Flos’ side. This one wasn’t the typical leather pouch that inconspicuously hung at Gazi’s waist—it was a black-and-ruby affair, taken from the Quarass’ treasury. As had the contents of the bag, Trey suspected.
“That’s not much to buy with, sire.”
Mars looked concerned at the small amount that Flos had brought. The King of Destruction smiled.
“I have a number of jewels I found as well. But I intend to spend lightly, Mars. Most of the gold must go to my kingdom and arming my soldiers. I simply wish for a decent quality sword. You recall I broke the last one?”
“Wasn’t it enchanted?”
“Poorly. Spells can break just as easily as steel, if you swing hard enough, Teres. We might see about getting you a blade as well—Mars, how much gold do you have?”
“More than you. I fought as a mercenary for two decades, my King. I could buy you armor as well—”
“Mm. A few artifacts might not go amiss. A shame djinn are so difficult to manage, or I’d seriously consider a flying army of them. Remember the Kingdom of Oleis? Fantastic at harassing the enemy. But now that I think of it, a flying carpet—”
They began heading into the bazaar. Flos had elected to dismount, so they all walked on foot, joining the crowds of people walking past the open tents that had been set up. Some were magical, so the tents were larger on the inside than the outside.
Trey gaped at the objects on display—there were magic scrolls, floating orbs, and then things that didn’t look so magical, like rich saffron being sold by the pound, sheaves of high-quality paper, food and ice being offered by some food merchants—it was a feast for the eyes, ears, and nose. Almost overwhelming, in fact. Trey looked at Gazi. She was following Flos as he looked around animatedly, talking loudly to Mars and Teres.
“Are you going to shop by yourself?”
Gazi turned. She had no eyebrows to raise, but Trey saw her skin move in the same way.
“Would you like to come with me?”
“I…wouldn’t mind.”
Gazi smiled. It wasn’t that Trey wouldn’t mind following the King of Destruction, it was just that he liked Gazi’s company.
“Very well. My king—”
She broke off as their group of five passed by a crowd. The man who had fallen off the carpet had survived his fall but had broken both his legs in multiple places. He was screaming for help as [Traders] clustered around him, offering him a number of objects.
“Sands, my legs! My legs are—healing potions, please!”
“Can I interest you in a bone regrowth potion, sir? The finest to be had for miles—”
“Pain numbing tonic? Just a whiff and you’ll be free of pain—”
“Would you like me to retrieve your carpet sir? My djinni can find it for a nominal fee—”
The poor man reached for his money pouch as Flos passed by. The King of Destruction turned his head as he looked around.
“Blacksmithing…I’m sure there’s an entire row of tents devoted to weapons. Ah! Well, we’ll find our way there eventually! Gaz—I mean, Gabrielle, are you going?”
The half-Gazer bowed slightly.
“I will return within the hour, sire. May I take Trey with me?”
“Oh? But I had hopes to enjoy—well, if you wish.”
Flos frowned slightly, looking almost hurt that Trey wouldn’t follow him around. It would be him asking Trey exactly what he found familiar from his world and his opinion on everything, Trey knew. Teres was giving Trey a look that told him to stay and join in her suffering. Trey gave her a guilty grin.
“I’m sorry, Your M—sire.”
“Far be it from me to distract you. Besides which, you might keep Gazi occupied. Don’t start a fight if someone insults my name, Gazi. And keep Trey safe!”
Flos sternly instructed Gazi before turning and staring at a stall filled with scrying orbs and mirrors and so on.
“Now here’s a shop that catches my interest! I could have watched the battle at Liscor far more easily, and without hurting my neck, with one of these. [Shopkeeper], how much is this orb?”
He held up a yellow sphere that shone with inner light. The man who hurried up to him with a welcoming smile had a turban on his head and silk clothing.
“Ah, a good eye sir! Eight thousand gold pieces.”
“For an orb this small?”
Flos looked dismayed. The man bowed his head slightly.
“Ah, it’s not just used for scrying, but records memory as well! Hence the price. Did I hear you say you observed the most entertaining affair in Liscor?”
“We did! However, my scrying orb was only so big—”
Flos indicated the marble-sized object. The [Shopkeeper] tsked.
“A true shame! For a distinguished personage such as yourself, you should have one at least the size of a man’s head! Allow me to walk you through my wares—did you know more broadcasts are occurring?”
“No! Truly?”
“Yes!”
The [Shopkeeper] smiled as he showed Flos a huge orb which a crowd of people were staring into. Trey and Gazi paused to stare at another image flashing across the orb.
“It seems Wistram’s ability to link the orbs of scrying is a service they are willing to offer to more than Drake cities. Look—this is a mock battle by the Titan himself in Baleros!”
A tiny figure was standing on a podium in the sphere’s image. As Trey watched, whoever was keeping the image steady shifted, and he saw a row of soldiers with wooden spears fending off a cavalry charge. The projection was being watched with fascination by the crowd.
“One of the Titan’s students set it up. There are [Kings] and [Lords] and countless others watching this at the moment. I believe Wistram intends to offer this service at a great price.”
“I see.”
Flos narrowed his eyes as the ‘Titan’ stood on a dais, shouting orders that were transmitted out to his army. Trey saw his hands clench for a second, and saw Mars and Gazi shift and look at their king.
It was Niers Astoragon who slew Queravia, the Gambler of Fates. Trey shivered as he saw Flos’ gaze darken for a moment. But then the King of Destruction was talking animatedly with the [Shopkeeper].
“So any orb can be turned into a…a recording device for such a projection? Is such grand magic possible?”
“If Wistram wills it…ah, but I believe a mage must transmit the image. These humble orbs only convey the image that Wistram sends. Speaking of which, may I interest you in…?”
“This way.”
Gazi murmured and tugged Trey’s arm. He followed her into the crowd, peering back over his shoulder and for a second regretting not staying with Flos. Then he turned back to Gazi. He had to focus on her back to avoid getting lost in the crowd!
“Where are we going?”
“Healing potions.”
