Flos roared the words, at last, and Trey sagged in relief. He trudged back to the campfire, already wrung-out by casting so many spells so early. He’d feel better after an hour and some rest; his internal reservoirs of mana would refill. It was important to keep pushing himself, though. According to Gazi, most [Mages] were lazy and didn’t use all the power their bodies were capable of. She intended to make Trey a [Mage] beyond all others. He feared she might succeed.
“What have we here? Yellats? Grain? Ah, what a familiar meal. It feels as if we’ve had it for the last four days in a row!”
The King of Destruction laughed, in good humor as he peered into the cooking pot. He was a huge man, muscle without fat, and he always seemed to be bursting with energy. He was also, apparently, over forty years old. He looked more in the prime of his life than Trey did. Flos took a seat on the arid ground and looked around.
“Has the rest of the camp had breakfast, Gazi?”
“They are eating now, my lord. We’ll be on our way within half an hour. We should reach the bazaar just after morning.”
“Good! I haven’t been to Jerios’ Bazaar in over two decades! I hope everything has changed.”
Flos rubbed his hands together. Trey, sitting exhausted next to his twin sister, looked up.
“Your Majesty?”
“Yes, Trey?”
The [King] looked up, pleased to be asked a question. He had striven to bridge the gap caused over the winter, and Trey’s willingness to ask him questions was a first step in mending their strained relationship. Trey hesitated.
“Are you—is it truly alright for you to leave your kingdom for so long, Your Majesty? Especially right now? You don’t have much of an escort—”
Trey broke off, aware that he was in earshot of the other people sitting at campfires further away. They did not intrude on the King’s personal campfire, but they still sat close enough to defend their ruler at a heartbeat’s notice.
Their escort was a mixture of [Warriors] and [Mages], all of them elite. The band of Stringfolk warrior-mercenaries known as the Serpent Hunters, and the small coven of [Mages] known as Parasol Stroll, had joined Flos’ kingdom during the winter. Both groups of his former vassals were incredibly dangerous, and they had been selected to follow Flos wherever he went.
Flos only smiled as he saw Trey looking at the robed men and women holding parasols over their heads and the silent men and women with stitch-marks around their arms and legs who wore dark green armor.
“My escort is more than enough to handle any [Brigands] or monsters by themselves, Trey. We could handle a small army with Mars and Gazi! Never fear that I’m undefended. Besides, we are travelling to Jerios, and the Bazaar does not tolerate armies marching upon it. As for your second question—this is an important trip, firstly, and secondly, my kingdom is well-attended in my absence.”
“But you just fought a war. Two wars—”
Trey had been there. He had ridden with Flos as the King of Destruction had fought off the first armies that had come seeking his destruction. After his grand defeat of the coalition army besieging his capital city at Reim, the King of Destruction had led his army north against two of the kingdoms that had caused him harm.
The Kingdom of Germina, ruled by the Quarass, and the Kingdom of Hellios. Both nations had sent an army to trap Flos by slaughtering his people as they fled towards the city, and very nearly succeeded. In return, Flos had marched his armies into their kingdoms and destroyed both. The memory made Trey shiver, and Flos saw it. The King of Destruction smiled gently, not quite looking at Trey.
“Orthenon is more suited to the job of managing the kingdom, Trey. He is quelling unrest in both nations and ensuring law and order. A [Steward] can do such things, oft times better than a [King] can. Besides which, my face would only spark more hatred in both nations at the moment.”
That was certainly true. Trey remembered the sight of Flos’ armies besieging the capital of Hellios, and fighting Germina’s armies on the field. It had been a slaughter. With the defeat of the coalition army, no other nation had been willing to come to the aid of either kingdom. And in a one-on-one battle against the King of Destruction, no small nation had a chance.
It had been so quick. Before the winter had begun to set in, Flos’ armies had marched north at speed. He had taken Orthenon, Mars, and Gazi, leaving Maresar and Venith to guard the kingdom in his absence. The conquest had taken less than two weeks. Hellios had surrendered unconditionally as the King of Destruction’s armies had marched across their borders and crushed their army. The Kingdom of Germina had not.
 
—-
 
Blood. It ran hot on the dry ground, quenching it. There was smoke in the air, though there was precious little to burn. The kingdom of Germina built its city out of mud, brick, and stone. Now Flos’ army flooded through the streets, forcing frightened civilians back, pursuing the stragglers of the Quarass’ army.
Trey rode ahead, following Flos as the King of Destruction charged his mount towards the squat palace that was home to Germina’s ruler, the Quarass. It was an ancient building, grand because it was so old. It had been decorated with reliefs showing previous rulers over thousands of years. Flos rode into the building, his armor bloodied. Gazi followed, a swift shadow by her king’s side.
“Trey, come on!”
Teres’ eyes were blazing. She had fought in the last battle, though she had mainly been protected as she rode with the King’s vanguard. Trey had stayed with the [Mages] and thus not had to fight. He felt sick. The battle had been a one-sided slaughter. The King of Destruction had rode through the lightly-armored ranks of Germina’s army, cutting the [Soldiers] down by the thousands with his army.
The twins pursued Flos and his personal vanguard. Trey could hear shouting behind them as the rest of the army spread out to seize the city. Orthenon was overseeing the surrender, and Mars was fighting the last of Germina’s forces that had refused to surrender.
It felt wrong. Too easy, almost. It was hard to call war unfair, but after seeing Mars fight, after seeing how helpless Germina’s army was against the high-level vassals Flos commanded…Trey thought Mars could have destroyed Germina’s army by herself if she had enough time. She’d slain the Quinfer, the Germina army’s champion, in a duel that had lasted only a minute. Then she’d charged into the ranks of the army, ignoring the soldiers as they tried to batter her with their weapons.
Unfair. But the Quarass had sent a [Mage] to kill Flos. She had slaughtered the civilians that Flos had rallied to fight the army that had ambushed him. Flos had given the Quarass one chance to surrender. She had refused, sending his messenger back without the hand that had delivered the message. Now Flos rode into her throne room, Trey and Teres following just in time to see the Quarass rise from her throne.
She was an old woman, older than Flos. For all that, she had an imposing presence, an aura of authority. It was powerful and made Trey halt. But if she was a candle, Flos was the sun itself. He dismounted from his horse as Gazi slew two of the soldiers who rushed towards him. The King of Destruction strode towards the Quarass, his bloody blade in hand.
The Quarass didn’t flinch. She raised a hand as Flos approached her.
“Wretched [King] of Destruction, I would speak with you—”
She never got a chance to finish. Flos strode up the dais and beheaded her. It was so quick that Trey was left gaping. Flos turned as the throne room erupted into screams. The Quarass’ court threw themselves at the soldiers following Flos, or fell to their knees. Flos raised his sword and bellowed.
“The Quarass is dead! Throw down your arms or join her! Her crimes are not Germina’s! Join her, loyal citizens, or surrender!”
His words had provoked a bloodbath in the throne room, but the streets went quiet. Soldiers and citizens of Germina had fallen to their knees, weeping, and Flos’ banner had flown over the city. Trey remained in the throne room, just staring. The Quarass’ head had been placed under a shroud but her headless corpse sat against her throne where it had collapsed. He thought she was still staring at Flos.
Staring at him.
 
—-
 
“Trey?”
Trey jerked and realized he’d been lost, staring into the fire. Teres was looking at him. He knew his feelings were written on his face and turned away. It didn’t help. Teres had been born only moments before he had, and the twins shared the closest thing to a psychic connection.
“Hey, it’s over.”
Hesitantly, Teres hugged Trey. He let her do it, although the contact was awkward. Everything was so much harder now. He hadn’t forgotten their fight, and she hadn’t either. But she was comforting.
The King of Destruction had slain the Quarass. Trey didn’t understand Chandrarian politics, but he understood that it was a massive event that had scared and outraged the other kingdoms. However, they were loath to march against Flos and risk the same. So they had secured their borders and threatened war should Flos so much as sneeze in their direction. The King of Destruction had been content to simply claim the lands of Hellios and Germina, for now, and thus no further wars had taken place yet.
At least Hellios’ ruler was still alive. Queen Calliope and her son, Prince Siyal, were captives in their own castle. Their deaths would have sparked a bloody uprising throughout their nation. Their lives prevented the same—Hellios’ army had laid down their arms almost to a man rather than keep fighting. A good thing too—Flos had made it clear that he would behead both royals in an instant had they attempted to stir an insurrection.
The image of Flos with bloody sword in hand was at odds with the man peering into the cooking pot and asking Gazi what seasoning she’d used. When he was not at war or enraged, Flos was full of life and energy, hard to anger and impossibly fascinated with the most minute details of his citizen’s lives. He seemed bigger and drew the attention in any room he entered. Mars had once joked that Flos could pass wind and still appear more kingly than half the [Kings] on the continent. Trey believed her.
Flos was one of the highest-leveled [Kings] in the world. Perhaps the highest—his true level was unknown, a closely guarded secret. But his Skills were incredibly powerful. They were all geared to war, making his kingdom prosperous in times of strife, and impoverished at all other times.
Hence their meal. Flos waved away a hovering Stitch-Woman who inquired whether he’d like a meat breakfast, or lizard’s eggs, or any of the other luxuries his people would be only too happy to provide him. He’d been asked the question every morning and his answer was always the same.
“I like simple food. I will be fine, Xeritha. Thank you for your concern.”
The Stitch-Woman withdrew. Trey, who sometimes thought his purpose in life was to ask the obvious questions to amuse Flos, raised his voice.
“What’s wrong with your breakfast, sire?”
It seemed that people really objected to Flos eating the stringy, spicy vegetables called Yellats. They were a staple of the Chandrarian diet, and tasted a bit like sweet potatoes if you made them spicy. Trey quite liked them.
Flos exhaled slowly as he peered into the simmering cook pot. He took out a bowl—a wood-and-silver carved piece that Trey was sure was not standard for camping, and filled it with a bit to taste. He replied as he gently smacked his lips together, savoring the hot stew.
“Yellats are considered a poor man’s food, Trey. They are filling and easy to grow on this continent—more so than any other plant in fact. This poor soil and the heat will kill potatoes in a drought, but Yellats can survive extended dry spells. They are ideal, in my opinion, and I have grown up enjoying them. But to other nations they are a symbol of poverty. Other monarchs would starve themselves before eating a meal such as this.”
Flos shrugged, not at all concerned by this fact. He began pouring the hot soup into bowls and passing them around the fire. The King of Destruction delighted in such things, apparently. To him, activities like serving others, or cooking, were a luxury to be enjoyed when he was travelling abroad. In his palace and with his subjects, Flos was waited on hand-and-foot.
“Come, let us eat and be off quickly! I wish to be at Jerios soon!”
He began to eat his food rapidly, and Trey quickly blew on his food and did the same. Life moved at Flos’ pace, which was to say, fast.
Within twenty minutes they’d struck camp. The Stringfolk loaded their bedrolls and supplies onto the pack horses and camels. Trey had been surprised that Chandrar had as many horses as camels—his image of the Middle East was limited at best. He was just as glad to mount the placid mare that Flos had picked out for him. He knew the camels were tetchy, even with experienced [Riders] or [Animal Handlers]. He’d seen one spit right in the [Packmaster]’s face one time.
“To Jerios!”
Flos shouted in good spirits, and his warriors cheered and set off. The King rode up and down the line of warriors and attendants, talking with them briefly, sometimes clapping a hand on a shoulder. His presence seemed to inspire regardless of whether he spoke for a few minutes or just a second. Trey watched the King of Destruction leave his subjects with glowing smiles.
“He is beloved. It isn’t just his Skills—a [King] who truly cares for each of his subjects is a rare sight in any land.”
Gazi rode next to Trey, at ease on her stallion. He glanced at her. The half-Gazer wore her brown scale armor like always. Her greatsword she carried around sheathed on her hip—but only when she rode. It was actually too long to carry that way when she was walking on the ground, so Gazi kept it on her back. When Trey asked if it was hard to draw the sword, Gazi had just laughed and told him that anyone trying to catch her off guard would have to be very fast indeed.
Now the half-Gazer stared at her King with one eye, her other three scanning the desert landscape for danger. It wasn’t all desert, of course—there were places with a lot of greenery and life. But the lands close to Reim had big arid spots due to the lack of water. Water was a resource prized as much as gold in Chandrar. Although gold was important, too. Which was why their trip to the Jerios Bazaar intrigued Trey so.
“So this bazaar. Why are we going again?”
Gazi half-turned in her saddle, although all of her eyes remained focused in other directions. Trey tried not to shudder as the half-Gazer smiled at him. It was her fake, small smile she always wore.
