Their tent was guarded by other members of their clan, warriors armed with weapons that were mere alloys of Alrama steel and not pure metal. Nevertheless, the weapons shone in the light such that they looked enchanted when they had yet to receive a [Mage]’s enhancements. They were still magical, though, so there was truth to the glimmer. It was all the advertisement their tent needed; in truth, Nawal’s clan would have had visitors queuing up to bid on their blades any other year, and her clan’s warriors would be needed to guard the tent. But not this year.
“I must make arrangements. I believe I can sell the ingots. For a better price than we might get if we had swords! Just hold here and—do not scowl at anyone who comes in!”
Allaif made extravagant promises as usual as he hurried out of the tent. Nawal glared at his back, suspecting that he was going to get drunk and cause trouble, as usual. How could the same seed of her father’s loins be so useless in him and the wrong gender in her? If he was alive, he might have died again just to see this sight. She turned away from the stacks of beautiful ingots and saw someone pushing into the tent’s flaps.
“Hello? Are you looking for our blades? We only have ingots for sale.”
Nawal called out, too tired to pretend to be happy to see the visitor. To her surprise, she saw a pale-skinned foreigner enter the tent. His skin was far too pale for the hot sun, and he jumped at being addressed.
“Ingots? Sorry I’m—a bit lost. You don’t sell swords? I’ll be going.”
He backed up towards the entrance, and Nawal’s pride flared.
“We used to sell swords. The finest blades you will ever see, my word on it! Don’t back away, you milk-skinned fool, you! Come and see true metal, if only once in your lifetime!”
Her words made the young man stop. He approached the table and gasped as he saw the Naq-Alrama steel.
“That’s…is that magic metal? Some kind of special metal?”
Proudly, despairingly, Nawal nodded.
“It is Naq-Alrama steel.”
She looked at the young man’s blank face and scowled.
“Naq-Alrama steel! Have you never heard of it?”
He hadn’t. She grumbled under her breath.
“Ignorant foreigners. Listen well. This steel is magic, forged of the sands, refined through heat and kept from any—any sunlight! Such is the nature of the metal that it can endure any pressure when quenched in sun-filled waters. It will hold enchantments with ease, and the blade itself cuts through magic like water. If there was ever a blade for one who seeks to do battle against [Mages], this is it! You could make a blade worthy of a [King] out of these ingots, which we will sell for handfuls of gold!”
She raised a fist and nearly struck the metal, but held back, knowing the blow would only freeze her skin to the ice-cold ingots. The young foreigner looked impressed, which warmed her heart slightly.
“That’s incredible. If you’re selling them so cheaply, why not have someone make a sword out of—”
“We used to do that, you idiot, you!”
She shouted at him, and the young man flinched. One of the [Caravan Guards], Hesseif, poked his head in, and Nawal gestured to him that it was fine. He gave her a nod and resumed watching for thieves. Nawal sighed as she looked at the young man.
“We had a [Blacksmith] of renown who shaped the blades. He created less than ten per year, but they earned enough for our clan to thrive! But he died—his heart gave out last year.”
“Oh, I’m sorry. But can’t you get someone else to—”
“No. The techniques are too hard to learn overnight! It takes years of practice, and of all whom my father taught, only I learned enough to shape the metal.”
The young woman laughed at the young man’s confusion.
“But if you can do it, can’t—”
“Who would use a blade forged by a woman?”
Who indeed? Women could be warriors, but they weren’t capable of making steel, that was a fact. It was a truth among Nawal’s people that women were impure—the metal grew to develop defects if they shaped it. Her father had broken with tradition because he needed a helper, but he had forbidden her from entering the forge whenever her blood flowed throughout the month, and of course Nawal was forbidden from shaping any blade herself.
She could make armor so long as no one knew who had done most of the forging and goods like nails and so on, but never blades. So her father had said while she hammered in the forge, and he claimed to have made each blade himself with her ‘help’. He had given her a chance, but he was dead, and no one else would touch a blade she made, however keen.
The young man didn’t seem to understand that. He was a foreigner and wrinkled his brow. Was he a [Mage]? He was certainly no warrior of the sands, accustomed to blood and glory.
“I don’t know about people in your tribe, but I know someone who probably won’t care if you forged the blade. He just wants the best blade in the world. And if your, uh, Naq-Aama—”
“Naq-Alrama.”
“Right. If that steel’s the best, he might buy it. Why don’t I ask him?”
Nawal stared at the young man, and a sprig of hope entered into her heart.
“You? You have a master?”
“What? No! I’m not a slave—”
“But he’s wealthy? A man of power? How much might he spend?”
“Uh—he said he has at least ten thousand gold pieces, but I think he might spend more—”
Ten thousand gold pieces. It wasn’t a lot, but the thought of actually selling a blade had Nawal’s mind racing. Why hadn’t she thought of it before? Sell to foreigners! Surely there were some who wouldn’t mind how a blade was made so long as it was sharp! Drakes, perhaps? There were rumors that there was a great dungeon filled with monsters on their continent. Perhaps if she—
“Sister! Wondrous news!”
A loud voice came from outside. Nawal’s heart sank. She hurried out of the tent, making sure that the layers of flaps prevented any sunlight from touching the inside of the tent, and came outside with the young man to see Allaif, standing in front of the tent and grinning broadly.
He was not alone. The rich [Merchant] from before and a man with a whip at his side were behind him, along with a group of armed thugs. Nawal eyed them with distaste, noting their cheap iron weapons and marking the man with a whip for what he was—a [Slaver]. Not of Roshal, clearly; he was probably just a local [Slave Trader] who dealt with the impoverished and desperate.
Nawal glared at her brother as he smiled broadly at her. He looked too happy, as if he was pulling one of his tricks on someone. They had always landed him and the people around him in deep trouble.
“Allaif, what is this? I have a buyer for our steel—”
“As do I, sister! All of it!”
“What?”
Nawal’s eyes widened, and she saw the other members of her clan start. Allaif had found a buyer? But—she looked back at the young foreigner. How much had he compromised to sell all of their ingots? Allaif rubbed his hands together, looking proud of himself.
“We will earn as much as we would for a commission on blades, sister! This generous [Merchant], Sir Redif, will buy all the ingots from us at such a price!”
“At what cost?”
There had to be a trick. Nawal eyed the [Slaver] with apprehension. Allaif spread his hands, looking wounded.
“Sister! I made the best deal I could, for the clan! I gave away only one thing to honored Redif.”
“Which was?”
“You.”
Allaif smiled at Nawal as the ground fell away under her. He spoke quickly as a rumble sprang up from the other clansmen.
“It is the best offer! The best! We will be paid richly, and you, dear sister, will be sent to show any [Blacksmiths] how to forge Naq-Alrama metal! You will be able to continue helping around the forge—and find a husband if honored Redif is generous. It is for the clan, sister.”
Nawal just stared. Slavers? Her father had banned slaves from the clan two decades ago, before she had been born. Metal forged with the weight of shackles was as impure as that of metal made with dishonest deeds or blood, or so he had said. She stared at her brother, her brother.
“You cannot sell me, Allaif.”
A flash passed across Allaif’s eyes, one of his dark moods nearly escaping.
“I can and will. I am our representative, and I speak for our family and clan with our father’s death.”
“You are not worthy of licking his boots, you spineless worm!”
“How dare you!”
He raised his hand, and Nawal gripped her knife’s handle, making Allaif hesitate. The [Merchant] interrupted impatiently.
“Enough! This isn’t a debate. I have papers proving my ownership of both the Naq-Alrama metal and Nawalishifra Tannousin.”
He brandished a sealed parchment, signed in blood. It was a binding contract. Nawal looked at it and felt her stomach drop. He’d actually signed it. Without asking, without thought. Allaif smiled victoriously as the other Tannousin clansmen muttered curses.
“Sister, is it really too much to ask? You will be well treated, privileged even! Our father was mad for letting you hold a hammer, but I have given you the same honor. Do not make this harder than you have to.”
“No struggles, girl. I’ve broken more new slaves than I care to remember.”
The [Slaver] grinned as he unslung his whip and his thugs drew their weapons. Nawal walked slowly over to Allaif. He smiled at her.
“Ah, sister. Do you see reason?”
“Goodbye, brother.”
Nawal stared into her brother’s eyes. He tried to look remorseful, but just looked insincere. He bent to embrace her, and she drew the dagger. And plunged it into his chest.
Allaif gasped and his eyes went wide. There was a shout from behind him, but too late. Nawal’s voice was low as she felt blood rush over her blade.
“I renounce you, I renounce you, I renounce you.”
She whispered it into Allaif’s ears as he choked and then twisted the dagger. He gasped and clutched at her shoulder. Then he fell backwards.
The [Merchants] and [Slave Trader] stared at Allaif in shock and then backed up as Nawal retrieved her dagger from her brother’s body.
“There will be no sale. And I am no slave. Honored buyers—I regret to tell you my brother erred in selling me and my clan’s wealth.”
Nawal smiled very politely at the pale-faced [Merchant]. The man gaped at her and then colored with outrage.
“Insolent woman! You may have killed Allaif, but the contract—”
He flinched as Nawal swung her dagger and spattered the contract and the [Merchant] with blood. She cleaned her dagger with a handkerchief as she spoke calmly.
“I have renounced him three times. He is dead to my clan and I, and no longer of our blood. Any contract he signs is dust.”
Her clansmen appeared behind her, and Nawal was relieved to feel Hesseif’s presence at her back. The [Slaver] eyed her and cracked his whip.
“Is that so? Well, I have a contract, and I say we enforce it right now. There’s always room in my train for more slaves, and breaking a contract is a crime!”
He raised his whip to strike at Nawal and there was a flash of light. Nawal blinked as the young foreigner blinded the [Slaver] and his thugs, making them hesitate. She felt Hesseif shift and readied herself for a bloody battle, but in the moment the light had flashed someone had appeared next to the [Slaver].
“I wouldn’t start a fight.”
A tall woman with blue hair and starry eyes, a vision of perfection, stood next to the [Merchant] and the [Slaver]. She wore brown scale armor made of a metal that Nawal had never seen before and held a greatsword in one hand. The woman smiled slightly as she held the greatsword underneath the slaver’s throat. He gulped and cut himself.
“I am a [Slaver]—”
“With a bad contract. You heard her.”
The woman nodded at Nawal. The [Merchant], pale-faced, backed up a step.
“Harming a [Merchant] in the bazaar—”
“Who said anything about harming? I’m simply defending a [Shopkeeper] from being illegally made into a slave. If you want to try and enforce your contract, I’ll defend her. And myself. Starting with your head.”
Her voice was loud enough for the other people watching to hear. Nawal admired her poise. This foreigner woman had the respect of the bazaar and could slice apart the [Slaver] and his thugs without repercussion if they called her bluff. And the [Merchant] knew it. He backed up, and the [Slaver], realizing the same, fled. The thugs he’d hired melted away as the young man turned.
“Gaz—”
She slapped a hand over his mouth, and he staggered. She stared at him and his eyes widened.
“Gabrielle! I thought you’d lost me!”
“I didn’t lose you. You wandered off, and I was waiting for you to find me. But you found something interesting, so I decided to wait.”
Gabrielle, the mysterious woman, turned to Nawal. She had a slight smile on her face.
“So you’re a Tannousin [Blacksmith]? You, a woman?”
She knew about Clan Tannousin! Nawal straightened, pride in her voice.
“I am. Though I may be a woman, I am the only successor to my father’s craft, master that he was. I can forge true blades of Naq-Alrama steel, woman-touched though they may be!”
Her announcement drew a murmur from the crowd, a disapproving one, but Nawal only had eyes for Gabrielle and the young man. They looked at each other, and the young foreigner spoke.
“I think our, uh, master won’t mind that Gaz—Gabrielle. What do you think?”
“I think he would accept such a blade gladly, no matter what hands touched it.”
Gabrielle looked thoughtfully at Nawal.
“Do you truly claim to have your father’s skill?”
Nawal drew herself up, her eyes flashing. She raised her voice as she stood with her brother’s dead body lying at her feet. She would grieve for who he was, and who he had been, later. But this was pride and steel—it was the pride of her clan.
“Lead me to your master, foreign warrior! Pay my cost and I will forge your master a blade sharper and finer than any he has laid eyes on in his life! My oath on it! I swear it on the body of the man-who-was-my-brother, cursed be his name!”
She pointed at her brother with her dagger, and the young man flinched. But Gabrielle just smiled wider.
“Good. In that case, come with me.”
She turned and began to stride through the bazaar. That was a bit too sudden even for Nawal. She hesitated as the young man turned.
“Um, this way. Sorry, I never got your name—”
“I am Nawalishifra Tannousin, a [Blacksmith]. Who are you?”
She stared at the young man, all pale skin and awkwardness. But he had surprised the [Slaver] with magic. And he clearly knew this Gabrielle. Who was his master? The young man smiled at her, and Nawal drew her veil further over her face in embarrassment.
“Me? I’m Trey.”
 
—-
 
