Gazi raised her voice to be heard. She led Trey through the crowd. The young man looked around from stall to stall. So many things on display at once! He thought he saw the row of tents Flos had mentioned, where armor and blades were being sold. And…were there actual [Blacksmiths] making weapons at this moment? He heard a clang, looked to ask Gazi about it, and realized he’d lost her.
 
—-
 
“I’m telling you, this isn’t a good blade. Show me a better one.”
A few minutes later, Flos was arguing with a [Merchant] over a blade. Teres and Mars found him pointing at a shimmering saber that sparked with lightning. The disguised [King] looked disgusted as he held the saber up. The [Merchant] pursed her lips.
“What is wrong with that blade? You picky Humans! This one is enchanted to shock your enemies! Simply but tap your opponent, and they won’t be moving any time soon!”
She was a Stitch-Woman. Flos shook his head.
“It’s fragile. The enchantment’s no good and the blade’s—what, pure silver? An enchantment on that won’t last.”
“Oh? And you’re an expert on blades?”
The [Merchant] was either inexperienced or had misjudged Flos entirely. He smiled.
“Give me a warhammer. Ma—Maven?”
Mars plucked a warhammer off the racks and tossed it to Flos. He set the saber back down and raised the warhammer. The [Merchant] raised her hands and screeched.
“What are you doing?”
“Any good sword can take a blow like that! Any enchanted blade should be able to take an unenchanted maul’s strike, or the enchantment is no good!”
Flos raised his voice. He’d attracted a crowd, which listened to him speak about blades. He raised the faulty saber, pointing to the silvery metal.
“A blade is only as good as its [Blacksmith], regardless of the magic put on it! If you bought this blade for anything more than four hundred gold coins, you lost your deal, Miss Merchant! This is a half-decent enchantment, but the blade will shatter far, far too quickly! I’d rather have an unenchanted blade of quality metal than an enchanted blade that will break after hitting a shield!”
He tossed the saber back on the rack as the [Merchant] went pale. Several people in the crowd nodded appreciatively, agreeing with Flos’ assessment. The King smiled and turned to Mars and Teres who’d just returned from shopping elsewhere.
“Any good shops?”
“Some decent swords among the trash. I’ll show you.”
Mars led Flos and Teres through the crowd, pointing out the good picks she’d spotted. Teres watched attentively. She had her own sword that Orthenon had given her, but the magical swords fascinated her. Flos just shook his head time after time, though. He stopped at a well-stocked tent and spoke to the [Merchant] waiting on his customers.
“Have you no enchanted swords worthy of a Gold-rank adventurer or better?”
“Ah, sir, I have this new blade that is enchanted with [Petrification]—”
“But the steel’s poor!”
Mars and Flos objected almost at the same time. Teres stared at the blade, unable to tell the difference. Flos looked dismayed.
“I could pay to have a better enchantment put on the blade here, or have it done later! What about your unenchanted blades? Show me your best—do you have any Dwarven-made blades?”
The sweating [Merchant] hurried into the back, and his slaves came out with an assortment of blades. He was on trial as the crowd that followed Flos had gathered again. The [King] was simply too loud and too amusing to ignore, and his opinions solid. Flos inspected one blade and grunted.
“Better, but this is still only adequate for an enchantment. Do you truly have no masterworks? Something made by a Level 40 [Blacksmith] or better?”
“Honored guest, these are Dwarf-forged blades.”
“I have no doubt. But I’m talking about real Dwarven craftsmanship. Not just their mass-produced arms.”
Flos turned away when he realized the [Merchant] had no idea what he was talking about. He walked through the bazaar, talking to Mars and Teres.
“Perhaps I thought too highly of Jerios’ markets. Then again, truly masterwork blades would be rare…I wonder if it wouldn’t be better to have a blade forged myself and enchanted here?”
“We can look among the [Blacksmiths], but I don’t know their levels, or the metals they work with, sire. I saw one tent claiming to work with pure mithril. A blade like that would hold an enchantment, but pure mithril? I suspect it’s a trick.”
Mars made a face. Teres stared at the blades Flos had so dismissively discarded.
“What did you mean, ‘real’ Dwarven craftsmanship, Flans? Do you mean all that’s fake?”
“Not at all.”
Flos grinned at Teres, enjoying his fake name. He pointed at another row of Dwarf-quality blades on display.
“Dwarven-made weapons vary in quality, but the Dwarves are good [Blacksmiths], and their steel is pure. It’s an indication of quality, but most of the blades are simply better than regular. You might as well turn to a [Blacksmith] on your continent with a higher level for a good sword. However…I know there are better arms made in their mountain home, however seldom.”
“Really?”
Both Mars and Teres stared at Flos in surprise. He nodded and bought a few kebabs for them to eat while he explained. Flos tore the hot meat off a skewer as he spoke.
“Back when my kingdom first expanded, before I had met you, Mars, I decided to invest in my army. I had obtained a fortune from the kingdoms I had destroyed and so I ordered a massive shipment of Dwarven arms from Terandria. We sent a fortune to the Dwarves, in exchange for arms for over a thousand soldiers as well as personal armor and a blade for Gazi.”
“And they delivered?”
“No! That was the curious part of it. The Dwarves failed to provide a tenth of the arms I paid for—they had overcommitted and suffered a disaster in their forges, or so I was given to understand. They were unable to repay me, either—so they sent me a set of armor and blade for Gazi instead.”
“One blade and suit of armor?”
“The very one she wears. And if it seems a poor repayment, Mars, it was not. I don’t know what [Blacksmith] made the armor, but it was worth far more than I paid—than I could have paid at the time, I believe. You know Gazi’s scale armor, Teres, and her blade? Neither one is enchanted.”
“What?”
Mars raised her voice, attracting attention. She lowered it and hissed at Flos.
“It has to be! That armor’s been through more wars than—I’ve had to replace my armor three times, and I buy the best-quality armor money can afford!”
“Nevertheless. It was made by the truest of experts. I’ve never inquired as to the make of the armor as I doubt any of my [Blacksmiths] could hope to replicate it. It’s a masterwork, Mars. In the mountains, there are some Dwarves who truly know metal.”
“Incredible. And you hope to find a blade like that here? I think I would have noticed such a weapon.”
“Indeed, it would be a long shot. And I am more interested in that scrying orb in truth. What that [Merchant] said about anyone broadcasting their image…”
Flos looked back in the direction of the scrying orbs, then turned to Teres.
“You said it’s familiar to something from your world, Teres. What was it you mentioned?”
“Television.”
“Ah, of course! You did tell me about it, but I had imagined something entirely different. And this is similar?”
“Well…”
Teres hesitantly explained as Flos listened with growing interest. She didn’t like the look in his eyes when she talked about news appearing all over the world. Teres cursed Trey and hoped he was having fun wherever he was. She was going to kick his butt for leaving her behind when she met up with him again.
 
—-
 
Nawalishifra Tannousin tossed her head and grabbed the hilt of her dagger. She was nearly out of patience with the man in front of her. She would have drawn her blade and stabbed the man twice if she could have gotten away with it. But doing so would scare away other customers and she and her people needed this sale. So she kept her voice pleasant, though her every instinct railed against her acting like a common [Merchant].
“It is simple, you oaf, you! Look, this is Naq-Alrama steel! Pure ingots, forged in the heat of my people’s forges, may the dunes take me if I lie! It is not some metal you find lying about on the streets or melted out of cheap steel! It is magic and enchantable and I am selling it to you!”
She glared at the dark-skinned [Trader] who was blinking hard in obvious confusion. Though he looked accustomed to the sun, Nawalishifra was sure he was a city-dweller, not a true son or daughter of the sands. If he was, he would not ask so many foolish questions.
Her skin was far darker than his, and Nawalishifra had to shift her veil not to inhale it as she talked. She knew she was not what he had expected—there were few women in her clan who could swing a hammer, and she was the only [Blacksmith] in her clan worthy of the class. That was the problem, sadly.
“I don’t understand. This metal’s special? But it’s an ingot. Why haven’t you made it into a sword? It’s useless as it is.”
Nawalishifra turned red and gripped the hilt of her dagger. She didn’t know what would come first, dagger or sharp words, but another young man pushed forwards. He had too wide a smile and was too unctuous as he bowed to the man in front of him. She wouldn’t have minded it, save for the fact that he was her brother, Allaif. He stepped in front of Nawalishifra as she glared at him.
“Sir, please excuse my sister, ill-tempered though she is from standing out in the sun! She does speak a truth however. The metal is yet to be smithed, but surely an outstanding buyer such as yourself can see the merits of buying the steel as it is! It is ready to be shaped into shield or sword or mace or arrowhead! And the metal is magic, as my unmarried-and-ill-mannered sister says.”
His ill-mannered sister glared and folded her arms. They were standing in the shade, in near darkness, in fact! The tent’s flaps had been veiled to let as little light in as possible—too much might spoil the quality of the ingots before they could be smithed. Her ears burned with shame—because Allaif’s frantic explanations covered up the truth that the buyer had gotten too near to.
The ingots were less useful, for all they were pure Naq-Alrama metal. It would be far more proper to sell a blade, and Nawalishifra was sure it would be ten times as valuable as the next cheap artifact she’d passed on display in the bazaar. But her clan couldn’t forge and sell such a blade—not anymore. Only sell the ingots.
Allaif’s talking had gotten the interest of some other buyers. They clustered around the metal. One, a rich [Merchant] dressed all in silks, sniffed as he eyed the metal. He knew the worth of Naq-Alrama metal, Nawalishifra was sure. But he was skeptical.
“I can see the value of forging a blade, but can any [Blacksmith] manage such a feat? I am told the metal is tricky beyond belief to manage.”
The question threw Allaif, but it was Nawalishifra who interrupted. She gave the men her best smile and felt like her teeth were falling off as she gestured to the ingots.
“Not so, good sirs! The metal is tricky and requires smithing only under the moonlight until quenching, but the trick of shaping the metal is easy indeed. Why not let my humble self show you?”
She led the men outside and, cursing at having to waste the precious metal, took one of the wasted ingots that had been damaged by sunlight on the journey here. Nawal hammered the metal rapidly in the shade, pointing out how to hammer the metal just so to make it move correctly.
“It is all about temperature, honored guests. And the striking must be precise. Six strikes here, see? One, two, three—and then another two here! Thus the metal moves. And care must be taken not to allow it to reduce in heat below a threshold—the forge must be hot, and no magic fire can be used at any time. Fold the metal and then apply the powder and oil mixture before quenching the blade in light-bathed waters—”
She went down the list of details and specifications, noting the dismay on the faces of her customers. Allaif was grimacing at her to stop, but Nawal had memorized this routine by heart, and she knew misleading a customer would ruin the metal and throw her clan’s name into the wastes. If selling the ingots as they were wouldn’t do so already, that was.
“So many steps!”
The knowledgeable buyer shook his head. Allaif hurried over to him, fawning in a disgusting manner.
“We can repeat and write down the instructions to your pleasing, good sir. The metal is ready to be forged, and any high-level [Blacksmith] can make a blade beyond all others out of it!”
Nawal glared at her brother. Write down the secrets? They were already compromising all of their clan’s crafts by giving away the ingots! But they had no choice. She would have rather torn off her veil and walked the bazaar naked, but their clan depended on the sales they earned from the bazaar. If they had to sell secrets to survive this year, so be it.
“I will think about it. Perhaps I will return on the morrow again.”
That was all they got from the well-informed buyer. The rest left without so much as that vague promise. Allaif walked back to Nawal, and she glared at him.
“I think he might buy if we lower the price more, sister.”
“What? We will barely have enough with which to eat for what we are selling already! And what was that disgusting display, you dog, you?”
Nawal snapped at her brother. He glared at her.
“Do not blame me for making the best of a bad situation! We must sell the ingots, and it is more profitable to sell them, and earn goodwill with a [Merchant] or other faction, than to hold onto them and starve with them sitting uselessly in our homes.”
“Useless? A blade forged of pure Naq-Alrama steel is—”
Nawal choked on her words. Her brother shook his head slowly and pityingly.
“Useless since no one can forge the metal in our clan but you, dearest sister. And what manner of fool or coward would use a blade forged by a woman?”
That was true. Nawal knew that no self-respecting warrior in the Bazaar would do so. She hung her head as Allaif turned away. Her clan lived closest to the desert and made their fortune with their signature steel. However, calamity had struck them not half a year ago, and thus the metal they had meticulously refined over the course of the year was useless. She turned away, despairing, as Allaif looked around.
