I fly forward over the jungle with no specific goals in mind...

If I were to go all out, I could fly around this arena in a matter of seconds and gain enough points to pass to the main event, so there is really no rush.

My curiosity is more so focused on the white pillars of light and geo points on my mini map pinpointing the nearest [Duel], [Shop], [Gift], and [Challenge] areas.

Even further in the distance, I watch one of the pillars disappear, and another form out of the corner of my eye, making this the center of my focus even further.

I decide to head toward the closest pillar labeled [Duel], letting a burst of mana and ether out from my steps as I fly through the air, leaving a small trail of fire to keep up a minor façade.

My bright footsteps are quickly noticed, and I run into many creatures that climb up from the trees, or change their flight paths after winning other battles in the air.

Though, I don't pay them much mind.

If I'm faster than them, I just continue forward, but if they're too aggressive, or clearly angry or unintelligent beasts, I throw a fireball just like I did at the Rhino Monster their way, and one-shot kill half a dozen 2nd Class Lords over the next few minutes.

Many notifications ring in my head as I fly through the air, and I make sure to circle back and fly through the clouds of mana and ether as they disappear, allowing Ren to absorb the extra energy.

A final notification goes off as I touch down in a rocky grassland region with very little trees, and a few fast-flowing streams of water in the distance.

[Kill Confirmed!][Points Awarded: 3][Total Points: 26]

Almost every one of the kills on the way over already had points stacked themselves. At this rate, there will be tons of double-digit point holders flying around...

This also means tens of thousands of Lords have already been eliminated.

Though, I don't think on it too much, I just stare at the white glowing pillar in the distance with an earth golem and a Lizardman approaching it on either side.

They're both 2nd Class Lords, and have 4 and 6 points respectively.

Bright ether commands light up over both of them, and the pillar fades away, creating a small dome about 2 kilometers wide, with a bright green 8 over its top.

Inside the dome, both Lords only have a 1 over their heads, and they don't waste any time in starting their battle.

I curiously watch for a few seconds, floating above in the sky about 5 kilometers away, and watch the earth golem overpower the Lizardman using a heavy hammer.

Not too long later, the Lizardman is defeated, and disappears in a white mist, but when the dome around them fades, the Lizardman returns. He has a 1 over his head still, while the golem holds 9 points.

More information about the dueling pillars comes up in my mind, as I've viewed it at close enough range, and I understand now that both parties can put whatever they wish up for a gamble, but if they lose, they are not eliminated entirely from the event.

"Well that's a bit boring..." I murmur to myself, flying forward and letting a massive ball of fire out from my palm to release it like a bomb on the ground.

Two loud notifications ring in my mind, bringing me up to 36 points while I touch down on the ground where the translucent light pillar once stood.

All of the energy in the air twirls around and falls into Ren's body as I look toward the next biome, and lift off the ground again.

The next region is mostly large bodies of water, with small spots of sand, and rocky islands.

There aren't any Lords in this biome either, so when I land down on a small sandy island in front of the next white pillar labeled [Shop], I have it all to myself to examine.

Notifications pop up, giving options of instant avatar upgrades, soul weapon purchases, and even the ability to change this pillar into a [Duel], [Gift], or [Challenge] checkpoint.

Though, the cheapest soul weapon is 50 points, and the avatar upgrade's cheapest option is 100. Changing this pillar type isn't worth the 250 points either, when there are more off in the distance right in my vision.

'This event is probably more exciting for those that a simple upgrade or soul weapon would make a huge difference in fights...' I think to myself, keeping a telepathy link active with Ren in case they wake up.

After that duel checkpoint, Ren's legs grip around my waist has gotten a bit tighter, but there is still no reply or signs of consciousness.

As I fly through the air again off toward the nearest [Gift] pillar, I wonder to myself if the avatar upgrades here would be permanent even after the event. For a normal Lord, the opportunity here is great, even if they don't win or move on to the main event.

The calm blue lakes of water begin to dry up as I fly further, and even become overpowered by the heat of the next biome. Lava pools and dark black rocks fill my view, sending white steam up into the air where the last remnants of this lake biome last.

Though, the heat doesn't bother me, I just head toward the white pillar on the horizon.

There aren't many Lords this far into the dome. It's so spread out now that I didn't see a single one in the last biome, yet now as I approach this [Gift] pillar, I sense three streaks of light from other surrounding biomes heading in the same direction. A serpent, a bird, and a humanoid monster with six eyes and grey fur, all 1st Class Beasts, are what I see.

On top of that, the clash of auras hits my senses right where I'm headed. There is already a 1st Class fiery Salamander, and a 1st Class creature made of shimmering silver metal, with no face, battling in front of the pillar in the volcanic region.

I don't bother trying to interact with any of them, and fly straight into the white pillar to examine its commands.

[Gift Checkpoint!][You must stay inside for 10s to accept a gift!]

[Start Timer!][i]

I hit the start button, and read the additional information beside it, stating that if any other lord enters the pillar, and selects the start timer themselves, the countdown is reset.

In order to claim whatever gift is inside, I need to keep out any Lords that wish to interfere for ten whole seconds.

[10...][9...]

A timer in my head begins counting down, but both the Salamander and Metal Monster stop fighting, and look my way.

[8...][7...]

Then my mental countdown stops as both of them light up in a flaming greater form, and a white glow respectively, and blast attacks my way, diving into the white pillar and disrupting its countdown.

While I can easily tank the hit of a pillar of flames, or the two white curved crescents of energy from the metal monster coming my way, I'd rather not test Ren's luck.

I let mana burst from my feet again, and twist out of the way, faster than either monster can see.

Two massive fireballs at the same strength I've been using in the past hit my targets, and I watch the metal monster and overgrown fiery Salamander fall to the biome floor.

The metal creature is caught in an explosion against black rock, and the Salamander falls into a pool of fire, creating two massive blast waves, and returning the countdown from 10 in my head.

Though, surprisingly, I don't hear the point system update, and grin when I see both of these beasts emerge from the flames of my attack.

They each have horrible burning scars, limbs missing, and let out horrific roars; but I'm impressed.

I may not be borrowing any stats, have an unconscious elf on my back, and have three celestial-grade seals holding my true power back; but I still thought I had enough power in the blast to kill anything in the green zone of the Upper Realm other than Nobles.

"Elite 1st Class Beasts... these are like nothing I faced in the wilderness..." I whisper with a grin, "I guess I'll have to try a little harder."

I raise my hands above my head, and create 8 fireballs just as before, and send them flying down at the two beasts that fly up my way.

The ground below me is completely annihilated by the destruction I throw down on it, incinerating all of the black rock structure that this white pillar was beaming down on, and letting the surrounding pools of lava flow in as these two beasts are torn apart and blown to bits.

[Kill Confirmed!][Points Awarded: 17][Total Points: 53]

[Kill Confirmed!][Points Awarded: 22][Total Points: 75]

My eyes gleam with excitement as the countdown timer in my mind falls below [5...], but I'm simultaneously surrounded by the new 1st Class beasts I sensed racing me to this pillar.

I let out a laugh, as it felt quite good to throw out those last balls of fire.

It's been a while since I got to throw around attacks with even a hint of my true power, and the grin on my face grows as I feel the auras of this snake, white bird, and 6-eyed monster erupt into their greater forms with even greater strength than the Lords I killed down below me.

I waste no time in summoning dozens of balls of fire all around me, and even activate light magic to erupt outward, making the air all around me for a few kilometers full of a strange aura that distorts perception.

When I throw the fireballs in the directions of my attackers, it takes far more mental strength for them to see what direction they're coming from, and not second guess that it's all an illusion.

The black serpent to my right glows with a yellow gleam in its eyes, erupting outward to a length over 300 meters long in its greater form.

Its eyes are the sharpest of all, and I watch it slither through almost all of my attacks.

Though, I can't help but smile as the back of its tail is hit by a large burst in the end, blowing a chunk of its flesh and scales off into the air. It does manage to let out an attack of its own through the chaos, sending a black and yellow ball of energy from its mouth, smelling of sour poison.

The white feathered bird in front of me has exceptional eyes as well, but mostly uses its 60-meter wide greater air magic form to twist and turn through the fireballs I throw at it.

None make any direct hits, only the residue of flames tinges some of the feathers on its wings, but it is too occupied to manage sending any attacks back my way.

The 6-eyed beast to my right grows in size, pushing bulging muscles through its grey fur. It is some kind of body transformation, rather than an energy form.

It charges straight my way, holding two massive axes, slicing the fireballs I send at it in half, and tanking a few direct hits when they prematurely explode.

Massive burns, and blotches of its fur are singed off, but its speed doesn't slow. This monster has extremely high strength and defenses.

They all plunge into my light magic array without hesitating one bit... but I fly upward to narrowly dodge the snake's energy ball, and charge up two dozen more fiery attacks of my own.

At this range, my accuracy is greater, and the strength of my illusions is more potent as well.

I hit the serpent two times, higher up its greater form, closer to its head; sending more flesh and scales flying.

One of my fireballs even hits the white bird's wing, burning away feathers and revealing frail bone.

For the 6-eyed beast, I concentrate every attack flying its way in a single spot—its right leg—and create illusions to make it believe I'm aiming for its head.

Massive explosions light up the sky, and create clouds of mana and ether residue that can be seen from many biomes away.

It even clouds my own vision slightly...

I charge up another two dozen balls of fire, as this is about my limit without activating my own buffs or other skills, or pulling any borrowed stats.

At this rate, it's going to take me 3 or 4 more exchanges to take them all out. Both myself and these monsters know it's true, yet their goal is to break into the pillar to disrupt the commands from triggering for me.

I don't have to kill them on the spot, all I have to do is hold them off for another 2 seconds...

I grin, releasing another relentless wave of fire, shaking the skies, and jumping upward even more to dodge attacks that come back from not only the snake, but wind crescents from the bird and two dark grey energy waves from the beast.

The snake has to change its direct course, as my balls of fire would have hit its skull this time, and most likely taken out an eye.

The bird dives downward, to avoid losing its ability to fly, as I attack its injured wing ruthlessly with no remorse.

The grey beast has exposed bone on its right leg, and I attack there once again. Although it can handle this without it being fatal, it has to stop in place to block with both blades.

I let out another loud laugh while summoning another two dozen red burning suns above my head and throwing them forward, watching the three 1st Class Beasts stop less than 500 meters in front of the white pillar.

At the same time, as they block these massive bursts of fire, notifications ring in my ears.

[1...][0...][Select Gift!]

A wide selection of soul weapons stream into my mind. They're all Basic Class, without souls of their own, or any unique features. However, they all give off the aura of Premium Grade Avatars. The gift being awarded here is extremely high quality, and with all of the side descriptions and pre-loaded ether commands that come with each one, I decide to pick the most flashy and destructive weapon I see and give it a try.

It has a familiar shape to a weapon I fought against in the past, but never got the chance to use myself. I've been wondering what it'd be like to wield one since then.

The white pillar fades away all around me, and at the same time I decide to let my light magic illusions disappear too, allowing the beasts I'm battling to see me perfectly clear, and face them the same without any tricks.

A massive weapon begins to form in my grasp, even taller than myself, glowing bright with white light as a summoning ether command triggers, bringing this Soul Weapon from wherever it was stored straight to me, and bonding with my Grand Citadel avatar shell.

At the same time, I watch the damaged serpent, flaming bird, and limping beast emerge from the walls of fire residue to all converge on me, a tiny human roughly 1/100th their size.

However, I activate my own Greater Form, summoning a dark red energy barrier made of pure soul energy around my body.

Ren stays secured to my back within the center of the energy manifestation.

It only grows to about 30 meters in size, but this is more than enough, and multiplies my firepower output over tenfold, growing the Soul Weapon in my grasp by over ten times in size as well.

None of the 1st Class Beasts saw this coming, as their eyes widen, and reflexive defensive techniques and ether commands activate.

Though, they never stood a chance.

The sound of chains rattling and fire crackling fills the air as I swing a massive spiked ball on a chain that glows red and white with fiery soul energy across my body.

The snake, bird, and beast are all crushed like glass on impact, exploding into millions of pieces, their divine cores and avatars erupting into flames from the shockwaves.

A massive portion of the volcanic region below me shakes and cracks like earthquakes are hitting it for over 100 kilometers in every direction, and a dinging sound in my inner ear confirms each kill, bringing my point total up to 184 in an instant.

However, another portion of my mind is focused on the spectate feed that the Admin on the outside shares with me.

This is because I'm watching the last few seconds of this clash on rerun in slow motion, as the Demonic Servant running the Arena Event displays what I've done to millions watching....
