In range, Jamus swung powerfully with his Lightning Whip, lashing the Crusher across the proverbial nose. At the same time, a guard planted a catchpole against the side of its neck and shoved hard, his booted feet scrambling against the planks. Neither effort did much.

“Net here!” cried a miner, arriving with a net and immediately casting it over the bull-like monstrosity. “Grab on and hold! Hold even once it’s killed you! Together now! Adamant Unbending!”

“ADAMANT UNBENDING!” came the answering cry of fervent insanity.

“Idiots! Let me through!” Staavo cried, having been shoved aside in the press.

Ropes snapped and tore as the creature continued its slamming climb, rocks showering from the now-closer impacts. Jamus threw out an arm, feeling the planks below him begin to shift as he lashed out over and over. There was no extra crackle of lightning with the impacts, the spell failing to find a proper target.

“Shit, it’s going!” Staavo cried as the next crushing punch triggered a full-on landslide. Miners cried out in rage and terror as the fortifications slumped beneath them, the planked battlement collapsing to bring down foe and defender alike.

Levitation!

Throwing out a hand for Staavo in vain, Jamus cast the spell on himself, hovering in place as the ground fell away. Not even a second later, a tug and a flash made him gasp as he realized Tarny had actually grabbed his Lightning Whip. The Beacon’s teeth were gritted with pain as the construct discharged against his Arcane resistance.

“No!” Jamus yelled, yanking with all his might and pressing on the whip with his will before dismissing it, knowing he had nowhere near the control required to prevent it from acting again in accordance with its nature.

Mercifully, the muscles of a Mage proved sufficient, hauling the shorter man into the air. Jamus caught him with a grunt and a swiftly applied coat of gravity-defying magic, the pair developing an uncontrolled spin. By the time they came around far enough for Jamus to catch a glimpse of the happenings below, the stones were painted red with blood, and on the next rotation, he saw a miner’s torso sailing through the air, flung by an angry flick of the creature’s pointed head. Dozens of defenders lay bleeding and broken, and those were just those visible atop the piled stones.

“Over here, you bony bastard!” Staavo challenged, proving that he at least had weathered the avalanche relatively unscathed.

Still tumbling, Jamus pushed Tarny away, flailing with his arms before canceling the magic. He landed painfully on his back, half sliding, half scrambling to his feet as he fought for footing.

“Here it comes!” Staavo yelled, and Jamus got up in time to see the old Spellsword standing firmly beside Shu. The latter stood silent and in position, hands braced and ready to repeat his trick of shaping Hard Light into a spear.

Ignoring the graceless impact of Tarny landing beside him, Jamus struggled forward, fearing it would not be enough. He called back his whip—for what little good it would do. He knew he was too late.

Shu’s spear caught it right in the unsuspecting mouth and exploded into thousands of glittering shards. Ready for it after the experience with the Scrounger, Shu dropped to the ground, shielding himself with an angled ramp of light this time. Unfortunately and exactly as Jamus had feared, the power of the Crusher was too much despite the change in geometry. Even as it tripped, the ramp gave way beneath its stomping limb, and Shu’s cry of pain was accompanied by the crunch of shattered bone.

Already in motion, Staavo spun to the side, bringing down his falchion with both hands on the passing monstrosity’s neck in a masterfully attempted decapitation. Despite the shine of Light Cut and the gleaming crescent left by Slash, the blade only bit deep enough to be torn from his hands as the monster plowed straight past.

“El’s well-trimmed hedge!” Staavo cursed, staggering to the side. He glanced at Shu before returning his focus to the monster. “You dying?”

Shu’s only reply was a pained gasp.

“Jamus, Bulwark!” Tarny yelled, far off to the left but closing rapidly. He loosed an Ice Bolt to shatter against the Crusher’s armored flank. “I’ll distract it!”

The eyeless slits turned in the Beacon’s direction, dark purple blood dripping from its neck to streak the plate armoring its shoulder. Staavo’s sword was nowhere to be seen.

Showing cold intelligence, the creature ignored another Ice Bolt and turned again toward Shu and Staavo, picking the easier targets.

“No!” Jamus yelled, wishing he’d joined Rain on a few more runs. He called desperately for Arcane Bulwark, demanding that the magical wall appear far ahead of his fingertips rather than right at them as it had always done.

The hulking monstrosity had started its charge. It was going to be close. Too close. He was late again.

Summer bloomed over him—Tarny for some reason deciding that Health regeneration had a chance of helping in such a situation—but then Jamus’s eyes went wide.

Tarny was too far. He couldn’t be the source.

“RAAAAAAAHHHH!” screamed a bulky, tattered figure, blowing past Jamus like he was standing still and raising a pair of wicked-looking axes high above his scarred bald head.

“What the—?” Staavo yelled.

The Crusher didn’t abort its charge at the appearance of the new threat, but doubtless came to regret it as the blade of one of those axes hooked under its bony armor at the gap between shoulder and head. With enough grip strength to have torn a limb from a tree, the unknown Warrior held on, using his significant momentum to bodily haul the creature to the side as he swung onto its back. His other axe swung around to chop into the Crusher’s neck, right where Staavo’s sword had landed before and the bony plates were already streaked with purple.

Shu cried out as Staavo, weaponless, hauled him out of the way of the staggering conglomeration of man and bone beast. The first axe came free, and the crazy Warrior released it and switched to a one-armed bear hug, slinging around to cling to the underside of the creature’s neck. The other axe was wrenched out, then brought back in with a dull thunk, digging deeper and sending dark purple blood spurting high into the air.

Jamus staggered to a halt, his Arcane Bulwark finally snapping into place but not occluding the scene enough to prevent the recognition that struck him.

There was only one person with scars that deep—enough that it seemed he was wearing a form-fitting armor made from a wicker basket. Only one person he knew to have Summer besides Tarny. Only one person so touched in the head as to enter melee with a thing like that.

“Jaks?!”

“Jamus!” the Vivificant answered, only to have the air crushed out of him in a wheeze as the beast slammed him to the ground beneath it. He kept hold of his axe and, with what little leverage he had, struck again and again and again.

“He’s the Guilder Anya mentioned?” Staavo yelled, crouched by Shu, who was propped up and clutching his left arm.

“What are you two doing?” Shu hissed through his teeth, and at that point, Jamus noticed that the man’s forearm seemed to have developed an extra joint. “Don’t just stand there. Help him!”

“Yeah, probably a good idea,” Staavo said, standing sharply. “You should splint that.”

Tearing his eyes from Shu’s injury, Jamus likewise stepped out from behind his barrier.

The Crusher was going absolutely berserk with pain, rolling and thrashing and slamming itself down on Jaks while he clung like a tick and brutally hewed away at its neck. “What’s wrong?!” Jaks cackled, only to gasp as the wind was crushed from him for the umpteenth time. His bloody axe bit deep, chewing into dense muscle before the monster rose once more. Taking a deep breath, he swung again, continuing right where he left off. “Got a pain in your neck?”

Death’s Defiance. Strength from Pain.

Jamus guided an Arcane Bolt around to land on the creature’s rump, away from his unexpected ally. He remembered back to the one job he’d gone on with the man, back before Ascension had even been founded. The unhinged Vivificant actually got stronger the closer he was to death.

“Gotta say, wasn’t expecting you,” Staavo said, still without his sword and timing a Glacial Nail to land between axe swings.

Jaks couldn’t reply, pinned beneath the creature’s bulk at that particular moment.

Looking for a way to contribute beyond his magic, which wasn’t doing much of anything, Jamus found himself still searching when the monster crumpled, crushing Jaks one last time but without any intent behind it. Its head lolled to the side, neck nearly chopped clean through, but that didn’t stop Jaks from landing a few final hits for good measure. Only then did he relax, letting his arm fall to the side, the chipped axe falling from his fingers.

Hurrying forward, Jamus touched the Crusher’s side, aiming to free the man beneath it with Levitation. However, his magic refused to find purchase on the alien monstrosity, despite the fact that it was dead. It took him, Tarny, and Staavo working together before Jaks was freed, lying there and panting with a deranged grin on his leathery face.

“You’re welcome,” he said, then coughed, hacking up a glob of red blood to mix with the unspeakable mess coating him. His grin hadn’t faded. “Dibs on the meat.”
