But from so far away? And the buildings—the harbor! There was only one kind of ship large enough to be seen from this distance. A warship. And then Umina saw it wasn’t just one. She counted.
Six.
“One of my oldest students. Some may call him my finest.”
The Titan’s voice was faint, for once. The drumbeats kept echoing. Growing louder. A rolling beat. Like thunder. And now Umina heard something else.
Footsteps. Marching, the sound of hundreds, thousands of feet striking the ground in rhythm. No—not just heard. Felt. Was the ground shaking?
“Move back, soldiers.”
Niers pointed. Umina saw the Forgotten Wing soldiers near one entrance of the square reacting, grabbing at their weapons; they looked up at the Titan’s voice and backed up. Fast.
Here they came. A wailing horn blew. The drums began to beat faster and faster. And the first rank of Dullahans marched into the square.
Dullahans wearing steel. Marching five abreast, moving in perfect formations, in two columns. They spread out, moving into two wings at either end of the other side of the plaza, across from Niers. They moved in step, their armor gleaming.
Thump. Thump.
Like the beating of her heart, now. The drums pounded, drowning out all sound except for the marching Dullahans.
Then Umina saw a column of riders pass between the wings of infantry. Their spears were raised. They rode forwards, and the students backed up. The Dullahans marching on the ground suddenly stopped for a moment.
Then Umina saw some huge Dullahans stride forwards. Male and female, their armor as black as night, their heads secured to their bodies and covered by dark helmets. The Midnight Shield. Invisible in the darkness. Unstoppable in battle.
Elites of the Iron Vanguard.
And they flanked a figure who walked among them, at first invisible. But as he moved forwards, they spread apart, and his armor shone. Silver and brilliant. A color beyond chromatic. He carried his head under one arm, and Umina felt her heart skip a beat as she saw him. She was beginning to worry she had a medical condition. Well…her heart problem was called the Professor.
And like that, the drumbeats stopped. The Dullahans came to a halt. The two columns flanked him as the riders formed an interior wall, holding up their spears. The Midnight Shields passed underneath, and he walked through ranks of his soldiers. The students parted; they couldn’t help it. Umina saw him pass by as the Dullahans in black armor passed bare inches from her. She saw dark skin, hair as pale as ash. Eyes as silver as his magical armor.
Niers’ voice was quiet as he spoke.
“My students, please welcome your opponent for these games. Or rather, opponents.”
More and more Dullahans fell in behind him, filling the plaza. Not all Dullahans; here came a platoon of Lizardfolk. [Mages]. Adventurers, moving out of synch with the rest. Niers looked down at the Dullahan in shining armor who strode towards him. The [Strategist] came to a halt as his soldiers parted. He walked forwards and raised his head.
The Titan bowed slightly. Then he looked around. His eyes found the [Mages] of Wistram, pale and silent. The petrified citizens of Daquin. The waiting Dullahans. Perorn’s burning gaze as she stared at the Dullahan, Niers’ former student. And then Niers looked at his students. He smiled slightly.
“The second-in-command to the Iron Vanguard. My former student. A victor of this humble game in years past. You may know him as Tulm the Mithril.”
 
——
 
She knew he was coming. The instant Niers had said the Iron Vanguard, Perorn had known who it had to be. Their second-in-command. The [Strategist] who commanded the entire Great Company. The one answerable only to the Seer of Steel. The most legendary [Strategist] on the continent short of the Titan.
He marched with his army as they filled the plaza. Unlike Niers’ soldiers, who had stood to attention, the Dullahans marched in perfect formation. Their armor gleamed. But it was him that Perorn was looking for. She only realized he was there when she saw Dullahans moving.
The [Soldiers], the citizens of Daquin, even the students like Cameral bent as he appeared. They knelt, removing their heads like helmets, turning them up while their bodies bent down. To look. To stare. It was unconscious. And even among Niers’ soldiers, the Dullahans bent.
They couldn’t help it. Unlike Niers, he didn’t hold back his presence. He didn’t hide it. Tulm didn’t hide who he was.
There. A flash of metal. A color brighter and somehow deeper than silver, a radiance you couldn’t find in common metal. Magic, wrought into armor. His entire body was made of it. Worth more than any [King]’s ransom.
Mithril.
Tulm the Mithril. Perorn felt a shudder run through her body. Her back right leg screamed. She reached for her sword and then caught herself. Then she felt the crushing presence.
It wasn’t just the Dullahans. Behind the Titan, the ranks of teachers and Perorn felt it. Like a weight on their shoulders, a pressure. Compelling them to kneel.
There were [Kings] without this kind of force. Perorn looked to her side. A Lizardwoman gritted her teeth. She was a [Brigadier General] over Level 30, but she was still sweating. By her side, a Gnoll’s knees were buckling. Perorn growled at him.
“Steady.”
The others looked at her. They locked their legs. But as he drew nearer, the pressure grew stronger.
“It’s—like the last time I saw him—”
A Drake gasped. His scales were pale. Perorn stared at the approaching Dullahan. Exactly like the last time they’d met. She had to fight not to grab her sword, to charge him. She raised her voice, ignoring the drumbeats.
“Hold your ground. If one of you bends a knee, I’ll run you through myself!”
The others tried. But they were slipping. Out of the corner of her eye, Perorn saw one of the Wistram [Mages], the Centaur, kneel. None of the students were breaking, but it was close; he was only directing his aura at them! Perorn bit her lip.
“Niers.”
The Titan turned. He’d been staring at his old student. He saw his teachers, his people struggling. He stared at Perorn and then looked forwards. His gaze locked with the approaching Dullahan.
“Kneel? You are my [Strategists]. Don’t you dare.”
That was all he said. But at once, the pressure on the group behind him lifted. Perorn saw the Lizardman stumble and felt the weight lift off her shoulders. She stared at Tulm the Mithril, then at Niers. He still had a ways to go. Would it be appropriate to…?
No. But he didn’t deserve it from her. Perorn broke ranks. She trotted forwards to Niers and bent over to whisper.
“You called him. Are you mad?”
The Titan looked up at her. He spoke quietly; amid the beating drums, Perorn would be surprised if anyone else could hear, listening spells or not. The Wistram [Mages] were still pinned by his aura, anyways.
“Not yet. But you can see why I didn’t tell you who was joining the game. You would have refused. Foliana certainly did.”
Perorn’s hands clenched. She pawed the ground, staring at the Dullahan. He was looking at her. Her and Niers, his former teacher.
“If I had any notion—what are you thinking? That Dullahan? He’s—”
She bit her lip. He was Niers. If the Titan was the most famous Fraerling in existence, Tulm the Mithril was an equivalent existence. Niers raised an eyebrow.
“The Centaurs have you, don’t they?”
“Horseshit. He’s the second-most important figure in the world to Dullahans outside of the Seer of Steel. If he’s to Dullahans—you might as well bring Archmage Nailihuaile here from Wistram, and the Bannermare over here as well!”
“I did ask. They both declined. Which surprised me in both cases. You know how they like to cause a scene.”
Perorn glared down at Niers. He and his student were engaged in a staring match, and neither one was blinking as the Dullahans marched towards him. The students were parting in front of the Dullahans like sheep in front of wolves.
“You did ask, didn’t you? I shouldn’t have expected anything less. This is cruel. Even for you.”
“Why? This is just a game. A game of hide-and-seek. I just chose a good opponent.”
The Titan spoke dreamily. Perorn stomped a hoof, and he looked up. Fleethoof stared at the Titan. And Tulm the Mithril closed on them.
“He was the one who took away my leg. Why did you bring me here, Niers?”
Niers Astoragon looked up. A tiny man. Then he looked at Tulm the Mithril, leading an army into the city. Perorn saw him smile bitterly. And she remembered how he felt about his student.
She thought nothing he could say would stop her from leaving. From attacking or—but she was wrong. The Titan of Baleros looked up and gave Perorn a slight smile.
“To have a good day.”
 
——
 
They met in silence. The Midnight Shield slowed, and the armored Dullahans paused about twenty feet in front of the Titan. To get any closer might as well be an act of war. Trust only ran so far.
Then again, he was as dangerous as his escort. More so. Tulm the Mithril walked forwards. Niers waited for him. He could hardly leave his wooden pedestal. By his side, Perorn tensed. Her eyes locked on Tulm, and her arm strained as it didn’t quite reach for her sword hilt.
Tulm paid no attention to her. He was staring at Niers. He halted a few feet before his old teacher. Niers Astoragon gave him a bow. First. And it was a proper bow, not a simple nod of acknowledgement. It might have meant nothing to non-Dullahans. But Perorn and the Iron Vanguard watched. And there was an imperceptible shift in the ranks of the Dullahans behind Tulm.
Satisfaction. Perorn followed Niers’ example, gritting her teeth. Tulm waited a beat and then bowed back. It was a perfect copy of the Titan’s bow. Then he straightened and spoke softly.
“Are we equals, then, teacher?”
Perorn tensed. It was the same voice! The same tone, even. But Niers held up a hand, and the [Galewinds Strategist] held herself in check. He answered casually, in a tone that was almost playful.
“I don’t see how I can look down on you anymore. You’ve grown up, Tulm. Your armor’s quite nice.”
The Dullahan had put his head on to bow. Now he took it off and held it under one arm. His head spoke back, eyes looking Niers up and down calmly.
“So you’ve said before.”
“Did I? Time plays tricks on me. The last time we met was across a battlefield, wasn’t it? I didn’t congratulate you on your victory, then.”
“No. You did not.”
The two stared at each other. Niers bared his teeth. You could charitably call it a smile. He held out a hand, politely indicating the furious Centauress next to him.
“May I introduce Perorn? You recall her.”
Tulm’s silver gaze flicked to Perorn. She spoke one word, infused with over a decade of…everything. Her back right leg had stopped hurting. It felt as good as the moment it had before he’d hamstrung her.
“Mithril.”
“Fleethoof.”
They met gazes once. And then both looked away. Any longer and one would have gone for their weapon. Perorn had a curved shamshir. Tulm wore a mace made of mithril, enchanted to hit like a sledgehammer. But his true weapon was a halberd. Niers clapped his hands together as if neither Centaur nor Dullahan were imagining gutting the other.
“I see the hosts of the city are getting nervous. Tulm, as the reigning champion of hide-and-seek, I hope you can win without turning half the city to ash this time. Hopefully your advanced experience and levels means you can seek without destroying.”
He looked sardonically at Tulm, and the Dullahan turned his head back to Niers. He smiled coldly.
“It is not my intention. But tell me. Why am I truly here, then, teacher?”
The Fraerling gave Tulm a blank look.
“You didn’t read my message.”
“I read your message.”
“It specifically stated that this was my competition—”
Tulm leaned forwards. He raised his head to meet Niers and spoke flatly.
“You called me here. Over two thousand miles, with a letter sent into the heart of the Iron Vanguard’s mightiest stronghold with highest priority, by one of the best Couriers in the world. As if it were a declaration of war.”
Niers smiled.
“I hope it didn’t bother the Seer of Steel unduly.”
Tulm didn’t blink. He stared at Niers, as if his old teacher were a puzzle to be unraveled. With an axe.
“You had to know it would throw all of Baleros into chaos. The other Great Companies and half the continent waited to see what your letter meant. All this, for a child’s competition.”
The Fraerling [Strategist] shrugged.
“What can I say? I like my games. And you must agree, this time is different.”
He gestured to Teura and the other [Mages], who were trying to eavesdrop and finding their spells were unraveling around the trio of [Strategists]. All they could do was stare and let their viewers try to read lips. Incidentally, the price of those with lip-reading Skills or the talent had gone up exponentially in the last few minutes. Tulm shook his head with his hands.
“The world now looks through a hundred thousand eyes. Do you fear it? I thought you would rejoice, teacher. But you look disturbed.”
“I enjoy Wistram’s company, Tulm.”
“Ah. I see. So is it just for this that you called me? More sport, my greatest of teachers?”
Niers paused. He stepped forwards, to the edge of his little platform, and Tulm bent forwards. Niers smiled with his teeth until the two were very close, and then both turned their heads away from the three Wistram [Mages] slightly. The Titan whispered up at Tulm the Mithril while still smiling as the silent crowd watched.
“Tulm, are you trying to annoy me by calling me teacher every two seconds?”
“Are you going to continue avoiding my question? Teacher?”
The two stared at each other. Tulm spoke softly.
“If you want me to crush your new students in front of tens of thousands, I will. And I will show them exactly what the difference is between me and them. A harsh lesson, even for children. You could have sent Fleethoof against them if you wanted to test their mettle. I will not be so kind. You tempted me here, but I do not intend to play your g—”
He paused. The Dullahan stared down at Niers Astoragon. The Fraerling’s face was too tiny for anyone but Tulm and possibly some of the Midnight Shield to see clearly. And he was grinning. He was giving Tulm a grin from ear to ear, his eyes as wide as they could go, his teeth bared. Unblinking.
The Dullahan and Fraerling stared at each other for one long minute. Then Niers spoke, his eyes still opened as wide as could be.
“Go ahead and crush them. I want you to try.”
Tulm hesitated. He looked down at his former teacher. Niers stared up at him. And the expression on his face.
You could call it a smile. He spoke very slowly.
“Try.”
 
——
 
