“Umina! I didn’t know you were famous in Daquin!”
Umina wanted to curl up under a rock. She muttered loud enough for the others to hear as she tried to duck her head.
“They know me.”
Venaz harrumphed, but to Umina’s surprise, he seemed vaguely approving.
“Of course they do. You and Xelic are in the Titan’s personal class. It’s a mark of honor.”
“But we’re attracting attention!”
It was true. The other students—and there were around two hundred—could scarcely have failed to notice the growing cheering from the crowd. They turned to look, and Umina felt more than one very annoyed gaze on her back. A few of the Lizardfolk not in her class looked rueful; a few even clapped along with the others, laughing. And from the gathering with Daquin’s leaders, Niers Astoragon and the teachers were turning—Umina went scarlet as her fans laughed and cheered louder.
“Marian, hide me. Or trample me.”
Before the Centaur could oblige Umina’s death wish, another voice rang out. A young Centaur in a [Laborer]’s outfit reared in the crowd and shouted loud enough to be heard.
“Marian Felthof! Win for the Centaurs!”
He bellowed, and some of the other Centaurs called out. Another called out Jekilt’s name. Then the air split as both Centaurs and Lizardfolk began cheering for the students they recognized. Marian raised a hand as it was her turn to blush; Jekilt raised one fist as the Centaurs stampeded in place. And the Dullahans in the crowd—
Didn’t cheer. But to Cameral and the two other Dullahans students, they were nodding, raising their heads over the crowd to see. Cameral bowed slightly, his face pale. The crowd cheered and roared, filling the air. They’d decided the games had begun and were cheering—even over the Titan’s greeting with the council. Umina blushed, waved, and looked at the other students. They stared back. Yerra waved at a Selphid wearing a child’s body in the crowd and muttered to her friends.
“We are so dead. They’re going to go right for us the instant the games start.”
Umina nodded with the others. Venaz was cracking his knuckles. He didn’t appear bothered by the lack of a Minotaur crowd cheering for him.
“I see Daquin’s citizenry is here. But where are the seekers? And the guests? My sources told me that in previous years, there could be a huge guest presence. At least a few [Emissaries]—even royalty from overseas at times!”
He looked around, dismayed. Umina scanned the crowd and realized Venaz was right. Despite the people in the square, they all looked like Daquin’s native inhabitants. No one stood out, and if there were another company here, she would expect to see them with a sizable escort. But all she saw were Forgotten Wing company soldiers.
“I guess no one’s coming? Maybe this is normal for them. Oh—wait, there are a few robes by the Professor.”
Feshi growled.
“Wistram [Mages].”
“You sure?”
The Gnoll glowered at the [Mages], a group of sixteen or so, waiting to one side and looking around. They were clearly [Mages]; if their colorful robes and staffs didn’t identify them, the aloof looks they were giving to the crowd would have tipped Umina off. Feshi’s glare was another hint.
“I am sure. I can smell them.”
“Looks like the Professor is greeting them. Dead gods, I hope he tells us the rules soon. Or—wait, if the seekers aren’t here, is he going to be leading the hunt?”
“Don’t jinx us, Yerra! Maybe it’s just the soldiers who have to find us and some kind of riddle.”
“Or—”
Umina saw a Centaur turning in the crowd, holding what had to be Niers Astoragon at head height. The Lizardgirl felt herself go pale. The Centauress looked back across the audience at the cheering crowd. And she stared right at Umina.
 
——
 
Perorn Sadiluc, known as Fleethoof, looked back at the source of the sudden cheering. The plaza was filled with bodies; most of the city had gathered to see the Titan in person, which was quite difficult even for those at the front. But they knew the game was taking place, and so they actually outnumbered the two hundred students and fifty or so alumni who had come to play in the Titan’s game. Now Perorn picked out a student who she knew by name from the crowd.
Umina, one of Niers’ prized students. A sharp mind and flexible one too, able to answer quickly and adapt to new situations with ease. She was standing next to Marian, a Centauress. Another bright candidate, but Perorn distinctly recalled Marian going red and stammering both times the [Galewinds Strategist] had called on her. It was a flaw in her Centaur students that Perorn had no time for. But perhaps it was unavoidable.
“Lady Fleethoof?”
The Centauress turned her head back. She realized the council member, a Dullahan woman in her late sixties, had addressed her. Instantly, Perorn ducked her head, embarrassed, although it didn’t show on her face.
“My apologies, Councilmember Felit. I missed what you were saying.”
The Dullahan looked horrified. She adjusted her head on her shoulders, bowing deeper than Perorn hurriedly.
“No, no. Our apologies for keeping you waiting. And for our citizens’ indiscretion.”
She turned a scandalized eye towards the cheering crowd. All four of the Lizardfolk members of the council looked appalled and delighted.
“So sorry! And it’s a pleasure to meet you. An honor, truly! You and Lord Astoragon!”
One of the Lizardmen bowed to Perorn and the small Fraerling perched on Perorn’s shoulder. Niers Astoragon bowed back, and his voice was a mix of politeness and cheerful informality.
“No offense taken, Councilman Ulli. We are grateful for Daquin’s hospitality today. Please do warn the citizens that they may be included in the games if they stay outdoors. The participants have been warned that dangerous weaponry and spells are off-limits, and we have [Healers] standing by, but accidents happen.”
“We will inform them again, and call upon the [Guards] to clear the streets. And we will not keep you any further, will we, Councilmembers?”
The Dullahan woman, Felit, bowed to Niers. She looked pointedly at the Lizardfolk and the Dullahan man. He nodded instantly; the Lizardfolk looked disappointed.
“But I wanted to ask—”
Ulli yelped as Felit stomped on his tail. He withdrew, unhappy, and all of the Council had to shake Perorn’s hand and bow to Niers before they withdrew. It was a ceremony Perorn was used to, and she smiled briefly and repeated each name once. Then they were gone. She turned her head to speak to the tiny Fraerling on her shoulder.
“Now the [Mages]?”
She saw Niers, a tiny man dressed all in blue and gold, grimace. He tugged the rakish hat he’d chosen lower on his head and grumbled before nodding.
“Ah, Wistram’s delegation. We might as well, or they’ll kick up a fuss. Before that, who was cheering? I couldn’t see; your hair’s in the way.”
He kicked at Perorn’s long hair, auburn mixed with strands of grey. Perorn sighed, but she turned to let him see. Niers grinned as he saw the crowd cheering his students.
“Ah. My advanced class has gotten the attention of the crowd. That might make them targets.”
“If you wanted them to be inconspicuous…”
The Titan shook his head.
“No, it’s fine this way. Let’s just hurry the ceremony up; we can bring in our guest soon. I imagine they’re getting impatient.”
Perorn sighed, but she trotted over to the waiting group of [Mages]. She saw them stand up and adjust their robes hurriedly as they saw her coming over. She spoke to Niers with a slight frown.
“And who is this mystery guest? You didn’t tell me.”
“If you had an ear to the winds, Perorn, you would have seen it. It’s obvious to anyone who knows what to look for. Sadly, I think only a handful of students know. Even in my class, I think only Wil figured it out. Did I make it too hard? But this is fine. He’ll be entertaining enough.”
Niers sighed. He looked at the [Mages] and shook his head. Hopefully, he glanced up at Perorn.
“What if I let you do the introductions, Perorn?”
“No.”
“They wouldn’t mind.”
She paused and glared at him.
“You’re the Titan of Baleros. You organized this game; Wistram’s here at your request.”
Niers looked huffy as he checked his clothing and hat.
“I didn’t invite them. I would have used our [Mages]. Very well. But I’m hardly impressive to most of them. You’re the one the Council was making duck eyes at.”
Perorn debated flicking him off her shoulder for a second. But it was true. Like Daquin’s ruling Council, the [Mages] stared first at her. Their leader, a half-Elf woman in sweeping, emerald silk robes emblazoned with purple blooms, bowed deeply.
“Lady Perorn Sadiluc. I am First-Mage Teura of Wistram, assistant to Archmage Feor and the leader of my small gathering. I thank you and the Forgotten Wing company for the invitation to—”
Perorn held out a hand and felt Niers nimbly leap onto her palm. Teura froze in the middle of her half-prepared speech as she spotted Niers.
“—And my deepest thanks to you as well, Lord Astoragon.”
The [Mages] jumped. They stared down at the Fraerling, and half of them blinked. You could tell which of them hadn’t ever met Niers before, but they all hurriedly bowed as the Fraerling strutted forwards and nodded to Teura.
“A pleasure, Mage Teura. I’m surprised you’ve left the academy.”
The half-Elf calmly addressed Niers as if nothing were amiss. Some of the [Mages] were openly staring, but the rest had composed themselves. Their eyes flicked to Niers. This was the Titan of Baleros. Perorn held still, seeing their eyes go to her next.
“It was at Archmage Feor’s request, Lord Astoragon. We could hardly ignore such an event, could we? Especially given our function.”
“Ah, yes. Well, I’m delighted to have you watch.”
Niers sighed, his tone and face suggesting he was anything but. Teura didn’t react; she merely bowed again.
“We will observe from the side and several points around the city without interfering of course. But if I may request that some of our members accompany you? For the best position.”
“As you will.”
The Titan waved a hand. Teura nodded and gestured; a Centaur came forwards along with another half-Elf. Perorn nodded to the Centaur, a younger male. He might have been in his early forties or late thirties, but he looked like an excited colt as he bowed to her.
“It’s an honor to meet you, Lady Fleethoof—and, uh, you as well, Lord Astoragon!”
He hurriedly bowed to Niers as Teura shot him a glare. Niers only chuckled, and Perorn, lifting him back to her shoulder, politely greeted the [Mage].
It couldn’t be helped. No, it was to be expected, really. They stared at her, the [Mages]. At Niers too, but in surprise. Because, after all, he was the Titan of Baleros. But when he didn’t try, when he just hid on Perorn’s shoulder, Niers was…a Fraerling. Small. Whereas Perorn was hardly equal to him in terms of fame, but her name was widely known as well.
Perorn. Fleethoof. She looked the part. The Centauress walked back, conscious of the eyes on her. The crowd was still cheering for the students. They were watching her and Niers, of course, but they hadn’t done anything but a few greetings.
In many ways, Perorn knew, they were letting down those who had gathered to see them. Unless Perorn was racing across the city, sword in hand, leading a charge, or Niers was…being Niers, they were disappointments. Almost as bad as Foliana, although you could argue she was everything you expected in another sense.
But Perorn wasn’t in the mood to race; she wasn’t a young mare anymore, her back leg hurt as if a storm were coming despite the clear skies, despite the ointment she’d used, and this wasn’t her game. She had been invited to come to Daquin; Niers had insisted on it for some reason. But she wasn’t taking part.
“I’m not taking part, am I, Niers? You promised me that. If you intend to trick me into performing, I will step on you.”
The Centaur [Strategist] turned her head to glare at Niers. The Titan of Baleros smiled, sitting on Perorn’s bare shoulder. He stroked his beard, smiling lightly.
“I did promise you. I’m attached to my unsquashed body, so I suppose I can’t cheat and add you.”
“It would be unfair. If I went against your students, I’d have half within the hour.”
Perorn felt the need to justify herself, to Niers’ smug expression as much as anything else. He grinned at her.
“Oh, really?”
She raised a finger warningly, ready to flick. She wouldn’t ever have done it, of course; Niers’ magical equipment would probably break her finger if she flicked too hard. The Titan sighed.
“I don’t need you, Perorn. As a seeker, I mean. My guest is already here.”
“Where?”
She glanced around, frowning. Niers smiled.
“If you had a spyglass and you were on that watch tower, you’d see him. He’ll be inbound as soon as I give the signal. No—I think he’ll choose his moment. You are listening, aren’t you? Give me a chance to mention Wistram first, and then you can come in.”
Niers raised his voice and looked around. Perorn felt her skin crawl. A listening spell? Or maybe Niers just meant there was a spy in the audience. She trotted towards the waiting students.
“Where would you like to speak? And you’ll do it yourself; I’m not holding you up while you speak.”
“There will be a dais. Ah. Here!”
Niers was pointing. On cue, a pair of [Soldiers] were dragging forwards the little wooden dais Niers liked to use to speak to people on a level. Perorn trotted forwards, and Niers hopped onto it. The crowd, murmuring, went still, and the students looked up.
Perorn saw the moment of disappointment. The Titan was a speck from afar, and he landed on the dais lightly. His teachers spread out behind him, some notable [Strategists]. Perorn felt most of the eyes go to her, and the murmur spread again.
“Fleethoof.”
And where was the Titan? Invisible. Barely noticeable. Perorn knew Niers hated that. But as the Titan walked forwards onto the wooden platform, six feet up in the air, he cleared his throat. And then his voice was louder. And then the Titan of Baleros really appeared. Niers spread his arms and roared.
“Citizens of Daquin! Thank you for your patience!”
His voice boomed down the plaza. The sudden sound made his audience jump. Perorn winced and wished she could plug her ears. Niers stood on his platform and looked at his students. They stared up at him.
“And my students, thank you for your patience. I realize many of you know why you’re here. It’s my custom to play a little game between my former students and current ones. Hide-and-seek. A children’s game, a Fraerling’s life.”
He chuckled as the audience shifted, not sure if they should laugh.
