“This is not good, no? I expected a formidable opponent. Perhaps even Fleethoof herself as Umina predicted. But this is ruthless. As befits Tulm. Is there no hope?”
She looked unhappily at the Human crammed in next to her. She rather liked Wil, for all he was vaguely depressed most of the time and unconfident. Better that than arrogant like Venaz, though. But Feshi didn’t see a happy ending for either of them. She had a few tricks, but nothing that would work if everything was as one-sided as this.
To her surprise, Wil glanced up at Feshi. And his eyes were alight with…emotion. It burned so bright that the Gnoll wondered if she’d gotten into the root cellar with the same Human. Wil even smelled different. The [Lord] and [Strategist] shook his head.
“We’re not done yet, Feshi. I’m not done. None of our class has been caught.”
The Gnoll met his eyes.
“No. This is true. Forgive my panic. But you have a plan. Or is courage enough?”
Wil was about to respond, but Feshi perked up one ear. She held up a paw, and he went silent. The two [Strategists] held their breaths. They heard a muffled bark. Wil whispered.
“Hunting dogs. We should be safe here. They can’t smell us. These roots stink.”
“How many tricks does this Mithril one have?”
Feshi growled. She smeared more half-rotten produce on her and Wil for good measure and heard him gag. The Gnoll shook her head.
“I can handle them even if they get near. But this is serious. This Tulm, he wants to beat the Professor rather badly, no?”
“He does. And he’s pulling out everything he has. Wouldn’t you?”
The Gnoll grinned.
“Only if it didn’t get me insulted. These two Drakes, I know them. They commented on Liscor’s siege and those moth attacks. One wonders if Wistram approached them to speak about this. It seems like an interesting job, yes? If only—”
“—they weren’t so stupid?”
Feshi blinked. Wil was staring down at the scrying orb. He glanced up.
“Sorry. They are playing the, uh, fools. You know, the oblivious bit? I saw a comedy routine by [Jesters] back home like this.”
“You think they’re foolish?”
The Gnoll squatted to peer into the scrying orb. In the lull between more students being caught, the two Drakes were using a map of Daquin and talking about the various sweeps going through the city. There were at least three thousand soldiers on the ground, but the city was home to tens of thousands. Without magic or other devices, Tulm’s forces would be searching for weeks to find all of the students.
Then again, he didn’t need to find them all. There was only one way to win. And while Feshi supposed the Dullahan [Strategist] might be humiliated a bit by a less-than-complete victory, it was hollow for the hiders. Wil grimaced at the orb. He looked up apologetically.
“I thought that was what you were going to say. Don’t you agree?”
“Hrr. I don’t believe they’re underrepresenting our competition.”
“But we haven’t begun to fight yet.”
Feshi caught the same look in his eyes that had driven her people from northern Izril. That burning, indefatigable emotion.
Determination.
And as he spoke, the viewpoint shifted. Wil and Feshi watched as a group of Dullahans swept down a street, moving into houses—after knocking first, of course—checking each floor, keeping alert for [Mages] or the screaming arrows from the watch tower. They looked up and down the street. And then they saw them.
A group walking towards them, down the street. The Dullahans relaxed. Another soldier group. Until they saw the Dwarf walking among them. That gave them pause. Then they saw the lack of uniforms and grabbed their blunt weapons.
“Surrendering?”
The Dullahan [Sergeant] called out, smiling. Some of her [Soldiers] laughed. The group of students looked puzzled. There were six of them. A Gnoll, the Dwarf, Merrik, a pair of Centaurs, a Garuda, and a Drake. Feshi didn’t recognize any of them outside of this morning. She stared.
“Surrender?”
Merrik, the Dwarf, spoke. He had a greatclub over one shoulder. He looked at the others, and they grinned. He shrugged at the Dullahan squad.
“If you like. Put your weapons down. Tie yourselves up while you’re at it.”
The Dullahans lost their relaxed postures. They formed up, coming down the street while the Dullahan relayed a [Message]. There were twenty-four of the Dullahans. Six students. The Dwarf counted.
“That’s…hold on. One and one-fifth for you lot, eighteen for me. Got it?”
“Your math is terrible.”
“Bite me, Kelsa.”
The Dullahans looked at their [Sergeant]. She gave a curt order.
“Take them!”
They charged across the ground. The Dwarf roared. He jumped forwards. The students charged. The Dullahans weren’t expecting that. Merrik brought his club up. The [Sergeant] was the only one who had a shield in one hand and a truncheon in the other, which made her sensible. And dangerous. The Dullahan roared.
“[Ram’s Charge]! [Power Strike]!”
She shot past her men. Merrik slowed and brought up his club.
“[Hammer Blow].”
The two met with an impact that shook the street. Dullahans stopped and took cover as shrapnel from the paving stones flew in every direction. They looked up and saw a shape in the dust. Merrik stood over the Dullahan. The [Sergeant]’s armor was bowed in. The Dwarf bent and felt at her head anxiously. He looked up and nodded.
“Phew. Didn’t kill her. Didn’t know it was her, either.”
The Dullahans stared. They looked at Merrik as he sauntered forwards. One croaked.
“How—”
“Oh. That. [Body of Stone], lad. And it’s [Giant’s Hammer], not [Hammer Blow]. I just like shouting fake Skills for fun.”
Merrik brushed at his tunic. The fabric flapped away, revealing something underneath. Steel. The Dwarf winked.
“You’re not the only ones with armor. Ready?”
Then he charged. The Dullahans braced. The pair of Centaurs leapt over Merrik and the [Sergeant]. Kelsa had a staff in one hand. She whirled it, struck a Dullahan over the top of his helmet and then under the chin. She danced sideways, kicked—a Dullahan caught the hoof and spun.
The second Centaur caught a catchpole on one leg and then a net across the chest. He kept running. The Dullahans shouted as the catchpole was torn loose from a hand. The three Dullahans holding the net skidded across the ground as the Centaur ran on. Then he circled and trampled the fallen [Soldiers]. Carefully.
“Forwards! For Oteslia and the skies!”
The Drake shouted. She flew forwards, and the wooden club she carried snapped twice, striking hard enough to dent metal. Dullahans surged forwards. More were coming down the street! The Drake spun, hacking at those surrounding her. Then she opened her mouth.
“Oldbl—”
The warning came too late. The Dullahans surrounding her shouted as a jet black fog burst from the Drake’s mouth. They stumbled out of the cloud, choking, and a few seconds later, the Drake strode forwards. She dispersed the fog herself, dragging out the Dullahans who’d inhaled the black smog and fainted. She whirled as a Dullahan clubbed her across the back of the head. He drew back his mace and a blunt tip of a wooden sword struck him between the eyes.
The head of the Dullahan bounced to the ground. The Gnoll tsked as she walked past the Dullahan [Soldier] as his body crumpled, unconscious. Dozens of Dullahans were swarming towards her. She left the rest of her group to fight the patrol.
The second group of Dullahans slowed slightly as she walked towards them. The Gnoll carried a rapier, or rather, a wooden imitation. Sturdy at the tip but still flexible, a bludgeoning weapon in the shape of the dueling sword. But however incongruous it was, it fit. The Gnoll’s hand glinted as she lifted the rapier. Her paws glided across the street, her stance never wavering.
A silver bell chimed on her paw. The Dullahans set themselves. Their [Lieutenant] drew a wooden sword. He charged the Gnoll, shouting for his men to surround her. The [Fencer] stepped in, her eyes gleaming.
“Fight’s going one way! Keep it up! And leave some for me!”
Merrik huffed as he ran to catch up after the scattering Dullahans. They were falling back, regrouping. He ran after one, raising his club over his head and shouting a war cry. A fist punched through the wall just over his head.
The Dwarf froze. He looked up as Xol tore a hole in the side of the wall. The [Juggernaut] looked down. He raised a fist, and Merrik brought up his club, swearing. Xol swung, then leaned back mid-strike. He dodged the kick at his head. Xol lashed out again, with a jab that cut the air. He still missed her.
The Garuda back flipped through the air. She caught herself in the air and dove.
“Axe kick. Palm strike. Punch. Punch. Cross kick.”
She calmly pounded Xol across the chest, transitioning from the kick to punches and another kick. The [Juggernaut] struck again, but he missed. His armor rang with more blows, and the Garuda flew back. She landed and flipped sideways—a fist struck the stone.
“Punch.”
She punched the arm before it withdrew. Merrik roared.
“Grandfathers damn it, Peki! Stop shouting your moves!”
“Move back. I can’t hold him long.”
The Garuda balanced on one leg, holding up the other claw-foot, her wings poised to take off, dodge or strike. A [Martial Artist]’s stance. One who fought on both air and ground. Xol stared at her. Then he charged.
Punch, left, right, up—the Dullahan slammed with his shoulder, hoping to hit her. But he missed. The Garuda spun past him and kicked the side of his head. Then she flew up and dove.
“[Aerial Dance: Waterfall Strikes].”
The Garuda vanished. A blur replaced her, striking its way down Xol’s armor. He raised his arms, guarding, staggering as the blows took him off-balance. Peki reappeared on the ground, panting. Her friends were retreating, fighting off the other Dullahans.
“You’re not very good without your weapons. You should have brought your shield at least.”
Xol righted himself slowly. He adjusted his head on his shoulders.
“I’ll reclaim it. Tell me. Who taught you how to fight like this?”
The Garuda smiled.
“Pomle’s Strongest.”
She flew at him. The Garuda struck Xol three more times on the chest and disengaged. Xol retreated, and Peki flew back towards her friends, who were calling for her. The Dullahans stared at their War Walker falling back. The Dullahan [Commander] looked up.
“Call in reinforcements.”
She slowly drew a potion and drank it. Her form blurred. The Dullahans next to her stared at their commander. A [Mage] uttered a spell, and a Dullahan in front of him raised a glowing weapon. A Centaur from the Iron Vanguard company trotted forwards and drank a potion. Her skin and fur turned dark, glossy, like metal.
“Ah, hell. They’re buffing themselves. Time for a tactical retreat?”
Merrik eyed the advancing Dullahans, who were approaching in formation. He looked over his shoulder then ducked.
“Bastard!”
An arrow hit the ground where the Dwarf’s head had been. It burst, and the students leapt back. There was a flash—Merrik emerged looking dizzy.
“Light spell. Faugh! Someone do something about that idiot! I can’t see! Cover me!”
His friends dragged him back. The Dullahans charged, sensing the weakness. Kelsa raised a hand.
“Alright. Now.”
The doors of the apartments opened up and down the street, and people poured out. Dullahans dressed in nondescript armor, holding polished clubs. They laid into the Iron Vanguard with considerably more expertise with the weapons. From an alley behind the Dullahans, a group emerged. Adventurers. The [Mage] in front pointed.
“Floor is hot! [Salamander’s Embers]!”
Fragments of a flaming, magical substance coated the ground in front of her. The other adventurers set up. [Archers] and [Mages] began to fire arrows, which exploded into sticky substances or hit with a nonlethal punch as the [Mages] cast similar spells. The [Warriors] strode forwards, wearing magical footgear and armor. They began beating down the Dullahans in the back row.
Merrik roared. More Dullahans were emerging from every side now; Tulm the Mithril had seen what was going on and was sending more reinforcements. But more students were arriving by the second, some leading groups.
[Thugs]. Adventurers. [Mercenaries]. Fighters for hire. Merrik pointed a club at the struggling Dullahans ahead of him.
“We need to clear this lot up and retreat! Everyone on me! I’m using my big one! [Battalion of Glory]! Charge!”
His club began to shine. The Dwarf charged, and his friends and the fighters on the street began to glow with that same light. They rushed the Iron Vanguard, and their roar seemed amplified by a hundred voices. They crashed into the Dullahans as the [Soldiers] fought to get back.
“Commander charge! Retreat!”
Too late. The adventurers and students took down the Dullahans from both sides. By the time Xol was marching back at the head of a massive force, the forty or so Dullahans on the street were unconscious, stripped of their weapons and items. And the students had retreated. They were instantly pursued, but the [Mages] found the adventurers were able to push them back. Three Dullahans went down, immobilized in short magical duels.
And the Gold-rank adventurer on the watch tower found a Garuda shooting up at him. He shot arrow after arrow at her, and his aim knocked the [Martial Artist] out of the sky. A better matchup. Until Samile the Watcher saw the arrow flying up. He dodged sideways; the arrow exploded, and the burst of air blew him screaming off the watch tower and towards the ground.
 
——
 
“The officer classes.”
Feshi and Wil stared at the other students in the orb. The Gnoll breathed the words out slowly. She looked at Wil.
“No wonder we did not recognize them. They aren’t new students. They’re the Professor’s officers, yes? Some of them are aspiring [Generals].”
Wil smiled. He stared at the retreating group, who had fled after Merrik’s Skill ran out.
“They’re all officers. They could have used [Strategist] support; that Dwarf used up his Skill in a battle they’d already won. Some of the others may join them.”
“Wait—look. Jekilt’s already doing that.”
The Gnoll pointed. In the rapidly changing orb, the two saw their classmate. Jekilt was leading a band of nearly fifty fighters through the city, fighting to link up with the others. Wil nodded.
“He must have called on a part of a company. Maybe his friends he keeps talking about.”
