As Luan rolled to his feet, he saw the [Soldiers] groaning and swearing in the middle of a tangle of vines. Another bottle broke, and a pair of Dullahans dropped like stones; the soporific’s vapors knocked out the audience in the apartment above. The students rode past them, shouting as a wall of Dullahans raced towards them. Towards Luan too. The [Rower] took one look at the students, the [Mage] hurling arrows made of light, the Dullahans with nets, and he ran for it. He was going to kill that Minotaur.
If he ever found him.
 
——
 
The explosion from the stables was audible even in the plaza. No one had been making a lot of noise before that. From his seat, Niers looked up and smiled.
“And so it begins. High Mage Teura, move that scrying orb closer, will you? And everyone else, stay out of the winner’s circle. I won’t have you interfering with the game.”
He waved at the group of teachers, onlookers, Wistram [Mages], and others clustered around the circle. They shuffled obligingly out of the way as the half-Elf [Mage] floated the scrying orb closer to Niers’ seat. She and Niers were the only two in the winner’s circle. Outside of it was a ring of Dullahans in black armor.
The Midnight Shield. They didn’t so much as budge at Niers’ order. They would have really ruined his view of the game, but happily Niers had the scrying orb. And Wistram’s [Mages] had spread to every corner of the city to watch. That meant Niers could watch the game through the scrying orb with everyone else and see the action already in progress.
A group of eighteen students were racing down a street, barely two blocks away from the plaza. The view was from a rooftop, and Niers could actually see the [Mage] with this vantage point slowly tracking the action from above. He enjoyed this perspective immensely, although it did mean he sometimes saw himself in the scrying orb as the viewpoint shifted to Teura’s vision.
“Lord Astoragon, do you have any comments? It’s surprising to see your students moving so quickly, isn’t it?”
Teura spoke on Niers’ right hand. He shrugged and reached for a bit of candied nuts, then eyed himself in the scrying orb. He sighed, sat up, and spoke with a smile on his face.
“Not at all. They’re probably hoping to catch Tulm off guard. Boldness is a strategy in itself. And they’re on horseback. We should be seeing them—”
A clatter of hooves. The viewpoint switched back to the students. They were racing up a street. Niers watched them throwing alchemist weapons with abandon; one of them was casting spells. He chortled with delight.
“And here’s Tefret himself! A [Mage Captain], one of our graduates, in fact. He’s pushing in hard. And I think the Iron Vanguard—excuse me, Tulm’s force—has underestimated my students. Money can bowl over even a regiment of battle-hardened Dullahans!”
It was true. The seeking bands of Dullahans had come armed to catch, not to block a dozen exploding flasks that showered them with oily slicks, sleeping gas, vines, and in one case, some kind of liquid that was apparently very painful to get into the eyes. The Dullahans backed up, calling for shields—which of course they hadn’t brought. Niers glanced up with a smile and saw the viewpoint flick to Tulm the Mithril, standing calmly next to a map of the city. The Dullahan glanced up, and Niers saw his eyes in the scrying orb for a second. He spoke a single order.
“Southern entrance. Have the unit hold ground; the riders won’t reach them. Xol. Cut them off.”
In the scrying orb, the [Strategists] were racing towards a row of Dullahans. They’d outpaced everyone else and had blasted their way clear. The half-Elf, Tefret, was throwing [Light Arrow] spells from the tip of his wand, a veritable storm of magical bullets. But they weren’t deadly; at worst, they had the force of a hammer to the jaw, and the Dullahans guarding the plaza did have shields. They held their ground, holding behind the shields, refusing to buckle in front of the impact. The [Riders] refused to slow as well. They were aiming for the Dullahan wall, and Niers looked up and saw them at the entrance to the plaza.
“Confusing. Reality meets scrying orb.”
He shook his head and jumped up. Teura yelped as the Fraerling climbed up her arm and onto her head. Niers saw his students riding at him behind the wall of Dullahans just in time. They passed by a building, and the wall exploded outwards. A fist grabbed a student off her horse and slammed her gently into the ground. Gently by comparison; the Human girl might have broken a few ribs. But the Dullahan [Juggernaut] who charged out of the side of the building could have squashed her and her horse like a bug.
“Dead gods! [Juggernaut]!”
The students screamed. Three horses reared—the gigantic Dullahan swept a hand and knocked all three students off with blows that were almost too fast to see. He was quick! And strong—he grabbed another horse as it ran past him and plucked the student off.
“Back, back!”
“We’re nearly there!”
The remaining students panicked. One threw a tripvine bag at the colossus wearing crimson armor with silver inlays. The [Juggernaut] caught the bag; it exploded in one hand. He lashed out, and the student went flying. The Dullahan rose, high, higher, until he loomed above the horses below. Fourteen feet high; he had to have been crouching to have hidden. He charged forwards, and the students scattered.
Niers heard a gulp from below. He looked down and saw the scrying orb had changed. A Drake sat in place, face pale.
“T-that would be—Xol of Ingrilt. Wouldn’t you say, uh, Sir Relz?”
A second Drake appeared in the picture. He was wearing a monocle and tapping his claws together rapidly.
“Indeed, Noass. Xol of Ingrilt, one of the largest and most famous War Walkers in the Iron Vanguard company. Often seen in the company of Tulm the Mithril’s personal vanguard, so it’s not surprising to see him here in one sense. In the other—deploying a War Walker in an urban environment is…and against students who might not even be Level 20? Some of them—I wonder if the Titan of Baleros would care to comment. We, er, understand he is watching, no doubt, and perhaps this development had caused him to reconsider his claim to, ah—”
The image broke off. Niers saw another [Mage], the Centaur, edging around to stare at Niers standing on Teura’s head. He looked over and saw Tulm staring at him. Niers smiled and adjusted his voice so it boomed across the plaza to Tulm.
“Ah, Tulm. You only brought one?”
He was rewarded by just the slightest of changes in expression. Then Niers turned and watched the rest. He completely ignored the two Drakes trying to get his attention as the scrying orb flicked back to the action.
 
——
 
“Move! Scatter!”
Tefret bellowed at the other students. Eleven raced away; Xol and the pursuing Dullahans had already knocked out seven. The Dullahans on the southern entrance to the plaza had formed a triple line; there was no chance of getting past them. And Xol was pursuing the others. The giant was outrunning horses, at least in the narrow streets. Xol whirled as Tefret charged him on horseback.
“Xol!”
The [Mage Captain] leapt from his horse and slapped it to make it race away. He aimed his wand and pointed.
“[Storm Arrows of Light]!”
A hundred missiles shot from the tip of his wand, blasting outwards in a spiral. They hammered Xol as the Dullahan turned towards him. The [Juggernaut] didn’t bother to shield his face. He just charged into the hail of magical arrows.
“Trees rot it all—[Aerial Burst]!”
The half-Elf pointed at the ground. The shockwave blasted him off his feet and into the air. He landed on a rooftop, sprinted across the top, and pointed down.
“[Sticky Webs]! [Water Geyser]!”
The webs shot down, hitting the giant Dullahan. A huge column of water blasted out after the webs, enough to knock several Dullahans down. Tefret leapt.
“[Featherfall]! [Hammer Kick]!”
He hit the ground lightly from the two story drop and kicked a charging Dullahan. The metal armor bent around the midsection as the Dullahan dropped. Tefret whirled. He had to run! Time for another plan. Without using deadly spells, there was no chance of felling Xol. On the plus side, the [Juggernaut] couldn’t pursue him hard. If he ran—
The half-Elf sprinted for an alley. He stopped as his [Dangersense] screamed at him and halted. The wall exploded outwards, and Xol appeared. His armor was wet and a few strands of webbing clung to the enchanted metal. Tefret looked up at him with a weak smile.
“Then again, I didn’t have a chance anyways, did I?”
Xol bent. The giant Dullahan tensed. Tefret raised his wand.
“[Valmira’s—]”
A hand grabbed him. The [Mage Captain] fired the spell into the palm for all the good it did. He went up and then slammed into the ground. His body didn’t break. The paved stone did. Tefret grinned up dizzily at Xol as the Dullahan stared down at him. The half-Elf croaked.
“I am a huge admirer of yours. May I buy you a drink?”
Xol smiled.
“Later.”
 
——
 
“Dead gods. Dead gods.”
The first encounter with the Iron Vanguard spread like wildfire across the city. Half the students creeping out of their hiding spots immediately retreated. The fire that Niers had lit under their bellies vanished.
“A [Juggernaut]? How are we supposed to beat that?”
A Drake grabbed her Gnoll friend and whisper-screamed in the apartment they’d hidden themselves in. The Dullahan watching out the window gave them a sympathetic look. The Gnoll [Tactician] was breathing heavily.
“I—I do not know. Dullahans should be slow, no? Maybe—”
“Slow? You saw that thing! It caught a horse! And it got Tefret like that!”
The Drake snapped her claws. The Gnoll nodded a few times. She licked her lips.
“Piccy, we may be outmatched. We are only in our second year. Maybe we should give up. The other students may be able to take on the Iron Vanguard. But we—”
“Give up? But we won’t get another shot for years! I knew we should have prepared more. I knew it. Oh, Ancestors, why didn’t we think? We can’t go outside. We go, and we’ll get caught like that—”
Piccy snapped her fingers. She clutched at her neck spines and glanced at the window. Then she heard a pop.
A Dullahan [Mage] appeared in their room. She wore no robes; her armor shone like glass, a brilliant yellow stone mixed with dark black metal. She pointed at the Drake and Gnoll.
“Located.”
“Jump for it!”
The Gnoll went for the window. The Dullahan pointed as the apartment’s room owner fled.
“[Water Wall].”
A torrent of water shot upwards, engulfing both [Tacticians] in a moment. The Drake and Gnoll floated helplessly, choking for a few seconds, before the Dullahan [Mage] levitated them out and into the air. The [Mage] paused to turn back to the other Dullahan, who was staring in horror at the captured students.
“My apologies for the disruption, Miss. Please submit any water damages to the Iron Vanguard pending the conclusion of this exercise.”
Then she leapt and floated down the street. And the Wistram [Mage] had seen it all.
“How did they find them?”
Noass pounded the seat of his armrest, staring at the replay of the two [Tacticians] being caught. He turned to Sir Relz. The Drake was thinking.
“No doubt the two were giving off some kind of signal. But what? I have to think it was a [Scrying] spell employed by the Iron Vanguard’s mages. They must be looking for magical hotspots.”
“Can you explain, Sir Relz?”
“Naturally. Any artifacts that give off magic, any powerful spellcaster would show up under certain scrying spells. Those would obviously locate some of Daquin’s citizens, but more than a few students would easily be caught this way unless they have counter spells! This is—well, it’s effective, but is it sporting?”
“It certainly wasn’t for those two poor girls. Two of Izril’s own, gone like that! This really is a one-sided match so far. And what’s this?”
The image blurred. Daquin’s watch tower, at least eighty feet in the air, had a guest. That would be a Wistram [Mage], who backed up as she saw someone else climbing up. A furry, somewhat shaggy—the two Drakes stared.
“That’s no Gnoll. I know Gnolls, and that is not a Gnoll. Sir Relz?”
“No…that has to be—”
The Fox Beastkin growled up at the [Mage] staring down at him.
“Move.”
She leapt sideways into the air, making an affronted sound as he shoved her aside. The leather-clad adventurer took no notice. He strung a longbow as he stood on the small tower, staring around. Then he took aim.
“Got one.”
He pulled an arrow out with a shaped head, aimed it, and loosed in less than a second. The arrow flew down, emitting a shrieking sound as the carved head caught the air. And when it landed, it detonated with a cloud of smoke. The running Centaur yelped as Dullahans converged on her location. The [Sniper] looked around and twisted.
“Got two. Twenty gold pieces.”
He loosed again, shooting an arrow through a window and pegging a Dullahan peeking out in the chest. She fell back as smoke billowed from the window. Noass and Sir Relz stared. The Drake with the spectacle spoke slowly.
“That would be a Gold-rank adventurer. Samile the Watcher, part of the Whisperstep band. It appears Tulm the Mithril is expanding his vision with him on the tower. Noass, would you have a chance of hiding against a Gold-ranked [Sniper]?”
“Not a chance, Sir Relz. And I would dare any Silver-ranked team to do better than these poor students.”
Both Drakes were nodding. Sir Relz looked back in the scrying orb, and fixed it with a stern gaze.
“Lord Astoragon, I’ll ask again since you appear not to be hearing me. Is this unfair?”
 
——
 
“Oh, shut up.”
Feshi growled at the image in the scrying orb. She was crammed into a root cellar. A very small, unfinished root cellar. But it was practically invisible even up close, the smell of the cellar would foil any nose, and the dirt provided some protection from scrying spells. As did the talisman tied to Feshi’s necklace of fangs. It was a gift from her tribe’s [Shaman], and she defied the Iron Vanguard to find her with their spells. She could even watch the scrying orb.
All in all, it was a wonderful hiding spot. The Gnoll had located it in a preparatory visit to Daquin. Feshi’s only complaint was that she hadn’t been the only one to find it. She shifted, and nearly collided with the person sitting next to her. Wil stared into his scrying orb and winced; another student was caught.
A Dullahan [Strategist] both he and Feshi knew had been beating a group of Dullahans back with a quarterstaff. He’d fought quite well—right up until Xol had charged into the alley and rammed him into a wall. The Gnoll sucked in her breath.
