“Hang on. Don’t I know you…? What’s this about the city? We know the Titan’s having some kind of game, but where did those warships come from? That’s the Iron Vanguard! Is the city under siege or something?”
“No. Tulm the Mithril is taking part.”
“What?”
Umina shot a glance over their shoulder. Every second they spent…she waved at the [Sailors], one of whom looked like a [Captain].
“Hey. We’ve got a favor to ask. My friend and I are trying to win this thing, but the Iron Vanguard’s going to be unloading soldiers in moments and searching the city! Mind if we hide in your ship? Please?”
Marian stared at Umina. She mouthed silently, something along the lines of ‘that’s your plan?’ But the [Sailors] just blinked at each other. Then one nodded.
“Of course! Let us get a rope! We’ll haul both of you up on the sly. Hey! Get those crates in the way! We’ll smuggle you two below decks, and if any landlubber asks—well, no one’s getting on our ship, Great Company or not!”
The crew instantly went running. Marian blinked at Umina.
“How did you do that?”
The Lizardgirl just grinned.
“Know your audience. Remember the crowd? Look.”
She pointed. The first [Sailor] was already back. And as the others tossed down a harness used for horses for Marian, the Centaur noticed what had made Umina pick this ship. The crew, with the exception of Ronny, were all Lizardfolk.
“Umina, right? You’re doing us proud! The Titan’s personal class! You’d better win this one for us!”
The [Sailors] congregated around the two as they helped lift Marian, hiding them as the two disappeared below decks. Marian was following Umina shaking hands and touching tails as she smiled. The Centaur stumbled as she went down the cramped and, to her, very narrow stairs; she was breathing harder even though the below decks were quite spacious.
“We need a hiding place. Can we move your stuff?”
“Sure, sure. Need a hand?”
“Just tell us when the Iron Vanguard moves in! And in the name of Nagas, don’t act suspicious!”
“Uh—”
“Just don’t act unnatural! Get drunk or something!”
The [Sailor] brightened up and headed upstairs. Marian looked at Umina as the Lizardgirl checked the hold.
“We don’t have nearly enough to take on Tulm the Mithril’s soldiers. Your tripvine bag won’t work on the elites, Marian. We need a better plan and fast.”
“I’ve got gold. And some stuff in my bag of holding. Is the world…rocking to you?”
The Centaur replied faintly. Umina glanced up.
“We’re on a ship, Marian.”
“Oh. Centaurs don’t like being at sea. Or boats. Or small spaces, Umina.”
“Bear with it until we can go, Marian.”
“We could go now. There are better hiding spots.”
Marian danced in place nervously, then felt ill. Umina sighed.
“No. We hide here, at least for the first hour.”
“But if someone gets to the Professor before us—don’t you want to win?”
The Lizardgirl paused. She met Marian’s eyes, and there was a fire there that made the Centaur forget her sea—her harborsickness for a moment.
“I do. And we’re going to win, Marian. But we need intelligence on how Tulm is moving. How many soldiers are on each street, whether he’s concentrating his forces or spreading them out—anyone who rushes the plaza right off will get caught. We need to wait for an opening.”
“But if we’re trapped in this wooden box—”
Marian gulped. Another Lizardwoman had come down. She eyed Marian and silently handed her the most important object in the pair’s plan so far. A bucket. Marian immediately clutched it to her chest.
“Damned Centaurs. Get seasick on a rowboat in the middle of a pond. What can we do for you, Umina?”
The Lizardgirl smiled at the older [Captain].
“We could use eyes and ears, [Captain]. No one said we couldn’t ask for help. Can you put some of your crew out to let us know what’s happening?”
“Can do! Don’t worry, my crew’ll love to help out. No one’s getting on our decks. And—”
Both Lizardfolk winced as the boat rocked in a gentle swell and Marian promptly threw up.
“—don’t worry about your friend here. Or my decks. This is the most fun we’ve had in ages! Tulm the Mithril! And the Titan himself! You think we can win?”
“We can.”
Umina met the [Captain]’s eyes and got a grin. She reached out and patted Marian on the back.
“But first we hide. And wait. And we see what happens next. The Professor always says that information wins wars. That, and armies. We’re working on the second part.”
 
——
 
“Halt! The harbor is sealed by the Iron Vanguard company!”
The order came when Luan was a few hundred feet from the warships. He cursed, but he slowed and half-rose to shout back with hands cupped over his mouth.
“I’m a City Runner! I have a priority delivery! I can’t stop!”
There was hesitation aboard the warship. Except for war—no, even in war, City Runners were usually accorded immunity. The Dullahan aboard the ship called back.
“No entry! You will have to wait! If the request is urgent, the package can be relayed!”
“I don’t think that’ll happen.”
Luan muttered to himself. He stood up.
“I can’t deliver to anyone but the recipient! You know the Runner’s Guild rules! I can prove I’m a City Runner! I have my seal here!”
So saying, he paddled forwards. The Dullahan on board turned and paced up to what looked like the [Captain] or another officer. He came back and shouted after a second, and Luan had closed maybe fifty feet.
“No entry! By order of Tulm the Mithril, no one is allowed into the harbor! Turn back at once!”
Tulm the Mithril? Luan had no idea who that was, but he sounded like someone important. Still, the City Runner had no choice. He pretended to go forwards at a decent rowing pace, as if he were putting his back into it.
“I have to make my delivery! Sorry, friends!”
“No—”
The voice cut off, and Luan saw the Dullahan gesture exasperatedly towards him. Some Dullahans approached with nets and began slinging them from the first warship to the one at anchor across from them. They were going to form an artificial wall! Luan grinned.
“Too slow! Here we go!”
He swung around the boat, then put his back to the warship. In the mirror, he saw the Dullahans pause, hoping perhaps that he’d given up. Not so; Luan had just gotten in the proper sculling position. He bent forwards, dipped his oars in the water, and pulled. And he took off.
“[Power Strokes]!”
Luan saw the water heave as his agile craft shot left—not towards the gap between the first warship, but between another pair. The Dullahans blinked and stared for a moment—Luan was shooting across the water faster than they could run! He heard a cry from the Dullahans on watch.
“Dead gods! Put the nets down now! [Mages], stop that boat—”
Pull. Swing. Dip. Pull. Swing—Luan heaved, and the force shot his scull out of the water. He felt the boat land and grinned. A net landed in front of him, which was really behind his scull—the Dullahans had misjudged how fast he was going.
“Is that a damned Courier?”
“[Mages]! Get over here now! I said—”
Pull! The oars didn’t send a huge splash of water flying; that was poor form. All of Luan’s strength went into the water and sent his boat flying. He saw someone pelting up the decks. But before the [Mage] could even get to the aft of the warship, he was through the gap. He shot through the harbor as the [Mages] raced to the starboard of their ships. More nets, but he was out of their range. But spells?
“No, no, no—”
Luan turned right. Something—it looked like a huge net made of spider webs—struck the water with a large splash next to him. The second spell was a ball of purple that imploded in the water, creating a whirlpool and trying to drag Luan in. He rowed furiously, dodged a third spell that looked like some kind of magical anchor, and saw the docks coming up fast. No time to slow—
“Gah!”
The impact splintered the front of Luan’s boat and capsized him. Luan frantically grabbed at the pier’s docks as he surfaced and, with bag of holding in hand, clambered over the side. He saw a ship full of Lizardpeople watching him with interest.
“Look at that Human go!”
“Is he a student? Good luck, Human!”
Luan heaved himself onto the docks, swearing and dripping with water. He stared at his broken scull, but it was too late for regrets. He saw the Dullahans on the warships pointing, but for some reason they weren’t chasing him! He decided not to chance it. If worst came to worst, he’d buy a ride back to Talenqual. Fifty gold pieces could buy him the scull of his dreams—or at least, a much better one.
“The Starlight Requiem. The Starlight Requiem—”
The [Rower] panted as he ran up an inclining street. The inn was close to the docks! He just had to go up two streets. He was prepared for anything or to fight through a crowd, but the streets were eerily empty. All he saw was a running Lizardperson—no, wait! Was that a Drake?— disappearing down one street. And then another empty street. And…windows with people staring down…
Luan slowed. He looked around. Every window in the upper floors was full of staring faces. Lizardfolk, Dullahans…they stared down at him. Someone shouted from above.
“Hurry up! Time’s nearly up!”
“Time? What time?”
The face was confused. Luan looked around, and his stomach was in knots. What had Venaz gotten himself into? He spotted a sign and raced towards it.
“The inn! Hello? Is anyone—”
The Runner pushed open the doors and staggered in. He took one look around. The [Innkeeper] looked up. He was a Dullahan, and his body lumbered towards Luan like something out of a horror film while his head shouted from the counter.
“Oh no! You can’t hide in here! I can’t have my inn destroyed!”
“Wait! I’m looking for a Minotaur—”
“I sent him out too! No one’s hiding here! I get enough things broken with the [Sailors] brawling! Out! Out!”
“But where did he—”
The Dullahan chased Luan out; the man backed up fast, and the doors slammed in his face. He looked around and grabbed at his hair.
“That goddamn—where is he?”
Venaz was nowhere in sight. And judging by the commotion, something was going on. Something bad? Luan stared up at the people in the windows.
“Did a Minotaur come this way? I have a delivery for him! I’m a City Runner!”
There was an ooh from above. Some of the watching citizens turned to each other.
“Should we tell him?”
“What if he’s on the Mithril’s side?”
“But a City Runner—anyone remember where he went?”
“…No.”
“Damn.”
Luan ran down the street, searching frantically. But no one was on the ground! It was as if—then he saw a group of [Soldiers] marching towards him. There were eighteen Lizardfolk and three Centaurs. They stopped as they spotted Luan. One of the Lizardfolk frowned.
“Wow. They suck at hiding. Is this really who’ll be commanding us? Hope this one’s a washout.”
The Centaur leading the group frowned. He was armed with what looked like a catch pole. Another Centaur had a long, curved stick much like a hockey stick, ideal for tripping people up. The Lizardfolk had nets, staves. And clubs. Luan gulped.
“I’m a City Runner. On a delivery.”
He held up the bag of holding and fumbled for his seal. The [Soldiers] stared at it. They looked at each other. The Lizardman scratched at his frills.
“Okay, that’s sort of smart. Do you think he’s telling the truth, though? Anyone can get a seal if you paid enough. Is it a student?”
The Centaur looked vexed. He stomped a hoof.
“Take anyone on the street! That’s what the Mithril said, and we’re part of this game. You want to turn down ten gold coins?”
“When you put it like that—get him!”
“Wait! Shit—”
Luan turned to run. The Lizardfolk and Centaurs raced after him. He heard galloping hooves and knew there wasn’t much point in running—Luan stopped with his hands up in front of a closed stables. He turned, and Centaur bearing down on him reigned up.
“Sensible, Human. Look, if you are a City Runner, you’re in bad luck. If you don’t run, we won’t beat on you. How’d you get into the city, anyways? The gates are locked tighter than an Ogre’s ass.”
“How tight is that anyw—”
“I got in through the harbor. Past the warships.”
The Centaur looked surprised, then delighted.
“You got past the Iron Vanguard? Hah! So much for sea superiority. Alright, turn around and we’ll put some ties on you. You can sit in the plaza with the other captives; you might be the first one. The game’s just started. Shame you aren’t a student, though.”
“Game? What game?”
“You didn’t hear? Well—damn, we’ll let them explain. It’s just begun, though, so you’re lucky you’re off the streets. It could get chaotic. Especially with Tulm the Mithril seeking. I heard that when he played against the Titan, he burned half a city down—”
Luan stared at the Centaur as the [Soldier] fumbled with some rope. The other [Soldiers] looked disappointed they couldn’t beat Luan up. They were chatting to Luan as a patrol of Dullahans came around the street. They were marching fast and armed like this group, but the way the Lizardfolk and Centaurs stiffened told Luan they were at odds, for all they were on the same side.
“Halt!”
“We’re on your side, idiots!”
The Lizardfolk shouted back. The Dullahans marched over to them, and the leader pointed at Luan.
“Is this a student? We’ll take him.”
“And steal the gold reward? We have him, thank you, [Captain]. Your [Strategist] may be in charge, but we can do our job.”
“I’m not a student—”
“Did you say the game’s started? I thought it was in two more minutes!”
The Centaur snorted as he pawed the ground, his group facing off with the Dullahans.
“Your time’s off. Lord Astoragon just called a start to the game! Think we’d cheat and—”
He broke off and turned. So did the Dullahans. And Luan. They stared at the stable doors. The muffled voice had come from there. Someone from inside spoke.
“Hah. Told you that timekeeping artifact’s utter trash, Tompha. Alright. I guess we’d better start this off.”
Luan threw up his hands and shouted.
“Start what off—”
The game of hide-and-seek, the Titan’s challenge, the competition in Daquin, started in earnest next to Luan. It started with a whumph of sound as the doors of the stable blew outwards. A group of eighteen students burst out of the stables, riding full-tilt on stolen horses straight for the plaza. The [Soldiers] turned to run after them, and one threw a bottle. Luan turned and dove as he saw the glass break; he felt something strike across his back and try to unravel, but the tripvine missed.
