The Centaur was fighting with the Iron Vanguard, but like the others, he was moving fast. There were more students popping up around the city, but even combined, they had only a fraction of the Iron Vanguard’s force plus the Forgotten Wing [Soldiers]. But by the same token, the Iron Vanguard couldn’t use all of their soldiers without leaving the plaza exposed. Wil and Feshi looked at each other. The Gnoll bared her teeth.
“So you were right. What now? Do we go above?”
“Not yet.”
Wil’s eyes were fixed on the scrying orb. He glanced up through the slits in the root cellar’s trapdoor. And then he looked at Feshi.
“Listen to those Drakes. They’re fools twice now. They’re acting as if this changes anything.”
Feshi smiled crookedly.
“I agree. This is our teeth we’ve bared. But that Tulm, he has not used a single Skill. And I think—we had better keep hidden until we see what he can do.”
Wil nodded. Then his eyes flicked to the scrying orb.
“It looks like the Professor will give us a chance to see just what we’re up against.”
 
——
 
“Foul!”
Niers shouted cheerfully. Samile the Watcher stopped shrieking as half a dozen [Mages] caught him mid-fall and gently lowered him to the ground. He sat there, breathing hard, looking quite flushed. The Titan stood on his dais and shouted into the scrying orb.
“That was fairly lethal! But in fairness’ sake, I’ll say that there were few ways to take that adventurer out that weren’t lethal! Either give him a Ring of Featherfalling or no one goes up there!”
He pointed at Samile. The adventurer nodded vigorously. Then the Titan sat back down and continued watching. From atop Teura’s head, now. The half-Elf coughed pointedly but politely.
“Lord Astoragon. Do you have any comments? I understand our [Commentators] and our audience would like you to speak some words. We have four hundred and twelve [Message] spells directed at you—”
She winced as Niers jumped off her head with a sigh. The Titan adjusted his hat, kicked over his folding chair and footrest and the bowl of nuts. The audience watched as he cleared his dais.
“Very well. If Wistram insists, I suppose you could twist my arm into it. Now, as for that last encounter. I’m pleased to see my officer classes are paying off. The Dwarf is Merrik, a fine [War Leader] rather than a formal military class. I understand he fought several brisk battles in the mountains against Trolls before coming here. Rather hasty with his Skill, but as you can see, he is indomitable against a lower-level class of officer.”
Niers gestured towards the scrying orb as he paced back and forth. The [Mages] desperately tried to recall the image of Merrik. The scrying orb flicked to Sir Relz and Noass. The Drake cleared his throat.
“Ah, so would you say this Dwarf is a contender for—”
The Titan spoke right over the Drake, loudly drowning him out. He gestured towards himself, and the feed was replaced by him once again.
“A fine stalwart lineholder capable of reversing the odds in any army. As for Kelsa and Romin, they’re clearly adept at taking the fight to the enemy in that quintessential Centaur charge, although I’ll note that both were handicapped without their weapons. Romin uses a lance, you see—quite impossible to use nonlethally when he charges.”
He chuckled. Teura opened her mouth, but Niers pointed, and it snapped shut. The [Mage] glared, affronted, as he went on.
“And Kelsa usually had blades on her staff. Both ends; quite deadly too. I forget what she called it. As for Peki, her style speaks for itself. As far as aerial commanders go, I consider her my best. It reminds me of the time she executed a rather splendid raid by air during a training exercise. With twenty Garuda, she managed to defeat a force of nearly a hundred, ironically by using nets—”
Perorn watched Niers strut about, recounting his story as both the Drakes and Teura tried to cut him off. But it was too late. Now the Titan was calling out his students by name as they appeared on the scrying orb.
“Wonderful deflection by Jekilt there. But he is a [Captain], and he can easily divert a charge. You see, it’s impossible to take him with a similar number of unled soldiers. Hah, well, even a [Captain] of the same level might struggle to do it. See how he’s leading his troop down that alley? He hasn’t spotted the Dullahans, but his [Dangersense] plus his intuition Skill, [Battlefield Awareness], is letting him outmaneuver the enemy. He may have other Skills, but I’m afraid that’s his business. Nevertheless…”
He knew each student. Their quirks, their abilities, and their strengths. And the Fraerling was cheerfully shouting into the scrying orb, broadcasting his praise across the world. You couldn’t pay for a better endorsement.
“Pay for publicity. There’s a new thought. I had to kill enemy [Generals] and monsters to get my name out there.”
The Centauress murmured ruefully. She watched Niers, her earlier vexation at him completely forgotten. Because he was playing another game, below his cheerful support of his students. What was it he always said?
Tell a story, Perorn. History is a story. And stories win hearts, more than any speech.
It was all about stories. And here was one now. The world had seen him appear and nearly crush Niers’ students. Tulm the Mithril, one of the most powerful Dullahans in the world. You would bet he would win if you just looked at the odds. But would you? If you weren’t part of the Iron Vanguard, if you weren’t a Dullahan—no, even if you were, who wanted to root for him?
Look at Cameral, his hiding place discovered, throwing Flashfire Dust into the eyes of a [Mage]. Look at a Dullahan girl, wrestling with a [Soldier] twice her size, throwing him, getting away. Children versus adults. A new generation versus an old one.
Tulm the Mithril. Call him Tulm the Villain. Because he wasn’t the one who should win. Every species was represented here, or nearly. Dwarves, half-Elves, Humans, Drakes, Gnolls, Garuda—so many species. No matter who you were, you had someone to cheer for. And across the world, Perorn thought they were.
“Show us victory. Show us you can beat the Mithril.”
She looked at the scrying orb. Then Perorn’s head turned. She saw Tulm standing at his impromptu war room, snapping orders. He appeared unruffled. But that was only a façade. He was irritated. The Wistram [Mages] crowding around him, asking questions, didn’t help. He was not used to this. And worse, someone was making comments every few seconds.
“Agh! And that group of Dullahans going down the alley is jumped by Xelic and Sillk. Ah, Sillk, one of our [Rogues]. A splendid takedown of the Dullahan leader. Foliana would have been proud. Are you watching, Foliana? Ah—I would like to mention that Sillk is one of our officers in training. We do not and have never operated an [Assassin] training school, contrary to popular opinion.”
“Would you swear that on a truth spell, Lord Astoragon?”
The Fraerling paused.
“I hardly see the need to. Anyways, as I was saying, wonderful ambush. A shame Tulm, my prized student, missed it. Really a pity, but no one’s perfect. And he’s not serious yet. Ah, and there goes another patrol. Tragic, tragic…he might consider bringing them in now that my students are going on the offensive, but I trust his strategy.”
He turned and gave the watching audience an unconvincing smile. Perorn laughed. It was the twinkle in his eyes. She saw Tulm stiffen at his table; he had a scrying orb to listen to as well. Or rather, a scrying mirror. Orbs were tricky and broke and rolled about. Perorn didn’t know why people loved the damn things.
Still, the Titan’s voice was just that. A voice. Niers Astoragon had given his word not to interfere, let alone use a Skill. You could tune him out. It was just psychological warfare. If you ignored it, it didn’t have an effect on you.
And if you believed that, you didn’t know anything about the Titan. Perorn watched. She waited. And if she could have heard Wil in his root cellar hiding spot, she would have agreed. Anyone who thought Tulm was rattled, that he was losing or unprepared, was a fool. The Dullahan looked up as Perorn stared at him. And the audience around Niers, laughing at a joke the Fraerling had told of one of Tulm’s past mistakes as a student, went quiet.
A cold wind blew. No—it was a wind that had no basis in air. It blew only through flesh. It touched only bone. Freezing. And he stood straighter.
Like a statue that consumed light and gave only a silver glow. With eyes that shone in the day. And the sea of calm that had drowned even the Titan of Baleros. The ice that had crippled Fleethoof.
Tulm the Mithril turned. He bowed towards Niers once and placed his head on his shoulders.
“You were right, Professor. I suppose I must do my best.”
Tulm turned precisely, then stared across the field a moment before barking orders.
“Call them back. Xol takes the north, I will lead the south.”
The Dullahan standing next to him blew a horn. The Midnight Shields stood taller as Tulm walked past them. He looked around, and the Dullahans standing in the plaza looked at him.
“The Midnight Shields will hold this ground. Four hundred of the Iron Vanguard hold these streets. The Forgotten Wing’s [Soldiers] form hunter packs of fifty. Form up in companies of two hundred and disperse the rest as independent patrols. Wait on my mark for targets.”
Horns blew. The [Mages] raised their hands to their temples. Dullahans fell into ranks, their painted armor gleaming in the light. Tulm walked down their ranks. He stopped in front of his chief [Mage].
“Activate the Screamer Dust.”
“The—”
Perorn inhaled. She saw the [Mage] move his fingers. He whispered a word. A single incantation. An activation phrase.
And the world began to shriek.
 
——
 
“What’s happening!?”
Umina and Marian heard the air begin to vibrate. Then the vibrations turned into a hum. A shriek of noise that split the air, louder and higher-pitched than any cry. In their root cellar, Wil and Feshi were deafened by the noise. The Gnoll’s ears were bleeding as she tore herself out of the cellar.
Hiding in the water by the harbor docks and the remains of his boat, Luan saw the Centaur and Lizardgirl staggering out of their hold. The [Sailors] backed up, shouting over the noise. But it was intense! The two [Strategists] shouted at each other, and then the Lizardgirl pointed to the water. She dove, and the sound faded. Marian did the same, and Luan saw the two treading water. The ringing in his ears faded and he heard the Centauress, still shouting, paddle towards the shore.
“What in the name of horse shoes was that?”
“Screamer Dust! We must have gotten hit by it! But I have no idea when—”
The Lizardgirl was shouting too, rubbing at hear earholes. Then her eyes widened.
“The plaza! Remember those [Mages] throwing something? Feshi was sneezing—oh, Nagas! We all got hit! Listen!”
She grabbed her friend. Luan could hear it too. The dust or whatever had been causing that noise had washed off the two in the water, but across the city the sound was echoing. Hundreds of students were flushed out of hiding. And the waiting soldiers pounced on them before they could wash their dust off.
“That dirty, cheating—”
The Centauress swore with words Luan had never heard before. They sounded like horse expressions. ‘Salt-licking coward?’ He almost laughed, but the look on her face was bleak. The Lizardgirl nodded. Then her eyes widened.
“Hold on. One’s getting nearer! It’s—”
Luan saw a huge, bellowing figure sprinting down the street. Right at him. The [Rower] dove just in time. Venaz plunged into the water, flailed about, and then swam to the docks. He heaved himself out of the water, cursing.
“Underhanded. When I get my hands on that spineless—”
He broke off as he saw the two looking at him.
“Marian! Umina! So that’s where you two have been. I should have known. You got doused as well?”
“We were hiding here! Where have you been?”
The Minotaur shook his head. He wiped water out of his eyes, casting a glance up the street.
“Never mind that. We need to move. Now. More students will be trying to get here. And the damned [Soldiers] are sure to have heard us. I passed a patrol of Forgotten Wing soldiers on the way here.”
“You idiot, Venaz—”
“If I had my plan in place—”
“You!”
All three turned as Luan heaved himself out of the water. The [Rower] glared at Venaz. He stomped towards him. The Minotaur brightened.
“Ah! Perfect!”
“Where were you? And what is going on? I did not get paid for—”
The Minotaur was holding his hands out, completely unapologetic and reaching for his bag of holding. Marian was staring at Luan. Umina was looking at neither. She glanced up the street.
“Oh no. Here they come!”
She pointed. Luan saw a patrol of Dullahans, Centaurs, Lizardfolk, and Selphids charging down the street. Three Humans too. Venaz swore. Marian pointed.
“This way! Plan B, Umina! Follow me!”
She grabbed the Lizardfolk girl and tossed her onto her back. The Centaur galloped down the docks as the [Soldiers] pointed and gave chase. Venaz turned to Luan.
“My bag!”
“My money!”
“No time.”
The Minotaur glanced around. Luan backed up, but Venaz didn’t bother with the bag. He grabbed Luan and, like Marian, tossed all six feet plus of the [Rower] over his shoulder and took off. Luan swore and tried to break free, but Venaz was thundering along. He followed Marian as the Centaur wove and changed streets. The howling was still in the air. And then the Centaur halted.
“What is that?”
A wall of dark grey fog was coming towards them. Venaz stared as Marian backed up. Umina pointed.
“That way!”
“Put me—”
Luan bounced about and nearly bit his tongue. Then he heard a door slam. A flurry of voices, Venaz's outraged tone, and then a horrible smell. Luan twisted as he saw a huge opening into darkness. He realized what it was as Marian half slid down and shouted.
“Whoa, whoa, wait—”
Too late. He was tossed down the outhouse’s receptacle into the communal septic tank. Luan wished he could have landed on his feet. He did not. Worse, the ‘floor’ was liquid, and it went up to one ear. The [Rower] got up immediately then something splashed his face. Venaz had landed. The Minotaur uttered a bellowing oath as the privy closed and the Lizardwoman shut the toilet lid. Only a sliver of light entered the communal tank. Luan sensed something with a very big body and four legs getting up next to him, making incoherent whinnying noises. Then there was a flicker of light.
“[Light].”
A very small orb appeared in Umina’s claws. She held it up and looked around. She was standing knee deep in—and Marian, Venaz, and Luan were covered in—
