The city of Daquin was one of Baleros’ many port cities. It wasn’t quite a metropolis, but it was large. Its harbor could hold as many as eight warships at the same time without being overcrowded; the buildings were by and large stone, a product of a nearby quarry and the city’s rich history.
It was also over a hundred and fourteen miles away from Elvallian, the capital of the Forgotten Wing company and the training school Niers Astoragon and his company of students had departed from. And that was as the sparrow flew, if it could even get that far without being eaten.
Two days after they’d departed from the school, Niers Astoragon, and a company of nearly four hundred staff, teachers, guards, and students reached the city. Over a hundred miles in two days.
It was a trivial journey. Not worth even mentioning. The students rode while talking to each other merrily, thinking up last-minute plans, forging desperate alliances and fomenting betrayal all while enduring lectures from some of the teachers riding with them. The [Soldiers] watched the roads. The staff ensured there was hot food and that each of the stops was as comfortable as possible.
Nothing stopped the small procession. And it was small. And the distance was still negligible. Yes, for another rider, it might be a heroic distance to travel in such a short amount of time, especially by foot. But for a Great Company of Baleros?
If you wanted to, you could talk about enchanted wheels, horses raised by Beastmasters, the Skills employed by the [Strategists] that made the road disappear, and the prudence of travellers who decided not to block the Titan’s personal mobile home and travelling vehicle when not on the campaign.
It looked like a doll’s house mounted on a pushcart, and it was pulled by a donkey. To a Fraerling, it was the height of luxury, and Niers could relax on the porch while talking with people riding across from him and do paperwork at the same time.
The only vexation for Niers Astoragon was the bugs, and his mansion-on-the-go had enough warding spells and enchantments to fight off three Trolls. But it was entertaining watching him shoot down horseflies with a bow and arrow from the roof. Yes, you could talk about all of that. But that wasn’t the point.
Two days later, they were here. Umina, Venaz, Wil, Cameral, and the others who hadn’t elected to travel via horseback piled out of the comfortable, open-roofed coach they’d been chatting in. Somewhat tensely. Because they were here.
Daquin. It wasn’t that impressive. Elvallian was three times larger. If anything, Daquin was a letdown to anyone expecting to find something better after wandering through the Titan’s city of cities. But Daquin was special. Here, the Titan’s game would begin.
The [Strategists] and other students took in the city for a moment. And instantly, some of the perceptive students realized why Niers had chosen this city for his game of hide-and-seek.
“Narrow alleyways. An unfortunate lack of an [Architect]’s oversight when constructing the thoroughfares. You could hold an army in some of the streets. Others are too wide to easily block. The buildings are stone and wood; many with multiple stories. Some have doors that connect between buildings: Lizardfolk design. No sewers, though. But there are a thousand hiding spots. Only a few vantage points either. See?”
Marian pointed out a tower to Umina as she trotted into the city. The Lizardgirl, stretching her legs, hopped after her friend nervously. She looked around, trying not to hyperventilate.
“Right. Right! It’s great for hiding. There’re a few high spots. That large tower, there—”
She pointed to an extraordinarily high tower nearly half again the size of the building below it. Marian nodded.
“Looks like an archer’s tower. Or a watch tower. Either way, you could put someone up there to watch for [Pirate] raids or armies. Set up a high-level [Sniper] or [Mage] with long-distance spells…nice defensive spot.”
Yerranola laughed as she strode into the city. She elbowed the Minotaur walking beside her.
“Too bad we’re not staging a war game, huh, Venaz?”
The Minotaur snorted softly.
“I’ve changed my mind. This is enough of a battle for my liking. I should have known the professor wouldn’t trivialize this.”
He folded his arms as he surveyed the city. His eyes lingered on the open harbor; it had a bowl-shaped opening with external watch towers and a sea gate that could be closed. It was open, but Umina spotted several ships lingering in the harbor. They bore the Forgotten Wing company colors; it looked like Niers had even taken over the harbor for his games. Umina gulped as she passed down the street, following the Titan and some of the teachers. They were walking casually while the Titan borrowed a shoulder for a ride.
“Hey. Look at all the [Soldiers].”
She pointed. The other students looked. Yerranola gulped.
The streets were full of Lizardfolk, Dullahans, and Centaurs. Some were Daquin’s citizenry, but Umina saw an entire platoon of Forgotten Wing company soldiers marching out to greet the Titan himself. Yerranola muttered an oath as she counted.
“I can’t tell, but if every street is like this—how many did the Professor put in Daquin? A thousand?”
“Two thousand. It’s not enough to cover the city by far, but it’s a lot.”
Wil appeared behind the others. His face was so pale it was nearly white, but some color actually went back into his face as he stared across the street towards the harbor. Marian tossed her head uneasily.
“All this for a game. The Professor really doesn’t do things by halves, does he?”
“Would you expect anything else? Where are we gathering? Or are we just waiting for the others to gather?”
Venaz looked back irritably. Umina’s heart skipped a beat as she looked back and saw nearly two hundred of the oldest students following them. Older students in the [Strategist] classes, those training to be officers—she saw dozens of eyes staring at her and turned hurriedly. Yerra gulped, for a second losing her semi-permanent smile.
“Ooh. I got a lot of evil looks just now. Was there a Gazer in the crowd?”
“Rabble.”
“Some of those students have been studying as long as you, Venaz.”
“We’re part of the Professor’s personal class. Don’t let them shake you. The victor of this competition will come from our class; of that I have no doubt.”
The Minotaur raised his voice as a pair of Centaurs trotted by. They turned and stared at Venaz. He stared back, unruffled. Umina gulped.
“Yeah, but Venaz—look ahead. Those aren’t students. See that group? I think those are graduates.”
The Minotaur turned with the others. They saw a group of fifty or so waiting ahead of them. The Minotaur hesitated.
“Ah. Alumni. Seekers?”
“No. Didn’t the Professor say they’d be competing against us? They’re competition.”
“They…could be trouble.”
Umina nodded in agreement. She recognized some of them. The group was mostly in their late twenties, having graduated only recently. But some had already begun to make waves. She squeaked as she pointed at a half-Elf bearing a curved sword at his waist and wearing some kind of bright, white-steel armor covered by an armored cloak.
“Isn’t that Tefret, the [Mage Captain]? I heard he graduated two years back! He’s supposed to be employed in Terandria!”
“We’re supposed to beat him?”
“Of—of course. Don’t raise your voice, Marian. He’s barely higher-level than we are—”
“He killed a half-Giant in his first campaign after graduating. You ever beat a half-Giant, Venaz? Venaz?”
The urgent voices of the students in Umina’s class were only a backdrop to the larger conversation from the rest of the Titan’s students. The Lizardgirl grabbed Marian’s arm as they walked forwards. She spotted a Dwarf and Lizardman walking past her, both looking nervous as well. The Dwarf was panicking much in the way Umina was.
“Grandfather’s beards! I thought we wouldn’t have to compete against graduates, Sillk! It was bad enough having to deal with the Professor’s special class—that lot have seen actual combat!”
The Lizardman was nodding. He was maybe three years older than Umina and quite handsome. She stared at him as he placed a clawed hand on the Dwarf’s shoulder, but his tail gave away his nerves as well.
“Calm down, Merrik. Everyone has a shot. We just need to win. The game’s not just about hiding. Anyone could be first—or the last one standing. We all have unique abilities. I have my class. You have your…beard. What if we—”
He caught sight of Umina staring at him. She smiled and waved weakly. The Lizardman, Sillk, paled and dragged Merrik forwards. She clearly heard the Dwarf’s voice.
“What? What? Oh—isn’t that Umina? Blast it. Is she marking you?”
“Me? No way. Steady. Let’s just calm down…”
The two hurried forwards after the Professor. Umina swished her tail. Somehow, their panic had reassured her. They weren’t alone. She looked around and remembered the Professor’s lessons.
Calm down. Look around. See the other expressions? They’re all nervous. From Venaz to the other students in other classes. Even those graduates—we’re all competing, but no one’s that confident. See the way Tefret is standing? Hand next to his sword. Even a [Mage Captain]’s probably intimidated. Even though this is a game. He wants to win. So you have a chance. Remember that.
And she was calm. Umina felt her mind, the cold part that came out in the middle of battles, take over. She breathed evenly; she wasn’t just a student. She had seen battle. The Lizardgirl looked around and saw a few students meet her eyes. Some other students were doing what she was doing.
The ones to watch were calm. A Garuda with red feathers gave Umina a nod. A Dullahan woman with a quarterstaff in one hand looked back fearlessly. And to her left, Feshi and Wil. The same eyes. They’d calmed down too. That was the first step in winning a battle. The Gnoll grinned at Umina, and the Lizardgirl grinned back. Then someone grabbed her arm hard.
“Umina.”
And here was someone who hadn’t calmed down. The whites of Marian’s eyes were showing. Despite her experience, the atmosphere or perhaps the numbers of competing students had gotten to her. Umina winced as she saw the Centaur’s hooves; Marian was giving herself away as she practically pranced in place. Then again, the Lizardgirl was sure she’d been just as bad a minute ago.
“I’m getting nervous! I know we prepared, but do you really think—”
Before she could glance towards the harbor, Umina grabbed Marian’s arm and gave it a squeeze with her claws. The Centaur yelped and tried to pull back. Umina didn’t let go.
“Marian! Calm down! This is just like a war game with the Professor. A skirmish. Imagine you’re against Venaz. Don’t give in to the pressure; that’s how you’ll lose!”
It worked. It might not have worked on someone else, but like Umina, Marian had lived through her introduction to battle. Being attacked by Selphids in training wasn’t the last ordeal the Professor had put them through. And he’d taught them how to resist even [Fear] spells in combat. The Centaur stared at Umina, then the Lizardgirl saw her breathing shift. She inhaled slowly, and her eyes flickered. The pulse Umina felt through the Centaur’s arm slowed. After a second, Marian patted Umina’s arm.
“You can let go.”
The Lizardgirl did. Then she saw the blood on the tips of her claws.
“Oh. I’m—”
“It’s fine. It shook me out of it. You ready?”
Marian ignored the small punctures on her arms. She gestured around, and Umina saw her classmates had almost all gotten control of themselves. Feshi was smiling and sniffing the air, Jekilt’s arms were folded, but the [Captain] was icy calm. He probably hadn’t panicked. Venaz was growling and making a fist. Yerra was grinning and slapping Cameral’s shoulder. Wil was checking the sky, the position of the sun—only Cameral seemed to be panicking, and even then, not as badly as some of the other students.
“Look. The Professor’s stopped. Looks like he’s greeting the [Mayor] of the city.”
“Can’t be the [Mayor]. Daquin has a sitting council.”
“Fine, their council, then. Is this important?”
“No, not really.”
The students had entered a large plaza. Marian pointed out the Titan. He and the teachers had stopped to talk with a group of dignitaries, four Lizardfolk and two Dullahans, who were presumably the leaders of the city. There was some smiling and bowing going on—all very relaxed. Some of the [Soldiers] accompanying the group were offering the council a gift. Daquin’s citizens, the soldiers, and students waited.
Umina kept glancing about. There were so many! True, a lot would just be part of the audience. But Umina hadn’t considered how many eyes might rat out the hiders to whoever was seeking. Marian looked around, using her height to eye the [Soldiers].
“Looks like this isn’t a group of elite soldiers. The Professor might have just called in one of the reserve units. He’s got a good mix; no one specific species.”
Some of the [Soldiers] were yawning, while the others were talking to each other. They were clearly part of the game; they eyed the students with amusement, and Umina saw they were equipped with clubs, truncheons, nets—the equipment to take down the hiders. She gulped.
“Those are going to hurt.”
“We can fight back.”
“You mean, you can. I get hit by a club, I’m lying down. I—”
“Miss Umina! [Strategist] Umina! Over here!”
Someone shouted her name. Umina’s head turned around. It wasn’t one of the students in her class, or even a student at all. Out of the waiting citizens of Daquin, she saw a Lizardgirl waving excitedly. Umina blinked. Then she raised a hand. The Lizardgirl shouted back as some of the students turned to look.
“Miss Umina! I’m a big fan! You have to win the Titan’s game, alright? I’m going to be a [Strategist] when I grow up, like you!”
Umina turned bright red. The other students were looking at her! Some were glaring, but Umina saw a flurry of hands from the crowd. The Lizardgirl’s mother waved excitedly as well.
“Miss Umina! Win for the Lizardfolk!”
“I want [Strategist] Xelic to win!”
A Lizardman next to the mother pointed at Xelic, one of the other students in the special class. Xelic turned bright red and raised a claw, clearly not sure whether to wave or not. There was a laugh from the crowd, then a cheer.
“Umina! Xelic!”
The Lizardgirl looked around. Daquin was a Lizardfolk city, so at least a fourth of the crowd was Lizardfolk. And they all began taking up the chant, shouting the names of one or the other Lizardfolk in Niers’ class. Marian turned to look at Umina with the students. Yerra grinned.
