“Well then. Enough wasting time. Dead gods, we’ve spent far too long on this. Everyone knows the rules. Students! You have half an hour to hide. No one else is allowed to move from this plaza. This game ends at sunset. Or when someone reaches me. Begin.”
This time, Niers didn’t bother clapping his hands. He just stood in place. The students stared at him. The Titan’s eyes twinkled.
“That’s seven seconds already elapsed. My, you’re all confident.”
And then they realized the game had begun. Umina whirled. She saw Venaz glance at the sky.
“Nearly…nearly…damn!”
The students nearest the edge of the plaza were already turning and running. Umina saw a Centaur leap over the heads of the crowd nearest him; a Garuda took wing. The Lizardman she’d spotted earlier slipped past a line of Dullahans; his Dwarf friend didn’t bother and charged through, knocking several to the ground.
“Run for it!”
Yerranola was the first to run in her class. She leapt up, bounding up over the heads of the other students and then sprinting faster than Umina had ever seen her go in her life! The Selphid had to be Rampaging! Already?
“Watch for the Dullahan [Mages] everyone! I think—haekcho!”
Feshi bounded after Yerranola. She was sneezing hard, and Umina saw one of the Dullahans was pointing at their group. The others looked like they were waving their hands. A spell?
“No spells during the hiding phase!”
Niers bellowed, and the Dullahans stopped at once. His words provoked the rest of the students to take off. And desperate alliances were forming even in the chaos.
“Cameral, team up!”
A Dullahan girl snapped at Cameral. He fastened his head to his shoulders as he ran, thudding past Umina. She looked around desperately; now everyone was shoving to get free. Venaz hurled a Drake aside as he ran for the nearest alley. Umina’s head searched left and right. Where was—
“Marian!”
She shouted desperately. Someone seized her from behind. Umina shouted, but Marian flipped the Lizardgirl onto her back.
“Hold on!”
The Centauress had done a quick circle to gain momentum. Now she galloped ahead at full speed. The students ahead of her could get out of the way or be trampled. The Centaur shouted as Umina clung to her midriff.
“[Rapid Retreat]!”
She accelerated. Umina felt wind blast her in the face and saw the Centaur shooting towards a group of Dullahans from the Iron Vanguard. They took one look at her and scattered, abandoning their formations. Marian raced down a side street, a three hundred foot dash in three and a half seconds. She slowed as her Skill ended—but the ground still flashed past Umina. She screamed at Marian.
“Go straight! We’re going to the harbor!”
The Centaur raced ahead. A few students made it onto their street as Marian raced down it; some stopped where they were, looking for nearby places to hide. Others took off, going as fast as Marian and Umina. But not too far. Because victory lay behind them. It waited with the Titan as he laughed, waiting for his students to best the Dullahan standing to his left. His students ran with his words echoing in their ears.
They would be back. And they were going to win.
 
——
 
“It seems I’ve fallen into your trap once again, Professor. This feels…nostalgic.”
Tulm the Mithril stared at the flurry in the courtyard. He spoke absently, bitterly. Almost…fondly.
The Titan paused in waving at some of his staff to look back at Tulm. But the gaze the two shared was anything but nostalgic. Niers reached into his bag of holding and pulled out a tiny folding chair. He sat down on it.
“You don’t say.”
The Dullahan slowly turned his head on his neck to stare at his former teacher. He stared at the chair. Niers pulled a stool out of his bag of holding and put his feet up. Behind him, the [Mages] of Wistram stared, capturing the scene for the world to see. The Titan, the running students. It wasn’t a war. It wasn’t important, but at the same time, it was.
The world watched. Perorn was glad none of the [Mages] were looking at her, though. The huge smile on her face was uncharacteristic as it was smug. Tulm glanced at the Centauress, then slowly put his head on his shoulders.
“My own fault. But this game is still mine. If you want a winner—I will win. I have three thousand soldiers if you permit me to command your forces.”
“I do. And pull the crew off those six warships while you’re at it. Fill the streets if you want to. Use [Mages]—I’m sure you can get some to teleport in to help you out. Excuse me, I asked for a lime drink. Something properly sour. No sugar, thank you.”
The Fraerling frowned at Councilman Ulli, who’d hurried over with the drink in one claw. The Fraerling frowned at the drink, which was in a thimble and still the size of a bucket for him.
“Terribly sorry, Lord Titan! I’ll get you, uh—a fresh lime right away!”
The Lizardman turned red. Niers waved at him genteelly.
“It’s not a race, Councilman. Oh, and while you’re at it—a Centaur’s seat for Perorn unless she wants to watch somewhere else. And a drink? Tulm, will you have anything?”
“No.”
“And I’ll watch somewhere else. Best of luck, Mithril.”
Perorn stared at Tulm’s back. He ignored her, and the Centauress stormed off. Niers waited for his lime, reclining and watching the Dullahan. Tulm spoke absently at last.
“If Fleethoof cheats—”
He turned and raised a hand. The thimble bounced off Tulm’s palm, and the sweet limeade trickled down the mithril. Tulm shook his hand. Niers sat back down. Tulm waited a beat.
“If Perorn or any of your people cheat, the world will see. But you brought those [Mages] here for that reason, didn’t you? I think I’ll decline your offer. My ships stay where they are and my crews likewise. None of your students will leave the harbor or the gates. I intend to catch them all, and the water won’t hide them. First Armor Captain.”
“Sir.”
A Dullahan, one of the Midnight Shields, stepped forwards and pounded on their breastplate. It was impossible to tell whether they were male or female with their helmet on. Tulm nodded towards the ranks of Dullahans.
“Send word to the fleet. Every [Soldier] aside from the ship crews is to disembark once the thirty minute window has passed. Each warship will hold the harbor entrance and allow no one through; I want spotters watching the waters. The [Mages] will begin setting up wards—”
He hesitated and then glanced at the Wistram [Mages] before eying Niers briefly. The Titan looked up from accepting a second drink.
“Thimble? I have no idea, Ulli. You know where they get to. Maybe it fell down? Thank you. Nice and sour.”
The mithril-clad Dullahan frowned at the Wistram [Mages]. They were edging closer, and a few more were hovering on the outsides of the plaza.
“Focus on anti-teleportation spells at once. I want each entrance to the plaza sealed and watchers on the rooftops. [Mages] with net spells. No one will reach the Titan by air, ground—have a [Mage] begin sending signals through the earth to check for tunnels. And each squad is to activate anti-invisibility and anti-illusion countermeasures…”
He stared as Niers sat back. There was a bowl of candied nuts on his left, enough to feed the Titan for about a week, and some sliced fruits on his right. Niers leaned further back in his chair and sighed. Then his head came up, and he blinked at Tulm.
“What? I’m waiting for the game to start. Don’t worry, I’ll let you know when you can leave the plaza. Want some snacks? I could play a game of chess to pass the time.”
He grinned. Tulm stared at him expressionlessly, then turned. The Dullahan [Captain] followed him, already giving out orders. Niers drew his sword, sliced off some banana on his right, and took a huge bite. He sipped at his drink, sighed, and looked around.
The Iron Vanguard was spreading out in formation, and his soldiers were hopping to Tulm’s orders. The citizens of Daquin were being moved out of the way by the seekers, and some had gone to their houses. Others were staying out for a better look, even if it meant being clubbed by accident. Niers raised his voice and shouted as he spotted some of Wistram’s [Mages] casting spells he recognized.
“No [Mage] leaves the plaza until the time’s up! You with the wand over there! Try to leave with that [Invisibility] spell on and I will have you tarred and feathered as a sideshow!”
The [Mage] jumped, and the citizens of Daquin cheered. Niers sat back as the [Mage] hurried out of the crowd. He looked around and caught Tulm staring at him again. Niers waved. The Dullahan’s expression never changed, but he turned around. And what was Perorn doing? Talking with what looked like a [Merchant]. Why?
Ah. Bookkeeping. The Titan waved a hand and made a signal; one of his Selphid [Spymasters] approached, with a sugar cube.
“Get me our [Diviner]. We did bring one, didn’t we? I want to know the odds as they come in, and any conversations we can intercept. Oh, and get me the good wine. My stock, and don’t let anyone stop you. Perorn can have it over my dead body.”
“Any bets, sir?”
“I’m afraid Wistram would notice. No. Just interception.”
The [Spymaster] nodded and vanished. Niers laughed. He sat back, had a drink, and gestured for Teura to approach. No chair for her, though; she could bloody well stand. The Titan smiled as he watched the world focus in on Daquin and his students. It was going to be a very fun day.
For him, at least.
 
——
 
Luan stared at the city in the distance. He checked his map again, but Venaz had told him the name enough times. The City Runner, or rather City [Rower], stretched in his small single scull. He was already limbered up, to be honest; he’d gotten up early, had a stamina potion, and rowed out here from the neighboring port city hours ago. He’d been waiting all this time to go in.
Now Luan almost wished he’d ignored Venaz and gone in sooner. Because the sleepy harbor of Daquin had exploded with activity. First a few galleys had appeared, and one larger ship, and had sailed into the harbor. Not too bad; it could have been a [Merchant] group, but Luan had spotted armor on too many of the crew. But he would have still bet he could escape all of them if need be. And he was going in, so what was the worry?
The worry was the six gigantic warships that had appeared out of the blue and charged into the harbor. Each one was massive, and their crews were all Dullahan. Luan had been prepared to row for the horizon, but there hadn’t been any sounds of fighting. Just a few horns, those damned loud drums, and now…silence.
But something was going on in the city, Luan was certain. The South African man checked his heartbeat. Too fast, but he was nervous. Again he debated cancelling, but his reputation was on the line. So were fifty gold coins. So he just held his breath and checked the sun.
“Almost time. Almost time…”
The little bag of holding was clasped firmly between his knees. Luan eyed the warships. They’d set up a perimeter around the harbor. That was clear enough. And Venaz had warned him something like this might happen. Well, Luan had a few options…the City Runner held his breath. Then he checked the sun, swore, and began to paddle forwards. Slowly at first.
“Well, here goes. Venaz, friend, if I die today…”
He looked down at the bright, golden names on his arm.
“You’d better have that gold ready.”
Then he began rowing for Daquin. Just in time to see the Centaur and Lizardgirl racing across the docks.
 
——
 
Umina and Marian raced down the street. They’d taken a circuitous route, having gone the wrong way out the plaza first. But they were still galloping along, or the Centauress was. Umina clung to Marian’s torso as the Centaur slowed from their sprint, but she was still moving fast.
Ahead of them were only a few students; most weren’t heading their way, down a slope towards the harbor. Obviously, the Iron Vanguard would be coming from that direction, but a few had taken the risk. Intelligently or not. Umina saw a Drake and Gnoll [Tactician] duo she recognized running down the street. The Drake was screaming at her friend.
“There should be a cover to the sewers somewhere on the street! Or a drain at least! Where is it? Is it covered beneath the dirt, maybe? Help me find it!”
The Gnoll shouted at her partner’s back.
“There aren’t any sewers, you idiot! That was your big plan!? I thought you had a brilliant idea!”
The Drake was horrified.
“No sewers? What kind of a primitive city is—”
Marian galloped past them. Umina peered over her shoulder.
“Don’t go too fast! There’s an incline! And take a left down this street! To the port!”
Marian turned her head, breathless, as she galloped.
“We’re sticking to the plan? But the Iron Vanguard’s ships—”
“So what? There are still others in port! Left!”
The Centaur swerved. The two broke out of the street and onto the wooden pier. Umina swore as she saw the Iron Vanguard’s black vessels and grey sails. There were distant figures milling about on the decks.
“Oh, hells, Umina! They can see us from the harbor!”
“Back into the buildings, then! Use the smaller ships at the docks as cover! Pretend we’re going back!”
Umina dropped from Marian’s back. The two raced back behind a building and then came out, low to the ground, blocking their view of the Iron Vanguard’s warships with one of the smaller trading vessels anchored at the docks.
Marian panted; her withers were streaked with sweat. On a Centaur, that meant the part of her body where her humanoid torso met the horse part of her body. Centaurs had weird anatomy. But Marian had raced across the city faster than almost anyone else, proving why her species was unmatched on the plains. [Knights] on warhorses were dust compared to Centaurs on the charge.
“This had better work, Umina. We’ve got—”
“Twenty minutes left. We’re fine, Marian. We can do our fallbacks! Just hold on—hey! Hey, up there!”
The Lizardgirl had led them to the side of a ship. Now she called up cautiously. There was a second, then a scuffle, and then a [Sailor] poked his head over the side. His eyes widened as he saw her.
“What’re you doing? And what in the name of krakens is going on in the city!”
“Haven’t you heard? The Titan’s game of hide-and-seek is going on!”
Umina hissed up at him as Marian gulped for air. She felt silly putting it that way, but the [Sailor]’s eyes widened.
“Of course, we heard about that, but—Captain! Vexula! Ronny! Get over here!”
More [Sailors] appeared on the edge of the ship. Umina wished they wouldn’t be so obvious about it. They blinked down at the two [Strategists] huddled up against the side of their ship. One of them narrowed her eyes.
