As the dust settled, he saw a single, hooded figure step out of the pit. Just as he was about to lead the attack, an insidious Aura gripped him tight and threatened to shatter him at a moment’s notice, so heavy and ponderous it felt like a mountain had settled onto his shoulders and was crushing the very air from his lungs. Backing away out of instinctive fear, the Death Corps cleared the path before this Peak Expert and Min Gyu could hardly fault them. It was all he could do to remain rooted in place, studying this terrifying existence who made Eccentric Gam look like a mere child in comparison when it came to the Blessing of Divine Earth.

With a hunched back and wrinkled face, the hooded figure was hardly an imposing sight, but in Aura alone, Min Gyu was utterly inferior. When the figure reached Min Gyu and Gam, he lifted his head to reveal a bald, elderly warrior with wrinkled skin and sightless white eyes. She, he corrected, for this Expert was a woman, though uglier than any he’d ever laid eyes on. Buck teeth jutted out from her upper lip as her pinched face furrowed in anger, her unseeing gaze locked firmly on Eccentric Gam. “How. Dare. You?” she asked, raising a wizened hand to tap Gam’s chest, which sank into cloth and flesh like a chopstick through tofu.

To his credit, Eccentric Gam barely batted an eye as the elderly woman traced her finger down his sternum, leaving behind a mangled trail of flesh and blood. Sucking his teeth, Gam curled his lip in derision. “The Treaty stands, so unless you mean to break it, why don’t you fuck off and go eat worms, you wrinkled, old, hairless bag.”

Heaven’s above. How unfortunate could they be, stumbling across an errant Ancestral Beast?

“No respect.” Poking another hole in Gam’s chest, she swirled it about and elicited a small grunt from the hardy half-fox. “The others are so much better, all Venerated One this, and Venerated One that.” Moving faster than the eye could see, she slapped him across the face and caught him before his body could fly off. Unable to stand, Gam fell to his knees, head sagging as blood dripped out of his ruined mouth. “I don’t much like your disrespect, don’t like it much at all.”

Gathering his nerves, Min Gyu pieced things together and stepped forward to stop her from killing the half-fox. “Rude as his words may be, Venerated One,” he said, making sure to use her preferred title, “Eccentric Gam has a point. We are here on an Imperial mission, and as such, fall under the protections of the Treaty.” Searching the crowd for Jun Bao so he could show her the Imperial Token, he cursed beneath his breath when he found no sign of his old rival, with only blank, Death Corps gazes and a shocked Jorani staring back, so scared he’d dropped his weapons and had gone back to fiddling with his sleeve.

“Oh I know dearie,” the Ancestral Beast replied, and were it not for his terror, he would have burst into laughter at how grandmotherly she sounded. “I’m bound from interfering, but this one just killed many of my children, too many to stomach. My poor little babies, digging around in the dirt. I may not have birthed them, but I raised them all the same. How can I let this stand?”

Oh dear lord. She was deranged. Did she have some pet animals in the area or something?

“Besides,” she added with a gap-toothed smile, her breath foul beyond imagination, “If I kill you all, who’s left to complain? That’s what I brought my children here to do in the first place, so I might as well finish what they started. I'll feast on his flesh in honour of their memory, my poor baby mole-rats.”

Oh, things were so much worse than he’d thought.

This Ancestral Beast was Defiled.

Chapter Meme
