So…it’s neat to finally understand it on a deeper level. Now what do I do with it?

Keep the trait active, since it seemed to help. Try to find some other way to expand the personal space sensation more.

“I will get right on that. Eventually.”

For now, he needed to focus more on his walking. The demons were getting thicker.

They became more unavoidable as he went. He got hit by several. Most spattered against the coat. A couple crashed into the bomb case, which took the damage just as well as the coat did fortunately. One went through Alden’s calf, turning an inch-wide section of his jeans into dust, and another smacked off the back of his hand. Both times he had the awful jarring sensation, and then he recovered.

But the second time his trait cut out briefly before wobbling back to its usual functionality.

Careful, careful, he told himself, trying to see and interpret the path of every flying black dot at once. They’re damaging you somehow. Just because you can’t feel where the limit is, that doesn’t mean it’s not there.

The endless grass was starting to change as time passed. It was looking a little ragged in most places. There were lots of rotted, curled, or severed blades.

And a few hours into his journey, Alden started having pay more attention to the ground. There were potholes now. And more of the sandy patches Thenn-ar had told him to watch out for. To his surprise, the ground hadn’t collapsed directly beneath him yet, but once, a hole a couple of feet deep opened up right behind him, like it had just missed its chance to trip him and send him stumbling face first into a demon.

Not dead. Not yet.

He continued on.

A new sound joined the incessant droning at some point. Alden was so intent on staying on his feet and away from the flying hazards, that it might have been going on for ages before he noticed it. And even after he did, he was just so exhausted that it took him a while to register the importance of it.

A high tweeting sound, then a pair of low ones, then some high ones again. Like a confused songbird. He didn’t start paying attention to it until it was pretty loud, and when he finally did…

Oh, he thought. Oh, that’s bad.

It was the whistle he’d gotten from the doctor’s office. It made a slightly different sound every time you blew it.

The kids and their dad didn’t make it to the lab.

They should have. Hours ago. The armored car was fast.

For too long, Alden just stood there, idly ducking and stepping aside whenever he needed to. He tried to tell himself he was analyzing the situation, but he knew that wasn’t it.

He…was afraid to deal with it.

He wasn’t sure what he would find ahead, but he was sure it would be horrible. And it would be hard. And it would be his to handle.

And he wasn’t even handling himself that well right now. He was hanging on by a thread.

I can’t do this. I can’t. I don’t want to try harder than I’m already trying.

A demon bug crashed into his shoulder and fizzled away against whatever protections were made into the coat.

“You coward,” Alden whispered. “Why did you want to be an Avowed anyway?”

He remembered. His own dream felt really distant from him at the moment, though. Dimensions away. And maybe too naive.

So what? You’re just going to leave them in whatever trouble they’re in? You’re not even going to look?

No. That wasn’t it. He couldn’t live with it if he did. Or he didn’t want to be the kind of person who could live with it. One or the other. His motivations were blurrier than he had ever realized.

But at least they were still strong enough, just barely, to make him start moving again.

The car had fallen prey to the unstable ground. A ditch several feet deep had appeared. The car wasn’t stuck in it, but it must have hit it at a wrong angle and a high speed. There was a deep gouge in the ground, and it had rolled once, crushing some of the grass. It lay on its side now. Only one of the shielding devices was still sending out pulses of magic to fry the demons, and since it didn’t make a full dome on its own, the vehicle didn’t really have its protection anymore.

Despite all of that, it looked surprisingly all right. It wasn’t dented or pocked with nearly as much chaos damage as Alden would have expected, given how long it had been out here immobile and vulnerable. It was obviously made of tough stuff.

And the whistle was still chirping every now and then, like someone was playing with it. As he approached, he felt hopeful that it might not be as bad as he’d dreaded.

“Hello?” he called in Artonan, jabbing at the ground ahead of him as hard as he could with the sprinklers, trying to figure out where any soft spots might be. “I walk very slow, but I’m coming!”

The whistle stopped. Had they heard him?

“Hello? This is Alden. The Ryeh-b’t.”

That wasn’t an intelligent thing to say. Who else would be here in this forsaken place, speaking bad Artonan and heading to the lab?

He prodded a spot, and the sprinkler sank way too far into the soil. He worked his way around it carefully. Maybe this was the reason the father and daughters had been sent on their own? Was it an attempt to lighten the heavy vehicle to reduce the chances of this kind of accident?

The magic whistle screeched. Several times. And then it made a deep belching sound that must have been the extra-loud version of its lowest note.

“I’m coming!” Alden said again.

Chirp. Chirp. CHIIIIIRRRRP.

The dad’s not answering.

Normally an adult would answer. Sticking to the whistle felt like a little kid thing to do.

Alden finally crossed through the ditch that had toppled the vehicle and made his way over to it, taking it on faith that if the dirt right below the overturned car could hold the huge chunk of metal, it could hold him, too.

He went around to the front, feeling vulnerable when he had to pass through a thick thatch of uncrushed grass, and peered through the windshield.

Oh. It is as bad as I thought after all.

The car was largely undamaged, but not completely. There was a small puncture in a window, and a large hole was cut through one corner of the roof. Alden couldn’t imagine how that had happened, unless one of the bugs had been unusually potent or unusually massive.

The father and the youngest girl were gone.

He wasn’t sure how they had died, but he assumed there was plenty of chaos everywhere now. Either from the demons changing as they smashed into things or it was just…naturally occurring. It seemed like some terrible miasma in this place must have given birth to the disaster. Maybe that was even what Thenn-ar had been trying to get across when focusing on the dangers of the air.

Neither body had a visible dramatic wound, like the ones Alden had seen on the woman in coveralls. They were just very obviously dead. A little blood here and there, an almost translucent grayness to the skin, the stillness of their pose. The father had freed himself from the harness and climbed into the back with his daughters. They were all sitting there on top of one of the doors, huddled together.

The older girl was still sitting with them, holding her sister’s hand while she blew on her whistle and stared at Alden through the glass.

Oh my god, he thought, tears stinging his eyes. She’s been with them like that for hours.

What was he supposed to say? Did she even know? Did she understand that they were gone?

“I’ll get you out,” he said in English. He didn’t want to make any promises in Artonan until he knew what the next few minutes would be like. “It’s going to be okay. Hang on.”

If the doors are locked, I don’t know what I’ll do. Try to get her to open them from the inside? Go to the lab and get something to cut through it with? Hope a demon punches a hole in exactly the right spot for me?

It was an armored alien vehicle. It wasn’t likely that he could just kick out the windows.

Alden set aside his bomb and the irrigators and tucked the putty into his pocket. While he clambered up the side of the car to try the door handle he was already assuming the worst. He tried to think of how to tell the the girl that he was going to have to leave for a while to get equipment from the lab.

But maybe fate had decided they’d both been punished enough for one day.

The door wasn’t locked.

The car was built like a tank, and the door was so heavy that Alden had to commit to a precarious angle and use his whole body in the battle to yank it open. But he managed it with only minimal damage to himself…caused by falling off and landing flat on his back in the grass.

The wind was knocked out of him, but that didn’t prevent him from scrambling up in a panic to make sure he wasn’t about to get zinged by half a dozen bugs.

The girl had stopped whistling to watch him work. As soon as he disappeared from sight, she started back.

Alden stood back up. His trait was gone. The putty ball was in his pocket again, and he’d lost preservation on it at some point. Probably during the fall.

Is she still targeted? He hadn’t seen the halo over her head. It must have been a System-generated assist, as he'd feared. Well, it doesn’t matter right now.

He had to get her out of the car, away from her dead family, and back to the lab either way. Without crying himself and traumatizing her more.

The whistle was still chirping.

Alden cleared his throat. “I’m coming! I’m safe!” he said in Artonan.

I wonder if she thinks the whistle is the right way of calling me. It would make sense if she did. He’d given it to her just as everything went wrong. And it was a magic whistle. And he was an Avowed.

Maybe I’m reading too much into it.

He didn’t know what to do. It was pretty important to say things gently given the situation. And while he could communicate that they would be going to the lab together and leaving the father and sister behind, he couldn’t do it eloquently. “Your family is dead. Come with me,” worked, but it was so cold and harsh.

He needed her to trust him. And he wanted to make it better for her. Even if only a little bit.

“I’m coming!” he said again. “I’m safe! We’re safe!”

Maybe I could…

Probably it wasn’t the right thing. But it felt better than nothing. And it would help him push through the last few miles to the lab, too. He climbed back up on top of the car and lowered himself into it. He sat awkwardly on the side of the front passenger seat and braced himself with a leg.

It was nice that the car was still offering some protection. There weren’t any bugs inside right now.

“Hello, I’m Alden,” he said. She knew already, but a more formal introduction seemed necessary. “Are you Kibby?”

Her face was swollen, wet, and snotty. “Y-yes.”

“We’re going to the laboratory together,” said Alden. “We’re safe together.”

Her grip tightened on her sister’s hand and she pulled the dead girl’s arm up toward him, as though telling him to take her.

Oh, shit. Hold it in. Don’t lose it, Alden.

“We…” His voice was a croak. He cleared his throat and tried again. “Let’s say a wordchain together. Yes?”

He didn’t know if wordchains were a significant ritual in her family. But they purportedly were to at least some Artonans. And more importantly, the words were pretty eloquent, and he had them memorized. It would sound less clumsy and callous than anything he could come up with on his own, and since it was a common minor wordchain, she might have heard it before even if she hadn’t learned it herself.

Alden closed his eyes and made the hand signs. He tried not to ruin the solemnity of the moment by letting his voice shake.

“My heart calls out to another in good faith. Spare me a portion of your mind’s ease in this hour when my own mind is troubled. Tomorrow, I will grant another an equal comfort of mind.”

He’d gotten really good at Peace of Mind. It locked in on the first try, and he felt like someone had taken a small weight off of him.

Kibby stared at him.

She’s big on staring, isn’t she? I wish she’d talk a little more so I knew what was going on in her head.

“Will you say it for my _______, too?” she said.

The word wasn’t the one Alden knew for father, but he thought that might have been who she meant, since she’d gestured at him. Maybe she thought the peace of mind chain had been for the little sister? Like a prayer.

“Yes,” he said.  He repeated the chain again, deliberately messing up in tiny ways he hoped she wouldn’t be able to detect. He didn’t know if Peace of Mind would double on itself, but he knew that if it did, accepting twice the backlash in a few hours would absolutely flatten him.

Since he was doling out false blessings anyway, when he got finished, he pointed at Kibby and said, “I am saying one for Kibby, too. Then we are going to the lab together.”

She nodded.

Alden performed the chain a third time, then held his hand out toward the girl. She reached back, and his skill activated as he lifted her.

She was still his target. Whatever part of his power was locked onto her had stayed locked even without the System’s help.

Oh thank you, thank you, he thought, waiting a second for the preservation to deactivate so that he could boost her up and out of the car. We might be able to get through this.

#

Alden carried the bomb in one hand, the irrigators in the other, and a frozen Kibby on his back. He’d debated taking the one functional shielding device, but it looked like it was on its last legs anyway. And it was heavy.

For a long time, he just kept placing one foot in front of another, enduring the occasional strikes from the bugs and moving on.

It was harder when one hit Kibby. He didn’t know why, and it didn’t matter. It was just one more mystery to tuck into the back of his mind for a better day.

