When he finally crested the edge of the depression in the ground that held the massive laboratory complex, he was so happy he almost wanted to run  toward it.

It was better here.

There were still demon bugs buzzing around everywhere, but only a fraction as many as Alden had been dealing with for the past few hours. Alden didn’t know if it was magic or if the lab had been built in this crater because it provided some kind of natural protection.

But it was a chance.

“Look at this, Kibby,” he said as he strode toward the lab. He’d been talking to her for a while now, even though she couldn’t hear him. It was keeping him together. “We’re going to live here for a while. And we’re going to survive a demon storm. And we’re going to be okay.”

He hopped sideways to avoid a bug. His coat was starting to look worse for the wear. He didn’t know if it could take many more hits.

“Today is the worst day of your life, I know. And it’s got to be the second worst day of mine. But as long as we’re still alive at the end of it, stuff eventually gets better.”

He followed the crushed grass path all the way to the wall of the circular perimeter building. He didn’t know how to open the underground ramp that let the car in and out, so he turned aside into the grass. It wasn’t ideal, but he had to get to one of the exterior doors.

He only had to go about a hundred yards before he found one.

“We stay alive. Help comes. I go back home to Earth. You go to Artona III to live with all your old friends from the lab. That’s the plan.”

The door opened for him easily. Maybe locks just weren’t much of a necessity when you lived in a place like this. He stepped into one of the mudrooms he’d seen on his last trip here. It looked completely unharmed.

When he stopped moving, the preservation on Kibby dropped, and he crouched to let her slide off onto the ground. She stared around at the room in shock and then looked back at Alden.

She said something rapidly in Artonan pointing from him to the room.

He smiled at her. “Sweet, right? From your perspective the trip was easy-peasy. One minute you’re there, the next you’re here. I’m jealous.”

She might have even thought he’d teleported them here.

“Home!” he said proudly in Artonan, pointing at the walls around them. “Me and you are safe now!”

Maybe it was a lie. But it was a lie they both needed.
