“Since we are still talking —while we are in the middle of a serious conflict, mind you— instead of solving some problems, then threats have become necessary to provoke movement.” Goldie glanced toward the map. One of the blue dots on the smaller side was gone, now. She glanced to the air, then said, “Stardust is dead. Tania has gained the upper hand. Fallopolis is down to four people on her side. We’re doing this.” She turned to the other two Shades, saying, “We can talk about strategy after we have laid the bedrock for a strategy to happen.”

Farix looked from Lapis to Goldie, saying, “I am comfortable with Goldie’s suggestion for the Oath. ‘Do what it takes to get and then thrive under Erick’s Blessing by the end of this Shadow’s Feast’. How does that sound?”

Lapis held up three bracelets, saying, “Perfect.”

Goldie nodded. “Do it.”

Lapis spoke words of power into the bracelets, “Do what it takes to get and then thrive under Erick’s Blessing by the end of this Shadow’s Feast.”

Like the plug pulled in a bathtub, mana flowed from all around, into the bracelets in Lapis’s hands, turning the dark bands into something prismatic, and then back to black. She slipped one around her left wrist, and then tossed the other two to Goldie and Farix. They wasted no time in putting them on. The bands flickered prismatic, before turning dark again around their wrists.

Erick asked, “Now what?”

Lapis said, “No idea.”

“Prepare and fight hard,” Farix said.

Goldie rattled off events as she saw them, “The most likely turn of events is that Fallopolis loses, she falls back, she incorporates Erick into her strategy, Bulgan gets involved. We kill Bulgan before he kills Erick. Tania enrages and wipes the floor with all of us. We all die, including Erick. Tania goes into hiding, to orchestrate the downfall of humanity from the shadows.” She looked to the air, as her aura turned diffuse, like a mist spreading from her soul. She began making shit up; guessing, “The World Tree under Sininindi is used to enact Scripts on the other worlds of this orbital system. A century or two passes. Tania makes her way to one of these new worlds, after they stop looking for her. Maybe Melemizargo has a new Clergy by then. Maybe they’re already searching for her… to kill or to drag into their hierarchy… And… That’s all I got. Can’t see too far into the future, but that’s the closest to the truth, right now.”

Erick would have paled if he had been in his human body. He recognized a pattern in Goldie’s casual use of magic. Goldie wasn’t just rattling off events as she saw them. She was actually seeing future events. Erick glanced to Farix and Lapis, and saw two very concerned people, their worry showing in the lines of their faces. He looked to Goldie, and saw nothing but certainty.

Erick asked, “How often do you use the future to determine the present?”

“All the time.” Goldie said, “I’m usually perfectly reliable to a good five minutes out. Past that, it gets nebulous. Sharing what I know about the future usually ruins it, sending the paths into spirals and fractures. But I am telling you now because the futures where I don’t tell you are less-hopeful than the ones where I do.” She added, “This is the only time I will be discussing my power.”

“No.” Erick said, “No.” He demanded, “Tell me why you can’t kill Tania, yourself. Your power seems too powerful.”

“Because, Erick.” Goldie said, “Time watching is a trick, and tricks do not matter in the face of overwhelming power.”

“I always wondered how you did what you did.” Farix asked, “But what now?”

Goldie said, “I’m good with defending here.”

Lapis said, “Here is fine. We’ll be able to see them coming from every angle without dividing ourselves off into sentry-eyes.”

Goldie lifted her head up, as she turned toward Caizoa, who remained in the sky, in the far distance. “She’s going to be a problem, but there’s not much we can do about that.” Goldie turned to Erick, saying, “If you make yourself truly vulnerable in front of her, she’ll probably kill you. Hard to tell, though. Too much divine interference.”

“I wasn’t going to do that, anyway.”

“Uh-huh,” Goldie said, unconvinced.

Erick frowned, then looked to the other two. “You two got any special powers?”

Lapis said, “Tania and her kind raided my Forge, so all I have is what I have on me, and these trinkets will make themselves known at the appropriate time.”

Farix snorted. “About what you’d expect from the Shade of Enchantment.”

“Since we’re at the end, why not tell us all what your abilities are, then, Professor?” Lapis needled. “Never seen you do much of anything!”

“Ethereal Elemental-Blood explosions.” Farix said, “Back when I had the Script, I could do times-five multipliers, all day long. It’s a lot better these days.”

Lapis’s eyes briefly went wide. She looked between Erick and Farix, asking, “Did you—”

Goldie sighed, loudly.

Lapis smirked as she couldn’t help but to postulate, “Blood explosions, eh? Did you put that criminal up to extorting Erick?”

Erick looked to Farix. The incani’s face betrayed nothing. No visible, or invisible part of him did, either. But Erick still stared, wondering how he would answer.

Farix said, “The only hand I had in all of that was teaching others how to properly explode various things, and bodies make very good material.”

Erick sighed, hated everything for a brief moment, then decided to accept this lot in life, for now, as he banished an uncomfortable thought and turned his attention to the map. Hollowsaur’s dot, presumably, had been moving around the Jungle for a little while now, but it had stopped for the last five minutes at a place near the water’s edge. Erick sent an Ophiel stepping through the light, in that direction.

Erick changed topics, “So you all saw that Quest he got when he showed it to me, right?”

Nods all around.

“So how are you spying on me, exactly?”

Lapis said, “Long range sentry-eyes.”

“Shadow Sight,” Goldie said.

“Shadow Sight,” Farix said.

Farix and Goldie looked to each other for a brief moment.

“Whatever. Okay. Fine. So. Did Hollowsaur fake that Quest?” Erick said, “He ran off rather fast, and he certainly did not look healthy when he went. I heard that faking a Script screen even does bad things for Shades.”

Farix suddenly narrowed his eyes at Hollowsaur’s dot. He said, “I certainly hope it was real. Fucker better not have faked it.”

Goldie shook her head, saying, “He didn’t fake it.” She spoke to the sky, “And I want the same damn one, Rozeta.” She winced as she spoke Rozeta’s name. Blood trickled from her nose, but she just wiped it away. “Yeah. Yeah. I hear your complaints about my existence.” She spoke to the group, “We’ve got some downtime till the fight gets to us. Anyone got any bright ideas?”

“Let’s move to some other location.” Erick glanced down. Somewhere far below, maybe 25 kilometers deep and past a heavy layer of white light, there were people living around the Brightwater. He said, “I don’t want stray spells to hit anyone down there.”

Goldie said, “Fine by me. Let’s go up another twenty kilometers.”

Lapis asked, “To the Edge?”

“Yes.” Goldie said, “Having a wall to one side might help. Crystal towers certainly won’t help.” She glanced at the map again, saying, “Too many elemental-aligned Shades in there.”

- - - -

Caizoa watched as Erick stepped through the sky, with three Shades at his side. First, he goes Cursing Hollowsaur into a meek puppy, then he gets three more to divulge critical abilities, just like that, and then he actually works with them? He was too naive, for sure. If he ever met the Converter Angel, he would become the Wasteland’s greatest threat. He’d surely try to talk to the damn thing, and that would doom them all.

Shades couldn’t be corrupted by the Angels, but Erick was already way more powerful than many Shades, though he acted weak, for some bizarre reason.

It was truly odd how he had gained so much power, in such a short time. His whole planar-story had to be cowshit, of course. Some sort of act. Some sort of ploy. Maybe he had been a Shade all along? Supposedly, he had met Melemizargo in his first moments on Veird, but that would have been insane, right? That couldn’t have possibly happened.

The Black Star spoke in her mind, ‘I am starting to come around on the necessity of killing Erick. He is too easy to trick. He is too enamored with untainted peace. He cannot get done what needs to get done.’ The artifact added, ‘But I sense a disturbance in your own resolve. Pray tell, what are you thinking?’

‘I am thinking that I need to show him that Shades cannot be trusted. Uncle was the only good one. And then Tania killed him… And then Fallopolis killed everyone… else...’ Caizoa held back tears, recalling a horrific morning and an hour of fighting for her life, and yet failing her friends.

Everything had gone so crazy, and then she touched the Black Star, and finally found peace in the storm, only to be reminded that everyone she knew was dead. She had no idea where one problem started, or ended, or even how she ended up pointed at Erick in the first place. She did know that part of the plan everyone had decided upon was to kill Erick, if they got the chance. That part was as true in the beginning as it was right now, and made all the more true for Erick’s displayed power. He had shut down that other Shade, Mallor, with two spells! He was too strong.

But… Caizoa wondered if her memories had been altered.

Maybe they had?

Maybe she was going a bit crazy. She had heard that Fallopolis had killed Anopix, but…

Everything she heard in this Dead City was a lie. Uncle Anopix always said that. Don’t trust any of the other Shades.

And just now, she heard that Tania wanted to ‘orchestrate the downfall of humanity’.

So that meant that she should work with them, right? But… Uncle Anopix always said to not trust the other Shades. Uncle was a good man. The Shades of Ar’Kendrithyst were the strongest, yes, but they were also the most evil. Anopix was a good, honorable man.

… Could Tania have killed him? He would have opposed total war. He just wanted to destroy the Angels and the moon, Celes. And a few humans, too, yes, but not all of them. Only the ones in charge.

… This was too much. As a headache threatened, Caizoa came to a conclusion: All Shades Need To Die. A simple, elegant idea. The Shades killed Uncle, and now they would die, too, and that included Tania.

Erick’s death could come later.

She asked, ‘If you’re still not convinced that Erick needs to die, then are you up for Shade killing?’

‘Of course. I have seen these people at their worst for a long time. Even the one Erick has Blessed is still a liability. They all need to die and leave this world behind.’ The Black Star added, ‘Erick might be salvageable, though, so I am glad you are thinking thoughts along those lines.’

‘I’m just pursuing all ideas. Do you think he could actually range-kill the Converter Angel without subjecting himself to danger?’

‘I only know the current world through your eyes, but from what I’ve seen and felt from you, and from previous interactions with archmages of his caliber, Erick could probably range-kill the Converter Angel.’ The Black Star sent, ‘It would be much easier for you to track the Angel down and do it yourself, though.’

Caizoa moved forward, to stand before the vacated map, floating in the air. She looked it over, and asked, ‘Which one is Fallopolis?’

‘Are you still going to go after her?’ The Black Star lit up a silver blot in Caizoa’s vision, right over one of the blue dots on Erick’s map. ‘There she is. It appears she’s down to 4 compatriots. I would be happy with her death, too.’

‘And Tania?’

‘I cannot offer full protection from a Champion of Melemizargo, but I can offer a minute of protection.’

‘Understood. Tania?’

A different silver dot lit up on the map. Tania was surrounded by seven blue dots.

Caizoa hefted her three-meter long sword. Divine fire flared around her blue armor and in her eyes, as she said, “I didn’t plan on killing all the Shades, but when in Ar’Kendrithyst…”

‘You could use the levels, anyway.’

‘ I could. I only got 25% Participation on that last one.’

- - - -

Ophiel stepped back to the edge of the map, as Caizoa departed.

Erick searched for Violet, using a DNA sample he had already gathered, well before now.

He found traces of her in the Palace District, next to the brand new kilometer-wide hole in the ground that had been Quilatalap’s house, and some of the Palace. He did not find Violet, herself. He had hoped that he could have found her, but it was not to be. He searched for Violet, herself, just to be sure. Zero results.

Erick searched for Quilatalap through his DNA.

Quilatalap’s DNA was shit, though. It might not even have been real. Zero blue dots in the Brightwater. Zero blue dots on the rest of the map. A search for the man himself also turned up nothing.

He spied on Hollowsaur, both with a check through the [Cascade Imaging] for his DNA and through the Ophiel he had sent the orcol’s way. Hollowsaur’s DNA was shit, too. Erick was beginning to suspect that Shades were more shadow than true substance, and undead might be much the same, but different. Erick wondered if he would have the same problems searching for the Converter Angel.

