hite Jade. He kneels down on both knees, lowering his head as far as he can, while presenting the token in two hands to the Brigadier, who also accepts it with both hands. They all stand and turn to face the crowd, who all stand as well. Again, I'm just a bit behind.   Xue Chang speaks again. “The position of Magistrate of Shen Huo City is now vacant. Those who wish to challenge the former Magistrate, Tong Da Hai, for the honor of service, step forward now.”   Eight people in the opposing camp walk out and kneel before Xue Chang, announcing their names one by one. When they are done, Xue Chang begins listing out the format of the challenge. The contest is held as a best of three, one-on-one duels. Over 100, under 100, and under 25 years of age are the 3 categories. Past, present and future talent. The fight is won either when one contestant is unconscious or forfeits, and deliberately killing is forbidden, as is interference. Any champion can be called, but they must be present in the room, and the right to refuse is granted.   I guess this is the aforementioned bloodshed. Not bad, dinner and a show. Taduk was just teasing me. The tense atmosphere and separation makes sense now. The opposing camp aren't here to celebrate, but to challenge. It's an odd tradition, to fight for the right to govern. It's not like the strong will be good at city management. Or is it the strong choose who will govern? Then again, what do I know. If it works, don't fix it, right? I look around for a servant with wine, but Mei Lin pinches my thigh, smiling sweetly at me, daggers in her eyes. So mean.   “I am Man Giao, Brigadier of the Imperial Defense Forces. I stand for the Man Family, to challenge for the Position of Magistrate of Shen Huo City. I am 385 years old.” A tall, bulky, horned bastard, fully armored in steel. Not as bulky as full plate mail, but not too far from it. He stands imposingly in front of the Magistrate, carrying a shield and large round mace, grizzled looking, but in good condition. The city guards have knelt down, shields at the ready, allowing for a good view of the proceedings.   Akanai walks forward, ax-lance in hand. Ha ha that Man Cow is done for. I can finally appreciate Akanai fighting, since it won't be against me. She almost looks petite, with her 200cm frame dwarfed by Man Cow. In her tiny dress and well done hair, she seems no less dignified, standing with the bearing of a warrior. “I am Akanai, Major General of the Imperial Defense Forces. I am of the People. I stand for the Tong Family, to defend the Position of Magistrate of Shen Huo City. I am over 100 years old.” She stands regal and calm.   Even Akanai has some feminine hangups and won't say her real age. That's kind of adorable. It's silly, she looks fantastic for a 25-year-old, much less over 100. Man Cow laughs, a course grating rumble. “To face the Herald of the Storms is my luck and opportunity. Tomorrow my name, Man Giao, will spread far and wide, known throughout the Empire, as the one who defeated you.” Akanai doesn't respond, face neutral, eyes icy.   They stand at opposite ends of the fighting square, an area about 20 m by 20 m, lined by the city guards. No more words are exchanged, and they take their stances, Man Cow shield up and weapon ready, Akanai's weapon pointed forward.   “Begin!” Xue Chang shouts.   The distance closed in a blink of an eye, Akanai charges forward, lance drilling straight through Man Giao's shield, piercing into his meaty shoulder. The metal shrieks and he flies backwards, crashing into the city guards who are scattered by his weight. Akanai stands, arm extended, weapon tip red with blood. My hands start clapping, a cheer escaping my lips before I can stop it. No one else makes a noise, although Taduk does snicker at me as I sheepishly stop clapping, crumbling beneath the scowls, from city guards and opposite camp alike. I guess I made a faux pas.   Whatever, that was awesome. One hit, instant defeat. Man Cow didn't even realize what hit him. A giant chunk is missing from his shield, torn to shreds, and Man Cow lays unconscious. Sad thing about the guards though, I think some of them are injured. A beautiful charge, almost like she teleported across the distance.   My brow furrow as I think about it. How did she charge like that? Closing my eyes, I replay the scene in my mind. Her stance. Left arm forward, right arm back. Like she was playing pool with her weapon as the cue. Back straight, her feet, shoulder width apart, side by side. Both forward pointing, knees almost locked straight. How did she get such an explosive charge from that? Is it one of the Forms?   I replay the scene, again, noticing a few different details. One foot slightly turned, elbow raised level with her shoulder, head slightly tilted to the right.   Again, noting more details, the splay of her fingers, the twist of her wrist while thrusting.   Again, and again I play the scene in my mind, immersing myself in the study of her movements, deconstructing the brief movement.
