She reached out and snatched the arm of another passing militia Biomancer—a goblin who was sprinting about, face masked with pouring sweat. She quickly whispered something to her comrade, and the goblin nodded before rushing off. "A senior healer is going to conduct a full suite of specialized lung scanning spells soon. That'll see if anyone else has crystallized fragments of ash inside of them."

The militia Biomancer let out a breath of discomfort. "My guess is yes. And that this isn't an alchemical fire."

Shiv's wariness climbed as he wondered if she suspected him; he wanted to hear her reasoning. "What? Why'd you say that?"

"Because crystallized ash usually requires an application of concentrated mana. This doesn’t come from someone just breathing in an overwhelming lungful of smoke, but magically conjured smoke at that. It needs to fuse together from sheer mana density.”

Shiv felt a reinvigorated urge to drag a certain prisoner out from his cape and beat the man to death, but he held himself back. Need to check my own lungs too, he realized. What kind of bastard dumps crystallized ash fragments in the lungs of a bunch of kids? He only had one target. Why the felling hells was he burning an entire building down?

The Deathless looked over his shoulder and stared across the large tent. About twenty meters away, that pale-skinned girl sat, being tended to by several Biomancers. She'd tried to leave earlier, but she was made to stay and placed under watch. There were several heavily armed members of the academy militia surrounding her, keeping her separated from the other students. The red berets were not healers—they were a mix of Vanguards and Shadows or Thieves if Shiv were to guess.

With how promptly they were assigned to her, that tells me that this girl is special, and the academy knows that. More questions. Can’t ask her directly, but—wait, what’s that feeling?

A rattling sensation crawled over Shiv’s soul, and he realized his Chronomancy field was feeling a matching mana frequency nearby. His eyes widened as he saw a golden silhouette zip through the mess of students in the large tent, diving for the pale-skinned girl with a thin blade in hand.
