He sighed. He was as prepared as he was going to get other than waiting for the armor to charge. Getting back to sleep was probably a hopeless proposition, but he knew that he should try. He couldn’t relax, not with the lair filling his thoughts. To distract himself, he started acting out some of the children’s stories in his mind, trying to imagine the characters as living, breathing people. It was only marginally helpful for his nerves. In those stories, the hero always won.

Beneath Fel Sadanis were the sewers. Below one corner of the sewers was a Watch stronghold, kept perpetually lit with evertorches. In that stronghold lay the entrance to the Fells. The portal was in a large room with a high ceiling, held up by arches made from neatly hewn blocks of dark stone. The portal itself was set into the wall, framed with another arch of smaller bricks.

Velika looked down on the occupants of the room from her perch. She’d wedged herself between one of the arches and the ceiling in an effort to stay concealed in the shadows. Because of the need to keep the room lit, there weren’t many of those to be had. It was fortunate that people so rarely looked up.

She’d hidden on a whim after growing bored of waiting for the rest of the party to arrive. Only the two guards standing next to the portal knew that she was up here, but she didn’t care about them. They were just here to make sure that nobody tried going through on their own. Both were nobles, levels 5 and 7, two of the highest that she’d recruited for the guard so far. She didn’t trust them. She was having trouble trusting anyone these days. However, she’d needed someone to guard the door.

As for the party itself, six of the eight members had arrived, including herself. It was already ten minutes past the appointed time, but she reminded herself to be patient. Scaring the depths out of the recruits was something that she’d enjoyed doing since she was a small child. It would be worth the wait.

She smiled as a man wearing an elegant green tunic entered the room. Just one more to go.

“I apologize for my lateness,” said the man, looking around. “Oh, I thought the Citizen would be here.”

“She has yet to arrive,” said a large man wearing an expensive-looking suit of red-enameled armor. Well, not that expensive, compared to his. Her eyes flicked to the black-cloaked form of the adventurer, currently sitting against the wall.

“Your name is, Samson, right? Lord Darr’s son?” said a woman wearing a quiver on her back and holding a bow. “You remember me, right? From the selection?”

The man in the green tunic opened his mouth to respond but froze. He was looking at the adventurer sitting against the wall. “The Night Cleaner? What’s he doing here?”

“Readin’,” said a kid wearing a leather jacket and holding a wooden staff almost taller than he was. “What are ye, fuckin’ blind?” His face bore a mocking grin. Velika smiled. She liked the kid, though she would never tell him that, of course. He reminded her of herself, though considerably less noble. His accent was almost unintelligible. He was probably from a dinky farming village called something stupid like ‘Gubber’s Well’ or ‘Goat Thorp’.

“Silence, peasant!” roared a tall man wearing a fancy blue outfit embroidered with golden thread. She actually remembered this one’s name. Arlo. He was Lord Rill’s son, and he was a moron. Unfortunately, intelligence hadn’t been a part of the selection criteria. Thirty-four people had passed the physical test that she’d set, and then there’d been the drawing to bring it down to six. Skill and luck were all anyone needed. She’d been sick of all the unawakened hick nobles jockeying for position, and the lottery had been the easiest way to shut them up.

“Fuck ye too, ye gussied-up man-whore,” said the kid. She had to stifle a laugh. Arlo was wearing makeup. Just a bit, and it was hardly out of fashion with the nobility, but it wasn’t helping his reputation in her eyes. Nobody cared what you looked like in the middle of a battle. He had his priorities all wrong.

“Insolence!” Arlo roared, taking an aggressive step toward the kid.

“Enough, both of you,” the adventurer said, his voice echoing coldly from within his helmet. She looked over at him as he turned a page in his book. “Arlo, tone down the superiority act. Kettel, what have I told you about trying to get yourself killed? You should treat others with respect.”

“Aww, come on, Rain!” the kid said. “He started it!”

The adventurer sighed.

“I demand satisfaction!” shouted Arlo, looking a bit red in the face.

“No,” said the seated adventurer. The sense of cold that had been filling the room pulsed sharply, going from merely icy to downright frigid. “Remember why we are here. The Citizen would not be pleased if you two killed each other before we even got inside.”

Everyone except the kid had taken a step back at the sudden burst of cold that emanated from the adventurer. Velika chuckled softly. The spell that the man was using was harmless, quite beneficial, in fact. These idiots couldn’t tell the difference, naturally. It was the same one that he’d been using at the Watch stronghold for the past few nights. Her smile faded as she once more considered the implications of the Watch’s mages being able to recover their mana. I beat them once, and I can do it again…

She turned her head as the last of the lottery winners arrived, a woman wearing chainmail and wielding a mace and a shield. All of the equipment was flecked with rust. Velika smiled again. Thank the heavens that it wasn’t all noble brats. I’d have lost my mind. I hate spoiled children. It’s a damn shame that only she and the kid made it.

“Oh, am I the last?” The new woman spoke. “Are we meeting the Citizen inside, or…”

Velika dropped from the ceiling, pushing off and redirecting herself in mid-air with Airwalk. She landed lightly behind the woman, a grin on her face. Collective gasps of alarm filled the room as people reacted to her sudden arrival. The woman she’d landed behind whirled, grabbing her mace in one smooth motion and whipping it at Velika’s face. She stepped back, dodging effortlessly, then pushed the overbalanced woman, sending her toppling to the ground. The reactions were marvelous to behold; even the two guards at the barrier looked startled, despite knowing that she’d been there. There was one exception, however. The seated adventurer didn’t seem fazed at all. He looked up calmly after a moment, closing his book.

Velika chuckled. “Not bad,” she said. “I’d give it a six out of ten. Good instincts.” She nodded to the woman, then looked around the room again. “Still, nobody wet themselves. I think I’m losing my touch.”

“My Lady Citizen!” Arlo said, dropping to one knee. “It is an honor to be startled by you. Your beauty is as shocking as your—”

“Shut the fuck up,” she thundered, cutting him off. She turned her glare back on the woman sprawled on the ground in front of her. “Why were you so late?”

The woman scrambled to her feet, bowing awkwardly. “Apologies, Citizen. I was delayed by the guards at the door.” The woman struggled to catch her breath. “They insisted that I prove I had won the lottery, then refused to accept my token when I showed it to them.”

Velika frowned. “Their names?”

“Sarmin Stonbrook and Larlo Wormorchard, Lady Citizen.”

“And yours?”

“Breggeh, Lady Citizen.”

“And how did you get past them, Breggeh?” Velika asked mildly.

“Begging the Citizen’s pardon. I know that they are in your employ as well, but I sort of…knocked them out.”

Velika laughed. “Good. They deserved it. I won’t have anyone looking down on someone who’s earned their place.” Her eyes flicked to Kettel, then she turned and glared at Arlo, hoping that the message would make it through his thick skull. If not, I will educate him. I’d kick his ass out right now, but I need his father, unfortunately.

She stifled a sigh and turned her attention to the adventurer, who had gotten to his feet while she’d been talking. He inclined his head to her but said nothing. Does he never take the armor off? Who reads while wearing a helmet? She smiled. “You didn’t react when I made my entrance,” she said. “You knew I was there?”

He nodded.

“And yet you said nothing. Why?”

He hesitated for a second, then shrugged. “I didn’t think you’d want me to spoil your fun.”

Velika smiled and clapped her hand on the adventurer’s armored shoulder. “Good thinking. I’d have had to hurt you if you ruined it.”

Oh Shit! Oh Fuck! Oh Shit! Oh Fuck!

It was all Rain could do not to flinch away from Velika’s hand. Her pat on the shoulder had felt like getting swatted by a bear. He’d only managed to remain standing thanks to the fact that he’d already been holding himself rigid. Her movement had been unnaturally fast, and by the time he realized it was happening, her hand was already there, uncomfortably close to his neck.

“Well,” Velika said, releasing him and turning to look at the rest of the group. “Now that we’re all acquainted, let’s get on with it, shall we?”

Rain resisted the urge to slump down in relief. He’d been doing his best to project an air of confidence, even going as far as pretending to read. It was the plan he’d come up with to ensure that the others—Arlo, in particular—listened to him. He needed them to see him as a competent and experienced adventurer so they would follow his commands. If they saw how terrified he was feeling, they’d never respect him, and that could get them killed.

“I am ready, Citizen Sadanis!” Arlo said. “It will be my great honor to be first through the barrier.”

Rain shook his head, trying to relax. Oh my god, he’s such a tool.

Velika laughed. “No way. He’s first. In fact, he’s in charge.”

Rain paled. She was pointing directly at him.

“Uh…” he began, then quickly remembered that he was pretending to be unflappable. He cleared his throat and started again. “Citizen Sadanis, I assumed that you would lead us.”

Velika shook her head. “No. I am coming with you to make sure none of you idiots die, that’s it. The members of my guard need to learn how to do things for themselves; otherwise, there’s no point. You’re in command. Teach them, but don’t coddle them. I don’t want you just killing everything yourself. Oh, and if you kill a blue without making sure that they get the credit, I’ll feed you your armor. Don’t fuck up.”

Fuck! He nodded slowly. “As you command, Citizen Sadanis.”

Arlo stepped forward. “Citizen Sadanis, as the future leader of your guard, wouldn’t you prefer that I—”

Velika slapped him with the back of her hand, hard. Actually, it was more like the entire backside of her forearm. He crumpled as if his legs had been cut from under him. “I told you to shut the fuck up,” she said, rolling him over with her boot.

Shit, is he dead?

Arlo’s eyelids flickered, then he groaned. Rain let out the breath he’d been holding. Fucking idiot. How am I supposed to keep you alive if you keep pissing her off?

“Haha! Take that, noble shithead!” said Kettel.

Rain closed his eyes. Oh my god, Kettel. It isn’t just Arlo. They’re all dead.

“Someone get him up,” said Velika. “If he can’t stand after that, he’s got no place in my guard.”

Kettel offered Arlo a hand, still grinning, but Arlo slapped it away, hauling himself to his feet on his own. He looked unsteady, a trickle of blood running from his mouth.

Rain frowned. Well, it looks like he’s okay. She must have held back. Still… He shook his head, looking away from the Citizen. She had started to tap her foot. Well, I guess I’m head moron then. I’d better get started before she gets annoyed with me too.

A few people were watching him, waiting. Confidence is key. He cleared his throat, getting the attention of the rest. “Attention, please. If I am going to be in charge of this disaster, I’d like to make some things clear. If I tell you to do something, you do it. Asking why is fine, but do the thing first. Once we’re in there, we’re in real danger. Lairs are not to be underestimated, ever.” He gestured to himself, then Velika. “Do not rely on us to save you. I have some experience, but this will be dangerous, even for me.”

He paused, gauging their reactions. They were paying attention, other than Arlo, who was busy struggling with the stopper of a healing potion. That was good. It looked like his act was working. If only I could get my hands to stop trembling.

He took a deep breath, trying to decide what was the most important. He thought back, then smiled. “It is safe to assume that none of you other than the Citizen have been in a lair before; there are some things you should know. This,” he indicated the sickly green wall of magic, “is the barrier. Once we go past here, we’ll be in the lair. The first thing you’ll notice is the party display. You’ll be able to see the health, stamina, and mana of your party members.”

It looked like the man in the red armor wanted to ask a question. Rain’s smile widened into a grin. Déjà vu. He raised a hand to forestall him. “Not the actual number, just how much they have relative to their cap. You’ll still be able to see it, even if you get split up. If someone’s name disappears, it means they left the lair. If someone’s health drops to zero, it does not mean they are dead. Do not make that mistake. It may still be possible to save them. If they are down, but still alive, don’t try to move them. Use a scroll or a potion.”

“I won’t get hurt,” said Arlo, tucking the empty potion bottle away. “This will be easy.”

Rain’s grin widened. And the part of Val will be played by… He cleared his throat. “As I already said, do not underestimate a lair.” He walked over to the barrier, motioning the guard to stand aside, then placing his hand against it. He focused as he did so, holding the Common numerals in his mind. As he’d expected, the eleven that appeared on the barrier was written using the correct symbols for the others to understand. He turned to face them again, keeping his hand on the magical boundary.

“This is the lair’s rank. Use it as a guide. Never enter a lair with a higher rank than the average level of your party, and never enter a lair alone.” He paused, doing some quick math. Velika is fifty or more, so… We’re probably a bit under. Shit. He shook his head, then continued reciting. “Don’t assume that the lair’s rank is that of the highest monster you can find inside. It is not. Watch your positioning and be careful about friendly fire. Use the—”

