“I do see her potential… indeed,” Malrik said. “It’s better for her, anyway. At least she can get some proper growth where she’s at now.”

“Yeah… and bring you all the benefits that come with it,” Dave muttered.

“That’s enough,” the Patriarch said. “Though I would like to hear more about this siren and the other ‘genius’ later.” He continued, “For now, answer me this,” he told Dave. “What are your rewards? What has the Origin System given you?”

“I don’t know,” Dave said with a shrug. “You called me here before I received everything. You are always so hasty.”

“Oh?” the Patriarch muttered. “Then what are you still doing here? Go collect your rewards!”

“You don’t have to tell me twice,” Dave said, then turned to hurry out of the Great Hall. He’d take any chance he could get to leave such a situation.

“Also,” his father spoke, and Dave stopped. “You’re going to have to stop using ‘luck’ as an excuse. You can only get so lucky, after all…”

“We’ll see,” Dave turned around and said to his father. Then he had another thought. “Oh, and father…”

“Yes?”

“Next time, how about you just send out a memo or something? I’m sure everyone has better things to do than…” he motioned around him. “This…” Then, as his father was muttering ‘next time,’ and before he could stop Dave again, he ran out of the hall and moved quickly through the manor until he reached outside—where there weren’t as many restrictions on skills. As soon as his foot hit the ground, he turned into a cloud of dust and disappeared once again.

When he reappeared outside his home, he received a warning from the Origin System for unauthorized travel inside Origin City, which he promptly ignored. He’d have to travel a few more times for the system to actually penalize him, and by the time he needed to again, he was sure that the warnings would have reset by then.

Dave quickly went inside, where he was greeted once again by his two servants. He didn’t bother talking to them about the meeting, and instead went straight to his training room and set all his runes to ‘do not disturb.’ Finally, he took a seat, then projected his avatar once again. He had rewards to claim, notifications to actually read, and young system users to speak with.
