"If you knew that, why did you expect me to go fight Ilyzathar?" Janus asked her skeptically.

"Because I wanted to see you lose terribly," Stella replied with a deadpan expression. "Any more questions?"

Janus stared at her for a moment and then slowly looked away. Another silence hung over the conversation as the two watched Ilyzathar continue to tear the Frozen Star Sect apart. It was chaotic, loud, and oddly a beautiful display of catalytic strength. Dozens of cultivators hurled endless techniques at the dragon, but all of them fizzled and crystallized the moment they came near the aura of frost surrounding the dragon.

The beast continued to move, slaughtering everything in its way until it devoured the last of the voncalo cultists that had stubbornly remained and started seeking out more prey.

"We seem to be next," Janus remarked, as Ilyzathar turned to gaze at them.

"I'm not so sure about that. Teleport over there," Stella said, pointing to the left.

Janus did as she asked and teleported away. Sure enough, Ilyzathar switched her focus to Janus.

"She is hunting for sources of Qi, and mine is hidden by my artifact," Stella explained. "Which makes only you next. It was nice knowing you, brother!"

"I'm going to ask Zephyrine for help," Janus quickly replied and teleported off.

Stella tracked him through the aether plane and saw him arrive in the Lion's Den, which was being held together by Ao Lingxuan's ice Qi pouring out of him as he tried to fight off Zeph and Maple's attempts to restrain him.

Ilyzathar briefly tracked Janus's location, with her claw raised as if ready to crash down, but once the dragon's gaze landed on the Lion's Den, she seemed to lose interest.

Is it because there are multiple Monarch Realms in there? Stella pondered. The dragon seemed to be acting with more awareness than a mere beast, so perhaps it had deemed trying to devour three Monarchs too risky.

Ilyzathar hunted around for a bit longer but didn't locate any prey to eat. So, expanding her wings, the dragon took to the skies over the ruined volcano. The beast scanned the horizon for a long minute, and then something caught her attention in the distance, causing her to shoot forward with a speed that didn't match her colossal size. Sonic booms echoed across the frozen lands as she left blizzards in her wake.

Stella didn't think much of the chosen direction until she realized Ilyzathar was heading eastward, toward the Ashfallen Sect, and that's when she remembered why Nyxalia avoided Ashlock at all costs.

Because he was like an irresistible beacon of Qi.
