Note: Your species has not awakened to Meta. The energy will be held in reserve until your next evolution, at which point you may decide to integrate it or allow it to disperse.

Congratulations. You have accumulated enough experience to reach level [46].

You have gained 1 point of Magic, Creativity, and Mind from your class.

Congratulations. You have accumulated enough experience to reach level [47].

You have gained 1 point of Magic, Creativity, and Mind from your class.

Congratulations. You have accumulated enough experience to reach level [48].

You have gained 1 point of Magic, Creativity, and Mind from your class.

Congratulations. You have accumulated enough experience to reach level [49].

You have gained 1 point of Magic, Creativity, and Mind from your class.

You have 19 free attribute points awaiting allocation at your discretion.

Power surged through Nick’s channels, but it wasn’t nearly as intense as what he’d experienced when Xuthu met its end and Blightborn assumed its enhanced form. He was still lucid enough to notice there was a second page of updates.

He swiped the floating screen while adjusting to the changes taking place, reading though all the gains the System hadn’t acknowledged until their three-way war reached its astonishing end.

Through use, you have improved the following skills:

Acrobatics has increased from [17] to [25].

Evasion has increased from [28] to [40].

Light Armor has increased from [15] to [20].

Light Shield has increased from [29] to [36].

Sense Hostility has increased from [7] to [22].

Size Up has increased from [31] to [48].

Sword has increased from [35] to [50].

Vital Energy Manipulation has increased from [24] to [25].

Wand has increased from [26] to [44].

Note: You may not increase your Acrobatics and Vital Energy Manipulation skills beyond 25, or Sword beyond 50 until you complete the trials of mastery.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Arcane Shield to Rank 4. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Enhance Physical Senses to Rank 4. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Force Armor to Rank 3. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Force Acceleration to Rank 5. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Force Riposte to Rank 3. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Heavy Blow to Rank 5. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Mana Dart to Rank 6. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Piercing Ray to Rank 6. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

While everything he’d read was incredible, not all of Nick’s acquisitions were contained within that list. He could sense that his tier had advance considerably—his Concept refined by pitting itself against the monarchs’ own. He was pretty sure that he’d picked up a massive windfall of species experience too, although it was hard to be certain.

Nick had felt Blightborn absorb a portion of the Black Wind’s essence, cementing his certainty that it could grow even stronger than it already was. He couldn’t sense any changes to Dreadeater, which either meant the trait couldn’t evolve or it advanced through other means. When he detected a pulse of energy near his boots, he realized his Wand had absorbed a fair amount of essence too, taking the living artifact one step closer to its next transformation.

“Well done,” Fritz came to a stop beside Nick and clasped his shoulder. “A king whose body is a sword wielded by a man whose soul is a blade. What a pair we make. If we live long enough, we just might become the stuff of legends. I have a mountain of questions regarding what just happened, but they can wait a little longer. I couldn’t extend my senses beyond the Blade World while we were fighting, but you need to go. I don’t see Bandit or Kenji, and I fear our friends are in danger.”

Unwilling to waste a second, Nick’s consciousness left Blightbane and returned to his body, where a great deal had changed while he was away.
