The archway flickered with the bright red light of the elemental monster’s flame and a wave of heat billowed out in front of it, searing Mato’s eyes and his lungs as he breathed. Calen passed his position at a dead sprint, and Mato patiently waited for the perfect moment. As soon as the Living Flame was in range, he charged, smashing into the elemental with the power of all his momentum and strength. Flames surged around him, burning his flesh and setting his fur aflame, but his eyes survived the fire, and he could still see.

He roared and smashed his paw crosswise into the elemental using his Battle Master retaliation powered by Brutal Restoration and Bestial Combat. Roots sprang from the rocky ground, instantly ignited by the heat. Mato backed up slowly, drawing the elemental to his spot as his restoration magic began to pulse within him. He attacked again, ducking a little at the last moment to avoid the sweeping strike of a burning arm. The Living Flame didn’t quite have a stable physical form, most of its body except the core seemed to ripple and flicker like flame. But it attacked with extensions of flame that resembled thick arms that certainly were dense enough to knock him back from the sheer physical impact. He had learned that well enough – getting hit meant taking an enormous amount of both physical and fire damage.

His body filled with his own regeneration magic, along with the softer, warmer feel of Ali’s Acolyte using her holy magic. He smiled inwardly, the Kobold had only used her slower, but more efficient, heal-over-time magic which meant he had kept the damage down to a reasonable non-panic-inducing amount. He placed the elemental perfectly and then focused on attacking and blocking with everything he had. At the same time, the rest of the team deployed around his spot, taking their positions and attacking. He only really paid attention to Malika, who would be healing him in emergencies, and the melee minions Ali had brought: the rogues who were already causing their dark daggers to flicker and shimmer with rapid attacks in the intense heat, the Hobgoblin sporting its new fire resistance plate armor, and the shamans with their lightning arcing and crawling along their shields and weapons, casting harshly brilliant counterillumination to the softer red of fire and lava.

His Survival Instinct suddenly went crazy, and he braced himself against the wall.

“Explosion!” Ali yelled in the background.

Mato’s eardrums burst and his world filled with fire as the force of the detonation slammed into his face and chest, flinging him up and into the rock wall right behind him. He tumbled down, gasping for breath and falling to the ground still at his tanking spot, just like Calen had hoped. The rogues, shamans, and even the Hobgoblin were airborne, launched away on the shockwave of flame. But Malika must have dodged the explosion with her ridiculous evasion because she was right beside him, slamming her healing magic into him. Oi, do you have to slap me so hard? Off behind the Living Flame, a lone Kobold Acolyte stood in a glittering golden sphere of magic, pouring holy magic into him from maximum range. See, Malika? The Kobold could teach you a thing or two about being gentle!

He scanned the cavern. Good. Nobody had landed in the lava and, more importantly, nobody had been tossed into the Landing with the rest of the elementals. Instead, everyone scrambled, ran, or flew back to the fight as soon as they landed.

He checked his health, but with the fire resistance elixir and his armor, he hadn’t even gone below half, and Malika and the acolyte had already topped him off.

Perfect! He roared his taunt and attacked again, burning his health for more damage rather than wasting the constant pulse of the restoration magics healing him.

Every time the Living Flame struck, Survival Instinct warned him of heavy damage. He blocked furiously, deflecting blows into the rock wall behind him, but not all. Each time he was hit, his health took a dive as he was smashed, ribs cracked, and flesh burnt. Each time he attacked, the elemental’s flame retaliated, burning him some more.

But Malika’s reactions were lightning quick, and the holy Acolyte a constant source of healing.

A second explosion blasted him, and again Malika managed to dodge it as the two of them weathered the storm together until the group recovered.

“Thirty seconds again,” Calen said, his voice carrying over the sizzle and crackle of magic.

The next explosion was predicted a few seconds in advance, and Malika hunkered down beside him, taking the blast and bouncing off the wall with him.

But when the fourth detonation ripped through the room, the giant elemental suddenly froze in place. A wave of heat burst forth from its body as a torrent of flame swirled around it like a red, blazing tornado. A dense glowing shield snapped into place, enveloping the monster in a transparent barrier. Mato’s paw smacked into the shield, bouncing off painfully.

“It’s regenerating!” Ali yelled.

“Break the shield!” Calen called out.

Magic rained down from the back line while Mato Swiped furiously at the barrier, trying to make any kind of impact on the dense magic. Not even his Bestial Combat could sunder it. Visible on the other side of the barrier, Malika’s fists were a blur of high-speed punches as the entire team went all out against the shield.

Are we even doing anything? For many long moments, he couldn’t tell if they were having any effect on the shield at all. Still, he loaded his Swipe with Bestial Combat, burning health with every strike, until suddenly the impervious shield cracked a little beneath his claws. Calen’s sharp eyes caught it, and his next arrow struck the crack dead on. The weakness spread the sound of ice cracking across a frozen lake. Malika’s shin hit the crack and suddenly the barrier exploded into glass-like shards, crashing to the ground and cascading off the rocky walls. Several whizzing pieces sliced through his fur and into his hide, but Mato ignored the minor cuts, reaching through to attack the Living Flame within, finally able to reach his opponent once again.

“It’s back to half,” Ali called, and then immediately she yelled, “Explosion!”

The Living Flame struck him with a well-timed blow on the shoulder causing his front legs to buckle at the same instant the flame detonation struck, smashing him into the wall. All the melee, even Malika this time, went flying down the tunnel. As he hit the floor, he realized he was on his own. Even the ever-present Acolyte in Ali’s bubble was missing, just leaving a cloud of dissipating golden shards.

The Living Flame struck, and he missed his block, stumbling on legs that still felt sluggish. He grunted at the searing impact, painful even with his enormous endurance.

Not good. He was down to below fifteen percent health and falling. His regeneration magic was rapidly falling behind against the onslaught of flame. Another powerful elemental arm flew toward him, and Survival Instinct screamed.

Without conscious thought, he used Last Stand. His body surged with power, growing larger as his health doubled and his hide thickened, growing denser and augmenting his armor.

Thirty seconds. That was what his skill had bought him. The next attack seared deep into his wounded flesh, but his armor was tougher, and he had a temporary new lease on life, so he struck back with everything he had.

Malika was the first one back, her feet blurring as they ate up the distance at an incredible rate, half the time not even bothering to step on the actual ground. She ran up the wall at his back, slapping him on the shoulder with her hand and he felt the burning surge of her heal tearing through his body, causing his breath to hitch. She never used that much before… His health skyrocketed. He roared, blocking another attack as she flipped down off the wall above him with a blindingly fast kick combination. A few moments later the rest of the team appeared, and they hunkered back down for the fight.

Three more explosions ripped through the rocky mine before the Living Flame once again used its shield-and-tornado combination. This time he didn’t need to be told, everyone unleashed their magic and attacked the shield trying to shatter it as quickly as possible.

“Back to twenty-five percent,” Ali called out, again followed immediately by, “Explosion!”

This time Malika dodged it, so the transition was much safer. He had already burned his Last Stand, so any dangerous situations coming up would need to be survived the hard way. As soon as the others returned, Calen’s magic flared, filling the entire tunnel with a brilliant white light. Arrows shot across the way in a glowing storm, slamming into the creature’s core.

“Explosion!”

Mato’s Swipe landed in a sudden puff of dissipating flame, and his chime sounded. Instead of the detonation smashing him into the wall, the creature flickered and died and the core fell to the ground with a heavy crash that sent tremors through the rock.

Your group has defeated Living Flame – Elemental – level 62.

Take that, you overgrown campfire!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
