Gingerly, now, she reached out once again. This time, the book made no sudden movements, but still, it seemed to quiver under her fingertips. Screwing up her courage, she flipped the pages back to the table of contents, still not sure how she felt about the prospect of reading a monster, but she found a chapter on mana translation that seemed rather promising and began to read.

But after several hundred mana burned to her Sage of Learning, she felt she was not even beginning to understand. It was a concept built upon a foundation of learning and understanding for which she had not begun to fathom the basics.

What the heck is ‘Authority’? As best as she could gather, her mother’s core premise was that all power derived from a single source. Something she referred to as Authority. Every affinity of mana, and even stamina or life arose from it. The endless richness of traits and experience seemed to derive from interactions between Authority and the fabric of the realm itself. Whatever that means. What she couldn’t fathom was whose authority it referred to. Or what – it seemed unclear. Even what it was an authority over. Perhaps all of reality? The only thing that made sense was that apparently, this was the reason affinity translation might be possible at all.

Ali sighed and closed her eyes, massaging the back of her neck with her fingers, hoping to avert the beginnings of a headache. Her eyes snapped open at the rustling of pages and she found the book once again open to the chapter on Tithe Enchantments.

“Hey, you lost my place,” she grumbled, venting her annoyance aloud at the book. To her dismay it shuffled backward a little, drooping its pages as if remorseful, and slowly turned back to where she had been reading.

“Um… thank you?” she said, feeling unexpectedly guilty, like she had been overly harsh with a misbehaving puppy. And now I’m talking to a book…

While the book had returned her to the place she had left off, she decided that mana translation was beyond her ability for now and spent a little time browsing the other chapters before pausing when something caught her attention.

It seemed she had found a chapter devoted to the efficiency of various runic formations, but the spell being used as an example was one that seemed well within her grasp; a spell called Arcane Blast. Maybe… a new trap? Given that it was an area damage spell, and in one of her affinities, she saw no reason she shouldn’t learn it at once.

First, she read the spell itself using her Sage of Learning, mastering the basic runic formation. Once she was certain she had it, she read through the discussion on rune efficiency. Again, the concepts were challenging to understand without her mother’s years of mastery, but with the spell freshly memorized, she found herself becoming more and more absorbed in the runic manipulations which aligned something referred to as ‘mana currents’ within the construct, yielding a more potent transfer of mana to energy. According to this, the proximity of certain runes could cause the mana currents to bleed over into unwanted parts of the runic structure, creating resonance or echoes in poor places. If the analysis was to be believed, such effects could also be exploited to amplify the spell, if arranged correctly.

After nearly an hour of further study, Ali finally gave it a try.

Arcane Blast – Linked Magic – level 51 (Arcane)Releases a spherical blast of arcane magic from the circle.Detect: Humanoid (exclude Minions)Runic CircleRunic Script has reached level 27.

She pushed the heavy tome away, examining her creation. She had applied all the runic transformations she had been able to grasp from the dense and obtuse text – far from all that was suggested – and now that she saw the final construct, she understood their purpose in a much more practical way. She could literally see the flow of mana through the runic circle and the unintuitive runic choices and placements definitely made an enormous difference.

This should make a great trap, she thought to herself. She needed some better defenses in the forest cavern at the entrance below the sewers where all the zombies were entering. As they had delved deeper into the Emberforge Mines, she had been cannibalizing from her defenders to afford better minions. A few of these traps, well placed, would go a long way to improving her defenses.

Perhaps a lower level though, she decided. It would be heartbreaking for a newly bronze-ranked adventurer to walk over an unseen level fifty-one trap and die. A trap closer to level twenty-five would be just as effective against the typical undead but not quite as deadly to the adventurers. I can keep the high-level ones for the jungle and to protect the library. There were two spawning pools down there, and a higher-level dungeon, after all.

As she was studying her newest trap, she heard the rustling of paper and glanced up to find the book frozen, a page halfway turned. Nothing happened as she stared at it. Slowly, she pretended to look away. The page turned, and the next one began to flip. As soon as she looked, it stopped again.

What is it doing?

She looked away, and there was a frantic rifling of paper and by the time she looked back, the book had stopped, once again on the same chapter on Tithe Enchantments. With little scooting motions, the book shuffled itself toward her and then stopped. Like I didn’t just see that!

“Why do you want me to read this chapter so badly?” she asked.

But it was a book. She wasn’t sure what kind of response she expected. It just bobbed up and down a little.

May as well, she decided, eyeing the chapter. The first two pages were mostly background information that she already knew, explanations of the various kinds of tithes, and how they worked. There were a few she hadn’t encountered yet, like the commander and the soldier variations, or the fealty one, but she supposed that made sense.

I still don’t know what it wants. As she reached over to turn the page, an almost imperceptible formation of mana flickered outward through the spine and suffused the pages before vanishing. Ali snatched her hand back instantly, fearing the return of the magical barrier teeth, but nothing moved. The brief glimpse she had caught looked a bit like her ring’s storage magic, but vastly more complex. Almost as if impatient, the book began turning the page for her.

The first thing she noticed as the page peeled back was the page number.Page 4̵̡͚̠̹̑̔͌5̶̢̨̡̛̜̲̞̎̆͗̅͋͂͛̆̈́ͅ8̷̻̜̳̜̞̫̗̮̠̜͈́̄̏͒̍̑̒͘7̵̝̩͍̍͑2̴̠͔͔̰͈̯̓̓͜2̸̨̧͈̗̦͎̹̰͚͓͐̈́̀͂̚̕͘1̶̢̢͍̱̺̻͇͌But her attention was instantly caught by the vast complexity of the mana formation that sprang forth as the book fell open. Leaping out from the page was the single most intricate magical structure she had ever seen – more complex even than the biggest imprint she had recorded. It hovered there, scintillating, sparkling, and pulsating with beautifully delicate mana tracery that rotated in and out of existence as if traversing through paths in higher dimensions. Ali couldn’t even make out any of the runes, such was the densely interconnected nature of its construction – all she received from her skills was a sense of overwhelming density and an exquisite progressive refinement of infinitely recursive detail that exceeded any ability of hers to even detect.

“What is that!” Ali gasped. The only thing she could think of was that it reminded her of the sight of Thuli imbuing his mana signature upon Kavé when he offered her his mana for mentorship. She leaned forward to study it, ignoring the sensation of her Sage of Learning burning through her mana.

Suddenly her notification chime sounded.

The Nature of Magic, “Clarence”, Eldritch Tome offers its patronage.Mentor Patronage – ClarenceTraits: Magic, Knowledge, Arcane, Intelligence, Wisdom, Perception, Domain, Runic Magic, Tithe, Language, Reading.Experience gain is increased for actions aligned with your mentor, or under their supervision. Gain additional skill unlocks and advances aligned with your mentor’s traits and experience.A portion of your increased experience is awarded to your mentor, increasing their reputation.Enchantment – TitheAccept this patronage?

“Your… your name is Clarence?” Ali asked, latching onto the most mundane of details she could, to prevent herself from bursting into tears over this silly book for the second time. It bobbed eagerly, shuffling a little closer to her.

“What’s wrong Ali?” Ryn asked. Ali looked up at her and saw Lira, Ryn, and even Malika hovering beside her, concern clearly etched on their expressions.

“The book,” she pointed, blinking to hold back the welling of emotions in her eyes. “It – it is called Clarence – offered me a mentorship.”

“I… I think you should accept, dear,” Lira murmured, and for the first time in her memory, Ali heard astonishment, awe, and shock in the ancient dryad’s voice as she too stared at the magic projected from the page. “That is your mother’s magic, what little of it even I comprehend.”

“Mom?” Several drops fell to her cheeks, but she spared no thoughts for them, staring instead at the book and the shimmering magic on the page.

“Only Elowynn’s genius could divine a way to mentor you from three thousand years in the past. This magic was once your mother’s mana signature, given the ability to grow with her unique brilliant insight. It has somehow become the core of this book.”

Ali stared in amazement at the magic her mother had wrought, and the Eldritch Tome that was baring its heart to her. She had no doubts.

“Thank you, Clarence,” she said, and gratefully accepted its offer of patronage.

Your Patrons have been updated.

The book snapped shut in an instant and then took off, flying around her in excited swoops and rolls before it alighted back on the table and bounced a little, while Ryn clapped her hands in delight. “Clever book!”

The tome rose to make a droll dip in the air as if bowing to her, before shaking with what looked suspiciously like unseen laughter and returning to its preferred position on the tabletop.

Lirasia clapped her hands softly. “Well, I do believe this calls for a bracing cup of tea, what do you say, dears?”

Mato carefully ladled the stew into bowls for everyone and passed it out, keeping his expression entirely neutral. Stew for breakfast was a little strange, but he passed it off with a taciturn, “Leftovers.”

He hadn’t mentioned his excursion to the slums yesterday and he sat down and began eating, keeping a surreptitious eye on the others.

You have become Well-fed.+4 to Vitality.Duration: 6 hours.

Calen sat bolt-upright, beginning to yell, “What?” before he choked on his mouthful.

Mato swatted his friend’s back. “Alright?”

His creation had worked, and while it wasn’t a particularly large boost, it was vitality, which was arguably the most important attribute. And it lasted a whopping six hours – more than enough time for their delve into the mines today.

“What did he just – uh, Mato?” Malika spluttered.

“Oh!” Ali’s exclamation followed moments later.

Calen opted to finish his mouthful in silence, but the look of surprise on his face was more than enough.

“What’s the matter?” Mato rumbled, and then chuckled. After the appropriate outrage at his feigned ignorance, he shared his story, with maybe a few embellishments, particularly with how awful Tabitha’s first stew had tasted.

***

Time for a rematch! The thrill of excitement rushing through him made his ears prickle as he gazed once again into the Landing – the giant chamber stretched out before him filled with elementals. Shards of Flame drifted back and forth, weaving their way around the much larger Living Flames.

“Did anyone else notice their mana regenerating in the Living Flame aura last time?” Ali asked, suddenly.

“It regenerates stamina too,” Malika answered. “Not much, but it’s nice.”

Now that’s useful, he thought. He had not noticed the effect himself, but this time he would pay more attention. He retrieved a red elixir from his storage, studying the expensive concoction.

Elixir of Fire Resistance – level 41Consume: +20% to resistance against fire damage. Duration: 1 hour.Created by Morwynne Fizzlebang – “A little less burn.”Potion

“A little less burn,” he chuckled, imagining the words in the voice of Morwynne before he downed the elixir. As soon as he stored the empty vial, he shifted to Bear Form, pulsing his mana through his armor to make it shift with him, enjoying the feel of its reassuringly solid weight resting on his shoulders and back. In the mines, lit only by lava and elementals, the dark, banded plate armor gleamed reddish, taking on the ambient color of flame. The elixir, and its one-hour duration, was a godsend for him – unable to drink regular potions, it gave him solid protection for the duration of most fights.

Clearing the dungeon all the way down to here had taken just a little over an hour, including the Flame Broodmother, which Calen insisted they couldn’t sneak past. But he didn’t mind that; they were getting much better, and he liked pitting his strength against the heavy-hitting spider.

“How about here, Mato?” Calen asked him, picking out a spot quite a way back from the entrance. “If you tank it here with your back to the wall, we should be safe from getting blown back into that cavern again.”

Mato dipped his head with a huffy grumpy-bear growl, setting himself up a couple of feet further to the left of the location Calen had picked – a little more distance from the open and inviting archway.

“That works. Getting the first one,” Calen said, vanishing into the shadows.

Bring it. These monsters had sent them packing, and now they would turn the tables on them.

Out in the Landing, brightly lit by the many flame elementals beyond the ancient stone archway, one of the Living Flames whirled and surged forward as a flash of light slammed into its core. Calen appeared from nowhere, already sprinting toward the doorway, his leather armor steaming.

Good, he got only one. Their plan, should Calen’s arrow draw two or more elementals, was to flee. Ali had even splurged on a teleportation circle a little way back down the tunnel, marked by a cairn of rocks, just in case. It was not a glorious plan, but it was certainly the smartest one – Calen was becoming remarkably proficient at timing his shots to split monster packs, giving them the best chance of defeating everything safely.

