Ali stretched, rolling her neck side to side and hearing several loud pops from her tired muscles as they loosened. She placed the final book – the original – on the top of the large tower of assorted tomes beside her, done at last with the task of copying the mountain Ryn had collected. Quickly verifying that her version was accurately copied, she got up and added it to the bookshelf beside the table, ready for her friend to categorize and sort into their growing library. Her skills were becoming so accurate at copying them now that she had to be careful to not muddle them up, but, even with the incredible fifty percent boost to her spell haste from Arcane Recall’s passive mastery, it had still taken the better part of an hour to complete her chore.

But the books Ryn had selected from Ciradyl’s renowned collection were extraordinary – deep theories on the nature of spell construction, practical guides to leveling your skills, unique and niche enchantments, martial arts styles – Malika was going to love some of those – and even several fascinating accounts of the ancient history she had missed in the thousands of years she had spent in magical stasis. Ryn had a sense – a deep intuition – for what mattered. Ali would be spending every free moment in the library studying these new works – taking the time to properly understand the concepts, rather than the frenetic cycle of memorization, copying, and then purging the memories to make space for the next book in the pile.

A burst of gold-and-violet mana twisted out over the atrium and suddenly Ryn materialized, seen through the eyes of Ali’s watchful Kobolds. Ali snapped her head up, immediately certain something was wrong; Ryn’s head was bowed, and she just hung suspended there with her wings vibrating, shoulders shaking.

She’s crying!

Ali dropped her book and shot up to comfort her friend, “Ryn? What’s wrong? Is everything ok?”

“It’s nothing,” she sniffed, glancing at Ali with red-rimmed eyes and then looking away.

“But… you’re crying?” Smudged ink was spread across her face where her hands had been.

“I’m… ok,” Ryn said, gasping through the sobs, hovering in the air as if unsure what to do.

Ali stared at her for a moment, frustrated that she didn’t want to share what was bothering her, but it didn’t take much to realize that Ryn wasn’t ready to open up. Whatever had caused this didn’t seem to be immediately life-threatening or dangerous, at least.

“Would you like a cup of tea?” Ali asked, changing tack.

Ryn nodded, sniffing, and allowed Ali to lead her down to the couches. Ali filled the kettle, preparing the tea leaves and offering a small-talk monologue to fill the space while she let it steep. Ryn curled up on the couch with her arms wrapped around her knees, just listening. Using the pretty cups Ryn had found at the market, Ali poured one for each of them and then joined Ryn on the couch. Hidden within the base of each cup was a simple runic structure that kept the heat on the inside, making the outer surface cool to her touch, but it would keep the tea warm for much longer.

Ryn took a sip and sighed. “Thank you, Ali.”

“You’re welcome.”

“I lost my job,” Ryn blurted out, followed by a sudden waterfall of tears.

“Oh no! The bookstore?” Ali exclaimed.

Ryn nodded.

“I’m sorry, Ryn,” Ali said. Ryn loved The Reading Corner, always happily immersed in the books of the store, sorting them, and reading. They had both spent many happy hours discussing stories in that bookstore.

“It’s ok,” Ryn repeated herself, but Ali could see it was anything but.

“I knew the owner wanted to retire – I’ve known for a while. He finally picked out a new home down south by the ocean.” Ryn sniffed and then picked up her tea again for another sip. It seemed to calm her down a little because she continued to share with a steadier voice. “He told me yesterday that he had sold the store and the new owner would be coming by today. The new owner is with the Hawkhurst Trading Company – they have wanted to buy the store for ages, looking to get into the book trading business between the nearby cities. I don’t know why, but I just assumed I would be working for them too, but they told me to leave today. They want to employ their own people.”

“I’m sorry, that’s horrible,” Ali reached over and tried to comfort her friend by squeezing her hand. She had a personal grudge against the Hawkhurst Trading Company, both for how they had treated Malika, and how Jax Hawkhurst had behaved towards her at the Town Council trial, but she kept silent about her own feelings. She was just happy Ryn wouldn’t be working for such a crooked boss.

“I mean, I should have expected it. They have no obligation to keep me on,” Ryn said. “But I still feel so discarded, like I wasn’t even worth considering.”

They sat in silence together for a few moments.

“Is there anything I can do to help?”

“Can I have a little more tea?” Ryn asked, holding up her empty cup.

“Certainly,” Ali said, springing to her feet and pouring some more from the teapot which was still steaming on the tea stand. “Here you go.”

“Do you mind if I just hang out here for a while and mope while reading some books?” Ryn asked. “I think I’ll feel better after a little quiet time.”

“Of course,” Ali said, “this is your library too, you’re always welcome here.”

Ryn gave her a wan smile, “Thank you for listening, Ali.”

As soon as Ali saw Ryn was comfortable on the couch with fresh tea and a book to read, she got herself a book, and the two of them passed the time reading.

***

Ryn shut her book and lowered it to her lap. The tears were gone, and she even had a small smile on her face. The book Ali had suggested was a delightful story – she had read it herself a few days ago. She put her book down and smiled back at her friend.

“I finished copying all those books you brought yesterday,” Ali said. “There are some really good ones in there!”

“I know, I was really happy with that set,” Ryn answered.

“Oh, and congratulations on level twenty.” Ali had noticed Ryn’s level as soon as she teleported into the library, but it hadn’t seemed the right time to mention it while she was crying.

A look of momentary confusion passed across Ryn’s face, and then she exclaimed, “Oh! I missed it!”

“Did you get anything nice for your skill unlock?” Ali guessed Ryn had been in the middle of being fired when Ali was duplicating the books, and that was probably the reason she had missed the notification of her level-up. At least hitting level twenty was a good milestone for most classes – Ryn could certainly use something to cheer her up.

“Let me see…” she looked off into the distance for a second or two and then answered, “Summarize, Runic Script, and Teaching – those are my choices. I can summarize books that I touch, understand and write magical script, or help people learn from books with teaching. What do you think?”

“Is that Runic Script the same as my skill?” Ali asked, her curiosity instantly piqued by the familiar skill name. It was a highly sought-after skill for arcane and magic scholars, and Ryn’s class was based at least in part on arcane magic too.

Ryn shared the description, which read almost identical to her skill when hers had been level one. “I really like Runic Script…but I’m biased,” Ali said. “It’s the same skill I have. Although, I guess you will be able to use divination runes instead of nature.”

“This is the skill you use to read the spells inscribed in the magic books, right?” Ryn asked, her eyes alight with a fresh excitement.

“Yes! And it lets me write them with my mana when I copy the books,” Ali answered, “I can read any magic, and technically write it, but I can only use nature and arcane mana, so the spells only work when I’m writing my own mana affinities. It doesn’t matter for books though, because the spells are just the formations, not actually activated.”

“I think I want it, too; it will help me understand more of the books we are collecting. It’s almost like knowing a new language, right?”

“Yes, that’s a good way to think of it,” Ali answered. “The written language of magic.”

“Ok! I took that one,” Ryn said, after a brief pause. “Are there any runes you can teach me?”

“Sure!” Ali smiled. It was good to see her friend back to her normal curious self. Losing her job at the bookstore must have been a hard knock, but Ryn was resilient and bounced back quickly. She was sure it would still be a sore point for her for a while but learning something new was a great idea – and a good way to take her mind off her troubles for a bit.

“I have a spell called Cleanse – an arcane runic circle for removing dirt and grime,” Ali said. “It’s the easiest one I know, so let’s start with that first. Ready?”

Ryn leaned forward, eager to learn and Ali poured her mana into Sage of Learning to enhance her ability to teach her knowledge.

***

Ali sat back in her chair and let her gaze roam around the room. They were nowhere near filling even this level of the ancient library, but several of the shelves beside the area with couches and tables were now full of books. Perhaps it would take years to finish, but the sight of her collection made her feel warm and happy inside.

Mato and Calen had not returned from town yet, and so she found herself with a surprisingly free afternoon. Lira sat quietly nearby, content to relax with her tea and a book Ryn had recommended. Ryn was deep into her book on arcane runes, her favorite Kings and Emperors board set up on the table beside her – one of the few possessions she had retrieved from the bookstore. Malika sat cross-legged on the floor reading one of the martial arts manuals Ryn had found in Ciradyl with the Nine Paths of Ahn Khen stacked up beside her, presumably so she could study those next.

Ali’s roaming gaze soared out past the walls of the library, alighting in the senses of her minions as she rippled out across her domain. Everything seemed quiet. Everything, except…

Irregular thumps of footsteps echoed in her mind, followed by the steady beat of several hearts. Connected with the senses of her newest Toxic Slime boss in the middle of the sewer, she knew someone was approaching, but with its strange senses, it was hard to tell who.

She sat with it for several moments, examining what she felt. Is this how Naia sees the world? Each heart felt different, some quicker, some louder. There were definitely five unique heartbeats. She could even feel the shape and guess the type of boots that pressed into her moss or struck the crumbling brick. But try as she might, she could not guess who was sneaking toward the chamber – learning to use this boss as an early warning sentinel for her dungeon was harder than she had anticipated. Flickering across the tunnels, she split her awareness into a nearby Kobold and peered around the corner.

Oh, that’s Belmar. Relief washed through her as she recognized the gruff Dwarf from her shrine ceremony, and his white priestly robes easily gave away his class – only slightly stained with mud and moss. She spent a few moments studying them, familiarizing herself with the newly formed novice group, trying to memorize the vibrations of their heartbeats and attach that sensation to their faces and names in her mind. Surprisingly, Sage of Learning helped more than she expected.

As they set up for an attempt on her boss, she left them alone, trusting that Vivian had ensured they would be properly prepared. If she learned to recognize all the adventurers, it would be far easier to tell the difference between them and intruders.

Ali’s awareness settled back into her own body, relaxing a bit now that she knew she wasn’t under immediate attack. My biggest problem is mana. She had some fantastic, well-crafted fire resistance gear now, both for herself and her minions, and she was eager to try her newest pieces. The two new bosses she had made with domain-enhanced perception significantly improved the surveillance of her domain, at least in the sewers, taking one of the most urgent items off her list. Clearly, she needed to familiarize herself with their abilities more, but it was progress. However, she still struggled to develop her domain and defenses properly, primarily due to a critical lack of mana. It was unfair just how many high-level monsters the Emberforge Mine could afford, and she couldn’t even make a Flame Spinner boss as a source for Flame Web because it would be too expensive to reserve. Not even a boss, she thought. Just a few of the high-level spiders would bankrupt her.

Traps are free, she thought, pulling out a notebook. While not as versatile as monsters, her domain would fully support any traps she made, completely covering the maintenance reservation. There were limits of course. She couldn’t just stack up thousands of traps in the same place without overloading her domain in the area, but she could certainly make more traps and learn more powerful spells to use with them. And I have a lot of magic books now…

A flicker of movement drew her attention and her eyes alighted on the heavy, scratched Eldritch Tome containing her mother’s life’s work, somehow innocently resting on the table right beside her pile of completed books. It had most certainly not been there when she started. Strange events like this were precisely why she had been avoiding it.

The book had scared her while she was in the grips of her Arcane Recall spell, but somehow it seemed to want to protect her. Ever since, she had found it in random places within the library, almost always within arm’s reach. It’s silly to be afraid of a book, she chided herself, deliberately trying to ignore the fact it was actually a monster that she was unable to even Identify. It was still her mother’s book, and her mom had been one of the most acclaimed researchers on the nature of magic in an age when many historians believed the understanding of magic had reached its pinnacle.

Ali recalled her struggles when trying to inscribe Calen’s light magic with her mana and runes. I wonder if there’s something in there that can help me? While she had memorized the book once to copy it, memorization did not require understanding – and she had long since purged the mental images of the pages. She reached out a hand to pull the heavy tome over to her. It bounced excitedly. Ali snatched her hand back with a startled yelp. But the book’s cover popped open, and the pages flipped furiously past until it fell open at a chapter on Tithe Enchantments.

