The seat was slightly too small for him. Then again, most things were. He was twice as broad at the shoulder compared to any other man he had met. His arms bulged with muscle, and yet if he were to take off his shirt people would find that his torso was not defined at all, instead clad in a thick sheathe of fat. His cheeks were covered in freckles, and his hair was pulled into a tight bun at the back of his head.

He didn’t really look like a cultivator, he knew. He took a deep breath and instead of focusing on old hurts, he turned his attention to this fresh insult.

He was being made to wait.

He had been in quite a good mood, too. He had just completed a commission for the Azure Horizon Sect. One that had ended amicably, with not even a veiled barb about his appearance.

Then, he had been approached by a mortal noble about a Spirit Iron Vein the man had found on his land. He had been intrigued. Such things were impossibly rare in the Azure Hills, and he had agreed to the meeting to purchase it. His son needed quality materials to properly cultivate, and he was at the level where Spirit Iron would be good for him.

But it had been nearly thirty minutes since they had led him and his wife into the room, and there had only been a pot of tea.

The Master will be here shortly! he had been told.

He felt a rough, calloused hand pat his arm. He glanced over at his wife in her fine dress. She always looked a little strange dressed like that, instead of her more normal blacksmithing apron, but that was what these meetings demanded. The wide sleeves hid her muscled arms and old burn scars.

Delan huffed out a breath.

His wife’s presence calmed his anger as it always did, a balm upon his volcanic temper. He hoped that the girl his boy was interested in had a similar effect. He knew Delun had inherited his temper, rather than his mother’s milder disposition.

Still, he kept himself calm. There would be nothing gained from being angry.

Finally, however, the door opened and the mortal stepped through, all smiles.

“Sectmaster, it's great to see you, we have found the most promising—”

The man was interrupted by the sound of the gates of the manor being kicked off their hinges.

It was a rather distinct sound—made all the more worrying by the pair of flaring Qi that was outside the door. One felt almost familiar, with its metallic tang, but it was infused with granite and marble. The other was a savage thing, a predator.

Both signatures were into the Profound Realm, and they were attacking a man Delan was doing business with.

He was honour bound to come to the mortal’s defence.

Delan and his wife both tensed. This would be a difficult battle… but they had to try, for honour’s sake.

“Wait here. We shall deal with this.”

Both unlimbered their hammers and sprinted out the doors and into the courtyard.

“By order of the—” a female voice began before Delan cut her off. He slammed a foot into the ground, shaking the earth, and locking his eyes onto the two intruders.

“Who dares to challenge the Hermetic—” Tie Delan froze and coughed as he got a good look at the two enemy cultivators. “Son?!”

His child blinked back, his jaw dropping open.

The predatory woman paused as well, her Qi blades faltering for a moment.

“Oh, Handsome Man, are these your parents?” the tanned, pretty woman replied, smiling up at Delan’s son.

What the hells was going on here?
