Roland didn't want to think of the Omenborn as Adam's friend. As Vera and Harlon’s shadow. The thought was physically painful, and so he avoided it.

But Adam didn't. "Yes, Shiv is here too."

“Was here,” The large, automata-wearing orc corrected. “The giant surfacer woman flicked him away like he was a gnat, directly at the Tarrasque. That was the last we saw of the Insul before the dimensional veil closed fully.”

"He'll be fine," the cigarette-smoking orc said lazily. "It's going to take more than a world-ending beast to kill…" The orc paused. "To make him stay dead. I'm pretty sure he's getting killed right now. Probably getting killed more than he's ever been killed before."

All the orcs chuckled.

"We are getting favored after this." The automata-wearing orc laughed as he rubbed his large hands together.

Roland was speechless. He thought about all of Shiv's bodies. Thought about how he obliterated Shiv at Old Santabar, only for the Omenborn to return.

"As I said, Father," Adam repeated, "a lot has happened."

The Town Lord wanted to ask more, but for the first time he caught sight of Blackedge, or what remained of it, and the sorrow within him grew a thousand-fold. There were no buildings left intact. The few structures that were still standing had been stripped to their very foundations. There were people out in the streets, but many screams echoed from all corners of the town.

Children were crying out for their parents. Parents howled for their children. Mechanical voices joined organic ones, and Roland could hear his name on their lips as well. They were begging him, asking him where he was. Some were shrieking for him. Others could only muster whispers, for they were trapped beneath tons of rubble.

Worse yet, entire sections of the town were missing. Vast chasms carved chunks and residential clusters out of the town. If Blackedge was a plate, it was shattered and missing at least a fourth of its pieces.

Nausea flooded Roland. He didn't want to know how many of his people were dead, how many he lost, but there was no avoiding the nightmare present before his eyes. He had pledged to protect them.

He had done everything he could, and he had failed. He had failed so many of them. Beyond the borders of Blackedge, he also noticed another problem. There was no sky, no sun, no signs of battle, or even clouds sailing over a canvas of faint blue. Instead, he beheld a sea of static blackness.

A pocket dimension had caged the remains of his town.

"Where are we?" Roland asked. "What has happened to us?"

"Titansbane trapped us in her blade before she sent the Insul flying,” the orc Biomancer sneered.

And that name hit Roland like a cannonball to the stomach. Jessica. A woman who had promised Roland that the next time they met, she would rip the upper half of his skull off and use it as a mug.

Roland had tried to explain things to her, had written to her numerous times over the years, but she never responded. And what was once a dear friend became a bitter enemy. She didn't know what her daughter had been involved in, what the Inquisition had dispatched her to do in the Abyss, down near the Umbral Wilderness. And when Hawgrave joined the Inquisition herself thereafter, Roland had accepted that he was going to have to kill another of his old friends in the future, if she didn't kill him first.

And Roland knew where he was now. He looked up into the air, and he drew in a weary breath.

"Rusty?" he called out. His voice was hoarse with exhaustion and injury. "Rusty, can you hear me?"

He noticed a slight quiver along a certain spot of Dimensionality. It was like something was trying to burst through the mana. But then it calmed.

"I can," the sword finally answered. Its voice was heavy and thick, but it made no attempt to hide its loathing for Roland. "I was hoping that you had perished, Town Lord. I was hoping that you had died blissfully in ignorance, and spared my wielder the heartache. But as with all things, you are an offense and a disappointment, Roland Arrow."

"And you're a cunt sword that can't tell the difference between an asshole and a sheath," Rose snarled on Roland's behalf. She pointed a finger up at the sky, at the Dimensionality engulfing Blackedge. "Listen, Rusty, I don't know what in the Broken fucking Moon happened while I was gone, but you will not keep us here. We are citizens of the Republic. I am a lady of a noble line. Roland has served as the Starhawk's enforcer and as a hero to our nation. So I wish to know: by what right are we being held?"

The sword hesitated before responding. "You are dead," it said flatly, dully, but also with a faint hint of surprise. "Then you must be an illusion. How low of you, Roland Arrow, to summon a mirage of your late wife to attack my virtuous heart."

"I'm not a cock-sucking illusion!" Rose almost shrieked. "I came back to life recently because…" She made a series of frustrated hand gestures, and for an absurd moment, Roland couldn't help but smile at her warmly. He'd missed her anger. He'd missed how her desire to express herself exceeded the limits of her verbalization.

"It's complicated!" Rose finally shouted. "It's very complicated, but I was resurrected. Now, you can continue doubting me, or you can let us out and have Jessica see for herself. In fact, I want to talk to her. I want to see her eye to eye." Rose paused. "Well, she could stare at my chest while I look down at her forehead. That short, stunted wench. And she could tell me why she has participated in the destruction of my home and the wounding of my beloved."

Adam stared, slack-jawed at his mother's outburst, and Roland realized that Young Lord Arrow had not gotten to know this side of his mother very well. Rose Van Erren was a fantastic Diviner, an excellent Jump Mage, a masterful overall mage, and a crass woman with a volcanic temper.

Rusty hesitated for another moment before it finally responded. "I will inform her of what is happening. Should we survive."

"Should you survive?" Rose narrowed her eyes and looked about. Her expression was one of utter incredulity. "What do you mean, should you survive? Jessica's a Legend. You're both Legends." Rose adjusted herself. "My congratulations, aside from other matters.”

"Thank you," Rusty replied. "It happened some ten years ago. Jessica wished you could have been there."

"Well," Rose said awkwardly, "I wish I could have been at the ceremony too, but the rest of this…"

"We are being attacked by a Tarrasque," Rusty explained, interrupting Rose. "And right now, we are…"

And just as Rusty was about to respond, the veil of Dimensionality surrounding them shuddered violently, and then a gap was torn into the mana. A gap that shuddered, ripped, and expanded wider and wider until a colossal shape wriggled its way in. A loud cry of pain sounded from all around them, and Rusty trembled as its internal composition was torn asunder.

But that was second to the fact that a Tarrasque, sporting a multitude of injuries, missing several limbs, and with an obsidian shield lodged in its skull, was swimming through the static mana, coming right for them.

"Holy fuck," Rose breathed.

But then, a titanic Inertium gauntlet reached in and grabbed the Tarrasque by the neck like a kitten. The giant beast let out a primal roar as it was flung out from the inside of the pocket Dimension. A moment later, the rip sealed shut.

“Rusty?” Rose called out.

A low, metallic groan shook the world. “We… must focus.”
