Having a larger Territory was the goal, but it also meant that they would have more to defend. While Jake was confident in facing pretty much anyone, Miranda was right when she said he couldn’t be everywhere at once or defend if they were attacked from several fronts.

No one would, and the more Territory they conquered, the more they would have to be spread out. They had only a few hundred Administrators on their side, and if any of them were used in an attack, it would take a long time to replace them. The same was naturally true for Jake. Sure, right now, he could reach one of their neighbors within a few hours, but what about after conquering several Territories? Wouldn’t it take him more than a day, if not several days, to travel back?

Fortunately, there did appear to be some options available.

“There is a special construction used for teleportation, though right now it’s locked, so I cannot see what it does. We do also have four Administrators capable of making long-range teleportation circles, which we could use to speed up travel throughout our territory,” Miranda said. “Also, there are many vehicles available through the recruitment menu, including some made for transportation. I would only expect these to far surpass even your top speed, especially the more expensive ones.”

“Good points,” Jake nodded after giving her words some thought. In fact, the more he thought, the more he realized that this event really wasn’t going to be simple. There were so many moving parts, so much required strategy, and so many possibilities. If he moved into this event just expecting straight fights, he would find himself outmaneuvered and beaten.

Of course, power was still an extremely important factor, and there would certainly be fights. Also, while defending was one of their big worries, Jake was much less worried about attacking. Sure, there would be defenses to deal with, but Jake remained confident.

“We are already working on a game plan. Kindroth is meeting with some of the more strategically inclined World Leaders to develop an initial draft for us to discuss. I would like for you to take part in these meetings, as the role you’ll play is absolutely crucial, and I trust your intuition and instincts,” Miranda said.

“Alright,” Jake nodded. “But for now, I want to go experiment a bit myself. Try to really test the limits of this virtual world.”

“Good idea,” Miranda agreed. “I take it you’ve already discovered the underground complex? There are several private rooms there; just pick one.”

“No,” Jake said, shaking his head. “I’ll do it away from here. Somewhere no one is looking, and somewhere any potential fallout won’t cause too much trouble.”

“What exactly do you plan on doing?” Miranda asked with a hint of worry.

“I already told you,” Jake said with a grin. “Really test the limits of this simulation and what exactly can be done within it.”

Plus, now was probably the best time to do so... as should he fuck up too much, he would at least be locked out of the simulation partly during the Preparation phase and be able to make it back before anything too bad happened.
