But right then, the portal suddenly darkened, emitting an ominous aura of dread. Ali’s eyes locked onto it, her runes pulsing softly about her arms, forgotten mid-cast. A horrifying premonition of danger dug its claws into her, chilling her to the bone.

And then he stepped through.

The Blind Lich hovered upon the roiling, black mists that billowed out from the lower parts of his rich, ornately inscribed robes, making them flutter softly even in the sudden stillness of the Grove. The whole battlefield held its collective breath. Gaunt, emaciated hands pressed into a steeple above his cold, unbeating heart, making the blackened, claw-like fingernails click together as they touched. Powerful magic spilled out before him, leaking from the malefic enchantments imbued into the glittering rings hanging loosely from his withered fingers, twisting and bending the air – a mirage, but wrought from darkness. And through the veil of his crimson blindfold, the skin-crawling, hair-prickling, shuddering sensation of the full weight of his attention bore down upon her.

Nevyn Eld [The Blind Lich] – Elder Lich – level ??? (Death / Soul)

“Aah.” A sepulchral sigh escaped his lipless mouth – the stale, cold draft from a freshly opened crypt. His voice crackled and grated like slowly, methodically torn ancient parchment, ripped inch by inch. “Found you at last, little Fae.”

(Thirty minutes earlier…)

Raya was a platinum-ranked soldier. One of the few. The powerful. A three-mark.

She’d reached the heretofore unimaginable milestone a week ago while defending the town, just like she’d always done. The ceremony at the shrine had been lovely, and her friends had all come. Aliandra, the dungeon, had remembered her, and even had a few kind words to say.

None of it mattered now. She cowered behind the enchanted merlon atop the main battlement just like everyone else. A measly level one hundred and twelve was insignificant compared to the monster that had blotted out the sky with darkness and had summoned an army of the dead that covered the land like a plague of locusts.

She glanced to the side to see the cloned holy mage beside her gamely lobbing fireballs of divine light out into the darkness while her white robe fluttered delicately about her in the breeze.

Blazka [Bane of the Dead] – Kobold – level ??? (Holy)

Even the fucking kobolds outclass me. This one was more than twice her level, and in the third tier, if the rumors were true.

Raya shook her head and shifted to peek out through the crenel, but what she saw turned her blood to ice in her veins. The Blind Lich had left his skeletal steed and floated above the ground, channeling darkness that seemed to cling to his robes like tar. Around his head, he directed immense dragon bones in an unholy dance like a conductor to an unheard symphony. More and more bones appeared, and as they aligned, he spun enormous ropes of withered grey muscle and sinew from who knew where.

What the hells is that thing?

Her attention remained glued to the abomination forming on the far side of the battlefield, visible only due to its immense size, like a hare transfixed by the sight of an avalanche bearing down upon it. Still, the thing grew. Woven muscles twitched and spasmed, and an enormous leg bent at one of too many knees. Then another. And like a nightmarish newborn finding its legs for the first time, it rose. Six legs, dripping rotten flesh and ichor, and a body the size of the marketplace.

Smaller undead – ghouls and Death Knights – swarmed the patchwork abomination, scaling the legs and crowding eagerly upon its back, glaring at her from eyelevel across the expanse.

Shit! That’s…

“Siege engine!” Raya screamed.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
