She glanced at the radiant battle around the portal before summoning her mana, but Malika was holding the entire army of the dead by blocking the portal with the towering Death Knights she’d maneuvered into the ruined gap broken through her barriers.

Ali quickly turned her attention to her Pit Lord. Her mind raced at the full speed granted by her prodigious intelligence attribute and her mental haste as she rapidly scanned through his skill list, searching for variations in advancements afforded by his status as a unique, named variant. Then, her eyes caught the details of his title.

The Flames of Doom.Your brutality and flames have unlocked an aspect of the bloodline of the Demon God.+25% to Hellfire damage.+6 to skill level of Hellfire skills.Title

Hellfire it is, then. And I know just the thing. Her mana came to do her bidding with such speed that it felt almost eager.

Domain Respawn applied to Dekarradon.Champion Domain Enhancement applied to Dekarradon.Retaliation Trigger (Blast Wave) applied.Spell Cascade (Blast Wave) applied.

Ali remembered just how terrifying the Grim Spark had been the first time they encountered him in the Crypt of Kings, with his multiple, cascading Lightning Novas that triggered every time he was hit. So, she shamelessly borrowed the same idea, granting it to her Pit Lord in the form of a hellfire Blast Wave – one of his base skills, doubling down on the benefits of his title.

But she wasn’t done yet, and the portal was still expanding as undead claws shoved their way through from beyond, and undead began spilling into the Grove through the gaps as reality itself tore.

Mass Summoning (Demon) applied. Triggered Mana Echoes (Mass Summoning) applied.

She would have chosen the Retaliation Trigger or the Spell Cascade for mana echoes, but those were already a trigger chain, and somehow that made them an invalid trigger for the Mana Echoes. Ali did not have the time to investigate the problem right then, but Mass Summoning was good enough.

Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +2129.

Dekarradon swelled immediately, growing nearly twice as massive, as his body was racked by the powerful influx of domain mana. He twisted his neck and flexed his massive shoulders with a thunderous gurgle of delight. “Yes!”

“Go!” she commanded.

“At once, Master!” he growled, his face cracking into a wicked fanged grin that stretched far wider than was comfortable for any being of flesh and blood to witness. Sweeping the giant halberd up into a whirling arc over his head, the Pit Lord charged into battle, black flames bursting from his rippling, dark, demonic hide and rushing upward to wreathe his weapon with his flames.

His gigantic form blurred forward, many times faster than anything his size should even be able to move, and impaled a ghoul, running the halberd clean through its oozing chest, axe blade and all. Unfazed, he raised the halberd high overhead and braced all four legs and his squat tail against the ground, as if the weight of the bits of ghoul still writhing on his weapon were of no consequence.

The halberd descended in a sweeping cleave that howled and sizzled as the high-speed passage through the air fanned the black flames. The blade bit into gray, undead flesh, separating limbs and heads as it tossed pieces of ghouls and shattered skeleton bones flying through the air, bombarding distant trees with a gruesome rainfall.

Then a Death Knight struck, scoring a deep slashing strike across the immense demon’s right shoulder, a deep gash that ripped through demonic flesh, sending gouts of dark blood spraying into the air.

While Grim Spark had been her inspiration for the first two Domain Magic skills, the dangerous Bone Fetish had been a mere boss, and its Spell Cascade only ever triggered three times per hit. What happened next left Ali stunned by its sheer power. A rolling wave of intense black flames burst outward in a rapidly growing sphere around the Pit Lord, shaking the ground and reaching past thirty meters in radius. The shockwave flung smaller undead monsters into the air from the impact of compressed air and flames, but in a fraction of a second, all the launched undead were hit by a sudden cascade of identical blasts as the champion-ranked Spell Cascade duplicated it seven times over. Before her very eyes, the lesser undead were incinerated – skeletons vanished, simply gone, and ghouls were turned into puffs of dark ash and soot. All that remained were the hardier monsters – the Death Knights, the Banshees, and the couple of Wights that had clawed their way through the portal.

Every single undead monster that still remained rose to their feet and locked their gazes upon the towering Pit Lord.

“Good work, Ali!” Malika called out, flickering sideways in the blaze to land a vicious elbow-strike combination into the back of the largest Devastation Knight’s helm. The flickering lances of soul magic passed right through the armor, leaving little vortices of flame in the air to mark their passage.

But Ali’s eyes were locked on the portal. A massive hand reached through, gripping the edge of the shimmering hole. A second, even larger hand that was missing two fingers took hold of the opposite side, and then a third joined the effort – a twisted, dark arm that still gripped a chain flail covered in blackened stains. The dark portal stretched wider, and something enormous squeezed through.

Flesh Abomination – Undead Monstrosity – level 261.

This abomination towered above the other undead, matching the Pit Lord for sheer size and weight. A grotesque, mismatched collection of limbs and body parts assembled by a mad tinkerer into a monstrosity that only vaguely adhered to humanoid shape. An enormous, fang-lined maw where its stomach should have been hung open, dripping lurid green spittle. Neither of the two heads mounted on those broad shoulders matched, and Ali could not even hazard a guess as to what creatures they may have originally belonged to. Each of the five misshapen arms brandished heavy steel weapons, picks, chains, or jagged sawblades.

“Uh, Malika! Watch out!” Ali yelled.

It screeched, high-pitched and shrill, setting Ali’s skin crawling and her toes curling, and it charged the Dekarradon with thunderous steps.

“I see it, Ali,” Malika said, but her friend doubled down on delivering fists and elbows to the highest-tier Devastation Knight, while allowing the searing hellfire to roll off of her like water.

Sudden, furious battle was joined as the Pit Lord’s halberd whistled through the scorching air, and the multitude of ripping and slicing weapons wielded by the Abomination tore into his demonic flesh. The air roared and sizzled as blast waves detonated with continuous fury, but the Abomination ignored its own cooking flesh, so intent was it on destroying the Pit Lord.

Ali responded with an array of fresh barriers to block the portal and delay the undead, but a sudden wave of nausea washed over her as the Pit Lord’s blood corruption aura took hold. Ali grimaced, steadying herself as her powerful champion summoned an entire pack of Hellfire Cerberus demons to aid him. The three-headed wolf-demons, already frenzied and gaining onslaught from the demonic aura, howled loudly and charged the portal, breathing hellfire on the undead still spilling from the dark, shimmering hole through the shattered gaps in her barriers.

But Dekarradon was not done. As the swirling mana formations of Mass Summoning completed, his final Domain Magic triggered, summoning four Mana Echoes to his side. Four more Pit Lords appeared, slightly smaller than Dekarradon himself, and a little hazy, almost translucent, but all four of them wielded identical massive halberds and charged into battle with reckless fury.

More importantly, Ali knew, all four of them bore the first two Domain Magic skills she had granted Dekarradon. The battlefield instantly turned into a hellscape of overlapping spheres of explosive hellfire as five Pit Lords reacted to every single hit with overwhelming cascades of explosions. They tore the very air apart, sending a great pyre of rolling grey-black smoke up from a confrontation that was beginning to resemble an open volcano spewing hellfire to the heavens.

“Nice, Ali,” Malika said, her shining, radiant form darting back and forth to unleash devastating punches and kicks, seeming to dance between the raging waves of hellfire.

And just as she had intended, the deep gashes in Dekarradon’s hide vanished as his racial aptitude absorbed the hellfire damage from his own Mana Echoes as healing.

Still, this was nowhere near enough to face down a portal connected to the heart of the Blind Lich’s army. Ali couldn’t even begin to reach the portal to dismantle it, and so, she turned to her Grimoire and began summoning once more. First, she made a Priest of Azryet to counter the effects of the Pit Lord’s corruption, and then she began churning out Soul Archons.

Ali had managed three Soul Archons by the time Dekarradon used his Domain Magic again. A dozen Hellfire Imps popped into existence, cackling in glee, and instantly they vanished, merging forms with the perpetual flame, popping out to drop fireballs on anything nearby. Moments later, he triggered another four Mana Echoes.

The Divine Archon, wielding her blade in the thick of it to stem the tide coming from the portal, switched to Frenzy aura as the number of allies rose.

“Kill the Flesh Abomination,” Ali said, directing her forces as she summoned yet another Soul Archon to her side. The immense undead monster was a blazing effigy, but it fought on, seemingly unaffected by the searing, hungry flames. Its health was most certainly moving, bouncing downward in large chunks whenever one of her minions hit it. But it had the vast upward pressure of a monster with incredible regeneration, absorbing devastating blows with ease as its flesh simply sprouted new mutant growth at a crazed rate, often nothing like what had been there before.

But the portal was only so wide, and her demonic horde was growing fast. Ali pressed her lips firmly and summoned her fifth Soul Archon, weaving their astonishing soul magic shots around Malika’s flickering form, taking advantage of her Soul Mark curse whenever she saw the chance.

“Take that!” Malika shouted as her foot struck the back of the Devastation Knight’s head, and it toppled forward, ice long gone, burned up by the inferno. Several chimes sounded in Ali’s mind, but she felt the threshold through her domain. A sudden potency, valence – something powerful poised to strike. A simple use of Identify confirmed it beyond doubt.

Monk [Savior of Aman Rak] – Human – level 250 (Soul)

“Malika! The shrine is ready,” Ali yelled, unlocking it immediately.

“I’ll lose my Relentless buff,” Malika said, a look of sudden indecision flickering across her face.

“Your evolution will more than make up the difference,” Ali countered, knowing that it would be true even without the three points of Authority she would earn from her friend’s advancement. “This is more important. I can hold them off now.” She summoned runes to the air around her fingertips and cast Alacrity of the Deep Mind upon her friend, speeding up her cognitive abilities so she might process the shrine and her paths faster – a bargain at the cost of a minor headache, which she could probably heal away.

“Ok,” Malika said, her gaze firming, and then she was suddenly beside the shrine.

The instant she disengaged, the undead pressed forward in a wave. As soon as Dekarradon’s summoning recharge expired, Ali used him to summon another gaggle of hellfire imps and spent her own mana summoning a hellfire-affinity Eye of Agnor and her favorite kobold Pyromancer, doubling down on her already ludicrous fire theme. Her Grove was burning like the proverbial ninth plane of hell, but she just clenched her teeth and pressed on; she would fix it later.

“Here, use this,” Ali said, retrieving a wand of fire vulnerability from her ring – left over from her first strategy against Haverron – and handed it to Emberious. The tiny kobold mage actually hopped up and down in glee as she took hold of the Eimuuran steel rod and began distributing curses like a demented trickster distributing exploding candy.

Switching to demonic, Ali directed her Eye of Agnor to blanket the Death Knights with Explosive Conflagration, letting it auto-propagate through the undead, yet another source of hellfire to heal her nascent demonic army.

“Push toward the portal,” Ali commanded. “Emberious, breathe on them!” If she could just get close enough to the portal, she was sure she would be able to dismantle it. It looked similar enough to the portals Haverron used to send assault forces to her floating island at Aalion, and she had had plenty of opportunity to study those.

The little kobold Pyromaniac cackled and then took in a deep breath, inhaling for far longer than any lungs of her size should have been capable. Then she breathed out bright crimson dragon’s fire. It emerged in a broad, crackling torrent, gushing from her open mouth and even her nostrils. As more flames than could conceivably fit inside a tiny kobold billowed forth, enveloping the battlefield, the spark of a greater presence descended. It was not Azryet’s majesty, but the similarities were there, like an echo or a reflection of what might be. While the greater undead seemed unaffected, the rest – the fresh ghouls and zombies spilling through the portal – all froze. The Divine Archon wasted no time, switching to the Turn Undead aura, and all the frozen monsters collapsed, burning from within.

Drawing from her extensive exposure to formations, memorized by studying the countless hours of training in her Arena, and against her bosses, Ali whipped up a glowing ring of shining emerald-green runes. Druidic and shamanic nature magic, in particular, were now an incredibly deep well of possibility, rounding out her repertoire of spells. In less than a second, her magic sprouted, growing, blooming, and then the runes burst into a silent cloud of floating emerald sparkles as the spell completed.

She allowed a small smile at the sight of her Pit Lord’s growing army of demons and echoes, and then duplicated her new spell several times for some of the Mana Echoes, and the Divine Archon, too.

You have gained Giant’s Strength+150% to strength.Magic – Duration: 1 minute.As Ali continued handing out various buffs, Dekarradon swung the immense halberd in a great sweeping arc, blades of blood exploding in a cascading ripple as his powerful strike knocked even the implacable Death Knights stumbling and reeling.

