Malika touched down gently on the battlements above the South Gate, where Commander Gerald Brand himself was studying the seething masses of undead crashing against the town’s defenses with mindless, tireless regularity.

Arrows and spells whistled out over the throng, shredding banshees, ghosts, and other flying monstrosities, but Malika settled her mind, searching inward. A brief moment of peace. One of the downsides of her Relentless and Abiding Perseverance combination was that if she neglected to engage in battle for a period longer than about twenty seconds, she would begin to rapidly lose her incredible advantage.

She wasn’t physically tired – her endurance took care of that – but mentally, she was beginning to fray. Was there no end to the Blind Lich’s armies? Still, she could hardly complain. She was the last of her friends still stuck at the second tier, and that fact was eating at her. Ali, she understood, but both Mato and Calen had passed her quickly, and here she was, so close to the threshold she could almost taste it – and yet her class stubbornly refused to advance.

Nothing I can do except push harder, she decided, sending a silent prayer to her Ancestors. Her plea was answered immediately.

You have gained the Ancestral Memory: A Gift of Grace.

Malika opened her eyes and studied the guest adventurers mustering behind the heavy gates, ready to sally forth and make one more strike into the heart of the Lich’s Armies.

“How long?” Malika asked.

“Five minutes,” Commander Brand asked.

“I’ll just clear the path then, shall I?” she said. Malika leapt down from the battlements, floating lightly down toward the road right in front of the South Gate, with about eight seconds to spare. She ignored the shouts of shock and surprise that rang out from the battlements above as onlookers and defenders reacted to her long leap into the seething horde of ravening undead still clawing at the gates. She took a deep, slow breath, her entire body poised and ready, and her foot touched down on a ghoul’s head. She pulsed Soul Strike on contact, blasting downward through the ball of her foot and smashing the ghoul to the ground.

As the chilling voices of Death Knights barking commands rang through the air, and the ringing swishes of their heavy swords being drawn could be heard above the moaning crush, Malika stepped off the ghoul beneath her feet and cracked her knuckles.

Ghouls groaned, leaking a foul green drool that hung in streamers from their decaying mouths. Skeletons clacked and clattered in rusted armor. Banshees wailed, while ghosts shimmered. All eyes – or remnants of eyes – turned to stare hatefully at the sole living presence that dared to breach their ranks.

“Ok, who wants to be first?” she asked.

With a swelling roar, the undead horde rushed forward, claws reaching and jaws baring dark, stained fangs opening wide.

As they surged into range, Malika twisted her shoulders and ribcage, rising elegantly onto one foot and pulling her arms in. Dancing, driven to incredible power and momentum with her Divine Step, she executed a pirouette as the undead horde washed by her as a breaking wave of black and gray, seeking to smother the stone dropped into their depths.

Her leg flashed outward a dozen times. A dozen flashes of brilliant soul magic lit the undead. The air filled with sprayed ichor and the gruesome sound of shattering bone, but she wasn’t done. Not by any means.

She launched herself into a perfect rendition of the second form, punching and kicking, her powerful footwork churning up dust from the road, and the lesser undead began to fly as she established her command over her space. A great howl and roar swelled from undead throats as the whole vanguard turned upon her en masse.

Her breathing came slow and measured. Her body stretched and contracted, and she danced. Fueled by stamina, mind honed to the sharp edge of precision by Clarity, she whirled through the masses, dodging effortlessly as her fists spoke with precision and calm.

It took less than five minutes before they opened the gates and unleashed the adventurers. Less than five minutes before the guards and mages upon the battlements began to take advantage of the press of monsters glued to her, striving with claws and talons to pierce or tear at her body, but she danced in and out among them like an ephemeral wisp, her mind content to flow with the tide of combat, always a hair’s breadth out of reach.

It took ten minutes more before the mages realized she could dodge fireballs.

She danced on within the inferno, Clarity helping her ignore the overwhelming stench of brimstone and burning rotten flesh. Death Knights and several greater undead joined in, bringing potent magic and powerful skills to the fight, but they were hampered by the press of bodies, by the flying pieces she shattered, and the continuous barrage of magic raining down from above. And whatever got through her defenses, she healed with a mere thought.

Malika gave herself to the dance of battle, allowing her mind to settle in her body. Her awareness in the moment. On the ice bolt flying at her head. On the ghoul’s claws raking toward her leg. On the feel of the ground or the air beneath her feet. On the pulse of muscles firing in intricate coordination with the stamina flowing through her body.

I’m so close. Any moment now… The thought skittered across the calmness of her mind without disturbing her focus. She turned, sizing up the Abomination before her, towering over her with three twisted arms holding rusty cleavers and spears. She had faced its kind before. It didn’t hold much challenge for her speed.

A high, musical Fae voice rang out directly within her mind, “Malika! Help! Death Knights at the shrine!”

Ali?

Without hesitation, Malika stepped through rock, earth, and space, teleporting straight into the Forest Cavern below the town, and there, beyond the glowing blue lake, she saw Ali’s diminutive form, lit by the golden glow of an immense barrier, while her Archon and Troll grappled with a rapidly growing throng of Death Knights and howling monsters.

“Oh, shit! Ali, I’m coming!” she yelled, throwing herself into an aerial sprint that sucked up brush and dirt from the wind of her wake.

This was what they’d feared most.

Ali scrambled backward as the hoarfrost rippled across the mossy ground, reaching for her with icy, clutching claws. She threw up another barrier in front of her, reinforced again by her domain, and the gray-white ice crinkled upward across it in a delicate tracery of beautiful crystals.

Death Knights! Her eyes were drawn through the climbing ice crystals to the fluctuating portal of darkness, still spewing undead into the Forest Cavern and out across the mossy ground of her Grove. The small group of monsters she had brought as protection were all of the highest-level she could summon, her most powerful minions, and yet, they were being steadily pushed back by the monstrous, biting greatsword and glacial ice of the third-tier Devastation Knight and the swarm of underlings supporting him.

Ali wasted no time. She manifested her Grimoire and began summoning at once. As Calen had so insightfully noted, she had so much spell haste now that even summoning third-tier monsters took at most between ten and fifteen seconds, which put combat summoning squarely in the set of her most potent tools.

Tol’brekk swung, his heavy greataxes ringing loudly against the hoary mithril breastplate, but the towering Devastation Knight’s blade darkened ominously and the riposte bit deep into the Troll’s ribcage on his left side. He roared with fury and smashed the butt of his axe into the side of the Death Knight’s helm, denting it with a ringing report.

Two more Devastation Knights forced their way through the portal, and with a great swing of a mighty hammer, one of the Knights shattered the first Barrier blocking entry into the Grove.

Gritting her teeth, Ali cancelled her summon and repaired the barrier, returning to her Grimoire an instant later.

As the rime-coated third-tier Knight straightened up, Tol’brekk headbutted it in the visor with such force that it stumbled backward. With a fresh river of blood running down his face, the enormous berserker, twice as broad at the shoulder as the armored Knight, swung his axes in a mighty cleaving strike aimed to decapitate the undead stumbling backward.

A deafening clang rang out across the Grove, making oak leaves shiver, and Ali’s eyes widened to see both enormous axes stopped dead in the air by the jet-black, rune-covered blade firmly gripped by ice-covered gauntlets in an expertly executed side guard. A move demanding both the utmost skill and immense strength – most likely backed by a powerful skill.

Holy sword images flickered across the Grove, biting into undead with unerring accuracy as the Divine Archon caught her flying blade, but not one struck more than a glancing blow on that towering Knight in his dark mithril plate. The celestial paladin took a distinct step backward as the Devastation Knight pressed his advance.

Ali was close, her Grimoire blazing with energy and light, but the massive Death Knight kicked Tol’brekk in the side of his right knee, drawing a roar of pain and a crack like timber being split, and then threw his greatsword directly at Ali’s face. The immense weapon punched through her barrier with a crunch and a splintering crack, but Ali was no longer there. Instead, one of her minions was staring wide-eyed at the vibrating point of a mithril blade.

Ali grimaced. She had taken advantage of the teleport to summon more unbound minions to her side, but the pickings were slim now – all of her most powerful minions were already tied up under Volle, defending the walls above ground, with Calen and Mato in the Crypt of Kings, or already right here in the Grove. Nevertheless, she teleported them to her side and restarted the summoning with her Grimoire.

I just need… twenty seconds. Not even. Fifteen! She threw her newly arrived monsters into the fray, but only two were even barely past level two hundred, and the rest began falling quickly. Inside the barriers she had raised, the new Death Knights swung again, causing cracks to form in her barrier that would need to be repaired if she didn’t want a flood of undead to overwhelm her. If she didn’t do something quickly, she might lose the shrine, and without it secured, there could be no raising Malika to the third tier when she reached the threshold. That was unthinkable. No. Keep fighting!

Her forces stumbled backward, driven by a wall of ice and the accuracy of the hungry, dark rune-blade. The crystals reached the top of her barrier, and Ali shrank back, trying to avoid the grasp of the chilling aura.

She lost her summoning again when she was forced to abandon it to repair the barriers holding the armies at bay.

I need help. Urgently, Ali sent her senses rippling out across the battlements up above, searching, hopping from minion to minion. All she found was an impenetrable firestorm outside the South Gate, flickering with brilliant discharges of soul magic from within. She shouted, using the voice of her closest boss, but the detonations and crashes continued unabated.

She can’t hear me! What can I… but the solution came to her quickly. Golden runes flickered about her head, a sparkling halo that materialized in an instant, assembled into the formation of the arcane-affinity Sending spell.

“Malika! Help! Death Knights have reached the shrine!” she sent.

“Ali!” Malika’s voice echoed briefly as the dying remnants of her spell caught her reply. An instant later, a blazing blue-white star appeared in the far reaches of the Forest Cavern. It streaked across the cavern, growing rapidly into a shining meteor that slammed into the back of the oversized Devastation Knight with a flying front kick that lit up the entire cavern, casting the ancient, blackened tree trunks and Lira’s giant roots in sudden stark relief against the rocky ceiling and walls.

The Devastation Knight stumbled forward, knocked off balance by the unexpected impact, missing a block, and taking a rage-fueled greataxe to the side of his breastplate. Tol’brekk roared his triumph, but his approach to celebration was an equally vicious backhand swipe that clipped the monster’s sword arm.

Glowing blue-white eyes flicked toward Ali.

Malika! Ali steadied her wobbly legs, overwhelmed with sudden gratitude at the sight of her friend. “Can you hold them off? I need time!” she shouted, identifying her friend.

Monk [Savior of Aman Rak] – Human – level 249 (Soul)

How long had she already been fighting for her to be leaking power of such magnitude? Soul magic radiated from her body in shimmering waves, driving the lesser undead back by the sheer force of her presence. The monk flickered and blurred, filling the air with the brilliant, rapid strobing of flashing punches and kicks, matching the tier three Devastation Knight’s sheer power with speed and grace.

She was not yet at the third tier, and yet Malika’s strength and endurance were relentless. Her furious punches and flashing mana began to drive even the massive Devastation Knight back through an accumulation of damage. Tol’brekk rallied, and the Divine Archon began to press forward, driving the undead till his back was against the severely cracked barrier wall blocking the portal.

Malika’s power was unquestioned, but Ali was a dungeon, and she stood within her own domain. Nowhere was she stronger. Her last advancement had given her so much spell haste that her Grimoire was blazing beneath her hands, lighting the pages with strands of flickering green and gold mana.

When the moment came, Ali spent her last point of Authority without hesitation.

Her mana cut off suddenly, startling her with its unexpected precipitousness. She double-checked her spell, but her minion materialized before her in all his gigantic demonic corpulence.

Dekarradon [The Flames of Doom] – Pit Lord – level 252 (Blood / Hellfire)

“What is your bidding, Master?” the Pit Lord said, his voice grating enough to make Ali’s teeth rattle in her jaw. The giant Pit Lord bowed his flame-wreathed head to her, but his beady black eyes flickered greedily toward the battle.

“We are under attack,” Ali said.

“I wish to fight,” he said, voice quivering with barely restrained desire. The massive talons – longer than her body – at the ends of his four thickset, squat legs clawed through the moss and stone below his feet with fervent energy.

“And so, you shall. But before you do, I must grant you more power,” Ali said, her words in the demonic language sounding arrogantly pretentious even to her own ears.

“It is good,” he intoned, eyes flashing with vile anticipation.

