“Bye, tree lady!”

“Thank you for playing with us.”

“Bye, Miss Dryad.”

Lira waved goodbye to the kids and retreated into the twisted and warped trunk of the unfamiliar playground eucalyptus tree, melding her body and mind with its heartwood. She offered it her gratitude for its sacrifice of branch and root and applied her mana to unwind and retract the roots and restore the branches to their natural expanse, and in return she received the quiet and calm of the tree, thankful for the return to tranquility and for the destruction of the hated undeath that had invaded its realm.

Finding a more familiar accommodation, she teleported her awareness to an enormous oak tree in Aliandra’s Forest Cavern, eager to return to her new home. The parents of the children she had saved had been grateful, but awestruck by her, and she had always been uncomfortable around that sort of reaction.

He’s dead. He’s dead, and the world is a better place.

The adults had told her the story, a breathless description of heroics out on the southern fields where the Necromancer had met his doom at the hands of Aliandra and her friends. Little Aliandra. She’s grown so much. So much had been taken from her, but she still had Aliandra. And Alexander Gray was dead. All she wanted to do now was rest.

She teleported again, this time to the Elder Tree in the library, but the instant she returned to her domain, she sensed the intruder. Her new domain was small, but her trees were strong, and they were all raising the alarm, calling for her. She reached out with her senses through the domain and the trees, finding a restless energy on the prowl. A thing of claws and fangs.

Bear? No, it’s too big. A Dire Bear then...

She gathered her will and teleported up into a tree in the cavern Aliandra had loaned her, following the trail of the intruder. As soon as she arrived, she sensed destruction. Plants had been uprooted, mushrooms dug up, and her trees had been clawed, bark and branches ripped to ribbons.

She stepped out of the trunk of the tree, and into the path of the invader. It turned its head toward her, and she held its gaze. A shiver ran through its body as it stood there, sizing her up, but it was a monster. It shook its great head and with an earsplitting roar, it charged at her, mouth open wide, fangs gleaming in the dim light.

“Stop,” she commanded, raising a hand, and releasing the hold on her aura. Her presence – her mana – surged outward, overwhelming the monstrous bear. It stumbled, crashing to the ground, with little whimpers and whines escaping its throat as it cowered trembling.

I have been careless. The Dire Bear was a monster – a high-level monster, at least for these parts. It probably wouldn’t have been able to detect the mana of Ali’s domain, but for the fact that she had created the Elder Tree right in the center of it. The mana density was appropriate for the hundreds of square kilometers of her old domain. But Aliandra was a dungeon, and the mana of a dungeon attracted all manner of dangerous things. With the Elder Tree entwined in her domain, Aliandra was emitting mana of a far greater density than might be commensurate for her level. This Dire Bear was but the first of what Lira feared might come for Aliandra’s domain. Fortunately, this monster was a beast.

“Provided you behave, you may approach,” she said. The Dire Bear raised its head and looked at her with its glowing red eyes for a long moment before it bowed its head and approached slowly.

“Would you like to stay? You may protect the forest for me.” She sensed the bear’s emotions, its deep cunning and intelligence while it slowly calmed down under the influence of her powerful magic. It was not long before the monster reached out for her like a child, eager to please. Not every monster would choose her, but she was grateful for the fact that this one respected her. She had to remember she had nothing else now.

She raised her hand and scratched it behind the ears. “Good boy,” she said, feeling the remainder of its terror at her presence fading.

I’ll have to ask Aliandra or maybe Ryn to buy him some treats.

But more importantly, she needed to warn Aliandra about the danger. Monsters would be coming now, drawn to the mana, and Aliandra wasn’t nearly strong enough to deal with what might find her. After another long pause her lips curved into a small, tight smile. Not yet.

Suddenly she jerked her head up as a presence far more deadly than a Dire Bear brushed past the outer reaches of her domain.

Ali sat astride her freshly resummoned Forest Guardian as it splashed through the underground river channel into the forest cavern. The rough bark and shifting wood of its back drew her heart into a quiet sense of nostalgia and calm – much needed after the stress of fighting Alexander Gray and the difficult revelations of the day. It smelled of oak and vines and creaked as it moved, just like she remembered from her childhood.

She ducked to avoid a low part of the rocky tunnel roof before remembering she could simply bend the rock out of the way with her Domain Mastery skill. She had begged off meeting with the council when Vivian Ross had joined them on the battlefield, asking her friends to cover for her instead. They wanted to discuss the Torian forces still deployed to the north, but she was in no mood to deal with their selfish schemes and political plotting, especially after what they had just pulled. Her friends – Malika especially – had only relented once she had promised to resummon some minions for her protection.

She trudged past the ethereal blue glow of her lake – or rather her Forest Guardian did – deep in thought. Her minions began to disperse, the Lux Drifters and Sparkling Oozes spreading out through the cavern, leaving her with just her Forest Guardian and her small pack of Kobolds.

I survived. We survived. When she had walked out onto the battlefield all alone, she had not had any expectation of living through the fight. Her only goal was to save her friends and bloody the necromancer’s nose. But the tenacious loyalty of her friends had turned the tables and left her with a deep upwelling of gratitude toward them. Malika, in particular, had been a devastating foil to the necromancer, enduring the potent aura of death magic with only her healing and Mato’s Sanctuary, while she systematically obliterated his mana.

But it was the sight of Malika sprinting down the outer walls of the battlements to join her on the field that had left an indelible mark on her heart. Things between them had been awkward and strained ever since the council trial, but Malika had not hesitated to come when Ali put herself in danger. Even just remembering it caused her eyes to well up with tears.

She sniffed and wiped her eyes on the back of her sleeve and turned her focus to something practical. Idly she scrolled past the hundreds of notifications of undead kills before she found the final one.

Your group has defeated Blight Summoner – Human – level 73 (Death)

He was a tool of the Blind Lich. Alexander Gray had come, bringing a pestilence and an army of undead – and he had had her name on his lips. Never in her worst nightmares had she imagined that the evil lich would be hunting for her personally. Yet here was a powerful necromancer who had wanted the town to deliver her so that he could offer her to his master – for what terrible purpose, she could only imagine. She shuddered recalling the Blind Lich’s words to her mother, and his sudden interest in her after discovering she had inherited her mother’s mana.

She frowned, pressing her lips into a line. First, let’s see what that fight earned me.

Grove Warden has reached level 49 (+4).+40 attribute points.Imprint: Skeleton completed.Imprint: Zombie completed.

Yuck. I’ll take the points but not those. She quickly dismissed the undead imprints even though she had an open chapter, knowing they were worthless for anything other than creating literal dead weight. Her mana could not animate them, and she was not particularly interested in studying them either. She spent fifteen points each on wisdom and intelligence, dropping the remaining ten into perception and then examined the next set of notifications.

Arcane Insight has reached level 26.Arcane Recall has reached level 6.Barrier has reached level 35 (+2).Martial Insight has reached level 27.Empowered Summoner has reached level 23.Minion Teleport has reached level 10 (+2).Inspiration has reached level 8.

She studied her skill level increases carefully, but the growth was quite welcome. Especially welcome were the two levels in her Barrier skill, now that it was pulling double duty as her primary attack and defense skill. Every point she earned made the barriers a little stronger and a little sharper. Even the single skill point in Arcane Recall would dramatically improve her control over her arcane magic.

Suddenly, her eyes widened. There’s more? Oops, I almost missed that.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Empowered Summoner has surpassed level 20.Arcane magic power enhanced by more than 25%Intelligence has surpassed 150.Reserved more than 75% of maximum mana for minions.Take to the field of battle with more than 100 minions. Empowered Summoner gains Arcane Power.Empowered Summoner gains the Arcane trait. Empowered Summoner – level 23Mana: Your minions gain added nature and arcane damage on hit. Choose up to two Minions. You gain 88.95% [40 + skill + base intelligence x 0.15] of their highest base attribute. Range: 25.35 meters. Reserve: 10%0: Replace a minion target for your attribute enhancement. Recharge: 1 hour. Nature, Arcane, Minion, Buff, IntelligenceAccept this advancement?

Two changes?

Ali studied the unexpected advancement carefully. She had gone all in on her minions for the battle against Alexander Gray. The six Forest Guardians had been particularly expensive – and she had brought her swarm of Lux Drifters too. That had been a gamble, but the glowing acid rain they secreted as they flew above the battlefield had proved remarkably effective against the sea of skeletons and zombies.

This seems fantastic. Her minions already gained some additional nature damage with every hit. From her testing with Calen, they had determined that the formula was remarkably complex, but in general, it seemed to add damage proportional to the base hit, but many factors influenced it. This advancement would add arcane damage, which would presumably work similarly. The additional magic damage type would in theory be useful if she ever encountered enemies that were immune or highly resistant to some of her magic – like the skeletons that ignored her wyvern’s poison. With the range of her potent skill reaching twenty-four meters now, she had found it was getting far easier to keep all her minions enhanced.

But it was the second attribute boost that caught her attention. Till now, she had had little reason to choose anything besides intelligence – all her skills scaled with intelligence – but this would allow her to enhance a second attribute. Wisdom seemed to be the most obvious choice, boosting her mana – and therefore her number of minions – but she could easily see a use for perception or vitality depending on the encounter or situation.

Time to play ‘guess the attribute’, she thought. With an hour recharge on switching, it would probably take a while to figure out her best choice for her second minion. I should also check if I can double up on intelligence. She just knew that would be the first thing Calen asked. She glanced speculatively at the Forest Guardian. It has regeneration and healing. It was plausible that the guardian’s highest attribute could be wisdom, so she decided to try it out. She selected the huge elemental for her skill’s target, and her strength attribute leapt from six to two hundred and thirty-four.

Well, of course. She frowned. Her Guardians were monstrously powerful and in hindsight, it made sense that they would be strength-based creatures. She hopped off the Guardian, floating down to the ground near the remains of her flower garden, and immediately stopped, studying the strange sensation in her body and the dramatic change in her movement.

Is this what being strong feels like? She bent over and picked up a rock about the size of her head, her grip causing it to crack. On a whim, she tossed it, and even with her racial penalty to strength, it soared through the air, further than she would have thought possible before it fell somewhere among her distant trees.

Wow. She would need to try a different minion in an hour when the recharge expired, but for now, strength seemed fun. She ran around for a while, picking up things: a boulder, a rotting tree trunk, and her Forest Guardian – although that was so heavy she merely pushed herself into the ground.

After exhausting her imagination, Ali’s eyes finally settled on the ruined garden. Basil hadn’t returned to the garden since the burning, with the sole exception being the busy day they had spent growing potatoes and wheat. She still had orchards of apple trees and fields of wheat and rice – presumably, they would still be useful until the Torian armies were driven off and the blight was dealt with. Ali found that she missed the quiet, studious boy whose face always lit up when she asked him about obscure flowers or mushrooms. She just hoped he wasn’t avoiding her because he feared her – she didn’t think so, but she knew he needed her domain to level his class.

Maybe I can get him to come visit if I tell him I replanted the garden… or maybe I can ask him about finding new flowers?

She had not had any particular purpose in mind when she returned to the cavern, simply seeking a little alone time after the chaos of the day, and now, with nothing better to do, she decided to clean up the garden. Ash and burnt wood succumbed to her Domain Mastery as she broke it up and returned it to the ground. Even with just a single skill level increase, she could feel the increased control she gained from her powerful mastery skill, Arcane Recall. The little flower garden had been the source of much joy, so she decided to expand it substantially. With a wave of her hand, she manifested her Grimoire and turned the glowing pages till she settled on the wildflower imprint.

Her Forest Guardian rumbled at precisely the same time as an enormous surge of mana suddenly erupted from behind her. Ali spun around, skin prickling, to find the Night Elf Pathfinder, Lyeneru Silverleaf, glaring harshly at her along the shaft of a fiery arrow nocked to the bowstring of her great bow. Lightning tendrils arced from the bow and her hands, playing out along the ground by her feet.

