“It’s Calen’s skill. Notice the age is Ancient.” Ali was certain the age was approximately the same as hers, matching the name of her title.

Ali got up and walked to the shelf where her fledgling collection of books was proudly displayed. She reached up and retrieved Nevyn Eld’s book. “I recovered this from the library – the only book to survive intact. I’m certain he wrote this before the fall of Dal’mohra, and it shows he already possessed the mastery of dungeon magic even back then.”

And for her final puzzle piece, she offered her the appraisal of the shrine.

Ruins of Dal’mohraA crafted shrine artifact, providing domain propagation and support abilities. Owner: Twin Wights.Teleportation Locus [Active].Mana Siphon [Active].Mana: Deconstruct an unresisting or inanimate target, imprinting its structure. Range: Domain.Mana: Summon an imprinted item or creature.Mana: Apply a Domain Enhancement.Mana: Recharge the shrine’s mana reserve. 12,754/20,000Created by Nevyn Eld.Value: SoulboundShrine – Artifact

“Malika has Appraise and got this reading before Nevyn Eld arrived. As you can see it has his mana signature on it, proving that he created it. I’ve also verified from his book that the skills offered to the owner of the shrine are the ones needed to qualify as a dungeon.” Ali pushed down the emotions that threatened to bubble up inside her – learning this piece of information had been a traumatic experience.

“Are you implying that he creates dungeons?” Lyeneru seemed stunned, but she did not argue with Ali’s reasoning.

“Yes, I believe so – and I think he has been doing it for a lot longer than a couple of hundred years.”

***

“The council sends their thanks for taking care of Alexander Gray,” Malika announced as Ali’s friends made their way down the stairs and joined them for tea.

Ali had spent over an hour talking with Lyeneru, sharing all she knew about Nevyn Eld, from details as trivial as the color of his blindfold to her thoughts on his possible intentions for the land. One thing Lyeneru was at a loss to explain, was the Lich’s goals. For a being of such godlike power, he seemed remarkably indifferent to the affairs of the world – perhaps Lira’s opinion was accurate: his sights were set on greater things most of the time.

Lyeneru made ‘tsk’ of disapproval. “The council here is a bunch of cowards. I can’t believe they were content to sit back and hide behind novices that have not even passed level fifty yet.” Clearly, something had happened between them during the meeting and Lyeneru was displeased at best. Ali did not want to think about the worst. She crushed her irritation at the word ‘novices’. Yes, they had seen and achieved much, but in comparison to beings like Nevyn or his Death Knights, they were nowhere close to being able to stand in their presence, let alone fight.

“Politics, I believe,” Lira said. “I’m certain some on the council were trying to use the necromancer to take care of their dungeon problem, just like they probably hoped to use you for the same end.”

“Politics is the root of so much suffering,” Lyeneru replied. “They say if you want to kill a hundred, use a fireball, but if you want to kill ten thousand, you need a politician.”

“That is true, child of the night,” Lira answered. “But equally, an enlightened statesman or woman might save those ten thousand with naught more than skillful words.”

Ali found it amusing that Lira referred to someone so obviously powerful as a ‘child’. And equally amused that the legendary Night Elf appeared to accept it without question.

“I don’t think all of them are bad,” Ali said, her thoughts dwelling briefly upon the pillar of lightning magic that had manifested on the battlements, and the timely appearance of her friends – at least someone on the council had been supporting her, and she had a pretty good idea who it might be.

“You might be right,” Lyeneru admitted, nodding respectfully to Lira. “After they told me you were a dungeon, Vivian Ross told me you would not be what I thought you were. She’s the only reason I didn’t shoot you on sight.”

“The Guildmaster was the one that pointed us toward your battle,” Calen observed, indicating himself and Mato with a quick gesture.

“Same,” Malika added, a little grudgingly.

Ali wasn’t quite certain what to think. Vivian was something of an enigma to her and she wasn’t quite certain yet that she could trust her. To say nothing of the Gnomish lightning mage, Donella Novaspark. Am I just being overly paranoid?

“Aliandra, I want to thank you for your insights and observations. I must track down that Death Knight before it reports your location to Nevyn Eld. After that, I must return to Ciradyl to give my report to the Pathfinder guild. As a thanks, I would like to offer some advice, if you would hear it?”

Advice? And she’s asking permission? “Sure, I’d like to hear anything you think can help.”

Lyeneru paused, and put down her teacup, clearly weighing something complicated in her mind. “You’re a terrible dungeon.” She delivered it with such a matter-of-fact tone that Ali was left stunned for a moment. She didn’t know what she had expected, but an insult was definitely not on her list.

Ali opened her mouth to speak.

“No, just listen,” she continued, cutting Ali off brusquely. Shaking her head, she muttered, “I can’t believe I’m giving advice to a dungeon.”

Ali glanced at her friends, but they seemed just as surprised as she was.

Turning her attention back to Ali, Lyeneru took a deep breath and continued. “That’s not quite accurate. You’re the worst dungeon I have ever seen. And I’ve seen a lot of them.”

“I thought you were offering advice,” Ali said, losing her patience a little with her sudden rudeness.

“You misunderstand. You’re an extraordinary adventurer – you and your friends defeated Alexander Gray – a necromancer, summoner, and blight spreader,” Lyeneru said. “He was a ranking member of the Lich’s cult, the Shadow Council. You all have done the world a great service and achieved something that was probably an impossible task for most gold-ranked groups. But you’re a dungeon, not an adventurer, and your thinking is making you weak.”

Malika snorted quietly in the background. “You don’t say.”

“What do you mean?” Now she’s praising me – or, should I take insult? What is she on about?

“Tell me, Aliandra, why would you face him out on an open field if you’re so much stronger down here?”

Ali opened her mouth to speak but found she had no answer. It was true, her barriers were substantially more potent when she used her domain. It had simply not occurred to her.

“Aah, hmm,” Calen murmured. Nor him.

“As for your dungeon, you have no monsters to defend you. Normal dungeons make traps and have monsters for a reason. You have flowers. And trees. They cannot defend you.” Lyeneru nodded again toward Lira and glanced at Mato. “No offense intended to the trees.”

Mato made a simple assenting gesture.

“What do you mean?” Ali asked. “I had my Kobolds and Forest Guardians.”

Lyeneru raised a skeptical eyebrow. “Kobolds? Seriously? When I found you, I was able to sneak up on you with the most basic stealth,” she said, continuing her brutal evisceration of Ali’s dungeon. “I could have Ambushed you and you would have died never knowing what hit you. I see your books, and I respect your reasoning. You seem smart. But you’re severely lacking in experience and basic survival instincts.”

Calen was nodding along, but he stopped, blushing furiously when Ali glared at him.

“I can’t see stealth,” Ali managed. She had tried for hours to solve this problem, to no avail. She had even enlisted Calen’s help, but the light affinity of his magic’s runic structure had been an insurmountable barrier.

“That’s what I mean, dungeons don’t think like that,” Lyeneru said, her voice warming with what Ali took for frustration or outright anger. “You have monsters, they can see stealth. I saw you have some slimes and oozes – not the smartest monster out there – but almost all of them have Tremor Sense. They are the bane of Rogues and other stealth classes. You must learn to use what you have. I’ve spent a lifetime understanding the layers of complex defenses powerful dungeons have at their disposal. You have nothing.”

Ali sat back, stunned. She’s right. The answer has been there all along. She clearly remembered one of her Starving Wolves flushing a stealthed rogue, presumably because it could smell the invisible Kobold.

“You seem to like books,” Lyeneru said, dryly now, gesturing with her eyes to the modest bookshelf. “I wrote one, get it and read it. It contains detailed accounts of many important dungeon dives, listing the lessons learned. It’s intended to teach delvers and adventurers to overcome them safely, but you should study it to learn what you don’t know about being a dungeon.”

Calen retrieved his precious book, and silently handed it to her.

Lyeneru glanced curiously at Calen and inclined her head before continuing. “As a dungeon, you will face many challenges. Monsters will be attracted to your mana. People will try to kill you for wealth and fame, or simply out of fear. Then there are the most dangerous of all – those like me who think they are doing the world a service by ridding it of a dangerous menace. If you want to be treated as a person, first you need to learn how to survive because few will stop to smell the flowers and join you for tea.”

Ouch! That’s a bit direct, lady.

“Thank you for your advice,” Ali said, finally finding a few words. She swallowed, still reeling from the brutal assessment of her incompetence as a dungeon. The fact that she had been complimented on her skill at defeating Alexander Gray paled into insignificance as she realized just how weak she must seem to an experienced dungeon delver like her.

“Now, I must depart before that Death Knight eludes me. Thank you, Aliandra, for the information.” She turned to Lira and bowed. “Great Mother, thank you for the tea and your generous hospitality.” And with that, she turned on her heel and strode off.

As she left, Calen shifted awkwardly, as if he wanted to say something, but lacked the courage to do so.

“Stop thinking and just do it,” Mato said cryptically.

Ali glanced from him to the retreating form of Lyeneru and suddenly she understood. Calen was in the presence of his childhood idol. And he hadn’t been able to say anything. “Go ask her, Calen,” she said. If nothing else, she knew the importance of reaching for your dreams.

Calen leapt to his feet as if he were scared that he would change his mind if he waited for even a second – which might have been literally true – and chased after her. “Lyeneru… uh, Miss Silverleaf…” he began, stumbling over his words.

She stopped and regarded him silently.

“How… can I become a Pathfinder?” he stammered, looking like it had cost him his entire willpower and then some just to get the question out.

“I do not have time for a formal trial. I have a critical report to deliver, and a Death Knight to hunt,” Lyeneru said, beginning to turn away.

Calen’s face fell, disappointment written on it clear as day.

She paused for a moment and asked, “Do you have any tracking abilities?”

Calen’s mana flared quickly in a complex formation before he replied, “The Death Knight is that way, moving east.” He pointed directly south, indicating an easterly direction with a gesture.

Lyeneru raised her eyebrow. “How long can you keep tracking it?”

“As long as I check in on it at least once a day, I think it’s indefinite. It doesn’t take a lot of mana either.”

“Very well, you will join me on this hunt. You will obey my orders exactly without question or hesitation. This is the only way you don’t die. Understand that this Death Knight is an evolved monster that is far beyond your capabilities. We can discuss Pathfinder guild requirements afterward.” She turned to leave again, clearly expecting Calen to follow.

He turned back and waved to them with an enormous grin on his face.

I’ve never seen him look so excited!

Ali’s gaze connected with Mato and Malika. I’m going to miss him.

As soon as they were gone, Malika began filling Ali in on what the council had said, while Mato began to bustle about preparing dinner – seeming a little quieter than usual.

“Bastian was ready to arrest Vivian and Donella for disobeying the law, but Lyeneru yelled at them for forcing us to face Alexander Gray without assistance,” Malika said, giving a colorful description of some of the altercations that had occurred. “It was Jax Hawkhurst that sent her chasing after the dungeon. Conniving bastard.”

Likely that will make the council even more polarized.

For her part, Ali filled them in on what Lyeneru had told her, and then after dinner, she decided to get a head start on the feedback she had been given. She summoned a Luminous Slime and split her awareness between her own senses and those of the monster. She sat while her mind rebelled against the strange, alien senses, trying to get used to the bizarre sensation of ‘seeing’ the vibrations Mato was making as he moved around. She kept her own vision, trying to correlate what she was seeing with her eyes and what the slime could perceive. After a few minutes, she began to get the hang of it.

My intelligence attribute is a lot higher than the last time I tried this. She resolved to keep her unusual perception skill active until she truly mastered it. She picked up Calen’s favorite book and began to read, hungry for ideas to become stronger.

***

