“Give me one good reason why I shouldn’t slay you right here, right now,” the Legendary Pathfinder snapped. The Night Elf’s voice was cold and hard, and there was not even the slightest tremor in her bow.

Archer [Pathfinder of Legends] – Night Elf – level ??? (Fire / Lightning)

“What… Why?” Ali reeled from the sudden and unexpected threat. In the instant she summoned a domain-powered barrier between them, her Forest Guardian appeared beside her. Fire sprang from Kobold talons and a preemptive pulse of holy healing magic settled on her. But Ali stayed their attacks. Heat that dwarfed Thuli’s forges rolled off the Night Elf in waves, and from the immense power of the mana she was holding condensed within her bow, Ali knew that the best of her defenses would amount to a spiderweb trying to block her Forest Guardian’s charge. That bow had driven off a Death Knight – the aura of lightning and fire was so intense she could feel her hair beginning to rise from almost twenty meters away.

“You are a dungeon,” Lyeneru said, speaking with unyielding cold certainty in her voice and the steadiness of her bow.

With the specter of Nevyn Eld looming large over her, and the emotional impact of taking the field to meet Alexander Gray by herself, Ali was emotionally wrung out. Everyone wants to kill me. Because of my class. The town council members, Necromancers in the service of Nevyn Eld, noble ice mages, and now, even a legendary Pathfinder.

You’re all the same. Even the rage that had burned white-hot within her when she faced Alexander Gray had mostly faded, but the remnants of the embers of rage still smoldered somewhere deep inside.

Defiantly, she locked gazes with the Night Elf, choosing the formal speech of the High Elven courts. “Has the vaunted culture of the Elves fallen so low in the past three thousand years that an Elf would break into someone’s home and demand a reason not to slaughter them?”

Lyeneru’s face twitched, but her bow remained trained on Ali. “Are you not the dungeon? The council informed me that it was you.”

“I am Aliandra Amariel, and I am the dungeon…”

She activated Arcane Recall, pausing the flow of time. If I can’t beat her, and I can’t escape… Ali struggled with it momentarily, but she was emotionally drained; she had nothing left to give. The Elf’s arrow would shatter her barrier in an instant, and throwing rocks at her with her borrowed strength would probably be as effective as trying to attack the very mountain itself. If I have to go… she glanced once more at her ruined flower garden. Channeling all her remaining mana into her Grimoire, she filled the entire area with Mystic Bluebells.

Nice Ali, baring your fangs at the legendary archer who’s probably five times your level. A futile act, no doubt, but to her surprise she found she didn’t care. It was all that was left to her. This person had come into her home and threatened her for no reason, and she was tired of it all.

Her spell completed, and the world returned to normal, with herself and Lyeneru standing in a field of beautiful blue flowers.

So pretty…

“… and you’re standing in my flower garden,” she finished aloud.

Surprise disturbed Lyeneru’s cold façade and her smoldering eyes glanced down at the bluebells at her feet.

Ali said, “Now, I’ve had an awful day facing the underlings of the Lich that killed my parents and destroyed my home, so I’d appreciate it if you put your bow down.”

The Elf just stared at her, but Ali refused to back down, an improbable staring match between a bug and the boot that would squash it.

Dense emerald-green mana pulsed within the trunk of the nearest Lirasian Oak, and the wood and bark warped as Lira emerged to stand elegantly on the moss. “Aliandra dear, I’ve made a pot of tea,” Lira said. “Why don’t you and your new friend join me in the library?”

The change in the Night Elf’s demeanor was instant. Lyeneru gasped. The intense mana powering her bow vanished and the bow lowered as she bowed fluidly and deeply. “Great Mother of the Deep Woods…”

Aunt Lira must have been watching, ready to protect me… Gratitude, coupled with shame, washed through her weary body. A meeting of legends, and here I am, everyone’s favorite target.

“Thank you, Aunt Lira, we’ll join you in a minute,” Ali answered, ignoring the Elf for now. As usual, Lira’s timing and perception were impeccable.

“Don’t be too long,” she replied. “Ryn found a particularly aromatic Elvish green tea, it would be a shame to let it grow cold.” And nodding toward Lyeneru, she vanished back into the oak, leaving only an awkward silence in her wake.

“So…” Ali said. “Would you like to get some tea with Lira and have a conversation like civilized people do? Or would you prefer to slay me?”

“You… you shame me.” Lyeneru’s bow vanished and her magic guttered and went out. “You answer my bow with flowers and offer me hospitality and reminders of a more civilized era. You have my sincere apologies. Let’s talk, it seems we have much to discuss.”

***

You have entered the Grand Library Arcana.All Learning and Knowledge magic is enhanced by 10%

“… and this is the Grand Library Arcana,” Ali explained. Lyeneru, for all her initial violent intent, had flipped her demeanor entirely, becoming a paragon of politeness and civility. Her bow had not made a reappearance, and she instead peppered Ali with questions, betraying a powerful curiosity and a hunger for knowledge.

Was it seeing Lira? Or was it my defiance? Even though Lyeneru had not mentioned Lira even once since that first encounter, it was abundantly clear that she held the ancient Dryad in a kind of reverential awe. But on reflection, Ali was becoming more and more certain it was Lira’s comfortable familial attitude towards her that had given Lyeneru pause. Knowing how sharp and perceptive Lira could be, Ali knew every word, even the cadence of each syllable, had been chosen with clear purpose.

Ali had taken the scenic route to the library via the ventilation shaft, and Lyeneru’s awe and excitement for the discovery of the ruins of the great city had echoed Calen’s when they had first discovered it.

Now, entering the Grand Library Arcana, Lyeneru’s eyes began to shine with the white light of lightning mana as she studied the walls, the atrium, and the ruined bookcases. Bending down, she picked up a shattered shard of a bone spear and glanced at Ali.

“A Skeletal Wyvern had made its lair here. It was a raid boss with bone-affinity mana – that spear was part of its breath weapon,” Ali explained, leading the Elf to the couches Ryn had purchased. Lira smiled at them as she arranged the porcelain cups and invited them to sit while she began to pour tea.

“How do you know the Great Mother?” Lyeneru asked, giving voice to her obviously burning curiosity. She bowed again to Lira before taking her seat.

“Aunt Lira has always been part of our family. She’s the one who taught me my first cantrip when I was ten – a spell to grow plants.” Ali answered, remembering her excitement the first time she had seen the plants growing from her own mana, and the notification chime when she had learned the skill.

“You were eight, dear,” Lira answered. “Not even your mother was that precocious.”

Was I really that young? Her memories seemed clear enough, but they were more about how happy she had been, and Lira’s gentle praise, than a precise calendar timeline.

“Would you mind telling me more about the dungeon? Was it you that cleared it?” Lyeneru asked, nodding respectfully to Lira as she accepted a cup of tea from the offered tray.

“Alas, I lack any combat skills,” Lira said, “A choice I have had reason to rue of late. No, Aliandra and her friends are responsible for destroying the bone dungeon and liberating this place.”

“Thank you,” Ali said, choosing a cup and smiling gratefully at Lira, happy to have her wisdom defuse the dangerous situation. Lira joined them on the couches, quietly sipping her tea.

“This is really good,” Lyeneru said, tasting the tea. Ryn had mentioned it was an expensive imported Elvish tea, but Ali didn’t even have names for the delicate blend of herbs producing such an enticing aroma from her cup. Other than that, she agreed it was great.

Ali inhaled the aromatic steam and sighed, some of her exhaustion and tension slipping away now that the threat seemed to be over. Then she said, “When I awoke near the shrine, this entire area, including the ruins here, and the level below, was the domain of a bone- and death-affinity dungeon called the ‘Ruins of Dal’mohra’.”

“Death?”

“Yes, it was mostly filled with Kobolds, wolves, undead, and bone elementals,” Ali explained.

“Bosses?” Lyeneru asked, her tone clipped and efficient – like Ali imagined Commander Brand might be when asking for a report.

“There were three normal bosses,” she said, “A Kobold Swordmaster with minions, a skeletal aberration with four arms,” she paused to swallow, saddened again by the death of Armand, “and a Piercer Scorpion bone elemental. The two raid bosses were the Skeletal Wyvern in here, and then on the second level we had to defeat a twin boss – caster and melee Wights.”

“And it was just the four of you that defeated it? Or did you have help?”

“Yes, Vivian Ross gave us excellent advice on strategy, but we defeated them on our own. The raid bosses were extremely challenging, and after the Wights, we had to take time to recover from the life drain.” She had been quite worried about her friends, even though she had not been afflicted by it.

“Did you find a shrine?” Lyeneru pressed.

“Yes, but Nevyn Eld teleported in and recovered it as soon as we defeated the Wights. Fortunately, we were able to hide, and he didn’t see us.” They had been extremely lucky, and Ali could still remember the fear of seeing the Lich for a second time. If he had seen them, she knew for certain he would have killed them all without hesitation and they would have been powerless to stop him.

“Nevyn Eld?” Lyeneru exclaimed, sitting bolt upright in surprise. “Are you certain it was him?”

“I am,” Ali answered. The Lich’s presence was unmistakable – burned into her memories like a searing brand. “It is the second time I’ve met him. The first was when he destroyed Dal’mohra, turned the Council of Kings into his Death Knights, and killed my family.”

“Wait… you were here when Dal’mohra was destroyed?”

“She was. I haven’t seen Aliandra for over three thousand years,” Lira said softly from her seat on the couch.

“He hunted us down, mother and me. He wanted her magic badly enough to destroy the whole city and all its people. He was quite happy killing her and forcing her to serve him as an undead slave. How could someone be so evil?” Ali could still clearly remember the arrogance in his voice, and the contempt for the council and the city who would not be turned to his side except through the horror of being bound as undead Death Knights. And how quickly his reason turned to madness and fury when her mother had defied his will.

Ali fell silent with her memories. No longer was she driven to tears, but the sadness was still just as profound.

“Aliandra, the Elven Pathfinders Guild was formed many centuries ago, specifically to oppose his evil. We cannot allow another Breaking. Individually, we are nowhere near powerful enough to stand against him, but we study the movements of his underlings – the so-called Shadow Council – plan for their attacks, and try to divine his next target before it happens.”

“How is it that we were able to evade him?” Ali asked. She had been frozen in terror by the power of his aura at the time, but it was rather incredible that he had simply ignored them and taken the shrine.

“Our intelligence suggests that the Lich is, in fact, literally blind. He may possess a powerful omnidirectional mana sight skill which we believe is granted by the crimson blindfold he wears, but it has a limited range,” Lyeneru said. “As you can imagine, details are sparse – we only know this much due to decades of research by the Archmage, Nathaniel Sunstrider, studying eyewitness accounts and drawings.”

“Nevyn Eld was indeed blind even before he came to Dal’mohra,” Lira said. “It never impacted his ambition.”

The Night Elf’s eyes widened abruptly at her confirmation and then she said, “You must realize that very few have even seen the Blind Lich, and fewer still have survived to talk about it. Anything you could tell me about him might save lives.”

“Before I help you,” Ali said, “I need to know why you were so willing to kill me, without even knowing who I am.” Sitting down for tea was all good and well, but Lyeneru had still threatened her life – and she would not forgive that easily, even though she knew there was nothing she could do to stand up against someone powerful enough to run off the ice Death Knight that had broken through the gates of Dal’mohra and slain all the defenders.

“You are a dungeon,” she answered with a tone of finality. She presented the fact as if it automatically explained her actions without any question, but Ali did not understand.

“That is my class, yes. What have I done to offend you personally? Or are you just like those greedy townsfolk who want to assassinate me for the reward?” She had to know what made this person different from another Roderik or Alexander.

Lyeneru sighed, as if saddened by Ali’s accusation. “A few centuries ago, Nevyn Eld learned how to enslave dungeons – we do not know how he does it, but it is difficult to find a dungeon now that is not under his control. What we know for certain is that he uses rifts to shattered realms to feed his dungeons, and then the dungeons supply his armies. You are a dungeon – I have been tracking that Death Knight for weeks now, and it led me right to you – I naturally assumed you were one of his minions.”

“I don’t think that’s quite right,” Ali answered, several pieces falling cleanly into place. “I don’t think it’s enslavement.” Lyeneru’s information raised far more questions in Ali’s mind, however, her experience with Nevyn Eld’s pet dungeon told a different story. Searching through the notifications shared by her friends, she found the relevant one and shared it with Lyeneru. “This is the dungeon we defeated in the city ruins.”

Ruins of Dal’mohra – level ??Affinity: Bone, Death.Age: Ancient.Known Creatures: Kobold, Undead Skeleton, Starving Wolf.Known Bosses: Aberrant Skeletal Warrior – level 9.Dungeon

“You have a skill that can identify dungeons? That’s a rare thing.”

