“Correct. My Skill Evolution allows me to possess and direct someone on a deep and near-total level—perhaps a few dozen if my Parallel Thinking is drastically improved and I level my Psychomancy more. But that is not an army. And we will be facing adversaries with strong Magical Resistance and additional defenses on top of that. They will not be so easy to reshape. The orcs are being over-optimistic at best. We will not be able to field a reliable army of mind-slaves without a Legendary Psychomancer, which we don't have. Even if we did, I suspect it would take much more time than we have.”

“What about just deploying one or two of their best?” Shiv asked.

“No, that just doesn’t make sense. Even Heroes generally don’t attack an army alone.”

Shiv did a double-take. “They don’t? Then what the hells were we doing against the Vultegs two days ago?”

“Being desperate idiots instead of Heroes,” Adam replied flatly.

Shiv grinned. “Worked out for us.”

“Yes, you Deathless bastard. Because only one of us was in true danger,” Adam sneered.

“You’re cute when you’re frustrated,” Shiv taunted. He reached out to pinch Adam’s cheek, and the Gate Lord smacked his hand aside.

“Get your hand away from me, you oversized idiot.”

“You let Bonk squeeze your cheek,” Shiv complained. “Why don’t I get to? This is bullshit.”

“I didn’t let that bastard do anything. He just pinched me out of nowhere.”

“Yeah. I think he likes you, Adam. I think he wants to be your friend.”

“He needs to stay the fuck away from—”

“Boys,” Uva said, squinting at the two of them. “Focus. Please.”

Shiv nodded in agreement. And tried to pinch Adam with a stream of Vitae anyway. The Gate Lord dodged back and laughed. “I knew you were going to do that!”

“You won’t be able to avoid me forever, Arrow.” Shiv chuckled. “I will infantilize you like the orcs do someday soon.”

“Uva,” Adam said, pointing at Shiv. “Reach into his mind. The orcs are making him into an even bigger bastard than before. Shut him down and wake him up again. Maybe that'll fix him.”

The Umbral’s annoyed expression collapsed into one of exasperated amusement. “There is just something about leaving you two next to each other that turns you into children, isn’t there?”

“Yeah,” Shiv said. “I want my turn to bully Adam. The orcs had theirs.”

Adam formed a Hydrokinetic limb with a middle finger extended. It pressed against Shiv’s face, and the Deathless pretended it wasn’t there at all.
