“You will apologize for your act now or meet me tomorrow morning on the field with your sword in your hand.”

A stunned, cold silence received Rollo’s matter of fact’s threat. Viv had to admit, she had seen Rollo teaching his squires and she didn’t give the sour young noble a snowball’s chance in hell to survive the ordeal. Rollo didn’t fuck around. That said, killing a scion within twenty-four hours of entering Enoria was not a habit she wanted to further develop, so she decided it was perhaps time to calm things down, especially now that Rollo had presented such a perfect opening.

“Now now, I am sure the gentleman let his… youthful enthusiasm get the better of him,” she said while the grandfather blanched, possibly seeing his bloodline quickly reaching extinction.

The old man cuffed his descendant before he could lash out again. The younger man turned to him then stopped, struck by the mix of horror and fury twisting the old man’s face into a ghastly mask of crimson skin and bulging white eyes. Viv had never seen such a powerful expression of ‘I love you and I also will hit you so help me Neriad’ without a single word being uttered. It took a good ten seconds for him to regain his composure, during which everyone waited in polite silence.

“Yes. Yes… please forgive my grandson. The war has been most cruel on Reixa. The outlaw Elix seized the city while part of my family was away, dying on the fields of Regnos. Many of us were left bereaved on that fateful day.”

“Ah, Elix, yes. We were briefly acquainted.”

The old man’s gaze grew dangerous.

“When I tore his pet gray mage to pieces in Anelton for what they did to the city.”

It was all she had to say.

Immediately, the tension dissipated. Many of the retainers nodded in approval. Viv’s dad had been right. No cause united different factions quite like shared hatred.

“No one will mourn his passing,” the old man agreed.

“May the cur rot in the afterlife!” his grandson agreed, anger successfully redirected.

“Right. You must be the Lord of Reixa.”

“Indeed I am, Ediar of Reixa. And this is my grandson and heir, Gedis. I understand that you will require our guidance to set up those… teleporters the king—”

Viv could hear the quotation mark around that word.

“— wanted across the country. Unfortunately, he left little direction.”

“Oh, the location is up to you, of course,” Viv replied amicably. “May I suggest somewhere near a location of business interest? It would make the lives of your merchants easier.”

The man frowned. Apparently, Sangor had not explained things properly.

“Our merchants?”

“Of course. The portal network will open a direct line of communication between your city and Anelton on one side, and the next duchy on the other. You may activate it and use it — and tax traffic — at your leisure. The crown will pay me for the upkeep.”

“Oh…”

Viv smiled seeing the golden glint of greed in her counterpart’s pupils. Gotcha.

“Shall we depart?” she asked.

“Hm? Yes, of course. Ride with me, woman. Tell me more about that portal.”

Viv gave one warning glare, the black sclera making a point without having to resort to real intimidation.

“If you please.”

“But of course, dear host.”

The two squads merged until they formed a hundred-men strong cavalry detachment.

The subsequent trip gave Viv a strong sensation of deja-vu. It was the second time she was following this road, the previous one being two years before during spring. She had been going to the Academy then. The mood had changed for the better since that time of troubles. The isolated villages now stood with gates open as they rode by, laborer toiling in the fields to plant seeds. Most bowed when they passed by but none ran in fear. Back then, Viv had only faced terrified refusal to even buy bread.

There were still marks of Enoria’s decline in the abandoned, isolated farmsteads they ran across. Many fields lay fallow, some overtaken by new growths and saplings. Burnt estates  still harbored hastily dug graves with poorly carved symbols of Enttiku on improvised tombstones. Elix was not the first raider to terrorize the kingdom.

“We will rebuild,” Lord Reixa said in a low tone.

“Yes. Speaking of rebuilding… would you like a new arm?”

It was as if she’d told him she was Santa Clause wearing a bra.

“You… you are serious?”

“I assume I can count on your hospitality tonight?”

“Naturally! We will honor the rites.”

“Give me enough monster meat and I can do it.”

“And… my daughter. She was stabbed in the womb. The healers said…”

“I’ll need a partner. A healer priest or priestess. They need to control the blood flow.”

“I will get you one. I will. Tell me what you want in return and I will grant it to you to the best of my abilities.”

Viv smiled. Lady Azar was wrong. She could be diplomatic when she wanted to.

***

Viv reached the spot chosen for the next portal two days later. The local noble had picked an isolated meadow within view of the castle, giving newcomers a pleasant outlook on the city, not least because the slums were on the other side of it. She noticed that a few catapults were currently aimed at the spot which got to show that she wasn’t the only one to understand their true potential. As requested, a brown caster had cleared the ground and raised two circular stone platforms as smooth as a palace floor. Two portals, one for the link east and the other for the link west to allow for a larger volume of people. It wasn’t necessary but Viv anticipated some traffic. She got to work immediately.

Disintegration magic usually struggled more against inanimate matters but recently, she had less and less difficulty carving the rock. Inscribing runes in the material was a matter of minutes. She knew exactly what to do. The stone would also help keep the portal alive for longer.

Her last addition was as subtle as she could make it, of course. Witch spells tended to vary greatly between individuals but one could never be too careful, especially because that addition was a kill switch. If Enoria ever went to war with her, she would cripple their supply chain in a moment. She was soon done and then it was time to continue.

Carrots were good and all but she had always favored a nice stick.

***

“Assassins. Ahead.”

“Hold!”

Viv stopped her horse, looking down at the nearby figure of Zero-Five. An intrusive thought pictured him coldly executing a retired knight while his son looked on from under the bed, with goons burning a village in the background. He had the unfortunate look.

“Assassins?”

“Eight archers with Enorian long bows. Hiding in ambush. No liveries.”

“I see.”

“They look weak, old. Broken. I can kill them for you.”

Viv considered her options.

Funny how two years ago she’d come across a group of such bandits and casually executed them. It had been a necessity then. The Viv at the time couldn’t allow witnesses to report her presence in case she got an army after her. And an army had captured her eventually. That was also why she had requested Zero-Five’s support. She would not be caught off guard again if she could help it.

“I swear, milady, I had no knowledge of such things,” her Enorian knight escort assured her with a worried, candid voice. She waved his concerns away.

Lady Azar insisted she should be more diplomatic and, if she had to be honest, she was not interested in killing. There was no reason to make a point through brutality, not anymore. Those who hadn’t gotten the message by now never would, either through arrogance, despair, or sheer stupidity. She wondered which one it was this time.

“Take this token with you. Leave it right behind them, undetected.”

“As you will.”

“Then return.”

Zero-Five bowed and disappeared from the perception of nearby soldiers. Viv could still track him through his use of black mana, which meant that as powerful as the axe wielder was, his skills still paled in comparison to Irao’s. They waited in silence until the hadal appeared again. He was fast.

“It is done.”

“Guide the knights to the ambush location at a solid trot.”

“Milady?” Rollo asked with some concern for her.

“I will teleport behind them. Do not be concerned. They have nothing that can take me down.”

“As you order.”

Viv took a deep breath, then she cast her new aegis and gated. The clear road turned into an old forest covered in low ferns, several forms huddling behind a natural bank formed by packed soil and the exposed roots of a collapsed oak. They jumped when she appeared. Viv used the aspect of the guardian to reinforce her defense as one of the attackers swung around, aiming his massive bow at her.

“Do it,” she ordered. “Take the shot.”

She pushed him with intimidation. He half-released, half fumbled the draw and the arrow smashed against the side of her sphere.

This version had tiny interlocked hive patterns over a flowing layer. It was harder to breach since the shock spread over a large surface, the components reinforcing each other and floating in position in case of breach rather than her having to consciously regrow them. It was probably one of the strongest defensive spells in Param right now at an individual level. Even at point blank range, the javelin-like arrow pinged uselessly against it before disappearing into the still-open portal.

The disheveled sniper paled when she casually pressed her horse up. A quick flay severed the string with a dry sound like a whip crack which forced him back against the ground, disarmed.

Viv deployed her soul and the terror smothered whatever was left of the ember of defiance still burning in their chests. Zero-Five had been right. These men were already broken before the attack even began. She looked around. They had no way of escaping the horsemen they had to know accompanied her. It was a suicide mission.

Her knights rumbled in sight a moment later. They formed a silent line above the bank, spears lowered and helmets closed. It was already finished.

“You don’t look like hired thugs. Or bandits,” Viv said, seeing that they were mostly clean. The attackers were mostly older men with clean clothes and haversacks possibly holding supplies. Their bows were well-maintained. They lacked the scruffy edge of bandits or the finesse of assassins.

“Why are you even after me?”

“You can’t just… get away with it all!” the sniper screamed.

So, revenge, she supposed. After a fashion. They lacked the preparedness of professionals so she assumed they were just lashing out.

“The war is over. You lost. There is nothing you can possibly attempt that would take me down. Normally, I would kill the lot of you for the attempt but the truth is that you were never a danger to me.”

“Now you show mercy? Now?”

“Yes. Unless, of course…”

Her intimidation aura flared again. She felt it affect her mood, going from jaded to cold and matter-of-fact. They would do as she said or they would die and their deaths would be no scale, errr, skin off her back.

“You really want to die that much? I am honestly curious. Why? Even if you had somehow succeeded by some miracle, you would have all perished for it. Don’t you have families who need you?”

“I don’t,” the leader said. “Because they were all killed in a raid while I was away! You and the other rebels… I got nothing to lose. Nothing at all. Nothing left, because you took everything.”

“I’ve heard that one before. If you want to end it, then die doing something useful. Fight monsters. Protect villages. None of you are crippled to the point you can’t function without help. You have no excuse coming here to waste your training, weapons, and my time when you could be out there spending your lives to make the world less shit. Help a starving widow. Kill a snakehound. I don’t care. Stop using me as a tool.”

“I… I…”

“Look at me. Look at me, that’s right. I… am beyond your reach. That’s it. Give it up.”

Sullen, slightly shameful silence answered Viv. It was clear she had gotten to most of them in the way they sat despondent, their precious bows held like lifelines and not the tool of war it was meant to be. Only the leader still fought her influence but it felt brittle, the last pillar holding together a crumbling reason to live.

“Dunno that I can give that up.”

“At least do it for the others around you, unless you want to drive them to a pointless death as well?”

“No… no, I don’t wanna do that.”

“Good. You have each other at the very least. Find a worthy cause to spend your lives in, if you really must , alright?”

“Yeah.”

“Excellent. Now, FUCK OFF.”

“Yea, yeah. Sorry, Fine. And… thank you.”

“Get lost before I change my mind.”

The archers scurried away as fast as emotionally broken wrecks could. Viv watched them go with a feeling of relative satisfaction. She didn’t have to shed blood and so she didn’t. It was as simple as that.

His Enorian escort approached with his helmet held respectfully between gauntleted fingers.

“Milady… I am not sure it was wise to let those men go. His Majesty King Sangor decreed that those who still resist ought to be slain, for they act against the kingdom itself.”

“I know it sounds hypocritical coming from me but, in a way, I’m glad this didn’t end in bloodshed. There’s just no point here. Maybe we could just forget this whole incident ever happened?”

Viv could almost hear the cogs grind behind the man’s contemplative gaze. One less pile of paperwork. One less round of executions. Her offer was more than tempting.

“As you say, milady. You are the offended party.”

“Good man. Now, let’s go. Something tells me a lot of blood will be shed before the season is over.”

