“Very well. And I do not mean it as an insult when I tell you that… you are not what they say.”

“My violence has a purpose. If those guys had shot one of my people, you would have realized that I am exactly what they say.”

***

Two weeks later.

Some places deserve to be painted. As the crimson dusk kissed the meadow in front of Viv, it gave the green grass a warmer tone, an ephemeral feeling enchanting the last moments of a nearby festival. Already, the jousters were packing their spears while the last revelers finished their bottles or gathered in warm embraces. Group after group left in small clumps, on horseback more often than not. The nearest road snaked between growing fields and cozy farmsteads protecting ripening vineyards. This was an old land, a rich land, tame and bountiful and filled with colors seen in the merry garments of its inhabitants. Viv could not have pictured a more idyllic nation of knights and princesses if she had found it in a library book. Even the distant castle with its white stone and blue spires would be more fitting in a fairy tale than in a war.

They were finally in Baran. The richest, most powerful country of the continent. The seat of its mightiest military and its most elite knights. Viv sighed, a little jealous. Why couldn’t she have landed here among the romance segment of some high budget Arthurian show instead of the touristic equivalent of a purulent boil on Satan’s sphincter? Why?

As she watched, a servant accidentally backed into a noble wearing a red dress, pushing her against a tent picket. Two muscular lads immediately jumped the poor sod and left him bleeding on the ground.

Ok, perhaps that was why.

“Milady,” her Enorian escort said, “We may not go on further. However, I am told a detachment of Knights of the White Orchard awaits in Coelette castle. Over there. They will guarantee your safety.”

“Excellent. Thank you.”

“Then I shall take my leave.”

The knight departed at a good trot leaving her with her own detachment. Rollo approached her. She turned to him. He seemed… tense.

“I took etiquette classes at the Academy. Nothing mentioned my specific situation, however. Do you have any advice?” she asked.

“You are safe. You are a noble caster lady, a combination that gives you a position of respect both from the warring folks and the scheming folks. The issue is not for you but for us. Over half of the Order is of Baranese origin. As far as they are concerned, we are defectors.”

“Ah.”

“I will add that Baran allows for a marriage between several adults.”

“Oh I knew that. It makes family law… interesting?”

“That is a polite way to phrase it, Your Majesty. My point, however, was that men may join other men in matrimony and although they are expected to honor their wives, nothing precludes them from being intimate with each other. Most Baranese would see my act as a betrayal when I could have swallowed my pride and done my duty. I could have satisfied my urges with a like-minded individual, they would say. I did not want that. I wanted Elber.”

“He…”

“He died facing Prince Lancer’s champion. Yes. Sometimes, I wonder if… but nevermind my qualms. The Order will come under attack and our honor will be questioned. They will not understand that I wanted to live my love openly with the one my heart chose. What I ask is that you do not intervene.”

“Pardon? I should just let my knights get insulted?”

“Yes. Defending us is not your role here. We are defending you. And our honor.”

“Fine. I just don’t want any of you to die.”

“It will not come to this, milady. And besides, we are merely passing through. The locals will not have enough time to drag you into their games. At least, not this time.”

***

Two weeks later.

Viv sighed in relief.

Finally, they were there.

“Hello, Viviane. Welcome to the crucible.”

Viv saluted Jaratalassi with a fist upon her heart. It was a common Northern greeting and also it was pretty fucking cool. The general looked more spry than usual despite a mouth set in a stress-filled line. Rollo and the rest of the escort formed a line by the portal’s side, their focus on the nearby forests of craggy pine in case of maraudeurs. The eastern marches of Baran were semi-arid though the late spring had yet to turn any needle yellow. It was an airy land that smelled of sap and dust. All in all, a rather pleasant experience. For now.

Jaratalassi rode down by her side along with a dozen lancers who formed a loose circle around them. He sized her up.

“You look regal, Viviane of Harrak. Thank you for being here. Now, I asked for soldiers...”

He sighed. His gaze swept the portal.

“I hope you brought me some because I will need them.”

“I bring one thousand five hundred.”

Jaratalassi gave a bitter smile. He wouldn’t meet her eyes. Viv had never seen the old general more nervous than now. She still didn’t know what was coming but it had the old veteran worried sick.

“That… is better than nothing. And most of what you have, I presume. How many levies?”

Viv smirked. Instead of answering, she fed mana into her witch gates.

The portal activated.

For a moment, the aperture showed the lush green grass of a Baranese field, but soon the air was filled with the blaring calls of warhorns. The ground shook when twenty knights in full armor rode across the opening, soon followed by the barded steel tank that held Viv’s primary shield array, Solfis standing on it like a grim ornament. The pilot waved at her and Viv realized there were even more spikes and blades jutting from the vehicle’s front.

After them, the rest of the army followed at a brisk pace. Columns of grim One Hundred came first, soon followed by Hightree soldiers armed to the teeth then the Fingers with their long bows.

“I shall guide them to the camping site,” Zero-Five said as he emerged from the shadows, spooking the nearest lancers.

“Please do so.”

The companies followed each other. Jaratalassi’s expression was one of quiet contemplation while the parade continued. He only shook his head once when Poacher arrived at the head of the Sisters of the Eye, then later when one of the Bitter Hearts called him handsome. As the heavily armed column reached its end, more rumbling heralded the coming of shield arrays and the Shrill’s many catapults. Sidjin saluted from his seat, looking quite smug. Lana nodded at her.

It took another five minutes for the supply train to pass through with an escort of Children of the Scale and Temple Guards forming the rear guard. Smiths, cooks, healers, menders, cleaners and builders came in strength to assist the force for an extended deployment. Then there was the supply train Baran had promised.

Jaratalassi remained quiet for quite some time after the last of the Harrakans had disappeared down the trail. Viv closed the portal.

“We do not do levies,” she told him.

“I see. We… may have a chance after all. I will need to reassess our deployment.”

“Care to tell me more about our mysterious invaders? Where do they even come from?”

“As far as I can tell from the handful of defectors we’ve talked to, they came from the isthmus separating Halluria’s eastern tip from whatever lands wait beyond. We have no idea what’s there.”

“They crossed the entire Halluria from side to side? How? How did they get enough supplies?”

“As far as we understand, they eat humans.”

“They what?”
