Viv approached the supine form of the dragoness with measured steps. By her side, the smoldering remains of a corpse still let out ribbons of smoke drifting in the cool morning air. A human corpse. He looked burnt to the nineteenth degree. Hell, Mount Vesuvius wouldn’t have done a better job.

This was a little bad.

Viv sat by Arthur’s side and watched the morning sun rise over distant woods. Active dots peppered the renewed land as they tilled the fields. From this far, the purple tree of Kazar appeared almost tiny, merely a dot that used to mark the edge of the deadlands but now remained as a greeter to newcomers looking for a new life. The dead man had been one of them. It was too bad the life he’d been searching for was one of crimes. It was even more unfortunate he had targeted the wrong person. Terminally unfortunate.

I do not understand.

Viv patted the smooth scales over Arthur’s tail, the heat they emitted quite intense.

He stole from me.

He planned to steal from me.

How can someone be so stupid?

“I’m sorry to say but, as we say back on my planet, the creator has not seen it fit to evenly distribute the gift of intelligence. Some people are just deeply incompetent. Some people are just evil. Not a lot of them, thankfully, but enough to ruin your day at some point. There is nothing anyone can do about those people except managing them.”

We should kill them all.

“How do you identify them? Where do you draw the line? Don’t answer that, it was a metaphorical question. No, you cannot kill them because justice needs to mostly be impartial. I can’t kill people because they annoy me.”

What about that, then?

Am I in trouble for killing without your leave?

They are your minions.

I was just… so angry.

“You know, we’ll just call robbing someone who just came out of your bank suicide by dragon.”

Does that work?

“I mean who would complain? That would be suicide by dragon.”

Arthur sighed deeply. Her spirits were low, despite the recovery of her valuables.

How do you deal with idiots and assholes?

“Easy. I hire competent underlings who do it for me.”

You offload unpleasant work to your minions!

As expected, mother has brilliant solutions to every problem.

Would the minions not complain, however?

“Of course but then you have angry minions who have power over assholes since I put the minions in charge, and then the situation usually solves itself.”

Mother is cunning.

“Are you ready to return? I think we’re on someone’s field and they might be scared.”

Alright.

I will return to the bank.

Much to do!

“You do that. And if you feel like you need a break, I am sure our next adventure will come knocking soon enough.

***

Viv watched the message laid in front of her with some measure of consternation.

Adventure was here.

Jaratalassi’s letter was expected. She had been counting on it since he had warned her he would need her help. The spark of luck never disappointed. The problem was the end of said message.

“Viviane,

Things moving as expected. Enemy forces coming from the east soon, possibly next month. Will need all the help you can bring. NOT Hallurians.”

Not Hallurians.

The Old Empire’s borders stopped at the marches of Halluria, with even the most war-like emperor giving up on invading that unforgiving land. They knew that to take and hold Hallurian cities would be a costly endeavor with no reward for the Hallurians fought to the last and used any means at their disposal.. And now, foes were coming from that shithole country… from the other side? That would require an insane military as well as a will to conquer that defied all logic. Unless those were space aliens or a colony of invasive man-sized spiders that reproduce by laying eggs in chest cavities. She wondered what fuckery the world had in store for her unpadded buttocks this time.

Sighing, she reached for a nearby pen. It snapped between her fingers, spraying ink across her desk. And the letter.

“Nous fucking dammit.”

***

“We need to decide who goes and who stays,” Viv told the assembly gathered in her throne room.

She had a cool throne and a crown now, which was kind of nice.

“The One Hundred will come,” Ban assured with certainty.

“Yes, it goes without saying that the army will accompany me. The question would then be, who stays?”

“The city guards should stay,” Lady Azar said. “Some of our newcomers have been lax in their respect of the law. The same should go for our militia. They are not ready to function so far from our towns.”

“We won’t raise the militia at all. There is no guarantee we will be back before the harvest.”

“Quite so,” Lady Azar agreed.

Viv and her exchanged a glance. They both knew their finances could not suffer a poor harvest. Without the tons of grain they were expecting, Harrak would default on several contracts with Enorian customers. They needed the food and they needed the export. No laborer, no taxes.

“Half of the temple guard will stay,” Farren said.

The Voice of Neriad stood confidently. Viv hadn’t caught up with him much these days. He seemed wary of her, and quite busy too. Maybe it was the bishop assassination that bothered him? Viv wasn’t sure. She wouldn’t blame him.

“But Lorn will guide the best of us. I will come as well.”

“You will?” Viv asked, a little curious.

“My brothers and sisters will take over my duties. As a representative of Neriad, I will assist you in making helpful alliances with your peers. Friendly contacts. You will need this specific approach,” Farren finished with a very pointed look.

“That may be so.”

“Solar agreed to stay and lead a Temple Guard team against any threats that materialize, though I have contacted the border forts and there have been no signs of danger as of late.”

“Excellent. That covers the soldiers. Mages?”

“I will come, of course,” Sidjin said by her side.

“And I,” Lana agreed.

The Blue Mage glared at Viv as if defying her to object, which Viv still found inexplicable. They had trained together on the Tercio for weeks. Of course, Viv expected Lana to come.

Viv glanced at her. The mage still wore the same impeccable, flawless dress as before while the other liberated apprentices walked around the city in whatever clothes they fancied, sometimes even peasant garb which was technically below their station. Paramese society placed a lot of emphasis on one having the appearance to match their station after all.

Viv wasn’t sure what her problem was but she just didn’t have the time to find out what it was. She sighed. That was it, really. Too many capable underlings with their own agenda. Too little time. Maybe Abe could tell her more.

“The other girls will stay,” Lana continued in a voice that brooked no objection.

“And I will, as well. My place is here,” Abe said with a calming smile.

Immediately, the tension left Lana’s shoulders.

“Very well. I’m glad you’re here to hold the line. Can I count on you to assist Solar if anything happens?”

“Of course. I will continue to cleanse the deadlands in your absence. I will also make sure the ward stones are maintained as well. You can leave with a calm heart.”

Viv almost believed him.

“Oh, and I will look after Rakan’s students, of course.”

“Hmmm.”

“I will come,” the young mage assured her. “I am ready, this time.”

Viv would be a complete hypocrite to deny him at this point and besides, he had proven himself in the deadlands.“We will be glad to have you around. That leaves us with the scouts?”

“The hadals will come.”

A few yelps at the back heralded the appearance of a tall, gaunt figure with slitted yellow eyes. The hadal man towered over the surrounding notables like an ominous bouncer. A black scarf covered the lower part of his face while his naked scalp shone under the morning light, the only pale note on his person. Dark cloth covered the rest of his body while a comically large axe rested on his back. The silvery blade looked enchanted. He could show up at any audition for the brutal right hand of an evil sorcerer and not only get hired, but get the role rewritten for him specifically. His appearance was just that stereotypically villainous.

//I like his style.

Come to think of it, Solfis was kind of villainous-looking as well.

Maybe Arthur too.

Could it mean that Viv, herself a sorceress trying to resurrect an evil empire from the ashes, qualified as a B-movie antagonist?

Nah. She was far too classy.

“I’m overthinking things. How many of you can we count on?”

“Six. We will handle scouting.”

“Six is few,” Lady Azar noted.

“Not six of us. We will handle scouting,” the man repeated, tension rising in his voice.

“Sure. What do I call you?”

“Zero five.”

“Ok… what about the yries?” Viv continued to remove the attention from the hadal before he got any more flustered.

“We come,” the shrill leader said. “We bring wasps.”

“Good.”

“A lot of wasps.”

“Excellent. I think that was everyone, or am I missing something?”

//You are missing me.

//I will come as well.

//I will stay here while you pave the way.

//I fear my presence tends to alarm the provincials.

“We Baranese are not savages,” Lady Azar noted with resentment.

//No, you are not.

//However, I have met your forefathers, Lady Azar.

Viv swore she could see the golem smirk.

//Briefly.

//They tend to talk a lot and I tend to respond in ways that would not favor a positive diplomatic outcome.

“Indeed. The murder golem will come with the army. What about the supply train?”

That turned out to be a whole new discussion Viv had hoped she could leave to someone else. Unfortunately, there were disagreements between Lady Azar and Farren, both people who’d managed supply trains in the past.

An army didn’t just march on their stomach, they also used water and iron. In an army, everything was a consumable, including armor sets. Even the tanks would need constant care.

Farren advocated in favor of bringing rune smiths who had a much better time repairing equipment, both mundane and otherwise. Meanwhile, Lady Azar believed they should remain in Sinur’s Gate to produce more gear which could be either used to form new troops, or sold for export.

“I believe the smiths in question are all servants of Neriad…” Viv interrupted.

“True. Granted to you as a reward for service rendered,” Farren noted.

“And I believe the benefit of having them outweighs the funds they will generate if they stay. We are facing unknown attackers. We can’t afford to hold back for minor gains.”

Lady Azar consented. Viv got the impression the objection had been more of a maneuver than a real statement born from belief.

“If that is all, I will leave Harrak first, tomorrow” Viv concluded. “I still need to set up the teleporter network. I will go first with some guards and use this opportunity to establish diplomatic relations with our neighbors. You will make ready and travel as we progress. Baran promised supplies but we cannot count on it so bring what you can.”

***

The next day, Viv rode by the Enorian border city of Anelton, Rollo by her side alongside a contingent of Knights of the Blue Rose. Their plate armor sets looked even better now that they painted azure blooms on its dark surface. It complimented their many-colored liveries quite nicely without letting viewers forget the steel underneath. She looked at the barricaded town to her right. It was healing much faster than she’d thought as the constant and rapid trade bolstered the city’s value. Truly, the portals were a game changer for everyone involved. Between Sidjin and her, they had a massive potential for altering the entire continent.

They didn’t stop at the border city. It was still morning. She had a lot of ground to cover if she ever wanted to cross a third of a continent in time before the next shitstorm took it out. Sometimes, she wondered why she was bothering. Anything coming from the east meant Harrak would be the last one left standing…

Viv shook her head. That was a slippery slope. And there was the snowball effect to consider. Besides, she’d given her word.

“The escort should be there any minute, Your Majesty,” Rollo said with a soft voice as if they were attending a ball.”

“Thank you. Did I mention I loved the flower pattern?”

“They were drawn by my paramour.”

“You have chosen well.”

“I agree. Ah, here they are.”

Viv finally spotted a group of cavalrymen coming in at good speed. They outnumbered her detachment by a factor of three, which she was sure was a breach of etiquette. An old man with a missing arm led them. He seemed worried.

Her Knights stopped, spreading around with their visor opened but the spears in their hand. Their stand made a solid statement and Viv’s wings, which she always let out these days, made another. She allowed the silence to draw on when the Enorians stopped at a respectable distance. Their gazes went from her to her stoic bodyguards. Paradoxically, the uniformity of their enchanted armor sets lent the Harrakans the image of a more disciplined, more respectable outfit with Viv as its black-clad heart while the Enorians formed a more mismatched force of retainers of various quality. She leaned on it when she spotted the old man’s second, a younger knight with a large scar. A young mage in the center of the formation had the gall to inspect her. She inspected him in return just to let him know she wasn’t fooled. It was still considered rude to do so and he withered under her glare.

“A crown on a rebel? Must we, grandfather?” the arrogant young knight said before spitting on the ground.

Ah so they were related.

Rollo moved his steed by a few steps.

