The two humans that stand before statues within a ravine fall into a semi-trance-like state.

A white glyph within the chests of each of their statues begins to resonate with the millions of invisible runes layered within their bodies after receiving the temple's legacy. Neither of them can sense exactly what is happening, but the sensation feels warm, inviting, and instinctively good for them in every way.

In a pocket of space outside the Lower and Upper Realms, a dim glowing white tablet with the same glyph on its face continues to attract more and more Void Creepers to float around it.

At its first flicker, only a hundred or so gathered around it, but now, as the dim glow gets slightly brighter, many from further away in this dark realm are drawn to the energy it emits.

There are thousands that arrive, all long-limbed, jet black, and expressionless, staring at the tablet emitting a natural hum.

The majority of these Void Creepers have never seen anything like this before, but a small few of them recognize this glow from tablets in the past. A Void Creeper even at this high of a rank does not often recall memories like normal mortal beings. Instead, they only remember the sensation and result of the glows before.

It always resulted in the light going out, and the feeling of failure, a dwindling loss of hope.

Yet, the sensation of a new tablet glowing is the opportunity for their purpose of existence to be fulfilled.

They all stop and stare down at the tablet, watching the invisible strings of energy tether it to a place outside of this realm, a place they have never been. They do not even have any understanding of what outside this realm could even be. All they know is the energy it gives off is instinctively good for them, and they must wait until it grows stronger to act.

High above this Void Creeper's Realm, staring down at the glowing tablet and its children all gathering around a dim light source, an enormous faceless Void Creeper watches the realm between space they rule.

This being has long limbs and a rounded humanoid head... at least that is what they would look like if they had any visible form. It only exists as a gravity field, existing at the outer edges of this pocket in space, dictating its rules and making sure that no one ever leaves or enters uninvited.

It has done so for eternity, and remembers every action anything and everything has ever made in this place.

The billions of tablets that have reacted countless times.

While there is a chronological order to the origin plane they are connected to, in this space time is not that simple.

This being is only viewing the events before it with the concept of time in its presence because that is what the invisible threads of energy tethering it to reality need most right now to progress with its legacy.

The entity zooms in on the glowing tablet and examines all of these invisible pulls stimulating its legacy trials left behind within this isolated system.

It starts at the lowest potency resonating soul ties, known as the Lower Realm to the beings living here. Instead of taking in the information that is a moment in time in the present, it scans every moment in time the system connected to this galaxy has ever recorded.

Images of the Lower Ranked Void Creepers from a slower frequency of space are the first visuals it sees. There are many Void Creeper Lords that lurk in the Lower Realm, sitting atop thrones and creating miniature tears in space where the system has already weakened the divide.

They send in children of their own to absorb mana inside artificial realms many life forms call dungeons.

This entity receives billions of years' worth of information and instantly understands why its children have stopped extracting resources from this system over time. It also finds that only one of its legacy tombs was found, and it was one that they planted with the help of a Supreme before its last mental reset.

The invisible Void Creeper scans the history of the Upper Realm next, and the result of what it sees makes the entire realm between space shiver.

There is no true direction or stability in this void of thought, so the Void Creepers staring down at the tablet do not feel a thing. They only distort and twist in the vision of their mother as it fully digests and understands everything that has happened in this system so far. It feels a sense of loss and sorrow, but it is followed by a sense of deep love and hope.

The entity siphons large amounts of the energy that has been collected from this Lower Realm and creates a unique child, mimicking the powers of what it has witnessed.

A dark Void Creeper begins to materialize into reality, and the mother grows tired.

This invisible entity falls back into its sleeping state to conserve the energy it has left, waiting for the tablet to glow brighter once more of its legacy is fulfilled.

The Void Creeper left behind reaches forward and tears through space to fulfill its mission.

–

Maria and I both watch in awe as the statues before us glow brighter and brighter with red and blue light.

The white glyphs start to slowly pulse, and ripples of white energy flow out of their chests.

It flows through the floor I stand on, and even down through the massive black pillar that towers over the entire Ravine.

The odd thing is, it is only my eyes that can see these white pulses of light, none of my senses can pick up a thing from them.

I turn around and meet Maria's gaze.

Neither of us understand what is happening, but we do recognize this as high-quality ether... the same substance that the rift that is trapping us in this Ravine is made of.

It flows so smoothly, and with a mysterious air to it. It flows right by my feet. It is touching my soul but not being absorbed. It is so pure... it is almost an unbelievable feeling. Unlike the rift, there is no protective barrier blocking it from my examination.

Yet, the deeper I look into it, the more of the same I see. It is just pure white ether, compacted so tight I can't make sense of any of the readings I get back. Except for one.

It is the invisible soul bond tethering that I experienced for the first time after our fight with a Royal.

I can feel this sensation growing the longer I examine this ether, then feel the bond tethering to myself, Maria, and the two statues beside us.

It's impossible for me to actually absorb this ether into my body, but its presence in such abundance and purity puts my mind into a calm state. I can focus so much easier, and see reality around me with so much greater depth.

Even the Royal Vibrations within my soul start to resonate with more clarity and purpose. I feel like I'm slowly approaching an enlightened state, but I don't know what it is I'm learning. It just feels like the ability to understand concepts themselves is being expanded.

The high-quality ether does not stop flowing out of these glyphs... it only gets faster.

It saturates the entire pillar of stone we stand on and makes the cores of these two stone statues glow bright white. Their outsides are still coated in our red and blue celestial energy.

We've had all the time necessary to run to safety, but I can't bring myself to do it.

The invisible soul bonds keep my feet planted in place, and the same goes for the blue angel across from me on this raised platform.

My instincts begin to scream that if I move, or disrupt the process now, I'd be putting myself in far more danger...

The high-quality ether starts to fill the air.

However, it does not drift past the sides of the pillar; it acts as though there is an invisible barrier at its edges, so the only direction this energy can travel is up.

A long rectangular pillar flows up high into the sky, until it touches the rift high above us.

The white mist of ether fills the darkness and illuminates the Ravine for millions of kilometers.

Instead of looking up, we both look to our sides. At the far side of this flat platform, more invisible soul bonds begin to materialize into thin air.

My heightened state of consciousness makes it so easy to see them and understand that they are not entirely new soul bonds; I am just seeing them for the first time now...

Even as space itself begins to fluctuate in front of us, it feels as though this is normal and completely expected after witnessing so many soul bonds spawn out of nowhere. The thought of why or how they have appeared doesn't cross my mind as a necessary variable. It is a result of falling into such a deep trance.

A long tear in space opens slowly, and a familiar sight walks out.

It has long limbs, a dark black body over 100 meters tall, and a consistent low hum to its presence that can only be that of a Void Creeper. It is a perfect image of the beings we've been seeing carvings of all over the walls within this Ravine.

However, it is slightly larger than others I've seen before and it does not seem to be as mindless as the ones I've come across in the Lower Realm.

It stops after a single step forward and lets the rift close behind us.

Another abnormality that tells me this is no Void Creeper like the ones I've seen before is that they usually have a blank face, with nothing but darkness where it should be.

Instead, there is a 5-faced clock in the center of its head. The clock's base glows silver, and the faces of each clock that spin at different speeds are yellow, green, cyan, blue, and purple.
