Shiv wondered how he might react if someone threatened one of his skills. He'd like to think he would have more dignity, but he really wasn't sure. It had taken death and sacrifice for him to become a Legend. And if someone else threatened to take it away, to reduce him back to being nothing more than a Pathless? The very thought inspired spiking dread inside Shiv himself. And he developed an unwanted burst of sympathy toward the elf.

Ugh, I really don't like this thinking twice thing. It makes me feel shit I don't like, Shiv thought.

Psycho-Cartography: That's part of being alive. That's part of being mature. You want to be more than a brute; deal with it. Deal with the discomfort. The ones who do make the best choices.

Shiv gritted his teeth as he considered the elf once more. He was two steps away from his initial choice now. Originally, he was just planning on killing her. Then he wanted to make her a crippled example. But slowly, he was moving toward a new thought. A thought that he wasn't entirely sure about.

"Listen," Shiv whispered, licking his lips. "I have planted a magical bomb inside your skill." The elf shuddered and let out a pained moan. Shiv kept talking. "The bomb will only go off when I want it to. So I'm going to ask you to do a few things for me."

Deception 25 > 27

"I'll do anything," the elf repeated. Her head was bowed. She refused to look him in the eyes. Shiv wiped her wounds away using his Aegis, and as her crystallized injuries glistened around him, she shuddered and lifted her head. "How did you—"

"Causal Scargiver’s a fun Feat," Shiv said. "It wounds things that don't adhere to the natural flow of time or the natural patterns of the world. Or at least that's how I think it works. Doesn't stop me from healing you the conventional way. I want you to understand something right now. This isn't mercy. I'm not giving you mercy. I'm not letting you go with a slap on your wrist. I have you. I have you by the fucking balls, uh..." Shiv cut himself off as he realized he was talking to a female elf. "I have you by the…”

“Cunt!” one of the prisoners shouted.

"Thanks, random asshole who'll probably try to kill me later," Shiv muttered.

"You're welcome, Deathless. Keep going. I'm kind of enjoying this. Uppity bitch stole my grub once.”
