David and Niala came back to Riverwall by late Autumn. The situation in Daylight having stabilized and the descendants having taken their first step toward a new life, the two felt they had done what they could for them.

They would, of course, keep checking up on them, as technically they were their subjects as heads of state. In reality, the king's appointed governor was nominally in charge, with the mayor reporting to them for most concerns.

David and Niala would only get officially involved for the yearly budget meetings or if a crisis beyond the means of the local militia ever arose. The arrangement suited them just fine; they were both eager to get back to their relatively quiet daily lives.

Their home had also received some more interior renovations; Niala's alchemy lab had been downsized, with half the room given over to David's new hobby. The brewing side was kept for research and light potion making only.

Instead, they'd had a whole dedicated building built on one of their remaining plots, barely a dozen steps away from their home. Not being a converted space, this new installation incorporated the latest and best practices that any alchemist could ask for.

She now had several different workstations and specialized tools to play with. A fully temperature-controlled, multi-celled storage system had been laid out in the basement. It wasn't yet functional, with most of the parts still being engraved by the manufacturer. For now, she used it as simple storage, but once it was up and running, her ingredients and potions both would be kept at the perfect temperature, pressure and humidity for maximum preservation and stability.

Niala had extolled the virtues of such an installation to David for a few bells. He had been happy at how overjoyed she was, but had still been glad when the presentation ended.

His wife had also purchased some commercial-grade brewing vats from her father. Not as big as the ones he used, but big enough that she could provide basic potions for the town's needs ten times over.

The Landretti distiller still had a place of honour among the other equipment, obviously. The quality of potions it could brew was unparalleled.

At least for now.

There was one apparatus still missing, one whose design was still being refined by the artificers and magic engineers: the Handy brewer.

Neither Cornelius nor Niala expected it to have a large market, so they had decided to go for quality rather than ease of production. The unit would be complex to fabricate, with exacting tolerances, but the potential it would afford skilled compound alchemists was beyond doubt.

The week that Cornelius and Niala had spent on testing the concept had yielded so many paths of improvement for existing potions that the man had already declared it a top priority for his company right there and then.

That it made previously difficult recipes much easier, thanks to the precise temperature and pressure control, was no less of an advantage.

What made it truly unique was the potential to brew previously impossible hybrid potions, as demonstrated by Niala.

So, the Handy Brewer would come, eventually, and almost certainly revolutionize compound alchemy.

Or at least, Niala's alchemy. David was quite interested in seeing what his cute little genius wife could come up with.

They just had to figure out who would build the pit-bound thing. The latest design drawings, to David, looked more like abstract art than an engineering document.

A problem for later.

On the topic of later, the preliminary specifications of the Alchemical Star II had reached them, with long lists of what were probably impressive numbers, which were entirely lost on them.

Except for the estimated price. That number impressed both of them. Niala had even wanted to offer her father some financial support, and she had a good idea of how rich the man was.

Angeline put a stop to that, telling her that their father had plenty of money stashed away for projects like these, and he had more than a few ways to acquire vast amounts of funds if needed.

Niala had asked what she meant by that. Her sister had smiled and winked and moved on to another topic.

Linzy was the last big change in their life. The goblin woman had asked for a house of her own and had received it. A small cottage-like residence, goblin-sized, except for the bed, which was big enough for three full-grown men.

It was according to her specifications, and she'd been very pleased when it had been delivered and installed.

She had also asked Niala to teach her alchemy, which had overjoyed the catkin, more than a little eager to have someone to “talk shop” with. David did his best, and would never tire of listening to his wife jabber about her day and interests, but he just wasn't able to get that involved in alchemy.

In typical Linzy fashion, however, she didn't want to learn everything about alchemy. Rather, she'd had an idea: alcoholic potions. Niala's initial reaction had been to refuse, but the goblin had quickly won her over once she'd explained her vision.

“Alcohol, but that won't leave ya drunk an' sick! Just enough ta loosen ta tongue and make things fun!” She'd explained.

The concept was appealing; everything that people sought when getting imbibed, without the downsides. Niala had offered to come up with the recipe herself, and Linzy could then simply have it brewed wherever, but the goblin woman had refused.

“I can't always be dependent on ye, boss! And, yeah, ah could just be ta greatest salesgoblin in the kingdom, but I'd like ta set up my own enterprise, ya know? And fer that, I need ta be able to come up with da stuff meself.”

And so had begun Linzy's alchemy lessons, which had quickly ballooned outside of what the small woman had thought was a “limited scope” of training.

Niala had firmly explained that, if Linzy did not master the basics of alchemy, she couldn't be expected to brew safe potions, especially not if she wanted to become an experimental alchemist.

Unfortunately for Linzy, the concepts of “basics” for Niala encompassed most of standard alchemy.

Really, she had brought this upon herself. She should have known better than to ask one of the most knowledgeable, and excitable, and cute, alchemy masters in the kingdom.

With Linzy in her own home, and Marshalla having finally moved out of one of their bedrooms and into one of their guest houses, David and Niala had found themselves alone. Except for Lychee, but the bumblemoss didn't really count, and she was acting almost doglike nowadays.

David had begun teaching it some tricks. So far, he had managed “sit”.

He wasn't certain if he'd be able to teach it a second trick.

What this all meant was that, after a year and a half of changes and adventures, filled with people and events, the last few weeks had been... quiet.

They kept expecting something to happen, someone to knock at their door with a new catastrophe, or a new mystery appearing out of nowhere. Eventually, once nothing materialized, they'd finally begun to simply relax.

Time took on a different meaning. It didn't feel limited anymore, a resource to use wisely to get ready for the next disruption.

Now, they could savour it and each other's presence.

David was out in their backyard, sitting on the old wooden bench they had “borrowed” from one of the then-ruined houses when they had first moved in, wrapped in a thick blanket shielding him from the brisk autumn evening air.

The door to the house creaked open, and Niala stepped out, closing it back with her hip, carrying two steaming cups.

She made her way over to him as he opened up the blanket, offering her a spot to sit next to him.

Handing him one of the cups, she settled down against her tall and muscled man-pillow, snuggling in tight, head resting on him as he pulled the blanket back over both of them.

She closed her eyes and let the rest of the world flow out with a deep, dredging sigh.

Giving the top of her head a kiss, her ears wiggling in response, he brought his cup to his lips, taking a second to let the smell waft up to his nose, tickling it with a hint of cinnamon and rich cream, and an afterthought of mint.

There were, of course, none of these ingredients in the drink, which didn't have a name yet. Niala said this was the final version of the hot drink they would serve at their park stalls during the colder seasons.

David had thought that the previous versions had all been more than good enough to sell, though Niala had just rejected his opinion outright. She'd said that, at this point, he got to taste her experiments as a courtesy, and because he was her husband. His culinary judgment had been rejected permanently as “overly biased”.

He was fine with it, as long as he got to taste everything.

He took a sip of the hot liquid. Just like the previous few versions, the taste was chocolatey, but this time the texture was rich and thick, almost like a hot cocoa, but without being overly sweet or rich. The drink's warmth gently spread through his body, going far past his throat.

Niala said that the drink, on top of warming the body, also had a mild decongestant effect, to keep away the winter sniffles. On top of tasting amazing, like hot coco that you could drink gallons of without getting sick, he just knew this would be another hit.

In fact, he would offer Luke and Martha to sell this as a seasonal drink in the Boudoirs, maybe as an exclusivity.

Thoughts for another time. Right now, he was covered by a fluffy cloud, with an angel resting on him.

He took another sip, enjoying the warm liquid coating his throat on its way down. “Niala, did I ever tell you that your cooking skills were divine?”

She opened her eyes and turned her head up to meet his gaze. “Hmm, no, I don't think you ever said something like that. You praised my dishes plenty of times, but never my cooking directly.”

He stared for a second. “Oh. Well, I should have. This drink is going to sell out like the fruit water did.”

She gave him a timid smile. “You think?”

He nodded. “Totally. In fact, any of your recipes would take over the world.”

She stuck her tongue out. “We already decided your taste couldn't be trusted where I'm concerned.”

“I think it's the inverse. You should only trust my taste.”

“Hmm... maybe your taste in women. You did marry me, after all.” She said through a smirk.

He nodded. “Exactly, I have excellent taste. Trust me.”

Lowering her head back down and tipping her cup, she leaned further into him as the drink worked its magic. “Well, in this case, you might be right. This stuff is super tasty, and it just makes you feel fuzzy inside.”

They remained like this for some time, in silence, except for the occasional slurps and the pre-dusk bird calls.

He felt her tense up a few seconds before she talked, their link tinted with uncertainty. “David? Do you think our lives will be... calmer, now?”

He frowned. “Calmer how?”

“Like... calmer. More time at home, less spent travelling.” She said, ears twitching.

He shrugged. “I don't know. I'd hope? I don't have any intention to go looking for trouble. Why?”

“Hmm...” She hummed instead of answering.

He waited. She'd tell him once she was ready.

It was a few more minutes before she spoke again, her voice quiet. “I was wondering if... if this was the right time to start thinking about children.”

He froze. Only for a half second, but he still did. He winced after he recovered, knowing she'd sensed it.

Not that he didn't want to have kids. They'd even discussed this plenty of times, but always as plans for the future. This was the first time it was brought up as a now kind of question.

He gave her a gentle squeeze with his arm. “Sorry, you just caught me by surprise. And, I don't know, Niala. I don't think this is the kind of thing where there's a right time...”

He planted a kiss on her head, then leaned back and sighed. “My guess is... It's time when you're ready. If you feel ready to have kids and want to have kids, then it's time to have kids.”

She didn't move or react for a few seconds, eventually putting down her empty cup and twisting around so she was looking at him now. She peered deep into his eyes, her ears folded down. “What about you, though? It's not just about me.”

He smiled. “Niala, kitten, my love, I am ready. I've been ready since we talked about it the first time. I'm just scared of not being good enough of a father, of messing up. You know that.”

She shuffled forward, up onto him, latching on with her arms and bringing her face up to his level. “You're going to be an amazing dad, David.”

He smirked. “Only half as the incredible mother you're going to be.”

She blushed and nestled her face into the crook of his neck. Her words were warm and ticklish on his skin. “David... I want to have kids. With you. Now. I'm ready.”

His pulse quickened. “Now, now?”

She moved her head up and down. “Now, now. Though... the contraceptive potions will keep having an effect for up to a full season, even if I stop taking them today, but... we can still try, right?”

Instead of answering, he picked her up, got to his feet, and carried her back inside and up to their room.

His actions very clearly said that yes, they entirely could still try.