The Wanderer could bellow, the Wanderer could ride, the Wanderer could break out of this prison inside a prison, wear his Avatar, and leave the Summer Court. He could abandon his current duty as Chef to the Princess of the Harvest and simply stride toward whatever vista he desired. There were many horizons to seek in the Fairwoods.

Too bad he'd run them all.

Too bad he'd lived so many permutations that he could reliably predict the next hamlet, the next mountain hole, the next miserable graveyard, the next battlefield he was going to run across.

He had lived too many of her stories. There were no more surprises left.

Or so he'd thought. Until this loop. Until he started suffering spontaneous acts of sabotage, until he was dealt wound after wound from a fucking phantom enemy.

The crushing impotence residing within him became twin-headed. He realized now that Evanescia was taunting him. This had to be her doing. There was no one else who could provoke, abuse, and torture him so. She wanted to remind him that this was his cage. One he couldn't escape, no matter how fast he went, no matter what skill allowed him to instantly transmute himself into the curve of the horizon, no matter how far he traveled, no matter what distance he accumulated, what gaps or paths he opened before himself.

In Evanescia’s kingdom, Longinus the Wanderer was a god that didn't matter. He was a portion of himself that he would never get back. He would never return to the Yellowstone Republic, never see this instance of himself rejoined with his greater Divinity. He would never truly find and satisfy his dreams of lustful revenge upon his most unreachable captor.

For a time, he succumbed to malaise. He played the roles she bestowed upon him. He stuck to the script, hoping that he could learn from her or at least gain some form of reprieve. And he did. He indulged in his twisted desires, ones that might have been too much for even Veronica to stomach. And Evanescia allowed it. She treated him like a case study, something to observe and take in as spectacle or delight. She allowed everything. And for a time, that satisfied her.

But not anymore, apparently.

She was changing the script again, dropping an unexpected twist obstacle in his path. She had done things like this before, made him face enemies he had no chance of defeating in direct combat, but Longinus remained a god. Even if his Avatar was damaged or destroyed, he could choose another, and he had worshippers even here. It was how she allowed this sliver of him to sustain itself, to keep burning thanks to the fuel derived from faith and worship.

Though the challenges she bestowed upon him were great and potentially a magnitude beyond his skills, he always had options; he always had choices. He could always run, seek the horizon. He could always be what he was meant to be.

But this place was his. The slaves, his. The dimension, his. The kitchen, his. His flesh, his. His avatar, his. His Divinity, especially his.

And all of that had been struck and damaged and destroyed and insulted over and over again. This was a desecration, not of his ability or his potential or his power or his source of worship. No, something much worse—it was a campaign of terror meant to ravage his very pride.

And what was Longinus the Wanderer without his pride? What was the Rider without ambition, a future to imagine, a flavor to compel him, a dream to seek?

What was he without the greatness of his ego?

“Is this just a punishment? Huh? Is that it? Are you just beating me down this time? Am I a side character to some other god's story? Are you just grinding me down so that you can see me lose once? So that you can provoke another reaction out of me? So that I can perform for you and give you a new set of emotions? Is that what you want? Huh? Tell me! Answer me! Answer me! Narrator! Evanescia! Speak to me, you fucking bitch! Say something! For System's sake, just give me a hand! Tell me what you want, and I'll even perform this time! Huh? How about that? You can fuck me directly! You don't even need to trick me anymore! Is that what you want? Just me? Or to let someone else ram their cock inside me for once?”

A weak chuckle sounded in response to Longinus' tantrum. But it didn't come from on high or all around or beyond this vast book that defined the Fairwoods. The laugh came from within. The laugh came from Longinus himself, or at least from a part of him in which he'd invested himself. Gods needed mortal vessels. Gods needed channels to bestow their power upon the world. Georges had been that channel for Longinus—and quite the delicious channel at that.

The Wanderer had mounted much more handsome Avatars before, stronger vessels, smarter vessels, older and younger vessels, vessels born to unique races, vessels of unique makes, vessels of monstrous origin, awakened and properly tamed. Longinus had planted the seed of his existence in a vast field of people, thousands at the minimum. Georges stood out not because he was altogether unique, not because his will was truly remarkable, not because his cooking was even that spectacular, though it was indeed a cut above most, and he was quite the workhorse.

No. Longinus had chosen him because he was spiteful, and foolishly spiteful at the wrong moment. And even after all these loops, even after being trapped with Longinus for so long, that spite still endured when the Wanderer’s grip slackened.

If anything, the underlying hatred the Avatar felt toward the god that wore him was even greater than before.

That hate was expressed in the faint glints of loathing residing behind Georges' eyes. That hate had been there since the moment Longinus took him. And it truly was a thing done on a whim. The poor little Hero-Chef had had an apprentice, a young girl. She was adequate at cooking, Longinus supposed, but he wasn't interested in her for that. No, she had a nice crop of short red hair, and she had exactly the look he wanted that day, and so he presented himself. He was cordial enough at first, and then, well, he supposed he got a little bit excited, and she got a little too nervous, and things ended a bit more tragically than the Wanderer would have liked.

But in his defense, she learned to love him for a time, just like all the others did. After enough infusions of love, everyone could be taught how to properly love Longinus.

And then, one day, he wandered a bit too far, stayed gone a bit too long, and let his gaze drift away from his homestead back at the capital. And the poor, foolish girl and her even more foolish mentor decided to be audacious. They thought they could spirit her away from a god. Longinus had to give them some credit, though. They made it all the way to the border of the Republic, and they might have gotten even further beyond if one of Maiden's alloyed watchers hadn’t whispered of their escape to him.

The moment he knew, the escape was over. With the first step, he crossed a few ten thousand kilometers and returned to his home in the Yellowstone Republic capital.

When he indeed found his home empty, he stepped again, and that second step brought him before the escapees. The dark clouds above didn't herald his arrival, but they made the scene he found all the more tragic. There she was, the girl who scorned his love, still so set on offending his heart on that black and dreary day, her beautiful face full of loathing and fear. The bad weather had already upset his mood, and her rejection of his affection pushed him to do something unseemly.

Today, he remembered little of her: not her name, not her skills, or her history. Just that she'd been a chef, that Georges had been her mentor, and that her head had popped in a most undignified way when he slammed his foot down on her.

But Georges… The sound that escaped from the man just then was the very expression of heartbreak. And it was that rasp, that clutching of his chest, that falling to his knees, and the tumbling of tears that stilled Longinus' outstretched hand. He hadn't even cared that much about Georges before, but for him to feel so genuinely for that girl, and not even romantically at that? For him to come undone before a god, uncaring of his own fate? Well, Longinus' sour mood was properly tickled.

And so began a new love affair for Longinus: because though he had all manner of Avatars, Georges was especially genuine. Especially in the way he looked up at Longinus, his legs soaked in the gore of his apprentice, his eyes gleaming with that same defiant hate.

“Hm. You know what? I think you'll do.” Longinus had smiled down at the broken chef. “Maybe this day wasn't a complete loss.”

And Georges spat at him.

And Longinus just smiled.

And he punished the man good and proper, in all the ways he knew.

After a bit of training, Georges learned to stop screaming and sobbing and use the proper words: Yes, Wanderer. Does that please you, Wanderer? Is there anything else you would like from me, Wanderer?

And when Longinus willed it, Georges learned to love. But there was always that little pit of disgust and trauma and apoplectic rage inside the man. So much poisonous, sickening emotion toward Longinus, and the Wanderer feasted on that. He let Georges keep a portion of himself, not enough to truly rebel, just enough to hold on to that misery so that he could be tamed over and over again.

It mostly proved amusing, except for times like now. Times when Longinus got too distracted and let that leash slip. The Avatar grew distant from him, and the individual that Georges used to be returned. The endless depth of ridiculous loathing came back with him.

“Is something funny about our current fucking predicament, Avatar?” Longinus seethed. “Because if you haven't noticed, you are suffering more than I am. You are marked deeper than I am by our assailant.”

Georges' lip curled. It was a twitch of motion at first, but then a full scowl bloomed across his face. "Well… isn't that just a fucking shame, you cunt? To tell you the truth, I'm glad we're in here. I'm glad we're in this purgatory. I'm glad that you found someone you can't just force yourself on—that decided to force herself on you instead. I'm glad that we're just animals inside a cage. I'll happily spend a million more fucking lifetimes here suffering endlessly, getting abused like a fucking beaten dog, if it means you hurt with me. Because you deserve it. You deserve it more than anyone else in all Integration. And if I could, if your grip on me broke, I would worship her. I would fall to my knees and give everything of myself over to her, just so that she can make your life worse. I am glad we are slaves here, and I'm glad this hurts you. Because before, the thing that killed me the most, the thing that almost made me open my fucking wrists, was the possibility of you getting away with it forever.”

“Well, wasn't that just a cute and furious little rant?” Longinus whispered. “I think I've given you too much space—and I think you've forgotten the relationship between us. Everything I've done for you, all the good I added to your life.”

From within Georges came the supple, sweet nectar of baleful despair. It took everything that the Avatar had not to break down in tears of trauma. “I haven't forgotten… anything. What you did to me, what you did to everyone around me, I haven't forgotten. I'll never forget.”

Despite everything, it was Longinus' turn to laugh. “Really? She's still that close to your mind?”

Georges’ face shivered with impotent rage. Longinus considered seizing control and commanding this uppity slave to love him again, but he kind of wanted to see where this was going.

“Always,” Georges breathed. “I can still feel her blood. I can still see her face. But you know the worst thing? The thing that broke me before anything you did to me was hearing her cry. She tried to hide it. When your love fades from us, everything else you did still remains. In her. And in me too.”

“Well, I couldn’t be around her all the time to give her happiness,” Longinus replied casually. His golden shadow’s words caused Georges to shudder like someone had driven a blade into his chest. The Wanderer sneered down at his Avatar. “What’s up with that expression? I’m not going to give you love right now, if that’s what you want. No, I don't think I'm gonna be giving you love for quite some time after this little spat.”

Elsewhere, far away, but all too close to Longinus, the trapped vestiges of the man he once was before the false god took hold cried out in self-disgust. What the fuck is wrong with me? Just let him go… Just let him go. He's suffered enough. You've done enough to him. The things you've done to him. The things I’ve done… I don’t know how to make this right…

But though his true self went unheard, something returned to the fold, and it brought with it a resurgence of memories. Suddenly, Longinus could remember who he was hunting, why he was hunting him. The confusion that gripped him for so long lifted like a fog cleansed by the coming of dawn.

A giant of a boy stood across from him. He appeared from nowhere. He didn't walk over. He didn't soar through the air. One moment he wasn't; the next he was, and he glared at Longinus with a darker hate than Georges' cassette could ever muster. Black flames leaked out from his eyes in a show of overflowing rage. The Wanderer knew who he was. This was the one who troubled him. This was the one he was hunting. This was the one who'd destroyed the banana bread, who butchered all his dimensionals, who engaged in this campaign of psychological torment.

It wasn't Evanescia. It wasn't Valor Thann. It wasn't anyone else but a defiant little shit that despised Longinus for what he was doing to his mentor.

