My world's ancients had something called the “Combined Arms Doctrine.” It predated the System and saw a collective sort of fighting between man, machine, armor, air, land, and sea standardized.

From the Electric Archives, I managed to reconstruct quite a bit, and after years of careful translation, I managed to glean some insights into how people approached warfare before the System.

It was really quite sublime. Every individual unit within the force functioned as a cell of sorts, a supplemental part to a grander orchestra. Armor, much like our vanguards, was meant to serve as the main push to strike and hold the enemy's attention, but aside from armor, there was infantry, scouts, anti-armor, and so much more. They spoke of things like fire and suppression, along with a great many acronyms I have yet to decipher. But from what I can currently tell, they are akin to white blood cells for the armor. They survey the terrain. They make sure others like them don't strike at the vulnerable armor. I see a similarity there between them and us. Our Vanguards, though powerful, often fall prey to Shadows and Assassins who are what they cannot see coming. These present the greatest dangers of all. What better counter, then, than a good archer with high Awareness, or even your own Shadows lingering behind the vanguard?

But they didn't have mages at the time, no magic at all. Their technology was a miracle in and of itself. Their artillery could reach further than even most Master-Tiers, and their missiles and aerial capabilities were so great that they allowed them to slip past the bounds of Earth's atmosphere. Imagine such a feat before the time of the System. Imagine them spreading across worlds. No gods, no kings, no higher-appointed destiny made manifest. Just of their own volition.

Isn't that quite something?

By now, some of you might be wondering: what does this have to do with practicing atheism? What does this old history about the long-dead ancients of a backwater planet barely in touch with greater Integration offer you toward the slaying of a god?

Gods are parochial. Most of them have only a few Domains, and few of them are so guided and versed in war that they cannot be surprised. Most of you know that a flawed Pathbearer is a vulnerable Pathbearer: A Legendary Vanguard who can crack cities will still be made a victim if their Social Skills are feeble and they find themselves faced with an emotional saboteur. The greatest Shadow, who can glide between places dark and light without ever being noticed, can just as easily be fried to a crisp when a mage unleashes a spell that boils all that is flesh within the continent.

Deprived of their auxiliaries, stripped of a supporting force, a god's vanguard is still at the ceiling of a dimension's power, but that does not mean they are unbeatable. Far from it. You don't need to retreat when they approach. You simply need to know where they falter and strike them there. Strike again and again where the god's Domain cannot guard them, where the skills they have amassed over the years and the skills of their Avatars exist to falter.

There is another word that I have seen multiple times in the Electric Archives. Another concept the ancients held so dear.

A-symmetry. B-asymmetrical. Never face the god directly. Always, always tease them. Always, always exist on the borders of their capacity. Remain in their sight beyond their reach, and let them betray themselves.

Remember always that a god is shackled by the concepts that form the pillars of their Divinity. That a God of War cannot stand to retreat without shattering themselves, that a God of Thieves cannot be presented with a bauble and not steal it, that a God of Wisdom abhors ignorance will do anything to stuff their mind with knowledge—even foul, fetid, festering knowledge born of the darkest pits of the Outside.

A god is not armor without infantry support. A god can be infinitely more vulnerable. For a tank might be able to turn back on its treads, but a god cannot, not metaphysically. So, put them there, make them choose, make them suffer the shape of their own design.

—Practicing Atheism — Second Edition, by Udraal Thann (Number one Best-Seller among the Godhunters of Chorus, the City of the Twelve Worlds)

341

The Way of Tripartite Ruin [II]

“I'm not insane. I'm not insane. I'm not fucking crazy! I'm not insane.” Both Georges and Longinus muttered those words to themselves as they examined the horrors wrought upon the Pastry District. The dimensionals tasked with guarding the area had been torn to ribbons.

They were the contingent of Pyro, Bio, and Aeromancy summoned by Longinus to serve as the guardians of the space. Each one was at least a match for a Master-Tier Pathbearer, and each one had been shredded clean through by what seemed to be a storm of shrapnel. Now, they lay in cleanly cut pieces, scattered across the land. Their desecration was made worse as most of the corpses had been sprinkled into the town-sized banana bread that was due for the Princess’ stomach.

The closer examination revealed to Longinus a horrifying fact: The banana bread had been ruined even before this infusion of dead dimensionals.

Someone had lodged festering tumors inside. Mounds of flesh that pulsated with teratomas and pus. The core of the battered bread was also stained and defiled by a smearing of darkest blood. None of the local slaves had gone missing, so it couldn't be from them. The Biomancy dimensionals lay dead. Most of their pieces formed the cohesive whole of the twelve that Longinus had called, so it couldn't be their doing either. What right-minded dimensional would ruin a meal by killing themselves in the process?

No. There was a hidden adversary here, a saboteur from another kitchen. They were striking at Longinus, ruining his great works. They were trying to shame him before the Princess and make him lose standing, have the space taken from him. Or maybe it was Evanescia, having grown bored of inflicting him with the usual struggles and now seeking to drive him to the brink, as she did when darker appetites took hold of her. Or could it be Valor Thann, finally come to avenge the Ascendants’ desecration of the Great One?

The problem with living centuries was that you had centuries to make enemies, and Longinus had a great many enemies, beyond the accounting of even his prodigious memory.

And then there was the matter of the cuts. Scratches and shallow scars were painted across the body of Longinus' Avatar. Every time his guard was slightly dropped, every time his motion stabilized and he returned to a baseline state, something struck at him. Always just once: a quick sting that parted skin and muscle, exposing the sinew and inner flesh deeper within. Such were the wounds Georges suffered before his reformation via magical steam.

But the wounds dealt to Longinus ran even deeper and were ever more alarming.

So far, only the outer layer of his soul had been harmed, but the unseen enemy was chipping their way through. Every stroke was delivered over an existing entry, and they were licking layers away like a tongue getting to the core of a melting piece of candy.

The slashes were physically powerful and spiritually surgical. Worst of all, they came from somewhere unknowable. Longinus tried to retaliate, attempted to bait out his adversary by leaving decoys. He wove magical illusions, projected slivers of his soul to serve as a parted vanguard, a sacrificial front line, so to speak, to lure out any avaricious enemy. It disturbed him to discover that his hidden hunter possessed a measure of patience and perspicacity. They were able to discern the falsehood he re-erected from his true self. Furthermore, they were willing to wait until he exposed himself once more, until his Avatar reappeared, or he lingered in one place for too long.

Longinus tried to counter this through speed and maneuverability. He constantly stayed mobile, drifting through the air of the Boiling Toad. He was a galloping wanderer striding upon a blanket of blackened clouds, seeing through all with his divine gaze. But even with his God's-eye view, the enemy remained unknown beyond him. A bitter pit began to boil in his stomach, turning fear, loathing, hatred, and frustration into a concoction that strengthened his Toughness and fed his physical might.

Once more, his soul began to transform. Skills parted, skills fused; his nature changed on a whim, in accordance with what he felt. The cortisol burning inside Georges was smelted into a source of momentum and power. If granted a target to charge down, Longinus would tear through them and cleave a clean chasm across the horizon, splitting mountain ranges and undefended cities alike. But there was no target, and this bestowal of power was wasted, for what he needed was Awareness. What he desired was an omniscience beyond what his current Awareness offered.

He spun divining bands of violet silk, used it to engulf every bit of this pocket dimension he used as a kitchen. Though he tracked every dimensional he summoned, though he had every slave under his charge leashed, he remained in the dark regarding his enemy.

And as the hours passed, things got worse. His enemy learned to predict his path, and they jousted with him from angles unseen, still unpredictable. They tore pieces out of his shoulder, drove tides of cutting intent under his armpit and against his joints. New gashes were chipped across his body; his pristine form was being debased. The marble statue he'd made of his form ruined, his divine mana defiled. His enemy gave him a penalty of pain and wrought forth a flood of anxious horror and agitation rather than a gush of vitality or blood.

Though Longinus remained resilient, the shape of his inner self bolstered by all the worship that burned inside, by his countless Legendary skills residing exactly at the peak of the ambient mana threshold of Integrated Earth, where his true self was anchored, he remained impotent. That he couldn't call upon Mythic levels of power in his Skill output despite the local dimension theoretically allowing for it stung once again. His struggles seemed hopeless. He couldn't find his enemy. Every now and again, there would be times when a thrill would take hold, when a ravenous fury would rip through him, when he would drown in the exultation of battle and pursue something, thinking he was about to cut down someone. But then his mind would be winnowed. Something would rip through him—tear his near-term memory apart.

Afterward, he would find himself staring at things like his banana bread mountain, ruined before completion, debased, and left as a lingering taunt.

And so, an ache built inside Longinus, an ache of an epiphany deprived, of a realization stripped away after it was gained, and of a building feeling of hatred toward this unknown enemy, toward his own helplessness, toward the cage he remained trapped in after all these eons.

“I'm not insane. I know I'm not insane. I know that the only person who can do this to me, the only person who has enough power and has the skills to do this to me, is another God. No, is an even bigger God.” He turned his gaze up toward the metaphorical sky, towards that blackened blanket which loomed above him. Toward the flames that danced along the edges of his realm, cast forth from the massive convection plates serving as the bedrock to his kitchen fortress.

His handsome, chiseled shadow’s visage turned hateful, and he forced Georges to mirror his expression, for he didn't want to indulge in this spot of wrathful defiance alone. “Alright, what is it this time, you fucking bitch? What do you want from me now? Do you want me to perform? Do you want me to do a dance? Is this a new struggle you designed for me? A special arc for me to go through to learn the errors of my ways, that it's wrong for me to prey on those beneath me and fit your desired mold of hero. Is that it? Is that what you're fucking doing again? Is it?”

Longinus felt his soul shifting about once more. The mana that composed him. The skills that defined him. They unraveled and they remingled. He was changing again. He was changing, and he stood at the very limits of his hatred. “Well, fuck you, cunt! Fuck you! Do you hear me? Fuck you and the pages you flip and the stories you read and whatever else you use to fill that miserable, fetching hole inside your chest! Fuck you! Hear me, and hear me good: Fuck you! I'm never gonna change. I don't care if you keep me here forever and ever. I'm Longinus. I am the Wanderer! I am bound to walk, to ride, to travel, to taste, and to indulge! That is who I am. That is the truth of my shape. Though you have this miserable, traumatized little shade, this speck of my wholeness trapped here, the rest of me still rides beyond you and your hollow world. The rest of me escaped from this miserable Avatar that you hold. You’ll never have the whole of me, you twisted fuck! NEVER!”

Longinus raged, and Longinus raged in vain. Despite the dense fogs of thundering rage that clouded his mind, a deeper part of him knew she wouldn't respond. She never responded when he was in such an emotional state. She came to him only of her own accord, only wearing someone else's skin, wrapped around someone else's soul. Though he had fought her across a thousand loops, though he had lain with her, been truly intimate with her, it was never on his terms. He only found out in the aftermath or during, and the true salt sprinkled upon his wounded pride was the fact that he couldn't do anything about it.

