“You… crawled back out of the pit you were hiding in, huh?” And the hate went two ways, for Longinus would never forgive someone who touched his things. Yet hate wasn't the only emotion Longinus felt toward the Deathless. There was also a begrudging fascination. That skill he possessed was beyond compare. The moment he vanished, all memory of his existence went with it. Furthermore, it was like he managed to flee from the confines of reality. Not a single trace of him remained. Otherwise, the Divination should have detected him. Longinus' constant scouring should have allowed the god to come across him, but nothing bore fruit.

The Deathless simply stopped existing until he decided to reveal himself, of his own accord.

“How do you keep doing that?” Longinus asked.

“You keep asking that.” Though the boy's rage was boiling over, his voice was unnaturally calm. He should have been consumed by incomprehensible, foaming rage. But he spoke like someone commenting on the weather. “You ask that every single time we come face to face. And I never give you an answer. I don’t think I ever will.” The boy's very head was shifted into an expressive skull—his flesh was in that recursive state once more. Little shit had some Outsider shit inside him, which meant that he could do things with his biology that were altogether unnatural and disgusting. Like making a skull express a sneer somehow. “You like what I added to your banana bread?”

“Not even a little.” Longinus sighed. “You know I’m going to do things to you for that, right? I’m going to hurt you in ways that—”

“That’s what I told you last time,” Shiv cut him off. “Now you’re stealing my lines. You really are degenerated.”

“And you must be soft in the head,” Longinus spat. “I’m a god, you simple fuck. You might be able to hide from me, but you know that there’s no point to this. You’re just chipping at me. It’s been hours. I’m barely scratched up. Nothing you do here is going to matter.” Inspiration came over the Wanderer. He knew just how to twist the knife. Forming a lance, he drove the weapon into his own divine manifestation mantled over his Avatar to spear the small man through the thigh. Georges didn’t have much in the way of pain tolerance, and his shrieks remained as pure and high as the first day. “And you can’t take him back from me.”

But the Deathless didn’t respond to the provocation. Such was the most vexing thing about him. Longinus could taste the emotions that churned around him. Feelings tasted delicious, and this boy was predisposed toward an all-consuming frenzy that was more befitting a mindless monster than a person. Though the fires of ire burned hot inside the boy, he didn’t behave like a berserker. His glare got a few degrees colder, and his body swelled another half-meter in size all around.

He’s over four meters tall now. That’s a hell of a lot of Berserk to be pumping through someone’s body. But why isn’t he just throwing himself at me? Just what kind of Berserk Skill Evolution does he have?

“It doesn’t matter,” Shiv said. “Doesn’t matter what you do. Doesn’t matter how long it takes. None of it matters. Nothing you want matters. I've only been here for a few hours, but I’ve seen enough of you. I see your heart. It disgusts me. You disgust me. What I was going to do to you was sealed the moment we met. It doesn’t matter if it takes minutes, hours, days, or ages. I’m going to grind you down, Longinus. Because even if you are a mountain and I’m the wind, I will erode you until there’s nothing left.”

“That’s a very cute speech. But you're misunderstanding something…” Longinus ripped the lance out of himself. He pointed the end at Shiv and prepared to launch himself forward. “It will only take me cracking your soul once for you to lose that funny little skill. And after that, you’re mine for good.”

Shiv barked a laugh. “Yeah? You think so?” He held his arms out to the sides. “Give it your best shot. Your last two hits worked my Toughness and Eldritch Physiology something good. Took me the better part of seven hours to heal. But you know what, I think I can get used to this. Hating you. The pain. The skirmishing. This whole thing is feeling… educational. And though I would give anything in the world right now to butcher you right now, I think I want to make use of you in another way too. I think I want to milk you for all the deaths you can give me. Because when this is done, you’re going to be suffering from a monster of your own making.”

The casualness of his words carried a weighted truth. But no one comes back from being dead. He’s either insane or he’s goading me to hit a decoy or something. Not like that will do anything for him.

Longinus cracked his neck. “Cute speech, kid. If I manage to keep you intact enough, I look forward to squeezing every bit of conversation out of you. Seems like you’re quite the talker. You just need to be taught how to use that mouth better—and to know when to hold that tongue still when I want it to be, is all.”

The Deathless didn’t respond to him. Instead, his eyes turned toward the Avatar bound within Longinus’s godly form. “Georges. You hang on for me. I’m—I’m sorry he did this to you. I’ll never forgive him. I’ll get you out. I’ll get you—”

His final words never made it as Longinus performed a casual thrust. The Deathless didn’t disintegrate outright, but his upper body was torn to shreds while his left arm went tumbling over the concentric walls surrounding The Boiling Toad. “Tougher than you look. Good.” Longinus breathed in. “I like it when people can take some rough play.”

Though his head was half gone, the boy just laughed. “You’re not rough. You’re just an annoying oversexed degenerate who stole godhood from a corpse.”

Longinus was getting tired of the little shit’s lip. His divine mana burned bright—

And that flowing cape of skin flapping behind the Deathless snaked out like a lashing whip and went for the Wanderer first—

Only for Longinus to punch clean through and unmake the Deathless with his second blow.

A hollow path formed before the Wanderer. The boy, the ground he stood upon, the center of the town-sized banana cake, the depot of baking ingredients right behind, and so much more turned into a kilometers-wide emptiness. Everything that existed in front of him was consumed by a perfect and instant wound.

As a second passed thereafter, Longinus huffed out through his godly nostrils like a chuffed steed. “Tough, but not that—” Someone promptly struck a lashing blow across his eyes. “Agh! MOTHERFUCKER—”

His explosive tantrum never came to be as he suddenly forgot who he was hunting. He was just… He'd just attacked someone. But they weren’t dead. And he didn’t know who they were. But they were here. And they were… And they were…

Longinus stared at the massive tunnel he'd left at the center of his already ruined banana bread. “What… what the fuck am I even doing?! What is this?”

***

“Torture, you sick piece of shit,” Shiv growled, snarling his hate directly at Longinus’ featureless face from the other side of the curtain. “This is torture for you, and this is training for me.”

And what a bounty of levels and an evolution did this slow vengeance bring.

Whip Proficiency 48 > 52 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Strider of the Unbending Path 190 > 196

Inertial Overdrive 301 > 307

Pillar of Orichalcum 388 > 395

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 177 > 191

Eldritch Physiology 87 > 92

Vitality Drain 150 > 172

Continuity Error 206 > 209

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 219 > 227

The Creeping Void 177 > 181

The first of many; Shiv was going to need to evolve a lot of skills if he wanted to sculpt the shape of a god into an effigy of pain.

His cutting aura rippled with lethal vigor, and Shiv breathed in deeply. “Let’s get carving, then.”
