… It probably wouldn’t have worked, anyway, and now that he considered what could have been, giving [SSS] to Ophiel seemed exactly like the sort of thing that would get him smacked by Rozeta. It was probably better that he never thought to do such a thing before using the spell himself. The same went for [Divine Creation] and [Death’s Approach].

After enough time, the Ophiel each raised the same defenses that Erick had the previous ten Ophiel raise; those defenses had not worked perfectly, but they had worked well enough, so if it wasn’t broke, there was nothing to fix. [Prismatic Ward]s were cast at 30,000 mana, and restricted to dense cores of power locked to small stones held in the center of each sunform Ophiel; it was just there to provide yet another layer of defense, after all. Erick didn’t want those dense airs targeted and dispersed right away. After that, each Ophiel wrapped themselves in [Pure Reflection Ward]s to protect their exteriors, along with [Lodestar] for even more control of the light all around them, while [Hunter’s Instincts] and Sight spells flared back on, enabling extrasensory perceptions.

A perfect [Dispel Familiar] might take each one of them out in one cast, but Erick had yet to see such a spell from any Shade.

… Or maybe that’s what Bulgan had used back when Erick had tried to defend the people of Candlepoint?

Whatever.

This was good enough. The process took a few minutes. In the meantime, Erick and Fallopolis talked tactics. Tania’s little dot on the map never moved. She was still there in the Weaver’s Quarters. Waiting.

Erick was ready.

But he asked one more question of Fallopolis, “Did you split a part of yourself off, too, so that you could answer me truthfully when you so wished? To get around this mutual anti-lying Blessing?”

Fallopolis smirked. She said, “Nope. This is all me, my wonderfully smart, Fire of the Age.”

Not a lie.

“Would you even know if you split a part of yourself off, to enable lying? Could you remove the Blessing we now share if you wanted?”

“Nope! And yes.” Fallopolis said, “But our Blessing will remain for now until eternity because I wouldn’t want to remove such a nice gift from you, anyway.”

Erick just had to accept that, didn’t he?

Because for every magic that enabled or denied, there was another that got around those permissions. There was always a counter. There was always a slippery trick, somewhere… In fact, Erick thought of several good ones, and one horrific trick that should not be created. He mulled that thought over for a moment and came to an immediate conclusion. The spell he imagined would be a war crime, for sure. Something that should not exist, even if it could be used against Tania right now.

But besides that…

“She’s not moving, so I assume she wants to talk.” Erick asked, “Should we let her?”

Fallopolis frowned. “Don’t speak of plans until they are done. Don’t allow the enemy to get in your head if you know they can. Don’t walk into traps without having a way out. And don’t trust Tania to ‘just talk’.” She added, “That said… You’ve had a revelation from some future event. I can infer that we got to the real fight. And that we lost. So think of what you want the world to be like when you win, this time. Do you want her to have gotten in your head, or do you want to end her how she would have ended you?” She pointed toward the Swamp, where grey smog continued to billow from River Tower Gloom. “In ten more minutes that will have filled up the Lower Reaches. In forty, the Middle Reaches, though it’s already reached that level if only a little. There are adventurers in all those spaces. This is not over yet and the more you wait the harder it will be for them.”

“I am acting soon, but I’m just deciding how far I will go.”

“For a Shade, the only option is ‘as far as you can’.” Fallopolis looked to Erick, saying, “But for you… I am guessing that you have a trick, but are concerned that whatever you make will become a part of the Script?”

“Something like that.”

“Hmm. Minor lie.” Fallopolis thought. She said, “Don’t make this magic. We’re strong enough. I won’t hold back this time.”

“You’re weird when you’re all teeth and tentacles.”

“And eyes! Don’t forget the eyes.”

- - - -

Erick stepped into the sky a hundred meters from the center of Weaver’s Quarters, a Black Zone section of Ar’Kendrithyst where people went in but never came out. It was easy to see why. The land here was crawling with spider monsters, of all sizes and shapes and colors. Erick saw zero Shadow Spiders, but that was probably by design. The horse-sized spiders were the most noticeable, as they crawled across webs that spanned from red-purple tower to red-purple tower. But there were also flying spiders, and thousand-leg spiders, and other, larger beasts down in the purple, webbed-depths below.

Tania was a kilometer away, lounging by herself on a two-person divan in the center of a platform of silk stretched between four wide-set towers. She wore her usual white dress, while she had a plethora of snacks stacked up on the tables around her, one of which was surely a tub of ice cream, and another which were Erick’s untouched chocolate bars he had prepared for the First Feast. Tania mostly stuck to the meats and cheeses, though, while tears stained her face and Jane’s laptop sat on an arched table, perfectly positioned for Tania to watch while she drowned her sorrows. Her characteristic white tarantula was gone, as was the other person that would have fit on the other half of her divan.

Glowing white tears fell as Tania watched a movie on the laptop. It looked like a romantic comedy.

Though much of her act was fake, parts of it seemed like an act carved from a part of her heart and set out for Erick to witness, more than anything truly impossible.

Erick spoke across the sky, “How would you like to die?”

“From old age and with Bulgan at my side!” Tania abandoned the meat and cheese, scattering those snacks to the floor as she grabbed the iced cream, which was more commonly known as icies. It was green-colored. She stuck a spoon in the paper tub. “But failing that, then after this scene. It’s over in five minutes.” She ate a spoonful of green icy, and cried.

Erick moved his Ophiel inward, but had them keep some of their distance.

He glimpsed the movie.

On the laptop, a man and a woman argued in the pouring rain.

They yelled out their love and their hate at each other, and in equal measure. And then the man said something profound, stopping the woman in her tracks. She said something equally profound. The rain kept falling, but they cared not for the distraction. All they cared for was each other.

Tania suddenly sobbed. Erick’s heart wanted to reach out to her, but he stopped himself.

The man and the woman on the screen rushed each other, arms wide, to hold each other tight while lightning crashed in the background, but they didn’t mind. They only had hearts for each other. They kissed, a gentle, rough thing, that mimicked their whole relationship up till then.

The movie was not over, the rain still fell on the screen, but Tania shut the laptop. The laptop went to sleep. Tania breathed. She sighed. She set the green icy aside and collected herself as she stood from her divan. She picked up the laptop with one hand, saying, “I can only hope that this sort of technology makes it to the rest of our worlds one day.” She gestured with the laptop. “Take it, please.”

Erick moved an Ophiel forward, and took the laptop. That Ophiel retreated, carrying his cargo away as he scanned it for any magical or mundane traps.

Tania sighed, again. She breathed. She said, “I’m going to take my own life and end this chapter of my life on my own terms, if you will allow such a thing.” She held up her arm. “Blast it, please, so that you can get the Kill Box and know I am truly dead.”

Erick instantly did so, carving a [Luminous Beam] across Tania’s forearm.

Tania winced, as her hand vanished into bright light. She held up her stump, casually watching as her black blood spurted out, dyeing her white dress to black, and scattering darkness onto the white spider silk platform underneath. She did not bother to staunch the flow. She looked up and over at Erick, and said, “You have glimpsed a future, and come back to make things end as the gods will. I see this, and though I could fight this, as I have fought this before… I cannot. Melemizargo has declared all Shades must die, and so I will follow this decree, to honor the life he has given me.” She breathed. “But I know that the woman you saw in a previous reality probably did some horrible shit.” She breathed again. “I would like to leave my office of the Champion of Melemizargo with a bit more dignity than whatever caused you to make whatever bargains you were able to make. Please remember me as I am now, so that whichever Champion may come later is not tainted by actions that I have never done.

“Goodbye, Fire of the Age. I wish you well in illuminating this New Cosmology for all of Those Who Aspire.”

Tania Webwalker, Champion of Melemizargo, detonated under her own power, becoming a fireball of shadows and light barely larger than the silk platform under her feet. A blue box appeared; a kill notification. In a detached sort of way, Erick recognized that she gave less experience than the Witch.

And it was over.

It was actually over.

Was this real?

This was real.

Was it, though?

Yes. It was.

Fallopolis stepped up next to Erick. The two of them looked upon the tattered remains of the spider silk platform that had been the location of Tania’s End. She said, “Unexpected.”

Erick’s voice was barely above a whisper, as he said, “Yeah… Unexpected.”

Fallopolis had no trouble acclimating to the new world all around them. She happily asked, “What next?”

Erick latched onto something he had only just then realized.

He pointed to a spot in the sky located directly above Abyss Lake, next to a small, barely known location known as the Observatory. An illusionary world floated above, smaller than some, but not the smallest Erick had seen. It was a one-house world, with a small lake and a few scattered trees, with something made of eyes and teeth and claws casually lurking in the shadows of that fake world.

“That’s yours.”

Fallopolis frowned. “Doesn’t count if I told you that in a different timeline.”

“You never did. But enough Shades died to make it easy enough to guess which one was yours.” Erick seemed to acclimate to the new world all around him, too, while he asked, “So what’s my reward?”

“Hmm.” Fallopolis looked Erick over, then said, “I was going to give you that Blessing that I was going to give you, but you already refused that, and the goal was getting you to murder every Shade you could… Which you have managed to do with a little bit of help from me getting the whole thing started.” She added, “And with the gods, I suppose. So that’s great. I approve of most of that.” She thought. She said, “How about this? I promise to give you updates on how each of the Shades you saved are doing?” She added, “I need to keep eyes on them, anyway.”

Erick nodded. “Sure. Maybe don’t report to me, but be sure to tell Killzone and the rest. Unless you find one of the Blessed Shades are in need of another Blessing.”

“I can do that.” Fallopolis said, “I’m sure at least one of those Evil Shades will try to wriggle out from underneath their new obligations.” She brightened, as she said, “And I can also tell you a secret—” She paused. She frowned, and said, “Ah. Er. No. Maybe not.”

Erick frowned right back at her. “What.”

“Ohhhh. It’s not that bad! You know what? I’m just going to tell you. And I’ll tell you more than one secret, too. Lots of rewards, for the great hero, the Fire of the Age, Erick Flatt!” Fallopolis said, “The first secret is that the spell [Healing Word] does not enable extra casting outside of the Script Second. What the spell does allow is for the user to queue multiple iterations of Healing Word and then release them as necessary over the course of ten seconds or so. You can extract this usefulness out of [Healing Word] and enable a bit of cheating around the Script Second. It’s not as useful as being a Shade and getting all your magic outside of the Script Second. But it’s a good trick.

“The second reward is that you can now remove the Feast Barrier at your leisure. It won’t come down just because Tania is dead, but you can just throw that [Grand Dispel] of yours at it, and start punching holes in the working. If you choose not to break it right now, then I’m going to break it tomorrow after I’ve cleaned up what I need to clean up. After that, I’m gone. The other Shades will likely vanish as soon as they can, too.

“The third reward is that I like you Erick, and that makes me want to tell you some deep truths, but I can’t tell you any more secrets because you have no mental training to resist Mind Mage intrusion. I can tell you that I’ll be checking up on you occasionally, just to make sure you’re still you. So try not to kill me the next time you see me, okay?” Fallopolis said, “I’ll try not to let myself be killed, either.”

Erick absorbed all of that faster than he thought he could. After he did, he asked, “Will the Mind Mages actually be a problem?”

Fallopolis smiled a sad smile, and said, “Yes. But maybe not. You killed every Shade in Ar’Kendrithyst, except for me, Goldie, Farix, Treant, Queen, Lapis, and Hollowsaur, and each one of us you Blessed into submission. You even killed Tania! That’s bound to get you some goodwill.”

“… You called it ‘Ar’Kendrithyst’.”

“I did.” She nodded. “This city has always been a land of refugee souls from a distant Cosmology, hoping and praying for new bodies. So it was never really ‘The Dead City of Kendrithyst’. But I guess we’re giving up on that? Eh. It’s Melemizargo’s decision, and I likely don’t have all of those answers.” She said, “People will call this city what they have been calling it for a long time, and now there are no Shades to countermand the will of the world.” Fallopolis pointed across the webbed sky, toward the Brightwater. “But people still live here. That’s certainly a living part of Kendrithyst. That’s the bomb that will go off now that all the Shades are dead. That culture is dangerous, Erick.”

He felt a sinking feeling, again.

Fallopolis said, “So good luck with all of that. I’m off to pillage some knowledge before I go. Care to join me in the Library?”

Erick looked to the north. “Not yet. I have to fix the Swamp.”

