Fallopolis nodded. “I’ll set some books aside for you! Be sure to take them and hide them somewhere no one else will find them.” She added, “I’ll probably have to give them to you several times if the Mind Mages get involved, but that’s fine. See you later!” She turned to leave.

“Wait.” Before she stepped away, Erick asked, “Are you going to change your name?”

Fallopolis suddenly froze. “Oh. Shit.” She turned back to Erick, looking contemplative. “… I really want to share that third reward with you, Erick, but not until I know the Mind Mages won’t get you. I’ll be ‘Fallopolis’ for a long while longer.”

“See you later, then, Fallopolis.”

Fallopolis bowed. “Fire of the Age.”

She stepped away in a flash of shadows.

After a moment of simply standing there, Erick stepped away toward the Swamp.

When he arrived, he gazed down into the bowl-like area of the Swamp, and saw a vision of the apocalypse laid out before him, for twenty-five kilometers in every direction. Dead trees. Grey mists turning those trees into mush. Mushrooms growing out of everything. Zombies crawling through the mists. Giant mobile mushrooms, walking around like kings, directing forces forward into the chasms in the surrounding curtain wall of the Swamp. Here and there, Toxic Hydras roared out green and grey light, filling the sky with even more grey mists, while green pools glowed beneath them all. More, unknown monsters, crawled through the mists. Erick was certain that one of the pods of beasts was some sort of Moon Reacher-type monster, except it was shaggy black, instead of shaggy grey.

A light tingling at the bottom of his sunform, ripping away his control over his own magic, indicated the presence of radiation in the air. Erick adjusted his and his Ophiels’ sunforms to block out all of that harmful light, along with the associated beta-decay particles, or whatever other radiation or exotic extreme lights hovered in those grey mists, tearing at himself and his [Familiar]s. It worked to cut the tingle, more or less.

Ten Ophiel unleashed ten [Domains of the Withering Slime], adding yet another layer of white light to their hovering forms. Thick air spilled out into the hordes below. Monsters popped, sending up plumes of even more thick air into the grey mists, carving holes into the poison with each accompanying [Cleanse]. The effect was smaller than it should have been, but Erick had ten Ophiel, and that made up for most of the difference.

Erick released a thousand [Mirage Slimes] over the course of a minute, while his Ophiels employed [Luminous Beams] upon the more dangerous monsters and [Vivid Gloom]s upon the more dangerous hordes. Experimentally, he cast a 100,000 point [Grand Dispel] into the mist. That didn’t work.

After twenty minutes, he cleaned up almost every monster, though some of them had certainly gotten away.

He moved to River Tower Gloom; the source of the mists. The green kendrithyst mountain proved a bit resistant to his efforts to excavate and discover the actual source of the problem, but he managed. Well before his [Death’s Approach] ended, Erick’s Ophiel had entered directly into the poisoned river and followed the twists and turns through the green mountain, finding artifacts strung along the whole of the aqueduct that turned water into poison. A bit of crushing, repeated a hundred times, was all it took to end the outpouring of grey mist into the Swamp.

A bit more cleanup outside, and the Swamp was cleansed. More or less. It was still an apocalyptic warzone, but the monsters were gone. The sight reminded Erick of his time helping to clean up the Crystal Mimic incursion past the Wall.

With that done, he checked up on the Shades whom he had given a second chance.

They were doing okay.

Farix was down in Truedark, helping rescue people from rockslides and giving orders to all who could listen.

Lapis stood beside the orcol-form Treant, inside the Garden, standing beside the Stat Trees. They spoke in low voices, asking for forgiveness. The trees did not respond. Treant touched a tree, and it turned ethereal, before vanishing completely, becoming as though it never was. They moved onto the next.

Goldie and Queen were at the Palace District, inside a map room with gold-inlaid work tables, surrounded by ornate shelves full of expensive-looking books. They spoke about Quest Requirements over a massive map of Nelboor, talking about how to best fulfill the needs set before them. They shot their eyes to the left, to the door to the room. A butler walked in, wondering who he had heard, but Goldie and Queen were already gone. Their map and a few books were gone, too.

Hollowsaur stood in the dark, below the broken Jungle, searching through the remains of a broken plateau that had once housed hundreds. He was not alone. A few green people searched through the wreckage with him. There were no minotaurs. Those hurt and hopefully healed people were somewhere else. Erick looked, and found them.

The minotaurs were at the Bend in the North River, meeting the people there who had managed to survive. There was tension. There were a few harsh words over how the minotaurs seemed like abominations. There would be trouble, later, but for now, there was calm.

Erick moved on.

He searched for Quilatalap at the Armory.

The whole bubbled structure was broken, while the characteristic blackness of the entire area was gone, replaced with the normal red-purple glows common to the Dead City. The central dome was completely sundered. Someone had looted the place. All Erick found inside were pedestals where the artifacts would sit, and many, many broken vault doors.

Down an empty hallway, not too far from the center, Erick found a wall that was open. There were no signs of a struggle in this place. Beyond that wall was a small house with a small garden out front. Inside, the furniture was sized for orcols. But all the drawers and cabinets and other storage places had been ransacked, just like the rest of the place. Erick did not find the archlich. A [Telepathy] sent out to the man returned nothing, but maybe he had gotten out of the Barrier some other way?

There might have been some open passageways way, way down, in the deepest parts of the Dead City. After all, the water had to come in from somewhere, right? … Though the water could have been recycled. Maybe.

Erick moved on.

He had never been to the Library before, but now he had. The Libary was a massive structure of a hundred floors and a dozen towers, in the upper Middle Reaches where the sun still reached, but not too strongly. Erick didn’t want to go inside. He did, however, pick up the bundle of books that sat outside the door, waiting for him.

There was a note.

I finished faster than expected! Go ahead and break the Barrier, if you want.

Till we meet again!~

-Fallopolis

JSYK: I stepped into the broken armory to see if I could find Quilatalap, or any missed artifacts, but all I found was his hidden home, already rifled through. I have no idea if Quilatalap is alive, but if I meet him, I’ll tell him you were worried over his fate! Gook luck with him!

JSYK 2: Watch out for unexpected artifacts popping up in the rest of the world. I managed to snag a few, but I did not get most of them. No idea where they all went.

“Ahh… Shit.”

Ah… No time to worry overmuch.

It was time to go. Erick couldn’t wait around any longer. Not with this [Death’s Approach] running out. He imagined that his 21 Mana Regen would likely become 2.1 Mana per second when this was all over. Maybe less. He had likely spent over 3 million mana since he had activated that Skill. Conservatively, according to the math, he had somewhere between 17-20 days before his Regen returned to normal.

… So he went to spend some more mana. He needed to get home. That Feast Barrier needed to come down. Erick first copied the books, and sent those copies to a few different locations inside the Dead City. Then he copied Jane’s laptop and did the same with that.

He stepped to the top of the north wall of Ar’Kendrithyst.

Black threads layered the world from left to right, reaching all the way down well past the ground and way up high, to the Edge of the Sky; the Edge of the Script. The last time Erick had spied the barrier it had been shot through with divine flames. That fire was gone. All that remained were the threads.

Erick cast a 20,000 point [Grand Dispel]. It might have been the equivalent of half a million mana.

The splash of shadows touched the darkness of the Feast Barrier, and broke a single thread.

“Ah.” Disgruntled, Erick said, “Okay then.”

He cast a 170,000 point [Grand Dispel]; Over 4 million mana worth of anti-magic magic.

Threads snapped like the breaking of an entire piano’s worth of strings. Erick rapidly stepped away. Threads broke in a chain reaction but not because of Erick’s [Grand Dispel] chaining onto another similar target, but because something intrinsic to the magic was now gone. More threads snapped in a cascading reaction. Time flexed.

Time resumed its normal, 1-second-equaled-1-second manner. The Feast Barrier snapped, then vanished like twisted spiderwebs blown away on the everpresent northern winds, taking its [Teleport]-blocking capabilities with it, ridding Erick of that particularly annoying full-body itch he just couldn’t scratch.

He looked out at the world, and felt a weight fall from his shoulders.

The dark sky beyond glittered with a billion stars. The moons were little more than dark spots blocking out the stars beyond. They were still new moons, after all. Tomorrow, they’d come back to the sky as tiny slivers, but for now, the only light above was from the stars.

And then there was Spur.

The city glowed to the north. A beacon of light in the dark. Erick smiled. From this angle, Spur was a lot closer to Ar’Kendrithyst than he would have liked. Maybe it was just his perspectives that had changed.

He joked to himself, “I am on top of the wall, instead of in Spur, after all. There’s at least one changed perspective for you.” And then he sent a message off to Poi, ‘Hello, Poi!’

‘SIR?!’

Erick immediately sent the man a 10,000 mana [Telepathy] overview of the events of the last four days, adding, ‘Take your time with that. I’ll talk more, but I have to remake the defenses around the house while I can. I imagine that things are going to get rather busy, rather fast.’

Poi’s response was a garbled, ‘Wha— ohgods.’

Erick stepped across the night sky, glowing like the brightest star in the heavens and traveling very, very fast, right onto the flat, orange land in front of his house. His garden smelled nice. His house wasn’t on fire, though someone had built a large bonfire in the next lot over.

… There were lots of bonfires, everywhere in the city. They were kinda nice. Erick suddenly wanted marshmallows, almost as much as he wanted to know what everyone was going to say when they found out the Clergy was gutted; reduced to 6 forced-to-repent Shades and 1 Culler.

Anywho!

Erick spent 174,000 of his own mana replacing the [Prismatic Ward] across his house. Sure, a [Ward Destruction] would be able to clear that off, but there was something nice about being able to sleep in a [Ward] worth something like 20 million points of defense.

Ah. Good thoughts!

… Which led to more good thoughts.

Erick cast to the left, stringing together all of his thoughts of defense alongside all of his recent experiences with Destruction, as he molded together one very complicated spell, with one trick. A spurt of shadows touched nothing. But a blue box appeared, anyway.

Ward Destruction, instant, long range, 100 Mana

Dispel a ward.

Ah. Good. That worked. Erick smiled.

And because experimenting was important, he cast the spell at the [Prismatic Ward] he had just cast.

The dense air popped, because of course it did. Heh. That was fine. Erick could layer that dense air with a few other anti-[Dispel] tricks he had seen in the last few hours. But that would happen tomorrow. Or maybe later than that. Erick recast the [Prismatic Ward], and enjoyed the moment.

He felt good.

He relaxed.

He slipped back into his mortal body and felt a rush of pent up emotions roil through his head and heart. He rode that wave, willing it to go down.

And then he looked at his hand. A fine mist of white light flickered like candle flames across his skin. That brought him back to the moment more than willpower could ever do. He realized he better get indoors before his various spells failed. He went to touch the handle—

Jane slammed open the door. “DAD?!” She looked him up and down. “What the FUCK did you DO?!”

“Something very dangerous, though I told Poi most of it, but hey!” He briefly turned into light and slipped into the house, bypassing Jane, simultaneously setting Jane’s computer down on the counter next to the door. “Found your laptop! Poi probably needs to go over it for memetic hazards while everyone else needs to prepare for my collapse.” He turned physical again. His skin flickered with dying candlelight.

Poi rushed around the corner of the hallway, saying, “Don’t touch that laptop!”

Jane barely glanced toward Poi before saying, “It’s really you!” as she rushed him with arms wide open—

She stepped through his body, splashing light into the air. “What?” She turned.

Erick was gone.

Jane screamed into the air of the foyer, “DAD?!”

Erick came back to himself. “Huh. Odd.” His body still glowed as though rimmed in white fire, but... “I thought I canceled the [Lightwal—”

[Death’s Approach] was over. Erick caught sight of Phagar, to his left, just as the magic faded. Phagar waved, and then vanished.

Erick’s eyes rolled up into his head.

He would have fallen to the ground if not for Jane. She grabbed him, able to hold his physical body this time, as she cursed and prayed for his safety. Kiri rushed down the staircase, but stopped before she reached Jane. Justine held back, remaining at the top of the staircase. Teressa rushed into the room, carrying the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] while Poi frantically sent out a dozen different telepathic messages at once.

Poi was also still decoding the message Erick had sent him. 10,000 mana had translated into a quarter million mana message, after all.

Ten, 174,000 point Ophiels descended on the house, some roosting on the towers, some turning tiny as they took their places on windowsills, setting up point defenses, while a few followed inside to watch Jane and the rest worry over Erick. They chirped in fun little violin sounds as everyone else panicked.

- - - -
