Candles let out a sob, and with that, brilliant flames erupted from his searing halo, spilling free from his being and pouring forth through the dimensional pathway as a jetstream of indescribable heat. Before the Ascendant of Midnight could reach in and compromise Shiv's final sanctuary, his grasping hand was scoured from the world by a torrent of Legendary Pyromancy. Candles channeled his over-strained mana field with an agonized cry, and Bonk joined him in his screams soon after, as his hands started melting.

"Yeah!" Adam screamed. “Keep going!” Suddenly, he looked over his shoulder, and the elf fastened to his back flinched in surprise. "Go right! Go right here! Go through the door!"

There came a loud sound outside. It was the noise of a blade carving through dense meters of alloy. Another Chronomantic burst hit Shiv, and this time, he collapsed. An inky darkness crawled over his vision, and the pain he felt faded to prickles of static. He didn't know if he was unconscious for one second or ten years, but by the time he returned, he found himself barely on his feet, getting violently dragged every step of the way.

"Come ON!" Adam cried in naked panic. Behind, the sound of clashing metal and buckling walls made Shiv push forward. A small army of golden shadows was left in place to hold the doorway, preventing the darkness from pushing through. He realized he was moving along a circular walkway right now, and at the center of the oppressive room was a massive, rapidly spinning pillar. It roared with energy, and an uncomfortable prickling sensation danced across Shiv's many burns.

"Where the hells are we?" Shiv asked, his gaze fixed on the spinning rod.

"Reactor core," Adam replied quickly. The Gate Lord held Cripple's core high and called out, "Cripple! We're here! What do we do now? Cripple? CRIPPLE!" But the Ascendant didn't reply. "Godsdamn it! Alright, we need... We need..." He paused, and his eyes snapped to Shiv. "You said Five is a member of Aviary?"

Shiv nodded.

"Bonk, pass me the wolf-man!" Adam called.

"Here you go, Gate Lord!" Bonk cried aloud. Shiv turned just in time to see Bonk literally chuck Five into the air. Of course, he also chucked him in the wrong direction. Bonk's blindness and the near-deafening noise produced by the spinning pillar had caused him to throw the wolf-man against a nearby wall instead. Five gave a pained squeak as he tumbled down, and in the next moment, he was plucked out of the air and slammed down next to Adam by a suddenly appearing Gone. The goblin's face was a mess of cuts and bruises by this point, while her prisoner attire was shredded. She was also missing a few fingers, and half the quills on her back had been shorn off at an angle by a singular cut.

"Hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry," she repeated over and over again, her head snapping back between Shiv, Adam, and the entrance the small army of golden shadows was trying to hold.

"Yes, hurry!" Kura groaned with building strain. Shiv could feel the sheer amount of Chronomancy pouring out from her body. There was so much mana that it put the Recollector to shame ten times over, but even that wasn't going to be enough to stall the Avatars and their Ascendants for long.

"Five! Five, get up! Look, look at me!" Adam reached and shook the wolf-man, but Five tried to push the Gate Lord away, moaning in pain. His ability to endure pain seemed near non-existent compared to Shiv's and even Adam's.

"Ah! Stop! It hurts! It hurts too much!"

"It's going to be worse if you don't help me! You're going back in the cage! Do you want to?"

At the mention of the cage, Five managed to crack open one of his eyes, and Shiv saw the wolf-man's pupil dilate. "Agh. Okay, okay. It doesn’t hurt that much.”

"Good! You're an Aviary agent, right?"

Five hesitated. "I told him that," Shiv called out.

"Technically, I'm burned—" Five began.

"I don't care what your officially listed status is! Do you know how to do anything with that?" Adam pointed toward the large rod spinning at the center of the room, and Five's eyes widened.

"Is that... Is that some kind of nuclear reactor?"

"You tell me," Adam snapped. "I have no idea about ancient technology. The Owl introduced this thing to me, and he said that it gave me radiation."

"Radiation?" Shiv muttered, unfamiliar with the term. "What do you mean, radiation?"

"This place, it's filled with radiation! We are all getting irradiated as we speak!”

“Then why the fuck did you bring us here?!" Kura nearly screeched.

"Because the Ascendant told me to come here!"

"What Ascendant?!" Kura's eyes went wide. "Why are we listening to some Ascendant?!"

"I am trying to help you!" Cripple's voice suddenly echoed through the room like a crashing wave of thunder, originating from the automaton core in Adam’s hand. "Shiv! Adam! You’re in place. Good. You need to find the mainframe within the reactor core and set everything to maximum capacity. That will create a mana-suppressing effect and give you an opening to escape.”

"And where might this mainframe be?" Adam asked, his patience wearing thin.

"I think... I think I know." Five suddenly stood up. His head snapped toward the ceiling, and Shiv looked upward for the first time as well. He saw additional rings, additional ringed walkways extending above, and a few shredded Ravens hung over the edges. Their tattered remains dripped with viscera, and Shiv shuddered at the state of their bodies. Harlock and Daughter had absolutely ripped them apart.

The poor bastards didn't have a chance at all, Shiv thought to himself.

"I need to go up," Five said. "Can someone—" and then he vanished in a golden blur. At the same moment, Shiv saw Five appear a level above him. The wolf-man cried out in surprise and pain, but then Shiv heard Five follow up with, "No! It's still higher! As high as you can go!”

"Shiv!" Cripple continued. "I am moving a specialized cube nearby. I cannot get it in place to be directly adjacent with the reactor; however, it shouldn't be far away. If you can manage to open a gap through one of the nearby walls and enter the space between, I should be able to guide you to the cube. With the reactor active, it should make it difficult for the Ascendants to track you as well, but only if you move fast."

Shiv didn't even bother replying. Instead, he sprinted along the walkway, ignoring the bursts of pain passing through his body. As he came to a halt in front of the aluminum wall, he pressed his hands against it and willed his Shapeless Tides to come back. It took around three seconds for his skill to fully reactivate, and by then, Kura was on the verge of breaking.

"I can't hold them back! I can't hold them back much longer! Hurry! Hurry!"

Shiv drove his first tides into the wall, and he began to pry in two directions. The metal peeled—but then Shiv’s skill cut out once more. “FUCK!”

Still, it was enough to make an opening in the wall, and—

“You know, Cripple really isn’t very good at the whole being subtle and slick thing.” Through the gap Shiv had made, Veronica stared flatly at him. “You got a pretty interesting Unique Skill, though. You and the Young Lord both. How about you both surrender and submit yourselves to me and put this misery to an end?”
