While explaining his insights, Jorani glanced around to see if Tenjin was nearby. After finding no sign of the brooding Bekkie warrior, he relaxed and enjoyed Tursinai’s company, happy to be near such a lovely woman. Seemed like there were damned couples everywhere he looked these days, Ral and Chey, Ulfsaar and Neera, the boss and his ladies. Even ugly Bulat had himself a pretty young thing, a lovely lass named Dei An. Meanwhile, the most intimate relationship Jorani could remember was the one he had with the tree back there, spending hours trying to get it on its back and strip it bare.

As Tursinai led the way to dinner, Jorani spotted the bossman with his little family. A touching sight seeing the Undying Savage flying kites with a pair of kids, all three of them laughing as they ran across the field with a train of happy animals in tow. It was easy to forget how the boss wasn't even twenty years of age. Hell, he looked even younger with a smile on his face, barely old enough to drink and without a whisker on his cheeks. Still, Jorani had to say something, it wasn’t right how the former bandits were being treated like common labourers. Not wanting to interrupt the bossman’s family time, he leaned in to Tursinai and whispered, “Begging yer pardon miss, but do ye know how much longer we’re gonna be stuck playin’ lumberjack and labourer?”

Affecting a pout, the charming woman fluttered her lashes and asked, “Are you not satisfied with the work? Should I bring it up with dear Rain on your behalf?”

“No, no,” he said, shaking his head vehemently. This provocative woman would be the death of him. “We’re doin’ good work here, helpin’ the people, and I don’t dare question his orders. It’s just... well, the bossman promised he’d train us to heal and fight, and we’ve all been eager to get to it, is all.”

There was something unsettling about Tursinai’s grin, a worrying delight which raised all sorts of alarms in Jorani’s mind. “Don’t you worry, Hero Jorani. Our dear Rain wanted to give you all some time to rest, but since you’re so eager to begin, I’ll let him know he can start tomorrow. He’ll be thrilled to hear how... enthusiastic you are.” Her words didn’t sink in until he finished watching her sashay away and a cold pit of dread drilled itself into his stomach.

By the Mother’s sagging tits, if hard labour was the bossman’s idea of rest, then what was training going to be like?

After thinking things through, Jorani was certain he’d just made a huge mistake.

Chapter Meme
