Still, his ability to essentially bypass all her defenses simply by spending a point had, in fact, killed her – it was only courtesy of Lira’s blessing and her friends’ quick thinking that she was still standing. Worse, he seemed to already have far more points than she did, if the rate at which she had observed him spending them was anything to go on, and she did not have any good prospects of earning more. Nobody was awaiting a third-tier evolution, and she did not currently have easy access to her shrine. Nor was the remote raid about to kill a new high-tier boss – not in the next few minutes.

She glanced at her paltry collection of Authority – only six remaining after summoning the Divine Archon – as the dark bolt of death magic completed, agonizing over the decision to use it.

This might not even work.

If it failed, she may spend a critical point that she needed for a new minion, and she risked revealing her hand to the Lich. On the other hand, if she didn’t, she would never figure out if it worked or not.

I must know. This knowledge was too critical to leave to chance.

Decision led instantly to action, and she formed her golden darts in the air above her Divine Archon’s left shoulder, using her domain to greatly increase her range. It was a subterfuge that she was almost certain wouldn’t work, but she did it anyway. If Nevyn Eld believed that the Archon had cast the spell, it would be less she had given away. As her darts assembled into the complex counter-formation, she fed her skill a point of Authority. Instantly, the formations hardened, glittering like diamonds within the holy flames of battle.

That’s it! Her intuition of her Authority being subtly different from his was revealed openly to her senses, and yet, it was clear that her spell had just been raised to the same tier as his. No longer would it be like trying to disrupt the spell of a mage twice her level, almost certain to fail. It was plain to see in the contrast between the formations.

She launched her shining needles, darting outward through the white flames to impale the roiling ball of black magic right as it left the Lich’s fingers. They sliced into the surface, vanishing within, as if they had simply been inhaled, or engulfed like one of Naia’s oozes feeding. For an instant drawn out uncomfortably long by her accelerated perceptions, nothing much happened. Then, a golden light bloomed within the blackness, swelling dramatically until jagged cracks split the suddenly solid surface. Radiant golden light burst out, shining brightly all around, and then the whole construct detonated in the Lich’s face.

“I think that just pissed him off more,” Ali muttered, just grateful that he couldn’t feed Authority into that Umbral Lance spell. At least, she hoped, but it seemed to be an artifact spell, so it was a semi-reasonable assumption.

“What?” Malika asked, stopping to stare at her.

“I disrupted one of his authority-empowered spells,” she said, grinning fiercely. With his ire, and the steep cost of one of her points, she had bought knowledge. Knowledge of how to save herself or Malika next time. Provided I have a point left.

“That’s going to be very useful,” Malika said, soberly.

“I only have five points left, and I need them to summon strong guardians,” Ali reminded her, but Malika was not wrong. Having a way, scarce as it may be, might just turn out to be the edge they needed. Still, she kept every eye and domain perception skill trained on the battle, alert for anything she could learn, or ways to delay him a little longer while she summoned more defenders.

Tol’brekk next? Fractured Archon? Or an Eye of Agnor?

Tol’brekk would take another point of Authority and bring immense fury and power to her defenses, a juggernaut of muscle and blades for sure, but he would need constant babysitting –a dedicated witch doctor, at least. He was vulnerable to the Devastation Knights’ favorite curses – unsurprisingly, it had been Damage Reflection that had done him in back in the Grove. The Archon’s eye beams were virtually impossible to dodge, worked well against undead, and were not nearly as susceptible to the kinds of curses in play. Although… they need room to maneuver. On the other hand, summoning an Eye of Agnor would free her up from having to cast curses like Interrupted Casting manually and would likely draw more of the Lich’s countermeasures. Perhaps I can manage an Eldritch Arcana curse? she thought. There was no way he was letting something like that land. Strategies flittered rapidly through Ali’s mind as she sorted, catalogued, and projected outcomes. There had to be a way to beat him.

Under the frozen mountains, Ali blinked, gazing out through Kir’vella’s eyes. Her canny, half-mad Empress of Bats had not been upgraded using her World Walker elite domain enhancement, but she was firmly in the third tier. She was here in her capacity as a support spellcaster, specializing in unconventional combat potions, mental resilience, and decursing abilities, and Ali had even sent several Nightwing Bats for her to use as surveillance, taking advantage of her title.

Lyeneru’s hand rose in a firm gesture that halted the raid, and Ali ceased all movement after stepping out of the secret passageway and into what was clearly a throne room, taking a deep breath as she surveyed its splendor with her troll eyes.

Nevyn Eld’s throne room. The heart of the Crypt of Kings.

The intricate onyx stonework of Mi’ir Valdanis soared high overhead, supported by delicate and gracefully fashioned arches and pillars. Complex silvery runework adorned the walls with an elaborate, shining tracery of inlaid mithril. Incredibly, it all seemed to be actively channeling mana from the domain in soft pulsing waves that turned the chamber into the inside of an ornate, silver-lined black heart.

An ebony throne loomed tall at the end of a narrow, crimson carpet, and beside it stood a dark altar. Ali’s attention was immediately drawn to the floating prism, the artifact that powered his dungeon, and the powerful wards that had been inscribed into the stone surface. There was a familiar, dark, glittering spherical shield surrounding the dungeon artifact, likely making it impossible to reach the altar.

Kir’vella harrumphed, digging what might have been an insect out of her ear with a fingernail, supremely unimpressed. Ali barely caught her minion before she was subjected to a protein snack surprise, seasoned with a dash of earwax. Again.

“… and there are three of them,” Calen was saying. “Artur is a warrior who wields fire magic and a runic sword. Bragni seems to be a holy cleric with an enormous hammer. And Thaldorien is a mage of dark lightning.”

“Have we learned any of the domain magic spells?” Lyeneru asked.

“They each have a damage aura about half the size of the chamber in their personal affinity. All three have an amplification debuff, increasing the amount of damage you take from their affinity. It refreshes and stacks. I don’t know their other abilities, other than all three of them are champion-level bosses,” Calen explained.

How did he do that? Ali wondered, but her eyes traced the mithril runes on the walls, deciding she could make a pretty good guess. It was virtually impossible to make multiple powerful domain enhancements in the same space, but she could feel the density of the domain gathered here – something that was clearly artificial. After the fight, she would need some time to study them and confirm it, but she was certain she could learn a lot just by memorizing this chamber and all the runic magic.

“Separate them and rotate tanks?” Mato asked.

“That’s probably our best bet until we know more,” Calen agreed.

Ali sharpened her focus, scanning the room with every sense at her disposal. She would need to be on top form – this had to be the final battle, and every iota of knowledge or insight she could unravel would hasten the end, and the moment her friends could return and help her wipe out the Lich for good.

But… where is his Phylactery?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
