Calen crouched down beside the glittering rift and fished pieces of shattered ceramic out of the slag and rubble that had once been ice-covered granite.

“What do you plan to do with that?” Lyeneru asked.

“Let’s have Val’korr or Ali study this when we get back,” Calen said, storing the shattered, frozen fragments of Kryostria’s phylactery. It had looked much like a vase made of ice, but it had taken the full force of Lyeneru’s most powerful Power Shot to shatter it and finally grant the raid their kill notification.

“Not sure it will make much difference,” Lyeneru said. “We need to clear the whole crypt.”

“Agreed,” Calen said. While he could not be sure without Ali’s powerful senses and analysis skills, he was almost certain the phylactery itself was a domain-bound artifact. A terrifying thought to consider. It wouldn’t be sufficient to kill just the avatar and the phylactery. The dungeon would respawn them in a few hours unless, as his mentor had suggested, there was no dungeon remaining to do so when the time came.

Exactly the kind of devious scheme he expected from the Blind Lich.

He stood, but the realm boundary shivered as the deep, sonorous peal of an invisible gong shook the chamber. The air vibrated from the reverberations, and leftover ice kicked up off the ground in sudden flurries and vortices.

[Realm] Nevyn Eld [The Blind Lich] has used The Ninefold Way: Aegis of Absolution.

“What was that?” Calen gasped, immediately switching his sight to the Mote of Light he had set to follow Ali. What he saw there made his blood run cold.

“That is a pinnacle skill of the Nine Paths of Ahn Khen,” Sabri said, her face suddenly drained of all color.

“He’s making a move!” Calen said, raising his bow. His recharge was up, so he conjured a full fan of light-mana arrows and fired. Every mirror image duplicated his movements exactly, and a hundred and seventeen arrows fully imbued with light damage, explosive shot, and armor piercing vanished, appearing in his far sight in Ali’s Grove below Myrin’s Keep.

Calen gasped as, to his dismay, his arrows cracked against a glittering dark sphere protecting the Blind Lich without penetrating, like the fangs of a drake hatchling trying to gnaw its way into an impervious glass ball filled with darkness. A dark sphere that seemed too similar to the warding shield that had barred entrance to the Crypt of Kings after Azryet had eaten the Lich to be a coincidence. They buzzed with barely suppressed power for two long seconds, skittering across the smooth surface, and then detonated, but he could instantly tell he’d not struck his mark.

“What the heck is that shield?” he muttered, glancing at Sabri, but the Ahn Khen girl just lowered her eyes in shame.

“We should press on,” Lyeneru said. “Leave Weldin and Basil here to finish dismantling the corpses and recovering any useful materials. Calen, can you show us the secret passage?”

“Yes,” Calen said, glancing at the busy Porter stashing dragon bones and salvageable sapphire scales into his portable dimensional storage. At the same time, Basil harvested the many dark blue and black flowers that sprouted in clumps of improbable life near the walls. He checked on the Grove back home, just in time to witness Ali disrupting one of the Blind Lich’s spells. I have to trust her. And Malika is there to help. We’ve destroyed the Frozen Scourge, and there’s only one boss chamber left. We need to finish it. He took a deep breath and announced, “This way.”

The battle against the Dracolich had been frantic and bitterly fought, and they had taken losses. Hadlis and Isolde had been caught out of place, flash frozen beyond the range of the healers’ spells and crushed underfoot by the claws of the Frozen Scourge. With only a pair of mangled, frozen bodies stashed in Weldin’s storage, they left holes in their hearts and weakness in their formation, but the time for mourning would come later. If there was a later: Calen well knew what lay beyond the secret passage. The three kings of ancient Dal’mohra promised to be a different level of evil, but they had little choice. He tucked those feelings away deep inside and, for the sake of the others, strode up to the sheer ice wall at the edge of the enormous cavern, projecting an air of outward confidence that was secretly fraying on the inside, driving a wave of his motes ahead of himself to reveal the potent concealment illusion.

The illusory wall was the least of their troubles; he knew precisely where it was, but that didn’t stop the small release of tension in his shoulders and jaw when his face met the shimmering slab of illusory ice and he stepped through. It was like walking through the dream of solid rock.

“Quietly through this tunnel,” he instructed, keeping his voice to a firm whisper as the rest of the adventurers filed in. It was narrow and twisted, forcing them to go no more than two abreast, but for such a large group, decked in so much steel and mithril, they were remarkably stealthy.

And so, when the second gong sounded, it was far more deafening than the first. In the close confines of the tunnel, the resonant realm-gong shook the walls with its powerful vibration, causing the less dexterous to stumble or thrust out their hands to catch their balance against the walls.

[Realm] Aliandra Amariel [God Maker] has cast the World Magic: Cycle of Rebirth.

“Ali!” Calen exclaimed, nearly forgetting to keep his voice down.

Mato, already back in his Beastkin form, grabbed the lapels of the tiny holy kobold trudging through the icy slush beside him and lifted her off her feet. “Ali! Are you ok?”

The kobold stared blankly ahead as if it had not seen him – completely zoned out. Calen’s heart plummeted in freefall, plunging deeper into the cold abyss as the echoes of the resonant gong faded. There could only be one reason for Ali to have triggered Cycle of Rebirth; they all had the God Maker title, and every scenario his brain conjured was more terrifying than the last.

He did not hesitate. He had a Mote back in the Grove, and with a flash of light, he switched places with it, effortlessly traversing half the length of the continent in an instant. He appeared above the shrine in a bright flash of light, and all eight of his Mirror Images appeared beside him.

Malika was cradling Ali in her arms, while the tiny Fae was being enveloped in a blazing corona of green. Amber blood covered her body from her chest to her feet, and there was more of it on the moss than seemed possible.

“Malika!” he shouted.

“She’s… alive!” Malika answered, her voice cracking as if on the verge of tears, but her magic was blazing brightly, and an enormous pulsing sphere of soul-affinity mana rippled outward from the monk, healing everything within a radius of almost two hundred and fifty feet. Without even identifying her, just by that spell alone, he could tell she had reached the third tier.

“Get her somewhere safe,” Calen roared, drawing back his bowstring. And with that, he unleashed the full fury of his assault at the advancing undead monsters, stopping them in their tracks with a thunderous roar of explosions and shining magical chains. “I’ll cover you. Go!”

“Buy us two minutes,” Malika said, and then she took off like an arrow loosed from his bow.

The longer Mato shook the unresponsive kobold, the more terrifying its passivity grew. Ali! What happened? Are you…

Suddenly, the kobold twitched, head snapping upright as if waking from a dream. She turned golden draconic eyes on him and said, “I’m ok, Mato. Nevyn Eld attacked the shrine, and Malika and I had to flee.”

“You scared the crap out of me,” Mato grumbled, gently putting the kobold down and patting the shoulders of her robes to straighten out the creases.

“It’s ok,” Ali’s kobold said. “He won’t catch me by surprise again. Calen is buying some time, and I’ll make a few more powerful bosses. Malika and I will take care of him.”

“Don’t kill him too early, Ali,” Mato said.

The tiny kobold’s eyes widened in surprise as she turned to regard him for a moment, and then it chirped in a surprisingly recognizable imitation of Ali’s wry chuckle. “Sure, Mato, I’ll keep that in mind.”

“What can we do to help?” he asked.

“I don’t want you guys trapped inside the Lich’s shield when we send him to his Phylactery; we’ll try to keep him distracted as long as we can,” Ali said. “I’ll send Calen back in a moment, but I don’t think we can hold him off for very long. You guys capture the Phylactery as soon as you can – it’s our only chance.”

“Right. Let’s hurry it up, then,” Mato said, not wasting any time explaining things to the adventurers clustered about him. They had, after all, heard everything and every last one of them knew precisely what was at stake.

“Forward,” Lyeneru said, leading the way down the passage, and a few moments later, Calen reappeared.

I hope Ali isn’t too shaken by whatever that was. She needs to be at her best against the likes of the Blind Lich.

Ali’s body shuddered, and it had nothing to do with the jostling from Malika’s arms as she sprinted across the Forest Cavern at top speed, carrying her.

She wasn’t harmed in any way that she could see, thanks to Lira’s blessing of the God Maker title, but her most primal instincts knew she had just died. Something still felt broken.

Ali shook her head slowly, trying to clear it, still reeling from her experience – and from Mato’s inappropriate joke. It really was just his nature, and tossing a moment of shocking levity in the face of her mortal terror had, surprisingly, jolted her out of a dangerous funk.

At least my brain is still working. And I didn’t lose my minions. She shuddered briefly at the damage that might have wrought.

Still, Mato’s joking about not killing the Lich too quickly was a gentle reminder of a darker truth: they had all agreed that the raid group needed to wipe out the Crypt of Kings and claim possession of the Lich’s Phylactery before his avatar died. While he had lain dormant after Azryet had eaten him, the Crypt of Kings had been locked down, guarded by a warding shield the likes of which Calen had never seen. Accidentally wiping out Nevyn Eld prematurely had a good chance of trapping the entire raid in there with him, and no one wanted to imagine what would happen to them then.

Still cradled in Malika’s arms, Ali ranged outward, back the way they had come, searching urgently. Six portals pulsed under the flux of necromantic magic, dotted in several locations across the Forest Cavern, each one disgorging undead like kicked anthills. In the air, Calen and his images fought a bitter retreat, stalling the enemy while Malika brought her to safety.

Right, let’s see if I can lend a hand. She flexed her domain, deconstructing every last corpse she could find. Unfortunately, most of the demons had been raised and had joined Nevyn Eld’s armies. Then she set about dismantling portals, cheating outrageously with her domain mana to circumvent the Blind Lich’s control. Four of them collapsed in seconds, greatly stemming the tide of fresh invaders, but he managed to wrest control of the last two from her before she spiked their formations. There goes that idea. Still, I need to keep him hopping. She smiled wryly, remembering a certain frog curse.

The Forest Cavern was burning. Great stretches of her beautiful forest were being rapidly consumed by black flames of hellfire as undead demons rampaged, and what remained was withering and dying from the deathly presence of so many powerful Death Knights. A few moments later, her mana reservation snapped as the undead horde finally overwhelmed her Soul Archon, and her archer champion dropped to the floor among the writhing sea of monsters clawing at her.

But Ali had learned a hard lesson the day Lira had wiped out her domain, and she was no longer solely dependent on her trees and moss in the mortal realm. While her domain plants burned and withered, those overlaid upon the area in the Spirit Realm continued to thrive, pulsing with energy and spilling her domain lattice across the veil.

Dark mana flickered from the rear of the battlefield, an unmistakable formation she would recognize even in her nightmares. Ali reacted with an ability she had rarely needed before today. A long time ago, Arcane Insight had advanced, allowing her domain to always be in range. Golden darts materialized in the air far away from where Malika was carrying her, and they lanced outward with near-instantaneous arcs, leaving softly glowing glitter trails behind them, and Nevyn Eld’s Raise Greater Undead formation was ripped to shreds.

Before his recharge could expire, Ali deconstructed the corpse of her own Soul Archon, denying him another powerful minion.

But his horde was already vast.

“Put me down, Malika,” she said.

“Ali…” she said, slowing down and staring at her with an intense expression on her face.

“Mmm?”

“You… you nearly died,” Malika said, her brow furrowed in concern.

“I think I did, for a moment,” Ali answered, shuddering once more before her body stilled and Malika obligingly lowered her to the mossy ground.

“What happened? I thought you said you had it under control,” Malika asked.

“Well, apparently, he can use Authority to boost his death bolts,” Ali said. It had been a rude surprise, and her blithe words did little justice to the image of Lira with a smoking hole bored through her chest that sprang into her mind in vivid clarity. A hole spilling sap that had matched the one she had gazed through in her own chest just minutes ago.

“Shit,” Malika said.

“Yup, you can say that again,” Ali nodded. She had not expected to burn her God Maker title’s recharge at all, let alone so early, but she had bought that lesson at great cost, and she intended to wring everything she could from it. First, she could see Authority. It was unmistakable in hindsight – where the Blind Lich had got it from, was another story, and a question for later. Still, it explained so much. Secondly, it could be used to great effect on spells other than summoning, and if she were to have a fighting chance, she needed to reserve a point for her Disrupt. And finally, she needed to be smarter about his counter-magic – he was an ancient monster and had many tricks up his tattered sleeves.

Malika had put her down all the way across the Forest Cavern by the small river channel that connected it to what had once been Lira’s Forest and the uppermost entrance to the library. “He won’t catch me with that trick a second time, but we have a problem. Nevyn Eld has raised all the demons, and he’s on his way here.”

“What are we going to do about him, Ali?”

