Balance. A simple word with a straightforward definition, to ensure all sides are equally represented in distribution, but after spending most of her life in pursuit of it, Mila was only now beginning to understand the complexities behind the supposedly simple concept.

The most essential application of Balance was as a defence against the Father’s foul servants, the ethereal Spectres Rain both feared and devoured. Their purpose was obvious, to whisper foul lies and lead Martial Warriors astray by tempting them into indulging their deepest, darkest desires. Pride, greed, lust, envy, gluttony, wrath, and sloth, these were the Father’s favoured tools used to divide humanity against itself and tip the scales of power in His favour. Not to say these seven sentiments were evil in and of themselves, for they were but part and parcel of human nature. Too much of any one sentiment could lead one down the wrong Path, and people had been known to turn against the Mother for any number of reasons, even love or compassion.

Mao Jianghong, the traitorous Guard Captain of Sanshu was one such example, and one could even argue Butcher Bay’s infamous leader Yo Ling was another. Both began their lives as decent men and went on to become Martial Warriors, and both turned to the Father because the loss of their families made them vulnerable to Wrath. Jianghong’s downfall came about when he learned his family had been murdered on the orders of merchants, while Yo Ling blamed the Sanshu Magistrate for evicting his parents from the city and leaving them to die in the wilds. In fact, though it might be blasphemous to say this aloud, it was possible that more humans had turned to the Father in the name of love than any other emotion, and worst of all, Mila understood why. Mother knows what she would do if she lost Mama, Papa, Song, or Rain to Imperial machinations...

Regardless of their initial reasoning, Mila suspected anyone tainted by the Father’s touch would eventually succumb to their base desires and become no different from any other Defiled, for that was how He preferred His minions: impulsive and unthinking. The so-called Chosen of Heaven might retain some of their faculties for now, but in her eyes, it was only a matter of time before they were indistinguishable from the irrational Defiled who hailed from beyond the Empire.

To better withstand the Father’s foul minions, most Martial Warriors placed their emotions on a scale as a measure of Balance, pitting joy against sorrow, love against hatred, and so on and so forth, but True Balance was not so easily measured. Paired and opposing emotions were a human construct, one put together to help human minds understand them, but sorrow could also be countered by anger, love, or any number of other emotions besides joy, and the same could be said for any other pairing. Some people threw themselves into work, others devoted themselves to hedonistic pursuits, while still others sought emptiness for comfort when faced with adversity, and who could say if any one of these options was better than the others?

Balance was easy enough when there were only two sides to consider, but add in a third, fourth, or fifth side, and matters grew exponentially more convoluted and all but impossible to manage in this same manner. True emotional Balance was not about ensuring you had equal representation in all emotions at all times, but about keeping any one emotion from overwhelming you to the point of unbalance. Rather than a scale, a better representation would be a spinning plate on top of a stick; while the plate might reel and wobble, constant adjustments and continuous motion could keep the porcelain in place indefinitely, but it only took one misstep to bring everything crashing to the ground.

An interesting Insight Mila stumbled upon, and it opened her eyes to a multitude of new avenues of thought. A weighted scale was the most fundamental representation of Balance, but it was an inadequate one, for true antitheses were rare in nature, a lesson the Mother revealed to Mila inside the bamboo grove. A simple dirt path encircled by bamboo stalks, yet it made use of so many different facets of interacting natural forces that it was almost impossible to list them all. The damp earth nourished the plants, and in turn, the plants nourished her body and mind, with scents and sounds intermingling into a refreshing balm for the soul. The stalks filtered out sunlight and cast shadows in such a way as to ensure it was neither dark nor light during the day, and at night, the stars and moons seemed to illuminate the world around them, without revealing any of its secrets. Mila couldn’t even begin to understand how it all came together in Balance, because there were so many forces at play and the explanations ventured into the mystical, supernatural, and metaphysical, so instead of chasing after answers she knew she would never find, she set her mind to identifying these mundane mysteries of Balance.

One such example was weather patterns, with the sun drying up water to be raised up to the skies, where clouds would form until they grew too heavy with moisture and burst with rain or snow. This too was Balance of a sort, but again, only scratching the surface of a system which was riddled with complexities. Where did drought and forest fires factor into this Balance? What about lightning or ice storms? Heat waves and cold snaps? Floods and earthquakes? Were these examples of Nature becoming unbalanced, or were they merely brief bouts of intense conditions, comparable to a burst of joy or anger? These natural disasters could simply be the world correcting course to obtain Balance over a cycle measured in decades rather than seasons, or even centuries, though there was no way for Mila to be certain of the truth.

So many questions with no answers to be found, and the more Mila looked, the more questions arose. Plant growth was intricately tied to the weather, so how did this play into the overall scope of Balance? Plants blossom in spring and wither in winter, but where did evergreens fit in? Saplings sprout into trees until they grew tall enough for the wind to whisk away their seeds to grow into saplings, yet every so often, wildfires would consume whole swathes of forests to start anew again. How did the wind move, and what determined if it was hot or cold? Why did smoke rise in almost uniform manner, leaving a layer of clean air close to the ground? Why was lightning drawn to the tallest trees on the tallest mountains? What kept water flowing from streams to the ocean and how did it keep from drying out, or conversely, flooding over into the Azure Empire?

As broad and all-encompassing as her questions might be, Mila knew the answers had something to do with her Martial Path, else the Mother would never have steered her mind towards these issues. To find answers, she went back to the beginning, in this case, literally. It was common knowledge that the Mother crafted this world with help from Her four children, the Primal Elements. Mama always said the world was a blank canvas that had been painted in the colours of the four Primal Elements, while Papa often likened it to the forging of a sword, combining heat, metal, force, and so much more to create something new and different. All this was neither here nor there, but the key was in how the four Elements had integrated so well into the world that it was exceedingly rare to find any one Primal Elements in complete isolation. Earth, Water, Air, and yes, even Fire could be found everywhere, but always in coexistence with one or more of the other Primal Elements. The sea and oceans looked like pure Water, but was filled with plants, soil, and even Air, while towering Earthen mountains often hid cores of Fire within, and whose interiors were scattered with metals, minerals, gases, aquifers and more. The skies held clouds filled with Water, ice, and lightning, and Fire was unable to exist without something to burn, whether it be wood, oil, or air, meaning there were precious few examples of Pure Primal Elements to be found, and none which Mila could name.

From this, she determined that even though the Primal Elements made up the basic building blocks of life, Auxiliary Blessings were the most commonly used components, and Esoteric Blessings were the plethora of intricate interactions which made life as they knew it possible.

A revelation which had Mila in high spirits, because for years, she’d been plagued by the problems of her own Esoteric Blessing. Though she knew how to make use of her Awakening, she was never entirely sure what her Blessing was called, because nature had little use for names or labels, and the Mother cared not to explain how Her gifts worked, only how to make use of them. Unlike most, Mila Awakened early in life, just after her tenth birthday, and although she knew it to be an Esoteric Blessing because that’s what Mama and Papa called it, for years she treated it as a less flexible Auxiliary Blessing of Metal. It wasn’t the worst comparison, as her Blessing offered her the benefit of stronger skin, bones, and muscles, as well as an innate resistance to flames, but she would never be able to shake the earth or conjure flames to strike down her enemies from afar, like a true wielder of Fire or Earth.

Still, for many years, she felt it was a close enough approximation and never cared to dig deeper, because she had yet to comprehend what she’d already been given. There was no sense being greedy, Mama would say, and she was right, but after stumbling into the bamboo grove, Mila finally understood that those gifts were merely the byproduct of her Esoteric Blessing, rather than the main focus she once took them for.

The difference lay not only in what she couldn’t do, but also in how her gifts arose. Wu Gam bore the Blessing of Earth, but his enhanced strength and durability was the result of an Earth-based Chi skill. How it differed from Reinforcement and Domain-derived durability, Mila could not say, only that she knew them to be different just like she knew water and oil were different. Where Wu Gam required Chi and focus to power his ability, Mila’s Blessing required no effort at all, for it had reshaped her physical body to grant her the benefits it entailed. It came at a cost of course, meaning she weighed more, ate more, slept more, and had little to no control over her strength at times, but it also allowed her to match Papa in contests of raw muscle and work at the forge with little to no protective gear. In fact, she only wore a leather apron because it kept her clothes from catching fire, since even molten metal would do little more than leave a reddish mark that was quick to fade.

It only happened once, but Papa would never let her forget the time she ran home swaddled in aprons to hide her shame...

Imagine her dismay when she learned her hardy natural resistance to flames did not apply to those of the Chi-fuelled variety, all those years ago in Sanshu. It made sense now, knowing what she didn’t know then, that Gen’s External use of Chi imbued his flames with a rudimentary form of Domain. Without one of her own to counteract it, Gen’s Domain pierced through her natural resistances and left her as vulnerable as anyone else, though for some reason her shield could still turn aside his flames, and her resistance to heat applied to the super-heated metal, if not the air itself. She didn’t understand why it didn’t apply to both, since the air was not imbued with Gen’s Domain, but the laws of nature held firm even if human minds did not recognize them. Still, selective protection was better than none, because she would have died if she had not been able to keep hold of her Spiritual Weapons, and instead only suffered a painful and ugly burn along one side of her face...

Annoying, all these hidden, unknown forces at work, but such was the way of the world.

And just like that, the answers came to her, but not in a structured, coherent form like Rain demanded, but more in an abstract sense of understanding without being able to put words to her comprehension. The Primal Blessings were not truly about physical Earth, Air, Water, and Fire, because those things didn’t naturally exist. No, the Primal Blessings were about the myriad of unique forces of the universe broken down into their four most fundamental units. Or maybe not exactly four fundamental units, but four broad categories represented by the Elements themselves, and the combinations of the elements produced even more new and different forces which made up the fabric of reality itself.

Some of these forces she had names for, such as push and pull, friction and momentum, heat and chill, gravity, tension, resistance, magnetism, and more, but others... others simply were. There was the force which made Mila’s hair frizzy in the humidity or the one which gathered raindrops together as they flowed down a flat roof. There was the force which drew moisture out of the air on chill spring mornings or wicked it away on dry winter nights, and the force which turned eaten grass into growing muscle or rotting meat into field fertilizer. Ocean tides, lunar cycles, seasonal changes, and more, the world was made up of thousands upon thousands of interacting forces, all which could be broken down and categorized using combinations of the four Primal Blessings, in the same way the Common language broke down into two-hundred or so radicals and how all numbers could be broken down using only zero to nine.

