On and on Taduk went, but Mila only paid him half a mind. Three months? The banquet was long done by now, but at least it sounded like Rain emerged unscathed, no thanks to her. Unfortunately, the chatty Medical Saint had a habit of going on tangents and useful information was decidedly scarce, though she learned the names of all of his new Spiritual Plants. Not their plant names, but names he gave them, much like Rain named all his pets. On the way out, they tiptoed past Mama, Yan, Alsantset, Sarnai, and several others, all of of whom were crammed into the grove’s pathway to meditate. Apparently, Mila was the last to emerge from her extreme bout of Insight, with Yan and Alsantset regaining their faculties some weeks ago, though neither one had reached another milestone on the Martial Path like she had.

Before she could ask why he brought her out, Taduk Sent, “Alright Mila dear, I can’t leave the rabbits alone for long, else they’ll find the courage to try for my precious leafy babies, so we’ll catch up at dinner yes? I’ve Sent for Song and she’ll be on her way shortly with the quins, so you just wait here with Princess. Bye for now.”

And with that, he was gone, scampering back into his garden and leaving Mila alone with the strange weasel creature who’d followed them out from the grove. Princess proved to be a burly, bearish creature with a stout, stocky body, a narrow weasel head, and ferocious looking fangs and talons, a bold and adorable beast whom Mila instantly adored. Without so much as a greeting sniff, Princess shuffled over and hurled herself bodily against Mila’s leg before settling in to wait, and she couldn’t help but lean over to stroke the beast’s fur. Startled by the unexpected touch, Princess grunted and studied Mila with curious surprise before stretching her stubby arms out to indicate she wanted to be carried. Happy to oblige, Mila held her new friend like a quin held their pups, with one hand under both the weasel-bear's arms and her legs and furry tail hanging straight down.

When Song arrived with Erdene, Mafu, and Atir in tow, she greeted Mila with a warm, hearty hug, which came as a welcome surprise. “Hello Sister,” Song said, beaming so prettily beneath the mid-day sun. “It is good to see you. Are you well?”

A warm hug, pretty smile, cheery greeting, and now small talk from Song? It’d only been three months, not three years, right? Lifting her affectionate sister off the ground in a one armed embrace, Mila resisted the urge to squeal in delight and settled for a muted squeak instead. “Hello Sister. It’s good to see you too. Thank you for looking after me all these weeks. I don’t remember everything, but I know you were there.” Mother Above, was Song blushing? This was just too wonderful. Perhaps Mila’s absence allowed her beloved sister to finally get all the love and affection she deserved. “I’m doing well, but I’m a little confused, having lost three months in... well not the blink of an eye, but it didn’t feel like three months, you know?”

Nodding sagely at the statement, Song launched into a recounting of everything Mila had missed, and without prompting at that. Oh this would take some getting used to, so she listened with an open ear while greeting Atir after this long absence. The quin was thrilled by the attention, and looked like she could use more since she was getting a little too round for Mila’s liking, likely because rotund Mafu was still courting her with treats. Together, they set off for the Citadel at a reasonable pace so they could continue their conversation as they rode, but it all seemed so surreal. Mila could hardly believe it. Not only did they attend the banquet and return home without starting a civil war, the People emerged from what should have been a death-trap as the undisputed victors. Song was an Expert of the Empire now, Zian and BoShui had been raised to First Grade Warrant Officers, Huu, a Second Grade, and Rain was appointed to Imperial Office as the Minister of Finance...

What in the Heavens was the Legate thinking? Had he gone stark raving mad? Mila loved her beloved dearly, but what did Rain know of managing financial affairs? True, he had a way with earning coin, but he also went through coin like drinking water and didn’t know when to give up on chasing after his strange, silly ideas. Unless the Legate meant to bankrupt the Empire, he could not have picked a worse man for his Minister of Finance.

The hour-long ride back to the Citadel was informative, but as usual, Song was light on details of anything she considered irrelevant, which was almost everything unrelated to the Martial Path. Armed with the knowledge of how Song’s sparring partners were faring and heart palpitating in nervous excitement, Mila burst through the familiar warehouse doors and stomped up the stairs to Rain’s boardroom. There, she found the bears and wildcats lazing about while Rain, Luo-Luo, and an unfamiliar Imperial stood over a fancy looking official document. “I don’t know,” Mila could hear Rain saying, as she barrelled past the Death Corps who should have known better than to stand in her way. “Are you sure the ink and dye won’t run? We can’t have –”

Then the armoured guards hit the floor and he came alert like a warrior born, standing between Mila and his guests while reaching for his sword. Luckily for him, he stopped before even touching it, as beautiful eyes widened in surprise and confusion. “Mila? Song, why did you bring her back so –”

Mila’s reaction caught them both off guard, as she had not been prepared for the surge of emotions which burst up at the sight of him, looking so handsome with his full cheeks and a healthy pallor, not to mention a suitably filled-out frame and shiny, medium-length hair stylishly slicked back. Without meaning to do so, she grabbed him by the back of the neck and pulled him in for a kiss, her lips starved of the taste and feel of him for far too long. His hand circled around her waist, then down to her butt, then returned to her waist for the sake of propriety even though she wasn’t complaining, and for long seconds, no one and nothing else mattered.

Breaking away with a breathless gasp, Mila held him close and gazed deeply into his eyes, basking in his honey and sandalwood scent. “I’m sorry,” she said, tears forming in her eyes. “I should’ve been at the banquet to help you, I wanted to be there, but you had to go through all that without me and be incredible all on your own. I’m so proud and so sorry, I just –”

“Shut up and kiss me.” He didn’t give her a chance to refuse, not that she would have, and she almost melted in his embrace. Only belated did she remember Princess was still in her arms and was now growling in palpable warning, but Rain didn’t seem afraid and Mila didn’t want this kiss to end. It had to eventually of course, and to her mild delight, Rain looked as brainless and breathless as she felt when he pulled away, all moon-eyed and glazed over with focused distraction. “I’ve missed you, beloved,” he whispered, brushing his nose against hers. “I could see you and hold you, but it just wasn’t the same without your beautiful smile.” Crinkling his nose, he added, “As for the apologies, stow ‘em. You’ve nothing to apologize for, beloved. Man proposes and Heaven disposes.” Eyes widening in alarm, he broke away from Mila to rummage through his pockets instead. “Oh, and speaking of proposes...”

Dropping to one knee, Rain held up a small, velvet lined box and opened it to reveal a stunning, diamond-and-ruby studded platinum ring which must have cost him a large fortune. More proof of his spendthrift ways, wasting good coin on silly jewellery, but Mila loved the gesture all the same, so long as he hadn’t misappropriated funds from his Office to buy it. “Sumila, I messed up,” he began, his pained gaze melting her heart, “I forgot about our wedding date, and I am so sorry. I know this ring won’t make up for it, and nothing ever will, but I love you and want to spend the rest of my life trying. Will you marry me? Our wedding can take place any day, and at any time, even tonight if you so wish it, so long as you say yes and make me the happiest man alive.”

“Of course, you idiot. Why would you even need to ask?” It was about time her beloved fool took the initiative for once, because Mila was beginning to worry he didn’t want to marry her at all. “Ah. Not tonight,” she stammered, her cheeks growing hot as she fought to hold back tears, but luckily Rain was busy trying to get the ring onto her finger. Three months, she sat around, and he didn’t check if the ring fit? And the Legate wanted this man as the Empire’s Master of Finance? Oh, never mind, Rain meant to put it on her fourth finger for some reason, where it fit perfectly. “We can’t be wed tonight. I need time to prepare.” Not for a showy ceremony or lavish banquet, both things she could do without, but she needed to fire up her forge before the wedding could take place, and pray she could forge something strong enough to hold.

After all, even though Rain looked hale and healthy as can be, there was still a good chance Mila might accidentally snap his spine if left unrestrained during their long awaited wedding night...

Chapter Meme
