Small wonder scholars still couldn’t come to a consensus on Auxiliary Blessings, because examples of two interacting Primal Elements were everywhere. Did Earth and Water form Wood, Plant, Mud, Stone or something else entirely? What about Air and Water? It could be Cloud, as the general school of thought proclaimed, but it could also be Fog, Mist, or even Rain. Fire and Water created Ice, but a more common application was Steam, so why was Ice the preferred nomenclature? What’s more, the presence of Esoteric Blessings made things even more complicated, because it could be argued there were only a handful true interactions between only two Elements, and most interactions were a steady balance of all four.

Like she said earlier, names were for humans to keep track of things. Nature needed no names, only interactions.

Rain and Taduk helped Mila come to this conclusion, while sitting for lunch in the Medical Saint’s garden. Taduk said that some believed there was no need to differentiate and that a classification system would only over-complicate the matter, and this rang true to Mila’s ears. What did it matter what it was called, so long as it still worked? So long as she understood the rules, or even how to work with the rules without understanding them, then what need did she have for the reasoning behind the rules themselves?

Thus, she cut her meal short to meditate upon this new discovery, as well as the words of Guan Suo. Although she hadn’t been there to hear her progenitor’s declaration on the fields of Sinuji, Rain, Tenjin, Tursinai, and Song all repeated more or less the same thing. Guan Suo said ‘Fire and Air wasn’t all (he) was’, or something to that extent, and Mila heard a ring of truth in those words. At first, she assumed his Blessing of Smoke was Fire, Air, and Earth, but then she remembered her earlier musings and decided it was more likely to be a combination of all four Elements, rather than only three. Fire, Air, and Earth were evident enough, but it was Water which held it all together as visible smoke instead of a diffuse puff of wind.

In the same vein, humans were creatures of all four Elements, so how could her nameless Esoteric Blessing have enhanced her physical body without using all four Elements? The name didn’t matter, nor did the ratio as Rain suggested, not exactly, because it all came down to how the forces interacted.

With this in mind, Mila decided studying the various forces of the world would be immensely beneficial, but time was not on her side. It felt like she’d only just begun putting the pieces together before Taduk shook her awake while old fogey Du fussed about how they were already running late. What followed next was a jarring, disconcerting journey taken between snippets of Insight, with too many distractions interspersed along the way. Song was almost always there, either handing her something to eat, helping her into bed, or reminding her to go use the latrines, things Mila wholeheartedly appreciated but never remembered to thank her sister for. Lin was there too, always wearing a silly smile, which oftentimes was a bad sign if said smile was directed at you, but Mila couldn’t be bothered to care about the mischievous half-hare’s antics. Luo-Luo’s music also sometimes wormed its way into Mila’s consciousness, and the cheery tunes would wash away her frustration and fatigue, but even then she rarely noticed its presence until after the fact, when the sudden silence left a jarring emptiness in her subconscious mind.

Rain also showed up every now and then, but even though she couldn’t quite keep track of how often he appeared, they felt few and far between. She remembered one particular instance, where she came to as he stroked her cheek. The gentle touch was filled with love and longing, his amber eyes warm and worried, but as much as she enjoyed his affections, he’d interrupted her during a particularly informative brain-storming session after a frustrating period filled with some clucking woman who kept nattering on about frills, skin-care, morals, and curls, so Mila scowled and snapped in wordless frustration. She didn’t mean to, because she loved Rain so very much, but he barely even flinched at her aggressive and somewhat feral response. Instead, he simply smiled, kissed her hands, and whispered that he loved her, and she loved him all the more for it.

It still didn’t make up for how he failed to notice his banquet was scheduled for the same day as their wedding though...

This loving interaction proved to be the turning point however, because it was the last unwelcome interruption she could remember. At some point afterwards, she found herself back in the bamboo grove, and nestled within that mystical world of shadow and light, she continued to meditate and explore the mysteries of nature in blissful peace and serenity. There was so much to learn, but Mila trusted the Mother to guide her as unerringly as always, so she settled in and studied how the myriad of forces behaved and how they all fit together. To do this, she recreated the bamboo grove piece by piece inside her mind’s eye, and watched how each new variable interacted with the rest.

First came the ground, the earth beneath her feet, dark, rich, soil full of whatever it was that plants needed to thrive. And Pong-Pong’s excrement of course, liberally sprinkled about by Taduk, but rather than try and recreate this, she simply imagined it as it was in the real world. There were details she obviously could never truly know or understand, such as what exactly plants took from the soil or how night soil, rotting carcasses, and decomposing plants contributed to replenishing those resources, but for her purposes, the details didn’t matter. So as it was in the world, so it would be in her mind, and she painstakingly committed every detail she noticed to mind. She left out bugs and other animals burrowing beneath the surface, but why, she couldn’t say, and instead mimicked their passing with an effort of will which she eventually released to continue autonomously for as long as she would need it.

There was still so much more to take into account, but she worked at it until it felt right, and only then did she move on from the dirt ground. The bamboo stalks came next, along with their fragrant, flowering scents, followed by the whimsical manner in which light and shadow drifted down into the grove. Next, she added the wind whistling through the tips of the stalks, and the drifting blanket of air which sat about the base, and she marvelled at how everything fell into place. The moving winds set to circulating the stagnant air she’d only just introduced, mixing the scent of dirt, flower, wood, and nature altogether in a heady bouquet. Everything had its place, even if she couldn’t quite understand how it all worked, but she could see the myriad forces going through this cascading series of interactions.

It was, in a word, Divine.

Despite having done all she could, Mila felt things still weren’t quite right, but aside from the animals and bird songs which she’d chosen to ignore, she couldn’t think of anything she’d forgotten to add. For the first time in... days? Weeks? Hard to say, but for the first time, Mila’s progress stalled as she compared her mental construct to reality. The inner grove kept changing as Taduk tended his flourishing garden, so she did away with this part entirely, but then she was left with an empty hole in the centre of her grove. Thus, she set to seeding the empty space with more bamboo stalks, but now she had to gauge how each new stalk would interact with what was already there and make adjustments accordingly. Light and shadow were the hardest, while wind and airflow was not much better, not to mention having to estimate how the smell would change. More flowers should mean more floral scents, but she found that this might not necessarily be the case since the new stalks also interfered with air flow and could easily block the scents from mingling.

Even after adding a plethora of new stalks in a way which didn’t affect the overall Balance, Mila still wasn’t pleased with her work. It felt too... small for her purposes, and too cluttered as well, so of course she needed to make it bigger. This was simple enough once she realized she could just duplicate the area she already had and plop them down next to one another, because so long as she added them in pairs, the overall Balance remained unchanged. Eight copies of the original grove were all she could manage, and she even rotated them about so they weren’t all in the same orientation and left a grassy plain in the middle for future expansion, along with a comfortable dirt mound in the exact centre to sit and meditate upon when needed. Overall, it took many meals and bathroom breaks to achieve in full, but she still felt it wasn’t quite right, so she added a river flowing around it on all sides, like a moat to a castle. This effort almost took as much time as the entire grove thus far, and then she doubled the time spent during what she could only call a fit of divine inspiration, when she raised a mountainside underneath the whole project and set an image of Northern Forests and landscapes all around to hide the void. Only the image, mind you, for she’d reached her limits with the mountain, which meant she could no more visit those lowland forests than she could catch the moon’s reflection in the water.

Pleased with what her efforts had wrought, she spent a bit more time putting in the final touches by adding rocks, flowers, minerals, clouds, and other embellishments to make it feel more like a mountain in the North rather than a grove in Central. Every detail had to be painstakingly placed, every bump, divot, incline, and strand of grass meticulously arranged, and when she was done, Mila felt at peace here inside this mental fortress.

Lonely though, since it’d been some time since she’d actually spoken to anyone, but Mila was loathe to leave her work since it would be gone the next time she returned. She didn’t have a Natal Palace yet, which meant...

Wait...

Mila distinctly remembered eating meals and tending to her bodily needs in reality, but the grove – no, it was more of a mountainside forest now – was always there waiting when she returned.

Which meant... this was her Natal Palace, and Mila, at only twenty years young, was now a full-fledged Expert of the Empire, just in time to show off at Rain’s stupid banquet.

Opening her eyes to reality, Mila blinked the harsh light out of her eyes before seeking Balance once more, just to make sure the mountain forest was still there, which it was. Overcome with giddy delight, she was thrust back into reality with a wide grin upon her face and an aching crick in her neck. Gingerly pushing herself to her feet, she patted the dirt off her hands and bottom before wandering into Taduk’s Spiritual Garden, and for a moment, she was stunned by what she saw. Gone was the vast swathe of empty, turtle-poop strewn dirt, all tilled and waiting to be planted, and in its place was a beautiful garden filled with herbs, flowers, and vines aplenty, all of which was in full bloom and being tended to by a humming Taduk. A carpet of grass covered the ground, but it was kept neat and trimmed by the army of rabbits hopping about with an eye on the fenced vegetation. Inside those fences, planters had been laid out in neat little rows, with plenty of room to walk and sit between them, a safeguard against not only the voracious rabbits, but likely also to keep any wild rodents burrowing up from underneath.

Even as she thought about it, one such animal popped out of the grass, a brown-furred weasel head that was much too large for an actual weasel. A yellow ribbon bow tied neatly around its neck marked it as a new pet, which meant it was probably still a wild beast since there was no way Rain could have tamed a new animal so quickly... without...

“Wait,” Mila said, her startled voice breaking the tranquility of the herbal garden and startling Taduk out of his concentration. “How are these plants already mature?” Spiritual Plants grew quicker than normal ones, but even then it shouldn’t be this fast...

“Oh hello Mila dear,” Taduk exclaimed, brushing the dirt off his hands before skipping over and lifting her into a warm hug. “Good to see you back again, we were all starting to worry. Sweet Lin-Lin missed you oh so much, especially with Rain always gallivanting about, but lucky for you he returned home a few days past.”

“Gallivanting?” Heart skipping a beat in her chest, Mila clutched the grinning Medical Saint’s hands and asked, “Did Rain recover? Is he back in fighting form?”

“Oh no, Mila dear, I’m so sorry, but he’s still the same as before.” Gently turning her about, he switched to Sending while leading her out of the bamboo grove. “Still crippled, but healthier than you remember, with some meat on his bones for once. To answer your first question, you’ve been ruminating on your Insights for over three months now, so we’re well into summer which is why my plants are so mature. Aren’t they wonderful? I’d always dreamed of having my own Spiritual Plant garden, and now I do, but I made the grove much too small. I’ve only fifteen different varieties, and not enough room to even keep duplicates, but I can’t expand yet. Everyone else wants to sit on the path and meditate for days on end, which I don’t mind in the least, but I’m not sure if meddling with the grove would interfere with whatever it is going on out there, and I’d rather not have to start a second grove. Honestly, I don’t know how you all stand meditating for so long, I get fidgety from sitting still for a few minutes, and...”

