I'm confident I don't need as much plating in my second set. I talked it over with Master and Tabitha, and they recommended I instead wear a gambeson. They are cheaper and easier to make while still offering a decent amount of defense for the material used.

Gambesons are made from layered linens and other fabrics, making them essentially thick jackets. They aren’t the strongest armor pieces and are more something you wear underneath your heavier armor, but they offer great defense for what they are. The main thing is that gambesons are flexible and don't restrict the wearer's movements.

I still plan to wear a chest piece, helmet, and other paddings, just not as much as I do now. Tabitha's training has pushed my movement skills to the next level, and it's time I play to my strengths. My fighting style revolves around striking hard and fast before retreating, not deflecting or tanking like Tabitha or Pacore.

Some armor will always be needed, but the easier I can move, the better I can fight. My current armor is flexible enough, but it represents my prior fear of getting hit. The multiple metal plates are clunkier than I need and weigh me down. With Mana Threads, I don't need bulky armor to counterbalance my swings, rendering my current armor counter-intuitive.

Then there was my hammer; I needed to adjust it too before exploring the woods. It was wrong of me to shape it like a ball-peen hammer. I thought the rounded side would be suitable for blunt force damage, but it shows the level of ignorance I had when it came to combat when I first made it.

It's a good thing I didn't try enchanting it because I need to turn the rounded side of my hammer into a point for piercing; such a change would've ruined any enchantment I had on it.

So much to do and so little time. Regardless of my headache, it was time to get back to work.

**********

Pacore the Deathless' Point of View:

The sun overhead felt good against my invisible armor. I miss the wide-open rocky terrain of Scholl, and standing on the ramparts surrounded by stone reminded me of my homeland. The grass and trees were nice to look at for a while, but now the endless sea of green looked all the same to me.

It was a new year, and I wasn't celebrating it in Scholl with my disciples or His Majesty.

Looking out from Yleles' walls, I scan Olebert's camp for what must be the fifth time today. Everything was quiet, agonizingly so.

Olebert had all but given up trying to retake the city. Smart of them, but still…. The cowards.

"I shouldn't be surprised this is where I found you."

"Happy new year, Lord Bullok," I greet the young man as he walks towards me, flanked by four of his personal guard. I had received word that he was supposed to be arriving soon, but I wasn’t expecting him until tomorrow.

"And to you as well, Master Pacore the Deathless." He offers me a polite bow using my full title, to which I nod. He joins me on the edge of the wall with his hands behind his back in a relaxed stance, much to the displeasure of his guards. He's out in the open, and though he may be a decent warrior with a single feather of his own, he isn't as durable as I am. Few are.

His letting his guard down could be a sign of trust towards me, but it's unneeded. Jason has been sending me reports of Bullock’s movements while I’ve been stationed in Yleles. Initially, I wasn't sure where the young lord's allegiances lie, but he's yet to try and sabotage me or take control, so I’m giving him the benefit of the doubt until he proves otherwise.

"I take it your rushing here that negotiations are about to start."

"Indeed," Bullok confirms what I already suspected.

"When will they arrive?" I ask.

"In a few days. They originally demanded I meet them outside Teeburn, but I wouldn't let them dictate where we hold our talks."

"Smart and the fact that I’m here had nothing to do with it?" I smirk at the young lord.

"Your presence might have played a factor in it." He doesn’t give me a straight answer like a true politician, choosing to smile instead. "I was hoping you could be there during the meetings."

"Hmm," I hum thoughtfully, stroking my beard. I don't like dealing with politicians; I can resist their skills but not counter them. I am Scholl's shield, not its voice.

"You won't have to do much," Bullok assures me. "Just stand there menacingly."

"Oh?" I fold my hands in front of me and look down on the lord. His bodyguards flinch under my pressure, but none take their eyes off me. They're decently trained then.

"Yes, like that," Bullok forces a smile, knees shaking.

"You worry they may try something?" I make an educated guess as to why he'd want me there with him. Inviting me to help him could be seen as him joining his majesty’s camp and could make things difficult for him back home.

The danger of having our kingdom starve has temporarily united the various fractions bidding for power. Still, with peace talks with Olebert commencing, it was only a matter of time until people started to move again. I'm sure they're scheming in the shadows, waiting for an opening of any kind.

"The Olebert nobles worry me," Bullok admits, his politician’s mask cracking a bit. "They gave up their cites far too easily and were slow to muster a proper defense. It's almost like they didn't care about their cities or people. They only agreed to negotiate after I wrote that we had Genial Pitz."

"My father taught me how to fight just as much as he taught me how to negotiate, but these Olebert nobles.... you understand, right? They aren’t what I’m used to."

I have to agree with the young man; Olebert has surprised me at each step of this invasion, and not in a good way. Other than the fort, Olebert's nobles practically rolled over for us and abandoned their holdings.

They might just try something during the peace talks. "They demanded the general be present, didn't they?"

Lord Bullok nods with a serious look.

"Well, that's not going to happen," I snort.

"So, you'll be there?" Young Lord Bullok pleads with his eyes.

"I suppose I’m not doing anything else," I reluctantly agree. "How far out are they exactly?"

"My people estimate three days. It was estimated to take them eight to get around Red Dust Mountain, and they were sighted leaving Teeburn five days ago. They said they wanted to negotiate before the new year. Did you know the people here celebrate the night before rather than the day of?"

"Hard not to notice. Last night Yleles was the most active as I’ve ever seen it. I had to issue orders for my men not to go overboard partying with the locals.”

“I’m sure they had fun.”

"They're still having fun," I huff. With each day, they drop their guard a little more. Starting tomorrow, maybe I should start having them run drills. Or maybe I should spar with a few of them; that would put them in their place. I could critically injure one or two commanders; that would set a strong precedent. Though I'd have to make sure they have ties with the phoenix faction.

Taking a deep breath, I let out a tired sigh. The lull in battle is making me anxious. I could work off some of my pent-up aggression if Tabitha were with me, but she isn't. I left my other students in Teeburn to hold the city, but even they aren’t as eager to spar with me as she always is.

Thinking about my student, I’m reminded that it’s been over a month since one of us has sent the other a letter. I sent her an update regarding Olebert’s ceasefire, and she wrote me back telling me how much fun she had training Aaliyah.

Poor girl, I didn’t think she’d take up Tabitha’s offer to train her. I told Tabitha; Aaliyah would probably want to spar with her as a way to convince her to go to the village. I didn’t think she’d actually agree with how much hostility she showed me. But it sounded like the two of them were getting along.

I’m happy for Tabitha. She sticks out even among my students, and I'm happy to hear she's met someone she can interact with. After all, it's ok to crave battle, the best warriors do, but you need a reason to fight. Aaliyah has her friends and family; I have His Majesty; Tabitha has me…. only me. Tabitha’s loyalty has always been more towards me rather than to Scholl. It doesn’t bother His Majesty, but I can’t remain her fixation forever.

I'm an old man and have no idea when the gods will see fit to take me. Tabitha needs a person she's willing to follow when that happens. If she can't find that person by the time I die, I shudder to think what could happen. Most likely, she would recklessly throw herself into battle until she died. That would be a true tragedy for someone of her talent.

But if she's getting along with Aaliyah, there might just be some hope. Plus, it will cut down on what I’ll need to teach my newest disciple myself. If she’s made it this long practicing with Tabitha without giving up, she's just as strong as I hoped.

"Master Pacore?" Bullock's voice pulls me out of my thoughts.

“Sorry, what was that?”

“I was asking if it was ok to be letting your men party at a time like this?”

"Ah yes, that. You do not need to worry," I assure the anxious-looking lord. "They may be celebrating, but that’s why I’m up here. We're rotating out the guard, so everyone has downtime while still keeping an eye on Olebert. Not that it matters."

“I don’t understand," the young lord tilts his head, confused by my answer. I should expect as much; though he's probably fought monsters to raise his level, most of his time must have been spent learning politics rather than battlefield awareness. There is a vast difference between fighting monsters and other humans. To someone like me, it’s easy to tell what Olebert’s forces are focusing on, but him…

"Do you see Olebert's camp?" I motion to our opponents in the distance. He nods but still looks confused, so I spell out our situation for him. "Their camp is a mess; tents everywhere, their command center easily visible, not a single soldier in formation.”

“So, they’re undertrained?” Lord Bullok guesses.

"It appears that way, doesn't it. But if you look closer, you see that everything isn't as it appears. They've been trying to secretly dig trenches behind their tents, using them for cover. Their soldiers aren’t lined up to attack, they’re in the trenches, yet the observation towers they've built are always maned. They're not preparing for a siege; they're digging themselves in, wanting us to attack them.”

“But the siege weapons!?” Bullok points at a catapult stationed in the middle of their camp.

“Too far away,” I point out. “And they aren’t new. The ones they have are what's left from when they initially tried to retake the city. They're just for show, again meant to bait us into attacking them. They've given up on trying to retake the city, instead choosing to deploy defensive tactics."

“I’m sorry, but I still don’t see what you mean. I’m lacking,” Bullok lowers his head.

I good-naturally chuckle and pat the boy on his shoulder. "It would be too costly for them to try and retake the city again; they've tried too many. That is unless we lost more of our troops. By say, trying to attack a seemingly weak camp."

Young Lord Bullock's eyes widen as he sees Olebert's defenses in a new light.

“They were banking on my ruthless reputation, thinking I would order my men to charge them as soon as they showed weakness. But their commander is a hundred years too young to fool me,” I boast.

“Then they won’t make a move unless we do," Bullok smirks like he's heard his best news all day.

I can see the wheels turning in Bullock's head. He'll use what I told him during the negotiations. Good, I want to return home. I wish to know how we're dealing with the dragon; news has been sparse out here. News of the Dragon has spread, but not all the gory details are public knowledge. If Olebert or other nations learns how severely the beast crippled us, they may see it as an opportunity to attack. This time, in force.

I'm not naive enough to think this is all Olebert has to offer. General Pitz's existence is enough to prove Olebert also has high-leveled individuals they can field. While a significant part of me craves a real battle, my rational side recognizes that would spell doom for us.

If Olebert can break past our defenses, they only need to torch the fields to kill us. Food is and always will be our goal. Our survival depends on Olebert overestimating us. We need a ceasefire; that's the only way we can save our people back home.

The army in front of me is here to keep us from expanding our reach; little do they know, we don't have the personnel available to expand any further.

The dragon didn't just destroy our farms; it killed a lot of people: those who tilled the fields and those who gathered to slay it. Bringing my hand up, I rub my invisible chest plate, remembering how strong the dragon's breath was and how easily it killed our warriors.

Once we have an official peace agreement, I can return home and focus on our true enemy. "It will be nice to be home again," I whisper.

“Come again, Master Pacore?” Bullok gives me a confused look.

“Just thinking about returning home,” I tell him. “What do you think; a week, maybe two?”

“Till what?” Young Bullok doesn’t understand what I’m asking.

“Until I get to go home,” I clarify.

“Uhhh,” Bullok looks conflicted. “Master Pacore, may I ask, have you ever brokered a peace agreement before?”

“Of course, I have! Do you know how many have surrendered to me?”

"Yes, yes," Bullok waves his hands, signaling he didn't mean to offend me. "But I mean, have you ever had to negotiate with a force that didn't surrender to you?"

There is a long pause between us, and the longer it goes on, the more uncomfortable young Bullok looks.

