Viv was shocked at this new development. The effect on the others, however, was much more dire, except for Arthur who didn’t care. Even Solfis felt more subdued, possibly calculating how this knowledge would affect its own theories. Solar and Sidjin stood transfixed by the characters, staring at them as if they would surrender their secrets. To Viv’s knowledge, the inhabitants of Param had little interest in history but they loved stories and myth, and everyone liked stories on the light gods’ exploits. They had found and pitied humanity, teaching them elaborate tools, walls, laws, numbers. Civilization. The light gods had lifted mankind and outwitted the dark ones at every turn. After their work was done, they retired to the City of the Gods alongside their champions and other powerful entities to watch over their ever-growing flock. There was never any mention of the before. In fact, Viv had not been aware of a before until she had found the lone mountain.

The Paramese relied a lot on the gods, even in their everyday life. As a modern Earth person, Viv already relied on them as defenders of good. Mostly. For the others, the light gods were an eternal fixture of their lives. They blessed every major milestone of their lives. Temples could be found in every city, the priests within demonstrating true power. It was a shock to realize that they were ascended humans who had cast down the previous pantheon. The meek would wail and fear the possibility of their demise while the rich and powerful would wonder: what if? What if I could be like them? No, she had no objection keeping this little piece of trivia to herself.

She wondered about Efestar, though.

How could one of the light ones become a god of scorn?

No, this was the wrong way to think about it. They were human before, and a human will ally with the devil himself if they consider it a lesser evil. Perhaps Efestar picked scorn and favors the despicable beastlings because he believed himself betrayed, backstabbed by his fellow ascendants. Maybe she’d ask him if they ever met again.

While it was clear the revelation had left the three men shaken, they recovered promptly thanks to their magically-boosted mental resilience. Viv still thought it was weird but this world was filled with horrors, there was no therapist path, and it was healthier than substance abuse. The squad approached the hole in the wall and realized the path had been blocked by fallen masonry, then explosively opened from the inside. The broken stones were still the size of an average desk, at the smallest. It must have taken a stupid amount of strength to split them. This deep, the black mana was at the same strength as deep in the deadlands, though Viv didn't find it too unpleasant. What proved unpleasant were the marks.

Close to the opening, it became clear that the stones had been locked together tight from the numerous scratches left on their flanks. One side was smooth, the other a patchwork of so many claw marks made on top of each other, it was hard to determine how thick the stone had been to start with.

//No presence detected.

With the coast clear, the squad moved on, or in. Viv almost bumped into Irao’s broad back. The man was frozen in place. Viv looked up and found out why.

They were now standing in the twin of the previous room in terms of size. It was absolutely impossible to guess what it had been used for. The ground was covered in so much dust it made a small mound upon which a throne of bone and rock waited, but the true spectacle was above. Viv suspected the room might have been square once, but now it was almost round. Every square millimeter of naked rock was covered in layers upon layers of claw marks. They marked each other, the recent above the old. The implication was clear.

The necrarch had first risen as a revenant in this trapped room. Even as it regained cunning as a nascent one, it was still trapped here. It took centuries of waiting in a black-mana saturated den for undead to turn into a necrarch, and she doubted even the brutes they had defeated earlier could have burst out of this well-locked tomb. So the nascent necrarch had tried to find a way out. And it had scratched, and scratched, and scratched. The room had been a rectangle, but now it was close to being a sphere. How many nights spent scraping the rock, she wondered. How many thousands of hours of claws against rock, again, and again, and again.

Yeah, no wonder it was mad.

“I would not wish this upon my worst enemies,” Sidjin whispered.

Then Arthur broke the spell.

Gold.

Gold!

GOLD!

The tiny dragon pranced in the dust, surrounding the makeshift throne. She was right. The necrarch had used the possessions of its victims over the ages to adorn its seat of power in a way that seemed childish to Viv. The awkward arrangements jutted out from tilted stone slabs like teeth from a crone’s jaw, each more bizarre and grisly than the other. The necrarch had mounted thirteen rings on each finger of a giant, severed hand. Gold ingots of large sizes were planted in the eye sockets of the skulls of monstrous apes, the chitin of massive insects. They glittered eerily in the many-colored lights the intruders had brought with them. Arthur found a circlet and shook it, dislodging encrusted knuckles from its many thorns. If there was one treasure on this god-forsaken shithole of a planet that screamed ‘cursed’, that was it.

“Maybe we shouldn’t touch any of those before a priest has had a look,” Viv suggested.

//I shall collect the goods and store them until they are cleansed.

//They can be later sold, and the profits shared among the members of the expedition.

“That’d be grand. And, hm, won’t you be cursed?”

Viv was suddenly looking into a pair of baleful yellow eyes.

//If any entity wishes to enforce the curse upon me.

//They are welcome to try.

A memory of Octas’ herald oozing blood on the ground while Solfis walked towards Viv, holding its freshly decapitated head in a clawed hand, popped into Viv's mind.

Solfis would be fine.

All in all, they recovered two full bags of goods, mostly precious metal. The few magical weapons were too corroded to be of use, their enchantments stripped by the deleterious effect of black mana. It was still a good haul and Arthur asked for her share immediately. Viv flatly refused, draconic constitution or not. Everyone would wait. It would be safe in the hands of Solfis.

After this was done, they burnt the throne down. Viv tried to pray but no one answered, and they quickly left the noxious smog of black mana as soon as she gave up.

Outside, it was still day.

Viv had a week before she had to be at school and the trip back would not be very long, now that there were teleporters in place. In fact, Sidjin was confident he could get her there in two days, even through the Deadshield Woods. He had a request instead.

“I want to meet the Merl. I want to see them thrive with my own two eyes. I have sacrificed everything to let them escape. I want to see. No, I want to know that it was worth it. Beyond a doubt."

“Of course,” Viv whispered.

“And I wouldn’t mind a break, but I want it to be with my fellow humans. May I leave and get an advance on the expedition’s payment?” Solar asked.

In the end, Irao and Solar elected to leave through the tunnel, taking the ship with them. Sidjin had no need for it. He would set up a permanent platform near the Merl city, if they agreed, then teleport to Losserec-on-the-Lake and, from then on, to Helock. Solfis stayed, of course, and Arthur took to the skies to hunt. She was frustrated by the delay in getting her rightfully plundered trophies. Viv watched her leave trailing longing thoughts of her gold. The group split apart, their mission completed.
