Viv realized she was a little emotional. Solar too. Despite his experience, he was on the verge of tears.

“I thought I was going to leave Wamiri alone. Miss my child…”

//This is all a fascinating display of organic, hormone-based decision making.

//A majestic sight.

//However, we should secure the place first.

“You secure the place,” Viv retorted, “I want to make Sidjin comfortable.”

Having a shield break would not be lethal to a mage of Sidjin’s caliber but it would still hurt like hell. Viv walked to her lover, then made a bed of softened eldritch walls and spare clothes.  She took the time to wipe the drying blood on his face and placed a wet, cold towel on his forehead. As expected, he woke up while the others were patrolling.

“Wha— ow!”

He winced in pain but his expression softened almost immediately. Viv remembered he had pain tolerance at a higher tier than most humans alive. Nevertheless, he proved to be wise enough not to force it.

“Since I’m alive, I assume we killed it?”

“Yes, though Solar almost got done in. I think we can recover here for a little while, move on later.”

“I didn’t get to close the tunnel. Sorry.”

“It didn’t matter in the end. Besides, having a path for the black mana to leave proved useful. We have a saying where I come from. No battle plan survives first contact with the enemy. That means, you need to have a plan and then adapt as soon as the action begins.”

“It sounds smart.”

“Hey, my country has the most military victories in recorded history,” said the citizen of the country that had possibly lost the most wars in recorded history.

“Fascinating. Now, since we are not at risk of immediate death, my dear, I’m going back to sleep. Goodbye.”

And just as he had warned, Sidjin was out cold in seconds. Viv chased off ideas of internal bleeding and strokes. He had been hit by a mana break, not a rock to the head. It would be fine.

Now that she had a moment, it was time to have a look at her gains.

Your acuity has reached a milestone!

You may now keep your perception of time slowed for entire battles at a lesser cost of mental stamina. You may cast up to three spells at once. Your mental speed has vastly improved. Your fine control has vastly improved. You will find it easier to notice small details and anomalies.

Perception was typically tied to finesse, so it was nice to see hers was finally picking up. It could only work well with her danger sense.

Viv noticed that her Lost Heiress path had progressed by one step, but it was tied with the mental stats milestone. She felt that both achievements and abilities were required to progress. She was confident achievements were not an issue here, therefore she didn’t match the minimal requirements to progress. That was fine. Having a more unique profile affected the number of unique paths. It was just an investment.

There were more gains as well.

Leadership: Intermediate 2 -> 4

That was probably due to the success of her initiative. She suspected her skill might also have a passive effect in battle, allowing combatants on her side to cooperate more effectively. Officers and general paths had more specialized skills that worked only in a military setting. Those skills were probably more effective, being more specialized, but she’d take what she could. It was fine not to be the best at everything.

Acuity Reflex: Intermediate 2 -> 4

That skill governed instinctive casting as a response to a threat.  She had used it several times against the necrarch, yet the jump in level still surprised her. It proved that success against tall odds mattered in the eyes of magic.

Your expedition has killed the unkillable!Because of your repeated murder (and subsequent cooking) of large-sized or just dangerous wildlife, inspection will now return the detail ‘huntress’ when used on you. Congratulations. Please kill more wiggly things and leave my stuff alone, thank you.

Oi! Also, she wouldn’t be cooking undead any time soon. Just… ew. And it seemed Nous still hadn’t forgiven her for her accidental and really limited, not to mention quickly repaired damage to his property.

How long could an immortal, petty god keep grudges, she wondered?

Yeah, probably a long time. Damnit! In any case, her profile was shaping up to be powerful if eclectic.

Current status:

Mana distribution:

Current attunement: 35.7%

Physical

Mental

Power

21

Focus

39

Finesse

23

Acuity

40

Endurance

26

Willpower

40

General skills

Polymath

Beginner 4

Athletics

Intermediate 5

Survival

Intermediate 2

Householding

Novice 8

Hand to hand combat

Beginner 6

Pain tolerance

Intermediate 9

Small blades

Beginner 7

Soul mastery

Beginner 4

Class skills

Meditative Trance

Expert 2

Mana mastery

Intermediate 1

Arcane Constructs

Intermediate 3

Danger sense

Intermediate 4

Leadership

Intermediate 4

Draconic Intimidation

Expert 2

Acuity reflex

Intermediate 4

Not bad.

//Your Grace.

“Loot!” Viv said, excitedly.

Solfis handed her the prize and she shivered in pleasure.

If the nascent necrarch’s cores were the size of pomelos and already had more mana than she could reasonably use in a single battle, the true necrarch’s core was enormous, easily as long as her forearm. It was also inexplicably shaped like a lozenge. She had always assumed that cores maintained their circular shape no matter what. All the cores she had seen so far were round without exception and she had seen quite a few of them in her enchantment class. Perhaps this peculiarity only extended to exceptional specimens. The Academy hadn’t let them work with their finest products. Anyway, it was weird. After manipulating the object for a while and being weirded out by its weightlessness, Viv entrusted it back to Solfis. It was done. They had fulfilled their main objective. Between this and the cursed mace, she might have decreased her indentured period by more than a half with seven or eight months left on the timer, if she was being cautious. Things were looking up.

Maybe she would still serve that asshole for a couple of years, but it wouldn’t be the decades of labor she had envisioned at the beginning, if everything went well.

After a little while, the group decided to go to sleep since Solfis assured them he would hold guard. Solar’s improvised ventilation system now allowed both fresh air and the Deadshield Wood’s thick brown mana into the room. Between this and the remnant of the gods’ blessing, the place felt fine, though not homey.

Sidjin woke up in the middle of the night leading to Arthur leaving in a huff because her pillow wiggled. The couple used the opportunity granted by their relative intimacy to engage in a little celebration. Everyone left the cave at dawn.

The team deliberated over breakfast.

“I say we should check the lair. It would be a shame to leave something behind now that the main threat is eliminated,” Sidjin said.

“I’m also concerned about the presence of nascent necrarchs. If there were three, there could be more and if they manage to escape, then they could arrive at the nearby Merl city in a single night. I don’t want that to happen.”

“We have some time before we are due to return, anyway. I have no objection,” Solar said.

//I agree that this is the proper course.

Gold!

Irao reappeared just long enough to shrug.

//We have unanimity minus one abstention.

//Stay on your guard.

The squad made sure to wear their armor, now significantly rattier than before. This time, they moved straight down the main tunnel instead of going back to the upper floor. They found a small series of rooms on their left, most of them dark and used as secondary barracks for soldiers apparently. The black mana concentration had already decreased enormously over the last few hours. Viv suspected that the Deadshield Woods were now pushing to reclaim their lost grounds and that, if she returned later, the caves would be filled with mushrooms and wildlife. Now was the best time to check things out.

Past the statues, the cavern widened until the mountain felt fully hollowed out. A great cathedral of natural stone pillars and tall vaults swallowed them, their surfaces carved with faded engravings depicting scenes of hunts, ceremonies of a religious nature including sacrifices, celebrations, burials. The list was long but incomplete. Just like the statues, some of them had turned into twisted versions of themselves while others had disappeared entirely. Claw marks from the necrarch criss-crossed the surface, grooves dug deep where it had made regular trails. She just imagined facing the monster in that maze of stone and shivered.

“Good call not fighting it here,” she commented.

Her voice echoed eerily in the unusual silence. The air of general malevolence was gone, yet the void that had replaced it filled her with unease. It was too quiet. And her companions were too damned silent!

//The terrain would have provided the creature with an overwhelming advantage.

//Lesser hunters might have disarmed the traps and thought it was enough.

“Yeah…” Viv replied half-heartedly.

The golem was right. The elite of the elite of mankind plus her and Arthur had banded together and they had still almost lost a man. Necrarchs were scary. In any case, it was done now.

The group now made free use of light enchantments, which let Viv appreciate the natural formations around her. They found an altar at the bottom of the cave, or what was left of it. It looked like it had been split by a falling cruise ship. The blow had even broken the ground.

“Someone was angry,” she said.

“It’s safe to say a lot of people were. You may not be familiar with the spell but a lot of the damage you see on the lower portion of the structures are spell-based. Brown bolts and quite a few cracks made by a rapid temperature change indicate a spellcaster battle of great proportion.”

Now that he mentioned it, Viv realized that much of the wear and tear was not due to time. If there were any explanation left behind, it had disappeared over the centuries. They went on.

A pair of arches led to the deepest sanctum, where Viv surmised artifacts and objects of the cults had been kept. A few beds showed that those were probably the dwellings of high priests or important people. The place had been thoroughly wrecked. Nothing had survived except fragments of shattered bas-reliefs piled in corners like detritus. The invaders had smashed every statue, every carving. Viv considered how much effort it had taken and thought she was missing something. Neriad and Maradoc had felt relaxed in her presence, joking merrily in their little tea glasshouse, but this level of systematic destruction spoke of a hatred so deep, it had endured past victory. The invaders had not just won, they had slaughtered the vanquished, then they had erased every last trace of their existence, toppled all their monuments, defaced all of their idols. Only the statues at the entrance remained, possibly as a warning. Viv couldn’t imagine what could push a man like Neriad to such a pit of hatred, but the human sacrifice carvings could be a hint.

Silently, the squad kept going, patiently exploring the private quarters and finding nothing of value. The complex ran deeper still, until they found themselves at the very heart of the mountain, in a large square room split in two by a wall. Five demolished altars formed a half circle around a gap partially filled with large stones. An inscription, carved with a sword, covered the middle wall across its length.

Solfis stopped and looked. Viv imagined he was deciphering the text. It took him a while to do so, then some more time to come to a decision.

//Your Grace.

//The implication of what I am reading is… disturbing.

“Oh yes, the gods warned me that I should keep what I learn quiet. Hmm. You should probably do the same, guys.”

“The gods spoke to you?” Solar asked, surprised.

“Yes, when I prayed to them earlier. Anyway, translate away, Solfis. I want to know what that secret is that I’m not supposed to share.”

//Very well.

//Old gods, tyrants, we consign you to oblivion.

//We curse you with our breath and hate you in our hearts.

//We break you with our hands.

//We leave you behind.

//Octas, the limb grafter, the hater of tools, we dismember you with weapons.

//Gomogog, the flesh eater, the glutton, we starve you.

//Enttiku, the child taker, the death dealer, we deny you our blood.

“Enttiku was cursed as well?” Irao asked.

He seemed very surprised.

“I think the new gods may have cut a deal with her. Him. Whatever you believe,” Viv said.

//May I go on?

“Yes, sorry.”

//Khaton, of the many diseases, the poisoner, we burn you away.

//Gorok the butcher, the tyrant, we split your head asunder.

Silence and shock spread across the small assembly. Viv had never heard about those dark gods. What’s more, there was one missing.

//Signed.

//Emeric the Fated.

//Maranor the Slayer.

//Maradoc the Knower.

//Neriad the Shield

//Sardanal the Bountiful.

//Nous the Mentor

//And Efestar the Wayfarer.

“Oh,” Viv said, “Ooooooooh, alright, yeah, that is… yeah.”

“Efestar was on the side of the light gods?” Solar whispered. “What, in the name of… them, happened? How?”

//It does not say.

“Damn.”

