“Just because it’s a common belief, doesn’t mean it’s true all the time.” Shrugging, I add, “If I claimed the sky is blue, most would nod and accept my statement as true, but the sky can also be orange, red, grey, or black depending on the circumstances. If someone has never seen the sky before, they wouldn’t know this, so when describing the sky to them, we would have to be more specific. Such is the case when discussing the Dao, because if no one has ever seen it, how can we know our established truths are in fact always true? We must challenge everything we know and prove it beyond the shadow of a doubt before we can accept it as fact, because otherwise, we’ll never know for sure what colour the sky truly is.”

Without nodding, the Abbot considers my answer for long seconds before continuing. “In times of peace, you work harder than any two of your peers, pushing yourself beyond your limits without mercy, yet in times of crisis, you have a tendency to shirk your duties and avoid doing what is necessary. One example would be during your journey to the Imperial Grand Conference, where you knew you would be facing the greatest trials and tribulations yet, but instead of focusing on furthering your Martial Path in preparation of what lay ahead, you took time out of your journey for sightseeing. While you were fortunate enough to begin a friendship with the Guardian Turtle, you had no way of knowing this would happen in advance, and you continued to neglect your basic training in favour of floating about in Nan Ping Bay even after it was clear the Legate intended to ensnare you within his schemes. Why?”

“Neglect my training? I fought like twenty duels on my first day there.”

“And avoided them the entire time after.”

“Well... yea. The general population only sees the results, and there’s no guarantee I would win against every competitor. Why bother working so hard only for someone else to reap the rewards? Avoiding further duels was the smart move.”

“...Perhaps you are correct,” the Abbot concedes, in the tone of someone who is not entirely convinced. “However, do you disagree with my entire statement, or only in this particular example?”

...Well, he’s not wrong, not entirely. When push comes to shove, I do tend to deflect and delegate so I don’t have to deal with the issue myself. Offering him another shrug, I sigh and slump down in defeat. “I dunno, I just... when something is bothering me and there’s nothing I can do about it, I find it easiest to pretend the problem doesn’t exist and focus on something else.”

“There is never a scenario in which there is nothing you can do.” Fixing me with a knowing look, the Abbot continues, “You simply choose to do nothing, oftentimes at great cost.” Giving it a moment for his words to sink in, he smooths his robes and says, “Now, I will focus on more specific series of events and ask that you relay your thought process during them. Tell me, during the Purge, you argued with Han BoLao about the necessity of her actions and the morality behind her decisions, yet you didn’t act until hundreds had already died. Why did you act when you did, and not before or after? Why did you kill the suffering peasant instead of the sadistic torturer?”

...This is fun. So much fun. Just the best. “I lacked knowledge and determination.” The truth spills out before I can contain it, but the Abbot does not recoil in horror. Instead, he waits in patient silence for me to continue, and I find myself saying more than I care to. “I knew the Purge was wrong, should have stood out to stop it from the beginning, but everyone told me to keep my head down and follow orders.” Unable to meet the Abbot’s eyes, I stare down at my folded hands and say, “I took the easy way out. I stood aside and allowed evil to triumph, a decision I will regret for the rest of my days. For the same reason, I turned my sword on the innocent instead of the guilty, because I could not bear the cost of killing Han BoLao.”

Also, I pitied her, wanted to save her, because I thought she could still be redeemed, unlike the peasant who was bleeding out before me. I don’t know his name, but his face still features in my nightmares, and sometimes, I even see it when staring into a writhing mass of Spectres, alongside other notable faces like DuGu Ren, the nameless bandits I killed, the Society Adherents I tormented, and more.

The Abbot’s questions keep coming and I answer to the best of my ability, but soon I find myself drowning beneath a deluge of guilt and self-recrimination.

“You saved Lang Yi and the other slaves on Yo Ling’s island, yet you consigned so many possible innocents to death as Legate. Why?”

“You built schools and orphanages in the north, but did not do the same for your districts. Why?”

“You love your animals, even the cattle and rabbits, but you have few qualms about killing animals for food. Why?”

“You know the Defiled can repent their ways, yet you slaughter them without care or conscience, launching their still living forms from your catapults to an unseemly death. Why?”

“You are the Devourer, able to detect the Spectres wherever they might be, yet your friend Huushal suffered under their effects for so many months. Why?”

“You love Sumila, yet you hurt her when you married Du Min Yan, and the same holds true in reverse. You know this, yet you intend to marry Mei Lin and cause even more pain to your current wives. Why?”

The Abbot does not let up as the hits keep coming, and I have no answer for his latest query except, “I love them, and I cannot give any of them up for another. I am a terrible, terrible person who somehow tricked them into loving me, and though I know there will come a day when they realize they are too good for me, I want to be with them for as long as I can.”

In the long seconds after my latest admission of guilt, I can only imagine the Abbot’s look of disgust as I stare at my empty hands. “Look at me, Junior Brother,” the Abbot says, forcing me to confront my worst fears. Though his tone is soft and neutral, I already know what I will see, because I feel the same way. I’m a terrible, hypocrite of a person, someone who just flits about doing whatever he pleases and taking the easy way out. As I crane my head up to look him in the eyes, my fears are somewhat confirmed as I find genuine disbelief in his gaze. “Why,” he begins, as I search for the missing revulsion and loathing, “Do you demand so much from yourself?”

...

“What?”

“This monk thought it arrogance,” he continues, as if I never spoke up, still studying me with that inquisitive expression. “Or perhaps even self loathing, but while both are still true, there is more to it than just this. You genuinely expect nothing less than excellence from yourself, to the point where even a veritable miracle is merely an acceptable result. You maintain that you, at eighteen years young, should have single-handedly stopped the Purge, saved Sanshu from the threat of Yo Ling, freed every slave and prisoner on his island, and used his treasures to right all the wrongs he wrought. You wholeheartedly believe this is what you should have done, that it was possible and you failed miserably at your duty, yet even I could not have stopped Han BoLao from administering the Purge, so why do you not see me as a failure as well?”

“I mean, when you put it that way, you’re not wrong.”

“Indeed. I should have revealed myself to Han BoLao and done what I could to convince her alongside you, but I did not for fear of consequences I dared not risk.” Tilting his head, he asks, “Do you think less of myself for not doing so?”

“Without knowing the full extent of your agreement with the Imperial Clan... a little.”

“Yet you do not loathe me, and would still seek my advice?” At my nod, he asks, “So why do you hold yourself in such disregard? Why do you blame yourself for matters you are unable to control? You did not bring the Purge down upon them, Yo Ling did, and by extension, Goujian and his Adherents. If you can forgive his Adherents and work alongside them now, why can you not forgive yourself?”

“Because...” Because I expect more from myself. I’m a reincarnator with memories of a past life. That makes me the hero, right? And heroes are supposed to right all wrongs and banish evil forever. Instead, when evil reared it’s ugly head, I stood aside and said ‘there’s nothing I can do’. That’s how evil wins. When good people do nothing, and that makes them worse than those who don’t know better.

The Abbot says nothing while I wrestle with my inner demons, watching and waiting without judgment. “I could say many things, give many justifications,” I begin, doing what I can to match his gaze, “But in the end, I hate myself for not doing more. That’s it. I knew the Purge was wrong, and I should have said more and done more to stop it, but I didn’t. I let fear guide my decisions, and I regret giving into fear.”

“And what could you have done? Rebelled against the Empire and been sentenced to death?” Shrugging, the Abbot says, “There are some choices that are not choices at all. Every living being yearns to survive, so I do not see how you can judge yourself so harshly for wanting the same.”

“There was a time when I didn’t, you know? Want to survive.”

“I know.” Offering a small smile, the Abbot says, “I saw it myself firsthand, when you threw your weapon at the dying peasant, wholly intending to give up your life in order to cut his suffering short.” A noble sacrifice, some might say, but not anyone here. We both know what it’s like to yearn for death, and honestly, I can’t really blame the Abbot for wanting to end things here and now. “To be human, is to choose, and while you have not always made the wisest decisions, you chose to go where your heart led you, which for you is a better guide than most.”

I myself said the same words back in Castle JiangHu, so to hear it repeated here is surprising to say the least. Though he’s mostly right, I still don’t entirely agree with his assessment, because I am certain I should be held to a different standard, if only because of the strange circumstances of my arrival. I’m also too embarrassed to talk about my somewhat juvenile fantasy of being the grand hero, which is good because I still don’t want to tell him about my past memories. I might have no choice but to tell him if I end up bringing him into my Natal Palace, as my condo isn’t exactly something I could’ve dreamt up on my own, but I’ll cross that bridge when I get to it. “So... is there a point to all this?”

“Always so hasty, Junior Brother.” Smiling, the Abbot waves his hand and brings various scenes to life, scenes of me in battle or overcoming adversity in some way or another, many of which I did not know he was present for. On closer inspection, I realize he wasn’t actually there, and that most of the scenes are from my own perspective. This is the same as Kukku’s illusions, but instead of showing me my inner desires, it shows what’s currently on my mind, as evidenced by the flash of rooster I spot out of the corner of my eye. “I chose my questions not only to hear your answers,” the Abbot explains, as I watch myself fight Gen Shi on the fields of Sanshu, “But also to see how you would respond to such harsh accusations. Aside from your initial indignation regarding my statement about you neglecting your training, you accepted my stringent assessment of your accomplishments without question, which tells me it is not only pride or self-loathing that drives you to this self-destructive behaviour, but something more. Tell me, why do you distrust yourself so much?”

“...This is about Buddy, isn’t it?”

“Your Natal Guardian is a concern,” the Abbot admits, his brows drawn in worry, “But not the most pressing one, as it stems from the fact that you are unable to trust your own thoughts anymore.”

“Well, for good reason. I had a mental breakdown and created a split personality.”

“To help you recover from an ordeal that would have killed lesser men.”

“Crazy is still crazy, even if it’s the good kind of crazy.” Unable to believe I have to justify this, I add, “And what about all my Natal Souls? They were so full of malice and malevolence they were indiscernible from Spectres.”

“Because they were Spectres in everything but name.” Shaking his head, the Abbot matches my indignation and says, “Again, you take a simple concept and inundate it with complexities, when instead you should endeavour to do the opposite. Just as Water Chi is Water Chi regardless of the creation process, a Spectre is a Spectre, regardless of whether it is created with love or malice.”

...Okay, it makes sense when he puts it that way, but I don’t like the idea of being a Spectre machine. Natal Soul just sounds so much better.

Unaware of my silent agreement, the Abbot continues, “What’s more, though you erred in creating your Spectres, you overlook the good they’ve done in bringing an entire tribe of Defiled to the Brotherhood, to say nothing of how you used your Spectres to raise so many commoners into Martial Warriors and disseminate your Panacea Healing method without drawing suspicion. Who knows what else they’ve been up to? I myself am most intrigued in this Natal Soul method, though I fear few have the capacity to match you.”

Because not everyone can Devour and have near limitless amounts of Soul to work with, though I’m still kinda grossed out by how I’m literally merging souls with strangers. I hate that. “Well, it’s a terrible idea, because Natal Souls are unbridled emotion, so regardless if they are created with positive or negative emotions, they are, by definition, unbalanced.”

