“- so now I have a bunch of Heavenly Energy sitting around and no idea how to use it.”

Having explained the majority of what’s happened since the Abbot fought Vyakhya, I lean back and take a breath, which is weird because I don’t really need air. It’s one of those things you can’t really think too hard about, because then you start noticing all the idiosyncrasies of existing as a soul rather than a flesh and blood person but of course now that I’ve thought about not thinking about it I can’t help but think about it and am now struggling to do normal things like blink breathe and relax. That’s fine though, because the Abbot needs some time to process everything I just laid down. Not just the stuff he missed, but a lot of the stuff I hadn’t told him yet, like Ping Ping’s ascension, Pong Pong’s Heavenly Poop, and various other things I forgot he didn’t already know, though I left out any and all things to do with my previous life for the sake of brevity and shame. Despite his many, many questions along the way, I was unable to really clarify it all for him, and it seems he’s having trouble coming to grips with all of it, which I totally understand, but sooner would be better than later seeing as we’re working on a tight schedule here.

Hang on. Why am I in such a rush all of a sudden? I mean, yea, Song kinda lit a fire under my ass after telling me about how Shuai Jiao toppled Luo-Luo from her figurative throne, but I was perfectly fine wasting a few days trying to get to Kukku for a nap. Something is urging me along, a tiny, annoying voice in the back of my head telling me that we’re running out of time, but I don’t think it’s the Abbot’s impending death. Though he said he’s dying, I don’t think he’s in any immediate danger, just that he’ll die eventually if someone doesn’t do something about it. While the injuries he took in battle are partially responsible for his current predicament, he didn’t disagree when I said damage to the soul is easy to fix. Instead, he said he believes he has nothing left to live for, meaning his issue isn’t with a lacking solution, but rather his inability to find a reason to live for.

Which raises a lot of questions, ones I should really get the answers to, because if the Abbot is literally too sad to live, then this is probably a tribulation I’ll face myself in the future.

After a long silence, the Abbot finally sighs and regards me with perplexed curiosity, as if I’m some sort of strange creature he’s never encountered before. “There is more you have yet to share,” he says, going straight for the throat without hesitation, “But if you are unwilling to reveal all, then I will not push, for you would not keep anything from me if it were relevant.” Oh good. “However, as it stands, I am… uncertain as to how to proceed, for reasons that you might already understand, but I will explain nonetheless. Have you heard the tale of the three blind men and the elephant?”

“They walk into a bar and order a drink?” Already knowing my joke will fall flat, I hold up a hand to forestall the Abbot’s confused question. “Err I think so. The blind guys grope an elephant and try to guess what sort of animal it is. After each touching a different part of the elephant, they all arrive at wildly different conclusions, but rather than run their hands over the elephant for more information, they fall out and quarrel among themselves.” Shrugging, I add, “I think it’s something to do with humanity’s tendency to form opinions based on limited information and our inability to admit wrong.”

“Suffice to say you have a basic grasp of the parable then,” the Abbot drawls, his sarcasm so faint I almost miss it. “Perhaps a visual explanation would work better.” The skies darken and the Abbot disappears from sight, and in his place sits a cylinder floating on its side in mid-air in front of a dark corner backdrop. “Imagine the cylinder is the Dao, one we cannot perceive with our eyes. All we can see is the shadow the Dao casts upon the world, which in this case, is represented by the walls.” A light blinks into existence along the cylinder’s side, and it’s square shadow is projected on one of the walls. “Note that with the lights and walls in this configuration, the shadow formed by the Dao is a square. This is the truth.” The first light blinks out, and a second by the circular surface, projecting a circle of the same shape. “In this configuration, the shadow formed by the Dao is circular. This is also the truth.” The first light appears again, while the second light remains in place, and now there is a square shadow on one wall and a circular shadow on the other.

“The light is our perspective, the shadow our understanding, and yet the Dao remains the same.” Understanding the Abbot’s meaning, I add, “Our limited subjective experience renders us unable to understand the Dao in its entirety.”

“That is one way to interpret it, Junior Brother.” The Abbot’s voice sounds like it’s coming from where he was seated across from me, but I am still unable to see him. “Another is that there is no singular Dao.”

Pointing at the cylinder, I say, “But isn’t that the Dao?”

“Indeed it is, but if we are unable to perceive the Dao directly, then from our perspective, there is no difference between the Dao and the truth we are able to perceive, or more succinctly, the truth becomes our personal Dao, one unique to each individual’s perspective. Do you agree?”

“The truth I perceive is my unique Dao.” I test the thought out loud to hear how it sounds, and though it feels deep and insightful, it’s one of those sentences that really doesn’t say much at all. The sun is bright. Water is wet. My perspective is unique. Duh. “Say I agree. So what?”

The Abbot pauses, and I can almost hear his frustration in the ensuing silence, as well as an inaudible utterance of ‘Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo’. Feeling sheepish about my stubborn stupidity, I offer a shrug and an Aura to try and convey that I get it, but I also don’t get it, and I’m not smart enough to know why. Sensing his curiosity, I try and explain my reservations. “I mean… I understand what you’re getting at, that we can only study that which we can quantify, but just because we have yet to understand the full measure of the Dao does not mean it is utterly unfathomable. I just feel like equating our personal truth to the Dao is a bit… lazy.”

The Abbot’s laughter comes as an unexpected surprise, but a welcome one to be sure, because it means our conversation is helping him pierce through his woe and misery. The man lost his family and found a surrogate father in his Mentor, a brother in Mahakala, and a comrade in Vyakhya, so losing them all must have hurt something fierce. I can’t take their place, and in fact, no one can, but as strange as it is for me to say this, humans are social creatures and need interaction to survive. The Abbot has been here on his own for months now, with nothing to do except reminisce about better times and nothing to look forward to. I tried to do something similar in the Call Centre of the Void, but not only has the Abbot been here longer, he also doesn’t have anyone he cares about enough to draw him out of his funk.

“You are a child full of contradictions,” he says, still chuckling in the shadows. “But surprises as well. You are correct, Junior Brother. This monk humbly accepts your criticism and will keep it in mind moving forward, but until such a time as we are able to perceive the Dao, we have only the truth to work with.”

“Fair enough.” Which is why I sort of agreed, but the Abbot wanted to hear my thoughts anyways. “Again, so what?”

Seems rude, but I’m just trying to stay on topic, because the Abbot and I both have a tendency to ramble on. “If there is no singular, quantifiable Dao, then we must accept that while there are immutable facts, the Dao differs from each and every perspective, and thus the manner in which we perceive those facts is not always the same.” Drawing my attention back to the cylinder, the object shifts before my eyes into more of a squarish wedge with a circular base. A third light appears overhead and casts a triangular shadow on the floor, and now there are three different perspectives to account for. The object continues to shift and more lights are added, and while the original three shadows remain fixed in place, more unique shadows are cast to accentuate the Abbot’s points. “Thus, the Dao is a square, and not a square. The Dao is a circle, and not a circle. The Dao is a triangle, and not a triangle. All true, and not true, depending on which perspective the Dao is viewed from.”

“And thus we must all forge our own Paths,” I supply, utterly disheartened by the direction of our conversation, because I’ve heard it all a thousand times in a thousand different ways.

“Correct again, Junior Brother.” Unaffected by my lack of enthusiasm, the object and walls fade away as the sky brightens and the Abbot reappears before me, his lips pursed in an apologetic smile. “Others can offer guidance, but only you can see your unique truth and determine the correct path forward. Hence, my uncertainty on how to proceed, because you have progressed along a path so unique and unheard of that it is difficult to tell which of your steps were correct and which were mistakes. I am also unable to understand how you rationalize the many contradictions within your Dao, and fear that if I were to question you further, your Path would crumble apart beneath your feet and send you plummeting into the darkness once more.” Shrugging in a very me way, in a ‘sorry-not-sorry’ kinda way, the Abbot adds, “A valid concern, you must agree, considering your recent attempt to lose yourself in oblivion.”

“...Fair enough.” Sometimes, a little brutal honesty is just what the doctor ordered, and in my shame I vow to never run from my problems again. Or at least I’ll try. No promises. “I disagree with one thing though.” Meeting the Abbot’s eyes, I order my thoughts before speaking, which is a new and unusual thing I’m trying these days. “You said you are unsure which of my steps were correct, and which are mistakes, but I don’t think that distinction is necessary.”

“Oh?” Knowing that it’s not my pride speaking, the Abbot takes a moment to consider my response before we continue. That’s how you know he’s paying attention, thinking about what I say before asking me to explain, and I gotta say, I’m enjoying it. “Pray tell.”

“If we each must forge our own Path, then by definition, there can be no ‘wrong’ steps. We all make mistakes, and the Mother knows I’ve made plenty, but every step taken, whether it be forward, backwards, sideways, or otherwise, becomes a part of my path. A wrong turn is still a wrong turn, but the experience becomes a part of my Path, because it colours my perception which in turn could lead to a broader perspective of the truth and the Dao behind it. Failure is as much a part of life as success, and a far better teacher to boot, so while many of my mistakes still haunt me to this day, I am the man I am today because of my victories and defeats, not in spite of the latter.”

All stuff I already knew, because people wiser than me have told me, but I just never put it all together in one place. Pieces of the puzzle coming together, and while I still have no idea what the big picture looks like, I at least have a general framework to go with.

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. Praise to the Heavens, and all the mysteries within.” Smiling as he nods along, he regards me with an appreciative gaze and says, “I was correct all along. Your wisdom would be a welcome addition to the Brotherhood, even if you never ascribe to our beliefs.”

“A devil’s advocate, as it were, someone to argue from the viewpoint of the sinner.”

“And in doing so, open the minds of the Brotherhood to more perspectives. Good, good.” As he sits up straight, the Abbot’s entire demeanour shifts before my eyes, no longer perplexed or reluctant, but ready to dive right in. “Then if Junior Brother is confident in his Dao, I will not mince words any longer and ask the questions that plague me. As I said, you are a man of many contradictions, and I wish to hear how you view them. You crave order and set your schedule each day with as little deviation as possible, and even a minor change in routine sets your nerves on edge, yet you also consistently flourish in the throes of chaos, making great strides in your Path, career, and accomplishments where others falter and fall. How do you reconcile the difference between your preferred and your… perhaps not natural environment, but one you thrive in nonetheless?”

“Just because I’m good at something doesn’t mean I have to love it.”

The answer comes easily, and the Abbot seems surprised, but then understanding dawns and he feels sheepish about overlooking the obvious. “Then what of your hunger for knowledge?” he asks, still a bit on the back foot, “And your tendency to reject established facts, like your insistence that teeth do not naturally grow back, despite all evidence to the contrary?”

