“Yet it is not their lack of Balance that concerns you, but rather your inability to trust yourself. Why? Have you been betrayed or betrayed others before?”

“...No?”

“Why is that a question?” Something in the Abbot’s eyes is throwing me off, something I can’t quite place.

“I don’t know.”

“Answer me again: have you been betrayed, or betrayed another before?”

“...I don’t think so, but I don’t remember anything before I was twelve.”

“You don’t remember?” Raising his eyebrow in dramatic question, the Abbot asks, “Or you don’t want to remember?”

“The first.” Obviously. “Do you know something I don’t? Because it feels like you do.”

“This monk has no facts to share regarding your life prior to enslavement,” the Abbot says, and I believe him. “Only suspicions. It’s entirely possible your mistrust stems from a traumatic event in early childhood, but until you remember something, then there is no use speculating any further. The problem is, you have so little trust in yourself, you’ve created a guardian in the form of a dog, one that you’ve handed full control of your Natal Palace to.”

The unspoken question hangs in the air, but I’m not as concerned as the Abbot is. “Buddy is a dog, sweet, loyal, and dumb as can be. He’ll keep my Natal Palace safe while I’m gone, no more no less.” As if my dog can learn how to use a computer. That’s ridiculous. It’d also be kinda adorable, but no, I’m not teaching him how to use the mouse and keyboard. That would just be too much power, because on the internet, no one knows you’re a dog.

“Amazing.” Shaking his head in disbelief, the Abbot continues to stare at me like I’m some exotic beast in a zoo. “You cannot trust yourself, yet hold so much trust in an animal. Surely you understand that the dog is not truly a dog, and merely a Natal Soul in another form.”

One based on the mark on my soul left by my dog from another life, but I never shared that pertinent detail. “I trust animals because they...” Will never betray you, is what I was going to say, but seeing how he already thinks I have trust issues, I change it to, “Are pure of intent. They do what they want, and Buddy just wants food, naps, and cuddles.” Not so far off from what I want, but alas, unlike Buddy, I don’t have someone to see to all my other needs.

Man, it’d be awesome if I was reincarnated as a dog, though I’m not sure how to feel about getting neutered. I love my sweet Buddy, but I do feel kinda bad for taking his testes, even if he’s happier for it.

...Oh god. Did I just consider making myself a eunuch, just to see if I’d be happier? Good lord, what have I become?

Not for the first time, I lose patience with this lecture and ask, “So...about that point you were trying to make?”

“I have made it several times, Junior Brother, you simply aren’t listening.” Eyeing me in vexation, the Abbot’s calm facade slips to reveal the passionate monk that tried to get me to join the Brotherhood for months without end. “Stop second guessing your decisions and trust yourself.”

“...What? That’s it? Trust yourself? That’s your grand advice?”

“It is all the advice you need.” Gesturing at the scenes still playing in the background, this time of me defeating Zian in single combat, the Abbot says, “You have come so far on your own merits, have accomplishments no one in history has ever matched, all because you have a perspective more unique than most. Your path is complex and convoluted to the point where this monk does not even recognize the truth you pursue, yet you progress along it by leaps and bounds with eyes, ears, and hands bound by sheer ignorance. Who can advise you on your Path besides yourself? You have everything you need to solve the issue before you, you simply need to trust yourself and take the next step.”

So the Abbot thinks I’m just like Song, possessing all the tools but not confident enough to believe in myself. Despite his faith in my capabilities, I genuinely have no idea where to start, and it’s clear from his expression that he sees it. Repressing a sigh, he closes his eyes to try and come up with a way to guide me to the right answer myself, while I focus on what I know.

Which is...

Well... a lot, but nothing that really makes sense.

Core Creation. Aura Condensation. Natal Palace Formation. Domain Development. These are the four milestones along the Martial Path, and I’ve successfully completed all four, albeit in an atypical manner. My Core was shattered and reformed using a Medicinal Bath, while my Aura is capable of exhibiting all emotions, rather than just courage or terror like everyone else. Then there’s the fact that my Natal Palace is not actually in my Core, but rather housed inside my excess Soul which I have hanging around in the Void, and of course the minor detail regarding how I wasn’t granted authority by the Heavens to Develop a Domain, and instead rejected Heavens’ authority and seized what was required.

Yanno, I can see why the Abbot has no idea how to point me in the right direction.

“This monk has three more pieces of advice to share with Junior Brother.” Having put his thoughts in order, the Abbot fixes his gaze upon me once more. “First, I would direct you to think back on our discussion regarding Spiritual Hearts and the differences between a human’s Path and an animal’s.”

That conversation took place a long time ago, but it springs to mind almost immediately as it was the time he revealed the fact that he had a Spiritual Panda and Tiger as well. “I asked you why animals don’t condense Auras and aren’t affected by them in the same manner, and you answered that once I figure out why, then I will have the answer to why we call them Spiritual Hearts.”

Nodding along without clarifying the statement, the Abbot moves on to his next point. “Second, I refer once again to your tendency to complicate matters by using different labels for the same thing. Chi Tea and Water Chi, Spectres and Natal Souls.” Shooting me a knowing look, he adds, “Visualization, Intent, and Emotion.”

What? Those are clearly three different things. As I open my mouth to argue this very fact, the Abbot’s stare stops me short, not because it is one of anger or warning, but rather expectation. We’ve never spoken much on this topic, but then my notes come to mind and I remember my thoughts on the subject. Visualization, Intent, and Emotion are the three methods through which we control Chi, but the Abbot is saying there’s no need to over-complicate matters with three separate labels. What’s a word that is synonymous with all three? One doesn’t exist. How about a word that encompasses their meaning?

No. Forget the labels. Go deeper. How does one control Chi?

With Visualization, Intent, and Emotion.

Or in other words, sheer force of Will.

“You understand. Good.” Again, the Abbot does that thing where he reads my mind without being psychic, and for once, I’m happy for it. “As for my third and final piece of advice, I am hesitant to voice it for fear of guiding you in the wrong direction, but alas, time is short and caution a luxury we can no longer afford.” Forestalling my question, the Abbot speaks in plain and simple common, without any nuance or subtlety. “Crawl before you walk. Walk before you run. Take things one step at a time instead of obsessing about the end result. The Dao is not so easily understood, not even by a man of your talents, so lower your eyes and set your sights on a more manageable goal. You disdain Insight and seek comprehension, but how can you understand that which you cannot quantify without first studying your Insights? You spurn the false Divinity this monk has obtained and aim for true Divinity, but if you believe there can be no mis-steps along your Martial Path, then there is no harm making a few mistakes along the way. Shatter the Void, Falling Rain, and only then should you turn your attention to what comes next.”

The world shifts around me and my stomach drops as I am hurtled back into my own Natal Palace. Hopping up from the bed, Buddy runs over to greet me as if I’ve been gone for years and years, and for all I know, I was. Taking some time to play with my dog, I ponder over the Abbot’s advice and pray that he still lives, because I can’t think of any other reason he’d say his time is short. No, he’s not dead, I know this, because I can still sense him out there in the real world. He just sent me back here because he knew I’d ask more questions, questions he could not answer, either because he lacks critical perspective or because he’s worried his differently coloured perception will guide me falsely.

...Have I really been trying to skip past Divinity to become an actual capital G God? I suppose that’s sorta what happened during the withdrawal from JiangHu, but I just figured that was... well... a fluke.

“Trust myself,” I mutter, giving Buddy’s belly a vigorous rub and smiling as his leg twitches in delight, “And take things one step at a time.” Idly considering giving my dog his balls back, I do away with the notion almost immediately. He doesn’t need them, doesn’t miss them, and I don’t really want him humping my leg, which he’s never done and hopefully never will. “So... Spiritual Hearts, Will, and Shatter the Void. What do these three subjects have in common?” Buddy, as per usual, does not respond, staring up at me in confused accusation now that I’ve stopped rubbing his belly. Monstrous as it makes me feel, I pat his chest and nudge him out of the way so I can sit in my computer chair, while repeating all the advice the Abbot passed along. “Trust myself. One step at a time.”

The familiar desktop greets me as usual, but instead of clicking journal.txt, I head to My Documents and look for my notes instead, which thankfully are saved on the hard-drive. Odd that, considering I never committed it to memory via my Natal Palace, but it’s still all here, exactly as I remember it. “The Core is the medium through which we harness Heavenly Energy...” Starting from the top, I read it to Buddy out loud, who joins me on my chair as if he were a lapdog half his size, his fat butt forcing me to half-cheek the chair while his front paws dig into my thighs. Hardly the most comfortable seating I’ve ever had, but I honestly wouldn’t have it any other way. Together, we’ll find the answers to my dilemma, or we should because the Abbot believes I already have everything I need to know, but there’s one thing bothering me, and it’s the fact that he never asked why I seek the Dao. It’s got me thinking though... why do I seek the Dao? Why do I seek strength? The answer seems more relevant than ever, but for the life of me, I don’t have a proper answer.

Why do I seek the Dao?

...

Bear arms. Nuff said.

...

I should probably give it a little more thought, but honestly, I can’t think of a better answer.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 37 -
