Death’s Acolyte. It was a Kobold variant she rarely had occasion to use, but for this job, it might just be ideal. She typically discounted the dull, onyx-scaled Kobolds with their purple eyes as inferior death-affinity versions of her fireball-slinging pyromaniacs. The Death Rupture explosions they wielded were not quite as big or as impressive as Fireball, and they could badly hurt their allies. But they were her highest-level Kobold variant, meaning they had more health, attributes, and resilience. Down here where everything was immune to fire, the death-affinity magic was suddenly looking mighty attractive. As long as I don’t hit Mato and Malika.

Smiling, she summoned two of them and replaced their robes with fire-resistance versions.

Death’s Acolyte – Kobold – level 33-34 (Death) x2.

“Ready?” Calen asked as she emerged from her tunnel with her new monsters in tow.

“Yup.”

“Ok, pulling,” he said, raising his bow and aiming out into the cavern where the hunters roamed.

Just like last time, as soon as Calen fired his arrow, the Hellfire Wargs charged, and the air filled with a hail of flaming arrows. Mato roared, drawing all the howling wargs to himself, but all similarities to their previous fight ended right there.

Ali erected barriers to protect the healers she’d already positioned well back near the rocky walls of the cavern, and Mato immediately charged back toward the secured location. Five howling two-headed demonic wolves chased him, each using their Flame Dash skill while snapping at his heels and painting the ground with trails of black hellfire. Fortunately, that was empty terrain, with Malika and Ali’s Hobs already in place, waiting for them while remaining well out of range of the hunters’ powerful flame-wreathed arrows.

Ali stood a little behind her ranged minions – archers and mages – in the middle, right between the howling, claw-raking, biting melee erupting over by the wall and the Flamecaller hunters ranging wide out in the open. She threw up the strongest barrier she could maintain for protection against the ridiculous fire arrows and Ambush attacks that were certain to come her way. High above her head, a single Mote of Light began to pulse softly, and she knew Calen was ready. Perfect, she thought, glancing at the second beacon pulsing above Mato and Malika.

“Attack!”

Ali’s mental command caused a ripple of activity to burst from her minions. Brilliantly incandescent balls of explosive light magic lofted up over the barriers to fall down on top of the two Flamecallers with their buzzing ignited bows. Standing beside Ali, the pair of Death’s Acolytes unleashed their scary-looking roiling black balls of death magic. Three steel totems impaled the distant stone near the hunters, jutting out like lightning rods. The Storm Shamans cast their curses.

She quickly scanned through her minions to make sure she hadn’t missed anything – a process that was slowly becoming a habit. Mato was on fire as he tanked the multiple hellfire breath attacks, but he wasn’t in dangerous territory.

The two hunters both fired and vanished, leaving behind six animated illusions that drew and held their bows.

“On the left ridge!” Malika shouted.

Balls of starkly contrasting light and dark magic fell like rain among the images while Calen filled the air with volleys of shining arrows. All the conjured illusory Flamecallers evaporated in a shower of sparks and a roaring crescendo of explosions and lightning.

“Brace!” Calen yelled.

Ali crouched, reinforcing her barriers with additional mana and a second layer. Powerful arrows of pure flame shot forth from the angry bows of the suddenly exposed hunters. Power Shot, but without Ambush, she realized. Their area suppression strategy had disrupted the Ambush by dispelling the illusions, but even partially charged, the Power Shot volleys were still extremely dangerous. Two screaming arrows hammered into her barriers, causing a crack to run down the middle of the one right in front of her face. A powerful surge of mana flowed into her mana pool as her barrier magic converted a portion of the powerful magical strike to usable mana. Immediately, she spent it all and rebuilt her barrier as the next volleys struck.

“That worked well,” Ali observed, cautiously standing up and surveying the scorched rock under the two Flamecallers.

“Mhm,” Calen said, his actual words slurred away to incoherence around the mana potion he threw down his throat. Ali squinted at the sudden brightness as he ignited his mana with Righteous Fury. It was a crazy spell, making his entire body appear like he was burning with flames of white as his mana became supercharged. He had told her it was painful and actually damaged his health a little, but with a restoration already ticking on him, that would not be an issue.

He fired volley after volley in a rapid stream at the two hunters, burning through mana without a care, but she knew exactly what he was doing. His recent Righteous Fury advancement had removed the penalty of splitting damage among his multishot arrows, and with his new mote-beacons, he would be getting an extra helping of damage per arrow that hit.

But Ali’s attention snapped to the mote-beacon floating above her head as it too ignited in response to his skill.

“All out!” she commanded, realizing in that instant that all of Calen’s mana was empowered by his skill, including the new damage-enhancement aura from his Motes of Light. Which meant her minions also gained thirty seconds of power. Her Kobolds and Goblins yelled and yipped furiously, responding with magic and redoubled efforts. Axes and swords gleamed and flashed with light magic, light and death bombs detonated in a continuous roar of rolling thunder, almost exceeding the brilliance of the Lightning Bolts. As the light of Calen’s ridiculous spell faded, she heard the sound of a double chime and the dull thuds of the Flamecaller hunters’ bodies hitting the ground.

“Ali!” Malika shouted. “Warg!”

Ali snapped her head around and saw Malika standing over the body of a dormant collapsed warg, her fists still aflame with hellfire.

Instantly, she switched places with the nearest Hobgoblin using Minion Teleport, threw up a small barrier to protect herself from any stray hellfire, and began deconstructing the downed warg. With both the hunters already eliminated, she let her larger barrier drop as the rest of her minions retargeted to the Hellfire Wargs. It didn’t take long for the monster to turn into tiny streamers of glowing mana. When Ali looked up, Malika was dancing toward her, luring a second warg out of the pack.

Ali slipped her awareness back into one of her holy Acolytes and commanded her slimes and Death’s Acolytes to aim their devastating area damage attacks behind the two wargs Mato was tanking, keeping a close eye on his health while the rest of her minions fired at the isolated one Malika had brought. It didn’t take long before the warg perished, and she deconstructed it too, blocking a billowing stream of hellfire breath from resurrecting it. As soon as she finished deconstructing it, both remaining wargs collapsed under the onslaught of her Sparkling Oozes, Death’s Acolytes, lightning totems, and Calen’s powerful multishot.

“Do I need to deconstruct those now that everything is dead?” Ali wondered aloud.

“If you don’t need them for your Grimoire anymore, let’s have Calen skin them,” Malika suggested. “That demonic hide fetches a nice price.”

“Ok. Calen, do you want the hunters too?” Ali asked. “Maybe their scales are good?”

“I’ll wait for you to learn them first,” Calen said, retrieving his sturdy skinning knife and getting to work.

“I already learned the hunters,” Ali said, instructing her Hobgoblins to go retrieve the corpses for him to skin. Hopefully, they would be worth some money because they were rather useless taking up space in her Grimoire. Not that it was a big deal, she could just replace the imprint when she found something more useful.

Ali looked up at the sound of heavy breathing and scraping of scales over the rock to find her Hobgoblins dumping the corpses by her feet. “Do you want this stuff, Malika?” Ali asked, eyeing the bows and bracers they wore.

“You have a bow imprint, right?” Malika asked.

“Um, yep,” she said.

“Why don’t you learn them, then?” Malika asked, producing a third bow and offering it. “It’s a pretty great bow.”

“Oh, cool!” Ali proceeded to deconstruct all of them. “I could make a few for you to sell. I’m not sure the guild store has a lot of bows yet.”

“Maybe when the novices get a few more levels under their belts,” Malika smiled.

“Aah, yes,” Ali agreed. It was not just the novices that were too low for the bows. “I should find some higher-level archers too.” It was just a shame she couldn’t use these Flamecallers.

Variant: Flamecaller Bow added to Imprint: Bow.

All in all, she had to admit, the encounter with the Flamecaller hunters had been vastly easier with a little experience and better strategy.

“What’s next, snack time?” Mato asked hopefully.

“Even budding little tyrants need a snack,” Calen added.

It took Ali a long moment to process the connection. Then her head snapped up. “Calen! Have you been talking to Ryn?”

“Would I?”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
