“That’s fine, I can do that today if everyone’s ready,” she said. She had already planned on taking the time to do it, and today was as good a time as any. Besides, getting the new people started was important – and, to be frank, one of her favorite activities. “I just hope nobody tries to interfere again.”

“Mieriel says the bounty on your head has increased, but after Nathaniel Sunstrider and Rezan Jin were seen at the guild, and seeing that stories about how easily the last assassin group was crushed may have gotten out –” her eyes twinkled briefly “– you are developing a reputation as being a bit of a suicide mission among some of the criminal underground. She thinks we won’t be interrupted this time, but I’ll come along just in case.” Vivian, it seemed, was also worried about what had happened last time. She made as if to stand up.

“I also have a request,” Ali said. “And I think it might help you with high-level adventurer retention in the long run.”

“Oh?” Vivian said, arching an eyebrow and sitting back down.

“My friend, Ryn, is sitting out in the guild hall. She’s looking for a new job and I was wondering if we could have her join the guild as a librarian?” Ali asked.

“You want a librarian to join… an Adventurers Guild?” Vivian asked, confusion playing across her features.

“I am rebuilding the Grand Library Arcana, which currently has almost a thousand books that I have copied from various libraries around the continent – including Ciradyl,” Ali said. It sounded a little pompous when she said it, but she didn’t care, she was proud of it. When she had asked Ryn, the count had shocked her, but almost a thousand books in that enormous space did not look like a whole lot. “Ryn has a unique skill that allows her to teleport to any library she has ever visited, and she can bring three people along with her. I was going to offer access to the Grand Library Arcana for free to any guild member. Ryn would be able to provide transport, research, and book-hunting services to the guild as its official librarian.”

It was clear the precise moment when Vivian understood her proposal just judging by the astonishment that flooded her face.

“When those other guilds come looking to poach from us, do you think they will be able to offer membership at a library dedicated to finding adventurers the perfect information for growing their classes?” Ali finished her pitch. But she knew the offer was way too good to turn down, and Ryn would be happy here, helping all the guild members with their questions.

***

Ali knocked on the open door to the spartan office that the aide had shown her to. There was a small bookshelf with a few select tomes, all of which glowed with the effects of various runic inscriptions. Across the surface of the table were two bottles of glowing ink and a neat stack of parchment aligned perfectly with the edges of the desk. One book lay open, and the Gnome sitting behind the desk looked up at the sound of her knock.

“Hi, Aliandra, come on in,” Donella Novaspark said, showing a polite smile. “What can I do for you?” She laid the pen down in a holder that was made for it beside the ink bottles.

“This might be a bit of a long shot, but I haven’t been able to advance my Runic Script skill in a while, and I was wondering if you had someone who could teach me some of the other uses for mana-inscribed rune magic? I can make runic circles and read runic magic, but I’ve been reading that there are many other paths and I’m a little stuck on my own.”

“Aah, I see,” Donella said, straightening up in her seat. “Why don’t you have a seat?”

Ali took a conveniently sized seat on the chair opposite Donella.

“My first question would be, are you sure you want to learn this?” Donella asked, a surprising question to be sure. But then she explained, “Most of the uses for runic magic fall squarely into the realm of crafting. Pursuing something like item enchantment, scroll inscription, and the like may affect the growth of your class, guiding it towards a crafter path rather than a combat one.”

“I didn’t know that,” Ali answered. “But my class is a scholar-combat hybrid already, so I’m reasonably certain it won’t break.” She gazed at the materials on the table, noting the subject matter displayed on the open book, and deduced that Donella had been in the middle of inscribing a scroll. “Isn’t it the same for you?” she asked, curious as to why the lightning mage would recommend against the very thing she was doing. “I’ve seen your signature on items before, and you’re crafting scrolls, wouldn’t that influence your growth too?”

“Of course,” Donella said, her smile a little more genuine this time. “Do you know what makes an archmage so devastating?”

“They’re very strong?” Ali suggested. “And past at least one class evolution.”

“Both true,” Donella answered, “but there’s more to it than that. Almost all archmages have hybrid classes – crafters and combat mages, or crafters and scholars. For their crafting, they specialize in making wands and scrolls – vastly enhancing the versatility of their magic. Nathaniel Sunstrider carries a heavy tome of prepared inscriptions – a spell for every occasion. It’s an exorbitant path, but extremely effective.”

“Is that the path you took?” Ali asked, growing even more curious now that Donella seemed to be opening up a little.

“Taking,” Donella said. “I haven’t reached my evolution yet, but I’m hoping to gain the archmage path. The only problem is I haven’t been able to secure a shrine to process my evolution, and I’m not about to risk breaking my class with a natural-path advancement, so I’m at a bit of an impasse.”

“I see,” Ali said. Being the owner of a shrine herself, she found this topic extremely interesting, but there seemed to be nobody who could tell her how to get her own shrine to do what Donella needed. As usual, she felt the acute loss of the wealth of knowledge that would have been at her fingertips three thousand years ago.

“If you’re sure you want to study this, there are a few teachers available downstairs for the usual private lesson fee,” Donella said, but then she paused briefly and continued, “I have the next hour free, I could give you a beginner lesson on how to imbue your mana into the ink and let you experiment with making scrolls.”

“That would be fantastic,” Ali said, leaning in closer in anticipation of learning something fascinating. She had, of course, done her research and already knew that the Novaspark Academy of Magic charged a fee for lessons, but in her opinion, they had very reasonable rates, and a small investment of gold to gain expert tuition seemed quite appropriate.

“Ok,” Donella said, picking up the pen and the ink and channeling a little mana into both. “This will be handy for writing magical books, too. You can see my mana, right?”

Ali nodded and watched and listened as Donella began to explain the basics of mana-imbued ink, how to instill one’s own mana into it and create permanent runes on paper.

“When you tackle sufficiently advanced projects, you will want to get your ink made by a professional ink crafter,” Donella said, making her mana do some very intricate loops and whorls. “But every runic scribe should be able to make the basic level inks.”

Ali nodded, intent on not missing a single detail.

Donella continued to wield her mana while explaining how to convert rune formations from a book into scroll format, how inscriptions worked, and all the little expert tips and insights that would have taken Ali absolutely ages to discover on her own.

While Ali wasn’t successful at actually creating a functional scroll by the time the lesson ended, she was extremely happy with the time spent. Donella was an exceptional tutor, adjusting rapidly to the specifics of Ali’s skills. She managed to get the hang of imbuing the ink with her mana to Donella’s satisfaction, and even successfully created a rune on her test parchment, but to actually create a scroll would likely require a skill advancement. And, according to Donella, it would help greatly if she learned the Calligraphy general skill.

***

“Ali, where are you taking me? I thought we were going to the café for lunch?” Ryn asked.

“I thought we’d take a little detour first,” Ali said, trying, but failing to be mysterious as they arrived at the door to Lydia’s Allure.

“This is a clothing store, Ali. An expensive one!”

“Yes. It’s run by Calen’s mother, and she helped our group out a lot when we got started. She makes all my robes, and Mieriel’s dresses.”

“I know who she is. Why are we here?” Ryn asked, fixing her with a look of suspicion as Ali opened the door and invited her in.

“Because I thought I’d treat you to a celebration gift for becoming the guild librarian,” Ali said and turned to introduce her to Lydia, who was already smiling at them from behind the organized chaos of cloth, fabric, and thread spread out across her worktable.

“Ali, you can’t!” Ryn exclaimed.

But she could tell that her friend was already excited, staring wide-eyed at the gorgeous gowns and robes on display.

Rubbing her hands together, she declared, “Oh, my dear Ryn, I can and I will!”

Clearly picking up on the mood, Ryn giggled, “Tyrant.”

“In training.”

***

“Ok, opening it,” Malika said, retrieving the strangely animate quenching potion.

Ali stood quietly waiting in the Landing while Malika decanted a single drop onto the Rune of Inferno.

The smaller class advancement had gone remarkably well, and thankfully, no unwanted guests showed up to crash the party. The small group of combat applicants had been overwhelmed by the whole experience, and she was almost certain most of them had been expecting it all to be revealed as an elaborate hoax. Judging by the appearance of their clothes, they had all come from the slums, and likely none of them was used to being offered a real opportunity without strings attached. Certainly, their reactions to her handing them armor and weapons before their trial proved it. But the expressions of joy and amazement when they finally unlocked real classes had been touching to see.

The only downside was that none of them had unlocked a healer class, so forming a group to level up would be challenging, but Vivian reassured them that she had a plan and Ali left it to her to figure out.

Lydia’s apprentice, Elton, unlocked an unexpected affinity for shadow magic, and Weldin had an even more unusual space affinity. She just hoped their mana wouldn’t interfere with their chosen classes too badly, but she had seen some rather surprising combinations work well, so she wasn’t particularly worried. She had rather enjoyed the sight of Elton trudging through the dungeon in a tailored suit, but he seemed a lot more mellow when he wasn’t manning the desk in the store.

It makes sense, Ali thought as she considered the usual kind of customer that frequented Lydia’s Allure. Besides, he looks quite dapper. He would have loved the city I grew up in…

Over by the doorway, the densely mana-infused liquid of the potion sizzled as it dropped into the flames and the rune froze in place. Ali gathered the Sparkling Oozes she had deployed against the Flame Broodmother in preparation for the next spider-filled tunnel. They were just so effective at ignoring the web and unleashing explosions. She would summon replacements that would be better for the tar-filled caverns and the Flamecaller spears up ahead when she reached that part.

“Ok, this should be quick,” Calen said, rolling his shoulders and raising his bow. And suddenly they were blasting their way down through the spiderweb-filled tunnel and out to the other side.

“How do you want to do this?” Ali asked, studying the two patrolling Flamecaller hunters slithering their way across the scalding rocks using the superb vision of her Hobgoblins. There were only five wargs this time, but their average level was a bit higher.

“How were you seeing through the illusions last time, Malika?” Calen asked. “Soul Sight?”

“Yes. They have a long-duration skill that charges up right after they disappear. Their stamina rises like a massive wave behind a wall,” Malika said, gesturing expressively with her hands.

“Sounds consistent with the Power Shot theory, then,” Calen said thoughtfully. “Or something just like it. It gains power the longer it’s channeled – a great skill to combine with Ambush. It’s annoying that they get to pull it off multiple times in a fight.”

No wonder it was destroying my barriers so easily, Ali thought. A long-duration power skill multiplied by the bonus from Ambush striking out from under the cover of stealth or invisibility would easily kill most of her minions in a single shot.

Or me, she thought. She had always had an uncomfortable relationship with Ambush, and now they were facing monsters that could unleash it from range.

“Keep some Sparkling Oozes,” Calen suggested. “We should be able to suppress the illusions with multishot and area damage – just blast them from range. Malika, pull a warg out of the pack and we’ll have the melee attackers focus on that.”

“You don’t want me on the hunters?” Malika asked, glancing at him in surprise.

“I think you’re better used to off-tank the wargs. You can call out the positions of the hunters if you’re close enough, right?” Calen said. “We’ll use area damage to break their illusions faster.”

“Ok, can do,” Malika nodded.

“I’ll make a few shamans, too,” Ali said. They had been quite effective last time with their novas and curse of lightning vulnerability.

“Yes, I think those are good for this fight,” Calen agreed. “Mato? Anything you want to add?”

“Mmm?” Mato grunted. “No. As long as I can keep a wall at my back, I’m good.”

“Right,” Calen said. “And Ali will keep a closer eye on your health, this time.”

“Yes,” Ali agreed, nodding vigorously. She had been forced to conclude that, impressive as they were, bringing a Hellfire Warg to this fight would not be particularly smart, and none of her other beast summons were high enough level to be useful. All that remained was Healer’s Sight, and she had resolved to be more vigilant about watching Mato’s life this time. I can’t let him get so close again.

Ali backed up into the tunnel to conceal the brightness of her Grimoire’s magic and began summoning the monsters she needed. Wait, don’t I have that? As she worked her magic, a thought popped into her brain. She paged through her Kobold imprint quickly, searching for it. Aah, there it is.

