The second final draft-- which is the draft you see here on RoyalRoad/ScribbleHub/HFY-- was more coherent. I ended up having Amelia kill Ar'elith first, then Zolan a chapter later, while tying it all back into her character arc and the plot, as opposed to having her kill both Ar'elith and Zolan for no reason in the initial chapter 1. I also had her System be less 'glitched', unlike the initial premise which had her getting no Class options had all, she now got only a single Class option. I thought this version was significantly better than all the previous versions I wrote, and I still think that. Unfortunately, this focus on the 'plot' ended up detracting my attention from the slice of life elements I wanted to initially explore when I started Amelia.

There was also the fact that some of the introspective slice of life events I thought happened in the story didn't actually happen here on RoyalRoad/ScribbleHub/HFY, but happened in the previous drafts instead. As said before, her relaxing and enjoying sleeping and eating was initially the main focus on chapter 2. There was also a lot more introspection on what she wanted here in Vacuos, with more time spent on her exploring what she could be doing instead of just fighting. I had thought these scenes happened, but they didn't. They only happened in the patreon/unpublished drafts.

All in all, I think there are things I could have done better in Amelia. The main thing being the focus on worldbuilding-- this was just something I omitted entirely at first because... like, I wanted to drip feed the worldbuilding, I guess, but I realize now I wasn't even drip feeding it. I was neglecting it entirely. I've made some edits for the final draft that will hopefully fix some of these problems, and it will be going up on Amazon and Audible in May-- about 5,000 words added, and 2,000 words removed. Obviously, the story can't be perfect, but my goal is always to keep improving as an author.

If you've enjoyed this story so far, consider leaving me a review or a rating. This is probably the last time I'm going to ask for reviews. Anyone who has enjoyed the story so far would've already reviewed it, so honestly, it doesn't really matter either. In any case, thank you all for reading as always <3

Also, join my subreddit and discuss the latest chapters here! Reddit - Dive into anything

And consider donating to my patreon and reading up to 15 chapters ahead! MelasDelta | Creating Web Serials / Web Comics | Patreon

Join my discord too!

Or follow me on twitter!
