Niala spent the next few days working out other “hybrid potions” formulas, though Linzy was adamant they needed a better name, like poly-potions, multi-potions, or even a brand new name, such as elixirs.

She had said she'd think about it.

One thing she had decided was what to call her multi-chambered temperature-controlled apparatus: the Handy Brewer. The name was a play on their initials, N and D, and she felt it was a good descriptor of just how useful it was. David had reluctantly given his approval. He would have preferred the upcoming revolution in the alchemy world to be named after his wife, but he had to admit that the Handy Brewer was kind of clever.

In between her experiments, as she got used to the hacked-together Handy Brewer version 1, she also refined the sketch and design of what the final version should be. Soon, the next step would be finding someone who could craft it, which wasn't going to be an easy task.

While his wife was advancing alchemy, David went and got a few books on enchantment at the town's library and began reading up on the topic.

He found it surprisingly interesting. Not only was there a long and storied history behind the craft, but it was also a rather straightforward art. Enchantments were built of “blocks” of runes, which were then assembled together to generate the desired result, and such assemblies could be chained to create more elaborate “instructions”.

In a way, it reminded him a bit of Niala's compound alchemy. Only, instead of compounds, it was blocks of runes.

Outside of this, he also kept managing the Old Woman Brewery, which had grown to thirty employees now, working in two shifts. Business was booming, and his supply of herbs from the fairies could just barely keep up.

He needed them to increase production. The flow of Old Woman mustn't be stopped.

Rinka eventually showed back up, more dishevelled than usual, and lugging a thick, six-hundred-page bound stack of documents.

She proudly, with exhaustion in her voice, presented to them what she had titled the Reign Ascendant's Compendium of Processes.

The magister described it as the ultimate codified system to run an efficient and optimized bureaucracy. She had taken the rules of the Luminous Reign and cut away every superfluous or legacy scraps, making away with holdover concepts from ages past and rules that had been used as loopholes.

When David had remarked that it was quite a feat to have boiled down an entire government's processes to a single six-hundred-page document, Rinka had snorted, saying that this was just the first volume.

There was no way she could have brought the other seven.

Which, to be fair, was still a lot, but compared to just how many similar tomes the current Amberfall kingdom needed to hold its processes, David still considered Rinka's work a remarkable achievement.

Karline also showed up for two days, saying she was taking a short vacation from her Free Courier work, and couldn't think of anything more relaxing than visiting Niala and eating her food.

The cook in question had blushed a little at the praise, even while her tail had swooshed furiously.

When David asked why she didn't have that kind of reaction when he told her that her food was amazing, she replied that she could probably cook a rock and he'd find it amazing.

He admitted that it was plausible.

Riverwall Townhall

Caleb, the town's dogkin mayor, finished reading the latest economic report that his bunnykin assistant Carole had prepared for him.

He allowed one corner of his mouth to curve upward, pleased as he was.

Pushing back his chair, he got up and stretched his back, grunting in satisfaction as a few muscles and bones popped back into place.

He walked up to the window and let his eyes wander the not-so-sleepy frontier town before him. Even here, in one of the oldest parts of town, work was being done to widen the roads, straighten up the intersections, and update signage.

And that was only the visible work. Lord Isaac Wardenfel had been a little offended when Caleb had questioned the need for a complete underground sewer network; the covered drains the town had right now were perfectly usable.

But, no. Riverwall was getting a state-of-the-art sanitary system. Right now, under the streets and buildings, workers were digging tunnels and putting up water-proofed masonry.

Isaac had shown the mayor his plans for the water treatment facility. The thing would end up bigger than the entire town hall, and would be able to provide and process water for a town twenty times Riverwall's size.

When he'd asked if this was not, perhaps, a little overboard, the young noble had replied that his projections for the next ten years showed that this was the bare minimum.

A second plant would have to be built. Land had already been earmarked in what the lord was calling “Phase 4”.

Just how much growth and construction had the man planned for his town? He'd already seen so many documents come through his office. After a point, he'd just assumed they were contingencies and potential projects, but no. Everything was getting built.

Everything.

And to think that very soon, throngs of people would descend upon the town, chasing the mana crystal rush, most probably doubling the transient population before the year's end. The permanent citizens would most likely balloon up as well, as industries to support the mining up north would spring up.

Work on the road and railcar line toward the Living Vault had already begun, as had the construction of a new north bridge to accommodate them. The current north gate's bridge was tiny, by comparison; it had only ever been needed for foot traffic or hand carts, at most.

He wondered what the trade docks would look like...

The more he read on enchanting, the more David became certain that his Free Courier retirement wasn't a mistake.

Not because he was pit-bent on becoming an enchanter, although it was looking like a really interesting hobby, if not a profession. Rather, it was that his past self didn't want to let go. He would never abandon Niala, and the idea of being away for days at a time gave him an upset stomach, but his reflection still kept pulling at him.

He wasn't sure why. Maybe it was his secret pride at having been a top-ranker, or his desire to keep helping people, or even possibly a lingering fear of having too many responsibilities, but the pressure had remained.

Right up until he entertained the idea of retiring. Here, now, as he'd pretty much accepted that he would be looking for some other occupation, it was as if the pond was finally settling. The waves lapped at the shores one last time before the water turned quiet, calm, and content in its place.

He smiled when he felt a burst of happiness come through his link with Niala. His adorably empathic wife must have felt his newfound serenity.

The enchanting primer book remained open in front of him, but his eyes were unfocused. There was one hitch on which his mind caught, something that kept him tied to the Free Courier life.

His eyes lowered down to his satchel, resting on the couch nearby, and its myriad of cargo cloths. He wasn't about to get rid of those; too convenient, and not entirely dedicated courier tools, but there was such a thing in one of them.

And Karline was around, right now.

He snapped the book shut, as his mind did the same on his decision, and stood up, picking up his satchel, and left to go find Karline.

He found her lazing around in the new public park they'd commissioned, lying down on a bench under a tree's shade and reading a book, one of her feet rocking at the beat of a silent song.

She noticed him when he was a few paces away. Her eyes went wide as she slammed the book shut and shoved it between her and the bench, and then froze for a second. An awkward smile drew on her face. “Oh, hey, David. What's up?”

“Hey Karline. What were you reading?”

Her eyes darted to her hidden book, and then back to him. “Just... a novel about... people doing... stuff. Yeah. It's kind of boring, actually!” She explained before sitting up on the bench properly, all the while keeping the book hidden from David.

He nodded. “Oh, then I guess I'm not bothering you?”

She waved a hand. “No, no, it's fine. What can I help you with?”

He looked at her for a moment, eventually rubbing the back of his neck. “I thought this would be easier. Anyway, I'm retiring.”

She frowned, her eyes eventually widening in understanding. “From being a courier?! You? Really? I mean- I guess it makes sense, being married and all, but... I thought you loved being a courier?” She asked, leaning slightly forward.

He gave her a sad smile. “Yeah, I did. I guess that's the problem; I still do, but I love being with Niala even more, so one has to go.”

She slowly nodded. “Right. Makes sense. I mean, even I hesitate to go away from her cooking each time I have to leave.”

“This isn't just about her cooking, you know?”

She smiled. “No! Of course not! It's also her brewing and her baking! Don't worry, I understand.” She said, winking.

He stared back at her, and she returned him a knowing smile.

He let it go. “Anyway, I heard you were going up in the Courier rankings yourself?”

“Oh! Yes! I, well, ever since I understood what being a Courier really meant, I've been doing a lot better. More prep work, more talking to people, more methodical searching, less strapping my boots and dashing toward adventure.”

She gave him an earnest look. “And if I'm being fair, I have you to thank for it. I didn't really see it at first; I thought you were just an over-prudent bore, but your techniques were really effective.”

“...I wasn't boring.”

She kept staring at him. “You kind of were, at least when you weren't punching doors open.”

“...And what was I, when punching doors?”

She put a finger to her chin. “I guess a bit barbaric?”

He let his head hang and sighed, eventually looking back up. “Right, anyway. To officialize my retirement, I thought I should get rid of something.” He informed her as he pulled a cargo cloth out of his satchel.

Karline watched with widening eyes as he handed her the cloth. She looked at him, uncertain, and received a wordless confirmation. Her eyes went back to the offered cloth as she reached out and took hold of it.

With enforced calm, she began unfolding it to see what was stored within. Her hands stopped partway when she recognized the image: a pile of stuff hidden beneath a cotton sheet.

Her head snapped back up to him. “Your courier tools?!” She half asked, half-yelled.

David nodded. “Yeah. Most of them, anyway. I kept a few, but these are yours now.”

Karline let her eyes fall back down to the cargo cloth. He had shown her his entire collection, once, and had explained what they all did. It was a little difficult to judge the true value of these things, as few people could make proper use of these tools, but she was certain it was worth enough to buy a fully staffed mansion.

She looked back up at him. “David, this... I don't want to say it's too much, but are you sure?”

He smiled. “Not entirely, but I am sure that if I don't do it now, I might never do it. Besides, you helped us on multiple occasions, especially when we were at our lowest. You're a good person and a good friend. There's nobody else I'd rather receive these, and I know you'll make good use of them.” A slightly uncomfortable warmth reached up his neck as he spoke.

Karline kept staring at him for a moment, her eyes lowering down eventually as she stroked the cloth with a gentle hand. With a sharp nod, she folded the cloth back up and carefully stowed it away into her own satchel.

She got up and stepped toward David, past the hand he offered for a shake, and hugged him.

As a friend, of course.

He remained frozen for a moment, unsure of what to do with his hands. Eventually, he put them up on Karline's shoulders, giving her a few pats.

Then he caught sight of her book, forgotten on the bench. His eyes read the title before he could stop them. He read the title aloud. “A night in his dungeon. What kind of book is that?”

Her friendly hug turned into a metal vise.