Work at least was a distraction as the attack opened up opportunities for the Falkners firm and it allowed Kai to get his first opportunity to do some real architect work. It was under the purview of one of the other, more senior, junior architects, Lor’tu who needed the break after his last scouting mission, but it was still real work that he got to take the lead on.

As he had later learned the attack hadn’t just been done by the bat-like creatures, but there had been a number of boar-like creatures with some sort of parasitic plant-like creature fused onto its back who attacked the walls at the same time. The vine’s had given the boars the ability to scale the walls by driving into the micro cracks of the concrete, which threatened the stability of a large portion of the wall if left unrepaired.

It was Kai and Lor’tu’s jobs to plan the repair and a countermeasure to ensure that the same method of attack wouldn’t work again. Being so near the walls made Kai deeply uncomfortable, but after the first days he spent working on site he learned to deal with it.

Not ignore it, the danger was an ever present, niggling thought in the back of his mind but anything can become mundane given enough time and exposure.

Over the next month Kai even started to feel at home at Gate’s Rest. Even the semi-frequent beast attacks became something he dealt with just by making sure he didn’t go too far from the safe areas of shops and homes which kept their front doors unlocked so long as someone was home and awake.

On the other side of the Palatine mountain range the slogan 'safety takes teamwork to work’ would have sounded corny but here it was a real and palpable creed to live by.

What shocked him more than even the beast waves was that he was even able to send his mother enough money that she didn’t need to work for at least a year for less than a month's wages thanks to the large bonus he earned from the city for designing the method to stop the boar things from being able to scale the walls again. The danger was phenomenal on this side of the Palatine mountain range but the pay was correspondingly high.

Kai didn’t really understand why, but the bodies of the beasts were valuable and people bought them any time they were available for exorbitant fees. He better understood the ingredients that were pulled out of the forest being valuable, rare plants were said to be useful in pharmaceuticals, but the sums made no sense. He had seen a single lightly fluorescent flower sell for over a million, and that was far from the most expensive thing that moved through the city.

By the end of his second month he actually started liking living in Gate’s Rest.

It was dangerous, but exhilarating in its own way.

It would have been perfect if not for the oddities.

They seemed like they were everywhere.

A regular at his breakfast dinner who one week before had been missing his arm suddenly had it back. Yet, when Kai asked him about it, he simply played dumb. Kai could see in his eyes that he was blowing Kai off but it wasn’t like he could shake the truth out of the man no matter how much he wanted to. He was an architect and the man was an adventurer who could probably break Kai over his knee without breaking a sweat.

Then just a day later a woman climbed out of the solid concrete street, brushed herself off, and went about her business without giving a second look to anyone who watched on the street. Kai knew he wasn’t seeing things because even his table neighbor had seen it but none of them could explain it as anything but a hoax.

Except Kai knew it wasn’t a hoax. He had seen the designs as Bree was the one to design that street after it had been destroyed in a beast attack a few years ago. There was no secret tunnel for her to climb through. It was six feet of compacted stone with a foot of reinforced concrete poured on top. The only gaps in the thing were the expansion joints and they were far too small for a grown woman to climb out of.

It was impossible but he had seen it with his own two eyes.

What he didn’t understand was how others just shrugged it off as non important to their lives.

That was only possible until the evening of his two month mark in Gate’s Rest. Just as the sun was setting in a gorgeous spray of reds and yellows while the twin moons hung large and illuminated the evening in a cool white light, Kai felt the world tremble from his second floor balcony.

Having been near some of the stronger beasts, Kai had experienced something similar so he was aware enough to keep control of his initial panic. Being around them gave one a sense of visceral fear that seemed to weigh on one like a blanket but with a firm enough will it was possible to push through it.

The feeling that pressed down on him was like that except not at all. It was only similar in the same way that a spark was similar to the sun at high noon. They might both be ‘fire’ but they were on two different impossible to compare scales.

It took everything Kai had, but he looked up, and there, he saw it, saw him.

A man with paler skin and hair than anyone Kai had ever seen stood miles above the air like some foreign deity with a sphere so dark floating behind him that it seemed like a black hole. Even through his rising panic Kai knew that was impossible, a black hole of that size would destroy this entire star system. Secondly, there seemed to be blinding white light leaking from the edges of the black hole like a solar eclipse, which wasn’t how black holes worked.

It was impossible, but there it was hanging in the sky.

Kai’s eyes couldn’t help but go to the man in question, trying to find some information in a futile method of trying to piece together his and everyone else's fate, but the man was far enough away that he couldn’t read his expression. Kai could however read the man's body language, which radiated anger or maybe irritation even as he stood there miles above the ground.

Screams rippled out from the city and Kai was almost sure he heard the roars of beasts whimpering in pain from beyond the city walls.

The pressure grew strong enough that Kai couldn’t move even a finger and silence took over the night. Kai instinctively knew it all came from this man. How was a mystery, but he knew it with every fiber of his being, even as fear turned into raw unadulterated terror.

He wanted to join those who had been screaming a few moments ago but he could hardly breathe, let alone scream.

He was sure they were about to die.

That belief was reinforced as a fractal of blue light traced itself outward from the man's feet where they seemed to stand on nothingness itself and grew in both size and complexity until it stretched over the horizon farther than should have been possible for any light show.

Kai was sure this couldn't be real, but he had no other explanations for what he was seeing and feeling.

A voice echoed into his ears like there was someone next to him speaking the words, even though that was impossible.

“People of Soerilia, hear me and listen.”
