That had been one of the largest hurdles the original digging of the tunnel had faced and the few disasters had been well taught in Kai’s early years of his architect degree.

Still that was only so interesting and why he let his attention drift.

In the dim light of the cabin his across the seat neighbor flipped a lighter and a small ball of flame appeared in his hand.

Kai’s mind stuttered as he analyzed the brief instant of image that he had seen before the flame went out but he hadn’t seen a lighter.

His attention was pulled away from the man's hands to the woman next to him who backhanded his chest. That movement caused her chest to ripple in a way that made his mouth go dry. He didn’t know what it was but he had been seeing more pretty women in the last few days than he had seemingly seen in his life. As he noticed that he also noticed that the man was uncommonly attractive, clean skin, symmetrical features, and piercing eyes meant he could have graced the same covers as the woman without batting an eye.

He was sure the woman diagonal from him had her own story but Kai couldn't understand why someone who had chiseled abs even when sitting down combined with such a beautiful face would be going to such a dangerous area instead of taking an easier path through life.

He must not have been as subtle as he tried to be as he caught a smirk on the woman's face the one time he looked away from the window when their in-travel meals came. The woman after finishing her meal started eating her dessert of caramel popcorn one at a time darting her tongue out to grab each kernel at a time. It might have been innocent enough if she didn’t watch him the entire time.

Kai almost got up and ran as the teasing reached a tipping point but thankfully she ran out of popcorn and pulled out a pillow to take a nap.

Not having brought his own pillow, Kai did his best to copy her. He wasn’t sure when he fell asleep but he was awoken with a metaphorical punch to the face as daylight returned to the world.

His breath wasn’t stolen by the light however, but the sight of the forest on the other side of the Palatine that they could see below the city. The train made a few long and slow switchbacks to reach the lower elevation of the city, which gave Kai almost half an hour to gawk, but he couldn’t help it and he wasn’t alone.

It was truly like entering another world. The trees he could see were all on average at least twice the size of normal trees on the other side of the Palatines and here they seemed to stretch out forever.

When the train car unsealed, Kai got a second shock.

He felt like the air was hyperoxygenated as the first breath seemed to course through him like a shot of the first true breath he had ever breathed. The feeling faded quickly, but it was a better pick me up than any coffee he had even choked down during his studies.

He wanted more, but no matter how deep he breathed he found there was nothing extra like there had been in that first breath.

His phone pinged and directed him to where he met his guide, who took him to the Falkner Architect firm. The building itself was simple and coarse like most other buildings in Gate’s Rest, but Kai didn’t miss how well built they were. The outer walls are a full three feet thick and the outer doors made of heavy steel and no glass but a peephole. He also noticed the windows had interior shutters made from the same material and with similar sturdy construction. He had read there were attacks on the city but he still swallowed at the thought of what such sturdy defenses were meant to keep out.

The woman who greeted him was a bit of a surprise with lighter skin tone than the typical dark chestnut of most citizens of Noricum, more reminiscent of the old continent countries around Arilanding and their burnished oak skintones.

“Bree Falkner, nice to meet you.”

Proffering his hand to his new boss, Kai tried not to let his surprise show, but Bree clearly noticed. “Yes, my family came from the old continent. I emigrated shortly after the Palatine mountain range was opened up for the opportunities this offered. I even have Noricum citizenship. Any more questions about me or can we start the onboarding?”

Kai felt himself blush for what felt like the dozenth time today but pushed through it. “Sorry. I just never meant anyone from the old continent. They are so insular after the last world war and all. But it’s nice to meet you and I’m ready to start working. I have all of my credentials if you’d like to review them.”

Bree waved him off before gesturing for him to follow. “You’ll need to send copies of them to the city council but we already did most of the paperwork for you. I’d love to spend a few months getting you settled in and I would for someone less capable but we are both short staffed and incredibly busy so I hope you swim because you're getting thrown into the deep end.”

Kai rubbed his hands together. “I’m ready. Toss me in.” Pausing, he added. “Um you don’t mean literally right? My swimming is more like doggy paddling. I won’t drown but um, yeah.”

Bree chuckled. “It was metaphorical more than literal, but you should take a few lessons. The rivers around here move fast, and being a strong swimmer is never a bad thing.”

Kai nodded at the information and filed it away on his list of things to do.

After an hour of paperwork Bree helped guide him through, Kai signed documents he had seen a dozen times about his responsibilities for things he designed or approved, when he was done Bree waved him to his feet.

“Let me treat you to a meal. I wish the rest of the teams could join us but we are fairly small and everyone else is out of Gate’s Rest at the moment.”

Seeing that was the second time she mentioned it, Kai asked. “What are they doing? If you don’t mind me asking.”

“It's not like it's confidential. Falkners specializes in durable construction. We work with the city to ensure the wall stays in good condition and more often we assist teams in setting up outposts in the forest or beyond. That's where everyone else is.” She gestured to the forest side of the city. “Two of us are with teams scouting for potential base locations and the other three are with new settlements and setting up their fortifications.” As if knowing what he was about to ask she added. “It's dangerous but each of those jobs pays in the hundreds of thousands.”

Kai felt his mouth water at the thought but did his best to not let his greed get the best of him. “How dangerous is it?”

“We don’t normally die if that is what you are asking. We haven’t lost anyone on a mission for five years except Erx. That idiot went off to take a piss outside the perimeter and got ripped to shreds for his idiocy.”

Kai didn’t want to disparage the dead but that seemed as ill advised as Bree implied.

The thought of death was at least dispelled by some pleasant conversation and good food, but what shocked Kai was that almost everyone he saw walking past were openly holding weapons.

Unlike the rest of the Republic, where only soldiers were allowed to have weapons, they were plentiful.

As if the world was listening to his inner monologue and wanted to make a fool of him he found out why they were so armed the hard way just as they were finishing up their dinner.

Alarms started sounding and having been informed about this in his initial paperwork that he had just signed a few hours ago, Kai remained in his seat. He expected everyone else to do the same which was what they were supposed to do but everyone, Bree included, sprung into action the moment the first alarm sounded.

A full dozen patrons moved for the windows and shut and secured the shutters while two muscular adventurer diners went to the door and took up positions with their weapons scanning the sky as a few people rushed into the restaurant.

The instant the alarm sound changed, the two adventures retreated and slammed the door shut, engaging the heavy locks with speed that seemed uncanny.

Kai was nervously worrying away at his table cloth until Bree came back to the table with a sigh. “Hell of a first day but what can you do? Best to have your first wave with me.”

One of the adventurers upon hearing it was Kai’s first beast wave sauntered over and slapped him on the back. Kai couldn’t help as his eyes were drawn to the long puckered scar that stood in stark contrast to the man's dark skin.

“We all have our first.” Tapping his scar the man added. “I wasn’t so fast during my first attack and was locked outside. I survived and got some things out of it but had to fight for my life all because I didn’t follow the rules.”

Kai felt a little queasy at the story and the man laughed seeing that and waved to the staff who were still rushing about. “Bring our Fishie a drink.”

Hearing that seemed to settle the atmosphere of the restaurant and a few people raised their own drinks to toast Kai as he choked down the shot of amber liquor.

It hit harder than anything he had ever drunk before but as the fire spread through his limbs he almost felt like he had when he took his first breath of the air of Gates Rise.

Letting the liquor do its job he sat and listened to the other patrons swap stories and the television for updates even as he tried to ignore the roars of beasts and the crack sounds of weapons being fired even as they sounded like they were right outside.

It took almost an hour for the all clear to sound and Kai hoped everything would be normal but it was anything but.

When Kai exited the shop he saw bodies everywhere. He shouldn’t have been taken aback but he was.

Most of them were of a bat-like creature with exaggerated metal teeth and silvery strands of shimmering metal hanging from the rear of their wings, but a few were human. There weren’t many, just three, but it was three more bodies than Kai had ever seen. One civilian who, for whatever reason, had been too slow to enter one of the secured buildings, and two adventurers, if their arms and armor were any indication.

People's lives being snuffed out was bad enough but they hadn’t just been killed. They had just been shredded and partly eaten if the clear bite marks in the flesh were any indication.

He didn’t know why anyone, let alone himself would sign up for this but he was regretting his decision. He wasn’t built for violence like this.

Kai turned to the side and vomited out what felt like everything he had eaten in the past year as the thoughts churned in his mind. Just as he was wiping his mouth he did so he caught a man jumping down from the top of a nearby building.

The twenty six foot drop should have shattered his legs but he seemed to step on… nothing. The air shimmered almost like the ripples of a puddle and the man’s downward momentum was halted for a moment, letting him drop the remaining ten feet without issue.

Kai almost didn’t believe what he was seeing, and even as his mind started throwing up doubts and questions, he tried to reaffirm that he knew what he had seen, but it was futile. He was a logical person and he knew that what he had thought he had seen was impossible.

People didn’t have a double jump like in some video game.

That wasn’t how the world worked.

He had seen things that make little sense but this was the first time that he had seen something that was blatantly impossible. The time he had seen a woman entering the haunted house pulling out a sword from a seemingly normal backpack could be explained by a sectioned toy sword. He didn’t know why someone would do that but it was explainable. The time he had seen someone run faster than a speeding car could be explained by his perspective being higher than the action and being far enough away that things were hard to see. Or like the time he had seen a person vanish into a dead end alleyway. That seemed impossible but he had been twelve at the time and hadn’t actually checked the alley for any kind of recessed doors or the like.

It all seemed impossible but they had reasonable, logical, mundane explanations.

Except all of that was thrown into chaos as he watched a man drop down almost thirty feet and pause mid air. Kai was vomiting and his worried mind tried to rationalize it away but there was no way to do that. He knew what he had seen but he couldn't explain it.

He tried to mention it to Bree but he was so distraught with the attack he was mostly incoherent in his ramblings.

Thankfully as part of his contract he had a room in an apartment just two blocks down from their office building. It felt a little sterile being a pre furnished apartment but it was more than enough for him and he distracted himself by putting away his clothes before crawling into the shower then bed.

When Kai woke up in the morning he had a better idea of what he needed to do.

First thing he did was get breakfast downstairs where he saw the streets were cleaned up as if nothing had happened.

Second he got Bree’s help and bought a pistol and signed up for classes on how to use it. The gun was a little expensive, and the fact he could buy one at all was still a bit of a shock, but the beginner classes were at least free.

Kai took the advice of his fellow architects who he had finally been able to meet as they prorated back into Gate’s Rest and also took a few lessons about knife fighting. They were scary and brutal, but as they pointed out that most beasts weren’t going to polite enough to just wait to be shot at range and having a knife and knowing how to use it might save his life.

He didn’t like it, but he took the lessons and then signed up for twice a month practice sessions.

