Cascadio said, “I will teach you this, for it is a small thing. My debt remains. You can ask for something larger at a later date— Aup! I will not hear otherwise, Erick. You deserve nice things, and some trinket magic is not a nice enough thing.” He waved a hand, and a portal appeared. “Let us step over here for a while to learn this trick.”

The portal led to a land of dark gold floors and a warm expanse.

Erick smiled, and then he stepped through.

- - - -

The land was a large area of burnished-bronze tournament ground or some other type of location, open to the Margleknot sky, with green grass growing in sparse clutches far beyond the edge of the bronze field. A few bronze pillars stood here and there among the bronze land.

Cascadio said, “These are the Training Grounds. Anyone can access one whenever they want. The floor itself is nearly indestructible and if you charge up the floor with power then the people in the area are automatically resurrected at a fraction of the cost of going through the Waiting Room. Every instance of this land is private for every person who comes here, though that sort of security is not that hard to break. There are no real downsides, except that if you’re in this land without exerting power or testing oneself for a while, then it will gradually drive you away. The sky will turn darker, the land will turn colder, or hotter. It might even get brighter. Sounds and then shaking might occur, all in an effort to get you to leave. The final step is a portal simply whisking you away to the Mortal Lands.”

“Huh.” Erick was already inspecting everything. This place looked rather solid. Erick tapped the floor. “What is this?”

“Immortal Bronze. If you can affect it, then you can gain a block of the stuff for your own use. It is a treasure of the land. There are many lands of Margleknot which naturally dispense treasures if you know tricks to them.” Cascadio said, “The real treasures are the people and connections of this land, though. Immortal Bronze is no stronger than the eternal stonewood of your Yggdrasil.”

“Oh! It’s illusion-based, then.”

“Hmm… Correct… ish.”

“Heh.” Erick smiled. And then he poked a pillar nearby with his finger. Nothing happened, of course. And then Erick swiped at it with a dragon claw… And his claw clicked across the surface of the metal, not leaving a single scratch. Next he touched and [Duplicate]d it. And nothing happened. He frowned a little, and then he stuck his aura into the bronze, feeling around for the molecular structure, if it even had one… And yeah, there was copper and tin there, but also an assortment of other metals and something that was not metal at all. A lot of other things. It was also dense as all get out. Erick pulled his aura back, saying, “That’s impressive.”

Cascadio watched, smiling a little, then he said, “There are a few best ways to make magic that you can cancel from a distance. There’s the manual way, the automagic way, and the power-way where the power to do what you ask is grafted onto you by one such as myself. I assume you wish to learn how to do it yourself, though.”

“Yes. I would rather have the power myself.”

Cascadio nodded. “There’s the method of resonating with your spellwork and sending out a destructive pulse along that resonance. That method is wonderful to use in an offensive manner, if you can match harmonies that easily. The boon that I would make for you in this manner would be along the lines of allowing you to erase all of your own spellwork that exists within your direct sight. You might be able to make something similar in that vein.

“Another method involves implanting auto-destructive magic within every spell you cast that can explode Elemental Destruction or other Elements into your cast spell at your command. The final version of such a spell would likely be a thing that you hold that automagically puts kill commands into every spell you cast. The main spell would be, for example, a little sun orb helper that you can crush when you’re done with a specific campaign. This method is difficult for most peoples, because the ways of doing this spell involve either meshing destructive spells into their existing spells which is already difficult enough, or one can make both spells occupy the same sort of space, but have the destructive spell ‘phased out’ until it is time to destroy the main spell. I believe you would call that Paradox Wizardry. I would call it ‘sub-slicing infinity’; putting the destructive stuff on a different… hmm. Wavelength of existence? That works, yes.

“A third method is to simply will your spellwork gone. The ‘just do it’ method. This is perhaps the most reson-intensive option, but it is also the simplest. This involves no mana at all. This is simple action creating simple outcome, because you desire it so.”

… He could ‘just do it’ with resons?

Erick considered…

And then he manually cast a bunch of little lightwards in a wide arc, bringing into existence a thousand little balls of colored light. Some of those balls continued to move away at a fast pace. Some simply remained nearby.

Erick quieted his mana sense, his aura control, and simply stood there, focusing on doing nothing more than measuring his intent against his reson wallet. He wasn’t even sure how to use resons this way.

Empowering magic with resons was easy. All that involved was simply flowing resons into Shapings and Alterings and mana and intent and whatnot, and the resons went where they wanted to go inside the magic, soaking into the spells like the resons soaked into his own body and Status. This sort of ‘soaking in’ that resons could do with spellwork was simple.

But ‘just do it’ was pure reson work?

Hmm.

Erick exerted his… intent… against the floating… orbs?

Hmm.

Erick didn’t feel like he was doing anything at all. Even using resons inside the Dead Waiting Room was easier than this, for in the Dead Waiting Room, Erick knew he was more ephemeral and the rules were a bit more lax in there, since it was all about souls and frameshifting…

… Could he frameshift in real life? Outside of his soul?

No no. Obviously not...

… Hmm—

Oh!

Right.

He was missing something obvious.

To start with, the Mark of Darkness that made mana in Erick’s soul was all about spinning personal possibility and effect into functional mana which could then be used to enact change. Or at least that was Erick’s working theory. Perhaps he should ask Shadow about that directly the next time he saw her.

Anyway.

The Mark of Darkness made mana, and that mana made reality. Through Alterings and Shapings, that mana made different sorts of reality, and to do that, the mana required conscious intent and physical movement and action, usually done through the aura.

The Mark of the Fractal Universe was all about communication with oneself and the world around oneself… or at least Melemizargo’s broken version was about communication with others. But it wasn’t really ‘communication’ at all, was it? It was about universal connection, and through connection came communication, but not with words at all, for universes didn’t talk with such imprecise things like words.

Universes spoke through action.

And inside the Dead Waiting Room, Erick had needed to actually move his body to make any sorts of actions at all.

Which.

Yeah.

Duh.

The Painted Cosmology was a land of mana and people moved auras to make stuff happen.

The Fractal Cosmology had ‘auras’, too. It had bodies made of particles, and souls, and minds, all working together to affect change.

The Painted Cosmology did not have bodies. Not really. It had ‘mana persons’ in addition to souls and minds, and those ‘mana persons’ were constructs of mana that could be extended into ‘auras’ to make magic.

To think of it another way, the Fractal Cosmology had particles and physical bodies, whereas the Painted Cosmology had mana and mana bodies.

Did the physical bodies of the Fractal Cosmology have an ‘aura-like’ corollary? Maybe. Probably not, though. If the physical body had an aura Erick would have heard something about that before now. What it did have, though, was physical bodies and resonwork.

Erick understood now.

He clawed his physical hand at the vanishing orbs —most of the orbs still 10 meters away or more— as he tried to fill himself with the intent to end the spells he had cast, as he imbued resons out of storage and into his fingers. He was trying for a claw slash.

And he got that.

Bright white claws ripped across the light orbs, brought forth not by Erick’s aura at all, but through pure reson work, as Erick brought forth a specific desire of ending at the spells he had cast out there.

His claws sliced through the center of the arc of light orbs, missing almost all of them, but he had gotten close enough. Every single orb popped into broken mana, even the ones that were over 10 meters away already.

Erick checked his reson count… and saw the same number as before. That was because the count was currently measured in millions. Duh. Erick willed the count to change from abbreviated-millions to full numbers.

He cast an arc of orbs into the air again, this time making them fly a whole lot further and faster.

He turned his reson production down to 0% for a moment, and then he checked his count, and turned off everything. No mana senses, not aura control, no nothing.

He moved his hand again, making claws with his human fingers, imbuing his physical movement with resons. It was a bit sluggish compared to his ability with auras and mana, with the resons feeling like slow sap inside his body, but it worked well enough.

An ethereal version of his dragon hand swiped through the flying orbs. This action erased the orbs in a ten meters space, but all the ones that had flown further than that continued on their flying paths. Erick hummed. He checked his reson count…

“Only cost 7 resons?” Erick said, “I assume the cost will balloon at a distance…” Erick tested that theory, making a claw with one finger and swiping through the distant orbs. It worked, but… “4 resons that time? For a smaller effect?”

Cascadio watched, but at the mention of numbers he raised an eyebrow. And then he narrowed his eyes, rapidly deciding on a question he wasn’t sure he wanted the answer to, as he asked, “You quantified your resons?”

“Is that a bad thing?”

“A peculiar thing. People who do that often fall into the trap of thinking that every reson is worth the same. Reson costs naturally balloon when you don’t try as hard as you could. Reson costs naturally shrink when you try as hard as you can. Quantifying them always makes costs go up.”

Erick was rather sure that he was going to keep his resons quantified, but still, he asked, “By how much does quantifying resons make costs balloon?”

“20% to 2000%, or more. If you only use resons when you need to then the costs remain low and you won’t burn out from overuse.”

Erick realized something. “You are operating under the assumption that I have a very high reson number. What number does that look like to you?”

Cascadio easily said, “250,000.”

“That’s off by a factor of at least 10.” Erick turned his reson wallet generator back online, and said, “Could be a lot more in the future.”

Cascadio stared for a moment. And then he had a great big belly laugh. “Good! Good!”

Erick smiled—

A thought occurred.

Erick asked, “Is the ‘just do it’ method what a warrior would learn?”

“Quite right. Warriors often have an easier time with this sort of reson work.”

“Is it because bodies moving is like the aura control for other universes? Do other universes use aura a lot? What is going on there?”

Cascadio smiled, and then he said, “Yes. The physical body of the person in this universe is like aura control in a few other universes out there... Somewhat. There are overlaps everywhere. Other universes use aura, or something similar to it. Many universes don’t have anything like aura at all, and instead use formations outside of the body. Most universes have something that is a base person, and then another thing that is for making magic. Not all! But most. Some places like the Painted Cosmology are all magic all the time, with the line between mana and magic very blurred compared to here.

“If you were from a warrior lineage I would have explained this ‘just do it’ option first, and yet, if you were a warrior, to get to where you are right now in life it is doubtful that you would have ever asked for this lesson in the first place, for you would have discovered this ‘just do it - canceling’ ability on your own. If you were a warrior, then you would have only needed a single reson to erase those little light orbs. Mages are almost always more complicated than warriors in the tools they use, opting to go more cerebral than warriors, so they generally seek more complicated, deep answers in order to use effective tools to create effective effects.

“It takes mages longer to learn to use resons properly for that reason.”

Erick nodded at that, as he recalled all the times he had seen Jane wield a sword and do some amazing things, or any time any of the other warriors in his life had done something weirdly powerful. Singularly powerful, of course. Erick had never seen a swordsman split a mountain in half, but a decent archmage could do that all the time, and there were always stories about warriors that could fell mountains. And, Erick supposed, he had seen some warriors fell some mountain-sized monsters before, so that sort of counted.

Archwarriors were a thing on Veird, and they were very much a thing out here on Margleknot.

Just the other month, Erick had seen that warrior battle clash between the inmate forces of Da’luwe, where Totte, that void flier elf on the marauder side, had transformed her flag into a glaive and gone head chopping, all without any expenditure of mana or other visible power. That was sort of like being an archwarrior… But a whole lot less. Hmm.

Aside from that, Erick had just spent some time in the Dead Waiting Room and done some of this very same ‘warrior-like’ reson work, even if he hadn’t realized it at the time. He was so used to using his aura that he mostly neglected his actual, physical body, unless he was out dragoning around and catching a nice, plump fish, or other morsel.

Hmm.

Could he use some of this ‘just do it’ with his other body parts? Perhaps vision would be the best way to cancel a spell. Just look at it and erase it?

Erick looked out across the bronze land, at a distant orb that was about 400 meters away now. He narrowed his eyes at it, flexing his eyes with resons—

Briefly, the world was white.

Erick cut the power.

