Erick’s sight came back fast enough. The little orb was still flying away in the distance.

“Hmm.” Erick asked, “What did that look like to you?”

“Like ineffective resonwork. Also like little beams of light that veered off course because you lost sight of the target before the effect connected.” Cascadio said, “Easily fixed in some cases, but not in all. You can use one eye to kill the orb and one to target, or you can use your claws. I suggest you not use your claws, though. Right now you are instinctively learning to use your various body forms, and in doing so, you’re going off of an idea that your claws are your own. This limits you because you will run into a wall of size. At a distance further than your natural body, you would have to stretch your self-image of yours past its natural usage state in order to affect distant spellworks.”

Erick realized something else. “Ah. Not if I’m a very big dragon. No stretching-of-image necessary there.”

Cascadio chuckled. “That is the usual method for dragons and other big creatures to overcome this issue, yes. ‘Just be bigger’ is always valid.” He smiled. “All of these are nuances to the ‘just do it’ method. They are also good limitations to keep in mind, for one must always have limitations when doing magic, elsewise you run into the issue of uncontrolled power.”

“I would imagine it could become quite easy to make one’s own power uncontrollable if you weren’t tying that power to specific physical patterns.”

“Quite easy.” Cascadio said, “To divorce action from power paves the way toward corruption, Erick. I know we did not bargain for that sort of teaching today, but this topic touches upon that one, as all magic touches upon each other. Corruption is how you get endlessly propagating terrors, and one of the easiest ways to get to that sort of corruption is to divorce action from consequence.”

“Well I won’t be doing that. I want to be able to cancel spells that I have already cast, perhaps even dangerous ones that cannot be approached normally.”

Cascadio grinned. “Shall we move on to the paradox spell solution to canceling one’s own magic, where you hold a canceler and when the battle is over you end all ongoing effects? Or the harmonious version, where you have to target and end your own effects yourself? Or the secret third version?”

Erick laughed, then said, “The harmonious version, for sure. That’s how I started, so that makes the most sense.”

Cascadio smiled. “The third version is easy, but expensive. All that requires is for you to imbue spellwork with resons attuned to a specific desire while you are casting that spell. The spell will automatically cancel itself when it reaches the desire you imbued within it.”

Erick said, “Bah! An enemy could probably frameshift themselves or their environment and overcome that ‘secret third method’ rather easily.”

“Ha! Yes. That would be my warning against that. But it is better said, just for clarity’s sake, because it is such a simple solution to a large problem that it must be remarked upon.” Cascadio said, “Because there are many limitations that one must overcome and account for when it comes to harmoniously ending your own spellwork. The first of these is distance. This is overcome with power and direction. The second problem is gaps in the transmission medium. When you call for a magic of your own to end, you must be able to actually reach it. The third difficulty is interference. On the battlefield, there is no way you can account for all the various powers out there unless you are truly the most powerful one in the field, and in that case: why are you fighting at all?

“We will go over each of these and their various solutions over the next hour.”

Cascadio continued, at length.

And Erick listened to a spell lesson that was larger than canceling one’s own magic. He supposed that was on purpose. Cascadio desired that Erick be prepared, and what Erick had asked for was not nearly enough to prepare him in Cascadio’s eyes.

- - - -

The spell had several moving parts, and Erick had prepared all of them over the course of an hour’s lesson.

Erick stood apart from Cascadio, there on the bronze floor of the Training Grounds. A good hundred light orbs hung in the sky and nearby, each of them subtly different. Some were made with Water mana, splashing in their containers of Force. Some were sparkling orbs of Radiance and Light. Others were dark holes of Shadow and Abyss. Still more were made with other, weirder Elements, like Blood, and Death, and Mercy. One was made with a bit of Destruction. It had been difficult to get that Destruction orb working, but even as Erick looked at it up there in the sky, it broke. The Destruction was too much for the basic structure of the simple orb. Oh well.

And Erick stood ready with a weird sort of intent in his mind.

This was Erick’s first true attempt at a spell made of resons and which would reach through infinity, and though it was complicated, it was quite simple in direction.

All of Erick’s spellwork made a sound when he channeled mana through that spellwork that he had contained in his soul.

All of that spellwork, when cast, put a version of the spell out there which shared a harmony with the spell in Erick’s soul— when he used the spells stored in his soul, anyway. Freeform magic would be harder to cancel using this method, because freeform magic did not have a miniature version of itself inside of Erick’s soul.

Erick just needed to find a connection between the spell in his soul and the one out there in the world, and then bridge that connection, and give that spell out there in the real world a ‘just do it’ canceling command alongside those resonant lines of construction. The bridging, in this case, would also be done with resons touching upon infinity and reaching out through a different slice of infinity, and then back into this slice of infinity, to where Erick had cast the spell he wished to cancel.

It was sort of like using gate magic, except not, because—

“Gate magic can’t be used in Margleknot, so… this really works?” Erick asked.

Cascadio grinned, saying, “Of course it works, and yes, gate magic cannot be used here for Margleknot controls all the gates, but infinity is infinity, Erick. You are not encroaching on the fractions of others when you do this magic, and are in fact specifically being disallowed from encroaching upon anyone else’s infinity while inside Margleknot. And, as long as you stay away from attempting to go through Benevolence as you would with your original Gate magic, then this spellwork won’t be limited by areas where Benevolence exists.” He added, “Of course, going through Benevolence is the cheaper, mana-based way, but the infinite, reson-based way is much more secure.”

“As secure as infinity is, though.”

Cascadio said, “The chances of you being able to use an infinity that is already being used is near-impossible.”

“Well now you’re just asking for Fate Magic to get involved.”

“That nuance is counteracted with your own use of Fate Magic, which is a lesson that you will have to learn on your own.” Cascadio said, “Sometimes infinity contains traps. There are no traps here in Margleknot, though.”

… Erick supposed that was correct.

He held out a hand, releasing mana through his aura above his fingers, concentrating on the flow of power from Force and Water, for he was going to target that Water-carrying Force spell up there, first.

At first, Erick was harmonizing with Force and Water, but then he moved on to using [Force Wall], as well as the very same [Water Splash] spellwork he had put up there. Erick’s little fountain of white and blue began to take on the sound of something solid, and watery.

And suddenly, Erick felt like he was starting out on Veird again, yet completely different.

With a small smile, Erick flowed resons into the harmonious flow of power in his hands, concentrated on zipping power through infinity like a curveball sent through another wavelength of land, to aim at the orb and water floating up there—

He twisted his hand, tiny dragon claws forming white light of his fingers. He crunched those finger claws down on the flow of white Benevolence and golden resons swirling out of his palm.

Far away…

Nothing happened.

Erick thought for a moment…

Cascadio watched.

Erick tried again, and this time he flowed power through his palm and used his aura to shape that flow into the image of the spellwork ahead. He also truly focused on infinity—

Suddenly, Erick saw tiny fractals spill out from the image in his hand. Tiny fractals also spun out of the orb in the sky ahead. That was when Erick knew he was connected. With a flash of resonwork on his fingers, mimicking his real claws, Erick crunched his fist around the flow of mana in his palm—

And spikes of white, claw-like power lanced through the orb in the distance. The orb did not break, as though someone had caused it too much damage. It simply unraveled, as though every bit of intent imbued into the mana had suddenly dried up.

“Excellent!” Cascadio said. “Again! Try the others.”

Erick smiled as he moved through the other orbs, to the ones made with specific spells of Erick’s own creation. All of those popped easily enough, and it only cost Erick a few tens of mana and resons for each canceling. Distance did not seem to matter; only precision of model in his hand and intent.

The freeform-cast orbs were tricky, for Erick did not have the specific power to erase those. He imagined that he would not be able to erase them at all.

But then he tried thinking in more base terms, in Benevolence. In that way, Erick was able to Shape and Alter images of the orbs in his hand to match the orbs out there. With a twist of resons and a crunch of claws in hand, Erick learned to cancel spells that he had no internal magic for; merely Benevolence. It was actually a lot easier to do freeform magic canceling in this way, once he understood what he was doing. Soon, he was canceling spells of all kinds through free-form canceling.

He wondered if the Script would allow him to do this, this way? Maybe not.

Probably not.

Erick took to the sky, and cast a [Vivid Gloom] onto the land, kilometers below.

Black roiled with glinting white light, the spell shifting and billowing and crushing with every passing second. It was hard to model, but Erick held within his hand a harmonious resonance with the spell far below, and that was enough. Fingernail-claws crushed a fractal-wreathed model of black and white, and street-sized claws tore apart the spellwork below.

He did that again, but with three [Vivid Gloom]s, focusing on every single one of the roils with his single grip of spell-in-hand, crushing that model and canceling the whole trio of Glooms. It only took him a few hundred mana and a few tens of resons to do that.

He could practice for a lot longer, and he probably should, but this was good enough for now.

This was all highly reminiscent of doing Wizardry, which Erick already had a bit of experience with, so it was nice to know what he was actually doing when he did that Wizardry, and it was nice to expand his Wizardry options.

“Great,” Erick said, feeling relief. “This works. This was necessary, Cascadio. It is appreciated. Now I can actually go to real war again.”

Cascadio asked, “Then shall we go see your army?”

And so they went.
