"Obviously," the Leviathan said, looking at her like the question she'd asked was ridiculous. Flia just sighed and began scratching the Leviathan's scales gently, feeling absurd. Were all incredibly powerful mages like this? Did Akkau ask for scritches sometimes?

Flia abruptly envisioned Cale giving the Headmaster scritches, then banished the thought as quickly as she could. Not the time.

"As I was saying," the Leviathan continued. "In order to take action, I must appoint someone to act in my stead. When I do this, I lend them a small portion of my domain. You carry within you a fragment of the First Monolith, the Law of What Lies Between."

A small pause, and then the Leviathan swished her tail awkwardly. "...I suppose I did just say I was not supposed to tell you that just yet," she said thoughtfully. "But I see no way of avoiding it. A minor infraction; do not worry about it."

Flia blinked. "I mean, if I'm going to be your herald, I'd have to know, right?" she offered.

"Indeed." The Leviathan nodded to herself, seemingly satisfied by that line of reasoning. Or communicating with someone across a great distance, perhaps? "I cannot explain what we are further, but that is enough to give you some understanding of your role, I hope."

"The Law of What Lies Between," Flia muttered. There was a lot she could infer from that name alone. "But why me? What do you need from me?"

The Leviathan was silent for a long moment. She swung her tail again, this time in agitation more than anything else, and then eventually spoke. "The Abyssal you saved," she said. "It is not the only Abyssal One that is missing from my domain."

Flia stiffened. "It isn't?"

"No." The Leviathan's tone was restless, severe. "There are others. I do not know where they are, only that they were last seen near your realm. And so I searched for a herald that would understand. That would hold sympathy, even for something so crucially and fundamentally different.

"You must understand, most mages do not react to Abyssals the way you do. Abyssals do not belong within the Great Realms. There is an instinctive... disgust. A revulsion that exists through no fault of the mage. And among those that can work through that revulsion, there are many that would simply avoid the Abyssal, or find a way to use it.

"You, however... You see only the heart beneath, even before I lent you my power." The Leviathan's tone gentled slightly. "Though they are creatures born of tragedy, the abilities of Abyssal Ones are vast. Yet much like myself, in their strength lies a weakness—they are as weak to the Realms as the Realms are to them.

"And so given enough time and power, an Abyssal One can be turned into a servant. They can be crafted into artifacts that corrupt the very foundation of a realm. Some mages have succeeded even in merging themselves with Abyssals, creating abominations of power that tear at the boundaries of the realm that hosts them.

The Leviathan looked up at her. "You understand the problem, I imagine."

"I do." That sounded very bad, in fact, but Flia found to her own surprise that she was more incensed than she was scared. "You're saying someone's been abducting these Abyssals, and I'm the only one that can send them back. And whoever's doing this is hiding somewhere in Utelia?"

"That is the most likely scenario."

"Why didn't you tell me sooner?" Flia burst out without thinking. "I could have tried to find them! I could have—"

"You would have died."

The simple, matter-of-fact way the Leviathan had said those words stopped Flia dead in her tracks. She froze, feeling almost like she'd been doused in ice magic.

"I am limited in the guidance I can provide," the Leviathan said, not without a tinge of guilt in her voice. "But I could and should have done more. Understand this, Flia—you possess a fragment of my Law. That is, in and of itself, a power you can cultivate that is distinct from mana. It is authority. It is the power of a Rule, and it governs all that lies between.

"I truly did not know you would have difficulty controlling it, or that it would affect your magic to such a degree." There was regret in the Leviathan's voice now. "But now that we have met, I can see why. Your affinity with my Law is far greater than I had anticipated. You have been using it subconsciously—to connect with magical creatures, to deepen the bonds you forge, and even to weave probability itself around you. Without conscious control, that power leaks into your every action.

"Reach into your core." The Leviathan spoke the words authoritatively, like it was imparting some deep secret unto her. "You will recognize my power now that you have met me. It resides within you, waiting for your touch. And when you do..."

The Leviathan swam forward, booping her gently with her snout.

"Grasp it with all that you are," she said. "Use that heart of yours, Flia, and bind it to your magic. The Gift, for all its faults, will do the rest. It is truly a marvellous creation."

Flia woke up gasping, the currents of water in the pool she slept in swirling and splashing rapidly as if in turmoil. She swallowed, struggling to understand everything she'd seen. What the Leviathan had implied.

A part of her had almost worried that Damien and Leo would leave her behind, with everything they'd gained, but this?

She could do something with this. If she understood this correctly, then everything was connected. The Great Realms by the Abyss, yes, but also people to one another. One event to the next.

The Red Hunters to their school, and their school to her friends.

Besides, if anyone else on Utelia was capturing and using Abyssal Ones, it would be them. What else could explain the powers they exhibited? That archmage had managed to sneak past Syphus's sight, of all things.

Flia sat in her pool, staring at the glowing water as it swirled with a gentle current. Her expression hardened, and she took a deep breath, then closed her eyes and dove into her core.

No classes today. Not until she understood exactly what this was and how she could use it.
