Their pride dealt a harsh blow, I continue to pace before them, their eyes blazing as they stare straight ahead, a few even glaring at me. Ignoring them, my head shakes slowly in disapproval. “I am to blame in part. I've coddled you. In the army, you were straw soldiers, there to hold the line until the real warriors arrived, and I continued with that line of thinking, turning you into little more than sandbags for the enemy to trample over. Well that changes today. You'll become real warriors, or you will die trying. Because you are all so incapable, I have decided to split you into specialized units for training. Rustram, Bulat, Pran, Saluk, and Ravil. Step forward and face the rest.”

The two groups of trainees face one another, looking hesitantly back and forth, the five who have been with me the longest, across from the ones who came later. “You five will lead each unit, and if the men under your command do not perform well, you will be punished. Bulat, pick nine to be your scouts.”

“Uh, Old Bulat isn't a leader, maybe-”

“I wasn't asking. Ravil, pick the best archers, you're my ranged unit. Rustram, you're my vanguard, choose your soldiers accordingly. Pran, Saluk, pick the biggest, strongest, heaviest bastards available. Your two units will be my hammer.” Standing to one side, I wait for the leaders to finish choosing their units, done with hurried efficiency. This was how Du Min Gyu taught, so I'll shamelessly steal it. Specialization first, generalization later, so every soldier has at least one use.

Grinning at the trainees who are left, their nervous glances fill me with joy. “You all belong to me. Your only talent lies in being beaten, so that's what you'll do. You are my Anvil, which means you need to take even more abuse than the others.” Ignoring their panicked expressions, I begin going over the training exercises I learned from Li Song. Simple, repetitive actions which push the limits of the body, forcing the person doing them to instinctively adapt, which gives rise to an innate, intuitive use of chi. It's brilliant. Yan is in good hands.

Thankfully, I get through the demonstrations without fucking up too badly and I watch each group go through the exercises together, offering what advice I can. Once they understand the exercises, I'll go over where I want them to focus on. Lightening is the most important skill for everyone, as not only will it let them carry more while riding, it also allows the user to travel without a quin. For the archers, Stabilization is their key skill, allowing them to loose arrows whilst standing on quinback. For the Hammer and Vanguard, they'll need to learn Reinforcement, which will allow them to wield the massive weapons I intend to give them. Amplification for the scouts to kill silently with thrown weapons, my budding ninja unit. For my squad, they only need to learn how to heal faster than anyone else, which means lots of injuries. Easy Peasy.

The best thing about this is now I can gather data on how each trainee performs each skill and study it for a pattern or even figure out a better way to teach them. I haven't given up on technology, but to be honest, I'm a little lost for ideas. With flammable weapons a no go, I'm at a dead end unless I find some exploding clay. I'm almost positive that's a real thing, but so far all I got were strange looks when asking about it. Any effective poisons able to kill or cripple a Martial Warrior or Defiled require rare ingredients or venom from powerful creatures, neither of which is sustainable. Husolt will be making four more crossbows like the Monstrosity, but then he's out of materials. I'm not even sure if it's worth it in the grand scheme of things, those four crossbows could have been twelve bows instead.

Other than that, Chakha is working on the repeating crossbow, but those were never for my squad. With a population of three million, Shen Huo only has a standing army of 50,000 soldiers. Arm a tenth of the citizenry with a repeating crossbow and the army grows six times larger. 300,000 people firing 1.5 arrows per second, and the massive beasts and hordes of the Defiled become much less of an advantage.

None of that matters to me at the moment. Smarter minds than mine are figuring it out, I'm the idea man. My job is to push my squad to succeed and pray they don't snap and murder me in my sleep. Maybe I should train the cats to guard me. I could even give them a set of armour and weapons. Samurai kitten unit, here to guard their lord.

Then again, they’re cats, so I doubt they’d be very effective. With my luck, they'll just sleep through my murder and eat me when they wake up.

Chapter Meme
