"Those the magical scales you were talking about?" Shiv breathed.

"That they are," Adam said, equally awestruck. "I've seen smaller ones, but displacers of this size must have cost a fortune, and one small mistake could see all that mana cascade into a cataclysmic overload."

Shiv looked the obelisk up and down once more. At its base, there was another emanation of mana. Pure waves of Dimensionality splashed out from the root, but it was converted to other colors before it could reach the tip.

At the very bottom, the two crafters snarled and barked at each other like rabid animals. The remains of a broken gauntlet hovered between them, and its isolated shape was rattling once more.

"They managed to fix my Magebreaker?" Shiv asked.

"I managed to get it back to an operational state," Can Hu corrected. "They had little experience working with Inertium, though they are more studied of other aspects and sciences."

The Deathless smirked as he regarded his former armor. "Well, guess you showed them. And speaking of, what do you make of those two?"

"Merrielmel is manic. He's driven to see the Slipgate made operational, not only to save his sibling, but also to prove this experiment to be a reality. He's often absent-minded about other things and spends his time obsessing over the finest details of this project. As such, he has a tendency to miss the forest because he's trying to make a perfect tree. Concelhaunt, meanwhile, is driven by guilt. His heart is not entirely in the project, though he is far more pragmatic and efficient in terms of material acquisition."

"And what does that mean, in plain speak?" Adam asked.

"He is likely the one that constantly strikes deals with the Neath," Can Hu explained. "He stepped out earlier to speak to one of the Dragon Brokers' liaisons. They are also deeply interested in this project, and will likely use this as a means to connect their criminal enterprises across Integrated Earth or potentially go beyond the confines of this realm alone. And that is one reason I called you here.”
