With the arrays in place, there was nothing left for Zac to do but keep an eye on the sky while staying ready to deal with the fallout. A timely thump from [Void Heart] preceded a surge of Void Energy to replenish some of what he had lost.

Finally, thousands of glowing seams simultaneously erupted with blinding radiance, prompting the Quantum Space to undergo a marvelous transformation. Zac had already entered his Void State, and his two Warbringer Idols appeared to help him witness the metamorphosis with a clear mind.

The Quantum Space ballooned to the size of a solar system, attracting vast amounts of energy from the Cosmic Sea. Zac could tell at a glance that this space could already sustain a weight comparable to most of the Early Monarchs he had encountered. Such was the benefit of extraordinary foundations.

Still, Zac’s whole attention remained on his Cosmic Core, which now shone with blinding light that recast the solar system in Evolutionary Dao. Every scrap and morsel of energy had been fully activated, yet the core still held fast. With nowhere else to go, the rootless energy coming from outside poured into the core.

This was something Zac had never heard of before. He started to wonder if there was such a thing as too stable foundations as the core began releasing ominous pulses of increasing intensity. It was too late to regret or to induce ignition now. Any imperfection he introduced at this stage would blow him to kingdom come.

Six pulses came and went. Sweat pouring down his forehead, Zac began fastening talismans against his stomach and throat. If all else failed, he needed to at least protect his head. The rest of his body could be regrown. Finally, the core reached the ninth pulse. A corona of pure energy rushed out of the core, crashing into the erected barrier with extraordinary power.

Zac was rocked by the blast, but he and the shielding held steady. He poured everything he had into the array, creating an intense counterforce to the outward pressure in preparation for the real blast soon to follow. Another flash, this one even brighter, quickly followed, and countless radiant stars rushed out of the haze left in the corona’s wake.

They were so slow! Zac’s Void State almost collapsed upon seeing the gentle trajectories. Less than a third would reach his erected barriers before running out of steam. It was as if his Cosmic Core had simply fallen apart into glowing drops of starlight. The solar system inside the Quantum Space now looked like a galaxy, with countless stars forming stable trajectories based on Zac’s Daos.

It was a truly perfect ignition that even cultivators could only dream of. None of the pieces were damaged, and none of them were lost. The tranquil scene was so far removed from his previous experiences that he briefly failed to react. However, while one part changed, another stayed the same.

The reward came in the form of pitch-black lightning that aimed to erase all that Zac had accomplished.
