“I find your teasing amusing, especially when one considers the facts,” the King said, crossing his arms. “Knowing how slow you tend to level, there is a high probability I shall find myself stepping into B-grade before you. Additionally, I wish to remind you that as you wear the mirror of my soul upon your face, I got a small glimpse when you bound it. Ignoring the fact that your soul remains damaged and needs to be fixed before you can evolve, your soul itself does not strike me as one that easily grows. It’s a vessel that requires more than most can provide, and while I find your Path admirable, it’s also a more arduous one.”

Jake opened his mouth, but no words came out as he couldn’t really argue against any of what the King had said. He also knew full well that monsters tended to level a lot faster than enlightened, especially if they actively worked for it. Based on how the King was acting, Jake had a good feeling he was going to work very hard to get some levels under his belt in the near future.

“I think that any of us concerning ourselves with our speed of progress rather than the quality of every step we take is a complete waste,” the Sword Saint shook his head. “Levels are all well and good, but I see them not as the goal but as a side effect of striving for self-improvement.”

“Wisely so,” the King agreed.

“Yeah, can’t really argue with that,” Jake shrugged. “But that doesn't make those level-ups feel any less awesome. I just really like to see numbers going up, I guess.”

“Levels do feel nice,” Dina nodded as she glanced around a bit. “Say, do you know when Minaga and Sylphie will arrive?”

Jake hesitated for a moment as he looked toward an empty spot on the lawn. “Well... you know those two. I’m sure they’ll pop up all dramatically when we least expect them to, probably with some silly-“

“Surprise!”

“Ree!”

A blast of wind with sparkling light erupted from where Jake had just been looking as Minaga and Sylphie revealed themselves standing on each side of a long table filled with all sorts of different foodstuffs.

Jake had naturally noticed their arrival a good while ago and had struggled hard to ignore them as Minaga had taken out a folding table and begun to set up snacks while Sylphie made sure to taste-test everything on offer.

Minaga’s divine aura spread out after he revealed himself, which only displayed another rather unique trait of their Nevermore party... because Jake was fairly confident they were the only party of C-grades capable of completely ignoring the aura of a god and instead just stare at the god in question as if wondering who’s idea it was to invite him in the first place.
