[Fulmination Aura] skittered across the revealed man, but briefly, as Sitnakov’s eye went wide. The man had an [Air Domain] of some sort, as well as [Greater Air Body]. The guy had some sort of reflection active, too. Lightning skittered across his black metal body and did nothing.

Sitnakov tried to airstep away, though, and that’s when the [Harmonic Counterspell]s struck. It didn’t work completely for the man was thick with Domain, but the spell did stagger the man barely enough as he tried to get away. Erick had cast another [Undertow Star] into the sky, through Yggdrasil, just as [Fulmination Aura] started to reflect.

A new Star in the sky licked through Sitnakov’s body, twisting Mana and Health out of the man with a tiny, almost invisible Drain. Sitnakov had some sort of massive damage mitigation multiplier to be able to tank [Undertow Star] like that. Or else his Domain was simply that strong. It wasn’t a lot, but it could be the turn of the tide.

Erick was honestly surprised that any of his spells were working at all.

And yet, Erick knew that if he won…

Whatever. He would win and then sort out the fallout after this was over.

With a guiding hand, he propped up Yggdrasil’s [Physical Domain], linking deep with his largest [Familiar] to show him how it was done. Soon, massive tunnels of magenta shockwaves were rippling around the entirety of Yggdrasil like his rainbow crown, but larger, and more violent.

Erick sent those larger shockwaves at Tasar’s continued [Void Bird Summoning], or whatever it was she was doing. It was enough to obliterate much of her incoming power, but she was already weak from her run in with Melemizargo. Perhaps she was pulling her punches, though? Perhaps. Highly likely, even.

Kromolok was very much pulling his punches. His [Shredding Domain], or whatever it was, allowed him to get closer but he couldn’t keep on the pressure and he faltered, falling back.

And Erick discovered a fun fact about Yggdrasil that he should have realized earlier. Yggdrasil covered a large area and had a massive size multiplier, so anything under his branches was close enough to be considered ‘close range’, opening up quite a few fighting options.

Sitnakov might have dodged with kilometer-wide airsteps, but he was still within range since Erick could target anywhere within all of Yggdrasil’s branches like it was the spell’s origin point; he could cast three kilometers away from himself if he wanted, and he did, multiple times. Just small spells, mainly. Things to trip up Sitnakov.

A [Force Wall] here, directly at his shins. More [Grand Dispel]s to strip away more defenses.

Ophiel harassed the man with lightning and otherwise.

Erick opened up with a sudden, unexpected [Luminous Beam] cast in the very air directly in front of Sitnakov and aimed at the man’s feet. The result wasn’t as impressive as Erick hoped. Sitnakov retained his feet. They didn’t even look singed. But Erick had done damage, for sure. Maybe not much damage?

Erick called out to the man, “You’re a tough little shit, aren’t you?”

“And you’re a danger to the world!”

This was a war of attrition.

Tasar was out of it, though. Erick’s pressure with a magenta [Physical Domain] explosion had caused another internal break of some sort and Kromolok had taken her far away, down the coast. The Mind Mage was at her side, healing her again. Both of them were out of the fight, and Sitnakov didn’t even notice. Or perhaps he had?

Granted, Sitnakov was very, very busy at the moment. This was a war of attrition, sure, but Sitnakov was on a timer. Even with fantastic spell and ability efficiency, and the Stats to back up a lot of Regeneration, he was under the effects of [Undertow Star] and Yggdrasil was back to throwing more magenta explosions at Sitnakov. Yggdrasil had learned from Erick’s use of his power, and his skill at striking Sitnakov had tripled.

And yet... Maybe Sitnakov was on a timer?

He managed to escape the Star’s shadowy tendrils quite often, but he wasn’t fully evading them anymore. They clipped him now and again, drawing off more power in the form of white light out of Sitnakov’s black body.

Tasar was certainly on a timer; black blood seeped from all of her half-healed wounds as she lay on the sands of the beach, barely cognizant of her surroundings while Kromolok healed her as best he could. Tasar’s staff was gone, and so was all the extra adamantium that Erick had given to them. Erick wasn’t about to let them die, though, so he broke off some Ophiel from harassing Sitnakov to copy some more adamantium knives. He dropped those knives on the beach next to Tasar and Kromolok. The white wrought gave a worried ‘thanks’ before grabbing the adamantium and stringing it into Tasar’s wounds, healing the woman as best he could.

Erick checked his own mana and saw that he was fine; he was already pacing himself. He summoned Ophiel when they got low, and had Ophiel resummon all his own smaller defenses before sending him back out there to harass Sitnakov.

Sitnakov had started off strong but he was pacing himself now. Running through the sky, tanking magenta explosions, halfway-dodging shadow tendrils, he searched for openings, letting Erick’s spells take their toll and not caring too much. Erick’s spells might have injured him, but they had not done nearly enough. Sitnakov seemed to be enjoying this, like he was waiting for the perfect opening.

Which was exactly what he was doing.

Erick called out, “If you’re waiting for me to deploy my Domain wide enough for you to crack it, you should know that won’t happen. I had to walk through Domain-wielding monsters to get here, too. I know not to leave myself vulnerable like that.”

Sitnakov chuckled as he burst through another magenta explosion, his voice carrying on the wind, “With this level of power no wonder it took you so long to get down here!” He laughed. “How did you get past the guardians with this weakness? How did you evade our patrols? How did you kill even a single monster?”

“It took me three days and a thousand kilometers to get into this land.”

“What the fuck!” Sitnakov laughed. “Lies? Now, of all times! After we started off so well!”

He was obviously trying to bait Erick into making some sort of mistake.

Erick chose to taunt, instead, “Should have taken you at least four more days, but then Melemizargo had to help you! You had to accept the Darkness’s help! What sort of weak shit is that?”

Sitnakov stopped laughing. He never stopped racing around Yggdrasil’s boughs, evading spellwork as it came for him—

He flashed through the air, appearing directly at Erick’s front, already slashing.

Erick lightstepped away, saying, “I was having some very good talks with Rozeta but then you had to ruin my communion, slaging slagger.” He called out, “Ever think there was a reason Melemizargo suddenly decided to chase you in here, dumbshit!”

Sitnakov frowned, rapidly dodging everything with sudden expert control, weaving in and out and around all attacks, disappearing—

He reappeared in the sky ten kilometers away, across the ocean, standing still.

Only the barest bit of Yggdrasil’s [Physical Domain] could reach that far, so Erick had the big guy pull back, solidifying the spheres and rings of magenta explosions into even stronger power in case Sitnakov resumed his attack.

Erick spoke first, his voice booming across the ocean, “Apologize, or I’ll start blasting for real.”

Sitnakov frowned. His voice carried on the wind, “You’re not taking me seriously.”

“You’re a fucking asshole who needs a good slap upside the head and a few more punches after that, but no! How could I?” Erick said, “This fight doesn’t end with you. A win here means Stratagold would descend upon me and mine and I do not feel like going on a one-man genocide spree! Not again!”

“Abyss confound it— You’re like my slagging brother.” Sitnakov sighed. “I suppose there’s not going to be any true fight on either side since Stratagold wishes to recruit more than it wishes to destroy, and you apparently can’t handle a bit of banter to truly rile up the fighting spirit.”

Several things clicked.

Erick was incredulous, “You only fight for the sake of fighting?”

“Of course! What other —” Sitnakov scowled. “This speech would have been a lot easier with me standing over your crushed body, but I wasn’t gonna actually kill you or yours. You need some damned therapy, Flatt, but I suppose you do live on the Surface.” With his own incredulity, Sitnakov called out, “This is why we don’t deal with the surface, by the way! Everyone up there is fucked in the head!”

Erick almost [Luminous Beam]ed Sitnakov dead on, from ten directions at once—

He pulled back, and kept to yelling instead, “Don’t FUCKING banter about killing my family or my people!”

Sitnakov scowled as he spat, “Don’t you know who I am?”

“I KNOW YOU’RE AN ASSHOLE!” Only very slightly softer, Erick added, “And Rozeta told me that she told you guys not to kill me, which indicates that murder was a very real possibility.”

Sitnakov scoffed. “She told Kromolok not to kill you, but you won him over when you started revealing key abilities to save our lives.”

Erick glanced over toward the beach with the white wrought and the archmage. Kromolok was still leaning over Tasar, feeding strings of adamantium into her bleeding body.

Sitnakov called out, “All I ever wanted was a real fight but now Kromolok is telling me to pull back— Hey! Ya wanna know who the real asshole is? It’s him! High Inquisitor Head Priest Kromolok. He’s the one who would have actually killed you.” Sitnakov said, “You don’t know about me, but you know of the Forgotten Campaigns, yeah? He leads them. He’s the one you gotta watch out for.”

“All I know is that all of you are suspect.” Erick yelled, “You say the people on the Surface are fucked in the head, but what the fuck is your problem?”

Sitnakov smiled. “I guess I wasn’t born right.”

“… Am I supposed to know what that means?”

Sitnakov’s smile dropped. “Yes you slagging well should. It’s my saying. I’ve had plays made about me and—” He added, “I kill Ancients all the time! I spent a lot of time dragging Bards around behind me, too, ensuring that everyone knows who protects this damned world from these damned monsters.” He happily added, “I even managed to wound Melemizargo once! Sliced him across an eye, I did!”

And now, Erick was mad for completely new, old reasons. “Where were you when I was looking for people to go after Ar’Kendrithyst and kill all the Shades!”

“Look.” Sitnakov’s serious voice carried across the kilometers of air, “I’m a battleforged, but I ain’t a stupid battleforged. You walked into danger and lucked out. That’s all there was to that.”

Erick lost his words. They were out there, somewhere, but he couldn’t find them. Was this guy for real? Was he playing up a persona? Were his reasons for attacking truly ‘to have a good fight’?

Erick finally settled on, “… Are you a bit stupid?”

Sitnakov frowned, then he spoke with authority once again, “I had hoped to have you at my mercy ensuring that I could offer you a hand in friendship without there being this sort of distrust, because both of us would know who is on top. But apparently doing so would require methods that neither of us wish to utilize at this moment. And so, as you have said yourself: Even if you win, this fight doesn’t end here. So choose. Either Kromolok and the Mind Mages, or me and the Adamantium of Stratagold.”

Erick scoffed. “What about Tasar’s offer?”

“She’s throwing in with me, which you would have found out later after I had crushed you into friendly compliance.”

“Fuck you. I’m not getting mind wiped and I’m not having you at my backside, ever.”

Sitnakov smirked. “You have abandoned the easy path.” He took an airy step and was suddenly by the beach, near Kromolok and Tasar. The Inquisitor was still healing the Summoner, but Tasar looked a lot better. Her eyes were open now, and glaring at the large man. Sitnakov stood above them both, and spoke across the ocean at Erick, “Now comes the hard sell.”

Kromolok sighed and tied off his healing of Tasar. Then he stood up and faced Yggdrasil and Erick in the far distance. His voice carried on the air, “Sitnakov should have given you the softer sell but in his eagerness to test himself against you, he overrepresented his option; he would not actually go after you or yours, Archmage Flatt. His was supposed to be the reasonable option. Seeing what I see now, you likely would have picked him if he had been less forceful—” Kromolok frowned a bit, then continued, “I would prefer not to threaten, or to have relations deteriorate any further. You already know where we would go from here if you look to endanger the world.”

“Yes. Forgotten Campaigns, or subtle assassinations in the night.” Erick said, “I gotta say that I didn’t expect quite this reaction from you people. I expected a lot more talk and a lot less attempted murder. And I’m still not hearing any apologies!”

Sitnakov scoffed, again. “Why should we apologize! You’re the one that invaded our holy land!”

“It’s not holy land.” Erick said, “Rozeta called it a warehouse for resources to keep on hand in case of emergency. Nothing more; nothing less. Besides! There are memorials here! You can’t have memorials without people to see and honor them. You’re—”

“Let us not talk of religion for we do not have the same Sight to see the same things.” Kromolok said, “I would prefer not to fight anymore in this sacred land. Our people have set up another space for Yggdrasil outside of Stratagold. Could we reconvene there? We can hold off on further discussions until you are ensconced inside Yggdrasil once again, outside of this land.”

Erick wanted to scoff again, but Kromolok seemed sincere. So Erick met his words with a sincerity of his own, “You threatened me and mine physically and then tried to fight when the threats didn’t work, all in order to force me to capitulate to your demands. This is the wrong way to attempt diplomacy. Your actions show a complete disregard for others, bordering on psychopathy. Especially Sitnakov over there. If there is to ever be any sort of actual cooperation here, you will go away, and come again tomorrow after we’ve all had time to cool down, and you’ve had time to properly heal.”

Kromolok instantly said, “Accepted. We’ll meet again tomorrow, Archmage Flatt.”

Sitnakov shouted, “What! No! We—”

