The fight hadn’t started yet.

Erick was strangely calm. He hadn’t fought against a man like Sitnakov before; either against one of the strongest warriors on the planet, or against a wrought of any skill at all. It made Erick think of Killzone, and wonder if the orcol-shaped Sitnakov was anything like the orcol-shaped general of Spur’s Army. Maybe only superficially? Killzone used his fists, but Sitnakov used two straight swords, so there was a difference there, but maybe not much of one.

Sitnakov vanished, followed rapidly by Tasar and Kromolok, Erick’s [True Sight] and other methods failed to pierce whatever spellwork the three wrought used to hide, but according to the Imaging by Yggdrasil they were still there. Tasar was likely still laid out on the ground, mostly healed but not quite. Kromolok was likely still leaning over the downed Summoner—

The rocky ground where Sitnakov had been suddenly cratered, as though a massive weight launched into the air. In that same second, Tasar and Kromolok blipped away, but they were already [Super Invisible], or whatever fucking spell they had each cast, so Erick didn’t see them go.

The Imaging beside Erick followed the three combatants as they blipped in unison toward Erick’s location; toward Yggdrasil.

Erick took a moment to shift the Imaging to ‘wrought’, as he said to Yggdrasil, “I want you to lightly use [Physical Domain] but only on the wrought or the wrought’s spellwork, when they come into range. Use the map to find them if you can’t see them. Use the [Physical Domain] like I showed you; like you saw me use against Nirzir’s spellwork, to erase that spellwork. Don’t actually pressure any of them with the [Domain], okay? Only vibrate them, or the world around them. No killing; not yet.”

“Okay!” Yggdrasil said, brightly happy.

The air suddenly shifted as a deep power began to thrum the world—

“Pull back a bit, Yggdrasil. Normalize yourself. Amplify and Harmonize only the targets. Keep your Domain away from the land.”

The air shifted again, becoming calmer. Erick watched with Ophiel as Yggdrasil flickered Harmonize and Amplify in pockets of air all around himself. Pockets of vibration appeared next to pockets of stillness, as waves down below blew against the wind and bubbles formed underwater here and there. Yggdrasil’s power extended a dozen kilometers in every direction, skipping over the Wizard’s Tower and the rest of the nearby coastal kingdom, but he pulled his power back from those locations, too, ensuring that his destruction would only affect what he wanted to affect.

If he managed to help at all, then that was fine—

In three short seconds, Erick watched as Yggdrasil rapidly learned how to wield his power, forming a dozen rings and a hundred small pockets of vibrating space all around, prismatic light flickering back and forth inside those pocket spaces like controlled shockwaves. It would be a while till they turned into magenta explosions, but it would happen soon enough, for sure.

Erick let his small joy at Yggdrasil’s first success flow through their bond. “Good job, Yggdrasil. You’re getting the hang of it. When the wrought show, throw some explosions at them, but don’t go for the kill.”

“I understand, Father!”

Erick said, “I’m going to use you to cast this spell, now, okay?” He waited a bare second, feeling for Yggdrasil’s easily given reins, and then he cast a star into the sky.

The blue heavens turned dark, and then exploded in bright white light as radiance washed out across the blue ocean. An Abyss of Extreme Light swelled inside the darkness above Yggdrasil’s rainbow crown, growing fast to overwhelming proportions, unleashing tendrils of twisting shadow all across the land. Erick couldn’t see it himself up there, above Yggdrasil’s upper branches, but the [Undertow Star]’s power cast shadows even into the brightness of this central space.

Erick used Yggdrasil to cast another spell, filling the nearest ten kilometers with [Spatial Denial].

All the while, Erick resummoned his Ophiels, preparing for the confrontation, wondering just how far he had to go against these people to get them to stop, and if he needed to follow up today’s murders with genocide—

And wasn’t that a sobering thought! And yet! Sitnakov had threatened Jane, and Spur, and Poi, Kiri, Teressa! He had threatened all of them and more besides. Erick was ready for extreme solutions if necessary. He probably wouldn’t create his ‘kill everything’ spell… Probably.

Erick prepared himself with [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk] as he stared down at the [Cascade Imaging] hovering in the air, just beyond Yggdrasil’s trunk. With resignation, he lightsteped into the air a hundred meters away from his sleeping space, to stand on the light, and wait.

Sitnakov was 50 kilometers away, over atop the ocean. Kromolok and Tasar were beside each other, about a kilometer away from Sitnakov. Erick couldn’t see them with his eyes, or with any of his other senses, even though he should have been able to at that range…

With another thought, Erick erased his own Imaging and had Yggdrasil cast another Imaging into the sky, using the big guy’s massive size multiplier to create something that was almost a new spell, but not quite. Below the [Undertow Star], directly inside Yggdrasil’s upper canopy, another star formed. The spells did not interfere with each other, thankfully.

A fog rolled in, lifting off from the ocean and inundating Yggdrasil’s entire kilometers-wide body and twenty kilometers in every direction beyond. This was a big [Cascade Imaging]. It would take a while to populate, but it was a 1-for-1 map overlaid atop Yggdrasil, and it should give rather precise targeting of the wrought when any of them showed in the space.

Barely 30 seconds had passed since hostilities seemed inevitable.

Erick wondered how long he would have to wait—

A blue rush appeared in the foggy air next to Erick, inside Yggdrasil’s airspace, coming in from Erick’s back right like a cosmically-fast blur. With half a thought, Erick designated the wroughts as ‘enemies’ and the Star above weaved a tendril of shadow through the space, aiming at the blue blur. Those shadows seemed to move in slow motion against the blue blur, like a ponderous giant moving against a speedy gnat. The gnat almost reached Erick but Erick lightstepped away, through the closest shadow tendril, hoping to draw the invisible Sitnakov into the Drain and Extreme Light.

But the blue blur continued on through where Erick had been, never appearing to any Sight, only half-seen by the glowing fog all around, moving fast through the mist to get away from the ponderous [Undertow Star]—

A blue blur appeared in the fog right behind Erick. He barely had time to move, but he did. Another step through another shadow tendril took him out of harm’s way.

Where Erick had been, the blue blur half-materialized like something out of a fevered dream, arms swinging non-visible swords that sliced the air, filling the world with crashing, sonic booms. The blue blur vanished back into the glowing mist all around, moving fast to stay away from the crawling tendrils of [Undertow Star]. The shockwaves surely would have propagated far, but Yggdrasil saw the problem and locked those destructive waves down with Normalize.

Erick could have sworn he heard a ‘tsk’ out there in the glowing mists.

A moment of nothing passed, and Erick found himself thinking. If Sitnakov was attacking like this, it meant that either he discounted Erick’s power, or he had failed to [Strike] properly, or he wasn’t aiming for a kill. Erick discounted the third option right away. The first two meant that he should aim to kill, too… Unless he could overpower the man and force him to submit in a way that would last? Was such a thing pos—

This would require soul fuckery, probably. Was he willing to do that? Yes. He wa—

The Crystal Star felt suddenly heavy upon his chest—

“Yes, yes; no soul fuckery,” Erick complained at the thing. “I suppose we’ll cut off all his limbs again and lock him down. I can do that, too.”

The Crystal Star went inert.

While Erick spoke, nothing had tried to attack him again, which was odd. Erick had expected—

Sitnakov’s voice carried on the wind, “You can still surrender. We’ll have to strip [Duplicate] out of you, but that’s fine, right?”

“How about I strip off the arm I gave you? Eh? How about that?”Erick said, “And a punitive tax on both of your legs, as well!”

Erick watched his surroundings, but he also watched the sky. The mist all around Yggdrasil began to fade as [Cascade Imaging] worked overtime to clear the air. As vision increased, Erick could see great columns of twisting shadow chasing a rapidly moving and rapidly resolving blue blur about a kilometer away. Yggdrasil worked overtime, too, opening up pockets of flashing purple space into the blue blur’s path. Neither shadow nor explosion seemed able to reach the man, who danced around every obstacle and even through several, blasting right through every bit of spellwork that Yggdrasil managed to make hit, dissipating magenta vibrations like so many scattered explosions.

Yggdrasil seemed to be a lot better about hitting the man than [Undertow Star]. Erick was surprised at the pace of Yggdrasil’s learning, but shouldn’t have been; the big guy learned quickly, even if his speech was still odd. [Undertow Star] underperformed, though. That spell wasn’t exactly sentient so all it could do was chase the target with tendrils of shadow. It couldn’t aim where Sitnakov was going to be, and so Sitnakov took great advantage of this weakness.

Erick almost wanted to solve that weakness, but the spell already had ‘Summon the Undertow Star! All are the same; all are different.’ as its first line of spell description. If Erick increased the tier anymore, it might actually turn sentient, and that seemed like a bad idea.

Anyway.

Yggdrasil was doing very, very well. Erick was thoroughly impressed. It didn’t take the big guy long to figure out that he needed to ‘prime’ his magenta explosions before shoving them at Sitnakov, and so he was doing that, a thousand times over, all across the land. Growing magenta explosions hung around Yggdrasil like Christmas decorations, and when they were ready, Yggdrasil funneled those explosions directly into Sitnakov’s path, through tightly-controlled branch-sized tunnels of Harmonize/Amplify—

The blue blur appeared behind Erick again, throwing out a [Tether] instead of attacking.

Erick batted the [Tether] away with his sunform, feeling the weight of a supremely-honed Domain working overtime to connect; he almost failed. Direct confrontations with the man were not advised, apparently. Erick lightstepped away, directly across the path of a shadow tendril. He barely got a glance at Sitnakov before the man stepped away again. In that brief moment of contact the [Cascade Imaging] above revealed him as a blue, wispy hologram, with a mean smile.

Reminded Erick of Bulgan, actually.

That almost sent Erick over the edge into ‘kill right now’ territory, but he stopped himself. There would be no pulling back once he murdered a prince of Stratagold.

Erick called out as Sitnakov ran away, “I’m going to start using [Luminous Beam], soon! This is your last warning to stop this nonsen—!”

“Father. It hurts.” Yggdrasil said, “Left. Right.”

Concern flooded Erick as he rapidly looked around, using Ophiel to see—

Tasar held in the skies over the deeper ocean. The green adamantium archmage held her staff aloft, and the world around her transformed into a glittering expanse of tiny, bright lights, like an orange-yellow sunrise captured in a land of dew drops.

Each drop of whatever suddenly shimmered in sync, spreading—

In the other direction, over the coast, Kromolok stood over the beach and radiated waves of power into the air, like Erick’s own [Physical Domain] but vastly different. Those waves expanded and expanded, each one radiating further than the one before. He had likely been channeling his Domain aura for the last thirty seconds, but it was already a kilometer wide and growing fast, pressing up against Yggdrasil’s [Physical Domain] with each larger wave like an industrial wood chipper, gradually eating away at what Yggdrasil could not protect—

And then Tasar’s summons had glittered enough. A thousand packets of power streamed in every single direction, but the ones directly between Tasar and Yggdrasil reached the edge of his Domain much sooner than all the rest, crumpling the [Physical Domain] inward with great, vanishing explosions of Void, each glittering summon taking out massive swaths of power, causing a collapse of Domain.

Every part of Yggdrasil’s [Physical Domain] suffered damage as the collapsing Domain forced him to compensate from opposite directions at the same time. All of his control weakened, throwing off his careful pursuit of Sitnakov, sending magenta shockwaves wild.

Good news, Tasar’s summons hit the twisting shadows of the [Undertow Star] before they could reach Yggdrasil’s canopy, and were promptly erased by the Extreme Light Star. Bad news, the Star vanished; it had used all of itself to extinguish all of the remaining glitters, ending Tasar’s attack.

But Tasar began to glitter again, gearing up for the next salvo.

Sitnakov attempted another sideways attack, coming in at Erick’s upper left back.

The man was practically a blue ghost now, and he was also obviously itching to get a [Luminous Beam] to the face, which is exactly why Erick didn’t do that. Instead, he had seven Ophiel each cast their own spells at Sitnakov, near simultaneously but in order of most-to-least probable to work, while the others held in wait with [Harmonic Counterspell], but only after Sitnakov tried his [Tether]. Which he did.

Erick barely dodged the [Tether], slipping Sitnakov’s power up as Erick went down.

And in that moment, Ophiel cast.

[Air Breaker]. [Prismatic Breaker]. [Ward Destruction]. [Grand Dispel] for 7,500 mana. Another [Grand Dispel] for the same. [Force Breaker]. [Fulmination Aura].

[Air Breaker] was useless; the spell struck an absolute Domain, which made sense but Erick still had to try. [Prismatic Breaker] met the same resistance. [Ward Destruction] caught on something; Erick wasn’t sure what. [Grand Dispel] ripped away something else; again, no idea what. The second [Grand Dispel] ripped away Sitnakov’s [Super Invisibility], making him appear as a being of black wind. [Force Breaker] touched on something, breaking one of the man’s swords, but not the other.

