Kromolok rounded on Sitnakov, but the effect was diminished since Kromolok was a meter shorter and at least an eighth of the weight of the larger man. Sitnakov still managed to look a bit scared as Kromolok told him, “We are done for today. We’re all hurt. If you fight him now, you fight on your own. You are smarter than this, Prince Sitnakov, so be smarter.” He turned to Tasar, who was still sprawled out on the ground but not bleeding anymore, saying, “Tell him.”

Tasar struggled to lean up, to get on her elbows, breathing hard the whole way. With strain in her face and all of her still-healing body, she looked toward Yggdrasil, saying, “I’m not lining up with Sitnakov. We can complete your Path with a different Wizard, but it might take years to find one. Melemizargo could get impatient before that happens.”

Sitnakov glared at everyone, but mostly at Tasar. He said, “You strain an opportunity which could be yours.”

Tasar spoke to Sitnakov, and also toward Yggdrasil, “Which is why I suggest an amendment, Sitnakov. You give us a year to find another Wizard, and if we can’t, then Erick promises to reevaluate at that time.”

Sitnakov declared, “No. Even another—”

“Shut the fuck up, Sitnakov,” Erick’s voice boomed across the waters. “All of you, go away. Come again tomorrow, or maybe even the next day. I don’t give a shit. But I’m not talking with any of you right now. Scram.”

Kromolok nodded, saying, “We’ll relocate to the horizon so you can keep an eye on us and we can keep an eye on you.” He pointed. “There, at that green city.” And then he grabbed Tasar and in a blip of white light, they were gone; he had taken the extra adamantium and his bit of aluminum with him.

Sitnakov remained on the beach. He narrowed his eyes in the direction of the green city, on an island in the far distance, almost invisible near the curve of the blue Inner Core. Then he turned back toward Erick, saying, “You—” He twisted off his words, then started again, “Gain the Sight to see: You are in the wrong here, Archmage Flatt…”

For a moment, Sitnakov looked as if he would say something else but then he decided silence was the better part of valor. He turned and vanished in a black blur, racing toward the green city in the distance, where Kromolok and Tasar had already gone.

For a long, lonely moment, Erick just breathed, letting his anger flow away as much as it could, like pus from an infected wound.

And then Erick restocked his defenses, put up a few more, and watched through Ophiel as the three wrought went about some very animated and completely silent discussions over in their city of emerald green crystal towers. Ophiel wasn’t near the wrought, but he was close enough to see from a distance, and that was good enough. While Erick did that he began practicing with Yggdrasil and his use of his [Physical Domain].

He stopped practicing after he saw Tasar punch Sitnakov in the nuts.

Erick learned a few more secrets in that instant. Apparently, wrought had genitals in the appropriate locations even though they made their skin look like clothes, and when punched, the results were appropriate to expectations. Also, as Sitnakov slowly slumped to his knees, Erick realized he was not fully defended all the time, which boded well for future confrontations. All he needed to do to fight the man was to assassinate him when he least expected it.

Simple.

In addition to that, while Erick had initially seen the three wrought as a united front but divided in their specifics, he now saw them as people with very different desires; different enough to throw massive rifts into an otherwise orderly trio.

Could have all been for show, though. But… Probably not.

Maybe their next encounter would go better.

Erick left an Ophiel stationed near, but not too near the crystal tower with the wrought trio. There was a reason the wrought had chosen this land to hole up. Based on the architecture of the place, this land had to have been specifically created for wrought. The emerald towers, the sky bridges, the waterfall and aqueducts all reminded Erick of the crystal tower apartments and communal spaces he had uncovered inside Ar’Kendrithyst, after he blasted away the shadows with a [Domain of Light]. From a few kilometers away, Erick watched as he wanted, listening in to what they decided to let him hear, gradually losing his anger as the wrought went through some… Stuff. Erick wasn’t sure, exactly, what was happening, but it was quite apparent that Tasar, Kromolok, and Sitnakov were rather high strung at the moment. He had some theories on that, but he chose to withhold judgment until tomorrow, until they had a chance to calm down and… Well. Erick would wait and see, and go from there.

But, for the sake of organizing his mind, Erick thought through what he was looking at. His impression was that Sitnakov had been deeply physically wounded by Melemizargo, leading to a deep emotional wound. The same held true for both Tasar and Kromolok, but to a lesser degree. In the wake of those wounds they had lashed out, with Sitnakov leading the way as a Prince of Stratagold and his people following his lead.

And with that thought a bit more of Erick’s anger flowed away.

- - - -

Inside one [Sealed Privacy Ward] out of hundreds scattered all around Yggdrasil’s branches, Erick hid, moving around occasionally and taking small naps here and there while keeping eyes and Imaging on the wrought. None of them had moved much in the last twelve hours. None of them had made moves to do anything but stand around and talk or yell at each other. Eventually, after Kromolok had healed them all, and after they had said their explosive words at each other, they had crashed and took turns sleeping.

Erick had never actually seen a wrought sleep before. Theoretically, he knew they did, but the subject had never really come up before, so he almost panicked when Tasar laid down in a large bathtub-like depression in a room and turned to liquid. But the ‘bed’ was placed in a room like a bed would have been, and no one else panicked when Tasar liquefied, and she had even loudly yelled at Sitnakov announcing that she was ‘going to sleep for a while’, and ‘Learn to slagging relax!’ along with other colorful swears that Erick had not heard before.

Soon, only Kromolok was awake. The High Inquisitor sat on an emerald bench and gazed at the world, his solid white eyes a bit unfocused, though it was hard to tell.

Erick turned to his own needs; he switched location three more times, through three different [Sealed Privacy Ward]s all around Yggdrasil’s branches, and then he stilled, and he tried to figure out what was wrong with him. He was angry, of course, and for good reason too. But… Things had almost gone very wrong back there. Luckily, he had pulled back from actually killing Sitnakov when he did, and thankfully they had chosen to leave, because Erick had been so very, very close to fucking up. For the last few hours he had been uncommonly angry, and while it seemed normal at the time, his anger wasn’t going away. If anything, it was compounding.

He needed to figure out if his newfound anger was a component of his new existence as a protean, for Wizardly Core reasons, or if he was angry for correct reasons. When it came to the Shades, Erick had been angry for the correct reasons, for sure. The wrought were a power on par with the Shades, but fully opposed to the Shades, so it was both right and wrong to approach them as some fundamentally unassailable force where fighting was necessary to save one’s own life, or the life of others, but not in any other situation. One didn’t just go to war with the whole world; not until the world went to war with oneself, first. And the wrought hadn’t gone to war with Erick; not yet, anyway.

But was this correct thinking?

As far as Erick knew, the wrought only came out of the Geodes for the specific reasons of ‘saving the world from specific disasters’. This was both grand of them, and deeply selfish. And yet, they were immortal, and immortals did not like mixing with mortals, for the pure reason that mortals aged and died and there was very little solution to that problem. So the immortal wrought only impinged upon the rest of civilization when problems arose.

And Erick had made himself a problem?

Yeah. He had. Maybe.

AND YET! THEY HADN’T SEEN ANYTHING YET!

… Erick was still furious. Okay. Thinking through his anger wasn’t working.

Maybe Sitnakov would come in with an apology—

No, no.

Erick tried to think about something else entirely, to see if his anger would go away.

Okay. The Headmaster? … Ehhh… The Headmaster had fucked and continued to fuck over the entire world with lessons in magic which weren’t true at all, and which actively hurt a lot of people. Gridwork and runes were two very specific things that should be taught to everyone so that—

Erick had to stop himself for he felt his blood spike and his fingernails leave deep half-moons in his palms. He uncurled his hand. His fingernails were the same size as before. He almost expected them to be sharper, but he had picked ‘protean’, not ‘werewolf’. His skin was unnaturally tough, too, so even with claws he probably couldn’t cut himself that easily.

… And his anger remained, even after he managed to pull himself away from thinking of Kirginatharp.

It was undirected—

Erick switched over to his Other Self, and watched as his soul vanished and a tiny fragment of brightness appeared beside his heart, like it had always been there. This monstrous form was fucked up in so many ways. The ethereal arteries and veins connecting this ‘second heart’ to the rest of him were strange. What did they do? He had never noticed them in monsters before now. He had never seen their like inside people, either.

But the reason to switch over to this Other Self was to try cycling his mana for a bit, to see if his anger went away. Rozeta had warned him about how forgoing cycling would have consequences, and shadelings got angry and violent when they didn’t eat more rads, so there might be something happening there.

And he couldn’t forget that his Other Self had started out from a place of anger.

But he didn’t have any rads. Luckily, Erick had already invented the solution to this problem. He took hold of his [Renew] and cast. White light erupted from his right hand in a sparkle of radiance, but then Erick shoved that radiance into his chest, and began pouring mana into himself.

Relief washed through him.

It was like being starved for food, and then eating a wonderful meal. Tiredness eroded under bouncy mana. Vigor filled his body. He'd had massages that had felt less relaxing. And his rad grew. Every single mana that found its way into Erick’s rad melded with that rad, adding facets to that central part of him, expanding the borders of it like he was growing a crystal. With a mere addition of 10 mana, his malformed marble-sized core became something stronger, transforming from the 5 mana rads that one found in slimes, into the more usual 10 mana rads that existed inside most monsters. His core had become a diamond-like marquis-cut marble.

He continued pouring mana into himself, into his core, and his mind wandered under the relaxation.

A question arose. Did he want to keep calling them cores? Or rads? Both were more regional dialect names for the thing inside his chest than any ‘True Name’ for the gem that now held his soul. He kinda preferred the simplicity of ‘core’, but then again, Wizards had ‘cores’. Erick didn’t want to out himself as a Wizard yet by calling his ‘core’ a ‘core’, so ‘rad’ was probably better, at least in that such a name could throw people off of his—

His mana bottomed out, violently shaking him out of his ruminations.

As Erick stood there on Yggdrasil’s branch, hidden from most views, he sighed. His anger was gone, so that was a plus. He had also gained several hundred Experience, both from leveling [Renew] and from ‘eating’ his own mana, so that was great’. He was now level 4, too, and he had 8 points to spend—

He rapidly went through some thoughts about the future, and how he wanted to spend his points. One decision came to him rather quickly. This form didn’t have a Scion, and so, Erick wanted Scion of Balance. To get that, every Stat had to be at 25. This meant he’d have to spend 100 points to get all of his now-lowered Stats up to 25 each… Or maybe he only needed to level the original 4 Stats to 25? Intelligence and otherwise could stay at 10.

He’d try that first, since that only required 40 points. Which meant level 20, for Erick would not be able to gain any extra points in this form.

With a bit of Wizardry he might even be able to get Scion of Balance in his Main Form, which was overall better than Scion of Focus in his specific case since he already had Immune to Health Fatigue from his Blessing from Rozeta, and his Boon of Recovery added his Health Regen and his Mana Regen together, giving the same amount of Regeneration to both…

Ah.

Wait.

“Ah. Dammit.” Erick felt his anger rise, but then fall back to sleep like a teenager failing to wake early on a weekend. “I should have asked Rozeta about stacking Immune to Mana Exhaustion.’

Eh… He was still going to go for Scion of Balance—

Oh yeah. ‘Immune to Health Fatigue’s ability to double his lifespan was also useless because he was immortal in his Other Form.

There were just so many little nuances to this most recent body horror, and so many more to come, because eventually he would start manually working on his own body, changing which parts of the Script affected him, and which he chose to leave behind. It wasn’t a ‘power spike’, as Jane had joked one time. But it was certainly an optimization.

Ahhh… And all the anger was gone; replaced with melancholy, for Jane would love this sort of optimization problem, for sure. ‘Which parts to keep, and which to discard’! Too bad he wouldn’t be able to tell her about this until the absolute last possible second, and probably only after other people started spreading the word, and then the world would come for him...

Erick transformed back into his Main Form and laid down on Yggdrasil’s bark, thinking about how everything was different. So much, and yet so little had happened in the last several hours. And so much was going to continue happening for the foreseeable future.

A trip to Oceanside, for one.

And then a trip to Ar’Cosmos.

Or maybe Oceanside was the final stop? Kirginatharp probably had all the answers to [Gate], too; he just chose not to share them with Erick for obvious reasons. Perhaps he was going to ask Erick to go to Ar’Cosmos and hunt down dragons for him…

