Or maybe Erick would need to hunt down whoever [Duplicate]d that soul spear; whoever supplied Terror Peaks with all their extra tools to enable their conquest of Songli. How was that counter-Hunt going, anyway? Erick had no idea. He had stayed away from that, too—

Another thought.

When referencing Apogee, Rozeta had said that she couldn’t talk about other people or their paths through life, but then when talking about Fallopolis’ mother, Rozeta spoke rather openly. No names or dates or any other specifics, but the map of Fallopolis’ mother’s life was rather well laid out for Erick to see, and to try to understand.

… There were so, so many things that Erick still wanted to ask Rozeta. But not today, apparently. Not when other people were inside the Core with them. A flicker of anger returned, but Erick was of sound mind and body, and he kept his anger in check.

Erick stared at the white boughs of Yggdrasil and his bright green leaves for a while, and then his stomach got hungry for actual food. Feeding his core had been like eating a meal, but apparently that didn’t translate between forms. If Jane was here she would have commented how he probably just needed to eat even more mana in his Other Form, and he could forgo food entirely. And, if Teressa was here, she would have mentioned how that didn’t make any sense at all.

The fact remained that he was hungry.

He sent Ophiel skipping around to pick up something delicious from the white city, and soon, Erick was enjoying a meal taken from some noble’s house; a large steak, copiously buttered vegetables, and some mashed whiteroot. He preferred his own potatoes, but whiteroot had a certain almost-nice firmness when cooked that potatoes lacked. It was different, for sure, but that didn’t make it bad.

- - - -

After dinner and after all his defenses were back up, and while he stared across the land at these new interlopers… Erick realized that Yggdrasil had yet to speak like he usually did. The big guy hadn’t said a word since warning that he was in danger from multiple directions. Had the battle shaken him? It might have.

Erick softly asked, “Yggdrasil? Are you okay?”

“… I fail.”

Erick’s heart sank. With seriousness in his voice, he said, “Yggdrasil. You did very well today. You were wonderful. Without you, they would have won. They would have done whatever they wanted to me.”

“But I not stop them! They hurt me and you. I fail.”

“They were stronger than us, this is true. This is not a failing. Sometimes people are stronger than you, or I. In this case, it’s probably better that neither of us won.” Erick said, “But you don’t have to worry about that right now. You were doing so well the entire fight. Was that the first time you tried to fight anyone? Or anything?”

“… I fight fishes. Scare them away. No kill because you said no kill.”

“And you were so good with that, Yggdrasil!” Erick put on a smile, saying, “When I handed off the [Physical Domain] to you, you started blasting exactly as well as I could have but even better because you helped me to survive Sitnakov. I do apologize for not realizing that Kromolok and Tasar were attacking from both sides. I should have been more attentive about that.”

“I did good?”

“Yes you did.” Erick said, “And Ophiel did good, too.”

Ophiel chirped here and there among the boughs of Yggdrasil.

Yggdrasil said, “They were tough. Metal tougher than flesh.”

“Yes, it is, Yggdrasil.” Erick said, “Metal is much tougher than flesh.”

Yggdrasil’s glowing white bark and bright fiery leaves shimmered a bit brighter, as he said, “I did good.” And then he dimmed. “But problem still here?”

“This is true.” Erick said, “Sitnakov and Kromolok seem like the problems, but Tasar is a wildcard. I’m not sure what she’s about. But what is most telling is that there’re only three of them. The wrought have whole armies that would make any city look small. They chose to send these people instead of a larger force, and that meant something. This is something I plan to talk about tomorrow when we all talk.”

“… We lose against big army.”

“Yes, we would have lost.” Erick said, “You did very, very well Yggdrasil, but against an entire society of immortals we would have lost. You and I both have a lot of power, but choosing not to fight the full war is sometimes the smarter decision.”

Yggdrasil’s glow returned to normal levels as he went silent. He was probably thinking, as he often did.

Erick did a few nonessential things here and there, like cleaning up his area to get ready to go and reading some of his books, guessing that he wasn’t going to be allowed to keep them. But mostly, he just watched for danger.

- - - -

Erick woke when Ophiel squawked at him and Yggdrasil swayed a bit, groaning all the branches all around and sending wild flashes of light through the bark and the canopy. In a flashing second, Erick was back on his feet and fully aware of the Imaging hanging in the air in front of him.

The wrought were on the move.

[Personal Ward], cast not too long ago, so that’s fine... Probably didn’t matter though since they had [Ward Destruction]. Sunform active… But Sitnakov was a Domain piercer, for sure. The second Erick tried to actually go head-to-head against Sitnakov he would likely lose.

… Actually, going over his whole repertoire, and according to what he saw yesterday with Sitnakov brushing off all of his attacks, Erick didn’t see anything that great to use against the large black wrought. Would [Call Lightning] work? Maybe. It was a physical attack against a magical defense, and those were usually pretty effective. And yet, Erick didn’t want to kill the man. Not yet, anyway.

At least he wasn’t so angry right now. He had eaten his [Renew] for a few thousand more mana here and there before he settled down for a larger sleep. He also cycled his mana for a few thousand more Experience, gaining lots of levels in his Other Self and settling his anger down quite a bit. He still hadn’t used any points to buy anything in that Other Form, but he would, later, when he was in a more stable location. Right now, he was in the middle of battle, and this wasn’t the time to be learning new, complicated ways to exist.

Anyway!

Erick left his various [Sealed Privacy Ward]s everywhere, and began some other, final preparations, one of which was to have three small gift baskets of mana-soaked copied metals, one for each of the incoming wrought, with an extra large basket of knives for Sitnakov. It was a small gesture of kindness, and maybe they would take it as such, or maybe they would throw it back in Erick’s face and they could all be done with this charade of polite society.

… Hmm. Erick checked himself. He was not mad. He was merely thinking clearly.

Good.

Hopefully the wrought were similarly better, and ready to talk without making ultimatums. Maybe they could even move to friendly territory because Erick wanted to ask about how Kromolok and Sitnakov were able to move adamantium around as they did; the stuff was supposed to be immutable after casting, but apparently wrought broke that rule. They kinda had to, of course, since some of them were made of adamantium, but it would be nice to know if this ability to manipulate forged adamantium was due to a specific ability, or a spell, or whatever.

… He also kinda wondered what would happen to the body of a wrought if they died. Tasar and Sitnakov were both in the process of turning into goop before Erick gave Kromolok fresh adamantium. Maybe the act of consuming metal turned that metal into something different than what it was, making it useless for further metalwork or enchanting purposes? Or maybe the dead bodies of wrought were the best material for enchanting?

Erick didn’t know, and he had never read anything about dead wrought in all his reading. This seemed by design, now that he thought of it.

Maybe he would get some hands-on experience, though, and soon.
