Even more curious to see what or who he was dealing with, Jake sped up. Unseen Hunter activated as he approached fully hidden, not intent on letting this person see him if he didn’t have to. As he got closer, he started doubting he was dealing with a real person, though, as the location of the armored swordsman happened to also be exactly where Jake had detected a treasure.

This conclusion was muddied a little, though, as when Jake finally got close and used Identify on the knight-looking figure, he didn’t get the kind of response he’d expect.

[Human – lvl 375]

Jake had seen many humanoid monsters, but this evidently wasn’t one. It also wasn’t another Administrator. He wasn’t sure why, but Jake just knew this was an NPC of some sort.

The knight stood in front of the large boulder with several runes carved on it, each emitting a deep blue glow. What’s more, Jake clearly saw a shimmering barrier covering the boulder, with faint lines of energy connected to the knight.

A boss guarding a treasure. Classic, but for good reason, Jake thought with a smile as he landed on the ground in front of the clearing. He could attack from stealth, but he wanted to see if this NPC was capable of communicating or just a mindless fighter.

Revealing himself, Jake instantly got the attention of the knight, who raised his sword and stood ready.

“Hello there,” Jake said, raising his hand and waving.

In response, the knight charged, trying to cut him down. Jake dodged the blow and continued speaking.

“Can you understand me?”

The knight got faster and started using earth magic as the terrain warped around them, terraforming this entire part of the jungle with the goal of limiting Jake’s movements.

“I come in peace?”

Waves of sword light flew past Jake, the knight holding nothing back as his momentum only grew.

“... just one word? You’re supposed to be enlightened, but you’re not really living up to that name right now,” Jake muttered, dodging the sword swings and random earth magic thrown at him effortlessly.

He kept trying for a bit longer, but ultimately, Jake could only sigh in annoyance.

“Fine, have it your way.”

As the sword stabbed towards his neck, Jake deflected it with a katar as he reached forward and grasped the helmet of the knight. He smashed the human NPC into the ground, his hand glowing green as the helmet rapidly corroded away and crumbled, sending Jake’s hand into the knight’s face along with black, brittle pieces of metal.

The knight tried to fight back, but Jake used Pride and stopped any magic from making its way to him as he continued pressing down, looking into the eyes of the knight. They were hollow, empty of any meaningful thought, making Jake only push down harder as the ground cracked, trees tumbling all around them as everything shook.

Jake held one hand as the knight punched Jake in the stomach with the other, trying to desperately escape, but he just took the attacks as the knight’s movements slowed, and it didn’t take long before his arm fell mid-punch, a system message confirming that the “fight” was done.

“Disappointing,” Jake muttered, checking the notification quickly to see if at least that was interesting.

You have slain [Human – lvl 375 / Knight of Abundance – lvl 375 / Mason of Abundance – lvl 375] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

Yeah, not really. Seemed very basic, which also explained why the NPC had been so weak. But, hey, at least he now had a magical boulder to claim, so that was something, right? Had to be a lot of Prima Credits... right?
