This helm has been imbued with the essence of the Fool. The wearer gains the Entertainer (Intermediate) skill and can use the Disguise Self spell for free (for 1 hour per day) while the helm is worn. If the wearer already has this skill, it bumps to the next available stage instead. Use of the helm causes Distraction to those within sight, and they cannot take their eyes off of the wearer.

Please note: It cannot be used to max out a skill and is limited to boosting up to Expert only, and it cannot be used against creatures or people who are Stupid.

Ren got the recipe for it and reached inside the helm to remove the skull. When his right hand touched it, it sent a sharp pain into his hand and a tingle went up his arm. His mouth dropped open as the spirit of a knight appeared in front of him.

“You have slain that which has slain me.” The ghostly knight said. “Thank you, Adventurer.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “Is there... ah... anything I can do for you?”

“Find my friends.” The ghost knight said. “Gather them together once more.”

New Optional Quest!

You have been tasked with gathering the remains of the Lost Knights. If you gather the entire group, an appropriate bonus will be granted.

Rewards for completion: Bonus XP, +10% Light affinity

“I'll do my best to try and find them for you.” Ren said. “Anything else?”

“No, for I am being called home now.” He said and a bright light appeared behind him. It almost looked like a portal, and Ren wondered where a spirit portal would go. “Before you ask, you have my permission to raise my remains. It will serve you well, if equipped properly.”

“Um... thanks.” Ren said, and then the spirit waved, turned around and stepped into the portal.

Notice!

Your unlocked (HIDDEN) skill has been revealed: Undead Adept Level 1 (Beginner 0%). You have an affinity for the undead in any of it's forms. You can feel and see them within your Aura, and if you concentrate, can Command friendly undead with simple instructions. Higher levels will allow more undead to be controlled. Current Limit: 5 undead

“Oh, wow.” Ren said.

“Who are you talking to?” One of the succubi asked.

“The spirit of a knight.” Ren said.

All the succubi took a step back from him, and he felt their fear and worry.

“I'm not losing my mind, if that's what you're worried about.” Ren said and pulled the skull out of the helm. “I've got the Undead Adept skill.”

Their fear and worry increased, and he chuckled as he stored the helm. Ren held the skull up and thought about what the ghost knight had said.

He gave me permission to raise his remains. Ren thought. How would I do that?

“That must be your hidden spell!” Teepo said. “Raise Dead!”

No way. Ren thought. How would I get that? He closed his eyes and thought about it. I had my Ghoul Kissed mark when I leveled up. It must have changed what I should have gotten and gave me these hidden things instead.

“You might as well try it.” Teepo said.

How can I use a spell I don't know? Ren asked.

“You have it, it's just not giving you the name.” Teepo said. “You know what it does, right? Raises the dead? Just infuse some Mana into the skull and raise it.”

It can't be that simple. Ren thought. Can it?

“Give it a shot and see.” Teepo said. “At the very least it should tell you if that's the spell or not.”

Ren nodded and held the skull up with both hands as he poured Mana into it. Raise Dead. He thought, and the skull started to glow. The pile of clothes the ogre had laid on shifted a little, and a ribcage with the neck bones still attached rolled out and floated up to attach to the skull.

“Ahh!” A succubus screamed a little when an arm bone flew past her and attached itself to the shoulder. The severed leg Ren had tossed aside split open and the leg bones lifted up and hung in the right place, then the rest of the skeleton materialized in front of him.

I guess the other bones were... ah... not around anymore. Ren thought as the glow of the skull faded and reappeared in the skeleton's eyes.

Notice!

Your unlocked (HIDDEN) spell has been revealed: Raise Dead. This spell can reanimate or regenerate the dead (either skeletons or zombies). Undead raised in this manner last for 20 minutes per caster or wand level. Level 1: Limit 5 undead

“Cool.” Ren said and smiled.
