Hideo made many mistakes over the course of his life, almost too many to count. As a young boy, he was enthralled by the stories of his grand-uncle and believed it better to follow in a Living Legend’s footsteps than to forge his own Path and risk faltering along the way. What could a mere grand-nephew accomplish, if the sons and grandsons failed to measure up? No, forging his own Path would only lead to failure, which is why he hesitated to take any step on his own, despite all the advice urging him to do so. When the Grand Conference began, Hideo stood at the forefront of his peers, yet he was careless and lost to Dastan Zhandos in the first match of the contests. This humiliation sent him spiralling into a pit of anger, misery, and self-loathing, for his pride would not allow him to accept so egregious a loss. How could he, Mitsue Hideo, lose to a mere commoner turned slave? The shame was too much to bear, yet now that he reflected upon it, he wondered why a Warrior’s status should affect his skill? Dastan Zhandos was the better Warrior that day, but Mitsue Hideo refused to accept it because he believed he’d been born better than the rest.

Too hesitant to tread his own Path. Too careless to seize victory. Too arrogant to accept defeat. These were the mistakes he made that led him to the darkest moment in his life, when he lost sight of Balance and did unspeakable things to poor, sweet Eri-Hime. He bit into her tender flesh as she screamed in terror and agony, dug into her dainty torso with his bare hands, gazed deep into her eyes as her life faded away, so afraid and confused as to why her ‘big brother Hideo’ would do such things to her. Then she died, and the true atrocities began as he lost sight of his humanity and played out his deepest, darkest desires. Even in the depths of his depravity however, he never could bring himself to mark sweet Eri-Hime’s face, so young and innocent as it watched and judged him with her unseeing eyes, a thought that both thrilled and appalled him.

From that moment on, he was a changed man. Mitsue Hiroshi should have killed him then and there, but he was too weak to do what was necessary. What good was Martial Strength without the strength of will to wield it? What’s more, Hiroshi had been a Peak Expert of the Empire, and no common one either, but a man capable of standing alongside the youngest Living Legend of Central, Ryo Dae Jung. How different would Hideo’s life have been if his father hadn’t hidden his abilities? His childhood would have been different, that’s for sure, for his cousins would not have had the courage to bully the son of a rising dragon the same way they bullied the son of a coin counter. He could have been born as the prince of the Mitsue family with a Peak Expert father to shelter him from above, but instead, Hiroshi hid his skills and left Hideo to bear the weight of the family’s future as well as the envy of his uncles and cousins to boot. How many times did he hear others lamenting about how he’d been born too late? How many days and nights did he push himself to train just that much harder in hopes of acquiring enough strength to hold up the Heavens once Grand Uncle Juichi passed away? How many times did his uncles and aunts tell him he was the hope of the family while doing everything they could to siphon money away from the family so they could run and hide before their father died?

In short, though Mitsue Hideo made many mistakes over the course of his life, the blame did not solely lie with him.

And how did your father force you to kill and eat Eri-Hime?

Seizing upon the thought without hesitation, Hideo wrestled with the devil endeavouring to lead him astray. These were not his thoughts or concerns, but those of the Heavens seeking to waylay him from his true Path, the one that would lead beyond mere Divinity and onward to God-hood itself. Trapping it with his mind and soul, he pit his confidence and conviction against it in a match of wills, contesting with this fragment of the Heavens in an effort to assimilate it into his very being. The whispers spoke of personal responsibility and Hideo’s refusal to accept his part in all this, for he was the reason Eri-Hime died, the reason Mitsue Hiroshi died, the reason for the Mitsue family’s current strife. The voice spoke of how his Grand Uncle Juichi loved him dearly and sacrificed face, reputation, and even honour in a bid to bring Hideo home, even after learning of all the horrendous crimes he’d committed.

“Your Grand-Uncle loves you too much to ever give up on you,” the voice said, and just like before, Hideo hated hearing the ring of truth in its words. “If you do not believe in yourself, then believe in Mitsue Juichi who still believes in his Grand-Nephew and Disciple, even after all you’ve done.”

The words brought to mind the last time Hideo saw his Grand-Uncle in person, from across the battlefield in JiangHu after Bai Qi revealed that he’d learned all of Mitsue Juichi’s weaknesses from someone who knew him well. Hidden far back in the crowd, Hideo expected he would see the old man break, but instead, he was greeted with an expression of hope and desperation unlike anything he’d ever seen from the Living Legend, his eyes darting this way and that whilst locked in combat with the formidable Lord of Martial Peace. “Hideo!” The shriek shook him to his core as he watched Grand-Uncle Juichi discard his aloof public persona at the mere prospect of saving him. “Hiroshi! Do not despair! These Defiled will pay for what they’ve done! I will bring you home and do whatever it takes to make you both whole again, this I swear!”

When Bai Qi announced that Hiroshi had died, Hideo watched as Grand Uncle Juichi fell to his knees and wailed in lamentation, the grief and anguish etched so deeply into the old man’s bloodied expression that it seemed like he would never be the same again. Then... a revival or strength and renewal of purpose, because there was still hope yet. “Then what of little Hideo?” Grand Uncle Juichi asked, struggling to get back on his feet to finish what he started and kill Bai Qi for good. “Return my grand-nephew at once!”

And fool that he was, Hideo had chosen this moment to step out, believing it the best time to destroy the man he so loved and loathed. There, before an entire army filled with the Empire’s greatest elites, Hideo renounced his Mentor and family for all to hear and denounced Mitsue Juichi for added measure. He blamed the old man for his worthless sons and for ruining a rising dragon, called him a failure of a father, failure of a Mentor, and failure of a Patriarch to boot.

And when he asked the old fool how it felt to see his life’s pursuits amount to nothing, Grand Uncle Juichi finished sobbing before straightening up and stretching his hand out in supplication. “Come back to me, little Hideo. Return to my side, and I will do whatever it takes to bring you back into the light.” Then he admitted all his failures, admitted his mistakes led Hideo down this dark path, and pleaded him not to let an old fool’s mistakes be his doom. When even this wasn’t enough, Grand Uncle Juichi assured him that no one would take Hideo away from him, and then slapped himself for being at fault, not once, not twice, but three times hard enough to draw blood.

“He loved you both dearly, as much as any son or grandson,” the devil said, and in his weakness, Hideo’s will wavered with indecision.

Only for him to look upon the scrolls he’d written and reaffirm his convictions.

Confidence.

Diligence.

Humility.

It was too late for regrets, too late to go back, no matter how much he wished he could. Hideo had made the right decisions, or the best ones he could given his unfortunate circumstances. He would not allow himself to wallow in weakness again. And though he would soon rise up stronger than ever before, he would show no mercy to his enemies or himself, for even a lion uses its full strength to hunt a rabbit. Seizing the devil of his heart with naught but his iron will, he ground away at its voice until it had nothing left to say, leaving only pure, untainted power behind. This was the greatest gift the Uniter bestowed upon him, a portion of raw Energy of the Heavens for him to use as he pleased. Bai Qi and Mao Jianghong used their gifts to force an Awakening, because they both believed they’d reached the pinnacle of the Martial Path and could go no further without additional tools at their disposal, but Hideo was young and full of potential, so he would not limit his future so. Instead, he seized the Energy of the Heavens bestowed upon him and turned his eyes to the Void, finally ready to take what others believed to be the first step along the Dao, yet for him, it merely marked a new beginning.

There in the darkness, he Created his Core, not separate from the Void, but a part of it, while simultaneously existing in his physical body. Oh how the Heavens howled as it sought to reject his burgeoning dominion, but with the Energy of Creation and Destruction firmly in hand, there was nothing the Heavens could do to stop him. As his Core billowed into existence, he rejected the Heavens and rejected their authority to seize control of his own fate. The jealous Heavens sought to manipulate events to keep humanity from ascending, narrowing down the choices to a select few that inevitably led to a dead end Path, but Hideo held fast to his convictions and would walk his own Path from here on out.

And so he formed his Core, one unlike any other in existence, a source of radiating golden light in the darkness of the Void that would soon become a beacon of hope for all humanity. This was Hideo’s Golden Core, utterly incomparable to the false Cores Martial Warriors relied on, for while they used their Cores as a medium to control the Energy of the Heavens, Hideo’s Core offered him dominance over the same. There were many benefits to his new Path, but weaknesses as well. With the Creation of his Golden Core, he’d given himself an immortal body, one which could Heal from any damage so long as his mind and Core remained intact. If someone were to cut him open, they would find nothing physically different until they gazed upon him with more than their physical eyes. Only then would they see his Golden Core, sitting just above his navel, and a discerning observer might even see how it connected to his twelve meridians which passed through every last millimetre of his body in the same ethereal fashion. Though he was more powerful than ever before and able to use Chi in ways others could only imagine, he would lose everything if his Core was shattered, but it would take more than mundane steel to do so. An acceptable weakness, one he would eventually overcome with more progress, and the benefits were significant indeed.

So with this first step along the true Dao, Hideo was no longer a Martial Warrior, but a cultivator, one who pursued the truth in defiance of the Heavens.

There was still much to be done, but the rest came easily with minimal effort. His Natal Palace reformed, not in the image of Wutai mountain, but rather the isolated courtyard in which this all began, where he consumed Eri-Hime and set himself down the path of True Divinity. The grass, the flowers, the wall scrolls, and even Eri-Hime’s bloodied hair and glassy eyes, all of it was a real and alive as anything one might find in nature, the means and knowledge needed to accomplish this nigh-impossible feat seized from the Heavens themselves. Knowing without knowing, understanding without comprehension, this information was stolen and did not truly belong to him just yet, but soon that would change with practice and familiarity, for life was a journey of learning, and Hideo’s Mentor was now the Heavens themselves, whether it wanted to guide him or not. In similar vein, his Domain naturally Developed the moment he sought to exert his Authority, one granted by his Will and divorced from the Heavens. As for Aura, he left that milestone untouched as instructed by the Uniter, for his Golden Core was protection enough from opposing Auras of any variety.

Opening his eyes for the first time in weeks, Hideo emerged from the pit a changed man. When he entered, he could barely reach the lip when standing on his toes, but now, it sat level with his eyes. Lacking the room needed to stretch his arms and legs, he leapt out of the pit with little more than a hop, and utilized his Chi to clear away the brittle black gunk adhered to his flawless, porcelain skin. Taking a moment to appreciate the formidable changes to his physique, his self-admiration was interrupted by an unwelcome presence, and Hideo turned to gaze upon the melted face of his former rival. “Good, Good,” The Uniter exclaimed, speaking through the Demonized Gen whose black and glowing red skin bubbled and flowed like molten lava. Before, hearing the Uniter’s voice relayed in this manner left Hideo reeling in pain and anguish, but now it was no different from hearing anyone else Send, a grand testament to his improvement. “The end of your seclusion has come at a fortuitous time, for this Sovereign has need of your newfangled abilities.”

“Who would you have me kill?” Eager to test himself in battle, Hideo clenched his fists and flashed a grin that would have women fighting to enjoy his embrace, but mere mortals were of no interest to him anymore. No, only a heavenly fairy like Zheng Luo could ignite his desire, or perhaps a Peak Expert like that bitch Akanai or Jeong Hyo Lynn. How wonderful it would be to take out his frustrations on Geom-Chi’s sisters and mother while he watched, so he prayed for good fortune to the Ryo Family in hopes they would survive these coming conflicts.

