Hesitant. Careless. Arrogant.

Words which described Hideo all too well, and he yearned to be rid of these flaws, but making changes to one’s temperament was easier said than done. Following his humiliating defeat at the hands of Tong Da Fung atop the walls of the Central Citadel, Hideo immediately withdrew from his military duties and monastic studies to look inward towards his own Path. Neither Monk Eyebrows nor Wisdom Vyakhya voiced any dissatisfaction with Hideo’s decision to distance himself from the Brotherhood’s teachings, but he keenly felt their unspoken disappointment regarding his many recent failures. Even after all the time they spent offering him Healing, guidance, and encouragement, he still had almost nothing to show for it, merely a few minor strides along the Martial Path that paled in comparison to the progress of his peers and rivals.

Even though the Brotherhood possessed a great deal of wisdom and insight regarding the Dao, Hideo needed time to process what he’d learned and experienced this last year so that he could better understand his personal perspective. Hence his decision to step away from lessons and combat for a period of personal introspection, one which opened up a wealth of unwelcome truths. Others thought him discouraged and disheartened enough to give up on the Dao and the cause, but sometimes, one had to take a step back in order to better see the Path moving forward. This advice came from neither Monk Eyebrows nor the Wisdom, but from the Uniter who’d taken an interest in Hideo after Gen failed to adhere to the Razor’s edge and lost himself to madness during the assault on the traitor Abbot.

An interesting man, the Uniter, a mysterious entity who stood at the pinnacle of the Dao. Their meeting, if one could call it that, had taken place within Hideo’s Natal Palace, and the Uniter’s ability to forcefully appear in what should have been an inviolable space spoke volumes to his strength and courage. There within the heart of his Natal Palace, Hideo could have crushed any invaders with little more than a thought, yet still the Uniter had the courage to come meet him without warning. “Wutai Mountain,” the scholarly elder declared, a statement to announce his presence and shake Hideo out of his meditative trance, for never in his wildest imagination did he think a stranger could appear in his Natal Palace to wander about and take in the sights. “A beautiful sight, but how... uninspired.”

So surprised to see and hear someone inside his Natal Palace, Hideo almost attacked the elder on reflex, but a pointed look from the perfectly groomed grandfather was all it took to still his hand, a gaze filled with warning and reassurance both. On the surface, there was nothing particularly intimidating about the genteel and dignified old man, a slim, bony fellow who moved with the care and deliberation of a man afflicted with arthritis. Despite his aged appearance and feeble movements however, Hideo recognized this man for what he truly was. This was a Dragon who stood above all others, one who demanded reverence and respect through virtue of his mere existence alone.

It wasn’t anything he said or did, nor was it some gut feeling or hidden intuition warning Hideo to be wary. No, the evidence was right here before his very eyes, and not solely due to their location. The telltale clues lay in the man’s golden robes bearing flowing embroidery depicting all manner of atrocities, and the grotesque jewellery he wore to accentuate it. A corpse themed ring sat upon every finger and multiple bone bangles encircled his wrists, like the cold, grasping fingers of a grudge-bearing corpse refusing to let go even in death. Everything the elder wore radiated unholy menace and macabre power, even here at the seat of Hideo’s power where he should rightly reign supreme. A single look was all it took for him to know he was sorely outmatched, and he adjusted his attitude accordingly. “Greetings, honoured Elder,” he began, offering a clasped fist rather than a bow because he didn’t dare take his eyes off the stranger, nor did he have the courage to get up off the stone dais he sat on to meditate, one modelled after the same dais that sat upon the mountain in reality. “How might this one be of service?”

“Hmm.” Uttering an approving grunt, the elder studied Hideo while nodding ever so slightly. “Good, good. Perceptive and adaptable, though perhaps too much so considering... all this.” Waving a hand about him to gesture at the surroundings, the elder shook his head and sighed. “Your Grand Uncle warned you against following in his footsteps, but you did not take his warnings to heart and continued to chase after his heels. Better if you had walked your own path and showed the world the Heroic Heavenly Guardian your father named you for, rather than the shadow of a shadow you’ve become.”

The shadow of the Obsidian Shadow, Mitsue Juichi. How... apt. An ugly truth, but one Hideo could no longer afford to ignore, for it was clear this was the reason his progress along the Martial Path had slowed in recent times, because he had long since forsaken his own Path to follow in the footsteps of his Grand Uncle Juichi. That and his inability to rein in his earthly desires, among other things, but his lack of Martial Progress lay firmly in his refusal to return to his roots. The elder made that clear with little more than a gesture, for Wutai Mountain held great significance for Uncle Juichi, being the place where he found Insight for the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, yet to Hideo, it was merely a popular attraction located in his family’s backyard. How many times did he make the trip to this very peak in real life, hoping to chance upon the same Insight as his hero and idol? How many times did he read the stories of the Obsidian Shadow’s rise to prominence, scouring each page for clues on how to progress? How many times did he sit upon this stone dais and look out at the surroundings, trying to see what Grand Uncle Juichi saw when sitting in this same spot?

Once would have been too many, for each must forge their own path, a lesson every Martial Warrior was taught from the very first step, but one Hideo was only learning just now.

“Good, good.” Stroking his long, luxurious snowy beard, the elder’s gaze softened as he took in Hideo’s reaction. “The Mitsue Hideo of yesteryear would not have welcomed this Sovereign’s advice, but your recent trials and tribulations have dulled the edge of your undeserving hubris. Pride is the domain of the worthy, and you as you stand are far from it.”

Though Hideo always thought Gen a fool for calling himself a Sovereign, it seemed so fitting a sobriquet for this formidable elder, one whose name was now evident. “This one greets the Uniter, and begs leniency for any offence given in ignorance.”

The Uniter waved a hand in dismissal, neither accepting nor rejecting Hideo’s apology. “You have seen the limits of your chosen path and experienced the flaws firsthand. Will you persist in your efforts to become the second coming of Mitsue Juichi in spite of the shortcomings you’ve uncovered, or will you seek out your own Path no matter the cost, even if it means forsaking all your progress thus far?”

Two choices lay before Hideo, a fork in the road that would decide his future, but he knew neither path would be as simple as it seemed. Success was all but guaranteed regardless of his decision, for he was a dragon among men destined for greatness, but while any Peak Expert was considered a lofty, peerless existence by the masses, he knew better than most how vast the disparity could be between the average Peak Expert and a Living Legend like the Obsidian Shadow.

Or Mitsue Hiroshi, the hidden dragon of the Mitsue family who died in obscurity before ever soaring high up into the Heavens where he belonged.

The disservice to his father was what pushed Hideo to his decision, for Mitsue Juichi was not a man worth idolizing. A weak-willed and indulgent old man who doted upon his worthless sons and daughters while expecting his talented nephew to sacrifice glory and acclaim to shield those leeches from the consequences of their own actions. Uncle Watanabe claimed Juichi had treated Hiroshi like a son, but if that was true, then Hideo’s father would have been a worthless middle-aged fop trading on his “father’s” reputation instead of a formidable Peak Expert and Living Legend in the making. Then there was the fact that even though Juichi knew Hideo was walking a dead end path by following in his footsteps, the old man never truly raised an objection, because it appealed to his ego to raise a successor in his own image.

Is that how you see things, Mitsue Hideo? Cultivation is written Xiu Zhen (修真), which among other things means to pursue the truth. Altering your perspective to twist the truth to your liking is the same as lying to yourself, an escape for a man unwilling to bear the weight of his sins.

Quashing the doubting voice in his head warning him against taking the Wrong View, Hideo steeled his nerves and offered the Uniter a full bow this time, though he still refrained from stepping down off his stone dais. Why that was, he could not say, for a bow from an elevated position was only slightly better than spitting at the Uniter’s feet, but his instincts warned him against leaving the stone unoccupied. What’s more, the Uniter had come here in full regalia, offering guidance with one hand and threats with the other, so Hideo felt it only right to remain guarded against this powerful and mysterious patron of the Defiled. “I choose to seek out my own path, and beg elder for any guidance he might spare.” Hesitating for all of a moment, Hideo added, “However, this one feels unworthy of becoming elder’s Disciple, so would ask for a lowly place as your student instead.”

This wasn’t humility, but self-preservation, for it was clear the relationship between the Uniter and the Wisdom were strained, to say the least. Hideo himself had not noticed until after he stepped away, but the Wisdom had all but poached the most suitable talents away from the Uniter, and the latter was clearly looking to replace the now Demonified Gen. Hideo had no desire to place himself in between these two formidable groups, nor did he have any intentions of abandoning the Brotherhood’s camp in favour of the Uniter’s. All he wanted was to progress along his Path, and he felt that both sides could offer him the much needed guidance to do so.

“Hmph.” There was no anger in the old man’s huff, only contempt and indifference to Hideo’s equivocations. “Student or Disciple, what you call yourself matters not, for the ‘conflict’ you perceive between this Sovereign and Vyakhya is a but one-sided affair. Wise though he claims to be, the old eunuch has spent so long fixated on his goal that he has allowed his obsession to blind him to good sense. The conflict with the outer provinces is merely the beginning, yet he wrongly believes the war is all but won, and thus, in his arrogance, has succumbed to the height of foolishness by setting the table before securing the bird in hand.” A rather low-brow idiom from a man of his scholarly nature, but Hideo believed it was an intentional choice to further discredit the Wisdom’s actions, an understanding which did not escape the Uniter’s discerning gaze. “This Sovereign finds it refreshing to speak with an educated youth, especially after struggling to transform mud into gold for so long.”

“A noble endeavour,” Hideo replied, unable to keep the sneer off his face at being compared to lowly Gen, “But while a snake might one day transform into a dragon, it is too much for a lowly worm to dream of reaching such heights.”

The Uniter’s smile spoke volumes to his satisfaction at finding a kindred spirit, but it would be too crude of him to agree out loud. “The first lesson then,” he began, gesturing at the surroundings once more. “Gaze upon what you have wrought, and tell me what you see missing.”

Try as he might, Hideo saw nothing of note, for he’s spent many a day and week ensuring every last detail was correct, right down to the position of the tree branches and bird’s nests nestled within them. His Natal Palace was a perfect recreation of Wutai mountain, with not a single stone or weed out of place, so after much deliberation, Hideo turned back to the Uniter who’d stood patiently by for what might well have been several hours without uttering a peep. “This one is ignorant and unable to discover what Teacher finds lacking.”

“Admission of ignorance is but the first step to seeking assistance,” the Uniter replied, sparing Hideo the shame of his failings. “The answer lies not in the mountain itself, but in how you have chosen to depict it.” Raising a hand to point at the sun shining down from overhead, the Uniter asked, “Since this Sovereign’s arrival, the sun has not moved even a single millimetre, nor have the clouds shifted in any way. The wind does not stir, the humidity remains constant, the mountain static and unchanging. This is not Wutai Mountain, but merely an image of it painted upon the canvas of your mind. An impressive feat considering the scale of detail, but lacking in depth and acuity, for an image is static and unchanging. A Natal Palace should instead be alive and dynamic, analogous to the reality it seeks to replicate.”

Hideo’s eyes widened as he took in the Uniter’s words, for they hinted at a purpose of the Natal Palace which he never even considered. “The Natal Palace seeks to replicate reality,” he repeated, following the thread laid out for him to pursue. “So upon successful completion, there should be no difference between the Natal Palace and reality itself... Natal Palace Manifestation?”

