“That is one possibility, yes,” the Uniter replied, favouring Hideo with an approving nod. “To manifest one’s Natal Palace within reality is to exert absolute authority within one’s Domain rather than work within the limits Heaven enforces upon us, but that is not the sole reason for replicating reality.”

The Uniter said no more, leaving Hideo to form his own conclusions, and the implications were staggering to say the least. “Does this make it easier to Shatter the Void?” he tentatively asked, but rather than confirm or deny it, the Uniter merely pretended as if he hadn’t heard. Likely because Hideo was looking too far into the future when instead he should be looking into the past in order to correct the errors of his ways, so he swallowed his curiosity and retained this information for later perusal. Replicate reality within the Natal Palace, a simple enough concept that hid a myriad of complications. The sun was the easiest, for the path it took through the skies was constant and unchanging, rising from the east and setting in the west in a pattern measured in months, years, or possibly even decades and centuries. Hideo lacked the ability to uncover the pattern himself, but after thinking it through, he discovered it wasn’t necessary to specify every last detail, for his goal was simply to replicate reality within his Natal Palace, not create a brand new one similar to reality in every way, shape, and form. In simpler terms, his Natal Palace was meant to be a reflection of reality, so all he needed to do was imitate the laws of Heaven he had yet to understand.

And so, with little more than a thought, the sun shifted in the sky and the clouds came alive as the Wutai mountain within Hideo’s Natal Palace changed to reflect reality. No longer was it a static image, but a living recreation, albeit an imperfect one for now, but perfection could hardly be reached in a single bound.

“No.” The word echoed across the entire mountain and shook Hideo to his very core. Not because the volume was staggering, but rather because the word was uttered with such vehement objection that he knew he’d erred gravely in his efforts. That was all it took for him to abandon his efforts and revert back to the still image of Wutai Mountain, a change so instant and complete he only noticed it after the fact. Heaving a sigh filled with regret, the Uniter’s melancholic and piteous gaze struck Hideo like a meteor from on high, smashing him off his lofty peak on high and into the figurative depths of the earth below. “Such wasted talent and comprehension,” the Uniter began, and Hideo puffed up at the praise. “Truly a crime against Heaven to misguide you so, and a measure of your ability to have come so far in spite of it.”

Pleased as a peacock, Hideo offered the Uniter another bow. “Student begs Teacher for his guidance.”

“Even a tower a hundred yards tall still has its foundations on the ground, so to build upon weak foundations is to toil to no avail. Effort alone can bring you to the Martial Peak, but why limit yourself so from the very first step?” Truly a man of grand ambitions, the Uniter, and clearly he had high expectations of Hideo as well. Idly motioning at the mountain around them, the Uniter continued, “Think. Why did this Sovereign call your Natal Palace uninspired?”

The answer came readily to Hideo, for he’d already touched upon the crux of the issue and merely lacked the resolve needed to make the necessary corrections. “Because this one based his Natal Palace on Wutai Mountain out of a desire to emulate Mitsue Juichi, rather than out of any actual personal connection.” Or as the Brotherhood would say, the right action with the wrong intent, which could prove to be just as disastrous as the wrong action.

“Indeed.” Raising a stately white eyebrow while stroking his beard, the Uniter asked, “Need this Sovereign continue any further? The greatest barrier to Divinity lies not in the final hurdle which only a select few ever reach, but rather the first step which most fail to ever truly comprehend. The Core is the foundation upon which one’s Path is built, and yours is flawed beyond repair, but the solution is simple. The Energy of the Heavens is the power of Creation and Destruction both, so just as the forest fire clears away old growth to make way for the new, your best course of action is to do away with your crumbling foundations and build it up anew from the very first step.” The implications of which left Hideo reeling in fear and apprehension, but the Uniter merely raised a single eyebrow in amused question. “Life and death are but two points upon a circle, and the cyclical nature of reincarnation means you will experience them both time and time again. This Sovereign would not suggest so drastic a measure if he was not confident of success. If you lack courage, then so be it, but think of how you can benefit from a renewal such as this, a chance to return to the first step along the Dao for a new beginning with all the benefits of experience and hindsight.”

Immediately, Falling Rain’s descent to mortality and subsequent rise to Legate and possibly Peak Expert came to mind, a stunning reversal of fortune in Hideo’s eyes, but now he understood that the savage whelp had found fortune in disaster. No wonder his strength improved by leaps and bounds after shattering his Core, because he used it as an opportunity to reform his foundations and soar unto new heights, a feat Hideo would now replicate and surpass.

It took a phenomenal effort of will to thrust his Spiritual Weapons into a forming Demon, so much so that it took him a half dozen tries before he succeeded. The agony which followed was excruciating and immeasurable, but mercifully short-lived as the Demonized Gen dropped him into a pit of black, bubbling sludge that was supposed to help him refine his body and recreate his Core. Up to this point was the easy part, because even though the sludge would help him succeed at Core Creation once more, the Uniter stressed the importance of ensuring the Core was completely and utterly without flaw. Only then would Hideo be able to confine the mysteries of Heavens within his Core and recreate them in his Natal Palace, whereas others with lesser Cores would find the higher truths of the world denied them due to lacking foundations.

A task easier said than done. Just as his physical body sat immersed within the darkness of the sludge, Hideo’s mind was ensconced within the darkness of the Void, bereft of his familiar Natal Palace. Advice and assistance was all the Uniter could offer, for this next step, nay, this new first step was Hideo’s to take. Only he could determine the correct path forward, for no one else was privy to his own personal perspective, and he had quickly concluded that his temperament required adjusting. Hesitant. Inattentive. Arrogant. The three words hung in the air before him, written in his own hand without need for ink or brush, and he studied them to find the truth hidden behind each brush stroke and uncover the true Mitsue Hideo hiding within.

These were not his only failings, but they were the ones he could not afford to keep, for they were the fundamental flaws holding him back during his pursuit of the Dao. Thus, just as he found success in failure, he would turn his weaknesses into strengths through sheer determination alone. No longer would he permit himself to be hesitant, careless, or arrogant, and instead, he would be confident, diligent, and humble. Leaving the initial characters where they were, Hideo conjured up three new scrolls similar to the ones he would have used in real life, as well as his favourite sandalwood brush. Laying the scrolls out over-top the characters suspended in the Void, Hideo took a deep breath and pushed himself to the razor’s edge between struggle and surrender, neither giving into his emotions nor cordoning them off to be ignored. This was True Balance, a state of mind which stood in defiance of Heaven and felt so close at hand while remaining utterly out of Hideo’s reach.

And yet, in spite of his lacking ability, he strove to find True Balance all the same, without hesitation, without carelessness, and without arrogance.

When the time felt right, he touched brush to paper with a bold and audacious hand. Confidence. Diligence. Humility. Three new scrolls to replace the old and serve as a reminder to guard against his failings. Stepping back to study the brushwork, he found them lacking in far too many ways to describe, so he destroyed them and started anew. Again and again, he wrote and destroyed, using his failures to fuel his inevitable success, for it was only a matter of time for Hideo.

That was who he was now. Hideo. No family name, title, rank, or affiliation, just Hideo. Simple and boundless, the Heroic Heavenly Guardian who would bring forth a new era of the Empire. For too long, the Emperor had left his fiefdom to rot, and Hideo and the Heavens would no longer allow it, for the time of reckoning had come.

How many times he drew and redrew those same characters, he could not say, but if it did not number in the hundreds of thousands, then surely it was close. When he was finally satisfied with his work, he stepped back to take it all in and found the results well worth the effort. His flaws were still present, both literally and figuratively when speaking of the initial characters, but he would remain vigilant against them by remaining confident, diligent, and humble at all times. These scrolls and the flaws hidden behind them would forever remain suspended in memory and Natal Palace both, and he would never allow himself to forget it, from now until the day he died. This was the foundation upon which he would build, these first three stones which were part of a complex construction that would hold millions more, but none more important than these. Such was the benefit of starting anew, for though he lacked Core and Natal Palace both, he was able to lay out the groundwork beforehand instead of haphazardly going with the flow and simply accepting whatever flaws developed in the process, flaws which would limit how far he could progress.

These three scrolls were the first steps, but far from the only ones as Hideo’s body reaped the benefits of being immersed within the black sludge for so long. Here in the darkness of the Void, he had no inkling of how his physique had improved, but the Uniter assured him the gains would not be small. The black sludge was the culmination of centuries of research devoted to the improvement of the human condition, and the contents of Hideo’s refining bath was superior to even what Goujian had enjoyed. Having seen firsthand how the process transformed the lithe and sinewy Confessor into a hulking Warrior who towered over friend and foe alike, Hideo was confident his results would be far from disappointing. What’s more, the benefits attained were not limited to his body alone, for the black sludge would also improve the quality of his mind and soul at the same time. How, Hideo wasn’t entirely certain, for the Uniter’s detailed charts and explanations regarding meridians, acupoints, and Chakras left him utterly flummoxed from start to finish. Still, he gleaned enough to understand that the general goal was to improve the metaphysical pathways through which Chi flowed throughout his body and soul, which in turn would afford him more power, volume, and control over his Chi, and eventually lead to the formation of a Spiritual Heart.

All of which took place before Hideo even attempted Core Creation, proving that the Martial Path as the Empire understood it was flawed beyond recognition.

How long Hideo spent immersed in the life altering fluid, he could not say, for he put the time to good use meditating in the quiet isolation of the Void. Usually there were too many complications and distractions preventing him from reaching a state of honest introspection, but now there were no sights or sounds, scents or sensations to divert him from his goal. Here and now, he had only his thoughts and the whispers of his subconscious mind, meaning he would either master them both or succumb to the beast within. Success or failure hinged on his ability to sever his desires or at the very least come to terms with them, as well as his willingness to face the facts and accept the mistakes of his past. Mistakes were inevitable, so there was no sense hiding them like some illicit lover, for failure is the mother of success. That was what the Uniter told him, that every achievement worthy of note was built on a mountain of mistakes made by men and women history had long since forgotten, so there was no sense avoiding his dark past at the detriment of his limitless future.

