“Shi Bei has fallen,” came the Uniter’s reply, surprising Hideo to no end. “As planned. For two weeks now, the Imperials have stretched themselves thin in an effort to hold it, leaving so very many of their Peak Experts gathered in one place. A tempting military target, but this Sovereign cares not for lines drawn on a map. No, to seize victory, we must first deal with our greatest threat.” The Demonic Gen was no larger than he had been as a man, and it pleased Hideo to watch it crane its neck up to look him in the eye. The Demon possessed amber eyes, he noted, but not the warm, living amber of the Bekhai, but rather the glowing embers of a burning hot forge filled with hatred and suffering. “So you, Hideo, First Champion of the Chosen, will proceed to Meng Sha and kill Falling Rain before he wakes. His guardians are formidable, but so too are your allies, for success must be seized here before it becomes far more difficult to achieve.”

As Hideo emerged from the cave with the Demonic Gen at his side, he took in the sight of his allies waiting beneath the blazing midday sun, and noted how the once stifling heat no longer affected him. True to his word, the Uniter held nothing back to ensure Hideo’s success, but he was confident he alone would be enough. There was no need for so many Demons and Divinities, or the formidable Monks of the Brotherhood and their prized pupil Yuanyin, but where Mitsue Hideo would have once balked at the idea of sharing his glory, Hideo, the Heroic Heavenly Guardian, accepted the aid without comment. Better to quash the enemy’s hope and remove any and all chance of failure, negligible though it might be.

Clasping his fist in a military salute, Hideo offered the Uniter his respects. “Falling Rain will die,” he declared, “And not even the Heavens can save him.”

Striding off with his allies at his side, Hideo set out to seize victory and win the war. Only then could he indulge his darkest desires before setting them aside in order to pursue the Dao and unravel the mysteries of Heaven and beyond. That was his ultimate goal now, and every step he took from here on in would be in pursuit of this ambition, for only then could he repay the Heavens for the pain and misery it inflicted upon him.

Trials and tribulations without end, but that would change once Hideo rose up to become a calamity to the Heavens themselves and ascended to the next plane of existence. Once there, he would conquer that world as well, and his journey in this world would be naught but a footnote, beginning with the death of the worthless and insignificant savage, Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
