[Main Body POV ~ Midnight]

My teammates approach me from the canyon, and my double points a finger to its forehead to kill itself. The memories of the arena come rushing into my consciousness.

Imagery of the 5th ranked Dark Guard trying to possess my teammates, and Maria's overwhelming display of energy control to give Abby and Monk a chance to get away alive repeat in my mind.

The fact that the 5th ranked Dark Guard already knows I defeated the 7th ranked Dark Guard, and said the Dark One is waging an attack to get revenge makes me wonder where all of the other guards are.

Especially the 6th, and the question of the actual power gap between guards also concerns me.

Even using every last drop of the Red Hydra's buff in a single attack, Maria managed to only shift the trajectory of that monster's basic slash. It was impressive, but considering it took all of her power and she's most likely the strongest out of all of them, it's actually more concerning.

If they didn't have a getaway plan and were in an actual fair fight, none of them would have lasted a second.

I look at Maria, Abby, Monk, Fisher, and Lydia as they float up onto flat ground. They stand on the newly built stone road, lit up in the night and I do full scans of each of them, accessing displays of their powers and abilities quickly, coming to a single conclusion.

Maria speaks it aloud before I can say it myself.

"Jay, we need to get stronger. Those Dark Guards are on a level far above anything I've seen before. In our current shape, we stand no chance."

In the same moment, I see all 5 of their gazes shift to the sky behind me and get in a battle-ready position. However, I speak up and put my hands up in the air.

"Hey, hey don't worry. You're safe here for now. That's an ally."

Ember and my double come floating down from deep within the desert. They must have just come from collapsing another dungeon. It's been almost 5 hours since I sent them off to continue collecting energy for the Isolation Pod.

My double's mana control is off the charts which is probably want sent my teammates into attack mode, I can sense it like a beacon in the sky. However, Ember is basically invisible to all of their senses.

As they touch down, I continue to speak.

"There's no need to fill me in on the details, my double already caught me up to speed."

I look toward the crimson-haired human form of my dragon partner, then turn back to my teammates.

"I'd like you all to meet the newest member of our party. Everyone, meet Ember!"

He walks toward the five of them with a calm expression and graceful silent steps, scanning them with an unknown aura of energy.

He silently stares at them and looks each of them up and down with a natural-looking smile. I remember he did a similar thing with Arie. It was weird then, and it's still weird now, but Ember doesn't exactly spend much time with humans so my best guess is he's just acting natural.

Or, a more likely explanation is he knows its odd and just doesn't care what anyone thinks. So, he acts as he pleases.

I shrug and place a hand on my head.

"He's been away from people for a while, so just know he means well. Ember is strong, and an ally I trust with my life. So I hope to see you all treat him like you would treat me. He'll grow on you soon."

I let out a sigh, then begin walking slowly back and forth while deeply thinking to myself.

He can handle greetings on his own, I need to figure out our next plan of action; and fast.

What Maria said is right, I need to find a way to get them all in fighting shape for the inevitable confrontation with the Dark Guards.

Arie greets each of the team members briefly, and Abby introduces him to Monk, but it's clear to see on his face he's still spent from training his Demonic Energy Manipulation all day.

While my mind wanders, Arie and my double step aside to observe while Ember begins to confront my teammates. He speaks up for the first time after examining Fisher and Lydia.

"You two are strong fighters. Proficient in mana control and have very refined and practiced sword techniques. Out of everyone here, you may not have the highest degree of overwhelming natural talent, but your experience and training shows."

He puts out a hand and silently shakes both of their hands with nods of respect, then slowly walks over to Abby next. He gets up close to her face and stares her in the eyes for a few seconds before displaying a grin and stepping back.

"Restoration Magic. Is that so? I haven't felt this presence in quite a while."

Ember looks up to the sky, muttering to himself "Not since... hmm... Was it that Dryad that became a Divine Beast a few centuries ago? Was she the last one that had that skill? Too bad her immortality was cut short like the others during the incident. Though, it explains why her talent is still floating around looking for a host."

He looks back into Abby's eyes, then puts out a hand to shake.

"Nevermind that. Anyway, nice to meet you. It seems fate works in mysterious ways, I'd say I'm surprised you're in Jay's party, but honestly that would be a lie. It will be a pleasure fighting by your side."

They shake hands, and Ember's attention quickly moves to Maria.

The Dragon's bright red eyes pulse with energy at the sight of the limitless potential it sees within Maria's energy control.

Ember doesn't move for almost 5 whole seconds, examining the fluctuations in her aura and seeing the Qi rest calmly in her core yet acting like an abyss that calls for more.

His grin that's still plastered on his face from meeting Abby widens even further, and he lets out a laugh.

"Incredible. Such an insatiable hunger for energy, yet wielded by a delicate looking woman. Appearances are very deceiving, aren't they?"

Maria responds, stepping forward with a confident look on her face and a sharpened gaze.

"You're right... about all of us. And if Jay trusts you, then so do I... but I don't understand your words and tone. What is all of this talk about immortality, Divine Beasts, and most importantly what energy source are your abilities coming from. I can't sense a drop of Qi or Mana coming off your body. Who—or What—are you?"

Ember takes a step back and stops chuckling, crossing his arms.

"Maria, right? Your name is a very familiar one floating around in Jay's mind. When our telepathy is linked, it shows up in my subconscious often. I always wondered what you'd be like, and I'm not disappointed. You may have the greatest potential of everyone here. What an interesting team."

He puts out a hand to shake, and Maria stares down at it, not wanting to accept the gesture just yet.

Ember speaks again.

"I promise you, in time more will become clear. Jay keeps his secrets for good reason. I'm one of his most guarded ones. This is the beginning of a road to see him opening up much more in the future. See me as a bridge to his mind, I believe you will learn more about his motives and desires soon."

She continues to look at the hand for a few more seconds in silence, then decides to shake it with her own.

"Okay, fine. Nice to meet you, Ember."

They release their grip, and Ember finally moves to Monk who waits patiently, staring off into the empty desert with his arms crossed and gaze steady.

Ember curiously looks him up and down, then poses a simple question.

"Do you worship the Originators?"

Mention of that word makes Monk's head turn to meet his eyes in an instant.

He doesn't say anything back, but it's clear Ember struck a cord with this line. Ember leans in closer, scanning every part of his body, then eyeing the item pouch around his waist.

"What? I don't care if you do or don't. Everyone knows the Origin Civilization left us to a higher plane before any modern tools of record-keeping existed. It's not like I'm accusing you of anything, just wondering if you care to study their practices. Your lack of mana control and the contents of that storage pouch just lead me to such a conclusion."

His eyes widen even more, then he finally speaks.

"You know—of the Origin Civilization?"

Ember shrugs, responding in a nonchalant manner.

"Hardly, only rumors and replicated texts. Most of the real books that taught proper Qi control and the creation of the system were lost in wars on planets that no longer have names I can remember."

He lets out a sigh and waves a hand in the air.

"Trust me, I looked for answers longer than anyone. If they wanted to be found, they'd have shown themselves by now."

Ember points a finger to Monk's storage pouch again.

"Any relics you believe will show you the real truth one day are nothing more than junk left behind by those that have moved on. They took everything valuable with them."

Monk closes his mouth and bows, keeping silent for a few seconds then bringing his head back up.

"I—Understand, but it is my life's journey to continue my search."

Ember nods again.

"Very well. There's no point in trying to stop you. Who knows, maybe a stone or two haven't been looked under yet. There's always a chance. Whatever the case may be, you are strong. I look forward to fighting with you."

Ember puts out a hand and they shake.

He turns back to me in my main body as I finally finish with my brainstorming, and I've come up with a perfect plan.

The rumbling sound of wooden carts full of heavy rocks sound nearby as the grunts under mind control come walking our way.

I step up and look my teammates in the eyes.

"Welcome to Sector 2. This is our new Territory, run by me, The Flame Emperor."

I burst into a display of fire that signals the grunts to turn around and walk back toward the town.

"I have a lot to explain, and we have a lot of training to do. However, together we'll defeat every single Dark Guard and take the Head of The Lich King. So, follow me. Tonight, we will prepare for war."
