He stared at the three women. Mrsha rubbed her nose, Erin rolled her eyes, and Lyonette took Pisces’ words to heart. Pisces stared at them, then sat back up right and raised his empty cup.
“Another blue fruit beverage, if you would be so kind. I will admit that the sacchariferous nature of the drink makes it quite refreshing.”
“Me too. I love this stuff. Tree rot, I’d forgotten how good it was!”
Ceria sighed as she sipped from her cup. Yvlon looked mildly appalled as she watched both get big refills from one of the Drake [Servers].
“I’d forgotten how sweet this is. It’s okay for me. No more, thank you. Do you have any water?”
She pushed her cup back. Ksmvr gently vibrated in his seat as he reached for the pitcher.
“I believe I am experiencing a sugar overload. I will have another, thank you.”
Lyonette gently motioned, and the Drake [Server] drew back before Ksmvr could help himself. She turned to Erin.
“Do you have a price set? Or can I choose one?”
Erin shook her head.
“I dunno. You charge what you want for it, Lyonette. And we should start putting out those Acid Fly traps I told you about. Remember? No, wait. You don’t. You came after the Acid Flies!”
The [Princess] frowned.
“I’ve seen those green things buzzing around with all the dead fish and mud. That’s money too?”
“It is. I’ll tell you all about them! And my traps! I sold this horrible face-eating acid stuff for a lot of money to adventurers!”
Lyonette’s eyes lit up. The idea of selling acid in jars sounded dangerous, and the concept of farming flies was gross. But she could get behind the idea of money. The idea of Acid Flies filled her with avarice, rather than disgust. Okay, and a bit of disgust. She snapped her fingers together, thinking of a good spot for the traps. Not too close to the inn; Mrsha might get hurt.
“I’ll take care of it. And—Pisces, it’s six copper coins per cup! Got it?”
She looked at Pisces. He yelped.
“Six copper—that is sheer robbery, Miss Lyonette! Sheer, pure theft of—”
Ceria slapped the [Necromancer] on the shoulder.
“Pisces, you’re rich now. You can afford the drinks. Remember?”
“Oh. In that case, I’ll take a sealed container of the drink, if you would. And some snacks for my room.”
Lyonette rolled her eyes. She looked back at Erin, doing some quick calculations.
“Six for now. If we sell just thirty-four cups or a few pitchers, we’re up an entire gold coin, Erin.”
“Ooh. That’s a lot more than I charged. I think. Yeah, I used to charge two copper coins. Wow.”
Erin shook her head. Lyonette bit her lip.
“No wonder you never made money, Erin. You need to be competitive.”
The young woman paused. She screwed up her face and then gave it a resigned shake.
“But what if they complain? Or it’s too expensive? I’d feel awful. I’m no good at being mean.”
“Well, I can be mean. Peon.”
Lyonette smiled, and Erin laughed. The [Princess] glanced down at Mrsha. The Gnoll was dozing in her arms.
“You need a nap, Mrsha. Too much excitement already.”
She lifted the sleepy Gnoll up and looked at Erin.
“The money will be very useful. I’m getting the Antinium to do a lot of construction work. First, they’ll be expanding the hill. But Pawn hasn’t been too active of late. I think he’s…thinking. I hope he visits today.”
Erin nodded.
“Yeah. I haven’t seen him. I hope he’s okay. It took me a long time, and he lost Yellow Splatters and a hundred other Soldiers. I could see if Klbkch will let me into the Hive after the cake…wait, expanding the hill?”
She blinked up at Lyonette. The [Princess] shifted Mrsha to one arm as she began to explain. Then she saw Erin’s eyes slide to the magic door, currently connected to Liscor. Forewarned, Lyonette was already turning when the door burst open and Olesm Swifttail burst into the inn.
“I’m quitting.”
The Drake’s blue scales flashed in the spring sunlight. He’d come through the magic door at a run. As it slammed against the wall, Mrsha woke up. She stared at Olesm as he hurled an armful of letters, half opened, onto the ground. Erin and Lyonette stared at Olesm’s heaving chest, the tears in his eyes, and the letters. The Horns and other guests turned to stare. The Players of Celum stopped rehearsing.
One of the Gnoll regulars in the inn raised his mug. He grinned cheerfully.
“At last! Blue fruit juice and drama! This is what I pay for!”
 
——
 
It had been nearly two weeks since the last huge dramatic incident in the inn. Plenty of time for peace and quiet, which it had to be said, was much needed. But some habits died hard it seemed. And Lyonette was savvy enough to know exactly what to do.
“Anyone want more blue fruit? I’m mixing it with some ales, spirits—I’ll try some blue fruit and gin mixer. Special discount. Only eight coppers to try it out! We also have some great pretzel snacks and some fries. Mayonnaise is free for a big platter. Hands? Anyone?”
As Ishkr circulated the tables with the staff, and Lyonette made a killing, Erin was with Olesm. She got him into a seat as the Drake sniffed and pounded the table, upset, but not actually crying that much. The Horns watched, munching their food, and Mrsha began sneaking fries from plates as Erin sat.
“Come on, sit down Olesm. What’s this all about?”
“Sorry. I didn’t mean to come here. I mean—”
The Drake [Strategist] sniffed, and Erin watched some snot disappear back up a nose hole. She made a face.
“Uh, napkin?”
“Here.”
One of the employees passed her one. Erin beamed. It was so nice to have hired help.
“Thanks, Fysi! Here, Olesm.”
She passed Olesm a napkin, and he blew his ‘nose’. Drakes had noses like lizards, which meant their nose-holes…Erin looked away as he wiped and sniffed again.
“I’m sorry. I really am. I know you don’t want to see me. But I just got this all by City Runner, and I—”
Erin stared at Olesm. She felt a mix of emotions. Anger, guilt, heartache—but none of them were overpowering. She glanced around. Numbtongue wasn’t in the common room. He was relaxing after having a bad encounter with some Rockmites the other day. And if he did come down? Well, Erin would deal with that.
She had a lot to say to Olesm, and he had done a lot. But Erin didn’t feel able to kick him out of her inn, distraught as he was. So she put her past with him aside for a second. Because they were friends. And Erin could know that, now. They were friends, still. So she patted him on the back.
“It’s okay. What’s wrong?”
“My newsletter. I—I knew it was a bad idea. But I thought—and I sent it, and I didn’t get an immediate response, because I didn’t check! They were all coming in letter form. From my big clients. I didn’t even go to the Mage’s Guild. I’ve been too afraid to. I’ve been reading the replies. But—oh, Ancestors. I’m quitting. I’m never writing another newsletter again.”
Olesm collapsed into his seat, hiccupping as the scales around his cheeks turned darker. Erin looked around.
“Your newsletter? You mean the chess magazine with the strategy? What’s wrong with it? I thought everyone loved it! Hey, a blue fruit juice over here? With gin?”
“Thank you.”
The [Strategist] snuffled as he accepted a cup. He took a big drink and blinked. He stared at the cup.
“You have blue fruit juice in again?”
“Yup. Just today. Are all those letters about your chess magazine?”
Erin stared at the letters Olesm had dropped. The Drake nodded.
“I—you know I normally do chess games and now those games of Go? Well, I had some of your old ones written up. But I thought I’d give some commentary. Just as a [Strategist]! You know? I do have the class. But the response—”
His claw indicated the pile. Ishkr dropped a bunch on the table, and Erin nodded to him. She reached for one of the opened ones and stared at a long letter full of angular script.
“May I, Olesm?”
“Go ahead.”
The Drake put his head down. Erin read the letter out slowly, ignoring the screeches as the inn’s patrons edged closer to read. Pisces unapologetically levitated a few letters towards him. Yvlon slapped his arm. Ceria grabbed a letter to read. Erin ignored both.
“‘Dear Strategist Swifttail. With respect, please eat your tail, then stand in front of a wagon so your death increases the intelligence of our species as a whole. Your commentary—I hesitate to call it an actual ‘analysis’—of Liscor’s battle with the Goblin Lord is ludicrous, ill-thought out, and frankly wrong. Moreover, it is purely unnecessary in what is meant to be an impartial commentary on chess.’”
Erin blinked. The opening of the letter looked like it had been written by someone very angry. And the contents suggested the same.
“‘Your notions about Goblins are the most ludicrous worm slime I’ve ever heard of in my life. I cannot fathom how you ever became [Strategist] for a city. Liscor is ill-served in your position, and I personally cannot bear to read your inane drivel any longer. I am unsubscribing from this newsletter. Please refrain from sending me any correspondence in the future. Strategist Beillfamt of Tullss.’ Whoa. What did you do to make him so angry?”
“Just keep reading.”
Olesm didn’t look up. Erin reached for another letter. She got two lines in, this time, and recoiled. There wasn’t any mention of what Olesm had done that was so egregious, but the sender was very explicit in what should be done to Olesm.
“Wow. He wants you to do what with a Creler? No, Mrsha, you can’t see.”
Erin hurriedly pushed Mrsha back. Meanwhile, at the Horns’ table, Pisces was cackling as he read through a letter. Yvlon’s lips twitched as she read from her letter.
“‘Dear Scales-for-brains’…oh my.”
Ceria read from another.
“‘To the idiot who thinks he knows strategy…’”
“This one is golden. ‘I will hunt you down and eat you alive. You have been warned!’ Ah, it’s too much! May I take some of these to read later?”
Pisces waved his letter, laughing even harder. Olesm buried his hands in his claws.
“Some of them couldn’t even be delivered. The Runner’s Guild said at least fourteen contained poison, feces, hex spells, and bugs!”
Ksmvr looked interested.
“Are there any bugs here?”
Erin shook her head. She read another letter, frowning. Then she looked up.
“You said Goblins weren’t monsters?”
The inn’s guests glanced at Olesm. He jumped and slowly met Erin’s eyes. She looked at the letter he’d received. This one wasn’t as rage-filled as the others.
 
To Olesm Swifttail of Liscor,
I wished to write you a letter in regards to your latest newsletter, of which I am subscribed. I am a passionate fan of the new game of chess, and sincerely interested in the strategic elements of the game, as well as this new game of ‘Go’, which has just reached my city. However, I was somewhat disturbed when I discovered that your latest edition of your newsletter contained a substantial analysis of the Siege of Liscor and commentary on the Goblin element that factored into the entire affair.
Without delving into the mechanics of your analysis of the battle itself (which I have to say was well done), I confess to being greatly disturbed by your suggestions that the Goblins were in fact victims of Human and Drake politics in the battle.
I was even more alarmed by your proposal for a hypothetical peace with the Goblins, wherein the Adventurer’s Guild’s bounties on Goblins would be rescinded and they would be considered people. Let alone forging trading and non-aggression pacts with smaller Goblin tribes! I consider this suggestion dangerous, not to mention irresponsible to suggest to your audience, and I believe many of your readers share the same opinion.
We have had Goblin pacts in the past. Historically, there are four instances of Goblins on Izril being awarded exemptions from monster status. In all but one case, the Goblin individuals or tribes eventually came into conflict with the sovereign powers and were destroyed. Most recently, Garen Redfang, a noted Gold-rank adventurer, slaughtered half his team before fleeing. I understand he perished at Liscor, which is all to the better. But it only proves the point: history shows Goblins are unlikely to be trusted.
Strategist Olesm, your arguments, while well-intentioned, fail when shone upon with the light of history. I have enclosed three books with this letter, which detail in part the efforts to make any kind of lasting pact with Goblins on Baleros and Chandrar respectively, as well as their use as auxiliaries in Rhir at one point. Note the Baleros book — Monstrous Warfare with additional commentary by none other than Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros, whom I understand you hold in some regard. He underlines the same points I have just made.
Please educate yourself and present any further arguments with factual references to back up your assertions, or at least an acknowledgement of counterarguments. I do await further newsletters with impatient anticipation, and would request that you include a more basic guide to the strategy of this new ‘Go’ game that has come from Baleros. You appear to have a quite expert player you are sourcing from, but the nuances of your three examples are lost on me at the moment. Thank you for your time.
Yours truly,
[Strategist] and [Historian], Quelmi Seventails of Fissival
 
Erin stared at the letter. Olesm was hitting himself on the forehead. He snuffled.
“Yeah. I wrote it. I just thought—I know what you must think, Erin. And I thought you were right! Sort of. At least at the battle, I thought, if we had tried some other tactic, or if we’d had any framework for peace—I just suggested using Goblins as a deterrent for other monsters! I proposed hypotheticals in which they could be treated as something other than monsters. And I got…”
He waved a hand weakly at the letters. Erin picked up another. This one said that if Olesm ever made it to the Drake’s city, he would be beaten. The next one was from a Human. It was no less vitriolic. Erin shook her head. Ceria looked skeptically at Olesm.
“You actually wrote that Goblins aren’t monsters? And you didn’t expect people to jump down your throat and try to pull your stomach out?”
He glared at her with one red eye.
“I thought they’d understand my point, Ceria! These are supposed to be [Strategists]! Can’t they accept an idea? Instead, they hate me. It’s over. No one’s ever going to read my newsletter again. I’m going to be a pariah in every city in the world.”
He collapsed into his seat. Yvlon rolled her eyes.
“Don’t be dramatic. They’re not all bad. This one thinks you’re hilarious. Have a read.”
She flicked a letter at Olesm. He grabbed for it and read. His face only grew more morose.
