“Traitor. Is it so wrong to mock the teams, which, might I remind you, conspired to jail all of us and then attempted to usurp our mission? We may have struck a nonaggression pact, but I personally believe—”
“Shut up, Pisces.”
The adventurers laughed again. They sat back easily, and Lyonette saw Ishkr pass them with a tray of drinks. He was heading towards the back of the inn. And when she turned her attention and ears there, another conversation became audible. Or rather, a soliloquy.
“Is this a dagger which I see before me, The handle toward my paw? Come, let me clutch thee. I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.”
On the stage, watched by a few scattered tables of early morning guests, was a Gnoll. He stood on stage, grasping at a dagger before him. Macbeth, staring at a very real dagger being held up on a string, paused in his delivery of the soliloquy and coughed. An impatient voice yelled from behind the curtain.
“Cut! What’s wrong this time, Yimur?”
The Gnoll looked apologetic as the other [Actors] appeared. Two of the audience members sitting at the tables booed; the Players of Celum took no notice. The ten or so veteran Human actors and new aspiring cast of Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans crowded around the lead Gnoll.
“Sorry. It’s just that…hrr, it’s these lines, Director Temile. I do not know if this is all too fitting for a Gnollish Macbeth. You see, I agree with the changing of ‘hand’ to ‘paw’, but this dagger? It makes no sense, yes?”
He scratched at one red-brown, furry ear as he spoke to Temile, the lead direct and [Actor] now that the main cast had left Celum for the north. The man scrubbed a hand through his hair impatiently.
“It makes no sense. Why not? It’s a dagger. Macbeth is staring at it. What’s there to wonder about?”
Yimur spread his paws out helplessly.
“If it is a dagger, why does Macbeth have a hard time seeing it? Even if it is pitch-black, he should be able to see it if he can make it out. Gnolls have very good eyesight. I understand that a Human might have an issue, but if I see a dagger, I know it’s a dagger, yes?”
He looked around. The other Gnolls nodded along with some of the Drakes. Temile groaned.
“It’s meant to be a metaphor. Look, Erin explained it to me once. This fellow, who you’re playing—”
“Macbeth.”
One of the Drakes added in helpfully. Temile turned to glare.
“Yes, Macbeth. Whose part you were selected to play before all the others, by the way, Yimur. He’s staring at a dagger. In his mind. Alright? We’ll get rid of the prop. Or maybe we’ll say it’s an illusion spell. But he doesn’t know it’s a dagger, see? He’s wondering if he’s gone crazy.”
“Even so, if it were a Gnoll, he would know what he sees. Why does he have to wonder? I know that’s a dagger. And that’s a spoon. And that’s a cup. Why would I waste words wondering, even if my mind is playing tricks on me?”
“So would Drakes. We know daggers. We’re not all crazy like you Humans.”
The non-Human cast agreed. Temile clutched at his hair.
“It’s an illusion in the mind! Madness! He’s thinking to himself, alright? And if you want to be Macbeth, you’ll start imagining a dagger too! Take it from the top!”
Temile stomped back behind the curtain. Lyonette watched as Yimur the Gnoll disconsolately took his position again. The Gnoll stared at the air and gasped.
“Is this a dagger which I see before me, The handle toward my paw? Yes! Come, let me clutch thee. I have thee not, which surely indicates an illusion spell, and yet I see thee still.”
“Cut!”
Lyonette laughed. So did some of the audience. The Players of Celum weren’t ready to put on any big plays, not if the arguing cast was any indication. But they were practicing every day in the inn, day and night, and the casting call had attracted nearly a hundred applicants. And they did bring in some guests, who came just to watch the plays and the actors working out the bugs in their routine. When they finally started putting on proper plays, Lyonette expected some good business.
But the inn was still pulling in money. Not huge money, but enough. Lyonette had big plans. And as a breathless Erin came in with a tousle-haired Mrsha, Lyonette was pleased enough that she could just direct one of the Gnoll servers to bring Erin and the Gnoll some water rather than have to do it herself. Erin smiled as she came to a table, and Mrsha drank thirstily from her cup.
“That was fun! How’s the crew, Lyonette?”
“Dreadful as I understand it. You want to give them some pointers?”
Erin laughed as she watched Yimur do another take of Macbeth’s soliloquy.
“No thank you! I got enough questions from Jasi and Wesle’s lot. The Players are a lot more into plays than I ever was. They’d be right at home in a class discussing all that. I’m just lucky that I got a B- in class.”
“That’s one of your scores, right?”
Lyonette tried to remember Erin’s lessons about Earth. The young woman nodded.
“It’s, uh, below average. A tiny bit. Anyways, I remembered the plays thanks to my Skills. Someone else can interpret them. Whew! I’m beat. I think I’m going to do some work now. Enough grass.”
She plucked at some grass stuck to her tunic. Mrsha shook her fur, and Lyonette sighed. Someone would have to clean that up. She still helped clean. But the smile on both faces was eminently worth it. She cast a glance at Erin. The day had started well. And knowing the [Innkeeper]’s new routine…
“Are you going to Pallass today? I’d like you to look for some rarer ingredients in the market if you do.”
Erin hesitated. She frowned and glanced back towards the magic door. Ishkr trotted over and changed the dial holding the magic stones. He checked all the locations for waiting guests, shrugged since there was no one, and closed the door. Erin shook her head.
“Maybe not Pallass today. I’m gonna stop bugging Rufelt and Lasica every day. Plus, I want to make some stuff to take to them. I promised I’d show Lasica my cakes! So how about it, Mrsha? Want to help me make some cakes today? If you promise not to keep stealing from the bowl, I’ll let you lick the spoons.”
Mrsha looked up and nodded rapidly. Lyonette frowned.
“Mrsha’s been gaining a bit of weight, Erin. She needed it, but no extra slices of cake. Okay?”
Mrsha shot Lyonette a betrayed look. Erin smiled.
“I promise. And it’s great weather for it. I just need to maybe get more eggs and…”
Her head turned towards the bright windows, letting in sunshine. Erin frowned. She was suddenly struck by a thought she hadn’t had in months.
“Hey. You know, it is springtime.”
“You don’t say?”
Lyonette glanced at the windows and raised her eyebrows. Erin blinked at her.
“What I mean is, it’s been spring for a while. I hear some [Farmers] are even pulling in harvests. Everything’s growing, right?”
Mrsha rotated her paws in front of her chest, twitching her ears impatiently.
Go on, go on.
Erin absently nodded.
“Right. So…I wonder if we can harvest some blue fruits?”
Both Lyonette and Mrsha sat up. They stared at Erin. She looked at them.
“We couldn’t in winter. But it is spring. Right? They were the first things I ever ate here. And I bet the trees are still there.”
“Could be.”
Lyonette blinked. Blue fruits? She had no idea…no, wait, she did remember Erin moaning about not having any. Erin got to her feet. She looked at Mrsha.
“Want to go for a walk?”
The Gnoll grinned. Lyonette hesitated.
“Put your boots on first, Mrsha. And no running on all fours! And Erin, remember to take some emergency items.”
“Yes, Mom!”
 
——
 
There they were. Blue fruits, hanging from the pale grey trees. The bright, rounded shapes were unnaturally colorful in the muddy valley. Mrsha and Erin’s boots splashed in the bottom layer of congealing mud. Both Gnoll and young woman were slightly muddy; it had been a dirty trek. But it was worth it. Erin breathed out as she stared up at the blue fruit trees.
“Oh wow. So that’s why they’re impossible to knock down. They were under water!”
The valley of blue fruit trees had indeed been under water. When the rains had come, this entire area had been submerged, Erin was sure. Now, as the sun and air slowly dried the area, higher valleys like this were nearly dry. Still, Erin was fascinated that none of the blue fruit trees had collapsed. She was sure the mud and draining water might have shifted a lot of the landscape. Why hadn’t the trees been toppled? She walked around one, staring up at the tall branches.
“Must have some kind of…incredible root system. And the ability to photosynthesize under water? Can trees hold their breath? No—wait—do they need to breathe?”
Mrsha looked blankly up at Erin. The young woman stroked her chin.
“Well, I was bad at biology anyways. And look! They’ve got blue fruits! Well, hm—those are yellow.”
She pointed at some of the fruits higher up. Mrsha squinted and nodded. The smaller fruits on the limbs were yellow, wrinkled, not nearly as lush or round as the lower-hanging, earliest blue fruits.
“So the fruits aren’t ripe until they’re blue. And they’ve got those big poison seeds. Don’t bite any until we get to the inn, Mrsha. I’m serious. I think I got poisoned once, and I threw up. Pisces said they’re deadly, and he’s right sometimes.”
Mrsha nodded seriously. She eagerly waved the basket she’d carried. Erin laughed.
“Yes, yes! We can get some! Let’s see. I normally just kick the trees and wait for the fruits to drop. But ick. And that sometimes makes the cores break. Why don’t we do it like this? Mrsha, you get a ride on my shoulders. Can you reach them?”
The Gnoll nodded. After shucking her boots, she stood on Erin’s shoulders and began plucking fruits. Erin kept her steady, and the Gnoll filled the basket. Although, she had to stop every few seconds to glance down at Erin for reassurance that Erin was holding on tight. Mrsha really didn’t like heights or cartwheels or anything that altered her sense of gravity.
Erin wondered if that was a difference between her species and Mrsha’s ancestors. Humans evolved from apes, right? What did Gnolls evolve from? Hyenas? Erin bet there was a video of a monkey doing a cartwheel. Right? There had to be one.
The orchard was bigger than Erin remembered. Or rather, looking at it now and all the budding fruits hanging off the tall limbs, Erin was sure that it could provide the inn with enough fruits all year if the trees kept producing into the fall. Especially with her [Field of Preservation] Skill. The only thing was that Erin didn’t remember there being nearly so many fruits when she’d first found this place.
“We can make a lot of blue juice, Mrsha. Get those ones too! We’ll get a big basket, and Lyonette can help us get the rest later. Or we’ll borrow a bag of holding from Ceria.”
Erin trotted over to another tree. She stared up. The trees had a lot of fruit! So why hadn’t she noticed so many? Did they produce less in the fall? Or did the orchard have other eaters? She’d never seen one of the Dino Birds eating from it, and the Rock Crabs avoided the place like the plague. So how—
Mrsha was reaching for another blue fruit when she noticed Erin had stopped. She kicked gently, and then looked down. Erin was staring blankly up at her. The young woman’s voice was quiet.
“Oh. Rags’ tribe must have eaten these all the time as well.”
Mrsha’s ears drooped. Erin stared up at her, and her face scrunched up. But neither she nor Mrsha cried. Erin stared at the basket tucked under one arm. She lowered Mrsha. It was nearly full to the brim, anyways.
“It’s okay. Let’s go back, huh? And then you can have the first batch of blue fruit juice. I think we should water it down, though; it’s too sweet! But hey, we can make a carrot cake, okay?”
The [Innkeeper] smiled. After a moment, she didn’t need to force it. Mrsha nodded eagerly, and Erin carried her back to the boots, which were partially embedded in the mud. Erin looked at the orchard as Mrsha put her boots on.
This was Erin Solstice’s new world. With less evil Goblins, but one dear friend. Instead of walking alone, a little Gnoll held her hand. And her inn had patrons, guests she knew and loved and people who came to her inn because it was a place. Everything changed.
Except for Rock Crabs. One came over the hill, and Erin and Mrsha chased it away then legged it back to the inn. Rock Crabs sucked.
 
——
 
“I shouldn’t have let you go. Not without a guard.”
Lyonette was fretting when Erin and Mrsha told her the story. The Gnoll shook her head while she let Lyonette clean her fur with a bit of soapy water. Erin raised a hand.
“Hey. In my defense…I did have some potions and a Tripvine Bag. It’s just that blue fruit cores work best on those rock-jerks.”
“It’s still dangerous. At least neither of you were hurt. But you both have to take more care. At least bring more items! Or we can have Ishkr or Numbtongue go with you.”
“As what, bait?”
Lyonette recriminations were cut short by Ishkr emerging from the kitchen. The Gnoll had the basket they’d brought back and some blue paws. He placed the basket on the table, and Erin saw it was filled with sticky blue fruit cores, all unbroken.
“Good work, Ishkr! That was quick!”
“No problem, Miss Erin. I’m going to get some water and wash my paws. Where do you want the basket, Lyonette?”
“By the window, Ishkr. They can dry out, and then we’ll keep them to chase the Rock Crabs off. No, Apista! Leave Ishkr alone. And don’t you dare break those cores! Ishkr, sorry, but can you wash them in the stream first?”
Lyonette chased Apista away. Ishkr eyed the Ashfire Bee and nodded.
“Watch out for those big fish!”
Erin called at the Gnoll’s back. Then she turned to Lyonette.
“I love employees.”
“They are useful. I’ll pulp the rest of the fruits myself. It really is as sweet as you claimed! I thought you had to be exaggerating. And the colors!”
The [Princess] smiled widely with delight. She wanted to rub her hands together, but they were all muddy, and Mrsha was squirming. Erin nodded. She had a cup herself. She sipped from it.
“It’s so sugary! Just as good as anything back home. Totally worth nearly getting eaten by a Rock Crab for.”
Lyonette nodded.
“We can sell your blue fruit drinks for a big profit, I think. Especially since no one else in Liscor seems willing to harvest blue fruits.”
Pisces, sitting close to them, leaned over.
“Because they’re a deadly poison. The amount of toxins in one fruit core could kill you quite, quite dead even with a healing potion! I’ve told Erin this time and time again. The fact that none of us have perished yet is a statistical anomaly, not a cause for complacency!”
