Regisav was pushing Ulseil. The others were watching, calling out questions. The [Merchant] spun, and a desperate sentence escaped his lips.
“Of course! Of course I’d support Gnolls on the Council. Elections! Why not? We could try it.”
The mood of the crowd instantly…relaxed. They started murmuring, and Ulseil saw his chance to escape. He began to push through the crowd, taking advantage of the lull. Right up until he heard the voice from the Gnoll.
“You hear that? He supports it! That’s one fifth of the votes right there for a majority! Let’s tell Honored Krshia! Spread the word, Councilman Ulseil says yes to elections!”
“Wait, you can’t do that!”
Ulseil spun around. He began to panic, but it was too late. Already, someone was calling it out.
“Councilman Ulseil says he would allow an election for the Council seats! That’s at least one vote right there! What do the other Councilmembers have to say?”
“Wait, wait! Don’t shout that! I haven’t decided! Not entirely!”
Ulseil screamed desperately. The crowd twisted back on him. Regisav the [Butcher] looked incredulous.
“But you just said yes! Wait, were you lying?”
“No, no…”
Ulseil the [Merchant] waved his claws frantically. He hadn’t been lying! Well, not entirely. He would have brought it up before the Council. Maybe. And they probably would have entertained the idea for a few seconds. He’d just said that to get the crowd off his back. But having to commit to that exact idea?
Only, now the crowd was staring at Ulseil. They had heard his words and, worse, were taking them at face value. There was no comfortable, closed city hall meeting room where Ulseil could debate with the other seven Councilmembers whom he all knew, and look for the best and easiest option, or ask Olesm or Zevara for their opinions. There was no Wall Lord Ilvriss to take charge, or orders from the army. Zel Shivertail was dead.
All Ulseil had were his own opinions and words in this crowd of Liscor’s people. He would be accountable for everything he said. The Drake looked around wildly, realized there was no way out, and screamed once before fainting. Unfortunately, they were all there when he woke up.
 
——
 
The crowd that had gathered in Market Street was no riot. It wasn’t an angry mob, or even an audience to the tragedy or spectacle that usually occurred when Erin was present. It was just a crowd filled with listening citizens. Because the center of attention wasn’t Erin Solstice for once.
It was Krshia Silverfang. She stood on her stall’s counter, almost as if she were hawking her goods to passersby. But her stage was much larger this time, the audience more crucial. And her words had more impact than any goods she could have sold. Because, this time, Krshia was selling an idea.
“It’s very simple, yes? Liscor’s Council needs to be changed!”
The Gnoll was speaking to the crowd. It was the third crowd she’d addressed this morning, and it was the largest one yet. People slip in and out, some having heard what Krshia had to say, others bringing friends to listen. Liscor was, after all, a small city in the large scheme of things. And Krshia was a known face. She had a simple message too, which helped.
“The Council should be replaced. It will be replaced, yes? This is the year when the Council changes! But do we want them to choose their replacements? Do we trust the Council to make good decisions? Have they made good decisions before, I wonder?”
The crowd muttered. No one exactly leapt to the Council’s defense. Krshia nodded and went on.
“What did they do when the Raskghar attacked? Or when Liscor was under siege? It seems to me Watch Captain Zevara handled all of the work! And perhaps that is well, for a Watch Captain is in charge of a city’s security. But why then were more funds not allocated to the Watch? Why didn’t the Council begin implementing new regulations on the dungeons? Why has rent doubled, yes, doubled in some parts of the city without the Council addressing the issue?”
“Tell us, then! Why aren’t they doing anything?”
One of the Drakes called out impatiently in the crowd. Krshia gave him a bitter smile, one with lips.
“The answer, Mister Silkscale, is that the Council, this Council, does not act. It maintains. And a city that does not change becomes weak. The Council does not give more funds to Liscor’s City Watch. It does not pass new laws. It does not, in fact, do anything. Which is why many of us are fed up!”
Her words provoked a lot of nodding in the crowd. Not wild cheering; Drakes were hard to get to cheer, and Gnolls even harder in many respects. But they were nodding with her. Krshia raised her voice to carry even further.
“We want a new Council. And we, the Gnolls of Liscor, want to be on it.”
She tapped her chest. This provoked a few howls, similar to cat calls but much deeper, in the crowd. The Drakes looked around, but Krshia didn’t sense a lot of distrust of the idea. Just curiosity.
“And how does that help the Council? We get Gnolls who do nothing, instead of just Drakes?”
Someone called out, and laughter followed. Krshia wondered if there was a [Heckler] class. Probably, yes. She grinned in the direction of the shouter.
“No. The Council should be made up of those who will pass laws. Who will change the city. So why should the Council replace itself? Would it not be better if, instead, the city chose its Council this year?”
She may have been too roundabout in her statement. The crowd digested what Krshia meant, and then someone called out incredulously.
“An election? Like some kind of democracy? You have to be joking! We’re not those loons in Pallass!”
That provoked the most unified head-nodding yet. Krshia bared her teeth desperately. She’d had to sell them on this twice. And she was a good [Shopkeeper]. She could do it again!
“Would you want the army appointing the Council? Or the existing Council to replace itself? How else would you choose a Council?”
No one had an easy answer for that, which was the point. Krshia waved a paw at them.
“Elections are strange, yes? But think of it. We could choose our own Council. We could choose eight of our best, rather than eight Drakes many of us have never heard of. Who here knows the name of a single Council member? Anyone?”
The crowd waited. There was no response. Krshia, who knew the names of all eight, nodded slowly.
“You see? But if we elected a Council, we would know what they would vote for. Where they would stand. You would get a Council that acts, yes? And if some Gnolls were to be part of the Council, well, it would be because they were trusted by all. Is that not so?”
“So you want an election. To choose the next Council.”
Someone near the front raised their voice. Krshia bowed slightly to an older Drake.
“Yes, sir. A fair election. Gnolls and Drakes both compete for a seat on the Council. Nothing is gained that is not deserved. Is that not an idea worth considering?”
The people of Liscor looked at each other. Some were nodding. Krshia had a moment of hope as she saw a few more figures join near the back. And then, from behind her, she heard a mocking tone.
“Gnolls have lived in Liscor for about a decade. Your people were a tiny minority until then, Silverfang. Now you strut in and demand a voice when we Drakes built this city and have lived in it for centuries! How is that fair, Krshia?”
The slightly hissing, indignant voice was familiar. As was the glaring expression. The tight-lipped smile. And he was standing on his own stall too. Krshia glared.
“Lism.”
“You’re disrupting my business, Silverfang.”
The [Shopkeeper] glared at Krshia. She glared back. The feud between her and Lism was well-established. If there were two top salespeople on Market Street, it was Lism and Krshia, and they got along about as well as Drakes and Gnolls had historically.
“Why should Gnolls be part of the Council, Lism? Why should they not? What is wrong with giving the option to anyone who the city trusts?”
“Only that our Council has led the city fine until your people came along. Now you want elections? Is this a blatant power grab or just insurrection against the city, Krshia? What’s wrong with the Council’s decisions? Last I checked, Liscor was still standing. Or is defeating the Raskghar, beating back the Humans and Goblins and those damned moths not good enough for you?”
Lism studied his claws as he spoke nonchalantly. Yet the look he gave Krshia was anything but. And he got some nods in the crowd. Not as many, and not from any Gnolls, but some. Krshia gritted her teeth.
“I did not say the Council has done nothing—”
“That’s what you just said, Silverfang. They did nothing.”
“Well, perhaps it was the City Watch and adventurers who did the work while the Council made no changes!”
The Gnoll snapped back. Lism raised his brows.
“And what should they have done? They let the adventurers and the City Watch do their job. How is that a fault? Should the Council run about slaying Face-Eater Moths themselves?”
His words provoked chuckles. Krshia cursed Lism as she flushed and regained her footing. When she spoke, she ignored Lism’s question and stuck to her script.
“I say the Council has not done enough. That is what I am saying, Lism. And if I were on the Council, I would do more! I have put suggestions before them, tried to get their attention and been ignored! So! I am telling all you what I would do instead, since Liscor’s Council will not listen to me!”
Krshia turned her back on Lism and felt his scowl. She spread her paws, speaking as sincerely and as clearly as possible.
“If I were on the Council, I would put a tax on adventurers entering the dungeon and use the money to expand the Adventurer’s Guild. I would give more funds to the City Watch, to empower them to fight any foe that threatens Liscor in the future! The Council has not done either of these things, but if there were elections and I were elected, I would make that happen!”
Krshia watched the reactions of her audience. They perked their ears up, or looked at each other approvingly. But that was just the opening. Krshia took a breath.
“Not only that. One of the crucial issues is the soaring rent. You know it. I know it. We all pay more because Liscor is full. That is why, I say to you all now. If I was on the Council, I would solve this issue of rent. I would expand Liscor’s walls.”
A hush. And then a shout of incredulity from Lism and questions and noise from the crowd. Krshia raised her paws.
“Think on it. Liscor can hold less than a hundred thousand souls when bursting to capacity. And we are an important city, a gateway, but think of how small Liscor is! Have you not heard people of the Walled City calling Liscor a backwater? How long have these walls stayed the same? Liscor cannot grow larger than our walls. But we are not Rock Crabs, yes?”
She got several nods before Lism burst out. The [Shopkeeper] was furious as he pointed a claw at Krshia.
“You can’t expand the walls, you idiot! They’re enchanted! They’ve been here for centuries!”
“Why not? They are still just stone. Enchanted stone. But that can be built, surely?”
Lism opened his mouth furiously and hesitated. Krshia jumped in.
“Before the Second Antinium Wars, Liscor had many smaller villages around the Floodplains. Why not build more? And, I know this from the records, Liscor was not always this size! It too was built! The walls expanded twice before reaching this size! I say, why not expand them again? Why not build more walls, more houses? Why not?”
“Because—because of the cost! And because it’s not needed! We’ve had these walls for decades! At least!”
Lism faltered. He hadn’t prepared for this debate, and Krshia had. She grinned at him and felt the malice coming off him.
“So? It is just stone. And if you say we cannot afford to pay for it, Lism, I say, that is why I propose the tax on adventurers! And Liscor has its treasury. We have income from our army. We can build it cheaply.”
“Oh yes? And who can build an entire wall large enough to hold back the spring rains before next year?”
The Drake glared angrily at Krshia. She smiled. Thank you, Lism. She looked around, and the answer was on the tongue of half the people in the crowd.
“The Antinium can. And if I ask them, I think they would. They could build us a larger city. They are Liscor’s allies, are they not? And we could have a larger city. We could put a fair tax on the adventurers, expand the City Watch. But the current Council will not do it. But if we had an election—if, friends. If that were possible.”
Krshia looked across the faces, scales and fur. And she saw a Human one, peeking up and holding a white Gnoll at the back of the crowd. Krshia grinned at Mrsha, and she bowed, ignoring the simmering Lism.
“I think it is possible. And this is our city. Shouldn’t we decide what we want it to be?”
Her people looked up at her, and they got the idea.
 
——
 
Later that day, all eight of Liscor’s Councilmembers found themselves under siege. Not in the literal sense, but very much close to it. They were confronted at work, on the streets, and in their homes by insistent citizens, angry citizens with little regard for personal space. And like Ulseil, they found that Liscor’s people wanted direct answers.
Krshia’s message was spreading like wildfire. An election? Well, why not? It wasn’t as if they were going to turn into Pallass. And choosing your own Council? There was some idea to that! And why not Gnolls? They were part of the city, sure enough. And did you hear what Krshia would do? And if she could run…what about you?
It was one of those ideas that took hold. Well, why not? What did Liscor have to lose? And look at how much it had to gain. Like the debate over Goblins, the conversation invaded the streets, routing the indifferent and forcing people to take sides, figure out what they thought.
But one Drake didn’t need to think. He’d known exactly what he thought the moment he heard Krshia speaking.
“Outrageous.”
Lism the [Shopkeeper] strode through the streets, fuming. He’d been unable to keep standing on the stall with that—that Gnoll gleefully shouting at the crowd. Lism knew he couldn’t stop her, not alone, but she was completely wrong. He could stand her ideas about adventurers, even if he personally would kick them out. He might even agree with her ideas about the Watch. But the Antinium?
Never. And Krshia? Lism would sooner pull off his tail and eat it than see that sanctimonious, smug Gnoll on the Council. He stormed into the Mage’s Guild and up to the front desk. The [Receptionist] on duty stared at him. Lism snapped, almost too angry for words.
