So Ulseil was looking, but not too hard. And honestly, wasn’t he a catch? If you were into ordinary fish, he was…a trout? A good one, though. Ulseil was a [Merchant], the current head of Liscor’s Merchant’s Guild. And he was a wealthy Drake, at least in Liscor. That made him slightly unordinary, even influential. But unlike the more ambitious breed of [Merchant], Ulseil was content to make money, save it, and not put his tail on the line to earn a vast amount.
He was happy. Or at least, he thought he was happy. Ulseil's one goal in life was to find Miss Greenscale, or Greenfur, again, as the case might be. Not Greenflesh, thanks. Ulseil had gotten over his weird years, and a body covered in skin just didn’t do it. He knew it was only a matter of time. He was a desirable candidate, after all! He was head of the Merchant’s Guild, fairly wealthy, and he was even part of Liscor’s Council.
Sometimes Ulseil forgot that himself. It wasn’t as if it were a brilliant job. A Councilmember earned a small stipend from the city, met once every week or more if need be, and generally made decisions that would keep Liscor running. Usually, this just meant following the advice of Liscor’s [Strategist] and the army, which sent regular suggestions back.
Sometimes, the Watch Captain brought forwards an issue, and the Council had to debate on what course of action was best. They always had options, and deciding between those options could get heated at times—sometimes there were even quills thrown about! But it was seldom arduous.
Until recently, of course. The events of the last few months had given Ulseil more grey scales than he could count. The Council had been meeting almost every day near the end, and always to little gain. The Watch Captain wanted her orders and, of course, something had to be done. But was the Council the body to really do it?
None of them were [Politicians] or [Leaders]. It was frankly a waste of levels, which was why the Council was always made up of Guildmasters or other prominent members of Liscor’s society and rotated on a bi-yearly basis. Usually, Liscor ran itself, with occasional input from the army or its Watch Captain and [Strategist]. But recently?
At least Zel Shivertail had been around. And Wall Lord Ilvriss. Ulseil shuddered as he sat at an outdoor restaurant and had some perfectly ordinary salad—to watch his figure. If Wall Lord Ilvriss hadn’t kindly stepped in and given his aid to the Council, who knows what might have happened? There was just no precedent for any of the disasters that had hit Liscor, from the dungeon to the Raskghar. And the Council wasn’t about to steer the boat that was the city itself, thank-you.
Ulseil was looking forwards to getting out of his job. He’d helped Liscor survive the worst and even potential war with the Humans, and he could pat himself on the back for that. He’d appoint a successor as was the custom of the Council, and the poor Drake he nominated would be in charge for two years.
Ulseil was already looking at his second in the Merchant’s Guild, a really outstanding young Drake who was only in his thirties. Solid, sharp. It never crossed Stale’s mind to nominate anyone outside of his Guild. The Merchant’s Guild, which was almost solely comprised of Drakes, needed a voice on the Council. Just in case. It wouldn’t do to go somewhere else and rock the boat, would it?
This was Ulseil Greenscale. You could sum up his life in less than a thousand words, and even that would probably be too many. He sat at a restaurant eating salad, even though greens gave him gas. And he was not prepared for anything interesting to happen to him. Unfortunately, interesting spotted him on the street, strolled over with a brisk, ‘excuse me!’ and sat down at his table.
Ulseil looked up, fork in his right claw, as a Drake slid into the seat across from him. This Drake was interesting. He had an eye patch. His scales were a sharp viridian, and he was imposing, physically and in demeanor. When he spoke, his voice was more of a bark; it had that quality that made every sentence sound like a statement.
“You there. You’re Ulseil Greenscale, aren’t you? I’ve been looking for you. Mind if I have a word? Regisav Sixtails. [Butcher].”
He held out a claw. Ulseil stared at him, but then saw the invitation for a handshake. He hesitated, but it would have been rude to refuse, so Ulseil shook the proffered hand.
“Er, how do you do? I’m pleased to meet you. Ulseil, as you know. Head of the Merchant’s Guild and [Merchant] myself.”
“Pleased. So tell me. What’s this about Liscor not funding the City Watch?”
“…Huh?”
Ulseil stared at Regisav. The [Butcher] leaned further over the table.
“I said, the City Watch. I hear we’re not giving Watch Captain Zevara all the funds she asked for. She plans to double the Watch. I say that’s a good idea. We need more boots on the wall. The damn army’s not here to pick up the slack. I get that—they’re earning us coin in Oteslia, but with that dungeon, we need defenders, right? Can’t let the Antinium do all the work. So why’s the Council not giving her the funds?”
He stared expectantly at Ulseil. The [Merchant] blinked and fumbled for his words, completely off-guard.
“I—where did you hear that? That’s confidential information!”
His mind raced as he wondered how this Drake had found out about the Council’s latest vote. It would be public knowledge, but—drat Watch Captain Zevara! Was she causing trouble because they’d turned down her request? It was just like those young, hot-blooded female Drakes. He ground his teeth. The Council would have words with her. He composed his face and smiled insincerely at Regisav.
“I’m sorry, Butcher Regisav, was it? I’m not at liberty to discuss the Council’s decisions myself.”
That sounded good and official. Unfortunately, it didn’t work. The viridian Drake’s brows shot up, and he raised his voice.
“Oh, so you won’t discuss why the City Watch isn’t being properly funded with me? Is there some kind of big secret? It’s just a question!”
Heads began turning at the restaurant and on the street. Ulseil winced as he saw a couple of Drakes pause and stare.
“It’s not that! It’s just that I. uh, I can’t speak for the entire Council.”
“But you all made the decision. What’s there to hide? Is it lack of money? Will the army be sending more soldiers? It’s got to be something. Come on, just tell me.”
Regisav prodded Ulseil. The [Merchant] was sweating.
“It’s—look, it’s a complicated issue. I could pull up all the necessary reports, but some of them are classified, and it’s just not something I can get into. Here. While I’m eating?”
He tried not to sound hopeful. Regisav frowned, but to Ulseil's great relief, he reluctantly nodded.
“I suppose that’s fair.”
Ulseil sighed. Too quickly as it turned out. Regisav edged his chair closer to the table.
“Alright then. Why aren’t you thinking about taxing Liscor’s dungeon? And why aren’t there any Gnolls on the Council?”
“What? Tax, I—who’s telling you all this!”
Ulseil saw to his horror that the Drakes on the street were listening closely, as were some of the diners at the table. He looked around for the [Waitress], but she didn’t appear inclined to come over for the bill. Regisav pointed a thumb-claw over his shoulder.
“I heard some Gnolls talking about it. Said the Council doesn’t ever accept Gnolls or new ideas. Why aren’t we putting an entry tax on the dungeon? And why isn’t the Council doing something about rent?”
“Wait, what tax on the dungeon? We’re not taxing the adventurers?”
Someone broke in from another table. The [Butcher] turned around.
“Apparently not. And we could. That’s the thing. Blew me away when I heard it too. We’re not taxing the adventurers, even though they’re bringing in gold from the dungeon. And there’s no plans to deal with rent.”
“No plans? My [Landlady] charged me an entire silver piece more than she did last month!”
Someone on the street strode over to the table, tail lashing furiously. Ulseil leaned back as a young Drake practically hissed at him. Suddenly, he was at the center of attention, and he didn’t like it one bit. Regisav, who was now speaking for a crowd, leaned even further over the table.
“So about this tax.”
“I haven’t heard about any tax! Not one thing! Who proposed it?”
“Krshia Silverfang.”
“Who’s that?”
The [Butcher] shrugged.
“A [Shopkeeper]. I know her from Market Street. She’s pretty famous. Runs a clean shop. Good prices. I sell my meat to her—”
“Why would I know about some [Shopkeeper]’s ideas?”
Ulseil was outraged. That outrage stopped cold when some [Butcher] gave him a glare over the table. Regisav tapped the table with one claw.
“Because she’s been trying to get the Council to consider her suggestion for weeks! Apparently, she’s tried everything. And the Council just hasn’t listened. And it’s a damn fine idea, taxing the adventurers! Not to mention it could pay for the Watch—or expanding the Adventurer’s Guild! But that Krshia, she brought up another good point. Why are no Gnolls on Liscor’s Council? It’s all Drakes, and all Guild Leaders too. [Merchants] and so on. What about a [Butcher]? We don’t have a Guild, but our class has never had a seat on the Council. Ever.”
He looked meaningfully at Ulseil. The Drake might have been an ordinary person, but he was still a [Merchant]. He could process fast, and he knew a bad situation from his days as a [Trader]. He stood up abruptly, fishing for coins in his money pouch.
“I’m sorry, sir. But I can’t just sit here and tell you about the Council’s decisions on request! If there is a request, we’ll consider it as long as it comes through proper channels.”
“Which are?”
“What?”
Regisav looked impatient.
“What are the proper channels?”
Ulseil hesitated. ‘I don’t know’ was not a good answer here.
“—Talk to Strategist Olesm! Or Watch Captain Zevara! As for Gnolls, the Council selects its own members. The lack of a Gnoll on the Council is just…”
He trailed off. There were six Gnolls watching now. They stared at him with their big, brown eyes, unblinking. One of them, a male Gnoll, or a very burly female one, folded his arms.
“Go on. What is it just? Why aren’t we on the Council? Does the Council just never pick Gnolls?”
“Of course not. Don’t be silly.”
“Then why not let us pick the next Council? With a public vote?”
The question threw Ulseil. He stared at the Gnoll, along with a lot of the Drakes. But more than one face looked interested. Ulseil was just horrified.
“What, like some kind of election? Are you mad?”
“It’s just a suggestion. That’s what I heard too. You come from Market Street?”
Regisav turned to the Gnoll. The Gnoll nodded and bared his teeth.
“We could vote on the next Council. Why not? We could elect the best representatives. Gnolls, Drakes—male or female. Only, I was told that the Council wouldn’t even hear Honored Krshia’s request, or any of her suggestions.”
The [Butcher] grunted.
“I’m just worried about the City Watch. We need more funds for our [Guardsmen]! If this Council won’t do it, how do we know they won’t pick another Council that’ll just do the same? And not answer any of my questions.”
He looked pointedly at Ulseil. The [Merchant] spluttered as he backed away from the table. But he bumped into someone behind him who didn’t move.
“This is all ridiculous. The Council chooses the best members to replace us as we see fit. We make the best decisions for Liscor. The lack of money going to the City Watch is regrettable.”
“Ah, so it was unavoidable, then? Is the city out of money?”
Ulseil's jaw worked for a second as his mind clamped down on any words out of sheer self-preservation.
“I can’t comment. Excuse me, I have to go. I don’t have time to talk about elections or whatnot.”
“So you’re just going to avoid the issue? You won’t even tell us why you won’t allow it?”
The Gnolls looked outraged. Ulseil tried to back away again and failed.
“I’m not avoiding it! I’m just very busy! The Council will decide. Later! You—you can’t just walk up to a Councilmember on the street and ask questions, you know!”
No one budged. The angry Gnoll folded his arms.
“Why not? You are a member of the Council, yes? Why can you not defend the Council’s decisions? You made them, did you not?”
The walls were closing in. And the walls were made of bodies, of scales and fur. Ulseil looked around wildly for any sign of escape. He found one and jumped for it.
“Ask—ask Watch Captain Zevara! Yes, she’s the Watch Captain of the City. She can field any requests.”
The crowd looked at each other. Regisav shook his head sadly. He hadn’t gotten up from his seat.
“She’s put out a public announcement that the Watch has no part in the Council’s decisions beyond enforcement. She’s also said that she’d support and help enforce an election. Even for her own position. You didn’t hear?”
He had not. Ulseil closed his eyes. He was going to kill Watch Captain Zevara. If he ever got back to the Council, he’d—he’d—put forwards some kind of motion for censure! What was the precedent for disciplining Watch Captains? Well, Ulseil was going to do some research and find out for once. He snapped at last.
“I’m not—look, we have a meeting every week. I’m not the one responsible for all of the decisions! It’s a collective decision! A vote! It’s out of my claws, get it? Now, please, I have to be going.”
He turned around. Drakes stared at him. Ulseil put his hands out to push and thought better. One of the Drakes tapped a claw to her chin. She was the [Waitress].
“But the Council’s, what, eight people? See here, you have a vote. You’re one eighth of the Council. Would you support an election? Or put the idea before the Council yourself? That’s all I want to know.”
Ulseil hesitated.
“I can’t decide that. It’s got to be a majority decision. I can’t just give—”
He looked around, hunted. The [Waitress] propped her claws on her hips.
“Why not? All we want to know is what you, personally, would do. Not what the Council does.”
“I—I—”
This had never happened. Ulseil was hyperventilating. When the previous Councilmember, the former head of the Merchant’s Guild, had told him about the position, he’d described it as just a series of boring meetings. He’d never hinted to Ulseil that he’d ever be surrounded and asked these sorts of questions! He was a Councilmember! He shouldn’t be subjected to this!
“What’s your opinion? Yes or no on elections? No Gnolls in the Council? Yes?”
