“So I’m a joke as well as a traitor and an idiot. Wonderful.”
He slumped back over and drained his entire cup. Erin stared at the second letter. She shook her head.
“So they didn’t like it. Not all of them hated it. And—maybe your ideas did suck.”
This time everyone stared at her. Erin looked around.
“What? Maybe they did.”
“You’re the last person I’d ever expect to hear that from, Erin.”
Ceria gave Erin a very long look. The [Innkeeper] sighed.
“Olesm’s writing to [Strategists]. Maybe his proposals sucked. Strategically. You know? I know about magazines and being good at something. I used to make fun of idiots who wrote in the chess stuff I read. This letter says that Olesm didn’t think his arguments out or use facts. I get that. It doesn’t mean his ideas weren’t right. Just that he didn’t cite his sources and stuff. See?”
She passed the letter to Olesm. He began to read gloomily. But then his expression grew more intent. Erin looked around.
“Hey, everyone grab a letter. They’re not all bad, are they?”
“This one’s not.”
Lyonette passed one to Erin. She read it.
“‘Too much personal opinion. Not enough chess. I didn’t sign up for that, thanks.’ Lyonette, this isn’t nice.”
“It’s not super bad. And they say they want more chess, right?”
“Indeed. This one advises Olesm to ‘stick to what he knows’. Heh.”
Pisces chortled. Ksmvr waved another letter.
“This one seems the least hostile. Miss Erin. Come see.”
He handed Erin a letter. She read it. It wasn’t so much a letter as a pair of sentences.
 
I don’t agree about the Goblins. But keep up the good work.
 
There was no sender or address. There were, however, four gold coins stuck to the back of the letter. Erin nearly dropped the letter in shock. When she showed Olesm the letter, the Drake’s head snapped up, and his eyes went wide.
“What? That can’t be right. That’s a bribe to have the City Runner hit me over the head or something. Isn’t it?”
“It came with the letter, and you don’t have a bruise. I think it’s for you. And—look. Here’s another.”
Ishkr had another letter, which Erin read out loud.
“‘To Olesm Swifttail. I like it. None of my [Strategist] teachers liked your proposal. They’re probably sending you outraged [Messages] right now. But I wanted to say that we study strategy in Manus’ school, and all of my classmates think your strategy makes sense. Why do we have to practice the same strategy that Drakes a thousand years ago used? Ally with the Goblins? Try out new ideas? I wish you taught my school instead of these old flake-scales. Please keep writing about new and interesting things like this!’ Wow! Olesm!”
The Drake grabbed the letter and read it himself. Then he read the long one Erin had gotten. His eyes widened.
“They actually liked it? This is from students in Manus? But that’s the officer training school!”
“This one’s complimentary too. And this one.”
More letters began appearing in front of Olesm. Of course, for every good letter there were ten or sometimes twenty bad ones, but they started appearing the more Erin looked. People who hated Olesm’s guts, people who wanted him to get back to chess. Ambivalent, amused—it wasn’t all vile. Of course, the vile letters still hurt. Erin was so offended by one letter she had to burn it.
“That hurt my feelings! Wow! No one reads that, especially not you, Olesm. You’ll seriously cry.”
Pisces just laughed harder.
“A [Writer] or [Scribe] wrote that. They can make words hurt as much as stones. Ah, but this is good.”
He sipped from his drink, reading another letter. Erin glared at him.
“I’m glad you can enjoy Olesm’s pain.”
The [Necromancer] looked up sardonically.
“Why shouldn’t I? It’s not as if any of this matters.”
“It doesn’t?”
Everyone stared at him. Pisces shook his head. He scornfully tossed his letter into the fireplace.
“These are just words. Well, I suppose the letters that were trapped bear some danger. But what should Olesm care about anyone’s opinion? He is free to say what he chooses. And if he is correct, then the opinions of his peers are worth less than the barking of dogs. If he is wrong—well, he is still free to say what he wishes. But deriding an opinion is the mark of small-minded folk.”
His eyes glittered as he leaned over his table, looking at Olesm. Ceria followed Pisces silently with her head. After the [Necromancer]’s speech, the inn was silent. Olesm slowly looked up. He looked down at the letters in front of him. Then, abruptly, he rubbed at his eyes and stood.
“I’m…going to write an immediate newsletter. After I read those books. He said there were three other times when Goblins weren’t considered monsters in Liscor? And one that didn’t end in death? I’m going to find it. And do a tutorial. And—Erin, can you show me how that Shogi game worked?”
He looked at Erin. The young woman blinked.
“Of course. But you’re writing another newsletter?”
“I have to clarify my position. And put more chess into it. I’ll—I’ll attach some of the notes the Adventurer’s Guild gave me on the Raskghar too! That’s critical information! I can’t just do nothing, can I?”
Olesm grabbed at the letters. He looked around. Pisces nodded. He raised a cup and downed his drink as well before standing.
“I believe Liscor would lack the books required. But Pallass may well have the tomes you want, Olesm. Why don’t we visit the city and come back to study Erin’s games?”
The [Strategist] paused.
“You want to come with me, Pisces?”
The [Necromancer] pretended to inspect his robes.
“I imagine you’d want to craft a suitably encompassing reply to your detractors. And I personally think a few scathing remarks would not go amiss to the more asinine complaints. A proper, cited essay isn’t easy to do either. You would do far worse than Wistram’s top student in drafting a proper dissertation.”
“Former top student.”
Ceria whispered. Pisces ignored her. Erin blinked. And then she remembered that Pisces and Olesm did hang out together from time to time. The [Strategist] sniffed again.
“Thanks, Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] smiled and seemed uncomfortable at the genuine emotion. He conjured a sneer to hide it.
“Lead on, friend Olesm. And don’t drip on me. Miss Solstice, we will be borrowing the door to Pallass. If you don’t object?”
He raised his brows as he steered Olesm towards the door. Erin opened her mouth. Then she paused.
“Nope. Go ahead.”
Pisces opened the door, and Pallass’ streets appeared for a second. Then he and Olesm walked through, and the door went dead. Erin winced, but then she grinned.
“You big softie.”
“That’s certainly new.”
Ceria started at the door. She blinked at Yvlon, who blinked back.
“Who knew Pisces would actually volunteer to help anyone. Well, I’d better recharge that door. Damn. I’ll get it up and running, but those two might have to stay in Pallass the night.”
Grumbling, she went over to the door. But Erin caught the pleased look on her face. The [Innkeeper] looked at the letters, and swept the ones on the table into a pile.
“Well, I think I’ll wait and see if they can find a way back. I’m always free to talk about chess. And Go…I think I can remember a few good games. Hold on. Do we have a good Go board? I should get one made.”
She got up. The inn’s guests sighed. The show was over. And as if on cue, Numbtongue wandered down the stairs, yawning and scratching at a few recently healed bites on his legs. He stopped when he saw the crowd.
“Morning. What’s that?”
He pointed at the blue fruit juice. Erin beamed.
“Blue fruit juice! Want some?”
The Hobgoblin looked dubious, but he accepted the drink and downed some of it. Instantly. his eyes brightened. He had another cup as Erin explained where she’d gotten it and gave him a summary of what had just happened. The [Bard] didn’t seem disappointed to have missed Olesm, but after a few second’s thought, he grabbed some of the letters to read himself. No one stopped him.
Lyonette was counting the coin from her recent sales. She looked around, and then came to a second decision.
“Ishkr—no, actually, Numbtongue, can you do me a favor?”
The Goblin and Gnoll looked up. Lyonette gestured towards the magic door that Ceria was recharging.
“The door’s got only a bit of energy left, but it should recharge in an hour. And it’s got enough for a few teleportations. So…Numbtongue, can you bring a door out to the orchard and find a place for it? That way we’ll spare the trip and danger collecting the fruits from now on.”
Erin’s eyes brightened with delight.
“Ooh. A door right next to the orchard? That would make everything so much easier! But why Numbtongue and not Ishkr?”
“Numbtongue can call down lightning bolts. Ishkr, set the door to his stone just in case. Numbtongue, do you mind?”
The [Bard] eyed his drink and shook his head.
“Easy. I’ll do it.”
The Hobgoblin grabbed his guitar and a blue fruit core on the way out. Lyonette followed him, pointing out the orchard’s direction for Numbtongue.
“Just use your emergency door for now. I’ll order a…door from Liscor or Celum.”
He nodded and ambled out. Erin smiled. That was another thing. Numbtongue was so casual. He talked, he did his thing—and he belonged here. Lyonette certainly didn’t hesitate to ask him to lift something or help her out.
Erin got out a Go board and the stones and put them on a table. She remembered her magical chessboard and inspected it.
“No moves since last time. But that’s okay. We don’t play too often. I wonder if my opponent’s bored? I’m not. Just busy.”
Despite having more time on her hands, Erin just didn’t play chess as much as she had at some points in her life. There was an entire Walled City to see. And besides, a few games every other day was good enough. It wasn’t like she was obsessed. But for Olesm’s newsletter, Erin was only too happy to begin recreating some devilishly hard Go games and chess matches.
Ironically, it was that which killed almost all interest in her. The inn patrons returned to watching the play, while Ksmvr and two of the guests who liked chess watched Erin with pure fascination. She was happily explaining a game to them when the door opened, and Numbtongue strolled through. He wiped his feet on the rug and tossed a blue fruit at Lyonette.
“Done.”
“Wow! That was fast!”
Erin looked up. Numbtongue gave Erin a long look.
“It’s been thirty minutes.”
“It has?”
Mrsha was asleep in the seat next to her. Erin looked at the chess board.
“Huh.”
Then she went back to explaining chess to her small audience. Lyonette treated Numbtongue to a bowl of chewy pretzels and mayonnaise as a thank-you, and Ceria yawned, mana spent and tired. Yvlon got up as the Players of Celum began a run-through of Macbeth.
“I’m going to do some training in the Adventurer’s Guild. Ksmvr, will you join me?”
“I am being fascinated, Yvlon. I fear I must decline.”
Ksmvr waved a hand at Yvlon. She nodded and ambled through the door to Liscor. Erin stayed where she was, smiling. She had some blue fruit juice, she was playing chess, and she had just seen the pawn on the magic chessboard move experimentally.
The crisis with Olesm was over. She had blue fruits, Acid Flies might be on the way, and Erin had games to play and a cake to bake. Pisces and Olesm might come back tonight, and in that case Erin would have fun teaching them some more strategy and seeing what they’d written.
That was her day. It was a fine day. It would have happened almost just like that too, but for a strange thing. Five minutes after Yvlon had left, she thrust the door open.
“Hey. There’s a huge crowd in Liscor. It looks like some kind of protest! Anyone know what it’s about? It looks like Krshia’s leading it!”
She said it to the room, but her eyes went straight to Erin at her table. The young woman paused in moving a spectral chess piece and looked up.
“Who, me? I didn’t do it.”
Ceria, Mrsha, Lyonette, and Ishkr all turned to look at Erin. Numbtongue poked his head down the stairwell with his bowl of pretzels in one hand. The Players of Celum and other guests turned to stare. Erin raised her hands.
“It wasn’t me! Honest!”
She hesitated and rolled her eyes up for a second.
“I…think.”
In fact, for once, the event had nothing to do with Erin. It had been started by people who had no intention of involving her, and nothing in her inn or any of her actions had started it, in any direct sense of the word. It was happening outside of Erin’s inn and outside of her ability to influence the situation greatly.
It was a novel situation.
 
——
 
In Liscor, the name of The Wandering Inn was as famous as that of the Tailless Thief. It was a place that almost everyone had heard of. Most people could point it out, even if they called it an eyesore or a ‘festering hotspot of trouble’. Of course, there were people who spoke only praise of it. And those who didn’t care.
But love it, hate it, the inn had become part of Liscor. It was known. And the young woman who ran it, Erin Solstice, was just as infamous. People recognized her on the street. That insane loon of a Human. The girl who protected Goblins. The [Innkeeper] who’d helped destroy Skinner. Friend of the Antinium. Foe of the Raskghar. That crazy Human.
Her life was full of events. So here was someone in Liscor who did not have an eventful life. He was a Drake. And his name was Ulseil Greenscale. He had green scales.
Nothing about Ulseil's life was that extraordinary. Nor was he an extraordinary figure. Oh, he had some qualities that were out of the ordinary, but only in a mundane sense. He was not one of the Oldblood, although his great, great aunt had been gifted with vestigial wings. A source of much pride in the Greenscale family.
Ulseil himself though had no defining features. His scales were an olive green. He wasn’t particularly tall, although his tail was half an inch stouter than the average. Ulseil was proud of that fact, and worried about the slight bleaching of color in his neck spines over the years. He was in his middle ages and often dressed in less contrasting clothing to accentuate the color of his scales and spines. Because he wasn’t married. He’d always waited for the right Drake to come along (or Gnoll, you couldn’t be picky, although the fur was something to think about), but he’d never just…clicked with anyone.
