The grass was lush and green. The perfect height, which was to say, short. Not like the tall, whippy, adult grass that was what real grass actually looked like. This grass was fresh. It had the kind of green quality and density that you only saw on lawns religiously tended to by their owners. It was the kind of grass that invited the viewer to walk outside barefoot, so you could wriggle your toes in it.
There was the grass. It was growing on a hilltop. And on that hilltop sat an inn. The doors flew open. A young woman raced out onto the grass. She raised her arms and then cartwheeled across the grass.
“It’s spring! Proper spring!”
A white shape bounded out the door after her. Erin Solstice laughed as Mrsha raced onto the grass and did a flying belly flop. Erin completed her cartwheel and caught herself, a bit dizzy.
“I did it! Hey Mrsha, did you see that?”
The Gnoll nodded rapidly. She raced around Erin on all fours, then got onto two legs. She raised her arms, waving them, clearly encouraging Erin to do it again. The [Innkeeper] laughed.
“Like this, Mrsha! See? Here I go!”
She took three steps, raised her arms, and then lunged. Her body twisted down, her hands struck the ground, and to Mrsha’s amazement, Erin cartwheeled. The Gnoll’s tiny mouth popped open as Erin cartwheeled across the grass.
“Whoop—whoop! I nearly went over the edge, there! Careful!”
Erin caught herself a second time, this time from going over the edge of the hill. It would be a somewhat steep roll down the hill, and the lovely grass covering the top hadn’t managed to infest the slopes. Brown mud stared at her as she hopped back towards the inn. She spotted a figure standing in the doorway.
“Cartwheels! Want to try, Lyonette?”
The [Princess] stared at Erin, perplexed.
“I’ve never done something like that in my life. How on earth did you do that? You don’t have the [Tumbler] class, right?”
Erin hesitated.
“Do I need to? It’s just a cartwheel. Most guys can’t do it, but I learned it in gym class.”
“Oh. Another of your Earth things. You can really just do that?”
Erin propped her hands on her hips as she smiled at the younger girl.
“I bet you can do it. Come on. It’s simple. Watch. All you have to do is put your arms up, lunge, and then twist—”
She did a slower cartwheel to show Lyonette and Mrsha. It was too slow, so Erin fell down halfway through. Mrsha leapt on her, tail wagging, and Erin laughed.
“Mrsha! You’re getting heavier! Off! Lyonette, you try.”
“You’re sure you can do that?”
“You don’t need a class or a Skill for everything, Lyonette. And this is easy-peasy. Come on.”
The [Princess] looked dubious. But then she shrugged. She raised her arms.
“Okay. Like this?”
She copied Erin’s pose. Erin nodded. Lyonette took a deep breath.
“Alright. Then—”
She took five steps back, and then came out at a run. Erin opened her mouth to tell Lyonette she was going too fast, when the [Princess] did a perfect triple-cartwheel past her and Mrsha. The Gnoll and young woman gaped. Lyonette caught herself at the edge of the hill, raised her arms, and smiled.
“Done!”
She turned, and Mrsha crossed her arms, shaking her head. Erin raised her voice.
“Cheater! You used your [Flawless Attempt] Skill!”
Lyonette laughed as Mrsha indignantly signed ‘not good’ to her. Lyonette held up her hands, palm out, and bowed her head. ‘I’m sorry’. Then she turned to Erin.
“Well, I wanted to do it right! And now that I did it right, I can do it again. See?”
So saying, she took a step, and did a nearly perfect cartwheel again. Erin put her hands on her hips, miffed.
“Can’t you fall down once or twice? That’s unfair!”
Lyonette sniffed, raising her brows in an imitation of Pisces.
“What, and descend to the level of you peasants? Besides, it’s convenient. I can learn how to do something right once and never have to worry about it again. Like my poached eggs. Or learning how to flip pancakes. Or riposting in my sword lessons from Yvlon and Pisces.”
“Yeah, but—but I can’t do that.”
Erin sighed mournfully. She glanced at Lyonette as the girl raised her arms to encourage Mrsha. The Gnoll child was wobbling a bit on her two feet, although she could walk when she needed to without issue.
“I’ll trade you my, uh…[Alcohol Immunity] Skill for your [Flawless Attempt].”
“No thanks.”
“I’ll throw in [Lesser Endurance]? And [Quick Recovery]?”
“You have your rare Skills, I have mine. If you could trade, I’d take your [Wondrous Fare] Skill for it and nothing less.”
“Ooh…”
Lyonette turned to smile at Erin. Then both watched as Mrsha raised her arms, frowning hard. The Gnoll cub tried to imitate Erin, but only managed a slow somersault. Erin laughed.
“You nearly did it! Come on. Let me help you.”
Like her gym instructor had once done, Erin helped lift Mrsha’s legs as the Gnoll went through the cartwheel.
“Look? See? It’s not hard at all.”
Erin said that, but she noticed how uneasy Mrsha looked when she was upside down. Lyonette, watching, flicked some hair out of her face.
“You say this is from your world, Erin. Do people do that all the time?”
“Well, only the athletic ones. I haven’t done it in ages, but I saw the grass and…”
Erin waved a hand. Lyonette nodded. Mrsha kicked her legs to make sure Erin was holding them tight.
“Don’t worry, Mrsha. Erin won’t let go. It’s not dangerous, see?”
“Yeah! The worst you could do is cartwheel and hit your head or something. Or roll down the hill.”
A finger poked Erin in the back, hard. Mrsha looked up anxiously.
“Ignore Erin. And on that note, I’ve never seen anyone I knew personally do cartwheels, Erin. Maybe they did in the towns or villages, but only [Tumblers] and other entertainers would do that. I’ve never seen a [Knight] or [Warrior] pull that off. I wonder if it’s a defensive move?”
“I…don’t think so?”
Erin tried to imagine Ceria or Yvlon cartwheeling out of the way of an attack. She shrugged.
“It’s just for fun. What’re you worried about, Mrsha? I’ve got you!”
“I don’t think Gnolls do acrobatics. I could see Garuda doing this, or String People. But some species aren’t built for it. Imagine a Drake trying this? With the tail? Or a Dullahan.”
Erin laughed.
“Yeah! I should show Maughin! Or Pelt! Maybe that would make him laugh.”
So saying, she patted her belt and felt a leather sheath against her fingers. Erin adjusted her personal kitchen knife and caught Mrsha as the Gnoll warily did a handstand and promptly fell forwards.
“Easy! It’s not hard, Mrsha. Although maybe a handstand would be simpler. But I bet you can do it. Want to try one on your own?”
Mrsha shook her head vigorously. But after four more slow cartwheels, she did give it a try. Erin and Lyonette applauded wildly, and Mrsha raced around, looking delighted. Lyonette bent down, and Mrsha hopped into her arms.
“You have to learn to do that so you can show Krshia. She’ll be very impressed. Right, Erin?”
“Exactly! And I’ll show Maughin! Hey Mrsha, did you know you can do multiple cartwheels? Well, Lyonette spoiled that. But watch me!”
Erin took a breath and inhaled the fresh, cool air with delight. She stared up at the blue sky, the bright sun, and beamed.
“It’s springtime! Here I go!”
Mrsha and Lyonette sat down on the grass and watched as Erin began cartwheeling across the small hilltop. Aside from the inn, the hill had room for a few outhouses, a sign, and little else.
The inn was still partly destroyed from the Goblin Lord’s attack on Liscor. The third floor and tower were gone. But the second floor and ground floor had been all fixed up. It was a bit ramshackle, but if you focused only on the bottom, it was quite nice. And Erin Solstice, the [Innkeeper], laughed in the spring air outside of her inn.
“Whee! Whoo-hoo! Yeah! Watch me! Hold on. I’m getting sick.”
She paused to steady herself. Her stomach wasn’t pleased. Erin put a hand on one of the walls of her inn.
“Whoof. Is this what getting old’s like?”
“I wouldn’t know.”
Lyonette grinned as Erin turned to glare at the eighteen-year-old girl and Mrsha, who was six. Erin shook a fist.
“Just you wait. You’ll be twenty before you know it! Or twenty-one. My birthday’s coming up, and it’s getting close to summer!”
“We’ll throw you a party. And Mrsha will cut up your cake so it’s nice and easy to swallow. She’ll even help you with the icing, right, Mrsha?”
Lyonette tickled Mrsha. The Gnoll wriggled and yelped silently. She squirmed out of Lyonette’s grip and raced away. Erin laughed.
“Let’s do a flip next! Hey, I bet I can—no, wait. I can’t. But Lyonette can do one with her fancy Skill!”
“You’ll have to wait four hours until that. Mrsha, you can run about, but remember, you can’t leave the hill! It’s dangerous, and you’ll get mud all over your paws and fur!”
The Gnoll paused as she scampered towards the edge of the hill facing Liscor. She looked back and put a paw over the edge, staring at Lyonette. The [Princess] frowned.
“Mrsha. Don’t you dare.”
Mrsha weighed the consequences of disobedience and grudgingly drew her paw back. Erin smiled as she crept over. She leapt and snagged Mrsha. The Gnoll thrashed wildly in delight.
“Gotcha! Let’s play tag, Mrsha!”
A big smile came over Mrsha’s face. She nodded rapidly. Lyonette sighed.
“I have to manage the inn. You two have fun. But please don’t get all muddy!”
“Yes, Mom!”
Erin raced after Mrsha, laughing. Then she stopped. She frowned and looked up suddenly.
“Mom?”
Mrsha’s slowed. She turned around. Lyonette bit the inside of her cheek. But her gaze was fixed on both Erin and Mrsha. Because Erin’s face had suddenly gone blank. Both the Gnoll and the young woman hesitated. Erin Solstice stared up at the sky. For a moment, Lyonette saw Erin’s expression cloud. Then she shook her head, and the smile returned.
“Whatever. Hey, this isn’t large enough to play tag in, and we don’t have enough people! Liscor’s all mud and rain, but at least we’ve got grass, right Mrsha? Lots of it! But I bet Celum has a lot more.”
She looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll nodded and smiled, and her tail wagged a bit. Lyonette sighed in relief. She walked back towards the inn as Erin decided to give Mrsha a piggyback ride instead. She paused at the open door to the inn to look around.
Springtime for Liscor. It was actually a disgusting sight. The hill that The Wandering Inn stood on was indeed lush, whereas the grass and other plants had yet to reclaim the mostly muddy Floodplains around Liscor. No matter where Lyonette looked, she only saw brown mud and dirt, with sparse patches of color where the plants were regrowing. But the valleys were still full of thickening mud. And aside from Liscor’s drab walls, the mountains were the only distinct contrast in the background.
And yet, the area around the hill was verdant, and the culprit responsible for that was sitting next to Erin, tail innocently wagging as she panted excitedly. Erin picked Mrsha up and twirled her, laughing.
“Who’s the best little [Mage] ever? You are! Yes, you are! Did Moore teach you how to do this?”
Mrsha shook her head and reached for her little wand strapped to her side. She waved it excitedly, and Erin leaned back before she got an eye poked out.
“All by yourself? Well, don’t work too hard. But you did very good! Maybe I should give my [Gardener] a raise?”
She laughed as the Gnoll’s ears perked up. Lyonette watched as Erin handed Mrsha a copper coin, and Mrsha, as serious as any Gnoll with money, spirited it away in the tiny pouch she now carried around her neck.
So there sat Erin Solstice, playing with Mrsha. Weeks had passed since the days when she hid in her rooms. And even if the sun was occasionally lost for the clouds and rain, those days had passed. The eternal rain around Liscor had ended. Things were looking up.
Better and better. Lyonette walked back into the inn. And it was Lyonette who straightened her apron and checked for grass stains. Her red hair was tied back with a handkerchief, and it was a familiar eye that Lyonette ran over the guests in her inn. Because it was her inn.
For now. Erin was on break. She still cooked and helped with some tasks, but she often went into Pallass. Or just walked around Celum, or played with Mrsha. She needed it. And Lyonette needed this.
“Not too busy. Drassi, can you make a run into Liscor? Erin’s thinking of trying to make more egg drop soup. And she uses a lot of eggs. I think she’s being too literal.”
“Can do, Lyonette!”
A Drake happily saluted and abandoned her table-cleaning duty. Lyonette nodded to the [Barmaid], then raised a finger.
“You have one hour.”
“Aw. Okay, fine. I’ll be back!”
Drassi pouted, but she and Lyonette knew that an hour was more than enough. And given the chance, the [Gossip] would have happily spent three hours chatting with everyone she met in the market and on the way back. She headed towards the magic door. Lyonette turned her attention past her.
“I’m telling you, Pisces. It may not be ‘economical’, but these guarding contracts are worth good money. We can do a few and come away with gold. What’s your issue?”
She saw a group of adventurers sitting at one of her tables. Pisces, Yvlon, Ceria, and Ksmvr were all sitting together, arguing. They too were a fixture of the inn. Pisces raised one finger as he sat back, nursing a cup of water.
“They may be worth more money as a whole package, but as I explained twice, Ceria, the pay-per-hour is far, far less reasonable than we would earn hunting monsters. Moreover, we do not level any of our classes when we guard our clients. In most cases. It’s more efficient to hunt down monsters rather than waste time on fruitless idle work.”
“You just don’t like standing around. You could read while we did it, you know. We don’t all have to be on guard duty all the time. It’s good pay.”
“I do not mingle well with most of our esteemed clientele.”
Yvlon sighed.
“That’s because you sneer at them, Pisces. Look, until we get better requests by going north or getting that door to Invrisil open, we can’t do monster hunting all the time. We’re wiping out the local jobs. We’ll have to go to Ocre or Wales soon.”
“Yes. Our efficiency is a cause for great distress in the other teams. Another sign of dominance.”
That came from Ksmvr. Lyonette snorted gently, and Ceria and Pisces laughed. Yvlon sighed.
“Ceria, don’t encourage Ksmvr. I told you, Ksmvr, it’s not polite to say that to the other adventurers in the guild.”
“Keep doing it, Ksmvr.”
The Antinium’s head swung back and forth between Yvlon and Pisces. He wavered, then turned to Yvlon.
“I will not do so in the future, Yvlon.”
