“A change in leadership, Councilmember. You may recall that Senior Guardsman Klbkch was thought dead during that time. His replacement elected to prioritize the Hive’s safety. When Klbkch was…returned, he immediately led the counterassault. Frankly, that situation was caused by the [Terror] effect by the Skinner guardian. If the Watch hadn’t fled the walls rather than raising the alarm or closing the gates, we would have held the undead attack off easily without them.”
“Why don’t we have enchantments or something to protect the [Guardsmen] on the walls from magical effects like that? There’s got to be amulets or something that stops that, right?”
Raekea frowned. Zevara’s bitter smile spoke volumes, as did Olesm’s.
“On my proposed budget list, Councilmember Raekea. It was rejected by the last Council, but I’m sure you can understand the necessity.”
“I can. And I’ll be damned if I’m facing that thing without gear this time around.”
Jeiss looked up with a toothy grin. Zevara’s lips quirked and she nodded to him. He gave her a tight nod back, and Olesm felt better. At least the Watch would be funded this year regardless of what else was decided today.
No one asked if it was a conflict of interest. As far as Drakes were concerned, everything was their interest, and Gnolls shared the opinion.
“So they’ve been protecting Liscor all this time? Is that what we’re to understand here?”
Lism looked up, unconvinced by the reports. Olesm hastily interjected, shooting a quick glance at Zevara.
“A counterpoint, Councilmember. It’s my opinion that they were hoping to claim the dungeon for themselves all this time and thus expand their Hive into it without our knowledge. However, due to years of failure, they elected to reveal the dungeon to reduce the damage to their own Hive.”
“Exactly. You see, Silverfang? They’re only in it for them. All these warnings, these types of Antinium—they’re preparing for war! We can’t aid them. Not one inch. And you, Watch Captain! How can you argue for giving the Antinium a lease on expanding their Hive if you knew all of this?”
Lism hurled one of the papers at Zevara. It floated past her and she snatched it out of the air and slapped it back on the pile on the table. The sound made everyone look at her.
“Because, Councilmember Lism, I have considered the facts as well as everything I personally know and believe about the Antinium. They may be warlike. And dangerous. And I will fully admit that the Grand Queen and the other Hives are a deadly threat to the safety of all of Izril. However, I know one of my [Guardsmen]. Senior Guardsman Klbkch. And we knew him only as Klbkch the Slayer.”
Olesm turned his head. Zevara walked back and forth in front of the Council.
“When he came to Liscor, he was every bit the impartial monster we thought of all Antinium as. But he’s changed. And when he tells me there is a chance that Liscor might not be swallowed by a war with the Hive under our feet, that we could change the Antinium by working with them—I believe it.”
She stopped and turned to face them.
“I believe in giving the Council all the facts before they make their decision. My opinion is that the Free Antinium of Liscor can be trusted more than the other Hives. It’s a gamble to give them aid or allow them more freedoms. But as it stands, they are already positioned to strike Liscor. It may be, however, that the existence of the Painted Antinium, of these new Antinium like Yellow Splatters or Pawn, might be able to change the Hive as a whole. Or throw the entire network into chaos.”
Her words were greeted with silence. Jeiss spoke up after a moment.
“You believe that, Watch Captain? The Ants seem pretty unified to me.”
“Antinium, Jeiss. And that’s because they’re one species even if they looked different. But Aberrations? Painted Soldiers? They’re different. And somehow, I don’t think the other Queens like different things.”
The Watch Captain smiled. And Olesm sighed inside. Because it was a good argument. Watch Captain Zevara saluted, Olesm gathered up the secret documents, and they left.
“Nice job swaying them with the mandatory explanation.”
He spoke to her as they walked down the hallway. Zevara glanced at him.
“You disagree?”
“I know Senior Guardsman Klbkch too. And he thinks of us…”
“…As expendable? So what?”
Zevara stopped by the bannister staircase looking down. Olesm stared at her.
“So what? That doesn’t frighten you? You don’t think he’d kill us all if the Grand Queen ordered it?”
Zevara paused. She looked past Olesm, straight through him, and then met his eyes as serious as he’d ever seen her.
“Of course it frightens me. And maybe he’d kill me, Olesm. And you. And this entire city. But you know the thing about traitors? It’s not all the times they obey that makes them a traitor. It’s the one time they disobey that does it. And I’m willing to bet on one. How about you?”
The [Strategist] opened his mouth, but never replied as Zevara strode down the staircase. And that, Olesm realized, was as close as Zevara would ever come to praising Erin Solstice. It made him really think as he put away the documents and locked them. When he came back to the Council room, the real debate had begun.
“Do you really think you can expand Liscor and rebuild the walls higher without the Antinium, Lism? Liscor has not the [Builders] or [Architects] to do such a thing. Nor does it have the money to hire such workers in the numbers they would be needed.”
Krshia was arguing with Lism about the key thing that separated them. Raekea and Elirr were nodding along, but Lism was being backed by Jeiss and Alonna and to a lesser extent, Tismel and Zalaiss. The [Shopkeeper] snapped back.
“There is no way I’ll allow the Antinium to expand their Hive.”
“Well, it is what we promised. Antinium gold and Antinium aid! We must honor that vow!”
“You three must. But there are three of you. We have the majority.”
Lism pointed at the other Drakes sitting around the table. Jeiss winced a bit guiltily and Alonna sighed, but neither objected. Krshia opened her mouth. And then she smiled cunningly. And she glanced sideways.
At Tismel. And then at Zalaiss. Lism looked up.
“They won’t vote for an Antinium Hive expansion. There’s no use trying to sway them.”
“I must agree with Shopkeeper—er, with Councilmember Lism.”
Tismel nodded, still looking pale. Olesm saw Zalaiss inclining her head as well. But Krshia shook her head. She wagged a finger at Lism.
“In that case, we will vote against your proposals, yes? I do not believe you have the majority to enforce rules reducing the cost of rent without us.”
Krshia glanced pointedly at the two mercantile members of the Council. The Cobbler’s Guild’s Guildmaster looked up and Zalaiss paused.
“Hold on. The old Council told us—”
“What? That’s a separate issue from the Antinium and the walls, Silverfang! Don’t you dare pull innocent people’s lives into this!”
Lism barked at Krshia. The Gnoll just folded her arms and looked grim.
“Nothing for nothing, Lism. We get nothing, you get nothing. Liscor suffers either way.”
“Wait—wait. I’m sorry, Councilmembers, but changing the prices of rent really isn’t on the table to begin with. I’m friends with a number of the Council—not to mention I own a bit of land!”
Tismel’s protest went unheard. Lism cursed as he looked at Jeiss. The Senior Guardsman paused.
“Krshia, that’s not fair. The rent—”
“What’s wrong with hiring Antinium to build the walls, Jeiss? Give a bit and we give back. Let’s negotiate.”
Raekea retorted. Jeiss considered this and looked at Alonna and Lism. Alonna nodded.
“Sounds good. Lism, listen to Krshia. She’s serious.”
“About the rent—”
Tismel’s voice grew louder and more urgent. Lism looked sideways at him.
“I heard you.”
“Oh, thank you!”
Tismel smiled in relief. Zalaiss, who was a [Merchant] and at least knew when not to trust someone at their immediate word, looked sharply at Lism. But she had seen the same thing he, Krshia, and Olesm—well, the entire Council had by this point. Lism raked his claws through his neck spines, thinking. Jeiss leaned over.
“It’s not actually that bad. Believe me—if you take out the part about the Hive—”
Alonna was nodding. Lism listened, and then growled.
“Fine! Fine!”
He looked at Krshia. The Gnoll raised an eyebrow and Lism glowered. He looked like he was pulling a tooth, but eventually he opened his mouth.
“Alright. Let’s bargain. No Antinium Hive expansion. I’ll trade diplomatic rights and increased Soldiers on the walls. They can also help build the city.”
Elirr whistled softly. He looked at Krshia. She was drumming her paws on the table.
“Hm. Klbkch might accept that. Would you allow—”
“No expansion.”
“Six hundred square feet?”
“That’s a lot of tunnel networks and barracks! The Antinium can burrow deep, Councilmember!”
Olesm had to protest. Krshia raised a brow.
“Four hundred then. Two hundred.”
“No, and no.”
“Fine then. My answer is no and no.”
“You can’t be serious! These are lives we’re talking about, Krshia!”
“I know. But give me something. Say, if Klbkch does not accept what you agreed on. Four hundred feet?”
“One hundred.”
“Two hundred.”
“Fine. But we’re all negotiating with him! And believe me, we’ll be very precise about the deal we make.”
Krshia smiled.
“Done!”
She reached out. Lism glared, and then slapped her paw with his claw. Raekea beamed and Elirr patted Krshia on the back, murmuring something too quiet for Olesm to hear. She relaxed, sighing.
Only Tismel didn’t seem to know what had happened. Lism was glowering as Jeiss patted him on the shoulder. Then the [Shopkeeper] looked up.
“Alright. Rent! First on our list.”
“Councilmember!”
“What? Tismel, I hear you, what?”
“You just said—”
“I said I hear you. And I’m ignoring you now. Let’s just agree on this now, Krshia. Are we on the same page?”
“Like a book, Lism. And for once I think I will enjoy this.”
Krshia gave Lism a predatory smile. And he almost smiled back. He steepled his claws.
“Very well. I motion to limit the rent prices on Liscor’s citizens.”
“Councilmember Lism, I object! That is not acceptable to me!”
And there Zalaiss stood. She might not have been the best [Merchant], or a Gnoll like Krshia Silverfang, but she still had a presence. Tismel was nodding frantically. But again, Zalaiss had underestimated her audience. She looked around. Raekea and Elirr stared up at her blankly. Jeiss sighed. Alonna shook her head. Krshia smiled. And Lism continued.
“As I was saying, a vote to agree to limit—”
“Councilmember Lism, we are all of the same rank here. I have a right to be heard!”
Zalaiss snapped at Lism. He glanced up at her. And there was a dispassionate look in his eyes. Dispassionate, until you saw the satisfaction lurking there. Slowly, Lism nodded.
“Councilwoman Zalaiss, I fully understand that you have a right to be heard. I only wonder if it will do you any good.”
“Excuse me? I think the Council should decide as a whole—”
“I think the Council has.”
Lism cut Zalaiss off. She froze. And he turned around to look at the Drakes across from him.
“Councilmember Jeiss. Councilmember Alonna. Your thoughts?”
The two Drakes regarded Lism. Jeiss, who had risen through the ranks to become a Senior Guardsman and who had lived in apartments in Liscor all his life. Alonna, who had been a [Mage] paying rent as well. They looked at him, smiling slightly.
“No objections, Councilmember Lism.”
“None on my end either. Let’s hear what you have to say.”
“Very good. And my…fellow Councilmembers. Councilmember Elirr?”
The elderly Gnoll beamed at Lism. After all, Elirr had family, friends in Liscor. Gnolls were not wealthy.
“Councilmember Raekea?”
Raekea nodded. She might have been Liscor’s best [Armorer] but she wasn’t…Zalaiss paled. The [Merchant] looked at Tismel, the Guildmaster, and then at Krshia. Honored Krshia. Krshia the [Shopkeeper]. The Gnoll inclined her head. And she almost purred as she spoke.
“Councilmember Lism, I believe you have yet to ask for my opinion.”
“Don’t ruin the moment, Krshia Silverfang.”
Lism sighed. But then he looked at her.
“Your thoughts?”
Krshia took her time in replying. When she did speak, it was cheerfully.
“It’s always been interesting to me, yes? How majorities work. Gnolls do not have such things. We have our [Chieftains], and we respect authority in age and deed and in other ways. In the Gnollmoot, yes, we also gather and the [Chieftains] must debate of course, but even there, it is not simply a majority wins. This way is much simpler. One could overrule all other voices if they had, mm, five votes, yes? Let alone six. Then two voices do not matter. That is much like a…hrm. Tyranny. Which is not a Gnollish thing. Some might call it dangerous, yes?”
Zalaiss went dead white. Tismel caught on and choked. Lism looked up at the ceiling and then reconsidered. He stared down at the candied nuts embedded in the carpet and smiled.
“Perhaps it is. But [Kings] seem to do it well enough. Maybe it’s wrong for a democracy. But it strikes me that Liscor hasn’t been one. The old Council used to elect the new Council. So one turn is fair to me.”
He spread his claws on the table and nodded around.
“I motion to amend how the Council decides on issues. Later. So. As I was saying, the Antinium can have their visitors to the city. Under watch. And more Soldiers aboveground since they apparently have an army of them under our feet. No expansion of the Hive and I say we test to make sure they’re not expanding six times a year at minimum. In exchange, we hire them to do some of the rebuilding process. But to expand the city, we need funds. The third problem which we brought up at the start of that meeting.”
The others nodded. Zalaiss was making a faint noise in the back of her throat. Olesm was waiting with bated breath. This was better than a play because it was real. And it was happening. Krshia nodded, playing her role out with a broad smile.
“The Antinium will pay for a good deal of this, yes? They could begin work without a need for a down payment. And they have a good deal of materials, or so Senior Guardsman Klbkch has informed me. Quality stone, taken from the dungeon.”
“Yes, yes. We’ll also have funds from the army and the Walled Cities. They have pledged to aid Liscor.”
“But we’re striking a deal with the Antinium.”
Alonna pointed out, amused. Lism raised a claw.
