Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, his partner and opponent—if not by district, then by party, looked at Jeiss. He froze.
“Beilmark. I…”
The two partners regarded each other for a moment. Jeiss bit his tongue. But it was Beilmark who smiled and shrugged slightly.
“You won, and I didn’t. I’m partners with a Councilmember now. Which means I’ll let you do all the paperwork, yes?”
Jeiss paused. And then he laughed. He reached out and they shook hands. The crowd sighed, and the two nodded to each other. If they had more they wanted to say, well, they’d do it later. Like adults.
 
——
 
“We won! We won! Celebration! Get the cake! Get the ice cream! Party!”
In her inn, Erin Solstice jumped on a table and the room erupted into cheers. Drassi was besieged at her bar, and the staff were taking orders like there was no tomorrow. The inn was heaving, Erin was beaming as she turned to Klbkch, who had come in with Yellow Splatters and Pawn—
But the story wasn’t about her. Tonight’s story was about the victors. Krshia could hardly drink but for all the people coming up to her, whom she thanked, or who wanted to ask when she’d do what she’d promised on the Council, or perhaps would she consider…? Elirr was similarly besieged, although Moore and Mrsha were keeping the worst at bay, Moore by his presence shielding the Gnoll, Mrsha by waving a fork when the crowd got too thick.
Raekea had disappeared with her husband, and the other Gnolls who hadn’t won were either getting drunk or joining the celebration, dancing, eating, or just talking. It was a night to remember. Which made it somewhat ironic that Erin found Selys sitting alone by the bar. The Drake had won, and she’d been an instrumental part of the victory. But it was the Gnolls’ night.
“Hey, good looking! Mind if I buy you a drink?”
Erin slid into the seat next to Selys. The Drake stared at her.
“That’s the worst—no, wait, Hawk and Relc are worse. But that’s pretty bad, Erin.”
The young woman grinned and Selys edged her stool over. The two sat together and Drassi slid Erin a drink, Rufelt-style across the bar. She missed. Erin sighed. But the shattered cup reformed itself on the ground! The drink did not, and a shamefaced Drassi went over to refill it.
“Sorry.”
Erin looked at Selys, smiling. The Drake shrugged.
“Hey, work on it.”
“I mean, sorry that the Council were jerks. Do you think the Gnolls won more than three seats?”
“Honestly, Erin? I’d bet every gold piece on it. They’re all Drakes and…well, let’s just say I don’t think they wanted to help Krshia’s side. Maybe we took four seats. Or…five? Either way, it’s done. Krshia can argue against it, but the Council does get to choose! I guess. Maybe if there’d been a riot—”
“Sorry. But Mrsha was there.”
“Yeah. No, I think it’s fine. I mean, I wasn’t running. I’m just worried…”
“…That you don’t have enough seats?”
Erin looked worried. Selys nodded. She gestured at Krshia, who was toasting with a group of Gnolls.
“Krshia will obviously have to figure it out, but it’s three to five if you’re just going by species. And all the Drakes who were elected were in Lism’s camp. Well, more or less.”
“Which means they’ll vote against letting the Antinium help?”
Erin’s face fell. Selys paused.
“Probably. Maybe? I don’t know this Tismel and Zalaiss too well. They’re both wealthy, though; safe picks in their districts which is probably why they won their votes. Tismel’s head of the Cobbler’s Guild, and Zalaiss is a [Merchant] in the guild. Safe picks. But they’re both in Lism’s party. Jeiss and Alonna are actual friends of his, though. Either way, they’ll probably be against some of Krshia’s ideas. It’s—I don’t know, Erin. She’ll have to figure it out. I’m just a bit worried.”
The [Receptionist] sighed. Erin nodded. Then she paused as Drassi came back with her drink.
“[Cobblers] have a guild?”
“Of course they do, Erin. With two different species’ worth of feet in Liscor? I bet he doesn’t even make shoes anymore. He’s probably rich. And see, that’s the problem. There’s no way Tismel will be on Krshia’s side, right? So if Lism just overrules her, what was the point of all this? Did the Council steal a seat? Two seats?”
The Drake gripped her glass tightly, frustrated. Erin hesitated.
“But you did win, Selys. Be happy about that.”
She gestured at the inn. Selys just shook her head. Then she turned to look Erin in the eye.
“I don’t know. Did we win? Can we win if it’s not complete, Erin? If it’s just a little victory? How can I feel good about it when I know—we deserved more? We did, and they cheated.”
She had tears in her eyes from the pure frustration of it. Erin paused. And she took a long drink from her mug before replying slowly. She looked around the inn, at all the faces, at Numbtongue poking his head down the stairs and deciding to go back to his room, at Ceria making ice cubes, Yellow Splatters heading up with a small keg Erin had given him from the bar, Ishkr smiling as he went round the tables—and she smiled too.
“It wasn’t fair. And you can be mad. But tonight, Selys? Be happy. Because there wasn’t a Gnoll on Liscor’s Council yesterday. Tomorrow, there will be.”
She looked at the Drake. The [Heiress] paused. Then she looked up. She slowly raised her glass and clinked it against Erin’s. And then Selys smiled.
“You’re right about that.”
She drank her cup down, ordered a Firebreath Whiskey, drank it, and kept smiling. Then she went to go cuddle Mrsha. Erin sighed. She took a sip of her drink at the bar and let the alcohol sting her mouth for a moment. Then she turned off her [Immunity: Alcohol] Skill. She sighed as she flushed with a bit of heat, and then raised her cup. She beamed at Lyonette, who’d come over.
“To victory! Now, let’s go tell everyone in Pallass the good news!”
The [Princess] smiled.
“Okay, Erin. You get to break the news. But then?”
“Yeah?”
Erin twinkled at her. Lyonette beamed back.
“You’re getting in the kitchen. We need more food.”
“Aw. But—but it’s a celebration.”
“Yup. Now, get cooking.”
The [Innkeeper]’s face fell. She sighed, looked around, and muttered as she finished her drink.
“I really need to hire a [Cook]. I wonder if Garry’s free?”
 
——
 
The party that engulfed Liscor that night was an event in itself. From Erin’s inn outside the city to the rest of it, there was drinking and delight, mayhem, a bit of madness, and happiness and sadness. Triumph and defeat, however fairly done.
But it was done. You could argue about the ethics of it all you wanted, but the legalese of it was that Liscor’s Council had made their decision and since no law actually decided the election process outside of their nomination of the candidates, it was all within the boundary of the law.
And it would be a fight uphill and downhill with a Rock Crab on your back to get the new Council to declare itself invalid. Especially because they were the only body who could do so, short of the High Command appearing outside of Liscor’s gates or a mob essentially overturning the government. Best to take the victory where you could and save your energy for another battle.
That was what Krshia and her supporters had reluctantly decided last night, and the former Council had heaved a sigh of relief when they heard it. The next day, everyone had a late day of it. People got back to work. Market Street finally unclogged of the persistent rallies and people got back to work. After all, the elections were done. And that day, the new Council met in Liscor’s city hall.
With the old one. It was a strange gathering, with eight Drakes sitting in chairs around the rounded conference table where the new Council sat. Especially because of how at odds they had been just a day ago.
There they sat, three Gnolls on one quadrant, Krshia, Elirr, and Raekea, and Lism exactly opposite Krshia, flanked by Jeiss and Alonna, with Tismel and Zalaiss occupying a safety wall between them. Krshia and Lism kept avoiding each other’s gaze—and then giving each other death-glares.
The former Council found it all quite amusing. Half of them were still somewhat drunk, Ulseil included. He felt a huge weight off his shoulders! He was done! And yes, the new Council wasn’t ideal, but they had to deal with dungeons and headaches about monsters and a war with the Humans! He felt ten years younger. The first thing he’d do now—
But there was one last thing to do. Reluctantly, the Drake pulled himself upright and coughed. Everyone in the room looked at him and Ulseil smiled cheerfully.
“Good morning everyone! I’m pleased, delighted, to welcome you all to your new positions!”
“We’re honored, Councilmember—erm, I mean, Guildmaster Greenscale.”
Tismel immediately ducked his head quite deferentially, and the Gnolls and Drakes all nodded. Ulseil grinned happily. Yes, this wasn’t so bad, was it? He’d feared the worst, but it had all worked out for the best. They might be Gnolls and Drakes now, but this Council would work just as well as the old one.
“Delighted, delighted, thank you, Guildmaster—no, pardon me, Councilmember Tismel. I’m sure you’re all ecstatic over winning the election. Now, I think you won’t see the rest of us, the former Council, unless you’ve need of our advice—but it’s customary for the old Council to sit in on the new Council’s first meeting. Sometimes second or third if things have difficulty starting up.”
Ulseil was rewarded by a look of apprehension among the new Council. Yes, there they all were. New to the job and wet behind the…earholes. He remembered what it was like. And the old Council had seemed so wise! He suppressed a smirk as he looked at Yalla and the others and saw the same knowing expression on their faces. Lism coughed. He’d been staring around the rich room in between glaring at Krshia.
“Now we’re here. It feels rather…odd. We won the election. But the process of leading a city—”
He hesitated. Krshia made a sound in her throat and fidgeted in her chair. Elirr scratched at one arm. Raekea patted the belt buckle her husband had fashioned for her. Jeiss leaned back in his chair and Alonna rubbed her claws together, generating a magical spark. Tismel and Zalaiss looked at the old Council apprehensively.
Yes, that was the thing. They’d spent so long campaigning that none of them had ever stopped to think about how to run a city! Ulseil tsked internally. It wasn’t all fun and games, was it? He decided to show a bit of mercy and smiled.
“First things first! Please, direct your attention to the most important thing you’ll encounter today!”
He pointed to the far wall. Apprehensively, the Drakes and Gnolls turned. Ulseil beamed as he got up and strode over to the table. There was a pause. Jeiss frowned.
“Are those…?”
“Snacks! Please, help yourself. They’re very fine. They come by way of Invrisil. A Council meeting cannot run without snacks. We always have some sent up, although you’ll have to find your own sources. Candied nuts, anyone? I broke out the last of our stash.”
“Ooh, Ulseil. You [Rogue]! You’ve been holding out on us!”
Yalla exclaimed. She and the old Council got up and immediately began circulating the table, quarreling good-naturedly over the treats, which ranged from candied snacks to delicate little deviled eggs—goose, thank you, not chicken—filled with a poignant filling. The properly rich stuff; Ulseil wanted to treat the new Council. He noticed they weren’t getting up. Ah, yes, first-day jitters. He waved them over then decided they’d eat when they relaxed. After a bit, Jeiss got up and snagged a few items, along with Tismel and Zalaiss. When they were all seated, Ulseil went on.
“Now that’s settled. I suppose, we’d better get to the actual work of the day.”
The rest of the old Council groaned good-naturedly, but they put on a good face as former Councilmember Yalla rang the bell. All the Gnoll’s ears perked up and they looked towards the door exactly as it opened. Handy, that. Ulseil saw the Drake who’d been waiting on standby bustle into the room.
Olesm Swifttail’s first view of the room as he hurried in with his scrolls of parchment and stack of reports was eerily familiar. He’d forgotten the old Council would be there, so twice as many people in the room gave him a moment’s pause. But he’d done this for the last Council, so he bowed once, and then his eyes went to Lism’s face. The Drake [Shopkeeper] looked astonished, and then delighted.
“Councilmembers, good day to you. I am Olesm Swifttail. You may have met me before, but in this moment, I’m acting in my capacity as [Strategist] of Liscor. I welcome you to your positions—”
“Young Swifttail is our [Strategist]. He delivers all our information and gives the morning briefing. He’s also the one who you’ll see the most of; I imagine Watch Captain Zevara might be here later as well, but Olesm is the one who handles most affairs.”
With dreadful timing and a poor whisper, Ulseil leaned over to confide in Lism. Olesm paused and Lism harrumphed proudly.
“Of course! A [Strategist] to the Council. He never told me he gives daily reports!”
“Told you? My word, you’re his uncle, aren’t you? I’d forgotten! And it’s hardly daily—it’s whenever we meet.”
Yalla leaned over, smiling at Lism. The [Shopkeeper] looked proudly at Olesm and the [Strategist] groaned. This could be terribly awkward. He cleared his throat, trying not to meet Krshia’s gaze. Or any of the Gnolls’. Oh yes, this could be a lot worse than he’d imagined.
“May I continue, Councilmembers?”
“Oh, very wel—”
Ulseil’s familiar, tired wave was cut off by Lism sitting upright in his chair. The [Shopkeeper] smiled widely.
“Of course! Go on, Nephew, er—I mean, [Strategist] Olesm.”
Lism beamed at Olesm. The [Strategist] cringed inwardly for only a moment before adopting his friendly, helpful expression and tone. He circulated the table, relieved that he always brought a number of copies so he could divide the reports among both former and new Council.
The old Council glanced over the reports and almost instantly passed it to the new Council, who began reading as they listened attentively. Ulseil smiled as he listened to Olesm and then observed the new Council’s feverish attention. Hadn’t he been like that? Oh yes, they’d learn all right.
Olesm began with his rehearsed speech, the one he’d given to two Councils before this one. Well, one and a half since he’d taken over halfway through.
“Councilmembers, I traditionally begin each meeting with a small briefing if necessary. I’ll proceed as if the old Council were in session, ah, with your permission?”
