“Go ahead! What’s the latest gossip this time?”
One of the old Councilmembers called out. Olesm hesitated, but went on as the new Council hesitated.
“Well then, my first piece of news is that it is more or less confirmed that Manus’ covert operation against the north has been a success. I have the report summarized in front of you, but the damages to Human lands are estimated at—”
“Wait. Manus did what?”
Raekea yelped as she finally caught up to Olesm. She stared at the parchment in horror. The old Council chuckled knowingly as Lism and the new Council sat up.
“There’s been an attack on the north, Olesm? When? Where?”
Krshia’s eyes flickered across the parchment. Olesm raised his claws hurriedly.
“Not an attack? Or rather, it’s not an act of direct war. I’m sorry, I should have prefaced this. Manus ordered dozens of its [Infiltrators] and [Saboteurs] to head north and cause havoc among Human lands. They started fires, engaged in covert assassinations of high-level targets, spread illnesses or simply sowed dissent—”
“I never heard of this! When was this?”
Guildmistress Alonna looked up sharply. The Drake [Mage] stared at Olesm. He winced.
“About one week ago was when I heard rumors of it, Councilmember. And I received confirmation—of sorts—only today. Please understand, all the information you hear here is classified. Not to be repeated as gossip.”
He looked pointedly at Ulseil and the old Council, who avoided his gaze. Yalla leaned over conspiratorially.
“You can be sure it’s accurate, too. Strategist Olesm is quite informative at these little updates. I will miss them.”
“How do you know this happened? I have people I talk to, but they do not mention an attack. There was talk of a drought and unseasonable weather, but an attack?”
Krshia demanded, looking up at Olesm sharply. He coughed, a bit proud at how astonished she looked.
“Your sources might relay that it was an attack, Krsh—Councilmember, or they might not. Think of me as a fact-checker with a bit more insight into current events. I have access to several lines of communication that allow me to make inferences, and I’m well-versed in Drake strategy. No doubt a lot of the attacks will be news or gossip, although it may be downplayed. Some of the events were quite large.”
“Wildfires. Lightning attacks. A Drake assassinating Humans on their land? How can this be rumor and gossip?”
Elirr’s fur stood up as he read the report. He looked up. Olesm shrugged.
“I don’t think the nobility will want to disclose the findings. But let me explain from the beginning. This is what I’ve put together, and the report isn’t wholly accurate, but—”
“It is reliable?”
Lism looked up quietly. He was reading the report, tracing each line with a claw. Olesm nodded solemnly.
“All the Drake cities get news updates from the other cities and any [Strategist] has their…sources, Uncle—I mean, Councilmember Lism! I’m not in touch with all the minutiae of what’s happening, but I do pick up on the big things. So, from the start.”
He took a deep breath. This time both old and new Councilmembers listened attentively.
“There’s been a lot of public chatter on the subject. The long of it is that Manus has launched several attacks on lands owned by the [Lords] and [Ladies] who participated in the siege of Liscor. Lord Tyrion Veltras, Lady Ieka Imarris, Lord Pellmia, Lord Gralton Radivaek…I have a list in front of you as well as estimated damages.”
“A heavy toll. Serves them right!”
Ulseil remarked with deep satisfaction. Krshia gave Raekea and Elirr a disturbed look. Lism was biting one lip. Jeiss raised a claw.
“How do you know it was Manus, Olesm? Er, Strategist?”
Olesm paused.
“Well, firstly, the nobles managed to fight off the attack and kill or wound some of the assailants. When they demanded an explanation from the Walled Cities, Manus, ah, replied to the allegations by claiming that the reports of Drakes were probably ‘unusually active Wyverns migrating north’. That’s a code. That means they sent True Oldbloods to launch the attacks. My estimates are that most returned safely, but there were about one in six casualties.”
There was a good-natured groan from the old Council. The new one just looked shocked.
“And they did all this without anyone knowing? Those are powerful nobles they attacked! Why were they not spotted?”
Alonna demanded. Olesm shrugged.
“Manus has a number of agents, Councilmember Alonna. They’re quite skilled and the Walled City can supply them with artifacts. If they’d tried to enter a populated city through the gates, they’d have been caught, but they worked from a distance. As it was, some of the nobles managed to fight off the attacks. As did the rumored [Emperor]…”
“[Emperor]? You mean, that’s not just rumors?”
Olesm took a deep breath. He’d forgotten how it worked. The new Council always had questions. He patiently explained the rumors about Laken Godart, and then gave everyone a summary of the factions supporting Tyrion Veltras—and the split between him and Magnolia Reinhart during the siege. He’d forgotten they hadn’t listened to the reports the old Council had. And the new Council was refreshingly serious; the old one kept eating, rolling their eyes at the explanations Olesm had hammered into their heads.
“All of this, and for what? Liscor? They never even got to the city in time, but they’re launching an attack that might have repercussions for us. Were we even consulted?”
Lism muttered angrily. Krshia was frowning too, looking worried. Olesm could only shrug, but Ulseil waved a claw.
“The Walled Cities take their own action, Councilmember Lism. Don’t worry. The main thing to ask is this. Strategist Olesm. Will it affect Liscor?”
“Well…no. Not immediately. I predict that the Humans will take offense and maybe seek to retaliate via sanctions or covert action of their own. Maybe hire [Pirates] or mercenaries or so on. But after Magnolia Reinhart’s schism with the other nobility, there’s not enough political consensus or will to launch a second attack, much less unprovoked.”
The new Council sighed in relief. The old one sat back, unconcerned.
“There. You see? It’s just news. No need to worry. This is usually just good for gossip—”
Ulseil hesitated as Olesm glared at him.
“—among family and personal friends. Highly confidential, of course.”
“I…see. Go on, then, Olesm.”
Krshia exchanged a glance with Elirr as Lism waved his nephew on. Her mind was already spinning. She’d had some idea that Liscor’s Council was well-informed, but this? She was wondering if she really had what it took to be on this Council. Let alone run a city. She listened as Olesm went on, trying to suppress the butterflies in her stomach.
“Let’s see…the army has concluded its defense contract with Oteslia and is moving west. They may be looking for work around Fissival—there’s a standing dispute between the cities of Grailhess and Veish that they might want to seek out, although both cities have fairly powerful armies, so the High Command may prefer work fighting against the Gnoll tribes in the plains. There has been a number of incidents between Gnoll tribes and Drake cities of late—”
“One tribe.”
Raekea muttered that. Olesm paused.
“Excuse me? Um, Councilmember Raekea?”
The Gnoll [Armorer] glanced up. Raekea hesitated, but Krshia and Elirr were nodding. Elirr broke in, growling softly.
“It’s the Woven Bladegrass tribe. Not tribes. Their new Chieftain is young and she’s fought against Drakes before. Her tribe is good at fighting too.”
Everyone blinked at the Gnolls. Krshia looked around, eyebrows raised.
“That is common knowledge, yes? Among Gnolls.”
She looked at Olesm for confirmation. He half-nodded and glanced at his parchment.
“I had no idea. I mean, yes, the incidents would make sense if it was a single tribe. Woven Bladegrass? Let me make a note…ah, ahem. I bring it up as a matter of security. Obviously some of this doesn’t affect Liscor, but it could lead to a larger conflict.”
“It might.”
Raekea looked darkly at Krshia. The Gnoll nodded, but raised a furry finger. Now wasn’t the time for Gnollish politics. Olesm continued, a bit off-kilter.
“Well, aside from the war with Tiqr, I have no notable news of immediate concern for the Council. As I’m sure you’ve heard, several nations from Chandrar have launched an attack on the King of Destruction’s allies, including the nation of Tiqr. The fighting has gone on for weeks now, and Tiqr has been forced back and back. They’ve held on well, but my estimate is that they’ll fall within the week if the King of Destruction doesn’t act in some way, which would violate his pledge not to do so. Er, that’s about it.”
He looked at Ulseil. The former Councilman nodded.
“The daily briefing is always about issues that concern Liscor as a whole. Apparently the King of Destruction is always pertinent news, which makes sense, I suppose. But the wretched fellow hasn’t done anything but conquer one, two kingdoms? He’s hardly the threat he was. Still, better safe than sorry. That’s our [Strategist]. After that, we generally move to some conversation and the day’s decisions. Of course, the table is yours now…”
He chuckled and gestured towards the Council. They hesitated, but the time for hesitation was gone. Krshia nodded to herself. She’d fought for this seat. She had to earn it. She opened her mouth—and Lism beat her to the punch.
“Of course, we’ve a number of issues to discuss.”
He smirked at Krshia. She glared at him. There was going to be an unfortunate confrontation soon, and she’d readied herself for it. Lism went on, glancing at the old Council.
“However, I don’t know the uh, protocol for such things. So what do you do first?”
The old Council looked mildly surprised. One of the older Drakes rubbed his neck spines and chuckled.
“Oh yes, those issues. Well, Strategist Olesm usually has a list! We go through them and then leave. Olesm! What’s on today’s list?”
He waved a claw. Olesm sighed as he unfurled the rather long scroll of parchment. The old Council sighed and the new ones sat up.
“Well, Councilmembers, I do generally keep track of the Council’s issues by request. And I’ll note any future concerns. However, today’s list is substantial. The new Council must of course approve a budget for the Watch and issue an announcement to the city and so forth, but there are new concerns for this Council. Among them are the proposed changes to the city each er, party, has campaigned on.”
“Of course. Well, this is the heart of it.”
Ulseil sighed as he turned and looked around the room. He waved at Olesm.
“Strategist Swifttail will bring us an issue and we’ll debate it. Sometimes it’s as easy as voting to do something. Show of claws—excuse me, claws and paws—and we agree or not. Other times, we have to do some math. Agree on a budget—don’t worry, Swifttail will have the numbers. But there are a lot of new proposals you lot have campaigned on, haven’t you?”
He gave the Gnolls and Drakes a somewhat superior look.
“Well, we can discuss the issue now, but I think you’ll find it’s more complicated than just shelling out gold!”
“We?”
Krshia’s ears perked up. She turned to stare around at the old Council. Elirr and Raekea looked up. And so did Lism. Ulseil waved an airy claw.
“Just a bit of advice from the old Council! Perspective. After all, we know the ins and outs of running the city. You agree?”
He looked around. Krshia nodded reluctantly. That was true. She hesitated, and then coughed.
“Well, it seems we must talk about the deal to expand the city—”
“Without Antinium help. As my campaign pledged.”
Lism finished the sentence and sat back, satisfied. Krshia stared at him. And then polite civility broke down.
“You mean, your campaign stole from mine, you thief, Lism, you!”
“Hah! I knew it! You couldn’t wait one hour before you had to accuse my campaign of improving on your ideas!”
“I was the one who suggested expanding the city! What did your campaign come up with?”
Krshia snarled across the table. Ulseil looked wide-eyed at Lism, who laughed loudly back at her.
“Removing the Antinium element of course! And the city voted our party into power.”
“Because you stole our seats!”
Krshia howled back at him. Lism raised his claws.
“By popular vote—”
“Councilmembers!”
Ulseil didn’t manage to outshout either Drake or Gnoll, but he did silence them. He looked around, flustered.
“Please! Councilmembers, this is not a street argument! This is a civilized discussion! And any issues can be discussed! Frankly, I don’t think this debate will get us anywhere, because as I was saying, the reality of Liscor’s financial situation is that we might not be able to pay for any expansions to the walls!”
Silence fell over the new Council. Ulseil sat back, and another Councilmember chortled.
“Don’t you wish you’d talked to us, first?”
Lism stared at Ulseil. So did Krshia. Did they know something the public didn’t? Krshia felt a pit in her stomach and saw Elirr looking at her, alarmed. Lism spoke up into the silence.
“What do you mean, Councilmembers? We have a proposal. Expand the walls. It will generate new jobs, new commerce—”
“Yes, Councilmember Lism, but who will pay for the walls?”
“Well, we could increase the taxes on the dungeon and—”
Yalla cut in, not-very-apologetically.
“I’m afraid, what Ulseil means is that we can’t just…move around some numbers and come up with gold we don’t have, Councilmember Lism. Perhaps we could raise revenues here, but that doesn’t create gold. Our yearly budget is comprised of a number of sources including revenue from the guilds, taxes, trade, and so on, but it mainly comes from—”
“The army.”
Yalla broke off. Krshia blinked at her.
“I am sorry. Was that not what you meant to say?”
The Drake narrowed her eyes and Krshia felt a bit better. She didn’t like the condescending tone Yalla or the old Council had. Yalla cleared her throat.
“What I mean to say was that yes, Liscor’s army does send back a good deal of funds in exchange for the support we give them. We tend to use it up on necessary products, because the money from the rest of our taxes and so on is…limited. It’s always been a fact of living around Liscor. This is not a rich city like Salazsar or even Pallass.”
She shrugged. Lism frowned.
“Poor? But Liscor is the keystone city between north and south!”
Krshia rolled her eyes.
