Lyonette hurried off. Erin watched her leave the inn, and then turned. Someone was indeed calling her name. She saw a Drake hurry over, a wooden clipboard and bit of parchment neatly held in place at both ends.
“Excuse me, Miss. Are you Miss Erin Solstice?”
“That’s me! Hey! Are you from the new Council?”
Erin beamed at the Drake. He adjusted the clipboard and quill. He had a few splotches of ink on his pale orange scales. He nodded.
“I am! Geillsten. At your service.”
“How can I help you, Geillsten? If you’re looking for Klbkch—”
“No, Miss Solstice. You are just the person I’ve been looking for! I have a message from the Council.”
“Ooh! From Krshia? Or Lism.”
The Drake coughed reprovingly.
“All of the Council, Miss Solstice. They have enacted a number of reforms lately. Among them, they’ve seen fit to bestow upon you some honors for your efforts in aiding Liscor!”
“Wh—really? Well, about time!”
Erin beamed. Geillsten just gave her a slow nod.
“Yes. And for your efforts, and due to your inn’s proximity to the city of Liscor, they have decided that your inn, and you are de facto inhabitants of the city. As such, you are entitled to the rights and responsibilities of a citizen of Liscor and the protections of the Watch, as they note you have enjoyed since your initial stay at Liscor.”
The young woman slapped her forehead, scowling.
“What? I’m a citizen? Just like that? Couldn’t they have done it yesterday? And—”
Then the wording of the Drake’s message caught up with her. Erin paused.
“Wait, since the beginning? The rights and…”
“Responsibilities, yes. You aren’t in trouble, Miss Solstice. But I am here to, ah, ensure your civic duty is carried out.”
Erin stared at the Drake.
“Say, Geillsten? What’s your class?”
“[Tax Collector], Miss Solstice.”
The penny dropped. Erin looked around, but Geillsten was standing neatly in front of her. And she couldn’t kill him and melt his body with acid fly juice! She’d sold all of it yesterday! She hesitated and scuffed one foot on the floorboards.
“I uh, haven’t been keeping a record of how much I make. And to be fair, I didn’t know I should, so…”
She looked hopefully at him. The Drake gave her an encouraging smile.
“Not to worry, Miss Solstice. Happily, as a [Tax Collector], I have a Skill which allows me to calculate exactly how much you owe. You can be sure that the number I produce is accurate and fair—I am routinely checked by the Watch under truth spell, and you may pay a nominal fee to ensure the accuracy yourself if you so choose!”
“Oh. Oh, that’s—er, do I have to do anything?”
“Not at all, Miss Solstice. If you’ll just wait here? I will conduct my inspection.”
“Sure…”
Erin looked around for Lyonette. But it was no good. The Drake began walking around her, peering at her or through her at something. He began writing furiously on the parchment.
“Hmm…oh my. Well, there are a number of sources of income that the city does not count as viable taxation, so let me just note that all down here…and here…and here…er, did you really sell a flower for…pardon me, I shouldn’t ask…very well. With those incomes subtracted—please pardon me, the Council wishes to see a copy of this report—here is your owed tax, Miss Solstice!”
He finished and showed Erin a notation at the bottom of the parchment. Then he neatly tore the number off, handed it to her, and gave her an embarrassed smile.
“I am sorry. It is my job, and I do see that you can pay the indicated sum.”
“Buh.”
“If you would require time, there are repayment options I can go over with you—”
“Huh.”
Geillsten hesitated. He coughed again and cleared his throat. His was a thankless job.
“The Council also wished to inform you that they will be sending a delegation to negotiate with Esthelm, and given your previous aid to the city, they would consider it a personal favor if you aided the [Negotiator] in his task. I believed they phrased it as a ‘civic duty’, Miss Solstice.”
Erin jerked out of her stupor. Lyonette was going to kill her. As soon as she killed Krshia! How could she? Erin narrowed her eyes at the Drake.
“What? My ‘civic’—is that some kind of shady threat?”
The Drake looked appalled.
“Oh, you’re free to decline! However, the Council would also agree to discount your taxes by…this much if you accept. And put you in for a citizenship along with your wards, Miss Lyonette and Miss Mrsha! And perhaps a provisional entry permit for your ah, employee? Mister Numbtongue?”
He showed Erin another number. Erin bit her tongue and stared at him. The Drake gave her a smile full of chagrin. She sighed.
“You’re really good at your job, Geillsten. Do people ever get mad at you?”
“More than one wishes, Miss Solstice. But it is a knack. And a Skill. The Council would like a reply by tonight—you may send a Street Runner to them free of charge or apply for a meeting in person, although I understand there is a queue—thank you for your time. And not throwing stones at me.”
He bowed and was gone. Erin watched him go. She thought of the new Council, full of vim, vigor, and cheap but filling sandwiches. She thought of change, and what Liscor could be.
Because that was what it was about. You could stay the same forever. Or you could…Erin looked around her inn. She looked out at the city of Liscor in the distance.
Then she stared at the number on the parchment. Erin sighed.
“I hate progress.”
