“Eh, a solid eight out of ten, I would say. Simple but effective design, and thematically it was awesome, especially seeing the location of the dungeon. There was a lack of enemy variety, though, and the final boss took a bit too long for my liking, being more of a battle of endurance than anything else,” Jake gave his honest review.

“A fair assessment,” Villy acknowledged. “Seeing as even you found the boss tedious and too durable, I guess other peak C-grade parties may end up finding it downright impossible.”

“Not necessarily,” Jake shook his head. “While the Armored Guardian did take ages to kill, I noticed that it didn’t appear capable of regenerating its resources, at least not at a speed that was readily noticeable. If I’m right, even weaker parties should be able to win using hit-and-run tactics while fully disengaging and recuperating, achieving victory through what would effectively be multiple fights. The dungeon was pretty big, and there were a lot of hiding places, so I could see a tactic like that working.”

“Duly noted,” the Viper said, and Jake actually believed he was noting this down. All the dungeons Jake had been clearing were within the territory of the rapidly expanding Order of the Malefic Viper, and seeing as C-grade dungeons with B-grades were on the rarer side, these were all considered strategic resources.

“Now, enough about that,” Jake said, cracking his neck. “Where to next? I feel like this one was short enough for me not even to need a breather.”

“Gonna bring you back to the Order first,” the Viper said. “Sadly, I can’t personally take you to the next destination, so I’ll have to send you off from here.”

Jake raised an eyebrow as he realized what that meant. “You’re saying...”

“That’s right, the final dungeon I’ve selected is in your very own universe,” the Viper said. “And based on the information I’ve gained from the dungeon architect who checked it out, this may just be the best one yet.”

“Alright,” Jake said with a nod, and shortly after, he was back at the Order of the Malefic Viper. After barely being there for a minute, the snake god teleported to his residence.

“Are you ready to do your final dungeon?” Villy asked as he and Jake walked out onto the lawn where a magic circle had already been drawn by the god.

“I swear, if it’s another underwater dungeon, I’m hitting up Valdemar first thing once I’m out to see if he’s looking for a Chosen,” Jake said, only halfway joking.

“It won’t be,” the Primordial chuckled, though Jake got the feeling he did take the joke at least a little bit seriously. “I will warn you that my information is lacking, though, but I’m sure you’ll figure things out once you get there.”

“Sure, sure,” Jake waved off the god. “Just beam me down, Villy.”

“Alright, alright,” the Primordial said, lifting his hand as the magic circle started to glow with power. “I hope you enjoy it... and I know I’m not the only one.”

Before Jake could ask what Villy meant by that, he was flung through the void as he returned to his own universe once more. No, not just to his universe, but to a rather familiar location with a familiar face already waiting for him...
