Tears streamed down his eyes. It felt like someone had punched him in the gut with such force that it had cracked all the ribs in his body. His vision oscilated between consciousness and unconsciousness, his breathing growing shallower by the second.

Tom had royally fucked up.

He was going to die.

In that moment, he felt no self-recrimination. All he felt was a burning desire and a hatred for the man, the predator that towered over the young girl.

He did not care about the fate of a faceless crowd. Tragedies happened all the time.

But this? This was fucking real.

So he forced himself. Strength flooded his arms, the dying embers of a dying man shining with one last burst of brilliance, perhaps the only brilliance Thomas had to offer.

‘Move!’

‘Move, motherfucker, move!’

10 meters…. 9 meters… 8 meters… 7 meters… 6 meters….

The tattooed man finally noticed his approach, turning again to see a dying man crawling towards him.

But this time, Tom had expected it.

He screamed so loud that it felt as if he had torn every vocal cord in his throat, rolling his body onto his back.

The tattooed man’s shot missed, poking a hole into the asphalt where his head had been seconds ago.

The last thing he saw was the bloodied visage of an american man who was maniacally grinning from ear to ear.

Thomas pulled the trigger.

An ear splitting bang rang out, as the tattooed man’s head exploded like a smashed tomato.

The next second, a while fog swept the world.

Towering above him was the bearded man who stood aloof in the world of fog.

“Your resolve is weak. Your approach is foolish. What would you have done if your shot missed? Instead of aiming for the body, you chose the head. Fucking idiot. When you said that you would have cowered behind a car in the first scenario, I believed you. The second question though, I didn’t. I instanced you a thousand times you know? Each time you gave me the same answer. ‘I would save the girl’. You really did fucking save her.”

The bearded man landed a kick against Tom’s abdomen, causing him to cough out a mouthful of blood.

“Why did you save her? You would let an entire crowd of people die just to protect your insignificant life, but you’re willing to stake your life for just one human? How does that make sense? Why are you grinning?”

“You….,” Tom croaked out weakly. “...said her. She’s real isn’t she?”

The bearded old man remained stoic for a long minute, before finally answering with a curt “Yes.”

Tom began to laugh, sputtering out blood every few seconds.

“I don’t understand any of this. What… this is. Who you are. Why I’m bleeding out on a fucking cloud. But…. If you want to know why I saved her… that I can answer.”

“So why?”

“Because… I’m selfish. Because when I saw that six foot tall piece of shit criminal inching towards an innocent girl with a gun in his hand…..,” Tom aggressively spat out another mouthful of blood, “It fucking pissed me off, that’s why! It reminded me… of myself. When I was huddled up, head buried in my arms waiting for …. It to stop, all I wanted was for someone to… save me. So I.. saved her instead.”

“You…,” the bearded man spat with disgust, “are illogical. Driven by emotions. Rash. Easily prone to anger.”

“You are a Fool.”

With that, the bearded man snapped his fingers.

Tom stumbled as he tried to get a hold of the situation. The pain had disappeared. He felt the ground underneath his feet so he was standing. He scanned the surroundings, only to see the now comforting fluorescent lights lighting up a convenience store. His convenience store.

The bearded man stood in front of him, in his hands a deck of cards that seemed to be made out of solid chips of gold, with a red crystal embedded in the center. The cards were face down, so Tom couldn’t make out what was behind them.

“Choose one,” The man held out the cards, a deck of fifty two it seemed like.

“I don’t want it,” Thomas replied bluntly, no longer as afraid of the man. He had brushed with death once, and if this… being wished to harm him, then there was nothing he could do to fight him.

“The moment you passed the trial, you consented to making a choice.”

“What fucking consent!?” Tom protested. “You pointed a gun at my forehead and forced me to do whatever this is…. Wait, I passed?”

“You did. This is your reward.”

“What happens if I refuse?”

“I will shoot you.”

“That’s getting real fucking old now, man.”

“Fine, fine,” Tom raised his hands in mock protest. “How do I make the choice? And what are these… cards?”

“You are to close your eyes and expand your senses. You will feel varying degrees of pull from each card, depending on your personality, actions and the life you have lived. Choose the one to which you feel the strongest attraction. As for what the cards are, they…. represent supernatural power, like the kind I wield. But individually, I do not know, for the cards shield them from myself. Simply put, I am a messenger. The questions I asked you were merely the will of the cards, kid.”

“Will of the cards? Supernatural power? Well…..you aren’t exactly giving me much of a choice,” Tim sighed, closing his eyes and attempting to ‘expand’ his senses, whatever that meant.

For a long minute he could sense nothing but then… a tall spire of golden light came into focus in his mind’s eye, tethered to… himself. There were other spires of light that continuously formed and shattered as tendrils from the golden spire stretched out and snuffed their light before they could get anywhere near him.

Ten minutes passed as he simply watched in marvel and the golden spire shattered spire after spire with ruthless efficiency, as if it had a personal vengeance with the other cards.

Was that… supposed to happen?

Tom didn’t exactly have a reference point but what would happen if tried to reach out for the other cards? His face paled as he imagined the golden tendril snuffing out his light as easily as it did the others.

That… was not the outcome he wished for so he followed the bearded man’s instructions and reached for the spire of light.

When he opened his eyes, he was holding on to a Golden Card that seemed indistinguishable from the others.

“What no-,” Tom stopped mid sentence as the Golden Card’s surface began to crack, revealing a pure diamond exterior underneath. He gasped as tendrils of energy snaked out from the card, reaching for his mortal body. A second later it was replaced by a spire of energy that seemed to engulf his being, but surprisingly the energy didn’t hurt or seem… physical at all, more like an aura that was seeping deeply in every inch of his body.

His gaze shifted to the diamond card, chills running down his spine when he saw the creepy visage of himself dressed in a jester’s outfit gazing back at him.

[Card Name: The Fool]

Status: Soul Card [Level Requirement Waived]

Rank: Unique-Legendary/Ephemeral

Current Abilities:

Shroud [No Level Requirement] [Passive]

“Oho. A [Rare] Grand Illusionist Card as your Soul Card?” The bearded man seemed happy, overjoyed even, when he saw the result.

“What’s this blue screen?” Tom felt his unease building up as he gazed at the words, a chill running down his spine.

“Oh that’s the Card Script. Don’t worry, you’ll get used to it.”

“But it says here that I have a [Rare] Grand Illusionist Card!?” Tom protested, or attempted to protest. The horror in his heart spiked when he realized that…. He didn’t manage to say the words he wanted to. He had meant to say that he had a [Unique-Legendary Fool Card].

“Hm. That’s what I said?” The bearded man replied quizzically.

“Sorry… I must have misheard.”

“Well that’s my job done, kid. Remember, it was nothing personal.”

“Oh and… Welcome to Artezia.”

“Wait what the fu-”

A gunshot rang out in the convenience store, alarming the nearby residents who stormed the door armed to the teeth fifteen minutes later. There was no body to be found, not even the casings of a bullet. The man known as Thomas Lowe disappeared, and multiple efforts were made to find him. But all trails were cold, as if the man had disappeared of the face of the earth.

Seven years later he was labelled missing, never to be seen again.
