“Tired. Thank you for asking. Could you help me up to bed, Edward?”

Edward and Eleanor stared at her.

The baroness must have realized this unusual request needed a little justification. “I have all my sewing to carry, and it’s harder with a cane.”

“Of…course, Mother.”

Eleanor kept her head lowered so Edward wouldn’t see her smile. As far as justifications went, it was very little—almost microscopic—and even less convincing considering the baroness had insisted on carrying it all down by herself.

Everyone stood as Lady Serrs-Comtess used the cane to push herself to her feet.

“Eleanor, you’ll see the inspector out for me, won’t you?”

“Yes, Aunt Helena.”

“Well, good night, Haley,” Edward said as he crossed the room with his mother. “Maybe I’ll be able to chat with you the next time you come over.”

“Good night, my lord.”

Eleanor gestured to the door after she and Haley were alone. As they walked through the hall to the front door, Eleanor struggled to think of what to say. When the inspector picked up his hat, she decided that gracelessly blurting out anything was better than saying nothing.

As he turned to her, she said in a rush, “Mr. Haley, are you busy tomorrow?”

He watched her with his calm, impassive face.

Eleanor blushed and studied the floor. “I meant—I don’t know. I don’t know if you work on Sundays.”

“I try to avoid it, but sometimes a case demands it.”

“No, I see. You need rest. Then…maybe Monday?”

“Miss Serrs, is there’s something I can do for you?”

She forced herself to look at him. “There’s someone I want you to meet.”

“This is about the case, isn’t it?”

“Yes.”

Haley looked around the hall to confirm it was empty, then he took her arm, opened the door, and drew her out onto the porch.

“Tell me everything,” he said.

“We know where the malachite egg is.”

“How?”

“M-Mr. Penn—”

“Penn! Is Ryce Penn still in contact with you?”

“He came to apologize.”

Haley turned away as his hand went to his forehead. He grit his teeth so hard his jaw ached. When he looked back at Eleanor, she was standing with her fingers laced together in front of her body. Her shoulders were curled.

“He wanted to apologize to me,” she repeated in a mumble.

The inspector let out a groan with his sigh. “It’s all right, Miss Serrs. Please go on.”

She explained what happened and how Raphael had agreed to meet Haley.

“And you want to be there?” he asked.

“I promised him I would be. I think the police make him nervous.”

Haley paused, then muttered, “Thank you for your help, Miss Serrs.”

“When would you like to see him?”

“Tomorrow. As soon as possible. Whatever time and place is convenient for him.”

“It might be easier if you were to choose.”

“All right. Eight o’clock, tomorrow evening. You said he works at Robin’s work yard?”

“It won’t be open.”

“No, but he’ll be familiar with the area. There’s a church on Robin and Archer. We can meet him there. If there’s any problems, please call and let me know.”

“I will.”

“Miss Serrs, if you’re going anyway, may I offer you a ride?”

“Please. That would be helpful.”

“I’ll be here to pick you up at seven-thirty.”

“Could—could you pick me up at the edge of the park?”

The inspector’s eyes narrowed. “Why?”

“I don’t want to upset my father.”

Haley could almost see the future by the light of his burning career.

“If that’s what you want, Miss Serrs.” He nodded to her, then turned to go.

From behind him, he heard, “Thank you, Mr. Haley.”

As the inspector walked out to the street, he thought about how strange it was that you could hear the gratitude in people’s voices sometimes, the same way you could hear sadness or excitement.
