Priestess continued, “But as a Wizard, it is possible to focus on increasing your own production of mana, on drawing out infinity through the void as the Wizards of Old once did.” Now excited, Priestess said, “And then you can condense a core, and with a core, you can cast true Wizardry! You can do anything you want! You might even be able to create [Gate]s back to your own world, or guard yourself against any exterior magic, or any number of other techniques.”

Oh, yeah. That. Erick saw right through all of that. “You mean I can cause a mana rad to condense around my heart, and thus fall to monsterfication and into Melemizargo’s claws.”

Priestess lightly shook her head, as she said, “Ah. No. That would not happen, but I can see how you would think this. I can see you don’t trust me, or any of us, and that is sad, but understandable. Thank you for listening to me. Even this much is more than I could have hoped for.” She slowly stood, to float into the air away from Erick.

Erick stood, to bid her farewell, but—

She turned to Erick, saying, “I will leave you with this: Wizards, once they create their core and solidify their Wizardry, cannot change their choice. Creation, Destruction, Paradox. Whichever one you choose, that is you, forever.

“You have likely used some of your Wizardry to create Particle Magic, but you cannot have used much of it, since you have only been on Veird for a very short time, and people the entire world over are inventing Particle Spells. In addition to that, I cannot feel any mana coming off from you at all, so if it were not for My God, I would not consider you a Wizard at all.

“It is my guess that in the creation of Particle Magic, you merely unlocked something that was already here to begin with.

“But even if you did use your Wizardry to craft Particle Magic into the world, without a core you cannot have done much harm to your future power.

“Whatever choice you make with your power, sundering souls is how most people create excess mana these days. If you used your Wizardry specifically to create more mana, then when we eventually spread to the other worlds of this New Cosmology, we won’t have to sunder souls in order to fill these new worlds with mana.”

Erick froze.

Priestess spoke with a terrible, soft voice, “We never hid the fact that Melemizargo wants to spread from this Scripted world. You and many, many world leaders have already put all the clues together. Good for you.

“But know this:

“When we are successful in our travels to new worlds, there will be a problem. A problem for you. Not for us.

“When I say ‘us’ I’m not speaking of just us Shades and of the Clergy. I mean everyone on Veird. The Interfaith Church. The rulers of all the nations of Veird. All of us! Once word gets out that we can travel to new worlds and turn those dead hunks of rock out there into living worlds, everyone will want a piece, and Melemizargo will give it to them, as the God of Magic always has.

“But these new worlds would be empty of mana, for they have had no Script to hold in that mana.” The Priestess said, “Worlds without mana are useless, and we will all look to the Wizards and the condemned to power these new worlds, and the result won’t be pretty, for you, or for others.

“They would never give you and the dregs of society a house on an empty planet and tell you all to live for a thousand years, while they wait for that world’s mana to fill to an acceptable level. They will tear you apart. They will sunder your soul just like the Darkness did to Xoat, all those millions of years ago, to create the Old Cosmology.

“So I helpfully suggest that you attune your Wizard core into a mana generator, and that you give that ability to your Yggdrasil, so that you can then plant him on every world of this system. He will do all the heavy lifting. World Trees are good like that.

“This is the only way everyone wins.”

Erick frowned at her, for many, many reasons. So many reasons, he was having a hard time of what to say next. So he said nothing, and left it at that.

Priestess acknowledged Erick’s silence with a slight dip in her floating form, then departed.

Erick stared at the pond in front of him. Eventually Quilatalap walked over.

The archlich said, “I think the first Feast is starting soon. Ready for some mingling?”

Erick looked up at the man. “Got some good booze in this place?”

“Only the best.”

“Good.”
