“When that happened, every single Wizard that attempted to travel to the future to find out if we lived past the Sundering...” Quilatalap sighed. “They never returned. Those that traveled to the past vanished, too. There was no getting away from the Sundering, and no one was able to find out how it started.”

Erick said, “Sounds like an over-deity decided to end your cosmology.”

“That’s one theory among many. But it’s just a theory with no basis in known reality.” Quilatalap pulled the steaks off of the grill, asking Erick and Fallopolis, “Hungry?”

Erick was glad for the shift in topic. Too many heavy things had come at him, all at once, and the food smelled good. But... Erick asked, “It’s not from a human-cow, is it? Or any of the other people Hollowsaur transformed into cows? Hollowsaur slaughtered one in front of me and taunted that it would be at the Feast.”

Quilatalap almost spoke, but then he looked down to the meat. He held a hand above the steaks, and he must have cast a spell, but Erick didn’t see any magelight; the archlich’s magic was either invisible, or very, very well made. He said, “It’s showing up as ‘cow’ to me.” He looked to the cold box. “Queen fills that storage box for me when I come by, and I know not many would be willing to risk feeding me tormented meat. Hollowsaur is not one of those people.” He looked to Erick, adding, “He’ll definitely try to do that to you, though.”

“And that’s a good enough time as any.” Fallopolis got up from the couch, saying, “It doesn’t look like any immediate murder attempts are going to happen—”

Erick sighed. Obviously, someone trying to kill him was a possibility, but for Fallopolis to be so blatant about it...

Fallopolis continued, “So I should go see what nefarious plots are unfolding outside these walls.” She turned to Quilatalap. “Thanks for the offer, but no thank you.”

“Bye,” Erick said, to be friendly.

Fallopolis turned to him, and smiled, “Bye!” She waved, took a shadowed step, and was gone.

Quilatalap looked to Erick. “Care for some? You should throw a [Cleanse] at it, first, just so you know it’s safe.”

Erick had decided to be personable well before now, and so, in continuing that way of thinking and acting, he had an Ophiel throw a [Cleanse] into the room. No thick air. He said, “I’d love some. Thanks for the offer.”

“Queen might open up the party soon enough, so maybe don’t have too much. I’m only having a light snack.”

Erick tried to be casual and fun, as he looked to the three steaks, and piles of veggies, and said, “That’s a light snack?”

Quilatalap patted his tight belly, smiling as he said, “It is to me.”

Erick sat down at the kitchen table to eat a ‘light snack’ with the archlich of Ar’Kendrithyst. It was a bit surreal. But it was nice. At Erick’s first slice into the steak, he knew it would be a good one. And it was. The guy was a good cook.

Hopefully he wasn’t eating people-cow.

Partway through, Erick looked around, and wondered where his butler had gone. He asked, “You didn’t happen to see where Violet went, did you?”

“She’s guarding the perimeter, along with Tobari and Dolorent.”

Erick cocked his head.

Quilatalap helpfully supplied, “The guy that tried to push you and the girl who I stopped from skewering you with a [Bloodspike].”

“… A [Bloodspike]?”

“She pulled her spell when I turned Tobari into dust and then recreated his body.”

“Oh?” Erick said, rolling with the revelation of his own attempted murder. There would be a lot of that, he was sure. After an odd second, he decided that a simple [Bloodspike] probably wouldn’t have done anything. He didn’t know what a [Bloodspike] was, but if it was anything like a [Mindspike], then it couldn’t be too bad. He asked, “What did they want, anyway?”

“I removed them from my tutelage years ago, when I found them using the knowledge I granted them on adventurers in Ar’Kendrithyst. I cursed them with corpse bodies for their transgressions. Oh. Thirty years ago. Not just a few years. Time flies, you know? Anyway. Every year since then they’ve invaded Shadow’s Feast, trying to gain an audience with me.” He said, “I put them on guard duty for you, so tell me how they do at the end of all this, if you want?”

That sounded fine, maybe. Erick asked, “A [Bloodspike] wouldn’t have actually done anything, would it?”

“Want to test it?” Quilatalap said, “It won’t hurt much.”

“… Sure.” Erick wrapped himself in his sunform, but kept it close. “Okay.”

A spike of red light flashed from Quilatalap’s shoulder, impacting the shoulder of Erick’s sunform. White flecks of his [Personal Ward] broke away as the spike turned to red light, and then vanished completely. The [Bloodspike] had gotten through his sunform and done actual damage to his form. If he had been in his mortal form, and that had been aimed at his head…

He had to know. Erick had a rod of [Treat Wounds] in his room. He dropped the sunform and asked, “Shoot me again, same spot.”

Quilatalap did so, without hesitation.

The [Bloodspike] struck, and broke against Erick’s [Personal Ward]. It didn’t get through that layer of defense. [Ward] and Health were both the final layers of defense a person had, and Blood Magic couldn’t get past those? Good to know.

“So [Ward] and Health still work against Blood Magic?”

“Correct.” Quilatalap said, “Weaker Blood Magic would even be stopped by metal shields and such, but only novice Blood Mages cast those versions. My [Bloodspike], and Dolorent’s, too, are Ethereal, meaning that they will fly through metal shields and other such mundane defenses.”

Erick popped out the box for his [Blood Bolt], asking, “Is this Ethereal?”

Blood Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana + Variable

A bolt of your power unerringly strikes a target for Variable damage.

Quilatalap said, “Nope.” He popped out a blue box, saying, “This is Ethereal.”

Blood Spike, instant, long range, 15 mana + Variable

An ethereal spike of power strikes for 50 damage + 5x Variable.

Erick chuckled. “You got a pretty good Variable on there! That’s almost the same one I read about in Esoteric Elements.”

Quilatalap grinned, saying, “It’s okay.”

- - - -

“So was Xoat a planar guy? You had those in the Old Cosmology?”

“It’s one of the rarer interpretations, but yes, we did have planars back then, too.”

“How did planar people fall to your universe?”

“I’m sure someone figured out how it worked, exactly, but the most widely believed idea was that A Wizard Did It, since those guys operated outside of normal magical practices.”

Erick asked, “What is a Wizard, anyway?”

“A person gifted in some strange way by the mana, who produced more mana than most.

“Back then, everyone produced mana. Eh. That’s a big topic. Short version: Wizards made mana that was compatible with them, meaning that they could cast the exact magic they wanted, more than most.

“Using this mana, Wizards almost always followed a pattern. Either they Created. They Destroyed. Or they caused a Paradox. The Time Travelers were firmly in the third category, for only a Wizard could actually affect the past or the future and not affect themselves in the process. A really accomplished mage could mimic the ability of a Paradox Wizard, but if they stepped outside of certain bounds, they were as Unmade as any normal person was when attempting to fuck with time.

“The Generators were the most well known Creator Wizards. They had their main headquarters in the Radiant Depths, but they had thousands of branch offices all throughout the known universe. They made worlds.

“Destruction Wizards didn’t last long whenever they happened. There were small groups of them that were attached to the Generators, though. Destruction and Creation could get along real well, if they felt like it.

“No one could make themselves a Wizard, though. A person either had it, or they didn’t. Wizards all came from all walks of life; there were no bloodlines, or soullines, or anything like that.” Quilatalap cut his steak with his knife, saying, “Now that you’ve been declared a Wizard, they’re going to force you to choose something that will benefit Melemizargo, you know.”

“… They are, aren’t they.” Erick circled back to the other big news Quilatalap let loose. “But… Generating mana? How? What? How do you generate mana?” He said, “My daughter spoke of that, once. She wasn’t sure how to make a mana generating spell, but it was on her list of desired magics.”

“I can tell right now that you’re not generating any mana at all. I’ve heard that you’ve been observed during your spell creation, too, and even then you weren’t generating mana. No one is quite sure how you’ve been declared a Wizard, but we’re all pretty sure you are.” Quilatalap said, “Normally, it’s quite obvious when a person is a Wizard. Normally, all the natural mana generation of every living thing on Veird, is moved to be generated, instead, in the Core of Veird.” He added, “And that’s a complicated topic.”

Erick moved back to the topic of Wizardry, and rolling with everything he was hearing, he said, “So… Assuming I even am a Wizard, what are the choices?”

“Normally I’d just tell you, but I should get Priestess in here. She’s impossible to live with when anyone messes up her plans for the Feast.”

“… Shit.”

Quilatalap added, “But if it makes you feel any better, I can show you some soul magic to protect yourself from mental and ethereal attacks. You seem strategically important to Melemizargo, so I feel like I should offer you this opportunity now, before you get a hundred such offers.” He looked serious for a moment, adding, “Most of those offers will be tainted by the motives of those offering, you should understand.”

“Yeah. I… I got that.” Erick asked, “So what’s your motive?”

“I wish to remain neutral, and if you pick one of those Shades out there to help you move forward, then my neutrality will be impossible to maintain.” Quilatalap said, “Big things are coming, Erick. Big, world-changing events.”

- - - -

The Priestess sat upon a nice stone bench beside the pond, beside Quilatalap’s house. Her bones and black-ribbon robes directly touched the stone. Erick suddenly wondered at her quality of life. Did she choose to be like this? Or was this a curse of some sort? It couldn’t have been pleasant to be a skeleton.

Erick sat upon a similar stone bench, a meter from the tall skeleton that was Melemizargo’s Priestess. Quilatalap sat on the other side of the pond, at a small table with his two apprentices, Tobari and Dolorent. Tobari was back to looking like a corpse; his brief respite from sagging flesh and protruding bones seemed to be over.

Priestess began with a happy tone, saying, “Thank you for the invitation, Erick. I had expected to speak to you tomorrow, but… The pavilion is occupied with arguments that are outside of my control.” She gave a dismissive nod toward where the black pavilion lay, on the other side of so many parts of the scattered Palace District. “Those young ones. They’re so perturbed by the revelations of this past year.” She looked to Erick with her constellation-filled eye sockets, asking, “How are you weathering this storm?”

“I’ve made this storm myself, so I’ll just have to get over it.”

She giggled; a chiming sound. “It is a good thing you can control the weather.”

Erick found himself smiling at Priestess’s pleasant attitude. And then she had to ruin it.

“Have you considered controlling your own future? One where you aren’t a slave to the gods?” She added, “It’s my understanding that My God offered you Shadedom, and you hesitated, but I am here to offer it to you again. As the Fire of the Age, you would be a beacon of light to guide the way for the rest of us lost Shades of Melemizargo, and thus the rest of the world.”

Erick tried to keep the sarcasm out of his voice, as he said, “You don’t offer [Cleanse], and that’s literally my favorite spell. I cast the equivalent of thousands and thousands of [Cleanse]s in Candlepoint, every day. Not to mention the ones I cast upon myself.”

She looked down at Erick, for the simple fact that she was a good head or three taller than him, even when sitting. She asked, “And if Melemizargo provided [Cleanse]?”

With a discarded thought given to wondering how he had managed to get himself into a religious conversion attempt, let alone the Shade-conversion attempt, Erick brushed over all that, and said, “It would be a start, but I cannot overlook the pain and suffering that is constantly committed by the people who follow him. I was just talking about the people Hollowsaur had transformed into cows, and how he killed one of them in front of me, and how he’s probably going to try and feed me some of that meat at this Feast, if he didn’t already manage to sneak it into the storage box in Quilatalap’s house.”

Priestess confidently said, “All of that is going to change. It started with Candlepoint, and in a few years, all of the rougher Shades will be brought to heel.”

“… What does that mean?” Erick probably injected too much emotion into those words.

