“So...um...so it would be for the beast- best! That the town of Durence maybe... should agree to let Fairplay in to...run the Dungeon in your place because... uh...” Gentle stuttered in front of the three elders.

Mila was having a blast. She forgot how awkward children were when they weren’t related to herself, Pic, or of anyone in Durence. They were like newborn deers finding their legs.

In her home, she, Haldi, and Pic all listened to the world’s worst scheme pitch as they drank. Next to them, Deo was giving the boy thumbs up in an effort to boost Gentle’s confidence, Alpha stared blankly at him as if Gentle was insisting they set Delta on fire, and Grim was burying his face into his arms into whichhe kept muttering ‘cringe’.

“Fairplay promises complete insurance- I mean, assurance that all parties involved will receive... uh...” Gentle trailed off in panic as he struggled to remember what likely was a boring dry number on some contract.

“Ballpark it,” Mila hollered, cheeks pink from the whiskey.

“A lot!”

“More specific ballpark, lad!” Pic spoke up, banging his mug with a grin. Mila reached over and shut her curtains to stop that other buffoon from feeding Gentle flashcards through the glass in order to tell Gentle what to say.

Mila wanted her panicked children to be genuine, not drip fed partial information.

Ruli always had this sense of confidence about her that made it nigh impossible for Mila to ever get the girl worked up over anything other than cooking meat or big swords.

“Deep breathes. Tell us what you think is good about Fairplay,” Haldi said brightly. Gentle swallowed, looking longingly at the closed curtains as if hoping someone might save him.

“I... honestly can’t say much about the company. I haven’t worked there very long... or at all,” Gentle admitted, looking down at the ground as he held his wrist in front of him in an awkward posture.

He took another deep breath.

“But I know my father. He’s not mine by blood, but he raised me and he rescued many people from Dungeons that choked areas with mana but made their resources horrible in return. I know Dungeons aren’t our farms or mines... and they are alive, but the damage they can do is really bad. I’ve seen villages wiped out from extreme mana poisoning or the local monsters going feral,” he said, looking at them with serious eyes.

“Even if you don’t accept Fairplay as the major holder, we help regulate the adventurers, import a lot of materials you can use as offerings and also simply keep the monsters down. I don’t want to even say it, but Dungeons that turn into Abominations... I’ve personally had experiences with that and it changed my life. I don’t want that to happen to this Dungeon,” he pleaded and it was far more moving than his company lingo from before.

“Which Dungeon did you see that happen to?” Mila asked, all humor gone. Gentle looked down, avoiding their eyes.

“Moon Meadows, where the grass glowed silver under the moon,” he whispered and Mila winced.

The Silver Dungeon Abomination was infamous.

“What is an Abomination?” Alpha asked and Gentle looked at him with a slight hard look in his eyes.

“Dungeons that...” he paused then sighed.

“Some people hurt Dungeons, tamper with the Core or drive it mad. It begins to hurt itself to break rules, spawn monsters outside, affect people inside, and more. Sometimes it's because the Dungeon fixates on a challenger or someone tries to befriend a Dungeon. A few times when Fairplay tried to manage a Dungeon, it did turn hostile and then into Abominations when they refused to work with the company. I won’t lie... I know it’s happened, but I don’t know why things were allowed to reach that point,” Gentle admitted, looking for a single moment, doubtful of his beloved company.

Mila smelled a weakness and she pounced.

“That does sound worrying. How can we be sure to let Fairplay in if we can’t be assured they won’t ruin the Dungeon. We quite like the Dungeon,” Mila said with a false threat.

Grim was staring at her with some form of disgust at her acting.

The brat could kiss her-

“I... want to promise that, but I can’t. Maybe I could look into older records as the potential liaison to this town? Find out what the company did wrong or ask my Fath- my boss,” Gentle quickly corrected himself.

There was a pause before Alpha spoke up with more emotion than Mila ever heard from him.

“Delta is not an abomination,” Alpha spoke up and Gentle blinked at his hostility.

“I know that, but it’s more in case-”

“She is not... an abomination. Miss D is kind and believes in me,” Alpha stressed, eyes flashing.

“R-Right,” Gentle swallowed hard. Mila quickly stood up and held her hand out.

“As a potential partner and our liaison to Fairplay? I, Mila Darknessbane, would like those records please or a proper explanation,” she beamed. This should keep those corporate pay to win asshats busy for a while.

Gentle took the hand with a nervous energy.

“Argus Gentle... um... I think I’m going to mess this up,” he whimpered and Mila gripped his hand harder as if sealing a pact between them.

“Perfect,” she grinned wolfishly.

“I’m going to call him ‘Gus’,” Deo proclaimed loud enough her windows rattled.

“Gentle is fine,” the boy tried to argue.

“So, Gus... what’s it like to know you’re doomed?” Grim asked casually and his orange tongue seemed to fascinate Gentle for a second.

“It feels pretty bad,” Gentle admitted.

“It’s fine,” Mila clapped him on the shoulder as she led him to her front door.

“By the time you’re in your late twenties, doom feels pretty normal and then it’s all downhill from there until you hit fifty and you either turn cranky, have a big family of people like Grim, or make cheese in your basement,” she said sagely.

Gentle whimpered as he looked at all of them all, as if seeing his future and not liking it one bit.

Ah... this was why Mila got up in the morning.

For that exact expression of terrible dread on children’s faces.
