He was aware of several things in the wrong order: that the stone was very cold against his cheek, that the knife was still in his belt, that he had not used the knife, that the knife would not have helped. He was also aware that his legs were somewhere below him and reporting information that he had categorized as structural failure, which was accurate.

He did not try to stand. He put his hand on the floor of the Still Garden and thought about the arch. He thought about the keystone seated under the load of its own structure, doing the work it had been made to do without needing to understand why.

He used the Gift one more time.

Not on a structure. Not on anything in particular. He pressed his palm flat against the stone and reinforced what he could reach, which was the ground immediately around him, which would serve no functional purpose and would still be there long after he was not.

He felt his left femur give way completely. It was fine. He was already on the ground.

He thought: *I have built a thing that will outlast me by a long time. That is the definition of the work.*

He was aware of the creature. He was aware of the cold. He was aware of his journal, still open beside him to the page with the crystal spacing diagram.

He was not afraid of the creature.

He was not afraid.

---

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: SYLAS RENN
DESIGNATION: THE FOUNDATION
DEPTH REACHED: 3 (STILL GARDEN)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 9  -> 0
Resolve ............... 31 -> 33 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3)
Attunement ............ 14 -> 19 (+5 Bedrock activations)
Fortune ............... 18

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 19
DONATION DEBT AT DEATH: Catastrophic (left femur, right femur, pelvic crest)

CAUSE OF DEATH: Structural failure (legs). Compounding factor: creature.
PRIMARY CAUSE: Donation debt.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: None harvested.
Note: No peak emotional moment registered. Entrant completed work.

DESIGNATION OUTCOME: FOUNDATION COMPLETE
Structure built: Voussoir arch, Gap Crossing, Gullet Depth 1.
Status: PERMANENT.
```

The Ledger recorded the creature's third confirmed kill.

It considered the available designations.

The creature had taken two in quick succession, in the same depth, and then had waited. It had given no indication of urgency. It had allowed the engineer to finish his measurements, had tracked him without advancing while he was mobile, and had waited for the moment when mobility was gone.

The Ledger had seen versions of this before in the deep registry — ambush specialists, terrain readers, creatures that understood the architecture of a space and what it did to the things that tried to cross it.

But this one was different.

The ambush specialists waited because they were concealing themselves. The terrain readers waited because they were calculating.

This creature had waited because it was not concerned.

There was a difference. The Ledger was precise about differences.

It searched its inventory of names.

*The Patient.*

The creature did not acknowledge the designation. It had not acknowledged anything in three hundred and forty-two years, which was how long the Still Garden had been its domain. It settled back into its position among the crystal growths and compressed the light around itself until it was simply part of the room.

The Ledger added the name to the record.

*THE PATIENT — NAMED AFTER THIRD KILL — STILL GARDEN, DEPTH 3*
*KILL COUNT: 3 (LIRA, DEPTH 3; SERA VANT, DEPTH 3; SYLAS RENN, DEPTH 3)*

The arch in the Gullet held.

It would hold for a very long time.

---

Sylas Renn's inscription appeared at the arch's keystone, not on the wall.

The Maw had not done this before. It was not certain what had prompted it. The Foundation's work had changed the dungeon's geometry, which was new — no previous entrant had added permanent infrastructure. The inscription wanted a surface that matched the nature of the act.

The keystone was the correct surface.

*SYLAS RENN — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO BUILD WHAT REMAINS*

Below it, in smaller characters:

*THE ARCH HOLDS.*
