Ren walked around the corner and down the street to his building. He unlocked the door, but didn't open it because he could hear something coming down the street. Ren turned around and saw a big warhorse clomping down the street, and on it's back was Clint. Ren waved and Clint waved back. The warhorse sauntered over and Clint slid off the saddle.

“Howya doin' Ren?”

“I'm fine. It's nice to see you after so long.”

Clint nodded. “Yeah, ah was just wondrin th' other day about when you'd be makin' me new bracers, an' then ah got yer message.” He said. “Came 'ere as fas' as ah could.”

Ren opened the door to his building. “I appreciate that, Clint... but, I'm not sure what we can do with your mount.” Ren said. “I don't have a stall or anything. Maybe tie it up out back?”

Clint shook his head. “No need. She'll stay righ' 'ere by th' door ifin ah tell her to.”

“Really?” Ren said. “That's great!” He stepped through the doorway and then stepped back. “Does she like sweets?”

Clint's eyes widened as Ren handed over a pastry.

“I'm saving the last one.” Ren said and went inside.

Clint's mount had frozen stiff when it had caught the scent of the sweet.

“Ah don' normally give ya things like this, but bein' as how it's from Ren.” Clint said and held the pastry out to his mount. It very gently reached out and plucked the sweet from Clint's outstretched hand and then slowly moved it around the inside of it's mouth. The warhorse shivered as the sugar hit it's system and it chewed the pastry slowly... and neighed in delight as the pastry dissolved and the horse swallowed it. Clint rubbed it on the head.

“Ya see? Tha's why ah don' give ya these things.” Clint said and laughed. “Ah reckon Ren's yer favrite now, huh?” The warhorse nodded and Clint laughed again. “Stay 'ere by th' door, okay?” The warhorse nodded again and Clint went inside, and saw Ren coming down the stairs. Clint looked around and only saw the forge, anvil, stack of wood, and a backpack on the wall. “Tis a mite empty.”

Ren nodded and pulled out 2 comfy chairs from inventory. “I haven't had a chance to make any furniture to put down here yet.” Ren said and sat down, inviting Clint to sit in the other one. “How have you been?”

“Ah been doin' fine. Mah business has been goin' steady fer a while now.” Clint said. “Ah was glad ta hear from ya, an' tha' yer doin' well, too.”

Ren chuckled. “Not yet. I haven't opened a storefront or anything. I literally just bought the place a couple days ago, real time.”

“No kiddin'?” Clint said and grinned. “Then it looks a lot better'n ah thought.”

“Ha. Ha. Ha.” Ren said and smiled. “Very funny.”

Clint chuckled. “Since ah saw you come down wit these, ah assume ya got more up there?”

“Just a couch in the living room. A bed, end tables, and a dresser in the bedroom. Table for the kitchen.”

“Sounds like yer makin' an apartmen' up there.”

“I am.” Ren said. “I figure since this is my own place, I might as well make it my own place.” Ren shook his head. “That didn't come out right. What I meant is, I can come here to work, but I also wanted a place to live.”

Clint nodded. “Ah getcha. Havin' yer own space ta go to, is always a good thing.”

They sat in silence for a minute and Ren started to laugh.

“Whahso funny?” Clint asked.

“I've been trying to delay showing you them; but it's killing you, isn't it?” Ren laughed.

“How canya tell?”

“You've been fidgeting ever since you sat down.”

“Alrigh'.” Clint said. “Hand'em over.”

Ren opened his inventory and took out the bow bracers. Clint whistled as Ren handed them over.

“Ren... these shure are beauties.”

“I didn't know what color you wanted them, so I just left the main bracer a dull silver. Is that okay?”

“Tis more'n okay!” Clint said and equipped them, then sat back in the chair in shock. “Did ya look at these stats?”

Quick Shot Bow Bracer (Upgraded - High Quality)

Strength  +10  Dexterity  +10

Accuracy  +50%  Piercing  +10%

Critical Hit  +30%  Damage Bonus:  +50%

Durability  550/550

How'd ya do it?” Clint asked as he examined them.

“Just some secret ingredients and a few enchantments.” Ren said. “I should probably tell you that I upgraded the cartridges, too.”

“Whadaya mean?”

“They're 14 shots each, now. Pop one out and see.”

Clint took out the cartridge and most of the outside of the bracer came off in his hand. “What? How?”

Ren shrugged. “I remember how many times you had to change the things out during the battles in the cave, and I wanted to give you a little more time before you had to switch them out for new ones.”

“Ren...” Clint tried to say as he put the clip back into the bracer.

“I know, I know... 2 cartridges isn't enough. I didn't know what kind of offensive punch you wanted, so I made these for you.” Ren took out the 4 cartridges with the color-coded bolts. “This one's Lightning, here's Fire, Holy in case you meet any undead, and Ice. That one's always a favorite.”

Clint sat there, stunned into silence.

“The bolts have steel tips, too... and you know that damage is boosted by your stats. The basic bolts should do anywhere from 25 to 75 damage each, depending on where you hit and your stat bonuses. That's a lowball count by the way. Since you're a range weapons expert, it's probably a lot higher than that. Also, it'll be about 25% higher for the enchanted ones. I only enchanted 4 cartridges full of special bolts, though. I'm not made of mana, you know!” Ren said and laughed at Clint's face. “Okay, okay! I'm sorry that I'm teasing you so much. Here's the rest of the cartridges I made.” Ren said and pulled out the other 8 cartridges of bolts and stacked them on the floor, 14 in total.

“Ren... ah... ah don' know how I can thank ya enough fer this!” Clint said and shook his head. “How much do ah owe ya?”

“Nothing.”

“REN!”

“You're money's no good, Clint. I should have had these made for you a while ago.” Ren said. “Of course, I only just learned how to make a bow... but, the first thing I did was make these with that knowledge. I'm sorry it took so long.”

“Ren... yer crazy if'n ya think I'm not gonna pay fer all these!”

“I won't take any money for them.”

Clint sat in silence for a minute, and then had an idea. “If'n ya won't take mah money... then by God, I'll give ya a mount!”

“A-a what?”

“A mount! Just like Izabeal!”

“Clint, I really don't think...”

“Ren! Ya'll givin' me a fortune in weapons an' ammo. Yer takin' a mount, whetha ya like it er not!”

Ren sighed. “Okay... but Izabeal is way too big for me.” Ren said. “In fact, I thought she was too big for you.”

Clint laughed. “She thinks she's too big fer me, too.”

Ren chuckled.

“Ah'll find somethin' fer ya. Don' you worry 'bout it none.” Clint said.

“If you're going to give me a mount, you'd better deliver it at the end of the game week. I'm leaving next week, and I don't know how long I'll be gone.”

Clint nodded. “Ah'll have it here.”

Ren nodded. “Now, pick up all your stuff!” Ren said and pointed. “I can't believe you're such a slob, leaving this mess on my new floor.”

Clint guffawed, stood up, and stored everything into inventory. “Ren, ah don' see no mark o' yours on these things.”

“Mark of mine?”

“Ya know... somethin' that someone would see an then they'd know it was you that made it.” Clint said.

“Oh. I never thought of doing that, actually.” Ren said. “I'll look into how to make one.” Ren stood up. “Thanks for the idea.”

Clint nodded. “Ren...”

“Clint...” Ren said and stepped forward with his arms open... and Clint punched him in the shoulder.

“Ow!” Ren said and rubbed his arm. “What was that for?”

“Fer trying ta hug me. They ain' nothin' wrong with it, but ah don' swing tha' way.”

“You don't... swing that...” Ren started laughing.

“Whahso funny now?” Clint asked.

“It... it was just a hug!” Ren said between laughs. “I wasn't... I wasn't making a pass at you or anything.”

“Oh. Sorry.” Clint said, a little embarrassed.

“That's okay.” Ren waved his apology away. “I don't think there's anything wrong with it, either... but I am firmly on the 'liking girls' side of the fence.” Ren grinned. “Trust me.”

Clint nodded. “Ah better git goin'.” Clint said. “Ah got a few things to pick up before ah head home.”

Ren led Clint to the door and opened it. “It was nice seeing you again, Clint.”

“Ah reckon it really was nice fer ya.” Clint said and grinned.

“Get outta here, you old cowpoke.” Ren said.

Clint stopped in the threshold of the door and put a hand on Ren's shoulder. “Ya'll be safe, and take care, Ren.”

Ren nodded. “You, too.”

Clint walked over to his mount, climbed up the stirrups, and sat in the saddle.

“Bye, Izabeal!” Ren said and waved. Izabeal nodded her head and Clint laughed as he guided her in a 180 degree turn and then down the street. He kicked her into a trot and then they disappeared around a corner.

Ren went back inside and grabbed the 2 comfy chairs. He took them upstairs to his apartment and put them back where they were. He opened the bedroom door, and Lucy's phantom form was still there on the bed. Ren walked over to the end table and took out a big piece of cloth, dyed it bright blue and put it on the table. He wrote a quick note on the cloth and put the last pastry he had on it.

“If she wakes up while I'm gone, she'll have a nice treat to tide her over until I get back.” Ren left the apartment and then locked up the building. “Teepo, we've got some cooking to do!” Ren said and took off running down the street.

“Wheee!” Teepo said as people and buildings whizzed by.

He always enjoyed it when Ren ran.
