The moment she landed, dozens of Bread-Knights fell from above as well. They were assailed not only by her psionic threads but also by Longinus' dimensionals. They were fighting Princess Plum Blossom's guard, battling in the air above. Massive spells were unleashed, and a chaotic brawl took shape as friend fell upon friend in a frenzy of violence with no coherent reason or rhyme to its flow.

Though Shiv's Harbinger was a breath away from breaking, it still allowed him to see into people's empathic cores. Uva's core made him shudder, not only with delight, but also with a measure of unease. She drove her fractal blade in and out, slicing and stabbing, working her way toward Longinus's core. The centaur weakly tried to buck her off, but she had a singular purpose, and that was reflected in her emotions. There was no rage in her, only pure hate. It wasn't a hot kind of hate. It didn't give off a flame or fester like torpid water. She went empty. Her personhood was replaced with the singular want of Longinus' death.

And nothing stopped her from stabbing and carving, until Longinus grazed her with a sudden backhand—which tore her head clean off her body.

Shiv's insides plunged. He wanted to scream. He wanted to throw himself at Longinus, but then his mind reeled as Uva continued stabbing, like nothing happened at all. A second later, a new head was stitched into shape. Little versions of her that resembled spiders but wove threads of psychomancy recreated her skull from the inside like a lattice. It was then that Shiv realized she was using her Eldritch Physiology skill too—that this was a trick from his book.

He remembered beheading himself to obtain a measure of peace, and now she was doing the same thing.

Yes, Shiv cheered voicelessly. Get him… Felling… finish him, sweetheart!

In that moment, there wasn’t a single soul in existence he loved more than her.

Her finishing blow came even before her head grew back, because half her body was now a mess of swirling eyes crashing toward the center of a vortex. As they all opened, they projected waves of Outsider magic directly into Longinus' wounds, flooding his insides. His incandescence was tainted by the eldritch. Serpents, feathered tongues, and more wrenched and writhed, gripped him, pulled him apart from within. Longinus screamed and struggled while another portion of him laughed with euphoric relief.

“NO, PLEASE, NO!”

“Finally! So long! Fucking finally!”

The Seeker ignored both voices as her head came back into form, and a final rush of her gaze filled Longinus from within.

His incandescence sputtered and was contaminated in its entirety. And then, something happened. An eye opened up inside Longinus, followed by hands, followed by feathered tongues that wrapped around his body, that pulled him apart, that began tasting and chewing and suckling at him. The god screamed in terror as part of his Domain was infested. His heavenly realm was breached and tainted by a hostile power that was once aberrant, but by now as much of a god as he.

Or would be, when it woke from the divine husk it chose as a cocoon.

“Bwuh? What’s this, Little Dreamer?” The Dreamtaker yawned in a most human-like fashion, and her voice sounded more like Uva than ever before. “What flavors, what fears, what power… Hm. This is a comfortable warmth. I think I'm going to start my second nap right here.”

Attention: The Dreamtaker has found a host.

(Eldritch Evolution Reached)
