“Stop!” Longinus bellowed. “Stop it! Stop hurting!” He thrust out with his lance forward, and even without the ability to aim, he cleaved the garden's arm in half.

It didn't matter. The Garden was destruction, and destruction would only see it fed.

With another swing, Shiv swatted Longinus across the ground, and he tumbled, landing right between Shiv's Revenant and the Culturist. The Deathless’ battered mind only realized post-hoc that he'd made a mistake launching Longinus so close to him, but then the thought escaped him like all the blood seeping free from his physical body, and he forgot what he'd even been trying to do.

“Kill you… Fuck you… Fuck me…” Longinus wept as he spoke, and his face was pressed against the ground. His once handsome, chiseled features now resembled a shattered vase, with both eyes swollen shut, ears missing, and lips ripped away to expose two rows of broken teeth. But even on the cusp of destruction, a god he remained. Slowly, he forced himself to rise, levitating himself using his power. His lance began glowing, became a thing of purity once more. The places and people he'd seen before cycled through him—became a balm for his broken body. Longinus started healing, not only in flesh, but also in mind.

“The hells you will…” Shiv coughed. He guided his Garden back over, but then a series of spells slammed down upon it from above, crushing it beneath the weight of pure gravity. Without Shapeless Tides, nothing allowed it to resist the Dynamancy spell that kept it pinned.

Looking up, Shiv saw a vanguard of Bread-Knights coming right at him, and at their head a certain anointed that he'd humiliated not so long ago. “Fuck… me… Now, now you're going to bite me in the ass?” But just as a feeling of exasperated despair took hold inside of him, Shiv realized he wasn't out of options just yet. His skills were damaged. He could barely move, but there was a tether connecting him to Longinus.

The Shape of Monstrosity was fractured, badly damaged inside Shiv, but the fear chain was still there, translucent and cracked though it was. It would hurt like hell to pull on it, but Longinus was right next to him, less than three meters away. Shiv didn't need to pull the god; he just needed to drag himself closer to him.

And after that, he would learn just how badly damaged his Vitality Drain skill truly was.

“Come on,” the Deathless snarled. He forced his fingers to work, even as his hand shook like it wasn't attached to his arm at all, but something possessed by a hateful spirit. “Come on!” But he was crippled in body and soul, and the slightest movements became miracles in and of themselves. There was no way he could close his hand, even if he managed to touch the fear chain. There was no way he could pull himself toward Longinus under his own power.

“Not alone.”

Adam's voice was infused with cataclysmic power. His mind, meanwhile, was reeling; his sanity stretched to its very limits as he too suffered beneath the weight of his Haunting Omniscience. But while he and Longinus shared a malady, their Domains drew upon a different source of power. To struggle even in the face of futility and hopelessness in defense of those helpless and meek was an act of virtue.

It was an act of Heroism.

Nestled inside Shiv, Adam was a party to these virtues. That flame which existed inside him, that divine force which now empowered his evolved Path, came to a roaring blaze as he closed his hand, and Shiv, though broken, managed to do the same.

“Drain him dry!” Such was Adam's edict. Such was his will, his law. It was not a command. It was a manifestation destined to follow, and though Shiv regarded most gods as one might an infestation of cockroaches hidden in their walls, in Adam, he found a Divinity he might just be willing to answer.

The Deathless was broken of soul, body, and mind. But he still had a heart. His hand closed around the chain. Adam, scattered of cognition and on the verge of losing himself altogether, burned on a flame of highest glory, empowering those who struggled to be righteous.

Alone, they were in pieces, but together they were just barely enough to be a full Pathbearer. Shiv pulled, and though it felt like he was dragging a mountain up a muddy slope, he kept pulling. He kept being the pillar he always was, and Adam kept his pillar standing. He pulled, and he drew himself closer to Longinus. He scraped along the metal ground, dragging his vitality-shaped carcass in bursts of motion, and finally, barely, desperately pressed the tip of a clawed hand against Longinus' twitching body.

Shiv's cutting aura remained. He pierced Longinus's flesh. He drove his finger in as far as it would go, and he ripped and tore, cleaving through divine mana and sinking into the supple softness of that which lay within.

The animated travelogue vanished from Longinus' lance in an instant. He threw his head back and let out a blood-curdling howl that pierced the air and nearly deafened Shiv. That provoked him to start pulling instead of pushing. He tore Longinus' life force from him, and the act itself nearly unmade Shiv. His Vitality Drain skill was like a dismembered limb, hanging on by a single sinew—and he was using it to bludgeon Longinus.

A question followed: Would the Deathless drink the god dry, or would he shatter first?

Rivers of vitality crashed into Shiv, and well over half of what he absorbed spilled out from his shredded body. It was like drinking while you had a gaping hole in your throat. It was hell. But Shiv had lived through all kinds of hell before, and they failed to break him then.

Longinus suffered from an inverse problem: he was a god imbued with incredible stores of mana, with skills that defied the limits of any mortal. He should have been able to turn around and swat Shiv a final time to end the Deathless for good. He should have, but he couldn't. A day of skirmishes had ground him down until his mind, body, and heart were little more than rubble. His meridians had been obliterated by the Culturist's final attack, and now his body was constantly deforming, fighting him as hard as it could.

“Stop. Stop. Please stop. Stop draining me. I don't want to. I don't want to not exist. I don't want to go into the dark. I don't want to stop exploring. I'm still hungry. I still want to be here. I still want to live. I want to live. I want to escape. I want to ride the plains again. I want to see. I want to see the tundra. I want to see. I want to see my Republic. I want to go home. I want to see the Abyss. I don't want to die!”

And the Wanderer lost himself to hysterics, begging and pleading. For a god, he became a pitiful wretch. For a warrior, he revealed himself to be a coward before the final end. But the man buried deep inside, who'd surfaced just long enough to give Shiv a chance to regain his bearings, breathed a telepathic whisper over to the Deathless: "Thank… you…”

Shiv was swelling with life force, but all that life force was cycling through him wrong. His Vitality Drain skill was devastated, and the Vitae that comprised him wasn't forming properly. Sections of his body turned to clustered clumps, while other portions of him melted back to raw life force, slipping away from his grasp before they could be calcified as part of his soul. Yet slowly but surely, his skills were mending. He was healing internally. He could feel the shards of his being snap back together, and he might—just might—outlast Longinus.

But while he might have, Adam's already overstressed mind chose that moment to snap like a tenuous thread from the overpowering pull of his Awareness. The divine fires within Shiv sputtered and threatened to go out. Adam screamed and did everything he could to enter a meditative trance, not unlike the one the Culturist was currently in. But he was unpracticed, unrefined, and the closest thing he could pursue was a restful slumber.

Even that came hard, however, with the fight still ongoing.

“Shiv… I…” Whatever else Adam wanted to say didn't make it. The Paragon's mind went blank as he had to process too much, too much, and ever more, regardless of his screaming mind.

Without Adam’s divine empowerment, Shiv's Harbinger began to fracture and fray, and it rested precipitously at the very edge of destruction, pulling Shiv down with it. The strength he was imbued with, blessed by Adam's Domain, vanished as well, and Shiv found himself unable to even lift or twitch a finger now, let alone drain the life force of a god.

The flow of vitality was cut off in an instant. Shiv's finger remained lodged inside Longinus' body, but even though he tried, he couldn't push himself any deeper, and nor could he wrench his hand free.

If Shiv was a puppet, then most of his strings had just been cut, leaving only one, just one, dangling him on the verge between life and death.

For a moment, he just existed. His mind sinking into a miserable fugue as he tried to recover from everything he suffered. Longinus was not so different. His mind was reeling as well. Adam was being pulled apart. Longinus, though stronger, wasn't a god that prided himself on Awareness. Nor did his Multi-Tasking seem so impressive. He was being overstrained as well, and with every other whimper, he kept Shiv ironically grounded, preventing him from slipping away entirely.

“We really fucked each other up pretty bad, huh?” The question left the Wanderer with a measure of amused warmth, like they were two friends sparring rather than a depraved, demented parody of a god and a man that had been trying to kill him for almost two days.

“Just… give me a second,” Shiv managed. His vision blurred. His mind spun. It was hard to remain present. “I’ll finish you off… in just a second.” Faintly, he heard what sounded like spells detonating in the air and fighting and clashing. He wasn't sure what was happening. Or if it was happening at all.

Longinus chuckled hoarsely. “You know, I do not quite think you fucking will. You're done. Not enough after all. All that struggling, all that fighting. Came close, so close. But not close enough.” Longinus' words were equal parts despair, disappointment, and a taunt. Part of him wanted to die. That truest part of him, hidden so deep, had spilled over into the greater aspects of his godhood, but the greater aspects of godhood were still what they were: monstrous, depraved, hateful. And the being that spoke to Shiv now was of an ill alloy. “I think… I think it’s going to be me that gives you your peace instead of the other way around.”

Shiv tried to move. He really, really tried. He tried to call on his—he couldn’t even remember what skills he had.

Why?

Hadn’t he given enough? Hadn’t he pushed hard enough? All those evolutions and levels and deaths, just to end here? No. Nonono. Getgetupgetthefuckup!

His self-directed anger and panicked screeching were worthless without a functioning skill to fuel.

His heart almost emptied out when Longinus got up first, when Longinus' limbs snapped back in place, and his body stopped becoming a grotesque bag of bursting meat. The Ascendant was so spent he couldn't even lift up his lance, but he could drop his hoof down a final time. He could finish this as he'd tried to earlier, a man stomping on an insect that had stung him one too many times.

“You know something?” Longinus’ voice was equal parts exhaustion and vicious mirth. He tried to smile, but the disfigured state of his face made anything aside from sobbing tears of searing blood impossible. “I—”

And before any divine monologue could follow, a constellation fell from the heavens. A shifting constellation of many parts.

Shiv blinked, or at least he would have, had he still been staring out from his physical body. Why did the constellation look so familiar? Why did he think he recognized it?

He got his answer as the constellation slammed down upon Longinus' body, shredding into him, cleaving him as vicious, fractal-like geometries carved deep wounds into his weakened form. Longinus' words died, and a child-like cry left him. He folded over, his torso slumping. This was more than what he could take as well.

Where Shiv, Adam, the Culturist, and Longinus were spent, there was still one more party to this battle, one more member on the Deathless's team.

She had been struck once by Longinus, but after her ordeal in the Outside, a few damaged skills weren't going to be enough to put her down.

Longinus swung his arm back weakly, as if a man trying to ward off a swarm of angry wasps. Behind him, through ash and mist formed from the haze of war, came twin glowing eyes that shifted in color. Twin glowing eyes attached to a mind with so many threads that it became the epicenter of a psionic web. Uva staggered forward, her face a mask of exhaustion and cold fury. One hand was on her midsection, the spot where Longinus had impaled her frozen shut not only by frost, but time as well. Eyes sprouted free along her arms, and as her insect-limbed wings dragged on the ground behind her, more spinning fractals launched forward, piercing Longinus over and over again.

"Get… away from him," she seethed psionically. And she cast that thought forth with every thread of Psychomancy she had left. Thousands of strings bore down upon Longinus like a rainstorm of serpents. The Wanderer, engulfed by pain and desperate to survive, swung his lance blindly in Uva's direction.

His weapon became an absence, and a crescent vacuum cleaved across the world toward where Uva was, but before it could cleave into the Seeker, she disappeared. She tied herself to one of her fractals, wove her mind around it before dropping down from above, and she drove a blade of shifting fractal deep into the back of the tattered god.

