I have reason to suspect that if the System is a singular higher power and possesses sapience of any kind, then it must be a psychomorphic entity capable of attuning itself to the thoughts and emotions of all peoples in existence at once. Why else does the System communicate with us in such a comprehensible way? Why else are things delivered in cultural context, with references to things that have happened in our lifetime?

Its use of language has changed over the generations as well. My mother was 900 years old when she died. 900 to the day when she was finally consumed by the festering Neuroleeches that bled over from Bvluream-Hakklur. Throughout that time, the System continued communicating with her in New Latin—a twice-dead language I still haven't mastered. On this principle alone, communication between my mother and me should have been difficult. Yet the System chooses to make that easier between us, translating close to all spoken languages in Integration. Some say it's to facilitate more strife, but what facilitates strife more than misunderstanding and confusion? After all, it is harder to strike down someone you have sympathy for.

If the cruel barbarian in your city walls holds up his arms, and you understand that he is screaming for the embrace of his parents, you are less likely to kill him than if his words were only warbling gibberish to your ears. In the latter case, the alienation would remain ideal.

And so I come to another heretical conclusion: The System does not desire strife above all things.

It desires conflict, yes, but it desires conflict as a means to sculpt people, to shape them and empower them. If there is one thing that the System has never failed to do, it is to evolve people and make us all stronger. And strength requires overcoming an adequate amount of resistance to be incentivized.

There is so much more the System could do if all it wanted was to engender strife. Instead, it seems to want us to grow through whatever means possible.

I think people blame the world too often for their own desires. Furthermore, I think our desires affect the System the same way it affects us. It empowers us, and so we ravenously yearn for more power, for more evolutions, and to hold more influence. When two people are fighting in an environment of scarcity, inevitably war will follow. The System is not facilitating anything that most organisms don't engage in at baseline.

If anything, the peoples of Integrated Earth and all dimensions otherwise are likely provoking it to greater levels of violence.

This leads to another aspect of my research. Statistically, Pathbearers possessing Legendary Social Skills outlive their peers who walk Martial Paths by three to nine times over, depending on which region of the world they live in. I have interviewed many of these socially-attuned Pathbearers, and I have met with a number who have traveled across dimensions, who confirmed the above statistic remains at least roughly true everywhere. I even know people who walk the Path of the Pacifist.

Based on this, I pose two questions:

How can any of this be if the System only desires bloodshed? How can something that wants war and only war be so considerate to us?

If you believe that the System only desires violence for violence’s sake, there is no satisfying answer.

Instead, one could come to the conclusion that the System is designed to provoke our deepest avarices above all.

There are still so many unanswered questions, and all we have for them are theories bereft of proper data. I need to find a place where I can observe the same scenes or scenarios playing over and over again. I need a reliable control and experimental zone. I need an expansive laboratory in which experiments can be perfectly controlled down to every minute variable.

And so my attention turns to the Fairwoods. For if the System truly desires eternal war, then why are the Fae preserved without question?

Why has the System allowed only this species to side-step a permanent end through the enforcement of a seasonal loop?

—Lost Research Notes of Silence Valeros, Usurper-Author, Legend-Horologist, Heretic-Progenitor of Line Gehenna of the First Blood

354

Exhaustion

Longinus' hoof fell fast, but the Culturist struck first.

Shiv expected true death to take him, but the orc Legend intervened in the last breath before his Delve drew him in. Moving faster than most entities in Integration could ever hope to track, the Culturist broke free from Shiv, leapt out of Adam in a burst of azure incandescence, and materialized in time to catch Longinus's falling hoof with an outstretched palm.

A resounding shockwave shook the world. The Culturist seized the Wanderer’s equine leg with a practiced familiarity and wrenched the stomp off course. Longinus’ blazing hoof pierced through the metal beside Shiv's head, sinking clean through and causing Longinus to stumble off balance.

The Wanderer cried out in fury and alarm, but his voice turned to a choked gasp of pain and something else as the Culturist fell upon him in a storm of strikes. He didn't bother contending against the god's strength. There was no question who was superior, even for a True Legend such as the Culturist. But a warrior wasn't made by strength alone. Without technique, even a powerhouse was a wasteful engine.

As Adam’s pre-Legendary Awareness flooded Longinus’s senses, the Ascendant’s movements became erratic and confused. His lance thrust and stabbed—but he struck ghosts and shadows; he struck gaps and slashed through legions of fairy knights riding toward the battle.

He struck everywhere but where Shiv or the Culturist were.

This was when Shiv lost track of the Culturist entirely. He became as if flowing wind. Every blow he delivered made his body flicker and vanish, like he was teleporting in place, materializing over and over again to deliver a series of strikes. Longinus swung his lance blindly, but every blow was anticipated. His weapon kissed naught but air, pierced nothing, not even the faintest afterimage left by the orc.

“Stay still, you mother—” Longinus’ curse never finished, for the Culturist materialized behind the centaur and delivered a series of taps and palm strikes along the curve of the Wanderer's spine. Grunts and twinges escaped Longinus, but before the Culturist could deliver what seemed to be a final blow, the orc's eyes went wide, and he staggered three steps away. His foot struck the ground heavily, ringing like distant thunder, before he crashed down on his knees, and his head sank low.

His assault came to such an unceremonious and sudden end that even Longinus was taken off guard. Clutching his head, he stared at the orc's back and then regarded his own body in confusion. “That hurt for a bit, but the rest of that stuff... What're you trying to do? You fucking tickling me? Where'd you come from, you orc cunt? I—”

A choked moan of misery escaped Longinus. His hands began to spasm and shake. The fingers clutching his lance grew weak, and his body started twisting. His joints bent and were misaligned in an instant, as if his own muscles were trying to pull him apart.

Barely clinging to the borders of consciousness, Shiv saw the orc's lips curve upward in a final smile before his eyes went bright with gleaming light. A fortress-like halo formed over his head, shrouding his mind in a protective shell. “Finish… him.” With that, the Culturist descended into his Delve, entering a coma-like trance to pit his mind against whatever his new Legendary skill would throw at him.

A loud crackle pulled Shiv's attention back to Longinus. Longinus, who no longer had any control over his motor functions. Longinus, whose arm was swinging left and right, whose lance sent chips of shredded Vitae scattering in the air, bits of Vitae that once belonged to Shiv. Shiv's heart had a hollow chasm. A third of his torso was missing; a third of his Harbinger had been tunneled through as well. Anyone else would be dead for good.

Shiv wasn't anyone else.

Shiv was the Deathless, and even though most of him was at the point where he wanted to accept death as an end to his pain, he endured out of desperation, rage, and an all-consuming urge to find out how a god died.

“W-what the fuck did you do to me? What the FUUUCK!” Longinus’s mind was already in pieces, and those pieces were swept up in a moving maelstrom that was Adam's Haunting Omniscience. It was telling how bad the skill affected him, even though he was able to weather it for the first few seconds. He tried to grasp at his head—and somehow missed. “Where am I? What the… No, not—too much. It's all too much… everything. Stop it! STOP IT!”

He grasped blindly, trying to find where Uva's mana string was, but failed and kept flailing about. He reared his hooves back, prepared to gallop, but the exertion caused his body to turn grotesque. Pulsating growths swelled out from his body and burst. Incandescence sprayed free along with blood. Longinus howled and shrieked, and the moment his legs came down, both of his front limbs suddenly snapped to the sides, twisting out of their sockets as his body continued defying him in a nightmarish set of contortions.

“Holy shit,” Shiv gasped, watching Longinus twitch and thrash on the ground. He shot a disbelieving look at the Culturist, who seemed so peaceful as he Delved. In fact, cherry blossoms were spilling out from the orc, passing into reality as bright pink petals raining free from his inner dimension. “What in the Broken Moon did that horse teach you?” Shiv muttered.

He got no reply, and with the Delve underway, he had no idea if the Culturist could still hear him. However, the orc's face seemed to brighten, and the smile that remained there only grew greater.

“I'll kill you! I'm gonna kill you good. I'm gonna fuck you raw and bloody! I'M GONNA FUCK YOU ‘TILL YOU LOOOOOVE ME!” Longinus' screams were incoherent and mad. His mind was crumbling. His heart was consuming him. The blackened flames of his emotion were spreading across every portion of his body, exploding free from all his wounds. He was barely better physically. There were so many wounds on his body that he resembled a cut of mangled meat an amateur butcher had spent a few hours bludgeoning with a blunt knife. His soul was in pieces, and he was bleeding divine mana like one would spill blood from a slit throat.

Shiv tried to rise. He barely managed to move his head. His Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides was currently broken, the skill damaged to the extreme. The same went for his Harbinger and practically every skill he had aside from his Uniques and Writing. Right now, even though he had more hate in his heart for Longinus than anyone else in all Integration, he didn't think he would be able to force a Skill Evolution so that he could pen the most offensive letter possible and deliver that final coup de grâce to the god’s shattered ego.

“Alright…” Shiv wheezed. “Shit. Garden…”

He initiated another resurrection. This he could do, though the process felt like purest agony. Pushing a physical body out from his Severed Shadow usually came with no pain. This time, it was like he was ripping a series of burning, twisting, coiled daggers out from him, one after another.

But if there was anything Shiv could handle, it was torture.

With a final flex of exertion, his physical body slipped free from his Severed Shadow, but it was as mutilated as his Revenant form was. Entire swaths of skin were missing. His flesh was bruised and split down to the bone. The white of his insides was showing, and even his orichalcum-hard flesh had been punctured so many times that his blood poured like water from all his wounds, pooling at his feet.

But this was just what he needed. He needed his physical body to suffer damage so that the Garden of Wounds and Broken Things could come forth. Drawing upon the Garden, the mess of rubble and lacerations erupted out from his physical form's many injuries like plants sprouting out of soil. Shiv's mind drifted then. He was hurt badly, hurt everywhere. His thoughts swam; his consciousness was like an overturned boat, and he only managed to come up for air every once in a while. He lost track of what he was doing, who he was, what anything was.

"Shiv. Courage. The work is not done. Finish this." The Harbinger's wheezing whisper pulled him back to focus—just in time for him to see most of the Garden recede back into his broken physical body.

“Godsdammit,” Shiv whimpered. He mantled his will once more and called the Garden forth again. This time it sprawled out in a tide of ruinous substance, and that tide smashed into Longinus, flung the god away, and sent him sprawling on his back. His legs were twisting and kicking. Every now and again, Longinus would draw on his mana to levitate himself, but then another portion of his flesh would burst and bleed, and he would smash back into the ground. He was healing rapidly, his divine power allowing him some form of regeneration, but whatever the Culturist had done had compromised him not just physically but spiritually.

I need him to teach me his anti-horse technique…

But that was a project for a later date. Instead, Shiv's apocalyptic exoskeleton rose high, diminutive compared to its first manifestation, but building meter by meter with every passing moment. The Deathless took the opportunity to slam a fist down on Longinus. The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things didn't move using Shapeless Tides. That was its saving grace right now.

Longinus was hammered flat. The metal surface of the grill district they'd somehow found themselves on again was compressed beneath the Garden's fist—and the damage he dealt melted into him, further empowering his titanic armor.

