The unnamed Ancient Royal Demon slowly descends and pulls a bright white soul weapon from its many slowly orbiting choices.

It is a long staff that does not look like much of a deadly weapon, however it shifts its shape the longer it's in the Demon's hand.

The object morphs into what looks like a massive bowl with a thin handle. It grabs the end of it, and throws it down through the abyss.

The object spins in the air and trails a sparkling white light behind it toward the light purple glowing remains of two humans who just tried to escape.

They somehow managed to survive this Demon's full-powered attack, not allowing it to capture their souls to pull out what has been stored deep within.

Now, its eyes widen for a second time, as the Soul Weapon it's thrown down to capture their remains has bounced off, ricocheting in an unexpected direction. The white soul weapon deforms as it flies through the darkness, back into its original form, curving upward into the demon's hand.

The blue, rainbow, black, and red soul energy held together by purple threads falls into the crack in the temple, and the Demon scoffs aloud.

"I didn't sense that ring from the Imperials' zone this whole time... It looked like nothing but a bloodbonded artifact from the Lower Realm..."

It curses under its breath and puts away the soul weapon. The Demon stops floating downward right at the surface of the temple, looking down into the crack.

"I'm not going to try and break through there again. It's not like anything can leave this place. Your souls will leak out once you die eventually..." it murmurs while shaking its head and crossing its arms.

The massive crack that spans over 10 kilometers wide in the center of the temple is actually V-shaped the deeper down into the pyramid one looks.

Caused by billions of soul weapon strikes, chipping away at the temple's center over the years after this Royal Demon found a clue that something interesting was inside.

Yet, the deeper down it slashed, the harder it was to cut through this black stone.

In fact, at the deepest point in this crack, the separation between sides is less than a meter thick. Below it, there is a dark black barrier that repelled its blades every time it tried to strike it.

It is impossible to see through, and unlike the white rift in space above, this barrier caused backlash on this Royal Demon's soul every time he attempted to hit it.

However, all of the shattered remains of these two humans' soul armor slip through the barrier like it is not even there.

Their lost limbs fall through unscathed, and even their cores held together by a thin web of purple threads.

The challengers of the strongest being in the Ravine of the Cyan zone have utterly lost their fight... but now their presence in the Ravine has completely vanished.

–

The entire bottom half of the pyramid temple's base is hollow.

Its inner walls are coated in a black aura that gives off no energy presence at all. It is as though a darker void has concealed itself deep within the darkness of this ravine, hiding from the outside realm.

The massive room inside is empty, but it is not dark.

There is writing all over the walls that glows with a dim white light. It is as though the words have minds of their own, fluctuating and pulsing with delicate movements.

Some of these symbols are written in the originator's language, while others are written in the unknown language that has been carved into every cave and pedestal throughout this ravine.

The remains of the humans fall to the center of the room, on top of glowing text, and are not conscious; they cannot see or sense anything around them.

There are statues on opposite sides of this square room.

On one side, there is a Demon with two long horns, and on the other, there is an angel with wide open wings.

As the blood and leaking essence of the first visitors to this area of the temple since it was created seeps into the floor, the dim white glow of the runes begins to get brighter.

If the Rising Emperor were awake to see this now, it would look extremely similar to the inheritance chamber he found his amplifier in under the sea on the human world. The text on the walls looks as though it's floating off and resonating with the beings that have entered this ancient tomb.

–

In the Green Zone, Seraphel and Abby both follow behind a High Orc through many passageways in the Fortress.

There are no Demon-run security checkpoints, nor main passageways that are blocked off to the public anymore. Navigating this Citadel has become much more simple.

The blue- and green-haired humans have a straight shot walk through the fortress to the Blue Wyvern's old vault.

With the single activation of an ether command, the enormous 10-kilometer-tall door opens up wide to reveal a massive storage room inside.

Abby and the security Orc both stand at the door while Seraphel steps up through the air, leaving small blue trails of water behind. There are countless black boxes stacked against the walls, all glowing with a faint white ether. Yet, he flies all the way to the back to open one that does not even glow.

The blue-eyed human pulls out a massive black artifact, but it shrinks in size to fit into his hands the instant a small pulse of his aura is absorbed by it. He turns around with a smile on his face and floats back down toward the door.

He looks directly into Abby's eyes. "It is true... My old master from Kelfar once told me, the day we take back the Green Zone is the day the true inheritance can be reclaimed."

A small palm-sized token floats above his hand and slowly spins, glowing blue and green. There is a raised imprint of a Wyvern on one side, and a tree on the other.

Memories of the Wyvern's bones that Abby's staff is made of flash through her mind. It was an earth Wyvern, with a unique affinity for nature, allowing it to grow plants and speed up the wildlife's progression on their world. However, she does not have any clue as to what this token is used for.

None of her inherited memories share any information on it.

Seraphel speaks again as they close the large door and walk further into the Fortress. "I do not know exactly what it means either. I only know that this was my duty in coming to the Upper Realm. I always thought I had to do this alone, but maybe there was far greater purpose than just saving my own race."

The high Orc walks them through many more passageways until all of the branching routes, random doors, and side routes stop appearing.

They walk so deep into the fortress in one direction that there is only one way left to walk: forward.

Their guide's voice echoes through the massive black corridor.

"In all my years, I've never made it into this part of the fortress. It is usually blocked off by the automated ether commands... A function put in place by the citadel long before I started my work here. Rumor is, it's a function that was put in place when the Fortress was first created."

The Orc's eyes widen, and it stops moving forward.

However, Seraphel and Abby continue walking just fine.

Dense white ether commands hold the Orc in place, but it only smiles and takes a step back. The restraints dissolve into the air.

At the back of the hallway, there are nine enormous black doors. All of them are locked shut, with no handles or way to open them.

When either Abby or Seraphel looks toward many of the doors, a light white pressure washes through their mind, making them stop attempting to come near. There is only one door that fully captivates their attention.

It shrinks down in size the closer they get.

The entire experience looks like a simulated hologram, there are so many strange ether commands triggering in the room to create this manifestation it is hard to believe it's real. The white wisps of energy in the air are made of ether, but they give off an incredibly pure aura like nothing either of them has ever felt before.

It cannot be sensed, but even outside the Citadel, many large white arrays are shifting and being activated for the first time in millions of years.

Both the human and the Wyvern are capable of wielding Celestial Energy, in its raw and base state using their Celestial physiques, but the ether that pushes them in a single direction is far different and feels like it should not be prevalent in this green zone.

Seraphel's hands raise the token in the air, and it floats away from him toward the door, colliding with its center and flooding it with a colorful blue and green essence.

The instant it hits its center, it slowly swings open to reveal a pure white light inside.

The human and Wyvern's eyes are wide open, as it feels like every second longer they look at this bright white light, their understanding of ether commands and Celestial Energy manipulation increases a significant amount. They walk forward in a daze, in a half-enlightened state.

When the door behind them closes, the High Orc is left in a dark hallway.

Yet, the two visitors stand in an empty bright white room.

The longer they stare forward, the more at peace they feel their bodies become.

A pair of white eyes stare back at them.

The eyes blink, and everything within the two soul-bonded beings' souls is released outward.

Seraphel's enormous bright blue Celestial Form is unleashed, and Abby's Immortal Healer's greater form is activated automatically. Her staff materializes in front of her and begins to slowly orbit around her body.

The white room's walls don't look any further away now than they did moments ago... even as they have grown hundreds to thousands of times in size.

The white eyes stare deeply into them, then move forward.

The head of a massive white Celestial Wyvern moves closer. One of its eyes is larger than both the Celestial Bodies in front of it.

The white Wyvern blinks, and a voice echoes into Seraphel and Abby's minds.

"If you are receiving this message, I have long passed. You are the last remaining Wyvern in both the Lower and Upper Realm if the predictions of the Fallen One have come true. A sad thought, but it means the Demons have lost control of my Citadel in the future. The final reset can still occur before it is too late."

The manifestation of the Wyvern's white eyes open wide again.

"Allow me to show you a vision of the past. The most dangerous Demon of my era. The Royal that set in motion the extermination of our race. The nightmare of all Wyverns. The monster that I must grant you the remainder of my power I have saved after my death so you can defeat what we could not. For the sake of all living beings, use what I grant you to defeat Lucian Morvale."

A hot white pressure bursts out from the floating Wyvern's eyes, and the room fills with the vibrations of a Royal Wyvern that once ruled the Green Zone of the Upper Realm.
