"Where there is money to be made, the ships will sail," Mr. Choi laughed. "If anything, there are apparently more ships than ever. Under the Ashfallen Sect and with the new outpost of the Eternal Pursuit Pavilion here, business has never been better. I heard the Silverspires have been spearheading the operations and even teamed up with the remanents of the Azurecrest family."

"Oh?" Stella said, realizing once again that she was pretty clueless as to the sheer scale of the Ashfallen Sect's operations. She usually showed up, killed some people, and then retreated back home. Thoughts about the aftermath of her actions, like wondering what had happened to the Silverspires since basically being threatened into joining the Ashfallen Sect, rarely crossed her mind.

"Don't the Grand Elders of the sect get a share of the Ashfallen Trading Companies' profits?" Mr. Choi asked. "You must therefore be aware of how influential it has become? Last I heard, it's dwarfed the Golden Dragon Alchemy Guild by now, which of course they are not happy about at all."

"I don't really look into those things too much," Stella shamefully admitted. The concept of money had never really been something she cared about. For years, she lived off scraps and fruits grown by Ash and slept outside on a bench. Most of her cultivation resources had also been provided by Ash, so she had never needed to buy anything.

"Make sense," Mr. Choi nodded sagely, "any amount of money must seem insignificant compared to how much you must have burned through to reach your strength so quickly. Hell, I doubt the entire value of this city was enough to buy all the resources you must have needed."

"Um..." Stella wanted to point out she hadn't spent much at all—it had entirely been made possible because of Ash—but then decided against admitting such a thing. "Yeah, something like that."

Mr. Choi bobbed his head. "As I suspected. Oh, do you see that in the distance?" He pointed to an unassuming mountain clouded in fog. "That's the new headquarters for the Eternal Pursuit Pavilion out here in the wilderness and our destination."

Stella nodded and brought out her VIP pendant. "Hopefully, with this, they will give me a less dramatic welcome," she said. However, with the look of awe Mr. Choi shot her way, she somehow doubted that.
