Poi looked into the air. After a moment, he spoke. “Growths inside organ tissue and bones are the most common, though breast tissue is also high on that list. If there is a growth in the brain it is much harder to treat, because the void left from that vanished growth might collapse the surrounding brain tissue. This outcome is usually more dangerous than the ‘brain tumor’ itself. If the person survives, there are almost always personality shifts.”

Erick started laughing, and he didn’t stop until he couldn’t laugh anymore; tears streamed down his face and his sides hurt. Breathing was hard, but still the laughter came. The entire time Poi was half concerned, half weirded out, trying to get Erick to stop laughing, and asking him if he was okay.

Eventually, Erick said, “I’m fine, Poi! Truly! I’m fine.” He sighed out, giggled once more, then said, “My mother died of malignant breast cancer, years and years ago. I hardly knew my father, but he died of bone cancer well before that. And here’s the kicker! I’m at their age, the age when they died, right now. It should be my turn to up and die on my daughter. But it’s not! Because I’m here, where you can cure cancer with a [Cleanse].” He looked at Poi. “Do you know how much of a relief it is to know that I won’t die of cancer? Of that slow death that robs you of everything and leaves you shitting out the poison the doctors give you, to try and kill the growths inside of you and not kill you at the same time?” Erick laughed again.

Poi said, “I’m sorry, sir. It sounds like your home was a rough place.”

Erick waved him off. “Just different terrors, I suppose. Here, you have to worry about monsters gobbling you up in the middle of the night.” Erick smirked. “But at least you can stab the monsters of Veird to death, or slice them apart with a spell.”

“Almost always, sir.”

- - - -

It was getting late in the day. Dinner needed to be made, but the cold box Al had created was empty. Erick would need to get in the habit of putting a [Cold Ward] in there every morning and evening, but for now, the emptiness was the main problem.

Erick went to the market and got everything he might need for dinner tonight, and for tomorrow. He also got seeds for various vegetables, enough meat to feed ten, a great big iron pot to cook it all in. He was going to make dinner for days, though with Al over it might only last two. Erick also bought two large chef's knives and ordered ten huge burlap sacks of soil. He paid a runner a gold to deliver it all to his house.

Erick followed the cart home. While the runner set the bags of soil by the sandy garden space, Erick started making dinner with strange cuts of red meat, strange herbs, and strange vegetables. He tasted everything before he put it in the pot, of course. He also made sure to chunk the meat and sear it on all sides. When the initial cooking was done, he popped a [Temperature Ward] into the oven space, setting it to what he felt was maybe 350, and placed the pot inside the [Heat Ward].

Even cooking was easy on Veird! He should do this every night.

… Maybe he would.

He looked to the cooking iron pot. Hopefully everything would turn out okay. He had included some bitter herbs that didn’t taste that great, but Poi had suggested Erick put them in. They probably tasted better once cooked.

- - - -

Jane showed up with more food and a whole lot of other things besides. Utensils, plates, knives, pans, pots, tea kettles, cups, bowls. Everything anyone could ever want in a kitchen, she bought then organized in the open stone cabinets. She had even planned on cooking dinner, but she was too late! Erick was already on the job, and the stew was starting to smell good.

Al showed up before sundown, carrying a keg of beer.

Savral came with him, carrying a tray of cookies, followed by Lanore, Gorgush, and Ikawa, each of them carrying something of a housewarming gift. While Savral and Jane exchanged apologies, everyone else dumped their gifts on Erick, which he gratefully accepted. Blankets, bed sheets, pillows, and cushions. A lot of soft things, which was nice. Lanore even gifted him a flower vase, and all four of the adventurers offered to help paint the exterior or interior with permanent [Special Wards].

“You can do that?” Erick asked, admiring a huge blue blanket Ikawa gave him. “This is so soft. Thank you, Ikawa.”

She gushed, “I wove that pillar thread myself!”

Al asked, “You didn’t think I put real gold on the outside of the Sewerhouse, did you, Erick?”

“I thought it was paint! Not a [Special Ward].” Erick ran a hand over the soft objects Savral’s team had gotten them. “It’s all so lovely. Thank you all, for all of this.” He looked toward the kitchen. He turned back toward his house guests. “I made dinner for 10 people, so let’s eat.”

Gorgush rumbled, “Smells great! I’m hungry.”

It even tasted great, to no one’s surprise except Erick’s. He was not sure everything he put in there was going to work out, but it did! And Savral and Jane were talking again, too. Erick did not think that their fight was over, but at least they were civil.

- - - -

The next morning, Erick went to the Mage’s Guildhouse.

He spoke to Sizzi at the front desk, “Guildmaster Zago said to come by when I wanted to learn the prerequisites to the [Fly] spell. That’s what I’m here for.”

Sizzi nodded. She paused. She said, “Her laboratory is at the top of the main tower stairs, Archmage. She has time for you now.”

“Thank you, Sizzi.”
