“Yeah. I am.” Erick said, “It’s all because Jane’s… Rather more motivated than I thought possible. I didn’t expect her to take [Cleanse] and [Mend], too, and then surpass me so easily. She whipped that reconstruction spell out with practically no effort—” He paused. He said, “Ah. No. That’s wrong. She earned that herself. Not like she unlocked [Mend] at level 10, or Mana Shaping at 10, either. I’m just a bit jealous, is all. And I worry that I won’t be able to keep up with her… That she’s leaving. That she won’t be safe out there on her own.”

“Like how she constantly worries about you?” Al smirked. “It’s kind of cute, really.”

Erick scoffed. “She’s going where I can never follow. I’ve made as much peace with that as I feel is possible. I just didn’t expect her to jump up to level 32. And now she’s talking about turning into monsters? It’s all a bit much, Al.”

Al shook his head. He said, “The early levels are easy. Crystal Mimics are all around level 30. The way levels work is that it’s very easy to get to a plateau because certain monsters are naturally certain levels, but very hard to get much higher than that. Jane likely killed one mimic in the beginning, and if she did it herself, jumped all the way up to 24.” Al looked at Erick. “For your own concerns, you only need to kill two or three Mimics to be a lot safer than you are.”

“I might not be as safe as you, or Jane, but I certainly feel a lot better these days, even with all this craziness with the rain and Particle Magic.” Erick looked to the door of the kitchen. “Having Poi around helps.”

Al smiled. “I remember you jumping in fright all the time!”

“Ugh. Yes. Thank god that’s… Mostly gone.”

Al laughed.

Erick almost laughed, but then he had a thought.

He had a thought, which may or may not have been a very important thought. Maybe there was a real reason his magic was weird in the beginning, and worked out a lot better when he was playing around with stuff he knew, like lightning.

“What?” Al asked, “You’re thinking about something.”

“I am thinking about something.”

There was a simple enough test for Erick’s growing hypothesis.

[Special Ward].

A perfectly formed, tiny sun appeared on top of the table, exactly how Erick envisioned. Even the tiny solar prominence were beautifully crafted, arcing away from the tiny sun.

Now for the test.

Erick thought of Jane dying as a monster, of Jane and him both exiled from Spur and left to wander the deadly desert, of assassins' knives in the dark. Of his magic causing horrible destruction.

A cold terror bloomed in his chest.

[Special Ward].

A malformed ball of yellow and purple light flickered back and forth.

Erick breathed a few times, ridding himself of the worst of his cloying fears.

“Hey, Al. Say something nice to me.”

Al laughed. “You have beautiful eyes.”

Erick felt his face flush as fear evaporated under a much more fun emotion: lust.

[Special Ward].

A brilliant sunlight orb appeared.

It worked!

Erick said, “You have nice eyes, too, Al. And fangs. I didn’t think those would be hot, but they are!”

Al laughed, happy. He pointed toward the newest orb. “What was that about?”

“Fear is the mind killer. Apparently.”

Al scrunched his face. “Is it?”

“Maybe not for you, which —if that’s true— is about as unfair as how handsome your whole face is, even scrunched up like that.”

Al smiled.

Erick pointed to the failed lightward, and said, “It’s all rather evident, isn’t it? The first time I tried making lightwards was the day after the attack on the Sewerhouse. I was pretty fearful then. It’s rather easy to call up that fear, even today. With this test I just proved that, for me, at least, magic works better when I'm emotionally primed to work that magic.” Erick added, “It certainly helps that while some things are still terrifying, magic is not one of them. It never was. It’s all rather… beautiful.” Erick looked at Al. “Very beautiful.”

Al smiled. He stood. “Want to see how the Sewerhouse restructure is progressing?”

Erick stood. “Yes.”

- - - -

Poi waited outside the Sewerhouse for Erick and Al to return to the surface.

Erick followed Al down into the depths, the roaring river a reminder of more fearful times. But when Erick arrived at the river room, it was well lit, with light orbs inside the water, too. The river still churned and roared, but it wasn’t a tenth as scary as before.

Thinking about it, practicing magic this close to something that had terrified him, had likely played a great role in mutating his early attempts at magic. He would have to bring up this theory with Zago, or someone else; Al didn’t seem to think it was true.

Erick followed Al past the river room, to a circular room with ten doors. It appeared even Al was planning for the city to expand. The huge vault door wasn’t present, though.

“What happened to the huge vault door?”

Al smiled. “This iteration is a lot more complicated than the old one, though the basic principle still holds. This design was one of the originals; all others came after. Savral and Bacci will know the correct way, but for now, we can just poke into one of them.” Al opened the second nearest door. “All of the correct ones look like this, now.”

On the other side of the door was a short staircase leading down. Light orbs showed the way.

Erick followed Al to a settling pool a few stories down. It looked similar to the pools from before. A wide cavern, maybe 20 yards across, with dirty water rushing into a hemispherical pool maybe 15 yards across and half that deep. A stretch of stone arced over the water; if someone were to cast a [Cleanse Aura] in the middle, they would hit the entire pool.

But the sewer intake this time was a simple tunnel, 1 yard wide. The outflows were hidden below the sides of the rim walkway. The water itself was murky, like always, but there was much less substance to it than the full settling pools Erick had seen before. A layer of [Ward] kept any smells on the other side of an invisible barrier; the air around Erick only smelled of river water, and that smell had followed them from the previous room.

This was all nice to see; the Sewerhouse would once again be open for business. But this wasn’t what he expected when Al suggested to ‘Show Erick the new Sewerhouse’. Erick thought there had been some sort of connection between them. He smiled to himself, and realized that he’d have to be a lot more direct in the future.

Al pointed to the walkway over the water, and said, “Go try out your new spell.”

Aurify.

[Cleanse].

[Cleanse] ticked up to level 8 after three seconds, which was a good thing, because Erick wasn’t going to hit the whole pool on [Cleanse 7].

The water in front of Erick cleared, thick not-air exploding from the pool to catch upon the [Ward] above the water, to then flow away down the outflow. 5 Mana a second was pretty easy considering he had 600 mana. Still, it was a drain, and 5 mana a second was a hefty dumbbell; much more than [Force Shrapnel]’s 5 mana every 2 seconds. Still, he maintained. He stepped onto the walkway, holding onto the rail. He walked to the center, over the pool. [Cleanse 8] would normally hit an 8 yard sphere, but Aurify 2 ‘doubled’ that range.

The point was, that Erick was thankful that his 16 yard diameter [Cleanse] touched every part of the settling pool, as soon as he settled into his spot in the middle of the space. He looked down. The water was crystal clear; pure. Erick smiled.

Rain was a big deal to Spur, but if [Cleanse] ever made it back to Earth…

[Cleanse] on Earth would cause catastrophic environmental damage, because no one would care about the environment anymore, and also solve so, so many problems. Like toxic waste, and CO2 emissions, and pharmaceuticals in the ocean.

Erick looked down at the pure water. Magic was wonderful.

[Gravity Strainer: Rad].

The air flexed as a series of gravity tunnels conjured up from the water, like wheat growing to harvest size, their points all joined together in front of Erick’s outstretched hand. Tiny glittering rads flowed up from that water.

A stone bowl appeared at Erick’s side. He looked over, Al had [Stoneshaped] him a bowl. Erick took the bowl and held it under the gravity tunnels, just in time for a stream of powdered crystal and tiny rads to fall into the orange vessel.

After a few more seconds, the rads and dust stopped coming. Erick cut the [Gravity Strainer] first. Once he was sure that was gone, he cut his [Cleanse]. The world swam around him for a brief second, but he held on tight to the railing, and the stone bowl. He blinked. He turned to Al, holding the bowl.

“Success!” he said.

“Success!” Al agreed.

Erick looked at his [Cleanse].

Still only level 8.

Cleanse 8, instant, short range, 10 MP.

Purge an area equal to the level of the spell in meters of all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption.

Exp: 640/3400

He could pop that out to level 10 by the end of the day, maybe, if he focused on nothing but that. He had done similar stretches with [Grow].

Erick walked over to Al and handed him the bowl.

Al took the bowl, saying, “Too bad you cannot become a Stonemage. I could leave this whole job to you.”

Erick laughed. “You’re not going anywhere on me, are you?”

Al smiled. “No. But it’s always good to have a backup. I approve of you taking more soldiers into your home. The Army is full of strong young men and women.”

Erick sighed. “I wonder how much they aren’t telling me. Maybe I am a bit weak compared to the rest of you, but I can handle truths. At least I think I can.”

“You wear yourself clearly and the people of Spur are all accustomed to fighting monsters; they see that you are not comfortable like they are.” Al said, “But you did not flinch once on the walk down to these dark depths. You are growing.”

Erick laughed. “Maybe I am.”

Erick followed Al out of the room.

Al closed the door behind them, saying, “Mog’s classes will be good for you.”

“Yeah.” Erick nodded. “I gotta go take some of those, too.”

They walked up staircases, but Al stopped just before the river room. He turned to Erick.

Al said, “I don’t do relationships, not since my… I don’t do relationships. I still wish to keep you as a friend, and I hope that you can be content with the same.”

Erick froze. He quickly thawed. He chuckled, saying, “That’s fine. I like you as a friend, too.” He teased, “I’m sorry if I’ve ogled you overmuch.”

Al laughed. “You can ogle all you want.” He flexed a massive arm, and winked at Erick. “We orcol are supremely beautiful creatures. Some of us do not like this fact, but I am not one of them.”

Al was an 8 and a half foot tall muscular man with brown green skin, rugged features, whose flowing desert sultan mobster clothes did not leave much to the imagination. All orcol were like him, in their own unearthly rugged ways. Some flaunted it, others hid it, and right now Al was flaunting. Erick's heart beat hard, and for a brief moment, his hormones surged like a teenager's.

Erick tried not to stare overmuch. He changed the subject, “It has to be magic, right? Orcol always give me funny looks when I look. I try not to stare, but it’s impossible.”

Al put down his arm. He smiled. “It’s the Touch of Aloethag, the Goddess of Beauty and Brutality. We know when people are watching.”

Erick lamented, “All these beautiful people and I can’t look at a single one.”

Al laughed again, loud and boisterous.

- - - -

At the top of the stairs, Al paused again.

He turned to Erick. “If you still feel this way, we might have a date once you reach level 50.”

Erick scoffed, “Level 50!”

Al quickly turned away, adding, “And not before.” He went stock still. He said, “I shouldn’t have said anything. Forget I even said that. We are not ever dating.”

Erick joked, “I don’t knoooow~! Women and men might be throwing themselves at my feet, soon enough. Level 50 might be waiting too long~”

Al looked at him, trying to suppress a smile. “We are never dating, but if you hit level 50 and you still have no one, I might still be here.”

“Why level 50 though?”

A veil of sorrow seemed to fall across Al. He spoke, his voice full of pain, “You burn too brightly, and I am scared of loss.”

Ah.

That was a sobering thought.

Erick nodded, and said, “I understand.”

- - - -

Back home, by himself, Erick began working toward a clearer future.

Poi was there, of course, but he didn’t really count. He just watched out for threats and probably gossiped with his fellow army buddies with [Telepathy], or something.

Anywho! Erick began working toward a clearer, better future, by first leveling all his magic.

[Cleanse] popped to level X after entirely too much mana. Holy shit, he had been neglecting his own future. He was almost at his 5250 cap for the day; he hadn’t been paying much attention to the actual amount of mana he had been spending, but he felt that familiar sluggishness in his bones near the end of leveling [Cleanse]. Exhaustion was coming.

And then, with one more expenditure, a blue box appeared.

Cleanse Aura, short range, 10 MP per second.

Continuously purge all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption in a 10m sphere centered on you.

Aurify 2 jumped [Cleanse Aura] from 10m to 20m, though that number wasn’t represented in the actual box. There were a lot of things about spells that weren’t reflected in their boxy descriptions. Like [Cleanse], for instance, also cleaned the air, restoring oxygen and doing a whole bunch of other stuff, probably even purging cancer from the body, for all Erick knew. Cancer was a corruption, wasn’t it? Or was it a disease?

Erick asked Poi, “Do you guys have cancer on Veird?”

“What is ‘cancer’, sir?”

“Ah…” How to explain it… Erick tried, “When there are tumors or growths in the body that are not the result of some monster, but just what happens to people, usually as they’re growing older.”

Poi thought for a moment. He looked in the air.

He said, “Cancer does exist sometimes, but [Cleanse] purges that from the body. You only ever find this strange corruption in certain cultures who choose not to use [Cleanse], but those kinds of cultures abhor the Script entirely. You occasionally find people with this affliction in the Wasteland Kingdoms to the far west. Sometimes they travel here, or to Kal’Duresh, to seek a [Cleanse] from anyone who will not care to trace them back to their Kingdoms.”

“… Cancer. Growths inside the body. You’re sure?”

