“If you are being held hostage by your ‘bodyguards’, then we are prepared to—”

“I am here of my own volition, and it is rude of you to suggest otherwise.”

Caradogh slowly said, “I am the incentive, Archmage Flatt. You do not want to see the alternative.”

“Firstly, I want to thank whoever told you to come at me with this anger and with these vague stories of people’s livelihoods in trouble in some other part of the world. I am responding to your desires with as much honesty and clarity as possible, because you have come at me with a similar honesty and clarity. Or at least the appearance of such.” Erick said, “If you had tried to sugarcoat this bitterness you’re selling, with platitudes and charm, then… Well… That simply wouldn’t work. Probably. So good on you for doing your research.” He added, “But I am not going to change my mind, and I hope you do not enact this trade embargo, for if you do, then none of us are going to be happy with the outcome.”

Caradogh calmly listened, then said, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt. I had hoped to resolve this issue without getting everyone involved, but I see now that you are adamant in going forward with your desires to make Spur a breadbasket.” He said, “Our business is thus concluded. I will take your word with me back to Portal. Expect a response in the coming days and weeks.”

“Good day then, Lower-Trademaster Pogi.” Erick added, “And your response better not be assassins.”

Caradogh frowned, saying, “I do not deal in those kind of people.”

Erick did not believe that for a second.

Caradogh quickly bowed, then whipped around and walked away. His man and woman fell into line beside him, as they moved aside from Valok and Apogough. Caradogh paused for the briefest of moments, whispering some quick words to Valok, but even though Erick immediately activated [Perfect Hearing], he had no idea what had just been said. The redscale farmer turned a bit redder, though he gave no response to Caradogh, except to glare at the man’s back, as Caradogh walked away.

The other farmers who had gathered to hear the confrontation, also dispersed back to their plots of land; the rain was still falling, after all, plants were still growing.

Erick called out, “If it’s assassins, you won’t be happy with the outcome!”

Caradough waved his hand up through the air, but gave no further response. His woman briefly turned back to Erick and smirked at him, before she too, turned to face forward, continuing to walk to Spur.

The other man continued to glance around at everything. And then he telekinetically stole a potato off of a farmer’s wagon. Erick, Valok, Apogough, and a few farmers, all watched as the wandering-eyed man bit into the raw potato. He spit out the bite and threw away the potato, into the rain, where it promptly started to grow in another farmer’s wheat field.

Erick didn’t know how he felt about all of what had just happened. Annoyed, for sure. A spark of anger fluttered around inside his chest, yes. But it was only one potato. Best to let that sort of thing go.
