Chapter 347

The four of them watched Councilor Samuel call up his younger counterpart, Councilor Jolene.

She was obviously confused as to why Samuel wanted to call for a last-minute full assembly, but her insistence that she was going to come to talk to him in person caused him to break out in a cold sweat, fearfully looking up at Matt and Liz.

It was so dramatic that Matt had to wonder what he had been told to be so fearful of them. Or was it just the natural fear of someone who had grown up not knowing of cultivators?

Councilor Jolene walked in and stopped upon seeing the interlopers to Councilor Samuel’s office. Cato and Isabella were invisible, of course, but Matt and Liz looked quite imposing on their own.

Her back stiffened and she opened her mouth to call for security, but Matt gently pulled her into the room and closed the door with his Concept.

Samuel thankfully started speaking the moment the door closed, though with how much of a rush he was in, Matt wasn’t sure it was entirely coherent to someone who didn’t already understand.

Liz raised a hand mid-ramble and Samuel’s mouth clicked shut hard enough to crack a tooth. The man trembled at the upraised hand like it was the guillotine that when he descended would spell the end of his life.

A thought from Matt healed the tooth before the pain could even register for the older man. He and Liz shared a look at the obvious fear the man felt, but they were on a countdown.

Liz looked to Councilor Jolene and spoke in her local language thanks to their [AI] translating for them.

“I know you don’t understand, but there is a war we are preventing currently and we need you to call for a summit of world leaders so we can officially end the war and explain. Please make the call, and then we can explain. Seconds matter.”

When she didn’t immediately agree, Councilor Samuel snapped. “Jolene. Just do it. Now.” When that didn’t work, he pivoted to pleading. “You know me. You don’t need to trust them, but you need to trust me. Do it.”

That seemed to work and Councilor Jolene walked over to Samuel’s desk and without a word to them, picked up the phone and made a few calls about a need to assemble the council.

Matt nodded and added. “Now, please call the leaders of the two countries at war. They will have no doubt noticed that their generals have received cease fire orders from them that they didn’t send. Please ensure that they do not reignite the battles until after the meeting.”

Councilor Jolene gave him a hard look that made Councilor Samuel tremble but she didn’t seem to notice.

“You seem oddly misinformed about how much authority I have over them.”

“I don’t care what you have to say. Tell them whatever you need to, just get them to stop the fighting until after the meeting.”

“Fine. But the two of you have a lot of explaining to do.”

Matt smiled having already done a small check up on the councilor’s personality from past records. “And we will. The war needs to end, and this is the first step. Unless you don’t mind pointless deaths?”

Those calls took substantially longer, but she got there in the end. It no doubt helped that Matt encouraged her to allude to some kind of new technology responsible for their existing communication breakdowns, but she eventually managed to wrangle both leaders into appearing at the upcoming world summit and not countermanding the ceasefire orders until after.

Only time would tell if the people on the other side of the phone would hold to their supposed promises, but even through the fairly crude phone lines, Matt could tell they sounded genuine.

With the immediate issue taken care of, Matt summoned chairs for Liz and himself out of his spatial ring. They didn’t need to sit, but summoning the chairs was obviously magical and sitting down should hopefully help with Samuel’s worries.

Both Lizzes thanked him and Matt sat down a moment later, making sure to keep all of his movements within Tier 1 perceptions.

“Who are you and what have you done to Samuel?” Councilor Jolene’s eyes had gone wide at the chairs appearing out of nowhere, but she ignored that, backing up and crossing her arms over her chest in a defensive posture.

Matt gestured to one of the chairs in front of Samuel’s desk. “This is a long conversation, so you might as well be comfortable. First introductions. My name is Matthew Moore, and this is my wife Elizabeth. We are the new owners of Soerilia and Dukes in a multidimensional monarchy called the Empire. I—”

Councilor Jolene interrupted him with a snort as she turned to Samuel. “What kind of joke is this, Samuel?”

Samuel shuddered as she interrupted Matt and watched Matt like a dog expecting a beating.

Matt wanted to sigh, but he knew Samuel would misunderstand the gesture and instead leaned back in his seat motioning for Samuel to explain.

“Jolene, shut up! You need to listen to them. They aren’t lying.” When she opened her mouth to interrupt him, he raised his voice to cut off any interruption and sighed. “When I was first elected, I was informed that we’re but one of countless worlds within something known as The Everlasting Republic, some kind of crazy multidimensional and magical power with what are… well, frankly unimaginable amounts of strength. And I… am the contact point for them. Then, a few months ago I was informed that because they’d lost a war, our planet was going to be transferred from their management to… they just called you the Empire?” he asked, and Matt nodded. Nobody ever used the full title for the Empire, and some of the words didn’t translate cleanly into the local language anyway.

Gesturing to Matt and Liz he finished, “These two are our new rulers. They own this planet. Th—”

Hearing that Councilor Jolene stood up in denial. “I’m not sure what nonsense you’ve been fed, but obviously these two have done something to you. You’re talking nonsense, Samuel. Empires? Planetary rulers? This isn’t something that you can decide on without my approval, let alone without a full referendum.”

She turned her gaze to Matt and Liz and then to Samuel before her eyes came back down to settle on the two of them.

“I think you two need to leave before this farce progresses any further.”

Samuel nearly had a panic attack at her words, but Matt looked at him which caused the man to freeze. “Councilor Jolene, your counterpart has not lost his mind. While oversimplified in a few ways, nothing he said was incorrect. The Republic has hidden the true nature of reality from you for countless generations, hiding essence and cultivation from you,” Matt used the Republic words for the concepts, which Samuel clearly recognized, but Jolene simply sounded them out in a bit of confusion. “With that said, your disbelief and confusion is entirely understandable, and even expected. These are going to be trying times, and we’re reasonable besides, so we won’t hold it against you, but this isn't something you can just reject. It will happen no matter how much you rail against it. We are here to ease your transition into greater reality as best as we can, and that will be made much easier if you cooperate.”

Councilor Jolene stiffened as a thought came to her and she looked to Samuel. “If you have known about this for years why wasn’t I informed? Our positions are equal. We are peers, damn it!”

“They only have one representative. I tried to argue we should both represent this world, even if we only had one vote between us, but they were very firm when insisting there only be one and my Chair is the senior one by their metrics. When I tried to argue it…” Samuel paused as he searched for the proper word before his eyes flicked to Matt and Liz. “The immortal who did my debriefing made it very clear there was no room for negotiation.”

Looking to Councilor Jolene, who clearly didn’t believe anything that she was hearing, Liz tried to get them back onto a useful topic, “Your confusion is understandable, but please realize that what Councilor Samuel is saying is true. If you have questions, please feel free to ask, but we would ask you not to act rashly.”

Jolene's heartbeat doubled as the reality of her world set in, but Samuel’s next words seemed to ground her at least a little. “Believe me, the things I’ve seen are… immense. Usually, I’ll just get a message, a couple of times I’ve actually gone off-world for a few days, and it’s, well, incredible. I met a member of our local clusters government, and it’s something to see someone who looks like they’re in their twenties casually discuss helping our ancestors first settle our planet thousands of years ago.”

“What, they’re immortal? That’s impossible. Even more impossible than all of this. You can’t just live forever.”

Seeing that she started believing, or at least wasn’t resisting with such hostility, Matt leaned back to give the two natives of Soerilia the space to speak.

Samuel went through the world's history and his personal involvement as the planet's representative to the Republic, which Matt found intriguing as it was from a perspective that he hadn’t ever encountered.

His retelling of their planet's history was also interesting, to say the least. The way Samuel framed it was that their ancestors wanted an escape from the ‘horrors of cultivation’ and so petitioned to settle Soerilia as a veil world after it was integrated. Matt knew the world had only been grabbed to act as a springboard to another Tier 13 world that had been drifting by, but Samuel seemed to not know anything about that or why the low Tier planet had been grabbed at all.

Jolene listened, but even Matt could see she didn’t believe anything she was hearing, so he wasn’t surprised when she turned to Matt and Liz and said, “I need proof. Beyond the obvious. I've never seen someone with your skin colors, but that doesn’t mean much with plastic surgery and how fast tech advances. You guys keep speaking of magic and while you pulled me into the room that can be done a dozen ways with stage tricks I was too panicked to notice. Do you have some proof I can see? That I can touch?”

After checking with Liz, Matt shrugged and held out a hand and cast a simple [Fireball] with a paltry 10 mana. Samuel flinched back but Jolene leaned forward and inched her hand forward.

“It's hot, but you could have a stream of oxygen in your sleeves for all I know.”

Matt felt that was a little illogical, he wasn’t wearing gloves and his shirt sleeves weren’t baggy enough to hide something like that, but he tried to put himself in her shoes where this was all so new. They were showing her things she had spent her whole life believing only existed in fantasy stories or their local equivalent of movies.

With that thought in the forefront, Matt nodded and gestured for her to stand. “Stand and I can float you. You can obviously tell you aren’t hooked up to any wires, magnets, or strong air currents.”

Councilor Jolene watched him like he might bite her, but after a moment of contemplation she stood arms extended as if he was going to pick her up by under her arms.

With a thought Matt carefully lifted her so she could just reach up and touch the ceiling if she wanted too.

“Ah! Oh shit! Fuck! Ok, I believe it! Can you put me down without breaking my legs?!?!”

Matt did as she asked where Jolene started patting herself down before moving onto the chair and then the floor where she panted.

“This is impossible. How can there be magic? It's a thing of fairy tales and stages.”

Matt looked over to the side where Samuel had a potted plant of some kind.

With a thought, he brought it over to his hand under the scrutiny of Samuel and Jolene.

“I obviously didn’t bring this in, so watch.”

Matt caused the loose and slightly rocky surface soil of the plant to float before him in a slow cloud of debris that pulsed in sync with her heartbeat. He also subtly slowed the rhythm down, hoping it lowered the woman's racing heart to something more manageable.

As he did so, Liz gestured at it. “Feel free to touch it. This isn't fire and won’t hurt you. If seeing isn’t believing, feeling should be.”

Matt made the dirt spin and twist around Councilor Jolene’s tentatively extended hand.

After she seemed to have her fill, Matt compacted the dirt until it was a perfect replica of the very chair she was sitting on.

That somehow seemed to finally convince her more than anything else.

“It's all real then. So what happens now? We are part of a galaxy spanning monarchy? Will we have to move?”

As Liz leaned forward, phoenix Liz jumped to his shoulder with a quiet squawk of indignance. “From the perspective of what we call Realspace, what you know as your observable universe, nothing has and nothing will change, physically speaking. At risk of getting too technical, what was moved was the node, or access point of this planet through Chaotic Space, which you could think of as spiritual space, a higher reality. That node was moved into the Empire’s territory, which is how the world was transferred. That means inter-world travel will be different, but for anyone staying on this planet, nothing changes.”

Jolene shook her head, and Matt was going to ask what she didn’t understand of that explanation when she asked, “Empire. Why are we transferred to a monarchy? We are a mostly free people, with elected officials, people who represent their constituents. How can we become a monarchy? No one will accept that. Can we go back?”

