That question seemed to be a deep and burning desire of hers. But as much as Matt wanted to not hurt these people, that was no longer a possibility. While he knew integration could be rough and painful for veil worlds, he also believed that it was a net positive, as just knowing and having access to cultivation made life so much better. Maybe that was just because he grew up under the Empire’s governance, but the Empire allowed civilians to live unabated should they want to do so. They also allowed the more ambitious to rise above their mundane beginnings, which was impossible in a veil world here.

If he had been born on a world like this, Matt knew he would have never been able to reach the heights he had. He knew change could be hard, but this was a massive improvement if handled correctly.

“It's already done. People stronger than you, or even I, have made this choice. Our Great Powers recently fought a war and part of the peace treaties were that a number of planets were transferred to the Empire. Liz and I are the ones who are receiving a portion of those worlds.”

“So this Republic lost a war and now we are being thrown away to the wolves?” Jolene seemed genuinely angry at that fact, but what Liz said next didn’t help.

“Technically, the Republic won. The planetary transfer was the result of a related, but separate secondary treaty, not the peace treaty itself.”

Even Samuel looked shocked at that revelation, and Matt tried to soften the blow.

“Liz and I aren’t cruel. We wish to integrate Soerilia as gently as possible. That is why we wish to gather the world leaders so we can discuss how to do so with the smallest degree of —”

Jolene leaned forward and pleaded, “Then please leave us alone. Just leave us be. It seems like you have the power to just walk away. Just do it. Go. Please.”

Matt shook his head. “No. That’s not an option. But, I recognize that you’re in a very trying time, and I understand why you think you want to stay separate, but your lives will be far better in the Empire. Magical healing, like the sort that Councilor Samuel seems to have received, is quite common in the Empire, and free for civilians. Our technology is substantially more advanced than what you have here, and everyone will be awakened for free- that is to say, become a cultivator. Even just awakening comes with several health benefits, so you can expect a global increase in life expectancy, and that’s not even accounting for those who decide to actually delve and cultivate, who will have a distinct possibility of becoming immortal. Even without that, simply reaching Tier 3, which will be possible without ever leaving this planet, will give you an average life expectancy of a hundred and thirty, with better health for much more of that time. And that’s simply the start of it.”

Jolene slowly processed that before her eyes sharpened. “Wait. When you say immortals, do you just mean very old, or do you mean actually immortal? As in truly never aging?”

Liz nodded. “Matt and I were both born about three hundred years ago, but we’ve spent considerable amounts of time in places where time passes faster, so biologically, we’re closer to five hundred. My parents are about thirty thousand years old, and one of my aunts can have her age measured in millions of years. Though it’s still possible for us to be killed or to end our own lives, reaching Tier 15 makes us truly immortal. Or unaging. My [AI] is telling me there is a difference in your local language, but in Empire standard it's the same word.”

Jolene rubbed her face before scrunching up her face. Matt didn’t miss how her blood pressure started to rise to a dangerous level.

Matt stood up, and Liz followed him. “I think there has been enough stress for the day. Let us take a break and reconvene the morning before the general meeting. I hope you can ensure all leaders are here, now that you fully understand the reason behind this meeting. If you have an issue or wish to contact any of us, I have some tablets which you can use to contact us and are preloaded to translate all of your languages. They also have a small amount of information about typical Empire integrating plans.” Matt paused as he mulled over that information. “We intend to go through with a slower than normal integration, as we recognize that while the standard Empire method is expedient, it can be hard on the people involved. Instead, we would like to use a more Republic method that is slower and hopefully more gentle. Otherwise, try to have as good of a day as you can.”

Samuel looked like a weight had been lifted off his chest and slumped into his chair, while Jolene had a thousand yard stare as if she had just experienced her first life and death battle.

It was not a good sign for what was going to come.

Instead of leaving through the door, Matt created a [Portal] to the airspace above the Arbitration Convention and made a small show of stepping though. The skill was one he picked up after the war when he realized he’d be without the Allie Express and needed a way to get around that used his mana instead of willpower.

Matt let out the sigh he had been holding in since they had arrived. “I feel like an asshole.”

Liz groaned while Pheonix Liz started grooming an errant lock of his hair. “I know. We stopped this stupid war, but what is the point if these people don’t want to know the truth? I want to say that realizing the truth is nothing but a good thing but Jolene nearly had a heart attack and Samuel cowered at every word we said.”

Matt pulled Liz into a hug and they floated there for a minute until they pulled apart and looked at their seneschal’s together.

“Any thoughts?”

Isabella nodded slowly. “I’ve looked over the information about veil world integrations and there are two main methods. Fast and abrupt or slow and steady. The Empire favors fast because while it's rough in the early decades it's simpler and comes with less long term issues. But having seen these people… It seems very… Rough.”

Cato just blinked at their gazes and shrugged. “It is what it is. If you slow down, those children who would have been born with an Empire education and Empire opportunities would have lost them. The slow approach extends any suffering just as much as it reduces the initial shock. What is right or wrong matters little. All that matters is how you wish to handle it. The best thing the lord and lady can do is pick a method and stick with what historically works. In a thousand years, it won’t have mattered how the integration happened except as a footnote in the local histories. It is neither cruel nor kind. It simply is.”

Matt processed that information slowly before nodding. Cato wasn’t wrong, even if he pointed out a harsh truth.

A thousand years could pass and none of this would matter, so long as the population at the time was properly integrated into the greater Empire. At least while that might be true on an Empire wide scale, but Matt was here now. He could see these people, his new people, and he wanted to do right by them.

It only took one glance at Liz for them to affirm their decision. Slow and steady was the right path forward. At least it was here. They couldn't change everything, and Matt was sure some of the integrations would go badly for the local populace. It was simply the truth of large numbers, but Matt wanted to do his best.

Liz made a small noise, and Matt followed her spiritual perception to a nearby city where a seemingly abandoned building had a rift inside it.

Out from the rift, a group of five walked out. Delvers.

With another [Portal], Matt delivered the four of them in front of the building which he noticed looked like an abandoned apartment complex.

It wasn’t quite at the level the rift break damaged buildings in the outer city of his home had experienced, but it was clearly unfit for habitation. There was even a formation that would make anyone without cultivation feel uneasy in the area of the building, and would feel downright uncomfortable if they entered.

Combined with the rift being in a hidden but well warded and defended room off one of the secondary bedrooms, the place was practically mortal proof thanks to using Tier 3 material and a number of immolation formations which would kill any monsters that might escape during a rift break.

It wasn’t exactly what he would consider a good rift policy, but it clearly worked. And with a few delving teams, they could easily keep the rift controlled and the mortals uninformed.

The Republic had three types of delvers on veil worlds.

The first and rarest were retirees who reached a point in their cultivation where they wanted to stop before immortality and wished to retire to a veil world. They would live as a mortal and ensure any rifts in their section never broke, delving them as needed to keep them safe. As they were always at least three Tiers stronger than the planet they were stationed on, there was little danger to be had, but so too was there no reward.

That position was rare, though, and strictly controlled. The Republic was quite serious about keeping cultivators away from mortals.

The second type of delvers were low-Tiers from offworld, delving the rifts normally to keep the risk of rift breaks low while advancing. They were only usually used when the planet itself didn’t have very many local cultivators, which was where the third type of delver came in.

Locals. People born on the planet, who lived on the planet, and who would probably die on the planet. Depending on the local regulations and whatever agreements had been established during the world’s founding, those cultivators might live entirely cut off from the rest of their planet or be something of an open secret. In some places, they lived entirely openly, with only knowledge of the greater Republic being restricted to either cultivators only, or cultivators of a certain level of strength.

Late stage veil worlds were weird, and Matt couldn’t really understand the purpose of such societies, but that was the Republic not the Empire.

Now that he thought about it, it wasn’t even that different from normal Empire life on low Tier planets. Most people never thought about their greater Great Power in any real sense, and never left their world of origin. It just didn’t matter to them in their short lives.

That statistic held true in the Empire on lower Tier worlds like Lily as much as it did on veil worlds like Soerilia. The average person, even the average delver, was happy to live a content life with a moderate amount of work in return for enough wealth to see them comfortable and able to afford the luxuries they desired.

Even the price of teleportation in the Empire, while expensive, was only a moderate barrier even on Tier 4 or lower worlds that needed the teleports fed with more than ambient mana. Your average Tier 3 or Tier 4 delver could save up enough to transport a team in a year or two of average delves, with no exceptionally valuable rewards like growth items.

It was why The Path worked so well. It found those with ambition and gave them a clear direction to run with few hurdles to trip over.

“Hello, my nam—”

Matt stopped speaking as the door was slammed shut in his face.

From the other side, he could hear angry whispers about how no one should be there and they hadn’t felt anyone, and how much trouble they would be in after they reported this up.

Speaking loud enough to be heard through the door Matt said. “Hello. My name is Matt and I’m the new duke of the area and wanted to talk to some of the locals to get a feel for Soerilia and its people. Would you open the door, please, so we can chat politely.”

The door opened, and in halting and frankly bad Republic standard one of the women, the group leader Matt assumed, said, “Inside. Hurry.”

Matt and Liz slipped through, to be followed a moment later by Cato and Isabella.

In the local language the woman had spoken with earlier behind the door Matt said, “As I said, my name is Matt, this is my wife Liz, and our seneschals. We just had a chat with some of the local leaders but we wanted to meet with a few of the local delvers and you guys were the first we encountered. Would you mind answering a few of our questions?”

The woman swallowed before nodding jerkily.

Seeing this woman was also afraid of him, Matt changed the question he was going to ask. “What have you heard of us? So far, everyone in the know is terrified of us, and that feels like a bit of an overreaction if I do say so myself. Speak your mind. I promise we won’t take offense.”

The woman glanced at her team and they shared a few hard looks before she sighed and turned back to face Matt. “We’ve heard a lot of things about the Empire. Little of it is good. We also heard of you two personally and that you are Gladiators and more than capable of killing anyone at your Tier with a thought.”

Liz gestured for her to continue. “What about the Empire? Anything in particular?”

One of the men behind her spoke first. “I heard that the Empire forces people to awaken even if they don’t want to so they have enough people to delve rifts.”

The second woman shook her head and corrected the man. “No, Eric said the Empire made people awaken so that they could earn more money off people.”

The second and third men of the group shared a look and at Matt’s nod the second one added. “I heard the Empire forces people to reveal their Talents to get jobs.”

Seeing they didn’t react badly, an outpouring of half truths came out of the delvers’ mouths.

Few things the group mentioned were outright wrong, but a lot of things seemed to be either deliberately twisted into the worst explanation or mutated as the fact turned into rumor through word of mouth.

