Once the group seemed to run out of steam, Liz thanked them and proffered them two items. “The skill shard is a simple [Fireball]. The rings are an enchantment that once worn will pull the spear back to its wielder. More mana into the ring will strengthen the attraction, but it's useful if you normally throw that spear, which judging from its balance, it looks like.” Once the team carefully took the items, she continued. “I assure you that those rumors are mostly that. There are some kernels of truth in there, but most of what you have learned is exaggerated at best and misleading in the rest of the cases. Let me put to rest some of your concerns. The Empire does awaken everyone, but that’s mostly to cut down on abuses of power. Talent readers don’t show your Talent to other people, just an estimate about how strong it is, and it’s illegal to require Talent readouts for job applications. Though some guilds and corporations have minimums set in their contracts there are always caveats for demonstrable skill . Taxes might be higher for high-Tiers, but it’s certainly not burdensome.”

As the group digested that, Matt asked his own question. “If you heard so many bad things, why stay? We were led to believe that the Republic allowed any cultivator who wished to relocate to do so.”

The leader's answer was quick and firm. “This is home. We wouldn’t leave if things are about to get worse. We know we can’t do much but we can stop a rift or two from overflowing.”

That was a good answer.

Matt grinned as he nodded along. “That's as close to a right answer as I could imagine. Can you direct us to the local delvers’ organization? We have a few days free and while we intend to spend some of it exploring the world we want to meet with more delvers as we travel.”

Snapping his fingers as if he had just remembered, Matt asked, “Do you guys have a way to monitor rift mana levels?”

The leader nodded. “There is a device at the local Forum. You can also send a message to all local delvers and I assume Director Frank can give you more information about other locations.”

After saying their goodbyes, Matt pulled the four of them to the newest location. They had three days before the Arbitration Convention and it would only take a second to traverse the entire planet if they really needed to return. With that time, Matt wanted to get a better feel for the lay of the land, so to speak. For all the advantages of the Empire, their efforts in uniformity and cohesion meant there weren’t so many local cultures to create new variations of ideas and customs.

Learning more about the people of this world would only help as they met with the leaders, which after the reactions so far, Matt was sure would be less than a smooth experience. He’d need to talk it over with the others but he was starting to formulate an idea of how best to get all of the disparate world leaders on board without too much push back.
