“No refunds, huh?” she muttered. “But at least the upkeep is gone.”

Jake checked, and yep, it was gone, and they were down to zero daily upkeep.

Daily Territory Upkeep: 0 PC

“Saved us a lot of dough right there,” Jake commented in a joking tone before letting out a loud sigh. “I’ll miss our new friend... may we meet again, Foot Soldier number 1.”

“If you feel that bad, you can summon a new one,” Miranda chuckled, still busy looking through the menus. “Either way, there is a lot to go through here, and we should spend the next seven days as productively as possible. We also lack a lot of information, such as which neighboring Territories belong to whom. I hope it’s not the Andromeda Galaxy, as it would be annoying to get into conflict with the Holy Church immediately, but if we have to, we will.”

“It’s not even sure we are directly connected to other Territories, could be that there is neutral ground between us,” Jake added.

“True,” Miranda nodded. “Either way, we should focus on reinforcing our defenses and spend our Prima Credits productively for now. Defending the Territory Beacon is naturally our top priority, so that’s what I’ll focus on. Also, from the looks of these formations and ritual circles that we can buy directly, they all seem far too expensive. I believe it is wiser to buy the materials and perform the rituals ourselves and only rely on special formations if we absolutely need them. Hopefully, there are some that can reinforce my existing skills.”

Jake couldn’t help but smile as he turned to Lillian. “Definitely does sound like Miranda is going to be playing a tower defense game. Or ritual defense game, I guess.”

Lillian could only nod in agreement. “And I believe I’ll assist her as best I can.”

“I already gave Miranda the ability to assign others some control over the Territory Beacon,” Jake said, throwing the witch a look. “I do believe you’re more qualified to handle whatever this thing can do than me.”

“Don’t sell yourself short; I’m sure you could do perfectly well if you wanted to,” Miranda said, not sounding at all like she was joking. “But I agree, your skills are best spent elsewhere. The goal of this event appears to be the conquering of other Territories, after all, and I don’t believe there is a better person to do that than you.”

“There, we are in complete agreement,” Jake grinned as he turned and looked to the side. “Speaking of... while we are supposed to be locked inside our Territory during this Preparation Phase, I believe nothing is stopping us from scouting along the edges and seeing if perhaps we can spot one of our dear neighbors. Maybe, just maybe... someone might even be in range.”
