Drumming his fingers on his desk, he pondered what he should do with Kael, the servant boy the princess had left behind to take care of her estate. The council was split on the matter. Some wanted him imprisoned as leverage against the princess, while others argued that angering her was a terrible idea.

He was with the second camp, while the Elders from the mainland, who didn't believe the stories, made up the majority of the first group. He was obliged to listen to the Elders on all decisions, but this wasn't one he was willing to bend the knee to. Even now, he could feel the chill of the void from that headless monster that had come to check on Stella that fateful day.

But denying the Elders' direct orders to imprison Kael had resulted in more problems than he had anticipated.

"Ugh, what a headache—" His doors flung open, and his stuck-up cousin, Elder Virelia, strode in. Her way of entry wasn't too unusual, but her dire expression was. He raised a brow. "What's going on to cause you to look so ashen, cousin?"

"The portal has stopped working again," she said, her words cutting through his headache like a blade of ice.

Thalos paused and then waved it off. "It's likely a malfunction brought on by the recent upgrades—"

"Communication jades too. It's just like last time."

Thalos felt his soul leave his body as he sighed deeply. Rising from his chair, he eyed Virelia with a darkened expression. "Gather everyone and head to Stella's estate. I fear the Slaughter Princess has graced us with her presence once more."

Elder Virelia nodded sharply and turned to leave, only for another Elder to run inside in a panic. "A dragon is attacking the Citadel!"

"What?" Thalos said, wondering if he had heard it wrong. "A dragon? We don't have any wildlife on this godforsaken rock, much less something as legendary as a dragon—"

"I'm not lying. Just look out any window on the east side, and you will see a giant ice dragon in the sky over the noble district with a cackling girl standing on its head."

The entire building suddenly quaked.

Thalos and Virelia exchanged a glance.

That cackling girl was most certainly her, wasn't she?

"Instruct everyone not to attack the dragon," he said. "Its owner isn't someone we can mess with. Elder Virelia, you're with me."

With a snap of his fingers, a portal to Stella's estate opened. It was time to meet the Slaughter Princess again, and he wasn't happy about it at all.
