"Don't drink or eat the red water. It's toxic and can lead to you losing your mind. Even a small amount could lead to irreversible corruption. You've been warned. As for me, I'll be heading into the deepest part of this chasm and annihilating its source. Good luck with establishing yourselves here, and I'm sorry this place hasn't been the kindest home."

After receiving a psionic cheer, I left the city's shielding. I peered at the misty depths, crackling arcs of crimson lightning omening a violent, cruel territory. I floated towards the coordinates of the Red River, the gray mist washing over me. It was time to uncover who was destroying Earth, though I had a few ideas already.

And they filled me with a primal fear.

Chapter Begin

Bolting across the skyline, I passed a vulture. The force of my travel knocked it aside, careening the creature into the city's forcefield. Emphasis on force. Upon impact, the hexagonal plates turned sideways, sliced through the creature, and then erupted into purifying pulses. The eldritch faded into particles of light, carried away by the howling wind.

The other eldritch circled the space, but they kept their distance. I disintegrated them with gnarling vortexes of gravitation, the pull strong enough to pulp their bodies. Event Horizon vaporized the remains, and clouds of red mana flooded into my frame.

A scowl crawled onto my face as I bolted down the canyon's side. This dungeon was colossal, and it showed no end in sight. I killed another few packs of eldritch that attacked me, but I ignored any of them that didn't get in my way. I wanted my guildmates to get some levels, which I couldn't gain from these creatures.

A few minutes passed while spires of stone and a perpetual fog clouded my vision. The roars of the ravenous ushered out in the distance, the levels of creatures rising by the second. At the bottom of the cavern, I found a desolate landscape of bleeding bones. The red drenched into the stone and poured in a tiny stream.

The beginnings of the Red River.

I followed the flow for a few more minutes. I crossed dozens of twists and turns, the stream growing over the many miles I traversed. After a half hour, a strip of glowing crimson carved itself in the distant fog. As I darted towards the water, I found an enormous, bounding lake. The vast volume of water dwarfed anything I expected, more like a coursing lake than a raging river.

It crested in enormous plumes and waves. The drizzle formed a cloud that gushed out violent bolts of electricity. The sanguine cloud toiled and spurred in all directions, latching into anything nearby. Ascendant lightning struck the lake below, and bloody fish flopped out of the water, snapping their jaws at the bolts.

Alien life formed around the edge of the water. Plants covered in teeth snapped at anything nearby, and roots crawled out like living arteries. These tendrils dug under the skin of creatures, pumping their blood into them like bloodthirsty, hungry hearts. Several other creatures attempted to approach the red water to siphon its power, but the deep dwellers beneath the water snapped at anything that came close.

Nothing escaped them.

This territorialism created a gap in strength that formed between the outer lands and the inner waters. As an example, a Krossolidra in the distance lapped up a few mouthfuls before bounding away. A bramble of bleeding thorns snapped around it before rupturing its body. The other Krossolidras abandoned the creature as it desiccated in the vines.

Further up the cavern's walls, a pack of Krossolidra's climbed down with humans on their backs. Hiding from them, I surrounded myself in a patch of hungry brambles, and the thorns found my metal skin not too tasty. The reptile riders wore tarps and masks over their faces, having scouted out a viable route to the water's edge.

To stop the monsters from eating them, they threw a cluster of mana shards into the lake. The quintessence shards distracted the monsters like fish food, and the people filled up several ten-gallon jugs of the glowing water before heading out. I let out a small, quiet laugh. The mana they threw was mine.

Somehow, my shards of quintessence made it all this way. Hm. It could've been a recent innovation after the skeptiles settled in. Either way, I checked out their trail, finding the plants hacked away and the ground salted with pungent chemicals. They stopped the underbrush that way, and the well-worn path meant they crossed into this place many times.

As always, humanity found a way.

Further in the distance, another group flew on the back of vultures. Unlike the riders, these people didn't have anything to protect them from the beasts below. They dove into the expanse, gulping as much of the cancerous, bloody water as they could. Their skin reddened, and their eyes lost all color as they scrambled out of the waves.

Several lost their lives, but they dove in as a group to let some escape. It shouldn't have worked, as these monsters sat around level 15,000. They could ingest thousands of people, let alone a dozen, but there was safety in numbers, I supposed.

I supposed wrong. Getting closer, I tore the brambles around me. Near the water's edge, a being of immense mana fed the beasts below with its energy, trying to protect these people. It must've helped the reptile riders as well. Wanting to know more, I dove into the ocean to follow the insane divers before finding one of them isolated.

It looked at me, the gender no longer recognizable as its body malformed from the mana. It hissed as I approached, but I held out a hand and telepathized.

"Hey, I'm not here to hurt-"

It jumped at me with all its strength, rage exploding in its mind while it psionically assaulted me. Caught off guard, I blinked before the body hit my chest. It splat, unable to budge me. I gawked as the blood misted off my skin. Before I absorbed the remains, I disintegrated it with Event Horizon.

I coalesced the person's remains into a tiny mana crystal the size of a needle. Placing it in my dimensional storage, I'd give whoever it was a burial. It wasn't something I could do in Springfield, but I could now, at least. That had been one aspect of clearing Springfield that haunted me, but I didn't have to keep that particular tradition alive. Some things were better left in the past, after all.

The other members heard or felt the commotion, and they swam up to me like writhing oni. As horns sprouted over their backs, they peered at me with disturbed eyes. I shook my head, my eyes sad.

"Why would you do this?"

One of them took a step forward. It spoke via telepathy as well.

"To be strong...Like you."

They swam forward, but I stopped them all in a gravity well.

"Well, you're not quite as strong as I am yet."

I invaded their minds, finding the welling ascendant mana that eroded their sanities. It reminded me of L-7's rainbow bone slush, but it lacked the killing potential. This water drowned in thought. The rainbow bone left a silent, empty mind behind, like some hollowed husk. Trying to help while I still could, I took a deep breath.

The water rushed in, warm and inviting as a joyful insanity. Pulling Event Horizon over them all, I used the aura to steal their mana but not their health. Like Diesel mentioned before, I focused on precision, not power. After a few minutes, I restored their psyches. After pulling them out of the water, I set them down.

They gazed up at me covered in rags, their clothes torn from their transformations. I lunged down, leaning towards them.

"There's a settlement up that way that can clothe and feed you. If you do good work, you'll get the power you're looking for and maybe a purpose to top it off."

I tossed them all quintessence shards.

"If you ask me, you all really need direction, not power. I offer both. These should ward off the ambient ascendant mana. Toss them to a creature if they want to eat you. If you work together, you should be able to get to the city in about three hours."

One of them stared up at me, their eyes wide.

"You're one nice metal titan."

I stood up.

"Hopefully, I'm the only one you know, but who knows, eh? This world's not exactly the most stable anymore, so maybe metal titans are the norm now in certain places."

One of the others fumbled as a horn fell from its forehead. They turned and scrambled back to the lake before a giant leviathan swallowed them whole.

I winced.

"Ah. I guess you can jump off a bridge if you want, so to speak."

I lessened the gravity over them. I smiled.

"Get out of here, and don't come back. This is your second chance, so please, don't waste it."

They scrambled away through the trail. As they left, I checked their statuses. Each of them sat around level 3,000, a very high level for normal people. The drifters represented solid talent if molded well, but they collapsed under the weight of temptation. That, and the psychotic, demented ramblings of the fog around us.

And I knew its source. My hand clasped to a fist, and rage exploded in my chest. Baldowah. At this point, it was painfully obvious, and even from this much exploring, I learned a few things. Firstly, this cavern had expanded to the size of a small country. From the size of my minimap, it looked about as large as Montana.

Secondly, people had found a way to profit here. In that sense, humanity's adaptability stood out yet again. Thirdly, Baldowah spread his ilk here for all to suffer from. Closing this chapter of the Grand Canyon wouldn't be a waste of time, considering how dangerous the expansion was. To get a better idea of how demented this place truly was, I trekked deeper.

Walking across the pocket dimension reminded me of traversing a different planet, one I didn't want anywhere near Earth. In all directions, animals indulged and devoured anything coming nearby. The creatures in the water stood atop the food chain, all of them collecting the latent energy within the liquid. They feasted on one another, battling and destroying their rivals in potent, furious battles.

The water absorbed the majority of the shockwaves, and the spatial fog prevented their bouts from destroying the nearby terrain. I waved my arms through the looming mist. It still carried that odd sense of separation. Ideas raced through my head since the mist could make a potent training ground or prison cell if wielded by competent hands.

I took note of two toothy monsters scrambling to shore. Fog or not, that didn't stop these beasts from leaving miles of devastation in their wake as they explored. Each time an oceanic creature escaped the lake's confines, it tore through the canyon walls, creating thousands of offshoot valleys.

In my minimap, these side passages splintered off the main canyon like dark veins branching off a festering wound. The skeptiles established themselves amongst one of those offshoots, saving them from the worst of this hellish place.

And hell, it was.

Blood monsters liquified scavenging corpse swallowers. The ground radiated out a corrupting, volatile ascendancy. The mana and fog twisted the minds of whatever I made contact with, leaving nothing of the creatures but bodies acting as empty vessels of rage. A few humans got lost here, their bodies either torn asunder or worse. These shambling augmented abominations let out screams from their deformed faces.

It was a mass psionic drowning, and it left me seething.

At first, I believed the influence of the land had gotten to me, infesting me with anger. I was wrong. This fury was my own, and it spawned from a singular source - this Old One assaulted my home. It was a simple part of being from this planet - Earth was my sanctuary. It was my refuge. This planet, Mt. Verner, and my guild were everything to me.

But now, Baldowah waged war on the planet itself. He declared to all his intentions, and they carved into my chest like a salted knife. I let the scars form so I wouldn't forget a few simple truths. For instance, they'd never leave me or my planet alone. They aimed to tear the fabric of reality away from me.

They'd steal everything by corrupting one piece of my life at a time, but I'd die fighting before they did. Since Schema's arrival, Earth was the only place I had left that was stable. It was where I went to rest and lay my head. Since the Old Ones couldn't corrupt me, they aimed their corruption elsewhere. They wanted to rob me of what I relied on.

It left me fuming. As I crossed the depths of the lake, giants erupted from the water, their forms like young primevals of flesh and blood. They lacked the sheer volatile strength, so I tore them apart with simple yet utter physical forces. I left my hand in the lake as I crossed its bounding waters, soaking in as much energy as I could.

I left a train of blue water behind me, though it shifted red once again in seconds. The amount of dormant mana here mounted, something that would take me weeks to clear at best. Taking a more drastic measure, I channeled the raw magic into my runes, the amount of mana here remarkable.

As I spent hours coasting the surface of the lake, I obliterated hundreds of sea monsters. The grotesque shapes left clouds of red mana behind, and I breathed the miasma in like a crisp autumn air. The smell reminded me of cider, honey, and blood. Over time, I could taste it, and I learned the richness of the water and monsters within.

I gauged the density of energy from that richness before following the concentration to its peak. It led me down into the depths of this Red River, and I found its end and beginning. Where the water blackened, plumes of energy erupted from a red chasm. Diving into the crevice, I launched up and out of the water and into the air below it.

