A wave of unease crossed over me as gravity flipped, my body facing towards an endless eclipsed sky. I blinked a few times before wiping the blood from my face. I dove out of one dimension and into another. A disgusting other, a place of war and finality. I stared at the ocean of Baldowah, corpses floating in the water.

Landing on the sea, my shins submerged before hitting the bottom, the rippling pool as deep as a puddle in all directions. A puddle for me, that is. It was likely ten feet deep or so. Behind me, the chasm towards my planet opened like a bloody Niagara Falls. The water frothed up with the scent of decay and the heat of battle. It pummeled into the alternate dimension that connected with ours. This was a dimension within a dimension.

A dimensception. Heh.

In the distance, a figure rested on an exposed stone beside the frothing falls. As I crossed over the chasm, I found an old woman gazing back at me. She wore a conservative floral dress that ended at her ankles. The blood oozed into her dress, her wrinkles, and her nails. Exposed to the air, her hair scabbed onto the side of her face. She gazed up at me, her pupils glowing red.

It was like looking at a horror movie.

I landed a ways away from her. Her stare stunned me. There was kindness nestled under the madness. She laughed before speaking in a calm voice.

"You must be the person who leads those stragglers, hm?"

I blinked. Her voice was like a grandma, the dissonance between her appearence and words like oil and water.

"Yeah. I am. What are you doing here?"

She let out a sigh of exasperation.

"What aren't I doing is more like it. This is exhausting. Do you know how hard it is to control these beasts here? Or worse, the thing in my head? It's like a pounding storm. Oh, it's dreadful. My goodness, it's like pulling teeth just to stay calm."

I raised my hands.

"What's your name?"

"Marsha Brown."

Her normalcy hurt me. It was as if some alien force dragged a grandmother into this horrific realm.

"Hey, Marsha. I'm Daniel."

"We know who you are, Harbinger."

Within her, a psionic presence loomed. It was an enormous blight in her tiny body. Marsha shook her head.

"Hey, I'm talking here. Shutup."

She turned to me.

"You look like a monster. I don't like monsters."

I waved my hands.

"Monsters don't take their time to talk like this, right?"

She walked sideways, her steps leaving ripples across the endless sea.

"Depends on the monster. Are you here to kill me? The voice is saying you are."

"I'm here to contain this rupture. We can agree that's a good thing, right?"

She scoffed.

"Good luck with that. I already tried, and look what happened to me."

I shrugged.

"If you ask me, you look like you're still all there."

Her eyes twitched.

"No. I'm...Missing some pieces. I can't remember much of who or what I was. It's like I'm fading."

She smiled.

"I still remember a few things. Christmas mornings with my children and eating gingerbread. Ah, the smell of turkey on Thanksgiving and the warmth at the table. The smell after it rained when I walked through our little desert trail."

"Please, just focus on that."

Her eyes narrowed.

"She will not."

This reminded me of Valgus before the original entity drowned in mana. I spread my hands.

"I can help you get out of here."

She scoffed.

"Living metal...Nothing will help her now." Her voice and eyes changed. She coughed, phlegm thick in her throat. She murmured.

"I fell into the river upstream after watching my family get torn apart. I woke up floating in this sea, and I haven't been able to escape since. It drags me deeper. Deeper I go until I'm nothing. Sometimes, I wonder if I'm still here."

I raised a brow.

"But you have helped some people survive here, haven't you? That was you stopping the sea monsters, wasn't it?"

She poked her wrinkled chin with a single slim finger.

"Yeah, sure. It's the least I could do after everything that's happened."

"That's what I'm wondering. What happened?"

Her voice warped the waves.

"My family died. I watched them. Wolves tore them apart. It broke me. I am now missing pieces that will never be fixed or filled."

She experienced the culling when Schema's system first arrived. She'd been here for years now. I winced.

"I'm sorry to hear that."

"Why apologize? You didn't do anything. It's something that happened, and I wanted to stop it. This place, it was somewhere with a lot of potential. I wasn't someone who could use it, but I knew alchemy. I was supposed to contain the water and its glow."

The more she said, the more confused I became. Her voice broke.

"It killed them all, but it left me alive. I can't remember what I did to the bodies."

I frowned.

"It doesn't matter. I can save you."

She roared.

"And what about them? What can be done for the families I've lost? The people I abandoned. The ones I've killed."

I remembered those I left behind.

"You can carry their memory. Live with it. Bear it. Make it have meaning. Or not. Whatever you feel, it's still your choice. There's always a choice."

She grabbed the sides of her head, her gray hair frail and thin despite the palpable power surging beneath her skin.

"I haven't made a choice since this system came and washed everything away. We're all caught up in something we can't stop. All of us. You're a part of that. You're not even here anymore."

I took a step forward, my voice like stone.

"You're lying to yourself. You're still speaking to me. You're finding an excuse. Look me in the eye and tell me you don't have a choice."

She smiled, her grin unnatural. She glared into my eyes.

"She does not."

My gaze hardened.

"That's where you're wrong. She does. You're trying to take it from her."

The grandma let out a gasp before staring up.

"I can't keep going on. It's too much."

I reached out a hand.

"I thought that too, but there are people who can help you. These people are far kinder and more understanding than I am. They're people you could laugh with while sitting around a campfire. They're people who'd invite you into their house for a homecooked meal. Trust me, they'd welcome you with open arms."

She narrowed her eyes.

"You're lying."

I put a hand on my chest.

"I'm not. I know where it is. I forged its beginning. The people I love made it matter in the end."

Within an arm's reach, I stretched my hand out.

"You can too."

She gawked at my hand. She peered away, her tears made of blood.

"I'm not made for this place. It's for the young. I've gotten too old and tired. I...I can't."

I scoffed.

"I have a few people who can make you feel as good as new, and if you're worried about being lonely, don't be. I know someone who loves bingo, and she'd play it with more excitement than any retirement home you've ever been to."

She laughed, the sound sad and small but carrying an ember. A fire. A spark.

She smiled back.

"I'd like that quite a bit, young man."

She grabbed my hand. With overwhelming force, I shot into her mind, searching for the abomination inside her. A presence akin to Valgus sat in the bowels of her subconscious. It laughed before reaching out its tendrils. I growled.

"You do anything, and I'll kill you."

It voiced.

"Then let us see that consequence. As all, with finality."

It tore the grandmother apart. Her body disintegrated as ascendant mana boiled her blood. The avatar of Baldowah shot into my body, and I took a step back. A wave crossed the ocean as it fell into my mind. It laughed and shouted with glee.

"You're a fool. Baldowah showed me how you killed Valgus. There is none of that killing fluid-"

I tackled into its mind, my body collapsing. I lost control of everything, and my memories faded as I tore into the being's consciousness. It screamed.

"You. You're killing us both."

My mind was stone. Cold. Hating.

"No. We're dying. I happen to be better at it."

I pulled ten minds against the entity at a time, all of them crashing in like suicidal bombs. They left me unable to move, breathe, or remember. I needed nothing but the end of this monster. I gored it apart, my deaths like a sweet ale that I became drunk on. As its mind waned, I laughed at its pain. I raged. I flowed over it in a torrent, and it faded away.

It gurgled in pain.

"What are you?"

I poured in a flood, ignoring its horror. I continued the assault for hours, the excruciation familiar yet foreign. Losing pieces of myself meant nothing to me as I trusted my endurance. I had faith in my return, and that faith armed me with a conviction this pathetic, simple-minded parasite couldn't match.

As it disintegrated, I returned to being. My entirety was revived with my memories, and I assessed how alive this thing was. It left something akin to a corpse in my head. The shards floated in the ephemeral nothing, each one carrying enormous mana reserves but lacking the same punch as Valgus. It hadn't had that kind of time to develop.

And it didn't matter. I gazed where Marsha had stood. She hadn't done anything wrong, yet she took on the burden of some far-off, twisted god's desires. My hands trembled in anger as I dwelled on what happened. If anything, the avatar had kept Marsha alive until I got here just to bait me in.

This had been a ploy all along. They wanted me here to test a new mental takeover. I peered up at the eclipse, my mind struggling to maintain coherence. With no means of recourse, I inspected the shards the avatar left behind. I tried pulling them together to get them out of my skull.

Before I could, the far reaches of my psyche crawled in. Like tendrils of my armor, some unseen thoughts tore into the shards and indulged in a psionic feast. They drained it into nothing, and my mind emptied of the foreign influence.

Breathing in, I found more space in my head. At the far reaches of myself, my mental borders broadened. I created more minds than before, with three extra psyches at my disposal. A part of me recoiled at whatever it was that ate the shards. I'd never experienced that kind of psionic devouring.

It was as if I ate the memories and thoughts of someone else. However, a part of me knew it was there. I had felt the armor's desires for a long time, but nothing had ever pulled it out of the dark. This avatar's corpse had, and I couldn't ignore it any longer. It was a part of me.

I shook off my unease, knowing I'd control it like everything else in this...This body of mine, if you could call it that. Staring at a hand, I watched it shake for a second. This was still mine. So were my thoughts and soul. They hadn't taken that from me. I had to keep on believing that.

In that limbo of thought and feeling, I stood there, watching the bleeding waves. Some length of time passed before I walked away from this place and back towards the chasm. Watching the blood ocean pour in, I stared back at the waves behind me.

"I hope you've found this entertaining."

Baldowah echoed.

"I have, Harbinger."

I glared at the eclipse, my rage and sadness coursing over me in waves. Knowing I could do nothing, I dove into the red expanse below.

This was not the end, and they would know what this feeling was.
