The sky was black, and though distant stars held in that grand expanse above, their fearful light did not do much all the way down here, on the Surface of Veird. The world was quiet. Even the wind seemed shy, for Darkness stood upon the land.

Melemizargo’s glowing white fangs and shining white eyes were the brightest lights here, warning everyone who held the true power in this place. The dragon’s size did a lot for that announcement, too, at being nearly 40 meters tall, while the back of his throat glinted with a restrained white fire, reminding everyone present that he could burn away everything, should he be given reason to open his maw and let loose that annihilation.

Erick’s Benevolent sunform and accompanying jolts of lightning were a nightlight compared to the brightness of the God of Magic. The only presence Erick outshone was that of Goldie, though her bright white eyes were a tiny mirror for Melemizargo’s. At that thought, Erick wondered why he was thinking of the sizes of lights. He came to the conclusion soon enough: he was terrified.

Only an idiot wouldn’t be terrified in this situation.

Everything was happening, all at once.

And yet, Erick was ready; as ready as he could ever be. His Ophiel were around him and wrapped in defenses, and so was he. He took a calm breath, and turned his sight to the horizons, all around. Where was everyone else? Shouldn’t Rozeta and the wrought and Kirginatharp and the Mind Mages all know that Erick was back? That he had finished the Worldly Path? That it was time to face the Darkness?

They had to know that Melemizargo was threatening to upend the entire way that life worked here on the Surface of Veird, right? Taking [Teleport] away from every single person, or preventing [Teleport] from working up here, would have catastrophic cascading effects.

Some people lived directly below the ground in hiding holes with no connection to the surface, or inside well-defended mountains, and the only way to get to town and back was to use [Teleport]. In a much larger sense, [Teleport] was the backbone of overland-based trade. There were still a lot of shorter-distance, caravan-based trades that happened between farming field and main towns, but everything between all major cities was mass-[Teleport] driven—

Well. There was shipping-cargo-based trade, too. That wasn’t [Teleport], but only because ships could go very fast and haul a lot of cargo a long distance. The basic [Teleport] spell simply didn’t give enough bang for the buck when it came to hundred-thousand-ton shipments that needed to cross the oceans, or through the Underworld.

The Underworld would be mostly fine if Surface trade collapsed, for almost all of their direct shipments were point-to-point caravans between Geodes or outlying Geode-adjacent cities, but many deep cities still traded through the Surface. The Geodes all had Surface-based trade in some way, too. In those cases, a city would usually have a long road connection to the Surface, which then connected them to all the production up here, and to [Teleport].

… Perhaps everyone did know that Melemizargo was making threats.

Erick saw no [Scry] eyes in the sky—

“I blocked casual observation,” Melemizargo said, his voice rumbling like a quake. “If anyone wants to participate in this conversation then they must come forward and actually participate. You’re risking it all appearing in person, so they should too.”

Erick fully resigned himself to the outcomes of the day, and forced himself to relax. It worked, a little. “The gathering is taking longer than I expected, so I’m going to make some furniture.”

Without waiting for confirmation of acceptability, or anything like that, Erick went ahead and began [Stoneshape]ing simple stone chairs out of the ground. They were little more than orange blocks with a bit of a backing, but he made himself one, and then he made five more. The stone chairs formed most of a circle about twenty meters in diameter, while leaving a large section un-chaired to account for Melemizargo on the north side of the space. Smaller, broader Shapings turned the land into solid stone, while leaving multiple extra spaces open for other chairs to be placed, if more people came.

Erick glanced over to Melemizargo’s space, and saw that he had transformed his own rather large area into stone, too. Erick nodded at that, and then he turned back to what he had made—

“Six chairs?” Melemizargo asked.

“There’s space for more, but...” Erick looked at the chairs. “Rozeta. Koyabez. Phagar. Kromolok. Kirginatharp. And me. And you. I’m not expecting and nor do I want the full Relevant Entity pantheon…” He paused. “But maybe a space for Dinnamoth, the Demon King, and Adavido, the Crown of the Host? I’d like to enact a lasting peace there, too— Ah. And… Not Fairy Moon. But one of them from that side—” Erick suddenly stood straight. “Bright Smile. Yes.”

Melemizargo leaned his head in a little, saying, “Wouldn’t work. Kirginatharp would want to kill her on sight. Fairy Moon will speak on their behalf.”

… Probably best to avoid the topic of Bright Smile’s Benevolent Lightning collar, anyway. This was already going to be a tense discussion.

“Would Kirginatharp react the same way to any dragon?”

“Yes.”

“… No other dragons then.”

Melemizargo grinned. “Having Fairy Moon here would make all others rather more compliant with the words of this meeting.”

“I would rather whatever agreements we come to be enforced through understanding and compassion, rather than magical compulsion.” Erick realized that he was speaking through fear, though, so he added, “But I suppose she is an ally now, and I should take advantage of that to at least protect myself.”

“Quite right!” Melemizargo added, “And based on the natures of all invited peoples, the words spoken here would have a deep weight beyond their physicality. In attempting this talk, you are making a type of uncategorized magic that would usually fall apart before it could even get going; an agreement of gods. My advice for what comes next is to go small, and precise. Write down lines you don’t want crossed, while leaving the vast majority of interactions free of fetters— Ah! Speak of the fae and they shall appear.” Melemizargo glanced down at the circle of chairs.

Fairy Moon sat on one of those chairs, her green and pink eyes gently glowing along with her pink and white dress. A crown of rainbow flowers adorned her head. “Of course I would show for the show, you younglings! I was too busy burying bodies last time to be raised to Relevance, but this day is different. Today I turn up to the table.”

The sky shifted.

Rozeta’s voice boomed outward, “This is not a time for Relevance.”

Blue skies retook the roof of the world, pushing back the darkness, transforming utter night into a lesser twilight. The sun was still hidden somewhere up there, but the land was brighter, and that was good.

Melemizargo didn’t care about the sky, or about theatrics that weren’t his own. He stared at one of the chairs Erick had made, watching as a splash of golden divine fire coalesced out of the air.

Rozeta stepped out of that gold fire, looking like a human-shaped wrought woman. Kromolok stepped onto the stone behind her by several paces. Both of them were technically nude, wearing their bodies as their clothes, but that was normal for them. Rozeta wore a white pantsuit, while Kromolok had his body shaped into his official Inquisition robes of office.

Fairy Moon glared at Rozeta. “I want Relevance, if only to prevent your prevarications and the Silences of your Script. I want my race restored.”

Rozeta sat down in her provided chair, to the south of the circle, saying, “I’ll help Erick make a Script that allows for such, but it won’t take hold on Veird. The next world, or preferably the next one after that.”

Fairy Moon’s eyes went wide and she sat up in her chair, almost coming off of her stone seat. It was only now that Erick noticed she had taken the chair in the west.

Erick decided to sit down in his own chair, in the east.

He had a thought. With Melemizargo in the north, this gathering of four (and Kromolok standing behind and to the right of Rozeta, while Goldie stood in front and to the left of Melemizargo, both of them positioned closer to Erick than to Fairy Moon; and wasn’t that a thought!) would likely be everyone, because this gathering included all four corners of the world. Erick’s sunform even shone upon the eastern chair, while Fairy Moon’s gentle glows were a much more subtle reflection of Erick’s own. She even had that ring of Benevolence upon her hand, as though she had taken some of his light, as the moon would the sun. Rozeta, at the south, was the ground and stability, while Melemizargo at the north was the great darkness beyond everything solid, though both of them likely thought themselves the other in certain situations. Melemizargo certainly saw himself as the creator of foundations. Rozeta saw herself as the true inheritor of the title of the God of Magic, as the true Darkness, or as what Darkness should be.

Ah.

Intellectually, Erick had known what he was doing when he called this meeting. But he didn’t truly know until it was here.

This, then, was the ritual changing of a world.

Melemizargo chuckled, low and menacing. “You truly are opening the cage then, daughter of mine.”

“Not for a long while.” Rozeta said, “If we were to gain decades upon decades of good, sensible behavior from you, then perhaps I would feel better about everything you have done to get us here. Erick’s Elemental Benevolence might have solved an overarching Sundering problem, but it has still not solved the problems you have created, and will continue to create.” She looked to Fairy Moon. “As for you! Don’t even pretend to me that Elemental Benevolence and Erick’s new world order will change how you operate, either. Kidnapping and mind control! The worst part is that you are also incapable of seeing how what you did to Erick was wrong.”

Fairy Moon shrugged. “I got gains. You achieved aught. Besides! He allied with Ar’Cosmos! If your kin-killer would have gotten to him first, then Erick would be as eradicated as all the other enemies of your wrought.”

“Erick is not our enemy.” Rozeta said, “We were wary in the beginning as all sensible people would be, but he has proven the merit of his character ten times over. Similarly, you, Fairy Moon, have proven yourself a million times over.”

“Tell me true!” Fairy Moon demanded to know, “If he would have went to the criminal Kirginatharp and dined with demons and acquiesced to angels, would he remain himself? Or would Erick have been eradicated? If I hadn’t harbored him, then would he have died from Relevant recidivisms?”

Rozeta said, “Kirginatharp would have stepped in and prevented such a tragedy. All you truly did was grab Erick, force him to see you as people in need of saving instead of under necessary control, because that is who he is, and now we’re here. You are unworthy of being allies with anyone, for all you know is mind control and manipulation.”

It was here, that Erick decided to step in, saying, “I would like to start there, and suggest the first of agreements to come out of these talks: No more unwanted mind control by anyone—” And because he knew it would only be making a problem to solve later, or be rightfully argued against, Erick added, “—except by those in active pursuit of the best possible worlds, against the worst Mind Magic offenders, or only in extreme circumstances. The average person —or even the head of a state— acting in normal fashions, should never have to worry that they will be mind controlled against their will by anyone, for any reason.”

Fairy Moon almost leapt out of her chair, happily saying, “So you agree! My actions were acceptable!”

“Actions can be acceptable based upon the outcomes, and still be the worst possible actions to take.” Erick said to Fairy Moon, “I am not comfortable enough with you to visit Ar’Cosmos on a normal basis. Not now. Maybe not ever.”

Fairy Moon just nodded, like she had expected that. “The land of no-lies is dangerous to denizens and transients alike, and we’ve even had dragons there for a while, if you witness. Transforming that tenet or the truth of our tenants is likely not to happen here or hence, so your reluctance to residence is recognized. Doesn’t mean Ar’Cosmos is done with you, though.” She asked, “Are you still an ally? Are we to rescue you from the ravages of the wrought when wanted? Or are we to be without any Wizards, once again?”

“You have at least one Wizard locked up under Stasis spellwork.” Erick said, “So don’t pretend that you are actually ‘without any Wizards’.”

Fairy Moon smiled. “Who is she when compared to the sun that is thee? That woman is trash for true. But what about you? Are you an ally?”

And that was the big question, wasn’t it. Rozeta lightly stared, needing to know the answer. Melemizargo wondered, too, though he was mostly just intrigued by everything happening all around him. He didn’t expect this to actually work, and so he was ready to do whatever he needed to do after everyone else was done talking.

Which was probably bad.

Erick spoke, “I wish to be an ally to all who would abide by a few basic rules of interaction. No violence. No attempts to magically control. Honest communication. Honest interactions. Forgiveness of foibles. The eradication of true evils, not merely perceived evils. Approaching each other from places of goodwill, in the hopes that such interactions will both create a better world, and be that better world in the act of trying.

“Here, in this space, I would like to act less as individuals, with individual needs and wants, and more as guides of what comes next. What we want the world to look like. How we want to interact with each other. What sort of interactions are acceptable, and what sort of interactions are not acceptable. For instance—” Erick turned to Kromolok, and said, “As far as I know, Kromolok, the Mind Mages I have worked with have always been professional and scrupulous when it came to their magic. A continuation of that is fine with me.” He turned to Fairy Moon. “What you did was wrong, though, and has needlessly added drama to an otherwise… Well it was always going to be a contentious talk, but I’m still mad at you.”

“I accept your anger, and the aftermath of my actions.” Fairy Moon said, “Ask a wish to weaken your wrath, and I will make it manifest.”

