Erick frowned at the guy. ‘Thanks, I suppose, for showing that you can still get into my mind even when I don’t have a physical mind at the moment. Have you removed any memories as well?’

‘Unlike the fae and the dragons you have been interacting with, we don’t use our powers for personal gain, or to make existence easier.’ Kromolok said, ‘The only time we ignore that adamantium rule is in the case of a Forgotten Campaign, and that won’t be happening to you. You’ve got a much worse fate: dealing with all the shit you stirred up.’

Erick paused for a second. ‘… Was… Was that a joke?’

‘It was an attempt at humor, yes.’ Kromolok said, ‘Obviously, we are both too stressed out to appreciate the attempt. By the way, Sitnakov wishes to enter into your service, too. Rozeta chewed him out most thoroughly, showing him the error of all of his particular ways.’

‘… Was that an attempt at another joke?’

‘Sadly… No.’ Kromolok said, ‘Also, officially, you’re not welcome in Stratagold’s outer cities. Unofficially, feel free to connect to Yggdrasil down there at any time you wish. Also, the Mind Mages wish to officially speak with you about ensuring that they are not seen in a bad light, because they never want to go through another persecution by a high-ranking political power ever again. In a different way, the Angels and Demons want to talk, because they want you to stay out of their business, and—’

“Okay. Okay…” Erick felt like he should be getting a headache, and yet he felt perfectly fine, because of course he did. The Script and Stats magic were all very good about ensuring physical wellbeing. And he still didn’t have a physical brain at the moment. “I’m going to… To go to the Yggdrasil at Candlepoint, and sort out a whole bunch of shit, and welcome the wrought and you to a station there in, like, a day—”

“How about in the next four hours? We would like to be nearby yourself, in order to ensure that you won’t be assassinated in the next little while.”

“… I’ll see you in the next four hours, and we can work out all the rest at that time.” Erick asked, “Do you need a [Gate] back to Stratagold?”

“I’d prefer to see the inside of your Gate Space; where you say you can see Benevolence stretch out before you, illuminating all problems.” Kromolok said, “I have been chasing a world without the threat of a Sundering with all of my power, and for all of my life, so I would dearly like to see what you see when you look upon the future of Veird. If you are not willing to trust me right now, then I would at least like a copy of the blue box.”

Erick thought for a moment, then asked, “You must have seen it through my own eyes— Ah. Well. That’s just not the same then, is it.”

“No. It is not.”

“Rozeta hasn’t already shown you the blue box?”

“No.” Kromolok stressed, “This, right here. This event. This is not a problem that threatens to kill all of Veird. Therefore my powers as Inquisitor are limited. And despite what Uchena might have told you, though we aren’t technically a part of the Mind Mages, we are Mind Mage adjacent; we hold to almost all of their tenets, as well as a few more besides.”

Erick handed over the blue box. “I’ll show you the [Gate Space] when it’s not quite so vulnerable.”

Time seemed to slow for Kromolok as he accepted that large blue box. He blinked a few times as he read its wording. He smiled a little. He chuckled, and breathed. It was exactly as he had already seen through Erick’s eyes, but now, he had a copy.

It was everything he could have ever hoped for.

With a soft voice, Kromolok said, “Thank you, Erick. Thank you.” He sighed like all his problems were actually, truly gone, and he had not fully accepted that reality until that moment. Then he chuckled a little, smiling again, as he said, “I’ll take that offer of a [Gate] to Yggdrasil’s cave now.”

Erick nodded a little, still trying to gauge every emotion he had seen pour off of Kromolok, as he said, “It was good seeing you, and not being enemies.” Perhaps a bit too fast, he moved on, opening a lightning portal in the air next to Kromolok. “Do you need another portal to get back in five hours? Or ten? Maybe 24? Take your time?”

“Elemental Benevolence is your Element, Erick. I cannot overstate the importance of that fact.” Kromolok said, “As long as you are alive, I doubt anyone could influence your [Gate Space] unless you wanted them to. But I take your wariness. I’ll also take another [Gate] from Yggdrasil’s cavern to wherever you are in the next four hours, please. I expect to have some people with me, too.”

“... Sure. See you then.” Erick nodded.

Kromolok nodded too, then he stepped through the [Gate].

Erick closed the portal.

And then Erick just sort of stood there for a while, letting his thoughts drift in the haze of the aftermath of the battle, while his lightning sparked here and there upon the solid sand underfoot. Those sparks had been leaving small black marks, but now, they left tiny, tiny red and tan cacti. And Erick felt good.

Though this talk might not have looked the part, it had been a battle to determine the entire fate of Erick’s personal future, the future of Ar’Cosmos and the dragons, the future of Veird, and to ensure that Melemizargo didn’t throw too many wrenches into the whole process. The battle was over. The battle was won.

Erick counted his lucky stars that the people of Veird still had access to [Teleport]. The average person might not ever know what they had almost lost…

But they would certainly know what they had gained! With suddenly renewed vigor, Erick opened a lightning portal into his [Gate Space], stepped through, and closed it off behind him. It was time to work.

It was time to build.
