Melemizargo chuckled again, then said, “Some people will use your Benevolence in this way, but then that’s on them! Ah. This is great.” He looked to Rozeta, and then to Kromolok. “Are you going to clear up this little Red Dot Mage problem? Or shall I secure even more of Erick’s goodwill by sending another Shade at the problem?”

Fairy Moon spoke up, “Let me put this problematic person into prison! That’s your true yearning of justice, is it not, judge Erick?”

Everyone turned toward Fairy Moon.

Erick stared at the pink and green fae for a short moment that felt a lot longer than it actually was. He did want more justice than the edge of the executioner’s ax. That was very much a goal of his. And yet… Did he want Fairy Moon jailing the Red Dot Mage? For the first time in a long time, Erick’s thoughts spiraled. He took longer than a moment to think and to answer.

Fairy Moon took this delay as evidence of her win. She smirked wide and happy, then hopped off her seat and moved toward Ophiel—

“No,” Erick said, his mouth moving faster than his mind.

Fairy Moon stopped in her tracks. “… No?”

Erick’s answer had been instinctual, but he was able to gather a few thoughts after the fact. He asked, “Was your plan to mind control him?”

“I will lay down laws against the lad as I laid them against you.” Fairy Moon shrugged. “If he should harm another, then I will make him harm himself as well. I suspect this mirrored mandate will simply slay the slayer soon enough.”

“That would qualify as cruel and unusual punishment.” Erick said, “I would rather he just die, or be eliminated as a threat without causing excess harm to him, or to others. If you can manage the second one without mind control, then I will listen to your thoughts.”

“‘Excess harm’ is an excessively halfway phrase, Erick,” Fairy Moon said.

“You don’t like the soul mutilations of my [Blessing of Empathy]. I don’t like the way you mind control people.” Erick said, “In a perfect world, neither of those things would happen, and we wouldn’t need to execute criminals either. But this isn’t a perfect world, though that doesn’t mean we should stop trying. I choose to draw the line at mind control… and I probably won’t be doing much of that soul mutilation, either. At least not against people who don’t ask for it.”

“Ah! I have imagined a solution!” Fairy Moon said, “I suggest I give this guy a great choice! Execution. Control of Mind! Control of Soul! Let us see what their selection is for this slaying scenario.”

Let the convicted choose their fate?

… Unfair, or perhaps the most fair?

Erick made a decision, “Okay. Sure. I can abide by that sort of justice. You will take the Red Dot Mage in hand and bring him here for him to make a choice of his own. And then we will carry out that choice.”

Kromolok spoke up, “Mind control to get someone into court? Are you sure you want to go down this route, Erick?”

“In this specific scenario, the Red Dot Mage has proven that they are a mass murderer who is incapable of being dragged to justice any other way. I had thought that Messalina had captured the guy, but apparently she has not.” Erick said, “I will likely need to deal with her later, but, as stated, that will happen later. What is happening here is too important to be delayed overlong in the execution of it all.”

Kromolok gave a tiny nod of acceptance. He did not agree with Erick’s use of mind control to get someone into court, but the needs of the situation demanded harsh choices be made quickly.

“Enough dallying!” Fairy Moon said, “Ar’Cosmos must prove itself as presentable to the public, and thus, I go to grab a great killer and keeper of faces. Now where am I wandering?”

Kromolok said, “If this is really happening like this, then the wrought wish to participate in the enactment of real justice, and to extend a hand toward Fairy Moon and Ar’Cosmos, in the hopes that a treaty between our peoples can be founded on even, new ground. We hope to open dialogues based on mutual constructive words, and the rule of law is a good place to start.”

Erick was dumbfounded, yet again. Fairy Moon had much the same reaction, but writ large; open jaw, narrowed eyes, a huffing voice that wasn’t sure where to start. Erick recovered first, and said, “I thought making a treaty between your peoples would be the most difficult part of these talks.”

“It will be difficult, and Fairy Moon has already broken treaty with us once.” Kromolok stared at the offending fae, saying, “But she’s not the true problem of Ar’Cosmos; that honor belongs to all the dragons trapped in there.” He looked to Erick, “You might have already solved most of the real issue of dragons by telling Kirginatharp that he gets the next world, and that all the other dragons have to wait for him to leave Veird. If he takes this offer, it is one way in which this whole scenario is made easier.

“But in the hundred years that it will take for this to happen, two other things will happen:

“One, is Ar’Cosmos will multiply in size ten thousand times over, creating a separate sort of world for all of the dragons to fight over, while leaving this one alone. We hope to create treaties to ensure this happens, and that it happens in an organized manner.

“And two, the people you reincarnate into non-dragons won’t pose nearly as much of a danger to Veird as a true flight of dragons, and anything these reincarnated people do is outside of the scope of the duties of the wrought.” Kromolok said, “Separating the dragons from Civilization has worked to keep their danger away from everyone else, and so we see no reason to stop this. In fact, we wish to encourage this separation.”

“Erick.” Rozeta spoke up, “Even in the best case scenario, we expect you to use your Sight to see the grand problems before they happen and to inform us of those problems before they happen, and when necessary, to ensure that no dragons shall endanger Veird. Kirginatharp will be working with you to kill such dragons, if you will have that alliance.”

Erick didn’t know how he felt about that, but he was somewhat… glad? Sure. He was glad. Melemizargo looked intrigued, but not overly concerned. Fairy Moon obviously had some deep thoughts behind those heterochromatic eyes of hers, but Erick could only guess at them.

Fairy Moon said, “I want the Script restrictions on Elemental Fae relaxed to full. Do this, and I agree to keep the full dragons to our own world until such time as they won’t start dragon fights in this one.”

Rozeta frowned at Fairy Moon. “That wording is very loose. ‘Until they won’t start dragon fights in this one’. Fights are only half of the problem. Greed and territory demands are another. I also have an issue with your use of ‘full dragons’. The mangled Essence dragons are still a problem.”

Fairy Moon shrugged. “Those are the terms I choose to chance with you charlatans of this created court.” She added, “And besides that! More dragons in my domain means more duties to keep them demure. I cannot contain them all on my own; the only thing that can do that deed is the Curse of that kin-killer— Oh!” She stared at Rozeta. “And I want Kirginatharp’s left eye. Or left testicle. Or... left arm. Or... horn? Yes. Horn. Any option will work. Any body part firmly parted from that person.”

Rozeta probably would have been turning red with anger if she had blood.

Erick spoke up, “You ask for too much, Fairy Moon. Kirginatharp is Rozeta’s son, too, just like Idyrvamikor was.”

Fairy Moon huffed, lifting her chin at Rozeta. “Feh on your kin-killer child! Bad upbringing! Blame the mother, and maybe the grandfather, too!”

Melemizargo chuckled, saying, “Those two always hated each other.”

“Shit in all your eyes,” Rozeta spat at Fairy Moon, and Melemizargo.

Rozeta had been dealing with Fairy Moon and Melemizargo and their involvement in the death of her son, Idyrvamikor, for the last 1400 years. She had been dealing with Kirginatharp’s involvement in that, too. And she was a dragon. Not a single one of these facts wasn’t already well known by Erick, but in that moment, hearing her curse at the causes of some of her pain, it brought it all together.

His heart went out to her, but he remained silent.

Fairy Moon didn’t care about Rozeta’s verbal curse. She turned to Erick, saying, “Guide me to the guilty, my wishful Wizard!”

Erick gestured behind him, to the Ophiel still hanging out over the sands. From Ophiel, Erick cast a lightward image of the target. “The Red Dot Mage is currently this man, a fisherman at a farming lagoon in Archipelago Nergal. I have no idea how long it has been since he has stolen this person’s life, but he was fishing on a boat in that lagoon the last time I looked through Benevolence. I will open the portal a kilometer to the south of his last known location, inside the jungles. You can bring him back through the [Gate], too, and we can bring this problem to a close in the next ten minutes.”

Fairy Moon did a little twirl, her dress transforming halfway through. She stopped and did a little pose. She now wore high-quality brown leathers, with embroidered pink flowers twining down the legs and on her chest armor. “Qualified for questing!”

Erick opened the portal.

Fairy Moon vanished from where she stood. All Erick managed to see was her boot vanish beyond the lightning [Gate], as her voice whispered on the wind, “See you soon.”

Rozeta said to Erick, “I can understand why you chose to ally with Ar’Cosmos, but I feel you will come to regret this in the coming centuries.”

Melemizargo said, “That’s a laugh! You expected him to ally with the wrought? Forgetting all the other nuances of such an alliance, your people keep this world chained down and unchanging. Proper Wizards cannot be contained, and you shouldn’t even try! Look at what such meddling almost cost Fairy Moon.” He looked to Erick, “You should have taken her for more.”

“Maybe another day,” Erick said.

Rozeta seemed to deflate a little, as though she was preparing to speak on the same sad argument that she had had with her father for the millionth time, but then she sat a bit straighter. She had extra words to say this time; something new. “We keep this world secure because it is the only one. When there are new worlds, and when your existential threat is no more, then my people can think about relaxing our standards. Only then, will the wrought be able to truly let societies live and die on their own merits. But I wonder about that. Specifically the part about you not being a threat anymore.” She looked to Erick. “I doubt you would be able to Sight it if he doesn’t wish it so, but is Melemizargo one of the existential threats you see?”

Melemizargo went a little still. And completely unreadable.

Melemizargo looked at Erick from thirty meters away, though the heat of his Sight seemed right up in Erick’s face. Ah. Well. Here now was a danger, wasn’t it? Well fuck that.

Erick looked away from Melemizargo, to Rozeta, and said, “I can’t see anything, one way or the other. I can’t see anything upon you. I can’t see anything upon Kromolok. Fairy Moon was clean, too.” As Erick spoke to his small audience, they started to relax, and ponder. Erick was pondering too. He gave voice to those thoughts, “Which is quite odd, isn’t it? To me, none of you are nodes of change with regard to massive changes in population, either for or against. I’m sure there is some godly business going on, but Kromolok, at least, I would have expected to see a bright ring of lightning around all of him, for there is surely to be at least one more Forgotten Campaign in his future. I cannot see such a Campaign on the horizon, but it must be there, right? Somewhere?”

Melemizargo narrowed his eyes at Kromolok, studying the man. Rozeta even turned a bit to take in the sight of her Inquisitor.

Kromolok’s eyes just went wide. And then he softened, and quietly asked, “Perhaps… There are to be no more Forgotten Campaigns?”

“… Oh.” Erick said, “Well. While possible, and I do hope for as much, I doubt that—”

Fairy Moon strolled through Erick’s portal, her left hand casually holding onto the braids of a severed head. The Red Dot Mage. Erick’s heart sunk. Red blood dripped onto the sands under the fae’s feet, while splatter clung to the embroidery of her leathers.

Erick just stared. Was he angry? Sad? Feeling hopeless? Probably.

Probably all that and more besides.

Fairy Moon waggled the head back and forth once, as she said, “An easier event than I had envisioned for when I offered options, he decided upon death, and thus I enacted execution.” She held forth her right hand, showing off a perfectly spherical, bright red core. There was little blood upon that core. Most of the blood was on Fairy Moon’s hand. “Your Red Dot Mage was a free dragon. One I have broken fast with before in Ar’Cosmos, and have had cause to contain at least once. He appears to have gone back on his agreement to be an agreeable person, so now he knows the fiercest of freedoms; the freedom from this life.” She looked to Rozeta, and said, “I can do this mediation for a multitude of millennia if certain situations are solved to my satisfaction. If you stop the squeezing of the Script on my society of souls, I will produce a partially-permanent deliverance from dragons, one way or another.”

Rozeta stood from her chair. She stared at Fairy Moon for a long moment. “[Renew] will allow Ar’Cosmos to expand to the limits of the Script, but you will ensure your lands do not infringe upon the Core of this world, or any other.”

Her words were merely the opening salvo of many more to come, from both sides.

Fairy Moon flicked the severed head and the red core to the ground. The head flopped into the sands, gathering grit upon all of its wet surfaces. The core merely vanished, leaving a wet spot on the ground. No one seemed to care about the dead guy, or that Erick had ordered Fairy Moon to bring him back here for questioning, and sentencing. Erick’s myriad of emotions had transformed into a hollow anger. How dare Fairy Moon flagrantly disregard his words!

But…

That kind of thinking was unproductive.

Erick let that anger go.

Fairy Moon still had a lot of anger in her, though, as she said, “[Renew] will lease our land to infinity and beyond. Your clause for a non-Core breech is beneath us and I will not agree to this amendment.”

“Is this to be an agreement for all time?” Rozeta asked, “Or an agreement of the moment? It certainly seems like you’re trying for whatever suits your needs, without regard for the wording we hammer out of this gathering.”

