Fairy Moon pulled back a bit, relaxing. “An agreement for the moment is monumental enough. I’m still offering millennia, though.”

“Yes. Millennia of easy times for a universe of more problems later,” Rozeta said sarcastically, then she cleared her sight, and stared at Fairy Moon. “Here now is an offer: You and your people both living and never-dead, keep the danger posed by dragon fights, on Veird and in your own lands, to at least the current level it is now, or lower, while accepting competent wrought and otherwise oversight inside Ar’Cosmos and other fae lands. We will be allowed inside your lands, Fairy Moon, and you would treat my people as perfect guests, and leave them free of your influences, or attempts to influence. Obviously, if they do wrong, as codified by standard law here on Veird, and agreed to by you, then you will evict them. You will not do your own justice to my people, as you have done here with Erick’s request. You will honor both the intent of this agreement, and the wording. In the case of a necessary Forgotten Campaign, you will fulfill that necessity yourself, with minimal involvement by us.

“Agree to all this, and I will begin to relax Elemental Fae’s band of intent within two years, after we see the results [Renew] has upon Ar’Cosmos. I will start with an increase from 1, to 10.”

Fairy Moon’s eyes went wide in shock. Whatever ‘bands of intent’ meant, it was important. Erick guessed that ‘bands of intent’ likely had to do with what the Script classified as ‘Elemental Fae’ or ‘Elemental Fire’, or any other Element out there. It probably didn’t have to do with why Elemental Fae self-destructed in the presence of other Elemental Fae, though, because Elemental Fire did not destroy other Elemental Fire, for example. But perhaps the bands of intent releasing on Elemental Fae would mean that there would be ten types of fae that could live near each other without destroying each other.

Melemizargo looked on, eyes a little wide in wonder, mouth a little open. He had not expected this sort of outcome, but he was happy to see it happen. Rozeta noticed her father’s eyes, too, but she judged his casual enjoyment as not a problem right now. Rozeta was very wary that Melemizargo might somehow be stringing things together behind the scenes to cause a grand destabilization of Veird and the Script, but that was an old worry.

Fairy Moon tried bargaining for more. “Ten bands is not enough.”

Rozeta had expected this. She said, “If, in the next fifteen years, this sort of arrangement seems to be working, I will allow Elemental Fae to expand to 100 bands of intent. If, in 100 years, this arrangement has been solidified as calm and beneficial to all, then I will allow Elemental Fae to multiply to 100,000 bands of intent, or maybe more, depending on how much mana your slice of reality actually produces on its own, compared with how much mana your land absorbs to remain functional. After all, my only purpose in controlling this world’s magic is to ensure that a Sundering will never happen again, that magic remains open for all, and that this world continues to produce positive mana.” She warned, “If your people should threaten the integrity of this world, in any way, such as the myriad of ways you have threatened this world before, and as you threatened to do in the beginning, then these bargains are nullified. I will shunt you back down to a single band of intent and consider never opening that floodgate ever again.”

“Accepted!” Fairy Moon smiled brightly, saying, “I look forward to seeing the sincerity of your sayings in your Script.” She bowed to Erick, then rose. “A successful start to a benevolent new balance, my wishful Wizard. See you soon.”

And then she twirled sideways, and vanished. The blood upon her leathers fell away from the space she had been occupying, to land on the stone ground like red water—

“A good bargain. It might actually last a while, too.” Melemizargo asked, “So what’s next?” He smirked. “Shall we solve the Forever War, too?”

Rozeta scowled at the space where Fairy Moon had been for a moment longer, then she rid herself of all expressions and faced her father. “I want to know your plan with that soul slime’s Truth.”

“I think not.” Melemizargo said, “It is not time for that reveal. Let us deal with some more politics instead. Who is next? Perhaps Kirginatharp?”

“No one else is coming.” Rozeta said, “Kirginatharp won’t go near you. The Angels and Demons want nothing to do with Erick, and even less to do with you. Every Relevant entity that wishes to speak to Erick has private matters to discuss with him and they don’t want you involved. This whole thing with Fairy Moon and Erick’s Benevolence and… We’re done, for now.” She looked to Erick. “I know you wanted something more foundational to a new beginning, but this has been more than enough. The dragons will remain behind their [Fairy Gate]s, though they will try to interact with Veird through you, as you have put yourself in a crossroads position. Don’t let them harm this world, Erick. Fairy Moon is going to screw over our agreement in some way, for sure, but it will likely be a small problem. This alliance between you and Ar’Cosmos was completely unexpected, but… It might be for the best.” Rozeta said, “Know this, though: The wrought want the opposite of war. They would like to reaffirm their commitment to building civilization, and that means that Stratagold wishes to retain their alliance with you. All the rest will be following Stratagold’s example, but in their own time. Do you understand?”

All eyes turned to Erick.

Erick asked, “No danger of being Mind Controlled out of power?”

“Not from my people. My people wish to work closely with you to both understand Benevolence and to use it to ensure the integrity of this and all possible worlds to come.” Rozeta said, “As far as I know, the Mind Mages wish to work closely with you, too, so there’s no danger from them, either.”

“… What about Kirginatharp?”

Rozeta tried not to be exasperated for a wholly different reason than all the other ones that had come her way today, and she mostly succeeded. “I would like you and Kirginatharp to sit down and have a discussion about what happens next, and what you plan on creating out of your part of the world. Kirginatharp is not your enemy, Erick. Not now, and not as long as you continue to be who you are.”

“So you’re saying Kirginatharp was a danger to me, at one point in time,” Erick said. “At at least one point in time.”

“Yes.” Rozeta did not mince words as she said, “You were a danger. You are still technically a danger, but with Elemental Benevolence, most of the true danger of the unknown has passed. We know the measure of your soul, and we have decided it is good. Now, comes the test of time; the test to see if you are capable of handling the power you have claimed. I wish to work closely with you to ensure that you pass this test, so please don’t get paranoid on me.”

Melemizargo chuckled, saying, “It’s not paranoia if they truly are out to get you.”

Rozeta glared at Melemizargo, saying, “The only reason anyone is out to get you is because of all the horrible things you have done over the last 1450 years.”

“Tsk tsk, daughter of mine!” Melemizargo smirked, saying, “It’s only been 1437 years since the Sundering. Imprecise language like that is why your little deal with Fairy Moon will turn rotten in a few decades.”

Erick spoke up, “I plan on being around in a few decades, and so I would like to continue to ensure that relations stay stable between all parties here at this meeting, in whatever capacity I am able. I wish to keep stable and to grow along normal lines the relations between Ar’Cosmos and the rest of the world, and the wrought.” He looked to Melemizargo. “My desires for stability also include whatever sort of stance you decide to take, Melemizargo, but I would appreciate if it your stance was one of calm direction toward a better future, and less horrors all around.”

Rozeta pulled back a fraction, glancing between Melemizargo and Erick. She rapidly decided that Erick’s words were likely for the best, so she let them stand. Melemizargo had been somewhat stunned by Erick’s words but he recovered just as fast. The Dark Dragon turned back toward Rozeta. Both of them had wanted certain things from the other, and though they weren’t getting those things right now, both considered that they might get those things in the future.

Melemizargo raised his head high, then looked down, and spoke, “Small disruptions and expansive growth. This is a treasure to be protected. And yet, this is nothing new. Fae lands have always been on the other side of existence, until the Sundering, and the Script. Wizards used to be welcome on all worlds, and they used to create new ones all the time, as Erick has already done, and is planning on doing. We are close to how the Old Cosmology used to work. It is not perfect. It is not what I would truly want, and so, I will be adding my own touches here and there to bring better Realities in line with where reality should be…” With a light stare upon Rozeta, Melemizargo said, “I won’t be too disruptive unless I have to be. It was good seeing you.” He turned to Erick. “Goldie is now yours to command. I’m sure she will return to you when she has a full report. Let me know if you want control of all the rest.”

And then he vanished.

Just like that. Simply… gone.

The twilight air shattered all at once, revealing the sun above and restoring the warm winds of the north. Heat washed across the land.

And Erick panicked a little—

“Okay! So!” Rozeta happily said, “That went about as well as it could have. Great job, Erick. With everything, too. All around, wonderful work. Looks like I need to make some adjustments to Elemental Fae, though, which… Unexpected!” She gave a nervous, half-chuckle, then said, “Truly unexpected. But workable!”

Kromolok sighed, muttering, “That’s going to be a disaster.”

“Ohh!” Rozeta said, “Maybe not. With this agreement, I have literally removed the problem of most dragons from Veird. It’s better than the war I was expecting.”

“You have added nine more fae to this world, each at the power of Fairy Moon.”

“Well yes.” Rozeta said, “But this should be manageable. Fae normally only ever interact with mortals or immortals in the playful sort of sense, and the nine she should choose to resurrect might keep her busy with her own for the foreseeable future, which is good enough. Anyway. That’s a long discussion and we need to make plans for those events.” She turned to Erick. “Would you like to participate in those discussions, or are you ready for a break?”

“… Are we actually done for the day?” Erick asked, looking down at the solid stone he had made out of desert sand. “I expected a lot more people… and talking.”

But not really; not once he had seen that all the possible occupants of his ritual had taken their positions in the four cardinal directions. Still, though, he wanted to solve the Quiet War.

“No one is willing to meet with Melemizargo right now for all of their assorted reasons. You are actually approaching that same category due to your affirmed alliance with Fairy Moon and Ar’Cosmos, and the acceptance of Goldie into your retinue. I would warn you against getting too comfortable with the Fae or with the Dark, but you already know this. Your Wizardly nature has likely scared off all the rest of possible people.” Rozeta strongly added, “Never forget, Erick, that if you didn’t have power, then those two wouldn’t care about appeasing you at all. Don’t slip, or else the fall will be horrific. I will help you stay on top as much as I am able, but I can only do so much. I’m sure other gods will help the same, though, so don’t be afraid to ask for help.”

“I’m… Painfully aware of that, and also that I don’t have nearly enough power.” Erick asked, “Any material advice?”

Rozeta smiled softly, happy that she was being asked and that Fate was seeming to come together in the best possible of ways. “Don’t go back to Spur, but don’t cut your ties, either. Build a house and a city of your own at Candlepoint or somewhere nearby, as I think you have already planned. Accept the wrought contingent that I will be sending to you and make them a part of your workings. Build whatever defenses you require. Keep yourself and your people safe, and continue to prove the merit of your being. And open a Gate Network!

“It will be a rough road for the next few years, but if everything goes well, then in about 70 years I can start working with you to create new Scripts for the new worlds to come. I’m sure there will be a lot of problems between here and then, but I’m also sure you can handle them.” Rozeta said, “If you can’t handle them, then that is what we gods are here for. Don’t hesitate to ask. We all owe you a great deal.”

Erick felt trapped in a whirlwind, but he managed. He said, “Okay. Your advice is heard and understood. I appreciate it.”

Rozeta looked at Erick for a moment, then she said, “I know it is hard, but you shouldn’t let Fairy Moon change how you interact with others. Saying ‘thank you’ is not a curse. See? Watch.” She bowed deep, then rose, saying, “Thank you, Erick Flatt, for everything you have done. I look forward to working with you in the future.”

Erick chuckled nervously, but he couldn’t let go of the tension in his heart just like that. “Ah. Yeah. Thanks.”

“Good!” Rozeta clapped her hands, then she said, “So today has been great and terrific all around, but I’m getting notifications of problems that need fixing. I’ll see you all later.” She turned to Kromolok. “Talk with him.” She turned back to Erick. “If that is okay?”

“Yeah. Sure.” Erick said, “We have lots to talk about.”

Rozeta happily said, “We’ll talk later about a unique Blessing, too.”

The Goddess of the Script stepped backward and vanished, leaving white clouds in her wake that scattered on the northern winds like golden fire in a breeze.

Kromolok instantly started with, “Goldie is going to be a problem.”

“Surprisingly enough, I’m more worried about the wrought than the repentant Shade.”

Kromolok continued, undaunted, “There will be more hard choices like the ones you made with Xangu and the red dragon. Are you sure you wish to proceed with this life? You could always run and hide.” He sent, ‘I know Rozeta granted you that power, too.’

