Erick instantly said, “When you go around judging people for their actions, take your judgments to the local justices, first. I don’t want you just killing people out of hand. If justice is not granted in the way that you judge it should be granted, then step back, evaluate if you are wrong or if you are missing all of the facts, if your judgment is too harsh or not harsh enough, ask another competent, trustworthy person to evaluate your judgments, and then go through the whole system again. If justice truly cannot be achieved through the mechanisms of the society in which the offender lives, then, and only then, should you consider execution, or whatever other justice you deem necessary, Fairy Moon—” He turned to everyone, and said, “Which brings me to this next problem—”

Fairy Moon had maintained most of her composure while Erick spoke at her, but she still sputtered with minor rage. Erick’s attempt to move on was too much for her, though. She interrupted, “I critique correctly in all courts for all claims and claimants!”

Erick let her finish, then he said, “Okay. Well. I don’t know your whole story; I admit that. All I have heard are the words of the wrought, about how you were the Letter Killer, who went around Stratagold killing nobles and wrought and leaving behind letters detailing… the crimes of the guilty, I suspect.”

Fairy Moon triumphantly said, “That is correct! The guilty were nobles and hidden ne’er-do-wells who would never have been banished or brained as they should have been, so I did the braining myself! They were secret slayers one and all, and especially that child-killing Kydyr. You cannot tell me that killing that killer was incorrect!”

“This brings me to yet another problem that I wish to solve; as I was saying.” Erick said, “Kydyr killed an orphanage in a war in order to deprive an enemy country of future soldiers. I would call this a war crime. You do have this term, ‘war crime’, here on Veird, but it is not well used, or understood. Know this: I feel that war is unfortunately necessary in some situations, but the prevalence of war is way too high in this world. Literally any time of day or night or twilight, someone can come along from some enemy nation and attack wherever they want, killing whoever they want, and the war never ends. The terrorism never ends. The Angels and Demons are particularly guilty of this phenomenon. They even call it the Quiet War when it's between their various proxies, and the Forever War when it's between themselves.

“Therefore, I would like to propose some rules of war. Maybe Sumtir, the God of Righteous War, would like to get in on this, but that might need to happen later. For now, I would like us all to agree to some basic rules for all sides to follow in all wars, henceforth.” Erick said, “In the stated example of Kydyr and that orphanage, I would like someone like Fairy Moon to be able to bring forth charges against a hypothetical Kydyr, and for the law to step in and do what is right.

“But perhaps even more than that, I would like continual wars to stop.

“I believe that war should be declared between parties before open war happens, and even in the case of open war, all fighting should be kept away from civilians. Any other types of fighting should be declared war crimes, and many war crimes should be punished by—” It pained Erick to say this, but he did, “—If the aggressors purposefully harm civilians, or plan to harm civilians in the course of normal warfare and then harm those civilians, then they should be punished by death.”

Fairy Moon rapidly said, “I agree!”

Rozeta frowned a little, then said, “I see no problems with this.”

“No problems!” Melemizargo laughed. “You’re forgetting something.”

“Forgotten Campaigns are wars to save the world from itself, and they coincide with the rough idea of acceptable versus unacceptable that Erick proposes.” Rozeta said, “We have always tried to limit the scope of those Campaigns to those who actually prove problematic. When possible, we remove memories and magics and problems without touching the person, but some of these magics have been insidious, and thus death was the only answer.” She eyed Melemizargo, saying, “You have made these magics insidious.”

Erick spoke up, “That brings me to another problem. I believe that this Elemental Benevolence is a true solution to the Sundering problem, but I have seen several nearby issues that need to be solved to ensure that Benevolence remains intact—”

“Don’t say anything else,” Rozeta rapidly said, her eyes locked tight to Erick, her voice as serious as a [Luminous Beam]. “Melemizargo will use your words to break Benevolence—”

“I will not!” Melemizargo said, offended. “Besides! I can already see who the problems are! It’s that Red Dot Mage and that Terror Peaks fellow.” He gave a small, disapproving scowl at Rozeta. “Did you not Sight this before you came here? Tsk tsk, daughter of mine. Benevolence is rather easy to work when you work along the lines it likes.”

Rozeta wasn’t offended, though. She was stunned. “You… You already know? And you haven’t tried to support these bad ends? To kill Benevolence in its crib?”

“Normally I would have been offended at such a suggestion, but I haven’t been myself in a long time so your reaction is understandable.” Melemizargo said, “Know this: I quite like Benevolence. Reminds me of Altruism from the Old Cosmology, but with a lot less self-harm and a lot more possibilities for building a strong base of power. Can’t be benevolent without an overabundance of self-power, after all. I fully approve. Therefore, I and my clergy won’t do anything to harm Benevolence, and we will be assisting Erick as he deigns to ask. Goldie, here, already desires to enter into his service, but he has yet to accept.”

Goldie had remained standing tall this whole time. That did not change as almost everyone glanced at her. Erick just glanced all around, though, and specifically not at Goldie. He wasn’t ready to accept that probably-poisoned gift just yet.

Erick barreled ahead, saying, “Since everyone now knows at least two of the three problems approaching Benevolence—” He looked to Fairy Moon. “—and since I don’t want to be a tyrant delivering justice as I see fit, no matter what Benevolence gives me Sight to see—” He cast his gaze around, saying, “—and since I know that the issues presented by Patriarch Xangu Terror Peaks and the Red Dot Mage are existential threats to a lot of lives, I present the problem of them to this small group, to ask what should be done, and to hopefully have someone else carry out the sentence. It is not right for one to carry out all their own justice, after all.”

Fairy Moon didn’t like that last part, but she got over it.

Rozeta said, “Xangu’s machinations have killed millions of people and the Mage’s actions have directly killed tens of thousands of people. I declare summary execution for both. Kromolok could do this, or Sitnakov could do this. Sitnakov wishes to make amends for his previous actions, Erick, so this would be a good first assignment for him.”

Fairy Moon brightened, now that it seemed that execution was really going to happen. She happily declared, “I could make examples of these enemies! Extreme Light eradication for Xangu. Ten thousand thrusts with a rapier for the Red One.”

Melemizargo said, “Goldie could do this, quick and clean. It is what she does.”

Erick was almost surprised at the quick agreements all around, but he wasn’t; not really. He was surrounded by killers, and he was a killer, too. Everyone had their reasons to agree to Erick’s denouncement of Xangu and the Red Dot Mage, and yet… He felt a little hollow. Erick kept himself well together, though, and said, “Fairy Moon brings up a good point, and a reason for why I will not accept her help with these executions at this time. I do not endorse cruel and unusual punishment in the enacting of justice. I would rather they die painlessly, and without complication.”

Fairy Moon simply shrugged, though Kromolok and Rozeta and Melemizargo were all waiting for him to continue.

Erick gestured outside of the meeting area. Two Ophiel fluttered over there, to hover above the sands about ten meters from each other. He said, “Goldie.”

Goldie sucked in a small, heavy breath. She waited.

“I assume, that by your presence here and the offer given by Melemizargo, that the Blessing of Empathy emplaced upon you is not nearly as strong as it had been at the beginning? Or perhaps it never had much of an effect upon you at all?”

As though she had been expecting this, for she probably had since she was one of the best prognosticators in the world, Goldie instantly answered, “Your Blessing of Empathy remains strong, but it will not prevent me from doing what must be done, just as it will not prevent you from doing the same. Xangu deserves what is coming to him, and it would be an honor to be the one to deliver that justice unto him.”

“So be it.” Erick said, “I charge you with bringing the justice of the executioner’s sword to Patriarch Xangu, for his role played in the murder of millions. I also demand you to discover all who played a part in that Chelation War, and that includes you. You estimated 200,000 dead. The final count was over four million. Why did this happen? I am particularly interested in learning how Xangu acquired all of his unexpected Extreme Light materials, and all of his soul spears. I do not care the order in which you enact these commands, but in the end, I expect the threat of Xangu to be completely eliminated, and for your trace upon this situation to be as though you were never there. If you accept, then I will open a portal to him right now.”

Goldie slammed a fist over her chest, saying, “By your command.” In a flickering instant she had moved across the sands to stand near one of the Ophiel.

Erick explained, “The portal will open one kilometer from Xangu, hidden under a bridge in a town called Bluite Falls, in the Underworld, three hundred kilometers north of a Geode called Oloritian. Xangu is recovering from the war and planning his next moves at the house of a distant relative, which is a mansion directly under the light of a large blue crystal hanging from the ceiling. The relative’s family name is Donara, and their house is well defended from all outsiders. I could wipe the place from existence, but I would prefer a surgical strike, killing only the one who needs to be killed. You will need to find your own way back.” He asked, “Do you need more instruction than that?”

Goldie’s bright white eyes seemed to shimmer as she stared. “That is a great deal more than I usually receive. I can take it from there, Wizard Flatt.”

Erick nodded.

With a flicker of power, a ring of silent white lightning sparked out of the air beside Ophiel.

Goldie rushed through.

Erick shut the portal.

He wanted to breathe deep and then sigh out for a while, but he did not, for he was in his sunform and he couldn’t relax, anyway. Instead, he turned to Rozeta and Kromolok. They seemed to be less than thrilled that Erick had used Goldie to enact any sort of justice at all, for they were both fearful of Erick going over to Melemizargo’s side.

Melemizargo, though, seemed absolutely thrilled about everything that just happened.

Erick said, “The next target is the Red Dot Mage, and I would have your assistance, Kromolok, or whoever you would assign to such a task. How would you go about this task?”

Melemizargo and Fairy Moon eyed the white metal incani standing behind and to the side of Rozeta. Rozeta did not turn, but she did nod toward her Inquisitor.

Kromolok stepped forward. “I would ask you a few questions, first.”

Erick was prepared for this. He nodded, and waited.

Kromolok asked, “How have you chosen your targets?”

“Inside my [Gate Space] I see the whole of Benevolence stretch out into the far, far distance. The Benevolence catches upon itself like paths of lightning tangled upon Fate. Some of those tangles are problems. Some are opportunities. In the smaller of cases, it is hard to tell which is which. In the larger cases, it is easy to tell the difference.

“In a hundred years, when Yggdrasil matures and his seal vanishes and new worlds open up, there are so many tangles and all of them are so complicated that describing any of those events as simple ‘problems’ or ‘opportunities’ is near impossible. I can only really see one of those events, and only because I know the participants, but I can’t tell if that event is a problem to be murdered, or a person to be assisted.

“The closer, larger tangles are easier to tell, by far.” Erick said, “Here, in the near future, the Benevolence tangles upon three situations, turning destructive, blackening the sky and revealing the sources of that blackening. First, there is Patriarch Xangu, then we have the Red Dot Mage, and then… there is a minor cacophony of assorted, smaller problems, each adding up to their own catastrophe. Taken as a whole, these problems will cause the death of Benevolence and open the way to the return of the Sundering threat.”

“Murder them all!” Fairy Moon said, her voice deathly serious.

“I agree, and yet...” Melemizargo frowned for the first time, his displeasure heavy in his voice as he said, “I don’t appreciate you conflating ‘black’ with ‘bad’, Erick. That was why I Cursed adamantium to black. Now they can’t disparage that color without disparaging themselves.”

Rozeta glared at her father, saying, “If you didn’t want to be associated with evil acts then perhaps you shouldn’t do so much evil.”

Erick blinked a bit, though, completely caught off guard. And then he said, “It’s a valid complaint, I suppose, but I’m not sure what you want me to do about it. Black is the opposite of light. Uh. If it makes you less wary, even the beneficial things look like blackening in the lightning; a confluence of possibility that could go multiple ways.”

“Oh!” Melemizargo instantly perked up, shifting a bit as he said, “That’s perfect.” He chuckled a little bit, adding, “Oh. I quite like that, actually. Very good, Erick. This is fine. Black as a simple alarm color is wonderful.”

Rozeta narrowed her eyes at Melemizargo, then let that hate go, and said to Erick, “It takes a skilled hand to know that simply marking out all the bad things would lead to a bad end.”

“Well. Yes.” Erick said, “I was not about to create a magic— An Element, in this case, that would be twisted into a license to murder every single person touched by it.”

