“I believe the time for speaking overlong is over, Chieftain Xherw. Indeed, I have made up my mind, yes? Wild Wastes! Up! Get moving! Watch the cows…”
The angry fighting cows of the Wild Wastes got up, and every Gnoll tribe stepped back as the Gnolls bounded to their feet. Where were they going? Xherw himself was uncertain as Perale stood—until the Gnoll jerked a thumb.
“That way.”
Everyone followed the thumb and saw he was pointing at…Perale waved a paw.
“There. Silverfang. Move, you’re embarrassing me!”
Wild Wastes Gnolls looked at each other, then shrugged and began heading towards the surprised Silverfangs and Weatherfur. Xherw felt a surge of unease.
“Chieftain Perale! Can we not discuss this? What is making you act so—rashly?”
The Chieftain turned back. He was chewing on some curds of cheese from a bowl. He popped another into his mouth, unconcerned. Still, he kept his distance from Xherw.
“Little, Chieftain Xherw. I am no great thinker, and my tribe is even less so.”
Some of the Gnolls glared at Perale, but the rest were laughing. Perale went on, eyes sharp.
“—Yet it seems to me that the choice is clear. We do not kill little Gnolls.”
“That is a Doombringer—”
Perale held up a paw, and Xherw controlled himself. The Chieftain glanced at something in his paw.
“The other reason is simple. I hear many opinions I trust and some I do not. But I trust my own tribe most, as do we all. I have just received a [Message] from Honored Berr. He says he will punch me if I do not protect the little child. So we go.”
“Honored…”
Where was Honored Berr? Xherw hadn’t even noticed he was gone. But Chieftain Perale had received a missive from his [Berserker], and…
“On the word of one Gnoll? Chieftain Perale, this is greater than a snap-decision!”
The Chieftain turned, and Xherw stopped as he reached out for Perale’s shoulder. Perale had a glint in his calm eyes.
“Honored Berr does not say these things lightly. I have seen enough. I trust Silverfang and the Great Protector of Gaarh Marsh. I trust Shaman Theikha. I trust you, Xherw—but I must ask if you went deaf this morning?”
“Even Elementals can be mistaken.”
Perale just shook his head at Xherw.
“You must think I’m as stupid as I just claimed, Xherw. Besides—Berr will be angry with me. Have you ever been punched by him when he is angry? Keep it up and you might find out what it is like.”
He turned and strode away. Two great tribes of the Plains joined Silverfang, and then Gnolls began to really waver, and it seemed Plain’s Eye was not so right as they claimed. But the greatest drama had yet to take place.
 
——
 
Chieftain Eska of Longstalker’s Fang wished it had never come to this. She stood with her tribe, with part of Ekhtouch, Silverfang, and wondered how it had come to this. She longed for the time when the worst they had to worry about was the revelation of magic and Earth.
But this had always been there—she just hadn’t expected to have Mrsha here in person.
Such a strange little girl who wrote on notecards. If only she had a voice, she could defend herself.
They were arguing now. Torishi and Xherw held back as Chieftains, [Shamans], and honored Gnolls argued. There were still several powerful tribes undecided. Legends among Gnolls, like the Named Adventurer, Gadiekh the World-Pact Adventurer.
Garsine Wallbreaker, taller than even Gire, and her tribe. The famed [Tanner], Honored Shedrkh, and his tribe.
Many more—and they were listening hard to the arguments. In fact—Eska narrowed her eyes.
“Chieftain Orelighn. What are you doing?”
She called down to the Greenpaw Chieftain and his small tribe. The Chieftain did not meet her eyes. Nor had he joined them in their camp. He hid his face, and Eska growled at him. Then she turned her ears to the arguments.
“No, she’s not evil. She’s a kid. She eats lobsters. How many monsters have you seen that eat lobsters?”
“What—what kind of an argument is that? Do you not see her fur, Lehra Ruinstrider? Do you not agree that doom has followed us?”
The Named Adventurer was arguing with another Gold-rank Gnoll and his team, and Eska could wish for a better representative for their side. Because Lehra…was not gifted.
“Eh, I’m a Named Adventurer. I get into scrapes like this all the time. You know Wall Lord Dragial? Sometimes it’s just people like him causing trouble.”
“Like a Doombringer.”
“Y—n—she’s a kid.”
One of the most powerful arguments was simple. She was a child.
“Yet she has no voice. If that is not an omen—I do not know what is. And her tribe did die. You cannot deny these facts, Adventurer Ruinstrider. She has wiped out her own people. That she did not have the decency to die with them and somehow escaped a Goblin Lord? That is proof as well.”
Someone broke in. They pointed at Mrsha, and Eska turned.
“Someone—Honored Deskie. Carry the girl away so she does not have to hear this.”
The [Magical Weaver] was staring at the Gnoll, and Lehra made a fist but was pulled back by Elgrinna. However, Honored Deskie just shook her head.
“They say terrible things, Chieftain Eska.”
“Things she should not hear.”
Deskie cast her gaze towards the little Gnoll girl holding Krshia’s paw.
“She has heard worse, I am afraid. She must be here. Let her stay; it would be worse for her to not face them.”
Eska hesitated because it seemed so terribly cruel, but Deskie just nodded to her.
“I am going to speak to my kin among [Weavers], [Spinners], and [Sewers] who will listen to me. And if they do not? I will poke a few holes in their heads.”
She brandished a large needle, and Eska backed away. Old Gnolls were scary. And the truth was…they were still divided.
More equally than before, but Gnolls were listening to the arguments, and Mrsha’s past was being dissected, taken out of context. Liscor could be traced to many events from the Raskghar to the Circle of Thorns.
Eska kept hearing a name being bought up by Liscor’s Gnolls, as if it explained things. Erin Solstice. But to many Gnolls, the real proof was the first.
“Her tribe died and her fur became white! Doombringer or Doombearer—it seems the truth is clear. When tribes end—one Gnoll carries that blame.”
“They do not cause it. If the [Shamans] have gotten it wrong—”
“Borne or brought, it is still doom! The stories say—”
The stories. Eska looked around for Satar Silverfang. Wasn’t she looking into the stories? She had rushed into her tent when she had heard the Doombearer’s true name spoken aloud.
At the heart of this was secrecy. Eska had not forgotten some traitor had likely conspired with the Drakes to steal magic. Was it all…a thread that connected it all? She felt so, but she was still missing one last piece. She just had suspicions. Eska watched Xherw, but he was deploying Plains Eye’s countless [Shamans], who were loudly reciting tales of Doombringers.
The Beast of Albez was but one of many stories they retold to their audiences, who listened and argued. However…something was off.
 
——
 
Satar Silverfang knew it. She was hearing the stories they told from afar, and the Plain’s Eye [Shamans] were confused too.
Because…their stories of the Doombringer’s evil, how they would erase tribes and had even ended the Kingdom of Gnolls, were being listened to.
But they weren’t working. Or rather, they were only half-effective. Gnolls listened, and even the traditionalists looked at Mrsha and hesitated.
Not just because she was a child. But because there was only one. The scourge of calamities laid at the feet of Doombringers. Even if you believed them, there were not dozens. Not hundreds.
Just. One.
And then Satar realized what the problem was. The [Historian of the World], the [Writer], was searching the book of Khelt’s histories, writing desperately and watching the ink fade away.
She was trying to recover the missing passage of the story of the Beast of Albez. She couldn’t find how it had been told. But she knew something in her heart that made her want to weep.
It was what the [Shamans] had to realize too, in their hearts. Their stories were failing to whip Gnolls into a frenzy of fear, they were ineffective…
Because it was all over. Because it was too late. This was not the reckoning between Gnolls on Doombringers. That had…already happened.
The worst had come to pass, long ago. This was after, long after, when the stories were showing their cracks and the terrible truth was unveiling itself. They had already won long ago. That was why they were losing today.
Because Mrsha really was one of a handful of Doombringers in the entire world. Plain’s Eye would not have one more. So Satar searched.
She wondered where Yelroan had gone. The [Mathematician] had been ready to protect Mrsha with his life and in doing so, broken from his tribe. He had been taken in by the Silverfangs and promised to help her research, but he had gone off, claiming he had a lead to follow.
Satar forgot about him as her quill’s ink failed to disappear. She began to write more frantically, racing with each minute to pull the heart of the stories out of deception.
Outside, the shouting voices went quiet as a single Gnoll spoke. And the greatest drama of the Meeting of Tribes today took place today.
 
——
 
“Her tribe is dead. That is what will happen to us all if we leave that thing alive!”
A Gnoll with a spear was jostling as a group of them shoved forwards. Weatherfur’s warriors had blades bared, shields raised. Mrsha saw Qwera moving to shield her as Ysara Byres drew her sword.
Was it Xherw orchestrating this? If Mrsha died…even as Chieftains shouted and tried to restore order, it hovered on the edge of violence. Perhaps he thought it was better to risk battle before it came to words.
Almost. She saw the Gnoll raise a spear to cast and wondered if the Skills would let it strike her or if someone she loved would get hurt or die. But then—it vanished. The Gnoll threw and was tackled, but he blinked at his empty paw before he was knocked flat.
Vetn, the Thief of Clouds, whistled as he strolled out of the crowd and tossed the spear down with a shudder. Tesy was drawing a line in the grass—literally, with a huge brush, as Gnolls forced the others to back clear of the no-walking zone.
Mrsha could have hugged her silly protectors. But she knew that however dedicated they were—the criminals were ironically not good at bodyguard duty. Like Wilovan and Ratici…they were a [Magical Painter] and a [Thief], not bodyguards.
They couldn’t protect her from that simple killer. An arrow, a sniper.
A crossbow bolt.
—But perhaps he could. A Gnoll in the crowd suddenly shouted.
“Assassin! They’re trying to assassinate the Doombringer and Torishi Weatherfur! Look!”
Every head turned, and a Gnoll hidden against the top of a tent cursed, tossed the bow behind her, and tried to appear innocent. Howls of outrage rose as Chieftain Xherw instantly ordered the offending Gnoll arrested and swore on truth spell he had no idea what had happened.
It was a bad look. And Plain’s Eye began to realize their Doomslayers might be ruthless killers, but they were no match for an actual [Infiltrator].
Ferris of Manus nodded at Mrsha as she gazed at him, eyes wide. He slipped into the crowd. Had Lyonette sent him? He was a lot better than those silly Thronebearers.
Nor was he the only one. Someone yelped, and one of the ‘camera crew’ went down howling as a Drake with a broken hand—including three broken fingers—dropped a wand. He’d been edging around to aim at Mrsha!
He went to run—and ran into a boot. Mrsha saw a hand descend over her eyes—she’d seen the first kick to the teeth, but Qwera and Ysara stopped her from seeing the other ones.
“Excuse me. I believe the trash is infiltrating this Meeting of Tribes. Curious how they all seem to be trying to kill one person. Is that a Drake conspiracy? But don’t mind me, ladies and gentlemen. We’ll dispose of this one.”
A…[Maid] curtsied to her stunned audience. Gnolls pointed at her, and the smiling Drake wearing steel-toed boots picked up the Drake with another Human [Maid]. But every eye was fixed on the one who had done the hand-breaking.
A Gnoll in a [Maid]’s outfit calmly looked around, and Bekia, the [Maid] of House Reinhart, lifted what could have been a feather duster. Or a wand with a bunch of wisps of cloth attached.
“Lady Reinhart’s servants are here! The Humans are interfering in the tribes’ business!”
“Excuse me, sir. I am a Gnoll as much as you are. Lady Reinhart has indeed sent us—but she considers it a mission of morality. I have every right to be here. I am a Plains Gnoll, and I once was a [Chieftain].”
Mrsha gawped at Bekia as the [Maid] dusted someone’s face, causing them to sneeze. She looked…imposing. And that name. 
“Bekia?”
Even Torishi started. She peered at the [Maid] and pointed.
“Are you…Chieftain Bekia of the Longclaw? A tribe censured for being [Raiders]?”
Bekia slowly bowed as people recognized the name. Her face was impeccable, but her voice betrayed a bit of her emotions.
“I…was. I do not claim any right to be counted among the voices here, Chieftain Torishi. But Lady Magnolia Reinhart bade me come here to defend the life of that girl, and so I shall. I caution you—we may be [Maids] of House Reinhart, but we will enforce that girl’s safety in any way necessary.”
By kicking the teeth out of a Drake, counter-assassinating Plain’s Eye Gnolls in their tents—Ulcre was ready to attack her, but he would have had to admit what they had been about to do.
And he’d lost sight of that damn Gnoll! The other one!
 
——
 
Ferris strode along with some of the [Maids], on the watch. He doubted Plain’s Eye would try another visible sniper, and if they did? It was more grist for the rumors spreading they were just out to kill Mrsha. And why do that if they were right and confident they’d persuade anyone?
He was patting the Drake’s hand who was being dragged along.
“My teef. You shahid—”
“Shut up in the name of Manus.”
The [Maids] eyed Ferris as he hissed at the Drake. They were giving him looks of slight respect. Even for one of Manus’ lot—it was a dirty move. Xherw was denying hiring a Drake assassin, of course, and he was honestly confused.
Mainly because Ferris had arranged it. He was not above dirtying someone else’s name. Especially since the [Chieftain]’s guilty conscience would betray him already.
The ideal way to conduct this battle was to have, behind every shining beacon of morality like Torishi, a real bastard with no scruples about doing what had to be done. Ferris was only glad they had more than one.
 
——
 
