“Well, if you would be so good as to reapply Wilovan’s very handy blessing, and give me one if you can, if that Goblin has no need of it—”
Lyonette was shaking her head.
“No, Ratici. Tell me—how many times is this?”
“How many times…what?”
They had such uncomprehending looks on their faces that Lyonette knew they had to be faking it.
“How many times have you jumped into certain death? Not just since the Titan hired you, but since Erin died? You promised to make it up to her.”
“A promise we will keep.”
“How many times? How many times do you have to nearly die before it’s time? Will one of you die? Both? The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings died fighting in Liscor. So many—you kept your word. How much longer?”
“A gentleman does not count, Miss Lyonette.”
Wilovan touched his head gallantly, but Lyonette just wiped at her eyes.
“No. If you were silly [Knights] wearing plate armor, I’d accept. If I were actually paying you…but you two fight in the center of it. I won’t allow it. Not this time. I have an entire army, and if they fail but for the Gentlemen Callers’ presence—that is a shame. But not you two. Stay with Rickel. Keep that ‘Second Gardener’ from attacking me. Go home once you can. However, I forbid you from following me. I absolve you of your debt. It has been paid a dozen times over. If you ever find yourself in need—it is Calanfer and The Wandering Inn who will honor that debt. That is my last word.”
Then she turned and rode away. The Gentlemen Callers could have followed her. But they didn’t.
 
——
 
“A child’s life is at stake, Wilovan. If she should die, I don’t believe I’d ever have the gall to put a hat on my head and call myself a fine fellow.”
“Nor I, Ratici. But she spoke some sense. Shall we go, nevertheless?”
Ratici dusted at his hat.
“…I don’t know if I can survive a hail of arrows, Wilovan. I’m no Lightning Thief.”
The Gnoll just bowed his head.
“And I must admit my suit, fine as it is, isn’t arrow-proof as it were.”
They watched Lyonette go and felt so odd. So empty. Like…civilians. Wilovan coughed into one fist.
“Did you know, Ratici? I was going to bring it up, but in light of that blessing I dearly hoped Miss Lyonette would reapply—I was going to suggest you stay out of the fighting.”
Ratici looked up sharply. He put his cap back on his head and tugged it straight.
“Here I was suggesting you guard Miss Marquin. I suppose we aren’t cut out for battlefields.”
“No. Only streets and pubs. Ratici. Do you think we’ll regret not running after her?”
The Drake looked up at Wilovan and hesitated.
“…I think we might. And I don’t know what will become of us if that terrible thing you’re suggesting is true, Wilovan. But do you know what?”
“Enlighten me, sir.”
Ratici quietly linked arms with Wilovan. Like an old married couple, they watched Lyonette as she turned back ahead.
“She was right. We may regret it for the rest of our lives. But we would never come back if we went with her. If Miss Erin Solstice asked, I’d go in a heartbeat. If Miss Lyonette didn’t stop us, I’d be there. Any time, until I didn’t have the blood in my body to rise.”
Wilovan nodded. Like Erin Solstice. Like the very heart of why they had liked her—any time. Until the end they both felt they might deserve. Perhaps that was why the [Princess] said it. She knew that was in their hearts. So at last—
She said stop. The two Gentleman Callers stood on the walls a while longer, then Ratici turned to Wilovan.
“What next? Teach those young men how to wear the hats? Take this Second Gardener to task about his manners?”
Wilovan half-nodded.
“Later, I think. Tonight…tonight, let’s find a good scrying orb. Let’s raise a glass and watch. To the best, Ratici.”
“Yes indeed, Wilovan. To the very best they deserve.”
The two Gentlemen Callers put on their hats. If an army could not do what the Gentlemen Callers could, they would be there. But they strolled off. It was true there were some things they could do that even a lot of [Soldiers] might fail to. Still, they had to trust Lyonette and those posh [Knights].
Oh, and one more thing. They would have been there. But both had a feeling that [Alchemist] had their spot covered with change to spare. He had made a lot of potions.
 
——
 
A traveller met another on a long road with few markings. It was too far overgrown to see aught but faded stone, cracked by strange plants of a color not native to Izril.
The red wilds, crimson grass, and strange, hanging bulbs of life that threatened even the safety of the road. For now the last paths held. If they were threatened, it was not by people but decay. The road’s builders were gone.
It had been long since any met at the crossroads. So unexpected was the meeting, in fact, that both stopped.
One, a man, ducked his head. He was in a great hurry, but one look at the other travellers—two, to be precise—and he instantly bowed.
“Excuse me. Please, go ahead.”
He gestured down the road, backing up against a signpost written in old, old script. Mold and fungi had covered it, but nothing could have erased the lettering. In fact, it had been wiped clean recently such that someone could read and see what had been there.
The only other travellers on the road were a simple pair. Parent and child. Mother and daughter, one riding a horse, the other walking along. The other slowly tipped a hat as wide as the sky.
“It has been long since I met anyone else upon these paths. Your business is clearly the most pressing.”
They had been walking. He—running. But the male traveller only bowed deeper.
“I could not interfere with a mother and…daughter.”
A smile was his only reply, and the standoff of politeness ended when the daughter smiled.
“Please go on, sir. My mother is on her own journey, but she sometimes wanders. Do you have somewhere you need to be?”
He hesitated.
“Yes. Thank you, then.”
He edged around the two and hurried on his way. He smelled still of blood and bandages and ointments, and his garb was ragged and he walked with a staff in hand, passing them, then accelerating. Hurry, hurry…
They were going the same way. But the two, parent and child, watched the other traveller go. The daughter turned to the mother and saw Belavierr tapping her lips.
“Mother? Is he not a nice man?”
“I do not know. Nice is not a term that has much meaning, my daughter. I did not think to see anyone at the Crossroads of Issrysil. We will depart them.”
Maviola tilted her head back and forth, like a funny skeleton she’d once met.
“I thought we had to hurry, Mother?”
“Yes…we are leaving this place.”
The ringed gaze as old as this place followed the traveller as he hurried onwards, too wise to look back. And far too wise to step off the road. She nudged her other ancient companion, and the horse followed her to a waypoint.
“Why, Mother? Won’t it be longer?”
Belavierr the Stitch Witch nodded, but she kept leading them off the long road. She kept glancing around.
“It may be. But we shall arrive soon. We are nearly there, and sometimes the road is shorter when not taken.”
That was confusing, but Maviola accepted it. She kicked her legs, humming as Belavierr went on, glancing around…nervously? What could make her afraid?
“Besides. If there are travellers once more, perhaps…no. Just in case.”
“What are you afraid of, Mother?”
The Stitch Witch hurried her daughter away before anyone else found her. Especially anyone who could retroactively collect debts.
“…There used to be a road toll.”
 
——
 
Hurry, hurry. You had only hours. Now minutes. Perhaps seconds.
Satar Silverfang was working on a story. It was difficult because it was not her story, and if you got it wrong…the words vanished. She looked at what she had, and the facts, and the story that she did not know.
 
The white Gnoll came to the tribe that lived among the Hills of Albez. The tribe was Knocte. When the white Gnoll came, they did not heed the warnings and ______________. The beast fell among them when the white Gnoll left and killed them one by one. While it lay sleeping, a __________ crept up on it, stabbed it, and, after a great battle, killed it.
 
She didn’t have to get it perfectly right, but she had to understand where all the pieces fit together. And she nearly had it.
Doombearers, not Doombringer. The passage accepted that word, where it erased all mentions of ‘Doombringer’. Because that name was a lie. White Gnoll worked because it was true, and that was how the [Shamans] had lied or been deceived.
 
The Doombearer came to the Knocte tribe that lived among the Hills of Albez.
 
That was the truth of the old story. The question was—what had happened next? Satar wrestled with her quill.
 
The Doombearer came to the Knocte tribe that lived among the Hills of Albez. They brought doom.
 
The last words vanished.
 
The Doombearer came to the Knocte tribe that lived among the Hills of Albez. They brought __________.
 
That alone was enough to prove it to Satar, but no one else. Not the angry, frightened Gnolls. She needed the whole story. So—think.
Satar was a [Writer], even if her new class was [Historian]. She loved stories. She…knew stories. And she knew this was a fable.
Not a fairy tale, or myth, or story adventurers told around a table or fire. This was a fable. Fables were a kind of story that were told by [Shamans] in Retellings. Fables—had a point.
Parables and their like often had a message buried in a gripping narrative. The Beast of Albez might have been a tale about a horrible monster and how it slew a village, but it had been used to warn people about the Doombringers’ danger for centuries.
If it was a fable…and if the message was not that Doombringers were evil, what was it? For they were in this story. Satar thought. She thought of the facts.
 
——
 
Facts, like numbers, could still be used out of context. A number could be right—the equation wrong. Statistics could lie.
Yelroan was rummaging through his files. He kept looking over his shoulders and felt the crawl on his fur as if someone were watching. But no one was.
If they were—he’d be dead. Ulcre and Xherw had to know he was against them, now. But he had slipped into his tent in the Plain’s Eye’s tribe. All the Gnolls were watching the debates around Mrsha or getting ready for the worst.
Yelroan had moved through his tribe with the sheer power of being invisible; take off his flashy clothes, remove his sunglasses, and who’d recognize him?
Who cared about the [Mathematician]’s tent now? No one. So, until they went to pack it up or needed some records, as long as he was quiet…
He might die. The Gnoll’s paws were shaking, but he kept pulling records out, running a tally. Searching for the truth.
Satar was doing it, and he had to do it the only way he knew how. He had to know—to show them how many white Gnolls had died. And the suspicion that was creeping upon both Satar and he. The true nature of white Gnolls.
Mrsha’s power had been revealed to him. Luck. Luck. Why did that make him so—so uneasy?
Yelroan had noticed it long ago, but he had put it down to Xherw’s Skills, the sheer size of the Plain’s Eye tribe. Now, though, he ran through records. Total gold from subtribes, trade records. Even facts that no one but him would normally note down. Miscarriages among Gnolls. Odd occurrences like a rare magical animal being born.
He didn’t have perfect records. But he could see a pattern. All Yelroan had to do was check the Weatherfur accounts against Plain’s Eye. Silverfang kept wonderful receipts.
“…It’s off.”
Yelroan knew each tribe was different. Skills played hell with how much you could earn and lose in each city. So he took something basic that every tribe or group of [Traders] might do, independent of their Chieftains.
Buy and sell salt, for instance. Salt was a necessary commodity they needed from Drakes or other tribes. Yelroan’s finger shook as he went down the line of numbers.
“Impossible.”
Now he saw it. He’d felt it was a bit odd—but he was inside of Plain’s Eye. Now that Yelroan looked, compared averages, it was as plain as the nose on his face.
Plain’s Eye paid less for goods. They earned far more than almost any tribe. From crop yields to animals born, they were outstandingly, insanely, unbelievably successful.
It wasn’t just pure gold. In fact, regular Gnolls paid almost the exact same salt prices as their Silverfang and Weatherfur counterparts. But where it mattered—big trades, notable, outstandingly lucrative deals—Plain’s Eye shot ahead.
Not just that. Less Gnolls suffered tragedy. It had taken some doing to isolate those records from Weatherfur’s sometimes verbal accounts of how many Gnolls might perish in a year due to freak accidents. Disease. Pure chance.
If he saw this at another time, Yelroan would have assumed it had something to do with Ulcre or Xherw’s classes. Or just the leader of Plain’s Eye.
Now, though, he had a supposition. And the Gnoll dug back further.
“How long ago was this?”
It hadn’t been in Xherw’s generation. Nor before that. When had they gotten preferential treatment at Pallass and other Drake cities? Yelroan noted something down—a lack of tariffs that Silverfang accounted for. All of it was crystalizing in his mind, and it had one word.
“Luck.”
Now, though, he needed the rest. Records of Doombringers killed. Not even he had that, and if Xherw ordered Doomslayer teams quietly, could he even find…?
“Yelroan. Why are you here?”
The blonde Gnoll squeezed his eyes shut. He’d been listening as hard as he could, but he had focused too long without checking behind him. And a warrior learned how to sneak up on even his own kind.
He turned, slowly, and saw a dagger first. A Gnoll wearing glowing, magical markings on his fur.
“Merish.”
Only his friend would have thought to check Yelroan’s tent. Merish had seen better days. He looked worn down. Exhausted by chasing Mrsha across the continent and his encounter with the Titan. Uncertain.
He had been there when Khoteizetrough spoke. Their quarrel there was not done. Still…he had stayed with his tribe.
“You’ve betrayed Plain’s Eye. What are you doing?”
Yelroan just began stuffing files into his bag of holding.
“Looking for the truth. The numbers don’t lie. It’s been here all along. Xherw’s secret. I’ve just been blind.”
“Stop.”
Merish seized Yelroan’s shoulder, and his paw tightened on the dagger. Yelroan just looked at his friend.
“We’re far, far too far to stop, Merish. What are you doing? Don’t you see who’s opposing Xherw? It’s all falling apart. Even you have to feel it.”
“Shut up. Just—you’re being manipulated. Even Shaman Theikha is. That’s what Ulcreziek says.”
