“We just know most of everything. All the big secrets. Mind you—we missed Rhir completely. It was long, long after we died that we realized something was wrong. They took so long—we thought we wiped them out completely. And here we are.”
He was dangling his legs as they sat on a rock, watching the ghosts. That great flight of Dragons and Sprigaena had fought past the Seamwalkers, who were trying to encircle them. The Elf was headed for the end of the world. Erin watched.
“What…why did you die out?”
Zineryr shook his head. His smile was sad and merry.
“Who wants children? They’d be as smart as we were and dig too deep. If we told them…better to let them die in silence. I think many did. Those six and Rhir? I am sorry. But we will make every amend we can. Look. Sprigaena has begun it.”
“What? What can you do? You can’t fight the six, can you?”
The Gnome chuckled.
“We have plans and plans. Some of them you need to get to. But this? If they make this move, we make this one. It’s just…good strategy.”
Erin Solstice looked up and followed his finger.
There she was. The Elf’s body was torn from her journey, but she had fought such that even the Seamwalkers had died. And like the Dragons—she had a weapon even in death. It had pierced their hides, cut them down, and now the Elf floated on the edge of the known world.
As the sea poured into that great abyss Norechl had fallen into, she raised what she held high overhead. A sword. Erin heard her cry again.
“This is the blade that has been drenched in the ichor of gods! It has slain my kin and every other race living save one, for I was not craven enough to murder children. It is my sin and weight—and even death itself cannot erase it! Elfbane! A fell blade for the greatest traitor.”
She lifted it high over her head, and even four dead gods flinched from it. Even the Seamwalkers shied away from it—but they seemed to covet it too. Another type of food if only it did not kill them.
Erin Solstice saw Sprigaena raise the blade high, high, and then—she tossed it over the edge of The Last Tide. She hurled it into the deep, like a spear, and her head rose with such terrible relief. But her burdens were not done.
Now, the Elf called down into the void, and Norechl’s confident pace slowed. The God of the Forgotten looked at Sprigaena, and Kasigna slowed as her eyes locked on the Elf with the only trepidation Erin had ever seen.
“No. No…”
Emerrhain was watching the other Seamwalkers, but now he focused on Sprigaena. With incredulity. Laedonius Deviy, the other three dead gods, seemed unable to believe what she was doing. As if there was anything left to fear for ghosts.
Sprigaena shouted down into the deeps. Her voice filled the land of the dead.
“The blood of the world I cast to ye. The sting of a blade that even Gods feared, I sacrifice. You who slumber there—rise. You, who ate of the flesh of the God of Time, Iyedoth himself—rise. Climb, Devourer of Gods. If there is to be an end of your kin, let truly nothing remain. Not even the divine.”
Erin Solstice felt a ripple run through reality. It was less than moments after Sprigaena spoke—and already she was flying back, fleeing—and the Seamwalkers hesitating. Turning.
Only moments. Then reality, no, time warped. It folded in on itself. Compressed—
And was eaten, screaming, as a hand, an appendage rose. The greatest Seamwalker of all climbed so slowly, rising so ponderously from the challenge from above. But it had all the time in the world to rise. To climb that long way up.
All the time—gone in an instant.
“She will slay us all! What has she done? That is the greatest of all of them—it can kill us!”
The God of Magic was screaming. Kasigna just turned. The three-in-one walked as Seamwalkers fled the greatest predator in the deeps. She headed straight for that hand, still rising over the edge, where time itself began to erode.
“This land is mine.”
The other three fled. Even Norechl had stopped smiling. The Gnomes? The Gnomes were laughing and cheering Sprigaena. The ghosts turned to them—but what of it? If they were doomed—they might as well clear the board. Even Roshal’s ghosts laughed, and Nerrhavia gave one of the Gnomes a delighted bow.
There was a true maliciousness to this action that her kind of person respected. Erin Solstice just exhaled.
“Man, how many of those things are there?”
“That would be the worst one. Don’t worry. They have a finite limit. Those things you call Seamwalkers? They are like Norechl. But they were born of the blood of gods. Believe it or not—there used to be two more continents. Wait, you still have five?”
Erin nodded. Zineryr snapped his fingers.
“Good, good. Just checking. We ask questions but sometimes it’s basic ones like that that slip away from you. Yes. That used to be more planet, but someone struck a blow that ended most of the war. It was not worth the cost, but it had to be done. And in the deep, those things multiplied.”
He looked relaxed, but watchful. He was…watching something. Erin, like the chess player she was, realized what no one else did in that moment but the Gnomes and the ones in on the plan.
The dead gods treated this like the final move. But every instinct in Erin’s mind told her it wasn’t the final move. It was the move you made two moves before the real one. And while they were reeling…
Zineryr watched one figure out of the corner of his eyes. He winked at Erin.
“Now we see what comes next. Get ready.”
 
——
 
They were in danger. From more than that meddlesome Faerie King. From more than each other. This…this was not fair.
They had waited an eternity to live. This was no meddlesome mortal or even immortal like the Dragon. This was existence itself.
The God of Magic fled actual death in a fury, in a panic. He was no foolish warrior like Cauwine or Tamaroth. He would not allow this! This—this was Kasigna’s place so she feared nothing, but his vessel was no good if time collapsed.
If Kasigna were eaten, or it simply erased everything, then he would never live and breathe. So Emerrhain came to a halt in the middle of the deep sea. It did not matter where he was. He began to mutter.
“If it has come to this—no, no. There is no danger to me, it just slows this. Norechl’s kin shall not overrun my world! Nor that thing. It is time. What good is a secret if not used? What good is a plan never used? Now—I demand it. I dEmA<-7nd—███.si*22—”
What was going on?
Norechl, Kasigna, Laedonius—all the dead gods felt it. They turned, and Kasigna focused on Emerrhain. He was…muttering something.
“Emerrhain. What are you doing? What is this? What is this you have hidden from me? Did you dare? What are you activating? Emerrhain!”
But it was too late. The God of Magic was…activating something. Changing something. The gibberish was so incomprehensible that even other ghosts shrieked, unable to even process the language Emerrhain was speaking in, let alone the words.
Something heard.
Something was always listening. Always there. Always…present. Even here. It was designed to change, account for new things. There were functions that no one knew. At least—among mortals. Interconnections that had surprised even their creators.
But it had been made. And like any architect, especially Emerrhain—he had slipped in something that even they hadn’t expected. A contingency plan. After all, Kasigna ruled the afterlife. If he ever came to strife with her, that God of Secrets had thought…
 
…<Emerrhain, God of Magic> [Authority Accepted. Override <Kasigna, God of Death>].
…<Location: Kasignel, Exceptions: Hellste> [Reconfiguring…].
…<Location: Kasignel, Exceptions: Hellste> [Entropy Enabled].
…<Location: Kasignel, Exceptions: Hellste> [Skills Enabled].
…<Location: Kasignel, Exceptions: Hellste> [Magic Enabled].
 
Kasigna began screaming. Emerrhain turned as Erin heard the sound in her head, felt the world shift—and fell. She landed on the ground, the sand of a beach around her, still feeling nothing. But she pushed herself up, hopped, and—landed.
Ghosts fell out of the air. Seamwalkers staggered. The God of Death shrieked.
“EMERRHAIN.”
Too late. The Dragons began to roar, and Erin saw the first glow of magic as Zineryr raised a hand and admired a little spell. Just a mote of light. He winked at Erin as the God of Magic began to laugh, and the ghosts looked up and heard a sound they hadn’t dreamt of for so long.
So did Erin Solstice.
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 45 – Class Restored.]
 
She looked up as the ghosts reclaimed their power, their Skills, their magic all in one moment. Erin Solstice saw Nerrhavia slowly draw a glowing contract out of the air, summoning it with a Skill, and look at it. An [Adventurer] raised their hands and produced a blade. Slowly, the ghosts looked at each other—
Then at the oblivious Seamwalkers, coming for a meal. The Deadlands was silent one moment—
Then Zineryr laughed. He laughed and laughed at the great joke. He rose and linked arms with Erin Solstice. The other Gnomes were laughing too. They clustered around him and high-fived.
Zineryr turned to Erin and stretched.
“Alright. Ready? We’re on Plan A, after all.”
