The Watch Captain, who also controlled the Pegasus Riders, put his head in his claws. Everyone looked at Cire, from the amused [Druids] to the serious strategists and military leaders. All of them knew Cire’s nature. And all of them knew his…personality.
Shaerrha gazed at Lyonette with frank disappointment. Disappointment and a grudging, bitter admiration.
Lyonette du Marquin had made no secret of her goals to leave Oteslia and her need for help. The First Gardener knew in an instant what she’d done.
She’d slept with Cire. Because she had, Cire had gotten the notion he was a hero into his head. Hopefully—hopefully not a father to this Gnoll child or anything even worse. At least Lyonette wouldn’t be expecting children—that was the last thing they needed.
They had to nip this in the bud. There was no question, obviously, so Shaerrha rose.
“Princess Lyonette. There is no need to keep up the pretense, I hope? I know you have spoken to many individuals at length about aid for Gnolls, and I am sympathetic to your needs.”
“We all are. But this is going too far and fruitless.”
One of the [Druids], the Human, Nalthar…something…spoke up. His glare at Lyonette was fierce, and Shaerrha nodded. She took another breath, and Cire interrupted.
“No it’s not. I need an army. I insist! Upon my authority—I will rule Oteslia someday. That’s what you all keep saying. Well—today I’m taking charge. Ready the First Army!”
He pointed at their foremost [General], and the Drake gave him a pained look. The First Gardener turned. That was enough.
“Cirediel Anvi’dualln Olicuemerdn. Be silent.”
He wavered, but the admonition and full use of his name that Shaerrha seldom used didn’t work. She must have really…the First Gardener glowered at Lyonette, who didn’t move.
“Not even for Cire will we go to war against both Zeres and the Gnoll tribes, Princess Marquin. I do not care what Cire has told you, but he is only my son, not—”
“She knows I’m a Dragon.”
“—not—”
Shaerrha’s gaze darted to the doors, but the Thronebearers weren’t present. They had reluctantly agreed to stand outside when the [Princess] had put her foot down. Probably because she knew this was about to happen.
The Drakes and Gnolls and [Druids] in the room all looked up. One closed her eyes—some cried out. The Watch Captain simply reached for a speaking stone.
“I need the memory dust. Now.”
“Wait! Wait! I told her I was a Dragon and Rafaema too! I promised her aid!”
“Cirediel! You have endangered yourself and Oteslia and Manus!”
One of the [Strategists] shot to their feet. Cire just held up his claws placatingly.
“Listen to me. Just—just be quiet. Listen to me. I said—you’re not—you never—listen to me!”
Something snapped. There was a rumble, a roar—and then the beautiful Drake Oldblood boy, with shimmering scales of many colors and mismatched eyes, was suddenly filling the room.
A Dragon looked down at Shaerrha, and her knees felt weak. He turned, cramped in this room, and Lyonette du Marquin sprang back with a look of awe. She had never seen Cire.
“Princess? Princess! Open the—”
Someone thumped into the door; a [Thronebearer]. But Cire’s tail was blocking it. The Earth Dragon rumbled.
“Listen to me. Now.”
It took a few minutes to let the Thronebearers in after Cire changed back and reassure them Lyonette was well. This time they insisted on posting two in the room, no matter what their [Princess] said.
They could sense danger—but there were four of them and a lot of Oteslia’s soldiers. They’d all need to be dealt with.
A [Princess] of a Terandrian nation. This was a disaster. All of Oteslia’s council looked at each other, but they listened. For once—Cire was speaking, and it wasn’t with his usual brashness.
“A girl is going to be killed just for…just for looking like she is. I know she’s a Gnoll girl and not one of Oteslia, but Lyonette is her mother. She didn’t give birth to her or anything, but she’s still…her mother. It makes sense when she explains it. She came to me for help, and I know there’s strategy, and we don’t want to fight Zeres and stuff, but I told her…everything. She’s helping me and Rafaema, too.”
“To do what, Cire?”
The Earth Dragon shut his mouth.
“I—can’t tell you. But it’s super important. Enough that I promised to help her. Not just that. It’s because it’s right.”
The First Gardener was looking at the others. What could Cire and Rafeama be up to? Something revolving around their heritage? Rafaema manifesting more of her power? But then she was caught by something Cire said.
“It’s not right. Killing a kid just because she has white fur.”
“Of course it isn’t. No one is denying that. But you cannot invoke the City of Growth and kill countless thousands for no reason.”
One of the [Generals] shot back, trying to temper his words. Cire just looked at him.
“I know that. But—I don’t want to be Rafaema. I know you always tell me how disciplined she is and how good she is for Manus. Well—Manus sucks. I’ve been there. They never change. They kill anyone who gets in the way of ‘Drakes’. I bet they were behind putting the magic-sucking crystals in the ground. And you know what? I bet Dragonspeaker Luciva would never help even if Rafaema begged her. Because she only cares about Manus. But we’re Oteslia. Gnolls are our people too. That’s what you’ve always taught me. Should I ignore them? All the other Walled Cities are making war on Gnolls, and they didn’t do anything. We did something.”
“That’s…true.”
Oteslia’s council looked at Cire. They were not happy with it, and Cire was speaking what some had said in utmost private. The Earth Dragon looked around and shifted. He rubbed at his face, and Shaerrha recognized it. He was trying not to get teary.
“I—I know it’s a lot to ask. But everyone tells me that someday I will lead Oteslia.”
Everyone glanced at the Thronebearers, but they were stoic, and Cire was giving nothing away. The young man went on.
“Someday. It’s a long way away, I know. I don’t want it. But if I ever do lead Oteslia? I won’t let it be a city that cares about only Drakes. We are sharing this continent with Gnolls and Humans. So many Gnolls live in our city, but they get treated worse because people say we own the city. I never understood that. If I rule Oteslia…if I rule, we will never turn them away. We won’t let them be second-class to Drakes. We are all people, and I have friends in every species. It’s right that we protect kids. If we can’t be a city that does that—what good is there, being a Walled City?”
Shaerrha sat there. Twice this month she’d been moved to tears. Once, by a speech by a Human [Lady] speaking of a dream of the future, sharing a burden the First Gardener thought no Human could ever understand.
The second time…was this. She looked at Cire and saw in his youth and brashness, the wild young Dragon cooped up in a city, the foundation she hoped was there.
Someday…she looked over and saw one of the [Druids] was in tears. A Gnoll gazed at Cire, and someone blew their nose.
He would be everything they hoped of him. Someday. But today—his brave words, if not a perfect speech—were still not enough.
They believed this was the spark of his change. But he was still Cire. He didn’t know what he was asking, and he asked too much with no plan.
“I’m sorry, Cire. Even though you are right—to force Zeres to break the siege would be, potentially, an act of war.”
They could risk it, but march an army into the Great Plains? Shaerra was already eying Lyonette, wondering if they could enforce her silence with a death-pact or whether they’d have to wipe her memory. She was actually a good influence on Cire?
The problem was that Oteslia’s council was so used to Cire running amok and causing naught but trouble that they didn’t believe even his best intentions. So the Earth Dragon looked around, disappointed, and kicked at the beautiful wood flooring, scuffing it.
“…Okay. There’s one more reason you’ve gotta help. I also might’ve made a death-pact with Lyonette’s new Skill. If her daughter dies, both of us do.”
Shaerrha slipped as she reached for a glass of water, and it went crashing to the floor. One of the [Druids] stabbed themself in the face with a claw as they dabbed at their eyes. The Thronebearers turned to Lyonette with looks of horror, and the door opened so two more could look inside.
The Council of Oteslia’s finest minds and protectors of their greatest charge, the Earth Dragon, doubted Cire’s best intentions. But this?
They believed it instantly. It was so Cire that—
“Remove it. Remove the Skill.”
Shaerrha was shaking Lyonette, and not even Dalimont could get her to break her grip. But the [Princess] had a death’s grin.
“Never.”
“Cirediel!”
The others were surrounding Cire, shouting, tearing at their neck-spines. Someone was throwing up outside a window. Nalthaliarstrelous was just giving Lyonette a level look.
“She’s more like Reinhart every day.”
He commented to Dame Ushar, who gave him a horrified look. The Thronebearers had not known it either.
“Listen, it’ll be okay. It matters—just send an army. Listen. I don’t regret it. I want to do something. I’m tired of—hey. Listen! Listen to—”
Cire was trying to explain, but a [General] shoved off from the table.
“I’ll organize a squadron of Pegasi at once. How long is this Skill for? We’ll bring the child to Oteslia.”
“No, we’ll all go. I’m going! I’m going to fight!”
“Cire, don’t be ridiculous. We must help, it seems—we should send specialists.”
They were talking over him. The Earth Dragon’s look of triumph faded as he realized that they were going to do something because they had to—indeed, killing Lyonette might just trigger the clause.
…But he was being left out of it.
“Hey! I’m going! We’re all going! Come on, guys! This is my responsibility. Will you just—trust me? For once?”
“Trust you after this?”
Someone laughed hysterically. Cire looked at the speaker, truly hurt.
“You need to trust me sometime. I know I’m…daring, but I mean it. This matters. So—just listen. Just listen and trust me. Will you—will you just shut up and follow me?”
His eyes flashed, and he stomped his foot as his wings spread wide. And Lyonette, Shaerrha, and everyone else in the room saw something familiar. Just like Rafaema—something burst out of Cire as he shouted with true emotion.
“Follow me! It’s the right thing to do, I know it! I can’t sit here any longer. Fly with me.”
The First Gardener lowered her claws from her ears. What was…that tone in his voice? It was uncertain, untrained. But she felt that stomp run through the great tree at the heart of the City of Growth.
Then Cire was turning. He leapt out a window in a cannonball, then his wings opened. He flew, faster than she had ever seen him go, propelled by something he was half-feeling, half-chasing.
“The tree!”
One of the [Druids] looked out the window in shock, horror, and awe. Shaerrha ran after Cire, and the call caught in her mouth.
The leaves were falling. Dozens upon dozens, falling over the City of Growth, being caught by nets, as large as the roofs of houses. Some gently squashed passersby. But that wasn’t the only thing.
One of the Drakes leapt out the window, and a Pegasus caught them. As Lyonette and the Council ran from the building onto a branch-balcony, they looked up, and one of them gasped.
“What is that?”
He pointed to something upon one of the branches. It had definitely not been there a day ago. Shaerrha had never seen it before.
It was not a monster or animal come to feed on the great tree of ages, the likes of which had once been thousands strong in the greatest forests the world had ever seen. Nor was it sap or debris. It looked like…the bud of some flower.
Oteslia’s tree had never flowered.
The First Gardener stared at it a second. Then she saw and heard a storm of voices. Not Drake, not Gnoll—they filled the air, and the Pegasi flying about dove or flew out of the way as ten thousand birds took wing.
Every nesting bird, migratory traveler, and rodent with wings suddenly took to the air, shrieking and chirping, from goshawks to hummingbirds, ravens and lost pelicans. Creona Flashbirds and even the loathsome Garbichug Revolter.
Magic and mundane. They took to the air, calling as they followed a single figure streaking through the air. Cire looked over his shoulder and flew faster as an army of animals followed him.
“What’s happening? What’s—”
Not just birds, either. Dogs ran free, and cats deliberated whether to join them before sauntering off their perches. Angry squirrels and even rats joined a swarm racing through the streets.
Following the Dragon.
“It’s a [Wildcall]. He did it with his voice.”
A [Druid] spoke in a hushed voice. It was Nalthaliarstrelous. The [Druid]’s expression of annoyed discontent had shifted to one of genuine awe.
“Not just one species. All of them.”
The Earth Dragon was laughing as he turned, birds flying around him, a sea of animals racing below, braying, and causing havoc in Oteslia. The First Gardener watched, and someone groaned. Their [General].
“Oh, wonderful. He can command every sparrow in Oteslia.”
Shaerrha Brasswing murmured, her vision growing cloudy as she stood there, watching her beloved son flying and laughing.
“Someday he will lead armies and our people into that better future. But he has to live till then.”
That broke the spell. Everyone raced for the Pegasi, calling out for horses, to summon the army! But that Dragon child, growing a bit older with every second, could not wait.
He flew towards the walls, and the City Guard looked up.
“Hey, Cire! Don’t come too close. What was that sound? What are those…birds?”
They turned as Cire alighted on the walls. Of course, many of the Watch knew who Cire was…it was an open secret in Oteslia, unfortunately. But the panting Earth Dragon looked different than any had known him.
There was a kind of strange determination in his eyes as he gazed past the walls. A huge war camp of Drakes sat, encircling Oteslia’s gates. One of those usual sieges. It was still dangerous—but he hesitated only once.
“Cire. What’s going—no, Cire, don’t—”
He leapt off the walls and flew straight towards the army of Zeres. The guards on the walls watched him in horror—then they sounded the alarm.
 
——
 
To the misfortune of all, it was not Admiral Asale of Zeres who was on-duty when Cire crossed over the walls. It was the Sharkcaptain of Zeres, who held a rank equivalent to the Admiralty in some respects.
