Yelroan laughed in his face, but softly—both were watching the tent flaps, and Merish had come alone.
“Manipulated? By a girl so young she runs around on all fours? Merish! Don’t you realize it? Or do I have to spell it out for you? Xherw’s mysterious power? The Doombearers? It is all connected.”
“No. No…Xherw told me he’d reveal—and if it is—he can’t have lied to us.”
Merish’s face was a look of anguish as he wrestled with the very foundation of their tribe. He was truly Plain’s Eye. Yelroan…thought it was easier for him. He had never been truly accepted.
Without a word, he turned back to his work. He needed one last thing. One last proof that he didn’t need to explain. It had to be buried here.
He waited, imagining the unkind kiss of metal in his ribs. How painful would it be? His voice shook.
“If you’re going to do it, Merish—”
He pulled more documents out of a file, bent lower, and flinched as a shadow passed over him. Yelroan waited, arms frozen. For a long, long time, Merish stood there. Then he slowly pulled open a drawer.
“…What are you looking for?”
Yelroan gazed upwards. Without a word, he motioned, and Merish ducked down. The [Mathematician] murmured.
“The only link I can find. No tariffs. Grade 3 Passports issued to our [Merchants]. I am looking for payments sent to the Plain’s Eye tribe in some form. From Pallass, Fissival, and the Walled Cities. Prices so low on steel that it beggars belief. Magical artifacts sold at a loss.”
“Conspiracy.”
Merish whispered, and his fur went pale. As if they had all forgotten what the Drakes had done to them…Merish looked at Yelroan. The last pieces fell into place. The [Mathematician] smiled bleakly.
“Yes. It was us. If you care about the truth, Merish, help me find it.”
He kept rummaging as Merish squatted there. Then, abruptly, Merish rose. Yelroan froze again, but Merish just pulled him up.
“Not here. Xherw would never trust you with it if there was any proof. But his personal tent is different. And there’s a part of the camp you have never seen. They keep the Raskghar we captured there.”
“Raskghar? You captured one?”
Merish slowly nodded. His eyes flicked to Yelroan.
“Yes…we were going to show the other Gnolls. But I saw the others leading it out of camp before they cast an invisibility spell.”
Yelroan’s eyes went wide.
“Where are they taking it?”
 
——
 
Chieftain Torishi and Chieftain Xherw debated, as Gnolls did, before the Meeting of Chieftains. But not in private.
They spoke in front of the Gnolls of every tribe. Warriors behind them, arguing over the fate of one white Gnoll. About doom. About truth.
Torishi did not like the way Xherw looked so confident, even now. As if there were still tricks left to play. She paced back and forth, fur on end, illuminated by the light from a fading sky, a pale orange glow.
Xherw stood there, supported by Ulcreziek, flanked by Chieftains loyal to him, Reizet, Iraz.
Each had witnesses, stories and allies and ways to hammer their point home. But it was still a war of words.
“Even now, Chieftain Torishi, I hope you will come to your senses. I cannot prove it by words or magic or Skill, but I fear your judgment has been deluded. Why else would you protect a Doombringer?”
“Doombearer. Are we denying language itself, Xherw?”
The Chieftain shook his head.
“Doombearer, Doombringer—these words are the same for me. The Great Elemental, Khoteizetrough, spoke truth. But he still tells us that it is doom that is contained in one Gnoll. Doom which ended the Kingdom of Gnolls. Shall we call for [Shamans]—Great Shaman Theikha herself? Was it not white Gnolls who ended the only kingdom we ever had?”
Every head turned to Shaman Theikha, and she bowed her head tiredly.
“It was. But I doubt my own stories, for it is clear that our words have been changed over the course of centuries or even millenia. If my stories are true—then it was white Gnolls who led our kingdom to ruin by hubris and greed.”
“Old stories. As Theikha says—you are trying to justify your actions of now with old stories.”
Torishi shook her head, but saw some Gnolls looking uneasily at Theikha. She snapped at them.
“Did you not see Khoteizetrough slay the Gnolls sent to kill Mrsha? Kill her in secret? Why did Plain’s Eye hide their killers? Why do they come after the child again and again? Your ‘Doomslayers’ rampaged across Izril, marched into Drake cities and attacked them. All to kill one girl. They are part of the reason why Drakes march on us now!”
A rumble, and Xherw’s ears flicked slightly.
“Not just one, Chieftain Torishi. Should I make excuses for something all tribes have known? Plain’s Eye has always hunted Doombringers. Like any tribe that knows our history should.”
“I have never heard of kill-teams being sent after white Gnolls. How do you excuse them preparing to attack a guest of Gaarh Marsh?”
“Should we allow doom a chance to fester a moment longer? I will swear on truth spell, I intended to reveal the presence of Doombringers in the Meeting of Tribes as the deed was done. However, I suspected tribes were already compromised.”
She snarled at him as she paced left.
“You mean my tribe, don’t you? Mine, Silverfang—do you truly think we are controlled by a girl?”
“One cannot know what abilities Doombringers have.”
She spat at his feet. Gnolls stirred, for they had never seen the Weatherfur Chieftain being this disrespectful to anyone. Yet Torishi’s voice rose.
“There is much that is conveniently unknown, Xherw! Much that you cover up as doing the best for all in secret. Yet I? I think we have passed the first point! Look, Gnolls. And see Xherw’s great foe. The one who would be responsible for all the ill that has come to the Meeting of Tribes. Drake armies. Conspiracies among our own people, even Raskghar.”
She pointed, and Mrsha looked up from where she was being held by Krshia. All eyes fixed on her, hostile, afraid, curious—and the Gnoll girl tried to hold up a card.
Hello. I’m not a bad girl.
Xherw barely glanced at her. His eyes were focused on Torishi.
“What do you mean to show us? Size is no indicator of danger. Crelers hatch small. Pit vipers can kill as tiny as your thumb.”
Torishi bared her teeth. Now she looked at him, the Chieftain she had respected so much…she sensed other Gnolls glancing his way.
“Ah, Xherw. You have fallen for my trap, yes?”
He frowned uncomprehendingly at her. Torishi turned and appealed to other Gnolls. She looked at them, family, mothers, all united by one tribe. Spreading her arms wide, she turned to Xherw.
“You talk so casually about killing children, Xherw. Have we all passed that point where we will not blink and stop you? Before we speak of doom—before tradition and ancient calamities—what did you see? Something that must die? Doombringer? I saw a child. She may have white fur, but what of it? Weatherfur cubs dye their fur for fun. When I was a child, I fell into an entire bag of blue paint and I was blue for three months. What are you looking at?”
Xherw’s eyes narrowed fractionally. He glanced at Mrsha.
“I see a Doombringer.”
“A child.”
Torishi snapped back. Chieftain Reizet spoke up.
“You are quibbling, Chieftain Torishi. A Doombringer is still a Doomb—”
“I see a child. Do you dare question my eyes?”
Torishi whirled and roared at the Az’muzarre Chieftain. Rezeit was dead silent, and Torishi pointed at another cub in the ranks of Gnolls.
“A child is a child. Do you say we should kill her, Xherw? Kill a child for the good of Gnolls? Are we Raskghar? Is this how far we have sunk? Do not speak to me of white fur. Speak to me of children and the blood you would put on your tribe’s fur.”
Everyone turned to Xherw, and he blinked at Torishi. Vaguely uneasily, as if realizing there were a hole in the ground where he had seen nothing but a solid foundation.
He didn’t even realize it. But his own tribe, Plain’s Eye, stirred uneasily at Torishi’s accusation. Xherw took a few seconds, then his words were calm. Direct.
“A…child can carry plague. Doom rides on her fur. Do you claim you can know she is innocent? How many incidents have occured around her that cannot be mere chance?”
Torishi refused to be drawn in. She looked at Xherw, then Ulcreziek, who had returned from some errand.
“How many have died during your leadership, Xherw? You do not even blink. How many children are dead? How many Doombringers must you slay, to justify it so quickly?”
“I have done what I must to protect us all. You are—”
She slashed one arm.
“Xherw, you are so far ahead that you speak of consequence, the politics of tribes, doom averted, and tradition. I am still at the start.”
Now he was glaring at her. The other Chieftain began to walk slowly, for the first time, too annoyed to sit still.
“Very well, if you will argue with me—if one child carries or brings doom, do you not see the necessity in tragedy? A Goblin Lord destroyed her tribe. Then it nearly killed an entire city. Monsters have assailed this child’s protectors. I have even heard its guardian died. Slain by Drakes. War follows it, and it has come here while the Drakes prepare to assail us as if it were open war again. How can you claim this is all fine if one child does carry doom, Torishi?”
She shook her head sadly.
“I shall answer your question with a scenario, Xherw. Say you are a Chieftian with a hunting party and you come across a terrible sight. A group of Gnolls slain. The last survivor, a cub, lies at the feet of a Wyvern about to eat it. A dozen Gnolls might die if you attack. Turn your back and the child dies. There is a clear choice. Would you leave it behind?”
“That is…not the same scenario. I would rescue any innocent child any time I saw one. This is akin to seeing someone so deeply afflicted with a plague that there is no cure. That to touch it is to doom yourself and any around you.”
Xherw glared back. Torishi frowned at him.
“Have you tried to avert it?”
“What?”
He blinked at her. She stomped one foot.
“Tried to avert it! Have you ever tried or do you speak these truths like they are set in stone without trying? Have you taken no ‘Doombringer’ into your camps, protected them, or do you just slay them on sight? Not once? Are you that craven? If I knew a great evil would befall my people yet the Gnoll was innocent, I would still dare to try or send them somewhere safe. Have you tried, Xherw? Or do I hear only excuses?”
His hesitation was the answer for every Gnoll. Mrsha was gazing at Torishi Weatherfur, and the sunlight shining down brightened slightly as the Chieftain strode past Gnolls. She struck her chest and shouted at them.
“I am Torishi Weatherfur. I will challenge doom itself for a child’s life! I am not afraid. Do not look at this as evil come among us. We have seen evil. We have seen cruelty and dark designs, and I lay those at the feet of Drakes like those of Fissival’s city. But this? Fate? A child must die for fate? Then I say—let us challenge fate and prophecy! Who will stand with me and break any curse? There is no evil so great that Gnolls have not the heart to fight it.”
Gnolls gazed at her as she turned to them, eyes blazing, and her tribe howled their agreement. Feshi cupped her paws together to howl, but she broke off as a Gnoll strode forwards.
A Gnoll with blonde fur and scars on his arms broke from the ranks of Gnolls in the Wild Wastes tribe. He grinned fiercely as he raised his fist.
“I am Dorekh of Wild Wastes! Son of Honored Berr! If my father were here, he would be first of all. I fear no doom.”
“Nor I!”
Lehra leapt forwards, and more Gnolls began to call out. But before more could join in and the chorus became a wave too large to be stopped, Shaman Ulcreziek struck the ground. The earth trembled, and everyone staggered and there was a sudden silence.
“Do you think you are the first Gnolls to try? Do you think that girl is as innocent as you claim, Torishi? I truly expected more from a wise Gnoll such as you. Doombringers manipulate. They did not just bring calamity; they lurk in the shadows of the mind. Do you not see how we are divided? They lie in wait, turning us against each other.”
“You spit accusations like facts, Shaman Ulcre.”
The [Shaman of the Eternal Grasslands] had closed one eye. The one he had been born with, that brown eye, was shut tight, and the other one passed from Gnoll to Gnoll, a piercing bright light for a pupil, melded out of countless browns as if every Gnoll before it had passed on their sight, glittered as he stared at Theikha. Then, slowly, turned his gaze.
“Do I? Or are we all still playing into their tricks? Doombringer tricks? This is not the only rot within the Meeting of Tribes. See—they conspire, and I will not let them hide any longer!”
He flung out an arm, and something flew through the air. Torishi whirled, and Krshia shouted and covered Mrsha, turning, as Weatherfur Gnolls howled and went to block whatever Ulcreziek had thrown.
But it was not at Mrsha, and the Gnolls about to charge turned as they saw…liquid…splash across a small group. The liquid made the Gnolls, Human [Merchant], and Drake recoil.
“What the—”
Ysara Byres had slashed at the liquid before dodging most of it. She rubbed at her clothing as Tesy and Vetn ducked it. Someone else had moved out of the way too, and the splatter had only caught them lightly.
Yet…Ysara glanced down at her clothing, which had her merchant’s logo on it as well as the Merchant’s Guild and a lovely, dark blue dye on the tunic. She stared down as the liquid ran from her clothing…and the dye revealed plain cotton beneath. She saw the blue run onto her fingers and heard an oath.
“Oh no. Qwery…”
Slowly, Ysara looked up and saw Vetn gazing up in horror. Tesy pushed himself up, and his eyes went wide. The white-scaled Drake saw Qwera slowly lower the arm she’d used to shield her face. Something dripped from her fur.
Gold paint. Every Gnoll turned to her and saw the Golden Gnoll looking at her arm. The gold dripped off her fur. Of course it did. It was just…gold, after all. And few questioned her true fur; it was that brown patch of fur she showed. Wasn’t it?
Mrsha looked over, eyes wide, as Qwera glanced at her arm, then at Ulcre with a slow, resigned look. Then she lowered her arm, shook off the gold paint, and the stripe of pure white fur beneath shone as Gnolls began to howl and shout. Qwera looked at Mrsha, and the little girl with wide eyes saw the [Merchant] smile sadly.
“I knew I would be hunted till the day I died. By Plain’s Eye. I have lived decades and still. You have to kill me only for surviving.”
She turned to Ulcreziek and Xherw, and the [Shaman] smiled victoriously. He whirled to the others.
