“We have put their power to better use. It was done long ago. By my Chieftains—a great sacrifice, a dark deed, as our kingdom fell to ruin. All because Doombearers manipulated their power. The power to alter fate. Luck and chance itself. So we decided we would be custodians of that power. Doombearers were never to be trusted again. We gave them a new, fitting name, and Plain’s Eye has done what it must to ensure the Drakes would not wipe us out! To safeguard our people until we were strong enough to reclaim our home.”
“What did you do? You murdered countless thousands for what? All for one tribe?”
“I have done everything for our people. And we have passed on our great legacy. It will protect us all some day!”
Xherw howled back. He turned, wild-eyed, and they all felt it.
That static in the air. Something stranger than an aura. An unseen presence, the sheer power of it enough to make you hesitate. The ability to confer luck onto anyone, to change fate itself.
Xherw was drawing on it now. Drawing on all the luck ever stolen, and Mrsha, Wer, and Qwera saw it.
“Stop him—we have to combine our power. He’ll change reality itself!”
Wer whispered to them. He reached out, and Mrsha grasped his paw, but she didn’t have much luck and neither did Qwera. The Golden Gnoll gazed at Wanderer in confusion.
“I’ve never sensed—what is he doing? Who are you? Are you like Shadow? I met her once, but I told her no—”
He growled, eyes fixed on the Plain’s Eye Chieftain.
“No time to talk. If he finishes it—”
What could Xherw do? Could he turn the vaguest suspicion, the one in a million chance that Torishi flipped sides, into reality? He had generations upon generations of dead Gnolls’ luck.
Oh…and something else. After all, you couldn’t just store luck like that. So much luck was bad for the soul, if one could even contain it. Gnoll Doombearers were special, but even the greatest of them with classes to match couldn’t hold a fraction of all that.
So amid the great uproar, Xherw’s confession, in that silent struggle between the three Doombearers and the Chieftain of Plain’s Eye…
A few Gnolls began turning. They were transfixed. So was the audience of the world. But they couldn’t help it.
You had to turn, even faced with all of this. There was something about the woman greeting them.
Perhaps it was her height. The way she towered over Gnolls. Maybe it was that magnificent hat that blotted out the light.
Or perhaps it was the eyes older than Ulcreziek’s own. The rings into eternity. Layers of immortality.
Belavierr the Stitch Witch. The Spider of Terandria. The Temptress. The Witch of Webs. Threadcutter, Stitch-folk called her.
The woman with a hundred names and titles so old that all had forgotten her. She crept into the Meeting of Tribes, unseen at first. Then she began to speak.
“Hello. My name is Belavierr, the Stitch Witch. I hope you will consider perusing my wares. Please, have a sample.”
She offered Chieftain Eitha a bowstring, and the Gnoll gazed at her and the bowstring. Belavierr was half-ducked, trying not to get in the way of people, and even then—taller than some Gnolls. A strange young woman with too-pale skin but fiery red hair was following her with one of those little boxes attached to a bit of string so it could hang from her front like a little table.
“Sample. Sample. Belavierr’s Emporium.”
The [Witch] was doing her…smile as she passed out samples of her work. She was peering around.
“Maybe it has ended? I do not see many great tribes. What happened to the Fatepaws Tribe? Hm. Dear, dear…excuse me. Would you like a sample? I have fine sewing to offer. You may find it improves your levels if you work hard. You have some promise, young woman.”
She passed a spindle of thread to Honored Deskie. The old Gnoll began to wave Belavierr off.
“Not now. Are you out of your—”
Then she looked over and went silent. The [Magical Weaver] met the gaze of Belavierr, and the Stitch Witch put a spindle into her hand and patted it.
“I have very reasonable prices. Excuse me, Mister [Tanner]? You may wish to take a visit to…”
Like a bad comedy, even Xherw, even Ulcreziek and all the greatest Chieftains slowly looked around at the Stitch Witch. She didn’t pay attention to the moment—or if she did, she thought she was being unobtrusive.
She had seen greater dramas. Greater evil and good. She was the Witch in so many stories she had lost count. Mrsha turned, and the little girl let go of Qwera and Wer’s paws. She stared at Belavierr in horror and then—
At the young woman smiling and offering trinkets behind her mother. She looked so familiar…Mrsha began to shake.
Belaiverr began to notice the attention amid the dead silence and stares. She straightened up.
“Excuse me. I hope I’m not getting in the way? I am Belavierr, a humble [Witch] selling my craft.”
She smiled awkwardly, with that forced look of someone trying to make a sale. Then one eye drifted left. Tracing something in the air with an eerie focus that made even the Gazer, Suxhel, shudder. It floated across the flinching Gnolls, past Shaman Theikha, who recognized her.
Even Khoteizetrough, who turned slowly as he sensed the Spider. With visible unease in the Earth Elemental. But Belavierr’s eye, the one that had not been stabbed out, slowly wobbled and wavered, floating around and tracing the string she had been following all this way.
And there she was. Mrsha. The Stitch Witch locked eyes with Mrsha. She recoiled—and then her eyes lit up with malice.
“Hello, little nemesis of mine. Would you kindly die for me? I had hoped you already were rotting in the grave.”
Everyone looked at Mrsha, and Krshia tried to shield her. Tkrn was shaking as he lifted shield and sword, but Belavierr ignored Torishi, Feshi, and Theikha herself. She whispered at Mrsha, in a little [Immortal Moment].
“…But do not worry, my dear. I promised my first daughter I would not harm you with spell or Skill or by any other means for thirty years. She even demanded I not speak to you, but I have the right to tell you of our pact and make my oath. Thirty years. Count each one, because on the thirtieth year I will remember you and return, and we shall have a reckoning. Find [Heroes] and great [Archmages], for I shall curse you until the day your ghost wails for oblivion.”
Mrsha was shaking, but she managed to lift a paw and make a familiar gesture. Belavierr’s eyes narrowed—but then she straightened and, as if nothing had happened, beamed around. She ignored Mrsha, as if the Gnoll had suddenly vanished. For thirty years. But a terrible malice leaked out of the corner of her eyes.
“Excuse me, I appear to have intervened in an important moment in the Meeting of Tribes. I will simply advertise my shop, which I intend to run for a week. Please consider inquiring if you have a wish. I can provide services even Djinni cannot. If you wish for something, it can be done. For a price.”
She bowed slowly, removing her hat as if she were the world’s greatest performer. A living legend walking in the Waning World. A peer to the greatest ghosts…still alive.
Even Xherw seemed to forget what he was about for a moment. Ulcreziek had lifted his staff as if warding off a great unseen monster. Mrsha gazed at Maviola’s face, and even the Necromancer, staring through Kerash’s eyes, was struck speechless with horror.
Seemingly oblivious to it all, Belavierr looked around the Meeting of Tribes.
“Is this what the Meeting of Tribes is, now? Are there any great tribes not attending?”
She looked disappointed. She peered at Az’muzarre’s weapons.
“Some items of Dragon get. Hm. Hm. A Swamp Elemental. A few decent craftsfolk. And tribes always have…other things to sell. A few cheap metal goods…”
She passed around, inspecting Az’muzarre’s weapons, glancing up at Khoteizetrough, the famed [Tanner], Deskie, and the Demas Metal weapons as if hunting in a bargain bin and revising her estimates of the competition. Searching for deals.
Her presence had frozen everyone, but especially the people who knew enough to be terrified. The greatest Gnolls looked at her with fear or recognition. Some had met her, or heard of her, when they were so young as to be children.
Garsine Wallbreaker’s fur was standing on end. She watched Belavierr like a young warrior looked at a [Blademaster] across a battlefield.
However, Belavierr’s arrival had affected one group who had never laid eyes on her. Suxhel, the Gazer, was shaking and looking at the ground with all of her eyes, afraid to catch the Stitch Witch’s gaze. She saw something no one else did.
But it was Lehra Ruinstrider who felt something—shaking. Her? No—
The Blade of Mershi. Every eye turned to Lehra for a moment as the Gnoll, wearing the relic from the City of Stars, suddenly felt it activate. The magical armor encased her, fit for a Drake, and she spoke.
Yet that voice was not hers.
“Belavierr?”
The Stitch Witch calmly turned as if recognizing someone.
“Saturiel Cometscale. I told you we would meet again.”
Something was in Lehra. For a second, she felt like someone else. A Drake long-dead stared out through her eyes, and a warrior armed with the armor and blade of the Stelariun Guard lifted a spear, and the Stitch Witch turned her head and regarded the Drake. Despair weighed down the Drake’s arm, even if she could have truly hurt the Stitch Witch. She lowered her arm and tasted old anguish.
“It fell to ruin just like you predicted.”
Those cruel, careless eyes had not changed over aeons. The [Witch] only nodded once.
“Yes. I warned you. The disaster was yours to avert. Clearly—you failed.”
Lehra—Saturiel—raised the weapon with a scream of despair. Belavierr flicked a finger. Then the presence vanished, banished as abruptly as it had come, the Armor of Stars vanishing. Lehra fell to her knees, shaking. Who—who was that?
“Saturiel?”
Belavierr walked past the Named Adventurer with no more than a nod. She gazed with slight interest at Lehra.
“An old story. Then no one has found the City of Stars. Good to know.”
On she walked. Through the Gnolls. Recognizing them. Just as they recognized her. Like them—like the Gnolls of every age, they had been in those stories.
So had she. Belavierr looked around with eyes that had seen a thousand Meeting of Tribes and found this one wanting.
Then she came to a stop, and her eyes brightened as she saw something worth the journey. She approached the Gnoll, plucking a little brooch out of her robes like someone performing a simple trick.
“Fascinating. Ah, this would be worth a great trade. Excuse me, sir. I realize your work is not complete. But would you consider an offer on it? Here, a modest sample of my work.”
She turned to the Gnoll. And Xherw looked at Belavierr. He tried to recoil, and Belavierr advanced. Torishi saw the Stitch Witch staring at something unseen, and the Weatherfur Chieftain’s fur rose.
“Sell…you are the Great Witch of Calamity. Begone. Begone or I shall—”
Belavierr was admiring something in the air. Torishi called out as every Gnoll, every eye fixed on something…invisible. Hovering behind Xherw. But Belavierr saw it.
“What is it? What is it you see, Stitch Witch?”
Belavierr glanced back in annoyance—and then casually clicked her fingers. She pointed as something appeared, shedding the veil of concealment. Every Gnoll head rose and looked up in horror. They saw what Xherw had made, what the sacrifice of Doombearers had created. Belavierr sighed as she stared up.
“A Daemon of Luck. I have not seen one for so long.”
As casually as a dagger to the heart, as innocently as sabotage, the Stitch Witch stepped backwards. She glanced once at Mrsha with that evil smile, and the Gnoll cub saw her step back and draw her daughter away. Job done.
The Gnolls looked up at what stood behind Xherw. The faces of dead Gnolls, the weight of so much blood and death that it had created something in service to Plain’s Eye. Mrsha’s eyes ran with tears, but she looked even so.
A Daemon. Not Demons of Rhir, a name for people. Not like this. This was something that existed in ways so foreign that it could not be seen even by ordinary [Mages]. Plain’s Eye had created something. Given it life.
The shadow that hung over Xherw’s shoulder looked like…Skinner. Or what Mrsha had always dreamed Skinner looked like during her nightmares. She had never seen the horror that attacked Liscor, only heard stories from people who had been there and did see it in their slumber.
Mrsha had imagined countless faces, limbs, and bodies sewn together to create some monstrosity of limbs, like a Crypt Horror but each body intact, not rendered down into its component parts. That was not what Skinner was.
But it was this thing. Faces of Doombringers, looking out at her amidst grasping hands melted into fur. A pile of bodies, large and small. Each Doombringer that had ever died.
This was no undead, though. Plain’s Eye had made something else. The Daemon of Luck had no blood nor internal organs. It did not live as Mrsha could understand it. Yet it wept.
The little Gnoll looked up with all the others and saw tears falling from the eyes. All their sadness. All their guilt and grief. Their despair and terror…the terror most of all. That was the being that stood there, in service to Plain’s Eye. Each white Gnoll wept at Mrsha, and the sight would never leave her.
Mrsha did not look away. She met those eyes with one vow in her heart.
You will be freed. The Daemon stood there, exposed to the world as Torishi looked up at it. Just one second.
Then she tore an axe free from her belt and lunged at Xherw with a howl that didn’t fade. It was taken up, by Berr’s son, by the Wild Wastes, Silverfang, Longstalker’s Fang, Gire and Ekhtouch, Adetr, struggling with Iraz, Gaarh Marsh, and every other Gnoll as they drew their weapons, and Xherw howled as he and Torishi locked blades.
The Meeting of Tribes ended as the civil war between Gnolls began.
 
——
 
That was what Fetohep of Khelt sailed towards. The living, adding to the ranks of the dead who would feed the Seamwalker’s advance.
Erin Solstice stood with the Gnome, Zineryr. What could be done? Fetohep had refused to even tell her what was happening in the Meeting of Tribes.
She couldn’t protect anyone living. She couldn’t even protect the dead.
But she was ready to fight. The Gnome saw it.
“Patience. You have a lot to do. If you wake.”
“You don’t know?”
Erin turned to the Clockmakers, the eighteen last Gnomes in existence as ghosts. Zineryr frowned at her.
“What fun would it be to know everything? And if we could, do you think we’d be here?”
“Um…good point.”
