Sharkcaptain Femar, champion of the Serpentine Matriarch, had many similarities to the Lightherald of Calanfer, though both would have resented the comparison if they had both been alive and in the same room.
He had inherited the serrated spear and armor as well as class, responsibilities, and authority, but Zeres did choose the best to take the post.
Just not always a balance of martial abilities, command, and sense. The Sharkcaptain was already angry about having to let the Wall Lords and Ladies of each city, and Saliss of Lights, go while thumbing their tails at his forces.
The sight of the First Gardener’s son flying towards Zeres’ camp with an army of birds didn’t make him blink.
“I’ve heard of that brat. Chase him off. Shoot some arrows.”
“It’s the First Gardener’s son, Sharkcaptain.”
“And we are Zeres.”
The Sharkcaptain hauled up an officer by their armor. He snapped around.
“Loose a few warning shots! If they wing him, we’ll ransom him back to Oteslia! Is this a siege or daycare?”
A few [Archers] obeyed, and the Earth Dragon saw several bows rise. He dove—and an arrow missed him by a mile as birds screeched and avoided it. A second passed over his tail as he shouted insults—
And the third grazed his cheek. The Sharkcaptain grunted. He had to admit—it was a good dodge. The kid had some reflexes.
“Alright, enough. Warn him off, and if he keeps going, get me a [Mage]; net’ll only break his bones if he comes crashing down. I guess tell Asale or Land Admir—”
Thwoom. The Sharkcaptain was mid-sentence when the first tower on Oteslia’s walls lit up. He saw the flash and felt the impact as a bolt of lightning hit the earth and sent everyone stumbling backwards, but the sound was slower than the impact.
The Sharkcaptain looked up, stunned, as Admiral Asale, the Quartermaster, kicked his way out of a tent. He took one look at Femar and bellowed.
“What did you do? What did you d—”
 
——
 
Femar had no idea who Cire was. He did not even have suspicions, so he thought he was making the provocative choice of shooting arrows at the First Gardener’s son. Not the only Earth Dragon of Oteslia.
One was bad enough. But when the City Watch on Oteslia’s walls saw the bows go up and arrows start flying, they saw their Dragon in danger of being blinded or killed.
Zeres, most soldiers serving in any Walled City, expected escalation, if a battle occurred, to be swift. None of them had ever seen someone trigger the wall spells of a Walled City within seconds of provocation.
The first bolt of lightning hit Zeres’ forward camp so hard it sent Drakes dozens of feet away flying. The army of Zeres, rattled, expected that to be it—a warning shot.
They were not prepared for the second wall spell to activate and belch a giant cloud of summoned cicadas with teeth, biting flies, and flying beetles straight at their army. Then a third tower activated, and a shield of violet light engulfed Cire and half the animals flying around him as the Earth Dragon hesitated. He looked at Zeres’ army in full-alarm as the [Marines] shot to battle-alert.
Then Cire looked over his shoulder. His mouth opened wide.
“…Oh.”
 
——
 
Admiral Asale and Femar looked up from shouting at each other. They were under attack? There was still time to call it off. Was Oteslia mad? Zeres’ army was right here, and Liscor was under contract. A war would be idiocy with their forces marching on the Gnolls.
It was good strategy, mind you, but it wasn’t Oteslia’s way. They didn’t have the damned Cyclops leading them. But then they saw the Pegasi.
It looked like at least four hundred were flying over the walls. Over the walls, Drakes and Gnolls riding them, brandishing weapons, and hundreds more on the way. Then Asale saw the gates open and Oteslia’s army come pouring out of the gates.
“Ancestors.”
Sharkcaptain Femar breathed. He raised his spear.
“Sound the battle-alert!”
“Sound the retreat!”
Asale shouted over him. The Admiral of the Land was running their way as Zeres’ forces ran around. Femar looked at him—then he saw a second gate open and more Oteslian troops come pouring out the second land-bridge across their lake. The Sharkcaptain’s eyes opened wide.
“Fall back! Fall back now!”
An army came pouring out of Oteslia as Zeres’ siege came to an abrupt and shocking end. Femar looked back in disbelief as Asale communicated with Zeres. The Serpentine Matriarch was not happy, but directed them to avoid a battle—it looked like all of Oteslia was coming their way.
“We’re linking up with the forces attacking the Gnolls. I don’t know what Oteslia is up to—but they’re mustering towards that way too. We need to get to Zeres before they decide to feed you to their pigeons. Tell Liscor we’re going north! They should have been here already—they’ve been odd all day. Probably more news from their home city.”
The Admiral of Supply snapped at Femar. Oteslia was on the move. And riding and flying ahead of them were Cirediel, the Earth Dragon of Oteslia, and the 6th Princess of Calanfer, Lyonette du Marquin. Headed straight for her daughter.
 
——
 
Word of Oteslia’s army on the march and Zeres’ retreat reached the other Walled Cities on the go. And that was all of them save Pallass.
Pallass, the City of Invention, had declined to send any force of Drakes aside from ordering the few hundred that had gone with the Raskghar back towards the Meeting of Tribes.
Every other Walled City had sent a force, and they had absorbed the other Drake cities’ armies, taking command.
Salazsar, Fissival, Zeres, Manus, and now Oteslia.
Five armies. Not since the Antinium Wars had so many Drake [Soldiers] been congregating around a target. That it was the Gnolls of Izril…boded.
The Gnoll [Soldiers] in every army were tense, and most had elected to send all Drakes if possible. Wall Lord Ilvriss could only imagine what it was like in Fissival’s forces. If they were wise, they’d send no Gnolls at all.
He was riding with their [Sapphire Guard General], an odd pick from the Walled City. He was an excellent defensive candidate, and it was probably because he had been sent with a sizable force to affect Ilvriss’ return with the other Salazsar dignitaries.
Or maybe because they knew Ilvriss was here. In which case the Wall Lord and [General]’s Skills synergized very well indeed.
Either way—they were not headed towards Salazsar. In fact, the Erchirite Spears and other specialists that Ilvriss’ personal retinue had brought along with a lot of Gemscale’s own forces had bolstered the Walled City’s general muster. Ilvriss was in command.
Or rather, he was negotiating his command as they rode. General Greex was a cautious Drake.
“You can have the Wall Holders ratify your command, Wall Lord, but I must ask you what your intentions are. Join the attack on the Gnolls? With respect—I’d rather divest the forces of all Gnollish [Soldiers]. And frankly, ask you to reconsider. The tribes united versus five Walled Cities—if all five are willing to work together—is still going to be a bloody, bloody battle.”
Ilvriss just nodded.
“I hear you, General Greex. Nevertheless, Salazsar cannot ignore the events of the Gnoll plains. If it reassures the officers, let them know that my intention is not to assail the Gnoll tribes. Nor is it to clash with any Walled Cities. Rather, I hope that a force of level-headed Drakes can keep us all from each other’s throats.”
It sounded like nonsense, but Greex wore a relieved smile as he nodded to Ilvriss. The Wall Lord accepted the salute and looked ahead.
“Level-headed Drakes keeping the peace? Nephew, just when I thought you’d changed, you spout something as wild as your father.”
Nerul rode over, and Ilvriss grimaced at him. He tried to sound casual.
“With Salazsar’s finest [Diplomat] on my side, how can I fail, Uncle?”
The aforementioned diplomat just tried to shudder, laughed, and took a sip of water. Ilvriss moved out of the way; Nerul had been lauding the old Winebreath Blaster a bit too often recently. But the Drake was sweating in the autumn air.
“Please. You’re joking.”
He saw Ilvriss didn’t understand and elaborated with a sigh.
“Against Dragonspeaker Luciva and the most militant Drakes? I’d have to fight my way through the Sharkcaptain’s aura, and he’s not the worst Zeres could send. Remember how we forced your peers to a contract in Salazsar? Admiral Asale could crush every single one of us.”
“Isn’t he…the Admiral of the Supply?”
“Yes. And if you don’t know about him, read up before the battle or he’ll gut you like a fish, Ilvriss. He’s surprised everyone from Chaldion to Luciva herself.”
Ilvriss blinked at Nerul in surprise, but before he could ask more, he was interrupted.
“And what are we doing? Truly going to stop this?”
“If I have to put Salazsar in front of Manus or Zeres—yes.”
Nerul’s look was almost admiring, but he shook his head.
“That’s suicide, Nephew. Do you know how many Drakes are marching from Manus at last count?”
“Four hundred thousand. I heard.”
Not all Manus, but they had levied every city and garrison they came across and absorbed other Drakes into their forces. Nerul spat.
“By all accounts, Fissival’s eaten forces and so has Zeres. I truly don’t know why Dragonspeaker Luciva herself has come, but she’s pulled Spearmaster Lulv and two more of her Security Council. Ilvriss. I don’t need to tell you she’s not making a show of it.”
She had brought the kind of forces that even Zel Shivertail would have avoided in a fight. And only he could have halted this madness. Ilvriss just looked at Nerul.
“If I have to…we cannot waste time fighting each other.”
Nerul’s eyes were sharp with the exact knowledge of why.
“You will convince them to halt with nothing less than the full truth, Nephew. But will you get a chance to relay that before we fight?”
Ilvriss bared his teeth. He had a single, desperate idea, and he shared it with Captain Osthia and the silent Tessa. Shriekblade was just waiting, staring up at the sky, oddly calm from Lyonette’s cure. Faerie Flowers. Ilvriss hoped it didn’t dull her edge.
“I’ll be able to be as…open as I need to be. Especially if we’re meeting to stop an impending war between Salazsar and Manus or Zeres. I will take us to the brink of conflict by marching my forces between Gnolls and them if I have to.”
Nerul whistled as Osthia’s gaze brightened.
“Now that’s brinkmanship. Very well, Nephew. I’ll get you that moment if I have to go up against Asale himself. Onwards.”
Salazsar’s forces kept moving. They had sent less than sixty thousand, but a good number were the Gemstone Regiments and the finest Drakes. Ilvriss had asked any cities to send their forces to join his, but he was hopeful Oteslia would join him. Lyonette…he nodded back towards the City of Growth in the distance.
He hoped she would be able to help. They had no [Innkeeper] with a white flag, but Ilvriss had learned from her inn, and Erin Solstice’s best [Barmaid] might be able to do what even a [Princess] could not. How else had she moved the City of Growth to war?
Then Ilvriss saw Greex galloping back towards him and urged his horse forwards. The [General] was pale-faced, and the Wall Lord cursed as he heard surprising—and unexpected news.
“Wall Lord! Fissival is under attack! They’re—retreating from the battlefield!”
“What?”
Fissival? Ilvriss’ eyes widened, and he realized they had one more factor to consider. A rogue Titan on the loose.
 
——
 
Dragonspeaker Luciva was incredulous as she listened to the news. Manus’ army was moving into the Great Plains on full alert, and Spearmaster Lulv had finally caught up. The Gnoll stalked into the war tent after the security checks.
“Fissival just lost a battle?”
“Lulv. There you are. No Antinium poisons or toxins?”
General Milka turned to him, helmet under one arm. The Gnoll just ducked his head.
“I can’t make any excuses. The Antinium…”
“…can level. We will address it, Lulv. You found out what you needed to and returned to us. But there is no future to plan for. Not without Rafaema.”
The Gnoll bared his teeth.
“Oteslia’s lost her, those idiots; they’re chasing their own Dragon now, and no one knows where she went?”
“Makhir suspects north, but he has to track her on foot. He suspects Reinhart or that [Princess] did something to her. We’re chasing down all leads, but Cire gave him nothing, and he could not put her to the question.”
Luciva was nearly breathing lightning herself, but she controlled her voice.
“Rafaema has changed. She has her reasons. We must trust them—but Ferris is not with her. He’s been sighted in the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Dragonblood.”
Lulv’s curse summed it up. Either way…Manus was moving to war. Cire was almost as important as Rafaema, but the blunt truth of it was that there was a great victory to be had in the Gnoll Plains.
Or a disaster. The worst thing that could happen was the other Walled Cities each losing an army to the Gnolls. Or the Tribes uniting and siding with the Antinium.
Manus was—faced with a decision. And Lulv’s eyes on the Dragonspeaker said he knew exactly what the options were.
“Permission to speak, Dragonspeaker?”
“Always, Spearmaster.”
“Who are we attacking?”
The Dragonspeaker only hesitated a moment.
“Whichever tribe is coming closest to victory—if they have won by the time we arrive, we gauge which one it is. Otherwise? We may attack—selectively.”
“Ah. And which ones don’t we want?”
“Plain’s Eye has long been associated with Pallass and other cities. We can work with them. Their actions are extreme, however. Depending on how they emerge, it might be a boon to all if they become Manus’ enemy. Failing that? Silverfang is disquietingly close with the Antinium. The Woven Bladegrass and Az’muzarre are adversarial. If one were to—vanish or suffer enough losses to disband, that might change the entire distribution of power in the Great Plains.”
She would give the best orders in that moment, and they all knew it. Yet to reassure the Gnoll, Luciva nodded at him.
“But let me be clear, Lulv. I am not seeking the destruction of the Gnolls. The thing I am here to do is make sure no other Walled City is defeated. We cannot lose anyone else of Zel Shivertail’s caliber. Wall Lord Ilvriss, General Greex, Oteslia’s Cire or any of their High Command—the Admiralty of Zeres or the Sharkcaptain.”
“Wall Lord Dragial?”
General Milka asked quietly, and Luciva frowned.
“He is a rogue element and has done enough damage. But Fissival’s magic corps would have been my priority. Trust, Lulv.”
The [Spearmaster] nodded. They’d see how it shook out. He turned to the war table.
