The Raskghar would survive. She always did. But before she left—she wondered if Mrsha’s parents would taste like her.
She wanted to know what the little Gnoll’s face would be when Nokha told her. She lifted one arm, drooling, and the male Gnoll thrust himself forwards.
“Prha, sound the alarm!”
Too late. The tent was soundproofed, and that [Shaman] had even enchanted the cloth walls. There was no easy way out, and they had no time. Nokha laughed as she advanced. She saw the two quarreling Gnolls turn and freeze as they gazed at her.
Someone tapped Nokha on the back, and she ignored it. Then she froze and swung around. She slashed—but the Drowned Man was already sliding backwards.
Half of his face looked like it was made out of chitin. Like…a crab. Indeed, one of his claws was a pincer, but his Human hand and his Drowned half both held daggers that glowed in the dark tent.
Seborn Sailwinds nodded to Nokha as the Raskghar froze with surprise and sudden—terrible fear. His voice was deep and echoed slightly as the two Gnolls stared at the Gold-rank adventurer in confusion. Mrell thought he recognized the Drowned Man. Wasn’t he from up north? As far north as the Village of the Dead. Just like…
Vuliel Drae. Seborn had been there a day. But he’d been waiting.
“Hello, Nokha. I’ve been praying for you.”
The Raskghar saw the Drowned Man grin as the [Faith Seeker]’s prayers were answered. He had wanted to meet Nokha. But then—so had someone else.
The Raskghar whirled, but too late. The far side of Mrell’s tent exploded inwards as a hand reached through. A hand covered in blossoming red vines that dripped sap that looked like blood grabbed Nokha, and the half-Giant’s palm was covered in thorns. He closed it over her arm, and Nokha looked up into Moore’s face.
The [Bloodearth Mage] slowly rose from where he’d been hiding as Nokha made a small sound in the back of her throat.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith strode into the Meeting of Tribes with Ulinde, and the two Selphids caused an uproar.
“Raskghar!”
Gnolls howled as they saw the two familiar, loping bodies, and Ulinde hesitated, but the Selphid just raised her hand. She said the same thing she’d been repeating for the last seven minutes, since they emerged from the tent they’d been hiding in when Seborn sent the signal. They had come in as Drakes and changed for dramatic effect.
And a fight. The Selphid called out as the Gnolls realized what was different.
“Dead Raskghar.”
Xherw, Ulcre, Torishi, and every other Gnoll whirled as Mrsha caught a familiar scent of preservatives, dead flesh, and Selphid, and her ears rose. Her tail began to wag, and she saw the Gold-rank adventurer stride forwards, armored in steel made by Maughin of Pallass.
“The Halfseekers!”
Krshia exclaimed. Jelaqua Ivirith winked at Mrsha.
“Sorry we’re late. We had to go lay a trap for a nasty beastie. Seborn’s been having visions. There you are, Mrsha. Your real mother’s looking for you.”
“What is this? A Selphid wearing a Raskghar’s body?”
Reizet roared in outrage, but before she could demand her guards remove Jelaqua, there was more shouting.
“Raskghar! Raskghar!”
“Calm them down. It’s a Selphid.”
Iraz snapped, but then he heard it, coming from the other direction.
“Raskghar and a half-Giant—”
Then Iraz saw a flying Raskghar. Krshia, Mrsha, and every Gnoll looked up as a Raskghar landed, and Gnolls backed out of the way. She was covered in blood, but Mrsha’s eyes went wide with horror as she recognized—
“Nokha!”
Krshia howled, and the Raskghar tried to rise. She had battered Demas Metal armor on her, and Ulcre’s heart began to pound as he saw someone charge out of the crowd.
Moore. The half-Giant. He looked far different than Mrsha remembered. A lot sadder. A lot scarier. Even the thorns on his magical armor had changed from green growth to red, cruel thorns mixed with blood.
Nokha leapt to her feet, clenching her claws into fists, but the half-Giant just charged at her. Nokha looked up at him and turned to run, but vines shot out of the ground laced with countless miring thorns. They ensnared her, and she howled with agony as they tore at her, stronger than steel rope.
Birevine. The Gaarh Marsh [Shamans] recognized the infamous plant a second before Moore hit Nokha. He swung a hand covered in razor-sharp thorns, and the crack of it meeting her face was eclipsed by a howl. Nokha went down, and Moore kicked her into the Az’muzarre warriors. They raised their blades, but backed away as the half-Giant stormed forwards. Nokha tried to rise, and Moore stomped one boot into her back. He kept stomping as Seborn, Prha, Mrell, and the Demas Metal tribe followed.
Nokha finally managed to roll out of the way and rose in time for Moore’s fist to cut open her chin. He raised her overhead as the Raskghar reeled and slammed her straight down.
“Moore?”
Insill covered his eyes as the half-Giant bellowed. The Raskghar’s blood was everywhere as she tried to run, but he put one foot on her neck, pressing with all his weight on it.
“Wait. Moore.”
“No more, Seborn. She’ll threaten no one again.”
The Drowned Man had to shove at Moore with all his strength. Mrsha watched Nokha’s bones creaking as the half-Giant stood there.
Jelaqua Ivirith was just watching calmly. No sympathy for Nokha. Seborn spoke louder.
“We have to know how she got there.”
Moore eased the tension on his foot, just a bit. Reizet was spluttering.
“How did a Raskghar get into the Meeting of Tribes? Was one freed?”
“No. One appeared in my tent. It nearly killed us but for the adventurers. A Raskghar—who slipped through the entire Meeting of Tribes unseen.”
Mrell was dead white under his fur. He looked around—and then his gaze and every other fell onto someone.
Xherw. Nokha was staring up at them, barely conscious, as the Plain’s Eye Chieftain gave them a look that revealed nothing.
“I have no idea how that Raskghar got there. Nor have I personally seen her in my life.”
“Lies!”
Prha howled, but Xherw was unmoved. Torishi’s eyes slowly narrowed.
“You may not. But what about you, Shaman Ulcreziek? You look nervous.”
“Why would I know of a Raskghar?”
He snarled back. The Weatherfur Chieftain saw Moore drag Nokha up and shake her.
“Who sent you?”
“Forgiveness. Mercy. Promise me I live?”
The bloody Raskghar whispered through broken teeth. Moore’s eyes flashed, but before he could do anything—someone called out.
“She was the Plains Eye’s prisoner. I saw her put in chains. She was our prisoner. But somehow she is now free. I will swear it before the tribes.”
The final actors of the play were arriving. Chief Warrior Merish and Yelroan slowly walked through the Gnolls. Friends, his own tribe—staring at him with horror. Now, Xherw turned, and his look was surprised for the first time. And betrayed.
But it wasn’t a match for the way Merish looked at him. He stared at Nokha.
“I saw her captured with my own eyes. A band of Raskghar who infiltrated the Meeting of Tribes. I saw this one chained, the only survivor. How did she get free? Chieftain? Shaman Ulcreziek?”
Yelroan had come to a halt, looking at Nokha and Moore. Ulcreziek had nothing to say, but Xherw gazed around.
“It seems I have been set up. My own trusted warriors and [Mathematician] have been manipulated against me. I caution all Chieftains with ears to listen not to make sudden actions until we can sort out the real truth here.”
“What? You have the gall to—”
Chieftain Perale roared. The Halfseekers just looked at each other. Moore tossed Nokha down in disgust, ready for more blood. Seborn just raised his brows. He’d met great captains at sea with less cunning in their entire bodies than Xherw had in one finger. What a sea-snake.
“Chieftains—hello. I’m Yelroan. The Plains Eye’s—their former [Mathematician]. I would like to speak as well. I have something to present. Something taken from Xherw’s personal tent.”
“Thieves and traitors! Arrest him—now!”
However, the Plain’s Eye warriors who stepped forwards were blocked by Weatherfur. Berr’s son, Dorekh, blocked one of Az’muzarre’s with a warning look. Everyone was waiting.
“What is it you say, ah, Mathematician Yelroan? How can we trust someone who has betrayed trust? You must speak on a truth stone.”
The World-Pact Adventurer folded his arms as Yelroan stepped forwards. The Gnoll had put on his sunglasses, but Merish snatched them before he could render everyone blind. Yelroan gave Merish a look, then bowed.
“You can put any spells on me and review the data yourself, sir. Anyone can. The numbers do not lie. If you want the truth don’t call for truth spells—you can falsify those. Call for [Scribes]! [Accountants] from Drake cities! Call for people who understand numbers and look at the records! Plain’s Eye has been—lucky these last generations. So lucky it is beyond belief. I have noticed it—we are the richest tribe, the most plentiful by far because of the unnatural luck conferred to us.”
Now Xherw was furious. He was staring at Yelroan, and Qwera and Mrsha were both looking up. Almost…they were almost on the edge of the final truth.
“Lucky? Why would that matter?”
Yelroan shot back.
“Because it is unnatural. It is not mere chance, it is deliberate. The average income of a Gnoll tribe—no. That is not all we found. Plain’s Eye enjoys more than unnatural luck. It also pays virtually no tariffs on alchemy ingredients it sells to Pallass. It enjoys discounts from Fissival’s magic, Salazsar’s gemstones. Most damning of all? It has received money every year from Fissival that has been hidden in our incomes as adventurers’ earnings, goods sold. But every year—the City of Magic sends our tribe money for something. I would not have known what it was, even if I’d found the incomes hidden in our books. But I think everyone can guess what it is for.”
Now they saw it. That thread running through every event. Even Iraz and Reizet slowly turned to Xherw. But the Chieftain just glared hatred at Yelroan.
“You have no proof other than a [Mathematician]’s lies, Yelroan.”
“I have the records. Dig through them. Chief Warrior Merish, who fought on Rhir, came here to join your Doomslayer squads. He witnessed that Raskghar’s capture, and here it is. How many more pieces of evidence do we need?”
Yelroan was shouting. He did have tears in his eyes. Was that all this ever was? A great traitor, a murderer for no good reason? As petty as a—a Drake?
Xherw just looked at Yelroan in disgust. It was to Merish he spoke.
“Everything I have ever done, I have done to ensure peace and the survival of the tribes. To ensure calamity does not befall us again. Or have we truly waned these last centuries? We survived even the Antinium Wars and the rampage of a Goblin King. The great folly of Doombringers, I have turned into an asset. I will not apologize for safeguarding our people.”
“By selling us out? Are you admitting to conspiring with Fissival?”
Chieftain Eska howled. For answer, Xherw just lunged. He drew a sword from his side and went for Mrsha.
Perhaps even he had gone mad. Perhaps he saw it all falling apart and simply decided to end it on his terms. It would come to blood—and at least she would be dead.
Az’muzarre’s warriors and Plain’s Eye surged into motion as Xherw charged. Jelaqua howled and leapt at Xherw, tangling with one of the Relic-class swords a Gnoll from Reizet’s tribe held. Ulinde lifted both wands, and Ulcre blinded her with magic.
“Mrsha!”
Weatherfur Gnolls and Plain’s Eye attacked each other, and Torishi herself moved to block Xherw. But he threw her aside with a roar. Moore charged, but Nokha leapt and struck him, slowing the half-Giant. Seborn leapt—and slammed into a pair, Vetn and Tesy.
Unlucky. Mrsha’s eyes were round as Krshia tried to back away and ran into their protectors. She tried to counter it—Qwera was shouting as Xherw sped towards him, but they all felt it.
Luck. Misfortune. Two people running into each other, someone slipping—Xherw hitting a group of Gnolls just right and knocking them apart.
Luck. Luck, luck—that was what Xherw had. A mountain of luck. Stolen from the Doombearers. Yelroan was running as Merish roared Xherw’s name. The Plain’s Eye Chieftain ignored them all and lunged. Nothing could stop the luckiest man in the world. The only thing that could was if that luck vanished.
If someone had a bad day.
The tip of the sword skated across a quarterstaff. Xherw’s stab went wide as someone shoved the blade aside, and it tore through part of his arm and lanced down his fur. The blood ran onto white fur, but the Plain’s Eye Chieftain missed. He recoiled, eyes wide—
And Wer the Wanderer struck him. He whirled the quarterstaff up and slammed it into Xherw’s guts and then across his temple in a blur, pivoted, jabbed another Az’muzarre Gnoll off their feet with a thrust, and then spun the staff.
Ferris landed in front of Mrsha, mid-dive. The Gnoll [Infiltrator]’s face was locked in an expression of defiance.
“For the City of W—”
Then he realized he wasn’t dead and sat up. He looked blankly at Wer and Mrsha. And Xherw met the gaze of the third white Gnoll.
“Doombringer!”
“Doombearer.”
Wer was panting. He had raced here after recovering from his wounds. Mrsha felt the luck he’d gathered expending itself, countering Xherw’s. Wanderer recognized the Plain’s Eye Chieftain, and Xherw reeled backwards.
“Three of them. How many? Where are you all hiding?”
He tried to raise his blade, but Torishi and other Gnolls were howling.
“Treachery!”
Xherw’s warriors pulled him back, forming a line as the Meeting of Tribes faced off. Every Gnoll was looking at Xherw, but still, Az’muzarre did not leave him, nor Steelfur, though even their Chieftains looked uneasy.
“Enough. Enough! Xherw of Plain’s Eye, you have broken every peace! You have lied and conspired with Drakes! You slay Doombearers and have manipulated the truth. Why? What have you done? Have Plain’s Eye always been traitors?”
Shaman Theikha walked forwards. She looked so weary and heartbroken. Xherw stood alone, with not even Ulcreziek behind him. He gazed around defiantly. When he spoke, it was the answer. Though even now, he buried the final conclusion.
