They looked like Erin had dreamed they would, until she had been told they were dead. Faces alight with intelligence and mischief. Some had thin beards; none had pointy little hats, and they had a certain dignity. A strange kind, because they laughed as they walked, and one even skipped as they waved and blew kisses at the startled four.
Like…grandparents. Like the oldest Humans who never seemed to lose that spark of youth, like the eternal uncle who was always truly smiling and playing little tricks on nephews. Innocence that age couldn’t erase—and, oh, they were old. They walked towards her, hair a mix of any color, often grey, but sometimes dyed irrepressibly vibrant.
Waving, calling out, and happily making the rudest and sometimes lewdest gestures imaginable towards the dead gods. Erin Solstice had a name, but it was Laedonius Deviy who stared at them and spoke in a voice that…quavered? With sudden unease.
“I thought they were all gone. We wiped them out, I thought. All but—Kasigna. Emerrhain. It’s them.”
He refused to name them, but Erin did. She looked at the eighteen men and women, each one coming their way, and clapped her hands and laughed.
“Gnomes.”
Just eighteen of them, but the four flinched as if Erin had said something terrible. Instantly, all four changed course. Emerrhain himself abandoned chasing Califor and went for the eighteen as the [Witch] stared at the unexpected reinforcements.
“Oh no. Watch out!”
The God of Magic was first to go for them. The eighteen saw him coming—and as far as Erin could see, none were possessed of any quality the others lacked. They just made Emerrhain…
Nervous. But he went for them, arms grasping. The Gnomes looked up, and at last, Erin heard their voices distinctly in the distance. They saw the God of Magic coming at them and began chattering.
“Who’s that coming our way?”
“Emerrhain?”
“No, it can’t be. He’s much too ugly. That nose? It must be someone else.”
“Slouched shoulders. No decorum whatsoever. Must be what the new ghosts are calling Seamwalkers. And a particularly nasty-looking one.”
Erin’s eyes bugged out. The God of Magic slowed a second. His brows locked together in familiar anger.
“You meddlesome tricksters. Some of you survived? We wiped your kind out!”
He reached for them, and the Gnomes looked at each other. One of them scratched at a shock of grey hair sticking up in spiky waves like the mad inventor of every story.
“Wiped…I don’t recall you winning. Just listen to the fellow. Eternity and not a second spent in self-reflection. Well, here we are again. Ready?”
“Ready!”
He was nearly upon them, and Erin’s trembling heart was pounding as she saw the other two dead gods, Kasigna and Laedonius, heading towards them. But what was this feeling…?
Hope? The expectation of…then she saw something happen.
The Gnomes saw Emerrhain coming at them and slowed as he reached for them. He could absorb—eat—destroy any one of them at a touch. So what did they do? As if they had been waiting for that moment, they all turned to the one who had spoken, with the spiky grey hair. He had a set of work overalls on and a toolbelt with a wand and other odd devices. He grinned at Emerrhain—
And they all hopped into his body.
Even the dead gods blinked. Erin’s jaw dropped. They jumped into—no. She saw eighteen hands wave and heard laughter.
They were overlapping. Ghosts had no actual substance, so they could pass through each other. They didn’t because no one liked to hover in someone else’s butt or something. Except some of the weird ones, but it felt uncomfortable.
Yet for a second—all the Gnomes were in one spot. Then, as the God of Magic hesitated and reached for them—they abruptly split in every direction.
Straight backwards, left, right, down—like a game of tag in slow motion, Emerrhain had eighteen targets all heading in a direction such that he had time to grab one, two at most, before they were scattering. And he—
Hesitated. He swiped left and missed a female Gnome who skipped past him and slapped her butt as his fingers missed. Not that they performed their trick in silence. The Gnomes chattered as they flashed past Emerrhain.
“Ooh, so close!”
“Not really.”
“Poor form. The lad’s got no coordination.”
“No wonder they called him the God of Secrets and not the God of Basic Fitness.”
Erin’s jaw was all the way open—then she heard laughter. It was coming from Gerial. The man covered his mouth as Emerrhain whirled. He was—embarrassed. Embarrassed, furious, and chasing after the first Gnomes, faster than they were.
Maybe that was why he missed the Dragon. It rose out of the sea, and Erin’s eyes bulged as she saw a serpent’s body, no wings—
The Sea Dragon belched a poisonous liquid over Emerrhain, and he howled. Then a dozen more, Sea Dragons and their airborne kin, even what might have been a giant Salamander, all flew out of the sea and exhaled.
Kasigna, Emerrhain, and Laedonius shouted as Dragonfire or variants of it engulfed them. They tried to press on, but the pain forced them back. The Gnomes strolled onwards, waving at their escort.
“Keep them off us! Stick to the plan!”
“Which plan are we on?”
“How many of our little cousins made it? One, two, three…”
They were chattering, trying to count the Fraerling ghosts, and stepping onto Chandrar’s shores in the midst of chaos as the three dead gods retreated. Erin Solstice saw them come to a halt and look at her. One of them gave the ghosts a bow.
“Hello! Pardon the intrusion, but Norechl’s called forth its disgusting army. You saw Sprigaena—she’s doing the only thing we can. We’re here to meet this living girl from Earth and mess with that lot.”
He jerked a finger at the three dead gods, who watched the Gnomes with actual trepidation. Gnomes. Erin’s eyes were sparkling as she faced them, and the one with wild hair winked at her.
“Don’t worry. There is a plan. And remember—if nothing else?”
He jerked a thumb over his shoulder at them and leaned in. His eyes twinkled like the spirit of mischief, yet his voice was serious and playful. Resolved and calm and full of laughter. He whispered to Erin in a stage-voice.
“Gods can die. They can lose. We beat them once, and we can do it again.”
He clapped two Gnomes on the shoulders, and Erin looked at him. Her eyes went wide.
“You mean—”
The Gnomes laughed at her. One rotated her arm as if preparing to start boxing the giant Seamwalkers and dead gods.
“What, did you think they got each other? We watched them die. Now—let’s get to work. They’re not half as smart as they think they are.”
The Gnome with frizzy hair linked arms with Erin as the Gnomes split up, some heading to the Wyrm, others talking to Khelta, the [Witches]—she looked down into an old face untouched by lines and two bright, pale silver eyes mixed with green spots. The Gnome nodded to her.
“I have a lot of names, but call me Zineryr. You’re Erin Solstice, aren’t you? An Earth-girl?”
“Yes—how do you know that?”
The Gnome sighed and patted her arm, though neither one felt it. Nor was he even touching her—but he ushered her onwards, miming the motions.
“Your people have died on Baleros as well as every other land. We knew something was up—not that we were watching, but we had enough time once we recognized six of them were back. Consider us up-to-date on everything you know, and there is a lot you do not know and need to be told. Still got your body?”
“I—no, someone hijacked it!”
The Gnome cursed.
“Kasigna’s sometimes wobbling breasts! Well, I thought that was a danger. We’ll work on it. What we need to do is have a nice, long chat before we’re all eaten—if Sprigaena does her job, we’ll have a chance. If she fails? We have another chance. But you need to know…everything minus the dangerous parts.”
Erin Solstice was nodding and hesitating. She stared at the oncoming wave of Seamwalkers.
“Do we have time? Wh—what do we do first?”
The Gnome fixed Erin with a long, searching look.
“Well, trust each other. You seem like a nice girl. You don’t eat other Humans?”
“No!”
“Have a habit of murder? Theft?”
“No! No! I mean, I’ve killed people, and I’ve stolen—things.”
“Hm. Good enough. It’s my job to find out. Tell me what happened from start to finish, Erin Solstice. Nevermind the time—and I’ll tell you. I’ve heard of you. [Innkeeper]? Not the class I’d have picked if we bought into their little game, but do what you want. Speaking of which—Pawn to E4.”
“Huh? Huh?”
It was going so fast, but Erin recognized that last one. She blurted out the obvious after a second as the Gnome grinned at her.
“P-pawn to E5! You know chess?”
The Gnome rolled his eyes.
“I hope you’re good. We stopped playing ages ago. Dragons throw the most unimaginable temper tantrums, and they’re not that good. Elves take too long choosing each move. King to E2.”
Just when she thought she couldn’t get any more surprised—any more delighted by these strange folk—he hit her with the classic, the immortal…Bongcloud Attack. Erin Solstice looked at the Gnome. Then at last—
She began to laugh.
 
——
 
The Meeting of Tribes had ended. Or if it hadn’t, not completely, this was the end. No one would be perusing the stalls, walking through the forests of tents, and there would be no more deals, no more negotiations or gifts. Gnolls stood with blades drawn, and Mrsha?
Mrsha looked up at the face of her enemy. Not Pawn. Not Face-Eater Moths. Not even Nokha, truthfully. Belavierr was as close to an enemy as Mrsha had ever had.
Nokha wanted to eat her. Belavierr hated her for completely unfair reasons.
But Xherw, the Chieftain of the Plain’s Eye tribe, was her enemy. He didn’t regard her as prey or declare a vendetta against her. He looked at her like an actual enemy, like a threat. He had devoted his life to killing her kind.
Now the two looked at each other and recognized the other. It was almost a relief.
Here came death. Like Merish before, Mrsha refused to run. The great Earth Elemental, Khoteizetrough, turned from glaring at the Plain’s Eye tribe in uproar as the [Chieftain] strode towards her. He was reaching for the blade at his side, which had just killed countless Drakes in battle.
He never reached her. The slow Earth Elemental was too cautious of the innocent Gnolls to block him, but half a dozen Gnolls blocked Xherw’s way.
Krshia Silverfang, standing with Akrisa, Cetrule, and her tribe.
Gire, glowering hugely as she held a paw in front of her little friend.
Lehra Ruinstrider, still looking confused but determined.
Adetr Steelfur, gazing into the eyes of Iraz Steelfur, his Chieftain, standing across from him.
Chieftain Torishi, Feshi right behind her, the Weatherfur tribe surrounding Mrsha.
Shaman Theikha of Gaarh Marsh.
She put her staff down, and Xherw aborted his charge, hesitating. It was just a staff, just one elderly Gnoll he probably had a hundred pounds on and a lot of muscle—but even Shaman Ulcreziek hesitated as Theikha placed her staff on the ground.
“Back. No one will harm this child. She is under the protection of Gaarh Marsh, Weatherfur, and Silverfang!”
Xherw recoiled as, above him, the Earth Elemental raised one huge fist. Gnolls looked up at the shadow of the land itself that threatened to crush him.
“Doombringer! What madness has gripped you, Shaman Theikha? Do you not see her white fur? Do you not see Doom among us?”
He howled, pointing at Mrsha. He turned, looking around—but he had arrived too late. Everyone had already seen Mrsha’s pale white fur, seen the Earth Elemental snatch her up, and the mountains themselves had heard his word. Theikha’s gaze was steady with conviction as she gazed at him.
Plain’s Eye, traditional tribes, and those on one side. Silverfang, Weatherfur, many of their allies on the other.
Countless tribes split, undecided, caught between fear and uncertainty at the greatest decision yet of the Meeting of Tribes. Mrsha looked at horrified Gnolls shrinking back from her as if she were Yellow Rivers or death incarnate. Gnolls who would kill her for just looking like she was, a name.
Others who were weighing fact against fiction. Some who didn’t care about her fur at all, only who she was. But so many afraid of what they had been told as cubs.
A day ago, even with all the will in the world, Mrsha would have quailed before the gazes of the tribes. An hour ago that would have been true, because part of her would have believed it.
Today? Now? Mrsha looked up at Theikha as Gire held her paw. She looked even higher at that set face of the oldest being here. Khoteizetrough, who had set it all to right with one word. She clung to it and believed in it. Time for the reckoning.
Shaman Theikha shook her head and faced Xherw, eyes searching his face, Ulcre’s, and looking at the world how it was and wondering, perhaps—where it had changed from what it should be. What had twisted in all their minds, like darkness. An idea, rotting in their heads over generations.
“Not Doombringer. Doombearer.”
Gnolls looked at her, murmuring the word, comparing the two. They would never be the same people after this. But today—
Today was the day they began to decide who Gnolls of the Great Plains would be.
 
——
 
There was no blood at first. Just a lot of shouting.
It made Tkrn want to blow his whistle a few times, as if this were a huge argument at a bar that had spilled into the streets of Liscor. However, he was fairly certain that if he blew his whistle he would have it inserted into an orifice. Ears or nose would be the kind option.
When Gnolls got angry, they growled. Their ears went flat and fur rose—which was what earned them uncharitable comparisons to dogs or other creatures. They were closer to hyenas, a Chandrarian species that looked about as close to a Gnoll as…a monkey did to a Human.
Gnolls took that comparison as an indication of the character of the people who made it. They did not jump to violence. Tkrn had once been told that when Gnolls quarreled, they had a system, a method to it.
Debates. He recalled the first Gnollish debate and saw one at the heart of the Meeting of Tribes—but not a genteel argument. No—this one intersected with what Gnolls had told him didn’t really exist or wasn’t a problem and what he himself had realized was present.
Loyalty to your tribe. Politics. And yes, emotions and tradition and simple fear. No debate was a void where only logic existed. So when he looked across the rift in the Meeting of Tribes—he saw the sides.
