There stood Chieftain Torishi, a beam of light falling from the sky above and illuminating her fur. Shaman Theikha, the oldest [Shaman] and beloved by all. Akrisa and Krshia Silverfang, newly risen to fame. Last and possibly most notable—two individuals. Lehra Ruinstrider and Gire Ekhtouch.
Adetr didn’t count as he did not lead Steelfur. Feshi, Inkar, Yelroan, Satar—and they were there, standing with Mrsha—they were not the most famous Gnolls. But those Gnolls should have been able to browbeat any other tribe just by their presence on any other issue.
…Save for the Gnoll who opposed them. Chieftain Xherw, who had by all accounts laid an entire army of Drakes low by his own efforts. Chieftain of the largest, arguably most powerful tribe of all. Plain’s Eye. Custodian of tradition and—Tkrn saw now—the one who slew Doombringers. Not behind it all, but the one behind a lot of it.
It was a surreal thing to Tkrn, to look at someone he knew was trying to kill Mrsha, who had done terrible things, and watch him walk free. He itched to find a pair of cuffs and wondered what Zevara would have done. But then—the [Mastermind], Mr. Soot of Liscor, had never been charged, only arrested and let go.
Was this how Watch Captain Zevara had felt? Tkrn yearned to…to do something. And at the same time? He was conflicted. Because it was Xherw who had given Tkrn the very same Eyeshield that had saved his life during battle.
And if you did not know a Doombringer, know Mrsha, and you had only your knowledge of them from [Shamans] and you had seen all the good Xherw had done, if you had friends in Plain’s Eye? Maybe you listened to him.
That was all Tkrn could think. He had to think that was part of the reason, or else he was looking at tribe after tribe filled with people who wanted to kill a child in cold blood. He had to believe they were not all like that, or their Chieftains were making the decisions.
“…Fifty tribes with Plain’s Eye.”
Someone murmured as Tkrn stood on their ‘side’. A neutral zone was being drawn as tribes abandoned their camps. Not just as a sign of where you stood. They were getting ready.
It wasn’t subtle. Gnolls, a people who could smell and hear almost anything they did, didn’t bother to hide what they were doing. So Tkrn saw Weatherfur Gnolls driving stakes into the ground, creating palisades. Gaarh Marsh [Shamans] were raising the ground, creating elevated areas for Gnolls to loose arrows from.
In a way, it made him glad. It was a declaration of how far they’d go, and the other tribes took heed.
…It made him less glad to see Plain’s Eye was doing the same. And their [Shamans] were making something that was raising the fur on his body.
“What is that they’re doing, Shaman Cetrule?”
The Gnoll counting sides gave Tkrn a grave look as Tkrn pointed at a huge pole of wood being driven into the earth. The [Shamans] had carried it back from Xherw’s battlefield, and now they were embedding it here.
“One of Plain’s Eye’s magics. You saw how I could attract spells with my magic?”
“Yes…”
Cetrule did it with long stakes, each one painstakingly made and enchanted to be used to attract enemy magic like a magnet. The Gnoll nodded at the giant totem that would be sixteen feet high when a team of Gnolls finished dragging it upwards.
“…That is one of their Gaze of the Plains totems. As analogous to Drake siege engines, I suppose. Some can loose spells, but most are not [Mage] magic.”
“Ah. So what does that one do?”
Cetrule scratched at his chin.
“I could be wrong, but I think any enemy in a thousand feet of it goes blind when activated.”
Tkrn gulped. The [Shaman of Purity] just watched, looking at his counterparts. He was outmatched. Shaman Ulcreziek, the [Shaman of the Eternal Grasslands], stared back. And his eye had been passed from [Shaman] to [Shaman]. It tried to drill a hole into Tkrn’s head, and he broke away, shuddering.
“H-how many are on our side? I mean, declared?”
He went to count. Most of the tribes had still not moved from the neutral zone. But if Xherw had fifty…
“A little over a dozen.”
Tkrn’s head snapped around. He did not have a full view of the Gnolls, so the disparity in numbers wasn’t obvious.
“Only a dozen?”
Cetrule shrugged. He never looked away from Ulcreziek. He was frowning deeply.
“In truth, with such famous tribes on either side, it should make most tribes who do not lean one way or the other think. Xherw stands on one side—but Theikha on this, and I do not think she is less respected than he. But perhaps—”
Was it all down to a single word? Doombringer? Tkrn looked helplessly across the middle distance and saw the first two great tribes who had joined Plain’s Eye, practically within moments.
Steelfur, smaller than some, but each Gnoll’s fur as tough as metal, led by their famous war-chieftain, Iraz Steelfur himself. And…his heart sank to look at them…
Az’muzarre.
He had not considered what the tribe of Dragonslayers would think, but they were traditional, the greatest protectors of the Great Plains. Chieftain Reizet and her warriors armed with Dragonbone relics, shields made of Dragonscales and even the teeth of the Tyrant of Gems, Muzarre, glared at the Gnolls.
She made Tkrn want to wet himself. It was a dire sign.
“Why did they join Plain’s Eye? Are they that traditional? That friendly?”
Cetrule shook his head. He frowned deeper, and Tkrn saw he was looking for someone. The leader of Plain’s Eye himself, Xherw.
“They are traditional and friendly with Plain’s Eye, but I would not have bet they would go with Plain’s Eye. Not immediately. Not when Khoteizetrough himself acted. Some tribes, like Decles, are practically Plain’s Eye.”
He nodded to the growling Gnolls who stood with Plain’s Eye, and Tkrn remembered how they’d acted. He nodded, but Cetrule muttered.
“…He’s doing something. But it’s not magic.”
He pointed, and Tkrn saw two figures emerge from the largest tent aside from the Meeting of Chieftains itself.
Xherw and a Gnoll [Chieftain] from Ironscent emerged, and the other Gnoll shook Xherw’s paw again. The Plain’s Eye Chieftain looked at him and nodded, and the Ironscent Chieftain loped off, calling for his people.
Tkrn had a bad feeling. It was confirmed less than five minutes later as Ironscent struck their camp and moved across the divide.
Onto Plain’s Eye’s tribe.
“What was that? He just walked in there, and they talked for thirty minutes and—”
“I saw it.”
Cetrule had been watching. His eyes were narrowed. Tkrn went to the most obvious answer.
“He bribed him. Or used magic to persuade him. A Skill!”
“None of the three.”
Tkrn hesitated.
“Huh?”
Cetrule shook his head. Slowly, he watched Xherw as he conferred with Ulcreziek and went to approach another Chieftain, who looked wary. But within the hour, another tribe joined Plain’s Eye.
“It’s not a Skill nor magic, and the Gnolls who joined Plain’s Eye are adamant, but not fools. Some could not be bribed, or I misjudge all their characters. They just made up their minds. I’ve told other Chieftains not to talk to Xherw, but I can’t understand what it is.”
It was like…Tkrn’s lips moved silently.
As if there were a chance the Chieftains could swing one way or the other. And in one instant, the stars aligned and they made up their minds. Chance? One possibility among many?
And he had it. He breathed one word.
“Luck.”
 
——
 
“It’s luck. He has an infinite reservoir of it. I don’t know where he’s gotten it from, but I can guess. If he touches you—he might not even need to do that. Stay away from him.”
Two other Gnolls in the Meeting of Tribes had realized what Tkrn had. One articulated it fully; the other couldn’t speak.
Mrsha looked up at a Gnoll with wide, appraising eyes. Qwera, the Golden Gnoll of Pallass, looked back. Her fur shone like fake gold under the light, brighter than the real thing.
“How do you know that?”
Shaman Cetrule looked at Qwera in surprise; he and Tkrn had hastened to the tent where Mrsha was being protected to deliver their conclusion. Shaman Theikha coughed into one paw.
“I take Merchant Qwera at her word, Shaman Cetrule. And I see Mrsha agrees. Is this a power of Doombr—Doombearers that Xherw has? Could he be one?”
“There is no way, no.”
Akrisa shook her head instantly. Gire scratched at hers.
“…But it explains so much. Luck. A few classes have Skills revolving around it, like [Gambler] or [Lucky Soldier], but it’s so rare. It isn’t a coincidence he has it.”
She eyed Mrsha and Qwera as the Golden Gnoll tightened her grip on the little girl in her arms. She was shaking with nerves.
Only Tkrn gave Qwera a blank look.
“Good thing Miss Qwera has luck Skills too so she can confirm it, eh? And Mrsha has luck too, right?”
Mrsha slapped her face with a paw. Then she looked up at Qwera. But all the Golden Gnoll did was bare her teeth.
“Exactly. I’m afraid, though—that if you want to match luck with luck, neither Mrsha nor I have a chance. If she can even control her powers.”
Mrsha shook her head. She had no idea what to do. Wer the Wanderer had shown her some of it, but she was no expert. Qwera was sick to her stomach.
“I don’t want to get near him. But if he’s doing what you think, he’s taking an even 1 in 1000 chance and turning it into…what, 1 in 10?”
Xherw didn’t have a complete success rate, but it explained far too much.
“Warn the other Chieftains. We can prove nothing unless more Skills like Merchant Qwera’s are present. But it is not hard to insist we conduct our arguments in the open.”
Indeed, as Akrisa nodded to Cetrule and he hurried back out, Mrsha could still hear the voices outside.
Gnolls were arguing. Fiercely, sometimes escalating, but arguing. Debating the issue. In groups as large as hundreds or thousands, or individually, calmly, angrily—
But the greatest debate would take place soon. And if they lost? 
Someone else was thinking of that eventuality too. Feshi Weatherfur was striding about the tent, issuing orders, checking the state of their camp. She saw the worst possibility and didn’t sugarcoat her words.
“We will not give Mrsha up even if opinion comes against us. This is one point that we cannot be swayed on, luck or not. What happens if…we were to lose our arguments and most of the tribes turned on us?”
It was Shaman Theikha who answered. She looked wan. Tired and exhausted, but she held herself upright, refusing to sit.
“It is customary for a tribe to insist only twice—then the other tribe loses face and may be shunned by all. But when one refuses to relent and the other must insist? It becomes the simplest of answers. Sometimes Gnolls will overturn their Chieftain’s decision first.”
“That won’t happen.”
Gire growled. She was making something as she sat.
Javelins. Specialty ones where she carefully bent wood along a simple vice so they’d stay curved, held in place by prongs of wood. She had eight, each perfectly balanced the way she wanted. Then she stood up.
“I won’t allow it.”
“Gireulashia, your tribe does not stand with you. And you are one Gnoll. I caution you—Xherw is beyond even a [Paragon] of your age.”
The giant Gnoll girl looked affronted by the statement, but she ducked her head as Theikha turned to her sharply.
“He may be. We may see. But Firrelle is not. Enough waiting.”
She strode out of her tent, and Mrsha ran after her, breaking free of Qwera’s grip. Gire went down the slopes, one stride for every four of Mrsha’s. She crossed past fortified ground—even walls.
“I’m glad I began building a dirt fort. We’ve got a march on anyone, but, uh, has anyone forgotten the Drakes armies crossing your water line and coming this way?”
Yerranola was supervising the fortifications directly. The Selphid had led them to occupy the fortified ground she’d been working on nearly a month ago. She was speaking to another expert on Gnollish fighting, but he just sat there.
Adetr Steelfur’s head was in his hands. He stood across from Iraz, the one Steelfur Gnoll who hadn’t followed Iraz. He looked up at his mentor, teacher, and inspiration, who watched Adetr with betrayal on his face.
And yet—Adetr knew Iraz was wrong. He knew it because if he crossed that line, and part of him wanted to, he would come back to strike that little Gnoll who ran past him with an axe.
Kill her like she were some giant, white rat. But she was not. Adetr wondered what Iraz was thinking. Rose hovered at his back.
“Adetr?”
The Gnoll warrior rose without a word as Gireulashia of Ekhtouch went down the slope, past Gnolls holding bows and spears, into the neutral ground. She pointed at a Gnoll who was camped almost cheek-by-jowl next to the Plain’s Eye’s camp.
“Chieftain Firrelle! I am Gire, the [Paragon] of Ekhtouch! I demand you join me in the only place with any honor or integrity. Ekhtouch, to me!”
A [Chieftain] jerked as she looked around. Chieftain Firrelle, almost eight feet tall, a giant, superior Gnoll to the rest of her kind, looked up at Gireulashia. The scant hundreds of Ekhtouch looked up. They had been mourning less than ten of their warriors who’d died; a terrible blow to their tribe.
Gireulashia stood there, her red fur gleaming as she raised her arms. Gnolls looked at her as the fifteen-year-old girl shouted.
“I will not stand by while we fall for Plains Eye’s trickery! Did you not hear the Earth Elemental shouting the truth? Join me and tear the blindfold from our eyes!”
Her words were fiery, but Firrelle called back slowly.
“Your judgment, young Gire, is compromised. All know that you have made friends with the little Doombringer. She has corrupted your mind and your training. You are not a Chieftain.”
Ekhtouch’s Gnolls looked from Firrelle to Gire. In answer, the [Paragon] pointed at Mrsha. Eight Gnolls had raced out of cover and were holding shields in front of her, pulling her back.
“A child has the Skills or ability to corrupt me? Are you doubting Ekhtouch’s blood that much, Firrelle? Do I see you whispering with Xherw? Are you afraid to oppose Plain’s Eye, or has he bought your loyalty? I am your [Paragon]. I was born to lead you all, and that day is now.”
She struck her chest, and Firrelle bared her teeth. Ever since that moment Gire had opposed her in private, picked her up and shook her—she pointed at Gire.
“You are not ready, and your naivete shows that. I am your [Chieftain]. Step away from these Gnolls, Gireulashia!”
Gire looked at her with genuine surprise. Even for such a smart Gnoll—she still had a moment where she looked hurt and let down. But she shook her head.
