Lady Magnolia Reinhart had her first chance to address the Meeting of Tribes. She’d had a slot booked to propose her peace treaty—but that moment might never come.
She did not bring up the wall between North and South. Perhaps it might never come. But sometimes…you simply had to stand.
Magnolia Reinhart bowed her head slightly.
“Gnolls of Izril, it is my deepest honor to greet you.”
“You say this, yet I notice you are not here in person, Human. You went begging to Drakes with great gifts before the Meeting of Tribes.”
Magnolia Reinhart pursed her lips as a female Gnoll shot back.
“I regret to say that the Meeting of Tribes was on my list, but I thought I could persuade the Walled Cities first then attend—but for Zeres besieging Oteslia. Besides which—they did invite me. I quite notice I had no invitations from Gnolls. And at any rate, I believed and still believe the Drakes needed more…persuasion. You know how stubborn they can be, Chieftain Werri.”
The Gnolls smiled at that. But they watched her warily and with no trust. Magnolia wished she could have presented her gifts to them or spoken. But she could not.
And they certainly knew it. The Gnolls were eying the room behind her.
“You seem quite cosy for someone who did not bother to even try to visit the Meeting of Tribes, Lady Reinhart. In fact, are you at your estates in the north already? For someone who claims they were held by Zeres, your magical carriage certainly seems to have headed north already. We are not fools; we know it has already left for the north.”
Magnolia blinked at the speaker.
“As a matter of fact, that was a separate mission for one of my servants, Chieftain Xherw. I am still in Oteslia. If you would like, I can move this wretched scrying orb and show you an objectionable number of Drakes camped outside the walls.”
The Chieftain frowned at her, and Magnolia would have ordered the scrying orb moved—but she had no Ressa to efficiently carry out her orders. More than that…she sighed.
They did not like her already. And they were not going to like this. But sometimes you just had to smile.
“Chieftains, I have a simple message for you. And I know my words are being broadcast across the world—thank you for that, Wistram. Even in an hour of crisis, I can count upon you to watch and do little.”
She beamed into the camera as the Gnolls frowned at her. Chieftain Reizet frowned and then barked sharply.
“Speak, Magnolia Reinhart! This is not your affair!”
Magnolia inclined her head to the Gnoll again.
“It is not. And I will say only this to preface my words. When I approach another species, especially one with so much bad blood, I am conscious of the weight of history between us. The understandable, nay, necessary distrust. By deed, I hope to win your willingness to work together, and I know it will take more than I might have. For a great cooperation to unite Izril, I must be daring and cautious, humble and extend every hand in welcome even if I receive only claws.”
Her audience frowned at her, and Magnolia Reinhart took a slight breath, heart beating overloud in her chest. She did wish Ressa were here. Even one crook of the lips, a slight smile…
Magnolia Reinhart met the eyes of the Gnolls through the scrying orb.
“In short, it is politic to say little and promise nothing. To make friends and to refrain from acting like a Reinhart. Or Veltras. Or Wellfar…Terlands or Els might do.”
She sighed as they gazed at her uncomprehendingly. She was tracing around the sugar dish. Magnolia folded her hands together and smiled.
“However. Some things are not to be borne at any cost. I have sent my servants to the Meeting of Tribes despite any discourtesy they might offer. They will not leave. They will protect that child, little Mrsha, and I tell you to your faces, Gnolls of Izril. Do not touch her. Harm her, Chieftain Xherw of Plain’s Eye, Reizet of Az’muzarre, and I will summon the Five Families to battle your tribes. House Reinhart never forgets, and I will never forgive you nor any Gnoll who joins you. Am I clear?”
“Are you threatening the tribes, Human?”
Reizet howled. Magnolia Reinhart’s spring green eyes narrowed and focused on the Gnoll.
“I am warning you, Chieftain. I do not permit anyone to kill children on my lands or anywhere else. No matter what you call her.”
“And you will march your armies into Drake lands to enforce your threat? You are toothless, Human.”
The Az’muzarre Chieftain and Magnolia Reinhart locked gazes. Magnolia Reinhart shook her head ever-so-slightly.
“The Circle of Thorns vanished because they dared to poison two sons of House Veltras. Is one Gnoll child worth so little that House Reinhart would not care?”
A snarl was her only answer, but it was Chieftain Torishi who shook her head.
“Gnoll children die many times over in countless tragedies. Is this one the single life to matter, Magnolia Reinhart, or is it as you say, politic?”
She fixed Magnolia with a stare, and the [Lady] sighed. She wished the Gnoll could see they were on the same side. But she supposed she deserved that. She gave Torishi a bright, regretful smile.
“Not at all, Chieftain Torishi. But I have met this girl. Seldom do I see a tragedy that I can prevent in such direct terms. Call it selfish, call it selective, and it is both. And believe me, I regret that we first meet with threats. But—”
She extended a finger and pointed at Xherw.
“Harm that child and I will call down the wrath of the north on you. A Reinhart’s word on it.”
He didn’t have time to answer. A snarling Reizet strode over, and the orb went silent as she probably smashed the one on her side. Magnolia held herself there for a second. Then she sat down.
“Decline all of Wistram’s…whatever. I fear I’ve just ruined all the plans of decades.”
She rested her head on one arm, closing her eyes. One of her [Maids] hesitated as they moved around the scrying orb. A Drake bowed to Magnolia.
“Begging your pardon, Lady Reinhart. But I think there was nothing you could have done.”
“Of course not. I hardly think—”
“No, Lady Reinhart. I think there was little you could have done for the better.”
Magnolia Reinhart looked up at the [Maid]. And it said something that she had the blankest look on her face.
“Really? You think so? You will have to explain that one to me, my dear. But for now—I need a bowl of ice cream. Ice cream cake. And tell the Velistrane to move up the coast. It is too large to sail up the rivers that pass through the Great Plains. But that girl may need a route north. Or myself as well.”
 
——
 
If nothing else, Magnolia Reinhart of Izril became known in that moment as someone opposed to killing children for whatever reason.
It was a considerable step up from the rest of the Reinhart family’s reputations. Did it matter?
It did, a bit. Although some Gnolls considered that anyone that one of the Five Families was protecting might well be a threat for that reason alone.
However, the bitter strife around Mrsha was reaching a head. Gnolls were shouting and pushing when the event happened.
“Stone Spears—I knew them. Chieftain Urksh was a good Gnoll! But that child—I know her too. I remember the day I heard that a [Shaman] and over a dozen Gnolls were expelled from the tribe. Even the day she was born, she had no voice. She was marked and brought naught but trouble, and I believe the [Shaman] saw it.”
A Gnoll was speaking to a crowd of others. Qwera was pushing up to try and throttle him to death, but the Chieftain of the Kedarune tribe was not about to let the Golden Gnoll anywhere around him, nor any of the Silverfang’s allies. He was pointing at Mrsha with a snarl as she made rapid, rude gestures. But her eyes were swimming a bit.
They were so cruel, these adults, to one little girl. The Chieftain went on.
“Is that not a sign? Answer me, Chieftain Torishi!”
She did not, but someone else did. The Chieftain of the Kedarune tribe was listing Mrsha’s entire history from a biased perspective to the scrying orb recording the entire debate. He turned as backup came to denounce the Doombringer and smiled widely.
“And here is another to speak up in face of the Five Families and all the deluded. Chieftain Mrell—”
Mrsha’s head rose as the Chieftain of the Demas Metal tribe and his bodyguard strode onto the stage. Then Mrell raised a fist and punched the Kedarune’s Chieftain off the stage and into the crowd.
Of all the things—! Xherw himself looked around as the young Demas Metal Chieftain took a stand. But why was he…? Iraz was quite complimentary towards Chieftain Mrell, and he had no deep ties with Silverfang; he’d offered them armaments on loan, but he was a diplomatic, careful Gnoll.
What was he doing? Xherw had no context for what Mrell had done or what he was about to do.
The outraged Kedarune Chieftain came up, and Gnolls recoiled and some almost laughed at his face. He felt at his fur, and his paws came away with…
“Paint? What the—”
In the seconds since he’d fallen and gotten up, someone had scrawled ‘loser’ all over his face in red paint. The Gnoll smeared it into his fur as he swiped at it.
“Chieftain Mrell! Have you taken leave of your—”
“My senses? Come up here and I will strike you again! You want me to denounce that girl? Mrsha?”
Mrell was shaking. He pointed to Mrsha as the other tribes looked at him. The Gnoll’s voice cracked, and the [Smithing Chieftain] shouted around.
“Do you want to kill her? A Doombringer? A white Gnoll? Would you ask me to? To—kill my own daughter?”
Xherw’s mouth opened. Even Chieftains like Firrelle and Iraz did a double-take.
What had he just said? Mrell shouted it, tears streaming from his eyes.
“I am Chieftain Mrell of the Demas Metal tribe. And that—that is Mrsha, my daughter! I was the one who abandoned her. She was never guilty of anything but having parents unworthy of raising her. Now—now I have found her once more. And you would kill her? You will have to kill me first. That is my daughter, and you will have her, Xherw, over my dead body. I will never let her go again, no matter what comes.”
He turned to Mrsha as Demas Metal looked at their Chieftain and Mrsha, and gasps and howls spread through the Meeting of Tribes. The camera focused on Mrell—then a Gnoll burst through the crowd, leading nearly a hundred female Gnolls.
“She is my daughter too! And Sofang and I will not let anyone hurt her! I am Prha of Sofang!”
A female Gnoll shouted, bow raised, aiming around. Mrsha’s parents. The little Gnoll stared at them as the other Gnolls saw her parents, standing by Mrsha, defying the other tribes and Chieftains.
A child and parents. That…it was one thing for a Doombringer to stand alone, but when the two ran to her, past a growling Torishi? The Gnolls wavered. Who here could truly say they didn’t look like a family? One filled with regretful parents?
The television broadcast from Wistram News Network focused on Mrell as he held ‘his daughter’.
And Lyonette du Marquin exploded.
 
——
 
“You bastard. You bastard! Your daughter? YOUR DAUGHTER?”
She was shaking the scrying orb so hard that Ser Dalimont had to stop her before she cracked it. The [Princess] was incandescent. She was frothing at the mouth as Dame Ushar tried to restrain her.
“Princess—she is safe!”
“That is not their child! Those two worthless, vagabond, child-stealing harpies without an ounce of care for Mrsha their entire lives—let go of me! I will have them drawn and quartered! I will call the wrath of Calanfer down on all of them! All of—”
The next twenty minutes were filled with nothing but Lyonette cursing, kicking, and shouting such profanity that even Wilovan and Ratici, no strangers to foul language, were offended. Even Xif, an [Alchemist], was impressed.
Then the [Princess] calmed down.
“We’re leaving Oteslia. Now. Where is Cire?”
“Getting ready, Your Highness.”
The [Princess]’ eyes rolled upwards, and Ser Dalimont hesitated. He was considering trying to talk her out of it again, insist they go alone—and Ser Sest and Ser Lormel looked like they were thinking of the same. But one look and Dalimont closed his mouth.
He was still shaking with relief after seeing Princess Seraphel riding out to break Ailendamus’ lines. If anything had kept Lyonette—it was watching the end of her nation. And for Cire to get ready himself. But it was beyond time.
“Take me to him.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss had left the city. Magnolia Reinhart had stayed, but the carriage had already left—as had Rafaema and Mivifa. So Lyonette just strode out of her mansion to the one meeting that mattered.
 
——
 
The rulers of Oteslia were not just the First Gardener and [Generals]. They were also the Council of [Druids]. Even a number of high-level Drakes and Gnolls in other roles.
However, today, Cirediel Anvi’dualln Olicuemerdn had only called for the ones with any war capacity. So the First Gardener, Shaerrha Brasswing, had granted this oddly formal audience.
She was already under a lot of stress, and Hunt Commander Makhir was going insane upon realizing that Rafaema was missing. Manus itself was on the march with a vast, vast army to protect their Dragon.
And here was Cire. He had insisted on the meeting, gone as far as to threaten to shout his true nature from the rooftops of Oteslia if he didn’t get it.
Was that how he convinced Mivifa to take Rafaema north? The First Gardener didn’t know her exact location, but she had spotted the Pegasus going north, and Pallass had confirmed Mivifa had flown past their walls, but little else.
He’d probably sworn on a truth spell he’d do it, too. Dead gods. Dead gods and Ancestors. Shaerrha had heard that Cire had done this before, but it was the first time he’d been this out of control.
The worst part was that he meant it. So she’d humored him. He probably had an idea for the war or some strategy. She had given him fifteen minutes to make his pitch and summoned everyone—but she had not been ready for Lyonette du Marquin and her Thronebearers to attend.
“Cirediel! What is this?”
One of Oteslia’s [Generals] rose slightly. She stared at Lyonette, who gave them a very proper, if somewhat harried bow. She looked—emotional. Flushed, and Cire was clearly nervous.
“She has to be here. She needs to be—because I need Oteslia to go to war. Or not war? I need an army. We’re going to the Meeting of Tribes to rescue that kid on television! What’s her name! The white one!”
“Mrsha.”
Lyonette whispered to him, and Cire nodded.
“Mrsha!”
“Oh dead gods.”
