Erick laid in bed, staring at the ceiling, and at various boxes.

After the first [Withering], the subsequent two had slain 6 of one level of monster, probably level 30, according to what people had told him about mimics, and 5 level 31s. All of them were for 95% Participation. Phagar, the God of Death and Time, must have approved of his spell.

Erick stared at his new Status box.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 31, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 15104040/217830900

Class: 6/6

Points: 33

HP

100/100

150 per day

MP

600/600

1050 per day

Strength

10

+0

[10]

Vitality

15

+0

[15]

Willpower

20

+0

[20]

Focus

35

+0

[35]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

10 points into Strength. 1 point for Strong.

… 5 points in Vitality. 1 point in Enduring.

Erick paused. He felt… Considerably different. Like he was… a teenager again?

Whoop there’s an erection! Ha ha! What the fuck?

Erick laughed at nothing in particular.

But then gloom returned and everything calmed down a bit. This must be why everyone at the Adventurer’s Guild likes Scion of Strength. Or maybe it’s the Vitality. It has to be the Vitality. Pornstars would go for Scion of Vitality, wouldn’t they? Well bully for them, Erick felt better about himself, but he had a long way left to go.

16 points left. Just enough for the big one.

Erick threw 15 points at his Focus, then bought Scion of Focus.

He slipped outside of himself.

- - - -

He opened his eyes and saw clouds.

“The Five Scions are a special category of skills, because we designed them that way.” Rozeta, the Dragon Goddess of the Script spoke from one side of Erick. She was a four mile long dragon again, gleaming prismatic and golden white, in an endless blue sky filled with fluffy clouds. She had stopped speaking to zip around the sky, or maybe she zipped around the sky because she had stopped speaking. When she spoke again, she was in front of Erick, her house-sized head large enough to see the entirety, but not close enough to threaten. “50 points in any one stat, or 25 in all of them; these are investments. These are seeds planted for a future harvest, unlike taking a skill to acquire immediate power. Tell me: What are you investing for, Erick Flatt? What do you hope to reap?”

She was speaking of hope, but Erick's thoughts went straight to fear.

He knew exactly what he did not want. He did not want to see his daughter die. He did not want to cause a black hole. He did not want to kill anyone. He didn’t even want to kill monsters, but he was starting to make peace with that necessity.

But Rozata was speaking of hope, and Erick couldn’t help but eventually think about what he did want to happen in his life.

He also knew he didn’t want to be governed by fear. Fear had made him fuck up his magic. Fear had driven a wedge between him and his daughter. The fear of other people for Erick had caused them to guard Erick like he was a fragile egg, able to be cracked under the least amount of pressure.

Killzone, Jane, Al, Poi, and probably a great many other people… They had all looked upon Erick and seen a weak person; someone to be protected.

Jane had taken it upon herself when she was younger to protect her father, seeing clearly at a very young age the same facts that everyone saw.

But the way Erick saw it, the way life had been on Earth...

Erick made a life out of helping people…

Other people had taken it upon themselves to help Erick.

This was normal. This was civilization. Erick had always considered this the best possible version of life. But there was a disparity, right now. On Spur, Erick was failing his own responsibilities to the social contract.

Erick realized a truth.

Jane was leaving him because she couldn’t be around him anymore. She had protected him for too long, and seen that he was all too willing to get himself into trouble, just as much as he was unwilling to ensure that he made it out the other side intact. On Earth, this had not been a major threat, no matter what Jane’s personal opinions declared. But on Spur, this was a problem. The people of Spur would likely leave him behind, too, if he didn’t step up to the plate.

Jane was right. She was wrong, but she was also right. Erick always had a handle on the local gangs and problems on Earth. He knew who to talk to to solve the problems in his neighborhood, he knew how to help the gang kids that needed help; sometimes that help came from inside the gangs themselves. He knew how to talk his way into extra medical care for his poor clients. He knew who and how to threaten to get the court to back off from others who were already trying to be better people.

But… On Veird, all of that was useless.

Because Erick had forgotten a basic fact about life.

You cannot help others when you are powerless.

Right now, other people were helping Erick, but that would not last.

Because, right now, Erick was powerless.

Right now, he needed actual, willingness to kill, anti-assassin, knowing your neighbors and counting on them, power. He needed to clear the Crystal Forest around Spur. He needed to turn the land green. He needed to hold his fate in his own hands, and then help everyone around him.

He needed to not be a burden.

Rozeta had not moved the entire time Erick thought.

She said, “You have found your fields and readied the soil. You have planted the seeds just in time for the first rains of the season. I hope your garden blooms brightly, Erick Flatt.”

- - - -

Erick awoke to blue boxes.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 31, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 15104040/217830900

Class: 6/6

Points: 0

HP

444/444

444 per day

MP

600/600

6000 per day

Strength

20

+0

[20]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

20

+0

[20]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Strong 3

Multiply your base HP by 2.22

Requirements: 20 Strength

Exp: 44/300

Enduring 3

Multiply your base HP regen by 2.22

Requirements: 20 Vitality

Exp: 44/300

Scion of Focus

Multiply your base MP regen by 4

Immune to Mana Exhaustion

Requirements: 50 in Focus

Erick also awoke to Jane sitting in a chair at the foot of his bed, reading. She noticed him. She put her book to the side. She looked at Erick, in that resigned, quiet way a person gets when they’ve had enough and they’re going to inform you of the decisions they’ve made regarding you.

Erick waited for her to speak.

“I’m very jealous.” Jane sighed. “[Withering] is a perfect spell, and if I hadn’t been so absorbed in my own messes, I… I’m not sure what’s different about us, Dad...”

Okay. Maybe Erick had read that wrong. This didn’t seem like she was mad at Erick, but maybe at herself? That was a possibility. … Erick had never seen Jane angry at herself. This was a new experience.

Jane continued. “I tried making some magic of my own. Light based spells. Photons and all that. Didn’t work. So I threw myself at this [Polymorph] spell idea… The alchemists fucked up the potion, which is normal, so I have to go out there and kill more and collect more… Gold and specimens and rads and all of that… But in the meantime, you revolutionized fighting monsters. You went about it a lot differently than I would have.” She paused. “I’m just… what I’m trying to say is that I’m very jealous. And I don’t know how to handle this. It’s really weird and I don’t like it.”

Erick sat up in bed.

Jane sighed.

Erick said, “What about your cellphone? Weren’t you going to do something with that?”

“That’s why I got [Scry]. But if your phone is out there, it’s out of my sight, and [Scry] doesn’t work like I want it to work. At the same time I was trying all that, I was also working on a version of [Mend] that would restore electronics to full charge. Also didn’t work.” Jane sighed. “I think my problem is fundamental. I’m not sure where I’ve gone wrong. How do you do it?”

Erick considered.

“Have you felt the manasphere? Really felt it?”

Jane looked around. “Yeah. I’m looking at it right now. Nothing… seems special about it, but if you’re trying to sell me some mumbo jumbo horse shit about some mystical—” Jane paused. Exasperated, she mumbled, “That’s exactly that, isn’t it?”

Erick laid out a theory he had been holding close to his heart. “Magic is alive and the Script is a chain. I’m not judging what the gods and everyone else had to do to survive coming in to this reality, but what I’m saying is that magic is a lot more than what you think it is. Magic is alive, and I think monsters are magic’s way of fighting back against the Script, in the only way it knows how to fight; primal and full of emotion.”

“What you just described is one of the major tenets of the Cult of Melemizargo, and while most decry all of that as untrue, it certainly seems true. At least factually. But facts are messy things, Dad. Facts aren’t always true, especially when it comes to 1400 year old facts.”

Whatever Erick had expected from his big revelation, it was not that!

Erick was too stunned to think very clearly. Erick scoffed. “Name one fact that isn’t true!”

Jane explained, “Back on Earth, movies were grossing more and more every year. Some would have said that it’s a fact that movies today are better than they used to be, because it’s a fact they’re making more and more money than ever before. But it’s also a fact that the population of Earth is increasing, and that inflation exists. Which one is a truer fact? They’re all relevant. They’re all true.” Jane concluded, “But some facts are more true than others.”

Erick scoffed again. “Name another.”

“Violet exists on the edge of blue, but violet is not purple. Purple doesn’t really exist. It only exists in your head because your eyes have three color receptors, and through some funky brainy way, the brain is tricked into combining light from both far ends of the spectrum into what we see as purple. Our eyes tell us that purple exists in the world around us; this is a fact. Purple doesn’t actually exist; this is another fact. Both are true, and they directly contradict each other. One of them is more true than the other though, in my opinion.”

“You always were so factual.”

“Because I like order.” Jane said, “Took me a while to realize order isn’t very ordered, though.” She looked at Erick. “Have you had any other realizations today?”

Ah! Now she goes to the part where she’s rightfully mad at me. Clever.

But two can play at this game.

Erick joked at her complaints, “Yeah. With Vitality and Strength at 20, and with the relevant skills, I want to hit up the local red light district. Does Spur have one of those?”

“Gross.”

Erick laughed again, then said, “How about this then: The Script is unbalanced to reward people with better bodies with investments into Strength and Vitality, while Willpower and Focus do nothing but allow more magic.”

“True; they did that because magic broke their universe, because warriors were powerless in the face of unlimited magical power.”

Erick confessed, “Okay. So. That makes sense, when you put it like that.”

Jane waited, frowning.

Erick sighed. He said, “I have realized two things: You can’t help others from the bottom of a hole, and I’m at a bottom of a hole. I’m sorry, Jane. I’m going to start clearing monsters from around the farm, starting tomorrow. Helping out the guard and keep the farms safe; that sort of thing.” Erick said, “I just got Scion of Focus, so I’m going to burn through all my skills tonight, leveling them to 10. Then it’s time for the flight spell, and maybe another Particle spell. Don’t know if I’ll get that far tonight, though.”

Jane slowly smiled. She relaxed.

“Do you want some help with your magic?” Erick teased, “It’ll be like highschool again!”

“No thanks.” Jane stood. “I’m going to start dinner. Are you going to do a [Strike] and healing spell rotation like I did to raise your Strong and Enduring to 10? Do you have a healing spell yet?”

“Ugh! No. None of that. Can’t I just, like… hit myself, or something?”

“[Swift Movement] and a healing spell is also an option. Moving fast feels amazing, and is incredibly useful. You should consider a healing spell. I like [Rejuvenation].”

“… I’m out of points— And my [Ward]s regenerate 6000 points per hour! Why do I need a healing spell?”

“Invent another spell! You need a healing spell, Dad. If not for you then for those around you. Go to the Interfaith Church and do some research.”

“Fine fine! But!” Erick teased, “Speaking of inventing magic: Where’s your tier 3 spell!”

“… It’s a work in progress.” Jane walked out of the room, saying, “I’m working on dinner, right now! You go work on your magic!”

Erick followed her out of the room. Teressa, the large orcol woman in grey armor, was seated in her chair at the end of the hallway. She stood up when Erick came out, then followed him down the stairs and outside the house, maintaining a respectable 5 to 7 foot distance the whole time. All of Killzone’s people seemed to be all about that respectable distance; it probably had something to do with [Interception].

Outside of the house, in the stone yard, Erick cast magic.

It took him half an hour, but [Stoneshape] hit 10.

In the next thirty minutes, [Airshape] hit 10, too.

The whole time he had been using Mana Shaping. That hit 10, as well.

Dinner came, and went. Erick stepped back outside and kept training. Next, came [Force Shrapnel: Bludgeoning Aura]. That quickly hit 10, along with Mana Altering, and produced, funnily enough, [Billiard Ball Aura].

