Erick pulled out [Withering] and handed the spell’s blue box to Zago and Killzone, then he handed out more copies to Al and Jane. Zago read her copy a few times. Killzone read his once and smiled wide, before dismissing the box. Jane seemed to frown a little, while Al chuckled, both of them summarily vanishing the boxes Erick gave them. Zago held on to hers until Erick spoke.

Erick said, “It’s a spell that targets anything with a 10 or more mana rad inside its body, then purges all liquid water from those targeted creatures. Supremely simple. Highly useful for killing monsters, and nothing else. This is about as comfortable as I am with killing.”

“I’m glad we came out here,” Killzone stressed. “Rads accumulating in intestinal pockets is a more common ailment than you’d think, Archmage.”

“I read that in the library, which is why I focused on rads worth 10 mana or more. [Withering] should ignore almost anyone with minor rad poisoning. But besides that, this spell wasn’t the one I planned on casting inside the city. That one would have stayed in the air.”

Killzone smiled, nodding. “Then this is a mighty good spell you got here. I feel privileged to have witnessed the first cast of [Withering].”

“I’m guessing a [Weather Ward] would stop it.” Erick said, “But the point is, is that you shouldn’t need to use a [Weather Ward] for almost all applications of this spell.”

Zago finally spoke, “There’s an even chance that Headmaster will be absolutely livid that you invented his spell out from under him, or relieved that you chose to go this particular direction. You’ve created something… Something very good for the world.”

“Aye.” Al said, “This was good, Erick.”

“I wholly agree.” Killzone looked out across the land. “But did you manage to kill those monsters out there? Or did the spell end before that?”

“I got notifications for 3 mimics. A, B, and C.” Erick said, “I’m going to wait for my mana to come back then go see what they look like. I… I don’t think this was a kind death.” Erick gazed at the Crystal Forest. “Not sure where they dropped, either. [Withering] seems to cover a lot of ground.”

Killzone exclaimed, “It certainly does!”

Zago asked, “Are you going to try for another spell today?”

Erick shook his head. “No. This…” He sighed. “This was a toll.”

Zago and Al frowned. Jane sighed at Erick.

Kilzone spoke softly, without malice, “Crystal mimics are a blight. There is no end to them. You could fly across the land with this as an aura and still not make a dent in the never ending horde.” Killzone said, “Or maybe you could. It’s okay to kill the bad things, you know. They would kill you if you gave them a chance.” Killzone gestured at the desert. “This whole Crystal Forest is them trying to kill everyone except themselves.”

“Doesn’t mean I have to enjoy kill—”

“Shu—!” Killzone spoke a bit louder, more animated. “Those fu— Those monsters kill people every year. The shadowcats— We succeeded in killing them, but...” All mirth vanished from Killzone. “They killed 7 young adventurers. Did you know that?”

Erick said, “I thought—”

“You don’t think! That’s the prob—!” Killzone stopped himself. He calmed. Authority filled his voice, “I expect to see you learning with the other rookies in a few days when Mog’s monthly class restarts. Be there. You need to learn of the dangers a spell like yours can negate from this world.”

A breeze flowed across the Crystal Forest, kicking up scattered sand.

“You’re completely right, Killzone. Sorry.” Erick said, “I intend to be at those classes.”

Killzone relaxed. “Good. Good.” He asked, “How are the new guys working out?”

The new guys were one middle aged orcol woman named Teressa, and one young redscale named Rats. Rats had a real name, but he went by ‘Rats’. Teressa was twice as silent as Poi and constantly in armor, like she was some silent war golem waiting for orders. They were both off… somewhere. Doing something. Erick wasn’t exactly sure. They had worked out the schedule for guarding Erick on their own; when they weren’t around him, they were doing whatever they wanted to do.

“Well. As far as I know. One is usually at the house, one beside me, the other… not sure where.” Erick said, “And that’s fine.”

Killzone nodded. He said, “Then I’m off. Good luck with Mog’s classes, Archmage.”

Killzone vanished in a black blip.

Erick turned to Jane. “Want to search for monster corpses with me?”

“Yes.” Jane smiled. “I do want to search for monster corpses with you.”

Zago said, “One moment.”

She glittered violet as she pointed into the desert. Three pillars of dark purple smoke began to rise off in the distance.

“The smoke won’t last long. But you should be able to find the bodies before it wears out; targeting rads is a difficult skill, but one supremely necessary for any growing mage, and especially for an Archmage.” Zago bowed. “I shall take my leave, Archmage.”

“Thank you. For the smoke.”

Zago smiled. “No trouble at all. Thank you for letting me witness history.”

Zago vanished in a crash of purple light.

Erick sighed out, “I really need to get [Teleport]. That looks convenient.”

Al laughed. “You make yourself weak if you [Teleport] everywhere! Those two just have too many duties to attend.” He gestured toward the desert. “Come! Let us walk the sands and find your bounty.” He started walking toward the closest purple pillar. “It looks rather close!”

It looked far to Erick, but he didn’t complain.

They walked in silence.

A lot of things were currently bothering Erick, but one stood out from the rest.

Erick asked, “Jane? Al? Am I being too much of a pacifist? I think I upset Killzone.”

“Yes.” Jane answered, instantly. “You have this power to make the world better. Use it.”

He expected that answer from Jane. The only major stress in Erick’s relationship with his daughter had always been, and would probably always be, Erick’s pacifist nature.

Al took more than 0 seconds to formulate his answer. “It is a good thing to realize that violence begets violence, but monsters… Anything with a rad inside of it… They’re not capable of anything except violence.”

Erick asked, “Do they peacefully raise young? Do they communicate with each other? Do they see people arriving with swords and decide that they have to fight for their lives? Are the monsters monsters because you force them to be monsters? Or… what?”

Al walked across the sands, silent again.

They arrived at the first corpse. It looked like crystal agave ten foot tall with all the water removed; a withered crystalline succulent that had cracked open under internal pressure, so dried out that the flesh that hadn’t turned to powder had instead turned solid and blue. The crystal mimic had turned into massive sapphires, scattered across the sand.

Among the rubble there were lumps of blue-brown gunk, gently pulsing, trying to move. Juveniles. Barely able to live on their own, because of him, because of a spell he—

“Dad.” Jane said, “I know what you’re thinking, and you're wrong. These things are not innocent babies left abandoned by a mother you killed. They are the juvenile form of a plague.” She stepped across the broken corpse, moving straight to the middle of the body with a [Conjured Weapon] in the shape of a mining pickaxe. With a quick strike against the largest lump, Jane split the monster’s hardened center in half, revealing a glittering rad to the light. “Hell. These things attack all life that is not them or the natural agaves. They are not part of an ecosystem. They are monsters who destroy the land to suit their own needs, without regard for the lives they displace.”

Erick sighed. “Jane… please.”

“Dad.” Jane grabbed the rad from the corpse. She stared at Erick. “Please.”

Erick stayed silent.

On the way to the next corpse, Al spoke, “Your daughter is correct. Rads drive monsters insane as soon as the rads attach to the heart. There have been studies where people have tried removing rads without killing the monster… Some of them have succeeded. What results is an empty body, without a soul, without a mind. As soon as the rad reaches the heart, the soul is consumed and whatever was is no more.”

“… Is the rad a monster’s soul?”

Jane shouted, “That’s your takeaway?! Fucking hell!”

“I’m trying to understand, Jane!”

Al spoke, “Rads are crystallized magic which is poisonous to all living things. They’re naturally expelled by all people and all animals. But this is not the case for monsters. Monsters are born with rads inside of them. For us, rads are only a problem after they’ve torn through the digestive tract and traveled to the heart. Once they attach to the heart, they consume the soul and transform the brain.” Al stressed, “Monsters are born with rads already inside of them. They cannot be saved, they can only be exterminated. Erick. This fixation you have with believing that monsters are not monsters… It is foolish in the extreme; it makes you look like a fool.”

Erick asked, “What if you were to take the rad out of the body without killing them?”

“This has been done. The result is a living corpse, unable to do anything except drool and shit.” Al went on, “And if you’re thinking of starting with two living corpses, and breeding young to remove the rad at the stage of conception, or some other variation of a theme, know that this has already been done a thousand different ways. The result is yet another living corpse. These experiments have been done many, many times before, by people much more learned than I.”

They arrived at the second crystal mimic.

Al pointed to the shattered blue corpse. “This is a kinder fate than most. You killed it within seconds, without damaging the environment. You even [Cleanse]d the remains! There are toxic monsters out there that most adventurers cannot fight, who use poisonous magics and corrupt the land. Go to the Wasteland Kingdoms and see the truth for yourself, if you must. Witness the corruption of toxic monsters left unchecked by naive young minds. Journey to Oceanside and see the experiments they still perform, for the sake of people like you and the occasional uneducated noble, to inform you that which the rest of us already know.”

Erick stared at the blue gems of a corpse.

Al said, “Most monsters are not evil. They kill. They corrupt. This is their unalterable nature. If you want to give them your pity then you are welcome to do so, for kindness is more beautiful than green land in the Crystal Forest. But know this: mercy for monsters means death for us all.”

Jane swung her pickaxe against the solid corpse. A glittering rad tumbled out from hard blue flesh.

Erick looked toward Spur, then beyond, to Ar’Kendrithyst, as they walked toward the third corpse.

Al and Jane followed his gaze, but said nothing.

Poi said, “Those monsters are evil. They were all people, once upon a time. They each inserted a rad into their body and let it consume them, their transformation from person to monster guided by the Cult of the Dark Dragon, Melemizargo. If those creatures had their way, your [Withering] would be turned around to affect only those without rads inside. The Shades would spill out from their half-prison and sing the Song of Melemizargo to the rest of the world, corrupting people into shadeling worshipers bent on helping their masters.” He added, “Luckily, even if they did manage to corrupt your spell into their own version, we can pop a [Weather Ward] to prevent its use against us.”

They arrived at the third corpse, and Jane did much like she did before. When she was done and the crystal mimic was nothing but blue litter, she handed all three rads to Erick.

He looked at them. Really looked at them.

Each of them was the same size, roughly worth 10 mana, or 5 gold, depending on if you were to use them in enchanting, or as currency. They were each a clear whitish, pointed ovoid crystal, which a jeweler on Earth would have called a marquise cut. Unnaturally faceted, unnaturally brilliant, they glittered with unnatural light.

But what was ‘unnatural’ in a world of monsters?

Erick thought.

… Monsters are natural, but so is arsenic, and death, and pain, and sorrow.

He looked across the Crystal Forest, to the north, the west, and the east. He picked the direction with the most agaves, though any direction he picked would likely end up with the same result. In the end, he chose northwest, and northeast.

[Withering].

Air shifted in front of him as mana slipped out, following channels it had already burned in the Script, and in his body. He turned.

[Withering].

Another 250 mana slipped away.

The air shifted in an 180 degree arc of land, north of the city, hitting maybe four square miles. Maybe less, maybe more. The effect was not immediate. But here and there, Erick witnessed heavy twists of wind, slipping into the sky like dust devils. [Withering] was a spell that killed, pure and simple. Erick had created it for this reason; he would use it to ensure his world was a bit brighter, even if it meant putting down monsters. He just expected to use it as a last resort, not as a tool to wield against an unending horde.

Notifications rolled in. Erick noticed them, and put them away. He did not turn away from the death he had caused, not today, not ever again. He turned to a stunned Jane, a sad smiling Al, and a proud Poi.

Erick walked toward the city. The other dead mimics and their rads could stay wherever they fell; he was done harvesting corpses. Maybe in death, their bodies could nourish the land in ways they prevented their entire lives.

- - - -

