Maria's cores, body, mind, and soul are at the brink of shattering. Everything is unstable, and pushed way too far beyond its safe limits.

The cracks that break out from her body force more and more cracks to form in the green zone itself, forcing open new fractures in space and making the distance between us seem even further away despite me moving closer.

I see Celestial teardrops fall from her eyes as a sea of rainbow icy aura has burst out from this core pulse, far more dangerous and cold than the waves I've been flying through, yet I don't back down.

It momentarily blocks my view, but I take another long stride forward through the air, and dive headfirst into the waves of cold celestial ice, cyan divine threads, and source resin.

At first, the cold pressure that surrounds me is overwhelming. It freezes my Sacred Body faster and with more intense cold than ever before. Instead of just fracturing shells on its surface that crumble and rebuild, it's plunging deep into my Sacred muscles, bones, and blood.

I feel that for a third time in this war today, that my body is being shattered and destroyed.

As I get closer and closer to the source, the pressure does get more intense, but I'm simultaneously adapting to the cold.

The Celestial fire that rebuilds my Sacred Body grows stronger as it is repeatedly used and refined over and over. It makes my medium quality ether pool hotter, and begins its refinement process again.

Just as I had to train my low-quality ether beneath Ellipsia in the exile zones, it seems that Celestial Energy is not the end result of the merging path between mana and ether. It can be refined further...

While this allows for my fire to burn hotter and resist the cold, another mechanism is at play.

The Vibrations in the air that were entirely hostile before have shifted drastically. First when Maria noticed it was me coming her way, secondly when she asked for help instead of trying to overcome this herself, and now, as I plunge into the cold celestial ice, within one million kilometers of her.

Our presences are extremely close, and our paths' waves are both fighting and bouncing off each other, while other portions of them resonate and shift to align on the exact same frequency.

The closer in I get, the more of these waves align.

Yet, this point where I've plunged into the icy explosion of celestial and divine light, is where all of my foresight futures halt.

Every other future, where I do not jump into this wave, results in the zone itself being destroyed, or Maria being overcome by the massive power building up inside her.

It pains me to even look at these futures, making my human heart hurt, not only my energy cores.

The only possible path I can take to save her is through this wave, but there is no guaranteed future path to follow, I only have one shot at this.

It feels like time slows down as my body fractures and is rebuilt by celestial fire over and over.

More cyan threads flow out from Maria's aura, and are absorbed into my own body, making my green core tint brighter and brighter cyan the closer I get.

I burst through the densest part of this wave, and fly forward through the thick space.

Tens of thousands of deep and dense cracks fracture outward in all directions from this breathtaking angel in front of me. Her shimmering icy sword orbiting around her, phasing through the cracks in space, but disrupting them every time it passes through.

Cyan threads burst out from the cracks in space where her Soul Sword slowly orbits.

It makes it extremely hard to move forward, as I zig and zag in strange patterns and directions. In some instances, I cannot fully avoid these dimensional cracks either. They have grown so thick here at the source, that certain areas only have a few tens of thousands kilometers worth of free true space left between them.

My own Soul Sword, red and black, orbits around me at the same rate. It collides with the edges of some of these rifts too, spraying dense cyan threads into the air, and only making my true core shine brighter as I absorb these threads that fill the air.

"I- Can't move..." Maria's voice sounds in my mind again.

I see so many cracks continuing to form all over her body, and jut out into the atmosphere, making it harder and harder for me to find a path to fly through.

The flow of divine and celestial energy through these bends and tears in space is completely illogical and mind-warping. Following these senses to move forward would be impossible.

Gravity bends space and time all around me. It makes a short path forward seem like the logical and simple option, but one step in the wrong direction now will send me straight into one of these dense cyan and rainbow cracks.

The energy flows, and perception of right, left, up and down all become extremely strange. It makes my foresight skill completely useless, only giving me headaches when I try to activate it. Especially looking into the cyan rifts, as the amount of energy behind them in a tiny area is similar to the mass of this entire green zone.

Trying to understand what is behind them, or where they even lead, is truly impossible at my current mental state.

So, I close my eyes, and only follow my Royal Vibrations that resonate with Maria's.

Dead space, or distorted frequencies mean danger. Perfect resonance means I'm able to step forward and push through.

"Just hold on... a little longer..." I call back through our link.

Everything in my mind is black. I've blocked out the entire green zone and lower realm, and now, I can't even trust my eyes or senses in the small portion of space I fly through.

All I see is a dark mental manifestation of the cracks and fractures through reality in my mind. They sparkle with glistening celestial source resin on their edges, and the space between them shows up like dark black rippling puddles.

The more violent the splashing space in between the cracks are, the more my Vibrations with Maria's are having trouble connecting.

Only the spaces between cracks where the puddle of darkness is calm and smooth, this is where I step through the air, and fly the final million kilometers toward her.

It feels like I am in a dream.

The closer I get, the brighter the outside of a glistening angel in my blacked-out mind becomes.

It feels both extremely cold, while simultaneously, my own body becomes increasingly hotter the closer I get, allowing for the differences to perfectly cancel each other out.

Neither of us speak another word, but it feels like we are having a million conversations through this mental dance in the dark.

The cracks in space get larger and larger, but it is impossible for me to notice. It all seems the same to me, because I need to get to the end goal no matter what... There is no other option.

The final hundred thousand kilometers are the most impossible series of steps, twists, and body mutations, but again, it all just feels like the same dance to me.

Where our vibrations align, I move toward it, not questioning a thing.

It is the most intense, yet satisfying form of mental meditation to solve a complex problem I've ever experienced. My body follows my feelings, with full trust in the vibrations that give me a path to fly through.

–

It all comes to a halt once my hands wrap around the back of a cold curved waist, and the explosion of ice and fire bursts through my body, mind, and soul.

I open my eyes to see a bright blue pair staring back at me.

Cold hands wrap around my back, and pull me closer while I pull her in toward me with equal force.

My Noble Vibrations begin to fade away, and my Royal Vibrations become strengthened more and more, resonating with a stronger purpose. They are on the brink of breaking through entirely.

Maria's Angelic Form is completely shattered... the only thing holding it together right now is the fact that our Vibrations are in sync; and the bits of sparkling source resin at all of the fractured seams.

With my chest against hers, even our divine energy, and celestial energy flows start to mix.

My core has fully absorbed enough cyan threads to shift its color.

Fractures break all over my Sacred Body too... the release of cyan threads and intense royal waves force the green zone of the Upper Realm to crack and fracture, breaking out even more rifts upward into the cyan zone just like Maria's energy release have caused.

All of the pathways of free, unaltered space where I made it through are now filled with rifts and bending space.

There is no turning back, escape is not an option for either of us.

I cannot see the future, yet, I stay calm.

"You have definitely become strong, Maria. This is not your fault, it is equally mine. For leaving the Lower Realm without you. It will never happen again... Do you trust me?" I speak out loud, rather than through our links.

The horrific pain from the dozens of dimensional cracks breaking apart my Sacred Body almost make my mind go dark to shield my consciousness from the pain, so seeing tens of thousands all over Maria's makes her ability to reply even more impressive.

"Yes. I trust only you. I just didn't know how- or when to tell you... But if I'm going to die here, I need you to know how I feel!" I feel her squeeze me even tighter.

The coldness of her Angelic Celestial body flows through me, but it does not freeze or shatter my Sacred Body. It feels warm, and rejuvenating. I only see the beautiful woman deep down inside this Celestial energy form.

The warrior that left me speechless upon her arrival to the Upper Realm.

The woman that left the Association and fought by my side in the Dark Continent on the human world, and defended our empire when I left.

The cheerful young blond haired blue eyed hunter that lived next door to me when I was an E-Class hunter, giving me a reason to go out and fight every day.

"I trust you too, and I should have told you sooner... but this isn't the end. We can make it out of this alive..."

I bring one of my hands up her back and over her shoulder to hold her chin.

Our soul swords circle around both of us, like we are one center of gravity. They break apart more and more fractures in space, bending reality around us, making it seem as though we are trapped in a vacuum. There is no sound, no temperature, no gravity.

There is nothing at all but an angel staring up at me.

"I know how you feel, and I feel the same." echoes in the silence.

I lean down, and kiss Maria on the lips.

Our Vibrations resonate even stronger, and I feel the shattered pieces of her Angelic Body hold together strong enough for her to kiss me back.

Our Soul Swords spin around us even faster, and the bright white and cyan tears in reality all blend together around us from every side.

All sense of doubt and fear dissipates from my mind in this moment, and so do the final waves of High Noble Vibrations.

A surge of pure Royal Vibrations envelops both of us.

We both use this wave of energy to move upward, into the brightest source of the dense cyan cracks above us.

This reaction cannot be stopped, and the green zone cannot withstand the pressure.

The only way to survive is to move up, into the Cyan Zone of the Upper Realm.
