“It’s how we put on big performances here in the capital. We send streams of Pyromancy and light up into the sky, and we project theater performances and musicals using the clouds as a backdrop. It’s really something. I’ll take you to see a show sometime. For now, just keep those legs moving. We’ll be at a seat soon.”

Shiv nodded as he closed his eyes. Part of him wanted to fall asleep right there. He was surprised by how much Bifurcated Processing took out of him, but he did demand a great deal of his subconsciousness. He'd tried to isolate every patient that came in, every patient with a specific ailment. That was a major order for his mind, and he'd come close to suffering an aneurysm or something like that.

Finally, Malcolm pushed open a door and sat Shiv down on a plush chair. Shiv massaged his temples and let out a groan.

"You alright, Marcus?" Malcolm asked. "You need anything?"

"No," Shiv replied hoarsely. "Just give me a few moments, I'll be back out to help you soon."

"Don't be in too much of a hurry. You did enough, as I told you. We can't ask for more."

But Shiv could have been quicker. Shiv could have thought of his solutions faster. That would have been a few lives saved. A difference made. A difference. Some more families who would have gotten to keep their loved ones.

"Tell Maxime that I'm just gonna need a moment," Shiv managed. “I’ll… be back.”

Malcolm began to chuckle, "Yeah, well, you can tell her yourself in a few minutes. With how you're doing, that girl's going to be tumbling head over ass for you pretty soon. She keeps making those eyes at you."

Shiv's eyes snapped open. "Huh?"

"Uh, never mind, you'll figure it out when you're older." Malcolm patted Shiv on the back a final time and laughed as it strode out of the break room.

Shit, Shiv cursed. I can't deal with some academy romance bullshit.

Adam chuckled. “What will Uva say about this, Shiv?”

“Nothing, because I—”

“Wait, Shiv—on your right!”

And only then did Shiv realize that he was not alone. Beside him, there was another presence, another warmth. A helmet lay on another chair, just a meter away.

A helmet made out of Inertium.

Slowly, Shiv's head swiveled to his right, and he saw Jessica sitting on the table with her legs dangling, loudly chewing on what looked to be an old, craggy biscuit. Her nose was still bent the wrong way, and the bridge had a dark, inflamed line that hinted at a recent breakage.

"So," she said, munching on her food, "long day for you too, huh, kid?"
