He had that air of parenthood about him that made him resist his daughter’s pleas, and Kenva was only a decent [Beggar]. Venim, though, was not prepared for Mrsha. The white Gnoll wrote for a minute on her notepad, and that was odd enough. But when she held up the missive, the Drake stared at it.
Strength. What is strength, sir? Watch Captain Venim, I would say that the strength to eat what delights you and be happy is greater than any fanciful notion that there is an order to enjoyment. Is ‘strength’ the ability to follow rules dogmatically or the strength to see your daughter’s delight regardless of societal pressure and rules?
He stared at her notecard. Then at Mrsha. Kenva’s mouth fell open as Watch Captain Venim thought for a long moment—then got up and brought some pudding out for everyone to share. She looked at Mrsha.
“You’re so cool.”
 
——
 
After her dinner date with some rather tasty Presto Prelon Stew, Lyonette picked up Mrsha and brought her back to the inn. The Gnoll had a full belly, a copy of the recipe for Calescent, and she had made up her mind.
She convened Erin, Bird, Numbtongue, Selys, and all the other members of the inn who were arguing about Zevara not wanting the Watch Commander’s job.
“She doesn’t know if she’s ‘fit for the position’, Erin. It’s not the Council. Lism—Lism told me he’d appoint her in a heartbeat over a non-Liscorian. That’s like his entire thing.”
Selys was grimacing as Relc groaned.
“But Captain Z’s better than some Pallassian! This Venim guy…word is he’s a stickler for the rules, but we don’t want that!”
“I don’t know. He seemed very respectful, and Mrsha just had dinner with his daughter. What did you think, dear?”
Lyonette drew everyone’s attention to Mrsha, who was waving her paws and demanding to be ‘heard’. Mrsha waited—then slammed her paws down on the table and showed them her note.
Watch Captain Venim is a fool and a weakling unfit for office! I pressured him into giving me dessert first. Watch Captain Zevara would never fall to pressure like that! A weak leader doesn’t have the strength to lead Liscor’s Watch! If this Drake crumbles in the face of pudding, what will happen when a hundred thousand Crelers come up the walls?
“Yeah. Yeah! What Mrsha said! We need a Watch Commander who’s used to monster attacks, not one with Pallass’ walls! Come to that—they didn’t even take out the Wyverns with an entire Walled City at their disposal!”
Relc punched a fist into his claw. Erin chewed on her lip.
“Plus—why are we just asking for Pallass? I bet you Chaldion will have him report on stuff. Isn’t there a good Watch Captain with experience from anywhere else? Invrisil?”
Relc objected at once.
“You don’t want Humans. No discipline. At least Venim knows how to command a lot of people.”
Selys nodded in agreement. Erin scowled.
“Yeah? Well, can he hold off undead when they’ve invaded the city? Like when Skinner attacked?”
“That’s what I’m saying. Captain Z’s gotta be Watch Commander.”
Relc was about to hit the table again when someone held up a hand.
“U-um.”
Jewel flinched when everyone looked at her, and Erin blinked.
“Jewel? What’s up? Do you know a candidate for Watch Commander?”
The Gold-rank adventurer turned pale.
“Me? No! I—I just had a question.”
“We all did, Miss Solstice.”
Yelroan broke in, and Erin realized the Goblins, Antinium, Jewel, even Normen, Gothica, and members of the inn were gathered around the table. She blinked, and Mrsha looked around.
“What’s up?”
“This isn’t about the Watch Commander. We were actually hoping you could clear up a matter of…consistency for us. I’ve been getting up to speed with the inn, but it occurs to me that for all you’ve told me—one of the things I don’t know is history.”
The Gnoll of the Plain’s Eye Tribe looked at Erin, then at Numbtongue and Bird, Lyonette and Mrsha. Even Apista, who was smoking hard on a mini rollup.
“History of what?”
Erin looked around, and the Gnoll grinned at her.
“Everything. I heard this inn was destroyed—three times. I had no idea of that. With respect, Miss Solstice, I’ve heard anecdotes about you, but I don’t know…how you came to be in the inn. I heard there were five Hobgoblins here, once.”
Numbtongue’s face fell, and Bird looked up. Lyonette’s mouth fell open as she realized even the other Goblins didn’t know the full story. Gothica, maybe, as a Cave Goblin, but—
Erin blinked as Yelroan indicated Apista.
“Why is there a bee on Miss Mrsha’s head? Why is she smoking a tiny cigar? We know there’s a story behind you and Mister Kevin and the other Humans, Miss Solstice.”
Erin looked vaguely alarmed, but Yelroan waved it off. His eyes were sharp, and he knew about Earth, but he gave Mrsha a slight wink as he looked around.
“—But I think what would help everyone is if any time a new employee was hired, someone could tell them the story of how…The Wandering Inn started. Properly.”
“What, you mean like an employee manual? Watch out for moving stones, don’t touch glowing flies? I can see that.”
Erin rubbed at her chin, but Lyonette saw Yelroan shake his head. Mrsha was bouncing up in her chair with the answer, but Nanette exclaimed with a laugh. She had come back just in time, and she had a bunch of realistic wooden spiders braided into her hair by Oliyaya’s apprentices.
“No, Miss Erin! He means stories.”
The little witch and the Gnoll of the Plains both smiled at each other. Erin’s eyes opened wide.
Stories. Both Nanette and Yelroan came from powerful oral traditions of storytelling. And they looked around this inn—and sensed all the stories here. Erin gazed at them, then Lyonette, and murmured.
“Oh. They don’t know Headscratcher. Or Shorthilt. And…no wonder no one knew who ‘Ser Solstice’ was. None of them were here when Toren was here. Or—”
“Even the Horns. Calruz. How many people know he was the leader of the Horns?”
Lyonette’s eyes turned misty, and Erin looked at Mrsha, then around the inn.
“A story.”
“Maybe a book? What if you sent word to Krshia Silverfang’s niece? The, um…the one who writes stuff? I saw her on the scrying orb.”
Relc snapped his claws together.
“Satar Silverfang? You want her to write The Wandering Inn’s story? It’s not that impressive.”
Erin laughed, and everyone gave her a look as if she were crazy. But the idea was catching on, and Numbtongue strummed on his guitar.
“It’s a good story. A long one. I can’t tell the Ballad of the Redfangs in one sitting yet. Maybe write it down?”
Selys laughed in amusement.
“Psh. You could write it into a book. Maybe even sell it. I tell you what, I’ll fund it. We could hire someone. We’d call it—The Innkeeper of Liscor! The Human who spits blood!”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“No one would read that, Selys. And it’d be like twenty pages long. I came here—no, wait. First, there was Rags’ tribe…but before that there was a Dragon…”
Demsleth was coming into the inn with Alber, both looking bruised. He froze as Relc rolled his eyes.
“Yeah, yeah. It was a…well, I thought it was a fire-breathing Wyvern, Erin.”
Relc hesitated and gave Erin a sidelong look as he recalled what Klbkch had hinted at during the Christmas party. Then he brightened up as he remembered something else.
“But you called me a Dragon. Ooh, put that in! And Klbkch died…”
“He what?”
Erin waved this off as Mrsha’s head rotated between everyone, but the people who had been there exclaimed.
“He came back. Yeah…the Goblin Chieftain. Wow, you know, I forgot, but back then the inn was further away! I had to walk for half an hour to get here—and that’s when the dungeon was uncovered. I met Pisces when he tried to rob me—nothing’s changed since then. But…”
Her eyes lit up, and everyone looked at her. Of all the things you do in an inn—they had never really done this.
Told the story. Jewel was sitting forwards, trying to put this together with rumors she’d heard and her own knowledge of adventurers.
“Where does Crossbow Stan come into this?”
“Crossbow Stan!”
Erin laughed and almost cried—and she had not known him that well. Lyonette looked around.
“So many stories. We should have this written down, Erin. Or organized it. Yelroan, you’re right. And it might be a longer book! Does anyone actually write stories that we know?”
Satar could do it. How long could it be? But be sure to tell only the good parts about me! And I have to relate the great Battle of the Cave!
“Did…someone mention how the inn started? I hear Ysara’s coming back. I never told you all that I met her the first year I was here, did I? I was at the Bloodfields, and she saved my life. I never got the chance to thank her for that. Well, I didn’t even know she was Yvlon’s sister until I heard her name.”
Everyone turned as Ryoka walked in, stuffing a bunch of books on forests and old maps into her bag of holding, and Erin’s mouth fell open.
“You what? You met Ysara? When?”
“Bloodfields. The first time I went. I think I know most of everything that happened—but I could use someone telling me what happened after I left and ran to Reizmelt.”
Ryoka sat down with Nerry in her arms, and Shaestrel flew over.
 
“Ah, the story of the inn! Ivolethe was there. Break out yon burnt corn and tell me stories, mortals! I heard the riddle of the Dragon in the cave was a let down made of shite.”
 
She said that so only Erin and Ryoka could hear. But then Kevin, Joseph, Imani—more guests of the inn were being lured over.
“Oh, the phone call. I mean, text call. We had that happen.”
“Yes.”
Imani shook her head, and Kevin apologized for bringing it up. Imani shook her head as she hugged Palt’s torso as he sat next to her, and now Yelroan was taking frantic notes.
“Timeline, please! We should organize this, and clearly there are a lot of perspectives. Who was here first?”
“M…me?”
Erin raised her hands, and everyone turned to her. Mrsha banged her paws on the table.
Story! Story! Tell us how it went!
Everyone knew a bit of it—but the red-faced [Innkeeper] was the only one who had been there. Ulvama stomped over, growling.
“It’s dance time! Why are you—oh.”
She spotted a bowl full of popcorn coming out of the kitchen in Ishkr’s paws and decided exceptions could be made. The Gnoll [Server] was smiling, and Erin raised her hands.
“Alright! Everyone quiet down! Let me start from the beginning. I’m no good storyteller—and like I said, it’s a short tale. I’ll need help. And I guess—we could get someone to write it up and make it pretty. How should we start?”
“It was a dark and stormy night?”
“Shut up, Kevin. It wasn’t stormy at the start. But I did get burned. I was going…to the bathroom.”
Everyone looked at Erin. She turned red.
“Well, I was. And then—oh, well. I was running because I ran into this monster. I was teleported. No, let me start. I was in my home in, um…”
“Michigan?”
“Do we censor that?”
Ryoka muttered to Joseph anxiously. Joseph pulled a face.
“It’s an open secret by now.”
Erin threw a piece of buttered popcorn at them. Then pointed to it.
“Aha! See? That. That’s from home. Nutritional yeast on popcorn. Not baking yeast. Nutritional yeast. No one does that but me.”
“Yeah, that’s because it’s a sin against popcorn.”
Kevin shot back, but he was eating Erin’s favorite condiment on popcorn. She glowered.
“You didn’t seem to mind when you guys ate all the food at my inn and didn’t pay for it! But let me start again.”
She closed her eyes, and a silence fell over the group.
“I—was going to the bathroom. And I must have run into a teleportation spell or…something. Because the next thing I know, I was face to face with a fire-breathing Wyvern. Definitely a Wyvern. It couldn’t have been anything else.”
Her mouth kept moving for a second, and then the illusion spell turned off. Erin’s glower found Demsleth as Ryoka slowly turned her head, and Erin continued after a long pause. No one else had noticed.
They were finding comfy chairs, asking for food, taking notes—and listening. After all, this was a real The Wandering Inn moment.
Rozencrantz was sitting right next to Bird. The legend of the Free Hive was slowly chewing on crackers as Octavia tried to fit in next to Numbtongue. Rosencrantz was very nervous—especially when Bird turned his head. But then the [Bird Hunter] gave him a cracker. Shaestrel, Nerry, and Apista each stole one, and the bee flew crazily across the inn to land in Nanette’s hands.
 
——
 
More Antinium were coming. Pawn was leading a charge straight up Liscor’s streets with all the [Crusaders] and Painted Antinium not on duty.
“She is telling stories? This is why we put Rosencrantz at the inn! Hurry! Hurry!”
Yellow Splatters jogged after Pawn. The Crimson Soldier loped after both—and Crusader 57 grumbled.
“This is stupid.”
“Free food.”
One of the other members of Squad 5 poked him, and he decided to shut up. The running Antinium were halfway to the eastern gates when someone blurred past them. They slowed—then ran faster as Klbkch sped up the hill.
Why, there was even a fully-stressed Watch Captain Zevara, who ran after the Antinium.
“It’s the inn! Sound the Solstice alarm! What is it this time? Monsters? War with the Humans? Archmages? Another <Quest>? I told Lyonette to give me lead time on those!”
Pawn shouted back.
“No, she is telling stories!”
Watch Captain Zevara nearly tripped over her tail and slowed in disgust—right until a bunch of Silverfangs, off-duty [Guards], and citizens of Liscor nearly ran her over. Krshia Silverfang was dragging Tkrn and Inkar towards the inn, and the two were running to keep up. Satar Silverfang demanded notes. Plus, they wanted to hear this too.
 
——
 
Synchronicity. When the Horns of Hammerad heard that Erin Solstice was telling stories of how everything had happened, they were upset.
Ceria Springwalker was furious, a rarity with her circlet. She was currently kicking across the grass, shouting.
“Jelaqua’s going to make it! And I bet Halrac will be sitting in a corner with his arms folded. Pretending he doesn’t really care. And—and I bet Ylawes’ team will make it back, and we’re not there. She’ll be breaking out the good cookies, Pisces. The ones with jam inside.”
“I hate those. I always think of the Acid Fly cookies she fed me. I have been thoroughly disenchanted with surprise cookies as a concept, Springwalker.”
Pisces sniffed—but even he was looking north. A big, red-furred Gnoll was rolling around on the ground and throwing a tantrum because she was missing storytime. Yvlon Byres raised her head and opened her eyes. She had been daydreaming.
