Each floor needs many of these luminite crystals to be synced to a blood-bonded technique to trigger a teleportation once a series of ether commands are fulfilled.

–

While all of the earlier stages of this skill were rather straightforward—entering in dungeon loot and pressing craft to retrieve a desired result—the divine-grade skill is entirely different.

It's as if I'm creating a living machine.

The deeper I think into the results of what I strive to create, the clearer, more precise, and more intricate the craft becomes.

Without the clarity of my Noble Form and the control over my surroundings that my Astral Form grants, it would be impossible to pull off this craft.

I feel as though every single particle is shifting to my will, being carefully altered and fit into place.

Surprisingly, the bottom floors are quite simple. Draining areas of space is easy as long as the structure and walls are dense enough to withstand it. Creating the top hundred or so floors is by far the toughest part.

Some of the floors reach pressures over 200 times that of the outside clouds. This is not because it's necessary, but because I want my generals' assimilation process to be as impactful and seamless as possible.

While I could make the top floor the equivalent of the outside Realm, that would not properly prepare them for the dangers we're going to face.

Flashes of the shadowy, long-horned Demon Lord that called himself Miriel Vermillion come to mind—not only from my own conversation with him when he suppressed my aura and system from a mere video call alone, but from the fragmented memories of Andras and the Demonic Cyclops who only remember him as a figure to fear and follow orders from without question.

This is why I spend over a full hour perfecting the ascension chambers within the central tower.

Once it is finally complete, I disable my Astral Form and use my creator access to teleport from floor to floor, carefully inspecting all 4,000 rooms with fine detailed analysis using all of my perception.

My mind feels as though it's on fire after another hour of theoretical mental stress testing goes by.

I come to the conclusion that I need to let the tower sit for a few days and come back to it to make sure nothing has changed. The generals will be in this tower for a long time, so I need to get proper data on how time itself affects the structure.

Satisfied with the results, I use an exit command on the top floor to teleport out of the controlled structure without leaving any gaps.

Then, I let out a long sigh with a smile and pull the remaining 5,856,011 Low Quality Ether from my storage.

Without any hesitation, I allow it to seep into my true body, deep into the depths of my mind, to sit in the pool of active ether being slowly refined by my consciousness. It does give off a temporary warm and stimulating rush, but it settles quickly as if nothing out of the ordinary has happened. The only difference is it feels the pool I can pull from to create mental attacks and physical barriers has grown far deeper. There's over 7 million Low Quality Ether available to be used within my being now.

I attempt to do the same with some of the Medium Quality Ether, but something instinctually blocks me from doing so.

I leave the 50.6205 Medium Quality Ether in my item storage and decide to ask Ember about it once he's done training with Zashen.

Then finally, I take a few deep breaths and activate the suppression technique Seraphel taught me to reign back my violent Noble Vibrations into my body.

It feels a bit different than it did a few hours ago, and instantly the pressure in my mind feels much hotter than before, but I'm still able to hold them back.

Once I open a window on the top floor of the central tower, the total Citadel blackout that lasted two hours comes to an end.

A very small number of Lords see me slowly flying through the sky back to the High Orc Tower. I am back in my 20-meter-tall Demonic appearance, but those who do glance upward look away just as fast.

No one dares to get involved with this new terrifying and unpredictable Citadel Lord.
