Erick knew there was a need for magic like this. He knew it, unequivocally. He had seen the need for such a spell, first hand. He had killed over two-point-five million mimics himself, stopping their charge into inhabited lands! Veird needed magic like this to stop the monsters.

So he set aside most of his objections, and did what needed to be done.

Erick had already cleared this spell with Phagar; it would work. But right now, in the moment, Erick prayed to anyone who might be listening, hoping that he was doing the right thing.

He spoke to the sky,

“Tap the sky, vibrate the light. Micro, Ultra, Gamma’s blight.

“Sink low the glow, reflected depths! Darker brighter, heaven’s doom!

“Trap the sky, negate the night. Micro, Ultra, Gamma’s blight.

“Here was a land of life and bloom, now all there is, is [Vivid Gloom].

Mana ripped from Erick like flayed skin, cold and hot and cold again, to rush out into the manasphere, to enact his bloody will. Poi rapidly tapped him with the rod of [Treat Wounds], before Erick could fall to his knees, or off the platform.

And then it started.

The blue sky thumped half a kilometer up and away, high above, like a god tapping on a barrier, testing its worth. It wasn’t worth much. Cracks appeared, splintering and spiderwebbing from a hundred small breaks in the heavens, revealing bright prismatic glows beyond. The Mana Ocean rushed across the Crystal Forest and seemed to fill Erick’s ears, inundating him with sound and wonder and terror, as dense white light, like slime, rained down from the holes in the sky.

The sky broke.

White light flooded down, taking long enough for Erick to think of what he had done, and find remorse and then hope, before light shifted to dark. Erick felt his heart sink, as uncountable prismatic white lightfalls touched down, and became endless black clouds that billowed outward, and began to spread.

Kiri yelled something behind Erick, but he couldn’t hear her; all he heard was the rushing shadows crawling across the Crystal Forest, coming for him, and everyone else. His floating platform was only twenty-or-so meters above the ground. The dark clouds— The fully black and flashing white clouds would easily swallow him whole. He tried to move; he saw the problem as it was coming for him, but he couldn’t.

Smiling eyes seemed to stare at him from that darkness, or maybe he had just been awake for too long.

Unexpected talons grabbed his shoulder, digging in, flickering Erick’s [Personal Ward] to white, before blipping away in a smattering of green glows.

Time slowed.

Black clouds crawled across the desert below, gently engulfing agave and mimics, like slow moving mist, flashing brightness as the cloud touched each one, and the ground.

Poi’s voice came to him, calm as ever,‘Sir. We should evacuate.’

Erick watched the cloud come at them. It was a wall of black, that hid so, so much light inside.

‘Sir?’ Poi asked, slightly more insistent.

Something clicked in Erick’s mind. He blinked.

‘Right... Right!’ Erick sent, ‘Hang on. We’re going up.’

The platform blipped white, taking Erick and Poi high above the black clouds.

Time resumed. Many, many blue boxes appeared, but Erick ignored them as he continued to watch the white and black spell unfurl across the Crystal Forest. Erick was initially wary of the color, but with a bit of distance, he saw how his wishes had manifested. The cloud was full of light, but the outside was black, because he desired the spell to soak up all light and trap it inside, to damage everything it touched. The outside was black because that’s how light worked when it only went one way.

He summoned an Ophiel and coated him in a [Personal Lightmask], then sent the [Familiar] down into the cloud. With a shift of view, Erick saw through Ophiel’s eyes, and it was exactly as bright as Erick expected. The dark ‘coating’ of the spell seemed to be a mirror finish, too, but Erick couldn’t really tell. Ophiel, even under the effect of [Lightmask], was no match for the power of the spell. Erick came back to himself well before he was ready.

He looked up, and out. Radiance crashed down from the sky, turning to darkness before it reached the ground. The black cloud laid a kilometer out in every direction by now, but it continued to grow. Maybe it grew a bit more to the south than any other direction, because that’s how the wind was flowing.

Erick searched through his recent blue boxes, ignoring the mimic kills, to find the spell creation notifications. He found [Vivid Gloom] fast enough.

Vivid Gloom 1, instant + 10 minutes, super long range, 500 MP

Chaotic radiance expands to fill a super large area, dealing <damage> every second to all inside. <Various effects of direct exposure include, but are not limited to, Cancer, Blindness, Magic Failure, Immolation, Boiling, and other Decay-like effects.> Spell lasts <10 minutes> after conjuring is complete. Effects last longer.

Particle Mage Only.

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+3 ability points.

That’s really not that bad compared to some of the other Decay magic out there. Also: See other note. ~Rozeta.

The ‘Effects last longer’ was scary, and the listing for ‘Cancer’ was a whole mess of a psychological issue, but the ‘see other note’ at the end was truly worrying. Erick saw no other note. As he glanced up at the cracked sky of [Vivid Gloom], ten minutes must have passed, because the sky began to heal over. The luminous waterfall began to slow, and then stop. As the final drops of light fell to join the black cloud below, another blue box popped up. This one was much longer.

We’re finalizing the upcoming introduction of Particle Magic to the Script, and I can tell you now that smaller versions of every spell you’ve made will join the Script in the usual way, but different. Large-size rainclouds from [Call Lightning] for those who have all the prerequisites. Large size [Luminous Beam]s next year for those who understand light and gamma ray bursts and black hole ejections; but I suspect that won’t happen for a long time. I suspect large-size [Withering]s will be the most popular spell you’ve made, but [Electrolysis Bomb] could be up there, too.

So if you don’t want something you’ve made to make it to the Script, talk to a Registrar and we can erase that spell from your Status, and prevent its implementation in the Script.

Also: I am taking your opinion on how Particle Magic should be implemented, and doing so. Nothing should change for you, personally, but the Basic Tier of Particle Magic will be [Condense Particle]. [Condense Particle] will have to be transformed into tier 2 spells like [Condense Hydrogen] on an individual basis. Everything else will have to be built up from there.

Kiri blipped onto the hovering platform while Erick was reading. She stared outward, at the black cloud settling onto the Crystal Forest below.

When Erick was done reading, he watched the black cloud with her.

[Vivid Gloom] had leveled to 3 with one cast; the part that read ‘Spell lasts <10 minutes> after conjuring is complete’ had turned into 21 minutes. The next time Erick cast this spell, it would last a lot longer, but the numbering scheme seemed a little off. Erick figured that when [Vivid Gloom] got up to level 10, the black cloud would last a whole hour.

But the spell on the ground right now was only level 1. It wasn’t long before the dark cloud began to glitter harder than before, mainly at the edges and the twists in the darkness. The black shell was breaking, and as it broke, it revealed a dazzling and dissipating sea of light. Darkness cracked across the cloud, as the spell died.

Kiri shielded her eyes, but did not look away, as she muttered, “Wow.”

Erick blinked out brightness from his eyes— And that would take too long. He conjured another Ophiel and covered him in a [Lightmask] before sending him down to see the aftermath of [Vivid Gloom].

With eyes uncluttered by the drawbacks of flesh, Erick saw the ground, and it looked rather normal. But then he saw a mimic. Ophiel flew closer. The mimic was clearly dead. Its faux crystal arms were laid at its side, on the ground, limp and useless and cloudy. The entire mimic was cloudy, now that Erick could see better. Ophiel got closer. Liquids pooled out from the center of the mimic, and from the blue-brown sludge between its limbs. That sludge was juvenile mimics.

[Vivid Gloom] had killed the juveniles.

Erick checked a nearby crystal agave, and it stood tall and proud, with zero cloudiness inside its crystalline leaves. Plants did well with radiation, after all, didn't they?

… viewing the destruction, Erick realized what he had made. [Vivid Gloom] was ionizing radiation. It was gamma rays. It was nuclear fallout. Radiation destroyed magic. It even said as much in the box! Shit!

Erick came back to himself and hurriedly checked the edge of the floating platform, where the edge of the [Lightmask] held just beyond the floating stone. The [Lightmask] was degrading. Like chips smacked from a stone wall, the [Lightmask] was breaking. In some locations, it had already broken down to the [Prismatic Ward] under that. The [Prismatic Ward] seemed okay, but who knew about these sorts of things! Shit!

“I can fix this,” Erick said, half frantically. “[Cleanse] and [Conjure Force Elemental]!”

Kiri, nonchalant, asked, “Fix what? Looks like you did it right, to me?”

“It’s Extreme Light, Kiri!” Erick glanced down at the dead land far below, and decided, “I can fix it later. We have to get out of here before something breaks.” He asked Kiri and Poi, “Are you two ready to [Teleport]? We have to go.”

Poi said, “Sir. We’re fine. The platform is stable.”

“We’re not fine!”

“Erick!” Kiri stared at him, holding him still. “Relax! This is a good spell. Just recast your [Lightmask]. It’s not decaying that fast. We were never exposed, and Extreme Light isn’t a big deal when you’re ready for it, and you were. The spell is over.” She let go, and smiled, saying, “It’s a good thing you didn’t stay down there and let it wash over you, though!”

Erick breathed. He recast the [Lightmask] across the platform. He nodded. Kiri was right. No need to get all worked up. He muttered, “It’s just radiation, and I can fix that. Right. [Cleanse] exists.”

Kiri said, “I think we need to leave and come back tomorrow, after you’ve slept, and see how long it takes the mimics to return.” She asked, “It’s a lingering effect, right? What does the box say?”

“… Right.” Erick handed Kiri and Poi a copy of [Vivid Gloom], and said, “You’re right. Sorry. I got a little… strange, there.”

Kiri smiled as she read the box, then dismissed it, saying, “I don’t think you can Aurify that one.”

Poi agreed, “Probably for the best not to try.”

Erick gave a single, “Ha.”
