Glowing hail plinked against the [Prismatic Ward] and the ground around Erick, Kiri, and Poi.

Sunny, however, was outside the shield, flying around, dodging falling glows like it was a fun game. After a moment of indecisive padding around on Erick’s shoulder, Ophiel took to the sky and joined Sunny’s games.

Erick exploded the final two towers he had yet to touch, causing even more glowing pebbles to fall across the twilight sky.

The mimics nearby didn’t seem to care about the light-aspect magic. The glowing rocks must have plinked into every mimic for two hundred meters, but the mimics did not move. They just shook their leaves to dislodge the glowing gravel and went on pretending to be agave.

- - - -

Back at home, Teressa had made a nice dinner, and it was time to eat.

Afterward, Erick went back to his library and cracked open a few books he had barely read before. ‘Mana Altering for the Beginner’, and ‘Mana Altering for the Practitioner’; the two Arcanaeum Consortium approved books for the beginner mage, meant for classes Erick had never chosen to take. While he read, he channeled mana through Mana Altering, dissecting the Skill into pieces, trying to understand everything it was capable of accomplishing. The books had a few experiments to try, and Erick tried a few of the less destructive ones, and while some of them were helpful in understanding something he didn’t already know, none of the two books seemed to say anything about channeling mana through the Skill, to listen and witness the magic how Erick was doing. None of them spoke about what Erick had seen with his [Detect Intent Aura], either.

Erick brought that up with Kiri, the next morning. “So why doesn’t anyone channel mana through the skill to listen to it? Or use a [Detect Intent Aura]?”

Kiri yawned as she rubbed the sleep out of her eyes, asking, “Did you stay awake all night? Again?”

“Doesn’t matter. And I took a break to make some more rings. Answer the questions.”

Kiri chuckled, sleepily, then looked over what Erick was reading. “Check higher level books?” She added, “But your methods don’t really work that well for me, so I doubt it would work for many. Nothing of what you do is normal technique, Erick. Besides! A lot of books are written with Scions of Willpower in mind, and they can’t endlessly channel magic all day long like you can.” She shrugged, jostling Sunny on her shoulders, saying, “If it weren’t for your success, I’d say you were doing everything wrong.”

Erick grumbled, “Mmm.” He looked down at his book for a moment longer, then snapped it shut and set it aside. He stood, saying, “If it’s morning it’s time to make more magic.”

Kiri asked, “Time for breakfast, first?”

“Of course!”

Kiri smiled, saying, “Good. I’ll make cinnamon pancakes.”

“I already made the batter and scrambled the eggs.” Erick said, “I was just waiting for others to get up.”

- - - -

The sun rose in the east, as a cold northern wind tangled in Erick’s hair and his clothes, sapping the heat from his body. It was technically Winter in the Crystal Forest, though you couldn’t tell most of the time, except for times like now. While the days were less harsh, the mornings were downright chilly. If Erick had been out here an hour earlier, when the sun had yet to touch the sands, he might have found frost on the ground.

“Time to warm things up,” Erick said, getting ready.

He had practiced extensively with separating out the pieces of Mana Altering last night. Separating highly damaging Fire from lingering Burn was easy enough, but the lingering damage of [Devastating Light] gave a great example of what [Carving Radiance] was supposed to be. Erick liked the lingering damage, so that’s how he would make his version of [Carving Radiance]. His [Luminous Beam] would be the direct damage spell.

Erick pointed at a nearby stone tower, 15 meters away.

[Force Beam]. Mana Alter: Fire. Mana Alter: Light.

A beam of white light shot from Erick’s finger, radiant and burning, to impact the stone tower like a hot knife through mud. The effect was… muted, to say it kindly. As the spell petered out against the orange rock, a small clattering of blackened stone broke from the tower to land on the ground. Those broken rocks steamed into the cold morning air for a while longer, but from this far away, Erick couldn’t really tell.

Firelight Beam, instant, medium range, 45 MP

A piercing, slicing beam of firelight that deals 4x WIL and lasts 10 seconds, and deals 2x WIL for 10 more seconds. Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects.

It was a successful combination. The [Firelight Beam] in the Script only damaged for 3x WIL and 1x WIL.

Erick moved on to the next combination. He turned a little to the right, and pointed at a much further stone tower in the distance.

[Firelight Beam]. [Force Bomb].

The beam that leapt from Erick’s fingers was a dense, thin line, that struck the tower, exploding into burning radiance where it touched. Erick dragged his finger through the air a little, moving the line up and down the tower, exploding in great, bursting white fires everywhere the line touched, until the spell finally ended. The stone tower remained, though.

Firelight Blaster, instant, long range, 900 MP

A line of firelight explodes on contact in a large area for 5x WIL damage, lasting 10 seconds. Leaves behind fires that deal 3x WIL damage per second for 10 seconds. Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects.

Firelight was pretty cool. Erick had briefly read up on all the other various dual-nature Mana Alters, but he needed to look up more.

The stone tower eventually stopped burning, leaving behind soot wherever the fires had touched.

Erick lined up his next combination.

[Prime Area]. Mana Alter: Fire. Mana Alter: Light.

A dot of intent unfurled against the blackened stone tower, soaking into the structure and its surroundings, turning the tower and the sand around the base into an ephemeral white bonfire ten meters tall, in the center of a white-hot land. It was not actually hot, at all, but it certainly looked like it was.

Firelight Shift, instant, long range, 190 MP

Drastically empower your fire and light aspect magic in a large area. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark and water aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

Erick watched as the structure slowly lost its radiance; the blackened tower reappeared out from under the incandescent overlay. [Firelight Shift] didn’t seem to do much on its own, but it was still rather beautiful.

He cast an Ophiel and expended the [Familiar] to create a safe spot of dense air around him, Poi, and Kiri, and then pointed, again. He concentrated on brilliant fire, and cast.

[Firelight Shift]. [Firelight Blaster].

A line of radiance carved through the stone tower, erupting out of the other side, then pulled right with Erick’s aim, slicing through the structure as it simultaneously set the whole thing aglow and exploding. Erick had yet to strike the second tower when the first tower and ten meters in every direction turned to light and fire and burst apart in a cascading series of explosions, scattering boulders and gravel and loose flame across the land, like a much quieter [Electrolysis Bomb]. The second tower exploded in much the same way, and then the third, before the spell ended. Flaming white stone crashed for two hundred meters in every direction, ripping past Erick’s [Ward]ed space, touching down on every nearby mimic.

Erick lowered his hand. He muttered, “It’s like too-close seats at a firework show.”

The mimics screamed. Some ran away from the spellwork, some ran closer, attempting to end the threat, while secondary and tertiary explosions continued to blast from the three spaces that used to be towers. Stone and sand rocketed from the ground. Flaming rocks rained, plunking into the soil, their radiance soaking into the land, brightening the coming day as they burned white, and burned everything near them. Mimics died, rather quickly. Those that ran into the flame died fastest of all.

Erick’s heart beat hard. His mettle faltered.

That was a dangerous spell—

No. He would not stop now. Not when war was coming to his front door. Not when monsters continued to roam and kill and maim and eat. He would not stop until the Shades were dead.

A blue box appeared.

Carving Radiance, instant, long range, 2100 MP

A line of firelight carves and explodes for 10x WIL damage, soaking everything damaged with power, then further exploding for 10x WIL damage. Firelight shrapnel deals 6x WIL damage per second for 30 seconds.

Shadow aspect magic turns solid.

Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects.

Erick read the box and realized something. He turned to Kiri, giving her a copy of the box, as he asked, “Is this how you make your fire that explodes itself?”

Kiri read the box, her eyes going a little wide. “Yes. I made [Prime Area] a long time ago, but I used [Force Wave] and [Force Shrapnel]. I tried making it with [Force Bomb] yesterday, but that didn’t turn out well.” She dismissed Erick’s box, adding, “I’ve probably got a few more days to get that one right and then I’m going to remake everything.” She turned to face the glowing craters all around. “I think… I really like the entire idea of firelight. That was amazing.”

Erick gazed out at the burning, bright land, and said, “It is rather beautiful, in a way.” He asked, “Hey, did you ever talk to Maia, next door, about her fire magic?”

Kiri blinked, like she had heard something weird. She asked, “It would be okay to talk to other mages about magic while I’m your apprentice?” She answered, “No. That would not be okay. I’m not going to be doing that.”

“Oh. Well. When you put it like that...” Erick said, “Ah. Well. It’s time to test out Decay magic. Have you ever tried that? Poison spells?”

“Not extensively. Fire and Decay both have similar damage over time components, but in normal practice they’re very different. Fire seeks to consume, turning mass into more fire. Decay seeks to poison, turning that mass into more poison. You need a critical mass to start a cascading effect of either, but Fire will burn itself out while Decay does better as you get more and more of it in the same place. In this way, Fire and Decay are at odds with each other, though I’m absolutely sure someone out there could prove that theory wrong. Not me, though.” Kiri said, “There’s just so many ways to Decay, too. Like...” She looked to the air, thinking. She said, “Flesh Decay. Wood Decay. Metal Decay… Bone Decay… Magic Decay; that used to be called Extreme Light, long ago... Growing Decay; but that’s hard-limited by the Propagation Ban which is why Fire is better; as an element that burns out, you can get away with more propagation—” She shrugged, “You get the idea.”

Erick smiled. Kiri was smart, and he was glad to have her for an ‘apprentice’. He teased, “And don’t forget the Health cost skills to attune the Decay.”

“Eh!” She said, “I don’t think you’d have to do that. [Blind] and [Deaf] are useful in creating those toxins, but they’re primarily useful in experimenting on yourself, and building up an immunity. You could probably make a Decaylight spell with that ‘extra damage against shadows’ part and do just fine, since you’re targeting shadows, specifically, and Light is already in Mana Altering.”

Erick kept smiling. As the pools of firelight all around the experiment began to cool, and dim in the daylight, Erick said, “We’ll shelve that idea for later, but for now! I have another spell to make, and for this one—” He conjured a [Teleporting Platform] out of the sands in front of him, outside of the [Prismatic Ward]. Stone coalesced into a hovering circle of rock, with ‘[Teleport]’ written in Ancient Script rounding the center. Erick summoned another Ophiel, then expended that Ophiel to cast a full strength [Prismatic Ward] over the hovering space. Erick stepped forward, onto the platform, saying, “Time to take to the air.”

Kiri and Poi followed. Ophiel twittered on Erick’s shoulder.

“Oh. Right.” Erick cast a [Lightmask] around the platform. “Can’t forget that one.”

- - - -

In another part of the Crystal Forest, not too far away from the morning’s experiments, where mimics soaked up sunlight and whatever explosions had happened here had happened a long time ago, Erick hovered in the sky, on his platform. He stepped to the edge of the floating rock, and thought of all the things he knew of high powered light, and what he had seen the Poison Archmage from the Wasteland accomplish. She had laid down poison for kilometers, killing absolutely everything. Whoever she was, she likely had a family history of poison magic to draw upon. The prevalence of poison was one of the things that turned the Wasteland into the Wasteland during their civil wars 45 years ago, after all.

But Erick had none of that.

What he had was a bit of knowledge, and an imagination. He filled his mind with thoughts of clouds that he had already conjured well before now, then filled those clouds with gamma rays, and microwaves, with light and color, and so much heat, flashing inside of a heavy, cloying cloud that would kill everything inside of itself through sheer illuminated might...

… But this entire spell went against everything he had ever been as a person, didn’t it? To kill, indiscriminately? To lay waste to all life?

