 
——
 
On the first day after drawing his sword against the King of Destruction and all of his vassals, Pisces had a nightmare.
It was not a nightmare of Roshal or seeing Cawe being murdered before him or waking up in Riqre’s jars. So…a huge net positive there.
This nightmare was more prosaic. It was of him staring at Flos Reimarch with his rapier in hand, facing down Orthenon, Mars, Takhatres, Gazi, the Rustängmarder, and all his soldiers and seeing Flos wave a hand. Pisces ran, and Zamea’s foot stomped him a second before he woke, flailing, tangled in his sheets.
He rubbed at his face—remembered he’d actually nearly fought the King of Destruction, realized he no longer had his [Slave] class, and would have laughed or cried or done something, but then decided he just needed more sleep. Pisces rolled back up in the bedroll in the portable tent Flos’ people had given him. It was just past dawn, the world outside was cold, dark, and Pisces didn’t look forward to days of travel to Hraace or wherever the Horns were going next.
He closed his eyes, exhausted from the travails of yesterday, rolled over, and felt the sleep-tide wash over him once more, into perhaps better dreams…
Colth smacked the side of Pisces’ tent, jolting him upright.
“Oi, Proboscis Pisces. We’re striking camp, come on!”
Pisces refused to answer this insane statement—until Colth opened the tent flaps, letting in a huge draft of cold night air.
“Pisces, up. I told you he doesn’t wake up before noon.”
“Go away.”
“We’re leaving for Hraace. Come on, sleep in the magical carriages. I don’t think two are enough, actually, with all the Earth-kids and the rest. You’ll miss breakfast.”
“Lemmealneg’way.”
Colth cheerfully tried to tug Pisces out of his bedroll until the [Necromancer] kicked at him.
“Hey, hey! You’ll miss breakfast!”
Silence was the [Necromancer]’s answer. Pisces pulled a pillow over his head, and Colth retreated after a few more kicks.
“Fine, be that way.”
Pisces refused to acknowledge this madness. He was just drifting off once more when someone appeared at his tent flap.
“Pisces?”
It was Yvlon. Pisces said nothing for he was asleep or soon to be. He lay in blissful rest until Yvlon seized his legs.
“Huh? Yvlon? W-wait. Don’t—”
She tossed him out of the tent, in his bedroll and nightclothes, and mercilessly began to pack the tent up. A freezing Pisces hopped around.
“It’s not even bright! Yvlon! My clothes! I’m not changed!”
“We’re moving. Get something to eat. Come on.”
She tossed his robes in his face, and when he protested he needed privacy, she told him to change in his bedroll or behind a tent. Pisces stood there, freezing in the cold, and Colth strode past him, hands behind his head.
“See? I was being nice.”
Pisces kicked at Colth, fell over, and decided he could sleep on the ground with the bedroll around him. He lay there, quite happy for a few seconds, until Yvlon grabbed his bedroll, prised him out of it, and left him shaking and freezing on the ground.
Pisces…decided to get dressed.
 
——
 
At least Ceria looked as miserable as Pisces. She was eating from a pot serving early-morning porridge. Nothing fancy; they were still in the King of Destruction’s camp, but they were due to leave for Hraace early.
It had taken all of yesterday to organize leaving, mostly due to the Earthers, who had possessions to grab, and the Horns had justifiably been a bit rattled from the showdown with Flos. But they hadn’t been murdered in their sleep…
The gazes of some of the Rustängmarder, the elite troops who’d rejoined Flos, had made it clear that was only due to their orders. Pisces hunched over as some flavorful, filling soup was dumped into a bowl and he was handed a pair of Yellats for dunking. It wasn’t exactly royal food, but it was filling and good, and Pisces couldn’t complain after two days of feasting.
“Wubgh?”
“She dumped me out of my bedroll. It’s freezing.”
Pisces hissed at Ceria, who had a cloak around her shoulders and two eyes that refused to open. Ceria nodded.
“Hubgh badbugh.”
“Exactly. Ksmvr should be here to rein her in.”
Yvlon turned from where she was spooning breakfast porridge into her mouth, and both Pisces and Ceria ducked. Pisces shoveled a Yellat into his mouth.
“At least we’re leaving before the King of Destruction’s up. My heart can’t take another incident with h—”
“It’s another glorious day! Prepare for war! Or something interesting.”
A booming voice made Pisces jump, and he twisted around. A man, drinking from a bowl of porridge just like the others, was stretching to greet the day. Flos Reimarch woke at dawn like any soldier, and his voice got the rest up. Ceria just tried to cover her face with her cloak, and Pisces turned to the [Soldier] serving food from the cook pot.
“Is every day like this?”
The grinning veteran of Reim’s wars just raised an eyebrow at Pisces and the adventurers.
“Every day? Some nights, we don’t rest but to eat before we’re fighting again. This is practically a holiday ‘gainst Nerrhavia’s Fallen. On your way, adventurers. The sooner you remove the Earth’s children and yourselves, the sooner His Majesty’s back to war.”
Pisces and Ceria exchanged a glance of surprise. Even common soldiers knew the Earthers, if perhaps not all of what they were. Pisces opened his mouth, thinking to ask about Flos or the war, but they seemed too prosaic and basic as questions went, so he didn’t want to voice them. Instead, he changed the subject.
“This…Hraace we’re going to. A famous country, of course.”
“‘Course. An honor of His Majesty, even if none of you save Lady Pathseeker’s worthy of it.”
Faint envy was in the [Soldier]’s eyes as he served more portions of stew, and the people in line nodded. Pisces frowned. He knew Hraace, but again, not well. Colth would know more.
“Is it true they helped teach His Majesty of Reim?”
“Yes, though they’d claim more credit for it than they deserve. Our [Drummer]’s Hraacian. If you want to know more about them, ask him. The Heromakers are a peculiar lot. You’re all like to fail, you know. Even Torreb went to them and failed, but the visit’s worth it, for the honor and what you might learn alone.”
Interesting. Pisces saw Ceria raise her brows; she seemed better after the circlet’s breaking. Pisces tapped his lips.
“Hm. Then—do you think any of the, ah, Earth’s children might suit their requirements?”
That was a good question because it made the [Soldier] stop serving food for a second and think. He only resumed when someone thrust their bowl out, and he sucked at his teeth. He was some kind of [Vanguard] soldier judging from the quality of his armor; likely, he had seen all of Reim, perhaps even before the King of Destruction’s slumber, and so his reply was nuanced.
“Of the lot? It’d be the two twins I’d put money on. Teresa’s got the skill with the sword and bravery to match, but I’d back Trey of the two. He broke our Archmage out of Wistram. If anyone’s fit to it, it’s him.”
Another soldier cut in, nodding.
“Aye, and Lady Pathseeker’s training. His sister’s hungrier for it, though.”
“A fun gamble to see if one or both come back with the class. Then they’d be worthy of serving. You’ll see it yourselves, adventurers. Be on your way soon, though. Or Death-General Losve’s like to try to drub the lot of you. The Rustängmarder hold a grudge for being overshadowed yesterday.”
That made Pisces and Ceria search around, and sure enough, two of Wistram’s magical carriages were being loaded by the noisy Earthers and a few of Flos’ people. Pisces made out the glowing eyes of Gazi, the [Sand Mage] with a staff—Trey?—all gathered around the coach. Colth was there, packing what things the Horns weren’t carrying with them, and Yvlon was still deconstructing Pisces’ tent, half a sandwich still in her mouth.
They’d be on their way in the hour, and Flos seemed minded to let them go; he’d seen them off grandly enough yesterday. Pisces heard a clang of a fist on armor and jumped—one of the black-armored figures appeared as if summoned.
“We do not make war on others save at His Majesty’s command. Nor break our oaths twice. With that said, the Rustängmarder will remember who held the King of Destruction’s favor that day.”
One of the grim, death-aligned soldiers held out a bowl, and both the [Soldier] and Pisces eyed them. Pisces stood, flustered.
“I am sure we meant no offense, er, soldier. Yvlon Byres was merely—Yvlon.”
The Rustängmarder soldier bowed; they were helmetless, and Pisces saw a bald head, no scars beneath the helmet, but sharp features—a cold face—and death magic oozing from their armor.
“Offense? I misspeak, [Necromancer]. We took no offense. It was a deed which earned the King of Destruction’s favor and amusement. It has been noted and remembered.”
“A-ah. Not poorly, I hope?”
“As it was done. By all of us.”
“All as in…?”
“All Rustängmarder.”
The figure inserted a spoon into the bowl, lifted it to his mouth, chewed, swallowed, and Pisces gulped. Great. Another enemy for the Horns of Hammerad. He tried to be obsequious.
“I’m sure we’re not nearly important enough to warrant all that, er, soldier…?”
“I am Deathsoldier Chivic. It is worth remembering, [Necromancer], Adventurer.”
He nodded to Ceria, but used Pisces’ title. The [Necromancer] wavered. Here was an interesting group.
“Ah. [Necromancer]. You and I seem somewhat related, Soldier Chivic.”
“The Rustängmarder use death magic to ensure we will fight beyond our end. We are all fools and sinners and those seeking redemption in our ends. When I die, my corpse will take on my duty.”
How…efficient. Pisces swallowed. So that explained why it felt like Chivic was unnaturally infused with death-magic. He’d turn into a high-powered Ghoul, at the very least, on death. No wonder nobody wanted a piece of the Rustängmarder. Not only were they exceptionally good at fighting, they’d come right back even if you put them down.
“Erm, that’s rather macabre, even for my class, I must say. If I could ask—do your, um, deceased fellows turn on their allies?”
It was an obvious question, even if Ceria raised her brows, clearly wondering if this was going over the line. But Deathsoldier Chivic didn’t seem bothered. He saluted instantly, clasping his fist to his armor.
“Our forces are structured to prevent that. Any ally of ours will not suffer an undead soldier’s attacks unless every single commanding officer is dead.”
“So your commanders are all [Necromancers]?”
Pisces was astonished. Then he felt a presence at his back, like a graveyard walking. He spun—and a helmeted warrior stood behind him, a familiar one with a greatsword. Death-General Losve, whose voice echoed from beneath her helmet.
“Our class is not trained in death magic as yours is, Necromancer Pisces. It is authority we seek. I may command lesser undead and some greater undead in battle, even rogue. It is not given to me to practice advanced death magic. My understanding is that our sorceries still eclipse most Terandrian and Izrilian magic. Would that we have a chance to pit Chandrarian death magic against yours in glorious battle soon.”
…She was going to murder him. Pisces had not forgotten her glare from yesterday, and he backed up around the fire, behind Ceria.
“Death-General! I do apologize for yesterday, and rest assured, we will be leaving now. Right now. Ceria? Where’s Yvlon?”
Ceria was getting up and edging behind Pisces; even without her helmet, the green glow from Losve’s eyes looked like some kind of death-glare in a literal sense. She advanced slowly, feet crunching over frozen ground.
“No harm will come to you, at this moment, that you do not offer, adventurers. The altercation has been noted. As have your capabilities, [Necromancer]. You parried my strike.”
“I’m sure you took it easy upon me.”
She halted, and the light from her helm intensified.
“Nevertheless. It is good to find an enemy worth slaying. If we should meet in battle, let one of our corpses rise to greater death. I grant you mine should you take it.”
Deathsoldier Chivic made the armor-clasp salute again, and Pisces stood there.
“I, er, uh…”
‘I grant you mine should you take it’ was definitely the response he should be saying back, but he really didn’t want to. Losve waited, and Ceria piped up.
“I grant you Pisces’ body should you take it, Death-General. Can we have Flos’ if we get him?”
Death-General Losve’s helmet twitched. Everyone around Ceria and Pisces fell silent, and he realized all their heads had turned. The soldier pouring soup was spilling it over his fingers, heedless of the burns. The people in line, the two Rustängmarder…Pisces kicked Ceria as hard as he could, then turned.
“I am terribly sorry. I grant you Ceria’s body if you should take it—don’t mind her, she’s a [Prankster], terribly incorrigible…we’ll be leaving now—”
He dragged Ceria away, hissing in her ear.
“Are you insane? Is that circlet still making you stupid?”
“It’s sorta fixed, and so is my head. Come on, aren’t you getting tired of being intimidated?”
“Intimidated? They have every right to intimidate!”
She grinned at him as he put her in a headlock. Pisces was mid-stride to the carriages when he heard a voice.
“I challenge you, Captain Ceria, for service unto death.”
Ceria lost her grin instantly. Her eyes rolled back, and Pisces began to sweat. Uh oh. Uh oh…
He began dragging Ceria faster, and she started walking with him. Pisces raised his voice.
“—chicken sandwiches! Got to have them before we go, right, Ceria?”
“W—yeah! Famous Reim, um, chicken sandwiches. Let’s go, Pisces!”
Behind them, Death-General Losve’s helmet tilted, and the two adventurers began talking about famous Reim chicken sandwiches. She raised her voice.
“I say again, I challenge—”
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres wasn’t irritated. Berr had taught her that sometimes things sucked and you shouldn’t get annoyed about sleepy [Necromancers]. She loved her team, but they could be annoying, and that was fine. She found the two of them as she tucked Pisces’ tent into her bag of holding.
“Pisces, Ceria. Are you ready to go? Because if you’re not, you’re going hungry tod—”
“Yvlon! Let’s go!”
They rushed towards her, and Yvlon knew they’d done something stupid. She gave Ceria a stare, then saw someone striding after them. Well, someones.
At least ten of the Rustängmarder, in black armor, and the Death-General from yesterday. Yvlon glanced at Pisces, and he pointed to Ceria. She grabbed Ceria’s pointed ear, but then Losve called out.
