“Foolish of Wistram to put a bunch of spelled vehicles where I can grab them. We’re [Mages], Wistram has magic we don’t know—what do you want to do, let them have it all?”
Ceria stared at Amerys, then the protesting carriage. She cracked her knuckles and drew her wand.
“Let me blow a wheel off first, just because. That voice gets so annoying.”
 
——
 
He had a nightmare of being a [Slave] again. Hrome. That bland [Slaver] appeared in the dreams as often as Riqre and Igheriz. Why?
Well, Riqre had been monstrous, but he had died, torn apart by the horrors he’d made. In his nightmares, Pisces always imagined he’d come back…that was horror. Igheriz was always with Cawe, dead, but at least, in his dreams and waking, Pisces could sit up and remember that falling rainbow, the Death of Chains, and know how it had ended.
Hrome was the one he’d killed. The most terrifying face of Roshal of the three, because he’d thought he was a decent man. He’d been ordinary. In those dreams, Pisces sometimes forgot this wasn’t normal, that there were places in the world Roshal would never, could never exist.
He was just doing something like sweeping a room or cleaning tables, mundane tasks, but with that collar on his neck. And whenever Hrome entered the room, he’d flinch. Not because something bad would happen, but because of the possibility it could and there was no stopping it. A long dream like an eternity…
This time, the dream ended differently. For the first time, Hrome entered the room and Pisces turned, broom in hand. The man’s bland, confidently ordinary face turned uncertain, and Pisces reached up.
The collar was gone. He half-turned, confused, and the King of Destruction smiled. He stood on raging waves outside of a dark harbor and pulled apart the metal, padded collar with his hands. He said something, Pisces wasn’t sure, and reached down. The [Necromancer] reached for his hands, then gazed down.
Cawe, the [Slaves] of yesterday, Droppe, Eloque, and so many more were trailing on a chain below him, still ensnared, linked to those gates and that harbor. Pisces tried to pull them up, turned to ask Flos to do so and break those chains—and the King of Destruction was gone.
Then Pisces was trying to tread water, pulling, pulling, as he sensed beings of chains slithering through the water around him, trying to drag him back. He saw a slitted gaze as a great serpent’s head rose…
—Pisces woke out of the dream, covered in sweat. He sat in his tent a second, breathing hard.
“A new dream. Wonderful.”
He scrubbed at his face, his disheveled hair, and couldn’t tell if he liked that one more than…no, it was better than the last one with Hrome, which was horrific far beyond it. This one hurt. It was guilt and relief and worry—the [Slave] caravan from yesterday flashed into Pisces’ mind.
I should have done something. I drew a sword against the King of Destruction, not them.
I couldn’t, I can’t fight every battle. 
I should.
I have to find Eloque and Rophir and Droppe and Bearig and Merr first. I’m sorry.
He meant that for the ones he’d seen go. Pisces sat there until the feelings faded enough for him to lay back. Despite his sleep, he was exhausted. He longed to go back to sleep, but noise had roused him from his bad dream. When he couldn’t stand the loud voices and the occasional crack of what sounded like miniature bolts of lightning, he crawled to the entrance of his tent to give whomever it was what-for.
Pisces opened his tent flap to find Ceria and Archmage Amerys sitting outside his tent, poking at the glowing mana-fragment of a wheel from one of Wistram’s carriages as the muted vehicle warned them that they were being reported to Mage Rievan of Wistram, who would review their case.
Fragments of mana were dissipating in the air, and the Archmage of Lightning was floating around the wheel, arguing with Ceria about how it was made.
“Is it really just condensed mana and air? Air mana? That’s not possible.”
“Says you.”
“Says most of Wistram.”
“Well, the circlet says you just need lots of mana and to run spell circuits through the rest. Almost zero loss, highly efficient, lightweight, and requires no effort aside from the mana cost.”
“But how? How?”
“Form a blob of mana and shape it?”
Pisces stared at Ceria and Amerys until one of them caught sight of him. Ceria waved him over.
“Pisces, come and look at this. It’s completely wild. It’s like…well, my cryomancy or your bones, but made of mana. Super crazy!”
Amerys folded her arms.
“Inefficient. There’s a reason [Mages] like Illphres and I used natural forces. I know you learned [Summon Tidal Wave], and I’ll grant you, it’s necessary in Chandrar, but Illphres taught you to make real ice for a reason.”
“Really? And what’s that?”
Pisces rubbed at his eyes as Amerys pointed at Ceria.
“Ever run out of mana in a fight?”
“Yeah, of course.”
“How often?”
“More times than I’d like. Pisces, get over here. Breakfast’s there.”
Ceria waved him over. Pisces opened his mouth and closed it as Amerys shot back.
“Every fight? Mages who summon their elements burn mana twice or three times as fast as you do. And it’s often not as good. Ever seen someone unmake a summoned bolt of lightning? I could wave my hand and dispel a lot of [Elementalists]’ magic.”
“Oh. I’ll bear that in mind. Well, this carriage is pure inefficiency from that standpoint.”
“Exactly. Waste of mana. You could bind air instead; it’d be a trickier binding spell…”
Ceria sniffed in a passable imitation of Pisces. He pinched himself. This bright, silly, unreal scene was at odds with his dark dreams. He almost cherished it…but it was too damn bright. Pisces retreated like a snake, back into his tent.
“Obviously. Or make it out of ice. Stone. Anything, really.”
“Quite. Mana is just for the caster’s convenience. Or if you have a lot of silly [Mages] who can waste the mana on it.”
“Yeah! Fuck, they’re so far ahead of us. Who is Eldavin?”
Ceria clutched at her circlet and gnawed at it as Amerys kicked the wheel. Pisces lifted a finger. He looked between them, then closed his tent flaps and went back to sleep. When Ceria noticed, she pointed it out to Amerys.
The Archmage of Chandrar’s gaze was not unsympathetic. There was a reason Ceria had asked to do their magical work right outside Pisces’ tent. With great tact, care, and empathy…relative to Ceria and Amerys’ ability to generate such things, Archmage Amerys cast a spell.
The Archmage of Lightning produced a full thunderclap of lightning right next to Pisces’ tent.
He got up.
 
——
 
Ksmvr of Chandrar, who was now Ksmvr of Baleros, stopped swearing and trying to fight the air sometime in the afternoon. He’d been bouncing off the trees as the Calanferians had been marching—literally. Vofea caught up with him.
“Is it okay now, Ksmvr?”
The Satyr seemed nervous, and Ksmvr, the [Brave Skirmisher], [Animal Friend], [Antinium Explorer], [Dancer], [Tree Collector], and [Teammate], turned.
“I think so. Her health has stopped decreasing, so Yvlon has clearly fought off the threat and recovered with a potion.”
[Monitor Attribute (Health)]. He’d been frantic all afternoon, and Rabbiteater could see why. Something had been attacking Yvlon non-stop, according to Ksmvr. The Antinium made fists.
“If I find out who it is, I will hurt them muchly. No, not muchly. I shall do them such grievous and dastardly injury that…”
“That they’ll chop off their balls and eat them just to feel less pain! We’ll bugger the bastards with the sharp end of their swords and leave them bleating that their father’s father never kissed a girl!”
Vofea stomped a hoof. Ksmvr turned to her, struck. He patted her on the head.
“You have a way with words, Rookie Vofea. That is almost approximate to my rage.”
“Thanks.”
Ksmvr punched his fists together darkly. Rabbiteater wandered over, munching some travel rations under his helmet.
“It must have been some monster, eh?”
“One cannot imagine what it was. But Yvlon triumphed; she always does. Comrade Pisces, on the other hand—just cannot get enough sleep.”
“That’s rough.”
“Indeed. It is, it is.”
The conversation petered out in that way of awkward non-sequiturs between people who didn’t know each other that well. Rabbiteater kept walking as Ksmvr grumbled about substandard pillows for a moment.
“I have often postulated that substandard sleep leads our team to loss of performance, Vofea. Feather pillows deteriorate over time, and aside from Comrade Yvlon’s pillow, the rest of my team occasionally complains about the quality of their camping gear. I had postulated a fur-based pillow was perhaps more fluffy, and had thought about sequestering Gnoll-based pillows until I was informed this may be a faux pas in Gnollish culture. Since you are here, we might experiment with pillows based on your own hair for future improvements.”
He stared pointedly at the Satyr’s body, which was indeed brown and furred in most places, aside from her palms, midsection, and face. The half-Goat fae’s response was to insert a leaf into her mouth and chew on it.
“…Yer truly all about your team, eh? Not a thought in your head but what Pisces would do, or Ceria or Yvlon or Colth. ‘Tisn’t there something else that Ksmvr has an opinion on himself?”
Ksmvr folded his arms.
“I am merely being the best [Teammate] I can.”
“One without a soul or personality. Better to have a pet rock. Here.”
Vofea bent down and picked up a stone on the jungle ‘path’ everyone was treading. It was mostly crushed leaves, snapped branches, stomped vegetation from the column of hundreds of [Soldiers] ahead of them. Calanferians in their gold-themed armor sweated and swore, slapped at bugs, and generally suffered as they marched through the jungle.
They were on the move, abandoning the Throne’s Will to avoid more attacks from the Iron Vanguard. It was not a pleasant journey, and they were lost; even if they knew vaguely where they were, any reasonable civilization was a dot in the middle of this treacherous terrain.
Wagons that had been meant for the New Lands rumbled in the rear along with more makeshift ones pulled by men and women and horses; many Thronebearers had been forced to vacate their mounts for the purposes of transportation instead. Marching in their armor had to be exhausting, but the real worry was their cargo.
They had a lot…but food and water would vanish day by day on the loaded wagons. Parts of the ship, a piece of the hull, for instance, sat on one of the wagons, soot-blackened and charred, and the Humans had taken everything they could carry, but it was not a promising start into Baleros.
The two Horns of Hammerad knew it. Rabbiteater knew it. Seraphel was probably the only person who was optimistic, mainly because her circlet kept the bugs from gnawing on her.
Ksmvr’s mandibles snapped a dragonfly out of the air as Vofea held the rock up.
“I am a full member of the Horns of Hammerad, Rookie Vofea, and you will not insult me.”
“I’m not insulting, just saying as I see it. What’s Ksmvr want to do?”
“Rejoin the Horns of Hammerad. After rescuing Erin.”
“And then?”
“Whatever the Horns of Hammerad deem fitting. Likely recovering our stolen sword and Pisces’ comrades, then a return to Izril.”
“And then?”
“Adventuring. What is the point of these questions? No…I suppose you should understand our mentality.”
Vofea sighed loudly.
“Seems to me, even when I was a flying Winter Sprite, all the Horns of Hammerad had things they wanted save for Ksmvr.”
That comment attracted a stare from the weary, trudging Calanferians to their left and right, who wondered if they’d heard Vofea right, but Ksmvr snapped back.
“My lack of desire is economical to the desires of the rest of the Horns. With one less member offering personal opinions, the other three—four desires—are therefore magnified.”
“Oh, and I’m sure they love that. Tell ye what, Ksmvr. You’re a good [Teammate]. Almost as good as Rockerton. The newest Horn of Hammerad! He’s even better than yeh are. See?”
Vofea dangled a dirty rock with flecks of quartz at Ksmvr. It had a worm on it. Ksmvr snapped his mandibles at a second passing dragonfly and crunched.
“You are not allowed to recruit new members to the team, Rookie Vofea. Also, that is a rock.”
The Satyr protectively covered the rock’s…ears.
“Don’t say that! You’re being prejudiced against rocks. What if you met a living mountain, eh? And Rockerton’s a better teammate than you are. He’d do anything for the Horns of Hammerad. We can even throw him to his death.”
“I am prepared to lay down my life for my teammates. I would happily die for them.”
Ksmvr bristled as he glared at Rockerton, whose zeal was as yet untested. Vofea scratched her head as she grabbed another leaf to munch on. Unlike the rest of the mostly Human contingent, Ksmvr wasn’t shy about eating bugs, and Vofea could ingest leaves or whatever else Satyrs ate…which according to her was most things.
“And your team loves you saying that, I bet? I’ll tell Captain Ceria that next time she sends a [Message].”
The [Brave Skirmisher] hesitated.
“You will not. I am merely expressing my mentality to you. I do not wish to…alarm Captain Ceria, who has expressed her opinions on this.”
“Then I’ll tell Yvlon.”
“No, you will not.”
“Why not? I’m a Rookie. I have to consult my elder teammates for advice.”
“I am merely—my zeal is cautioned by my awareness that my loss would be a detriment to my team. I do not seek out death, and therefore, my priorities in any hypothetical disaster scenario are not prescient to the team and makes me practical, unlike Rockerton, who yearns for death. So there.”
Ksmvr folded his arms, palpably relieved, and Vofea chewed on the leaf, then spat it out.
“Eugh. Had bug eggs on that one. I reckon you’re the most grumpy and least fun of the Horns to be stuck here with, Ksmvr. Shame. But maybe that’s why I’m here and not dead!”
She brightened up at the thought.
“I’ve to teach you how to live a little. I’m good at that. And then I can throw myself in the way of an arrow or such, and you’ll be there with your team, ready for whatever comes.”
So saying, she turned and chucked the stone into the jungle. The stone vanished instantly; the ground and trail were dark, so dark even by daylight the Calanferians had lit torches; the canopy overhead was so thick and high that they felt like they were walking in shadows.
“Rockerton!”
Ksmvr’s mandibles opened in horror, and he raced into the undergrowth, but returned a minute later empty-handed. He gave Vofea a dark look as she strolled along, poking her in the chest.
