“Oh, they’re fast, but I’m faster. It’s just that I don’t deign to ferry anyone around, even Mars, unless there’s a good reason. She took a fancy towards your Silver Killer. Don’t worry—she’s kinder than I am, if it’s not war.”
The carriages were moving again, but Yvlon and Mars were trooping up to the palace to have a sparring match—alone. There would have been tons of spectators, but Mars had insisted. Curious for such a flashy woman.
Ceria was sitting on a mobile cloud as Amerys lounged in the sky.
Flight magic. Definitely way above Ceria’s magical grade. She’d heard the best Archmages of the era could cast [Levitate] or [Flight], but even Valeterisa didn’t fly like Amerys. Valeterisa could move anywhere in the heavens she wanted at good speed.
Amerys could flash across the world like a bolt of lightning.
Ceria had seen it. She had been a girl in Wistram—well, more of a girl—when Amerys had been another Archmage, picking fights at dinner with Illphres, flying around, bored, and, Ceria realized, unhappy with the absence of her king.
Now…Amerys looked older. She was clearly weaker from her imprisonment; she had to lounge on the air, and Ceria had noticed how she sat or barely kept upright even in the camp. Her muscles were clearly weak, but she would flit from place to place so fast she left afterimages.
Battlemage. A true battlemage, not Falene’s class. Ceria had heard the tale of how Amerys had broken out of Wistram when Trey had told it back on the Sand at Sea, and she could believe Amerys had dueled multiple Archmages before making her escape.
Even with her circlet on, if they fought, Ceria was putting all her money on Amerys. It’d be too fast. How did you stop lightning? Well, ice armor, but how thick? Amerys could throw [Grand Lightning] as fast as Ceria could fire [Ice Spike]. Her aim was nearly as good as Illphres’; they’d used to line up and blast rocks every morning.
“Oh, calm down. Stop being jumpy. I told you, you’re Illphres’ apprentice. I liked her as much as anyone in the academy. I thought we should chat, mage-to-mage. You’re as close as I’ll get for reasonable conversation, and after Flos snapped that circlet, you were out of it during the festival. Let’s wait until Mars is finished beating your friend about, and then I’ll keep you company for a day.”
“Don’t you have, uh, work to do?”
Ceria bounced up and down on the cloud, and it felt…springy. Oddly, unnervingly, weightless. It was strong enough to support her, but strong in the sense of a million tiny particles, not one whole material. In fact, if she poked a hand into the cloud, she could part it.
Amerys watched Ceria stick her arm down.
“Careful. Pull the cloud apart and it dissipates or you’ll fall through. I can fly as far north as I want and bring Mars back for a battle within three hours. It’ll tire me out a bit, but I could reach Izril by sunset. Even Terandria, if I had to, within twenty-four hours.”
Dead gods, that’s fast. Beyond Courier-level fast. Ceria licked her lips.
“Done that much?”
Amerys shrugged lightly.
“Realistically? No. It’s tiring, and I have to keep focused the entire way. Plus, during war, it’d leave me at the mercy of anyone who senses me coming. But I can do it.”
One step and she moved like a bolt of lightning, appearing with a thwoom of thunder a thousand yards distant. She spun lazily, her body trailing after her, and stepped—she was back in front of Ceria, the wind blasting around her.
There was a dancer’s quality to the movements. Ceria wanted to say it was like [Flash Step], but if Pisces could do that…and Amerys was a mage. She didn’t fight with a rapier. She could zap you with lightning bolts. How did you even fight her?
Amerys leaned down as she floated overhead, her hair leaf-green, her eyes bright like lightning itself, intelligent and speculative.
“That’s the look of a real [Mage]. Someone trying to imagine fighting me. You should have stayed at Wistram. I should have taken the time to hand you that damn book. Told the council to let you stay. I should have—but I was too tired. Too weary of Wistram. I gave you no thought, and it was just as well you left. Illphres would be proud.”
It was much like what she’d said on that fateful voyage north on the Sand at Sea, but Amerys had been so exhausted then and distracted by Flos. Ceria’s lips moved.
“Thank you for the book. Well, thanks to Gazi. Even if it was late.”
She touched her bag of holding where her master’s tome had been restored to her. Amerys’ smile was bitter.
“I owe that brat a bolt from my spellbook, whomever it was. Thank Gazi.”
“I’d rather not. I owe her a blizzard spell.”
Amerys didn’t throw her head back and laugh like the other vassals or Flos himself. She was still, as Trey had once observed, more of a scholar. She pursed her lips, then pulled out a bottle of wine of all things and poured it into the air.
Or rather, a bowl made of air, which she handed to Ceria, then another which she drank from. It was expensive wine, Ceria realized.
“Well then, let me apologize to you and you thank me on Gazi’s behalf, and we shall consider debts partially settled. I truly was grieving Illphres’ death. She wasn’t ready.”
Of all the times not to have her circlet on…Ceria felt a moment of anger and froze it in her chest. She smiled politely.
“She was a [Mage] of mages. She dared to try.”
“She wasn’t ready. I told her. She was afraid to adventure and come back a decade later. Afraid to lose her spine. I was not confident we could win—and I think, now, we would have lost even if I had gone. She wasn’t ready. It is abundantly clear that is true.”
More anger froze. Ceria shrugged.
“That may be true, but I admired her for it.”
Amerys poured more wine, beyond generously, and took a huge gulp. She raised her eyebrows at Ceria.
“Oh, of course. You’re very much as she was. Freezing everything that displeases you, including your feelings. She didn’t realize she was terrified, I think. [Cryomancers] freeze themselves as much as their foes.”
She…could tell what Ceria was doing. The half-Elf recoiled, then snapped.
“And what do lightning mages do?”
“Dissipate. Turn into slugs without charge or focus. Dissolve into pieces of pointlessness, as I did for too long after Flos slumbered. They got me in Wistram because I was soft. Look at me, Ceria. I haven’t changed since you were a girl. Now how fast you’ve climbed.”
Amerys drifted forwards and pointed at her face, rueful. Ceria blinked as Amerys inspected Ceria’s hand, her robes, her gear.
“Nice robes. Are they from the Crossroads of Izril? Beautiful enchantments—I’d give them to Nailihuaile, if she were alive, and force her to analyze them. That hand…sacrifice from your adventures?”
Ceria nodded, blinking again. Amerys sighed.
“Good trades for how fast you’ve improved. I’d trade my hand for ten levels. Do you have more clothing from the Crossroads?”
Ceria was, in fact, wearing the colorful red-and-white dress that burned if you spun around. From the City of Shields. She showed Amerys her bag of holding and couldn’t resist taking out a few of the dresses. Amerys whistled, and her eyes went round.
“You got these…?”
“From a maze. Turns out if you tell it you’re naked, it’ll give you free clothing.”
“And you stole all of it. Dead gods. Magic from the City of Shields. Do you have any more? Is it all in here?”
“Well, I didn’t have time to put it anywhere, and I don’t have a home base, really.”
Amerys gazed ruefully at the palace of Reim and jerked a thumb at it.
“That’s mine as far as it goes. The rest of my possessions are in Wistram, never to return. I’m as poor as I was as a student. I wish I had a magical base too, but I was never good at stationary magic, you know? Well, these are amazing pieces of clothing.”
She lifted the bag of holding, then stuffed a bra back into it. Amerys handed Ceria her bag of holding to avoid the resonance effect from having the two spells overlap.
“Mine’s mostly empty. Good potions in there, a few scrolls—wait, I should take my spellbook out.”
She took a personal tome out, for some reason, and put it into Ceria’s bag of holding. The half-Elf hesitated as Amerys leaned back.
“Wait…”
Amerys floated away, searching through Ceria’s bag of holding.
“Thank you for the trade. See you.”
She flew off, leaving Ceria behind on the cloud. The half-Elf stared at Amerys. She stared at the bag of holding, emblazoned with the King of Destruction’s seal. Her mouth opened wide.
“Come back here!”
She thought Amerys was joking, but the Archmage of Chandrar really was zipping away. She flickered into the distance in a trail of zig-zag bolts of lightning. She only stopped and came back as Ceria put on the bone-white circlet.
“Oh, fine, fine. Flos would make me give it back. Stop casting that.”
The hail of ice needles forming over Reim halted, and Ceria snatched her bag back. Amerys took her own bag of holding back with ill grace, then grabbed her spellbook. Or tried to.
Ceria had a hold of it—she’d been hoping Amerys wouldn’t remember. The two had a tug-of-war in the air, and then Amerys clapped her hands.
“Tell you what: give me a pick of any…three pieces of clothing you have, and I’ll give you an hour to scribe anything you want from my spellbook. Deal?”
“No way!”
Ceria yanked her bag of holding closer to her, and Amerys pursed her lips.
“A day for each article. Come on, now, they’re not that valuable, and I’m twenty levels higher than you.”
“You’re not even fifteen, I’ll bet! There’s no way you’re Level 60.”
Amerys’ eyes flickered, and she flipped over to stare at Ceria darkly from her front.
“You whelp. I hit Level 40 when I was twenty-nine years old.”
“You’re talking to a half-Elf. I was born before you. I knew [Light] before your mother learned what an orgasm was.”
“Hah. She still has no idea I’ll wager.”
“Oh, that’s sad.”
The two were bristling at each other, electricity and frost pushing back and forth, waiting to see who’d grab what, like two vultures circling one another. One clearly stronger than the other, but the dissonance in Ceria’s head resolved itself when she realized how Amerys was acting.
Stealing anything she could? Haggling for magic? It was all but confirmed when Amerys’ eyes flickered to the place the carriages had sped off.
“That Pisces. Does he know magic I wouldn’t? I don’t really want to pull a Valeterisa and seduce him. What if I traded spells? Colthei’s a famous [Supporter]; is there even a chance he’d have magic I wouldn’t? That’s an honest question.”
Ceria lowered her defensive slap-hands and peered at Amerys.
Oh. Oh.
“You’re just like me.”
“…The lone, sane member of a group of insane warriors? Deeply troubled by parents who stick around way too long?”
“No, my mother died pretty soon after I was born, and my grandmother died as well. You’re as insecure as I am.”
Amerys’ eyes flickered. The Archmage of Chandrar, one of the world’s premier spellcasters, sat bolt upright in the air, frowning at Ceria. Then she drew her wand fast.
“Tell anyone and I’ll blast you to smithereens.”
Ceria met those eyes—and then they shook hands. She caught Amerys’ hand and made her give back one of the bras she’d taken out of Ceria’s bag of holding.
 
——
 
Yvlon lay on the ground and decided if Level 50 was continually powerful, Level 60 was…something else. She couldn’t figure it out. If she were Level 50, she might have had a chance.
Mars stood over her, grinning.
“Had enough?”
“Not—”
Yvlon burst upwards, swinging fast, arms exploding with metal spikes. It was nearly impossible to dodge that many unpredictable pieces of metal moving in every direction—some even hit Yvlon’s own armor. She’d stabbed herself twice with her arms—but Mars was too fast.
She danced back, slashing with her sword, parrying the metal, ignoring the swings of Yvlon’s fists, then cut once. She sheared through a dozen metal barbs and stopped at Yvlon’s throat.
“Twenty-nine. Go for thirty?”
“I can’t…hit you. That sword’s too sharp.”
Mars tossed the sword over the shoulder, and it landed with a collection of weapons she’d beaten Yvlon with. Sweating, Yvlon bent, and the severed metal of her arms flowed back to her body.
She hadn’t known she could do that—but she hadn’t had someone cut her arms like that so many times before. Blood spattered the ground too—her blood.
It had come from her arms, before she’d realized she needed to stop circulating it or she’d lose it every time she took a blow. Mars raised her fists.
“These, then.”
Yvlon hadn’t been waiting for it, but she’d sort of been hoping. Pride had kept her from asking. Spear, axe, sword, even whip—Mars had enchanted items, an armory of weapons and armor she could switch among. They were so high-grade that Yvlon’s old Sword of Weight wouldn’t have held a candle to them.
But if it was just armor and fists…Yvlon raised her fists, steading herself.
“Ready.”
Mars let her come, posture open, relaxed—today, she was blue-haired, cropped short, tall and lithe, like some fantasy heroine, a cloak of red around her revealing armored chest. All an illusion, Yvlon knew. She threw a punch straight for Mars’ chest, a jab, expecting Mars to block or parry.
Not for Mars to pull her fist back and punch straight into Yvlon’s fist. Both women saw the impact coming and put their weight behind their fists.
They collided with a slam Yvlon felt in her entire body. A shockwave of sound and metal—Yvlon stared at her arm.
Crunched up to the elbow. Metal compressed into a silly-looking—
Her hand. It began to reform, and then she realized Mars’ other hand was raised—
Yvlon guarded with her left hand. Mars’ fist deformed the metal and sent Yvlon down.
“Your arms aren’t strong enough. I’ll give you that you’re tough, mentally. But you’re not nearly as skilled as some. Monks of Sottheim can flip around in combat and hit you from all angles. The metal can be surprising, but Takhatres is fast enough to dodge all of it.”
A boot kicked Yvlon so hard she rolled and got up—Mars came at her like that fellow Alber. Each time she hit Yvlon’s arms, she moved the metal, even punching a hole out of the top of Yvlon’s forearm one time. It was terrifying—and she was fast, strong, tough—Yvlon hit her once in the chest and didn’t even think she slowed Mars down, didn’t even think the woman felt it—
Complete. She had no weaknesses. Yvlon couldn’t even get a read on her style. Mars stood over Yvlon as the [Armsmistress] stopped the bleeding from a gash on her stomach; the gauntlets had cut deep.
