“In the worst, Zethe will claim the mines and become Zethe of old, the Kingdom of Midnight Stone.”
She didn’t see what was wrong with that, but she was intelligent enough to frown and not say that. There was a lot about his past he had never told Neirute. He didn’t want to burden a child, he was ashamed, and most of all, he didn’t want to fill her head with stories.
Sadly, even in the middle of nowhere, stories appeared. Chandrar loved them.
“But the mines are back. So what now?”
“Things will happen. Let things be different this time.”
He went back to his work, an answer so displeasing to his daughter that she kept waiting for more, which never came. Exasperated, Neirute did a handstand on the hot ground and watched her father. Then, casually, she flipped back upright.
Then did a cartwheel.
It was a simple trick. A cartwheel, a simple three hundred and sixty degree rotation where you rolled along your hands and feet sideways, whirling around in the air until you came upwards. Children did it easily; adults, not so much. It was just a cartwheel.
But…
Neirute performed the cartwheel with her limbs straight, without the hunched back that showed she wasn’t as flexible or as strong, and when she cartwheeled, it was casually, slowly, like someone breathing. Her hair whirled around, touched the ground, and then she was on her feet again, exiting the cartwheel faster than it had begun; she’d picked up the pace midway through by contorting her limbs subtly.
The effect was something that threw the eye to see it, like someone accelerating mid-step or slowing a motion. It was just a trick a girl had learned, but even now, the few children in the village stared at her. No one tried to copy her. They’d learned long ago that what Neirute could do with only a few tries would take them a hundred to master.
The children, young and old, worshipped Neirute. Worship, a word only Doubte knew, but which fit. Idolized her. If she told them she were picking berries, they’d join her at once, abandoning their duties.
If she started an adventuring team, Doubte thought they would fight to the death with her. Half the adults would.
Doubte’s daughter had inherited too much from her father. When he regarded her, his face was bleak for the future. But Neirute’s shining eyes were too proud for her father.
The Hero of Zethe. She’d known his past for years, now, but hadn’t made the connection of what it truly meant. Until recently. Now, she watched him and seemed to watch herself, as if realizing it wasn’t normal she could do so many things, as if her strange home, which she had been told never to let anyone into, suddenly struck her as odd. She had taken all these things for granted growing up—but now, she saw it.
“What are you going to do about it, Zada?”
She meant as the man he had been. As his class.
[Hero].
There was nothing for it. Doubte leaned on his hoe, abandoning his work. He shook his head at her.
“Me? Nothing. I am not that man. I am a simple farmer.”
“You rode for Khelt. You said you’d never take your sword off the fireplace, and you did. The scrying orb said it made no sense, that it was pointless for Khelt to intervene at the Meeting of Tribes.”
He grunted.
“The scrying orb is filled with people who know little more than you or I, but sound as if they know everything. Don’t listen to it.”
“Well—was it pointless?”
She’d watched his battle at the Meeting of Tribes, the few moments of him fighting, a hundred thousand times. He wished he could have stopped her watching, but Acheranai had been, so the children could hardly have been stopped. Thankfully, he’d kept his identity hidden with a helmet and armor, and the few who’d seen him in person hadn’t talked—much.
Even so. His daughter’s eyes were alight, and Doubte did have to think about the question.
A journey across the ocean with the King of Khelt to make war on the Drakes. A thing even he hadn’t done in his time as a [Hero]. Doubte thought and shook his head.
“It had to be done. Whatever blow we struck, the King of Khelt assured me it was worth his kingdom to do so. I cannot tell exactly what was done, but I can see the effect it had.”
In so many ways. Fates of Izril, perhaps altered, the New Lands…Khelt, now, and the change in the King of Destruction and nations here. Neirute didn’t have his experience, forged of many years, so she frowned with a simpler, honest perplexity.
“But you don’t know what was done?”
“No. It is possible I was manipulated or our actions were pointless, but I do not think King Fetohep lied to me.”
“How do you know?”
Another good question. Doubte answered honestly, because he was a father trying to teach her something. Too often, he’d heard parents say ‘because’ with no reason. He tried to explain himself.
“I studied him to see if he were lying. I know the signs, and so do you. Moreover, I know Fetohep’s character, both by reputation and deed. He is…a rare and honorable king. A good liar, but he would have given himself away, I think, if this had all been for nothing.”
Neirute’s eyes blazed with interest.
“They say Khelt is in trouble.”
“It may be.”
“They say the Prophet is powerful enough to split the ocean, quake the ground, and that his people can heal wounds without magic and strike down any foe.”
“Perhaps. Their classes are unique to me.”
Hardly invincible. Neirute paused significantly.
“Khelt is a paradise.”
“One of a handful.”
“It would be…amazing to live there.”
“You’d tire of it.”
Living in luxury could spoil anyone. Doubte saw where this was going.
“I am not offering my services to him. You know why.”
“I could—”
“No.”
The rebuke made Neirute recoil. Doubte glanced down at his hoe, then towards the house. He saw a boy standing there, tall, so tall. He was fourteen, two years younger than his sister, but he looked like a grown man.
Calithe. And his eyes were locked on Doubte’s side, on the object the [Hero] carried for his morning’s work. Doubte had taken the blade and worn it rather than let it lie in the house. Neirute could pick locks, and he no longer trusted their word to keep away from his blade.
The boy on the hill was just short of gangly in height; he’d soon be taller than most men at well over six feet. His eyes had only those swirling orbs in them, faintly pink, and he was skinny since he’d shot up so fast, but strong. Far, far too strong. Stronger than any man in the village save Doubte, and clumsy with it, but his inheritance from Doubte and his mother was even more frightening than in his sister.
His eyes burned bright with so much of a boy’s zeal that it was terrifying, far more than his sister. Calithe wanted to hold that sword. He wanted to swing it. Doubte was afraid, because his son held the sword like [Blademasters] might envy.
When he looked at them, he thought of Torreb. That fearsome man. That horrific adventurer who had killed so many foes. His daughter, like Doubte’s, had inherited his powers. In Torreb’s case, it had been stolen. Doubte had been glad his children had been gifted something—but then afraid.
They were too bright for this village. He’d seen chance travellers doing double-takes, marking them despite all the precautions their parents took to keep them ordinary. How did you hide Neirute’s cartwheel or Calithe swinging a hoe like it was a blade? Swatting flies out of the air with a stick for fun?
“You are not ready for any of it. Your mother and I are preparing lessons. Harder ones.”
“Lehra Ruinstrider was my age when she found the Blade of Mershi.”
“Lehra Ruinstrider is a Named-rank adventurer, but only in title. She does not have an earnest place among them. She will—or she will quit or die.”
Neither of his children understood. They understood nothing when he tried to tell them—because it was something you had to live. Neirute stomped one foot, frustrated, and Doubte sighed.
“When you’re two years older, I will take you to Hraace. Both of you.”
He lied. It should have worked, and Neirute brightened up, then began to protest that she was two years older than her brother; it should be her alone. But she faltered, because two years…
Too short for him.
Too long for her. 
Instead, her eyes flicked to Calithe, and the boy called down the hill.
“Father. I heard the King of Destruction is sending some of his people to Hraace. To make them [Heroes].”
There was everything in his tone, the excitement, the arrogance, the eagerness, and the frustration—but for a second, Doubte heard none of it. His ears roared. His blood rushed, and his head rose with real fury.
His children saw his eyes flash and hesitated, but it was not at them.
“You’re angry at the King of Destruction, Zada?”
Neirute watched his face, and Doubte was unsettled to know she was trying to read him. He schooled his features.
“…He should know better. I warned him. Who?”
“They say it’s Gazi the Omniscient and some of his servants. And the Horns of Hammerad.”
The Horns of…? An image crept to mind in Zethe’s head. The rainswept voyage aboard the Kheltian ship. A half-Elf throwing up on the King of Destruction, a [Necromancer] hunched in the rain, a woman with silver arms, and the Antinium with silver blades.
Gold-rank adventurers.
Heroes…?
He didn’t see it, but for their sakes, he hoped not. Doubte wondered what the King of Destruction was thinking. They had spoken, and Doubte had meant every word. Flos Reimarch had to know…was he desperate? Careless? The man was careless.
“Do you think they have a chance, Father?”
Doubte gazed at his son, at his daughter’s too-carefully incurious demeanor. He grunted.
“I don’t know them.”
“They’ve done a lot. I saw their battle at the Village of the Dead. And they killed an Adult Creler, but it wasn’t recorded. Zada, do you think I could be a Bronze-rank adventurer? There’s an Adventurer’s Guild in Irikhe. It’s only thirty-six miles away. If we hunted Skimscorpions or just small monsters…”
Doubte tossed his hoe on the ground. It had been a mistake to give the village a scrying orb. He saw the two watching him and wondered if they’d already gotten their adventurer permits. Acheranai did her best, but they slipped even her magic, and both were warded against scrying and, ironically, Acheranai’s own magic. And he had to travel at times…
He stood there, overweary, but not fatigued with indecision. He’d sensed this was coming and discussed it with his wife. And he was still a [Hero]. He made his choice swiftly, between the beating of his heart. But oh, it hurt.
Curse this changing age.
Curse the marrow-deep weariness in his bones.
Curse the unchanging minds and hearts of this continent.
“Neither of you two are to act as Bronze-rank adventurers. You would do well. Too well. You would make Silver-rank, and get yourself, or your teams, hurt. You are not like the others. You need lessons, and I cannot teach you everything.”
“If you taught me how to use a sword—”
Calithe broke in, voice frustrated, and Neirute protested.
“All I want to do is see other cities and nations, Father. How long will…?”
Both broke off as he exhaled.
Two years.
He’d wanted two years, but they were in the primes of their life, and he’d shown them who he was. This moment had been waiting, but like the wind, it had come too early. Doubte left the hoe where it lay and began to trudge back to the house.
“Stay here. I will be gone three weeks. If you two are good—I will take you with me the next time I ride. If you two behave and my journey goes well, I will take you on a vacation.”
Both stirred at this, their protestations turning to swift intrigue.
“Where? Why three weeks?”
He was seldom gone so long. Days at most. Doubte turned at the door.
“Hraace. Perhaps they might tutor you.”
Both mouths opened, and he stepped inside, calling Acheranai’s name before the babble of questions could reach him. He did not smile nor whoop for joy.
He hated Hraace.
They had never made him. He hated them, and they had met only a few times, them in entreaty, him in youthful arrogance, wary denial, and then disillusionment and bitterness. He hated what they did and what they surely knew they put upon those who they turned into [Heroes]. Perhaps they might have done better than Zethe and his self-taught misery, but he still hated their entire purpose.
—But his children needed guides.
 
——
 
Doubte was saddled and ready to go within ten minutes. Acheranai stood at the doorway as he bid her farewell, and his son and daughter waited, begging to go, even as he shook his head. The wind was blowing at his back again, and Doubte disliked how familiar it felt.
He felt it sweeping around him like the grains of sand and drew up his cloak to shield himself. Chandrar’s destiny, whirling and eddying in his wake as he began to ride. It followed [Heroes].
The rarest of classes. The most dangerous of classes, as Doubte well knew. He thought himself exceptionally dangerous and knew how he had been made—by chance in his case—and how you could make more artificially, as Hraace did.
But at least Chandrar mostly remembered the risks. Other continents? Doubte turned his head north and frowned. He had been, he’d thought, the lone [Hero] of his age. If one or two had appeared, they had died fast. [Hero] did not guarantee longevity, and they were, indeed, hard to make. Even the most famous eras had only had a few hundred at most—the Hundred Heroes who had settled Terandria for Humanity had literally been a hundred.
Rhir had thousands of [Heroes]. He’d sensed them levelling, and first thought it was a hallucination or bad joke. But it was unmistakable as some had reached higher levels and begun to take on…nuance.
How? Doubte didn’t know. But he was now certain. It worried him. Too many [Heroes]. He feared the future. Not the children as they were, even if they all had the class.
They would grow, like vast weeds, shooting up in moments to eclipse the sky. Vast fungoid growths, unnatural compared to any other mortal being, and fight and change and die in mere moments. They might well do what the Blighted Kingdom hoped, but Zethe did not fear the thousands of untested children.
No; they had the class, but no mastery of it. He feared an old [Spearmaster] more—no, Zethe would wait for the ones who came after. The few who had found the true strength of the class. Those he would have to treat as equals and watch, for they’d change this world.
Fear of a [Hero]. Fear of a father. Fear of a tired man.
Doubte rode. He wished he had great passion in him, but it was burnt away, and only his love of family and the long bitterness in his very being remained.
The [Hero of Zethe, Foe of Nations], Level 56, rode north. He was over a thousand miles from Hraace.
The journey would not take long.
