“You are to quit throwing away auxiliary members of the Horns of Hammerad, Rookie Vofea, and stop talking about dying. It is very downing.”
“Fine. Let’s talk about the future.”
“Very well.”
“Not about the Horns of Hammerad or what happens when we get off Baleros.”
“Okay…”
Ksmvr fell silent. Vofea eyed him.
“Do yeh have a girlfriend or such?”
“No.”
“Do you…have a hobby?”
“Does adventuring count? I collect trees.”
Vofea stared at him, and Ksmvr defensively hunched his shoulders.
“I have a wide and colorful life due to my job! Do you have a hobby and partners?”
“Uh, not anymore since I said farewell to all I knew and loved to come and die, but sure. Last of them was a Faerie Dragon—not a Dragon of the Fae, a Faerie Dragon…he was very small. We blew bubbles and played pranks and ran about the Hoimlesca Marches until a pixie stole him away. My hobbies? Eh, the last one I took up was slinging stones for fun. Which is why I know how to use it. I spent centuries painting, though. Never any good, but I colored caves and trees with paint until I was told off for it. Lots of angry folk who complained I was messing up their homes. Always Dragonfolk who complain, as if a bit of paint doesn’t wash off!”
The Satyr put her hands behind her head and beamed at Ksmvr, who walked forwards, mandibles open, until he stumbled.
“That’s…very commendable. Well, you seem to be amply self-entertained. But your combat scores are lacking! We shall train this evening.”
“Fine, fine. But ‘tis more to a good adventure than just fighting!”
“Like what?”
“Good eats? Good conversations? Admiring vast vistas? Trading and sighting new wonders to write down on maps? Places unseen filled with wonder and mystery and old kennings?”
She seemed hopeful, excited by all this, and Ksmvr grumbled as he kicked one of Rockerton’s cousins.
“In my experience, fighting is the most important quality so that the rest may endure. Very well. We may do some of the rest. Speaking of which, does your future sight see anything?”
Vofea squinted around the area and spoke after a moment.
“Eh…Hundredlord Cortese is going to have a itchy bump on his nose after that invisible mosquito finishes sucking his blood?”
There was an oath from ahead of them and a slap. Everyone else began instantly slapping exposed skin and swearing harder. Vofea turned back to Ksmvr.
“Future’s too hard these days, what with me being properly mortal now. I can see other things. Like magic ‘n sharpness and patterns.”
“Such as when you found me in the water at sea. Your sight is an asset. If we are ever reached by the Titan’s forces, it may come in handy. Or when entering dungeons.”
Ksmvr mused. The Calanferians here weren’t completely isolated. Help from home seemed far away and, frankly, dubious given they’d have to pass the Iron Vanguard, who held the seas, but closer to home was the Forgotten Wing company, who seemed at least amiable towards them, as opposed to the other Great Companies.
They were deep in Lizardfolk terrain, and every now and then, the advance [Scouts] would report what looked like movement through the trees. Niers had told them in his last [Message] spell to not broadcast where they were, to try to get to a city, and that he’d send what aid he could their way. But he was embroiled in two wars against the Dyed Lands and the Jungle Tails company, and so no one had exactly expected much.
Rabbiteater and Ksmvr expected more than the rest, actually. The Hobgoblin had been listening in on their conversation and turned his head as Ksmvr scratched at his chin.
“Yes. You may well be useful, if your kin can locate you. Can you signal them? There are—allies of ours who may find us faster if so.”
Vofea shook her head.
“I can’t find them; they’d find me through the weft and passage of my fate. Lady Shaestrel can, if any still can see. I wonder if the others will take to their mortal forms. Being a Winter Sprite’s nice; you have the powers of ice and you can be a fun little shit, but they’ll be weak, now. Their other forms are stronger.”
“…Other forms? They’re not all Satyrs?”
“Hah! Wait, you thought they were? Nah, nah! They’re all fae of different kind. Lady Shaestrel is part of the Faerie King’s courts, but the rest…”
Vofea once again began to try to describe the lands of the fae, but she was interrupted by someone jogging down the line. A ghost, Strategist Veine, running a message through the [Soldiers], who stepped aside for her, though she’d happily just phase through them.
“Ser Rabbiteater, Lady Seraphel and Ser Thilowen send word. The jungle gets more and more inhospitable ahead. We may prevail on some tunnels we seem to have found, but we’d take Adventurer Ksmvr’s insights too. They seem…artificial and possibly inhabited.”
Rabbiteater peered up, and Vofea and Ksmvr followed him to the head of the group. The jungle did indeed seem to rise around them, the canopy growing higher, and the light dimming. The [Captain] of Throne’s Will was swearing as he talked at the head of the halted army.
“—not a landsman, but there are spiders twice the size of my hands out there and plants that take bits out of you too. It might not strike a man in armor hard, Your Highness, but anyone without won’t go far.”
“These tunnels look ominous, though. Can we not send a [Message] spell inquiring about what they are?”
Seraphel was gazing at a network of odd openings in the ground. Stone tunnels, like the twining, twisting roots, but somehow less…organized than that. Huge openings large enough to let in multiple people abreast, widening and delving not that far down, but under and along the ground.
They were…eerie. In a way that no one could articulate until Ksmvr spoke. He hopped up onto a tree branch and almost fell before sidling over to where the branch was thicker and would support his weight.
“Fascinating. They appear to be a network of tunnels in odd patterns. Incomprehensibly joined together.”
Indeed, these ‘root tunnels’ refused to move in organized patterns, at least that Rabbiteater could see, even after climbing a tree to get a better view. From where he was standing, the branches of one tunnel came together in a ‘Y’ shape, and they split unevenly, joining into longer branches, but, at least from his limited vantage point, not having a reason why they split off. Multiple entry points to…release water?
An invading army would like the multiple entrances, but there weren’t enough—nor were they symmetrically placed openings—to make this an optimized travel network, either. Regardless, no one liked the tunnels. They were unsettling to the eye; Rabbiteater was reminded of seeing that in animals he’d skinned and eaten and did not appreciate the scale.
They were nestled against vast trees that were dark and grey and, Rabbiteater realized…
“Stone.”
An entire forest of trees that had petrified with age filled this section of the jungle, as the undergrowth thickened and intensified until any progress forwards would be made hacking through thick vegetation. Or…you could walk into one of the tunnels.
“Someone has to know what these are.”
Seraphel insisted, but Menrise just shook her head.
“I can ask…and transmit a [Message] spell telling everyone where we are. Otherwise, we have to ask if anyone knows Baleros or has a book referencing the spot. Anyone have knowledge? Any Thronebearers?”
The question went down through Ser Thilowen’s people, but the Thronebearers, knowledgeable about courts and customs and cultures, were at a loss. Random tunnels in the middle of a jungle were not things they’d think to encounter, even at the furthest remotes of their jobs.
“It’s a maze, Your Highness. Better to enter, I think. We’re at the mercy of these damned bugs with no alchemist to work something up to keep them away!”
The [Captain] had over fifty bites on his exposed skin and face and was patently desperate for any reprieve, and most of the Calanferians seemed to agree. However, Seraphel hesitated until someone piped up.
“I dunno about the wherefores or whys of it being made, but yon tunnels whiff slightly of big brained folk. You know, the squishy-heads who eat your grey stuff and lift rocks with their minds? Do you have those here?”
Vofea. The Satyr bounced on her hooves, sniffing the air, and Badarrow wrinkled his nose.
“What that mean? What grey stuff?”
“Brains. People what eat your brains and suck out the insides?”
“Oh. Goblins?”
“Selphids.”
Cortese hissed. The entire group fell quiet, and Seraphel bit her lip, her interest suddenly becoming a patent wariness. Ksmvr bounced from tree to tree, higher, and announced in a loud voice.
“There’s no discernable way forwards for anyone save an adventurer. Progress will stymie on foot. On the other hand, I am looking towards the bay we were at. I believe it is the bay.”
He hopped even higher, and Cortese called up.
“Likely your imagination, Adventurer Ksmvr! Even from a height, you could not see more than the ocean! The treeline covers it.”
A distant call came back after a pause.
“True! Unless I were looking at a very large sail. A warship, I believe. We may be hunted.”
That decided the group. Seraphel turned, and Rabbiteater grunted. He wished Lyonette were calling in, because aside from her, there were no secure [Messages]. And right now…they began to enter the network of strange tunnels one by one. Vofea brightly stepped ahead, still sniffing the air.
“Smells like they made this place with their brains. What do some of the King’s guests call it? Psychic power? Mind-power. D’you have mind-folk here? I know your lot stole everything. Every way and ken of power, from old magic to cheap sorcery. Eh? Hundredlord Cortese, do you have mind-folk here?”
“Adventurer Vofea?”
“Yeah?”
“Stop talking.”
The tunnels of ancient Selphids delved down across the jungles as the Humans entered, whirling, nervous thoughts coalescing in the darkness lit only by fire. Just thoughts, growing, and shifting in the dark. But that was Baleros. As Ksmvr observed sagely as he entered the depths—
“I am sure my team is in far worse peril. And if they are not, it is well-deserved rest.”
For the rest of the Horns of Hammerad, the Heromakers of Hraace awaited.
