“Is this…payback for yesterday?”
She panted. If so, she could take it for the lesson. Mars blinked, then shook her head.
“Oh, that? Death-General Losve’s pretentious. She really did put her head in the dirt. Some kind of custom where she is from. It’s hilarious. If I were mad, I’d have thrashed you then and there for challenging Flos, nevermind his orders. This is different.”
“What…then?”
Mars pointed up at where Amerys’ single cloud was hovering. Ceria was up there. Yvlon hoped Ceria was having a better time than she was.
“Amerys is a bit different, but we mean you no ill will. I don’t like you. I don’t hate you, Yvlon Byres. I just wanted to see how close you are. And give you some friendly advice, one woman to another.”
“I’m not very close to you if you’re looking for threats.”
Yvlon spat some blood out and wiped at her nose, also bloody. Mars inspected her, not giving her a hand up as Yvlon reached for her enchanted water flask.
“Wait. Is that a magic water flask? What’s it do?”
“Water tastes like lemonade.”
Mars brightened up instantly.
“I used to have one of those! I need it. I’ll trade you for it.”
“…Take it.”
Yvlon tossed it at her after pouring water over her face. Mars took it and gulped happily.
“Ah. Adventurers have the best stuff. I always loot them first. Well, this justifies all my good intentions. You’re nowhere near ready. Toughness you might be closest to—that trick with the iron body was nice.”
She’d kicked Yvlon so hard her blow had deformed Yvlon’s stomach—then she’d had to bend Yvlon back before the [Aspect of Iron] wore out. What would have happened if Yvlon had morphed back with a giant footprint in her stomach…
Yvlon just shook her head. But Mars knelt on one knee as Yvlon sat up.
“Nowhere near ready. But you’ve stepped where I have along our path of blood. Here’s my advice: when you meet other warriors, know they’ve done it less. It’s their first time, or their third. You have been there before, and that will often make the difference. You define the battlefield more than you think.”
The panting, Izrilian woman met Mars’ gaze and tried to focus on the words. They were plain and simple, like Mars, but they made sense to her.
“I’m just one woman.”
“For now. Soon, you won’t be. I am the battlefield. I will it; it be done. Remember that. There’s the lesson, paid for by lemonade water. Do you have any more flavors?”
Mars sighed happily. Yvlon hesitated.
“No, I got it from a [Merchant].”
“Shame. The other Seven and His Majesty would have loved one. Any questions?”
She waited, the [Vanguard] who was now the strongest warrior of Chandrar. Yvlon gazed up at her and decided questions about her form or…anything so simple were stupid. She heaved herself up onto one shoulder.
“Everyone…calls me a woman of metal. It was not my intention to become one. But it seems like I might, in time. Is…is that going to make me weaker?”
Mars’ eyes were hard. Not unkind as she spoke, but just impassive, judging.
“Who can say? Metals can get tough. Adamantium’s hard to cut. And there’s always a higher level. Here’s a better question. Did you dream of this level or beyond?”
Yvlon gritted her teeth. She blew a bloody booger out and wiped it on the dirt, wondering if she had the guts to ask for thirty-one beatdowns.
“No. Just the will to not break against everything so far.”
The Illusionist’s chuckle was the first since they’d met, and it was realer than her loud laughter. She stoppered the canteen and beckoned to Yvlon; the [Armsmistress]’ arms were raised, and she was set, determined.
“Woman of metal indeed. Come on, then. Until you drop.”
Yvlon went for a punch and saw Mars coming at her so quick—
 
——
 
—getting up was—
 
——
 
Swore she’d stop when she saw Mars just flinch. Just flinch. Just—
 
—-
 
Applause made her wake up.
 
——
 
—Being pushed into the ground by an arm she couldn’t move. Terrifying. Terrifyingly strong. Worse than an Adult Creler.
 
——
 
“You’re giggling too much, little killer.”
 
——
 
Her arms kept squishing. Stronger. Stronger—
 
——
 
She kept appearing in that white dreamscape, pulling out of it, rising—
 
——
 
[Silversteel Armsmistress Level 45!]
 
She woke to someone pouring something on her face. Something wet, which Yvlon licked; it was a healing potion, she was relieved to realize. Mars emptied the bottle, heedless of the waste, as Yvlon sat up fast.
“What?”
It was evening. The sun was bloodshot, and the ground was covered in a lot of red splashes. And bits of metal. Mars, illusion and all, squatted there, face rueful, almost impressed, envious. She spoke as Yvlon reflexively raised her fists, but didn’t punch back for once.
“When you hit Level 50—if you hit it, Silver Killer—that will be the last time the voice speaks to you without a gift. Lest you ask for more for any one level, that is. Weak arms, fragile body, slow, not skillful enough. But the will is good. Very good.”
She stood and casually began to walk back.
“I’ll ride back, as I think Amerys is still chatting up that half-Elf. Congratulations, Yvlon. But remember—”
Mars tilted her head back and fixed Yvlon with one serious eye.
“I have your measure, now. Don’t fight His Majesty. Or next time, I’ll kill you.”
Then she was off. Yvlon Byres stared at her, then put her head back down and promptly passed out. And a voice spoke, just to spite Mars, apparently.
 
[Skill – Absorb Blow learned!]
 
——
 
“Dead gods, she’s beating the hell out of Yvlon.”
“Yep. Ooh, your friend’s tough. Did she really beat an Adult Creler with one arm?”
“Yeah. What does Mars do when she’s mad?”
“I’ve seen her beat a [General] to death with his horse.”
“What, like the actual horse?”
“Pick it up, hit him with it. Poor horse. Wasn’t much left of the general afterwards, either.”
Ceria and Amerys were eating snacks, a bit too chattery and ‘we are friendly’-ish for either one’s comfort. They kept eying the other. Ceria had a grudge, and she was intimidated and desperate to learn; Amerys was much the same, but she was rightfully arrogant and superior—
They were not the same. But the similarities rankled them. Both ate snacks and drank wine at any hour. But Ceria stuffed huge bits into her cheeks like, well, a squirrel, and Amerys ate in a refined manner, or tried to, but got visibly annoyed when Ceria ate more snacks.
They were discussing magic as Mars beat Yvlon into the ground hour by hour. Ceria hoped Yvlon didn’t get permanently hurt, but Amerys had said Mars was an expert, being a former [Gladiator]. They were going over what Ceria knew, or rather, didn’t.
Which was a lot. Even with the circlet and Illphres’ spellbook, there were holes so large in Ceria’s understanding of magic that Amerys was patently incredulous. However, Ceria’s circlet let her grasp a lot of what Amerys was talking about with intuition, and Ceria was making a floorplan to try to expedite her understanding of magic.
By contrast, she didn’t have much to offer Amerys…aside from the clothing—which Amerys was trying to study—her own observations of unique monsters like Skinner and Bograms, and frankly…well, kinship. Mage-to-mage.
“Parasol Stroll has virtually no [Mages] of Wistram, and they’re not my type. All devoted to battle.”
“And you’re not?”
Amerys rolled her eyes.
“I’m why many nations have magical academies and legacies. I’m not just war.”
“Uh huh.”
“Pass that dip.”
“Ate it all.”
“You’re not tasting anything.”
“Sure am.”
Ceria took a sip of wine as she chewed, one cheek full of food. Amerys made a face.
“You don’t even know how to do spell circles right. Are you really a mage of Wistram?”
She threw that one, and Ceria, no longer freezing her emotions because Amerys had called her on it, was appropriately barbed. She snapped back.
“I guess I’m not.”
Amerys flicked one wrist up.
“Peace. I only meant…”
She tapped her chest.
“Do you think I am? A mage of Wistram?”
“Of course I do. You’re an Arch…”
Ceria trailed off, because truth spells did exist, and the truth was…Amerys laughed as she placed a hand on her chest.
“That’s right. Archmage. Archmage without the class. I can’t even tell you what the upper floors look like.”
“You don’t think you’re a real [Mage] of Wistram either?”
“Illphres didn’t. Or at least, she had doubts.”
That was how they were the same. It gave Ceria such a strange rush to realize Amerys shared her perspective of Wistram—that they were all hobbled by Cognita’s dominion. And yet, Amerys had a look of faint envy in her eyes.
“You have the title. You get to call yourself that.”
“Me? Don’t be—you mean because of Cognita? I wasn’t more than a stupid kid! Any [High Mage] could have destroyed me!”
“Who else is more deserving of the title? Feor? Don’t make me laugh. The only thing he remembers of the upper floors is when a master let him up to make him scribe scrolls. She saw something in you.”
“She saw something in Pisces.”
Amerys waved this off.
“We are both ill-fitting of our titles, yet. Although you are far more ill-fitting than I am.”
“Yeah, yeah. Show me how to do a spell circle? The circlet lets me understand.”
Amerys traced a spell circle again, the proper kind like the Mage of Rivers had done, and Ceria nodded. Amerys covered her mouth as she yawned, then snapped her fingers.
“Give me your robes, the ones you’re wearing. They’re not enchanted in a harmful way, clearly. You project fire as you spin? I want to try.”
That was how Ceria ended up changing clothes on a cloud and standing there with replacement robes on as Amerys spun in the air, leaving a trail of wispy fire behind her. They were one of two dozen sets of clothing given to Ceria by the Trial of Shields, and she hadn’t figured out what the other clothing did, by and large.
These ones projected faint flames, mostly red, but sometimes yellow or purple or pink, around Amerys as she spun. It was, perhaps, some kind of clothing meant for a ceremonial dance or just to look good. Or so Ceria had thought.
Amerys, though, might not have had the athleticism of Mars, but she could still rotate with magic, and she began to spin, now, whirling downwards. She spun like a top, faster and faster, and the dress began to give off more and more flames. Ceria’s mouth opened as she peered over the cloud—and she saw the flaming ring around Amerys ignite. The Archmage of Lightning whirled faster now, like a tornado, and Ceria swore as she saw—
A blazing tornado formed over Reim and shot downwards to earth as citizens looked up and took cover. The Archmage of Lightning landed, and flames roared around her, blazing upwards in roaring geysers as she spread her arms, the red highlights on her robes flaring with brilliant light. She laughed, pointed; the flaming tornado arched by her command, roaring overhead as everyone ducked, baking the air and landing in the distance like some wrathful worm of pure fire—
“You still can’t have it! It’s mine! I—I want something good in return for it!”
Ceria shouted feebly over the cloud. She had a sneaking suspicion that dress had belonged to a [Monk] or a [Dancer].
 
——
 
It was like that, really. Not teacher-and-student; Amerys refused to give the robes back despite Ceria’s swearing, pointing out that in no scenario would Ceria ever be able to spin at that frequency. It was just—older mage, younger mage.
“I’ll lend you my spellbook all day tomorrow. It’s payment for all the magic lessons. And I’ll throw in, uh…the rest of this wine.”
Ceria had a hand clamped over her bag of holding to avoid more articles of clothing vanishing. Amerys was a damn big bully trying to get everything Ceria had out of her no matter what.
…Ceria refused to find anything to compare in her past actions with Amerys’. But she was somewhat gratified to learn the Archmage of Lightning was in the same boat as she and Pisces were.
“So you don’t have any knowledge from Wistram? Archmage Eldavin?”
Amerys sat on the Mage’s Guild in one of Hellios’ cities with an unconscious Yvlon floating in the cloud next to them come nighttime. She was taking them north, and she scowled.
“Nothing. Oh, Eldavin’s courting me. He wants to make up, says that it was old Wistram that trapped me, and I can learn. From him. But I have to play nice. No making up and agreeing to help talk Flos down? No magic. I’d rather eat Takhatres’ sandals.”
Which meant she was actually falling behind the magical race and resented it. She kept watching Ceria as the half-Elf fused death and ice magic, making a Frostmarrow Behemoth.
“That’s not fair. Fusing magic should not be that simple.”
“Well, I can do it even with the circlet off my head.”
“That’s the kind of spell theory Valeterisa would sell her legs for. Do it again.”
Ceria did it again. Trade and trade about. Amerys enchanted another piece of wood to float and smirked at Ceria’s scowl.
“You can’t master [Levitation] overnight, even with that magical Relic. It’ll take a year of study at your level.”
“Really? Bet. The circlet says three months dedicated to that spell alone. I don’t have time to learn just that one spell, but I’ll add it to the lineup.”
Amerys’ smirk vanished. She took a deep breath.
“If I wasn’t sure your brain was being slowly eaten by that thing, I’d steal it. Fine, since we’re both magic-deficient by the standards of new Wistram…”
Both of them scowled at that. Amerys got up as something rumbled to a halt outside the Mage’s Guild and stretched. Ceria had been wondering why they’d stopped here for a rest, but she got it as Amerys pointed down.
A magical carriage, one of the new ones from Wistram, was letting a passenger out. The passenger, a merchant who’d come down from Medain in a day, froze as Amerys lifted a finger. The carriage rose slowly, and personal-defense spells tried to activate.
“Attention. This is a magical carriage of Wistram. Any attempt to stop this vehicle will result in your painful demise and a report of your organization, guild, or nation to Wistram Academy. Step away from the carriage. Step away from the—”
Amerys winked at Ceria and grunted.
“Heavy little thing, isn’t it? We might need two or three to figure out, but since there are spares—want to blow the door off or deconstruct it some other way?”
Ceria blinked.
“Deconstruct…? You’re going to disenchant it?”
She’d never even considered it! But Amerys just bared her teeth.
