Okay, maybe they were worth getting to know. The [Necromancer] seemed like he was really good with a sword and handsome, too. Then she wondered what the Heromakers would make of the Horns. She hoped they saw something in her.
 
——
 
Escaping the Rustängmarder left the Horns tired, breathless, and bickering, but happy as they passed through Reim. Everyone blamed Ceria, but you had to admit—she deserved a shot at Flos after he’d snapped her circlet.
“Don’t do it again. Your big mouth has gotten you into trouble you couldn’t get out of once already.”
“Noted. And we’re still in Gazi’s company. Do you think there’s a chance we ditch her and try to go somewhere else instead of Hraace?”
Ceria panted as she wiped sweat from her brow and drank a mana potion. Colth glanced at the magical carriages, which’d slowed for them now that the chase was over.
“I doubt we’re evading her eye; she’s the worst person to try to sneak from. We might have to detour to Hraace. At the speed of these magical carriages, it won’t take more than two days of travel, even with breaks. Handy, that. We can probably get to Nerrhavia’s Fallen or Pomle to look for Pisces’ friends in…a week.”
“Damn, that’s so long. But better than anything else, I guess.”
The Horns slowed, and Ceria stopped casting her [Icy Floor] spell. The Earthers were all begging for a turn skating like that, but the Horns were done running. While it was very cool and inspiring to see them skate across dry Chandrar like that…they were adventurers. There might be little room in the magical carriages, but the Earthers were about to see what made real Gold- and Named-rank adventurers the successes they were:
Laziness.
Sure, you could skate across Chandrar. Or ride on Pisces’ undead horse with its saddle, gifted to him by the King of Jecrass no less, or even run if you were Colth.
Or, and hear them out—you could make an ice-chariot, attach it with a rope to one of the magical carriages, and put your feet up and enjoy the breeze.
The Horns of Hammerad enjoyed the breeze as they were given mildly outraged looks by the escort of Reim’s hard-riding [Soldiers] and the passengers in the carriages. They were adventurers. Riding was for chumps.
 
——
 
A few observations from the road. Yvlon Byres got a great view of Reim—and its holdings—as they headed north after the business with the Rustängmarder was concluded. It seemed only Death-General Losve held a grudge, or she had decided not to waste her forces’ time pursuing the Horns after they ditched her.
Which was good, because the Rustängmarder had a presence all over Reim. The dark-armored soldiers were everywhere. Not just joining Flos on campaign; they were laboring to upgrade walls, digging wells, all kinds of manual labor.
Or rather, they were doing it with their, uh, auxiliary forces.
“Undead. Look—that’s another group. Half the soldiers are dead. The ones digging, see?”
Pisces pointed it out to Yvlon; a group of sixteen with eight digging out a well or something. Yvlon shuddered, but mildly.
“Interesting way of forming a company. So the dead ones are free labor?”
“Doesn’t bother them. It must stink in that armor, though. It’s probably refrigerated to keep them alive longer. Smart. It cools the living and preserves the dead.”
Colth was observing the armored figures, who did turn and stare at the Horns, but offered no fight, even when the carriages stopped. They weren’t, uh, friendly, though, and Yvlon poked Ceria again.
“One more stupid comment…”
“I’m fine, really. And I’m not stupid today. I think. Though the circlet’s definitely damaged.”
Ceria poked at it, and Yvlon realized she could see the circlet today. It was cracked in dozens of places, but ‘intact’ on Ceria’s brow. Yvlon almost groaned, but given how pathetic Ceria had been post-shattering…she just raised an eyebrow.
“Is it no longer working as well?”
“Actually…I think it’s working better. It was pretty desperate not to be destroyed, so I think it unlocked more functions. I’ll try it out soon, but it’s more in recovery-mode right now.”
Was that good or ill? Yvlon almost wanted to break it again and toss the pieces to the ground, but to her surprise, Ceria pulled the circlet off her head, tossed it in her bag of holding, and pulled something else out.
“Alright. Time to switch.”
The Crown of Medain sat on her head. Yvlon Byres’ mouth opened—and Ceria adjusted the legitimate crown, set with three massive jewels, the golden metal rising like waves. It was definitely bigger than her circlet, but she moved it right, left, and then brightened up.
“Hey! It’s not heavy! Feels nice, too. I thought it’d suck without padding. How do I look?”
The rest of the Horns looked at her, and water dribbled out of Pisces’ mouth. Colth met Yvlon’s eyes, and she shrugged weakly. She was the one who’d failed to give it back to Perric.
“Um…the jewels are too much.”
Ceria produced a mirror and studied her face.
“Yeah. I can see that. Maybe I’ll see if I can remove them without damaging the enchantment? We could use more travel funds.”
That was purely bait. Yvlon ignored that, and Ceria, as she lay back in the chariot. Her reflection was on Death-General Losve.
I could have taken her in a fight…maybe. She’s definitely over Level 50. Me and Ceria? 
Maybe not.
How did you articulate the difference between a Level 40 [Warrior], which Yvlon was, and Level 50? Yvlon would put it like this:
She was capable of moments of extraordinary, impossible feats. Like her [Aspect of Iron], which allowed her to charge into a storm of arrows or whatever she wanted and survive. It was a crazy Skill that Silver-rank Yvlon would have wet herself to fight against.
If I had that, I would have been able to kill Skinner…maybe. Again, Yvlon realized it wasn’t that simple. He could have ripped off her skin and armor and maybe even her metal arms. He truly had been dangerous in his own way, especially with those [Terror] gems. And in that sense, that was Yvlon. She was Level 44. She could destroy an ordinary foe quite, quite fast, but a single arrow when her Skills weren’t up would kill her.
Much like Skinner, who had died to ‘mere’ Goblins when his armor had been stripped away.
But Death-General Losve? She’d kept up with a racing undead horse enhanced by Skills, sliced through walls of ice and bone effortlessly, and threatened the Horns all without using a ‘big’ Skill. The difference, Yvlon thought, was that a Level 40+ [Warrior] had moments of extraordinary power.
Level 50+ was always at that level.
She wondered what Erin was like now.
Anyways. Yvlon knew it wasn’t just a ‘hit Level 50 and change’ kind of thing. She was stronger physically than she’d been at Level 30. But Losve and the other followers of Flos Reimarch frustrated her. Every time she thought she was stronger, a new wave of incredible foes appeared.
Perhaps this was how Ceria felt. Yvlon closed her eyes, sighing, resolving to train harder when they got to Hraace…just in time for Ceria to blast Yvlon out of the ice chariot with a geyser of water.
“Oh tree rot. Sorry, Yvlon!”
The [Armsmistress] whirled in a confusion of water, air, and then the ground as she hit the earth. She lay there, ears ringing, as rain pattered down and voices shouted around her, and she reflected that Level 30 Yvlon would have suffered greatly.
She was merely…winded.
Ceria hid behind Pisces when the chariot came back to pick her up. Yvlon, who wasn’t mad, just raised her eyebrows.
“It was the Crown of Medain! I swear! Apparently, it can cast spells! [Summon Water Geyser] is one of them! Sorry!”
“I see. Well, I’m glad it hit me instead of Pisces. Does anyone have a towel?”
Yvlon got back in the chariot. Ceria flinched, but Yvlon calmly shook water out of her ears and checked how far she’d flown. A good fifteen feet, and she’d hit the ground hard.
“What was the radius on that?”
“Pretty large. She blew half the chariot apart—I got Pisces. Sorry, Yvlon.”
She nodded at Colth, who had saved Pisces from her fate. Ceria fiddled with the circlet, and all the Horns peered at her.
“Okay, that jewel does that. This one does—”
Yvlon was about to politely tell Ceria to watch where she was casting spells when she stiffened, and Pisces swore as something encircled them. Swift bands of magic; Colth tried to dodge his, then stopped.
“Armor spell. Feels like…[Stoneskin]? Dead gods!”
Yvlon, incredulous, felt at her body, and sure enough, her skin was tougher. Colth swore as he felt at himself.
“What’s the range? I bet it’s at least a squad. Company? That’s a crown of a powerful [King] alright!”
“Multiple kings. High King Perric apparently forged that crown out of the nations he conquered.”
Pisces interjected, and Ceria and Yvlon regarded him; he shrugged defensively.
“I looked it up. It did not say what the effects of the crown were, but it did claim it was Relic-class.”
Colth rubbed his hands together, delighted.
“Not Relic-class maybe, but high-artifact. No wonder he’s so mad. Do the green one now.”
The gems, green, blue, and red, were each huge and differently sized; when Ceria activated one enchantment, it lit up the corresponding gemstone. Rather simplistic in Yvlon’s opinion, but she assumed it was on the level of Perric’s ability to memorize the enchantments.
The green gemstone produced nothing so fancy as the [Stoneskin] enchantment or [Water Geyser] spell at first, to the Horns’ disappointment. That was until they heard a series of shrieks, glanced up, and saw a bunch of bird-shaped, twisting spells in the air. Ceria whistled.
“Air spirit. Looks like he’s got crowd control, summoned minions, and defensive enchantments. Shame that [Stoneskin]’s so…generic. Yvlon barely needs it.”
“Some may call me the Silver Killer of Chandrar, but the truth is I’m hardly that tough, Ceria.”
Pisces snorted, and Ceria laughed as she took the crown off. Well, it looked like she had a new set of gear, although…and Yvlon hated to admit it…
“It’s not as good as her other circlet.”
She confided in Colth’s ear, and the [Supporter] grinned at Ceria.
“One gives her three Tier 4 spells, albeit boosted, the other lets her free-cast her Frostmarrow Behemoth or another huge spell as well as other tricks. Relic versus merely the crown of a ‘High King’.”
Yvlon shook her head. Ceria was busy trying to find out if the Crown of Medain had any other interesting effects. The commotion certainly kept the Earthers’ eyes on them. When they stopped for a lunch at one of the cities, the Earthers were all over the other Horns, and that suited Yvlon just fine.
She wanted to stretch her arms and legs and take a look at Reim. What Yvlon didn’t realize was that this little jaunt to Hraace would not be as simple as dodging a Death-General or surviving a single Tier 4 spell.
They were being followed by real monsters.
 
——
 
Reim was…odd. At first, no one understood it among the Horns. The Earthers had already observed it so were less focused on that; they were clustered around the Horns, Ceria and Pisces for choice.
Yvlon was, apparently, intimidating, but Pisces as the [Necromancer] was cool, and Ceria as the half-Elf was cooler. The bemused [Necromancer] was having a conversation with Maximillian and Alanna.
“Yes—yes, I do raise undead, but no zombies for preference. Just Skeletal Champions or the like you saw with His Majesty.”
“That’s so creepy. I mean—sorry!”
Alanna clapped her hands over her mouth. She apologized to Pisces, who just blinked at her, bemused.
“That’s racist, right? Do [Necromancers] get a lot of hate?”
“Er…you could say that. We are not well liked in Terandria or Izril.”
“Wow, that’s so—Wistram hated them. They were always talking about this one [Necromancer] who got a bunch of people killed in the Libertarian faction. But I think it’s pretty cool. Walking Dead, right, Maximillian?”
Pisces hesitated, and Maxmillian nodded.
“Ever seen a zombie apocalypse?”
“You mean…a million-strong zombie army? No…”
“I bet you’d be awesome for that, right? You could start a zombie civil war?”
It was so weird talking to Earthers. Some of them had this—mix of unique ideas and unseriousness, if that made sense. Colth was patently fascinated, talking to the Earthers who were less-than-cautious about discussing where they were from. Lloyd was trying to flirt with Ceria.
They weren’t all like that. Elena was giving the others exasperated looks. She had the air of someone like, say, a pre-inn Joseph or Imani. Someone who’d seen things.
Teres and Trey were far more observational, cautious. Yvlon strode away from the group and surveyed Reim, the capital city of the nation named after it.
“Black marble towers. Chemath. No wonder everyone wants it.”
It was surreal to see the famed city of the King of Destruction, not in its heyday, but a revival. Some of the towers were broken, but the ones that had shot lightning down to destroy armies still rose over the city, and the people were…fascinating.
Vigorous, but worn, Yvlon would say. Some clearly seemed like they’d seen better days, evidence of former malnutrition or hard years giving them that characteristic of those who had endured much. Wrinkles too deep, or scars—contrasted with healthier bodies.
Clearly, if they had been hungry, they weren’t anymore. Reim flowed with commerce, mainly, Yvlon noted, spoils of war and goods from countries Reim had vanquished.
Stone from Hellios, Belchanese books and magical items, Ger’s pottery and myriad of alchemical ingredients, and of course, arms, armor, cloth, all looted from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. If you wanted for work, you could find it simply in transporting the goods to various places in Reim. Or join the army; Yvlon saw children running around, a boy of perhaps four toddling and giggling, waving a stick at a shrieking girl.
“I’m Mars! Mars! You run from me!”
She was screaming at him, but he was too excited to listen and bit and slashed at her as she whirled away. Not many youths above thirteen were present. Yvlon suspected they were either soldiers or working a trade.
Two more factors made Reim fascinating. One—it had rained on the way in, just a patter, but it meant the fields were green and blooming, even if the rest of the area was still arid and dry. Yvlon had heard all nations south of Jecrass were dry…but she supposed rain happened.
She realized something else was up when a few cautious folk of Reim bowed to her.
“Adventurer, will you buy anything? Is His Majesty headed north? Do you have news of him?”
