What is a hero?
The answer was that a hero depended on culture. It was, to some, a job, an aspiration, a thing you could achieve and reach, and to others, an idea, a label to bestow perhaps widely or narrowly; a nebulous thought. To some, it was a mark of greatness and tragedy. Fate’s instrument, a herald of important events, but not necessarily joyous ones.
But what is a [Hero]? A [Hero]…ah.
That was different. A [Hero] had rules. Not many, and most designed specifically for them, but they had been defined out of this hodgepodge of ideas by a being who had been there from the beginning. It was in the box around their name. The [ ].
[Hero].
He had argued so…ardently with the others about what [Heroes] should be, because they’d all had ideas. Pawns…but glorious pawns. They should have advantages, even a link with chosen Patrons. They should be blessed and cursed—they should be burning stars fated to die before they caused too much havoc.
He had pushed back and argued as much as he dared, that lone creator, that god with his own sad fate.
Isthekenous, the one who began it all.
Isthekenous, who had a right to at least write what a hero was in the fabric of reality.
Isthekenous, God-Hero Achetat, Champion of the Llegnais Pantheon, Warhost Leader of the Resprvchin Pantheon, Founder of the Aegum of Realities—these were his titles before he came to this place. Not all his titles; those would have been too many to count. These were his titles such as even the divine acknowledged and witnessed.
He had personally written [Heroes] into the weft of everything, far back then. And he had added rules that were, if not unique to his homelands, in keeping with his view of the world and role. One important rule about their creation.
So many rules about what they could be, because he had always valued that. Experimentation, growth—he had created his new project around that idea. The God drew from a multiverse of worlds where children dreamed and designed games and worlds. These concepts they played at, he made manifest reality. Isthekenous melded a true system from countless realities into a single, ambitious project that would transform everything.
But he had never been granted a new title for his achievement in this great creation. His dream had never been fully completed. Still—his work continued, and one of the things Isthekenous had written into [Heroes] as they changed, evolved, rose, and fell was this:
Be it so hard or glorious, they so terrible or marvelous or petty or inhuman or a step below the divine—they were a class among the greatest of the world. Designed to be so, and more than that? No matter what they did, no matter who they were, one certainty was true:
Heroes cheated.
 
——
 
When the wind arose, it blew a cloud of reddish dust over the horizon, sweeping from the fertile coast inland, moisture withering away each second until the land became as harsh as it, no longer bringing salt and the promise of moisture but harsh grit every bit as inhospitable as the ground itself.
Southwards, towards the Great Desert, Zeikhal, which had swallowed empires and digested their bones among the sands. No truer proving ground of nations existed: time and the desert would lay low even the mightiest creations.
Chandrar was the bare truth behind Terandria’s bright kingdoms. It was no older than any other continent, but it had the weight of finality about it. Great nations died here, the remnants split and fought, and new nations arose; Chandrar was the graveyard of ego, filled with ruins. Small wonder it was sometimes looked down on by other continents. The desert was harsh, and the continent was thus least-populated by space proportional to the others.
Yet in this seemingly barren wasteland, as the winds deposited a layer of reddish dust over a small farm, blowing the grains over carefully dug rows, there was life.
Dark green shoots, spiky, poking out of the soil. Yellats, the ubiquitous crop, could grow in this soil with only a few drops of water and time. It was no bounty and often considered a poor man’s crop, but they grew where every other plant had died. And like Yellats…Chandrar’s nations could blossom and grow to vast proportions if the conditions were right.
A hoe made of plain iron rose as the dust storm blew in. The tool rose in a smooth arc, then halted as the man paused, untroubled by the winds that forced other [Farmers] inside. The sands that could abrade even Stitch-folk skin blew around this man’s face, caressing his skin, bouncing off his open eyes; he neither cared nor noticed. His clothing suffered greatly; he replaced the rough linens once a month, a great expense. But money was one of those things that came and went.
The man stopped. He listened to the wind as it howled around him and thought it was too excited. The wind often told him things; it had sighed on the day the King of Destruction had quit his war. It had blown like a storm when the King of Destruction returned; when the Deaths of Rhir had awoken, he had felt it stir. It had blown at other times for reasons he hadn’t known, bringing strange odors and sensations, as if great works were occurring.
Now, it blew again, and the Hero of Zethe, whom men and women thought of as ancient history, as dead, raised his head. Doubte sensed Chandrar moving once more.
He disliked it. His hands tightened on the hoe, and his simple field of Yellats, already half-covered in dirt, quivered.
He struck one blow, and a furrow exactly twenty paces long and deep enough to plant Yellat seeds appeared. The ground thumped; dust rose, uncovering the Yellats. Doubte stepped left. Struck again.
Another row appeared. Normally, he dug the ground up with simple, economic strokes. Today, he was agitated. He sensed the hoe buckling in his grip and stopped himself before he struck the earth a third time.
His ardor was up; the hoe would break if he swung it too hard, despite its subtle strengthening. Doubte made himself chip the ground away, piece by piece. Even that was easy; he didn’t feel the hoe’s weight, nor the effort that had other [Farmers] sweating in the merciless sun. It was as simple as scooping butter from a pot. Easier.
The earth was too soft, too weak. The [Farmers], what few of them were around, called the ground hard and unyielding and barren for anything but the toughest Yellats, and this was true. But to him, he felt like he tilled the softest of sand. Anything could be made stronger, or in this case, more fertile.
He was doing so now, in fact. Doubte took a bit of energy, just a tiny bit, from his center and put it in the earth, running it down from his boots. He’d needed more coin of late; the winter had been long, he’d had more expenses, and his two children were growing. His wife, Acheranai, who asked for so little, had hinted it would be good to have more money to spend this month.
Lacking [Bandits], Doubte had done it the marginally harder way. He tossed a seed down, kicked dirt over it, and infused the soil with power as he passed. The ground was already wet with water he’d hauled from the well earlier. It would dry within the hour, but he needed less than that.
As Doubte walked down each row, the packed earth moved slightly. Within five minutes of tossing a seed down and tamping earth over it, something would shift…and the first bloom of a Yellat’s stalk would break the earth, opening to the sun.
The work of two weeks in five minutes. Doubte worked fast; even with slower hoeing, he’d be pulling the Yellats up within the hour. They’d be good-sized, worth something at the markets. Not much, but if he rode to a few settlements for the best prices, he’d have a few gold pieces in his pocket for an entire field’s harvest.
If he did that every day for a week, he could generate enough funds to live happily, even in this no-name village in the middle of nowhere. And if someone mugged him on the road, or he ran into a monster, he’d not need to farm the week.
[Hero]. He was no [Farmer]. He had no farming Skills. Yet he was good at farming, beyond most [Farmers]. Doubte’s work outside went unnoticed by the villagers huddled in their homes, waiting for the sandstorm to pass. He had lived here for over a decade and a half; he had become a fixture they didn’t pay attention to, despite his oddities.
He missed a spot, distracted by the wind, which whispered to him of moving kingdoms. Doubte had been wondering which ones. He knew the nations currently at war; not that he was up-to-date on their modern politics, but he had visited them all, save for the new Empire of Sands.
Which ones would fight? It was Zethe, perhaps. The mines again. He grimaced, thinking of hungry Heroph, Medain, now united by its High King, enemies far and old. If it came to war…
Absently, he noticed the spot he’d missed, turned, and flicked his hoe in irritation. The ground, eight paces distant, opened with a pfft of sand, and he tossed a Yellat seed into it, pointed—
A huge sprout of green leaves popped out of the ground, twice as high as the others, and Doubte grimaced again. He looked around, guilty, but no one had seen.
The villagers didn’t notice. They were good at not-noticing the ways he slipped.
It wasn’t a mind-bending Skill or magic from Acheranai.
Any glamor or Skill would have required reapplication, more subtle magic than he knew; this was just a bit of encouragement and a deal. The villagers could have noticed and maybe said something, but to whom and to what end?
Doubte would leave and not be caught if they did. If he vanished, their protection against bandits and monsters and even drought went away. He could rebuild. They could not.
The [Hero] of Zethe kept tilling his fields and realized he was angry, today. He realized it when the sandstorm and winds ceased before they should have. When he looked up, the wind was blowing westwards, towards the Great Desert, which loved to take in such storms and spit them out even harder in any direction it pleased. The villagers were coming out; the storm had abated.
It was avoiding him. Or rather, he’d deflected it.
Another sign he wasn’t controlling himself. Doubte leaned on his hoe, forcing himself to control his feelings. To become…not a blade, but a single point that did not interfere with the outside world. That was harder, but he had practice. He was a dangerous man, Doubte of Zethe.
He was the highest-level [Hero] in this world. At least, as far as he knew. One of those old monsters that appeared when least expected, and he was young by the standards of such monsters, but old by the standards of [Heroes], who lived like tempestuous butterflies that altered the world with each beat of their wings.
All he wanted was…well, not peace. Peace was just a word. He wanted respite, and he’d had it for fifteen years, but he wanted a guarantee of safety and such days for the future. The problem was that the winds told him those days were in jeopardy, and he saw another promise of strife to come as someone left the simple, plain, deceptively ramshackle house on the hill and came striding towards him.
“Zada! Have you heard the news? They’ve found Chemath Marble in the mines! Zada!”
Zada. ‘Dada’, but for Doubte. A child’s name, though the young woman who came leaping, cartwheeling, and even backflipping down the hill in a tangle of movements was anything but young these days. Well, she was still young, but not the toddler he remembered. The villagers coming out of their homes looked up as Doubte’s oldest child, his daughter, Neirute, emerged, and Doubte saw something as worrying as the wind.
She was restless. For a second, the door to their home stayed open, and unnaturally cool air blew forth. Doubte saw an interior that was nothing like worn, brown wood. Clean, swept marble tiles, a carpet, splendid fireash wood stairs led upwards in a place too big for the—
He waved a hand, and the door closed; he would have scolded Neirute, but she was feckless, young, and excited. She came to a halt among the fields in a jumble of motion, and she didn’t wear the frayed cloak and farmer’s outfit.
Her clothing could have weathered a thousand sandstorms and not frayed. It was, like his personal gear—special. Enchanted such that a Gold-rank adventurer would have paid dearly for it. Neirute had brown hair, cracked skin from the sun and dry air, and oh, her parents had tried to give her that weathered look, but the illusions were fraying.
A snippet of pale-white along the roots of her hair said she needed to re-dye it. Cracked skin couldn’t hide the vigor in her flesh, no more than she could stop bouncing from foot to foot, and her eyes—
Doubte had famous eyes, which even magic couldn’t hide. Pink striata, like a thousand bolts of lightning radiating outwards. His daughter’s were yellow mixed with swirling orbs, her irises a collision of her parents’, sand-yellow and bright pink. Classes often changed aspects of you; the daughter of a magic-user and a [Hero] had inherited both the features of their eyes.
“I heard about Zethe.”
Doubte said it to forestall her. He normally didn’t even speak the name of his nation, and Neirute’s bouncing slowed. She tilted her head.
“The marble’s back. Everyone is talking about it. Why are you angry at them, Zada?”
“Who is ‘everyone’?”
Doubte ignored the question. He went back to hoeing the ground, and Neirute hopped up and down next to him with each swift strike. Like a sparrow from another land. Hop, hop, hop.
“The…merchant.”
She said evasively, and he grunted.
“Which town? You went out again.”
“Just a bit with Calithe.”
“How far?”
She squirmed, and he glanced at her and got a confession.
“Forty…six miles?”
There and back within a day, if they’d escaped their mother’s notice. Doubte sighed.
“We’ll take your shoes away if you don’t tell one of us where you’re going.”
“But Zada…”
Neirute sensed the danger and pivoted back to her questions.
“Zethe? Why is it bad? The marble is something everyone wants. It’s powerful, isn’t it?”
“Beyond belief.”
“Zethe is poor?”
His hoe struck the ground and sheared through a rock. Doubte grunted.
“It had time to change. It didn’t.”
“So it’s poor.”
“It has…had no monsters, no bandits, no strife, no enemies, and enough to build upon. Things have changed. It was no Heroph.”
“But the mines…”
“I told them never to open the mines. To find something else, anything else. The mines will never be cleansed; they will send down [Miners], and they will die. The beetles will grow, and nations will fight over the Chemath. In the best case, it will be wars.”
“In the worst?”
This time, he struck too hard, and the ground was riven deep and far, thirty paces out; Doubte stared at the crack. He’d have to ask Acheranai to close it later. He switched to a new column.
