They didn’t realize who she was or the company she kept; Yvlon glanced at Gazi and found out the Gazer had vanished, heading towards the palace. The Earthers were eating by the carriages, fed by the people. Yvlon bowed back, smiling politely.
“I’m Yvlon Byres, of the Horns of Hammerad. I don’t believe His Majesty is heading north. I think he’s still bound south for his campaign.”
She omitted her pre-prepared speech, but for once, it seemed it was, uh, necessary. The group of citizens starting towards her stopped, eyed her arms, and then took a few steps back until they were eight paces away.
“The Silver Killer of Izril herself? It is an honor!”
A visibly pregnant woman in her early thirties beamed at Yvlon, and she bowed, keeping both hands folded in her apron. Her husband, a man around her age, seemed alarmed as Yvlon held out a hand—but he was bold. He shook it and laughed.
“Did you meet His Majesty? He’d have a place in his army for a warrior so fierce.”
Yvlon hesitated…and sighed.
“It’s true I’m a member of the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-ranked team. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous…”
It actually worked slightly. They drifted nearer after that, but only, surprisingly, to peek at the Horns.
“Is Ksmvr of Chandrar not here? I should like his autograph—and yours, Lady Killer! I am Meif, a humble citizen of Reim.”
The woman blushed, and Yvlon felt amused and sad Ksmvr wasn’t here. The man, who turned out to be a [Stonemason] helping repair Reim, washed his hands as he regarded Pisces.
“And that’s the Bane of Roshal himself? He doesn’t look like a man who’s slaughtered a hundred [Slavers] of Roshal.”
There was that rumor again. Yvlon frowned at them.
“I think our reputations in Chandrar have been vastly inflated. Pisces hasn’t killed more than…five [Slavers], I think.”
She had to add up the ones from sea. Unless they meant lesser [Slave Guards], in which case, he maybe had killed a hundred. But the [Stonemason]’s wife protested.
“A hundred [Caravan Masters], I heard! If it’s merely those of Roshal, he’s had to have wet the ground with a thousand corpses at least.”
“I don’t think Pisces has killed that many people in his life. I don’t think I have.”
They gave her such incredulous looks that Yvlon changed the subject.
“—How is Reim?”
“Oh, ever-growing. Fruitful, but so much work to be done. It’s a shadow of the city it was. Come eight more nations fall, and it’ll look something like it did when I was a girl.”
Miss Meif murmured, and her husband nodded. Reim looked fine to Yvlon, but they seemed to think it was a paltry thing. Still, Meif cast her eyes over the children playing and pointed out the boy.
“That’s my youngest, Badl, and I’m due with another in a few months. They keep us busy—good thing we’re filled with vitality from His Majesty.”
She was indeed gravid, seven months pregnant and nearly ready to term if Yvlon was a judge—she was not—and Yvlon murmured as she watched the boy.
“A healthy specimen. How old is the lad?”
He looks sort of annoying to be around. The poor girl he was chasing kept having to dodge him biting at her. 
“Oh, he’ll be a year in a month.”
Yvlon blinked. Impossible. She stared at the boy.
“He looks to be four years. He’s a fully grown toddler, not bare able to walk.”
Children stood by year’s end, of course, but they wouldn’t run like that. This boy was far, far too big. But Meif just chuckled.
“His Majesty’s returned, Lady Killer. Tell me, how long ago did you think since I conceived this little one?”
Yvlon focused on her.
“Seven months?”
“Three! Two weeks in, I developed a bump, and my, wasn’t it quick? Of course, I was trying for another, and it wasn’t that much of a surprise.”
She winked at her husband, and he turned red. Yvlon just stared at Meif’s stomach.
Children were growing way too fast. Indeed, even Reim’s citizens seemed a bit surprised. Meif confessed to Yvlon.
“My parents had all their children when His Majesty first began his kingdom, but they described it all as faster by a third. This is half again as quick…I suppose His Majesty has levelled up.”
“One…supposes.”
It was purely disconcerting to Yvlon, and she had no hair on her arms to stand up on end, but her metal skin rippled anyways. She was glad of an interruption, which was Gazi appearing to hand her a meat-filled piece of bread.
“Eat. We’re to be riding soon.”
Yvlon took the bread and chewed as Meif and her husband fawned over Gazi. The famous adventurer was cold and smiled, not inhospitably, but they withdrew fast, and Gazi stared at Yvlon with one huge eye.
Pisces and Ceria had a history with Gazi; Yvlon did not. She only knew Gazi as a famous adventurer, so she tried to be cordial.
“Reim is quite impressive, Adventurer Gazi.”
“You needn’t stand on formalities with me, Yvlon Byres. It is a letdown except in war. Come six more nations…”
“I heard as much. Would it be that impressive?”
Gazi’s eyes swept Reim.
“…In its heyday, the city never expanded beyond the walls, for Drevish built them for war. But there were tents, bazaars, set up for tens of miles riding in. Great warhosts at any time, and [Kings] and [Queens] seeking His Majesty’s favor would stand next to commonfolk elevated to great station. Rulers of distant continents sent their finest and tread carefully, even if they were at war with us.”
Her magical eye seemed to see something Yvlon could not, softening, then swung back to Yvlon, and that pointed smile returned. Yvlon realized she was baring her teeth. The two stood together.
“I wish I had seen it in its glory. His Majesty was most impressive.”
“Yet you faced him down boldly, just as then. We used to make sport of such challenges, which we had by the hundreds.”
Yvlon smiled wider at Gazi.
“I’m sure I would have been no match. I apologize for any rudeness.”
The Gazer’s smile could have cut glass.
“Even back then, I am sure I would have remembered your name had you lived. You would have fit right in in that era of blood and battle.”
“Oh, no, I’m hardly so dangerous. Ha-ha.”
“I am the least of His Majesty’s champions myself. Ha. Hah.”
 
——
 
“They’re going to murder each other.”
Gazi and Yvlon trying to be polite was hilarious to Ceria. She was almost done with her sandwich, jovial and ready to keep moving. She was relaxing in the back of her ice chariot as the Earthers begged her to ride with them.
Ceria’s approach to this tricky situation where she didn’t want their presence—or the risk factor of them falling off the wagon by being incautious and hurting themselves or dying—and balancing their fragile feelings was to look each person in the eye and say:
“No. Absolutely not.”
No smile. Wave hands to shoo them off. It was mean, and Pisces gave her an askance look as he began to board the chariot; he was nicer than he liked to pretend.
Ceria was able to well imagine that since they’d be riding for hours at a time, she’d have to spend time with, say, Maximilian asking her about half-Elven villages, or one of the girls asking how she got her face or hair to look so…half-immortal, or some other conversation Ceria didn’t want or need with nowhere to go except to throw herself off the chariot at high speed to get away.
In fact, she had predicted their next stop might well be over three hours away based on their current speed and the fact they’d skip Jecrass; the next nation on a map with a city was likely that far. How did Ceria predict that?
The circlet was back. She was back to being intelligent, and the backlash from Flos’ stupid trick with her circlet was mostly mitigated. Ceria had a bit of a headache, but compared to her literal impairment from the last two days, this was fine. Why was the damage reversed? Well, because as Flos had noted, the circlet wasn’t destroyed.
It had repaired itself…somewhat. It was still ‘fragile’ in her mind, and it needed more time and mana to finish repairs. Mana that it had actually taken from Ceria. With her permission.
Negotiations with the circlet had revealed some interesting things it was keeping from her. Ceria had cut a deal: more power, more access, less Minotaur crap, or she’d ensure a piece of the circlet got left behind in the King of Destruction’s camp. That would cripple the Relic, possibly permanently, but now she had a magical artifact that stopped giving her as much trouble.
End result? Same Ceria, potentially more combat powers. She was looking forward to trying them out, but hopefully not on Gazi, thanks. The half-Elf cracked one eye open, grateful for the [Freedom from Morality] spell; it meant she didn’t feel bad about making the Earthers all sad and glum. They weren’t Erin. Erin wasn’t Erin.
Sometimes, you wanted to be free from morality. It meant she could also look at a familiar banner of chains, see a caravan rolling out of Reim, and look a [Slaver] of Roshal in the eye and wave and blow them a kiss. Pisces’ face was set; Colth was trying to distract him.
“Hey Pisces, Ceria got us those water flask souvenirs that Larracel herself would kill for. I’ll sell her one of the water flasks for the inn so she can hydrate all of Izril’s nobility. Think your inn crowd wants something here? Pisces?”
“It’s fine, Colth. I am…not going to start a fight. I am aware of how much trouble we’ve already gotten in.”
Ceria closed one eye as she saw Pisces turn away from a line of people being led away. She surveyed them and saw battered armor on some, rougher skin, and in the front, a very loudly protesting, attractive man and woman.
Stitch-folk all. Looks like two officers and a bunch of soldiers who couldn’t afford a ransom. Might be politics that the Silk ones got sold off.
Here was the other side of the King of Destruction’s war. Ceria wondered if the Hemp saw him as a liberator given he was selling prisoners of war off. But the people in Reim barely batted an eye. The prisoners, except the Silk ones, seemed resigned to their fates. Ceria?
She felt nothing at all. She kept the circlet firmly on her head. She didn’t want to know what was in Pisces’ eyes as he looked away—then turned back, as if to memorize each face that passed him by. Colth got in the way, and the [Necromancer] growled until Colth touched his shoulder.
“Don’t memorize their faces. There’s nothing you can do. His Majesty will act if we cause trouble, and Roshal will too. Don’t add the faces, Pisces.”
Gazi Pathseeker had stopped arguing with Yvlon and was watching them. Ceria glanced at her, and the half-Gazer’s eyes roamed away. Pisces’ voice was rough.
“Why not? You are.”
“That’s my job.”
Mercifully, the [Slavers] were rapidly heading away. Not just because they were full up on [Slaves], Ceria thought. They were giving Pisces and Colth a wide, wide berth, and the wide eyes on some of the [Guards] and sweat on their brows made Ceria think they knew who was watching them. Her heat-sensing abilities let her check their relative body temperatures.
They’re running hotter than everyone around them. They’re scared.
Good. Ceria waved at the [Caravan Master] and got a tight nod from a Stitch-woman with a veil and enchanted sarong. The Ice Squirrel blew another kiss, then made another gesture. She pointed up at the sky, then opened her hands in an arc. Like a rainbow…
The [Slaver] turned dead white, kicked her horse, and the entire line of [Slaves] were yanked forwards at a trot. Ceria laughed as they fled until she saw Pisces and Colth glaring at her. She pointed at the circlet.
“I’m just tweaking their noses. No extracurricular activities, you two. They don’t start anything, we don’t start anything. Sneak off at night or visit another bar and I’ll icewall you in your tents.”
The glares intensified, and Ceria sighed.
Someone had to be cold, here, not in their emotions. They’d see more of this, she had no doubt. She only broke off from thinking of the threats that might await them elsewhere in less-friendly realms when someone approached the chariot.
“Miss Ceria? Can I ride with you?”
“Piss off—oh, wait, it’s you. Uh…sure.”
Elena waved, and Ceria thought she was the smart one. Well, she did seem to like the Horns—for good reason—and she clearly got that Ceria had no desire to be in the carriages, smushed in with Earthers asking her about being a half-Elf and magic. Ceria shrugged.
“Sure, why not? Chariot’s big enough, and we’re not doing much. I warn you, I’ll be snoozing or studying most of the trip.”
Not much else to do, even in a magical carriage, really. Even Gazi looked bored as she and Yvlon shook hands and headed back to the carriages. Ceria closed her eyes, and Elena hesitated. Her voice rose, suddenly higher-pitched.
“Oh. Um. I wouldn’t say that. Looks like you have company.”
Ceria sensed it before she heard the gasps. Like…a great thunderhead sweeping down upon her, crackling with lightning, in her head. Only, it wasn’t her imagination. She cracked one eye open and gazed upwards.
It looked like electricity itself in Ceria’s magical vision. Power trailing off the woman floating down in lines of force—her eyes lit up, and Ceria’s heart leapt in her chest. Despite her ice magic, the circlet, Ceria swallowed hard as Amerys, the Archmage of Lightning, Illphres’ old companion, shot down from the sky.
She could move at the speed of lightning itself. She left a trail of green through the sky until she stopped, her robes fluttering around her. When she did—she pointed one finger down.
Straight at Ceria.
“We never had a chance to talk, Ceria Springwalker. Fly with me.”
Ceria sat up, slowly, suddenly itching for the wand at her side. But Amerys was smiling. Just…
Smiling. Static electricity built in the air, making anyone who touched metal jump and swear. Her presence was like thunder. Ceria searched for Yvlon, for Gazi, whom she did owe a debt for the spellbook. For Pisces…but he was swallowing and staring around. At the woman who’d galloped in and was pointing at Yvlon.
“Hoi, Horns of Hammerad! We’re not to war till tomorrow at the latest. I saw you sent Death-General Losve back in such a slump she buried her head in the sand and won’t come up! What say you and I duel, Yvlon Byres?”
Mars the Illusionist swung a sword up, and Yvlon stirred. Ceria swallowed again as Amerys beckoned.
Monsters indeed. And worse—they were bored.
 
——
 
Amerys assured Ceria that she could transport all four of them after the magical carriages.
