“I challenge the Horns of Hammerad to a duel. Service unto death.”
Heads were turning. Yvlon closed her eyes.
“You didn’t.”
“She means only one deadly battle, actually. Which, if you think about it, Ceria—”
“She’s wearing armor, and she’s got a greatsword. You do it. You parried her blade!”
“I’m not the one who asked if we could take the King of Destruction’s corpse—”
The people around the carriages were turning as Losve called out. Yvlon groaned as Colth ran over, his smile gone.
“You idiots. Tell me you didn’t just invoke a Chandrarian honor-duel. Who was it?”
“Ceria—”
Colth stomped on her foot so hard Ceria shouted in agony. Yvlon just groaned.
“She’s not going to relent, is she? Fine. Hold this.”
She handed her breakfast bowl to Pisces and rolled her shoulders. That was a lot of armor. So she figured she should—
Colth, Pisces, and Ceria dragged Yvlon back. Then they were running as the [Silversteel Armsmistress] protested.
“I can take her, and if it’s only one battle—”
“She’s a Death-General, and her helmet has a death-glare! She might be Level 50 or higher!”
Colth panted as Ceria screamed in Yvlon’s ear.
“Definitely above Level 50. She’s one of Flos’ top vassals—”
“Oh. In that case, I’m probably outmatched.”
Yvlon reconsidered. She turned and began jogging. The Death-General was striding now, but the Horns of Hammerad were experts. Losve probably thought she could catch them, but she wasn’t prepared for them to break into a dead run.
 
——
 
Trey Atwood didn’t know what Flos was thinking. To be fair, he didn’t like Flos’ decisions by and large, but the King of Destruction was good at a number of things.
Why Hraace? Why now? Why with the Horns? Trey didn’t get along with the other Earthers. Fair; he’d tricked them into coming here, but he didn’t think they were ready for war.
Teresa was. She was bouncing on her feet, all eagerness to prove she could be a [Hero]. A powerful class. Trey just thought it sounded stupid. As for the Horns? He didn’t know them. He’d like to talk about their Earth-person, Erin Solstice, with them, but he was wary. They were bold, though, bold enough to challenge Flos to his face.
He gave them that. Mostly, he was just happy to be away from Flos’ endless campaigns. And Gazi was with them.
She was nervous today, snapping at everyone to get ready faster.
“Where are the Horns of Hammerad?”
She asked as if she couldn’t see them with her eyes. Gazi kept adjusting her armor, and it was newly polished, despite the long hairline crack running through it.
“Gazi, is Hraace that big a deal?”
She glared at him, and part of his face turned to stone. Just the dead skin and dirt, but it made him brush at the faint stone that flaked away.
“It’s a huge honor. You don’t understand. A [Hero] would put me on the path to becoming the best of the Seven. Even better than Mars in time…”
“And if you do, I’ll have to work twice as hard to level! Hah! Good luck, Gazi! And you too, Trey. We could use a [Hero]. Mind you, I’ve heard they’re a pain to be around. I wouldn’t know. I’ve only fought them.”
Mars was standing with the carriages; Flos was elsewhere for the morning. He didn’t like goodbyes.
“You have?”
Trey turned, and Mars counted.
“I think I’ve killed three? Four? Low-level ones. Only one even had a title. They pop up sometimes. They’re dangerous, but only higher-level ones become a real threat. When they do…”
She rubbed at her side, grimacing.
“The Hero of Zethe was the real one. He held us back practically alone for a while when His Majesty was at his best. Tells you all you need to know, that. So yes, go and see if anyone is suitable. At the very least, they’ll make you stronger if they teach. And the more the merrier for that. Is everyone here?”
She ran an eye over the group. Trey and the Earthers—Lloyd, Maximilian, Alanna, a lot of whom he didn’t know personally—talking with the others in the back. Not only them, though. There was Gazi, of course, but also Nawalishifra packing all her tools in the back of the carriage.
Even the [Smith]—though Flos might have sent her just to be rid of her moaning about forging armor and shields. They were mostly ready to go. All save for the Horns…
And here they came. They were running up, and Mars grinned as Gazi pivoted with her iconic, scary smile. It was fake; Trey knew she did it to conceal real emotions or to scare people. She was wary of the Horns, moreso than he was.
“Horns. Are you ready to depart? We leave in—”
“Hey, Gazi, hey, Mars! Let’s go already! Nevermind, we’re on our way!”
The four adventures blew past Mars, Gazi, and the Earthers, including Elena, who waved at them. Trey saw Death-General Losve, over fifty Rustängmarder, and hundreds of laughing and pointing soldiers running after the Horns, who were in full sprint by now.
“I challenge the Horns to—”
Trey stepped aside as the Death-General ran after them. Then his head turned. The Horns were running for their lives now, and somewhere in the distance, the King of Destruction laughed. Trey just stood there and blinked until he heard a loud voice guffawing next to him.
Mars. She watched as an undead steed galloped out of nowhere, and Pisces leapt onto it. He pulled the other three onto its back as it labored to run, and the Rustängmarder charged, trying to encircle them. The Illusionist slapped her stomach.
“They are adventurers! Maybe not great [Heroes]—but they’ll be fun. I might have to tag along for a few hours, Gazi!”
Indeed, the entire camp was on its feet, cheering encouragement as the Horns tried to evade the angry Rustängmarder. Ceria conjured an [Ice Wall]; Death-General Losve phased through it, turning into green phantasmal energy, then swung her sword through a second wall, cleaving it in half.
“Oh dead gods, she’s scary! Faster, Pisces, faster!”
The distant scream made Trey’s lips quirk despite himself. He stepped towards the carriage, thinking this trip wouldn’t be boring after all. Even Teresa brightened up.
“I think I like that lot after all. They’re fun adventurers. Are we following or what?”
She nodded to herself, and everyone leapt aboard the carriages. Thus, their journey to Hraace began. It proved to be a fairly interesting trip, even before they arrived.
 
——
 
Teresa Atwood watched the silly adventurers with amusement and a bit of contempt. She knew adventurers, or so she thought. Mars had been one, and so had Gazi.
But they described adventurers as, well, treasure and glory-seekers. Not the same as dedicated soldiers who went to war, and it was war that Teresa knew and which had changed her.
Adventurers ran away. They were sort of famous for it, and the Horns were certainly riding on their single skeleton horse in an amusing way. The magical carriages caught up after six minutes, and Teresa leaned out the window.
“I’d ride faster if I were you. They’re right behind you!”
Her answer was a stream of expletives from the half-Elf’s mouth; when Teresa turned, she was reminded why the Rustängmarder were so feared and respected.
They didn’t quit. 
When the Horns had raced out of the camp, you’d expect reasonable soldiers, even intense ones, to give up. Death-General Losve had merely been insulted; she’d let it go and harbor a grudge, right?
—She was almost on them. Running as fast as the galloping skeleton horse, and the rest of a company’s worth were riding hell-for-leather after the Horns. The only thing stopping her was a series of bone and ice walls and magical projectiles coming from the two spellcasters and Colth. Her sword kept cleaving through spells, and she only weaved out of the way of the odd spell.
“I’m sorry, okay? No duel! No duel!”
Ceria waved her arms urgently, and the rest of the carriages either cheered encouragement at the Horns or yelled for Losve to run faster. Teresa didn’t hear Trey’s voice, but she rolled her eyes as she sat back. The Horns were halfway up the crater’s basin formed by the meteorite and the cheering from the camp below made it feel like the festival was going one final day.
Cheering. Reim’s soldiers didn’t care if the Horns got hurt. The other Earthers thought this was a game. Only Elena sounded worried. Teresa knew Losve was serious. If she caught up, someone would get hurt.
That was reality, and Teresa didn’t hate it; on the contrary, she enjoyed the moments when her blood was racing and she wasn’t sure what the future held and she was terrified and alive. When she swung a sword, the world changed for the better or worse in a real way.
She was exasperated with people who didn’t take it seriously, with the other Earthers who thought it was a game, and with Trey, who thought she was simply glory-mad. Teresa wanted glory, to succeed, and to level, yes, but mostly…she stared at Losve hungrily as the Death-General leapt, swinging her sword, cutting a huge section of the earth apart. Ghostly green flames raced up, and only Colth’s Skill-enhanced kick saved the horse from being cut in half.
She wanted to do that. She wanted to matter.
“Losve!”
Gazi leaned out the window as the Death-General blurred back towards the screaming Horns. The Death-General turned her head, and the Horns relaxed—too quickly. Gazi shouted.
“If you do catch them, His Majesty will want to see the duel!”
“Acknowledged.”
“Damn you, Gazi!”
That high-pitched voice came from Pisces, Teresa thought. She cracked one eye open. For someone with such an interesting set of abilities—and that bell—he sounded so cowardly. Even the tough-looking Yvlon was just running.
They were out of the crater formed by the meteorite by now and racing across dry ground. To the north were Reim’s lands; the King of Destruction had camped near the border to Nerrhavia’s Fallen, which he’d been pushing into. The speed of this chase was taking them rapidly north, but whatever the [Necromancer] and [Supporter] were doing to their horse to keep it ahead of the Death-General was running out. It slowed just as they reached a border-city and clattered onto a street.
People turned as the Horns of Hammerad leapt from the steed a second before Losve cut it in half. She whirled, saw all four running, phased through a net Colth tossed at her, and advanced.
“Losve, don’t! I’ll tell the Quarass on you!”
Elena really was rooting for the Horns. Well, they’d released her from Flos. Teresa wondered what would happen now. Would the Horns gang up on Losve? They were still running, but aside from Colth and Pisces, who had movement Skills, they’d never make it. The crowds thinned ahead of them as they saw the pursuit—Teresa closed one eye as she watched, focusing a bit of inner power into her eye, trying to capture the next moments.
Losve was sprinting, sword on her shoulder, set for a swift attack. She’d been baiting them this entire time, wary of the Horns, waiting to see when they attacked. Surprisingly cautious. Now, she accelerated towards Yvlon, who seemed likeliest to fight back. The blonde woman threw a glance over her shoulder. She called out to Ceria as the half-Elf ran, raising both her hands and screaming. She wasn’t that fit—Teresa saw her momentum flagging already. One or the other in three…two…one…
Yvlon leapt as Ceria tripped, and Losve tensed. She brought her sword down, and Pisces twisted. He [Flash Stepped] into place, and Teresa saw it again.
A glowing tail appeared, and he tried to parry the Death-General’s strike.
This time, she was ready for him. The downward cut halted, and her sword vanished. It reappeared from the side, coming at Pisces horizontally. His eyes went round.
“Blade teleportation? Nice.”
Orthenon had taught Teresa a lot about combat, including concepts that were unique to Drath. Teresa watched in the world of speed she barely had access to—a [Warrior]’s privilege. She saw Pisces recoil, and someone vaulted his shoulders.
“[Redirected Balance]! [Copy Skill — Joveln’s Parry]!”
Colth swung a sword, and a copy of Pisces’ tail appeared as he parried Losve’s sword straight down into the street with one of his daggers. Losve reacted instantly, whirling her sword around for a cut at the two adventurers like the expert she was—and missed.
Teresa blinked. She stared at the four Horns, Ceria picking herself up, Yvlon bracing, legs unmoving, Pisces wiping sweat from his brow, and Colth blowing a kiss at Losve. They were standing still, but for some reason, they were keeping pace with her. But the magical carriage was moving…
“What the—?”
Losve was rapidly vanishing in the distance. She took a step forwards, hesitated, and kicked at something on the ground. Warily, she jogged around it, trying to catch up, and Teresa further leaned out the window.
“Ice?”
The Horns of Hammerad were sliding on a sheet of ice. The half-Elf, Ceria, leaned on one elbow, waving at Losve, as they shot away. The ice had to be virtually frictionless to accelerate them that fast. Indeed, even as Teresa watched, Ceria got up.
“Oh shit, she’s still coming. Skate! Skate for your lives!”
The Horns did just that. They slid through the city, leaving a trail of rapidly melting ice behind them as the enraged Losve caught up. But she was flagging, and not because she was out of energy. It was just…
Teresa blinked. She watched Pisces and Colth patting each other on the shoulder, Yvlon folding her arms, Ceria blowing kisses left and right—and the startled citizens of Reim. They had no eyes for Gazi, nor even the Rustängmarder, the beloved soldiers of the King of Reim.
Their eyes were only for the four ridiculous adventurers skating through their city and posing like the silly lot they were. It was the most cowardly, weird retreat that Teresa had ever seen…
She started laughing. Teres couldn’t help it. There was just something stupid about Losve chasing the four adventurers. What was she going to do? Race after them? Skate after them? The Death-General sensed it. Her glowing helmet’s lights dimmed slightly, and she came to a slow halt. Trying to stare impassively at the Horns as they waved at her.
The Earthers were all cheering wildly. How could you not? This was what they wanted. Not the King of Destruction’s grand and terrifying and real battles—it was strange magic, as silly as it was wondrous.
Teres turned to Gazi, and the [Sand Mage] nodded to the four adventurers.
“So that’s what Izril’s like?”
“No. Just them. And that inn.”
Gazi’s main eye was closed, and only one of her smaller eyes was watching the Horns, but she wore an exasperated expression with the barest hint of a smile. Elena whistled loudly as she cheered, and Teres sat back.
