Andar breathed out unsteady, his lungs seeming to seize up as he said, “O— Oka— Okay. We’ll do it your way.” He calmed. “Nelboor is fine. We’ll go there.” He looked down at the horn. “You’re gonna eat this, right? You’ll do better with [Lightwalk] than me.”

“Soon as we kill Rool and take some [Polymorph] potions, and then it’s just a trip to the sewer. I can eat most of the horn as an acid slime. Should be good enough.” Morothy said, “Just you watch, Andy. We’ll be good—”

The air moved. Dust filtered down from atop a stack of crates to the right, behind Morothy. Morothy’s eyes flared blue as she whipped around to better see the disturbance. Andar turned his own [Hunter’s Instincts] on, and did much the same. The dusty air of the room suddenly felt less dirty, and more a perfect way to spot hidden threats tracking through the dirt as they tried to move hidden behind all the stacked and shadowy crates. Andar absently wondered if that was the reason they never cleaned this place.

Morothy smiled wide as she stared at the stack of crates. She asked, “Which urchin decided to follow us in here? Is that you Thoom?”

Andar watched, saying nothing. He had always been a better lookout than Morothy. That was likely the only reason he saw the thin metal interior spikes of the anti-[Teleport] rune, behind the horn and the stacked carpets, bend ever-so-slightly out of shape. He had charged that rune himself. Now, he watched as the dark grey magic he had laid there flickered and died.

Sudden realization struck him too late to reach for the horn. He flailed forward, reaching toward the pillar of spun radiance, trying to touch it before—

The horn vanished in a blip of white. The horn was there, and then it was gone, and everything was worse than it had ever been before. The closing orphanage didn’t matter. The trade district with half as much food as before didn’t matter. His rumbling stomach was a distant concern.

Mostly, he thought about how much he missed Tenday desserts, with the whipped cream on icies and jams of every sort. Andar hadn’t had one of those treats in months.

Morothy crumpled behind him. Andar turned just in time to see a pair of men guiding Morothy’s body to the ground, and shackling her with anti-magic wrist cuffs. He almost got away, himself, but everything went dark. His mind tried to touch upon his magic, to get away, but it was too late. The fight was over. He was done for.

He barely registered discomfort as a pair of cuffs slipped over his own wrists and spikes punched into his flesh, drawing out both blood and magic. His Health drained away, just like his Mana. In a minute, it would be like he had never Matriculated, but without the defenses of Childhood to protect him from the lesser terrors of the world, like a too-dark room, or a too-high fall and a broken bone.

He should have never trusted that hunter, claiming an easy score was just a few [Teleport]s away.

- - - -

Erick watched from an invisible Ophiel as the two kids were taken away by Portal’s city guards. The horn was already back in his house. It was currently occupying the main hallway on the first floor, sticking out into the foyer, taking up walking space.

Erick said to Poi, “They were just kids. And she was talking about killing some alchemist to get a [Polymorph] potion… Shit, Poi!” He turned back to the window, whispering, “What the fuck is wrong in Portal? Life is not supposed to be a zero sum game.” He exclaimed, “Fuck!” Another thought barreled into his mind. “Savral. I need to go see Al.”

- - - -

Erick walked through town to get to the Sewerhouse. Poi flanked him on one side. Kiri flanked him on the other. Five Sunny curled around Kiri’s neck, like a loose, living scarf, or maybe a tiny, winged hydra. The [Familar]’s tiny heads were taking in every sight all around them; Kiri was on high alert. Poi looked much more reserved to Erick’s eyes, but he knew that his sapphire scaled guard was on higher alert than anyone.

The streets were empty except for some guards. Military law was in effect, and they were on patrol to ensure its enforcement. Twice, the guards almost approached Erick when they saw him walking openly in the street, but each time recognition dawned on them well before they opened their mouths. Erick, Poi, and Kiri walked on, to the Sewerhouse.

They reached the sewerhouse without incident.

The golden three-story building had been broken. Grey and orange stone showed through flaking golden wardpaint that clung to the stone that remained, and on the flat surfaces of the debris surrounding the building. The top two floors were barely there. Rubble piled against the walls, like someone had temporarily shoved it to the side. Sunlight filtered down all the way to the front room, where fountains usually gave the tiled and ostentatious space a sense of grandeur unlike any other place in Spur. The front doors were gone. The fountains were silent. Al was inside the front room, sitting in a chair in the sunlight, alone.

Al was a giant, brown-green orcol man, who usually wore dark clothes fit for a sultan-mobster, all pinstriped with gold and tight vested, but with loose and airy arms and legs. Right now, he was shirtless in the sun, but he was not relaxing. He was in mourning, and he had obviously lost a terrible fight. His pants were torn. Blood had dried across his body, and soaked his dark pants. He took a swig from a giant liquor bottle, then lowered the bottle, placing it on a short, solid glass table, to the side. Erick couldn’t quite tell what that table was from his angle, standing outside of the remains of the Sewerhouse.

Al watched Erick, Poi, and Kiri stand outside of his house. He said nothing, but instead gave the three of them a single questioning raised eyebrow.

“Hello, Al.” Erick said, “I heard. I’m sorry.”

Al sneered, then picked the bottle back up and took another swig—

He paused. He looked at Erick again. He sneered wider, saying, “Fucking heaven and hell. You went and switched Scions.”

“I did not.” Erick stepped forward, over the broken wall, into the Sewerhouse saying, “I just… got an unexpected… boo...” His words left him, as he looked down at the glass table to Al’s side.

It was not a solid glass table. It was a casket. Inside the box, was Savral. The blackscale dragonkin rested inside the stone, poised and clean, with his arms over his chest and mended clothes. Al set the bottle back down on his son’s casket. Glass met crystal, with a loud ‘bonk’.

It was an odd noise, completely at odds with everything Erick was seeing.

Al said, “You got an open line to the Life Binder? I want Savral revived.”

Erick looked back up at his friend. He said, “Okay. I’ll see what I can do. She’s going to want something. I’ll see if I can pay it for you.”

“Good man.” Al said, “I can pay. Don’t worry about that.”

“… I want to help, Al.”

Al grabbed his bottle and took another swig. He said, “Okay. You can pay.” He added, “You can leave now, too.”

- - - -

Erick walked back home and everything felt surreal, from the near empty streets, to the silence hanging in the air, to the faces peering out from windows to see who was walking around outside, before they quickly vanished back into the dark interiors of their homes. Poi telepathically rattled off casualty numbers at Erick because he asked him to, but far from making everything seem real, it just made everything feel stranger. Like he was walking through a dream.

He opened his Status to make sure he wasn’t wormed. The numbers came up. He closed the blue box.

He and Archmage Opal and all the guards and the Headmaster Elites, and everyone else, had stopped the worst from happening, but the Cinnabar Hand and their various hunters and Caradogh had killed a fair number of people. At least it was confirmed now that Caradogh was fully involved in the attack. No one had any idea where he was, though, and all of Erick’s various maps turned up thousands of potential spots, but no Caradogh; not yet, anyway.

Four hundred and seventy three people had died in the attack, so far, but thousands were missing. Many of the confirmed deaths were either people in charge or those close to people in charge. Many of them were business people with shops down Market Street, or around the Adventurer’s District. The Courthouse lost ten guards, and a handful of lawyers and office workers. A good forty adventurers were dead. A hundred farmers were killed. The numbers went on and on.

Silverite and the people in charge decided that the attack was meant to do one thing, directly:

This attack was meant to hurt Spur for years to come.

And as for reasoning for the attack, there were two accepted ideas among the people in charge:

One: The dying remnants of the Hand allied with every single remaining hunter, and with the help of Caradogh, they had attacked Spur hoping to wipe the town off the map, in order to destroy Erick’s theoretical magic from coming to fruition.

Merit and everyone else was still checking on the veracity of that idea, using whatever methods they usually used; Erick didn’t want to know, not right now.

Or Two: Portal had backed the attack, through Caradogh.

It was a variation on the first idea, but if it was true, it meant dark times ahead.

With that in mind, Erick telling Poi, who told whoever he told about the two kids who stole the horn, placed Portal’s quick no-nonsense takedown of those two kids in a new light. Portal was hoping to avoid looking like an enemy.

Silverite and the people in charge over at Portal were currently in closed door meetings discussing… whatever they were discussing. Erick was not privy to whatever went on behind those closed doors.

Erick got home and went inside; he went right to the sunroom, back into position behind the dense air of the house, standing over the map hanging outside his window. Silverite and Merit had already requested other searches, through Poi, mostly for guards or citizens or other people missing since the attack. Erick had been directing Ophiel to blip back and forth between the Courthouse and the Guardhouse to pick up those samples, and continue the search. Now, back inside his house, he saw those blue dots on the map in front of him, and [Scry] eyes hovering around the map.

He adjusted the map as requested. He also brought those samples to his other Ophiel, hanging out around the Crystal Forest with their own maps. Sometimes the blue dots appeared on those other maps.

Sometimes, the dots were just people saying that they were escaping the dangers of Spur. Sometimes, they were wounded in the attack, and they were passed out in the Crystal Forest after having [Teleport]ed away from their attackers.

That was how Erick found out he was done hunting for hunters. Now, he was searching for survivors. He felt a bit better at everything, because of that.

And while all of that was happening, Erick asked Poi to contact a certain someone.

After a hundred searches and another hour, Poi spoke up, “She’ll contact you in a few minutes. But I must warn you, if it looks like she’s trying to control you, I’m pulling you out.”

Erick sighed out, trying to force himself to relax. He said, “Thank you, Poi.” Erick sat down in a chair by the window, watching the thousand kilometer map sitting just outside his window. “I wonder what she’ll want.”

Two minutes later, a voice came to Erick, ‘Greetings, Erick. Glad to see my warning last night was more than enough time for you to save most of your people.’

‘Hello, Messalina. My friend’s son is dead. He wants a revival. What is this going to cost me?’

‘Right to it, then! I do love directness in a man, but fret not! Today this service will cost you absolutely nothing, but it would be nice if your people would stop trying to infiltrate my city.’ She added, ‘Just because you found me, doesn’t mean I welcome you to bloody up my front lawn.’

‘Has Silverite slapped you around yet? She said she wanted to share her displeasure at your recent actions.'

‘That is simply no way to talk to a lady. Maybe your friend’s child should stay dead.’

‘… Sorry. I apologize. I have been under some stress, lately.’

‘I completely understand.’ Messalina sent, ‘I was recently under some horrible stress, too. But now that you’ve dropped a hundred hunters in your town and I already stole their souls for questioning, I am feeling rather great! You didn’t catch the Red Dot mage, but now I know who they are as an individual, and I plan on bringing them to justice. Fine, righteous justice!’

Erick’s blood burned with demand. He asked, ‘Who are they?’

‘My revenge first, Erick.’ Messalina sent, ‘When I’m done, then you can have them, though I doubt you’ll get anything useful out of an empty soul.’

‘I can help you find them. They’ve already eluded you this much. They might throw you off their scent, again.’

‘This time I have memories and threads of Fate to trace, and my Sin Seekers are the best in the world. I will give you this much, though: Spur managed to kill two of the group that killed my village. I will kill the remaining three.’ She sent, ‘Do be careful of Caradogh, though. He is a devious man, who always has a backup plan. I am fairly certain that this was his second to last ditch attempt. His final attempt will be considerably darker in tone, for sure. As for the revival of your friend’s son, just tell me who it is, and I’ll go fetch them myself.’

‘… Al Noraki’s son, Savral Noraki. Savral was killed because… I don’t know why they killed him. Al wants him back. That’s all I need to know.’

