‘They killed him because every single hunter still existent in the Crystal Forest was hired or goaded into action by Caradogh, of course. The Sewermaster was a target because of his level. The son likely got in the way. This is very basic stuff, Erick.’

‘… I have had a very busy day.’

‘I can relate. Don’t worry about Savral. I’ll get it done.’ Joy and satisfaction flooded through the connection, as Messalina sent, ‘Thank you, Erick. I know we never entered into a formal bargain of trade, but I feel as though I still owe you something more than this. I hate owing anyone anything, so ask something more of me, please.’

‘You can tell me what those pixies and dream worms were doing in Spur.’

A smile carried through her words, ‘Caradogh was the Lower Trademaster of Portal, my dear Erick. That man has pockets as deep and as hidden around the world as Kirginatharp’s own. But they’re probably depleted now. Every single one I knew about, I stole. But who knows? He certainly had dark market connections all across the Letri Ocean, and many of those were with coastal pixie enclaves. Point is, is that they are not my slaves. The pixies are free actors that he probably paid well, and if he had succeeded, he would have become a leader of the Cinnabar Hand unlike we have seen in at least two hundred years. But he failed, thanks to you.’  She added, ‘I meant it about watching for one more attack from him. He’s as murderous as a shadowcat these days.’

‘… I can’t help but feel that you’ve been secretly working with him while everyone else thinks he fled his position because the Headmaster was after him— Ah. No. You slipped that information into our previous talk on purpose, to get Caradogh to hate me even more. I bet it didn’t take much to get him to gather up all of the hunters he possibly could, to try and kill me.’ Erick continued, ‘Were you hands-on at all, for any of that? How many course corrections were necessary for today to happen? Where you would win, even if I failed, because you were just waiting for the hunters and the Hand to make themselves known at all, weren’t you? And now you have your way to find your final killers.’

Simultaneously, all across the Crystal Forest, Erick searched for ‘pixie’.

Every single map lit up with dozens of blue dots.

Erick quickly reset the maps back to their previous searches, and sent an apology to Merit for the interruption in service.

Erick sent to Messalina, ‘You could have at least helped my people take down our targets, but I didn’t hear about a single pixie helping in any single strike.’

Bright joy filled the connection, as Messalina sent, ‘Such an overactive imagination!’ She laughed, then said, ‘For what it’s worth, I made him hate me, too.’ She asked, ‘Just to be clear. You do want me to revive this ‘Savral’ fellow, right? Not rip his soul apart so that he can’t ever find his True Peace? And probably ruin everything forever between you and Al?’

‘… Please revive Savral, for Al. Thank you.’

‘You’re ever so welcome. See you around, Erick!’

Erick’s connection to Messalina snapped. He breathed deep. He turned to Poi, asking, “How did Silverite’s raid on Messalina’s cloud city go?”

“Badly.” Poi said, “No deaths, but the Headmaster’s people went to the cloud city with our own soldiers. They were in the sky and just about to fight through her front door when the Red Dot came.”

“So… Either she was working with them the whole time, or the hunters were waiting for those Elites and soldiers to leave, or maybe Messalina even saw that I was searching for [Ward] and she cast some highly visible ones out there in order to draw out some soldiers... which is exactly what Caradogh was waiting for...” Erick asked, “Or am I overthinking?”

“No.” Poi said, “Silverite has already expressed this opinion.”

“Is she still talking to Portal?”

“Yes.”

Erick nodded. He turned his attention back to the map. He asked, “Are there more targets? Did they find this one, yet?”

“They have not, but that doesn’t matter. It’s time to move on.” Poi said, “Merit has more targets for you to pick up at the Guardhouse.”

Erick nodded, and sent Ophiel blipping to pick up the next few pounds of flesh.

Ophiel appeared on the edge of a plain stone room that was filled with guards in silver armor, and lots of chalkboards. Everyone was talking to everyone else, but Ophiel wasn’t here for the talk; he was here for the samples. A table down to the left was already set with three new targets; a hairbrush, a few horn clippings, and a few scattered red scales, each on their own metal dish.

The guard overlooking the samples said to Ophiel, “Three possible survivors. They should be close.”

Erick used Ophiel to Handy Aura the samples into the air, as he used [Prestidigitation] to say, “Okay.”

Ophiel blipped out of there, back to the map in front of the sunroom. Erick deftly took hold of the hairbrush, through Ophiel, and recast [Cascade Imaging], using the biological bit at the end of the hair follicles as the DNA target. He had gotten rather good at this part, since his first feeble attempts…

Yesterday? It was yesterday, right? Or was it still today? It might have still been today.

Whatever.

The map pinged in Spur, and also fifty kilometers northwest of town. [Scry] eyes hovered over the map.

Erick waited.

After a moment, Poi spoke, “Target found. Deceased. Blood loss from knife wounds.”

“Who were they?”

“Carnelia Izazoth, of Ruby’s Reds. She was an enchanter down on Market Street.”

Erick felt a pang in his chest. “I knew her. I bought my first Strength ring from Carnelia.”

“I know. I directed you to her shop.”

“You did, didn’t you.” Erick breathed deep. “How was she doing, these days? Before… all this.”

Poi listened to the air for a moment, as tendrils of intent flowed from his skull. He said, “She was working on metallizing her gems for longevity, like your gems. It was working, but not perfectly. Her Stat enchantments were starting to last twice as long.”

Erick stared down at the blue dot outside of the city for a while.

He moved on to the next target.
