Erick stayed up late, well into morning the next day, tracking down blood from one 1000 kilometer ring to the next; from the foothills of the Mondariska mountains in the east, to Vindin in the far north, to the edge of the Wasteland Kingdoms in the west and everywhere in between. He left Ophiel scattered at these locations powering maps, waiting for their next target. Each of those Ophiel dropped a [Prismatic Ward] nearby, too, so they had a way to easily regain their mana.

It was a confusing day.

Merit dropped off samples from other attacks on Spur. This led to fifteen other targets being found across the Crystal Forest. The attack at the jailhouse had been successful in retrieving three people; Fillarina’s intel from Felair had been correct. Once the Hand’s full attack was underway, members of the Hand had come and rescued their people and killed everyone they could on the way into the jailhouse. They even knew where the anti-[Teleport] runes had been; they disabled those and left the easy way, in several blips.

Erick’s [Cascade Imaging] found those targets, and the three people that had been in her custody. Merit’s vengeance was bloody, swift, and absolute. Erick did not know any of the three people in custody. He was glad for that.

A few targets got away completely.

The day also got away from Erick.

Erick stood by the window of his sunroom, staring at the map outside while the late afternoon sun spilled light across his feet. The time to rain on the farms had come and gone, but he had been busy, and Silverite had placed the city in a state of emergency; nothing was happening today except for military action.

As Erick stared at the map outside his window, he was only half present in the moment. He was also looking through Ophiel’s eyes at similar maps scattered across the Crystal Forest, searching for the final targets; the ones who had gotten away. Either they had left the desert, or they were much more careful about keeping their [Polymorph] forms in separate lives, or they had cleaned themselves in ways that the others did not.

The orcol discovered in Kel’Duresh was completely clean, but they must have worn [Conjure Armor] that transferred DNA, or maybe they thought [Cleanse] got rid of everything. Or maybe they had made a mistake somewhere in the past and cross contaminated their home in that tiered city with the DNA of the body they used to hunt people. Erick didn’t know for sure. He would likely never know. But he did know that a killer was dead, and that was good.

The Baroness’s words to Erick, delivered to him through Poi, might have been thankful, but there was obviously some strain in that relationship as a direct result of Erick’s ability to hunt people down so easily.

Erick turned to Poi, asking, “How did she say it, again?”

“‘Thank you for your magics. I am sure that they will be used well, and not abused at all. Thank you for inventing this wonderful new method’. End quote.” Poi said, “It was slightly more sarcastic than that.”

“Yeah… She’s not happy.”

Poi said, “You should get some rest, sir.”

“I’m not tired.”

“Please don’t make me have to keep up with you, like this.”

Erick burst a laugh. “What?” He turned to Poi. “Oh.” He frowned. “You’re not joking, are you?”

“No, sir.” Poi said, “I am not joking. I can do it, but it is difficult.”

“… Even with the new Stat rings?”

“Even with.”

“… Okay, Poi. Sorry.”

“Nothing to be sorry about. I’m not asking you to not do what needs to be done, but the fight is over, and has been for a while. You haven’t found any new targets since noon, and you haven’t eaten since yesterday.” Poi said, “Your ability to outlast everyone is just something to be aware of, going forward.” He asked, “But I have to ask. Are you really still not tired? Hungry?”

Erick checked himself. He said, “No. Neither.” He tried a joke, “You could teach me [Induce Emotion]. Maybe I can share my wakefulness?”

“… Maybe some other day.” Poi asked, “Don’t you have other spells to level? From last night? Work on those.”

“Already done.” Erick said, “I raised [Invisibility] and [Force Trap] to ten through Ophiel hours ago.” He asked, “What were you saying last night, about ‘magnitude’?”

Poi looked out of the window as he stood beside Erick. He took a while to answer. Eventually, Poi said, “It’s a method Mind Mages use to gauge the change upon the world that a spell is designed to cause. Sometimes it's easy to tell that number. Sometimes it’s hard.”

“That’s why I’ve never heard that term before.” Erick asked, “What magnitude was that red dot spell?”

“… Nine.”

Erick nodded. “What about, like, [Call Lightning]?”

“… Seven.”

“Really? What’s the difference?”

“Are you ready to hear the full account of last night?”

Erick suddenly felt awful. He said, “Way to change the subject, Poi… But… Yes. I’m ready. Tell me the full report.”

“A few people died on the walls and in the taller towers. Some of the new architecture messed up Archmage Opal’s shield, causing holes in her [Ward].” Poi said, “The farm is a complete loss. That red dot glassed the land outside the walls and flash incinerated the rest of the plants.”

Erick felt his [Hunter’s Instincts] falter, but he kept the drain active; it kept his mind clear in the face of this attack, and in the aftermath. He said, “The loss of life is worse than the loss of the farms. We can rebuild.”

“It gets worse.”

Erick breathed. He said, “I’m ready.”

Poi paused, briefly. He continued, breaking horrific news as professionally as he could, “Felair was killed in his hospital bed. Directly after that, a massed attack on the Adventurer’s Guild killed twenty seven people; mostly rookies. We believe that specific attack was an unorganized set of explosions designed to confuse just as much as it was designed to kill.

“Farmer’s Council members Valok Greentalon and Krakina Kali were killed at the same time, on opposite sides of the city. Apogough Ooragh survived, but his father the cattle rancher did not.

“Savral Noraki was killed defending his father, Al the Sewermaster, directly after Valok and Krakina were murdered.

“Sometime in the middle of all that, someone hit the Church. They stole Jane’s unicorn horn and killed three acolytes, four priests, and a few others. Darenka was wounded, but she will recover.

“This is the order of events as put together by Merit and our other [Witness]-capable people. Teressa is not ready for that burden, but Merit has conscripted her for her Mana Sense anyway. She’s close to [Witness]; it could happen at any time today. Rats is out helping heal those he can. He got his [Greater Treat Wounds] quest done last night, when he participated in the retaliatory strikes you precipitated with your [Cascade Imaging]. Both of those two are currently still working, either to find out what happened, or to help heal those injured. As the Church has been struck and several important healers killed, including the Matrons that helped to raise Rats, Rats has requested leave to help at the Church.” Poi added, “Kiri is still working with the Mage Guild and Sizzi to scout the locations you have found, since both of their [Familiar]s have independent mana pools. Kiri is still upstairs, though. She’s working from here.”

Erick stood still, staring at the white map outside of his window. He felt hollow. He felt like someone had sliced him up and pulled the ribs out of his chest. He breathed, barely. Wetness rolled down his face, but he did not let himself openly cry. Not right now. Tears fell as they were wont, and Erick said, “Rats did ask to go out and join the fight, didn’t he. I barely noticed.” Erick demanded, “They’re both okay out there in the city, aren’t they?”

“They’re fine.” Poi said, “You’ve been running [Hunter’s Instincts] for a while now.” Concerned, but still professional, he said, “There’s a reason they call the people who kill others ‘hunters’. That skill changes some people. Some can’t handle the power it gives them. Prolonged use is bad for you.”

Erick nodded. “I’ll… I’ll turn it off when we’re done.” He added, “Rats has his leave. Tell him… I’m sorry for his loss. No! I’ll tell him myself.”

“Very well, sir.”

Erick sobbed once, thinking of poor Delia Greentalon, Valok’s 15 year old daughter, all alone, now. Had she even Matriculated, yet? Then he controlled himself. Savral was dead, too. And Krakina! They had killed the Weather Witch of Spur! How was Krakina’s granddaughter, Ikawa, holding up? Ikawa and Savral had taken Jane out with them and the rest of their crew for Jane’s first adventure through the Crystal Forest. How was Al doing? And holy hell, Rats’ basically-mother was killed, too? Did he have that right? He needed to talk to Rats, and soon.

He felt himself go cold as he muttered, “They hit the Church, too, and took the horn, huh? Was that their purpose?”

“We believe it was an opportunistic theft. They aimed to kill the healers. They almost succeeded.”

Erick felt a glimmer of hatred well inside his chest and take over every single thought process. An opportunistic theft, huh? Well that’s the sort of thing that gets people killed, doesn’t it. It would certainly get some more people killed, if Erick had anything to say on the matter.

He had seen the horn multiple times after his rains on the farm and when Mog called him over to kill a monster; when all of that was done, he had sometimes turned Ophiel tiny and made him take the scenic route through town before dismissal. His sight seeing had taken him from the gargantuan trees outside of the Adventurer’s Guildhouse, to the roofs across from the gold-walled Sewerhouse, and even to the resplendent rainbow interior of the Interfaith Church. He had seen that horn many times.

With a thought, Erick contacted his Ophiel still scattered across the Crystal Forest. He had them search for the horn. It was a light essence construct nine meters long, and while it might have been mostly ethereal, it was also rather solid, and distinctive. It was radiance twisted into a fractured spike, and Erick was pretty damn sure it was gone forever, but he would try to find it anyway. He might even get lucky.

Erick tensed his hands into fists. He felt a primal need to wrap his fingers around a throat and squeeze the life out of a killer.

A blue dot appeared, far to the south. He got a match. Erick balked when he saw where it was.

He turned to Poi, saying, “Holy fucking— The horn is in Portal.”

- - - -

In a long neglected stone room on the edge of the seaside city, where crates stacked high and carpets laid in piles seven rolls tall and twenty deep, there laid a treasure worth a kingdom, and two very scared kids. The treasure glittered on top of the rolled carpets, atop a thin layer of dust.

A simple [Cleanse] would have taken care of the dirt, but the owner of this property hadn’t paid the kids to clean the place. He had paid them to watch it, and to never go inside. Almost two weeks ago those payments had dried up. The orphanage was going under because Spur was growing their own food now, and Portal suffered for their gain. So when blackscale Andar got a hookup with a temporary job that paid way too much and mainly involved being a lookout, he took it. Bluescale Morothy felt the same; she insisted on going along for the heist. They had both Matriculated ten days ago, and because they accepted this job, they had been a part of a power leveling operation to get them ready for the heist.

They didn’t know the hit was against Spur and the archmage who fucked over their entire town until it was too late. At the time, both of them were more than willing to kill for revenge, and for gold. Their handler had even grabbed the horn and shoved it at the two of them, and told them to get to the meetup.

And now, that horn was going to get them killed. It had already killed their handler, for sure. Their last contact with the handler had been ten hours ago. Now, when they tried [Telepathy], their calls connected to no one.

Andar was not taking it well.

Andar cried out to the empty air, “They’re gonna come for us, Morothy!” His bloodshot red eyes were beyond fear, as he clung to Morothy’s shoulder, bunching the girl’s shirt in his hands, ripping the fabric with his talons. “Where are we gonna go! This was a bad idea! I didn’t want to be a hunter!”

Morothy let him cling, as her own bloodshot eyes stared down at the nine meter unicorn horn. She casually said, “We just put in the oils for the anti-[Teleport] runes. We’re safe, for now. We just gotta leave our old lives behind. You know how the Hand does it. We gotta...” Her eyes went wide, unblinking. “We gotta kill someone and take their life.”

Andar pleaded, “We took too many lives—!”

“Eat a brain, eat a heart, take a life, a brand new start.” Morothy said, “That’s how it goes. That’s our life now.” She calmly said, “We gotta kill that alchemist. The one you’re friends with. Raid his stock. Get a pair of potions. He won’t see it coming.” She broke her stare at the horn and turned to Andar, who was still clinging to her shoulder. He had gone silent. “Do you not approve?”

Andar let go. Then he tapped her shirt with a black talon, causing the fabric to repair. He said, “Okay. But we could just steal—”

“No.” Morothy said, “We’re killing him and ditching the body in the ocean. We left no traces in the attack, but our handler is dead and the Life Binder is looking for anything she can get. I’m not gonna be no zombie, Andar. We’re doing this right, and then we’re getting out of here. How’s Nelboor sound to you?”

