Emir had clearly expected the question. “Little is known of Sage Fuxi. He’s called a visionary in Pesvati Rift’s scripture, and Fuxi Halls is built upon his [Grand Unity Canon].”

“Grand Unity?”

“It was the Sage’s pursuit in overcoming the Terminus. He believed there exists a greater force above those we see today. By refining Clear and Turbid Qi—Dao and Void—to their utmost limit, they would gain the ability to combine into what Sage Fuxi called Grand Unity Qi. This Qi was the key to a higher state of existence, to seize true Eternity.”

The description made Zac think of Starclad’s first memories. The races of Ancient Arcana first appeared in a boundless mist that later birthed the First Era. Could this be the Grand Unity Qi that Fuxi wanted to recreate? Zac agreed it had to be something special, considering the beings born from it.

To recreate the most primordial essence in existence was a goal worthy of a sage like Fuxi. Ultimately, he failed, like all other powerhouses grasping for Eternity across the ages. The Empire, ever pragmatic, later repurposed Fuxi’s pursuit into something that could further their undertaking.

“Do you know where I can get my hands on the [Grand Unity Canon]?” Zac asked.

“It’s not listed in the exchange of Fuxi Halls, and I don’t believe the Rift has it either,” Emir said. “The only thing mentioned in the scripture is a mnemonic Sage Fuxi left behind.”

Zac signaled for Emir to recite the mnemonic, and he spoke in the Limitless Empire’s original tongue.

‘Courtesy through rite, wisdom through imagery. Benevolence to usher in the three occurrences. Do not look back when crossing the Yellow River; Unity is the mandate of man.’

At first, the words felt like the seemingly intentionally cryptic lines of his [Nine Reincarnations Manual]. And yet, they held a mysterious charm that refused to let go. The mnemonic rolled in Zac’s mind, creating a spiritual cadence that brought new life to the fading runes in his mind. More surprising, three new illusory runes briefly joined their brethren.

Zac had to stop himself from rushing out of the cave to return to Fuxi’s side. The threshold of clarity was tantalizingly close, but Emir was a veritable wellspring of vital information. As if prompted by the notion, the imperial’s next words were just as explosive.

“Pardon me for asking, you are here to recover Lord Galgallim’s right eye, are you not?”

“His eye?” Zac said with surprise.

“His left eye witnesses the past; his right welcomes the future,” Emir said.

“What if I am?”

“It’s our duty to help. The Lords upheld their end of the bargain, and the eye wasn’t meant to remain with the court,” Emir said. “In fact, our goals are aligned in this aspect. Its presence has trapped the Ninth Hell in limbo, preventing Karma from reaching its conclusion. Helping you would mean dealing with the ongoing interference.”

Zac rubbed his glabella in exasperation. Emir had already figured this much, so what did it matter if he put the cards on the table?

“There’s a second realm beneath this one. I’ve found a mountain there that seems to be connected to the Primo’s eye, but I can’t get inside. Any advice?”

“I visited the Turbid World myself before you arrived, and I know the mountain you speak of. The [Grand Unity Canon] can connect with its array, but you’ll need a key.”

Zac gave Emir an even stare. “You have to be kidding me.”

“Pedigree and Karma,” Emir said, pointing at his forehead. “I can act as the key so long as you’re able to turn it.”
