As usual, my strength dwarfed almost every other stat by a large margin. My doubled strength paired wonderfully with my Expansive Strength tree, which gave me one health for every one percent physical damage bonus I received. Because of those facts, Strength would always be my core defensive and offensive stat.

Or so I thought. It wasn't that cut and dry anymore, and I ran into some problems lately with my body's durability. At this point, using even half of my strength resulted in grim injuries I needed to heal from. Unlike say Daniel, I wasn't made of steel. I cut myself open with every severe strike, and fixing that would make me a much better brawler. The extra stats and damage resistance from my Executioner class were appreciated for that reason.

On top of that, the skill for antimatter would actually be helpful. The kind of attacks used by it either resulted in one of two options. Either the antimatter passed through a target, eliminating the atoms composing an enemy, or the attack resulted in a colossal explosion. If I could store some antimatter in my spears, they could pierce a set amount before exploding inside of an enemy. Considering the earlier message, I was guessing my idea was more than possible.

It would patch up my only real weakness offensively - an inability to handle regenerative targets. I frowned, remembering all my fights with Daniel. Fighting him was like being in a room where there was no exit, and the walls were closing in. Sure, I could move around and avoid the guy at first, but over time, he wore me down. When he closed in and got a hold of me, he'd crushed me to a pulp.

Yup, that was my boyfriend. Ruggedly handsome, but kind of scary.

Either way, antimatter bombs sounded like a suitable method of actually hurting the guy. Not that I wanted to, I just had this internal rivalry with him after all of our battles. Knowing I had a chance of winning, however slim, was all I really needed to feel satisfied. As is, I didn't think I would even last a minute against him. I'd attack, he'd survive, and he'd crush me in a gravitational vortex. Not my cup of tea, let me tell you.

Anyway, this was a lovely bonus I hadn't expected Schema to give me. Minutes of traveling later, the others awakened from their unconscious slumbers, so they could check out their statuses as well. They all carried smiles on their faces, each of them gaining around 1K-2K levels, which was a massive boost for those guys. I was happy for them.

We layed low in a ravine covered by branches, each of us messing with our statuses before Helios appeared from a portal. He walked out of his pristine, clear warp, and wind from Mt. Verner rushed in. A worried group of our guildsmen gazed at us, each of them showing concern mixed with a subtle disgust.

I blinked a few times, confused at what they were gawking at. Looking down, I found myself still unformed. I got so caught up by the status work and getting out of the Elysium camp that I ended up not reforming myself. A wave of shame ran up my spine and into my face. I looked down, unable to meet the gaze of my guild members.

They weren't trying to make me feel like this. None of my guild members said anything rude or impolite. Well, besides Lester, but I don't think he could help it. As for everybody else, there was this look they gave me, whether they meant to or not. It was something I was all too familiar with since I was a child. When anyone first saw my reformations, there was this...repulsion that oozed from them. I hated seeing their horror from seeing me. The real me.

As my emotions peaked, a familiar, muscular set of arms wrapped around me. They were firm yet gentle, and his armor bent around my skin, the steel somehow soft and welcoming. Daniel looked down at me, smiling from ear to ear as he hugged me tightly. With a cocky grin, he pulled me off my feet and met my eye. He whispered,

"Hey, beautiful. You look incredible."

I hugged him back while my throat burned.

He might've been a big oaf, but sometimes, he knew just what to say.
