This shockwave dwarfed the others, a ripple passing over the planet. It destroyed the glass covering us, and the wind howled in from above. As it did, a colossal eye passed over us; the iris alone was large enough to swallow a mountain. From the eyelid, flows of flesh peeled down, flooding the area. The Spatial Fortress engulfed all in its path, everything consumed down to the atom.

It neared us, but Isa and Lester lobbed their napalm bombs, venom coils, and acid vials with abandon. Dozens of explosions passed onto the wall of meat coming our way, and somehow it stopped the incoming mass. I fired with my cannon in all directions, desperation overcoming me. Other Hod frothed from the mouth as he sliced with abandon. Amara typed as fast as she could, trying anything to get us out of here.

Nothing worked. The fortress was unstoppable.

The writhing mass of muscle filled the room, consuming the civilians here. Their screams echoed from beneath the surface of the fortress's body. They wailed out in agony, and it was just as haunting as the Hybridization pits. I screamed as a tentacle scraped some of my skin off, the pain worse than acid and fire and death. It decayed everything it touched and replaced it with anguish.

We were pushed into the top of the warp, fighting off the mass. Right as it got within inches of us, another earthquake passed over the area. The Spatial Fortress retreated, and as it did, I thanked everything for Lehesion's intervention. Flying up to inspect where they were fighting, I reached over the shattered windows.

It wasn't Lehesion. It was the ring.

The superstructure awakened, and from it, hordes of nanomachines roared. The liquid metal poured over the spatial fortress, both beasts fighting each other in a slugfest beyond my understanding. They consumed the horizon, like a gray and red ocean fighting over dominion of the sky. Lehesion stayed above, launching plasmic lasers onto the fortress's back.

Minutes passed, and eventually, the Spatial Fortress shrank in size. It retreated from the superstructure's hordes of metal wasps, and Lehesion attacked Schema's fleet as it retreated back where they came from. The warp came back online below me, many of the civilians around us left unconscious from shock and awe.

As Schema left, Lehesion flew over the superstructure and connected with all of our minds. In a noble but somewhat metallic voice, he echoed with triumph,

"And so, we once again tear down Schema's Hordes. Long live Elysium."

The civilians around us raised their hands in triumph, and I landed beside Amara. The large warp activated, and we teleported back to Earth. As the ionized spray of mist poured from Earth's Elysium warp, Hod pulled our team into the darkness. Everyone but me, of course.

He hid in one of the alien's shadows, everyone confused why the teleporter went off. The remnant guards tried keeping everyone contained, but a few ended up running around in a panic. Hod hitched a ride on one of those terrified aliens, eventually jumping into an alleyway. He pulled us out after making a few more shadow jumps. As he did, Other Hod dropped us onto the ground, and he passed out on the spot.

I turned to the others, finding two unconscious bodies. I picked up Other Hod and Alexander while whispering to the others,

"Let's get out of here."

With the warp's ensuing pandemonium, we prowled out of the Adair's encampment. Once on the outskirts of the wooden buildings, we found the outer gate. Guards watched the perimeter, keeping the area safe and sound. I peered at the others, and we didn't have our mage or shadow magician to help us get out of here. We were already hours late, so the others would be worried sick.

I massaged my temples, struggling to come up with some kind of solution. Nothing came to mind before Isa leaned towards me,

"You can turn invisible, right?"

I shook my head, "No, I can't. I go somewhere else. That's the best way I can describe it."

"Can you take us there until we get through?"

"I've tried, but I haven't been able to walk across planes with anything alive."

Isa pondered for a second before raising a hand, "What about this. You can shapeshift. How thin can you stretch yourself out?"

I looked up, "Uh, pretty thin, I guess."

"Enough to cover us?"

My eyes widened, "Woah...Yeah, I could."

Isa gestured to the others, "You could be like a cloaking blanket for us. It's worth trying out."

I grimaced, "Blegh, that's going to be so uncomfortable."

Lester shivered, "I know. Talk about disgusting."

I raised my eyebrows at the guy, and he winced. Isa pointed between us, "Come on. Let's try it out. Lester, you stay over there and see if she disguises us or just makes herself invisible over us."

Lester frowned, "Oh, boy. I'm going to be sick."

I frowned at him, "I'll make you sick if you don't shut it."

He blinked, "Yes, mam."

Lester walked over to the side, and I thinned myself until I draped over Isa. Lester gagged as I stepped over the veil. Once across, he raised a thumb,

"I can't see or hear a thing. You guys are gone."

I reappeared, and we got to work. Lester vomited to the side before burying his throw up. After the big baby got over himself, I covered Isa and Lester while they carried out the unconscious members. After running across the field with my body flopping along, we eventually crossed the border patrol. Once out into the trees, we were home free.

I pulled myself together, filling back into my jumpsuit. Even Isa winced at the sight, and a wave of embarrassment passed over me. Blegh, sometimes I hated my powers and my body. It was times like this that I wanted to be someone else. Anyone else, actually. But here I was, being the woman that shifted like some monster. It reminded me why I didn't like missions outside of those with Hod.

People judged me, and I pretended it didn't sting when it honestly hurt.

I pushed those feelings down, rushing forward. I didn't have time for dwelling on those kinds of emotions, even if I wanted to. Our status reconnected, and I got a few messages from Schema. The A.I. actually recognized our efforts in the other world. It just took it a while to acknowledge us and reattach.

Before reading any of my notices, I sent a message to Daniel. He'd want to know we were safe, especially after arriving this late. Once that was finished, I hoisted our two sleeping beauties up and got us out of there using Daniel's ring. As we traveled over the tree line, I searched through my status. It gave me a bunch of generic notices, but one message stuck out in particular.

Congratulations! You've been offered a class promotion. Though rare, a select few can obtain upgrades to their previous classes. Having shown your fervor, enthusiasm, and ingenuity countless times, Schema has offered you a tri-choice variant option for your Breaker Class. Please select one of the three options below.

- Enforcer | The Enforcer variant of Breakers is a class option that orients itself around widescale enforcement. Whether during riots or while one on one, the Enforcer is given skills and abilities that grant tremendous control of their situation. Considerable AOE crowd control, mind pressuring auras, and even mental suppression, all of those tools and more are at an Enforcer's disposal.

This variability enables the enactment of Schema's will on large populations, similar to an Overseer's abilities. Unlike an Overseer, your restraints will be minimal, only requiring a certain amount of cases closed yearly. If you're someone looking to uphold the law, the Enforcer is the right class variant for you. |

- Arbitrator | The Arbitrator is a class given to those with sound judgment that will be required given this class's abilities. Think of the Arbitrator as a mixture of the Speaker and Breaker class abilities. You wield tremendous power over specific system protocols, such as punishment, bounty setting, and even exiling rulebreakers.

Make no mistake about this class's orientation, however. The Arbitrator can succeed in administering its justice in the face of abject refusal. This class is given suppressive abilities, escape canceling powers, and warping tools. Choose the Arbitrator subclass if you want to be the judge, jury, and executioner. |

- Executioner | Think of the Executioner class as the fingers for the right hand of Schema. You see, Schema's left hand is the merciful one. It offers peace and prosperity to those that follow his rules and laws. To those that wish to tread on Schema's kindness, an Executioner's calling awaits.

The Executioners act as the last line of defense for the worst of Schema's bounties. Unlike other Breaker variants, this subclass rules in 1v1 combat, giving the Executioner a fearsome reputation. Its abilities are arcane mastery, a berserker form, and further augmented durability. Choose the Executioner subclass if you intend to handle the most dangerous bounties out there. |

Good luck with your selection process.

I stared at the wall of information, kind of overwhelmed. I tried breaking it down like Torix taught me, and I started parsing out different pieces about the subclasses. The Enforcer was a no go for me. My abilities thrived on stealth, dealing damage, and mobility. The Enforcer would suit someone like Daniel much better since he could afford to stay out in the open.

That left the Arbitrator and the Executioner subclasses. I wanted to go with the Arbitrator for several reasons. I enjoyed the sound of it, being someone who enacts justice in the face of evil. It sounded cheesy, but I didn't care—that idea resonated with me. Being able to lock people down and teleport were extremely valuable as well. They would let me always get my final shot in, and that was powerful.

Further reinforcing that line of thought, the Executioner class was dreary by comparison. It was a class devoted to killing exclusively. I couldn't go around solving problems or handling cases on the spot. Nope, I had to follow bounties and do what they told me. The abilities weren't exactly synergistic either. I already dealt true damage to everything I touched, and the last thing I needed was a berserker form.

My kind of killing was based on finesse, and I needed precision and control. Otherwise, I'd be killed before I knew it. As my hand hovered over the Arbitrator class option, something in me roared out. Memories of the Spatial Fortress erupted in my mind like a nightmare I couldn't wake up from. I shivered with a measure of violence, unable to keep myself composed.

I clicked the Executioner option, finalizing my decision. The Arbitrator would help me accomplish missions. On the other hand, the Executioner option would help me survive, and after today, that was priority number one. I didn't want to be food for some monster, and if rampaging was required for that, then so be it. Finishing that up, my class screen popped up in my vision, and I gazed at the bonuses with a bit of glee.

This was more like it.

Congratulations once again! You've now attained a rare subclass variant of the Breaker class - the Executioner. Executioners are granted an arcane mythical skill - Antimatter Generation. This lets them produce stable quantities of antimatter that can give them explosive armaments. *Ample distance recommended from the intended target.*

Another upgrade received by the Executioner class is augmented durability. You'll receive 3,000 points in both strength and endurance, as well as 100,000 points of health, 10,000 points of health regeneration, and a .5% upgrade to your damage resistance. Your level cap has been raised by 2,000 as well.

The final upgrade is a berserker form. Health, stamina, and mana are exchanged for super physiological amounts of power generation during this form. You will be granted enhanced reflexes, reasoning skills, magic output, physical strength, and speed during this mode. It cannot be maintained for long, and after ending, your body will suffer severe shock.

*This shock will not kill you. You will simply feel like you're dying. Classer insurance does not cover medical bills associated with side effects following berserker form use, as stated in Schema's Law Apendum: Adjunct-SC3902. For more information, contact a Speaker versed in law information.*

I gazed down at my status screen, surprised by that antimatter skill. Mythical, huh? If that wasn't a legendary skill in disguise, then I didn't know what was. Either way, I opened my status to spot what changed.

Althea Tolstoy(Level 12,000 | Class: Executioner | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion | Titles: The Shapeless Arbiter, Yawm's Inheritence, The Harbinger's Hunter)

Strength – 66,389 | Constitution – 2,890 | Endurance – 5,907

Dexterity – 31,472 | Willpower – 3,139 | Intelligence – 2,002

Charisma – 5,192 | Luck – 1,204 | Perception – 26,264

Health: 2,109,285/2,109,285 | Health Regen: 15% of total health every 30 seconds + 20,000/min

Stamina: 347,970/347,970 | Stamina Regen: 7,928/sec

Mass:  pounds(17,340) | Height: 7'01(2.16 meters)

Damage Res - 96.5% | Phys Damage Bonus – 2.1 Million% | Critical Damage Bonus – 165% | Damage Bonus: 65%

The Harbinger's Hand - Follower Bonus: +2,500 Endurance, Willpower, and Constitution. +1,250 Intelligence, Strength, and Dexterity. -250 Charisma. +50,000 Health, Stamina, and Mana. +10,000 Health Regeneration. Close combat skills, gravitational magic, and aura powers are more easily learned.

Immaterial: Ignores rigidity of matter. Grants 100% armor penetration.

Etorhma's Sorrow: Health regen continues for 30 seconds after death. If health is above zero after this 30-second window, you will revive with 50% of total maximum health.

