One thing stood out to Tala’s mind, and that crystalized her next steps. There was a baby soul nearby, and it was alone and in need.

Tala stood, needlessly reshaping and straightening her clothing, her mind sharper than it had been in days. “We are in an odd place, here.” She looked at Rane and laid her thoughts on the table. “I am both horrified and excited. I have no idea what is going on, but…”

“No kidding.” He shook his head, still clearly trying to sort through everything. “It is possible we have a child. I just…”

She shook her head more firmly, cutting him off. “Rane. I know you’ll understand this with another moment or two to wake up, but we don’t have that time. There is a baby in need. Your carefully considered approach is perfect for most things and in many situations, but it won’t work here. So, I’m going to lay it out so we can act, together.”

He straightened, orienting on her. “I’m listening.”

“Good. If what Alat and Enar have said is true, then a human soul was just brought into being with the automaton’s body as its body. There have been Mages who have made automata-like bodies, or just control body shaped items, but full, true automata? I don’t think it’s ever been done successfully.”

Alat chimed in then, projecting her voice for Rane’s benefit. “-More than just not done, it has failed many times. To be precise, there have been twenty documented cases of Archons trying to make an automatan their primary physical form. Those who tried have been of every level of advancement from Bound to Reforged. Some tried at those stages, some tried to use the automaton body to enter those stages. Apparently, there is something like an uncanny valley of bodies. Human souls can exist in and control non-human vessels, but if they are too close, the soul doesn’t like it—for some reason—and rejects the body.-”

Tala was practically tapping her foot at the end, wanting to move faster, to get to the new life that needed her. “Thank you, Alat. Regardless, this soul seems to have come into being with this as its native body.”

“-Her.-”

“What?” Tala frowned, a bit irritated at the interruption.

“-Her. The body is clearly female—if it has sex at all—and so is her soul. Besides, calling something with a human soul ‘it’ feels… demeaning?-”

Tala sighed, grimacing, but wanted to justify herself all the same. “It is common practice to call a baby ‘it’ in the womb before it is born, especially if the sex of the baby is being held back as a surprise or is unknown for other reasons.”

“-Even so…-”

She huffed. This wasn’t worth the delay. “Fine. Her native body is that of an automaton. We need to figure out what this means, and we must get the higher-ups of humanity involved. Trying to hide this, or go it alone, would not end well.”

Rane nodded. “Yes. We should notify Mistress Ingrit, and then we need to go meet the new one. We need to meet her. I don’t like the fact that she’s all alone, and has been physically alone since she came into being.”

That tugged at Tala’s very soul, hitting on exactly what she’d been feeling, despite the other confusing thoughts swirling around her, and she found herself nodding. “Agreed.”

They sent off some quick messages, and Tala took a moment to process Alat’s memories of the interactions that had already taken place.

Do this right, Tala. You don’t want to be talking over her head just after you meet her, and likely, everything that is said or done in her presence will matter in the long run. We need to do this right.

Then, Rane and Tala willed themselves into the room where the automaton sat on the floor.

The feminine face lifted to regard them both, a small smile tugging at her white steel lips even as her blood red, glowing eyes regarded them. “Are you my parents?”
