"That, my dear apprentice, is an excellent question," he said. "Most magical creatures fear discovery; it's a baked-in instinct. They're new to the world, but they know what might happen if they're discovered—especially if they're useful in some way. So they try to find a way to fit in and disappear into the ecosystem. There are probably thousands of minor magical creatures at any given moment that no one even knows about. So why is this one making a move?"

He didn't wait before continuing, caught up in his own thoughts. "It could've been trained," he said. "Maybe someone wants to sabotage House Greenthistle, so they trained whatever this is to affect the House. But that would require figuring out how to train a creature that no one's ever heard of just to make things inconvenient for Naria Greenthistle. I don't exactly know the politics in the area, but that seems like a lot of politics for very little gain."

Mylah was staring cautiously at the door. "Y-you believe there is a monster in there?" She sounded horrified. "A natural-born monster?"

"Oh, no," Cale said, and then he reconsidered. "At least, I wouldn't call it a monster. That's a very loaded word, you know. I have friends that call them critters instead. It's a much kinder word."

Mylah blanched. "But—they attack us. The natural-born."

"The ones you know about," Cale said. "Because those are the only ones worth talking about. You're not going to hear a story about a critter that shows up and then just harmlessly prances around, are you?"

"I-I suppose not?" Mylah seemed uncertain and was staring at the door doubtfully, but she was at least thinking about it.

"The point is that it's probably a magical critter of some kind," Cale said. "Now, I could be wrong about the training thing. Maybe someone just really wants to inconvenience Naria. But I'm pretty sure I'm right about it being a critter of some kind! And if that's the case..."

He paused and joined Mylah in staring at the door. She jumped when she noticed him standing beside her. "S-sir?"

"You know," he said. "This thing is suspiciously powerful, don't you think?"

"Powerful, sir?" Mylah seemed frightened.

"I mean, think about it," Cale said. "It's basically altering events at will. Bad luck is one thing and coincidences are another, but does your House even use out-of-order signs? What could possibly be in the basement that requires an out-of-order sign?"

"I..." Mylah hesitated, then for the first time, looked more carefully over the sign. "I do not think I have seen that before, sir."

"And we know it's not exactly luck or karma," Cale said. "What is it, then? Why is it doing it? If it's a natural-born monster, then its first instinct is to hide, and its second instinct is to feed. The second instinct overrides the first when it becomes desperate enough, so everything that's happened must have something to do with what it feeds on..."

He frowned for a moment, thinking, and then his gaze abruptly softened. "Oh, you poor thing."

"Sir?" Mylah glanced over at him, confused.

"You should stop calling me that," Cale said absently. "Cale is fine. But don't you see? It could've done a lot worse, if it can just change events at will. So whatever this is, it probably doesn't actually want to hurt the House. Maybe because it needs to feed on the House, or maybe because it just actually doesn't want to hurt anyone."

Flia had opened his eyes to that one. His water elemental apprentice had really grown into her abilities as she worked with Professor Tarbloom on cataloguing various magical creatures; they might have their instincts, but they also had different temperaments.

In particular, some of them hated causing harm, though their natures required them to in order to feed. Flia always felt bad for them, and much of her research focused on finding alternatives. Professor Tarbloom had approved that as a secondary project for her.

No one left behind, as she would say.

"I feel like you're making a lot of assumptions," Mylah said, her tone still uncertain. Cale chuckled.

"Assumptions are the name of the game, but I have figured out a lot of its limitations over the past week. I've tested this in a few different ways. I just needed to put it all together." He closed his eyes. "It has to feed on something, but it doesn't want to cause undue harm. Whatever it feeds on produces these problems as a side effect. It's limited in some way, or I wouldn't even be here..."

He trailed off.

"It's rationing," he said. "The poor thing is starving. Doesn't have enough food, can't get too much of it without hurting people, and me being here complicates things because the Thread can undo what it causes. The inconveniences always stack up more after it does something to stop me from investigating the basement—"

As if to confirm his words, there was a resounding crash from somewhere upstairs. Mylah flinched and yelped, thorns bursting out of her skin, but Cale didn't react to it.

"—probably because not everything it changes feeds it," he said. "So it drains itself to stop me, and then it has to start eating again so it doesn't starve. Which leaves outcomes."

"Outcomes," Mylah repeated, trying to calm herself. She glanced nervously in the direction of the crash. "I... I should help with whatever that is, sir. Cale."

Cale nodded, distracted. "Of course, of course," he said, waving her away. "Outcomes. I should have seen it. Good outcomes, specifically, although I don't know how you'd judge how good an outcome is. Good for whom, you know? But it fits; you feed and subsist on positive outcomes, but you can consume any outcome, it just comes at a cost if it's not a positive one. That's what you're using to keep me out of the basement."

He glanced back at the unassuming basement door. "I'd help you if I got in there," he said. "But you're feeding on that outcome, too. Is it all you're feeding on right now? That and whatever just happened upstairs? Sheesh. Must be hard." He thought for a moment. "Okay. I'm going to give you a feast. Any number of positive outcomes. Should keep you fed for a while. Just leave me something vaguely positive so I don't inadvertently end up blowing up the mansion."

Evolving the spell from the Gift was a matter of outcomes, after all, and many of them were positive. Many of them were spells he really wanted, in fact. He glanced over his spell list, then sighed—he'd been hoping to save this for when he could guarantee getting himself a flight spell, but he was pretty sure that was the exact outcome this thing would feed on, considering how much he wanted it.

Oh well. All for a good cause.

He cast a spell.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Windborne] has evolved into [Frigid Gusts]!

[Frigid Gusts, Level 1] [Eighth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e27 Mana]

Conjure a gust of freezing wind, bypassing most barriers and obstacles. The Gift suggests its caster wear a coat.

Oh, great. Cale winced and hardened his barriers, though not before a truly devastating chill slipped through; he shivered violently and scowled, but resisted casting a fire spell to warm himself up, lest he put too much mana in it and burn the place down. This was still tolerable, if only barely.

The winds also caused the door to freeze over completely, which was secondary to the ridiculous coincidence of the distinct click of the lock coming undone. Cale gave it a distrustful glare, then sighed and gingerly pushed it open.

Thankfully, the door did not shatter into dozens of broken splinters at his mere touch. Instead, it swung open silently, revealing a dark room that was thankfully much warmer than the now-frozen corridors outside, and what looked like a drooping cactus sitting in the middle of it.

Even as Cale watched, however, it shook, then began to plump up again, its stem returning to a healthy green. A pink flower bloomed at the top. It quivered at him, as if uncertain of his intent, but Cale shook his head and smiled.

"I know a water elemental that will be delighted to take care of you," he said wryly. "You know, I told my apprentices I wouldn't bring them any gifts? Now I'm going to have to get them all stuff. You better help me out. It's going to be days before I can try for a flight spell again."

The cactus-thing quivered again, this time in what seemed like relief. Cale shook his head, smiled, and began the laborious process of putting it in a pot so he could transport it.

At least he'd be seeing his apprentices again soon. He wondered how they were doing.
