All transmission devices and technology left on the moon bases have been completely destroyed.

Alveron's consciousness is split between thousands of worlds, so when the humans are teleported to a small base on a cold world named 'Kelfar Solar System Data Backup and Bounce Point M-0917' in its system logs, another identical silver suit of armor boots up to greet them, in a smaller yet nearly identical dome protecting them from the vacuum of space outside.

The bright white star at the center of this system looks over twice as far away, and even the gravity on this cold, desolate world is less than the moon they just left.

So far away, in fact, that when looking across this solar system, Kelfar still appears to be intact, and they can even see strange copies of themselves, as the light has not yet caught up to the luminite's aid to create technically faster-than-light travel.

However, there is an instant transmission feedback being shared directly from Abby's mind through the passive spectate function.

The real-time visual of Kelfar turning blue and splitting apart plays in the back of everyone's mind as they regain their footing on a new base on the far side of the solar system.

–

Maria flies forward through the vacuum of space, drawn toward this clear oscillating liquid in the core of the planet.

It is the only thing that could withstand her aura, and the strange feeling of life emanates from it.

She feels the sensation of a baby staring up at her, with its arms outstretched, as if it sees nothing but her angelic form moving toward it.

Abby does not feel this sensation, as her senses are not being projected that far. However, her eyes can see this substance, and it gives off a reflective rainbow glow, like shattered crystal reflecting light—but in a liquid form.

None of the generals, commanders, or even Bri have any idea what this substance could be.

It's unknown if it is native to Kelfar, or a portion of the throne artifact left behind—or a combination of the two.

However, Alveron's voice through the link makes it clear he knows what it could be.

"Source Resin... and from a world of this quality... a former Noble Grade World. I've never seen so much, and in such a pure form..."

Maria cannot hear any of this conversation, and as Bri asks what it could be, Abby stays silent, mesmerized by what is in front of her.

–

A trail of dense Royal Blue Soul Energy flows behind Maria, and tendrils of dense yellow light seep out from the depths of her Soul Energy core to strengthen and tether to her new angelic form.

Only the outer edges of her True Core are being used to slowly acclimate to movement and the new environment, while its main form is still trapped in a unique superposition—not allowing it to collapse to a green state while simultaneously taking advantage of this state to use far more yellow threads than normally possible.

Space bends around her as a yellow-white glow radiates from within her Royal Blue Soul Energy form.

Her long feathered angel wings flap slowly, and she kicks off empty space, leaving yellow and blue dents on reality to speed up her flight toward the center of Kelfar.

Her blue hands reach out toward the translucent rainbow liquid that oscillates and reacts to her aura, as though it is having a conversation with her without any words.

The substance has lost all of its memory and all of its purpose.

As the two halves of Kelfar float further apart, it can feel that it too will soon disappear into nothingness.

Like its body has been destroyed, and its soul is still rigid in place, unable to conceptualize that it has been killed.

What could be considered memories to the mortal mind—of its conception, when a wave of energy from the Source rippled through this planet that was once full of life—is still locked away in its being.

Multiple waves of this energy are locked away, meant to be forgotten by every system reset, but still echo in the Resin that slowly loses its footing in reality as empty space consumes it.

It begins to lose its grasp on what its purpose is—and what a purpose even is in the first place—yet a powerful energy source moves toward it, keeping it lucid for a few more seconds.

With the face and wings of an angel, it recognizes this aura as the force that jolted it back awake moments ago. As this planet was being altered, and its energy siphoned in order to change the rules of the system—however, this blue power that destroyed the world was what stopped it from being consumed and forcefully altered.

While this semi-conscious Resin does not understand the concept of death, it knows that disappearing would be a far better fate than being altered and used by the dark roots that were attempting to harvest it.

Though, it sees an even greater fate—one that would allow it to continue existing.

If only it had a vessel to exist within, and serve a purpose once again.

–

These abstract feelings are pushed out into the void of space, and the only one to feel or understand them is Maria falling its way.

Every moment that passes, the oscillating substance loses its grasp on reality further, threatening to fade away with all of the power and knowledge it has gathered in its billions of years rotating around this star.

It gives off a similar existence as luminite does—once not a part of its whole, fading away from existence.

The essence of the universe around it starts to become darker, even though the bright blue and yellow glowing angel moving toward it shines brighter and brighter.

Maria looks as though she's going to collide with Kelfar's core. The clear Resin is only a few hundred meters wide—though it gives off gravity readings similar to the entire planet.

Touching an unstable and unseeable power source like this, on the edge of existence, with only one wish—to claim a vessel—is an extremely dangerous procedure.

Maria isn't going to risk her own life, but she has just recently awakened an absurd amount of power and needs something to release it on. The first thing that comes to mind as a vessel she can control is a Blood Bonded Weapon that is paired with her, and has a long history fighting by her side, yet is severely underpowered.

–

So, right before her impact with the shimmering and oscillating Resin, she pulls out her Silver Ice Sword that she has carried with her throughout most of her journey and plunges it deep into the clear substance.

It has grown massively in size due to her angelic form, and pools of soul energy flood out from her core, along with tendrils of divine energy that are continuously pulled from the endless pool of her overcompacted True Core.

Then, as Abby sees what she's doing, a ping sounds in Maria's ear, pushing her to borrow the Divine Craftsmanship skill in order to fully comprehend what is happening before her.

–

Upon impact, the clear substance doesn't resist one bit and instantly shifts its form to dive into the blade it has come in contact with.

The sword's core parts—made of ice element stones, mana-enforced steel, and large amounts of pure Qi—are instantly obliterated.

They are such insignificant materials in the presence of this Noble Grade Ancient substance that they cannot stand to exist in the same form together.

However, the essence and shape of the blade holds its form.

The blood bond allows this sword to be treated as a vessel, as deeply coded in its craft, it serves Maria and is a blade that destroys all enemies in her way.

Instead of flowing right through the sword and attempting to invade the human that wields it, the Resin is struck by two emotions.

One of compassion, as it senses this familiar Royal Blue Soul Energy—the one that rescued it from the black roots of change that were trying to alter its being.

Then, one of fear, as this Resin cannot understand why it cannot sense what is beyond the outer edges of Maria's Soul Energy core.

It feels like if it truly tried to enter her body, it would be sucked up within this core and never see reality again... Like it has an endless hunger, yet somehow, it's able to push out and produce endless energy as well.

A fundamental law of reality is confusing the half-conscious Resin, and it can only feel fear from this confusion, as it has never been incapable of understanding something before.

–

In addition to these mental interactions, thousands of Divine Craftsmanship panels light up in her vision, showing every possible path to take in order to complete this craft.

An ocean of Soul Energy pours out from her core, making the outline of where her sword used to be fill up with cold energy.

This Royal Blue Energy and the translucent Resin within the blade overlap but don't mix.

It's as if they are both existing in the same space, spreading out to fill the mold of her longsword.

Next, tendrils of dense yellow divine energy—so silky smooth and compact they shine as bright as the star at this solar system's center—sink into the blue and translucent rainbow-refracting substance, making the sword appear to be made completely of divine threads.

With the gravitational pull of Kelfar itself, the icy blue Soul Energy strong enough to crack this planet in two ten more times, and enough divine threads to compact a hundred 1st Class beings' True Cores, an extremely complex and dangerous craft is initiated...

–

Abby does not even want to risk staying to watch the result.

After sending Maria a tip to use her Craftsmanship skill, she opens up as many emergency trading windows within the World Wide Connectivity System as she can with Alveron to request a teleport crystal to their base.

She crushes the white gem in her hand the moment a trade is triggered in her mind to leave.

So, right as a new weapon is crafted before her eyes, she's teleported away, finding herself standing behind the seven humans and a silver knight.

–

The green-eyed healer's heart is racing from the glimpse of energy readings she felt, and everyone turns around with a questioning gaze.

Bri, with the current slowest reaction time of everyone here, comments out loud.

"Why did you leave? It was just getting good... wasn't it?"

She gulps and waits a few seconds to answer.

"I... was not as confident that I could withstand the blast without getting hurt."

Her eyebrows raise, and Alveron starts to replay the last microseconds of footage Abby's Spectate skill shared.

The knight speaks up.

"I believe your choice was wise. There is no true data on what would result from a craft like that... The visuals you've granted me are far more valuable than any information I've come across in my entire life. It is not just a myth or mere theory anymore. We're about to witness the birth of a real Destroyer Class Soul Weapon."

Large energy graphs and holographic visuals of the angelic figure falling toward Kelfar's core show up all over the inside of the dome of this base.

It is cross-referenced with the data Bri shared earlier, showing the similarities of all the Soul Weapon Classes and all of Asic and Torvak's theories on how to harness the soul of a planet or a star.

–

Minutes pass while Bri and Alveron discuss the possibilities and compare these notes to energy readings and footage.

Then... the speed of light finally catches up to Abby's teleportation through space, and everyone's eyes widen at the size of the bright burst of yellow, white, and blue light forming on the other side of the solar system.

For a moment, It looks like they're rotating around a second star...

–

Meanwhile, Maria grasps the newly crafted Soul Sword with both hands, holding it high above her head as the shockwave of its birth erupts outward.

Both halves of Kelfar that were slowly floating away are instantly obliterated into blue dust, just like its five moons.

Her entire energy form glows extremely bright, with a shimmering white icy light surrounding her like a second aura.

The longsword in her grasp is almost as hard to look at as her Soul Energy Core.

At first glance, it is Dark Royal Blue, but the longer one looks, the brighter and stranger it becomes.

There is a glossy, translucent, rainbow-reflective glow that holds the blade together, as the substance that made up the core of Kelfar and housed this planet's soul has found a new vessel. It is able to stay present in reality now that it has a new purpose to live on, connected to the system through its wielder.
