Ryn followed him out of the underground chamber and into a broad rock-walled tunnel set with the same sconces lighting the way. The ground had been worked into a smooth pathway, as good as a road in a major city.

“I’m Farin Shieldbreaker,” her companion said. “Warrior, once a member of the third company, now retired. In my dotage, a locus guard and occasional travel guide.” He chuckled at his own joke.

“Good to meet you, Mr. Shieldbreaker.”

“Farin is fine, lassie.”

Her guide proved to be rather talkative, and Ryn was treated to a whirlwind tour of the giant underground Dwarven city. They passed through marketplaces and caught a ride on an earth-golem-drawn carriage – one of many that thronged the busier passageways that wound their way through the bowels of the earth. Ryn was lost in an instant.

After about half an hour – and past the umpteenth ultra-important foundry or forge, right when Ryn’s eyes were beginning to glaze over, her guide stopped the cart before a massive pair of gilded stone doors.

“Right. Here we are!” he declared, and hopped down, offering his hand to help her out.

“Thank you,” she said, stepping onto the ground. But as soon as she did, there was a loud rumbling and a shuddering crash that rocked the entire city, knocking her stumbling. Ryn yelped, clutching at her sturdy companion’s hand for stability. “What was… that?”

“Undead,” Farin said, his eyes hardening. “They’ve been attacking the upper levels with more frequency lately. There were even rumors of a… Death Knight.”

“Undead?” Ryn asked, a shiver passing through her body.

“It’s nothing ta worry yer head about,” Farin said firmly. “The platinums will take care of that wee problem.”

But as the stocky dwarf pushed the doors open and invited her to enter the giant library, she could tell by the tension in the set of his shoulders and the tight line of his lips, that he was far more worried than he let on.

Undead? Here in Thorel Moldur? Where are they even coming from? I need to tell Calen right away. He’ll know what’s best to do.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
