“Winfield was worried that the police might think he was involved in your kidnapping. It makes sense that the other man would be worried as well. Most innocent people are eager to prove their innocence. If the murderer wasn’t involved in your kidnapping, why didn’t he agree to come forward with Winfield? Admitting that he’d sent out the invitations would have been intimidating, but it should have been better than being suspected in a kidnapping.”

“Could he have been involved in my kidnapping?”

“No. We talked to the men we arrested in the raid. Farnham did it all on his own. He had you tailed, then had you taken when it was convenient. I think there’s an unknown factor—some reason why the murderer found going to the police so much more threatening than Winfield did.”

As the silence stretched on, Haley realized he’d been talking in a murmur. He sat up and cleared his throat.

“Thinking out loud?” Eleanor asked.

“I’m afraid so.”

“Do you do it often?”

“Not in public. But I don’t often have someone ask me my thoughts on a case either.”

“Thank you for sharing them with me.”

“It doesn’t bother you?”

“A little, but I think I need to start accepting what’s happened. There’s nothing worse than sitting around, feeling scared and knowing nothing.”

“I’m glad I could be of service. I have to go, but before that, should I escort you home?”

“Thank you, but I’ll be fine. I am tired, but not so tired I can’t make it back to my door. And I’d like to stay here for a while. It’s peaceful.”

Haley stood up and put on his hat. “I’ll wish you good day then.”

“Haley!”

He turned back.

“Will you do your best?”

“I will, Miss Serrs. I promise.”

A few minutes after the inspector had left, Eleanor felt someone standing behind her. She glanced over her shoulder.

“I thought you’d gone,” she said.

“I didn’t go far,” Penn said. “If I went too far, I wouldn’t have been able to listen in.”

“And what are you going to do?”

“I think I might go talk to a few people. Maybe try to find the murder weapon.”

“If the murderer dropped it, won’t it be gone?”

“If he dropped it in the ocean, it might be, but nothing ever really gets lost in this city. It only gets relocated.”

“And you think you have a better chance of finding it than all the policemen assigned to this case?”

Penn smiled. “You know, I really do.”
