First was checking in on the aperology department, and personally sharing the news.

Everyone who wasn’t in a project they physically couldn’t leave arrived to go over the scans and readings of the planetary ruin, and they spent an exhilarating two days debating the possible formations of the ruin and how they might best recreate said conditions.

It came to a head just before Matt finally caved, and he agreed to buy a planet that they might try their more dangerous experiments on.

He was also able to deliver the good news that the ruin world would be stopping by Palustris for five or so years, while the chaotic space currents shifted. They would only have that long before it would take its final travel to deeper in the Empire, where it would fill in a gap for one of Tur’stal’s duchies.

Matt didn’t quite understand the logic with it going there, and not to either Zack or Allie, whose duchies were still forming, but he also didn’t care since they didn’t care. He had already worked out a deal with the duchess who was getting the world to allow a research and monitoring team to reside on the world for the first century or three, in return for a minor favor.

The guild’s aperologists doubted they would learn anything immediately useful, but it did bring up questions about the nature of ruins; mainly how and why they inverted. Rifts were seemingly perfect in most aspects; their energy to energy conversion, as well as their matter to energy conversion, were as close to perfect as was measurable, and could seemingly operate forever with apparently unlimited instances all inside the same small slice of reality.

But then, there were cracked skill shards which were, as far as anyone could tell, effectively a flawed creation of otherwise ordinary skills. Why did, every once in a rare while, a rift break seemingly fail and invert into a ruin? Why did rifts, when naturally forming, form at a Tier according to the minus five rule of the planet's Tier, but when they created rifts manually, they started at Tier 1?

If rifts were ‘perfect’, then why the flaws?

That brought up an even more interesting question. What did it mean if they weren’t flaws?

Most of the guild’s aperologists had another interpretation: they weren’t flaws, but actually part of the mechanics behind rifts.

Matt wasn’t quite sure he agreed, but he couldn’t refute some of their arguments, such as ruins being the realm's way of repopulating a planet that had essence but no life. They also postulated that cracked skills weren’t actually normal skills that had a flaw in their creation, but rather existing variations that weren’t unique enough to constitute becoming their own distinct skills.

That second argument had less supporters, but it was still enough of a discussion to spark half a dozen new research proposals.

Proposals that the guild just couldn’t afford until Matt Tiered up, and once more doubled his mana production.

Matt did take the time he had off to enter the mana concentrator again, which was just as unpleasant as always, but there was zero reason to refuse free mana concentration. Sure, his Intent slowly condensed his mana, but unless he wanted to wait tens of thousands of years between Tier ups, the cruncher was just more effective.

Though, interestingly enough, he was building resistance to the machine.

He had built up considerable resistance when he used it dozens of times at Tier 25 during the war, but upon Tiering up that resistance had vanished. Now that he was using the device every time his spirit was recovered enough to manage, that resistance was building again.

It would take a few more Tier ups to see if the resistance was completely reset or lingered between Tier ups, but it was something they were worried enough about to bring it up to him.

The researchers were also starting to worry that, since his mana pool doubled each Tier up, the machine might not be able to concentrate his mana completely without accidentally crippling him. That was less of a problem, as it just meant slowing down the process or doing smaller concentrations, but Matt wasn’t exactly looking forward to the added torture.

Most of them seemed to forget the device was quite literally a torture device, but he sure didn’t.

Not that something as small as mere agonizing spiritual pain would stop him from entering the device.

No, the power was well worth all of the side effects and costs, and he was confident that, with the Emperor's backing, they could overcome any issues that were present. It was just a good reminder that his power wasn’t free.

To that end, he also took his time of recovery to make the announcement about the blank skill shards and the method of how to create skills inside them safely. Rah’s initial method had been slightly improved on – mostly just rewritten and reframed to better fit existing empire methods and terminology– with five years of dedicated and systematic iteration helped along by the man himself, who still insisted on being kept out of the announcement.

The news wasn’t as impressive as the aura potions, and didn’t create massive waves, but it did cause waves. Mostly in academic and research circles who had a desire to create skills, but that was still a sizable demand.

They then went looking to buy blank skill shards, only to find that few places had more than a handful left.

It was then that Allie, Aiden, and Lila dumped their gains back on the market through a dozen intermediaries.

People definitely suspected Matt had been the one behind the market manipulation, but surprisingly enough, most news stations just shrugged it off as the discoverer's first mover advantage. Part of that was definitely because the trio had only charged twenty percent over the typical price, but Matt suspected that they thought he had bought a lot to create the method of how to make rifts that could make blank skill shards and sold what he had left after he figured it out.

Matt had actually discovered that way back as a Tier 6, but he didn’t correct them, and instead just raked in the positive publicity for releasing the rift creation formula for blank skill shards as well as the money the other Ascenders sent him.

He also learned from Sien that there had been a Mourning Dew’s First Blossom Sect that had apparently known the trick, and had sworn a blood feud with his guild due to the revelation. If they survived the Sect infighting that the news had kicked up, he might be mildly worried, but they were being attacked by several of their contemporaries who had been fleeced by the guild using the safe skill creation method in the past.

He and his inner circle had debated whether or not they should tease the reveal of the skill creation method, but they had decided that worrying about their hidden enemies wasn’t worth changing their methodology. Or at least, not for something like this.

In fact, they were kind of hoping their enemies took the news as a reason to attack again, as that would let them have another data point they could start chasing down.

At the same time, Matt went and got an update on the skill creation teams.

Last time Matt had checked in with them, they had settled on five distinct skills they thought would cover most situations Tier 1 and 2 delvers might encounter.

[Fury of the Blade] was a decent area of effect spell that would help melee fighters cover their single-target weakness, as each swing of their weapon would cause blades of air to shoot out semi randomly. They managed to tighten the skill structure a bit by using modification methods from this realm, which got it just inside the standard size. But more importantly, they managed to write a skill modification guide to be used after it was created that added a modest homing function to the projectiles.

[Draw Heat of the Stars] was being renamed to [Lesser Fire Weapon] and did exactly what the new name implied. Amusingly enough, the researchers were only able to make minor modifications to make the skill easier to make, with just how simple the skill already was. In fact, it was so simple, they found the skill worked with anything being held in one's hand, or, if nothing was in the hand, the hands themselves.

Anyone who wanted to use the skill would need to invest in fire resistant gloves, but the skill was cheap, effective, and just worked.

Instead, they spent their time using this as a jumping off point into a more major modification, trying to outright swap the element used. They had some minor but real progress on using air instead, but water and stone were still elusive. Matt had gotten quite excited when he first heard of it, but upon reading the report, his enthusiasm was doused somewhat. All of the projections suggested that at the kind of lower power that these easy to make skills had, air, water, and earth spells didn’t do much more than as a fire spell; except with higher mana costs, thanks to needing to create and move real material instead of just making energy around the blade in question.

They would publish the variations, but they doubted many would choose them over the fire version.

Still, it was a good learning exercise that rounded out the guild’s knowledge with this new type of skill archetype.

It might take a while, but Matt was actually confident in what the team had created. Any melee fighter who wanted to add an elemental skill to their arsenal early would be well served to spend the time to make [Lesser Fire Weapon] or one of its variations.

However, [Star in My Hand], new prospective name [Hand Shield], was proving to be a bit of a problem child. The original skill, which Rah shared, conjured a small, plate-sized shield of mana on the caster’s hand and acted like a typical mana shield.

The team in charge of that skill had wanted to take the obvious route and turn the skill into a more typical shield spell that could latch onto a physical shield. Except, nothing they tried worked. Or, more accurately, anything they got working was so complicated it was beyond even a practiced Tier 8 to make, rendering it ineffective.

Then they tried to shape it into a more useful shape, like a gauntlet, plate body, or helmet. Matt was quite excited at the idea, hoping that maybe one day they could make a full body armour skill for low Tiers. After all, [Cracked Phantom Armour] was core to so much of his success at the early Tiers and beyond. Staying alive was the best way to learn from mistakes and low Tier mistakes were some of the hardest to recover from, since they lacked the breadth of abilities higher Tiers had.

Unfortunately, on top of any attempt at a shape or location modification ended in abject failure. The skill structure either destabilized or collapsed entirely. The former ballooned the mana cost while also making the skill so weak the caster might as well wear regular gloves for all the protection it offered, while the latter resulted in spiritual damage to the researcher testing the modification as the skill fell apart.

Even Rah couldn’t suggest any modifications, and stated it wasn’t a very popular skill in his home realm for those same reasons they were running into. The only reason he shared it at all was because it was the only magical beginner defensive skill he knew. Even the more advanced skills [Star in My Hand] was typically built into were broadly subpar in comparison to this realm’s skills at the same estimated Tier, when factoring in ease of creation, cost, and durability. The sheer time to first make [Star in My Hand] and then modify it to the more advanced versions alone made it extremely unappealing for long term investment.

The team wasn’t giving up, but they had hit a roadblock and Matt was ultimately forced to make the call and put [Hand Shield] on the axe list for further development.

While he believed in the team working on the skill, and had promised them full funding until the skills went live, he had also made the decision that if they didn’t make significant progress, they had better things to spend their time and his mana on.

It was no better than a buckler shield, except a buckler shield doesn’t cost mana.

Maybe one day, as the field became more mature, they’d manage to get something useful out of it, or just create an alternative from scratch, but that day was not today. Hopefully those few who chose to invest their time into the skill could make something of it.

None of that made it any easier to make the call, but he still did it.

In a similar spot was [Physical Empowerment], a simple all round boost to all physical attributes. In a bit of a twist off the typical for their realm, it seemed to work more off of physical strength rather than a pure cultivation boost, which had two side effects. The first was that physically fit people got fantastic results even at the lower Tiers. The second was more of a downside, in that it physically exhausted the caster similar to a hard workout.

Not the worst side effect, but it was something they were only able to note and move on from.

It was definitely good enough to be released, but being based on physical muscle rather than essence made the skill structure exotic enough that the team hadn’t really made any useful progress on modifying it before or after creation. Ultimately, that was the death blow for the skill’s long term viability, as it meant it fundamentally became less useful as muscle became less relevant compared to essence.

