To make matters worse, Rah himself had never learned anything that built on it, so he couldn't point them in the right direction as he hadn’t learned this variation until later in his cultivation journey, when he already had better, essence-based, boosts. He knew there were some skills that build off of it out there, giving Matt hope that someday, somebody, could make something from the skill. But until then, the skill was only really useful until someone reached Tier 8, or maybe Tier 10.

The crown jewel of the lot was undoubtedly [Sun Flare]. It was basically a crippled [Fire Bolt] or half powered [Fireball], but Matt was sure it would become a mandatory skill in all beginning mages' arsenals who couldn’t just buy [Fireball]. At 6 mana a cast, it wasn’t much cheaper than a proper [Fireball], which wasn’t ideal, but also not a deal breaker. They had wanted to make the skill mergeable with [Fireball] or [Fire Bolt], but it used a completely different skill structure, making them incompatible.

[Sun Flare]’s advantage was that adding power was as simple as adding loops into the skill structure. Testing had shown that while the power to mana cost scaling wasn’t great, it was good enough. Without any other more complicated modifications, [Sun Flare] could reach [Fireball] power at just 13 mana.

With the mage in question having spent years, if not a full decade, with the skill by the time they got to Tier 7, where they could buy [Fireball] proper, they should have been able to lower [Sun Flare]’s mana consumption to 10 mana or below. And all of that only through the natural growth that skills went through when being used in a cultivator’s spirit, which made that ‘problem’ not really a problem. If they deliberately worked on lowering the cost it could go even lower making it a just out right better [Fireball] for those who put in the time.

In fact the skill was so malleable that Matt authorized research into other elemental types, hoping for a better outcome than [Lesser Fire Weapon], but only time would tell how it turned out.

Still, the progress was so good, Matt was willing to tease the information, and he put a tentative release date of five or so years, or when they came out of their next delve session.

That should put them at Tier 27, and with the additional power, he would have more mana to throw around, which could be explained away as rewards for this new method by Manny.

But that meant actually delving again. Thankfully, they had a perfectly good planet under them just waiting to be delved, and they had reserved several of the world's more interesting rifts to hit after a refill on mana.

Just before they were to start delving once more, Matt got an update on Titan’s Torch’s court case.

Judge Hatfield had officially ended their suit.

He hadn’t ruled in Falker’s favor, but neither had he ruled in Titan’s Torch’s.

While the jury had been skeptical about Falker’s team's credibility, there hadn’t been enough proof to definitively show they had stolen the research.

The ruling meant they were getting a split patent, but their ability to spread the patent freely would only kick in after a hundred years.

It wasn’t perfect, but it was slightly better than Matt had expected, as it came with signatures from Judge Hatfield’s superiors, meaning anything short of an appeal to a Royal or the Emperor himself wouldn’t be reversing the decision. A good enough resolution that meant Falkers couldn’t try to tie them up in litigation to extend the deadline.

Interestingly enough, several news stations were covering the case, taking incredibly negative slants, citing Matt having used his influence as an Ascender to abuse the court system. Matt noted each of those stations down and immediately set his guild's newest department to investigate them.

Tholly and his spies were good, but they ultimately worked at the behest of another. The imperial government, sure, but Matt didn’t directly employ them and so had Kees start up their own small group of spies.

Matt wasn’t blind to the fact Tholly and his people were the ones initially vetting them, which left them open to corruption on that front, but they needed to start somewhere. It was best to have trustworthy people to start with, as any clandestine organization was the best place to put a spy, so it was ultimately a price they had to pay. That, and the people they had recruited were Tholly’s former colleagues, so he was as good a person to vet them as anyone.

Not that they were that clandestine. Or spies for that matter.

The new group were more information gatherers than anything else. Unlike most who created such departments, Matt wasn’t trying to act behind the cover of anonymity. If someone irritated him enough that he had to act, there was zero reason to hide behind proxies. No, their jobs were to simply reveal his enemies so Matt could crush them himself.

A sucker for the classics, Matt had been tempted to call them janitors, but they weren’t assassins and instead just called them what they were: Investigators.

They were starting small with only four people, two men and two women, all of whom were former spies for Harper who had left the life for not so various reasons. Spies who were identified via less obvious means were sometimes impossible to employ in covert actions. Harper usually found them other places, but some people were unwilling to leave the life and instead became a variety of things that still allowed them to use their skill set.

Corporate espionage and corporate counter espionage were fairly common answers.

Each had their own expertise and reported directly to Matt and Kees.

Time would be the ultimate determining factor of their success, but Matt was hopeful that by the time they stopped delving, he’d have a better picture, if not a target.
