She floated through the portal, and he gently closed it behind her.

"Quite the tormented kid, but she has a good heart," the World Tree said out of nowhere. "You raised her well."

Ashlock glanced at the World Tree, the opening having already closed.

"Thank you," he said, deciding to take the compliment. "I appreciate you watching over Stella and letting me know she was free."

"You know, she never stopped believing that you would come and save her," the World Tree added. "Even as Janus sacrificed himself to give her a way out, she wanted it to be you."

Ashlock fell silent. He didn't know whether he was supposed to be flattered by Stella's faith in him or devastated that, despite his efforts, he wasn't the one to save her.

"Maybe one day she will have that same heaven-defying faith in me," the World Tree said, and Ashlock felt her weighted presence move elsewhere. Distant roots the size of mountains rumbled with movement, and he felt ripples of power radiate outward as the World Tree tore apart the last of her restraints.

The visions he had seen of the past showed him that the World Tree lacked offensive power, but Ashlock was starting to wonder how true that really was. If they fought, who would win?

"I guess I'll find out soon enough," he muttered, knowing he would have to confront the World Tree in due time regarding the Era of Ascension, but that could wait until after his own ascension.

He swiftly returned to Tartarus and found Maple had finished his interrogation and returned to his usual form. Nyxalia had successfully torn what was left of the Crowned One's soul from Ao Lingxuan and held it between her fingers.

"Stella is safe, the war is almost over," he informed the room to a round of cheers and applause. A tension held by all, even Maple, had been lifted. Diana and a self-healing Sol left the room in search of her while the others awaited his commands.

"Nyxalia and Maple, bring the soul and corpse to be devoured."

Two Monarch Realms would complete his quest.

Though he was dreading enduring back-to-back dreams to learn all the laws he had been ignoring. If he could come out of them sane, that would be a win in his book.

But he was curious about what powers he would get from devouring the Crowned One. Conceptual dao wasn't something he had really encountered yet.

"The power to command with words," Ashlock mused as he shifted views again. "That's going to be interesting."

Nyxalia brought the glowing ball of light to Red Vine Peak, and Ashlock cradled it with a thorned vine.

The Crowned One was his to devour.
