She was a [Princess]. She was royalty. She was heir to one of the glorious kingdoms of Terrandria, and she had seen more in her eighteen years of life than most commoners could hope of glimpsing in their entire lives.
And she understood people. People were dreary, dull, and most had small ambitions and smaller minds. But Lyonette du Marquin couldn’t understand the person called Erin Solstice. She was a mystery.
Of course, to look at Erin, one would immediately notice her plain looks. She had a modicum of attractiveness perhaps; her teeth were not crooked and she had no glaring disfiguring features, but she was no courtly beauty.
And indeed, her class was mundane as they came. She was an [Innkeeper]. Only…she wasn’t just an innkeeper.
She played chess, the game of [Strategists] and the nobility. She played it better than anyone Lyonette had seen, and that alone was inconceivable. But more than that, she treated with the lesser races as if they were people, and she employed a vicious, horrible, ghastly undead skeleton as if there were nothing abhorrent about the idea!
And yet, and yet. She was also kind. Grudgingly, Lyonette admitted that fact as she broke her fast on the thick gravy and biscuits. She dipped a steaming chunk of biscuit in the meaty sauce and consumed it ravenously.
This was not the elegant food she dined on nightly in her home. But it was…an acceptable repast nonetheless. That was one small point in Erin Solstice’s favor.
Something snuffled at Lyonette’s leg and she looked down. The young Gnoll cub sat on the ground underneath her table, staring up at Lyonette with wide, curious eyes.
Another point. At least Erin Solstice, for all her myriad flaws, was kind to children. Even a Gnoll child was not without merit.
And this one—
Lyonette glanced around, but the Drake female and Solstice were talking, and the odd City Runner was talking with the horrible Antinium. And the skeleton was in the kitchen. So Lyonette broke off some of her biscuit, dipped it in gravy, and lowered her hand under the table.
Mrsha immediately glomped onto Lyonette’s hand and licked it, which made the girl laugh. Quietly. She’d always loved the dogs that the [Kennel Master] raised, and the Gnoll child was more than a mere animal. She—it had broken Lyonette’s heart to hear the tale. Not for the Gnoll tribe of course; they were ghastly beasts. But the Gnoll child had looked so sad…
What was she doing here? Lyonette frowned as she wiped her fingers and resumed eating. She should be headed north, with as much coin as she could take. Lady Magnolia would surely take her in, despite Solstice’s lies. And then…
And then, Lyonette could find her true calling somewhere else. She could search for adventure, rather than continue being trapped by mundanity.
She would not escape without cost, though. The humiliation Lyonette had already suffered was beyond forgiveness, and worst—she had another class.
[Barmaid]. Level 3. And she had gained a Skill. [Lesser Stamina]. It made napping more difficult, but on the other hand it allowed Lyonette the energy to complete the many irrelevant tasks Solstice forced upon her.
That was the greatest affront of all. Her royal class had been ruined by the addition of a common class. It was an unforgivable occurrence; Lyonette had been sullied. If her father were to learn of this—
Lyonette’s stomach clenched. What did she care of her father? What did he care of her? He had probably only sent search parties as far as the shores of Terrandria, never imagining she would have the courage to book herself passage to Izril. And she had survived monsters, starvation, and even the horrible mob that had cast her out of Liscor to get this far.
She was only staying at this inn because she had no choice. But soon, she would be restored to her rightful position. And perhaps then she would extract some form of retribution upon that damnable skeleton.
A [Barmaid] class. Of all the insults! Lyonette scowled as Mrsha sniffed at her feet and recoiled. It was unacceptable! She was not destined to wait upon commoners like a useless peasant!
But she had leveled up. There was that. Lyonette stared at her food, suddenly less hungry. It had been so long, she’d almost forgotten what leveling up was like. That had been nice.
“Perhaps…”
Lyonette hesitated, and shook her head. No, it was ridiculous. But a thought nagged at her mind as she pushed back her plate. It was intolerable of course, being ordered around, being subservient to another. It was ridiculous that she should level in any class other than [Princess]. But…
But it was better than being useless.
 
—-
 
“So, I was thinking, I need to make my inn more popular, you know?”
Erin gestured around her inn as she spoke to Selys. She wasn’t trying to be mean of course; she had a nice inn. Everything had been built by the Antinium, and she even had glass windows. Even Peslas’ inn didn’t have glass windows. But—it wasn’t enough.
“I mean, I’ve got that faerie flower drink, but I need to work on that. I was really thinking, though, that I need more stuff.”
“Stuff?”
Selys looked at Erin blankly. Erin nodded and tried to explain.
“Remember the acid flies? Well, the Antinium loved those. I had a full inn some nights, and I made tons of gold coins! But now its winter, I’ve got nothing special to sell. And I don’t get many guests. Plus, I made a bit of money selling the acid fly acid, you know?”
“Don’t remind me.”
“But Selys, just think about it! It was so useful—it helped kill Skinner, and you can melt undead with it really fast. Even if it does smell.”
“Where are you going with this, Erin?”
“Well…I was thinking I could sell stuff to adventurers.”
Selys eyed Erin suspiciously.
“What kind of stuff?”
“You know, like seed pod cores. I’ve still got some and they scare those Rock Crabs away. Plus, if I find more boom bark I could maybe sell that.”
“Didn’t Toren blow up your inn with that?”
“Okay, maybe not boom bark. But it could be good business, you know! I just need to go exploring.”
Selys glanced out one window. The snowfall from last night had stopped, but the snow was so deep that there were practically no features to the landscape. Even opening the door this morning had necessitated quite a bit of arm strength on Erin’s part.
“Exploring? In this weather? Erin…”
“I’ll get Toren to guide me. I think Mrsha’s scared of him, anyways.”
Both females looked over and saw Mrsha prowling around after Toren as he mechanically swept and cleaned up the common room. Every time he turned towards her she would scoot under a table, but she kept eyeing him warily.
“Your skeleton scares me, Erin. Okay, if he’s with you I guess you can always let him fight monsters and run away. But be careful, alright? Shield Spiders still make their nests and [Dangersense] doesn’t cover all kinds of traps.”
“Sure, no problem. But that means I’ll have to leave Mrsha with Ryoka.”
Erin looked over at Ryoka. She was still staring at her plate, although she’d finished eating. Klbkch was watching her, and it looked like Ryoka was in deep thought.
“Do you think that’s wise?”
“Well, Ryoka did bring Mrsha this far.”
“No, I mean, look at her.”
Selys pointed back to Mrsha. The Gnoll cub had lost some of her fear of Toren. She was reaching out and even as the skeleton turned, she grabbed his ankle curiously. Toren whirled, and Mrsha fled, yelping in terror.
“Toren! Don’t scare her!”
Erin went to cuddle Mrsha. She looked at Selys.
“What’s the matter?”
“She needs entertainment, Erin. She can’t stay in an inn all day, and she needs a minder, not…”
Selys nodded to Ryoka. The other girl was still motionless. Toren approached and tentatively reached for her plate. The other girl made no response, even when he waved a bony hand in front of her face.
“Right. Well, what should I do? Maybe I could leave her with Krshia?”
But that would mean she was around Brunkr, and Erin didn’t like that.
“Leave the child with me.”
Both Selys and Erin turned. Lyonette had stood up. She raised her nose at the two of them imperiously.
“What was that, Lyon?”
The girl’s eyes flashed, but she made no comment about her name. Erin liked the sound of Lyon better than Lyonette, anyways.
“I am bored. I will look after the child—Mrsha.”
Erin and Selys exchanged a look. Erin tried to make her tone friendly.
“Well, that’s really nice of you to offer, Lyonette. But…uh, I think…um…no.”
Lyonette scowled.
“Why not? I am quite capable of looking after a child.”
She glared as both Drake and Human exchanged a dubious look. Selys coughed into one claw.
“I can take Mrsha, Erin. I’ve got a day off and besides, there’s a playground in the city. She can have fun with other kids there.”
“A playground?”
Erin had never seen anything like that, but then, she’d never bothered to explore the city fully. Selys nodded.
“She’ll be safe with me. And I’m sure she’d like to have fun, wouldn’t you, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll cub looked up at Selys. She wagged her tail a bit and sniffed at the Drake as she crouched down.
“She’s sort of like a puppy, don’t you think?”
Erin whispered to Selys as the Drake scratched Mrsha behind the ears. Selys shrugged.
“Gnoll cubs are pretty animal-like. And Mrsha’s young; I wouldn’t worry about it. Drake hatchlings like to bite everything they can fit their mouths around. Aren’t Human children different too?”
Erin thought of screaming babies and toddlers who would eat bugs and sand and poo. She nodded.
“Well…if you don’t mind, that would be great, Selys! Thanks! Then Lyonette can help me and Toren look for cool stuff.”
Lyonette’s brows snapped together.
“What was that?”
“Hey Toren!”
Erin called out to the skeleton. He looked over at her.
“We’re going out! Get your sword and put the dishes away, okay? Lyonette’s coming too!”
The skeleton appeared to perk up when Erin mentioned the sword, but when she mentioned Lyonette he seemed to sag. He walked into the kitchen as Erin went over to Ryoka.
“Hey Ryoka, is it okay if Selys takes Mrsha for the day?”
“Mm.”
Ryoka didn’t look at Erin. Erin hesitated.
“And uh, I’m going outside. With Lyonette and Toren. I’m going exploring.”
“Mhm.”
The other girl’s face didn’t change. She was clearly deep in thought, or sleeping with her eyes open. Erin hesitated.
“I will inform her, Erin Solstice.”
Klbkch nodded from his seat. Erin smiled at him.
“Oh, thanks Klbkch! But are you sure you want to stay?”
The Antinium nodded.
“I would like to chat with Ryoka Griffin. Take care while you are exploring. Do not hesitate to run.”
“Don’t worry! I’m going to bring a frying pan and a knife.”
Klbkch stared at Erin. She gave him a thumbs up.
“See you later!”
 
—-
 
“It’s cold. And wet.”
Lyonette complained loudly as she followed Erin and Toren through the snow. The skeleton was breaking a path through the deep snow, but even so, Erin had to fight just to keep moving. The snow was deep today, even for someone used to Michigan winters.
Erin had seen snow that went knee-deep, but she couldn’t remember ever seeing waist-deep snow. But in some of the valleys, the snow had accumulated to the point where it made progress impossible.
“Why are we even out here?”
Lyonette complained even more loudly Toren slipped in the snow and face-planted. Erin sighed. She was already regretting taking Lyonette with her, but it was either that or inflict her on Ryoka. And Ryoka would probably kick Lyonette in the face.
Why hadn’t she left Lyonette with Ryoka?
“Come on Lyon, it’s not that bad.”
Erin’s foot found a divot in the ground and she windmilled her arms wildly to stay upright. Lyon stared at her in disgust. But instead of her usual snide remarks she folded her arms.
“Do not mistake me; I am grateful for your assistance in my time of need. But I am not your slave, to be ordered around at your whim.”
“I didn’t say you were. But we’re all working in this inn together, Lyon. I own it, but I need your help.”
“And how is this helping your inn, pray?”
Lyon gestured at the white landscape. She stared at Toren as the skeleton sloughed ahead of them.
“It will take the better part of a day to get anywhere. And what are we even looking for?”
Erin shrugged.
“I dunno. Hunting monsters? Gathering mushroom and rare stuff? Maybe there’s a mine around here somewhere.”
Erin had no idea how mining worked. And the look Lyonette gave her told her that she probably wasn’t going find any gemstones any time soon.
“You. Wish to hunt monsters?”
“Well, want is a strong word. But Toren’s got a sword. And armor.”
Erin pointed at Toren. The skeleton had stopped to watch the two girls argue. He was slowly sinking deeper into the snow as his holey bronze armor weighed him down. Lyonette sniffed.
“That thing fills me with no confidence.”
“Well…I have a frying pan.”
Erin lifted it to prove her point. Lyonette stared at the frying pan.
“…Are you unwell in the head? How will a frying pan kill monsters?”
“Hey! I killed a ton of zombies with a frying pan! Well, not this pan because they get really gross when the brains and stuff get on it but—”
“Wait, you killed a zombie? By yourself?”
“I had help. There was this undead attack and I had to kill a bunch of undead. Some Antinium Workers came to help me, and a lot of people died. Oh, and there was this horrible huge flesh-worm-thing that attacked. And a lot of zombies and ghouls and even these Crypt Lords tried to kill me, so yeah.”
Erin was aware that Lyon was gaping at her. She cleared her throat, slightly embarrassed.
“Anyways, if it’s just a Shield Spider or a Rock Crab we’re fine. I can scare away Rock Crabs and Toren and I can kill Shield Spiders.”
“You can!?”
“Well, yeah. You just hit them and keep dodging their fangs. And legs. Oh, and don’t fall into their pit traps.”
This was all normal to Erin. But Lyonette stared at her as if this was all completely new to her. Which, come to that, it was.
“But—Silver-rank adventurers take on requests to slay Shield Spiders!”
“Yeah?”
Erin scratched her head. Lyon stared at her. The silence lengthened until Erin felt it was time to move.
“Okay, we’ve got to go. Toren, take us to the place you found the mushrooms!”
She turned and began to follow Toren. Lyonette followed them after a few seconds.
It was mercifully quiet for a while, but Erin was beginning to suspect that Lyonette, annoying though she’d been, was right. After about thirty minutes of struggling in the snow, they were only a hundred feet away from the inn.
“Alright, new plan! We’re going into the city!”
