Of course, when they got in sight of the gates and the Drake Guardsman on duty, Erin realized that there was another problem.
“Oh, right. Lyonette can’t come inside and neither can you, Toren.”
Both skeleton and [Princess] gave Erin a flat look. She smiled and scratched at her head.
“Um. Okay, Lyonette, you stay outside with Toren. I’ll be back soon!”
Lyonette stared at Erin as the girl shook snow off her boots and proceeded down the freshly cleared streets of Liscor. Then she looked at Toren.
The skeleton stood where Erin had left him. He was staring at the snow. Just staring. Lyonette knew the skeleton’s features never changed, but she got the distinct impression he was upset. He was gripping his sword rather tightly.
Slowly, she edged away from the skeleton and then looked at the guard. The Drake on duty stared ahead, boredom written into every inch of his body and his slowly wagging tail. He’d eyed Toren once, but apparently the guards knew about Erin’s undead helper. Slowly, he scratched at his butt.
Lyonette decided to stand right where she was. After a few minutes of waiting in the cold snow, she sneezed.
 
—-
 
“Snowshoes?”
Krshia looked blankly at Erin. The Human sneezed again and nodded.
“Yeah. Do you have any?”
Krshia scratched at her furry chin. Today Brunkr was nowhere to be seen, and she’d told Erin that he was still sulking.
“There is not much call for them outside, yes? The roads, they are melted clear with magic spell and many feet. And it does not usually snow so deeply.”
“Yeah. Um. Oops.”
Erin recalled several drunk faeries laughing as the flew out of her inn. She had the feeling that might have precipitated the sudden weather change.
Krshia eyed Erin, but shrugged.
“I may be able to find some. But none that will fit Human feet, yes? They will require resizing. And certainly none for your undead…thing.”
“Oh, I’ve got [Advanced Crafting], and I only need a pairs for me and L—uh, I just need two. Toren can run pretty fast through the snow since, you know, he doesn’t get tired.”
And the snow had a lot less mass to constrict in his case. Skeletons were thin.
Krshia nodded.
“But you will still be quite slow, yes?”
“Yes? I mean yeah, that is a problem.”
Erin frowned. She wanted to get around, at least so she could do some exploring and maybe gather some rare mushrooms like the ones Toren had found. Maybe she could sell them to the faeries for actual gold this time, or use them in a dish. But it was hard to explore when you moved at a glacial pace.
The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] thought as she and Erin stood together in front of her stall. It was nice to be on speaking terms with Krshia again. She always had good advice for Erin.
Let’s see. If snow shoes were too slow, what was faster?
“How about skis?”
“Skis?”
Erin tried to explain. Krshia looked blank.
“Snow shoes we have, but these…pieces of wood seem too fragile. Gnolls would not use such things. Perhaps a Drake might have such devices.”
The tone in her voice suggested that only a Human would be that crazy, and even then, possibly only Erin.
“Well…darn. Maybe I could make some, though. Can I buy some wood? I mean, it’d be hard since Lyonette doesn’t know how to ski. And Toren can’t either…too bad we can’t all just—”
Erin paused. Her train of thought stopped, as she switched transportation methods. Okay, skiing might be a bit impractical, but there was another easy way to travel in the snow, wasn’t there?
An idea sparked in Erin’s mind.
“Hey Krshia, do you have any sleds? Can I buy one? No—can I buy one and a lot of wood? And some nails? I have a hammer. Ooh, and some leather. Or maybe rope. And do you have bells?”
The Gnoll frowned at her.
“Wood is expensive in the winter, Erin Solstice. I would not ask, but I have not the coin to make promises to other shopkeepers. Are you sure you have the money?”
“I’ve got gold. Lots of gold.”
Erin reached into her belt pouch and pulled out a handful of gold coins. She slapped them on Krshia’s counter.
Krshia’s eyes bulged. Erin smiled sheepishly.
“I saved up. And Halrac tips a lot. So about those bells…”
 
—-
 
“T-there you are!”
Toren looked up at the sound of Lyonette’s voice. The grinding impatience and simmering resentment in what would have been his heart—if he had one—faded for a moment when he saw Erin. At last, his stupid mistress would give him an order and hopefully he would soon be released.
But his hopes were dashed when he saw what Erin was carrying. The girl was trying to lug a huge pile of various types of wood as she dragged a wooden sled on the ground. She had a box of nails and screws precariously next to a saw on top of the load.
“Hey Lyonette! Hey Toren! Sorry I’m late! It took a while to get all this stuff!”
Lyon stumbled towards Erin, her teeth chattering.
“I’m freezing. You’ve been gone for an hour!”
“Sorry, sorry. I really am. But look! We just need to get this back to the inn and we can build some really cool stuff with it!”
“Build? Build what?”
Toren wanted to know that too. Erin was smiling oddly, and he didn’t like the look she was giving him. It was almost as if she was measuring him, and the skeleton’s nonexistent blood ran cold when he saw the bells.
He wanted to run. Something about the glint in Erin’s eyes made him want to run.
“Hey Toren, come here for a second, will you?”
 
—-
 
It was a cold, snowy day around Liscor, and on the continent of Izril in general. The snow had fallen hard last night, and so even the most determined travelers like City Runners and caravans following the main roads were moving at a snail’s pace.
The Frost Faeries considered this entertaining. They laughed and threw snowballs at one poor Gnoll who was dragging a toboggan filled with supplies across the snow. Yes, the snow could not be avoided. It was everywhere, making people’s lives a misery. The Frost Faeries felt smug at that thought.
But then—movement. From their position high overhead, the faeries saw something odd making its way across the snowy plains. They swooped down, keenly interested in anything unusual. And as they got closer their tiny jaws dropped and their eyes bulged.
They’d seen sleds before, of course. The Gnoll tribes used them for all kinds of transport, and sleighs were similarly used in colder weather. But this—this was different. No horse pulled the sled that had been mounted on skis, and indeed, this device alone was making quick headway in the deep snow. Because of what was pulling it.
A horse, fast as it might be, could only travel on relatively clear roads. The same went for a dog team; even the best dog sleds would have issues in waist-deep snow. But there was one creature that ignored all temperatures, which could run full-sprint for hours on end without tiring, and most importantly, couldn’t disobey orders.
“Mush, mush!”
Erin shouted happily as Toren pulled the sledge she’d built through the snow. The wide and long vehicle she’d constructed with the use of her [Advanced Crafting] Skill was six feet long and wide enough for both her and Lyonette to sit on it comfortably.
The skis she’d mounted on the bottom allowed the sledge to speed around even in deep snow, and Toren made it all work. The skeleton flailed his arms wildly as he ran through the deep snow, and Erin laughed as the reins she’d fastened to his body jingled and rang in the crisp air.
A leather harness for her skeleton, a sled for Erin and Lyonette—and they were speeding across the winter landscape with quite commendable speed. In truth, Toren could only pull the sledge about as fast as Erin could jog at the best of times, but it was a pleasant ride, and most importantly, Erin was riding and not fighting through the snow.
Erin flapped the reins again and Toren endeavored to run faster. She looked over at Lyonette and saw the girl had the same expression on her face as the Frost Faeries overhead had. A sort of slack-jawed stare with glazed eyes for the full effect.
“Isn’t it great?”
Lyonette stared at Erin. Her eyes were fixed on Toren. The skeleton was fighting his way through another thick drift of snow, his jaw gnashing furiously as he pulled the sledge up a hill.
“Go for it, Toren!”
From her position at the head of her ride, Erin stared across the open landscape. This, now, this was what she’d been missing. This was fun. She felt a song coming on, and began to sing, her voice carrying for miles around.
“Dashing through the snow, on a one-skeleton open sleigh, over the hills we go, laughing all the way!”
Erin’s voice echoed across the snowy landscape as the wind rushed past her head. She pointed.
“There! Go that way, Toren!”
She was pointing towards a cave opening in the distance. Toren change directions, and Erin whooped as she felt the sledge shift smoothly on the snow.
 
“Let us ride! We demand to join in!”
 
Erin looked up and Lyonette screamed as Frost Faeries flew down from overhead, laughing and pointing at Toren. They settled on the side of the sledge and for once Erin didn’t begrudge their presence.
 
“What song is this? We must sing along!”
“Sing! Sing for us!”
 
“Okay! Everyone join in!”
The faeries cheered and Lyonette stared at one as it landed on Erin’s head. The young woman thought of the few Christmas songs she knew by heart, and began to sing.
“You’d better not shout, you’d better not cry; better not pout, I’m telling you why! Santa Claus is coming to town!”
 
“Ooh, threats! Good!”
“Who is Santa Claus? Does he eat children?”
“Run faster, dead thing!”
 
Toren staggered as a snowball bounced off the back of his head. Erin looked at the Frost Faeries in surprise.
“Haven’t you heard of Santa Claus? Lyonette?”
No one had. And it was a bit too windy to explain about Santa, so Erin found herself switching songs.
“Oh, the weather outside is frightful, but the fire is so delightful! And since we’ve no place to go; let it snow, let it snow, let it snow!”
This was a song the Frost Faeries could get behind. They cheered and laughed and started singing along with Erin.
 
“Let it snow!”
“More snow! Let’s bury yon mountains, sisters!”
 
“What? Wait! Don’t do that!”
Erin shouted at the faeries as more snowflakes, heavy thick ones, began falling from the sky. The faeries looked at her. So did Lyonette.
“Who are you talking to?”
Erin pointed at a Frost Fairy.
“Her!”
Lyonette stared at the Frost Faerie, and then at Erin with the look of someone who clearly feared she was sharing a seat with someone who was insane. Erin remembered Lyonette couldn’t see the faeries.
“They’re faeries! You can’t see them but—they’re little blue people! They’ve got wings and they speak to me and Ryoka! They make it snow, but I’m telling them to stop!”
The other girl edged away from Erin. But the snow had begun to fall and it had also stopped as soon as Erin had complained. The rest of the sleigh ride was filled with more Christmas songs, most of which the faeries sang with Erin. The only one they hated was Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer, because they thought he was a freak.
As they reached the cave, Erin leapt off the sledge, still arguing with the faeries.
“He was not a freak! He just had a red…shining nose, that’s all! It was probably magic!”
 
“Bah! He was an abomination! ‘Twas right of the other reindeer to shun him!”
“How bright was his nose? Bright enough to light up the sky?”
“Who is Santa Claus?”
 
“Oh hey, this is one of the caves where Toren found all those mushrooms, right Lyonette?”
The [Princess] stared at Erin.
“Um. Yes?”
“Good! Let’s go get some poisonous mushrooms!”
The faeries cheered and Erin walked into the cave. She ran out a few seconds later.
“Bear!”
It was a sleeping bear, but that was more than enough for Erin to retreat back to her sledge. She pointed at Toren. The skeleton had paused to squat in the snow, probably to take a break from the efforts of pulling the sled, and the jingling harness she had put on him.
“Toren, there’s a bear! You go in there!”
The skeleton brightened up considerably. He reached for his sword—Erin had made him leave his armor behind so he would move faster. She scowled at him.
“Don’t hurt the bear! Just get those mushrooms! And be quiet; don’t wake the bear up if you can help it!”
As she and Lyonette sat in the sledge, Erin listened to the faeries laughing overhead. Lyonette eyed the fuzzy blue shapes she identified as the dangerous and unpredictable Frost Sprites and ducked whenever any of them come close.
“Are we just gathering mushrooms?”
“Well, to begin with. We’ll visit all of those caves Toren found and see if we can’t find something cool, okay?”
Lyonette shrugged and sniffed. She wiped her nose, and eyed Toren as the skeleton skulked back out of the caves, holding two handfuls of discolored mushrooms.
“Are we going to take all of the mushrooms with us? How will we carry them?”
Erin snapped her fingers.
“You’re right!”
She waved at Toren and hissed at him.
“Toren! Get the rest of the mushrooms quick, will you? We’re going back to the inn! We need jars! Lots of jars! Ooh, and I can make us lunch!”
The skeleton twitched.
 
—-
 
“Are those…bees?”
The third cave Erin and Lyonette found after a hearty lunch harbored a strange sight. Erin cautiously peered into the depths of the large cavernous hole in the side of the mountain and stared at the shapes moving around in the darkness.
Lyonette hung back. Erin beckoned her closer, and the girl reluctantly approached. She was holding a ball of light—it turned out she knew the spell, even though she didn’t have the [Mage] class.
“I think those are bees. What do you think, Lyonette?”
The girl hesitated. She flinched as one of the shadows flew closer.
“They’re—they’re bugs! I didn’t think any were alive in the winter! Why do you even care? They’re horrible!”
“Yeah, but are they bees or wasps?”
Erin frowned at the bees. She thought they were bees. She could vaguely make out a certain fuzziness about them, and hornets looked different. More evil. So. Bees in the winter. It was certainly something she hadn’t expected to see, especially in a cave. But then, she supposed bees had to live somewhere. They didn’t migrate, after all. Or did they? Were these special winter bees?
The last three caves they’d visited had been uninhabited except for some plant life and mushrooms. Erin had made Toren scrape mold and fungi and pick mushrooms and put them into glass jars. She really doubted she’d do anything with the mold, but she was feeling scientific. And adventurous, which was why she hadn’t immediately run when she’d seen the flying insects in the darkness of the cave.
