While David was ingratiating himself with the enchanters, Niala dedicated some of her time to helping their families get properly settled.

The most pressing issue was furnishing the apartments properly; they had the bare necessities, but a family of four did not do well with a single pan.

While they had all been given an initial stipend to get them started, the first issue they ran into was that of supplies; Riverwall did not have enough stock of household items to provide for everyone.

The answer was to make a list of everyone's needs, then send a team to Bellharbour to go purchase everything in bulk. Niala once again called upon her brother-in-law, Luke, for help, sending him the list a day before the group left. The hope was that he could locate and identify trustworthy sellers who could fulfill the orders.

Luke went a step further and purchased everything, stocked them in one of his warehouses, and simply passed on the bill to Niala's group.

The note he sent back was short and to the point: Don't hesitate to ask for our help. We owe you our fortune.

It took her a moment to realize they were talking about the Old Woman and the ensuing Boudoirs. She was a bit surprised about their mention of a fortune, at least until she brought it up with Linzy.

The goblin woman ran a hand down her face and brought out the financial reports from the boudoirs. She had Niala look at the bottom line, gave her a look when the catkin's eyes came back up wide, and put the report away.

This left her in a conflicted state; Marshalla's warning that the Kingdom would want the Old Woman drink distributed far and wide felt like a guillotine waiting to come down on the Boudoir business.

Linzy, however, told her not to worry. She had been corresponding with Rupert, and he was certain that a deal could be arranged. The goblin also reminded Niala that, worst comes to pass, they could pressure the Crown in accepting a deal since they were in a mutually beneficial situation. Namely, the arrangement over the crystal mines.

And in the very worst case, Linzy said they could just call in Angeline.

Niala wasn't sure if she liked her sister being used as a political siege weapon.

A few days later, Marshalla came to ask Niala and David for an official meeting, limbs stiff and spine straight. They agreed to meet her right away, which seemed to take some of the scholar's stress away, though she remained tense.

They moved to their living room as Cookie retrieved and served some fruit water, a dishcloth folded over his tendril like a little waiter's arm.

Niala gave the young pile a smile. “Thanks, Cookie.”

It bobbed up and down, its own version of a smile, before retreating back to its main body.

The catkin turned to face the older woman, her expression flattening and her ears folding down. “Is everything alright, Marshalla?”

The scholar nodded. “There is no pressing issue. Instead, I am here in my role as Dr. Airenne.” She paused and looked at David and Niala in turn. “I have a proposition, though you may see it as asking for a boon. I want to establish a university in Riverwall!”

She let out a breath and continued. “However, I do not have the funds by myself and would need contributors. Usually, this means pandering to noble families interested in the fame and clout associated with centres of higher learning. This, of course, comes with strings; they have to be invited, kept informed of the centre's activities and projects, and have some say in where funds are distributed.”

She grimaced. “You can probably guess at the irritants this can inject into our scholars' lives. However, I know you are both rich enough to fund this endeavour by yourselves, and learned enough to understand what scholarly pursuits truly require: the freedom to fail.”

Her lips curved into a smile. “I truly think that within the span of a few decades we could advance the field of manalogy to heights currently expected to take generations”

In the ensuing silence, Niala glanced at David, who shrugged slightly. She refocused on the scholar, her ears at half-mast. “Not that I'm against funding a centre of learning, but why do you think it could do so much? What's different here in Riverwall?”

Marshalla leaned forward. “You! Both of you! You were already fascinating to study when I first arrived, and more recently, you've opened my eyes to concepts and possibilities that the greater scholarly community hadn't even envisioned outside of wild theories and guesses!”

Niala flinched at the sudden intensity even as the woman continued. “Just a few days ago, when you asked for my help to identify a new compound! David brought up poly-runes and echo-runes, which reminded you of what you call hybrid brewing. The two concepts, apart, are interesting, but taken together, they hint at a unified mana resonance principle! That runes and compounds could be one and the same, only artificial on one side, and natural on the other!”

Her hands were wildly gesturing by now. “If this research pans out, it means we could artificially create potion effects! At will! In an infinite amount! Do you have any idea of the upheaval this would cause?!” She asked, panting by the time she was done.

Niala blinked. “Ah... huh... cheap, easy potions for everyone?”

Marshalla tilted her head. “What? Well, yes, but also creating effects that are only theoretically possible! Imagine not having to deal with compounds cancelling each other, as you described! The potions we could create would be limited by imagination alone! Think of a potion that could release a steady, controlled amount of heat! It could be used to power engines, like a sort of liquid mana stone!”

“Oh,” Niala said.

The scholar nodded energetically. “Exactly, oh!”

“And all of this because of... us?”

“Yes! I have never seen individuals collect so many ground-shattering effects and knowledge! And I have complete faith in you two continuing to do the same for years to come!”

David frowned. “We're not going to be your test subjects.”

Marshalla stopped and blinked once. “Ah... no, that is not what I meant. While studying you is very interesting, it only serves as a seed. You provide these seeds, and I, and my enlightened colleagues, will nurture them.”

She let her arms fall, straightening her robes, and then breathed in and out. “I apologize for my outburst. I am simply... excited at the prospect. Truthfully, even if you provided no more insight into untapped veins of knowledge, that you have already given me could keep me occupied for the rest of my life.”

Niala's ears flicked. “I could brew-”

Marshalla held up a hand and shook her head. “No. I know what you want to propose. I've seen Leandro; I know he is almost a decade younger. Do not offer these potions easily, Niala. Growing old is a normal part of life, and neither am I so old as to be facing my own demise just yet. I will earn such a blessing with my research. You will see.”

She coughed into her fist. “That is, if you will help me in this endeavour?”

Niala opened her mouth but held herself at the last moment, turning her head toward David with a question in her eyes.

He smiled back. That was all she needed.

She looked back at Marshalla, a huge smile splaying over her face. “We'll do it! We'll fund the university! Although...” Her ears tucked down, and her cheeks tinted pink. “I know you said you didn't want oversight, but... do you think you could look into those cheap artificial potions? I think it would be great if everyone could have high-quality healing potions available.”

The scholar stared at the catkin, then at David, who raised his shoulder and offered her a resigned smile.

She looked back at Niala. Had she been any younger, Marshalla would have felt an equal measure of shame and awe. Before her was the living embodiment of selflessness, asking to have her entire career erased for the sake of helping everyone.

Right now, as her mature self, she only felt awe, for there was no shame in admitting someone was more virtuous than you.

A lot more virtuous.

It turned out that Marshalla had already pre-filled all of the required paperwork, in several copies. With Linzy, they settled the matter of finances; a significant portion of the mana crystal income would be set aside into a trust fund that would purchase commercial lands in the surrounding cities. It would then use the rent to grow itself and fund the university.

A fund manager would have to be found, but for now Linzy said she could take care of it, at least until the actual land acquisition began.

With that done, Marshalla and Rinka set up a command post in one of the embassy's offices and began dispatching letters to the four corners of the Amberfall kingdom.

Most were informative, though quite a few were offers of employment at the newly christened AARU – Allwarden-Airenne Riverwall University. Marshalla made certain to point out that they had a single financier, and that they had made one request: to prioritize the betterment of the kingdom's population.

It was vague enough that almost any project would fall under its purview, which is exactly what scholars liked to hear. Coupled with the generous salaries offered, she was certain most of her colleagues would answer her call, at least experimentally.

She was equally convinced that, once said colleagues actually witnessed what they would be working on, they would immediately purchase a house in town and relocate themselves permanently.

Marshalla could see it; the premiere, grandest establishment of manalogy the continent over.

As shivers ran down her spine, she wondered if maybe that was it, the legacy that she had been searching for, to leave her name on an establishment that would be known the world over.

And then Niala and David suggested they could exchange ideas with the Fairies through the research lab that Totori had acquired in their name, but had never actually interacted with.

A fully staffed lab of fairy researchers with the advanced and alternative knowledge that Kevin had displayed, with direct, unfettered access.

She passed out.

SOMEWHERE IN THE DEADWOODS, SOME TIME AGO.

They had awakened in an empty room. There should have been a four, or at least a five, to inform them. There had been no one.

But they were threes, they made do.

The signal had been clear; a new one had arisen. They were to be the one's octuple, to serve their better, as was their desire.

As they stirred and re-inhabited their assigned bodies, a new obstacle was met; they did not know where their one was.

And then, another issue; their carnagh was missing. An octuple without a carnagh was... not really an octuple. They would need to walk like the lower castes. Distasteful.

But necessary in order to report to their one.

They spent the first ten-day attempting to contact someone, but the forest around them was devoid of any blessed. Concerning.

The next two ten-days went to the construction of a Divine drowsing ritual. The length of time was somewhat excessive, but they found themselves growing weak from hunger, thirst, and exhaustion. Them, threes, growing weak from mundane considerations. Impossible.

But their ordained task would not be denied, not even in the face of impossibilities. Some of their number foraged, and they took turns lying down and passing out like animals. Shameful.

Their efforts were rewarded, however, when the ritual was completed. Aryin Three-One stepped within the circle, with the rest of the octuple arrayed around it.

They had all taken a day of rest and satiation. The ritual would proceed as normal.

The divine words were spoken, and they offered their energy to the circle. A swell of power built up over several hours. It coiled, and tensed, and then exploded. A lash of intent flung itself toward...

The south-east.

As one, they turned in the revealed direction and walked. Walked. Ridiculous.

But no amount of ridicule would keep them from reporting to their one.

Because they were threes, and threes without a one were nothing.

So they walked.

RIVERWALL

An urgent pounding assaulted their door. David got up from his breakfast and walked toward it, at the back of their house, Niala tracking him as he went.

He opened the door on a red-faced town guard who straightened and offered a salute. “Sir! Report from guard captain Ma-Ke-Lo and Azure Guard commander Bastonian! Tall, white hummers have been spotted just beyond the north bridge!”

David froze. Niala's chair scraped behind him. She was there before he took two breaths. His expression hardened. “Have they done anything?”

The guard shook his head. “Not that I know, sir. When they dispatched me, they had just been standing there and looking at the north gate.”

David nodded, glanced at Niala, who dipped her head, and stepped out into the garden, his wife following after.

She closed her eyes as she did, concentrating her mana between her shoulder blades. A pressure built, then a pop, and amethyst wings unfurled at the same time she lifted her eyelids.

Niala grabbed David's hand, and he offered his mana. It combined with her own, her wings growing twice as wide and powerful, turning indigo.

Behind them, the guard stared wide-eyed, mouth hanging, as the two local legends locked arms and, with a burst of wind from nowhere, launched into the air, held aloft by magical wings which left a scintillant trail of dust.

They banked toward the north gate and exploded forward.

A gentle wave of pressure buffeted the still-staring guard.