The three remaining Lizzes merged into one which flew to Matt’s side, where he started dumping mana into the air. The bubble of mana pushed the harmful flames away for a moment, but his mana started to be sucked up into the tornadoes.

The technique was usurping control and converting the mana at the same time.

Feeling nostalgic, and a bit cheeky, Matt let it happen, deliberately feeding it even more mana that he barely controlled until the tornadoes tore themselves apart as a spontaneous aspect-cascade disrupted the working. Alas, it was a self-contained effect rather than being actively maintained, so it didn’t knock anyone out like it had when Zack had caused a similar outcome in their duel.

Still, it stopped the skill dead in its tracks, freeing himself and Liz from the bubble he had created.

Cui Ming launched himself at them the moment his path was clear, his fists gathering more fire mana from both the failed spells and ambient mana.

While they were occupied, he had cast some empowerment technique and had grown to ten feet tall, and his skin glowed red as flames physically infused his flesh. Each of his movements caused heat waves to linger behind and then explode in a familiar three, five, seven, nine pattern, making getting near him extra dangerous.

Liz moved to intercept it in two directions, and when Cui Ming tried to interrupt her by grabbing one of their spears, Liz called on [Feather Armory] to make it bristle like a cactus with additional razor-sharp feathers, cutting his palm to ribbons. Liz instantly exploited the open wound, golden blood pouring into the injury and trying to eat him from the inside.

Matt didn’t sit around, immediately pointing with his left hand and casting [Mana Beam].

Lang Ru seemed ready for the spell and cast a wave of purple fire that ate up the attack. It wasn’t void mana, and Matt wasn’t sure what the spell did until a moment later, his [Mana Beam] came out the other side. A technique that had a time aspect was fairly unique, and it allowed her to dodge the majority of the blast. But Matt could also feel just how much mana the spell cost to keep active, which was why he wasn’t surprised when she dropped it the second he stopped fueling [Mana Beam].

Matt considered keeping the spell up, blasting her with enough mana to knock her out… but he was having fun. Also, he didn’t think the message had been made clear quite yet.

Cui Ming kicked at his head, taking a blow from Liz in the process that cut deep into his abdomen, but Matt was already twisting out of the way and slashing upward with his blade. Without a spell to back up the attack, the blade only cut a few inches into Cui Ming’s massive red leg.

Matt rotated even as both of Liz’s bodies slipped past him to attack the charging Lang Ru.

Twisting and kicking down, Cui Ming forced Matt back enough that he was able to bring a massive hand wreathed in green flames down at Matt’s head. Matt flew sideways to dodge, but fell into the man’s trap as Cui Ming kicked out with claws that actually managed to slash through [Cracked Phantom Armor] and into Matt’s abdomen.

Burnt intestines flew through the air and a vicious look came over Cui Ming’s face, but Matt didn’t pause and drove his own clawed hand forward, grabbing the man’s chest and letting his fingers dig into his flesh painfully. He was tempted to use [Void Claws], as the spell was no longer a secret after he had killed Maven with it, but he decided not to at the last moment.

It was better to show the watching sects that Matt could beat their sect leader at his own game, rather than overpowering him through better skills.

Instead, Matt went back to his old reliable. A [Mana Beam] punched a hole through Cui Ming’s chest and would have gone through the mountain range they were in if it wasn’t for the protective shields.

Pumping in more mana, Matt widened the hole even as the blowback damage started to affect his invulnerable hand as the Stygian Gossamer was pushed to its limits.

Cui Ming punched him in the face, rocking his head back, but Matt didn’t let go or stop channeling his spell until he had created a head sized hole in Cui Ming’s chest. Once the maximum damage was done, he let go and used the next punch to create some distance between them.

Spitting out a tooth that had already regrown, Matt lashed out with a [Mana Slash].

The first was followed by a second, then a third. His intention wasn’t to damage, but instead to push Cui Ming closer to Liz, who switched off Lang Ru and turned into her blood form to engulf Cui Ming, trying to dig her way into his open chest cavity to eat him from the inside out.

Lang Ru rushed forward to try and defend her ally, but Matt threw a few million mana into [Telekinesis] and slammed her backwards and into the protective shield.

She vanished, and Matt felt something in his Domain react.

Instead of following the instinct that was screaming at him to prepare for an ambush from a teleporter, Matt flared his Domain Meld even while keeping his Concept topping Liz’s mana up and his Intent locking down space.

An eclipse of a white hole and a black hole flashed into being around him, suppressing everyone's Domains except his and Liz’s.

Domain working disrupted, Lang Ru appeared next to where he had slammed her, and the feeling that he was going to be attacked on his rear vanished.

Liz, having practiced inside his meld and worked with him on it, wasn't affected. But Cui Ming’s body started to shrink and twist as he fought to keep his transformation active, despite there being no place for it in the Realm while Matt’s Meld took up all available space for Domains to exist in.

Blood rained as Liz exploded what remained of Cui Ming’s chest, but she hadn’t been able to get to his head and force a surrender.

Screaming, the Rage Within sect leader erupted with flame as some berserk technique was activated.

Taking a deep breath, Matt unleashed a torrent of [Cracked Dragonflame] strengthened with [Reinforce Mana], walling off Lang Ru along with half of the battlefield. It wouldn’t last long, but it would give him and Liz a few seconds to try and take Cui Ming down, which is all he thought they would need.

Liz was already moving, and Matt used their teleport rings to teleport himself forward a few times in rapid succession, taking advantage of the sect leader's lack of spatial locks.

Rapidly changing his sword’s magical enchantments with its growth ability, Matt cast [Sword Twin] to capture and then combine each effect, letting the final buffed blade float off to the side and attack from an obtuse angle.

Cui Ming’s chest wound didn’t exactly heal, but an inferno filled his chest cavity. Combined with the berserk technique, he blurred with his speed as he swiped out at the two of them.

Matt blocked a slash with his hand, the attack strong enough to completely break [Cracked Phantom Armor], but not enough to overcome his Stygian Gossamer-enhanced skin. It did cause the mana left in his body from his earlier disembowelment to react, though, and fire exploded through Matt’s body.

The now-active mana tried to race to his brain, but it found Matt’s body harder to deal with than expected. [Barbarian’s Hide] fought it, and Matt diverted some of his mana to flush it out with his Millennium Willow Lifesap, while [Regeneration] put him back together. [Cracked Phantom Armor] hid the damage, and he swooped into formation with Liz. She looked absolutely pristine, not so much as a hair out of place, but through their party link, he could tell that was thanks to her hiding what damage her bodies were taking with [False Wound]. The converted [Gossamer Outfit] didn’t see much use, but times like this made it all worthwhile.

Two of her moved like hawks as they dove in, spears leading the way.

Cui Ming blocked one Liz but took a deep cut to his cheek from the second. The wound started to visibly fester, but a burst of flame purified the damage.

Matt felt Liz subtly grabbing at the flame and trying to interrupt the spell, but for all that Cui Ming looked like a stereotypical brute fighter, he had excellent control over his mana.

Matt hit Cui Ming with a [Tribulation Strike], less trying to defeat him with the spell but more wanting to distract him long enough for Liz to get her next spell off.

Each Liz was swallowed in a roiling sphere of golden Ichor, ballooning massively in size into two enormous bodies, decompressing all the ichor stored in her blood form and manipulating it into humanoid shape. It wasn’t a practical move by any means, but it was hard to beat the style.

Two giant golden Lizzes thrust at the same time, aiming to cut Cui Ming into pieces.

Matt didn’t dodge despite being in the way, but instead tried to grab Cui Ming with a [Telekinesis] and restrict his movements long enough to land a decisive blow.

It almost worked.

Like an ember flaring bright before it was extinguished, Cui Ming roared. With a burst of power, he broke through Matt’s hold on him. Though the sect leader still lost the lower half of his legs to the spell. Instead of just falling to the ground, the legs burst into flames and wrapped around Cui Ming like a cloak.

Lang Ru joined them as she finally cut through the wall of crystalized mana Matt had created and raced at them, trying to help Cui Ming.

Turning and leaving Cui Ming for Liz to finish off, Matt intercepted the Dancing Flames sect leader, internally trying to beat Liz in finishing off their opponent.

Lang Ru tried to skirt around him using a flame spell that merged her with the ambient fire mana, but a quick [Cracked Air Slide] let Matt circle with her and prevented her from joining with Cui Ming.

Spinning, her skirts flared with fire that tried to befuddle Matt through illusions. Some grabbed a hold of his mind and spirit, but thanks to his training and exposure to Aster and her pranks, Matt managed to resist the majority of the spell's effects. Though, the one that was sending the sensation of waves of fire through his body was incredibly distracting as it made him want to scratch himself raw.

Getting in close, Matt slashed out with a point blank [Mana Slash]. Instead of tanking the spell like Cui Ming had, Lang Ru burst into flame and teleported to the side, using the reposition to lash out at Matt with her mantis scythes.

Even with [Cracked Phantom Armor] currently fire-aspected, the scythes had enough physical mass that they managed to cut through both his magical and physical armor and dig into his shoulders.

They pulled out, trying to gather enough power to dig deeper and sever his shoulder muscles, but the moment they left, the wound was already closed, allowing Matt to catch Lang Ru with a kick.

The blow sent her tumbling back right into his blade that had snuck up behind her. She managed to activate [Phantom Armor] or some other similar life-saving armor spell which saved her life but it was a close call.

Pressing her hands together, Lang Ru started to gather ambient fire mana at a rapid rate. Mana from miles around started to run towards them and gathered between her hands in an impressive feat of mana control.

It began to coalesce between her hands, a new star being born on the surface of the planet, as fire mana swirled into a ball the size of a house, then slowly condensed more and more until it was the size of Matt’s head and brimming with power. Even the sun itself dimmed and appeared to go out, its strength being captured within the wake of this overwhelming attack, plunging the battlefield into night.

‘Oh no,’ he messaged Liz. ‘That’s so much mana. Whatever shall I do?’

‘Something dramatic, I hope. Or at least flashy,’ came the reply, and Matt could practically feel the smile behind it.

Given the attack was made of ambient mana, it was lacking somewhat in intent, direction, and potency, but it made up for it in sheer quantity. Surely, it was some grand finishing move, an unstoppable trump card that would no doubt turn the tides of battle in the direction of the Sects, dooming the Empire to a rebellious planet for centuries to come…

“You’ve done well to last this long, Empire dogs! But no longer! Behold the full might of the Dancing Flames sect as you face [The New Dawn Captured Within The Palm Of My Hands]!”

She roared, the flames so intense that her own armor was flaking off under the heat, and her hands were left charred and partially burning as she began to throw the attack at Matt.

Matt snapped his fingers.

The new sun died, and daylight returned to Palustris.

Lang Ru staggered in the air as the millions of mana she had been corralling vanished in a single instant, pulled from her control thanks to Matt’s usurpation of the mana, then fell from the sky as her mana ran out in its totality. One of their guards caught her with their Domain and brought her out of the arena.

Matt turned away, instead studying the fight between Liz and Cui Ming.

Cui Ming, sensing the end of his fellow sect leader, roared once more and a fifty-foot illusionary bear appeared behind him and towered over them. Its very presence tried to overawe them in a primal way that had nothing to do with cultivation or bloodline, but sheer presence.

It was an impressive move, but Liz never bothered to uncross her arms. Before Cui Ming could unleash his final attack, his expression changed before he vanished, leaving a blob of golden writhing blood in the place his head had been.

Letting his buffs take away his damage and restore his stamina, Matt stood up as Liz rippled and put herself back into a perfect state.

Matt dismissed [Cracked Phantom Armor] and stored what bits and pieces of his physical armor remained, leaving him in tattered underclothes.

A thought replaced them and cleaned the blood off himself, and together he and Liz stood before the arrayed sect cultivators.

