The Distance to Rare

Floor 12 was white.

Not the warm gold-white of calcite formations in a museum case, lit deliberately, curated. The walls and ceiling and floor of the first passage were the flat white of chalk dust, of bleached bone, of something that had been underwater and then had not been for a long time. The passage was narrow — two meters wide, less in places where calcite growth had pushed inward from both walls without coordination, creating bottlenecks the party had to pass through single-file. The ceiling was 2.5 meters overhead: enough to stand upright, not enough to forget it was there. Tomás, the tallest of them, moved with a slight forward lean that was adjustment, not choice.

The floor was slick.

Not wet exactly — the damp was ambient, a quality of the air rather than standing moisture, the particular humidity of a closed geological space that had reached an equilibrium and held it. But the calcite had polished the floor to a surface Solenne's boots moved differently on, a micro-friction below normal that she registered in the quality of her stance. She did not slip. She widened her base by three centimeters and kept moving.

"Crystal Resonance," Tomás said, from three meters ahead.

He said it the way he said all technical observations — without preamble, as if the information was already in the air and he was simply naming it. He stopped beside a formation in the west wall, roughly knee-height, where a cluster of calcite columns had grown into a shape that looked less like geology and more like something reaching. From its tip, a faint luminescence. Not ambient. Directed.

Solenne raised the Annotated Staff. The chalk notations along its upper half caught the crystal light and turned faintly blue.

"Resonance Node," she said. The Arcane Analysis resolved before she finished the word:

```stat-screen
[ARCANE ANALYSIS — Environmental Feature]
Crystal Resonance Node (Active)
  Status: INACTIVE
  Activation Requirement: RES 15+ within 2m
  — Members qualifying: Solenne, Miriam, Dayo
  Reward: Hidden cache revealed
  Note: 7 Nodes confirmed on this floor.
    Records show: no party has activated all 7.
```

She looked at the activation requirement. Then she looked at the formation's faint light.

Dayo was already stepping closer, the First Boss Coat's plating picking up the crystal glow on her left shoulder. She stopped within one meter of the Node. A sound — not a sound, exactly, but the memory of a sound, a frequency that registered as vibration before it registered as anything the ear could name — and the Node shifted. The luminescence changed from faint to present. Below the calcite cluster, a seam in the floor that had not been visible became visible.

```stat-screen
[CRYSTAL RESONANCE — Node 1 of 7 Activated]
Hidden cache: 12m northeast (marked in Terrain Read)
```

"One," Dayo said. She filed it with the same economy she filed everything. She moved forward.

---

The Terrain Read had mapped three passages.

Tomás had deployed it at the threshold — the standard entry ritual, the floor map spreading into each person's Status Window with the particular quality of a hand-drawn survey suddenly becoming accurate: borders filling in, paths extending outward, rooms resolving from probable to confirmed. The Calcite Labyrinth's passages branched from the entry point in three directions, and Terrain Read reached all three.

The fastest route ran northeast: seventeen encounters over 400 meters, ending at a crystalline chamber. The safest route ran southeast: fewer enemies but a puzzle mechanic Solenne could read through Arcane Analysis, crystal-light alignments that required decoding. The middle route was roughly intermediate on both measures, cutting between them through the labyrinth's interior.

Nadia looked at the three paths in her Status Window. She looked at the northeast path's encounter count.

"Seventeen sounds like a relaxing afternoon," she said.

"The middle route," Tomás said.

Nobody argued. The middle route was what he had been working toward with the Terrain Read — the answer he had already calculated, which the analysis confirmed rather than produced. The party moved in.

---

The first Lattice Guardians were twenty meters in.

Two of them, paired, their forms humanoid in the abstract way that geological growth sometimes suggests a shape without committing to it: mass distributed across four limbs, calcite-heavy through the shoulders, the head a fused crystal plate that caught ambient light and returned it in fragments. They moved on fixed patrol routes — Tomás had tagged the routes in the shared Terrain Read — but they were moving them now, which meant they had registered something.

The party had forty seconds before the patrol routes converged on their position.

Solenne ran Arcane Analysis on both.

```stat-screen
[ARCANE ANALYSIS — Paired Target]
Lattice Guardian x2
  Level: 12-13 | HP: ~550 each
  Physical Defense: 28 | Magic Defense: 22
  Movement: Patrol (fixed routes; deviation on threat detection)

  Attack: Crystal Sweep (melee, 2m arc, 70 damage + Slow 3s)
  — Coordinated Call: alerts paired Guardian at 50% HP
  — Crystal Form Passive: Shatter Damage on critical hits
    returns 20 damage to attacker (physical only)

  Behavior: Patrol — calls for pair when alerted
```

"Shatter damage on crits," Solenne said through the Conductor. "Physical attacker takes return damage on critical hits."

She felt Dayo receive this — not the tactical adjustment, but the principle underneath it: the First Boss Coat's gauntlet hits were critical-rate modified. Dayo's style was power and precision, which meant crits were regular events. Against these enemies, a crit was a liability.

"Controlled hits," Dayo said. Not a question. Not a complaint. The adaptation of someone who had spent eleven floors learning that information changed the calculus and the calculus was always the point.

The fight lasted ninety seconds. Dayo controlled her strike weight, which cost efficiency but eliminated the Shatter return. Tomás put sustained fire into the joint at the Guardian's left shoulder — not a crit zone, just consistent damage — and the HP eroded without triggering a critical threshold. Nadia's Stumble sent the second Guardian into the wall on its patrol route, disrupting its timing; Vesper's Quick Craft produced a Freeze compound in the three seconds between Nadia's repositioning and the Guardian's recovery, and Solenne applied it to her Arcane Bolt, and the bolt hit and the compound resolved and the second Guardian slowed to a fraction of its patrol speed while the first was finishing.

Clean. Controlled. Different from Floor 7.

```stat-screen
[ENCOUNTER COMPLETE]
Lattice Guardians Defeated: 2
XP Awarded: 260 (distributed)
Loot: Calcite Fragment x4 (Common crafting)
```

Vesper collected the Calcite Fragments before the encounter notification cleared. She turned one over in her fingers. "Crystal-resonance inscriptions," she said quietly. "Not useful on their own. In combination with —" She set it in the material cache and did not finish the sentence. The combination was a future-state problem.

---

Halfway through the first passage, Solenne became aware of something she had not anticipated.

The Calcite Labyrinth was beautiful.

Not the way the Floor 11 rest node had been beautiful — that had been warmth and life, golden-green and breathing, the beauty of something that grew. This was colder. The white walls in the crystal-light of the Resonance Nodes caught and transmitted a luminescence that turned the passage into something prismatic: pale white direct light, blue-white refracted off the calcite ceiling, faint amber where the System's ambient signature expressed through geological material. The effect was not warm. It was not alive. It was precise in the way that crystals were precise, the beauty of a structure that had achieved its form through physical law and not through any intention and was no less spectacular for that.

She was writing in her notebook before she had consciously decided to write. Not tactical notes. Something else.

*Floor 12. Calcite Labyrinth. White. The crystal light goes sideways.*

She did not know what that meant yet. She filed it anyway.

Tomás, three meters ahead, had paused beside a second Resonance Node. He did not step close to it — his RES was 13, below the activation threshold. He was looking at it the way he looked at terrain: reading shape, direction, pattern. Not analytically exactly. More like — she searched for the right word and found it — curiously. The Node's faint luminescence lit the side of his face in blue-white. His expression was the one he wore when he was working with incomplete information and had decided to work with it anyway.

She watched him not touch the Node and felt something she did not have a category for.

---

The second Node was in a side alcove, thirty meters along the middle passage.

Miriam activated it — stepped within two meters, and the Node shifted into luminescence the same way the first one had, the same frequency vibration that was more felt than heard. The cache seam appeared in the floor.

She stood there for a moment after the System notification resolved. The cache was marked. The party moved to collect it. Miriam did not move immediately.

Solenne watched her.

She had her clinical notebook out. Open to a page that she had been writing on — Solenne could see the blue ink from three meters away, the tight, precise script that was Miriam's hand, though not what it said. She was looking at the page. Then she looked at the Resonance Node.

She wrote something.

Closed the notebook.

"The cache," she said, and moved to join the rest of the party.

---

They rested in the alcove.

Not a rest node — the alcove was a natural widening in the passage where two calcite formations had grown toward each other and stopped two meters short of meeting, creating a sheltered space large enough for six people to sit without touching. It was not a safe zone. The party maintained awareness. But the pace since Floor 12's door had been sustained, and the MP expenditure on Freeze compounds and Arcane Analysis and the Conductor's constant low-level processing was accumulating.

Vesper set up the Field Forge in the smaller half of the alcove where the calcite formations provided partial cover. The hum of initialization. The familiar choreography. The party settled.

Nadia sat against the right formation wall, knees up, the green scarf loose around her neck. She had her Status Window open — visible from the faint blue overlay that manifested when someone accessed their Window closely. She was reading something.

The Class Aptitude Assessment.

Solenne knew this not because she could read Nadia's Window but because of where she had been looking when she opened it, the specific tilt of her head when she was doing something that required full attention, and the expression she wore when she was reading something that landed.

Nadia noticed her noticing.

"I'm just —" Nadia started. Then she closed her Window. "Checking a thing."

"Okay," Solenne said.

Nadia looked at her for a moment with the expression she wore when she was deciding how much to say. Then she looked at the calcite wall above Solenne's head. Then she looked at the Field Forge hum.

"The System," she said, "is very good at phrasing things so you can't dismiss them. 'Not because she is careless.' I can work with *careless*. I have been working with *careless* for years. 'Because she is paying very close attention.'" She paused. "That's harder."

Solenne did not say anything.

"I'm fine," Nadia said. "I'm just — I'm going to be fine. I'm going to need ten minutes and I'm going to be fine." She looked at the passage they had not yet walked. "Can I scout ahead? Not far. Just. I need to move."

"Tomás can —"

"Tomás scouts. I just need to walk." A beat. "I'll stay in Terrain Read range. You'll see me on the map."

Solenne looked at her. She ran a calculation that had nothing to do with threat assessment.

"Ten minutes," she said.

"Ten minutes." Nadia stood, adjusted the green scarf, and walked up the passage with the particular gait she used when she was not performing — no timing, no setup, just a person walking. She was gone around the calcite curve in thirty seconds.

---

Miriam opened her Status Window.

Not the clinical notebook this time — the Window, the System-direct display that she accessed rarely outside of combat. She had accessed it twice today: the first time when she had activated the second Node and stood there for a moment longer than the cache required. Now, in the alcove, with the Field Forge running and Vesper's hands moving through the Workframe and Tomás at the near end of the passage running a low-level Eagle Eye sweep.

Solenne was not reading Miriam's Window. She was watching Miriam's face.

Miriam's face was the clinical expression, which meant she was reading something she was processing with professional distance. The expression she wore when the numbers in her notebook meant something she had not yet decided what to do with. She read for thirty seconds. Then she closed the Window.

"Class evolution," Miriam said, not to anyone specific. Reporting.

"You looked it up," Solenne said.

"I wrote *Tier I ceiling* in the notebook and then I kept looking at what I'd written." She clicked her pen. "Warden to Grove Keeper. The requirements." She said the numbers with the same flatness she used for MP expenditure reports: "WIS 60. RES 30. INT 35. Mending Touch at Level 10. Thorned Ground at Level 8." A pause. "Kept ally alive through should-be-fatal wound. *Narrative condition.*"

Solenne heard the slight change in the words *narrative condition* — not emphasis exactly, a quality of attention on those words specifically, the way a diagnostician says a patient's own description of their symptoms back to them to confirm accuracy.

"The class evolution is the path to Tier II," Solenne said.

"Yes." Miriam looked at the passage where Nadia had gone. "WIS 60 is 29 points above my current value. At my level rate, that's —" She did the math internally. "That's not soon."

"No."

"RES 30 is achievable faster. Thorned Ground at 8 requires more combat hours than I have at current rate." She turned the pen between her fingers. "And the narrative condition is — it's not a checklist. It's a thing that happens or doesn't."

"It will happen," Solenne said.

Miriam looked at her. "You don't know that."

"I know the floors we haven't done yet." Solenne had read the same class evolution data — she had read it during the Transition Hall's rest period, sitting with the coordinates paper in her pocket and the second writing system running in her mind and the Conductor's quiet hum, and she had looked up what *rare* meant for an Arcanist and found: Level 50, INT 65, WIS 55, RES 30, Ley Conduit at 8, Harmonic Resonance at 5. Used Six of Six with all six members. *Narrative condition.* "It's not whether. It's when."

"You looked yours up too," Miriam said.

"I did."

A silence. The Field Forge hummed.

"The Harmonist requirement," Miriam said. "Six of Six." She looked at Solenne directly. "That's specific."

"Yes," Solenne said.

"Your RES is one below the activation threshold."

"Yes."

"So." Miriam did not phrase it as a question. "The path to *Rare* for you runs through a Harmony activation we haven't done yet. Which requires a RES we haven't reached. Which requires —" She stopped.

"Continuing," Solenne said.

They looked at each other. The calcite formation above them caught the ambient light and held it, cool and white and precise.

"All right," Miriam said, and opened her notebook and wrote something.

---

Vesper was watching.

She had been listening — not overtly, her hands continuing through the Workframe's rhythm, her eyes on the crafting interface — but listening the way she listened when something was being said that she was filing for later. She had been doing this since Floor 4. The party had mostly stopped noticing, which was the point.

She was thinking about INT 60, WIS 55. She was thinking about *Crafted the item that saved the party's life.* She was thinking about the two unfinished projects in the material cache, one of which was for Nadia, which she had started four floors ago and kept setting aside because the right material hadn't been available and also because she had not been ready, which was not a sentence she usually let herself complete.

She set the last Freeze compound in the supply stack and looked at it for a moment.

*Crafted the item that saved the party's life.* 

Not the most useful item. The item. Singular. Specific enough to be a test. She thought about what that meant — not anxiously, the way she sometimes thought about such things, but with the focused attention of a craftsperson assessing the difficulty of the next project. There was a difference between making things for people and making the one thing that would matter. She understood the difference. She had understood it for a long time without having the System's language for it.

She closed the crafting interface and began preparing for the next push.

---

Nadia came back at nine minutes.

She came around the calcite curve with the green scarf settled and her hands relaxed at her sides and the expression she wore when she had resolved something — not solved, resolved, which was a different operation. The calcium-dust white of the passage had settled on the shoulders of her jacket in a fine layer.

"Nothing notable ahead," she said. "Passage opens into a wider chamber about two hundred meters out. I heard something moving in it but didn't push closer."

"RES variant?" Solenne asked.

"Couldn't tell. Too far." Nadia sat down against the formation wall, in the same spot she had vacated, and looked at the ceiling. "For the record," she said, to the calcite overhead, "when the System says you're paying very close attention, it's because you've been paying very close attention for a long time and nobody asked." She said it the way she said things that were true and not jokes, in the specific voice she used when she had decided to let something sit in the air rather than wrap it. "I'm putting that in the record. Ongoing."

Nobody responded. Which was the right response.

Dayo, who had been running the armor cloth over the eighth dent's interior surface during the rest — satisfied now, the metal settled, the new damage fully documented — put the cloth away.

"Ready?" she said.

"Ready," Nadia said, and stood.

---

The wider chamber resolved into Solenne's Terrain Read 180 meters in: forty meters across, ceiling rising to four meters here, the calcite formations growing more elaborate as the space opened. Four calcite columns of significant size, white and prismatic, floor-to-ceiling, arranged without the regularity of architecture but with a density that created cover and blind spots both. The crystal-light was brighter here — ambient, not from any one Node, the concentrated calcite reflecting whatever light the floor carried until the whole chamber glowed from its own surfaces.

Beautiful and tactically complicated, in equal measure.

Tomás did Eagle Eye at the chamber entrance.

He stood in the threshold for twenty seconds with the focused stillness the skill required, his eyes tracking something the rest of the party could not see. The map in their Status Windows updated in real time as Eagle Eye reached the column network, tagging movement signatures.

"One Resonance Mimic," he said. "Southeast. Currently stationary, presenting as a Resonance Node."

Solenne ran Arcane Analysis immediately.

```stat-screen
[ARCANE ANALYSIS — Mimicking Entity]
Resonance Mimic
  Level: 14 | HP: ~700
  Physical Defense: 18 | Magic Defense: 32
  Movement: Stalking (camouflaged as Resonance Node)

  Behavior: Target Acquisition — Harmony Conductor anchor
  — Identified: SOLENNE (Harmony Conductor active)
  — Attacks only when isolation achieved or threshold crossed
  — Skill Mirror: copies last three Skill activations
    at 60% effectiveness

  Drop: Dissonance Crystal (Rare) — confirmed
  Grade: Elite
  Note: Standard Arcane Analysis circumvents camouflage.
```

*Target: Solenne.*

She registered this without alarm — alarm was a resource cost she was learning to manage. The Mimic had identified the Harmony Conductor and was waiting for isolation. Which meant it had been watching them enter. Which meant it had some form of environmental awareness that the Lattice Guardians had not demonstrated.

And it would copy her skills.

She thought about that for a moment. Arcane Analysis at 60% effectiveness meant partial enemy identification — the Mimic would see something, not everything. Ley Conduit at 60% was the more dangerous prospect: a sustained damage channel pointed back at her, with the Conductor's range and the Mimic's positional advantage.

"It will copy me," she said through the Conductor. She pushed the analysis — not annotated this time, just the data, clean, the facts of what it could do. "Ley Conduit at sixty percent. If it gets the activation sequence, it directs it at me. I need to either not activate Ley Conduit or activate it in a way that draws the copy into a bad position."

"Or I get between you," Dayo said.

"Or that."

"I'll get between you."

The fight was not the longest they had run. But it had a shape none of them had encountered before — the mirrored shape, the sense of something learning from them in real time, adapting its repertoire to what they were doing. It copied Tomás's Precision Shot once: a crystalline needle that tracked toward Solenne and landed on the First Boss Coat's shoulder instead, because Dayo was there. It copied Nadia's Stumble into a spatial disruption that sent Miriam two meters sideways, which Miriam absorbed without going down, which was not a given. It tried to copy Ley Conduit — Solenne felt the activation signature, the system-pattern the Mimic was reading and reproducing — and she cut the channel before the copy resolved, deliberately interrupting the skill mid-activation, which cost her the MP spend without the damage output but denied the Mimic the template.

Vesper's Enhancement Inscription on Tomás's bow, applied in the thirty seconds of the fight's opening positioning phase, added a RES-targeting component that made Tomás's Precision Shots progressively more effective against the Mimic's magic defense. By the fourth shot, the defense was eroding. By the seventh, the HP was critical.

The Mimic, dropping below 30% HP, did something unexpected.

It copied Arcane Analysis.

The blue overlay of Solenne's own skill reflected back at her, the same cold analysis quality, targeting: *[Arcanist: Solenne Achebe-Park. RES 19. Harmony Conductor active: 5 linked members. Six of Six: conditions not met: RES threshold 1 below activation.]* The information was not dangerous. The Mimic was reading her the same way she had been reading enemies for twelve floors, returning the data stream like a mirror held at the wrong angle.

For two seconds she saw herself through the analysis.

*Conditions not met: RES threshold 1 below activation.*

Then Nadia's Stumble sent the Mimic into a column, and Dayo's gauntlet finished it.

```stat-screen
[ENCOUNTER COMPLETE]
Resonance Mimic Defeated: 1
XP Awarded: 250 (distributed)
Loot: Dissonance Crystal x1 (Rare)

Party Status:
  Dayo: 527/527 HP | 165/185 MP
  Miriam: 280/280 HP | 395/420 MP
  Solenne: 231/231 HP | 468/510 MP
  Tomás: 348/348 HP | 312/350 MP
  Nadia: 232/232 HP | 385/408 MP
  Vesper: 200/200 HP | 490/520 MP
```

Vesper picked up the Dissonance Crystal with both hands. She turned it over. It was the size of her thumb, deeply colored — not white like the surrounding calcite but a red-violet that was almost black at its core, catching the chamber's ambient light and holding it rather than reflecting it. She said nothing for a moment. Then: "RES-protection accessory potential." She placed it in the material cache alongside the Calcite Fragments. "I'll need to study the resonance signature."

Solenne was looking at the spot where the Mimic had stood, in the corner of the chamber where the calcite columns created natural cover, where it had been presenting as a Node and waiting for isolation. The blue overlay of Arcane Analysis had shown her something she had not expected — not the Mimic's stats but her own, reflected back, laid out in the System's precise shorthand.

*RES 19. Conditions not met. 1 below activation.*

She had known this. She had known this since the Resonance Surge, since the Floor 10 chamber, since the two seconds of *almost* that had given her the shape of the full chord and taken it away. She had been carrying it since before Vasic's questions had given her language for it. But there was a difference between knowing something and seeing it from outside, the analysis turned backward, the machine reading the operator.

One.

She opened her notebook. Not to write — she was not sure what she would write yet. Just to hold it.

The Calcite Labyrinth's ambient light held the chamber in white, and the columns cast their shadows, and somewhere ahead was the third Resonance Node, and then the fourth, and the path the party had not yet walked.

She closed the notebook.

"Forward," she said.
