Sizzi had attended several meetings yesterday in order to ingratiate herself into Treehome’s various societies. Erick had barely paid attention to her as she had not come down for breakfast and he had left for the day with Kiri. That evening, she strolled back into the hotel suite rather inebriated. She had been drunk then, and she was probably a bit drunk this morning. But she managed to get up for breakfast, this time.

“Good morning,” Sizzi said as she came down the stairs.

Erick flipped a waffle out of his waffle machine, saying, “Good morning, Sizzi. I made waffles again. You want one? This one is yours.”

Teressa, Poi, and Jane were already halfway through their own waffles.

“I’d love a waffle! But I will have to take it to-go.” Sizzi came up to the counter and took her prize. The heat caused her [Personal Ward] to flicker magenta at her fingertips. “Thank you for your hospitality, Erick. Sorry I haven’t been around much, but that trend will continue; I will be headed back right now. I heard Kiri had a great night killing monsters with all her new lightning and I must return to reclaim some of my place among the leaderboards.”

She had said it in a nice tone, like a dryly delivered joke, but it was undercut by an actual need.

“So soon? Okay. Well. It was nice having you around to help with the Culling.” Erick smiled, and started making another waffle, as he said, “If either of you two ever need help with any monsters, just let me know; I owe you one. I have a feeling that Silverite will delay asking me, or not ask at all, and I would prefer to be asked.”

“Will do, Erick.” Sizzi held up her hot waffle, and said, “These waffles are a nice little invention. They’d go over well in the Wasteland.”

Jane huffed a single laugh, then said, “You guys need to stop trying to poach my father.”

“It’s just a fact, Jane.” Sizzi added, “They like non-magical inventions over there.”

Sizzi headed off with a bow and another thank you, and then breakfast went fast, in the usual, nice way. Erick rescinded Sizzi’s Prismatic permissions as soon as she departed.

“First thing first!” Finished, Erick got up from the breakfast table. And then, as though proclaiming a great secret, he said, “Man cannot live on diversions of record players and Art Nouveau posters and cameras alone, but I’m not making any magic here, and I think it is time to make some magic.”

Jane said, “Don’t forget all the monster killing. I daresay that part was more important than the ‘diversions’.”

Erick smiled, then frowned. “Ah. Kiri should have been here for this.” He asked around, “Anyone else want to come? Aside from Poi, who is coming. Right?”

Poi was in the kitchen. He had just finished cleaning up the debris of breakfast-making, and was enjoying a new cup of coffee. “I’m coming.”

Teressa shook her head, as she poured caramelized cactus syrup on her seventh waffle, the last one, saying, “I’m going to work on [Future Sight], unless you want me out there with you?”

“No no. That’s fine. Jane?”

Jane said, “If you’re not at the auction at noon then I’m going without you.”

Erick paused. “I thought that was four days ago? Wait. You lost that auction, didn’t you? Did you tell me there was another one yester— You did tell me there was another one yesterday. I thought you weren’t going for that monster.”

“Arbor Ikabobbi has animal auctions all the time.” Jane added, “And yeah: I lost the Prismatic Octopus, but there’s another going up today and I decided I want it. The Beast Master who sells them had a whole clutch, apparently, but he didn’t want anyone to know that he had managed to breed multiples. Should go for a lot less than 23,000 today! Hopefully.”

“I can give you money, Jane.”

“I know.” Jane said, “But I want to get it myself. Bad enough that I’m buying the damned thing, anyway. I’m at least going to buy it myself.”

“Eh. Fine. I’m going to feel almost lonely out there with no one else to watch.” Erick glanced over to Poi. “You ready?”

Poi sipped his coffee, then said, “One minute.”

“Okay okay.” Erick asked, “Tenebrae get back to you, yet?”

“Nope. He’s denying all communication. We’re going to have to visit him in person.”

“How about Syllea?” Erick said, “Is she still avoiding us?” He amended, “Avoiding me?”

“She has said that she will help after the Path, but, yes, Syllea is avoiding you.” Poi said, “I remind you of similar requests to help you assist in the creation of a Gate network, after you figure out [Gate] magic. There’s Tasar of Stratagold, and also the Headmaster.”

“I remember them, but I don’t want to involve Tasar or the Headmaster right now. The first because she seems like a whole new adventure waiting to happen, especially because she is Tasar, the Summoner, and there’s no doubt she’ll have something to say about the Culling we just did, and the second because he’s… I just don’t want to. Eh! We’ll find Tenebrae and shake that location out of him. It can’t be that hard.”

“Good luck with that!” Jane said, “I’m going into the auction without you if you’re not there.”

“I’ll be there.” Erick looked to Poi. “Eventually.”

Poi went to the cupboard and took out a traveling mug with a lid. He poured his coffee inside, then said, “Ready.”

In a flash of light, Erick whisked both of them away to the mountains south of Treehome.

- - - -

He had scouted this location earlier and cleared out the monsters with a bit of [Withering], killing a good dozen level 25 threats and a few hundred lesser threats, all across the mountainside. Greenery dotted the valley below, with a few scattered trees and lots of grasses, but up here, there was simple, bare rock, slowly slanting downward.

There was also a small stream and a medium-sized pond. The pond had held some sort of alligator-like monster infestation that were listed as ‘mountain gators’ in their Kill Notification, but they were all dead now, and the [Cleanse]d remains rested at the bottom. This was why Erick chose this place. It was nice and pretty, and perfect for magic, and it had needed a little more cleaning than the other valleys.

The manasphere was alive with possibility, waiting to be given form, and Erick was here to give it those forms.

He had leveled [Condense Particle] through an overhead Ophiel, flying in the skies of Treehome while he was having breakfast. The spell looked much the same as before.

Condense Particle X, instant, close range, 25 mana

Collect loose particles of a chosen type into a small area. Lasts 10 minutes.

It lasted 10 minutes, now.

Erick smiled wide, as he pointed to the air over the pond, and cast, targeting a specific element.

A blue box appeared.

Condense Hydrogen, instant, close range, 25 mana

Collect loose Hydrogen into a small area. Lasts 10 minutes.

He already had [Condense Hydrogen X] as a Base Spell, thanks to his talk with the archmages at Oceanside. That one had actually come from the Headmaster, as he made the spell right in front of Erick and Erick had thus gotten a copy of that spell. Archmage Tasar had gifted Erick with a similar spell for oxygen; [Condense Oxygen X]. There were plenty of applications for these Basic Tier spells, but all of the most tactically important options involved making up for mistakes and for improperly made magic; spell combining from a lower starting point could literally save centuries of waiting, if you fucked up your high-tier spell.

Which is why Erick planned to not start his combining efforts with his lower-tier Base Spells. If he messed up, he needed a different way to get to those high tier spells, and his grandfathered-in Base Spells would be that way. As that thought crossed his mind, he wondered at the Condensing spells for three elements in particular, Carbon, Oxygen, and Hydrogen, and wondered if Shaping them in different ways would allow him to remake a failed spell without needing to break the previous spell.

… And also if he could use those three Condensing spells in different ways to make different molecules. If he was ‘locked’ to only one use of those three elements, then that kinda sucked.

But first, he would need to make those spells!

So he focused on [Condense Particle]…

And then he went through the Periodic Table of the Elements.

Stuff didn’t just pop out of the air. Blocks of gold did not fall from the sky. Almost every single one of Erick’s rapidly growing arsenal of spells did not pick up and condense a single thing. But those blue boxes kept coming, and they didn’t stop coming. Erick dismissed each spell as he made them.

Erick started slowing down somewhere around element 11: Sodium, so he started chanting.

“Sodium is a part of salt; here’s another spell for the vault!

“Magnesium is good for health; silver-looks but gives no wealth!

“Aluminum is soft yet hard; this one will be avant garde!

“Silicon has blue-grey luster; watch out now, it’s a blockbuster!

As an aside to his only audience, Poi, Erick added, “I bet the wrought use some of this, but who knows what gives kinesis.”

Poi smirked.

Erick continued,

“Phosphorus is so reactive, therefore life finds it attractive!

“Sulfur stinks like rotten eggs; sometimes comes from oil dregs!

“Chlorine is a match for salt; it makes many great gestalts!

“Argon is a noble gas of purple glows that has a mass of 39.948, but it does not appreciate the other parts upon this list— And here we go, onto the next,”

“For Potassium is part of life, it works and works throughout all strife!”

“Cal~ci~uuuu~UUmm! It’s what makes your bones all strong!”

“Scan-di-ii-um! All I know is it exists!”

He started laughing. Then he got back to the music.

Titanium was easier to sing about, titanium had applications! What the fuck was Scandium for? Scanning magics? Ha! If anyone was listening, would they make the mistake of thinking so? That would be funny.

He hit a speedbump at copper, but he managed to make it though. The speedbump was just a flicker of the manasphere, anyway. An odd flicker, but it was there; Erick saw it. There was a similar flicker on his soul. A creation here, and also there.

It was not much more than that.

Nothing to worry about.

Erick kept going.

Silver came, and the flicker it made was deeper, this time. Erick felt a warmth on his face. He touched his nose, and his fingers came away bloody.

Poi tapped him with the rod.

Erick smiled, and kept going, but he had no more song after Silver. He just had numbers that were definitions, that had surfaced in his mind and needed to be categorized into magic.

He started sweating after Dysprosium; number 66 on the Periodic Table. He faltered, but his voice was strong. He kept going.

Platinum was a solid wall, looming ahead. Erick didn’t know how he knew it was a wall, but he knew.

He met that wall with a small ritual.

“Platinum is extremely rare and often found all alone, looks like silver but it’s not, accept no lesser white-gold clone!”

A blue box appeared, and Erick stumbled where he stood. He breathed hard, spat blood onto the rock under him, and he went on to the next element; that lustrous yellow metal that made the world go round. Not even platinum could compare.

The manasphere held tense, as though waiting. As though prepared to hit him with a very, big, rock.

Erick sang against that limitation,

“And here we have a metal known for all the worlds as kingly throne. Bright as suns and used for lots not having ‘nuff twists life in knots. Here and now a lustrous shine, if I were greedy, I’d make it mine! It is a flash that all do seek! It is of course of Gold I speak!”

A blue box appeared.

Condense Gold, instant, close range, 25 mana

Collect loose Gold into a small area. Lasts 10 minutes.

Particle Mage Only.

Erick crashed to his knees, then to his butt.

Poi tapped him with the rod again, saying, “Maybe stop with the particles.”

Erick eyed Poi, standing above him, then looked to the air, and cast one more spell as he spoke, “Mercury.” And then another, “Thallium.”

A blue box appeared, and then another. They were normal boxes.

No backlash that time.

“Ha!” Erick spat blood, then said, “So there are limits to Gold, Silver, Platinum, and even Copper, if only just a bit. Only Gold got the ‘Particle Mage Only’ tag. I was wondering how Rozeta was going to work around that.”

Poi said, “I’m surprised you didn’t get hit with a negative-five point penalty.”

“Gold really isn’t that impressive. It’s just… useful. And pretty. It shouldn’t be limited. Fiat currency is the wave of the future.” Erick sighed at the blue box, then said, “But something has to be a monetary standard in this world, I guess? I’m not getting into banking.”

Poi shrugged. “Are you going to try for the next one?”

“… I’m not going to try for Antirhine.”

If Gold had been a wall, Lead was a void to fall ever into. Erick did not take that step.

“Glad to see you have some sense remaining, sir,” Poi quipped, as he helped Erick to his feet.

Erick swayed a little, but he steadied himself. He considered the path to the next spell, then brought out another blue box.

Catalyst X, instant, medium range, 50 mana.

Enables easier reactions in a large area.

He had made that one long ago, back when he made [Electrolysis Bomb]. It had been a part of ensuring that the water pulled out of the target was electrically conductive, allowing an easier time for that water to be broken down into Hydrogen and Oxygen. It seemed appropriate to use [Catalyst] for the next spell because the spell would need some way for the separate parts to come together easier. This next spell wasn’t something like [Crystallize Diamond], where it was just carbon being jumbled until it locked into the correct position to expand the diamond. It was an actual molecule that required breaking and reorganizing before it could come together in the proper way.

Erick briefly checked the sound of each necessary Element.

All of them sounded the same; like nothing at all, or possibly background static. Channeling mana through each one produced the same flare of mana, too; a white orb hovering above the hand. He was sure that if Kiri were to channel any of these spells she would produce a green orb. He doubted that she’d hear any different, too.

Maybe that would change in the coming centuries as the collective unconscious of people, society, and civilization, shifted the manasphere’s idea of Particle Magics. But for now, combining them seemed simple enough.

Erick got a feel for [Catalyst], along with [Condense Hydrogen], [Condense Oxygen], and [Condense Carbon], but also with [Cleanse], which was the only complicated part of the magic.

