Aside from knowing what the targeted molecule looked like, of course.

That was a rather large hurdle toward making good Particle Magic.

He was almost ready to cast, but a nagging feeling poked at the back of his mind. He frowned—

“OH!” he exclaimed.

He rapidly added one more piece of the puzzle, and laughed at the obviousness of what he had just added. Volatile compounds were sure to occur in this spell, that’s why he had [Cleanse] in there, but it needed one more thing to round it out into non-lethal status, and that thing was a Mana Altering to Mercy.

Erick smiled. He shaped. He cast.

The air wavered on the mountainside. The starter spells were only capable of small-sized spaces, but Erick was a Particle Mage, and that made all the difference. A space the size of a house seemed to twitch, as a rim of thick air took hold around it all. Inside that space, possibility herded airborne particles into a form more fitting for Erick’s purposes. He couldn’t quite tell what he was seeing since the contained result was colorless, but that was exactly how it was supposed to be.

… Maybe there was a heat-mirage-like occurrence in the middle? Erick couldn’t quite tell, even with his Perception and the Sights of all the Ophiels hovering around the area.

A blue box appeared.

Merciful Ether, instant, long range, 150 mana

A large creation that may induce sleep. Lasts 10 minutes. Volatile.

“Still volatile, eh?” Erick nodded to himself, then looked back at his creation, watching as it matured. He smiled. “Oh! So that looks like it works… Oh yeah.” He pointed. “See that spot, Poi? That’s where the ether is forming. Looks like it’s flowing everywhere, though. There appears to be some thick air from [Cleanse]’s inclusion, too”

“Uh.” Poi was focused on something else. “Volatile?”

“Oh yeah.” Erick waved that concern away. “This stuff explodes, but I’m pretty sure I cut down on most of that.” He paused. “Or maybe not?”

Poi rapidly said, “Let us back up. Perhaps to the other mountain across the valley.”

“Oh! It’s not that bad!” Erick had an Ophiel throw a [Prismatic Ward] around them, and then throw a [Stillness] into the surrounding air. “We’re good. But!” He gazed down at the forest below. “I need an animal to test this on. Or rather...”

In minutes, Erick had his first test subject.

Ophiel, in his sunform, held aloft a squirming squirrel, except, it was not really a squirrel as he knew them. It thrashed and bit and was the size of a small adult human, with a tail and fur made of spines, similar to those of a porcupine. It was a monster; Erick saw the rad in its chest, right behind its heart. It would have been trying to kill them if Erick had gotten anywhere near its territory. As it was, it was trying to spit poison at him and at Ophiel, too, and it would have, if Ophiel didn’t have a few tendrils around the squirrel’s muzzle. Clear goo dripped out between the monster’s lips. That goo plopped on the mountainside, then bubbled and ate away at the stone. Ophiel had the monster locked down. The squirrel wasn’t going anywhere.

Erick said, “Good job, Ophiel. Put ‘er in the sleep spell. Let go of the mouth.”

Ophiel held the squirrel in his strong grip, dangling the thing from tendrils of light, but he let the monster’s muzzle go. It instantly started screaming light and spitting globs of clear goo that did nothing to Ophiel. It tried spitting at Erick, over ten meters away. It would have hit, if not for the [Prismatic Ward]. The goo struck the edge and slid down. The squirrel was completely outclassed. Ophiel hovered the monster into [Merciful Ether]’s area of effect.

Erick waited.

The squirrel’s energy kicked up several notches as it tried to trash and bite and claw and shoot acid and quills at everything, but mostly at Ophiel. It was not successful at doing anything but tiring itself out—

The monster tired out much faster than normal. Ten seconds passed, and the squirrel’s tail drooped. It slashed one more time, and then its arms drooped. Its head lolled. Ophiel cleared away the quills underneath the squirrel, then set the monster down.

Erick couldn’t believe his eyes.

“… Oh my gods. It’s sleeping.” Erick gazed with [Blood Sight], and said, “Heart rate falling. Eyes closed. Not dying. But sleeping… Sleeping very deeply. Slowing heart, still… Very slow, actually. I think it’s going to d— Oh! Look at that.”

Tiny puffs of thick air escaped from the squirrel. Its heart rate steadied. When its heart rate slowed too much, more puffs of [Cleanse] escaped from the creature. Keeping it alive. Asleep, and alive!

“Success!” Erick called out, his voice echoing across the valley, eliciting a flash of light from the [Stillness] all around, “But we’re not allowing that monster to live. So!” He looked up to Ophiel.

Ophiel sent a fire down into the not-very-protected space.

For one bright, shining second, all was light, and little sound. When the light cleared, the squirrel was very dead and Erick had the blue kill box as certifiable proof of that death. One couldn’t trust the blasted, blackened landscape as proof that the monster that had been at the center was dead, after all. Not even the little bits of blackened monster squirrel raining from the sky were proof of anything, once you had seen the horrors and illusions of Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick clapped his hands, eliciting a flash of light from his palms, as he said, “That is what ‘Volatile’ means. I imagine many of my spells will have this tag.” He recast [Merciful Ether] onto the same spot, telling Ophiel, “Go find some non-monsters.” He added, “We can let those ones go when we’re done.”

Soon enough, there were several small animals resting atop blackened stone, in a space filled with [Merciful Ether]; an owl, a snake, a pair of rats, one normal squirrel. There were also two large animals off to the side; two wolves. The wolves had each taken thirty seconds to succumb to the ether, but the smaller animals had taken a lot less. There were obviously some body-weight variables happening there.

Each one of them had gone a bit oddly crazy before they finally zonked out, but now, even the wolves were drooling like saint bernard dogs. Maybe they smelled the other animals? The wolves jerked in their sleep, as though dreaming, perhaps.

“… No. Wait. I know what that is. The monster squirrel messed me up.” Erick said, “The drool is a byproduct of the ether. I knew it had side effects, but I had forgotten. Also, some of them might not actually be asleep.” He asked Poi, “Can you tell which ones are actually asleep?”

“The wolves are not. They’re just disconnected from themsel...” Poi paused, then said, “Now they’re asleep.”

“Yes. That’s right, too. Sometimes it disconnects people from themselves.”

Erick let the spell run its course, eyeing the animals for any signs of distress, or otherwise. As the spell went on and the ether inside the space turned deeper, becoming more concentrated, the thick air spurting from the animals became a steady, even trickle. The animals remained under their anesthesia, and were likely unhurt. Did they still have Health left? Erick didn’t know, and it would be difficult to test, for animals like these always had low Health and low levels. Maybe the wolves were in their twenties, but they were likely not much higher.

When the spell ended and the rim of thick-air containment broke, Erick threw a [Cleanse] at the escaping ether, making sure to miss the test subjects. Ophiels moved in, casting [Quick Wall]s, ensuring that any waking animals would not immediately hunt the others.

Five minutes later, the rats woke first, followed almost instantly by the squirrel. All three of them stumbled about, as though drunk. It was another minute until they noticed the wolves lying two meters away. Then they woke up quite a lot faster. Ophiel let them run back down the mountain, back to the woods they had come from, but they ran like drunkards; swaying this way and that and not running in the direction they wanted. Erick threw a [Cleanse] at them before they got out of range, clearing out their systems of all lingering ether. The three animals instantly began to run much, much faster.

A minute later, the snake tried to snap at the sleeping owl, but it hit an invisible wall.

Erick frowned. “I didn’t even see that the snake was awake.” Erick looked to Poi.

“… I should not be helping with this sort of thing, Erick. I shouldn’t have mentioned the body-disconnect in the wolves, either.”

“Eh. Okay.” Erick turned back to his experiment, watching the snake flop around as it too, was obviously still doped-up. “I couldn’t even tell it— Owl is awake.”

The owl’s heart beat hard. Ten seconds later, it twisted upright, and then flopped back to the ground. Erick threw a [Cleanse] at both the owl and the snake. The owl righted, instantly. Erick lowered the walls around it just as the owl looked up and flew away. The snake remained where it was, contenting itself to curl up into a coil, its eyes watching Erick, the Ophiels above, and the wolves to the side. The snake did not want to move, and Erick didn’t make it move; not yet.

Another full ten minutes later, or maybe even fifteen, for Erick was thinking about other magics while he waited for his current experiment to finish, and the wolves woke. They seemed similarly wasted, like all the other animals, like they were waking from a night of partying. Both of them fell right back down. Erick threw a [Cleanse] at them while taking down their walls. They perked up. They stared at Erick with bright, dark eyes, then turned and bounded away. Erick watched them go until they reached the treeline, and vanished into the woods.

With a lightform scoop, Erick had Ophiel transport the snake back into the tree where he had found it.

That done, Erick made his next spell which was a variation of the previous one, but Mana Shaped for 500 more mana and transformed into a new and more-useful form.

A medium-sized blob of thick air popped into existence. Within seconds, a mirage-like core took hold of the center of the ‘creature’. A blue box appeared next.

Merciful Ether Slime, instant, long range, 750 mana

A medium-sized ethereal sleepy slime sticks to a target. Lasts 10 minutes. Volatile.

Erick joked to Poi, “Not all slimes wait for you to fall asleep before pouncing.”

Poi narrowed his eyes. “You made this spell just so you could make that joke.”

“I did!” Erick laughed.

Poi pointed at the slime. “It’s coming this way.”

Erick was still laughing as the slime rolled their way. He laughed again, and then dismissed the spell. The slime had barely gotten to the edge of the [Prismatic Ward]. Erick said, “It almost got us, Poi!”

“… Quite.”

“Those slimes are deadly, you know. Don’t fall asleep with one in the room.”

“…”

Erick chuckled, then went on to the next spell. He had had time to consider the future, so he knew mostly what he wanted, but he asked Poi for a second opinion. “I’m thinking mace and shield. What do you think?”

“I would prefer you never step into a physical combat, but I approve of shields.” Poi added, “Most untrained mages cast from their hands, though. So if you want to appear untrained you gotta keep one hand free.”

Erick sighed. “I thought you might say that. And yeah. You’re right. Okay. Just the shield, then. In which case, I’ll just move onto the next spell and use that to make this one. And I think I understand how it works, now. Sizzi helped a lot. Those conversations over dinner…” He paused. He asked Poi, “If this works, should I tell her?”

Poi frowned. “You already know that you will tell her.”

“… I want you to talk me out of it.”

“Sizzi Zago and Sirocco Zago are still valued Citizens of Spur.” Poi said, “Helping them helps us all.”

Erick felt Poi’s words sink in. He had already decided to tell Sizzi, if this worked.

Hopefully it worked.

With thoughts of mana and reality as both physical and not, and therefore able to twist back on itself, Erick considered [Rebound], [Ward], and [Strike], together. [Pure Reflection Ward] was great, but it was a [Personal Ward], and therefore rather limited. He already used his [Personal Ward] for damage mitigation, and had done so for a long time.

So! To make a good [Melee Reflection Ward] that was not on his person, Erick needed something solid.

[Conjure Weapon] would do for his needs.

Ophiels on either shoulder began to sing, small, and yet powerful. One spoke of [Conjure Weapon]; a solid plane of Force, but twisted sideways into a blocking Force. The other spoke of [Rebound]; an echoing noise that picked up [Conjure Weapon] and turned it into a mirror. Other Ophiel hovering in the air sang of the delineation of space; [Ward]. Others spoke of harm committed in the most advantageous ways; [Strike]. Discordant noise became reflective harmony.

Erick felt the magic in his very soul. With a breath in, and then out, he willed [Conjure Weapon] into [Rebound], [Ward], and [Strike], blending into his working the idea of the reflection of matter and magic; a denouncement of all oncomers, a denial of the enemy. His [Lodestar] flexed. The light around him moved as though sinking into a whirlpool, churning and condensing.

He felt a call in the light before him.

He plunged his left hand into the churn. Mana drained; a staggering cost for any normal person, but not for Erick. Light snapped to his forearm, cracking the air with a flex as that light turned into something more solid.

It was… a shield… of sorts. Erick had never seen anything like it. From his own perspective, a small buckler of solid silver held against the outside of his wrist, upon which tendrils of thick air, like solid glass, arced away from that silver center. From Erick’s side, his new shield looked like a masterwork of glass with a bit of silver at the center; an ineffectual shield a meter tall and two-thirds of that wide, a working that would break at the very first [Strike].

But from an Ophiel’s perspective, just on the other side of that shield, Erick’s new magic looked like a solid, thorny briar and a brilliant mirror without a single gap. It was a reflection of the world, pointed outward and against all oncomers.

A blue box was waiting for him when he came back to his own sight.

Shield of All Reflection, instant, self, 2500 mana

Create a nigh-unbreakable weightless shield that reflects all spells and Strikes. Lesser protections against physical attacks. A much lesser protection extends to cover your entire person while held. Will break if the user suffers too much damage. Lasts as long as held, or 10 minutes.

