Given how rare bloodlines were on the whole, anti-bloodline armaments were rarely deployed in war. But, he supposed, using them against the Monster Collective did make the most sense, and if they were attempting to refine something old or field-test something new, they could hardly ask for better targets.

With their most hated enemy attacking them, everyone had been expecting the weapons to make a resurgence, but it seemed like both sides were taking the slow and cautious approach.

“Currently the Collective has pushed a quarter of a sector into the Federation border territory but they are struggling upon the secondary lines of defense.”

Emmanuel raised a finger, and Ios explained. “The Federation defenses are holding up surprisingly well. Part of that can be attributed to them reinforcing that portion of the border heavily in recent history, but another part can be blamed on our last war. Their soldiers are bloodied and hardened where the Collective’s troops aren’t. The Collective strategy seemed to expect that and they are taking a slow but steady approach, ensuring their people outnumber the Federation where they can and cycling battalions in and out of the frontlines. That is contributing to their slow progress.”

“How are the Collective’s troops faring?”

“As well as can be expected for fresh troops with little in the way of veteran soldiers. The bloodline-heavy army is leading to some new and interesting tactics we are noting and theorizing counters for as we learn of them. One notable bloodline that I believe you should be made aware of are the Sunshine Rats who seem to have the ability to slip through shields like they don’t exist. They are acting as infiltrators and saboteurs who haven’t failed yet.”

Emmanuel closed his eyes as he probed his future sight Talent set and checked the history and past of the bloodline.

Opening his eyes, he smirked. “They had heavily interacted with a Tier 45 or higher recently. I’ll send a report down once I parcel through the interference but that is a low priority on my time and mana usage.”

What he really meant was that he’d need to get closer, probably teleporting into Collective space and using methods to hide his presence, and scan one of the bloodlines directly. Or that was what his gut was telling him he’d have to do to get through their Collective’s various anti-divination methods.

That would certainly punch through most anti-divination methods but would also take substantial preparation time if he didn’t want to get caught. Hopefully he could just find a place where they were near the Empire border where he could scan them directly, but that was unlikely if the Collective were doing their jobs properly.

“And the Federation?”

“Their troops haven't shown any new techniques or capabilities since our war, but their morale is high considering their losses. Our read on their sentiment is that they believe this war is their way to strike back at the traitors and regain the honor lost by their forebearers.”

Emmanuel listened as more details of the war were explained until he asked, “How committed do your people rate each side?”

“Very, but they are taking things slow. First Shepherd Tobias has the full support of his people and from all accounts, seems dead set on taking a chunk out of the Federation. Virgil on the other hand, has been surprisingly quite publicly disinterested about the war but Federation officials are pushing hard to keep public support high. Personally she seems unconcerned or is otherwise occupied.”

Emmanuel nodded at the report which fit what other information he had.

He suspected that Virgil was aiming to develop an Authority.

JR had already spoken with Aiden about what he knew regarding Authority formation, and while Aiden was usually entirely incapable of providing any useful information whatsoever about Domain formation, he could explain the basics. He was still too injured for JR to subject the man to a full bevy of testing, but it was just a matter of time before additional knowledge about Authorities propagated from Aiden to JR, and from JR outwards as people could afford the bird’s nigh-extortionate rates.

Even the simple knowledge that such a thing was possible had set the rumor mill ablaze. So far as Emmanuel knew, nobody had actually attempted to create one yet - making an attempt this soon into Domain development was just suicide by another name - but there were rumors that a Sect elder who’d blown themselves up had been attempting to create an Authority. It was more likely something more mundane, but Authority discussion was the topic of the millennia.

If they were lucky, all of their enemies would kill themselves attempting to reach for greater power and they wouldn't even need to fight them in a true war.

The entire situation was a conundrum without an easy solution.

Reaching for an Authority was stupidly dangerous as seen by Aiden being the first person in living history to succeed. Hastor counted but he had only succeeded at Tier 50 and had immediately left without actually telling anyone what his process had been. Even if he had, they would still be left fumbling in the dark.

With Aiden unable to leave the Realm via Ascension yet, he had been pressured to sell the information but that was why they knew how fiendishly hard creating an Authority would be. And if no one succeeded, they would be fine, but the instant one of the Tier 50s succeeded in creating an Authority was the moment the balance of power shifted.

Personally, Emmanuel didn’t want to try. It was stupid, idiotic, suicidal. Even for them, the Tier 50s, it was the equivalent of asking a Tier 5 to create their Intent. Or for a Tier 25 to create their Aspect. Except it was far harder as with each stage of growth a Domain became increasingly complex.

The fact that the one man who had actually created one couldn’t explain anything only made it all far worse. You’d be creating one all but blind, with most not even knowing what new piece needed to be added to the Domain - what Aiden had called a Place - and the Realm was littered with the corpses of geniuses who had stretched themselves just a bit too far.

Why would any of them be different?

Even for those who could learn from Aiden, he was a certifiable madman who went more off feeling and intuition instead of facts, logic, or anything concrete.

Even if he could explain things well— which he couldn't— they couldn't even be sure he understood what he had done well enough to ensure he was explaining it well.

With a map, even a bad one, there was an avenue to greater power.

Emmanuel didn’t think any of the Tier 50s would be trying to create their own Authorities first but instead the information would be distributed amongst their most loyal Tier 46s, Tier 47s, and even Tier 48s, who were more… replaceable.

If any of the Tier 50s died, it spelled the end of their Great Powers.

But if any of them succeeded, their Great Power could ascend to the strongest Great Power in the Realm overnight.

There was always a risk that they would get jumped on but as Hastor had demonstrated, with an Authority, a Tier 50 could unleash all of their power without the risk of a forced Ascension.

The million-credit question was if a portion of an Authority would have a similar effect.

Emmanuel doubted that a single facet of an Authority would be enough, but only time would tell. For that, his gut told him a Tier 50 would need at least a half-formed Authority, with either a Place, as Aiden named it, or whatever the other supposedly possible way is.

At least if the Authority held true to the past stages with two variations that each had their own unique effects. Internal/external Concepts and such.

It was possible that Hastor had created the other version but without being able to ask him, they couldn’t know so anyone who wasn’t like Aiden would be fumbling around in the dark.

So only the mad men of the Realm had any chance to create an Authority.

And there was one source of mad men who were publicly trying for their Authorities.

Ascenders.

All of the older Ascenders were pushing for advancement to reach Tier 46, where they would start serious attempts at their Authorities.

That worked for the Empire, who had four Ascenders but at the same time their Path had just been cut off at the knees.

As Manny left the meeting room and got back to work, his mind kept coming back to the idea that Ascenders were the key.

Those lucky few who could flip a coin and have it land on heads time and time again but the idea never crystalized into something actionable.

The Authority revelation at least gave Lila a plausible reason to linger in the Realm without the other Great Powers getting suspicious. Ascenders rarely lingered in the realm once they reached Tier 45, and she had been getting close to leaving before Zack and Allies and then Matt, Liz, and Aster’s arrival.

For all her Ascender tendencies, Lila was willing to stick around for the possible true war. He wanted to believe that it was purely because of her patriotic nature but she had outright told him it was because she was eager for the chance to fight at the peak of the Realm against the other Great Powers.

That was an Ascender for you.

He also suspected that at least partially she was sticking around because she liked the newest generation of Ascenders and saw herself as something of the mentor she had never had. Few Ascenders ever had any younger Ascenders before they left in their own Great Power and Lila seemed to like the role of older guide.

Not that his current Ascenders were hard to like.

They were good kids.

Kids who he hoped at least survived their suicidal attempts to form Authorites. They at least had good chances of surviving any failures if past Ascender ‘deaths’ were anything to go off of.

As for his Royals, he had disseminated the information Aiden had shared to them but had asked them not to risk it.

He was sure they would at least feel out the next stage if for no reason than to see if they were lucky but he couldn’t risk their deaths. He’d rather have them be theoretically weaker than dead.

The odds of success were just too low.

Authorities were things for the next Realm.

Even knowing for hundreds of years, thousands if his subjective rift time was accounted for, he with Talents that made Domain creation easier, hadn’t been able to take even the first step.

And Aiden had done it, just like that. He’d joked about trying for the stage after Authorities, what would be needed to reach Tier 100, but even he had only been joking. That was a step too far for even him.

But who knew how long that would remain a step too far?

Domains were hard.

His mind was wandering back to the idea of finding Ascender-type people despite reduced funding when he got a pulse of spiritual power from deeper within the palace.

Ciceron flexed his spiritual perception for a second time just an instant later and Emmanuel stood from his desk stepping to the librarian's fief.

The library was as anyone would expect from a Tier 50. Grand didn’t begin to describe it. They had every copy of a non-fiction book produced for the last two million years in digital form and physical copies for the top hundred best regarded works from every decade in every category.

It was a place he had loved exploring as a child and he hoped his soon-to-be-born child would find the same joy in the halls.

Ciceron had been a fixture of the library since his grandmother's reign and was trusted, so when he asked for Emmanuel’s presence he hadn’t hesitated. What he hadn’t expected was to find the librarian near the Astral Map.

Dots of lights twinkled on the projection; some were linked together while others freely floated through the void.

It was one of the few real-time maps of chaotic space that existed and one of the Empire's greatest secrets.

The other Great Powers probably had their own versions; he knew the Clans had something similar that worked with a forge’s flame and that the Corporations had something but they didn’t know how it worked exactly, just that it existed. The Empire’s however was a good old projection and the strongest version of the item.

Made by the old dynasty, the treasure let them see the surroundings of all planets connected to the Capital’s teleportation network. With how interconnected the Great Powers were, that meant they had a vision around the entire cluster of millions of worlds. It didn’t project anything but worlds as they drifted through chaotic space so it couldn't track ships, people, or anything on the planets themselves but it let them see in real time where and when the other Great Powers collected other planets and their Tier.

It could even see deeper into chaotic space but the range was limited from its last tethered node.

This was how his father had found a Tier 30 world to drag back with the Guild's former leader when they had been going through a dry spell.

Scanning everything, Emmanuel looked for a higher-Tier world drifting near Empire space, the largest thing that could get the other Great Powers to break their treaties, but he didn’t see one and so let his perception drop to Ciceron’s Tier.

“What's wrong?”

Ciceron vibrated in excitement as he pointed. “Look Your Majesty. Near Exalon. Do you see that discoloration?”

Emmanuel looked and thought he saw what Ciceron was talking about. Or he saw it, but he would have dismissed the discoloration without the librarian pointing it out. The map showed currents and eddies in shades and discolorations which made the one around Exalon fairly unremarkable upon a casual glance.

“I see it, but what does it mean? I’ve never seen anything like it.”

Ciceron’s eyes were wide as he smiled. “I had to check the records, but I believe it's an Ascension to our realm.”

