Matt looked to Zack, who continued where he left off. “That isn’t the only danger. The other issue with worlds lost to the void is that any high Tier world will struggle with populations. Any higher Tiers will evacuate, leaving lower Tiers, who then can't fight the monsters which will eventually pour out of rifts, leading to the eventual extinction of humans. From what historical records I’ve seen, the best course for such unfortunates is to enter a rift instance and clear it before settling down inside. They will eventually run out of even ambient essence to cultivate, leading to a fully mortal population, but they can at least live.”

“On the other end of the spectrum, low Tier worlds are safer for mortal populations, but even if they aren’t devoured by a passing beast in chaotic space, those worlds typically start to run out of critical resources that weren't made locally, leading to civil unrest. That eventually topples whatever passes as a functional local government and starts infighting over what remains. Such disunity then leads to rift breaks and casualties. Then there is the passing of generations. With no immortals, knowledge is generally lost and hard to recover, leading to a societal backsliding where people forget they were ever part of something greater. Notably, low Tier worlds have a better survival rate, but it's still less than ten percent for worlds found within a thousand years, and drops to near zero when the world goes longer.”

Aster added, “That is one of the reasons it's strictly forbidden to attack anywhere near a teleportation tether. The risks are massive.”

Liz groaned at the reminder. “Ugh. We have a noble who broke her tether to relocate. Sadly, she succeeded in the maneuver, but that is what she was risking. It was only a low Tier world, so it probably could have been rescued if it came to that. But she risked a lot doing so.”

“So there are less worlds near the center? That is possible. It makes me wonder what else might have been out there if we weren’t the center. There were over a hundred connected worlds that I knew of, and I wasn’t that traveled for a Tier 25.” Rah’s question was one Matt didn’t have an answer for.

Allie offered her own idea, “Maybe it's just a measure of size, same amount of planets, but less space. Or maybe the sky bridge method itself. It's a natural phenomenon that even happens here when two worlds’ chaotic space nodes interact. A lot of people back the theory that the nodes are representative of a world’s spirit, projected into chaotic space. The tether system we use evolved from something similar, according to Ciceron, but what if it's more than that. What if the tethers are pacifying chaotic space around them, similar to how a world does? I know a little because they are important teleportation mechanics used in them, but I was never interested in the side effects of the tethers. It's possible.”

Zack immediately rejected her idea. “It's probably not the tethers themselves; most studies showing such pacification effects are dubious at best. If anything, it's more a phenomenon of the raw size of the Great Powers which act as a series of baffles, slowing down any turbulence in a purely mechanical manner. The collective Great Powers have millions of worlds. That's several magnitudes of difference from Rah’s original Realm’s purported size.”

Allie rolled her eyes. “Whatever, I blame you, Rah, for not knowing what we would ask before you ascended.”

Rah laughed at the ribbing and the seven of them spent the days of travel to the Tier 4 world chatting, or quietly working on personal projects that weren’t too disruptive to the crew on the bridge, wanting to experience their first world’s entire process from find to leaving.

With the constant and ever changing waves, their ship was rocked back and forth, but they didn’t deploy the additional measures as they were still within the range of the Federation and Monster Collective.

The world, however, turned out to be a bust.

The moment they entered its real space, they found a small beacon embedded into the local planet's moon.

It was a simple broadcasting relay that explorers used to record their passages, record the world identification number, pass on news to following explorers, as well as the most important role, which was letting others know the last time the world was harvested.

Being so close to the Great Powers, it wasn’t surprising another team had cleared the world out five years ago, with two other teams stopping by like they had.

The pilot wanted to leave immediately, but Allie stopped him before explaining to the rest of them. “I want to try this. Give me a week to establish a way point. I can track this waypoint as it moves through chaotic space. If I ever feel like I can’t teleport to it, we will learn a lot.”

There was no reason to stop her, so Allie quickly established a waypoint. She could have gone faster, but the quicker she forced a waypoint to manifest, the more spiritual damage she took, and she was still somewhat raw from the trips needed to gather the crew.

Matt and the others took the time to explore the world, but it wasn’t that interesting all things considered. It was both a low Tier and average world. That didn’t mean it wasn’t fun to roam around an uninhabited world and hang out with the others, but there was a distinct lack of valuable resources for them to harvest, causing the rest of the crew to not even bother leaving the ship.

So the minute Allie finished, they left the unnamed world.

They were just in time to see two other ships, Tier 20s that broadcast Monster Collective identifications, dart away from them and the world they had exited like startled fish.

Being higher Tier and with the Unsparing, they could have easily chased the ships down, but they weren't trying to be pirates.

Instead, they turned their ship deeper into chaotic space, where the tidal wave of planets was.

Two weeks later, when they were fairly sure they were outside of the Great Powers’ scanners, they pushed their ship to its full capabilities.

That further stabilized their travel, and if he didn’t look outside, Matt could forget they were in the first layer of chaotic space.

Three years and half a dozen already looted worlds later, they encountered their first higher Tier world, thanks to one of their navigators finding an unusual pattern in the waves and latching onto it. Once they got close enough, the Tier 12 world was like a beacon to their sensors and they immediately prepared to check it out.

However, they weren't the only ones.

Behind them, the ship which had been following them for the last nine months, at what they thought was a safe distance, edged closer. It appeared to be a Tier 25 ship but moved like a Tier 30 one, and they broadcasted like they were the ones who found the world.

“Leave our find or our Tier 30s will move. We know you don’t have a garrison onboard, so don’t bother to argue.”

Not pirates, but hardly better.

Matt just hoped the fight would bite when they refused to comply.

He could use someone to practice his Power and see if any of his recent ideas and insights were correct.
