On long expeditions, it was expected for the crew to help fuel the ship with any spare mana generation. Combined with his mana sharing efficiency, Matt could probably keep their ship mana positive with just his Concept, so long as everyone contributed.

If he needed to, he could manually fill it once a day or so to keep up illusions about his Concept being more effective on himself, but that was an acceptable sacrifice if he needed to do so at all.

He then went over the various weaponry and noted that several were actually projectile launchers instead of raw mana based cannons. They even had a dedicated cannoneer who had a Talent and Domain which made their weapons stronger.

He found everyone else in the storage portion of the ship with the six crewmen who were inspecting the walls of spatial boxes one by one.

“What's so interesting?” Matt asked as he came up beside Liz and Susanne, who were at the back of the crowd.

Liz leaned over and phoenix Liz hopped to his shoulder with the movement. “Lila’s storage security is really good. So good in fact that even Allie is having trouble breaking in.”

Matt whistled, which earned him a glare from Aster who was holding up a ‘you can do it’ sign, to Allie’s annoyance.

It took almost half an hour, but eventually, Allie punched the air. “Got it. Weird layering system, but once I puzzled that out it wasn’t too bad. Now let's actually check the storage out.”

Matt decided to use his access to the ship's systems to open one of the small doors like a normal person.

Inside was a lush landscape complete with a garden and picturesque sun dappled clearing. It was the perfect place to store any Natural Treasures that needed such environments. It wouldn’t let the Natural Treasures grow stronger, but it would hopefully prevent any deterioration that might come with harvesting it.

Most resources were fine being thrown into a plain spatial box, but some of the rarer ones, which included most Natural Treasures, needed specific conditions to be met or it might deteriorate or lose effectiveness on such long voyages.

Closing the door, Matt looked at the rows upon rows of similar containers, whistling.

Then it was settling in for the long haul and letting the crew work around them as they familiarised themselves with the ship and got it into its best shape.

Thankfully, they were still close enough to the Empire they could send messages back, but they couldn’t do anything that would require a secure network, given they were flying along the border of the Federation and Monster Collective. They all felt it was best to limit the amount of eyes on themselves until they got into chaotic space.

The Federation surely hated them because of the last war, but the Monster Collective as a whole might not be too much better. So instead of cutting through their lands, which would be slightly shorter, they stuck to the border worlds between the Great Powers.

It was slower than a more direct flight would have been, but the two years and nine months of travel from Minkalla to the edge were well spent.

Between bouts of trying to figure out the second stage of his Power, Matt mainly worked on modifying his second round of skills, namely [Tribulation Strike], [Mana Charge], and [Mana Slash] in preparation for merging them. More often than not, Matt used all three skills together anyway, and it was a more complicated merger than his [AI] skills, which had a lot of documentation to aid with the process.

It was a slow process, and one that Matt wasn’t really rushing to finish. Not only was merging skills a delicate balance of mixing and matching various spell structures together, it also generally weakened or outright disabled the spells. At least the traditional methods of spell merger did. The more passive version of merger, which was just using both skills at the same time and shoving them together, had less downsides but also generally made the weakest type of merged skills.

There was too much redundant clutter left over from unneeded spell structures, which was why Matt was going for the much more methodical practice of slowly, manually, integrating the two skills, hoping to create something greater than the sum of its parts.

A lot of the difficulty came from the fact all three skills were heavily modified from use, or in [Tribulation Strike]’s case, deliberate modifications to make it a melee spell. The other two weren’t too much easier, in that they had been with Matt since he was on the Path and they had grown up along with him, subtly shifting from their original structures to better fit how he used them even before the upgrade orbs he had applied to them.

With them about to go into possible serious combat, Matt didn’t rush. They had several years of travel before they arrived in the first layer of chaotic space, let alone the edge of the first and second layer. Instead, he moved the skills closer together and started puzzling how he thought the three skills would best merge.

The simplest option was to merge two of them and then merge the final skill into the final product. That was what he did with his [AI], merging one skill at a time to the collective whole, but Matt wanted to try something more complicated. He wanted to merge all three skills together at the same time, hoping to keep the channel portion of [Lightning Tribulation] so the combined skill wouldn’t have the limitations normal cast spells had for him.

Despite all his hard work to expand his normal spells, they were still falling behind his doublings, where his channels were far easier to modify to keep up with him.

Learning how to properly do such a merge would be important for when he tried to merge [Cracked Phantom Armor] and [Archmage’s Presence], which was his ultimate goal.

However, his early testing was interrupted as they reached the edge of the Great Powers, where chaotic space became far more turbulent.

Matt joined everyone else in the bridge as they got close, having never been outside settled space before.

At first, he was slightly disappointed by the lack of any hard translation as described by the stories he had heard, but after a few minutes of flying it hit them.

Quite literally.

A wave of turbulent energy that formed out of seemingly nowhere slammed into their shields and shoved the ship miles off course. The blow was so strong, the inertia dampeners had to kick in to keep the inattentive from bouncing into a wall.

It was also hardly the only one. The moment it seemed like they would be able to fly normally, there was another gust that shoved them from above.

Aster whistled. “Okay, I was half expecting the advice, ‘always be on watch’ to be overly dramatic, but yeah, I get it.”

Liz agreed as she looked out the ship's readouts. “And this is only the first layer of chaotic space. The second is said to be hundreds of times more dangerous.”

The pilot, a Tier 30 man, nodded, unbothered by the waves and casually changed values which steadied them out, letting the ship move with the waves instead of trying to fight through them.

“It's a typical tradition to take the divides rough. Reminds people what it's like without us and why we are worth our share.” The grin was slightly self deprecating as he spoke, but there was a touch of truth to his words.

Matt spread his spiritual perception and winced the moment his mind came in contact with the corrosive energies.

Near the Great Powers, in the zero layer of chaotic space, Matt had no issues spreading his sixth sense, but here, the energy of chaotic space was strong enough that it destroyed the outermost layer of his spiritual sense like an acid.

Allie closed her eyes for a moment before saying. “No interference at this point. I can still feel all of my waypoints. In fact...”

She vanished for a moment before reappearing a few seconds later with a small collection of snacks in her arms.

“This might be our last chance to stock up on fresh things.”

Matt happily took the small pack of cookies and split it with Liz, who had grabbed a bundle of honeyed grapes.

The pilot and navigator both failed to hide their disbelief as they were tossed snacks, but Matt figured that was half of Allie’s reason to have teleported. She wanted to show off, but there was a reason they weren't relying on her to travel.

Using the sensors, Matt looked for anything interesting the navigators and Seekers might have found. Sadly there were only three worlds currently in range.

One Tier 2 world that was at the furthest edge of their sensors, a Tier 4 world that was close to their path and might be worth checking out if others hadn’t already looted it, and finally a Tier 1 world that would pass through the Federation.

That was it.

In several tens of thousands of miles that their Tier 30 equipment could scan through, they found a whopping three planets drifting through chaotic space.

Liz chuckled and Matt raised an eyebrow, silently asking what she found funny. “I just remembered why we hadn’t bothered with exploring chaotic space yet.”

Matt snorted and pulled her closer. “I was thinking the same thing. If we were flying blind, I’d be really disheartened right about now.”

Rah, who was with them at the back of the bridge, laughed at the comment. “I wonder how interesting the chaotic space in my Realm would have been. Many worlds, in fact most I went to, had new sky bridges forming somewhere on them at any time. The longest I think I ever saw was the Vi family's main world, which went ninety years without a single natural skybridge forming. It caused many to think they had offended the stars themselves and caused their destruction. That ratio seems far busier than what we see in this realm. But why is it like that? I wish I could know.”

Zack responded after a moment. “It's possible your connection of worlds wasn’t at the center of your Realm. We have records of worlds being lost to the deeper regions of chaotic space. Even in the latest fracturing of a central state, the Glorious Everlasting Kingdom of Prosperity, there were hundreds of worlds that were broken off in the fighting which drifted into chaotic space. Few worlds subjected to that survive for long, but it’s not impossible. Your collection of worlds could be similar.”

Rah seemed puzzled and asked, “You say it's unlikely for any world to survive if that happens. What do you mean? While I can understand that getting cut off from the greater collective might be bad, I don’t quite see how it's a death sentence as you imply. It's an entire planet.”

Everyone looked to Rah questioningly and he returned their confusion two fold.

Aster asked, “Did your worlds never have monsters invade from chaotic space? It's pretty rare, but it happens on some of the border worlds. One or two duchies every year get hit. Most of the time it's only a Tier 15 or so creature that has a special resistance to chaotic space, everything else just dies. But other times it’s something stronger. There are entire Seeker, diviner, and future sight departments constantly keeping a lookout for anything stronger that might come into settled space. The same goes for explorers. They are expected to kill any monsters that discover chaotic space travel, or report the ones they can’t if they happen to get away. But, Rah, sometimes an entire world's population can get eaten. A thousand years ago, a Tier 8 world, Relvaa, was devoured with less than a hundred people surviving because a Tier 25 creature arrived and decided to eat everyone. It started with the Tier 15 baron and feasted after that. It was killed when the nearest Count responded a few hours later, but it was too late for most of the people.”

Rah winced at the description. “Not that I ever heard of. How does a monster even enter a chaotic space? My understanding was that they couldn’t leave the vicinity of their rift, but we never left them alive to test that. It was only here that I learned they could have the anger bred out of them at all, let alone them traveling.”

Matt shook his head as everyone looked to him as the resident expert in rifts. “That's normally true, but there are caveats. First, rift monsters can attack other rift monsters. If two rifts are too close to each other and both have rift breaks, their monsters will automatically attack the other rift, with the defeated rift ending up destroyed. It's best to think of such range limitations like a leash. Chaotic space is outside real space, so any monster that discovers chaotic space can snap the leash by traveling to chaotic space. They are so far away the leash breaks before any restriction can keep the monster from traveling further. They go from within range to outside range in a single moment. The monsters are still filled with a rift's rage, so they do what they are wont to do, looking for people to eat, which typically leads them to inhabited worlds. They seem to be able to sense concentrations of life, given how they always find their way to the core regions.”

Pausing to think, Matt offered his own explanation. “If your people had never been attacked as such, it's possible that our explorers are somehow leading the monsters back, but I’ve never seen that definitely proven, and several groups have tried to ban exploration for that reason. With no proof, people were unwilling to give up the resources the passing worlds contain. However, your Realm might offer some anecdotal proof to back up such reasoning. If there isn't a fundamental difference between realms, that is. That, or you never encountered it but it happened around you.”

