He didn’t have time to consider any of this, though, as he was too busy pouring in a flood of Primeval Origin Energy. Jake’s heartbeat sped up and became audible enough for even Jake to hear it echo throughout the cavern.

With every beat, the entire ritual circle pulsed with light and power, sending another surge of energy into Jasper. The Shimmerfur Warpsnatcher took it all in like a sponge as one by one, the piles of loot around the cavern lost their luster and energy, and every single item lost its energy and thus the majority of its Records, all to feed Jasper’s evolution.

These piles were emblematic of Jasper’s Path. They were all the treasure and seemingly insignificant items the Warpsnatcher had gathered throughout his life and stored in the Hunting Ground. It was the culmination of decades, if not more, during which the little guy had thieved, collected, and stored everything in an odd formation. After today, all of those piles would become absolutely useless, with many of the items even turning to dust as if exposed to desolation. This was something that would have happened even without Jake’s ritual, but now, all of those Records were further influenced by the Primeval Origin Energy.

Soon, nearly all the piles were fully consumed in the ritual. Jake kept focusing on keeping everything going as he raised his gaze and saw something that wasn’t good.

Jasper, standing on his two hind legs in the center of the ritual circle, was still absorbing all the energy coming to him, but his state had deteriorated rapidly. All his old wounds were back, many of them leaking blood visually. What’s more, his fur had begun to lose its luster, signifying he couldn’t keep the boosting skill going for much further.

If it dropped, it would all be over. Jake wanted to say something, but the little guy was already swaying as he tried to keep his eyes open and his consciousness intact. Rather than speak, Jake acted as he gritted his teeth hard enough for the taste of blood to fill his mouth as he pushed himself as far as he could.

One final heartbeat echoed throughout the entire cavern, bringing with it a shockwave of Primeval Origin Energy mixed with his arcane affinity. From the perimeter of the circular ritual, this energy began travelling inwards, and as it passed through the circle, it destroyed the entire thing, dragging with it all the remaining energy and Records still lingering within.

Upon impacting the loot piles, it forced out whatever was left as the ritual circle rapidly grew in size before finally striking Jasper in the middle. The impact was almost physical, and in that brief moment it struck, Jake realized it had been too much for the already weakened peak C-grade to handle.

In an instant, the luster on Jasper’s fur began rapidly fading. The boosting skill was no longer active, and the Warpsnatcher’s eyes lost all focus as they shut closed, the little guy falling forward with no signs of consciousness.

Jake’s eyes were open wide in disbelief, and he was about to yell something, but just before the last hair lost all shine, one of Jasper’s eyes barely opened, a faint light within shining right as the Shimmerfur Warpsnatcher’s entire body disappeared.
