Sitting quietly, Song eyed the last few dumplings while doing her best not to appear greedy. The Lieutenant General had reprimanded her lightly the other day and Song had no intentions of defiance, but the food was so delicious, unlike anything she had ever tasted before. Sitting between Master and Song, the Lady Mei Lin used her chopsticks to grab a dumpling and placed it onto Song's plate. “There you go Li-Li. You don't need to be shy, just eat. It's delicious, ya?”   Song's hand twitched, wanting nothing more than to pick up her own chopsticks, but this could have been a test. “Yes Lady Mei Lin, delicious.” Her response had been meant to buy time to deliberate, but it immediately earned her a poke to the cheek, the Lady's gesture of recrimination.  “Li-Li, you're supposed to call me Lin-Lin, remember? Don't be scared, I'm not mad, it just sounds so stuffy when you call me 'Lady Mei Lin', it's no good.”  Unable to resist any longer, Song quickly dipped the soup-filled dumpling in her spicy sauce and vinegar, placing the entire thing in her mouth, delighting in the heat and taste. Too wonderful, Master treated her worthless slave far too well, and Song was helpless to do anything but enjoy it. She would do anything to continue eating this well, even delighted by the quality of food while in the field, and if she were forced to return to the bland, tasteless slop from before, she would know true despair.  Realizing that she had forgotten to answer, she stared at the Lady Mei Lin's hands while absently trying to recall their conversation. Dressed in a beautiful blue-silk dress with a slight trim of white fur, as well as a scarf about her shoulders and a second to cover her head, little holes sewn in for her ears to poke out of, the Lady Mei Lin looked every bit the part of a noble. Her memory jogged by that thought, Song quickly shook her head while she tried to bow in her seat, the General blocking her from standing to kneel. “This lowly slave does not dare, the Lady Mei Lin is too far above this one's station, and to call you as Master does would be disrespectful. Please punish this slave for her insolence.”  A firm hand lifted her back up, and Song was drawn into the Lieutenant General's embrace, a single arm on her shoulder. “Enough, my daughter has coddled you long enough silly child. When will you learn? Your are a Khishig and as such, you are not to bow so easily, it reflects poorly on me, so sit up and stop calling everyone by title, especially my daughter. She has a lovely name and already too much confidence in herself, no need to further inflate that by calling her Master.” Another dumpling made its way onto Song's plate, this time placed by the General. “Eat, you are nothing but bones, you need to eat more before you end up like that foolish boy, without enough nourishment for his brain.”  Grasping the dumpling with her chopsticks, Song enjoyed it in the silence that followed the Lieutenant General's comment, savoring the fragrant soup-filled treat, her eyes closing in delight as she parsed through the various flavors. Eyeing the last dumpling on the table, she gingerly extended her arm and slowly grasped it, looking about the table at everyone's expressions. Master and Lady Mei Lin looked quiet and subdued in contrast to the smug demeanor of the Lieutenant General, slightly tinged with redness from the wine, while Ser Taduk was red-faced as well, not from drink, but anger, directed at the General.  Seeing that no one was stopping her, the last dumpling quickly made its way into Songs mouth and she chewed carefully while watching for any indication of error. Once she had finished swallowing, the Lieutenant General patted her lovingly on the head, almost eliciting a purr from Song, but that had horrified Master early on and she had refrained from repeating that mistake. Old master had enjoyed her purring, oddly enough. After the petting came to an end, the General turned to Ser Taduk, speaking plainly. “Well, let me hear it, you've had a stick up your ass all day.”  “Hmph. The boy fights, and from what you say he fights well, supports you and Dagen in defeating a powerful Demon, suffers tremendously from the backlash and yet still manages to begin learning how to regenerate from that half-wit healer, Tokta. These things alone are enough to laud him endlessly.” Ser Taduk's ears quivered as he spoke, his tone haughty yet hushed to keep from being heard, despite their private balcony room at the restaurant. “As if that were not enough, his discovery, his altruistic aspirations, his increase in strength, his success in teaching, all of which is nothing short of incredible, but all you can do is disparage and punish him. It astounds me how critical you are of the boy, and I for one do not approve. When I see the boy, I will urge him to leave the Sentinels, for it is obvious you do not appreciate him.”  The Lieutenant Generally laughed mockingly while Song reached for the noodles, piling them into her bowl. Freshly made, hand-pulled and stir fried, they were not as good as the dumplings, but it was close, and she vigorously slurped them down. “And what would you have me do? I overlooked his disobedience, allowing him to fight where he chose as if he were a vaunted hero and not a raw recruit. I betrothed him to my only daughter, despite my reservations, inviting him into my family as a son. I spared him the lash when he willfully ignored a direct order, an error that could have lead to calamity for all of us!” The General's voice was a powerful whisper, full of anger and indignation, something that Song agreed with. It would have been better to simply execute Rain, but he was too well-connected, the General's hands tied, something Song had seen many times before. How often had that lecher Jin Tok gotten away with things because of Old Master's influence? “What else would you have me do? Reward his insubordination? If you had properly taught the boy common sense, none of this would be an issue.” Her voice turned soft and sweet as she patted Song once again. “Child, eat slowly and quietly, no one will take the food away until you are satisfied.”  Slapping the table loudly, Ser Taduk pointed at the General, quivering in anger. “Well, I had no intentions of bringing it up, but you have spoken and I must retort.” His ire raised, Ser Taduk continued his tirade over the muted protests of Lady Mei Lin. “How dare you betroth your daughter to my student, knowing full well I intended to have him betrothed to my precious Lin-Lin?”  “First come, first served. Your empty words have been spoken for years, yet no actions have been taken.” Ignoring her daughter's sour look, the General continued, pointing at Master. “And I am sorry to say, but the boy seems happy enough betrothed to little Mila, I have not heard a single word of complaint unlike his steadfast refusals when the topic of marriage to Mei Lin is brought up.”  “Of course he makes no complaint, he is already terrified of you while still craving your approval, how can he reject your daughter, especially when he has already angered you so? I'll have you know, I delayed my offer of betrothal because the boy has repeatedly mentioned that he is not yet ready for marriage, and I am respectful of his wishes, unlike some other people.”  “Daddy, stop! It's fine, Rainy can marry whoever he wants, and I'm happy for Mi-Mi.” Lady Mei Lin's tiny sniffles stole all credibility from her statement, and Master quickly consoled her, putting an arm around her. “He told me plenty of times he wasn't going to marry me, I was just being silly, he probably wouldn't have even written to me if I didn't make him promise. They come like clockwork, one every two weeks, all titled 'To Mei Lin'. It's obvious he's just humoring me.” Why both of these women thought so highly of Rain was a mystery to Song, and she hoped to be able to show them the truth of that scoundrel soon, freeing them from his lies and deceit.  Silence descended upon them once again as Song reached for the fried fish, no longer fearful of being punished for eating. The others seemed to have eaten their fill, so perhaps it was simple unwillingness to waste food, allowing the slave to eat as well. Biting into the crunchy, delightful fish, she ate with a relish, swallowing the bones gingerly, unwilling to waste any of the delicious meal. The silence continued as she ate happily, until a small knock on the door interrupted her happiness, a servant coming in with a message. “Master Taduk, it seems that young master Rain was delayed at the checkpoint. The guards were unwilling to let him pass into the Fountain District as he was, quote 'dressed like a beggar and in the company of cripples'. Shall I go collect him?”  Sighing deeply, the General stood from the table, ready to leave. “No, we should all go collect him together, I'm sure he's ready for a friendly face. I didn't think it would take this long for the disabled soldiers to be processed.” Her attention turned to Song's mournful look of disbelief, and almost panicking, Song quickly returned to her normal, subservient expression, looking down and praying that the General would not take offense. A warm hand landed atop her head, with a soft caress of her ears. “Ah sorry girl. Mm, just pack everything onto one of the larger plates and take it with you, we can return the dish later.”

