A heavy tension built inside Shiv as he considered the possibility that Maiden was the architect behind the Tempestii's destruction. More importantly, Gone’s cold dread mingled with his; whether it was because she was recalling a period of enslavement at the hands of the Realmrunner or if she was unnerved by the disappearance of an entire civilization, Shiv was uncertain. Maybe it was both.

Adam huffed. "So, what you are effectively saying is that there is a severe consequence for using this Gate. That whoever enters for a day will lose seven in exchange, and then seven more after that for every actual day expended." The Gate Lord blinked rapidly as he sought more clarification. He was thinking about something—perhaps a way to circumvent the cost of using the Gate.

"Yeah," Jessica said. "If you go into the Gate, you don't pop back out immediately. Seven days is the price you pay at baseline, but we convert it from a one to seven rate..." She looked at Rusty. "After seven, things get a little tricky. After five, maybe you don't emerge at all. Especially if you're not a Chronomancer. Maiden didn't exactly explain to me why, but my guess and Rusty's feeling is that the person can’t adjust their own chronological acceleration, and to compensate, the System throws them to a point in the future that's so far ahead that nothing can exist, and they disintegrate.”

Shiv struggled not to rub his temples. “Okay. To summarize: Not only is this Gate unreliable as hells, it's also potentially a death trap for anyone without a Chronomancy skill."

"That about sums it up," Jessica said. "And before you ask, no, I don't know any other Temporal Gates. This is the one I have on me. This is the one that was given to me. And this is the one I know about. The Inquisition operates on need-to-know. Despite me being a Legend, Maiden isn't exactly the type to inform anyone any more than she thinks they need to know. Which is very godsdamned little."

"That has always been her way." The Starhawk's voice rumbled like distant thunder. "She was always reluctant to share anything, at least not until her projects were done. Once, it was a symbol of shame; she fears and loathes failure. Now, she fears that someone may steal her brilliance, take her inventions to create something of their own design instead."

The atmosphere of the thoughtscape was painted with the faintest hints of incandescence. Jessica looked up and scoffed. "Starhawk. It’s been a while. I would say it's good to see you again, but considering you and your favorite son decided to fuck up my life... I don’t really feel like lying to you."

"Giantsbane. I had hoped our reunion to be under better circumstances. Still, it gladdens me to see that you are capable of reason, and that you are—"

"Oh, please don't do that," Jessica hissed. Her teeth were clenched, and Shiv saw a brief combustion of genuine anger at the center of her heart. "Please don't fucking do that. Please don't patronize me. I'm not casting in with you guys. I'm simply here to see if this one you caught... if he can actually do what he says. Now, Rose is back, but I'm getting a lot of 'probably's and 'maybe's from him. 'Probably' and 'maybe' are not very promising."

"About as promising as your gate, it seems," Shiv shot back. "Frankly, it's only a 'probably' and 'maybe' because I don't know how it works. If we can get our hands on Udraal, then the ‘probably’ is probably closer to a ‘certainly.’"

That made Jessica throw her head back and bark a loud, hysterical laugh. "'Get our hands on Udraal,' 'probably closer to a certainly.' Politician's promises, if I've ever heard any. Shit, kid, if I can get you to put on a wig and some makeup, I can start calling you Veronica.”

“The fuck you will,” Shiv muttered under his breath, keeping his annoyance barely caged. “Look. We don’t have to pretend to be friends or anything, but this is an honest trade. I came to you. I decided to be honest with you. If you think there’s a scheme happening here, you should tell me, because I’m definitely not smart enough to come up with some rat-bastard bullshit.”

"Nah, I know there's no scheme." Jessica shook her head. She pointed upwards. "There's never a scheme when he's involved. The Starhawk can be stupid, but conniving? No. Not anymore."
