“Okay, I really hope this isn’t super rude,” Ranthia prefaced her words carefully, “but seriously, Sunny?”

The elf at her side—dressed in thirty-two different shades of black—cackled in unmitigated glee.

After breakfast, Ranthia had planned to take Clover out to explore more of the city, but right as they stepped out their door there was a crowd of rambunctious elves passing by. Clover, being a wise and only partially acclimated creature, chose to remain indoors and under Ranthia’s bed. Attempts to coax her out were met with hissing (so, rabbits hiss, who knew?), so Ranthia set out to check some items off her to-do list.

Like exchanging names with the lady who loved making creepy sculptures and inviting her out for a drink sometime. And somehow, neither part of that had gone as planned. The woman claimed not to drink much and upsold Ranthia on buying her a meal from a restaurant immediately (yes, she too had breakfast not two hours ago, which she followed up with a “so what?”) and gave the name Sunny in exchange for Ranthia’s.

“Oh, you are so much fun, my pretty. It has been a delight watching you masticate on my name and work up your courage.” Her sultry voice was colored with (presumably exaggerated) bliss, which when combined with how breathless she was after her cackles, well…

Ranthia took a moment to recompile her scattered thoughts.

“So, you are messing with me.” Ranthia managed to respond after an all-too-noticeable delay.

“Always, my pretty. But my name seriously is Sunny.” The elf wiped the tears of mirth out of her eyes—somehow not marring the dark cosmetics painted around them in the process—just in time to offer Ranthia a wink.

“Did you… choose your interests to rebel against the name, or…?” It felt like a safer question than trying to argue that the woman’s name wasn’t elven enough. Honestly, even in Remus there’d been some girls with names wholly unlike any other that Ranthia ever heard!

“Eh, not really. And I guess if you’re being technical, Sunny is the name I chose. Y’know how my dad’s a piece of crap, right? Well, he got to name me, and he picked…” After pausing to emit a disgruntled sound, she followed with an elven word—one Ranthia had only seen in old and somewhat pretentious poems—that translated loosely to “the light of the noonday sun as it is felt upon the skin of those who need the nourishment of its lifegiving warmth.”

Yes, High Elvish was absolutely littered with absurdly narrow and convoluted words—many of which Ranthia couldn’t claim to have memorized. Such words were uncommon (to say the least) in casual conversation, but some authors clearly felt a burning need to string together borderline incoherent sentences using the most obscure words they possessed.

“Ah, so instead of going through life sounding like <an ancient flowery poem> you shortened it to a simple word in Creation?” Ranthia dipped into High Elvish for a moment to drive her point.

“Exactly. And hey, you aren’t half bad at High Elvish! I’ve met children raised in it that aren’t half as well spoken, my pretty.” The elf stuck her tongue playfully past her darkly painted lips in response to Ranthia’s scandalized glare, before she nodded forward. “Anyway, we’re here!”

The restaurant was a small building made of wood, with thin, delicate-looking vines hanging off trellises set against the walls. It was surrounded by a perimeter of tables and benches, and its glass-adorned double doors were wide open, revealing a scattering of wooden tables and chairs within. The place wasn’t exactly crowded, though there were a few elves seated both indoors and out, eating food or sipping from heavy ceramic mugs. The sign in front was hand painted and declared the restaurant’s name to be “The Bean” above a logo of a stylized…

“Is that supposed to look like…?” The corner of Ranthia’s lip twitched upward.

“No, and don’t mention it when we’re inside. I’ve heard the [Chef] is sensitive about his vision for the sign, and I don’t feel like eating food with spit in it. Unless it came from a luscious lady’s mouth, of course, but I don’t think we’ll get that kind of service here.” Sunny answered with her own grin.

Ranthia was planning a follow-up joke about the (allegedly) inadvertently lurid sign, but Sunny’s quip left her snickering.

“One of us is going to be a terrible influence on the other, and for once in my life, I’m legitimately not sure if I’m worse than you.” She kept her tone jovial.

Honestly, the only reason she wasn’t flirting with the (obviously interested in women) elf was that she was still holding out hope that Avyna would show up soon. Her heart’s cravings were—at least for the moment—stronger than her libido could ever be. She needed the affection that filled her heart far more than she wanted mere pleasure.

Sunny offered her an impish grin in response, but at that point they arrived at the counter in the restaurant itself—which meant Ranthia’s attention was drawn to the menu. The details were—like most writing in the City of Arts—in Creation.

…Ranthia hadn’t been sure what she was expecting from the restaurant’s food, but she had regrets. The first section was labeled Savory with alarming dishes like thirty-two bean salad; hot bean pulp, scrambled; bean patty sandwich with bean-milk cheese; and bean pulp hot pot listed alongside more predictable things like bean stew. And the second Section was even outright terrifying! It was labeled Sweet and Ranthia couldn’t even bring herself to read past the first entry: sticky fermented beans. The third section listed beverages that were—and she hated that this was no longer surprising—almost entirely comprised of either bean juice or bean smoothies.

Ranthia looked plaintively at her new friend. The dark-loving elf nodded her understanding (thank Xaoc) and turned to the employee with the highly forced smile on his face that was behind the counter.

“We’re both new here, so we’ll do the tasting platter for two. And can we each get two mugs of hot bean juice in both varieties, with just a dash of bean-milk in each? Lovely, thank you.” Sunny smiled earnestly in Ranthia’s direction once the order was done.

That wasn’t at all what she’d wanted to convey!

“You haven’t been here before either?!” Ranthia subvocalized her hiss as soon as the guy passed through the doors into what was presumably the kitchen.

“Nope! Been meaning to come for a long time, I’ve just never been a fan of eating out by myself.” Sunny replied with a knowing smirk.

Ranthia just groaned in answer. Okay, fine—she could survive a strange meal. She’d learned firsthand that elven food could be… weird during her time with Avyna in Coalition City, but she hadn’t encountered anything that was inedible. There was plenty of stuff that wasn’t at all to her taste, but even then, eating it had rarely been entirely off-putting. She could survive whatever Sunny was inflicting on her.

Worst case, she could count on her vitality. Though none of the scents that reached her were entirely off-putting, so maybe it’d be better than she feared?

Sigh.

Surprisingly, Ranthia’s far-too-early lunch ended up being rather delightful. Okay, yes, some of the food had been… strange, and there had definitely been more than a few uncomfortable textures involved. But it was all surprisingly tasty and even some of the sweets weren’t overly sweet.

Not everything in the Bean was, strictly speaking, a bean. One of the owners had added ingredients that had “bean energy,” a category that included roasted seeds, at least one of which had been fermented. But it was thanks to that strange decision that Ranthia left the restaurant with an unexpected prize:

Chocolate—Ranthia finally had a Creation name for the confection that Avyna loved! The [Chef] in charge of the kitchen was even willing to share where he and his grandfather sourced the “beans” (fermented seeds) that chocolate was derived from: the kobolds. Sure, it was possible that Avyna had learned it herself in Ranthia’s absence, but she’d been hunting for the secret behind those confections for more years than Ranthia had lived.

Ranthia was more impatient than ever for her beloved’s arrival!

After lunch, Sunny returned to her stand (“Sure, I don’t sell anything, but I still enjoy lurking just in case someone new gets close enough to give me an entertaining reaction.”) while an overly full Ranthia returned to… the tree that she was still trying to accept as her home.

In her absence, Clover had emerged from hiding and wrought her own fluffy brand of chaos—in the span of the time Ranthia took to indulge in a single meal, the rabbit had managed to track copious quantities of hay into every room in their shared home. Ranthia didn’t feel like cleaning, but she still forced herself to shake the fresh rabbit waste out of her poor, chewed up backpack and made another attempt at explaining to Clover the virtues and values of the sandbox.

After that, she settled into a chair to read while she digested her food. The platter had truly been an excessive amount of food for just two people, especially when she hadn’t been particularly hungry. And she needed to be at her best for that evening…

Geared up in her armor, Ranthia concluded her warm-up stretches—which had mutated into a dance somewhere along the line—and gently encouraged Clover to remain at home. Her bunny wasn’t fond of combat situations and while Ranthia had no idea what the tall, muscular elf had in mind for ‘testing’ her, she somehow doubted it would be a conversation. She knew that she should be giving Clover the freedom to explore the city on her own, but she wasn’t even slightly convinced that her Bond was ready for that.

Once Clover was settled, Ranthia made her way out and set off at a brisk pace. Unlike Remus, the City of Arts didn’t have specific lanes or roads for various uses. If anyone possessed enough speed to be a hazard, they were expected to possess enough vitality, dexterity, and sense to avoid causing problems. And surprisingly, the system worked for the elves—it was hard to imagine how much havoc and tragedy such a mindset could cause in Ariminum.

Once she neared the Lodge, Ranthia twirled to bleed her momentum and—at a regular pace—made her way inside. Unsurprisingly, the place was somewhat packed, with elves drinking and socializing happily. Ranthia made her way past the tables, well aware that the woman she was approaching was already glaring in her direction.

“Yes, I’m here to be tested, just as you wanted.” Ranthia decided to cut to the chase once she arrived at the bar.

“Overly literal idiot, aren’t you? When I said you need more than one fucking day to settle in, I didn’t mean ‘exactly two, then show up.’” The woman glared down at her.

“I’ve spent… entirely too much time doing things I had to do, rather than what I want to do. You want me to settle in? Then let me prove myself and become a Hunter.” Ranthia countered, grinning.

“Fine. Anthelleon! Take the bar and stab anyone that wants to peep. I’ll make it up to you later.” The powerful elf’s voice cut through the controlled din of the bar.

Another woman, with short hair so pale a blonde that it was nearly platinum, stood up and strode over. She was dressed in elaborate leather armor—scaled with leather scales and covered in complex designs both engraved and done with needlework—with a metal staff holstered at her back. Without fanfare, she vaulted over the counter and pulled an apron out of some nook built into the counter and deftly put it on.

“Oh, right. Anthelleon, this idiot’s the one that shares your taste in drink. If I don’t bury her out back, make her treat you to a mug or five.” The owner paused to drop that note, before she… somehow just stepped over the bar, without visibly ducking under the upper part of the structure and ended up on the other side.

Elves were bullshit, and Ranthia wasn’t exactly surprised that someone at level 2560 in all three classes was able to do things that she struggled to explain, even after she witnessed the act.

“By the way, my name’s Ranthia.” Ranthia introduced herself while they walked side-by-side toward the (apparently solitary) exit.

“I remember; you already said that when you pulled those inane theatrics when you first came in.” The massive elf’s words were dismissive.

“I… May I ask your name?” Ranthia was sorely hoping it hadn’t been given without her even noticing back when they first met.

“No.” The woman turned back on Ranthia and fixed her with a dark glare—the dark flames that danced in her eyes seeming to surge in size as she did. “I have no interest in being friends with any of you idiots. I have no interest in your pathetically transparent lust. And I have no patience for wyvernshit, yet people like you seem unable to stop yourselves from spewing it everywhere. You’ll either fail this test and piss off, fail this test and get yourself killed by trying to go out there anyway, or pass the test and become yet another face in the crowd that buys drinks and whatever food I’m reselling for the day. And that simple transaction is as much intimacy as you’ll get.”

Ranthia found herself blinking for several moments before she rushed to keep up with the elf. That was… blunt, blunt was a great word for it. But she hadn’t overcome as much as she had just to let some elf—however magnificent she might be—underestimate her and write her off. If anything, the blunt dismissal only fanned the flames of her determination. She would make the woman acknowledge her, no matter how long it took.

