In the crossroads demon’s wake, the clearing felt significantly emptier than before. She hadn’t left any footprints or even a stray hair. The two pieces of jewelry sitting on the bone plate were the only evidence that she had ever been there at all.

Behind Pyre, Callan hesitantly hovered closer. The ghost’s expression was a complicated mix of emotions that she couldn’t even begin to decipher. He kept looking like he wanted to say something, then decided against it. Pyre couldn’t really blame him. That had been. A lot.

But they had their ticket into the village now, and those crystals were still waiting. She could think about everything else along the way. One thing at a time.

Pyre retracted the bone plate, dropping the jewelry pieces into the flesh pocket she’d placed the map in. It spoke to how out of it Callan was that the ghost didn’t even react to the sight. The demon shifted her body into a longer shape more suited for travel, then flicked the end towards the forest.

“Let’s go.”

At night, the forest glowed with the light of ichor. The thin streams traveling below the ground, previously nearly imperceptible to the naked eye, became visible lines tracing jagged patterns across the earth. In the canopy, bundles of light nestled among the leaves stood out starkly against the darkness of the trees, between which animals—both ichor-warped and not—roamed.

A lone hill stood in the center of the forest. Its surface was completely bare, untouched by all traces of life, and its dark silhouette cut a looming shadow against the sky. Unlike the quiet movements of the rest of the forest, the place was silent and still.

In front of the mound, a monochrome-clad figure appeared. Walking with even steps, the crossroads demon didn’t stop until she was standing directly in front of the fresh hole that had recently been opened up on the side of the hill.

She raised a gloved hand and pressed it into the gap. It passed through easily. She drew her arm back again.

Throwing her head back, the crossroads demon laughed.

It was a full-bodied laugh, the sort that rang crisp and clear and easily cut through the sound of the wind. The few animals nearby that hadn’t already hidden at the figure’s presence strayed away from the noise. The grasses themselves seemed to bend in retreat.

Shoulders still shaking with laughter, the crossroads demon turned and pressed her back flat against the hill, leaning against it. She ran a gloved hand over her face and tilted her head back. Pale eyes stared up at the sky, practically clear in the silver moonlight.

“Amnesia,” she muttered. Another wave of uncontrolled laughter overtook her, just bordering on the edge of hysteria. She shook her head.

“What a mess.”
