I watch the ground get closer and closer as the Berserker lies in wait below.

"This is the only way."

I toss the small Black Strengthening Fragment into my mouth and prepare for its full power to be unleashed. As the tingling sensation in my fingertips begins, I get a nagging sensation on my telepathic link. It's Ember.

"Master, this is not wise."

I clench my jaw while the gem begins to activate. Pins and needles form all over my body and the warm feeling of near-limitless mana begins pouring into my chest, then circulating through my veins.

Letting out a gasp, I begin charging my blades without a moment's hesitation, then reply.

"This must be done. Just catch me when I fall."

"Understood."

Blades glowing, and Dungeon Walker Activated, I blip around to the backside of the one-armed, heavily breathing Berserker.

In less than 10 seconds, a 15k MP attack has already easily been charged. This is far more powerful than anything I've thrown at the beast so far. I release it instantly, charging another one up as I Dungeon Walk to its opposite side.

A flash of white flight followed by the fiery explosion clouds my vision, but I push through.

The moment I see a dim red glow from within peek out, I release another full-force 15k MP attack.

The negative effects of the Strengthening Fragment are starting to take place. Even pumped up on battle adrenaline, the influx of mana into my bloodstream is overwhelming. Releasing 15k MP attacks with no cool down in between is extremely painful, but euphoric at the same time.

The feeling of a thousand tiny knives piercing my body returns, partnered with both hot and cold sensations all over confusing my senses.

With a yell, I let out another 15k MP attack straight into the fiery cloud rubble hoping to get a final shot in on the mutilated monster.

With my vision blurring, I try to charge a 4th attack, but it's no use... My eyes roll into the back of my head and I black out, just like the last time I tried one of these fragments.

Everything goes dark....

"..."

[Level Up]

"Master."

"..."

"Master, it looks like you're moving again."

I let out a groan as I wake up to the "Level Up" notification bringing me to level 409.

My bones feel frail and my muscles ache like they're about to snap.

I try to use self regeneration, but realize I'm completely out of MP. Moving my head back and forth slowly while sitting up and adjusting to the light, I take in the view.

A large crater has been made in the middle of the perfect smooth square-shaped battlefield. Ember sits beside me, and both of my blades rest on the ground nearby.

"Did... I kill it?"

"You did, and we've leveled up too."

I see a grin creep across the Dragon's face.

Letting out a chuckle as I groan and stand to my feet I reply.

"I knew you wouldn't be too mad if there was something in it for you as well. You'll rank up in no time."

I place a hand on the glossy scales lining the monster's back.

"Mind if I borrow some MP?"

"It's all yours, Master."

I begin to plunder a few hundred mana points, attempting to regenerate my sore body. It helps a bit, but the aftermath of overusing MP can't be healed so easily.

"Appreciate it.... It's still just Jay by the way- well, call me whatever you want I guess."

I place my blades into my item storage, getting ready to teleport us out of here, but then remember one of the most important questions I forgot to ask.

"Did that Berserker drop any loot?"

Ember turns to the crater.

"I believe it did."

I slowly walk over to the large hole in the ground filled with excitement. This beast was no ordinary monster, its item drop will most likely be pretty interesting.

The edge of the 20m wide, 5m deep pit nears. I peer over the edge to see two items on the ground below. The first is a large mana crystal, and the second is a long silver sword.

I jump down into the crater and activate appraisal to get a better look.

[Berserker Giant's Long Sword] [Unbonded] +1000 Attack +500 Agility

Nodding slowly, grinning at the shiny new sword in my possession, I think back to the first time appraised this monster. I'm sure the text that reads [Unbonded] read [Blood Bonded] moments ago.

I scratch my chin, plundering the mana crystal and waving the shining sword around aimlessly in the air with a stupid grin across my face. Doing so brings another question to mind...

"Hey Ember, how long was I out?"

"No more than 15 minutes, it wasn't too long."

I nod while placing the odd weapon into my inventory. That's longer than last time, but not too bad.

Letting out a sigh, I stretch my back and arms. I have no mana left, and my body feels like it's about to fall apart if I don't get some proper rest.

"We're going back to the 10th floor. This was a good first day of climbing. It seems like the 20th-floor boss room may be pretty difficult after all..."

"Very well."

I open up my spacial magic portal and allow Ember to walk inside. Without another thought, I Dungeon Walk back to my rented room at the 10th-floor Checkpoint Inn.

I close my eyes and fall asleep.

Hours later, I wake up to a loud banging on the wooden door less than 3m from my bed. I rub my eyes and groan while rolling off the low bed frame down to the floor.

"Jay! Rise and shine! Time for your first day of training!"

The sound of Fisher's arrogant, but enthusiastic voice rings out loud and clear through the poorly made thin walls.

I stand up to struggle to walk across the room to turn the lock.

"Yeah, yeah. I'm awake. What is it?"

The door swings open and I see the blue-haired swordsman grinning at me with Rylan close behind. Fisher points to the redhead.

"He's tagging along today too."

Rylan waves at me with a cheerful grin on his face.

"Hey, it's not every day I get to see Elite level training. I may learn a few things."

I open my mouth to reply, but Fisher continues.

"Come on, let's get some breakfast. I'll fill ya in on the day's tasks."

I walk out the door with a nod, closing it behind me with a light thud. Fisher takes the lead, walking down the steps as Rylan talks my ear off about how his team is going off to hunt High Ogres while he stays here for a few more days.

I just woke up... All this stimulation isn't helping my headache and sore parts.

As I walk down the wooden steps, I can feel the individual joints in my ankles and knees crack. They make slight popping sounds and I'm struck with a sharp pain after every step. It's nothing I can't handle, just a bit annoying...

The 3 of us walk over to the front desk to be greeted by Mr. Conway.

"Well good morning to the 3 of you! Well..."

The man looks down at his watch.

"Actually, it's closer to midnight in the outside world, but good morning to ya anyways! It looks like you've all gotten to know each other a bit better now. Am I right?"

Fisher smirks, putting an arm around both Rylan and me.

"Yeah, we're getting along just fine."

A squirm out from his grip with an annoyed look on my face. Rylan on the other hand, looks pretty used to this treatment.

The blue-haired swordsman speaks up again.

"Another round of drinks and food, the house special. Jay is starting his training today. I'll be teaching him about the Tier 1 techniques and how a Tier 0 can handle higher-level monsters."

The old man looks over to me, smirks, then looks back at Fisher.

"Got it, you're food and drink will be out shortly. Take a seat."

The Innkeeper points to an empty table nearby and walks over to a small door near the far side of the counter whispering under his breath with a grin.

"Oh, what it would be like to be young again."

Fisher leads us over to the table, shouting to the old man.

"Thanks, Conway."

We all sit down and wait in silence for a few seconds. I look the Elite in the eyes with a puzzled expression on my face.

"What did you mean by all of that? A Tier 1 and a Tier 0? What do all these terms mean...?"

I gulp, eager for a reply. Rylan listens wide-eyed and grinning. Fisher nods, putting both hands on the table before replying.

"The Tiers I mentioned are just a system the Association created to track the progress of mana control in Elite level hunters. I'm a Tier 1, a Low-Grade, but still a Tier 1. You are definitely a Tier 0, if I had to guess you're still a Low-Grade, but on the edge of breaking into the Mid-Grade range. This week you'll be breaking through."

I squint my eyes, still confused about what these Tiers even represent. Fisher continues.

"Remember yesterday? When you threw that highly refined mana attack at me and I didn't use a single skill to block it."

I nod, thinking back to the time I threw that attack at his open chest and it didn't make a single scratch... It reminds me of the Yeti and Berserker I fought earlier too. They all used a similar technique.

Fisher leans in.

"Well, this is a Tier 1 mana control technique called Mana Shielding. We'll be working on a few ways to improve your mana control this week. It's the only way you'll be able to stand a chance on higher floors. The Behemoth's Mana Shielding is near the level of my own."
