The iron rod was still sparking into the air.

That wasn’t right. It shouldn’t be sparking like that. It might not have a complete circuit in the water, since the water was [Distill]ed but there was still a circuit down there—

Erick stood still, looking at the sparking rod on the other side of the pool. He said, “I fucked up.” He added, “Oh yeah. I fucked up, hard.” He [Stoneshape]d away the stone hands securing the iron rod to the copper lines. The iron rod fell to the ground, sparking the whole time. The copper wasn’t there. “The copper melted?” Erick looked at the stone itself. “And the whole thing isn’t insulated!” He asked himself, “How could I forget about insulating the wires?” Erick mumbled to himself, “Now that’s just poor planning, Erick.” He said, “I don’t have a rhyme for this one.”

Kiri, who had followed Erick out of the bunker-area and now stood beside him, asked, “Do you need to make a new spell for this?” Kiri quickly added, “I’m all for making a new spell, but this one— Just shape a [Weather Ward] around the copper. If that doesn’t work, [Hermetic Seal] makes really good insulation. Though [Weather Ward] should work. [Battery] is a Particle Spell effect.” She added, “I think.”

Erick paused. He said, “Oh.”

Kiri added, “As for the melting problem: Just make a [Spell Ward] with [Mend]. Layer that through the whole way, too.”

“Right!” Erick smiled. He dismissed the [Battery] on the iron rod, then said, “That’s very smart, Kiri. I hardly ever use the [Spell Ward] function. Thank you.”

Kiri said, “I’ll help.”

It took the two of them ten minutes to get the new set up completed. When it was done, the copper lines ran across the ground instead of under it while glittering green and white [Ward]s surrounded the orange metal. Two [Spell Ward]s charged with [Mend] layered both sides of the copper circuit, both [Spell Ward]s infused with a thousand mana. This time, there were no stone hands holding the iron rod in place upon the copper, but Erick had Sculpted a [Hermetic Seal] to perfectly fit the space. Without Meditation, the iron rod looked like it rested on copper cups, but with Meditation, Erick saw that the iron rod was almost completely encased by immobile, white, insulated air.

Erick and Kiri moved back to the [Crystalline Air] shelter with Poi.

Ophiel hovered beside the iron rod. There was just enough of an opening in Erick’s [Hermetic Seal] between the rod and Ophiel, for Ophiel to have a good line of sight on his target.

[Battery].

Sparks flowed across the iron rod, splashing against tight, immobile air. Copper turned radiant for the briefest of seconds, before the [Mend Ward]s kicked in, repairing the almost-melting copper back to where it needed to be; touching the iron rod.

Moments passed. A minute passed. [Battery] had already leveled to a multi-minute spell, so it would last for a while longer.

Kiri quickly left the safety of the main [Crystalline Air] room, walking through the secondary shielding to the south side of the pool, saying, “I need to see.”

Erick followed her to the south side of the pool, opposite the sparking iron rod. He looked down in the pool, at the spikes of copper under the water. This is where the circuit should have been completed by electricity passing through the water. But nothing happened. No bubbles came up from the copper spikes.

“Oh!” Erick said, “Right.”

He threw a dozen [Heat Ward]s deep into the water, spreading them out to heat the entire five meter by two meter deep pool. They weren’t very strong [Heat Ward]s, but they would soon raise the temperature of the water to just below boiling.

Kiri asked, “Why the [Heat Ward]s?”

Erick said, “Because reactions occur easier when the temperature is higher. If this doesn’t work, I have a backup plan.”

Kiri just nodded as she watched the water. The [Battery] stopped sparking. Erick renewed that spell.

They continued to watch the water. After a while, the [Battery] quit again.

Erick said, “Okay. New plan.” Erick said to Kiri, “You might want to go back.”

Kiri took off, back to the safety of the triple layered [Crystalline Air].

Erick spoke to the water,

“Bend and break, join and snap

“careful now, young alchemist

“tear and shake, quake and zap

“watch out for this [Catalyst].”

The pristine, [Distill]ed water of the pond flickered white. Bubbles appeared in the hot water, alongside notifications.

Catalyst 1, instant, medium range, 50 mana.

<Enables easier reactions in a large area>.

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+2 ability points.

Okay? ~Rozeta

A headache threatened behind Erick’s eyes. He tapped himself with the rod of [Treat Wounds]. The headache never materialized.

Erick looked down at the water, then back up to the [Solid Ward] all around him. He rapidly removed ‘air’ from [Crystalline Air]’s permissions. He had forgotten to do that before, but now seemed like a good time. Erick sent Ophiel over to the iron rod again. From the wide, south side of the oval pool, Erick watched the water.

[Battery].

The rod flickered with renewed sparks.

Down below, in the oval pond, one meter long copper spike began to simply bubble. It wasn’t much of a reaction, but it was a very clear indication that something was going right. That spike wasn’t very important, though, because the other copper spike absolutely fizzed, sending up a torrent of bubbles to the water’s surface.

Erick laughed loud. It worked!

Kiri was beside him before he knew it, watching the water, asking, “What’s happening?”

Erick explained, “Electrolysis. By using electricity, heat, and particulates already in the water, these spells, all together, are ripping water apart at the molecular level, producing 2 hydrogen on that really fizzy spike down there, and 1 oxygen on that spike over there. This next part is going to be the explosion. It’s going to be loud and big. Let’s get back to the bunker.”

Kiri quickly led the way back under the triple layer of [Crystalline Air] to the west of the oval pool. Erick followed. Soon, all three of them were under [Solid Ward] protection.

Erick turned back to the bubbling, steaming water. He had planned on doing this next part a little bit differently, but thanks to a few other spells, courtesy of Archmage Tasar and the Headmaster, this would be a lot more elegant than just putting a bubble of [Weather Ward] over the hydrogen-pouring anode or cathode, or whatever it was; Erick had forgotten the proper name.

Condense Hydrogen X, instant, close range, 25 mana

<Collect all ambient Hydrogen in a medium area, into a small area>. Lasts 10 minutes.

Condense Oxygen X, instant, close range, 25 mana.

<Collect all ambient Oxygen in a medium area, into a small area>. Lasts 10 minutes.

Using his last remaining Ophiel, floating in the air above the experiment, Erick cast through him, adding an Extreme Mana Shaping to both [Condense Hydrogen] and [Condense Oxygen], ballooning both spells as large as they could go as he placed them over their appropriate fizzing spikes. He made sure to keep both spells separate; he didn’t want an accidental reaction before the appropriate time. He then wrapped the whole pond in a [Weather Ward]; this would keep out the slight breeze blowing across the rocky land. Soon, three glittering white areas held in the air above the pond.

[Battery] failed; Erick had Ophiel renew the spell on the iron rod.

The [Mending Wards] and the insulating [Weather Ward]s and all the [Crystalline Air]s from several Ophiel and Erick, all held, as they continued to do what they were set to do. Erick stood beside Kiri and Poi, hoping his defenses would be enough. Erick hoped he had overestimated the reaction, but he doubted he had.

Erick said, “This is going to be a massive, very loud particle explosion. So.” He covered his ears with his hands.

Poi just looked at him with a little bit of a frown. He popped off a [Cleanse] inside their [Crystalline Air] fortress, turning the air thick for a moment. Everything smelled a bit nicer.

Kiri asked, “Can I see...”

“Oh! Right.” Erick handed her copies of everything he had made, then put his hands back over his ears.

Kiri just smiled as she read. But her smile waned. She hummed, then asked, “None of these have a damage listed?”

“None at all.”

Kiri frowned a little, but she said nothing. She dismissed Erick’s blue boxes.

Erick and Kiri watched the experiment from behind three layers of flat, clear [Crystalline Air]. Poi watched everything else.

After renewing [Battery] again and letting it run for the time limits of the Condensing spells, Erick said, “Okay. Here we go. This is going to be loud.”

Kiri and Poi did not cover their ears.

They were probably right not to worry. Erick still covered his ears, though. He looked up to see Ophiel, still flying around over the experiment. In one moment, Erick ended both Condensing spells, allowing the oxygen and hydrogen to mix under the [Weather Ward]. Then he nudged Ophiel. Ophiel cast a [Fire Bolt] into the center of the—

The ground cracked as everything became fire, and light, and loud. Three of the four [Crystalline Air]s around the pond instantly shattered as sound and heat burst from the experiment. The iron rod flew off somewhere. Copper tore from the ground, but continued to [Mend] as it broke against the last [Crystalline Air] then tumbled past.

Erick, Kiri, and Poi all fell to the ground after a massive, flexing crack broke across the final [Crystalline Air] surrounding them. Erick flashed completely white as his [Personal Ward] absorbed a lot of damage. Poi flashed blue. Kiri flashed green. Moments passed. The air cleared. The explosion had passed.

All sound was the same, high pitched whine.

Erick’s ears were not doing well. He was also sitting on the ground. He touched the sides of his face. His hand came away bloody. Ah. No big deal. The old him would have been worried about an injury like this, but he was in shock, and he knew this, for there was barely any pain at all. Or maybe he didn’t worry because of all the magical healing floating around Veird; hard to know the difference, sometimes.

As Erick tried to stand, he stood; he wobbled, but he still stood. Kiri and Poi struggled to stand, trying and failing to get their feet under them. Erick smiled as he watched them fall back on their butts. He had warned them! And he had been right.

Kiri’s face moved like she had cursed loud. Poi opened his mouth as though yelling. Erick couldn’t hear them, but he didn’t need to. They looked fine, and the experiment was a great success! Laughter filled his body, setting his chest to swell with every boisterous guffaw. He could almost hear himself, but the world was still a ringing, silent thing. Poi took out his rod of [Treat Wounds] and jabbed Kiri with it, and then himself.

Blood dripped from their ears and eyes.

Erick stopped laughing. Poi and Kiri did not look good. As Erick blinked his own vision turned red. Poi jabbed Erick with the rod, then said something, but Erick’s hearing was still gone. Poi poked him again. He repeated himself, his lips moving but nothing—

Poi yelled, “—port. [Teleport] Windy Manor!”

Erick winced, saying, “Okay. Okay. [Teleport], yes. You don’t look good.”

Kiri groaned as she fell back to the ground, saying, “Fuck.” She held her head. “I think I need the infirmary. I’m still wobbly.” She held out a free hand, trying to steady herself, but all she could do was flail a little. She said, “I can’t think.”

“That’s—” Poi almost nodded, but he cringed and held his head. He said, “Infirmary. Erick. I can’t think either.” He held his free hand out, almost reaching for Erick, but he stumbled, groaning as he struck the ground. He looked up at Erick; his eyes were crossed.

Erick blinked out blood as his heart beat hard. He grabbed Poi’s hand, then snatched Kiri’s hand as she tried to stand again, holding both of them steady as he said, “We’re going back.”

Blip.

They landed on solid stone in the intake room for the hospital.

Events happened rather fast, after that.

Aids on duty saw them fall to the stone. They immediately took over. Nurses in cream-colored robes surrounded them, pulling them into the proper direction down stone halls. As Erick blinked out blood and a nurse asked him if he was okay, Erick waved her off, saying that his friends were worse off than him, and that they had already used [Treat Wounds]. But as he answered more questions, his head pounded. The nurse talking at him set him down in a wheelchair and sent him off with Poi and Kiri.

Rats showed up, also wearing cream-colored robes. He took over for the nurse.

Time passed quickly. Soon, Poi and Kiri were asleep in beds, in a private room.

Erick watched over them from his own wheelchair, worrying, gently petting a tiny Ophiel in his lap.

Rats stood next to Erick, saying, “Big experiment.”

“It wasn’t supposed to be. I told them it would be loud, but...” Erick said, “I had no idea this would happen.” He added, “I thought it might. But… I didn’t really think, I think.”

“They’ll be fine.” Teressa stood on Erick’s other side. “They’ve both been through worse.”

Rats smiled. “I’ll have to poke fun at Poi for this, though. You told him it would be loud?”

“I did.” Erick said, “I told them to cover their ears.” He said, “I covered my own ears, too!”

Rats nodded, knowingly. “They got a brain rattle, but they should be okay.” He asked, “You did this inside a [Crystalline Air], too?”

“Inside three of them!” Erick said, “I removed ‘Air’ from the permissions, too. [Solid Ward]s don’t flex— Shit. The concussive force came through the ground.” Erick mentally added ‘Air’ back to [Crystalline Air]’s permissions.

Teressa said, “It shouldn’t have. You wrap that spell through the ground, too, don’t you?”

“… Yeah. … I… I always do that, don’t I? Sorry. Not thinking… well.” Erick looked over Kiri and Poi. He asked, “So what happened?”

Teressa said, “Force enough to break two [Crystalline Air]s and damage a third, is what.” She added, “All the Health in the world won’t save you from a mountain falling on you or an uncontrolled fall from the sky.” She glanced to Erick, saying, “Usually. Luck plays a bigger part in those kind of scenarios.” She continued, “Physical effects hurt a lot more than Health can negate. This explosion was a physical effect. Therefore: actual damage. Professor Rue talked about this once. Some people like to call it ‘True Damage’.”

