“Bah! Fine.” Erick dismissed the bubble, reappearing to the gathered crowds. “Okay! One problem solved. Thirty one—” Another group appeared atop the white stone that Erick had set out to act as a Teleport Square. He amended his words, “Thirty two more groups.”

Erick got to work.

He dismissed three of the groups right away. No, he would not be giving an account for your ‘a history of the chelation wars’ book right now, thank you. No, he would not ‘swear fealty to your clan and receive riches beyond imagining’, go away now. No, he would not marry your daughter, not gonna happen.

- - - -

On average, in order to solve a problem that actually warranted Erick’s intervention, there was fifteen to twenty minutes of listening, followed by five to ten minutes of interrogation, followed by how ever long it took to actually solve the problem. To make it all go a bit faster, Erick began conducting his own investigations while the people were still explaining what they needed, so when he got to the interrogation part, he could usually just solve the problem right there and then, but only after knowing if it needed to be solved, of course. In all the cases brought to him, most people had no way to solve them, but Erick was not ‘most people’.

He located the kidnapped scions of a clan, and he brought them home.

He ended monster hordes before they could hit settlements.

He closed vast cracks in the surface of Veird, where monsters spewed out from the Underworld.

He helped to end face stealer problems four different times. Those incidents took a bit more time, and the inclusion of other people, like Sin Seekers and guards and such, for Erick was not about to enact that sort of justice on his own. In three of those four incidents, the petitioners had enough connections to enable the swift allocation of Sin Seekers to the verification, but on the fourth one, the petitioners were just a small clan that was extremely worried by the news they were hearing, coming out of the grasslands.

That small clan was a mountain dwelling society that existed in the deep foothills to the east of grass traveler land, almost inside the Tribulations themselves. There were only a hundred people there, and Erick was able to call upon Vania and the other Sin Seekers of Ooloraptoor to help with that search.

The only ‘sins’ that the Sin Seekers uncovered were of the normal sort. There were no face stealers there, which was a blessing. Every other place Erick investigated contained face stealers. For this clan, though, they were just rightly worried, and they were about to tear themselves apart through their paranoia. There was already a lot of blood on those streets. Luckily, no one had been killed.

Erick brought Vania and the other Sin Seekers back to Ooloraptoor and thanked them for their assistance. They told him that they were just glad to help, though Erick got the distinct impression that he was asking a lot of them; they had duties of their own, after all.

Maybe Erick needed to find some Sin Seekers of his own.

And so, the day came to a near close, as the sun set and the sky turned orange and purple. Erick had gotten through almost every single group that had been there at noon, waiting for him, but 29 extra groups now waited in the wings, hoping that he could keep going for a little while longer.

“I’m almost done for the day, except for one group.” Some people groaned, some yelled, speaking out that their problems could not wait another day, but Erick simply spoke over their outbursts, “All of the rest of you can return tomorrow afternoon. Or! You could take care of your problem yourself. I’m all for helping you, but you should know that I am a last resort. The Star’s Draining field is expanding when I’m done here, so don’t expect to camp out next to my yurt! And you five groups!” Erick gestured with his light, pointing out the new offenders. “According to your applications, I cannot help you. Return if what you wrote was a lie to hide the truth of your problem, or else don’t return, because I’ll just deny you tomorrow.”

Four of the five groups scowled; the fifth went quiet, and gave a small nod.

Erick moved on.

A lot of the gathered groups moved on, too. Erick casually memorized many of the monster problems that he had spied on scattered applications; he’d kill those monsters on his own, later tonight, or something.

The pixies floated nearby. They had waited patiently for their turn.

Erick turned to the pixies, gesturing for them to come forward. As they reached him, Erick spoke in a normal volume, “I’m going to need to know some locations, and I heard you are rather secretive about that.” Erick sat back down in his own chair. “Do you wish for a Privacy, Wellowbye?”

The male pixie, Wellowbye, floated forward, to alight upon the back of the petitioner’s chair. In that position he reminded Erick of a tiny man standing atop a very tall building. His two companion pixies floated beyond the chair. Wellowbye said, “A Privacy would be welcome, Archmage. Thank you.”

Erick cast the Privacy, then he conjured a map of Veird between the two of them, so that Nelboor and Nergal laid between him and Wellowbye. Erick asked, “So where is your place, exactly? Or rather, where are the variant toxic hydras?”

Wellowbye stepped onto the map like it was a solid surface, landing on a bit of Nergal that was closest to Quintlan. “Here are the beasts.”

Of course, he had to pick the part of Nergal that was furthest away. Erick frowned, saying, “That’s halfway around the world.” For a brief moment, Erick lamented. Then he banished that emotion, and said, “Okay. I can do that. Probably gonna take an hour of lightstepping, though.”

With professional mien, Wellowbye said, “We wouldn’t wish to burden you overmuch with travel concerns, and so, we wish to reveal to you a strategic asset.” He gestured backward, to the side, where one of his companions floated. “Oliolo is a Spatial Mage, capable of [Gate].”

Erick perked up. “Oh! That makes this a whole lot easier. I can cast through the [Gate]!”

Yet another reason to get [Gate] as soon as possible—

A deep thought struck Erick, combining several facts at once. Like turning a masterfully cut diamond in his hand and suddenly seeing the fire within, he saw the Worldly Path in a sudden, new light.

[Gate], when purchased through the Script, cost 10 points, and you could never learn the spell yourself.

Adding to that, once you got through the first step of the Worldly Path, you lost the ability to ever purchase [Gate] through the Quest. This was where Erick was at right now. He had gone too far down his own Path to ever make use of the [Gate] laid down by the Script. And it was a [Gate] ‘laid down by the Script’ wasn’t it? Perhaps, spending those 10 points—

As far as Erick knew, and could postulate, points were pieces of something (probably something to do with souls and Script magnifications) that could be used to reinforce oneself through the allocation of points into Stats, and also to gain new Basic Tier spells or Skills. None of those ‘purchase’ applications granted a person the full Spell or Skill. A new Basic Tier purchase always started off at level 1. A level 1 whatever then had to be ‘grown’ to fullness, to level 10, through use.

What was happening there, was that the basic option was being solidified into the soul. That’s what it meant to grow a spell to level 10. And once a spell was at level 10, it could be used in spell combinations, because at that point, the spell was ‘fully yours’, or something.

Points, once a person gained them, though, were definitely part of the soul. Spent points became solid parts of the soul, while unallocated Points were nebulous parts of the soul that could be transformed into any Script-allowed options.

Points could also be spent on non-allowed options, through Wizardry, like with Melemizargo’s New Stats. In that particular case, those New Stats became a part of a person’s visible Status. That the New Stats existed at all on the Status was just the Script’s way of codifying what was happening to the user, though, right? … Maybe.

Maybe.

Also maybe: It was entirely possible that there were invisible parts of the Status, as well.

And so, to bring that idea back to [Gate], and the Worldly Path, and Erick’s idea that [Gate] was actually a nebulous ‘summoned being’, like a Twisted Vision, which allowed people to ‘step in’ to one portal and then ‘step out’ into another part of the world…

When a person took their first step on the Worldly Path, and they gained the Quest with the option to pump 10 points and just get [Gate]…

Was spending those 10 points, in effect, ‘hooking into’ the [Gate] network/being that existed in the Script? The [Gate]-being that the gods used? Was spending those 10 points, perhaps, shoving one's soul at the locked entrance to the godly ‘Gate Network’, and thus creating a key out of oneself, in order to use that godly ‘Gate Network’? In order to use the Path laid down by the creators of the Script?

Erick felt he could be wrong about that.

But...

Such an occurrence would explain why Tenebrae was never able to understand the [Gate] of the Twisted Vision, or the [Gate] that various people gained by spending 10 points on the Quest. If the true goal of the Path was for a person to create their own ‘[Summon Gate Creator]’, then of course Tenebrae would never be able to tap into the [Gate]s already out there. Tenebrae wasn’t the creator of those two known ‘Gate Networks’, and the creators of those [Gate]s would never allow someone to usurp their power… Or, the ‘Gate Monster’ actively chose not to interact with Tenebrae’s attempts at connection? Or maybe the Gate Monster couldn’t interact with Tenebrae’s attempted connections.

Oh.

So that was interesting.

Erick felt right about it, too.

Wellowbye went, “Sir?”

Erick turned his attention back to the pixie standing in front of him and ignored his own social blunder. He asked, “What sort of variant? Could it be that these toxic hydras are actually people from Messalina’s Village?”

Wellowbye froze a little, but rapidly thawed to professional stoicism. His compatriots shared his sudden solidness. Wellowbye said, “I swear upon the Relevant Entities that if these variant toxic hydras are members of the— The Village… Then I do not know of it, and they certainly aren’t acting how true Villagers would act. As far as we know, these monsters are monsters, through and through, with no regard for life of any kind save their own.” He turned to Poi, asking, “Please tell the Archmage if I am lying, or hiding relevant information.”

Poi said, “Ambassador Wellowbye believes the variant toxic hydras are truly monsters, of the classical kind. He wants them dead, for their Extreme Light threatens many pixie cities.”

Wellowbye stood a bit taller, his wings sweeping out behind him like he was a soldier at attention. The effect was diminished by his decimeter height.

“Good to hear.” Erick told the pixie, “Tell me about the toxic hydras.”

Wellowbye paused as he stared a little, as though he was assessing if Erick’s turnaround was genuine, or not. Soon enough, he decided that overthinking was as disastrous as not answering, so he might as well let the chips fall where they may. He said, “We do not know their true names, but we know that all three of them share the same sort of traits, of Elemental Illusion, Elemental Star, and Elemental Extreme Light.” Wellowbye added, “We think there are three of them, but it could very well be a single beast, though each hydra is different enough from the other that they might be three separate monsters. The only reason we think they are Illusion hydras is because they can instantly heal any damage done to them, like they were never damaged at all, and they can move and appear wherever they want inside their pools of Extreme Light.

“It is possible that they are not Illusion-based, but at this point, that is highly unlikely.

“Physically, they are the same as any other fully grown toxic hydra. Each of them are roughly 250 meters from their main head to the tip of their tails, weighing in at around 16,000 tons each. Where they vary is in the number of heads, coming in at four, five, and seven heads. And they moved into the neighborhood two weeks ago. We’ve already lost many outer settlements to the hydra’s poison, and we are desperate to kill them.”

Huh.

For a lot of reasons, it seemed that there was Worldly Path fuckery going on with this request, for sure.

But to be sure, Erick asked, “Are they [Teleport]ing through their pools? Or are they just [Water Body]ing? Or [Lightwalk]ing?” Erick added, “[Illusionwalk]ing.” He glanced to Oliolo, asking, “Or is it actual Spatial Magic?”

Wellowbye turned to his compatriot.

Oliolo floated forward. She was a professional-looking pixie in a pink pantsuit. “They are not fully submerging, as one would need to do with [Water Body]. They are not using any Space Magic that I know of. If anything, they are using a form of [Illusionwalk], which is why we believe that they are Elemental Illusion hydras.”

Erick nodded, then asked, “How long can you keep open a [Gate]? I plan on casting through it to reach the battlefield from here.”

“I can keep open a pixie-sized [Gate] for hours.” Oliolo said, “A human-sized [Gate] would only last ten minutes.”

“Let us get to work.” Erick had Ophiel lift off of his shoulder and shrink down to the size of a hummingbird. “Ophiel will take you a good dozen kilometers away from here and then you will open the [Gate] to within a hundred kilometers of the target. Further away is fine, for I can find them myself.”

Oliolo bowed. “It will be as you command.”

- - - -

Ophiel passed through an opening in the world, passing from twilight night, to early morning.

Far below, kilometers away, the untamed toxic jungles of Nergal stretched out in every direction like a moldy green carpet of varying colors. A strong breeze blew across the world. Ophiel reflexively turned his sunform into edges, to hear the wind whistle across his light, and in preparation for a possible ambush.

Since no ambush came, another three Ophiel joined the first on the other side of the [Gate].

Briefly, the four of them danced in the new air, listening to the sound of the wind and reveling in the newness of the land. And then Erick took control, and the three of them stepped through the light, to float a good twenty kilometers north of the [Gate] that brought them here. Their connection to Erick remained strong, with the Ophiel near the [Gate] holding onto the thread connecting them to their creator.

A cascading light went up into the new sky, and soon, a map appeared.

