“Normal Elemental Fire Magic usually burns metals— Or they oxidize them, I guess? Anyway. Normal fire spells are only useful for indirect heating, but I turned the Particle Spell [Incandescent] into an aura, so now I can directly heat metals without using Elemental Fire, to easily melt metals to liquid. I plan on using that, and a [Vacuum] spell I made, and the Condense line of spells I worked out a while ago, to figure out the exact metal content of the steel ingots Ooloraptoor gave me. Ah.” Erick said, “I might need to make a pressurize spell, too. Not sure. I’m still remembering steel phase diagrams, and all that. Anyway: From there, I’ll learn how to harden, temper, and mix metals to see what I can do with them. I’m figuring that I can do a lot! Or at least I’ll be able to make gears and the precision equipment needed to make a working DC engine that won’t break once I stress it.”

Jane smiled. “I think I still want a sword from the Adamantine Smiths, for now. Maybe I’ll swing one of yours around in a year or something.”

“Of course!” Erick said, laughing once. And then he paled. “That means you would rely on one of my swords to save your life. Uh.” Erick said, “I’m never giving you a sword, Jane. I’m never making weapons or armor.”

Jane just laughed; head back, deep laughter. Nirzir chuckled a bit, while Teressa smiled.

Poi, however, just breathed deep, smelling dinner and changing the topic, “Oh. That smells good.”

Teressa said, “Nirzir helped to cook it; it’s pretty great. You worked with a butcher today, didn’t you?”

“I did!” Nirzir sat up. She briefly smiled at Teressa, then she said to Erick, “I think the cooks meant to scare me when they introduced me to butchery, but it was only a bit worse than learning how to heal people.”

Teressa barked a laugh. Nirzir only smiled wider. Jane chuckled. For a brief moment, Erick recalled house parties back on Earth, where everyone was in a good mood and laughter came easy. This here, was almost that.

Erick said, “Ah! That reminds me: I promised to talk to you about that Undertow spell you made.”

Nirzir’s eyes seemed to sparkle.

Erick got up and went to the table to start on his dinner, as he said, “All you really need to know is about Permanency, I think. So I’ll start there.”

Nirzir got up from her seat and joined Erick at the table. Soon enough, Poi dragged himself out of his chair and joined them, too.

Erick spoke of his experiments with wardlights, how he put those lights in front of funneled mana in a dungeon, in an attempt to understand how the only ‘Permanency’ option in the Open Script functioned, and how to replicate those techniques into other magics. That part of the conversation didn’t take too long, for Nirzir seemed to easily pick up what he was putting down.

After that, the conversation moved on to talk of [Personal Ward]s and the ‘enchanting’ of oneself.

“The goal of a [Personal Ward] is to ensure that outside forces are unable to harmfully interact with the self.” Nirzir rhetorically asked, “But where is the line of ‘harm’ drawn? A Force sword swung by an assailant is easy enough of a concept to counter. What you do in that case, is deny the Force spells of others from interacting with your self through the various Voiding spellwork that we’ve gone over before— Well.” Her eyes held sudden worry. “That is what I would do. But I am very familiar with Void. I would never, ever, suggest this method to anyone else... Except for someone like you, Erick. … Maybe not even you, though. Void is dangerous.”

Erick nodded. “I understand.”

Nirzir paused, gauging Erick. After an unsure moment, she continued, “Denying various Elemental attacks is easy enough; you can combine 6 anti-songs into a [Personal Ward] rather simply. In fact, using Void as your base Element, you can counter almost all magics at once, though without specific focuses, then your counter fails when it comes up against Elemental Sun, or Elemental Blood, for instance. Any of the Esoteric Elements can only be halved using this method.

“So in that case, you need to focus your anti-song against those specific Esoteric Elements. It is hard to include so many anti-songs in a working, so focusing on the larger, more dangerous Esoteric Elements is a good idea. Blood. Destruction. Vile and Exalted, if you’re worried about demons or angels.

“But these defenses do nothing against the steel of a sword, or the carving fingers of a true martial master. In those cases, you must— Now this is the truly dangerous part. You must include imbuements of elemental sources into your own body, as one does when they use an Elemental Body. And you must have perfect control over those elements, too, or else a simple [Stoneshape] from an enemy could rip apart the solidness you have tried to imbue into your flesh.

“This is the most complicated part of making a perfect [Immaculate Defense], and I have barely scratched the surface of this third of the perfect [Personal Ward].

“For even if you do that all correctly, your spell might harm the natural processes of your own body. This is the final problem to overcome when creating the perfect [Immaculate Defense], for this is not the Old Cosmology; we need our hearts and brains and blood to live.” Nirzir said, “And that’s the basic overview. What do you think?”

Nirzir waited with hope in her eyes, wondering if she had done good enough. For what it was worth, Erick had never considered a thousand-vector, anti-magic, anti-physical, anti-damage [Personal Ward] as the proper solution to the problem of ‘having enemies’. It was a damned good solution, though! Complicated as all heck, though.

Nirzir had certainly given Erick a lot to think about.

Erick said, “There is a solution to all of this that you must have heard of already. Don’t you have a Domain?”

Nirzir frowned a little, then she paused. “Your Domains are a good enough defense? For you?”

Erick chuckled. “Ah! You got me, there. You can never have enough defenses.”

Nirzir brightened.

They spoke for a while longer, but soon enough dinner was over, and it was time to get back to work; the Mind Mages were ready.

And Erick found that he really enjoyed the work.

Sure, if you looked at all of Veird and all of the problems out there, there was so much work to do, that there would never be an end to it, not to mention the physical strain that such a workload put on the body. After a full 9 hours of hard mental effort against the problems of the petitioners, Poi was still chipper, but after what was to come in the night, Poi would certainly be flagging. Erick, himself, could do a few straight days of this before he collapsed, though he did not want to. But for now, for the amount of work he had put in front of him, thanks to the Mind Mages, Erick was more than capable of doing what needed to be done. He imagined that in the future he would need to assist the Mind Mages a few times a year, and for a few years in a row, but after that, they should have their own people capable of casting [Cascade Imaging].

So, for now, Erick enjoyed the work, for every single person he helped, every single threat he ended, was yet another light preserved, or lit; yet another small strengthening of civilization against the danger of monsters, and against the evils of the abuse of magic.

- - - -

That night and most of the next morning, more than three million blue targets appeared across the whole of Nelboor, and Mind Mages moved without care for borders, allegiances, or privacy, to erase those blue markers from the face of Veird.

Soon enough, it was over.

As Poi collapsed in his bed and Erick closed his own eyes for a few hours of sleep, before he got back to work with all the petitioners waiting outside, he realized that if he wanted to keep doing this then he needed a whole organization at his beck and call. He assumed that some of the shadelings (and probably a lot of other people, too) would be up for the opportunity to spread good out in the world, so that was a theoretical ‘organization’ that Erick could call his own, one day. Once Erick figured out [Gate], he could even help people all over the world, without needing to actually be in those places in person.

That thought led Erick to another: The Headmaster already did this, with his Elites. He even enlisted the help of Hell and Celes in order to have a ‘Gate Network’ necessary to enable such an organization. According to Jane, there was a cave on Oceanside where an angel and a demon had a ‘Quest Board’ that was populated with needs from around the world. When Hell or Celes saw a person in need, or a monster that needed to be killed, they’d put a quest upon the board. Their system worked much like the Class Ability, Quest Board, but there were no points put up as rewards; only a system of ‘contribution points’, or something, that allowed Elites to purchase magical equipment for fractions of the real cost. Erick was pretty sure the Elites still needed to pay money, though, in addition to the contribution points; they probably did.

And apparently magical equipment wasn’t the only thing on offer. Artifacts and learning and other options were possible, too, but Jane wasn’t privy to most of that, so Erick didn’t actually know.

… Hmm.

That whole system seemed like a good talking point to bring up with the Headmaster, the next time they met in a physical setting. How did the old dragon get the angels and demons to work together? Something to find out! And, hey! The old dragon had offered to speak of ending this Converter Angel threat before it came back to bite Erick in the ass, and that was good, too.

… Maybe after the trip to see the Adamantine Smiths.
