A minute later, the hydras were revealed, but oddly; three fuzzy blue dots about fifty kilometers that way… and then other fuzzy blue dots appeared here and there. (Probably a result of the radiation, Erick thought.) First four more blue dots, and then another two, scattered here and there in other parts of the jungle. More ‘Illusion Star Toxic Hydras’?

While Wellowbye and his pixies freaked out a bit back at Ooloraptoor, and Erick dealt with that issue, one of Ophiel took off, racing to the original targets. The others went in other directions. Quick checks revealed normal toxic hydras at every site except for the expected site. The pixies calmed.

From a good five kilometers in the sky, Ophiel saw the beasts, their lair, and the problems that they had created for the pixies.

The jungle in this area, and for a great distance in most directions, was a marshland of trees thickly placed, growing out of dark brown waters, with barely any of the brown waters exposed to the open sky. But down below, the trees had been plowed aside by massive, scaled tails, like a man sweeping papers off of a desk. Those trees piled up like dams around a deep depression in the marshland, maybe a two kilometers across. In this place, the brown waters gathered into a true lake, turning dark black with their unusual depths, even in the full sunlight.

Or perhaps that blackness was simply from the hydras that lived there, for in those dark waters, were glittering lights. In the daytime, and to the untrained eye, those lights almost blended in with the sparkling reflection of the sun. But looking closer, Ophiel could tell that those glittering lights were like stars, upon a darkest blue background. That fit with the purported elements of these variants, for this much truth was practically written upon the hydras themselves.

Those same stars glittered on the dark blue scales of the hydras, each of which lounged in those waters, looking like sleepy bundles of snakes hiding just under the water’s surface. They probably hunted at night, but for now, they slept.

Their very presence was destroying their environment, but they probably didn’t care. The edge of their lake was brown with death, and to the north, in the direction the marshy waters flowed, the land was half-leafless, with dark, shimmering waters killing everything that was within five meters of the surface. A few stubborn leaves clung to the tops of many trees, but there was no wildlife. The trees themselves seemed to be able to withstand some of the Extreme Light, but they were dying, too.

As Ophiel descended to the waters, to explore the dead marshland, the edge of his sunform began to glitter with flecks of white. The Extreme Light here was strong. And then Ophiel dipped down, all the way to the surface of the water to inspect the runoff. This close to the toxic hydras’ signature power, Ophiel’s sunform edge was completely white. It was hard to see past the interference, but Ophiel managed well enough since he had many, many eyes, and more senses than just vision.

Ophiel moved north, inspecting the waters, seeing how far and how deep the damage went.

After a quick inspection of ten kilometers, Erick pulled Ophiel back, back to the air high above the hydras’ lair. The creator had seen more than enough to know that the hydras had to die.

The toxins of the hydras spread out from their lair, flowing north with the waters of the marsh, gradually spreading east and west and yet not diminishing in power at all except by diluting. How long had this been going on? Only two weeks? Really?

Back on the other side of the world, Erick got a repeated answer of two weeks, though they believed that the hydras were normal toxic hydras for years before that. No one bothered them, though, and their toxins never reached that far, until two weeks ago, when the problems started.

Ophiel felt a shudder pass through him.

And then he got to work. Ophiel fluttered above the targets, stabilizing himself 500 meters above the center of the lair. Power flowed through him.

An abyssal star broke the bright blue sky, shifting the world to shadows, bringing darkness to the day.

Hydras roared as they woke from slumber, recognizing the threat. They cast off the surface of the lake like sloughing skin, their dark scales glittering in the sunlight, and in the light of the Star above. The largest hydra opened three of its seven maws. Starlight burst forth like beams of dark radiance, carving across the sky, but dying in fits and spurts as the abyssal Star shone its own [Luminosity]s, breaking up the attack far, far before it could reach the Star.

And then the Star pulled. Health and Mana flowed from the monsters like streamers of glitter, empowering the Star above to pull even harder.

The seven-headed hydra stuck three heads into its lake, sucking up its star-filled waters to refill its own power. After a few seconds of buildup, the hydra opened the maw of its central head. Power flared like a supernova, blasting out of the hydra as meters-thick white light. The attack neared the Star, and then it failed. The hydra’s power struck some invisible force a hundred meters from the Star, breaking from a laminar flow into a scattered rush of light that spiraled outward, and then swirled inward, like a black hole sucking in a sun. That power coiled around the Abyssal Star, eventually vanishing into the depths completely.

The four-headed hydra tried a different sort of attack. It slipped through the light, up, up, into the sky, riding the shadows and the light, bypassing the comparatively-invisible Ophiel still hanging out in the middle of the fight; ignored. The hydra [Illusionwalk]ed close to the hateful Star, trying to attack it directly with shorter-range starlight burts. That was a mistake. From one flickering illusion to the next, the hydra flailed as though realizing it had landed in the maw of a much larger monster. It tried to get away, but [Luminosity] ate at its attempts to [Illusionwalk]. The hydra suddenly ripped to bloody chunks as its [Illusionwalk] failed spectacularly.

Chunks of hydra rained down from the Abyssal Sky.

The five-headed hydra was the only one who went defensive. It tried to dive deep to get away from the hateful Star. This was a successful tactic, as the Abyssal Star could not reach past the surface of the toxic waters. There was no easy way to get to that particular hydra, but then Seven-Head took away Five-Head’s covers.

With six of its seven heads in the lake, drinking deep, Seven-Head drained the starlight in the waters, pulling from every direction, pulling power into itself, into its central maw. It released a great blast, twice as large as before.

The Abyssal Star merely drank the starlight deep. And now, it reached its shadowy tendrils down into the waters, beyond the surface, to attack Five-Head. Glittering lights Drained out of Five-Head, causing Five-Head to launch out of the waters again, to roar with brightness, and to flicker in place, to shoot its own beams upward, to fail exactly as Seven-Head had failed.

Erick had seen enough.

He had Ophiel call out to the monsters, to ask if they were people. For a full minute he tried to talk to them, but the hydras knew no words; they were not people.

Ophiel got the signal to end it, so he did.

Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Went the [Luminous Beam]s, cutting deep into necks and backs and tails. Starlight blood flowed into the marshy waters. Illusions, or something, tried to seal up the cracks in the wounds Ophiel had caused, for he had not outright killed the hydras! How strange.

The obvious solution was obvious.

Swipe!

Swipe!

Swipe!

Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe! Swipe!

There.

Now the monsters were dead, and they weren’t getting back up…

But let’s gather all the shiny cores to make sure.

Annnnnd there! 16 grand cores!

Job done!

- - - -

Erick pulled back all the way back, bringing his new wealth through the [Gate], and back to Ooloraptoor. Sixteen grand cores floated along with Ophiel, each of them as bright and as dark as the night sky. Oliolo dismissed her [Gate] and followed Ophiel back to Erick, though the grand cores continued on to stand upon a platform near the yurt.

Once under the [Undertow Star], the grand cores seemed to glitter even more, as something happened between them and the Star above. The mana flow that usually went into the Star also seemed to twist around the grand cores, like eddies in a river. Whatever was happening there, nothing immediately worrying occurred, but Erick would keep an eye on the situation.

The cores didn’t have any parasites on them, either. Erick checked!

Wellowbye smiled a bright smile as he stood there, on the back of his chair. His wings flickered like he had too much joy to contain in his small body. “Th~ank—” His voice cracked, morphing from something deep, to that of an overactive child. And then he paused and regained himself. He spoke seriously, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt. We will transfer a suitable gold payment to your Mage Bank account, but I do not wish to offend, so if you could give me a number we will gladly pay it. You have saved thousands of souls from having to upend their entire lives, and we are grateful.”

Probably more than ‘thousands’. Even though Erick had not seen the main city that Wellowbye was trying to protect, he saw the devastation caused by the toxic hydra runoff, for there were many pixie settlements in the trees of the marsh. Some of the trees managed to look like a hundred dollhouses crammed into each other, like some sort of surrealist painting. But they had all been abandoned. Tiny broken doors swayed in the breeze, tiny carpets were rumpled to the sides of rooms, furniture had been tossed in the rush to evacuate, and windows lay broken.

Wherever Wellowbye came from, they had likely sent out many, many calls, out into the greater world, asking for help with the Starlight Illusion Hydras. For whatever reason, Wellowbye’s plea to Erick was the only one that had been answered by someone capable of killing the monsters. Was Messalina falling down on the job? Or was ‘monster clearing’ the job of a villager of Messalina’s who had been killed in the Red Dot attack?

It wasn’t like the pixies would ever go to the Headmaster, right?

“Don’t worry about payment. You and your neighbors have a lot of rebuilding to do.” Erick said, “I’m just glad I could help, Wellowbye.”

Wellowbye bowed. “Thank you, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick dismissed the Privacy surrounding them and bid farewell to the pixies. And then he told everyone else still waiting around that this area was going to be very uncomfortable for anyone who wasn’t approved personnel.

He dismissed the [Undertow Star] in the sky and cast a new one, Shaping it appropriately to his yurt, and to the area outside of his space, for 80 meters in every direction. He only clipped a few of the slowest people in the light of the spellwork.

- - - -

Inside the yurt, Erick smiled wide as he collapsed into his chair, saying, “That took a while! How about a late dinner, Poi, and then we can do everything we need to do with the Mind Mages and the mental monsters of Nelboor, ey?”

Poi sat down in his own chair, briefly pausing, before saying, “Yes. We can do that tonight.”

Nirzir glanced around, her nervous eyes landing on Jane and then Teressa. “Does this mean another late night of horror stories?”

“Nope.” Erick briefly enjoyed Nirzir’s young optimism before crushing it, “This means a very late night for me and Poi and many, many other people, all involved in real life horror stories. I’ll tell you about the most horrible of them as they’re happening, if you wish. Or you could go to sleep.”

Nirzir’s already white skin paled even further.

“Those aren’t the fun kind of stories, boss,” Teressa rolled her eyes.

“They are not,” Erick agreed.

Nirzir instantly scowled, asking Teressa, rather loudly, “You tell those for FUN?!”

“Well sure!” Teressa said, “But you gotta understand that the kinds of stories I tell are either fake or informative; instructional. Not real; fake.”

“I don’t understand the difference,” Nirzir said, pushing back, seeming to come briefly out of her shell.

Teressa huffed. “No one talks about how their army buddies were eaten by shadow leviathans, or how they’re investigating a family that was brutally murdered by—” She continued, “Those kinds of stories are not fun. They’re part of the job, and no one wants to hear the nit and the grit, and how everything is covered in shit and blood after a fight. Or how hard it is to lift your sword after you’ve lifted it a thousand times already, but you can’t stop, because if you stop then the monsters eat another friend.” Teressa tried not to glare, and she mostly succeeded.

Nirzir retreated into herself a little, saying, “Oh. That’s the difference, isn’t it.”

Teressa suddenly realized she had overstepped. She pulled back, saying, “I go for realism in my stories, but everything is heightened to near-unreality, and the monsters don’t eat kids, or any of that other bad stuff. Some people can enjoy soldier memoirs, but I am not one of those people.”

Nirzir nodded a little, then said, “Thank you for telling me.”

About half a minute passed with awkward silences filling the yurt.

Meanwhile, Jane was pulling out food from the cooler. Now that it was all set on the table, she bulldozed over everything that had just been said, declaring, “Dinner! Just gotta heat it up.”

Erick smiled at his daughter, saying, “Thank you,” as he applied some [Heat Ward]s to the food.

Erick said, “You know, Jane? The elders of Ooloraptoor were talking about how nice the engine would be, but I’m not going to give them that. Instead, I think I’m going to try and reinvent the electric motor. I think I can do it rather easily because I have all the pieces, but even more important than that, [Battery], [Magnetize], and [Metalshape] are already a part of the Script, so that means easy electrical generation for all.”

“I was wondering how far you were going to go with your engineering.” Jane asked, “What was all that fire about, though?”

