Erick sat back in his chair, briefly holding and reading the goblins’ application again. He set the paper aside and said, “So you want a monster moved. Not killed. Do I have that right?”

The lead goblin, a man by the name of Ykk, sat in the chair opposite Erick, while his people stood on the grasses on Ykk’s side of the platform. All five of them nodded at Erick’s words. Ykk said, “Yes, sir.”

Erick said, “This is odd, you understand. This deviation from the norm makes me think there is something untoward happening. I don’t wish to be involved in politics, and I certainly cannot abide by accidentally loosing some evil upon some unsuspecting area.” Erick said, “Tell me what is going on, here.”

Ykk and his people all stilled, their expressions going unreadable. They were already hard to read, but now it was practically impossible. They even seemed to consciously control the beating of their hearts, though Erick might have been wrong about that.

Ykk began, “What we are asking is not for a Dangerous Game, but for the solving of a problem caused by negligence among the Herders.” Ykk reached down into the neck of his black breastplate and retrieved a white metal disk, attached to a thin, white chain. “I have authority invested in me by the White Council —The ruling body of Homeland— to solve this problem as quick as I can, before it becomes a true problem and we lose the beast. None of us actually wish for the monster’s death. This is unusual, yes, but only because iron beasts are unusual beasts.”

Erick frowned a little. The goblin was completely unreadable. Perhaps goblin physiology was too far away from what Erick was used to, for the long nose and the pointed chin, and the black eyes, made it very hard to understand the micro expressions he was seeing.

Erick said, “I’m going to ask my guard, who is a Mind Mage, to lie detect for me. Do you consent?”

Ykk’s expression did not change at all, as he glanced to Poi, standing behind Erick. Ykk looked to Erick. “I consent.”

Poi nodded.

Erick asked, “Do you knowingly intend to cause harm or trouble for others with the moving of this iron beast that you have asked me to move?”

“No, sir.”

Poi nodded; no lies.

Erick held up the lightsculpture that the female goblin had made, asking, “Tell me about this monster, and why it needs to be moved, and not killed.”

The lightward showed a lobster-like beast, but with a dark iron shell and several pedipalp-like collections of tendrils instead of forward claws. For size comparison, a goblin stood next to the iron beast. The goblin was the size of the iron beast’s toe claws. Erick guessed that the live beast was the size of a two-story house. Possibly more.

Ykk said, “The iron beast in question was stolen from the hatchery two years ago by a child who thought to raise his family to power with the iron harvesting abilities of the beast. The child, against all odds, managed to do three unlikely things: hatch the beast, become its Beastmaster, and have the juvenile iron beast survive the transition to adult, when the small core turns into a grand core. All three things are highly unlikely, with such an event occurring approximately once every seven years. Most of the iron beasts we have under the White Council’s control are a hundred years old, and we’re always having some Beastmasters trying to raise a new Iron Beast.

“And so, we come to the problems of this boy getting his wish.

“Iron beasts are terribly temperamental. Once they turn into monsters, they never willingly leave their birth tunnels. This boy hatched his beast inside a mine of his own creation, far outside of established, patrolled, protected areas.

“The boy has gained his wish, and his family has become the caretakers of the iron beast, harvesting its ever-increasingly-large cast off shells for profit. This achievement has even brought the boy a true noble name of Tryker Ironknife, along with accolades and wealth of such an elevation. The White Council has accepted this elevation, for many of them got where they were through the same sorts of means.

“But the boy fucked up, or some uncle or sister did; we don’t know, and we don’t care. We only care about the possible loss of a highly productive iron beast. There is a reason we have well protected and patrolled iron beast areas.

“Iron beasts don’t move as long as their tunnels contain iron, and they’re able to [Grow] it out of the nearest hundred kilometers, but just last week some ballooning spiders clipped through the beast’s tunnels, and the beast is beset on all sides by hungry spiders. This is the problem. The spiders can’t get through the beast’s hide, for the beast curled up to protect itself, but at the same time, the spiders won’t move on from easy prey; all they gotta do is outlast the iron beast’s fat reserves. In five more days, it’s gonna get hungry, and it’s gonna have to fight, and it’s gonna die, because iron beasts are not that strong, and since the spiders opened up the beast’s tunnels, all manner of monsters have poured inside. This is the larger problem.

“It could be that some other monster will come inside the tunnels, hunting after the spiders, and they’ll find the iron beast just sitting there like a delicious, weakened meal. It’s happened before, and in much more secure locations than where the beast is now.

“So what we want from you, if you could, is to move the beast twelve hundred kilometers through the air or however you want to do it, to a new set of tunnels that we already got established closer to Homeland.” Ykk sat back in his chair, saying, “And that’s the spiel. Will you help us out?”

All of that was rather interesting, and especially the part how the iron beast could [Grow] iron out of the ground? How did it do that? Did it have some sort of mutualistic relationship with an iron fungus, or something? Whatever the case—

Erick asked Poi, “Any lies?”

Poi said, “No overly large ones. The part about ‘the monster will die in five days’ would show up as pink on a standard red-pink-green truthstone.”

Ykk seemed to solidify a little, though some part of Erick guessed that the small man’s true reaction was deflation. It was, as Erick was finding out in new ways every few seconds, kinda hard to read goblins.

Erick said to Ykk, “I already found it hard to believe that your people couldn’t protect one of these iron beasts. Tell me: why the minor lie?”

Ykk stared disbelieving for a moment, then he seemed to realize something. He said, “We’re not all archmages, sir. People die when they step outside of the walls of the cities of the Underworld. This iron beast is in very uncharted territory.”

Erick frowned a little, then asked, “Have you contacted the Wayfarer’s Guild? They should be able to get someone with [Teleport Other] or [Teleport Monster] out to the beast. Such a theoretical person should also be able to use [Conjure Force Elemental] to get that spell out to the beast; there shouldn’t be a need to approach the monster at all.”

Ykk scowled a little, his emotions seeming more human in the moment, as he said, “We have a Wayfarer’s Guild in the city… Truthfully, sir, all the normal methods we would have used are denied to us. The boy who controls the beast— Tryker Ironknife has upset many of the wrong people in his rise to power. No one wants to work with him, and so the White Council has been goaded into action so that we don’t lose an iron beast to the whims of the Darkness.”

Erick glanced to Poi.

Poi nodded; no lies here.

Erick decided. “I’m going to move this beast for you, and then I wash my hands of this politicking.”

Ykk brightened—

Erick suddenly realized that while he could understand Ykk’s expressions more, it was not because the goblin was suddenly understandable; it was because Ykk was mirroring him. The goblin was purposefully tailoring his reactions toward Erick, in order to relate, communicate, and put Erick at ease. Come to think of it, Shade Hollowsaur had goblins on his plateau inside Ar’Kendrithyst’s Jungle. They were the Shade’s main workforce; they took care of the cows.

There was something there in this mirroring; something deep.

Ykk seemed to realize that something possibly bad was happening inside Erick’s mind; possibly because the little green man was reading Erick’s expressions better than Erick was reading Ykk’s, and Ykk was automatically compensating for what he was seeing. Ykk had been on the verge of saying something, but he stopped.

Erick just stared.

The other goblins, who had been standing off to the side of the platform, watching this whole time, realized something was going wrong, too, at almost the exact moment that Erick and Ykk felt an oddity stretch between them.

Erick asked, “So what’s all this, then?”

A long moment passed.

Ykk softly said, “I request a Privacy, now. You, me, and your man.”

Erick Shaped his [Sealed Privacy Ward] to the platform. To them, nothing changed, but everyone else saw Erick and Ykk and Poi vanish from sight. Their chairs were still there, but they were gone. Mostly. If someone looked at Erick’s feet, they would see bits of him sticking outside of the Privacy. Perhaps, more importantly, though, Ykk was completely cut off from the other goblins.

Erick waited.

Ykk said, “I apologize for attempting to Mirror you. I need the beast moved, and I knew I needed to do everything possible to ensure that this meeting turned out well. I can only apologize that my skill was not up to the pressures of the moment. This is a black mark for me.”

So he apologized for being caught in a manipulation tactic; not for actually trying to manipulate Erick.

Interesting.

Erick asked, “Is that a skill you can purchase from the Open Script? What is it, exactly?” Erick had another guess, and as soon as the words left his lips, he knew he was correct, “Something to do with goblins, in particular?”

Ykk narrowed his eyes, possibly wondering if he was in actual danger. It was hard to know, for it seemed goblins were capable of completely hiding what they were actually thinking and feeling, using a mask of mirroring.

Erick explained, “I don’t actually know anything about goblins.” In a bit of his own ‘mirroring’, Erick said, “I can only apologize that I don’t know anything about your people.”

“… It’s a thing all goblins can do; yes.” Ykk said, “It’s impolite to Mirror others to get what you want, but people do it all the time. When we get caught we have failed… the Dangerous Game.”

“And yet, you told me that you wouldn’t drag me into this ‘Dangerous Game’, which I can only assume has something to do with subservience and subterfuge and making the people in power do what you want them to do.”

Ykk dropped his head to his hands, mumbling, “Oh gods. They’re going to demote me down to sewer scrubber.”

“I doubt that will happen.” Erick said, “You got what you came here for.”

Ykk flinched, then he rose, eyeing Erick with his dark gaze. “Uh?”

“I have just now [Teleport Other]d the iron beast out of its lair, and into the one your people set up. The giant lobster is already prowling around its new lands.” When Ykk didn’t understand Erick, Erick explained, “I was investigating Homeland while I cleared out the kill requests from the other petitioners, and all of what you said was more or less what I saw on the ground. Finding Tryker’s iron beast took a bit of doing, but that was easy enough. While I was having a conversation with you, I was also talking with Tryker. Your stories lined up, and now, the boy is overjoyed that his beast is saved. You will likely get some of that credit.” Erick shrugged, saying, “I don’t know much about goblins, but I can tell there’s something odd going on here since Tryker tried to Mirror me, too. But that’s fine.” Erick asked, “I assume that every goblin tries to Mirror everyone larger than themselves?”

Ykk was having a moment, and then he realized that he was still sitting in front of an archmage. He rapidly said, “Yes. It’s instinctive. That instinct is near impossible to overcome when interacting with the strong, and you are… very strong. I apologize for my ineptitude.”

“Don’t worry about it.” Erick asked, “The problem of the iron beast is solved. Good luck with whatever comes next. I’ve got about thirty one more life threatening issues to deal with before the day is over, so I’m going to have to ask you to quickly move on.”

Ykk sat up straight, saying, “Of course! Apologies, Master Flat— Archmage Flatt.”

Erick froze. ‘Master’?

Ykk froze, too.

And then Ykk scurried away, out of the Privacy, to his people. The woman with them rapidly asked questions and Ykk hushed them all, talking about how it was time to go, and that the problem was solved; Erick had moved the iron beast. As four of the five goblins smiled wide, revealing sharp teeth, Ykk glared, and they all stopped smiling.

The woman extended power across her entire group, and in a translucent white flash, the goblins vacated the field.

Erick was still under the Privacy. He turned to Poi, asking, “So is that Mirroring a racial thing imbued into them by the Shades? I suppose I should ask first: Did the Shades make the goblins?”

“All we truly know is that the goblins came out of the tunnels of Continental Nergal’s Underworld in the year 90, Post Sundering, and that no Shade has ever claimed their creation.” Poi said, “The most prominent theory is that the Old Demons attempted to create a second slave race with orcols as the starter, because the incani were starting to become rather rebellious. Whatever happened, goblins have the unique ability to Mirror others, in order to make themselves exactly what the viewer wants them to be, sometimes even to the goblin’s detriment. Goblins can also go into minor Rages, but that usually only happens when they accidentally gain the subClass of Slave… Which sometimes occurs when they are around powerful people and the powerful people don’t realize what’s happening.”

Erick got the distinct impression that whatever was going on there was much more complicated than Poi had explained.

“It is,” Poi said.

Erick sighed, saying, “Some things just make me uncomfortable, and I think I have found a new one, today.”

“Most people feel the same way.” Poi said, “That was why the goblins were on edge when they were around everyone else.”

Erick stood up, saying, “Well. Whatever. Not my problem. Let’s move on to the next group. Got any suggestions for speed?”

Poi frowned a little, then said, “Nope.”

