The original Veird had originally been one of many Planes in a multiverse of Planes and Demiplanes. Their whole pre-Sundering universe was theoretically within the grasp of any Old Wizard with the desire to move among the Starlight. The Old Wizards only had to cast a [Planeshift], or ride an Astral Ark out across the sky, following currents of mana to destinations well known, or to places yet to be seen.

To the Shadowrealm, to the Wild Places, to the Elemental Plane of Fire or the Maelstrom Sea. To the Fathomless Hells or the Infinite Heavens. To countless worlds, some waiting to be discovered and flush with native life, some waiting for life to return to reclaim the wastelands, some lost forever until the Mana Ocean flowed just right to allow visitors, and some twisted to nefarious or benevolent ends by ancient gods and primeval monsters, but well trod and easy to reach.

Veird wasn’t even the biggest of the previous planes, or the original plane of the Old Wizards; it was simply the most stable and the most populous at the time of the Sundering.

Of the books Erick read, there was a constant theme: proving that the Sundering happened by showing evidence of the previous worlds, peoples, and cultures. Erick quickly realized that he was not looking at a mythology, but a real and well documented history.

There was just so much history lying around on Veird that proved the old cosmology used to exist. Like the Ancient Orrery, maintained by the Monks of Rozeta in the Splinter Mountains. Or the Underworld, and the Deep Artifacts of the Old Cosmology that people occasionally discovered in those dark depths. The fact that the Underworld existed at all was proof of some major historical magical fuckery, though that fact likely only occurred to Erick. The Underworld was at minimum five times the surface area of the Surface, and if that didn’t scream ‘Magic is doing this’ then Erick didn’t know what the fuck was happening with Veird’s plate tectonics. And then there were the stories of the Gods, the Angels, the Demons, and the Dragons. Ask any of the thousands of immortals who were there for the Sundering, who took part in the Old Cosmology, and they’d tell you stories that would leave you weeping.

Because the Sundering had happened, and everything changed.

Veird popped into a universe with real stars, and everyone who was able to help struggled to save whatever they could save.

The Fathomless Hells became the small pink moon, the new home of the Demons. The Infinite Heavens became the small white moon. The former home of the Angels was now a place of dirt and stone. The Silver Star became a real moon, with real mass, and was placed between the Angels and the Demons to prevent those ancient enemies from crashing together and destroying even more of the Old Cosmology.

So, yes, back to Erick’s original question: There are planets in Veird’s solar system. They’re what was left of the Old Cosmology; Planes and Demiplanes, twisted into planets to fit into a new Reality. The Day-lights of every plane that survived, and all of those who didn’t, were taken from those individual planes and combined into one and set as the Sun, upon which all the new planets revolved.

The Mana Ocean survived, too, but now it existed individually on each planet; tiny seas of mana; puddles compared to what came before.

Not every plane survived the Sundering, or the transition into planets. Untold trillions died in the initial cataclysm, and in the roiling aftermaths. Many documents showed that the ‘Infinite Heavens’ and ‘Fathomless Hells’ truly were too large and too populous to have an end. It’s highly likely that many, many, many more died than ‘trillions’.

Countless civilizations were lost.

The Elves, the oceanographers of the Sundered Mana Ocean. The Fey, whose Primal Forests were burned away by elemental fire. The Dwarves, whose underground lives were cut short by planequakes. The Elementassi, the children of elementals and mortals, dead in the first moments of the Script’s trials to repair the damage. The Orcs and the Trolls, a proud people and a monstrous species combined into one and driven to Rage by another failure of the Script. The Alvani, a people born of angel and human, but gone now, their immortal souls forever mourned by parents unable to forget, or forgive.

A universe was killed.

Now Veird wanders in a new universe, unsure of what is coming or where it is going, only that it must go where it goes, and hope that whatever comes is not as bad as what came before.

And that’s too much for me!

Erick closed the book. He set it aside.

“That’s enough existential dread for today.” He turned to Poi. “Holy crap that’s depressing.”

Poi said, “That’s why I stay away from those books, sir.”

“You could have stopped me!”

“With all due respect, I disagree.”

“… You’re right.” Erick looked across the library. He said, “I need a drink. Let’s go find Al.”

- - - -

Erick was on his third stein of beer. It was a thick beer, hearty and good. He drank it while eating from a plate of fried monster chicken strips. The meal came with a delicious pale purple-red not-tomato sauce. Erick would have called it ketchup, but it was not. It was spicy and creamy, and it suited the crunchy fried chicken well.

Al had his own double order in front of him. He was also on his third beer.

By this point, Erick had been moping for a while.

And Al had had enough. “What happened? I thought you’d be happy. Everyone is talking about changing everything to accommodate your new magic. I saw the rain. It was great! Beautiful silver color, too. Perked up the gardens around town.”

Erick frowned. “I read a book about the Sundering today. The cosmology of your solar system. Holy fuck it’s depressing.”

Al sipped his beer. He nodded.

Erick said, “Trillions dead? Worlds gone? Holy crap.”

Al nodded again. “Every so often you get people claiming that it’s all a lie concocted by Rozeta and the gods in order to control people, or some shit like that. But there are people alive today who remember the suffering. Who went through it all.” He sipped his beer. “The naysayers usually get run out of town if they’re normal idiots.”

“… What if they aren’t normal idiots?”

Al sighed sadly. “Fifty years ago…? No. Sixty, I think. Sixty years ago a republic of incani kingdoms far to the west started some nonsense like that. It was just some normal ‘the Script is bad’ sort of thing. But then it went another step. Eventually they ended up with a bunch of low level people who couldn’t take care of themselves without the help of their leveled army and leveled rich. It’s an old story; it’s happened several times throughout Veird’s history.”

“Let me guess. The low leveled people were taken advantage of by those in charge.”

“That was just setting the [Force Trap].” Al ate a bit of chicken and washed it down with beer. “Eventually it got so bad their doctrines were spilling into the rest of the world. That’s when some Ancient Ones —the Headmaster was one of them— they went to the people and showed them a [Memory] of the Sundering. After that some revolutionaries killed their kings and queens and generals and set off a whole chain of back and forth violence. Civil war after civil war. The last war finally died down maybe ten years ago, but the land was a blasted wasteland forty years ago. That’s even what people call it these days, ‘the Wasteland Kingdoms’. Whatever they were, they’re not that now.”

Erick whispered, “Fuck.”

Al nodded. “The Sundering might have happened 1400 years ago, but it’s still the largest event to ever happen in the history of Veird.”

Erick ate a strip of chicken, and started thinking.

He ate his last piece of fried monster chicken and finished his beer.

He ordered another beer and more chicken. And more sauce.

Eventually, Erick said, “Hey, Al? Would helping people like those in the Wasteland Kingdoms with this [Exalted Storm Aura] be a good idea, or a terrible idea?”

Al smiled, gentle and warm. He said, “A terrible idea, until you’re capable of defending yourself from nations.”

Erick nodded. He ate another chicken strip.

Al added, “And it sounds to me like some transient farmers would like to make a permanent home in Spur, if the good weather would hold.”

Erick could have smacked himself. “You’re right! Duh!” He declared, “Think global, act local.”

Special action!

You have grown Stronger!

+1 Strength!

“Hah!”

“What?” Al asked.

“Plus 1 Strength.”

Al chuckled. “Congratulations.”
