There is no time to indulge in weakness, for there are secrets of the Martial Path before you to unravel.

Blinking to clear his head, Hideo Scryed and investigated his surroundings. The entire battlefield was in turmoil, with Imperial cavalry hammering away at the flanks while the Bekhai and commoners unleashed death from afar. Fresh Imperial troops moved in to replace the tired front line fighters, and the pressure mounted as eager soldiers did battle with tired Chosen. Fresh Experts and Demon Slayers engaged the multitudes of Demons, and slowly but surely the highest powers of the Chosen were being ground beneath Imperial boots. Despite all this, Hideo felt that the battle’s true outcome would be decided here, in this grand struggle taking place before him.

Ryo Dae Jung was the youngest Colonel General in the history of the Empire, but it was easy to see why he deserved so lofty a rank. The Sword King lived up to his name, a regal figure who stood out upon the field of battle, wielding his weapon with extraordinary grace and finesse. It wasn’t just his speed or precision which amazed and astounded, but the sheer artistry in his every movement as he danced among the corpses of his fallen foes. There was no distinction between man and sword, merely a single combined entity moving with sublime grace and majesty. Du Min Gyu’s sabre attacks were powerful and decisive, Situ Jia Yang’s whirling defence all but impenetrable, and Ishin Ken Shibu’s sword dance hypnotic and deadly, but Ryo Dae Jung was superior in any and all respects.

A languid turn of the wrist brought his sword about in a deadly arc, parrying and killing in one blow. A domineering swing hurtled towards a Demon’s raised block, only to never connect and turn into a killing thrust instead. A dizzying flourish hid a dozen deadly attacks, so speedy and seamless Hideo couldn’t even follow the blade’s path, only see the destruction it wrought on the Sword King’s enemies, his strength so sublime it transcended human comprehension. Try as he might, Hideo could see no reason why he himself couldn’t replicate those same movements, but every time he imagined himself using them in battle, even the most generic of foes would remain untouched. Why?

Because it is not the movements themselves that make them sublime, but rather their flawless timing and execution. Your father understood this concept well and used it to great effect, because he was the Sword King’s peer early on in life, men of similar age, though they never personally clashed.

Balance. The Razor’s Edge. Emotion fed to the void. Wrenching his gaze away from the Sword King, Hideo studied the verdant green plants growing before his eyes, the work of none other than Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao himself. Impressive as the Ryo Dae Jung might be, Hideo couldn’t help but wonder if he would be as impressive without his fellow Colonel General supporting him. The titular grasping vines sprouted out from the earth and fastened themselves to Chosen and Demon alike, and while it seemed simple enough for most to break free of the clutching weeds, even a minor distraction was enough for the Sword King to exploit. Add to this how Shuai Jiao’s efforts were far from minor, breaking knees and ankles with almost laughable ease while locked in combat with Monk Eyebrows.

Who himself was a hidden Dragon. Feet planted and head bowed, the Monk fought without vigour or passion, while Shuai Jiao fought in a similar manner, neither one resorting to a Spiritual Weapon and using their bare hands to test one the other’s strength. That was one idiosyncrasy of the impoverished Colonel General, his stubborn refusal to bind a Spiritual Weapon no matter how many were gifted to him. Every time someone tried, he would smile and accept the precious gift alongside the obligations it entailed, but he always gifted it to a soldier under his command. Why, no one could say for certain, since a Martial Warrior with a Spiritual Weapon was like a tiger given wings, but when asked, Shuai Jiao always responded in the same manner.

“The Heavens have blessed me with all I require to tread the Martial Path.”

A foolish sentiment, but accurate considering the heights he’d risen to without a Spiritual Weapon. Many tried to emulate his success, but few could resist the temptation, as most Warriors worth their salt would be offered a Spiritual Weapon, either by speculative factions looking to make an investment or the Imperial Army themselves. Monk Eyebrows had forsaken the use of a Spiritual Weapon, perhaps on account of his outlander heritage, since Defiled Weapons were entirely different from the Spiritual Weapons of the Empire. How they differed, Hideo wasn’t sure, but Gen once mentioned something about the fallacy of Spiritual Weapons, and how it was disingenuous to expect Martial Warriors to become One with the Weapon when the Spiritual Heart had been plundered from a Spiritual Beast or stolen from nature. He then went on to advocate Martial Warrior’s forge their bodies into weapons, and after witnessing Monk Eyebrows and Shuai Jiao display their strength, Hideo suspected there was more than a kernel of truth to Gen’s words.

Standing at arm’s length from one another, the monk and Colonel General didn’t trade blows in the traditional sense, but rather pushed and pulled at one another with little to no effect. Their arms almost never separated, and when they did, it was only for the briefest of moments as they tugged and grappled in a dizzying back and forth flow. Only after careful inspection and review did Hideo notice all the subtle intricacies of their exchange, a game of centimetres in deadly execution. Catching the monk’s sleeve with a single finger, Shuai Jiao pulled hard to break his balance, but Monk Eyebrow angled his elbow up to counter his opponent’s newfound leverage. At the same time, he rotated his wrist to try and grab hold of Shuai Jiao’s forearm, but the sombre Colonel General twisted his torso and wrenched his arm away, only to come at Monk Eyebrows from a different angle.

But only with one hand. Why? To match the monk? No, not quite. Monk Eyebrows had his free hand held up in silent prayer, but Shuai Jiao’s was pointed downwards, his thumb and forefinger forming a circle and the other three fingers curled into a fist. A mudra, a hand-sign of the Brotherhood, one Hideo understood as ‘intent to argue with possible conflict’. Dull and dreary as his unremarkable appearance, the bald Colonel General intoned, “What business does a man of the cloth have with an army of the damned? Such ignorance, such sin.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Shaking his head while still trading blows, Monk Eyebrows replied, “Ironic, to hear the oblivious preach of ignorance. The damned, you say? Are the Defiled not human in your eyes? Are they not worthy of redemption? There is no sinner too far gone to be saved, no criminal who cannot be reformed, only those who lack proper guidance or intention.”

“Any who seek redemption are deserving of such, and though this one is merely a humble initiate, he knows enough to see the foul company you keep has no such desire to atone for their sins.” Meeting Hideo’s eyes in mid-battle, Shuai Jiao pursed his lips and added, “Or perhaps this one spoke too quickly. What say you, Mitsue Hideo? Do you repent and seek redemption? Your life is forfeit, but your soul need not follow.”

Hideo didn’t know how to respond, but Monk Eyebrows answered for him. “Redemption? What for? Being human with human failings? Your argument falters at the first step, initiate, in that you lack the Right View. We are as the Heavens made us, yet you would have Hideo killed for succumbing to base desire. Blinded by lies and guided by fools, how was he to know better? You would damn the wolf for hunting the lamb, a preposterous notion by any measure.”

“Is he a wolf then?” Shuai Jiao asked, cocking his head with a smug smile. “Or is he human? If the former, then should he not be put down, lest he devour the humble farmer’s entire flock? If he is human, should he not repent for his crimes? Crimes so grave even he does not dare to speak them out loud?”

Which was he then? Human or wolf? Chosen or Defiled? Desperate for an answer, Hideo watched and waited with bated breath, but Monk Eyebrows had no response, ceding the verbal spar in favour of Shuai Jiao. Grabbing a hold of the monk lapel, the Colonel General stepped in to throw his foe, but was driven back through sheer muscle, the gangly monk far stronger than it would seem. Seeing blood dribble down Shuai Jiao’s chin as he stumbled back, Hideo reviewed what he saw and couldn’t identify Monk Eyebrow’s attack.

The shove was no shove, but a strike, one which travelled only a single centimetre at most, yet still carried enough force to kill a lesser man.

Might makes right. This was the strength of the Brotherhood, the strength which comes from following the Noble Eight-Fold Path.

Wrong. The Noble Eight-Fold Path is not about strength, but purpose and intent. What is your purpose? What is your intent? To seek strength? Why? Why do you seek strength?

Shut up. Shut up. Shut up! Roaring at the voices in his head, Hideo shut his eyes and tried his best to quiet them, but the echoes remained, and he could do naught but question his purpose. Why did he kill Eri-Hime? Why did he lead his father to death? Why did he hate Grand-Uncle Juichi so? Father was the family Patriarch, and everyone said it was a toothless title, placing weak Mitsue Hiroshi into the public eye so that the family’s enemies would have a target to focus on, but Hideo knew better, didn’t he? His father was a Peak Expert, and a powerful one at that, easily the match of many storied heroes fighting on this very field of battle. Only a dozen or so were definitively stronger, and perhaps another thirty who might match him, but the rest were obviously weaker. So what did this mean? It meant Hiroshi’s hidden strength was meant to bait out hidden enemies, and that if Juichi were to suddenly pass, friends and foes would reveal their true selves. It was a trap, and a devious one at that, for father was certainly strong enough to keep the Mitsue Family together, even if they had to sacrifice material gains to preserve it.

It meant Juichi had picked Hiroshi as his true heir and successor, the man who would carry on the Mitsue family legacy. Remember what Watanabe said? “Father treated you like his own son, taught you everything you know and put you in charge of the family, and this is how you repay him?” Hiroshi was ‘only’ his nephew, but Juichi loved all his family. Especially you, the second coming of the Obsidian Shadow, his own kin who followed in his footsteps. You know how that would have appealed to his ego, but he warned you against following in his footsteps because he could not find the way forward, and wanted you free to find your own path.

Why do you desire strength, Mitsue Hideo? Better to seek forgiveness. Open your eyes and see the truth you’ve worked so hard to deny.

Peering out from between his fingers, Hideo forced himself to look out into the world, but his gaze did not turn towards the Imperial lines. Instead, he cast it over his allies, the Chosen of Heaven and the Defiled tribesmen at his back, and what he saw set him to screaming in abject denial. The skies were thick with ghastly apparitions, ones which grew more substantial with each passing second. Their shadowy forms took shape before Hideo’s eyes, all ugly and misshapen in their fiendish glory, yet still vaguely recognizable despite their diabolic features. It was their expressions which he found most chilling of all, so shockingly human despite their inhuman features, all full of rage, hatred, craving, and desire. Here they gathered, these hellish phantoms of nightmare, whispering sweet lies into the ears of any and all who cared to listen, urging their unwitting victims to commit violence and bloodshed and feeding on the misery and suffering which emerged soon after. The source mattered not to these foul Spectres, for they fed on victim and accomplice alike, rending off metaphysical pieces from both and becoming all the stronger for it.

These were the Father’s minions most foul, here to devour all that the Mother hath wrought. If they should succeed, then all of Creation would be torn asunder and reduced to nothingness. Once their goal was accomplished, there was no doubt in Hideo’s mind that these Spectres would then turn upon themselves, for there was no sating their endless hunger. Then, and only then, would the Father’s victory be complete, for death and anguish were merely tools used in pursuit of his ultimate goal, that of complete and utter nihility.

A peal of thunder drowned out his screams as the dark skies unleashed their fury overhead, and the Spectres fled before its coming. Alas, even the cool, cleansing rain falling down from above could not wash away Hideo’s heinous sins, a burden he would carry forevermore. Shuai Jiao was right; Monk Eyebrows kept company with the damned, and Hideo belonged right there with them. This was too much. He couldn’t keep going on, but the Heavens were not so kind as to allow him to die or surrender. Carried away in Monk Eyebrows arms, he didn’t understand why they were fleeing from battle, nor did he have it in him to care, for all he could think about was how he’d just lost his only chance to reconcile with his family and would never know their love again.

A raindrop trickled down his cheek, and Hideo heard a voice whisper of courage and redemption, but he did not care to listen. His will collapsing upon itself, he closed his eyes and wept, yearning to go running into his grand-uncle’s arms, but too afraid to dare risk it.

Chapter Meme
