“Brother,” Baledagh says, “We can switch, I can stand in your place.”

This time, I remember to keep silent. “No. Thank you, but don’t pretend like their deaths don’t affect you. Go back, I don’t want you seeing this.” Sensing I’m in no mood for conversation, Baledagh retreats, knowing nothing he says will convince me to leave.

I don’t know how long I stand there, my tears long dried and hand aching from gripping my hilt. I want to draw Peace and end their suffering, but the knowledge of what will happen to those I love keeps me from acting. I’m too weak to do anything, too cowardly to try, and it’s tearing me apart inside.

This world is rotten to the core.

While the Shrike begins work on her third victim, having long since gone through all the villagers I inspected, Zian steps into my line of sight. Beside him stands Dastan with eyes glued to the floor while BoShui watches his cousin with a pained expression. Zian’s pale face studies me as he asks, “What do you hope to prove? It takes a certain mindset to endure this and even a blind man can see you lack it. You risk disturbing your inner calm and unbalancing yourself, or giving into your rage and despair, turning Defiled yourself. This is lunacy, hardly anyone is watching, even the guards have their backs turned.”

Still watching the Shrike at work, it takes a few tries before I can force words past the lump in my throat. “Why do you seek strength, Situ Jia Zian?” He looks at me in question, not understanding. “You’re talented, but that doesn’t mean you didn’t work hard, suffer to get where you are. Why do you devote your life to strength? Is it for honour and glory? Fame and fortune?”

Gesturing at the villagers, I continue without waiting for his answer. “I used to be like them, weak, helpless, mistreated, and tortured. If not for a twist of fate, I’d have died a dog’s death and no one would have cared, like no one seems to care about their deaths.”

Venting my anger and mounting frustrations, my voice rises as my rant continues. “Well, I care. I did not train to slaughter innocents. I did not seek strength to torture the weak. Yet here I am doing exactly that. It may not be my hand holding the knife, but I stand here and do nothing to stop it, which makes me guilty in my eyes.”

With a thought, my Chi swirls within and Heavenly Energy surges into me, swirling violently in and around my body. Unthinking, I draw my sword as my Aura bursts out, filled with my feelings of outrage and impotence. “I trained to protect the weak, and instead, I watch them die. It is all I can do, so it is what I will do. Their suffering should not go unnoticed. They deserve to be remembered.”

The soldiers around us stare and shift uncomfortably at the truths I unveiled. Eyes narrowed in anger, the Shrike glares at me, her blood-smeared smile frozen on her face. Her victim writhes in place, its gender indistinguishable after suffering through the entirety of the Shrike’s tortures, my speech having delayed the poor soul’s sweet release. Hundreds dead and tortured without a single Defiled or Demon to be found, innocent to the last. Unable to stop myself, I hurl Peace as hard as I can, unleashing all my pent-up frustrations. With a dull thump, Peace pierces through the victim’s chest, the one tiny reprieve I can offer.

Silence blankets the field following my public tantrum, punctured only by the errant moans and sobs of the tortured, all nearing the end of their suffering, but not yet there. The Shrike’s mouth moves wordlessly as her anger leaves her speechless. Her face twisted in shock at my audacity, after long seconds, she finally forces the words out. “You dare interfere with the Purge? I’ll have you -”

The sound of a weapon whirling through the air interrupts her outrage. An axe smashes through one victim and post, continuing on to strike another, narrowly missing the Aspirant stationed there. Dastan’s wordless scream follows as tears stream down his face, the young man unable to bear their suffering any longer. Following his example, more weapons find their way into the flesh of the suffering, the only mercy left for these poor souls. The deluge of weapons come to an end, with every victim at rest and the blood-stained pillars used to restrain them shattered and useless.

Looking around, I see the grim determination on the soldiers faces and take solace in knowing others feel the same as I do.

Maybe I was wrong and the world isn’t entirely rotten.

Just mostly.

Chapter Meme
