The buildings around Arbor Ikabobbi looked like normal enough utilitarian structures that Erick would see anywhere, from Spur to Candlepoint, to the temporary structures that Odaali had put up after their city had fallen to the Queen Daydropper. The buildings here were only a bit nicer than those sorts of buildings, and only because ‘adornment’ seemed to be the Arbor’s choice of style, with every building having mouldings or sculptural doorways or sculptures of animals pinned to the walls here and there. That made sense, because as Erick gazed up at Arbor Ikabobbi, he definitely 100% knew that the former [Familiar] must have been designed after the Ikabob trees; those trees were magical trees that speared and held any woodland creature or monster that had the misfortune to get too close.

… Or maybe it was the other way around. Erick wasn’t quite sure.

The Arbor stretched above the buildings like a tapered spire of grey-brown stone. At the top, maybe less than a kilometer up, a sparse decoration of red canopy held to the spike-like trunk as though it was a bit of bloody meat, speared in place by some force of nature. And then there were the countless other spikes, all around the entire spire, like thorns. A few of the higher spikes had similar tufts of red leaves upon them. Most were barren.

But with his own sight, and with Ophiel in the air, Erick saw that the rest of the Arbor was exactly what he would have expected. Wyrm bones, like garlands, wrapped around the Arbor. The bones of chimeras or other large monsters dangled upon thorns like Christmas tree ornaments. A few thorns were like places of honor, for sure, because the bones stuck upon those thorns were carefully arranged in seated positions atop the thorns, the body held directly against the tree, locked in place by a hundred smaller thorns. Those places of honor were orcol bones, for sure.

Erick barely paid attention to the gilded buildings all around him, or the thorny plants that were cultivated like flower gardens, because his eyes were fixed upon the thorny orcol man in the manasphere who walked beside him, covered in red mana, silent and evaluating. The first time Erick noticed the much-taller-than-him man, he glanced at the man, and the man vanished. Erick walked on for moments more, headed toward the auction house ahead. As soon as he wasn’t looking, the red man appeared again in the corner of his vision.

Another glance at the man had him vanishing from sight.

Erick walked on, asking Poi, “Did you see him?”

“No.” Poi said, “But others have.”

Erick had noticed the other people on the street, how they gave Erick a wide berth, how some bowed to him, and how no one spoke to him at all. And then he noticed that they did not just do this for Erick, but also for the presence walking beside him, even though that presence was rather invisible most of the time.

As Erick walked forward and people got out of his way, Erick asked a woman who hadn't fully vacated the street, “Is that Arbor Ikabobbi beside me?”

The woman startled at being singled out. She just nodded, then backed away, bowing as she went.

Erick walked on, and casually asked the red air, “After this auction, I’m going hunting for some of the bigger monsters out there. Got any recommendations?”

Whoever else happened to be on the street, after overhearing Erick, decided that they immediately had other places to be. Guys out on the town, rushed to vacate the area. Mothers pulled daughters out of the way. Grandsons helped grandfathers to leave.

Ikabobbi stepped onto the ground to Erick’s left, and the world turned to thorns. Buildings sprouted phantom knives. The street erupted in ethereal swords. Erick paused, as the field of edges touched upon his skin, and his [Personal Ward] flickered with the faintest white. Poi held perfectly still as the thorns touched him and then drew away.

It wasn’t an attack. Erick could tell that much, and he had heard a bit about what it was like to meet Ikabobbi in person, but he hadn’t expected it to be so real, or necessary. Why would an Arbor purposefully hurt its people, after all?

But here, now, Erick saw that it was not intentional. It was just how the Arbor was.

As the thorns came into being, they folded away, out of Erick’s path. Erick resumed his walk, and Ikabobbi joined him.

Poi was forced to hang back, lest the meter-long thorns slice him to ribbons. He gave Erick a small message that he’d meet him at the auction house, and then he blipped away.

“You know just how to get a tree in the mood, don’t you. Such bloody conquest, and now you’re asking for more! I love it.” Ikabobbi asked, “Have you thought about what you’ll do with your body after you die? I’m willing to make you an offer. I have nine archmages in my boughs, but there will always be a special place of honor for you.”

“I’m sure I’ll die in battle somewhere but I hope to die at least a century from now. I’ll have to get back to you on that.” Erick asked, “Got any targets in the Forest?”

The thorns in the area flexed, but came no closer. Ikabobbi smirked, then said, “Twisted Visions. Wyrm Tangles. Forest Crowned Stags. A few Ancient monsters, too, like the Ancient Treants in the Deep Forest. Shade Treant is still out there, somewhere. He’d moved on recently. Want to kill a Shade you missed, and add his bones to my trophy spikes?”

“No.” Erick said, “I have a responsibility to let him try to make amends. What’s a Forest Crowned Stag?”

“Great big things. I hear your daughter killed an Ancient Unicorn once. Forest Crowned Stags are about the same size. They raise up the Forest all around them as they walk. Cousins to the Unicorns, but the Stags came first. They’re less murderous; more flighty. Easier to kill in some cases. Hard to kill because they run quite often and can [Blink] through the Forest, while the Forest itself will try to kill you in the chase.”

“If all they do is run, then that doesn’t seem like a monster I wish to harm, even if it does sound like they enable the rest of the Forest to thrive.”

“Hmm. Yes. I suppose so. They’re rather rare monsters, anyway. If you find any, then mark them, and we’ll try to keep them alive. Hard to hunt when the home-makers aren’t able to make homes anymore.”

“Speaking of monster spawners. I heard that Twisted Visions spawn monsters.”

Ikabobbi smirked, and the thorns scraped at Erick’s skin, eliciting tiny white flashes. Then the thorns relaxed, and the Arbor said, “Visions are fun. If we kill the whole Forest with fire and rot and ash, then the Visions will be the defenses that come after us, trying to stop our advances.”

Erick’s eyebrows rose. “They’re sentient?”

“Enough to know how to best kill intruders, or to know where an attack is coming from. Doubt you’d be allowed into their heart, though, not with all that power you have layered upon your skin. If the Visions retaliated we would have to send particularly skilled low-level people. Higher leveled or powered people have a tendency of either getting brutally murdered, or the Vision closes up and runs away.”

Erick fixated, “I just need to know if they're sentient… I can’t kill one if I know they’re people. This is the first I’m hearing of this nuance to the Twisted Visions and it both annoys and intrigues me.”

Thorns retreated. Ikabobbi frowned. “You do have that weakness in you; needing to understand others. Why not test them with power and see how they react, and if they fail, then they obey you. It is a failing of society that we talk so much.”

Erick said, “Your Warchief talks a lot. I liked working with him and knowing the numbers.”

“Koropo has a thorny rest waiting for him when he dies. If it would help sway you to accept my offer, I would tell him to talk to you about your final resting place.”

“I don’t think that would help.” Erick said, “I left funeral planning behind when I left my world behind.”

Ikabobbi smirked. “Enjoy your Forest Hunt, Archmage Flatt. Leave the Wyrm Tangles for the lesser hunters. You’d probably just blast them out of the sky and learn nothing.”

“Blast ‘em from orbit; it’s the only way to be sure.”

“Perhaps.”

Ikabobbi faded back into the manasphere, taking his thorns with him.

Erick walked up the entrance stairs to the open doors to the auction house, and walked inside. The outside had been impressive, but Erick was not here for the sights.

Just beyond the door, hiding behind the wall of the building and on the other sides of grand staircases and potted plants, people gathered, huddling just out of sight. They were dressed in nice clothes, but not that nice. They were all ready for a big, expensive auction, for sure, but more than a few looked like warriors or people hunting for rare ingredients for the tables of nobility, or people ready to abandon their clothes and trade in their body for another Familiar Form. That last category belonged to at least one person here; Jane. Erick’s daughter stood beside Teressa and Poi.

Erick smiled, saying, “Hello! So this is the auction house, eh? Looks nice.”

And it did. Though the building was simple stone, it also had wardlights that looked like fires holding onto twisted iron torches, large paintings of various rare animals up for auction that day, and a rather comfortable atmosphere of plush couches and other soft items. Erick liked the grand staircases curving up and away from this preparation-like room, too. They probably led up to private auction rooms and to the second floor of the main auction room, which had to be beyond those huge double doors, beyond that large counter, there.

People started to mumble. Some tried to approach Erick. Poi and Teressa were faster, flanking Erick and giving evil eyes to other people, warding them off.

Jane was faster than those two, whispering, “Glad you could make it.”

Erick smiled, as he said, “Glad to be here.”

Teressa casually told someone, “If you wish to speak to the Archmage, please file a request with Spur. He is here on vacation.”

“But he can make so much money if he—”

Erick promptly ignored the money-making man and several others, as a different man who looked to be in charge of the auction house, or something like that, popped up from behind the main counter. He wore a grey suit with red accents. He had been hiding, only to come out after the ‘danger’ was over.

“Ah! He left. We’re clear!” The man clapped his hands over his head, drawing attention to himself. He spread his arms, calling out, “Now that our esteemed guest has arrived, we will begin filling into the auction room! Please see an usher if you are unaware of where to go.” He stepped out from behind the counter. Ushers, wearing the same outfit as the man, stepped out from behind half-open doors upstairs, and also out from behind the staircases. The man gestured to the large doors. They opened. “Please take your seats! The auction will begin right away!”

Jane and the man locked eyes, briefly. She nodded; he nodded. She grabbed Erick’s arm and Erick went with the flow. He soon found himself in a private box up and above the main auction floor, with a good view of the all-metal stage.

It wasn’t five seconds later that the man from before strode out under the bright lights, and began talking.

It was an auction. How much of a difference was it from auctions on Earth? Erick was not very impressed, but Jane was certainly wound up. He was, however, interested in all the active spells all around. The nearest active spells were upon the box Erick, Poi, Jane, and Teressa, now stood in. Those spells were conveniently listed on a small metal plate affixed to the railing between them and the stage. Aside from the general comfort spells, such as a [Temperature Ward] and a [Concealing Ward], with the first active and the second not, according to the lit and unlit button. There was also a [Sound Barrier], one-way, of course, allowing the people in the box to talk amongst themselves without being heard. That one was inactive, too. All Erick would have to do to turn that on was to press the labeled button, but he did not. There were also the bidding buttons, conveniently right there as well; several of them, in fact, with denominations going from ‘+100’ to ‘+10,000’. Pressing any of them would raise the bid that amount, and from what Erick’s mana sense was telling him… Also do something to the mouldings just outside of the VIP box. Possibly, light them up? Yeah. That was Erick’s guess.

The man down below gave generalized introductions, and then he said something about the Archmage in attendance.

Erick looked up when he heard those words. Many people below, and inside the other boxes on the other side of the auction house, were looking at him. He waved. Some waved back.

The host waved, then gestured behind him, to the metal stage, saying, “And now! Onto a special auction! One worthy of an archmage!”

Ah. Damn. They shouldn’t have gone through the trouble. Erick wasn’t interested in any of this.

But hey! If it made Jane happy, and she didn’t have enough to buy something, he was totally going to buy her some horrific monster.

… Or maybe some cute and cuddly monster. Yes. That was a much better idea.

Were there bears on Veird? Erick hadn’t ever actually checked, but he had never seen a bear, either.

