Erick didn’t watch Jane eat it, but the auction house had a complimentary room for that sort of thing, They even killed the creature for her, first, with a simple strike to the brain, as one would do for any animal bred for slaughter. Erick thought it was all rather morbid, but he enjoyed a good steak, and that was practically the same thing.

Sort of.

- - - -

Jane was currently a replica of the chair near the window of the hotel room, except you could tell which one she was by the tiny bits of flesh that stuck up here and there like tufts of fluff. Real chairs did not normally have fleshy bits.

Erick said, “And I can see your blood with [Blood Sight]. It’d fool almost anyone except for… Well. The three people in this room.” Ophiel whistled. Erick added, “And Ophiel.”

Jane unfolded from her chair-like mimicry, revealing her rainbow-like Prismatic Octopus self. She was almost the size of an orcol when ballooned out to this size, but her actual body was smaller. Her skin moved in odd ways as she stood upon her arms like exactly how a real octopus could not. She spoke through her [Greater Shadowalk], saying, “It’s more difficult than I thought it would be.”

“You’ll get the hang of it.” Erick gestured to his own bags. “Are you packed?”

“I am!” With a shadowy slip through the world, she moved out of sight. Her voice came out of her room. “Be ready in a moment.”

A knock came from the front door.

Erick answered from the living room, guiding a flick of his lightform over to opening the entry to welcome the person he already knew was standing there. He called out, “Hello, O’kabil. Glad to see you again.”

O’kabil strode into the room, her white Mist Rabbit fur coat fluttering like a soft cloud as she moved. She sniffled, on the edge of tears, and Erick turned quite a bit more concerned.

“O’kabil? Is something wro—”

“Don’t die out there, Erick. That’s what I want to say.” O’kabil schooled herself, then said, “You are much too valuable an archmage to go risking your life out there in the Green, but if you must go, then you must. You will always have a place waiting for you here at my hotel, or otherwise. Yura wanted to be here but she is dealing with politics and mortal problems.” She huffed. She asked, “Is there some way to convince you not to journey into the Deep Forest? You might never come out. Many never do.”

Erick smiled. He liked O’kabil’s genuine emotions. He liked the old tree. But… “Unless you have a spare, intact Gate lying around, then I must go in search of one.”

“Would that I could offer you a series of drawings and measurements recorded a thousand years ago by a different Arbor, but those measurements were lost long ago and never recovered. There hasn’t been a real Gate sighting in a very long time.”

“That’s what I don’t get.” Erick asked, “How did Tenebrae manage to find one?”

“I don’t know. If I knew, I would help you there, if only to keep you out of danger.” O’kabil said, “I have grown fond of you, Erick Flatt. Don’t die out there.” And then she turned, and walked away. Her body turned to mist as she strode beyond the door.

Erick spoke to the air, “Thank you, Holy O’kabil, for your hospitality. I enjoyed my stay, too.”

The misty manasphere wafted through the air like a gentle breeze. Erick swore he could hear music upon that mana, but maybe not.

Soon, Jane was ready. Teressa had been ready. Poi was packed.

It was time to go.

Erick had his Ophiel transport many of his unnecessary items back home, to Spur, but he kept a few. A record player and a few records, copies of a few song crystals; they might go a long way to making Tenebrae a bit more pleasant. Or maybe not! Who knew!

But there was a stop to make, first.

- - - -

In a bit of land, framed on one side by a mountain, on a second side by a shallow lake, and on the third by the Shallow Forest, the trees had reclaimed what was once a village. Hundred meter tall grey-pillar trees and their like joined together into an endless green canopy that kept hidden this broken place. There were huge houses built of thick logs, where [Woodshape] had been used to turn them into seamless homes, but now, those places were either rotting into fungus-filled piles, or branching out, and becoming true trees again. Cleared roads were now layered with leaves and vines. A well, once filled with cold water, was now filled to bursting with mushrooms.

And now, Erick saw that some of the buildings were not just abandoned. They had been burned. The well had been broken, and possibly poisoned. The shallow lake had not been that close to this place, before. Someone had broken the land and jumbled what remained. Buildings rested in the shallows.

A lot of people had died here.

The Rednail tribe had been nomadic, like most tribes, but they did have a small home that they kept functioning to provide for those who could not travel. To enable easier trade with other tribes. This had been that place. Erick had not known that until now; Teressa had not told anyone how it worked, until now.

Teressa stood in the center of her former village. Tears rolled down her face, as she stared around herself, and remembered. Erick stood beside her, silent and supportive.

Jane and Poi stood much further back. But not too far away, either. This was the Forest, after all, and there were dangers everywhere, even if Erick’s scans showed no nearby monsters.

This place was only four hundred kilometers northwest of Treehome. It had been a part of a minor trade route that supported several tribes in the area. Now, all of that was gone. Rednail was just the first to fall. The rest moved away soon after. This measure of civilization had been gone for years.

Teressa spoke, “There are thousands of little villages like this out there in the Forest. I never thought my Tribe would ever get added to the Lost.” She breathed out, “… I’m a mess.”

Erick just stood beside her.

Teressa stood straighter. “I burned this place down. It was just me and a few others… Auntie Arathani. A few more… I lost track of all of them except for her. A few went to the Greyroots… but I have no idea where that tribe is. They were our neighbors, but all of those are gone, too.”

“Someone must have rebuilt it.”

“No. I don’t think so… Fire doesn’t always take in the Forest. The Forest rebuilds, sometimes in the shapes of what had been here before… In the shapes that are desired by those who came before.” Teressa turned, and gazed down a darkened, overgrown street, then she looked over a large house that seemed like a tree imitating a home. She said, “When Silverite and the Army pulled me out of my daze, and we came back here to drive off the Witch… We burned the bodies and scattered the ashes. We had a [Cleanse]ing ceremony, too. But… I guess the ghosts here were too strong. The trauma was too deep. They made homes again, even if they couldn’t live here anymore… They should have been able to move on.”

She went silent, her eyes flickering grey.

Erick peered into the manasphere, and saw what Teressa saw. He watched as children played in the streets and old men smoked blueweed on porches. He blinked, and he saw monsters eating people, and hatred slashing through lives. He blinked, and fire consumed it all, only for those flickering flames to dance into the forms of people who grew flowers and houses from the ashes.

He asked, “What do you see, when you look into the mana?”

Teressa smiled and cried at the same time. “I see lives that should have moved on.” She sniffled. “I want to burn it all down again. This time I’ll do it right.”

“I can help. If that’s what you want.”

“… Yes. That is what I want. Let’s burn it down.”

Jane stepped forward, saying, “I want to help, too. Flame Oozes are great at burning.”

Teressa laughed, then she nodded.

Jane became a flaming ooze. Fires ignited five meters from her body. She moved down the streets, starting the flames, but Teressa came in and added to the inferno, Shaping flames higher and deeper, into living and dead wood alike. Ophiels fluttered around the edges, strengthening the sudden conflagration.

Erick kept himself, Poi, and Teressa safe from the fires with [Prismatic Ward]s and sunforms provided by Ophiel. A [Cleanse] kept the air breathable. Soon, the three of them stood in the center of the once-again burning village, watching as inferno consumed what should have already been consumed.

Giant grey trees tumbled from the surrounding lands, becoming firewood, becoming ash.

It took a half an hour; much shorter than any natural fire.

The land was blackened, but not glass. Piles upon piles of white-grey ash drifted on the wind. The sun slanted in from the side, but it was only early afternoon. Erick, Poi, Jane, and Teressa, stood in the center of an ashy desolation.

Erick started the cleanup with Ophiels moving out in every direction, [Cleanse Aura]s active.

Ash became tidal waves of immaterial mana, billowing through the manasphere, blowing away what had come before, revealing brown sands, rocks, and little else. And yet, still, looking through the manasphere, Erick saw people on porches enjoying their former lives, and others running terrified from an unseen enemy. Erick deployed a hundred [Sealed Privacy Ward]s for their ability to disrupt the ‘memory’ of the manasphere.

That did the trick.

Teressa gazed upon the mana alongside Erick and they both saw the same thing: static, a blank slate, nothing yet. That was enough. This had been enough.

Teressa said, “I don’t think I really… tried... the first time… I wasn’t ready. No one really tried.” She breathed deep. “I’m sorry.” She spoke to the land, “You can rest, now. The Witch is dead. I’m sorry.”
