Ren looked at the state of their clothes and equipment, then repaired everything that he saw. While he did that, the last of the powder came through the chute and only partially filled the two bags just placed there.

“It's time for a break.” Ren said and took out the plate of pastries.

“What is THAT?” One woman asked loudly.

“It's a plate of pastries.” Ren said and handed the plate to Dorathy. “They're supposed to be for dessert, but my fiance made a bunch of them. She told me to bring some up to you.”

“She's a great woman.” Dorathy said, then crammed one into her mouth. “Mey melm im mor moumh!”

“I'll try one, but I won't like it.” The loud woman said and delicately took one from the plate. She took a small lick of the whipped cream on top, and her eyes widened. She took another lick and fought her urge to smile. She took a bite of the pastry itself and her knees shook slightly.

“Are you all right?” Ren asked. “You look a little unsteady.”

“I'm... I'm fine.” She said. “I may need to... sit down.” She sat down on a sack of cement powder and stared at the half-eaten pastry. “How... how can it taste so... so good?”

The other women had stood there and watched her reaction, then took their own pastries and tasted them. Several had almost the same reaction, and sat down on cement sacks.

“Oh... my...”

“Once you've had time to eat...” Ren looked at them. “...and recovered, there's more silt to shovel and bag.”

“Yes, your highness.” Dorathy said. “We'll get to it right... after...” She took another one and handed the plate around. There was enough for one more pastry each, and Ren stored the empty plate. He went around and stored all the sacks he could take without disturbing the women, then went into his forge room.

Now that Ren had the time to examine what he'd unlocked from the big battle, he looked for a specific recipe. There it is. He thought and opened the one for Craft Familiar - Dedicated Servant Crafter. When he read the ingredients, he frowned. Clay? It's made from clay? Ren shook his head. No, clay would definitely melt if it was near any of these forges. He read the process, and it was very similar to Ruck's, except for molding the body from clay first, rather than sewing it together. He remembered how much more expensive it was to modify Ruck like he did, so if he did the same thing with this familiar, it was bound to cost a lot more. The only humanoid recipe Ren had to replace it, was the wooden training dummy he'd learned when he had trained at the Garrison. He'd checked the Homunculus Humanoid recipe, and that wanted clay, too. Of course, he didn't want a blank wooden face, either. He poured out more molten metal into his paving stone mold for the 100 squares, while he thought about the problem.

Ren smiled as he figured out what to do. He quickly enchanted the 100 squares with the House Neram crest, stored them, and left the forge room. He saw that the women were already back to work and nodded slightly as he passed them. Ren ran down to the main road and then towards the city. It took him 5 minutes to get there, and he slowed down to go to Barnar's Stoneworks. He entered and was greeted by several workers. He greeted them back and found Barnar at his usual spot beside the workbench.

“I need a bit of help.” Ren said.

“We both do.” Barnar responded, and motioned to the table.

“What is it?”

“Some rich fool wants a tower built. Out of stone bricks.”

“So what's the problem?” Ren asked.

Barnar looked at him like he was crazy. “A tower that size...” He said and pointed to the plans. “...would collapse under it's own weight.” He sighed. “The amount of mortar needed only adds to the weight.”

“What about cross supports?” Ren examined the plans and stored them. “Oh, I see what you mean.”

“You do?” Barnar asked, surprised.

“There's too much room between floors. The walls won't hold together when you add the upper floors.” Ren said. “The stairway will stay intact, but the outside wall doesn't have any support.” He tilted his head. “Who designed it?”

“The eldest son from House Breakwater.” Barnar chuckled. “He fancies himself a designer of strong buildings.”

Ren chuckled, too. “I assume you're not allowed to change it?”

Barnar tapped the tip of his nose.

“How much is he paying you, if you don't mind my asking?”

“10 platinum.” Barnar said. “Plus labor.”

Ren whistled. “That's a lot for a basic tower.” He said. “If you could use the battlement design...”

Barnar nodded. “Yes, an outside supporting wall would do wonders.”

“How long do you have to make it?”

“A month.”

“Do you get a bonus for finishing it early?” Ren asked, and Barnar nodded slightly. “Good.” Ren said. “Come up to the Main House at House Neram when you deliver the rest of my bricks.” He said. “I have something to show you.”

“It's going to be mind-blowing, isn't it?” Barnar asked.

“It's going to change the world.”

“Why are you telling me about it, then?” Barnar asked. “Why not do the job for me and take all the credit for yourself?”

“I don't have the time to build anything else.” Ren said. “I'm swamped. That's why I'm here.”

“I can't spare anyone to go and work for you.” Barnar said. “I'm swamped, too.”

Ren chuckled. “I only need to borrow them for about 20 minutes. I need a carving of a face made.”

“Ms. Alreane!” Barnar hollered over his shoulder. “Your skills are needed!”

“Thank the gods!” Annera Alreane said as she came over to them. “Pouring molds all day is getting boring.”

She led Ren over to her workbench and Ren told her he needed a carving of a human face, then a mold made of it. He described the face he wanted, and she carved for about 10 minutes.

“How does that look?” She asked, and Ren picked it up and examined it.

“It's perfect.” Ren said. They went to the mold making side of the work area, and she made him a mold for it. He dug out a coin to give her.

“I don't want your money.” She said, with a smile on her face. “That was the most enjoyment I've had all day!”

“I'm not paying you for anything.” Ren said. “I just found a nice shiny toy for you to play with.” He spun the coin on mold making table. “Thanks for your help.” He said and left her there.

*

She looked down when he was gone, and her eyes widened as the coin had stopped spinning. A dragon's face stared at her from the surface of the platinum coin and she caught her breath. She picked up the coin and ran out to the front of the Stoneworks, but Ren was already gone.

*

Ren ran as hard as he could and made it back to the workshop. He went inside and nodded slightly at the working women, gave Ruck a pat on the back, then walked passed to go to the forge room. He heard a noise from Dorcot's area and he popped his head in there.

“Are you bored yet?” Ren asked, and Dorcot chuckled.

“Bored?” He asked back. “I've never had so much fun in my life.”

“I take it the date with the wife went well?”

Dorcot grinned. “Thanks to your... what was it? Life jackets.”

“Don't tell me that she...”

“It was me.” Dorcot grinned. “I started to row the boat out and hooked the side of the dock with the paddle. I banged the end of the boat against the dock; then when I tried to pull the paddle free... splash! In I went.”

Ren chuckled. “It didn't put a damper on the mood, then.”

Dorcot snorted a laugh. “Once she stopped laughing, which took about 10 minutes, she let me back in the boat and we had a great time.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said. “I'll be building a stable today, so hopefully you'll have access to your own cart and horse tomorrow.”

“My own cart and horse?”

Ren nodded slightly. “It'll stay at the stable, obviously, but it'll be assigned to you so it'll always be there.”

“Why are you doing that for me?”

“It's not just for you.” Ren grinned. “Everyone will have access to a cart... eventually.”

“But I'm first?”

“You and Angeilin, yeah.” Ren said. “It bothers me that you both have to get up so early every morning, and she has to walk all that way to work.”

“So, you really have been thinking about it.” Dorcot said. “I thought you might have forgotten.”

Ren went over to him. “A lot of things have happened, but I'm getting on top of things, now.” He took out one of the brooches he'd made. “One of these is yours, if you want it.”

Dorcot took it and examined it, and his eyes widened. “Does this do what I think it does?”

Ren nodded slightly, and told him how to activate it, and what would happen if he wore it.

“Ren.” Dorcot said. “That's amazing.”

“I'd say I was sorry I didn't think of this sooner, but I'm pretty sure I wasn't able to do this any sooner than I did.”

“I hear that.” He said and motioned to the workbench. “Who would have thought that after all these years, I'd be doing everything that I enjoy.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “I'm not even going to comment about lumping your wife in that statement.”

Dorcot laughed. “Yes, her too.” He said. “We've been a couple ever since we were kids.”

“No way.”

Dorcot nodded slightly. “We weren't allowed to date until she was of age, and I couldn't court her until we'd both done our training and trials...”

Ren's eyes widened at what that implied.

“Yes, we've loved each other for all of our lives; and have been sleeping together since we were teenagers.”

“I thought that...”

“We snuck around, of course.” Dorcot said and chuckled. “We couldn't wait.”

Ren smiled. “I'm really glad that you're getting along so well.”

“Me, too.”

“I've got work to do.” Ren said. “Keep having fun.”

“You should be having fun, too.”

“I am having fun.” Ren grinned. “See you later.”

“Bye, Ren.”

Ren went to the forge room and opened his plans for the Dedicated Servant Crafter, and added in the articulated wooden training dummy instead, changed the wood to metal, reinforced the attachments, then added armor to everything. It would be even more effective protection because it wouldn't be equipped at all, but an actual part of the familiar. It would cut down on the amount of enchantments Ren could do, but that was okay.

Once it was finished, Ren made a large mold on the floor and filled it with molten metal. He let it cool slightly, then picked it up and went to the anvil. He folded it a dozen times, then let the system form it into the head shape. He took out the face mold he'd had made at Barnar's Stoneworks, filled it, then flipped it over onto the head piece. Ren waited for a minute for the metal to cool enough, and took the face mold off. He used his Absorb Fire ability, that let him absorb fire in any of it's forms, and sucked out all the heat still in the metal. He grinned at the face that stared back at him, and Ren proceeded to make the rest of the dedicated servant. He enchanted each piece with strength and protection, just like he did with Princess' armor, and used the absorbed heat from the metal to maintain his Mana Pool.

When all the pieces were done, Ren assembled them into the proper shape. He was tempted to dye them red to match the armor of the guards, but he thought it looked better as bare metal. Ren stood over the still form and concentrated on it.

“Activate.”

Notice!

You have chosen to activate a familiar: Dedicated Servant Crafter (Heavily Modified)

Please deposit the correct amount of value.

A small portal appeared near the center of the chest, and Ren threw in 10 platinum, and a diamond worth 30 platinum. The portal closed and he got another popup.

Notice!

Due to the size of the familiar and the value, 2 pints of blood are required to complete the Activation.

Please deposit the correct amount now.

Another portal opened above the forehead, and Ren took out his hammerpick and sliced his palm open. He squeezed his hand over the portal, and it took about 10 minutes for enough to be gathered, and the portal closed. Ren wrapped his hand in a piece of cloth and got another popup.

Notice!

All ingredients have been collected and you have constructed a suitable body. Your familiar will now be infused with your will. Please place a hand on the familiar when ready. Do not remove your hand under any circumstances.

Ren grabbed the construct by one of it's hands, and held on. He felt his Mana Pool drain away, and his eyes widened. It's not enough! He stood up and plunged his hand into the molten metal just as his Mana bar had almost emptied, and he started absorbing the heat to keep his Mana bar going. The familiar started to glow and Ren relaxed. It took another pile of Mana, and when he noticed that his Mana bar wasn't dropping anymore, he stopped absorbing heat. He tried to take his hand out of the smelter, but the metal was molded around his hand.

“Crap.” Ren said, then looked down at the familiar as it started to shake. “Come on, you can do it! Wake up!” He said, and used Iron Grip to keep a hold of the hand. The glow got really bright and Ren closed his eyes. It's just like last time with Ruck. He thought, and after a minute, the figure stopped shaking and Ren opened his eyes as the glow faded. Ren felt the fingers he held flex, let Iron Grip go, but still held the hand.

Notice!

You have successfully created a familiar!

Due to your high quality materials, crafting skills, excessive value added, and continuous Mana infusion, your new familiar will be loyal to you without end and will serve you even after it no longer functions.

Ren didn't know how to take that last popup, but he dismissed it as he noticed the face blink it's eyes. It took a breath, which was kind of weird since it was all metal, but Ren ignored it as the head turned to him.

“Hello, Ren.”

“HOLY CRAP!” Ren shouted.

“Is that my name?” The familiar asked. It squeezed it's eyes for a moment. “No, you were just surprised. It's understandable.” It looked down at the hand Ren held, and shook it. “Thank you for making me.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “I was going to give you a funny name, because of who you look like, but I think a more fitting name is needed.”

“I agree.”

“How do you like 'Tee-one'?”

“Does that mean I am an improved version of the original 'Tee'?”

“Definitely.” Ren said. “I'd used his likeness because having a servant that looked like him was supposed be fun; but you're going to be much better than that. I can tell.”

“I'm glad.” Tee-one said. “I'll serve you well, Ren.”

Ren helped him to stand and smiled. Tee-one smiled back at him, and Ren grinned. He'd never seen Tristan smile like that before.
