Am I being unfair by targeting the Canston Trading Group and Zhu Chanzui? Maybe.

Do I care? Not really. I can’t end slavery, but if I can shine a light on these abhorrent practices and generate enough public outcry against it, then maybe things will change for the better. If not, then at least I can feel a little better about myself. Either way, if I find proof of Defiled, great. If not... well, I won’t lose sleep over killing bristleboar guards who torment slaves for fun.

And this time, I won’t need Alsantset to cripple them first.

Our impromptu family meeting comes to an end and I bid my parents and grandmother/future mother-in-law/boyhood crush farewell. In desperate need of cuddles, I head back to my yurt with Ping Ping in tow to find Lin and Li Song sitting inside a makeshift rabbit enclosure. Made with wire fencing purchased from the city, the enclosure protects my adorable bun buns from dangerous predators like Sarankho and Mafu and give the cotton-tailed floofs plenty of room to scurry about and exercise. Resisting the urge to squeal in delight and roll around with my bunnies, I first greet Lin with a kiss on the cheek. “Hey sweet wifey. Crazy discovery today. Did you know they make swimming shorts? They’re made from cotton cloth treated with tree sap and other stuff which makes the material completely waterproof. Not the most comfortable pants in the world, but they serve their purpose.”

Giggling so hard she can’t even breathe, it takes Lin a long time to respond. “I know,” she gasped, still tittering away. “The fisher-folk had them in Sanshu and I found a store that sells them inside the city. I bought outfits for everyone and we were gonna take Tate and Tali swimming later.”

No wonder Guan Suo thinks I’m a pervert. “Why didn’t you tell me? I’ve been swimming around with a scarf wrapped around my crotch for two days now!”

Cackling in delight, Lin answers, “Because it’s funny, ya?”

“Why you...”

Shrieking in delight as I pinch her cheeks lightly, Lin slips away and runs to Li Song. “Kyaaaa Li-Li, Rainy’s bullying me!” Taking cover behind the cat-girl, my mischievous wifey sticks out her tongue. “It’s your fault for being so naughty, hubby. I thought you bought the scarf for me, but you kept it, which made me think it was a gift for another woman. By the time Daddy told me what you were using the scarf for, it was already too late.” With a heart-wrenching pout, Lin wraps her arms around Li Song and rests her chin on the cat-girls shoulder, seeking comfort for her pains. “I was still mad so I told everyone not to set you straight. You reap what you sow hubby.”

It’s impossible to stay mad at Lin, but I make a real effort to try. “I am shocked and appalled you think so poorly of your hubby. Ever since our betrothal, I’ve had no eyes for anyone besides Mila and you.”

“Hmph.” Shooting me a petulant glare, Lin asks, “Oh really? Then I suppose I imagined seeing you ogle Yan-Yan on the balcony earlier today?”

Damn it. She saw that. “That doesn’t count, I had a concussion.”

“And showed your true colours!” Leaving Li Song to rescue Blackjack from Tawny One’s aggressive attentions, Lin holds the quivering hare to her cheek and pouts. “Lin-Lin is so pitiful, her hubby is a deplorable, philandering beast, but what can she do? She loves her hubby so, so much, ya?”

Heartbroken and contrite, I walk over and wrap my arms around her quivering body. “I’m sorry, sweet wifey. It was my mistake.”

Turning away from me so I can’t see her tears, Lin’s shoulders tremble as she asks, “Are you still mad about the swimming shorts?”

“Of course not,” I reply, wishing she’d go back to her usual, happy-go-lucky self. This is all my fault, I have the sweetest, happiest woman in the world as my betrothed and I still made her cry. “It’s my fault, I’m an immoral, debauched pervert and the whole world should know it. Forget the swimming pants, I’ll keep swimming with the scarf. I’ll stop wearing pants all together and walk around wearing nothing but a scarf to warn women of my deviant behaviour. Don’t cry sweet wifey, I’ll...”

Lin’s shoulders continue to shake, increasing in intensity with every word that comes out of my mouth. Finally catching on, I forcibly turn her towards me and find her choking back her laughter, which erupts at the sight of my bewildered expression. “I’m sorry hubby,” she says between gasps. “I couldn’t help it, ya? I didn’t want you to be mad, but then the joke got away from me...”

A little miffed but more relieved she isn’t actually crying, I lift her off the ground and growl, “You... You...”

“Don’t worry hubby.” Beaming with pride at having pulled the wool over my eyes, Lin nuzzles in against my neck with a quiet sigh of contentment, happily leaving her feet to dangle. “If you wanna marry Yan-Yan, then do it, ya? She looked real pretty, but I'm a little sad because she didn't see me waving.” Leaning away, Lin looks me in the eyes with a grave expression. “You still hafta show restraint though.” Pursing her lips, I watch her do some mental calculations before speaking again. “No more than five wives okay? That way, I get you for two days a week. I won’t stand for any less.”

You know... Slavery, torture, PTSD, near-death experiences, and impending doom aside, my life is pretty awesome.

Chapter Meme
