Turning toward the desert, Jake set off at full speed, seeking to discover what was hidden within that goddamn hellscape of heat. He saw a few more people reach the desert, and all but a few quickly decided to head back into the jungle again. This did make Jake question whether there was a way to better endure the sunlight. Perhaps there were treasures or tools within the jungle that would help one endure the heat?

That would make sense. Jake didn’t feel like he necessarily needed it, though, and would gladly take advantage of getting a head start to explore what treasures the desert might hold.

It didn’t take long before Jake encountered his next shimmering wall and spotted what looked like a small platform of limestone in the desert. On this platform stood a pedestal holding a glowing red crystal with a glowing rune on it, something all these special Prima Credit treasures seemed to have.

However, Jake was a bit confused as he couldn’t spot any guardian anywhere. Maybe there wasn’t one, and this was just a reward for daring to venture into the desert? That seemed unlikely, but there was only one way to find out as Jake flew down and landed on the platform in front of the gemstone.

His senses were on high alert, expecting some kind of foe or other challenge to pop out. Jake even checked if perhaps the platform was actually some kind of elemental hiding itself, but nope, nothing seemed off, which in itself felt off.

Shaking his head, he reckoned he was just being overly cautious as he reached out to claim the crystal... and the moment he did, his expected reward exploded, releasing a wave of shimmering energy that pushed Jake back and created a barrier around the crystal.

At the same time, the sun was snuffed out, the intense heat replaced by an equally intense cold. Surrounding him, the sand began to rumble as he picked up hundreds of presences that had appeared, hidden beneath the sand, but now crawling towards the surface.

“So it was a trap!” Jake said with a big smile, feeling deeply vindicated that he’d felt cautious before.
