“Excuse me, Miss…Lion, isn’t it? Lion Solstice.”
“Oh, not at all. Thank you…ah…?”
Lyonette turned to the person who had caught her. She was greeted by a tall Gnoll with dark black, silky fur, with the slightest blue tinge. He gave her a toothy smile as Cire turned back and glowered.
“Call me Raef, Miss Lion.”
Mirn whistled innocently as Onieva glanced around. Now this…
This looked like it was going to be an interesting group.
 
——
 
Some days your luck ran out. Across Izril, the travellers were in progress. Fleeing their own problems. Problems they had created.
Fleeing from things they had not begun. Fleeing because someone had told them to. Little children pursued by hunters.
Why? If she could have screamed it, she would have. She wrote it, but no one read the little inky notes.
Please, stop. I did nothing wrong. 
I loved my tribe. It wasn’t my fault. I really think it wasn’t my fault.
Why do you hate me?
Marwsh, a small city that had lots of cats. More than that the little Gnoll girl hadn’t had time to uncover. A place with stories of its own, but they hadn’t bothered to learn them either.
Wer was stumbling out of his room, leaning on a wall, looking up, cursing under his breath. Mrsha slowly crept out of the inn’s back door. She could hear, with crystal clarity, the voices from the group talking to the [Innkeeper] below.
“An older Gnoll man and a little girl? I…I don’t know. He said it was his son, Senior Guardswoman.”
“Ah. And did you ever hear the little Gnoll speak?”
“No. No. Now that you mention it…”
Mrsha had heard them come in. It had been just…chance. Wer was dozing, exhausted, after ‘replenishing’ some of his luck over their lunch. She had seen a group coming towards the inn and somehow, with that terrible intuition, had known who they were.
It wasn’t hard to deduce. The Watch Officer? The Drake with the bright azure breastplate and a shiny badge like Relc’s? She was the part that fit, and so was her squad of six.
The group of eighteen Plains Gnolls were the odd ones out. They were practically naked compared to the City Gnolls, each one carrying a weapon or two at their sides, along with a bow on their backs or throwing javelins.
A hunting party. But not one Mrsha was used to. Each tribe had its peculiarities. Yet she sensed the magic coming from the painted markings on each one.
[Shamanic Warriors]. They weren’t just strolling around, either. They came after the Watch patrol, which was either there to aid or escort them. Mrsha wasn’t sure which.
The Senior Guardswoman was a Drake in her mid-forties. She wasn’t stupid, which was worse. The [Innkeeper] put together the clues, same as her. He glanced surreptitiously upstairs and lowered his voice.
“They’re right up…Ancestors, in my inn? W-what should we…?”
“We’ll handle that, Innkeeper. If this is the Mrsha from Liscor, we’ll handle it.”
“And the Gnolls?”
An apprehensive look Mrsha heard in the voice. She tensed by the back door. Wer! She’d rapped hard on his door, but she hadn’t been able to speak. And by the time he’d come to the door…
The Gnoll was a silent figure from the second story window. Mrsha had the view from the outside. She could see into the hallway, and the common room where some of the Plains Gnolls were standing.
They were sniffing the air, getting her scent. How had they known to come to Marwsh? Were they in every city in the region? But why this inn?
Someone had been clever. Cleverer than Wer. And—Mrsha finally saw Wer glance her way. He was standing in the shadow of the doorway. He glanced out the window and saw Mrsha, although she was crouched, using her [Natural Concealment] Skill as she lurked behind a little bin of scraps left out for the feral cats.
Some had hissed at her when she came over, but the [Druid] had blended in with them. Wer saw her.
He also saw something that made him freeze. The Gnoll had heard everything. He scratched at his chin. Raised two furry fingers.
Mrsha, staring wide-eyed up at him, didn’t know what he meant. Then she looked around and spotted them.
Two Gnolls, watching the inn. And that was only from her view from the alley. Mrsha stared in horror up at the inn. Wer never looked at her again. He just stood there. She might have dared to hope he’d jump out the window, grab her and escape the pursuers.
But luck had laid him low at last. He’d tried to stop it, and Mrsha hadn’t realized. She’d known he feared the backlash, tried to mitigate it. In vain. She saw it, had smelled it when she heard him throwing up.
Food poisoning. His corned beef must have been spoiled or undercooked or…Wanderer looked physically ill. Now of all times.
“…These are concerned citizens. Plains Gnolls; apparently all the tribes are looking for the girl. Backup, in case the adult resists arrest. Sir, we’re going to try to take them by surprise, but I’ve been told the older one is a considerable threat, so what I’d like to do is…”
More of the city’s Watch were strolling over. Taking up places around the inn. Mrsha’s heart sank. She looked up at the alleyway and saw Wer mouthing something.
A single word. He kept saying it, until even she could figure it out.
Run.
Run? But how? They were in the street! Her [Natural Concealment] didn’t extend to running away! Where would she go?
Mrsha had her bag of holding, her wand, and the money he’d given her. Lots of gold. But…
One of the cats lazily meowed on top of Mrsha’s head. One of the Gnolls casually leaning against a wall glanced over, but all he saw was the cat. Mrsha nearly died of fright.
Maybe they weren’t here for her. Maybe this was all a bad dream and she’d wake up in her bed and…and…
If Mrsha were younger, she could believe it. She could have actually walked out into the street and died there, because she wouldn’t have been able to understand how deadly serious this was.
She had seen the Raskghar. She had seen monsters and looked into Belavierr’s eyes. Mrsha squeezed hers shut.
“Just step out, sir. Careful…careful…”
The Senior Guardswoman was evacuating the inn. Mrsha saw a flicker as two Drakes left the inn. The [Innkeeper] was muttering.
“My inn! Please don’t damage it.”
“Any damages will be compensated, sir. But think of the girl.”
“The little Gnoll? You mean the boy?”
Mrsha froze. A Drake, the same one who’d served them food, was hurrying out with the rest of the staff and guests. There was a muted conversation as one of the [Guards] explained. Then Mrsha heard the Drake woman’s voice.
“…But I saw her sneak downstairs. I think she went out the back door. Just a minute ago. She—”
She was so well-meaning. Like Drassi. Mrsha felt it all happening, like evil clockwork. Pieces fitting into place, but a bad puzzle. Spinning, adjusting themselves.
Like dice.
Mrsha saw the gaggle of figures outside the inn slow. The Gnolls in the common room looked up. They’d been listening. Their heads turned. Mrsha saw Wer move.
He exploded out of the air next to her. The Gnoll stepped out of space, scattering the terrified cats. He said one word in her ear.
“Run!”
As quiet as a whisper. As desperate as death. Mrsha saw his paw blur. He struck her with a shower of liquid. Mrsha?
She vanished. The little Gnoll hit the ground, the invisibility potion coating her fur. There was no potion like that for Wer. He downed a tonic that made the fur on his body harden, like it was suddenly made of stone. A second tonic—and then he exploded forwards, catching the Gnolls coming out of the back door of the inn and down the alleyway by surprise.
Mrsha had never heard a Gnoll roar like that. It surprised everyone. Wer had a dagger in one paw. He plunged it into the chest of the first Gnoll, and the quarterstaff was already spinning, striking another.
Wanderer roared as Mrsha ran, streaking past the Gnolls, the Watch blowing their whistles. Screams filled the air. But the Plains Gnolls, the [Shamanic Warriors]—they moved faster than the Watch. They came for the alleyway, weapons drawn, magical markings glowing. Howling a call to the hunt.
A call to death. Mrsha heard the furious cadence. They were here to kill both.
She ran, looking back. Wer! Wanderer! He was fighting alone in the alleyway! How long could he hold them off? Could he hold them off?
She had to run. Get into the sewers—no, find somewhere to hide her scent! Get out of the city? She had to do something. Cats. [Druid]. She was a [Druid]. She just had to…
“There you are.”
A kindly claw plucked the little Gnoll off the ground as she scampered past the adults, invisible, fast as could be. Mrsha could be smelled and heard, but even the [Shamanic Warriors] who might have detected her were distracted by the roaring Gnoll.
Who could see a little Gnoll? Who had spotted the little girl?
A kind Guardswoman, that’s who. The Drake plucked Mrsha up as her squad recoiled.
“[Anti-Invisibility Sight]. [Danger-Spotter]. You glow. I’ve never seen anything like that. You’re safe now, dear.”
Mrsha struggled, frantically, but the Senior Guardswoman had her! She frowned, trying to soothe Mrsha, and one of the Plains Gnolls, a huge Gnoll with two axes, bellowing the attack, turned. He saw the struggling outlines of Mrsha in the air and his eyes widened.
“Merish! Is that the Doomguy who’s stealing children? Merish? Was your friend right? Is it—?”
A little Lizardman bounded over, hopping on one foot, with a staff of all things. Merish, the Gnoll leader, didn’t answer. He just stared at Mrsha as the oblivious Senior Guardswoman tried to assure her she would be reunited with her family.
Ill luck.
 
——
 
It was a tableau of too many scenes. Marwsh was one of those travelling cities, a popular hub to stay in while on the road. Unless you were allergic to cats.
Even then…it was a good place to blend in, in theory. So many people intersecting meant that the Watch wasn’t as scrupulous about identities or as familiar as a city with few visitors. A perfect place if you were on the lam.
The Drake sneezed as he watched with the other guests of the inn. Outrageous, really. Turned out of their inn by the Watch!
“Tyrannical armored boots.”
The young Drake muttered, scowling. Someone should draw a mural about it! But apparently, and thankfully, this wasn’t about him…not that there would be any reason for him to be worried.
“What’s up? Don’t tell me you caused trouble again, Tesy? It was one day.”
An exasperated voice whispered in his ear. The pale-scaled Drake jumped, dragged his hood higher, then relaxed.
“Vetn! Don’t scare me like that!”
The taller young man grinned. He was about Tesy’s age, but he had a black fur complexion with faint, light blue highlights around his ears and on his arms. Well, today he did.
Appearance was variable, as Tesy well knew. The rose-scaled Drake had a very light pink coloration. Also…variable. But you could do a lot if you knew something about dyes and colors.
The two recognized each other despite the differences in coloration; they were old friends. Vetn scrutinized the commotion as he slid into the crowd watching the inn. More of the Watch were arriving and he and Tesy both eyed them with some degree of distrust, although if Vetn was wary, Tesy was actively hostile. A key difference between the two.
“You’re as jumpy as I’ve ever seen you. What’s up? How bad is it? What did you do, draw inside the inn? Why are there so many [Guards]? I’ve been travelling all week to meet up. Tesy, I wanted a break…”
“I don’t know if I’m in trouble! And this isn’t my fault! This is unrelated, I swear!”
Vetn gave him an unconvinced look. But he watched, arms folded.
“I heard about Cellidel. Was that it? Did you get spotted? I thought you would have all fought instead of letting them get killed.”
“Yes! No! We were fighting the boots! But this one Senior Guardsman took all of us out! All of the free fighters! And he knows what I look like!”
Vetn’s face turned worried at once.
“That’s a disaster. Tesy!”
“He might not tell. Listen, it’s complicated.”
“Might not tell? Why? You have some kind of blackmail over him? You’d better explain this, Tesy.”
“I will. It’s just—”
The roar from the alleyway made both dive for cover. Tesy ended up with Vetn on his back; they’d both dove behind a nearby wagon with unmatched reflexes.
Well…Vetn was agile enough to be crouching. Tesy was just flat on his face.
“Get off! What was that? What was—”
The [Innkeeper] ran screaming as the Watch jerked, and Gnolls began charging forwards. Tesy heard a scream.
“Dead gods! It’s the kidnapper!”
“Call for reinforcements! Where’s the child! Stop! The Gnolls just—”
Whistles filled the air. Tesy and Vetn poked their heads over the wagon—right before it went rolling as the [Driver] leapt into the front and steered it away from danger. They stood, with the rest of the crowd, at a remove, then decided to back up further as the first bloody Gnoll stumbled out of the alley and fell down.
“Ancestors! Ancestors!”
Tesy turned pale at the sight of the maimed Gnoll. Vetn was even more alarmed. He pulled Tesy.
“Get back!”
Both young men weren’t used to this kind of violence, but again, there was a difference. Vetn was ready to bolt; Tesy craned his neck to see.
“Is it the boots? They said ‘kidnapper’—Vetn, I think this is about that Gnoll kid who was on the scrying orbs!”
“Well, come away and let’s watch from a safe distance! Don’t get involved! Those are Plains Gnolls—[Shamanic Warriors], not the Watch! Don’t get involved, Tesy…”
It was only then they became aware of the altercation surrounding the Watch patrol, which hadn’t entered the fray. Tesy pointed. Vetn blinked as a little Gnoll finally came into view as a Drake [Guard] emptied a flask over her head.
“What the…”
“Invisibility?”
Then they saw the second layer of the drama. The furious, frantic little Gnoll fighting to get free, the Senior Guardswoman.
And the Plain’s Eye Gnolls, who turned away from the battle in the alleyway to stare at the little girl. Tesy was oblivious, but Vetn’s eyes flicked to their markings and he identified their tribe.
He grew tenser as Tesy edged closer to hear.
“It’s definitely the Gnoll who matches the description, Senior Guardswoman. Doesn’t speak…are you Mrsha? You’re safe now, Miss Mrsha.”
One of the Drakes was trying to talk to Mrsha. Another was investigating her sopping wet fur.
“She’s all brown, though. Is her fur dyed? Did that maniac…?”
“It’s not uncommon. Water’s not making it come off, though. She’s still in danger. Muster up, squad! Look sharp! That kidnapper’s in the alley! Where are the reinforcements?”
