The Senior Guardswoman made the rest of her squad jump back to attention. Tesy didn’t like boots, as he referred to them. But he had to admit, she reminded him a bit of that other Drake.
He folded his arms, watching keenly. The little Gnoll girl was wide-eyed, frantic, trying to tear free, and when that failed, tearing something out of her bag of holding. Gold coins fell to the ground in a shower and Vetn blinked.
“Whoa! That’s a lot of money! And she’s got some nice gear on her! A good magic wand, a nice bag of holding—is she a rich kid or what?”
He peered at a gold coin in his paw, despite the shower of coins only landing a few feet around Mrsha. But she didn’t even care. She was scribbling, writing desperately on…a bit of paper?
“Guardswoman. This…this is the Gnoll child.”
One of the [Shamanic Warriors] had walked over, flanked by two more. The Gnoll girl went still when she saw them. Tesy did not like the way she shrank. He recognized that.
Fear.
The Senior Guardswoman saw it too. She coolly held Mrsha up, letting the Gnoll write with shaking paws. She glanced at Mrsha, the alleyway where the fighting was still background, and at the Gnoll warrior.
“It seems that way. We need to take her to a safe place. Can your warriors handle that Gnoll, Chief Warrior…Merish, was it?”
He didn’t even glance over his shoulders. The Gnoll had both paws on the hilts of his axes, clearly ready to charge into battle, but he was locked onto the little Gnoll girl.
“They can.”
“In that case—squad, defensive perimeter! We’re taking this girl to the Watch house. Double time. She’s still in danger.”
The rest of the Watch began to move with the Senior Guardswoman, but they came to a halt. Tesy saw, to his growing confusion, the other Plains Gnolls on the street abandon their posts or attempts to get a vantage to shoot into the melee and instead come out to…surround…the patrol.
“Oh no.”
Vetn muttered. He was staring at Mrsha. Mrsha and at the alley’s entrance and at the Gnolls from the tribe he recognized.
“Move aside.”
“One moment, Guardswoman. Check if it is her. Who has…”
The Gnoll grunted. He caught something as it was tossed to him and uncorked it. The Drake blocked it, but he offered it to her.
“Dye remover.”
She hesitated, checked the contents, then glanced down at Mrsha. The little Gnoll’s eyes were wide, but the Senior Guardswoman let a few drops land on her head.
Mrsha’s fur turned white instantly.
The sound the Gnolls made, then, was not a sigh, or a gasp, or even a murmur. It was more like a…growl…
Vetn whispered.
“Oh no. Oh, no, no…”
Tesy didn’t understand.
“Vetn. What’s going on? Her fur’s white. You told me Gnolls don’t get white fur naturally.”
“It’s her. She’s definitely the kidnapped child, Senior Guardswoman. We’re going to be on the news!”
One of the [Guards] celebrated, oblivious to what was happening. But the Senior Guardswoman was looking down at something Mrsha was holding up. The Gnoll girl was holding the notes out to the Chief Warrior, who was not looking at her, but at his companions. At the little Lizardman, who had picked up on the growl too.
“It’s her, Chief Warrior. Doom.”
A Gnoll hissed. Merish raised a paw.
“Viri. One moment. Senior Guardswoman, we will take the…child.”
“No.”
The Senior Guardswoman replied. She tried to walk out of the small encirclement. Now she was sweating. She looked down at Mrsha. Around.
“[Danger-Spotter]. You’re still…move aside. We’re grateful for your assistance. This is Watch business, however! Leave the child to us!”
She raised her voice, but the rest of the Watch was heading towards the alleyway, not seeing the standoff here. Merish didn’t move. He was looking at Viri, who was glancing at the Senior Guardswoman to Merish.
“She’s Doom, Merish? But I thought…what’s going on?”
“Viri.”
“No, no…”
Tesy was shaking Vetn. One of the Plains Gnolls reached for Mrsha.
“Give her to us, Senior Guardswoman. Now.”
It was not a request. The Drake’s grip tightened.
“No. Move aside. I said, move aside. By the order of the Watch—”
She raised something in her free claw. Not a dagger. Not a shield or a baton.
A whistle. She nearly had it in her lips when the Plains Gnoll growled, glanced at Merish who was arguing with the little Lizardman, so out of place, and drew a dagger.
She ran the Senior Guardswoman through the belly.
Time slowed. Tesy turned, eyes open wide in shock. The crowd of onlookers saw the Senior Guardswoman slowly drop Mrsha. The rest of her squad recoiled.
Then there was blood. It ran down onto the street. A [Guardsman] reached for a baton. Another for her whistle.
Then there was more blood. The Plains Gnolls were fast. Tesy saw five dead bodies drop so quick…only the Senior Guardswoman sat there, holding the dagger and her guts. She was fumbling for a healing potion.
The people in the street were running, screaming. Tesy was dragging Vetn back now. This—he did not understand. He just looked at the tableau as Vetn muttered.
“No, no…”
“Doom.”
The Plains Gnoll with bloody paws turned to the shaking little Gnoll girl on the ground. Her eyes locked on the white fur on her head.
The alleyway had gone terribly silent. The little Lizardman was shouting in horror.
“Merish! What are you all doing? Merish!”
“Chief Warrior.”
The big Gnoll was turning. He stared at the blood on the street, the Senior Guardswoman gasping up at him. He looked at the others.
“Those are innocent guards! I did not give the order for this!”
“This is your first hunt. Not ours. Doom is alive! End it!”
Another Gnoll spat back. Merish looked down.
A little Gnoll held out a card in trembling paws. Her inky little words ran together, and her entire body shook. Tears were in her eyes.
 
Please, stop. I did nothing wrong. 
I loved my tribe. It wasn’t my fault. I really think it wasn’t my fault.
Why do you hate me?
 
But no one read it. They didn’t care. Tesy stared. This wasn’t happening. Why was it happening? This was a dream. He knew of terrible injustice, but this?
This was cold murder. They were going to…
His claws fumbled for his side, for a brush, his tools, but it would be too late, too slow, too far away, even if he thought he could fight nearly three dozen Gnolls of that level.
Even so. His entire being revolted. He had to do something.
Someone moved then, in that little void between the Chief Warrior slowly reaching for the axe at his side. Down the long street, hundreds of feet distant. Little Gnoll, Plains Gnolls, bleeding Senior Guardswoman. A voice Tesy knew all too well.
“Oh no. No, no. No.”
Vetn. He began to run forwards. Tesy’s head turned.
“Vetn. What are you doing? Vetn—”
His words were already too late. The Gnoll left them behind. He started forwards, and Tesy ripped at his concealed pouch of holding. He looked up as his friend…
Accelerated. 
Vetn’s bare feet hit the ground. Pads striking cobblestone. Ignored by the distant Gnolls. His feet moved faster.
In the frozen world, as Merish reached for the axe, drew it, and lifted it up, there were seconds. In between those seconds, in adrenaline and the life-and-death flashes, everything slowed down. The world became…slow…but so were you.
Except for him. Somehow, Vetn sped up. He moved like a few people could in any world.
In a time apart. At a speed no one else could match. He jogged down the street, and his stride began to lengthen. His legs lengthened, long limbs carrying him faster with each stride. Then he started running.
His feet touched the cobblestones, pushed off the stone, and Vetn’s posture changed further. Not down. Not like the four-legged gallop some Gnolls resorted to, even as adults. Looser, upright. A sprinter’s upright run.
Some of the Gnolls noticed the figure breaking towards to them. Heads turned, some even recognized the figure. But this was still in the time an axe took to rise to its apex and fall.
Hundreds of feet. A distant figure. A hundred meters.
A single sprinter, legs and arms pumping. Going faster with each step. Vetn went from his standing posture to a run. To a sprint.
Tesy’s brush finally cleared its hiding place. A painting palette rose as the Drake lifted it, mouthing the words of a Skill. Not Tesy.
Sellme. The famous [Magical Painter]. He was only a part of the audience, though. Backup. Backdrop. To another professional at work. Another famous figure.
Vetn leapt. Merish saw a blur as his axe dropped through the air. He saw Viri tear free of the paws holding him and leap, bellowing.
The axe stopped. Viri crashed into Merish’s side and bounced off to no avail. But there was no point.
Mrsha was gone. The little girl in front of Merish just—vanished. The Chief Warrior blinked. He stared at the ground. The Gnolls who had turned towards the running figure whirled around, seeing nothing, eyes wide. Then all of them looked down the street.
Forty feet away, Vetn reappeared. His cargo was under one arm, eyes wide, disbelieving. The Gnoll turned. Only Tesy understood what he’d done.
[Flicker Theft]. The Drake’s heart was pounding out of his chest. Merish’s eyes went wide. He pointed, and his voice joined the other Gnolls.
“Stop that Gnoll! That—”
They were so close. So close. The Gnoll began to run, the young man carrying the girl under one arm. Back the way he’d come, past the surprised Gnolls. They lunged at him.
He ran up a wall and raced over their heads. As if gravity didn’t matter. As if…
“Doom’s accomplices! Kill them!”
A Plains Gnoll howled. She nocked an arrow to her bow and a Lizardman kicked her in the face with a flying jump. Someone else tackled him and pinned him, but more Gnolls drew bows and more still were racing after Vetn, almost as fast. They charged down the street.
Straight into a brick wall. The Gnolls slammed into a brick wall in the middle of the street. Where had it come from? Why? A brick…?
They were lovely red bricks and strong mortar. Tesy had drawn them way back when.
[Artbook: Saved Sketch]! [Art Comes to Life]! [The World is My Canvas]. [Speedpainting].
The brush’s tip was still wet. Sellme panted. He saw Vetn slow, and a wide-eyed little girl staring at him.
“Sellme! What are you standing around for?”
His companion, compatriot, fellow professional bellowed. The Drake turned and took to his heels. Now two were running. The Gnolls streaming down the street ran around the wall, climbed over it.
Wer emerged from the alleyway, covered in blood, just in time to see two figures running. Two young people. Both male. Gnoll and Drake. His lips moved.
“What the…?”
He saw a little Gnoll girl, her fur shining white behind the dye, looking at him. He felt it.
Luck.
Travellers. Coincidence? Not really.
“Who are they? Get them! Kill them!”
The Plains Gnolls were howling. They were coming down the street, weapons covered in blood, promising death. Seasoned killers.
They ran into a mud pit. Slammed into an invisible glass wall that shattered. The Gnolls charged through both. Then they hit the tripwire.
“Damn it, stop painting and run!”
Mrsha felt her savior slowing, turning with her under one arm. The rose-scaled Drake with the hood was a blur, the brush he carried drawing the obstacles so fast she could barely process it. Like a pre-rendered scene, being translated to the real world in moments.
“They’re going to kill us! What did you get us into? I don’t have many paintings saved!”
The Drake screamed back. The Gnoll cursed. He ran back.
“You don’t? That’s your entire job, you idiot!”
He took one look at a snarling Gnoll bounding at them, his magical paints giving him speed. Vetn lowered his body, and dove under the slashing block from a spear. Then he whirled, changed course, and hoisted the Drake onto his shoulder. Carrying Mrsha under one arm and Tesy hanging from his left shoulder, Vetn ran.
[Loot Weighs Nothing]! Sellme gasped, winded. The Plains Gnolls chasing after them leapt, howling in triumph as the strange Gnoll slowed…
And completely missed him. He was fifteen feet away by the time they swung their blades.
Merish had activated [Markings of Speed]. [Vanguard’s Advance]. [Adrenaline Rush]. He felt like he was running underwater as he charged after the Gnoll. How…?
So fast. The Gnoll was storming towards the gates with a Drake on his shoulder and the child under his arm. The child…Merish tore his eyes away from her. He had seen this before.
He had seen this before. This speed! This insanity!
He ran with the other Gnolls, towards the gates, but the Gnoll was so fast they were running towards some horses saddled and unattended as he ran vertically up the wall, leapt past the surprised [Guards], and over.
“After him!”
The Gnolls jumped onto horseback. They swarmed out of the city, riding for all they were worth. The [Magical Painter] was shouting as the Gnoll ran. He was tiring. Yet even now, he was the fastest.
Faster than Couriers! Faster than horses! The Plain’s Eye tribe’s Doomslayers raced after him during the time when he was fastest. Who had to be this quick? Only someone who had to outrun everyone and everything. Who could steal jewels from under your nose in the time it took to blink.
And here came his famous calling card. Only, it came from the [Magical Painter] who called it out of a drawing. A team effort that had given him his name.
A cloud. It blasted Merish in the face, a fog of mist and wetness. The Gnolls crashed into each other, shouted, lost sight of the Gnoll. Then Merish felt something odd happening to the saddle he was sitting in. His horse slowed…
And the painted creature turned back into paint. Merish and the other Doomslayers found themselves sitting in the grass outside of the city as a huge cloud floated upwards. A mocking smile, a raised thumb. Such that all of the people in Marwsh saw it, floating upwards.
They shouted his name. Merish bellowed it as it came to him, howling at the empty plains where the three had disappeared.
“Thief of Clouds!”
In relief? Then they were gone, and Merish was…left with the Drake city up in arms, giving pursuit, neither quarry had.
And Viri, the little Lizardman, stared at the dead Watch in disbelief. At the sudden violence and slaughter. At what Doom was, and his friend. Slowly, he bent down and picked up a little notecard.
He read it.
 
——
 
Bad decisions. Regrettable mistakes.
The right thing for the wrong reasons or the wrong thing for the wrong reasons. Sometimes they were just mistakes.
But sometimes…you did anything you had to. Anything at all. For more than vengeance. For more than hatred. For the only friend you had. For kindness. For hope.
