While news trickled in of the wars on other continents, of the wounded King of Destruction, of friends and adventurers freed, ancient kingdoms of death, and missing [Doctors], all grand events that mattered, her daughter was still missing.
Her beloved daughter, whom she had vowed to protect. Who she should have brought with her. And if Mrsha died, was dead?
There was no word, but all of Izril had seen the broadcast. There was no concrete evidence of her, alive or dead.
So the [Princess] danced. She danced, from ball to party, a whirling spectacle. A Human, in the City of Growth, Oteslia under siege. Wildly, passionately, laughing, kissing an ivy-scaled Drake on the cheek. Flirting outrageously with his friends, then flitting around the room, sometimes talking with other fixtures of the new high society, the Human [Lady] from the north, or the Wall Lord of Salazsar.
Or Wall Lady. Or…
Saliss of Lights watched Lyonette as she let Cirediel whisper in her ear. She laughed, bit her lip, as if deciding, and nodded after a judicious interval spent talking with someone else. The young Drake didn’t try to conceal raising his fist in victory and going to slap tails with his friends.
When she returned to the more permanent, formal residence they had been granted by the First Gardener of Oteslia for their stay while the Walled City was under siege, Saliss and Xif traded looks. The Gnoll [Alchemist] played it off.
“I’ll get back to looking at those Faerie Flowers. Lovely party. What in the name of exploding vials did we eat?”
“Canapes?”
“Disgusting. Is Lyonette…?”
She had not come with them. She had left with Cire and the younger Drakes and Gnolls, early for a more informal party of their own. Saliss had seen Ratici and Wilovan slip after them. And two more groups. Oteslia? Ilvriss? Magnolia? He was not as concerned about another assassination attempt so soon. Rather…he didn’t go to the alchemy station he and Xif had set up.
A clouded mind was no good when working with dangerous ingredients. Saliss sighed, and, grumbling, went to unpack the last shipment from Pallass his apprentice had sent to him. And no more would be coming because she had gone running off…the one time he could have actually used someone making potions!
The Drake was reading the newspaper from Pallass. War. War. War. Ooh. Eir Gel prices were up. Why? Someone with a speculation Skill, no doubt.
The war between Ailendamus and the Dawn Concordat? He bookmarked that page for Lyonette; it was just trivial news, like the [Princesses] of Calanfer going on tour in the safe regions of Kaliv to hearten the soldiers.
How much heart they imparted was dubious, but Lyonette would doubtless care. Saliss was really just passing the time. He looked up, as, at around 10:32 if the moonwater clock was right, Lyonette du Marquin stumbled in with a brief burst of noise and laughter. Saliss spotted figures waving at her, a plaintive call. She blew a kiss backwards.
“That was for Paill, not you, Cire!”
Then she closed the door. Lyonette’s eyes were bright and she smelled like Dreamleaf, Oteslia’s root-ale, and…Saliss sniffed. Sweat?
Well, he wasn’t great at deciphering things by smell after too many strongly-scented ingredients. Saliss saw a Drake tip his cap and a Gnoll wearily adjust his top hat and do the same. Saliss nodded at them, jerked a thumb.
“Want a drink? Xif and I rolled a keg of something into the larder.”
“You’re a gentleman, Saliss, sir.”
“No I’m not.”
The Drake mildly nodded to Wilovan as the Gnoll went to refresh himself. He must have been watching Lyonette all day, and the Gentlemen Callers didn’t drink on the job. Saliss idly wondered how much their service would cost if they were charging Lyonette anything. But his eyes were really on Lyonette.
She stood in the hallway, for a moment. Her cheeks were flushed, and she had been smiling. Genuinely smiling. Then she strode towards her guest room. Saliss, of course, followed after.
 
Dearest Pawn,
I am writing to tell you I’ve been unfaithful. I shall be direct, and tell you that I cannot remain in a relationship with you, honestly. I have seen other people for reasons I cannot explain. Simply put, I am sorry. Forget about me, please.
 
There was no artistry to the letter. None of the usual tact and delicacy she made Mrsha write with. Lyonette’s quill trembled as she wrote, dashing the letters down onto the paper. Everything in the room was a gift of Oteslia’s First Gardener, who had many sympathies for Lyonette’s plight.
How did her sisters write letters like this? Never so brazenly. They’d use careful expressions, even if they had been caught. Lyonette knew Pawn wouldn’t understand them. And she…
“Huh. So you did sleep with him? Seems early. He just talked you into going out into the city for the first time.”
Saliss’ voice made Lyonette jump. He was peering over her shoulder, and as silent as Wilovan or Ratici. Lyonette looked at the letter, then began to fold it up into an envelope. She addressed it, poured wax over the seal, and only then turned to glare at Saliss.
He held out a claw. The yellow-scaled [Alchemist] and Named Adventurer had a smile on his face, but Saliss’ smiles were not all the same. His eyes were speculative, watching her.
“Want me to bring it to the Runner’s Guild? Or is it the Mage’s Guild for confidential [Message] spells? You know they read them, don’t you?”
“I am well aware. I will send it by City Runner myself.”
Lyonette didn’t make as if to rise. She put the letter on the corner of her desk, and looked at it. Saliss peered at her.
“So you’re going to sleep with that kid. Cirediel or whatever the First Gardener’s son is named?”
The [Worldly Princess] did not want to speak to Saliss right now. Yet, among her friends in Oteslia, he was the only one to talk to. Xif, Ratici, Wilovan, or Saliss were her immediate allies. Mivifa…but she was only an acquaintance.
And for some reason, Lyonette didn’t see the judgement she expected in Saliss’ gaze. The Named Adventurer looked a bit too knowing. So she replied, brusquely.
“Of course I will. If I have to. I’m leading him on.”
“If you had a tail, he’d be twined all around it. So you’ll do…what? Tell the First Gardener you’ve married her son, send an army to find Mrsha?”
Lyonette glowered at Saliss.
“Cirediel has the First Gardener’s authority. Not just him. I’ll do whatever it takes. The letter is…I’ll send it if I must.”
“So the [Princess] sells herself for her daughter.”
“It’s what we’re good at. Or have you never met a [Princess], Saliss? We are tools of the crown. I would have gone to another kingdom to forge an alliance. This—at least I care about this.”
The Drake nodded. He was watching Lyonette. Gone was her carefree smile. As she sat there, Lyonette du Marquin was cold.
Calculating. She did not weep, or scream, or try to break out of the city like a fool. Even when she had received word her daughter was gone…she had begun outrageously flirting with Cirediel that day.
Calm. Her blue eyes held a degree of ruthlessness that even [Soldiers] on the battlefield lacked, to Saliss’ mind. She had weighed her options, the things available to her. What would she do to ensure her daughter might be found and saved? Whatever it took.
Saliss hated it. Lyonette stood to head downstairs. She tripped over an outstretched foot. She didn’t actually fall, but caught herself and whirled, glaring.
“Saliss! This is not the time!”
“There’s always time to annoy people.”
The nudist Drake turned. His own eyes had violet pupils. Lyonnete expected a mocking grin.
He wasn’t smiling. And his eyes, locked on hers, were too…
The [Worldly Princess] hesitated. Saliss of Lights shook his head.
“I like annoying people. Annoying people is simple, egalitarian. It treats everyone with the assumption that they all deserve to be annoyed. I don’t like treating other people with respect because they’re a [General], or because they’re a Wall Lady. Or a [Princess].”
He closed one eye, and regarded Lyonette.
“I don’t like it when they treat themselves differently, either.”
“Saliss. Don’t talk me out of this. This is all I can do. I am a [Princess]. We have always been the currency of kingdoms!”
Lyonette snapped. The Drake exhaled. Then he looked at Lyonette, seriously. The Drake reached out…and poked Lyonette in the chest.
“You are depressing. Is that how you Humans think, in Terandria? De. Pres. Sing.”
He poked her. She swatted at his claw, but his hand was too fast. Saliss went on, frowning mightily.
“Even for the Walled Cities you’re…no, wait. Nah. You fit in. With the most cynical, cold-hearted Drakes. Everyone’s just a thing to be used. And so are you? Wrong. Stupid. Don’t do that, Lyonette. It will cost more than you think. Believe me.”
He shook his head. Lyonette hesitated.
“And how would you know?”
She snapped, unguarded, angry, because his words struck home too much. What Lyonette was not prepared for was the look she got.
“Because I know.”
It was rather like being doused by cold water. Lyonette looked at Saliss and suddenly had many questions. Many questions, but the Drake’s…look…prohibited any of them. At last, Lyonette turned. She clenched her hands so hard her fingernails dug into her skin.
“And what am I supposed to do? Mrsha is out there. And I can’t…”
Her shoulders shook. Saliss, mouth closed in memory, was lost for a moment. Then he saw the young woman’s shoulder shake. She sat down, not even bothering to find a bed or chair. Tears rolled down her cheeks.
The Named Adventurer looked down at her.
Oh, of course. Lyonette sat, overcome by grief. Zeres’ army had Oteslia surrounded. And it might have been possible for her to leave…if she hadn’t been marked by two Admirals of Zeres and the Sharkcaptain.
“There, there.”
Saliss awkwardly patted her shoulder. He sighed and produced the letter he’d looted from her desk. Damn Ancestors.
Saliss tore it up. She could always re-write it, but maybe she wouldn’t send it at all if she thought about it again.
It was so…complicated. Depressing girls that reminded Saliss of…well.
Herself.
If only it were an easy solution like ‘kill everything’. The [Alchemist] was good at that. However. He sat, patting Lyonette’s shoulder. Well. It was still interesting.
They were a bit similar after all. It made Saliss want to help this young idiot. But how?
 
——
 
Oteslia was under siege. Zeres had come with an army, and Liscor’s famed mercenaries were also contributing to a blockade over the issue of the Human [Lady].
And other issues. Frankly, they were also there due to the Meeting of Tribes, because Zeres and Oteslia had been at war for quite some time…it was a siege as usual.
Such normality meant that there was still traffic in and out of Oteslia. City Runners and a small number of vehicles were stopped by Zeres’ [Soldiers] and let go.
Because, of course, City Runners were an independent body. Same with the Wyverns or Pegasi that might travel through the air. It was a curious standard; of course Oteslia’s [Pegasus Riders] were the enemy. But Oteslia’s Pegasi that fulfilled the Walled City’s transport or other vital services superseded the mere state of war and were allowed to fly.
It said a lot that Oteslians were so used to being besieged in the Walled City of Growth that some had penpals in said army camped outside their walls. In the end, the move was as symbolic as it was a war of financial pressure; it cost money to keep Zeres’ army in the field, but Oteslia in turn was deprived of trade.
Magnolia Reinhart’s presence now…that had escalated the situation. As had a number of other factors, like Salazsar sending no less than five representatives, including Wall Lord Ilvriss, Wall Lady Navine, and Helessia Gemscale. It worried concerned minds that there might be an actual possibility of some kind of…peace?
Unacceptable. Of course, that was one angle. Sheer disgust at Magnolia Reinhart was a simple motive. There were far more that were unexpected and unforeseen.
Such as Manus’ growing agitation. Not for any reason Zeres could have known, and the City of War did not want to show how upset they were. However, a certain Wall Lady Rafaema’s presence in what could hypothetically be a warzone?
Absolutely not. If Lyonette’s cold rationalization and mentality was as a mother to a child in danger, so was…all of Manus…to Rafaema. They were considering all moves without revealing why they wanted this war ended, but an unconditional kill order had been sent to Hunt Commander Makhir and every agent in the city regarding protecting Rafaema.
Honestly, the Dragon hated it. Did they think she was an idiot? She had a copy of the very same orders that were making the newly-freed Ferris and Makhir practically follow her into the toilet. What really insulted her was their insistence they had no special orders to obliterate anyone who so much as sneezed in her direction.
Rafaema was willing to own she was not a grown, adult Dragon, and wouldn’t be for another hundred years. 200 was the age of maturity among Dragons—but it didn’t mean they were children all that time!
Half-Elves grew at a normal rate to Humans until their teens. Same with Dragons. When Rafaema had been 14 years old, she hadn’t been a drooling idiot; she’d been a girl, but still functional!
She’d learned how to crack Manus’ internal code ciphers no matter how much they changed when she was twenty three. She had a century of being coddled and she was done.
“Ferris. What are the odds Zeres actually attacks Oteslia?”
“Somewhere below 1%, Wall Lady Rafaema.”
“Right. It would be disastrous. Even if they tried, I’m sure Manus would intercede. Or even hire Liscor’s army to halt Zeres. This is a political siege. They’re mad about Magnolia Reinhart and the army might be here because of all the cities getting burned along the Great Plains.”
Ferris hesitated as Makhir scanned the street they were walking down. The [Hunt Commander] had a double bodyguard of [Soldiers] from Manus, all with bows, casually strolling along. Rafaema saw him glance at Makhir and the Gnoll coughed.
“…In regards to that, Rafaema, we can’t discuss intelligence or possible moves…”
The Dragon rolled her eyes. It was obvious to her. Zeres loved to throw its weight around depending on which Serpentine Matriarch was in charge and this one was spicy.
Hah! Name me one that wasn’t. Rafaema concluded her argument.
“Either way, an actual attack is beyond unlikely. So, Ferris, Hunt Commander. Kindly stop breathing down my tail or I will toss you over the walls.”
Ferris and Makhir glanced at each other, and the Gnolls stopped shadowing Rafaema so closely she could feel their fur brushing her scales.
