For Erin Solstice. The [Innkeeper] who was friend to their kind. Too long had those with debts left them unpaid. She had asked them, their [Great Chieftain], if it was worth paying.
And as they had once said—you never stopped paying the debts that mattered. Until you died. Not even then, sometimes.
The city never saw it coming. Why should they? It was not an attack at dawn, the proverbial time of ambushes and surprise battles. It was not dusk, thematically appropriate. It was not by night when darkness hid them.
It came at sort of after midday. Right when you were digesting lunch. A deadly time for the unaware.
The first sign of their coming was shadows in the sky. Sentries on duty looked up and murmured.
“Wyverns. Damn bastards. Someone call out if one circles. We have to kill it in case it’s hunting here. Bows?”
But they were out of bow-range and circling before any were trained on it. The sky was beautifully clear. The grass was green. The earth was presumably still earth.
A few [Dangersenses] went off an hour before. A quiet alarm was raised.
Then a louder one. But they attributed it to the Wyverns, perhaps a hunting weyr. Lower-level [Dangersenses] began to fire off closer too.
By now, the city was alarmed. It was on guard, and the highest-levelled defenders patrolled, wary, uncertain. They spotted the Wyvern again flying, high, high overhead, so high it was in danger of the thin atmosphere.
“Damn, what’s got it flying that high? Some kind of other monster?”
“My [Dangersense] keeps going off. What’s…?”
And then something began to drop from the Wyvern overhead. A strange…cloud. No, a plume of descending brown and beige. It took the defenders of the city a few seconds to process what it was.
“Dirt?”
Yes, dirt. A huge amount of it, emptied from a bag of holding from overhead.
They began to realize something was wrong, then. [Messages] began to bounce to other cities, but…what was…?
An attack. From another city! From the damned Drakes! A full-scale alarm began to ring as more Wyverns began to fly overhead. And these ones clearly had riders. They dropped more clouds of dirt over the city. Like a certain Wind Runner’s tactics.
After all…Goblins were good at copying.
Goblins. The first shout identifying them came seconds before the clouds of dust began to whip up. The [Mages] realized someone was playing with the weather, and the few who could manipulate the air began to fight for it. But there was a [Shaman] or five out there and they just wanted to blow the wind.
A dust storm hit the city. The confused fighters on the walls cried out, realizing they were blind to whatever was out there! It was happening fast. They had warning, but they had squandered it, thinking there would be monster attacks. And they could handle monsters.
After all, who would dare attack this city? What would be the point? After all, it wasn’t as if they’d done anything wrong.
This wasn’t…Hectval. Not that anyone in the city even knew the name of the Drake city. They had thought this was a Drake attack, already dramatic enough. But it wasn’t.
The dust began to clear as the first wave of Wyverns passed over, circling and ‘reloading’ their stocks of dust. They flew well out of bow-range, and there were high-level individuals who could shoot down the Wyverns. If they could see.
The civilians were panicking, rushing towards the inner gates, demanding answers, protection. The defenders locked the enchanted gates, looked to their furious leader, who had only one goal: protect the client.
It was one of their [Archers] who saw through the concealing dust and spotted the first figures on the horizon. Saw the crimson eyes of the riders on the Wyverns’ backs and realized the truth, and screamed the alarm that shot across every nearby city. Of course! Only they would be mad enough to attack this place!
Goblins. Filthy, mindless, warlike Goblins! It was a raiding party! No, an entire tribe! They had no idea what they were doing! They were going to charge the walls and…
…And? The attack didn’t come. Coughing, blowing the dust out of the air, the Humans waited. Panicking people flooded out of the gates, saw what was coming, and ran screaming back towards the inner city.
The adventurers standing together, multiple teams of Gold-ranks supplemented by Silver-ranks, enough to fight off any casual foe, visitor, or supplicant, saw the dust clear. Then they saw the Goblins sitting casually behind oversized crossbows, newly-made ballistae, and trebuchets. They had carefully emerged from the hiding places they’d snuck into over the last few days, set up their siege weapons, and now…
“Dead gods.”
A Gold-rank adventurer whispered. He had a bow. Which was nice. It was even enchanted with Longshot.
The Hobgoblin grinning at him had no fancy bow. But she did have a giant Thunderbow-style crossbow made of Wyvern bone and sinew and two loading partners. The [Greatbow Archer] adjusted her sights. Lovely idea, adding a little glass sight to magnify her shot. Why didn’t all bows and crossbows have something like that?
She was glad the Human had thought of it.
“It’s…a siege encampment. They’ve got siege weapons!”
A [Mage] stated the obvious with amazing talent. He pointed a trembling finger at the Goblins. Someone else cursed.
“Fuck me, what’s that? Ogres! Ogres!”
An armored core of Ogres was lugging a battering ram forwards, grumbling. They halted, next to a force of Goblins on wolves.
It was a small army. Ferried here over many days by Wyvern. They still outnumbered the adventurers many times over. And it was adventurers who held this city. There were overpaid members of the Watch, a desultory militia, and a lot of civilians.
Not just civilians. Families, individuals, rich and poor. Of course, the richer ones had a better chance. But all lined up each day for the lottery. All of them came here, hoping for a miracle. To this city no one dared attack because it was neutral ground.
Tenbault. Where the famed Healer of Tenbault dispensed aid to a lucky few. Crowdcaller Merdon and the adventurers hired to protect the Healer stared at the Goblin raiders. The Named Adventurer’s eyes bulged. He heard the first horns blow as the Chieftain of the Goblins slowly advanced and held up a hand.
Everyone fell silent for a second, waiting Goblins, Ogres, impatient to loot the valuable mana potions, adventurers, and terrified civilians. The little Goblin bellowed.
“Humans. Give us the Healer and no one gets hurt! We’ll give her back.”
Of course, she didn’t really expect it to work. But it was worth it, just to hear the Named Adventurer howl.
 
——
 
Rags had heard Tenbault was some miraculous city. It hadn’t looked so good even before she covered it in dirt. It looked like an idea.
The inner city, guarded by adventurers and enchanted gates, was beautiful. The outer city, with the desperate throngs, was dirty and unkempt. It seemed to Rags that the inner part could have shared with the other part.
But what did she know? She was just a Goblin. And she had no time to wait in line, even if they would have her.
This one’s for Erin Solstice. She lifted a claw and pointed.
“Attack.”
The Thunderbows firing split the air like their very names. Bolts shot forwards. Not at the Humans cowering in their city, but at the right target.
The adventurers. They had magical shields, high-levels, and powerful gear. But they were used to tackling groups, armed retinues at best. Not actual armies. They took cover behind the walls or shields as flaming bolts targeted them, and stones from the trebuchets thudded into the walls and ground.
Flaming. [Battlefield: Power of Fire]. Also—[Rapid Reload]. Those were Rags’ Skills, not even including targeting Skills and other abilities each Hob gunner had.
Gunner. Nice term. She wondered if they could get the class. Rags watched as two Hobs dragged a Thunderbow’s arms back, loaded a bolt up, and stepped back so it could fire, all in seconds. It was already hurling another deadly bolt through the air as the Ogres advanced.
Ogres in heavy armor. Shields raised. She’d made them carry shields, and the sight of a [Fireball] striking a shield and making the Ogre swear but do little else reaffirmed Rags’ tactics.
[Lightning Bolts] were different, as were piercing arrows, but the Ogres shielded their faces and made use of the healing potions they carried. Anyways, they were the anvil.
The hammer was already in the city, racing through the choking dust. Rags saw Carn Wolf riders shooting forwards after their leader. She saw adventurers panicking, saw her Wyverns dropping dirt and now stones, circling downwards.
And then the one complication. That voice.
Operatic. Huge! It blasted the dust out of the air. It knocked bolts from the sky, and sent Goblins falling down, some vomiting, others clutching at burst eardrums.
Crowdcaller Merdon. Named Adventurer! Rags narrowed her eyes. She pointed a finger. Time to see if she’d learned anything at all.
 
——
 
“Hold your ground, you idiots! If you run I’ll make sure you’re kicked down to Bronze-rank for the rest of your lives!”
Merdon’s voice was audible in every part of the city. And that wasn’t when he shouted. When he shouted, it was a sonic cone you could see in the dust, and a radius of ear-splitting death.
Literal death. The Goblins hadn’t believed it, at first. Even for them, ‘voice death’ sounded stupid. But the truth was evident just from feeling it.
Merdon’s voice could actually damage your insides. Not just deafen you; it was so loud it became an attack unto itself.
And it was working. The Carn Wolves howled in agony despite the wax packed into their ears. [Silence] spells cast onto them did nothing to Merdon’s voice.
Forget about casting it on the man himself. He made the Ogres balk; just by screaming he could probably take out an army.
That was a Named Adventurer for you. However, he had one weakness, and that was why the Carn Wolves and their Goblin riders held back, circling, until they saw if the plan worked. If it didn’t, they’d be in trouble. Same with Poisonbite’s [Rogues]…both Goblin strike forces waited, nervously keeping back from the inner city where the voice emanated from. Then they heard it.
A cough. Swearing. A voice.
“Get this dust out of the air!”
The wind blew, but the [Shamans] pushed back. And the Wyverns dumped more out of the sky. A Goblin sitting astride the largest Carn Wolf grinned and raised his clawed hand. He pointed and the [Riders] howled and charged, though they were still deafened by their own protective gear so they couldn’t hear it.
A voice that huge surely had to suck in more air than usual. They had little chance of prevailing against such a warrior in a fair fight—even their best. But what if you could make the air more dust than air? Well, that was a problem for Goblins too. Right until their helpful Human introduced the concept of a mask with filtration, for Carn Wolves and Goblins.
Crowdcaller Merdon was shouting, coughing, slashing around in the dust as adventurers tried to keep the gates to the inner city. But the Goblins were everywhere. They were hitting the walls with bolts, climbing the walls—he shouted and blew a hole in the storm of dust, then kept hacking.
My lungs! The man was raging. He’d fought against people who tried to [Silence] him, or use other tricks, but no one had just…filled the air with dust! He could blow away a single [Dust Storm] and had before, but the Wyverns kept dumping dust on him! And he couldn’t take the time to knock them out of the skies, even if he could see them.
Someone was out there. The Named Adventurer gritted his teeth and turned. His enchanted mace and shield, not his first weapons of choice, rose as he turned.
Glowing eyes in the dust. Who are you?
Merdon opened his voice to bellow, and jerked aside. Someone had tossed a ball of powder straight at him. Not just any powder, Merdon realized. He began to hack harder.
Had they put something in this damn dust cloud? Why was everything burning?
“Calescent makes good spice. Poisonbite—stop the shouting.”
A figure emerged from the confusion. He was riding a gigantic Carn Wolf, and he was a Hob. A Hob with two swords. One was red, like the warpaint on his body. The other was frost and cold.
Redscar and Thunderfur circled Merdon as Poisonbite, grinning, circled the Named Adventurer. He opened his mouth to roar, ignoring the pain and his burning eyes. Redscar charged, laughing. Let’s see how good you are with blades!
The woman inside the inner city’s inner…building…was not in a palace as you might expect. It had a lot of glitter on the outside, but the inside was more like a library crossed with a mage’s workshop. Which is what it was, really.
She was frantically throwing items into a bag of holding when she really should have already been running. But that was amateurs for you. She turned as the bloodcurdling scream from the entrance told her that time was up. She lifted a trembling wand.
“I—I am under the protection of the Five Families! I am a valuable [Mage]—[Healer], you understand? I’m worth more alive than dead! Alive! Take what you want!”
She shouted, then tried to hide behind a desk. The invader, who had halted with her squad on the inside, sighed and scratched her head.
Well, this was disappointing. She whistled.
“Get Wyvern ready. Tell Redscar to pull back. Ten minutes! Grab and go!”
Goblins raced forwards, as three trained crossbows on the trembling figure. The Healer of Tenbault was…Rags blinked at the middle-aged woman in slippers, a [Mage]’s robe, and holding a wand in one trembling hand. She looked like nothing.
“I’m the Healer of Tenbault. I’m not valuable dead!”
She whispered. To Calescent, who was bigger than Rags. The little Goblin sighed.
“I know. We don’t kidnap dead bodies. Well…not yet.”
She glanced outside, to where another ear-splitting roar filled the air. They were running out of time. Rags nodded to Calescent.
The Healer stared at Rags in disbelief. She processed the [Chieftain]’s words, then her eyes grew round with alarm. She took aim at Rags. The Goblin sidled behind a pillar as a bolt of light slashed through the air.
“Help! Help! I’m being—”
The Healer turned as Calescent charged her from the side. She opened her mouth, raised her wand, and he tossed his death-spice in her face. Then slung the woman over one shoulder.
“Go!”
Rags and Calescent ran to the first Wyvern as the other Goblins kept looting. They mounted up and flew, the Goblins abandoning the lightning siege of the city. The Humans were already coming from multiple cities.
Too slow. Too late. It was done. Merdon shouted at the sky, bleeding, stumbling after the Goblins and clutching at his torn armor. He could barely speak through his torn throat and streaming eyes.
“Stop!”
