The Named Adventurer gave Mirn a death’s head grin. He stood against the railing, looking out over Oteslia.
“Mirn, Mirn, Mirn. It’s not the time. A little kid’s gone, I have a [Princess] trying to sell herself the royal way Humans do to the highest bidder, there’s at least one group trying to assassinate any number of people in Oteslia, and something’s up with a fellow Named Adventurer, Mivifa, that makes me think Oteslia’s got its own problems. Oh, and I have a dead [Innkeeper]. Now is not the time. For all of those reasons! And for one more. I’m out of stock.”
Mirn had been waiting for a chance to break in, mouth open, combative. Just like he was ready to call Onieva out or drag her back. But then the Drake halted, and looked at Saliss.
“You are not. You told me you had full doses!”
“Let me think. That was before I wasted a huge amount fighting the Antinium, had to escort a pair of Humans north, didn’t get a chance to rebuild my stock, had all of Oteslia refuse to sell me anything, and I’ve had to share my work space with a Gnoll [Alchemist] who can see everything I do…”
Saliss grinned unhappily as he ticked off problems on his claws. He looked up as his childhood friend and companion from when they had been [Soldiers] just stared at him.
“The ingredients aren’t cheap, Mirn. They aren’t accessible, which is the problem. I’ve gone far longer…”
“I know. Shut up. No wonder Chaldion sent me.”
Mirn shook his head. Saliss nodded. He closed his eyes. Mirn being here did help. But the potion…
Shapeshifting Tincture. You could scale it up, into Saliss’ famed war-form, although turning into a Dragon was well beyond its capabilities. But Saliss had never cared about that. Shapeshifting. That was why he had gone to Nerrhavia’s Fallen to learn it from the master himself, decades ago.
Even so. If only there was a cheaper, discount solution rather than the potion that only a Level 40 [Alchemist] could even dream of making. Even rationed, even then…Saliss leaned back against the railing.
If only Faerie Flowers worked well with that potion like the Potion of Time’s Return. There is no way it would, though. It doesn’t even play well with salted water! It would be…far too…
The Drake’s eyes opened wide. He stood up, as Mirn tried to figure out solutions. And there it was.
“That would be way too annoying. That’s it!”
He punched a claw into his palm. Mirn looked at him like he was crazy.
 
——
 
Xif the [Alchemist] had thrown a tantrum by the time Saliss had come back. One look around the workshop told Saliss why.
“Hi, Xif. How many combos? This is Mirn, a friend, by the way. He’ll be staying here.”
Xif looked up from lying face-down on the couch.
“…Two hundred and nine.”
Saliss nodded. Mirn looked at him.
“Is that a lot?”
“It’s a lot. Nothing but alcohol and smoke?”
“I hate these weeds. Saliss, I’m going to sleep. Don’t let me near here or I’ll burn them all.”
Xif went up to his rooms, as frustrated as Saliss had ever seen him. And for all Saliss loved to annoy the old [Alchemist], Xif had twice as much patience as Saliss. The Drake cracked his claws.
“That might be a good thing. Mirn, help me tidy up. Ancestors…”
That comment was because Saliss had finally taken in the devastation. Splatters of goo, annoying, viscous substances, snot-like reactions…
Every annoying thing you could imagine had come about from even the most innocuous combinations. As the Oteslians had found in their own research, albeit with far more limited Faerie Flowers, nothing seemed to work. Yet no less than five superlative examples of the Faerie Flowers’ effects had occurred.
Mirn scraped at a wall in a practiced manner, with proper [Alchemist] gear on. He’d helped Saliss more than once and had been a rated [Alchemical Infantryman] when they’d first enlisted in the bottom ranks; Pallass’ unique soldiers who tossed nasty things in your face or used interesting salves on their weapons.
Saliss was preparing a clean work area, going over a checklist of ingredients. He had…exactly half of what he needed. Most of the rare stuff was out of stock or he didn’t have enough.
Fine. That was perfect. Saliss explained his theory as he worked.
“The Faerie Flowers played nice with a surprisingly wide web of common things, Mirn. Alcohol. Fire. Crap. Yet it made water into itching cream. Xif has tried more combinations than anyone else in the city, but I’ll bet they’ve found what he has—Faerie Flowers play well with nothing except for those exceptions. I just hope he hasn’t tried too many combinations.”
“Why?”
“Because they’re not playing by normal rules. I had the sense as I was working, Mirn. I think…we’re inventing all the bad combinations of the Faerie Flowers with the different substances.”
It took Mirn a few minutes to properly understand what Saliss meant. The Drake shook his head.
“You mean they didn’t exist until you came up with them? That’s…does something like that exist?”
“In theory. I’m surprised Xif didn’t come up with it himself. There were magical substances that only activated when you looked at them. Uncertainty catalysts, I heard they were called. Imagine brewing a potion blind?”
“So these things are that powerful?”
Mirn edged away from the little yellow flowers as if they were malicious. And he was more correct than he knew. Saliss shook his head.
“Not necessarily that powerful. But I think…I told you how I just happened to create a Potion of Time’s Return for a fraction of the cost and effort because I just tossed a Faerie Flower in and expected the whole thing to blow up?”
“…That sounds like all your new discoveries.”
The [Alchemist] actually laughed. He was working. Now, where would he add it? After the base.
Saliss held up a Faerie Flower. He inspected it.
“Maybe. Maybe, though…the flowers want to be something. A gold coin, if you look at them wrong. A drink for sad people. Sleeping gas for a girl stealing honey from bees. Maybe you have to want it, Mirn.”
“That’s the least [Alchemist]-like thing I’ve ever heard Saliss say.”
The Drake chucked an empty beaker at Mirn and the other Drake dove. Saliss tossed the flower in, stem and all.
“Well, Saliss doesn’t want to be Saliss right now. So…let’s experiment. I’ll give it three hours before I burn down this house and everything in it.”
“Got it. I’ll set an hourglass.”
Mirn was not actually joking, because Saliss wasn’t. The Drake had that wide smile and relaxed demeanor Mirn had seen right before he tried to explode Pallass’ walls, back when he and Chaldion were really quarrelling.
“They come from somewhere else, if the rumors are believed. A strange people. A different people. It might work.”
Saliss muttered. Mirn glanced at him as he tilted an hourglass over.
“A different people? You’d better hope they’re nicer than we are to each other. Drakes, that is. Do you think they…understand…”
Mirn tried to think.
“…Different perspectives?”
Saliss looked at Mirn. Neither Drake had the grounding to understand how funny that was.
If the one expert on their kind were here, Ryoka Griffin, and they had somehow trusted her with a secret so great that they didn’t even dare utter it out loud, even here, and if…no. She wasn’t here.
But if she had been, she would have told the two that surely, somewhere, the Court of the Fae was laughing right now. Guffawing until they threw up, probably.
Laughing. But kindly.
The Faerie Flowers from the land of the fae would have many qualities discovered later. More secrets. But as Saliss of Lights would first write down, their principal effect was not mere change, physical or mental. In a word, their essence was…
Perspective.
Somewhat predictably, Mirn never let Saliss live it down for calling it first.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin returned to the mansion, divested herself of the formal, Oteslian-style dress, and changed into something more casual. More calculatedly appealing to a certain young Drake.
Ilvriss had been helpfully unhelpful, and Lyonette had tried not to scream at him. He had already put actual money and some of House Gemscale’s forces into looking for Mrsha. It just wasn’t every single Drake he could muster.
Cire, now. He could prevail on Mivifa and she could fly! Imagine how much ground she could cover? Maybe even sneak Lyonette over the walls? They wouldn’t dare shoot down a Pegasus, even if she didn’t have the right clearance, would they?
Lyonette just needed a rather specific kind of commitment. No matter how she had to get it—she had a magical scroll in her bag of holding. The kind you could activate rather easily. Cirediel might balk at signing something, but not if he really, really wanted something.
And there were other ways too. She hesitated at Saliss’ words as she changed.
“What else am I supposed to do, though?”
The [Princess] headed back downstairs to where Wilovan and Ratici were waiting. She had put a trendy pair of pants and jacket that somehow made her feel a bit like a [Bartender]—one of the styles in fashion—on. She halted at the stairs.
There was a commotion outside. You could hear Cire’s friends from outside. They were ready to run wild. Lyonette took a breath, ready for a genuine smile—and yes, you could fake genuine—but she hesitated on her way down.
“Who’s this?”
Xif was on his feet, roused by the sound. He blinked as he drank from the teapot in that horrible way, and gestured.
“Dnrbhl.”
She gave the old Gnoll a steady look and he edged away. Lyonette politely nodded to the strange Drake lounging there. Wilovan and Ratici were giving him casual scrutiny, but they were relaxed.
“Is this the Human I’ve heard so much about? Lyonette? I’m Mirn. Saliss told me all about you.”
He was far more casual than Saliss. Far more stylish too, although that wasn’t hard because Saliss was a nudist. But Mirn had an actual style to his clothes, unlike Wilovan and Ratici who always had one look, decent as it was. He had a scar across his face that took away from it a bit due to the placement, but Lyonette was still fairly impressed.
“That’s…correct. Are you a friend of Saliss of Lights?”
“Mm. Acquaintances. A family friend, rather. He and I don’t meet much, but I’ve known him since we were little hatchlings. No, we dropped by to deliver some orders from Pallass. But when we heard about the entire scene, Saliss asked us to keep an eye on you. And of course, she insisted. She’s just one second. Changing.”
Mirn rolled his eyes. Lyonette was patently confused.
“She? Do we have more guests?”
“Adventurer Saliss and Xif vouched for both, Miss Lyonette. Competent as a duo go. But I’m minded to trust a vouchment, as it were.”
Wilovan raised his brows and tipped his hat up. Lyonette took a lot from that, but before she could inquire further, a door flung itself open from an unused guest room and someone strode out.
“And there she is! Look at this, Mirn. Just like Saliss said—what a troublemaker.”
Someone swept out of the room, a huge grin on her face. Lyonette caught a glimpse of rose pink and cobalt blue scales—an unusual pattern. A tall Drake, with a familiar tail and features, if obviously different from her cousin—and then Lyonette was spluttering, in a headlock.
“Onieva! What are you doing?”
“Trying to rub sense into this little girl. Gaah!”
A female Drake retorted. Lyonette found herself in a strong grip. Spluttering, she tried to force the claws off her.
“How dare you! Unhand me at once! Who are…?”
Her head came up and her neatly-combed hair was a mess around her face. She glared up and met two dancing eyes. She blinked.
Onieva had a pale blue eye and a winking yellow one. It made the Drake stand out, and she already did.
“I’m Saliss’ cousin. I heard all about him. He’s gone sulking off, but I hear you need someone to watch you. So Mirn and I are here for backup. And it looks like a party’s outside.”
“I don’t need—Saliss has a cousin? Excuse me—”
But Onieva was already whispering to Mirn.
“She’s trying to do that Human thing, Mirn. Sell her chastity, as if she has any left and as if it’s worth anything. Depressing.”
“Dead gods, why?”
“For her kid. No sneaking off into back rooms for her. Slap sense into anyone who tries.”
“That’s not hard. But are we going to enjoy ourselves?”
“Discreetly. I’ll have no problem. You? Maybe call it a working day.”
“The things I do…”
Lyonette was spluttering, gasping. Yet something made her stop. Onieva stood there, laughing, flirting with an abashed Ratici and Wilovan, who were both introducing themselves to her. Ragging on Xif, who looked resigned to Saliss’ cousin.
There was something…familiar about Onieva. Lyonette couldn’t place it, but what struck her most was how the Drake smiled.
She had a delighted expression on her face, even as she lectured Lyonette, teased her friend, Mirn. Lyonette had seen it before, on the faces of some people she’d met. The smile of someone just happy to be here.
Erin, the Goblins, and adventurers knew that expression. It told Lyonette more about Onieva than anything else, in a moment.
Before she could put more together, the Drake threw open the doors.
“And who’s throwing rocks at the door?”
Someone had been tapping stones against the door, calling for Lyonette to come out. Onieva caught a stone as it flew at her face, and chucked it back. There was a yelp.
Lyonette strode forwards to see a gang of Drakes and Gnolls on the ground. Cire blinked at the unexpected guests. Then he saw Lyonette, hair a bit of a mess, come out. He saw two older Drakes step down.
“So this is who we’re going with?”
“Aw, Cire. Does Lyonette have minders? That’s so not Archmage.”
One of Cire’s friends grumbled. They had never spotted Wilovan or Ratici, but Mirn and the new Onieva made them groan. Cire just blinked at Onieva as she gave him a patient, scrutinizing look.
“So you’re the little brat. Hello, I’m Onieva. And I’m not a minder. Where are we going? If it’s not fun, I’ll drag Lyonette off to have an actual fun time. This is Oteslia! If you’re just getting drunk, go home and sit under a table with a bottle of Firebreath Whiskey. Young idiots don’t know how to have fun, right, Mirn?”
“Oh no. Don’t go too wild. Hey, look! We’ve got a crowd with a bit of flash and glitterdust. Why are we monking around? Let’s tele out.”
Mirn hopped down the steps with a wink at the jaws that fell. Lyonette groaned as the two older Drakes took Cire’s friends by storm. She hurried after them as Cire recoiled from Onieva, then his eyes narrowed. He locked onto Onieva’s face. And her eyes.
Lyonette was all but forgotten. She stumbled down the last step and someone caught her.
