“Good luck on stopping the spread. There have to be cuttings we missed. It’ll spread, even if Pallass and Oteslia lock down all purchases.”
“Saliss! This will change the world!”
“Yes. Maybe.”
The Faerie Flowers were still in short supply. The Wandering Inn had lost all but a single patch, somehow, and the ones in Oteslia refused to germinate in plenty.
As befit something this powerful. Saliss still had yet to really figure out what they did, though. He kept trying to distill their effects, but the effect changed so much!
If you burned it, soporific. If you put it in alcohol, hallucinogenic. If you put it in water? Irritant! And even Saliss’ own remedies hadn’t stopped the itching on his scales.
It was a powerful, unpredictable booster. But what Saliss didn’t like was…
Alcohol had an amazingly beneficial effect and Erin Solstice was as dumb as someone hucking rocks at a Troll for even trying that without taking precautions. But it worked! Her Minotaur’s Punch and Faerie Flower drinks were beautiful. Wonderful.
Same with Lyonette burning the flowers to confuse the damn bees. Both effects—beneficial. When Xif and I tried it in water, we got the most annoying itch possible. In fat? Mild explosive and terrible smell, but doesn’t actually do much damage; just spits fat everywhere and is a huge mess.
“How’s the reagent with Eir Gel coming?”
“…I think I created a new way to stink up the world.”
Saliss had nose-plugs in, but he could smell the noxious combination. He eyed Xif’s other vials.
“Honey?”
They were trying basic reagents to ‘combine up’, a term for unlocking better potions. In theory, they started with alcohol or smoke, distilled that, and created a more powerful hallucinogen or other effect. Each thing they’d made had more magical power than it should.
But except for the alcohol and smoke, all the effects had been useless.
Stink! Or an amazingly hard, glue-like substance from the base of mana potions—Sage’s Grass water. Or a kind of glass-eating acid that only ate their enchanted glass vials apart.
They had tested twenty eight reagents already, and tonight gave them the conclusion that thirty more all produced levels of useless that were impossible to clean.
And yet, Saliss knew the power of the Faerie Flowers was immense! For proof, take not the alcohol, and the smoke alone, but the most powerful and effective painkillers he had ever seen.
They were the product that had set Oteslia abuzz; they had cured the First Gardener’s migraines and that poor Selphid. And it had been a relatively simple mixture with a mild moss-based painkiller!
“It makes no sense. They said they just used water from Oteslia, didn’t they? Well, our results show they should have made the First Gardener puff up from the inside!”
“I know. It must be the moss acting as a neutralizer. Saliss, don’t worry. Take a break. I know you’ve been helping that poor girl. I can keep working.”
Xif murmured. He was a steady worker and could be relied on to do this. Saliss was the mad genius, so he did lie down.
Something was off, though. Hadn’t someone else figured out another effect? Yes, there had been two.
Painkillers so good that if we can mass-produce them, I’ll tell the old man to replace them in every [Battlefield Healer]’s kit. Alcoholic drink…what was the last one? Someone made a fertilizer with it, didn’t they? I need to see what they made. And…
A secret to all but Saliss. His Potion of Time’s Return that Maviola had used to prolong her life until her demise in battle? The Faerie Flower had replaced three of his most expensive ingredients.
That’s one…two…five unique effects, each of them different. I only added them to the Potion of Time’s Return because I was out of damn rose diamonds and mad as a Gnoll with her fur on fire. It was just coincidence.
What’s the secret of these things?
Saliss must have drifted off, trying to figure it out on the couch covered in Xif’s fur because someone was getting breakfast ready. The Drake dozed…then got up when the sunlight hit him in the face.
“What’s up?”
Lyonette, Wilovan, and Ratici were eating breakfast. The [Princess] was red-eyed, but determined and hopefully less nihilistic. She nodded at him.
“I am going to call on Wall Lord Ilvriss today.”
“Hrghgm.”
Saliss made a sound that fit this early hour and his mood. How long was I asleep? He found a tea kettle and, to Lyonette’s patent horror, tilted the spout to his mouth and began drinking.
He wandered back to the workroom.
“Xif. How long was I out? Feels like I got no sleep.”
The Gnoll turned and blinked at Saliss. He eyed the markings he’d been making, the Drake, and the sun.
“…Looks like you slept twenty one minutes. We must have been working all night. Oh well. Pass me some tea?”
Saliss handed Xif the tea kettle, and came back with a biscuit. It was better fare than either [Alchemist] was used to; they were used to research sessions long into the night, even multiple days.
“Keep hitting the combos, Xif. I’m going to look up that fertilizer.”
“Oh, good idea. Can you…mm…get me a restock of the blue sulfur variant? I’m out.”
“Sure.”
 
——
 
Not all days were wonderful days where you followed people around and made a spectacle. Saliss stomped out of the mansion, bleary-eyed, ignoring the scream of horror from an offended passerby.
“Yep. Naked Drake. Nothing to see here.”
He paid a visit to the [Herbalist], put in the order for blue sulfur to be delivered, and checked the prices. Reasonable. That’s right! The [Herbalist] and everyone else was at Lyonette’s mercy.
Speaking of which…Saliss went to pay a visit to the [Researchers] and checked on Erin’s conundrum.
“We’re still working out how to unfreeze her. If you had a gel, Alchemist Saliss…”
“…If I had a ‘de-ice your flesh gel’, you mean? Oh, let me just get it from my bag of holding. Why didn’t you ask for that?”
Researcher Dromenl looked at Saliss, mightily impressed.
“You have one? Why didn’t you say so! That would solve all of our…”
The Human man realized Saliss was being sarcastic and frowned. The Drake sighed.
“I don’t think the solution to the ice-flesh thing is an alchemical one. She’s literally covered in ice. Now, poison, I can see a gel working. Something to kill that poison.”
“Yes. Tricky multi-compounded issues. We’re talking with Khelt and they agree we need a spell and antidote.”
“Khelt? What? What’s Khelt doing…?”
Saliss rubbed at his face. Dromenl tried to explain, but all he got was Saliss’ blank, blank look of utter confusion at the way things had turned out.
“I’m tired. Look—good. You have funding from them, so you don’t have to bother Lyonette and me?”
“Well, there’s always more funding…”
Saliss raised a bag of copper coins to throw at Dromenl and the [Researcher] assured him they were adequately compensated for their time. Saliss nodded. He wanted to lie down and sleep.
His scales were itching. He was beginning to feel…horrible. Not just from lack of sleep, or Lyonette’s distress, or Mrsha being missing.
She wanted to come out. Saliss looked in the mirror of Dromenl’s glasses and saw an imposter. Not the one Named Adventurers talked about, but a literal wrongness.
“Hold it together.”
“What’s that, Alchemist Saliss?”
The Drake scratched at his neck.
“Nothing. Dromenl, you have something on your glasses. While I’m here—what was that fertilizer that the Faerie Flowers made comprised of? How good was it?”
“Amazingly effective, Adventurer Saliss. We saw overnight sprouting! From seeds with weeks of germination time! Not as effective after that, but it was literally some detritus an [Apprentice Gardener] added to their own manure mixture that started it.”
“…They tossed it in crap and it worked? What kind?”
“Er…”
 
——
 
Saliss had to track down the apprentice gardener because no one had thought to ask. Mind you, it didn’t seem to matter. The original feces came from an ordinary pig that Oteslia raised; they had used all kinds of manure with the same effect.
That’s too convenient. The Drake jotted this all down, but something was pinging in his tired brain.
The poo was a hint. Because feces was not similar alchemically. Depending on diet and species, it could have radically different composition. Now, just maybe every animal producing said manure had a similar-enough diet for the same effect, but Saliss was beginning to understand something.
Still, the [Alchemist] was so tired he wanted to head back, check on Lyonette and make sure she wasn’t trying to sacrifice her body, and then sleep on the issue. The Drake stomped back through the city, past the gates letting in very little traffic. He debated climbing onto the walls to shout insults at Zeres’ army, but it was too much work.
“Saliss! Adventurer Saliss!”
“Too tired. Arrest me later.”
Saliss mumbled. He didn’t have time to be locked up in Oteslia’s rather nice jail. Everything was wrong. He was trying not to look up at any reflective surfaces.
Anything for those I love. Why had Lyonette reminded Saliss of…? The feeling grew worse, and it was not an itching, it was a sickness. Something’s wrong. I need…
Then the traveller newly come through Oteslia’s gates caught Saliss’ shoulder. And that was astonishing because no one touched Saliss. The [Alchemist] twisted so fast, going for the little vial of deadly acid that made the Acid Jars in The Wandering Inn look like bathing oil—
Still, the clawed hand caught his shoulder. His hand stopped, depressing the vial’s trick-lid, ready to spray, and he saw a familiar, smiling face.
Dark blue scales, almost dark enough to be called midnight blue, but not quite. A familiar scar across the lips; other scars elsewhere, from being a [Soldier]. A retired one, but an old friend. A wiry body, travelling clothes and a club that was far, far more dangerous when he held it.
Saliss stared. It was someone he knew. But…
“Mirn?”
The [Protector] and bar owner of one of Pallass’ most popular bars you’d never heard about smiled jauntily. He winked.
“You’re not looking well, Saliss. Good thing I caught up with you. Stressed? Good thing old Mirn’s here!”
Saliss just blinked at Mirn. Then he carefully felt at Mirn’s face. Tugged.
“Ow. Watch it, Saliss.”
“Hold on. You can’t be Mirn because Mirn doesn’t talk to me. Let me just rip this off.”
“Ancestors damn it, Saliss!”
Only when his old friend, who often spoke to her, to Onieva, more than Saliss, smacked Saliss so hard it laid the Named Adventurer flat on his back did he believe. Only Mirn knew how Saliss dodged like that.
But why was Mirn here?
 
——
 
“It’s not the bar. The bar…is on hiatus.”
That was Saliss’ first instinct and worry. If Mirn was here, he’d surely been identified and chased out of Pallass with a death warrant?
No, as the case turned out. Quite the opposite. Mirn was happily eating a huge apple three times as large as you could buy anywhere else. An Oteslian speciality.
“This is delicious. You’re not having one? If you go to another Walled City, you should at least sample the specialties, Saliss. Or is a Named Adventurer too used to all the exciting things to do so?”
“I am going to smack that out of your claws and beat you to death with it unless you make sense.”
Mirn eyed Saliss. It was not an idle threat. Saliss of Lights looked agitated. Mirn was one of the few people who could understand why. So, he leaned back, cutting slices out of the apple.
“Chaldion sent me. The bar’s closed. But no one’s asking questions for a good two months. I thought it was a worthwhile trade. No Watch raids. No nothing.”
Saliss nearly fell over the railing they were talking against.
“…What? The old man found you? How did he…?”
“He’s Chaldion. I told you he knew. Scared the scales off my tail when I was called in, but he didn’t use the Watch. Listen, Saliss. He knew I had a passport that could get me through even a siege if I came with his authorization. So he sent me with this. I haven’t opened it.”
He plucked something out of a bag of holding and offered it to Saliss. The Drake grimaced; he recognized the rolled up scroll at once, sealed in a glass bottle. It was perfectly blank but it stank slightly as he uncorked it and fished for something.
Mirn watched as Saliss dumped a potion meant to be paired with the scroll into the jar.
“What’s that? Something the Eyes of Pallass use?”
“Yup. I invented it for them. They used to use just magic scrolls. These ones burn up or lose the words if you don’t have the counter-reagent. Easy to customize per each agent; not like spells. Annoys the hell out of other spy networks too. Let’s see…”
Saliss read and then tossed the scroll onto the ground. It began to smoke and burst into fire as the two Drakes watched. Saliss carelessly stomped the dust out as a passing [Druid] gave them the evil-eye.
“That had better be toxin-free.”
“Sure is. Don’t worry about it.”
The [Druid] harrumphed.
“If it’s not, clean it up. Any animals or plants get sick, I’ll come back and break both your tails.”
Mirn glanced up from the scroll. Saliss rolled his eyes. Both Drakes stared as Nalthaliarstrelous stalked on past.
“…[Druids] around here. I forgot how intense they are.”
Mirn muttered. Saliss shook his head, too tired to explain. Mirn leaned back.
“So? What are the orders?”
“Don’t start a war with Zeres. Some other stuff. He sent you because he’s worried I’ll blow up half the army.”
“He cares.”
“I don’t want to hear it, Mirn. He’s just worried I’ll go berserk.”
“Hey.”
Mirn grabbed Saliss’ shoulder. The Drake twisted again, but Mirn eyed the [Alchemist]. He let go and leaned back.
“Chaldion cares. Or I don’t think he’d have gone to the effort of making that deal and sending me. You look…bad.”
“Thanks.”
“Don’t snap at me. How long has it been? Chaldion must have been counting. Even if he says he doesn’t care…how long?”
“It must be—two weeks. I’ve gone longer.”
Saliss muttered. Mirn slowly shook his head and took another bite of apple.
“Well, it’s not good. Let’s get her out and get you in a better place, Saliss. That’s why I’m here. Orders? I bet that was just the excuse. We’ll hit Oteslia. It’s better than Pallass, or it was last time I visited. We’ll go out and…”
“No.”
Mirn eyed Saliss. The [Protector] frowned mightily.
“…Are you high on Dreamleaf? Or are you being watched by whoever Oteslia’s got? You’re snappy, tired, and I just bet you’ve stopped eating. It’s time, Saliss. She…”
He hesitated and murmured a bit quieter.
“Onieva needs to relax.Even for a few hours. Saliss never does. ”
