“Apologies, Rafaema. But we are on duty and if anything should happen to you while it was just us on duty…”
Makhir grimaced. Rafaema frowned at him.
“Why would that matter?”
“We’re the only officers in the city. I’m sure Manus would like at least one more, although we’re quite aware you can handle yourself, as you proved with that [Assassin]!”
Makhir’s words were complimentary, but Rafaema espied something…she glanced at the two and finally got what she had missed.
Both Gnolls looked meaningfully at each other. Rafaema’s brows snapped together.
“You’re both officers of Manus! Does the Dragonspeaker and High Command think you’ll throw me over for the Gnoll tribes or something?”
She turned, and the Drake [Soldiers] walking with them studiously looked everywhere but at Makhir, Rafaema, or Ferris. The Dragon stomped forwards.
“Unbelievable. This is why Manus is on the decline. You people don’t see it. You live like—as long as toads! And you wonder why we can’t recruit Steelfur’s warriors to serve in our armies? Because every two decades, some [Captain] is called out for calling Gnolls ‘dogs’ or Manus supports a Drake city over a Gnoll tribe! You forget. They don’t. Neither do I!”
“Rafaema, your voice…”
Makhir murmured, but he looked gratified. Rafaema just snorted and the air ionized around her as the Lightning Dragon walked on. The others, her bodyguards of Manus? The Drakes looked at their Ancestor among them, who already spoke like that. Lead us into the future.
It was heavy. Rafaema could see herself making a difference, though. That was why Makhir and Spearmaster Lulv were two of her closest allies; the Gnolls could see how she would change things.
Drakes. Her people could be courageous, smart, dedicated and hardworking. Or stubborn, arrogant, closeted, and prejudiced. It was not that they were worse than Humans or Gnolls; it was just that she knew them too well. They thought she, their Ancestor, would take them into another era of glory.
Rafaema, the Dragon, considered that the best way would be to take the strengths of other races as well as her relatives, the Drakes. They thought of themselves as closest to her. She thought of Drakes and Gnolls as almost equally distant.
In a way, it was like how Humans were distantly related to rats as mammalian species, but were closer to primates like monkeys and apes. The only difference was that Rafaema, and perhaps Dragons in general, saw the remove as equal. Monkeys? Rats? Like Gnolls and Drakes, they were both distant relatives to Dragons, if at all.
She didn’t tell any of them that, of course. Rafaema was conscious of her authority. She was done with being a troublemaking wild child. And as if to mock her efforts, the burden on her wings and shoulders…
“Hey Raf! You done monking around? Let’s hang out! It’ll be an Archmage day—Lyonette’s hitting the streets with us!”
The female Dragon closed her eyes. Even Makhir and Ferris winced. A figure leapt down from where all of the bodyguards, Makhir, Ferris, and Rafaema had seen him lurking five minutes ago.
Cirediel, the Earth Dragon of Oteslia, was the brat to Rafaema’s reserve. It just went to show; it was about your mentality, not a mere difference in ages. He went to slap Rafaema’s shoulder, and saw Makhir glaring at him.
“Whoa. Raf, you have to stop hanging around with the Dulls. They’re armored plodders. Come on, you’re in my city! Let’s fly!”
Dulls? As in, dull, plodding? Which also suggested Dullahans? Rafaema crossed her arms and glowered at Cirediel.
“Cire, Oteslia is at war.”
“So? It’s just a siege. Come on, you never visit and you want to walk about?”
“It’s up to you, Wall Lady. We can catch up.”
And here came the double standards. Her overprotective escort, Makhir, Ferris, and the Manus soldiers, rather than threaten to break Cire’s legs, instead all gave her the go-ahead nod.
Because Cire had Oteslia’s bodyguard in the skies. Also, because the two Dragons getting along was priority #2, after Rafaema’s safety.
She wasn’t happy about that prospect either. Oh, did Rafaema think about it. Cire too. She caught his eyes on her wings. And then saw them slide sideways, lighting on her armor, her undershirt…
“Alright, Cire. Let’s fly.”
Rafaema’s retribution was swift. Also—horrifying to males in general, and anyone expecting Dragon offspring. Cirediel lay in a familiar pose to all males, legs crossed, whimpering. Makhir grabbed a healing potion.
She did fly, though. Rafaema leapt straight up, in a soaring jump that even other Oldblood Drakes would have been pressed to copy. Her rapid acceleration left her guards behind, and for a moment, Rafaema breathed in the morning air, cool and wonderful on her scales, the varied scents of Oteslia, pollen and sweet fruits.
She felt free.
…Right up until Cirediel flew after her, squawking. He never caught up immediately; she was faster, stronger, and far more skilled with a blade than he was. But he had that annoying endurance to chase her around the city. He never got tired.
“You are so not Archmage, Rafaema! You—you—booted bastard!”
Rafaema glanced down at her boots.
“Don’t you mean, ‘creler’, Cire?”
She slowed to let him catch up. The Earth Dragon sulked as they flew around the city, keeping well clear of the walls.
“No. Crelering is bad. You’re a boot. You know, the Watch?”
“Boots?”
“Armored boots who beat up innocent people. Didn’t you hear about how they were treating people? Like in Cellidel?”
“Isn’t that where Sellme lives? And that’s the Watch, Cire. They’re not nice. They enforce order.”
“Hah! You’re all mind-controlled by spells and what the brass says, Rafaema. Wake up! Manus is all boots and no smart people at all.”
The Lightning Dragon had to turn in the skies and stare at Cirediel, with such frank incredulity he checked himself.
“Cire. Your guardi—your mother is the First Gardener of Oteslia! You’re as connected to the High Command of a Walled City as anyone is!”
He blew out his cheeks.
“Well, yeah. But I don’t let her mindwash me!”
What did you even say to that? Rafaema just dove and Cire followed.
“Oh, come on, Raf!”
“Don’t call me that!”
She turned and Cire dove just in time to dodge the actual fork of lightning. He flew back, squawking.
“No lightning! No breath! Don’t make me fight you, Rafaema!”
“Yes, I’m so nervous of you fighting me.”
She sneered. Although it was true that Cirediel could spit acid…she sighed, folded her arms.
“Are those your minders?”
Cirediel turned his head and saw some Drakes with wings and two [Pegasus Fliers] following from a distance. He grimaced.
“Yep.”
“Let’s lose them.”
The two Dragons glanced at each other and dropped, so fast that the Oteslian [Guards] couldn’t keep up. They hit the ground hard, but they were Dragons and were running down the street. Rafaema saw Cire running with a huge grin on his face. She rolled her eyes.
But for all they fought, they were alike. Two people who knew what it was like to be minded all the time, watched.
And to be alone. So when they paused, in the lee of a building and glanced up, they saw Oteslia’s watchers circling.
“Lost us. Do they have magical seekers on you, Cire?”
“Nope. I told them I’d run off if they did. You?”
“I blasted a hole through a priceless painting or statue every time I found one on me.”
“Archmage.”
Rafaema sighed.
“Hunt Commander Makhir will find us, though, or Ferris. They have tracking Skills.”
“They do? That’s so…”
“Shut up. If I hear one more bit of street slang, I will kick you again. Let’s walk and talk before they find us.”
The two did. In a sense, this was a time for them to be children still. Rafaema was aware of the politics regarding the siege, and the beyond paranoid decisions regarding her safety, but no one had asked her input on how to shape events.
They let her into the war council meetings, but she was still a child. At least, when she was with Cire, they were equals. Even if he was annoying. And they did talk.
“They let you into the war council meetings? Really?”
Rafaema gave him a steady look.
“I keep telling you, you could insist.”
“Yeah, but…I mean, they’d probably let me in, but I’d have to sit there for hours and they’d want me to keep going…”
“So don’t. Dead gods, Cire. Do you just want to be let into all the important meetings but never actually go?”
He gave her two thumbs up and a grin.
“Yep! Unless something totally Arch—awesome happens, though.”
“Unbelievable.”
Rafaema had a real reason beyond evading her captors to talk to Cire, though. She slowed, dragging him under a waterway that allowed Oteslia’s waters to feed many gardens. They talked, amid what looked like a lot of graffiti. Cire flapped his wings happily.
“Oh, cool! You know our hideouts? I did this piece. Do you like—”
“Shut up.”
She whispered. He went still as Rafaema lowered her voice and twisted a ring on her finger. Magic was hard for her, but she was learning it too. She whispered.
“Have you actually gotten that Human to talk to you? The [Princess]? Lyonette?”
Cire went still, and an unusual look of seriousness crossed his face. He rubbed at his neck spines.
“Who? Her? Yeah, we’ve been hanging…”
“I’ve seen that. She’s all over you this week.”
“Yeah, well, I just had to turn my natural charm up and…”
Rafaema raised a fist and Cire shielded his face.
“What? She likes me!”
It certainly seemed that way, Rafaema allowed. She sighed.
“But have you gotten her alone?”
“I’m hoping to get more than—don’t hit me, don’t hit me! No, I haven’t. She’s sorta interested in the group. Me, obviously, but everyone.”
“Well, you need to get her alone. Not to sleep with her, you twit! To ask her about what we both picked up on! The other Dragon!”
Cire bit his lip.
“Are you sure it’s real, Rafaema? It’s been getting fainter each week…”
“It’s still there.”
It wasn’t pheromones, or if it was, it wasn’t anything Ferris or Makhir could smell. It was more like a…sense. The same sense Rafaema and Cire had for each other. When they had first met, they’d known, even under illusion spells.
We are Dragons. We are kin.
It was faint, though, and growing fainter. Rafaema’s only explanation was that Lyonette had not only run into a Dragon some time ago, but actually been close to one. Then…her heart fluttered at the thought.
We’re not the last ones.
“Forget flirting. Just find a way to get her alone and ask. That is—do it covertly! Don’t just come out with it. She’s the 6th Princess of Calanfer. Be discreet. We could put both our cities in danger if she’s a spy or reporting back.”
“So I don’t tell her I’m a Dragon?”
Rafaema’s mouth worked. Cire looked at her face.
“…I don’t. I knew that! Okay, okay. I’ll…try to get her alone.”
“Do it today! I’m tired of waiting!”
The Earth Dragon looked hurt.
“It’s hard to get a girl alone without, y’know, Raf. I have to be suave. I’ll do it! But she is into me, don’t you think? She keeps flirting with that old bag of scales.”
“…You mean, Wall Lord Ilvriss, Wall Lord of Salazsar and one of the richest Drakes?”
Cire huffed.
“He’s old. I’m way cooler. I’m a Dragon. You think she’s into me, right? She was flirting with one of my buddies…”
Rafaema sat under the waterway and stared at a dripping block. Unbelievable. She was finding the first Dragon besides Cire ever, perhaps one of the last ones in existence, and she had to rely on his tact and acumen. She closed her eyes.
“This is impossible. Alright.”
Her gaze opened. Maybe she could do something. Now she thought of it…Makhir and Ferris would probably be happy if she ‘hung out’ with Cire. Rafaema had declined to do so because her image as a responsible Wall Lady of Manus would be ruined among Oteslia for a decade or more if she consorted with those idiots. However…she glanced down at one of the rings on her claws.
She did have a trick to pull.
 
——
 
On their long journey, the lowly grasshopper student observed the true levels of sagacity of a master of evasion, trickery, and deception.
Wanderer and Mrsha had been on the move for over a week now, and moving fast. Mrsha, who had been reluctant about the entire half-kidnapping affair, still had mixed feelings. She had to admit two things, however:
Gnolls were hunting for her with ill intent. And…Wanderer was good at his job.
Not being nice to Mrsha, or patting her on the head, or tucking her into bed with a big glass of milk and providing cookies. But keeping Mrsha safe, evading what felt like every Gnoll on the continent, and moving fast?
Oh yes, he could do that. The Gnoll was geared beyond even the Gold-ranks that Mrsha knew. He had special boots, a special cloak, a special quarterstaff, and special Skills.
He could use [Grasshopper’s Run] to leap across terrain. He could blur across long distances like Pisces’ [Flash Step]; even disappear and reappear in limited circumstances. This was because Wanderer, or Wer, was high-level. Not just high-level.
A [Guardian]. Of what, and the specifics, he refused to tell Mrsha. He was thus [Wanderer] in class, and [Guardian]. Of Gnolls like her.
Even so, with all his considerable abilities, the pursuit had been getting more extreme. At first it had just been a few Drakes joking about every little Gnoll girl maybe being the ‘missing Gnoll’ on television. Then it had been Gnolls giving her the side-eye sometimes as they walked on the streets.
Mrsha had realized they were actually out for her when she saw a group of eight Gnolls with bows being arrested by the Watch. Wer had tossed her into a group of young Gnoll children going home from the Drake school and Mrsha had watched as the arguing Plains Gnolls had been arrested after a tense stand-off with the Drakes.
Those arrows were meant for her. The danger Mrsha felt ratcheted up after the second close call. Wanderer had been letting her splash around in a pond. Someone must have seen them, because he had come running, grabbed her, and they had run out of the little forest and seen nearly a hundred Gnolls on horseback surrounding and charging in, howling.
Why did they want her dead so much? Mrsha was a Plains Gnoll and she heard the stories. Doom came to those with white fur, and they were bad luck. Terrible things happened around them, like tornados and monster attacks.
She now knew that was partly true and the white fur meant they had powers. But this level of animosity?
It frightened her. Her own kind were after her, and Wanderer did not help.
“They think you’ll bring disaster on other tribes by living. Listen…listen. That damned Drake did us no favors.”
Drassi is nice! Be nice!
