The nascent King rumbled, trying to move in his throne; in his prison. His four story body wriggled as fire raced around his exterior, spreading itself among those without his defenses.

Layers of purple covered the sky again, blocking the rain.

The King noticed another problem.

A bumbling roil of water crashed through a stone street, pulling more water as it rolled through the streets, drying out the city as it passed. Blue caps shot beams of light into the roil but none struck the rapidly moving slime controlling it all. It hid well, somewhere inside the frothing wave.

All the while, loud, human noises filled the sky, as people yelled at each other from across the town.

The fire around the King switched tactics. It left the King, and went elsewhere. Bluecaps and redcaps poured out of nearby buildings, trying to smother the flames with their own damp bodies. It worked, mostly.

Across town, behind the roiling wave, fires stretched up to above the buildings as dried out land and mushrooms caught flame. The living fire and the living water ensured the flame remained, and grew.

Fire spread. Shroomspawn died. The rain did not save them, for whenever a blackcap tried to rip the covering spells apart, a teal spike of warping light ripped them apart from the inside.

The nascent King watched as its nascent kingdom perished in living fire. Burning death spread first among the outskirts, then among the shroomspawn. The would-be monarch watched, helpless, as the fire came for him. He was too young to fight back. He hadn’t eaten enough meat, or been given enough time to mature, and now, he never would.

- - - -

Jane, Scallion, Bett, and Marric, each of them back to their normal forms, stood on the hill.

Stonebrook was an inferno protected from the rain. Scallion’s [Ward]s failed here and there from the intense heat rolling up. A little rain fell into the town, but not enough. The monsters burned. The town would soon be cleaned by fire.

“We’re going to have to put the town in the ground tomorrow.” Scallion said, “I didn’t expect the fire to grow so large. Or for that plan to work out so well.”

Jane said, “[Water Body] was useful. Dried out everything.”

Bett said, “Took me a year to get. How long did it take for you to get [Fire Body]?”

Jane said, “I was kinda lucky. Firemaw Mountain is rather large, but there was no one else there.”

“No one was there because even the ash catches people on fire,” Marric said.

“I could handle that.”

Marric said, “Sure, with [Greater Treat Wounds]. But do you actually have that?”

Jane frowned at him, then glowed her hand with the spell, asking, “Anyone got a wound?”

Marric said, “I got a—”

Jane tapped the orcol on the arm.

Marric smiled, saying, “Yup. That’s [Greater Treat Wounds], alright.”

“There’s a string of volcanoes down in the archipelago with lots of flame slimes everywhere.” Bett said, “I considered [Fire Body], but that place is too popular. People trawl those gentle calderas all the time.”

Scallion asked, “Do you two want to join Bett and I for dinner? I usually cook for two, but I can cook for four just as easy.” He looked up at Marric, and corrected himself, “For six.”

“I’d love that.” Jane smiled wide, saying, “Have you tried those potatoes that came out of Spur?”

Scallion instantly said, “Those potatoes are so boring. Corn is where it’s at.”

Jane frowned. “Corn! That boring old thing?”

Marric asked, “How is corn boring? Potatoes are boring. They’re practically just roots.”

“That’s what makes them so good!” Jane said, “You can put anything on them and it works.”

Bett gestured to the stone table in front of them, full of the stuff taken from the town. “What are we doing with these?”

Marric said, “I’ve looked a few of the more obvious ones over with [Object Reading]. Like that shield with the un-rusted holes in it, and that book with the knife-like marks. These people were attacked by humans, then stacked into their homes and basements like trash. I don’t know how the shroomspawn started, and I don’t have [Witness], so if you want to continue this investigation we need to start talking to the neighbors down the way.” He added, “The ones who would have died if that Bleeding Veil had bloomed.”

Scallion said, “I don’t want to do any of that. I want to kill unicorns.”

Bett said, “I vote for unicorns, too.” She added, “It seems that we work well together, though we had to change plans halfway through when Jane couldn’t burn the Veil by herself.” She looked to Jane, saying, “I didn’t know their defenses were that high, either.”

“I knew...” Jane said, “But I didn’t know, you know.”

Scallion said, “This just means that we might need to adjust in the middle of a unicorn fight, and we’ll only be able to adjust once. Everything I’ve read says that unicorns and their thralls are smart enough to call out false orders. Once they hear a voice, they can mimic it.”

Marric said, “Yeah. I’ve heard that, too.”

Bett said, “We’ll figure it out.”

Scallion said, “Anyone need assistance to get back to base? I got mana left over.”

“I’m good,” Marric said. “Scion of Focus. Don’t worry about me running out of mana for most situations.”

“I can get there myself.” Jane said.

“Okay then,” Scallion said.

Bett reached a hand to Scallion, saying, “Take me home, Scallion.”

As the horizon burned and the sun set under rain, Scallion took Bett’s hand. In a blip of purple, both of them left the field. Marric nodded to Jane, then vanished in a blip of teal. Jane took one last look at the burning stone city, then stared down at the table full of items they had scavenged from the bodies underground. With a push of her hands, she [Stoneshape]ed the items down into the ground, into a water-tight casket. With another push, she pulled dirt laden with grass over the unmarked item hoard.

Jane stared across the horizon, at the burning stone city. As mushrooms caught flame and turned to ash on a rainy breeze, Jane gave a silent prayer for the dead. She stared at the scene for a long minute.

She departed the field in a blip of dark blue.

- - - -

Scallion cooked a nice dinner of various meats and well caramelized vegetables inside flaky pastry crusts. There was a conversation; it was mostly forgettable until Jane started cleaning up, while Bett, Scallion, and Marric sat by the window, smoking bluegrass.

Jane asked, “You guys really don’t want to figure out what happened to Stonebrook?”

“Absolutely not,” Scallion said. “These people deserve every painful thing that happened to them.”

Jane went stock still for a hot moment. She controlled her anger to a low simmer.

Bett went, “Mmm,” as she blew a stream of blue smoke out of the window, into the night.

Marric said, “They did not deserve that, Scallion. That was murder by their own people.”

“Okay okay,” Scallion said. “Maybe not. I don’t know.”

Jane resumed putting away the dishes, saying, “I put the stuff recovered from the city in a box under the ground on the hill we were at. We can go back tomorrow and figure out what really happened, if you want.”

Marric said, “I think we’ve done enough.”

“We could do more.” Jane shoved a plate into the cabinet, then turned to Marric, asking, “Don’t you want to figure out what happened?”

“We know what happened.” Marric said, “Other people came in and killed everyone, then stacked the bodies in the basements.”

“That is not the whole story.”

Scallion spoke up, “There’s nothing more to figure out, Jane. I might not have [Object Reading], but I saw what was in that pile.” He said, “There was jewelry, and rings, and nice buttons, and wealthy things. Lace on a dress. Embossing on a book. Gold engraving on that busted shield.” He said, “Stonebrook tried to rise up from those around them, and were put down for their actions. Either by Killtree, who seems to hate building with architecture that lasts, or by a neighbor out of jealousy. It might have been an action of war from one of the other Sovereign Cities. It might have been a confluence of complicated events, of which we will never know. We do know that they were robbed, though. Completely and utterly. Neither of you two found any gold or rads.

“And it doesn’t really matter what happened, because we’re not going to do a thing about it, because the only way to change this sort of thing around here is to kill everyone who has any power at all...” His voice trailed away for a second. “It gets more complicated from there.”

“He knows about this stuff, you know?” Bett’s eyes turned soft as she looked at Scallion, saying, “We’re trying to make our own town in archipelago Nergal, and you gotta know this stuff if you want to make it work.”

“Thank you, Bett.” Scallion took a puff of his pipe, before saying, “And yeah. It’s complicated. The biggest problem in the Sovereign Cities is that the populace either believes what the people in power tell them, or, when they do choose to go to the registrar and join the Script, they’re instantly indoctrinated into the Army, which is even more indoctrination into the toxic thinking coming from their rulers. The Sovereign Cities are an impossible, generational problem. I don’t even want to try solving it, and it’s not our place to solve. It’d be like spitting into the wind.”

Bett said, “And you can’t just kill the people in charge. If that worked, then the Sovereign Cities would have been solved a long time ago.”

Jane said, “That’s… really depressing.”

Marric said, “I’m not sure if you should even turn in the quest.”

“Ehh! No need to go that far.” Bett paused. She said, “Or... maybe... I don’t know. A few 'incompletes' won't hurt anyone's record and there wasn't a reward listed anyway.” She added, “Scallion and I don’t need any theoretical money.”

Scallion said, “There’s something rotten in this whole region of the world, and it’s obviously the people who live here.” He added, “I don’t want to get involved.”

"I could use some real money." Marric said, “But if we’re going to be sticking around long enough to kill multiple unicorns, then we don’t need to piss off the people in charge. I still think someone planted that town so that they could kill the shrooms it spawned.” He added, “I didn’t get any levels from it, and I doubt any of you did either. But those were some level 40 monsters.”

Scallion said, “I could easily see some noble killing an illegal town and then planting shroomspawn in the bodies, to then go in with a newly raised army to get some levels on them.” He added, “But yea. We got what we wanted out of it. We’re going to work well together.”

Jane said nothing. Scallion was at least right about one thing: They did work well together.

Bett said, “You were pretty good out there, Jane. Great pyrokinesis.” She turned to Marric, saying, “You killed those blackcaps pretty fast, too.”

“I think this is going to work out,” Marric said. “I’m much more comfortable about sticking around for multiple unicorns than I was before.”

“For sure,” Bett said.

Scallion said, “I agree.”

Jane finished putting away the plates and the utensils and the pots and pans, and said, “I don’t really need the money, but I would at least like to do right by the dead. Whatever happened, a lot of people died. The bodies need to be truly destroyed, or else they’re just going to rise as undead.”

Scallion said, “Ah. Well. We can certainly do that.” He added, “Sorry if I sounded… flippant. I guess I was taking it a bit far. We can go back tomorrow and perform a Final Farewell. I have [Cleansing Flame].”

Bett smoked her pipe, nodding as she looked away, into the night.

Jane said, “Thank you. That would be enough.”

- - - -

The next morning, a [Scry] to Stonebrook revealed the presence of an army camped out in the gutted remains of the city. Mages were already taking down the stone buildings and exhuming the bodies. Jane didn’t get much more information about what they were doing than that. None of her [Scry] eyes lasted more than a second; the occupying army popped them as quick as Jane could cast the spell. None of the other three adventurers got much further than Jane.

It was quickly decided that none of them would ever go back to Stonebrook.

Jane couldn’t shake the feeling that a great wrong had been committed.

- - - -

A unicorn posting went up in the guild’s job board at noon. The monster attacked a settlement far to the north, but someone had managed to get a message out before they fell under the beast’s sway.

Five teams, each of them staying in town, near the guildhouse, instantly deployed from Killtree. Two teams murdered each other in the streets of the muddy city. Two teams [Teleport]ed directly into the field. The unicorn ripped apart both. The last team cleaned up the efforts of the teams that [Teleport]ed directly into the fight, killing dominated adventurers along with a good hundred assorted monsters and villagers. And then they killed the unicorn.

By the time dinner rolled around, and the victorious team returned, the story was already all over the guildhouse.

Jane, Marric, Bett, and Scallion, sat at a corner table in the bar of the guildhouse, playing Wizard’s Towers like they had all morning long, watching the boards for another unicorn quest. Since the major fuckup at noon, all four of them were now acutely aware of just how dangerous a unicorn hunt actually was, and exactly how non-caring the city of Killtree could be. Their group decision to hang back and let the first unicorn of the season go to someone else was already turning out to be a good idea.

And all around, rumors spread. People spoke of adventurer bodies found in the mud in the streets of Killtree, and of the northern village the Unicorn had brought under its power. The winning team that cleaned up the whole mess also had a lot to say. Right now, the leader of the victorious team held the prismatic unicorn horn aloft like it was a meter-long trophy, as he boasted of their accomplishments, while a teammate of the leader bought out all the beer in the guild.

They did not buy the guild a round of beer; they bought it out, to deny others a drink.

Guildmaster Rohn stepped in at that point in time, saying that they could buy an hour of denial for a thousand gold. They bought four hours.

