“Great!” Scallion said, “And just so we’re all clear. No one needs [Teleport] assistance, right?”

“Nope.” “No need.” “Not for a long time.”

Jane said, “I already scouted the quest location. If you all want to give me a [Scry] eye I can [Teleport] there now, and you can catch up.”

Scallion asked, “You don’t want to see your room, first? Put up your clothes? Get back in [Conjure Armor]?”

“… Probably a good idea,” Jane said, looking over everyone else in their own armors.

Scallion smiled, saying, “Come with me.”

Jane followed the man up a wide staircase to the side of the room, up to the second floor, where three rooms had been crafted down a short hallway. Two of the rooms already had wooden doors over their entrances, but the third’s entrance was completely open. Wardlights inside the third room illuminated the grey granite of the mountain, and nothing else.

Scallion said, “I left it blank. And I’ll leave you to it.”

Jane said, “Thanks.”

Scallion walked out of the room and back down the staircase. Jane looked around the room. It was basically a stone box. It would serve. Jane conjured a small dresser, a door over the entrance, and then switched into her dark blue [Conjure Armor]. She walked back downstairs, ready for battle.

Marric said, “No one answered: What are the worst mind monsters you’ve killed? I’ve hunted Puppetminds before.”

Bett said, “Sirens. Scallion and I.”

Jane said, “Moon reachers, as I said earlier.”

“I remembered the reachers.” Marric nodded, saying, “Sounds good.” He asked, “Then we ready? I’m ready. Not for a full night, but for a while, sure.”

Jane said, “Same.”

Scallion said, “Us, too.”

Bett and Scallion summoned purple [Scry] orbs. Marric summoned a teal orb. The orbs moved to Jane’s shoulders, to sit just above her dark blue armor. Jane nodded, then blipped away in a shattering of dark blue light.

- - - -

Stone houses dotted the prairie like slate grey building blocks tumbled from a child’s toy box. The city was an ode to failed greatness, where nature had come back to break stone and hard angles down to rubble and mounds. Nature was winning. The entire city was crusted in mushrooms.

All across the jumble of grey buildings, white mushroom stalks and webs of mycelium sprouted and stretched. As rain fell, water rolled off of larger umbrella mushrooms, collecting into rivulets. Bulbs of soft white flesh spurted spores under the pressure of raindrops, sending nascent copies of themselves into the air, and into the water. Water flowed away from the town. It collected in pools, where mushrooms grew on the banks.

Some of the mushrooms were not like the rest. Some of those mushrooms were walking around, like they were people.

Shroomspawn were a completely monsterized species, though when viewed from afar, they would sometimes appear to act like people, or in this case, like humans. This was a human town, after all. Specifically, this was a human town, in Killtree land, and the shroomspawn acted accordingly.

Scallion spoke at Jane’s side. “That bluecap just [Force Beam]’d that redcap. Did you see that?”

“I saw.” Marric said, “And now that bluecap and five tiny white caps are eating the redcap.”

“Vicious fuckers.” Scallion said, “And I don’t mean the shroomspawn.”

Bett said, “Where’s the ‘brook’ in the town’s name, though?”

Jane said, “No idea.”

The four of them stood on a hill a kilometer away from the former town of ‘Stonebrook’, still trying to decide the best way to attack. While Scallion used some nuanced part of his [Water Body] skill and water held over his eyes like half a face mask, Bett and Marric seemed to be using [Ultrasight], like Jane, to scout the town. Jane still hadn’t transformed to a flame ooze yet, but she had donned a blue raincoat. The rain had moved on from Killtree to here, it seemed.

Jane looked up. She said, “Rain’s gonna make burning the place awful hard.”

Marric said, “We could set up [Weather Ward]s and come back tomorrow. This rain isn’t going to stop any time soon.” He asked, “How does a flame ooze do in the rain?”

“Not well, but well enough.” Jane said, “The problem will be keeping the town on fire long enough to kill everything living there.”

Scallion dismissed the water over his eyes. He said, “I’ll do the [Weather Ward]ing.”

Marric said, “As soon as they see an outsider they’re going to start shooting.”

“Ha!” Scallion said, “What else is new?”

Marric said, “I just meant that they’re all going to respond as one.”

Scallion said, “Now that would be new.”

Jane pointed to the left side of the stone block city, at a dome barely visible beyond a four story building. “See that? It’s a juvenile Bleeding Veil. It’s days away from releasing its first toxic clouds, killing absolutely everything in ten kilometers. The nearest other town is five kilometers away.” She said, “The ecosystem here is strong. It won’t be a pushover, but it needs to be done. A coordinated attack should not deter us, or else there’s no help for us against the unicorns.”

Marric said, “I bet they’re just leaving it so it can become a worse problem, so the people in charge can gain more levels killing the Bleeding Veil. Or whatever their goal is.”

“Yup!” Scallion said.

Bett said, “Probably.”

“Does anyone have an objection to killing and leveling this town?” Jane asked.

“No.” Marric said, “I just want everyone to be aware that this is going to draw some ire from someone up the chain.”

Scallion smiled wickedly, instantly saying, “Let’s kill it.”

“I agree,” Bett said.

Marric nodded.

Jane said, “Then I’m going in.”

Jane walked down the grassy hill, getting far enough away from Bett, Scallion, and Marric to not accidentally burn them. When she stood thirty meters from them, she dropped her conjured armor and shifted, all at once. Flesh and bone turned into orange goo and radiant fire. The wet grass around her instantly sizzled, flash frying as rain came down and turned to mist before it could touch her new form. Jane’s vision swept out to full, as she felt the tremors of the land underneath.

The majority of the mushroom town in front of her was not the fruiting bodies on the surface, but in fact the network of roots and otherwise that grew under the land. Jane was almost a kilometer away from the town, but still, she felt as something down there moved.

As fog rolled out from her glowing slime body, Jane wrapped herself in darkness, cutting her flame and her light from touching the world. She slipped through the shadows under the grass and the clouds, hidden by cold cover, rapidly arriving in the outskirts of the town formerly known as Stonebrook.

Jane’s shadows spread, unseen among the town. She almost started the attack but she paused when she saw the shroomspawn up close. Not-people walked around in pairs or separately, but if you ignored their broad hats and their papery skin, they looked like almost anyone else in any human town. They had normal, human-sized legs. Normal, human sized arms, and torsos. The smaller ones were squat and childlike, and if they didn’t move it would be easy to mistake them for meter-tall mushrooms in a forest, but the large ones looked like people. They even wore clothes made of fibrous layers. Their hats were their mushroom caps, of course, but as Jane watched, one of the adults removed their hat when greeting another adult shroomspawn in the doorway of a house.

If Jane hadn’t checked out this place with her shadow spider before talking to her team, if she hadn’t seen the rads running throughout the entire town, or the hundreds of human, dog, cat, and livestock bodies and skeletons feeding the mycelium in the basement of every stone structure, she would have hesitated. But she had done her research. She had read about the horror that one shroomspawn colony could do, when left to grow unimpeded. There was a story to this town, of how it got here, but that wasn’t important right…

Jane hesitated.

She went back to her group. They still stood upon the hill.

Scallion jumped at her appearance, flashing out a force bolt that slammed into Jane’s goo, but did practically nothing. He instantly realized what he had done, saying, “Sorry! Sorry!”

With a bit of [Prestidigitation], Jane created a facsimile of a voice. “I want to investigate the town before we burn it down.” It was a scratchy, indeterminate voice, but it would serve.

Marric said, “I think it’s a good idea. We don’t know what we’re really stepping into, here.”

Bett said, “Sure. I can help.” She instantly turned to water. A bumbly, beach-ball sized goo ball slipped out of Bett’s clothes. Her water slime core was an orb of dark blue inside of her blue-white body. A scratchy voice, different from Jane’s said, “Books and personal effects, and anything else that looks good.”

Marric said, “If this was perpetrated by someone I doubt they left much behind.”

Scallion said, “If the bodies were all murdered then that should tell us enough.”

Marric countered, “No it wouldn’t. Obviously someone killed this town, but—”

Bett said, “Ugh! Too much debating without any facts.” The dark blue core of her body turned toward Jane. She said, “Scallion’s been looking for someone else to talk to ever since we got here, and Marric seems happy to oblige. Let’s go.” Bett flowed into the water on the ground, her slime body becoming little more than a raised spot in the mud and the wash. She zipped toward Stonebrook.

Jane followed through the shadows.

Jane and Bett quickly went through the town, looking for certain things; books, ledgers, personal effects.

Jane checked through a few basements until she found one of the larger stashes of bodies. She went to investigate. White lace-like growths tangled the bodies together, but they had certainly been piled down here, and elsewhere. With gentle shadows, Jane felt into those piles of bodies, searching for effects and other clues. The bodies were thrown down here wearing all their clothes. Some of them still had items in their pockets. Shroomspawn gathered and play-acted as humans using objects left out in the open, but they did not really care for the hidden things.

Jane gathered several possible clues among the corpses, including their causes of death. No arms smashed, no skulls bashed in, though there were many holes and gouges among the bones. These people died to some sort of cutting magics, before being dumped into their own basements.

If the shroomspawn had done this, there would be broken bones.

She checked several other basements, gathering more clues that she held in her shadows while she moved. She made two trips back to the hill outside of town to deposit those items on to a stone table, under a [Weather Ward] with Scallion and Marric. By her third pass the pile was large enough to need its own [Weather Ward]. By her third trip, water slime Bett waited on the ground nearby, outside of the [Weather Ward]s, seeming to enjoy the rain.

Jane said, “I think we got most of it.”

Marric said, “Time to clear the town.” He looked up at the darkened sky. “Sunset in an hour.”

Bett said, “Looks to me like someone killed the town and planted the shroomspawn.”

Scallion said, “If any of us were in with the locals I think we could get a story out of this from the town down the way, but we’re not, and I don’t want to be.”

“I saw one pair of shrooms mimic the same motions five times.” Bett said, “Creepy fuckers!”

Jane said, “Enough investigation. Time to burn it down.”

A round of agreements followed.

- - - -

In the town square of a dead stone town, where mushrooms lived and everything else rotted, a juvenile Bleeding Veil grew, like a tall, white egg. He grew fat and huge under the near-constant rain, and he was almost ready to hatch. At nearly four stories large, the Veil was the largest growth in this part of the Forest. It couldn’t move, not yet, but it was protected by hundreds of smaller red and blue caps, and even smaller still white caps, who had yet to mature into a battle form, or step out of the white roots surrounding their King. The adult red and blue caps tended to the immature ones by choosing one among five nearby whitecap growths, and plucking out four of them, killing the unborn shroomspawn but leaving one with more than enough room to grow.

The red and bluecaps were busy all the time. When they weren’t on duty to their King and their kind, the red caps and blue caps moved around their conquered stone kingdom, mocking those who came before. They exchanged pieces of stone for bits of trash. They greeted each other as they passed in the streets. They killed each other for sport, or as their King decided. They practiced making noises at each other. When they had played enough or if they played too hard, they moved to the edge of the King’s domain, laying down their lives, becoming part of the real kingdom; an extension to the ever expanding root system that gave birth to them all.

But something was wrong, in this wet, rotting paradise.

The shadow of the nascent King flexed. Fire fountained up from the ground; a miniature volcano that immediately set the fetal whitecaps aflame. Adult red and bluecaps raced to the fire, trying to smother the attack. They merely raced into the furnace, and the furnace grew. Fire spread.

The cradle of the nascent King flickered white as the fire tried to eat the egg. The cradle did not catch; the King survived. The fire surrounded the egg, trying to kill the kingdom before it could truly flourish, but the fire could not catch, for an entire city protected that singular, white egg.

On the very edge of the town, where the white mycelium of the Bleeding Veil ended, the tips of growth caught fire. Rain smothered the flames, but heat still spread. Steam rose, as three more outsiders began their attack.

A creature of wind and water held in the sky. Purple stretched above the city in bubbles and sheets. Rain had protected the town from the fire, and the land was soaked to the basements and beyond, but now, the rain did not fall. It did not smother. It was only a matter of time before the city caught flame.

The King ordered a counterattack.

Blackcaps peered out from their hiding places all around town. They cast at the sky, ripping apart the spells layered by the creature of wind and water. Rain fell again, doing much to extinguish the fires growing around the King.

Flashes of teal struck the blackcaps from out of nowhere. Minds shattered. Spells slipped out of control. Blackcaps fell to the mud as their caps split in half to fall from their decaying heads.

