Rohn said, “You might find yourself facing a horde of monsters, or people, or mixed company, in addition to the unicorn leading them all.” He said, “I will say this so it’s not a shock out on the field: all those people are still alive, but most of them are in the process of becoming monsters. Most of them will try to bargain for their new master, to get you to lower your guard. When that fails, they, and the unicorn, will attack you in some of the most complicated and coordinated formations that you will ever see. Some of the people are monsters already. They won’t have access to the magic they had in life. Some of them are simply dominated. They will cast and [Strike] at you with all the power they had as a free soul.” He added, “Take solace that you won’t have to kill children. The unicorns eat those.”

Rohn said, “A full unicorn corpse is worth 20 grand. If it’s missing the horn, the price drops to 5 grand. If all you turn in to the Guild is the horn, you’ll get 10 grand. The breakdowns for the other body parts are listed downstairs. I know a lot of you are after the Light Essence in the creature, and some of you are even after the [Polymorph] form. This is fine. Good luck controlling the urges of your unicorn form. You should consider the unicorn as taking up two slots, just to be safe.” He said, “If you don’t already have a group, you should get one. Else you’re just going to die out there, or make a bigger problem for someone else.”

Rohn finished with an exasperated, “Your participation in this briefing has been noted in your guild record; you are now cleared for a unicorn hunt. If you wish to purchase a collar they’re for sale downstairs in the guild store.” He added, “A few of you came to this lecture by yourself. Others came in with one or two others. I repeat: any fight with a unicorn without at least two spears at your side is doomed to utter, bloody failure.” He said, “Hopefully most of you are smart enough to avoid the fate of the unprepared adventurer, but I doubt it. I suggest for solos, duos, and trios, to stick around after I’m gone, and to form a quad, at least.”

“One last thing. Those of you hoping to go through this fight with a slime form, you should know that unicorns really like eating slimes. Almost as much as they like eating children.” He spoke to the room, “Those of you that might possess an ooze form should be aware that unicorns will instantly consider you the largest threat on the battlefield, and will act accordingly.”

Rohn left the room. His secretary followed him out. Two dozen people started talking all at once. Several stood up and made for the door.

The only orcol in the room stood up, speaking loud, “Who’s the ooze? I’m a mind mage shooting for certification. This is my final test. I want you on my team.”

A group of five walked out of the room together with one loud guy who said, “You’d have to be an idiot to get on a team with an ooze.”

A group of four followed the five, mumbling agreements.

Two people in a three person team poked the third member. The third person, a human man, stood up, saying, “We’re not the ooze. But we could use a mind mage, even if you’re not accredited yet.”

The orcol looked at them. He said, “Nope. You’re all going to die.”

“What!” A woman in the trio stood up, saying, “What the fuck. Fuck off. ‘Mind mage’ my ass.” She grabbed her partners, saying, “We’re out of here.”

Her partners followed her walk out of the room. The room had thinned, fast. The only people remaining on the benchs were solos, duos, and trios.

The incani next to Jane yawned again, then said, “Looks like ya’ right, mister almost mind mage. Those tossers gonna die pretty damn fast.” She stood up, stifling another yawn. She spoke to the remainders in the room, “I’m a Polymage going for a unicorn. I want the heart and the brain, and care naught for the rest of the kill. I don’t have ooze, but I do have more than enough capability in my water slime form.” She tapped a hand on the shoulder of the fidgety human man with her. She said, “He’s with me. Control Mage.”

Jane spoke up, “I’d get in on that. I’m the ooze. I also have [Greater Treat Wounds]. But then we’d have to kill two unicorns. I want the brain and the heart, too.”

The incani woman winced, muttering, “Fuck.”

Three people instantly stood up in the crowd. They all shouted at once.

“You can have the body if you stay all season.”

“I just need one horn.”

“I need the blood for potions of [Heal] and [Restore Mind]!”

The mind mage orcol said, “You have [Heal]?”

“Yeah, I have [Heal]. And [Restore Mind],” said a thin, middle aged man. “I also have [Greater Treat Wounds].”

The mind mage said to him, knowingly, “You best stay home. You’re gonna die if you go out there. Buy the blood from an Elite.”

“Those assholes charge too much.” He said, “This is my last resort.”

“Desperate.” The mind mage said, “That does not bode well.”

The healer man stood staunch. He said, “I see I have made the mistake of allowing you to dictate the flow of this conversation. Piss off, greenskin.” He spoke to the room. “Who wants one of the best healers you will ever find?” He asked a nearby duo. “What are you two going after?”

“Nobility,” said the one.

“The right to build a house of stone,” said the other. “So: nobility.”

“I can last a season,” said the Healer. “Anyone else want to come along?”

The incani woman spoke up, saying, “We’d—”

“I don’t truck with your kind, and all you want is one kill. You can piss right off, too,” said the Healer. “Anyone else?”

In seconds, Healer and four others left, together.

A solo man said, “I think I ought to go back to the Crystal Forest.” He pointed at the blackboard, where the image of the unicorn still lay. “I didn’t expect that.” He added, “Also. This place is a shithole.”

A different man instantly punched the solo man, sending the solo man to the floor, as he shouted, “This is my home, arsehole!”

The solo man held his jaw, then said, “Get chomped, mudman.” He vanished in a blip of orange.

“Fucking high and mighty—” Punchy man spoke up, “Ooze girl? You from around here?”

Jane said, “No.”

Incani woman instantly turned to Jane. “I’ll hunt for two unicorns.” As the man with her nodded furiously, the woman added, “Maybe you can tell me how you managed to make your ooze, since you’re obviously going for Polymage. Right? We can swap stories. It’ll be a lot easier the second time around, anyway.”

Jane said, “I’m good with killing two of them.”

“Fuck— Fine!” The mind mage orcol stepped toward Jane, saying, “I want in on this. Incani, you two humans. That’s four of us—”

Punchy man, one of only five others left, yelled, “Fucking foreigners. You’re all the same.” He turned to the five other people left in the room, filling the room with his voice as he said, “You all seem like a good lot.” He singled out a guy, saying, “You. You’re from Lancebush, ain’t you?”

“Yeah,” said a suddenly happy sounding dude from Lancebush, sitting with another guy. “Me and my buddy here both. Unicorns killed his sister years ago. We’re finally gitten some revenge.”

Punchy man said, “Now that’s a good dude there!” He slapped the other man’s shoulder, saying, “Hey good for you.” He asked, “You look familiar, too. You got a ma or some woman that looks like you? She run the vegetable shack by the river?”

Happy guy smiled, saying, “Yeah. That’s my Maw!” He added, “Ya might’ve seen my aunt, though. They’re twins.”

The punchy man and the remaining five people all started talking with each other, while mind mage orcol, fidgety man, and sleepy incani, all came to Jane.

The mind mage orcol, easily eight foot tall with green skin and short black hair, said, “Name’s Marric. Nice to meet you.”

The incani woman said, “Bett.”

The man, who looked rather wired on coffee, or something, now that Jane was looking at him, said, “Scallion.”

Jane said, “Jane.”

Marric looked to Jane, saying, “You’re rather okay with killing two of them. You haven’t even seen one yet, have you?”

“I killed a pack of moon reachers just last week. Solo.” Jane said, “So why don’t you stop with the judgment.”

Scallion quickly itched his arm, then controlled himself enough to string together, “We have a team— we can work out the particulars back at base— please let’s go I want to go now.” He looked at Bett. “Time to leave.”

Bett lovingly, quickly placed her hand on Scallion’s shoulder. “Go ahead. I’ll catch up.”

Scallion turned from Jane to Marric, saying, “Sorry I just need to—” He vanished in a blip of purple.

Bett spoke over the dissipating purple light, saying, “He’s got a problem. Nothing personal, I hope you understand.”

Jane did not understand at all, but she said, “Sure. That’s fine.”

Bett said, “We got a base over a ways. [Stoneshape]d comfort if you two want to—”

“What the damn.” Punchy stepped toward Bett, saying, “I couldn’t help but overhear that you foreigners got a base on our land?”

Bett sighed out, then said, “It’s not on your la—”

Punchy stepped to Bett—

Bett laid him out with a solid smack to the side of the head, cracking Punchy’s jaw and tumbling the man over the student benches. As his friends looked on in shock, some of them stood from their chairs.

Bett spoke to Punchy’s new friends, “Can you let him know that if he wasn’t trying to come at me, I apologize. Otherwise, I already had to kill five of you mudfuckers since I got here. What’s five more to add ta’ the pile?”

Rohn spoke from the doorway. “Miss Bett.” He pointed at Bett with a stack of paperwork. “Please leave the mudfuckers alive and unmolested when on guild property.”

Bett turned to the guildmaster, saying, “As you wish.”

Punchy’s new friends tended to him, lifting the semi-unconscious man up onto a bench. Jane almost offered to heal the man. He was obviously loopy and brain rattles could go bad, rather unexpectedly. But she wanted to punch him, too. Bett just beat her to it and had a better reason to lay the man out. Punchy was coming for her, just like he came for that other guy.

Rohn looked from Punchy, then to Bett, then from Marric to Jane. “You three outsiders— Where's the fourth?”

“Already gone to base.” Bett added, “Outside of Killtree. In the mountains, sir.”

Punchy came to, groggy and almost speaking coherent words. His new friends were certainly speaking coherent words, though, and Jane did not like any of the epithets or threats that came out of their mouths.

Rohn spoke over the burgeoning noise, “Setting up an illegal, defensible base on Killtree land is punishable with death, but a base in the mountains is not a base on Killtree land.” Rohn separated a single folder from his stack of documents, and handed it to Marric. The orcol took the paperwork, then nodded. Rohn took another folder and handed it to a man in Punchy’s group. “Why don’t everyone just go their own ways, quick as you can, and we can leave this Strength measuring contest for some other day.” He added, “[Teleport]ing out of Killtree is fine. [Teleport]ing in, is another matter entirely.”

“A very good idea, guildmaster.” Bett held out her hands to Jane and Marric. “Trust me, yet?”

Marric took Bett’s hand without hesitation. Jane…

Jane grabbed her other hand. Bett smiled. A flash of purple filled Jane’s vision for a brief moment. Suddenly, they were some unknown distance away. Likely a full thousand kilometers if their base was really outside of Killtree land. The sky stretched overhead as green fields of tall grass swayed in the breeze.

Bett said, “Once more.”

Another flash of purple moved Jane, Bett, and Marric another distance away, to the steep slopes of a grey mountain. Tiny flowers bloomed in the cracks of the rocks all around, while the nearest trees were a good hundred meters down the slope. They were not the trees of a forest, just scraggly things, barely more than bushes. Past all that, kilometers away, laid grassy hills absolutely covered in flowers of all colors, stretching out to the horizon.

Bett dropped Jane’s and Marric’s hands, saying, “Thank Hell that’s over.”

Jane turned around, [Hunter’s Instincts] flaring, but finding nothing too alarming.

Bett had landed them near a large depression in the stone mountain. One or both of Bett or Scallion had carved a nice stone house into the solid granite. It was two stories large, at least, and set ten meters deep into the mountainside. It was almost completely hidden from every view, except directly, and even then the architecture was stone-like. It blended in with the rest of the mountain. Even if someone looked up from those flowery fields, they might not see this base of operations.

Scallion sat on a bench outside the house, looking much more relaxed than in the guildhouse. He wasn’t obviously fidgeting, for one. At Bett’s appearance he stood up and smiled. He said, “That place is a disaster.”

Bett walked toward him, saying, “Yeah. But this is where the unicorns are.” She turned to Jane and Marric saying, “We can put the illusions up when we’re sure we want to stay here. We don’t mind moving.”

Marric looked up and down at the structure. He said, “Looks like good work.”

“It’s not done yet,” Scallion said. “We didn’t know who we might pick up, so it’s not ready yet.” He said, “I— I just had to get out of there. Fuck. I’ve never been somewhere so… lawless. And dirty.”

Bett explained, “We got to the Sovereign Cities last week, hoping to find a group fast, but these shmucks—” Bett asked, “Either of you two have to kill any idiots who try to jump you?”

Marric said, “I didn’t kill them, but it did happen.”

Jane said, “Got jumped by two people.”

Marric asked, “Did you kill them?”

“… Unfortunately.”

Bett said, “Don’t sweat it... Jane? Right?”

“Yeah.”

Scallion said, “I hate this place! No city walls. No proper defenses. The people choose to not Matriculate, just so they won’t have to join the army, but if they did, then they would all kill each other.” He said, “They caused this problem themselves. These fuckers deserve unicorns.”

Jane felt a spike of anger. She blurted out, “No one deserves monsters.”

Scallion flinched. Bett frowned a little.

Marric said, “Monsters are a plague unleashed by the Old Wizards. The solution is the Script, but these people forgo Matriculation and thus, it is their fault that unicorns plague them.”

