“Well.” Jane said, “I guess that might be true.” She added, “Still though...”

Scallion frowned a little, but said nothing. Bett’s face turned neutral.

Marric continued, “Instead of these people solving their own problems they choose to allow adventurers into their lands to solve their problems for them. And of those that do choose to Matriculate, and who survive their time in the army?” Marric said, “Punch-boy back there, and all of his cronies, and Healer and practically everyone there… Guildmaster Rohn was right. They’re all going to die, and it’s going to be their own fault. The only ones in that room who have any chance of surviving this are the four of us here.”

Jane said nothing. She had already said her piece. Scallion wasn’t wrong, but there was no need to be so callous about it.

Bett turned to Marric, smirking as she asked, “You scope me out already, almost-mind-mage?”

Marric said, “You were the only other non-human in that room. Doesn’t take much to realize you’re competent enough to survive Killtree’s usual methods of welcoming people to town. I’m taking it on faith that you won’t be a detriment in a unicorn fight.” He asked, “Are you really a Polymage?”

Bett said, “Give me your best [Mind Spike].”

Marric instantly flickered with a pale teal light. Bett just stood there, without any apparent effect.

“Glad to see you’re actually a mind mage.” Bett just smiled wide, as she tapped her head. “Slime core mind.”

Marric said, “Mind magic is not just mind effects. That trick doesn’t work against a unicorn’s bodily nervous system control.”

Bett waved him off, saying, “I’ll be a full water slime out in the field.” She turned to Jane, asking, “To continue with the show and tell. What’s your ooze?”

Jane knew they wouldn’t want to take her word on faith, so she [Blink]ed out of her leathers to end up twenty meters away, across the slope. Fire crawled across her skin as she burbled out of herself, transforming into a twisting, living pile of flame. The ground around her body scorched and blackened, as her heat expanded outward, flash-firing nearby tufted flowers and scraggly grasses. After her transformation settled in, Jane pulled her fire into herself with [Fire Body], holding her heat close to her orange goo.

Bett called out, “Dinnamoth’s Tits! You really do have an ooze!” She leaned back, saying “Flame ooze is a good choice. The lack of a core makes them a lot more durable than you’d think.”

“She’s got [Fire Body], too,” Marric said.

Jane burbled toward her group, stretching her body upward. She walked with legs made of translucent orange slime, her bones and muscle reforming as she completed her transformation into a human. As fire dimmed from her skin, she wrapped herself in dark blue armor and her hair into a bun. She flashed a [Cleanse], washing away soot and ash with thick air. She said, “[Fire Body] and [Greater Treat Wounds]. Though it’ll be hard to heal others on the field.”

Bett said, “Don’t worry about us. We’re pretty self sufficient.”

Scallion added, “It’s still good to have the option outside of combat.”

“You’re one of them sloggers, aren’t you?” Marric asked. “Years to get [Greater Treat Wounds], then months at… Firemaw, maybe? And now you’re going for a unicorn. What Class are you? Where did you study?”

Jane said, “We don’t have to know each other that well, right away.” She added, “But you could call me a slogger and you wouldn’t be wrong. I’m in this for the long haul, to gather enough power to kill every monster out there.”

“A good goal.” Marric smirked. “I’m here to qualify for a Mind Mage post elsewhere.”

Scallion stood up, saying, “I feel a lot better about the decision to come here.” He looked to Bett, saying, “We’re both sloggers, too.”

“We’re here for those unicorn auras.” Bett said, “The goal is carving a city out of Archipelago Nergal.”

Marric asked Scallion, “What do you do?”

Scallion gestured down the mountain slope. The air shifted, as a large, subtly purple [Ward] layered down the mountain, like a blanket half a hundred meters wide. Scree and boulders loosed from the ground, to shoot into the air like they were dropped up. As the rocks and dirt left the [Ward], they crashed back down, normal gravity reasserting itself. Stone floated into the [Ward] and back out, finding some sort of equilibrium on the top edge of the purple space.

Scallion’s body turned misty, as his hair trailed away and his fingers wrapped with wisps of fog. He said, “I’ve got [Air Body] and [Water Body], a lot of other control spells, and the ability to exclude people from their effects. I should be mostly immune to a unicorn while like this. I can hold this form for an hour.”

“Well then.” Marric said, “This is really good. All I have to worry about is myself, which I can already do. Nice to meet you, three.”

Jane added, “Nice to meet you, Bett, Scallion, Marric.”

“Glad to finally find some people who aren’t total murder-freaks.” Bett turned to Scallion, “I told you we’d find some good people.”

“Just had to expose ourselves to the murderous locals for a week, first.” Scallion countered.

Bett smiled as she asked, “Where are the locals not murderous for at least one of us?”

Scallion said, “Portal, Outpost. Pretty much everywhere in the Crystal Forest, and I hear that Spur is finally filling with humans again. Greensoil is fine for me, while the Wasteland is fine for you. Nergal is half okay—”

“Fine fine fine.” Bett said, “Point taken.”

Jane asked, “Anyone want to take on some low level contracts, to see how we do with each other?”

Scallion said, “Sure. But I’m not going back to Killtree without a breather. We finally found a group.” He said to Bett, “You teasing Rohn with ‘Why’s it a called a collar’ almost set him off.”

Bett laughed. She glanced from Jane to Marric, saying, “His speech was a lot worse before I started asking questions. Just one a day, though. That seems to be his limit.”

“I don’t want to go back to town for a contract.” Marric said, “It’s not fun turning away a hundred people a day from looking at you like a piece of meat, or a bag of gold they just have to stab enough to make something good fall out.”

“Same.” Bett said, “Besides! We don’t have to have an adventuring contract to figure out how to play nice with each other. There’s no monsters in this area aside from flowerspawn.” She looked up past the house, up the mountain. “But the Mushroom Forest starts about two hundred kilometers that way. It’s full of shroomspawn and vinespawn.”

Jane said, “I would rather do something productive, if you don’t mind. I volunteer to go back and get a listing.”

“That works, too,” Bett said. “Anything from 4 star to 6 is fine by me.”

“Sure,” Scallion said. “Everyone is waiting for the first unicorn listing to appear so there might be something worthwhile. Bett and I haven’t really looked.”

“I’m fine with a productive kill quest.” Marric looked back toward the house in the mountainside. “What does it look like, inside?”

Scallion said, “I’ll show you.”

Jane said, “I’ll be right back.”

Jane left them to it as she picked up her leather clothes, then blipped halfway to Killtree. She discarded her [Conjure Armor] and put her normal clothes back on for her trip into the city. Thankfully, the rain had stopped.

- - - -

Finding an appropriate quest took Jane an hour.

Most of that hour was spent walking back from the outskirts of Killtree, to the Guild. Her journey was interrupted twice along the way. First, by guards who pointed out that hair clip she had conjured around her hair was an illegal, open use of magic. They let her go with a warning when she told them she was here to hunt unicorns. Jane switched up her hairclip for a bit of string.

The next altercation came when a street urchin tried to pick her pocket. Jane smacked his head while his hand was in her pocket, sending him tumbling to the mud. The kid must have only been ten years old, but his wild tumble turned professional. He barely touched the mud, instead spinning and landing on his feet and hands. The kid raced off down a nearby alleyway.

Back at the guild, Jane instantly found an appropriate quest.

There was no reward listed, but not every place did things like Spur, with upfront rewards. Spur was actually in the minority of how most of Glaquin did quests and managed their guilds. On most of the continent, the monsters themselves were the goal. You just had to kill them, first.

- - - -

Jane returned to Bett and Scallion’s base with a slip of paper. No one stood outside in the setback between the mountain slope and the stone house, or on the slope itself, but as Jane walked toward the open front door, she heard voices inside. Jane walked through the front door, into a spacious room of light and nice conjured furniture.

Marric, Bett, and Scallion, all sat around a large stone table in the back of the room, talking over the splayed out contents of the folder Guildmaster Rohn had given to Marric. All of them were already in their [Conjure Armor]. Both Bett and Scallion were in purple leathers, while Marric was in teal.

With eyes going wide as Jane walked through the front door, Scallion said, “You came back!”

Bett spoke up from a comfy chair beside the table, “I told you she would.”

“I had doubts,” Marric said.

“I was held up by a thief and a pair of guards.” Jane said, “I found a quest.” Jane walked over and set a slip of paper on the table, on top of the spread out unicorn information packet. She said, “A small, illegal stone town east of Killtree has been overrun with shroomspawn, creating a blight and the beginnings of the Forest.”

Marric frowned as he picked up Jane’s paper. “Ehhh.”

Scallion said, “We could clear a blight. I can [Stoneshape] the buildings into the ground, anyway.” He suddenly said, “Gods! Even their attempts at real architecture are shitty!” He whispered, “What the fuck is wrong with these people?”

“It’s not our problem, Scallion.” Bett turned to Jane, saying, “It’s not a difficult task, but it’ll be nasty enough. Shroomspawn are not fun.”

Scallion said, “I’m just saying that normal, everyday city politeness is a foreign concept around here.” Wide eyed, he added, “Probably literally! Oh! That’s it! Polite Society is a foreign concept, and that’s why they don’t do it.”

Jane wanted to argue for Killtree, but Scallion was right. He would do well to not be so open about it, though.

Marric said, “Shroomspawn… I don’t know.” He turned to look at Scallion, saying, “And you need to cut that shit out. You let it out here, and you might accidentally let it out there, in the field, where people could hear.”

Bett said, “Scallion just hasn’t had anyone else to complain to in a week.”

“I can keep it in my robes.” Scallion desperately asked, “But please, just tell me that you see what I see.”

Jane said, “I see it.”

“Thank you!” Scallion said, smiling brightly. “Yes! Good! I’m not crazy.”

Marric put Jane’s quest information back down on the table. “This is a fine quest. I was hoping to avoid shroomspawn, but it’s fine.”

Bett asked, “What’s the problem with shroomspawn?”

Marric said, “They’re just… disgusting. Emotionally awful, you know.”

Bett burst into laughter.

Marric said, “Jane’ll probably end up doing most of the work. This quest reads like everyone is already dead, and we just have to burn the town to the ground.” He added, “[Stoneshape] it to the ground, too.”

“Something like that,” Jane said.

Scallion said, “So what happens when we discover that the town is full of dissidents, and this quest is just Killtree wanting us to kill their people for them?”

Jane said, “Then we walk away, and I report the quest as incomplete.”

Scallion asked, “And what happens if that becomes a problem?”

“We might have gotten off on the wrong foot.” Jane said, “I’m here for a unicorn; not to make friends with authoritarian governments. We don’t actually need the guild here to help us find the unicorns. It just makes it easier.”

Scallion smiled small, then nodded.

Marric said, “I would like to have a working relationship with Killtree’s guild, if at all possible. But if this quest is a front for state sanctioned murder, we can leave them behind.”

“Guildmaster Rohn ain’t that bad.” Bett said, “Everyone else I could do without.”

Jane asked, “So? Are we doing this?”

Scallion said, “Best to figure out what everyone can do. We still have hours till nightfall. I vote we go.” He added, “I’m arcanaeum trained from Peak Island University, with a Class and Stat-ed for Willpower.”

Bett got up from her chair, saying, “Polymage, Balance. I’ve got [Air Body], [Water Body], and [Stone Body]. Working on [Lightwalk]. If this works out well, I might want to stick around for a while and get [Lightwalk] out of multiple unicorn kills.”

Marric said, “If we need to work out some complicated system regarding the bodies, we can.” He said, “I’ve been given all unicorn season to secure a kill, but if we’re doing multiple kills, I want horns.” He added, “But that’s getting ahead of ourselves. I have some confidence in this group since I’m the only one I need to protect, but unicorns are not easy.” He looked around the room. “What are the worse mind monsters you’ve ever killed?”

Jane said, “You didn’t say anything about yourself.”

Marric said, “And neither did you.”

Jane said, “Flame ooze, army experience up to team leader. With all the non-brainy minds in the group, we won’t be able to communicate with [Telepathy], but I can speak with [Prestidigitation]. I assume Bett and Scallion have some other workaround—”

Bett said, “[Prestidigitation] speech works well enough.”

“I can still talk with [Air Body] active,” Scallion said.

Jane nodded, saying, “I have some medical knowledge with a focus on humans, but I looked up everyone else and my skills should be good enough to remove possible parasites from Marric and Bett, if needed. You already know of [Greater Treat Wounds]. I also have [Hunter’s Instincts] and [Shadowalk]. Scion of Balance. No class yet. Working on Polymage.”

Bett asked, “How many forms do you have?”

Jane said, “The only one I’m going to use around other people is Flame Ooze.”

Bett smirked, then said, “Fine for now, but this might need to change later.”

Marric answered, “Full Mind Mage spell capability, but no Class yet. Scion of Focus.”

