Their leader roared for anyone with ears to hear, how they had won, and how they had killed those that came before. The Healer man from the other day was on the unicorn’s side. The victorious team had to search for the Healer, because the unicorn would sometimes run away, wounded, only to come back fully [Heal]ed. They found the dominated Healer tied up with vinespawn, missing all his limbs and fingers except for one arm and one finger; just enough to administer his magic. They ‘righteously’ killed that ‘monster lover’. It ‘served him right’ for falling under the unicorn’s sway.

Jane almost puked. She almost killed the boaster herself. She almost did a lot of things that would have been very bad, but she did not. She stayed the course. Killtree was not her problem to solve.

Marric had already linked them all into a [Telepathy] network. As Jane shared her revulsion and utter disgust at every other person in the room, Scallion mirrored her sentiments, happy to convert her to his side.

That was their inner, teammate-only dialogue. Outwardly, they all cheered when the atmosphere of the room demanded a cheer. They all gave the barest amount of praise for the ‘unicorn slayers’, as they were now calling themselves. They all watched from the sidelines, as Guildmaster Rohn oversaw everyone.

Rohn might have also been giving the bare minimum of support to the new ‘unicorn slayers’. But that was just a guess. That morning, when she turned in the quest as incomplete, saying, under green truthstone, that an army came in and was cleaning up the place, Guildmaster Rohn had given her a strange, weird look. It was not a look of surprise, as though saying ‘you couldn’t kill some shroomspawn?’ But a knowing look; one that spoke unknown volumes.

The problem, was that Jane had no idea what that look actually meant.

- - - -

The next three days passed without a unicorn sighting, and then two unicorns appeared on the same day. Four teams dispatched for the first sighting, while Jane and her people remained in the guildhouse. They weren’t about to rush out the gate and get ambushed from behind. It turned out to be a good tactic; they were the only people still in the guildhouse for the second sighting.

As Rohn handed them the details of the sighting and the official documents for the transport of unicorn flesh across Killtree soil, he said, “This one is larger than most. If you can’t do this quest either, I suggest you pull out sooner rather than later.”

Jane took the paperwork, saying, “Thank you, Guildmaster.”

- - - -

All four of them sat in their base ten minutes after getting the target identification from Rohn.

Jane sent a [Scry] orb flying fast across the land, traveling north from Killtree, then east. From far away, she saw a gentle white glow, diffuse across the muddy land like a white fog kilometers across. It was the light shifting aura of the unicorn. The monster was somewhere inside that obscuring haze.

Jane came back to herself, saying, “Found it.”

Marric came to, saying, “Me too.”

Bett sat up from her chair, asking, “Jane on the monster, the rest support? According to Rohn the unicorn will go after her.”

Scallion stood up from his chair. Bett stepped to his side.

Jane stood up from her chair to walk outside, saying. “I’ll shift. You all can follow Marric if you want to land somewhere slightly safer. Try not to get near me. I’ll be throwing out a lot of flame.”

Scallion said, “That’s the plan.”

- - - -

Jane blipped onto a field of red flowers, her orange body expanding outward as she tried to find shadows to slip into, but there were none. There also weren’t flowers three seconds ago. The white fog surrounding the unicorn’s domain had shifted, surrounding Jane in an illusion. As Jane looked around, with infrared sight and full surrounding vision, she was both impressed, and worried. To all of her visual senses, the flowers looked real. They caught on the sunlight like rubies after a rain.

But they did not burn, and Jane was a living flame. The very air scorched and flickered with distortion, but the flowers remained whole and unharmed. If Jane had a sense of smell, she might have smelled something burning, but she did not. Or maybe flame oozes did, but they always put out so much of their own heat that taking anything in as subtle as a scent just did not work. [Scent Tracker] and [Hunter’s Instinct] didn’t seem to—

Jane [Blink]ed right, ten meters. She didn’t see anything coming. She didn’t sense anything arriving. Or targeting her, or anything like that. But she did realize that the flowers around her were very pretty, and her mind, even as an ooze, was still subject to standard, non-magical mesmerism. Pretty things still looked pretty.

Jane landed on red flowers that sparkled in the sunlight, exactly how they sparkled before. They might have been arranged exactly the same as they had been before Jane switched locations.

Jane raced forward—

She rolled over something that caught fire in flailing streams. Battle sounded from somewhere close. A fire blazed nearby. Jane saw a flickering heat on the air, briefly, and the heat wasn’t from her.

But oozes did not just hunt by sight alone. They were immaculate ambush predators, where every step and touch and vibration in the ground told them exactly where their prey was hiding. Like in her spider form, Jane felt the land, listening for stomping and running. She spread out like a loose pancake, searching for—

Someone was fighting nearby. A lot of someones.

The image of flowers around Jane broke into motes of light. The battlefield was revealed. A plant horror of a hundred green tentacles raced to get away from Jane; it was already on fire. Its movements only served to spread that fire to other vine monsters.

Scallion flew high in the sky; a being of water and air and gravity. He cast layers of purple light across the ground, one after another, some wide, some tall, some pointed in directions other than straight up. Vine monsters, already on fire, struggled to hold onto the ground as their bodies stretched upward. People covered in blood and intestines, like warpaint and flower necklaces, tangled into the sky, holding onto each other with knives.

Bursts of dark light dispelled purple wards, crashing people to the ground. The people recovered like perfect acrobats, barely having to touch the ground to find footing. They raced forward, toward some unknown goal, only for teal spikes of magic to rip into their minds—

The red flowers returned all around Jane, perfect and glittering, as before.

The air shifted. The center of Jane’s orange body splashed in every direction as dark blue light flashed around her self, absorbing and negating most of the damage. Her gooey constitution negated the rest. A hoof print, a meter across, lay in the center of the stomp. The unicorn had turned Jane from a pancake into a donut. Jane reacted, [Hunter’s Instincts] already flaring.

She slipped back together, unnaturally quick for an ooze. The hoof had already moved on, but Jane lifted upward. She touched something solid, and something furry. She should have been able to catch it, but as her flaming body touched some unknown thing, she tried to dig in, to flare hotter, but she only slipped away. She still managed to burn something.

A roar, loud and breaking, rippled across the land.

Something cold slashed through Jane’s body. But Jane melted around whatever it was. She caught something, this time, but she already felt herself slipping. The only way she was able to hold on at all, was because she conformed her body to the shape of the object she had grabbed; a twisting spike. For the briefest of ethereal moments, Jane hung in the middle of the air, melting into that spike, frying nearby meat. She couldn’t smell it, but she could hear it. That characteristic sizzle of fat. The flower illusions around Jane shattered. The land around her, and the monster attacking her, appeared.

Jane hung on a prismatic horn, ten meters from the ground. Pure hate radiated from the pure black eyes of a unicorn, not a body length away. Its face was a scar of burned and blackened flesh, its mane a prismatic fire, and also on fire.

The unicorn moved backward, and Jane did not. The entire exchange only lasted a fraction of a second. Jane dropped from the unicorn’s horn—

Jane [Blink]ed to where the monster might have been. She impacted something, she couldn’t tell. The flowers surrounded her again.

The flowers vanished. Jane was on the monster’s neck. She wrapped around—

The unicorn moved, and Jane did not. Jane [Blink]ed again, hopefully in the direction of the unicorn, her oozy body blipping across the battlefield in a splash of dark blue. She found nothing. She landed in a field of red flowers.

Jane’s mind raced. Since no retreat had been called, and since the unicorn focused on her, like they thought it would, and the illusion remained completely intact around her… There were two possibilities. Either the fight was still going, or the unicorn had won and Jane was about to die to some coordinated attack.

Jane felt the ground, trying to make sense of anything she could.

She dodged at the last second. A double stomp smashed right where she would have been. She [Blink]ed upward, stretching out, aiming for the general area of the unicorn. She found the beast, like a hidden part of the world, but she could not hold on. She slipped off. She burned multiple meters of unicorn flesh as she went, but she could not find purchase on the beast.

The illusion shattered. The unicorn stood revealed, again, and maybe for the first time.

It was ten meters tall, tall as a house, with a ring of horns around its head. Where fur remained on its body, it was as black as night, but Jane had burned a vast portion of the monster, revealing bloody skin and already scarring flesh. Its mane was burned down to a stiff shock of hair, like a zebra’s, but its tail and the fluff around its meter-wide hooves were like dark clouds. The worst part was the face. The unicorn’s maw was a tentacled, dark thing; an opening to a lightless abyss. Its main horn was somehow fully intact. Jane had clung to that twisted spike of prismatic light and burned with a fire hotter than lava, but still, the horn remained pristine.

And the monster stood there. And Jane stared. It had revealed itself for five seconds already. This was bad. Something was very wrong. Why was Jane still looking at the beast? Shouldn’t she be attacking—

A beam of hissing water sliced across the battlefield, cutting across the unicorn’s neck. Blood erupted from the wound, dark red. The unicorn flinched backward.

Jane could move again. She instantly [Blink]ed onto the beast’s back, turning herself into a blanket of living fire, burning downward with all the power of her [Fire Body]. The unicorn screamed and bucked. The unicorn was two meters away, and Jane was not, but she [Blink]ed right back onto the monster. The beast moved without Jane, again. She [Blink]ed back onto his back. She couldn’t hold on at all, but she could get back on the monster.

The unicorn began to run, heedless of all other concern. It raced across the land, quicker than [Blink]. If the unicorn was a normal creature, Jane’s fire would have clung and burned and Jane could have easily caught with [Fire Body], but the unicorn even outran the burning of its own flesh. Fire trailed in the air like sparklers for the briefest of moments, before it fell to the churned ground.

But the unicorn wasn’t able to control the light around it anymore; not with the surety it had before, anyway. Shadows clung to the monster’s underside. Jane wrapped shadow around herself and sank into the grass at her feet. She reappeared around the unicorn’s legs, wrapping herself upward, burning anything she could possibly burn.

Occasional jets of high pressure water carved across the unicorn, missing Jane but striking monster flesh; Jane was only a few meters wide at most, but the unicorn was ten meters tall, not counting its horns. Frankly, Jane would have been surprised if one of Bett’s water cutters managed to clip her.

One perfect water beam lanced across the unicorn’s left eye, half-blinding the monster, causing it to leap right, digging up the ground as it tried to flee. Jane fell to the ground, but she caught back up, quick enough.

Jane and the unicorn left the battlefield and its hundred corpses far behind. Shadow chased the light, burning bright with every radiant touch.

Something snapped in the monster, a leg or its back, Jane couldn’t tell. The unicorn crashed to the ground. Jane found her opening. She burrowed through its neck. In one horrific second, she severed its head from its body. Blood pumped from the neck in great crimson splashes. The body bucked and kicked with broken legs. A beam of water ripped across the unicorn’s underside. Intestines spilled around its twitching legs.

In its own shit and covered in char, the unicorn died.

You have slain Unicorn A!

46% participation.

+1,038,916,595,098 exp

Jane retreated from the corpse. She pulled her fire close. She wasn’t sure it was all over, even with the Participation box appearing in the corner of her all-encompassing vision, so she remained a flame ooze, but she got far enough away from the body so she didn’t fry the monster.

Under an afternoon sky, she waited for her team. She went over her other Participation boxes. Humans, vinespawn, two orcols, one incani. There were even a few shroomspawn in that horde Jane barely saw. Jane froze, as much as a pile of living fire could freeze, as she saw boxes for moon reachers A, B, and C.

A ball of blue and white goo showed up first. Bett bumbled across the scorched land, avoiding the unicorn corpse to get closer to Jane, but not too close. Jane held her fire back, but she was still radiant.

Bett spoke with [Prestidigitation], saying, “Intellectually, you know oozes are big bad monsters, but that was something else. Not having a vulnerable core does a lot for survivability.”

Jane asked, “Is everyone okay?”

“Scallion and Marric are fine. We all held back while it was going after you—”

The air blipped teal. Marric and Scallion appeared next to Bett’s bubbling slime body. Marric’s left hand was gone, his forearm wrapped in a second application of his teal [Conjure Armor], while his right hand held Scallion upright. Scallion hobbled on his only remaining leg, his purple armor in tatters, while a teal covering wrapped around his pelvis. Blood covered both of them, marring their armor. Jane cursed. She had considered getting [Conjure Force Elemental] just so she could heal at range in situations like this, but she hated the idea of summoning anything to do her bidding.

