Bett loudly burbled, then raced over to Scallion, saying, “Holy fucking shitballs! What got him!”

Marric waved her off with his missing hand. “He’s fine, Bett. For now.”

“What got him!” Bett burbled next to Scallion’s remaining leg, saying, “Oh gods, I thought we were good. Fucking—”

“I’m fine! Really. I am, Bett. What’s the problem? Why are you still a slime?” Scallion winced. He stressed, “You don’t have to be an ooze either, right now, Jane. The fight is over.”

“Is it, though?” Jane said, “I saw moon reachers in my notifications.”

Scallion asked, “What’s a reacher?”

“Shit,” Bett said. She shed her bubbly body and came back together as dark purple incani with big black horns, for the briefest of moments. Purple leather armor wrapped around her as she held onto Scallion. “You’re going to be okay.” She conjured a seat and took Scallion from Marric. She sat him down in the seat, saying, “It’s okay.”

Marric stood back from Scallion and Bett, saying, “They half-touched him. Pulled him out of the sky by pulling off his armor, which was not transformed into air and water by his skills. Hence why he’s not in shock right now.”

Scallion sat in his chair then looked down at his remaining leg. His eyes went wide as he looked down at his pelvis. “My magic color isn’t teal.”

“I fixed you up.” Marric looked to Jane, saying, “It’s over. But Scallion is going to go into shock, hard. And soon.”

The briefest, most horrific feeling of ‘It’s not over yet’ washed over Jane. She oozed away from her teammates, just a little bit, as she tried to make sense of her gut instinct telling her to run away and never show her face ever again.

Marric noticed. He said, “Jane. It’s okay. It’s over. It really is. But if you need some time to come to grips with this, then tell me now so I can get Scallion to a healer.”

Jane held herself tight. She could not breathe, but she could relax her body. She oozed outward. Then she said, “Just… One minute.” She added, “Illusions are… rather powerful.”

“I understand.” Marric said, “But there are wounds that need tending, and—”

Jane looked over at the unicorn corpse. She stared across the prairie, and saw nothing in any direction, besides her wounded teammates. She also saw her own oozy body. She was wounded, too. Half of her goo was gone while her fire was considerably less. Luckily, oozes had no cores; she wasn’t critically wounded. She flickered with a dark blue casting of [Greater Treat Wounds]. Her body flexed outward as goo expanded and flickered from orange to yellow.

Her mind cleared. The battle was over, and here she was, worried about more attackers, instead of worrying about her teammates, one of whom was less a hand, and another who was still bleeding from his missing leg. Jane flowed upward, into the shape of her human body, as she transformed back to her most Familiar Form. Back to being human, Jane wrapped herself up in dark blue armor as she controlled the lingering heat and the fire all around her into something more manageable. The grass where she had been was ash, the ground was glassy. Jane stepped out of that cooling crater, quick walking toward Scallion.

Marric smiled as Jane leaned down to the injured man. As Jane touched Scallion’s chest with a glowing hand, the teal wrap around his pelvis disintegrated. Torn meat and body parts filled out. A femur began to regrow, followed by tendrils of muscle, arteries, and veins. Scallion’s eyes went wide as other body parts regrew, plopping out of the remnants of his armor. His face flushed red as he looked away.

Bett burst out in a laugh to hide the pain. She said, “Don’t be embarrassed, dummy.”

Jane smiled.

Scallion looked away, staunchly declaring, “I have nothing to be embarrassed about.”

Marric said, “I’ve seen bigger.”

Jane laughed, as Scallion’s face turned beet red and his mouth crushed into a straight, uncomfortable line.

Bett touched his shoulder, saying, “It’s plenty big enough for me.”
