“Aaliyah, are you alright!” Sandra shouts from the top of the quarry.

“I’m fine!” I yell back, reassuring my friend, but honestly I’m not sure. Tabitha’s cuts were deep, but she didn’t reach my skin. I’m not sure if that was her intention or not, but I don’t exactly feel like asking.

“You’re fine, huh? Then I suppose we can continue,” Tabitha drily remarks. It looks like she’s lost most of her excitement after our initial clash.

I ground my teeth in frustration. Is fighting me so easy that a battle maniac like Tabitha can’t even find joy in it?

No, screw this!

I might not be able to beat her, but I’m not so weak that I’ll just roll over against her!

Tabitha notices my defiant look, and her smile starts to reform. “Good, Master Pacore wouldn’t have accepted you as a student if you didn’t at least have a spine.”

I bite back an angry retort and activate Flash Step twice to close the distance between us in a split second. Tabitha prefers to take the offensive, so I'll try attacking her this time.

Slashing downward, I aim for the shoulder of her shield arm. Tabitha backsteps, her feet gliding across the ground, much like how Pacore moved in our fight. She raises her shield to stop my attack, so I shift my grip and try to direct my sword towards her breastplate instead.

"Better," Tabitha remarks, raising her sword to parry my strike.

Our swords cross again, and this time I’m ready for her to-!

Tabitha jumps backward, using the force behind my attack to move easier. And to add insult to injury, Tabitha's sword flashes again right before she’s out of range, and I feel a new cut in my armor.

Tabitha stops fifteen feet away from me, with a cocky grin on her face.

The dam inside me brakes, and I shout at the infuriating woman. “Will you stop fucking up my armor, already!”

“Will you ask the same from your future opponents?” Tabitha retorts. “I thought you said you were a blacksmith? Fixing your armor shouldn’t be that hard for you.”

“It still takes time,” I hiss in frustration.

Tabitha snorts at my remark, “You’re the one complaining about time? You’re not the one who needs to train a child from scratch before her master returns.”

I’m stunned by what Tabitha said. Does she consider beating the shit out of me a necessary training method, all just to save some time?

Tabitha's grin widens when she sees my shocked expression. "You're the one who chose this; remember that."

“When did I ask for this?” I slam my hand against my breastplate and the deep cuts Tabitha left in it.

"When you agreed for me to train you," Tabatha grins like a demon. "I offered you a choice," she points out. "You could've denied my offer and waited until Master came back for you. However, you choose to accept my tutelage, and now you represent me."

“What?” I ask, not understanding her reasoning.

"You asked me to train you," Tabitha reiterates. "The next time Master sees you, your growth will reflect on me. Master Pacore wrote about how talented you were and your future potential, but all I see are bad habits you've learned in this backwater territory."

“I’m fifteen and not a warrior,” I feel the need to defend myself. “And I’ve been practicing sparring with a sword and other weapons for years now!”

Tabitha laughs like she just heard the funniest joke in the world. "And tell me, did you out-level the people you've been sparring with?"

“Why does that matter?” I answer Tabitha’s question with another question, not wanting to mention my father’s or Camden’s levels to my sadistic sparring partner.

“You won most of your bouts then,” Tabitha presses her point.

"I don't see how-," I begin to say, but Tabitha cuts me off.

“A rabbit can’t teach a dragon how to fly,” Tabitha states with a knowing look. “Unless your sparring partners were ex-military or retired monster hunters, I doubt they could’ve properly taught you anything more than holding your weapon correctly. You would’ve been stronger and faster than them with much more Stamina. Unless you’re pushed during training, you’ll start to form bad habits. It’s hard for the weak to teach the strong.”

“I’ve learned a lot from others,” I counter.

Tabitha points her sword at me. "If you had a competent teacher, they would've told you; you shouldn't have practiced with so many weapons. My master didn’t let me add a shield to my training regimen until Sword Skills reached level 75. Let me ask you, was Axe skills your highest weapon skill?”

Tabitha’s eyes drill into me, and I reluctantly answer. “It’s close, but Hammer Skills is my highest weapon skill.”

Tabitha nods her head. "I thought so; I'd call your master incompetent if it weren't," she sends a quick glance up at Master Del before turning back to me. "You should've brought a war hammer to our fight, not an axe and a sword."

"But I've sparred the most with my sword and axe; why would I use a weapon I'm not familiar with?" I find myself asking a surprisingly chatty Tabitha. I can admit she knows a lot about combat.

“And yet, your Hammer Skills is still your highest leveled weapon skill; why is that? It’s because, as a blacksmith, you hold and swing a hammer more than anything else. Weapon and tool skills are by far some of the easiest skills for a person to learn. As long as you have some decent training, reaching level 50 in these skills is easy for people like us." I assume Tabitha is talking about talented individuals because reaching level 50 in a skill, even if it's tier 1, is considered impressive by village standards.

“Weapon and tool skills are the representation of the time you’ve spent practicing with them and grant a natural familiarity whenever you use them. Though you say you’ve fought more with your sword, I could tell your body was much more relaxed with an axe in your hands,” Tabitha explains.

I never realized that! I know it always felt more natural to work in the forge than spar with dad and Camden, but I didn't know that feeling came from my skills.

“You should not have focused on so many weapon skills, or at least kept one as your main weapon without spreading yourself so thin,” Tabitha reprimands me with her sword still pointed at my chest. “And that is only the first problem I’ve noticed. If we are continuing, prepare yourself!” Tabitha rushes at me again without any prior notice.

I hastily find my footing, which I'll admit softened during Tabitha's impromptu lecture. Tabitha leads with a shield bash attack which I use Flash Step to dodge. I'm using Flash Step a lot, and it's burning through my Stamina at an incredible rate, but I can’t dodge Tabitha without using it.

Like Pacore, Tabitha’s footwork is scarily precise with no wasted movement. That said, I don’t get why I can’t match her. Tabitha might have a few more points in Dexterity than I do, but it can’t be by much. That means she has to be using a skill to move like she is, but what is it?

I bring my scimitar up defensively and block two quick slashes from Tabitha. She’s still trying to cut up my breastplate like earlier, but I’m feeling less malice behind her attacks now. Is this just her way of teaching?

My sword is larger than Tabitha's, and yet I can't seem to push through her defensives. Each time I swing, Tabitha blocks with her shield and delivers a lightning-fast counterattack. And whenever she attacks, I try to block her sword with my own, but she never lets our clashes turn into Strength competitions.

This is nothing like my training with Camden; he'd be out of breath already. And though dad can match my Strength, he can't keep up with my movements whenever we spar.

I see what Tabitha meant when she said the weak couldn't teach the strong. Dad and Camden did teach me how to hold an axe and sword, but if I compare all our sparring sessions to my fight with Pacore and now with Tabitha, I can see we might as well have been children fooling around.

Every fight I’ve been in has had me forcing out a victory through the strength of my stats.

The goblins weren't trained warriors. We ambushed the chameleon spiders as a group. I used up all my mana to blow up the bandits. Then, I did the same thing again when I encountered the soul eater.

I haven't won a single fight through skill!

"Stay focused!" Tabitha shouts, reminding me I'm still in a fight. She stabs her sword at my gut, and I'm forced to use Flash Step again to evade.

Only as soon as I shift positions with my skill, Tabitha swings her shield at the spot I appeared and sends me flying through the air.

Mana Skin absorbs a lot of the impact when I hit the quarry floor, but I still groan in pain as I get up. “How do you know where I’ll be?” I ask, hoping Tabitha will take the bait and give me a minute to catch my breath.

I know my plan succeeded when Tabitha doesn’t immediately appear in front of me, trying to stab me. “Your footwork is terrible,” Tabitha flat-out tells me. “You know a few basic stances, but again, you aren’t used to shifting between them during combat, probably because you’ve never needed to. I can take one look at your feet and see whether you’re going to try and attack me, shift positions, or defend. That, combined with your stiff movements, makes reading you a breeze.”

“Stiff movements?” I stretch every morning; how am I stiff?

“Yes, what footwork skills do you have?” Tabitha asks me, having seemingly gone back into lecture mode.

I know this pause in our battle won't last forever, so I touch up Mana Skin and try to recoup some of my lost Stamina while answering Tabitha. "I have Running at level 77. Is that what you're asking?" At this point, I don't even care about revealing a few of my weaker skills to Tabitha; I'm not exactly winning by keeping them secret.

Tabitha freezes, hearing my skill level, and her eyes go wide.

"What, 77!" I hear Sandra exclaim from the top of the quarry. I'd like to see her expression right now, but I won't take my eyes off Tabitha. I don't know when she'll resume our sparring, and I won't be caught off guard again.

"I see, so master wasn't exaggerating your potential," Tabitha throws me off guard with a respectful nod. "I didn't manage to pass my first level 75 skill test until I was 32 and after much hard work. For you to get a tier 1 skill to that high of a level at your age is certainly commendable. You must have put a lot of hard work into it," all of the sudden compliments from Tabitha make me start to feel a little embarrassed. I wonder what Tabitha would say if I told her Meditation was higher than Running and that my highest leveled skill is actually Sense Mana which is tier 2.

“I don’t know why you put so much effort into such a skill, but I can respect you for it. However, though Running is a movement skill, it isn’t what I was referring to. I meant skills like Steady Feet, Quick Feet, anything with feet in its name, really."

“Uh, I have Double Step and Flash Step,” I embarrassingly reply, seeing where Tabitha is going with this.

“I see, is that all?” It’s sad to see Tabitha going from praising me back to looking disappointed. "I'm sure those skills help you run long distances relatively quickly, but neither of those skills will help you in combat without significantly more training.”

“But Flash Step has helped me a lot, and it’s the only reason I can dodge most of your strikes,” I point out to Tabitha.

“Flash Step is a common tier 3 movement skill. It’s unlocked when you cover a certain amount of distance in a certain amount of time, but it's dependent on the skill it originated from. Your skills are meant more for linear movement, so unless you unlock more movement-related skills and integrate them into Flash Step, I’ll be able to predict where you’ll appear every time you activate the skill,” Tabitha explains.

I’ve always pushed myself to go faster, but I haven't prioritized movement during my battles other than flash stepping away from enemies. Or, as Tabitha might point out, I never needed to.

“I have a lot to teach you,” is the only thing Tabitha says further on the matter before resuming our sparring.

You'd think having one of my significant flaws pointed out to me would improve my chances of winning. But now I'm stuck overanalyzing all my movements, trying to overcome my sloppy footwork. As I block a flurry of swings from Tabitha, I'm trying to move more while keeping up a reliable stance, holding a weapon I was told I shouldn't be using. Is Tabitha aware that her advice is throwing me off, or is that her diabolical plan?

"Now you're overthinking," Tabitha berates me, cutting yet another slice into my breastplate. At this point, I've recognized I'll have to take the thing apart and reforge the plates inside, and now I’m curious just how many cuts my new armor can take before it becomes useless.

“Thanks for pointing that out!” I yell, trying to counterattack. Activating Double Strike, I aim for a small opening I think I see in Tabitha’s defense. She blocks my first slash with her sword and the second using her shield. Tabitha then proceeds to shift my sword to the side, freeing up her own sword, which she uses to score another hit on me.

We continue to trade blows with each other for an agonizing twenty minutes, and in all that time, I never get a clean hit on her. I grazed her armor once, but her smile makes it hard to tell if she just gave me that one.

Sweat is pouring down my face, my mana pool is half empty from refilling the holes in Mana Skin, and mentally I feel just as exhausted. My arms are trembling, holding up my scimitar.

