The only thing that shows my attacks weren’t completely pointless is the small amount of sweat on Tabitha’s forehead. Her armor is pristine, but seeing her start to show some fatigue means I put up at least a semblance of a fight.

"That was a good warm-up," Tabitha's demon grin doesn't even anger me anymore. "Can you continue?" She asks me in an excited voice. She's flip-flopped emotions so many times, I've given up on trying to read her and decide to take her question at face value.

I want to say, let’s continue, but our last few clashes have been exceedingly one-sided. Shaking my head, I sheath my sword. “I’m done,” I tiredly collapse to my knees.

“Really?” Tabitha asks, clearly disappointed. “You can’t continue a bit longer?” She pleads like a child asking for another cookie.

"I don't think it will be very exciting for you if I do," I wheeze with a bit of sarcasm.

“Hmmm,” Tabitha hums in thought. “At least you have a decent amount of Stamina. You might not be well trained, but at least you lasted longer than some of my other sparring partners.”

I choose to take that as a compliment, while Tabitha looks like she’s thinking hard about something. “Where to start, where to start?” She mumbles to herself.

Oh, gods, she just spent the last thirty-something minutes putting me in my place, and she already wants to start my training!

“You don’t have a proper weapon with you right now, so I suppose we should start on your footwork,” Tabitha ponders out loud, walking towards me.

At least I can let out a sigh of relief when Tabitha sheaths her sword and moves her shield back over her shoulder. I may be tired, but the thought of figuring out how Tabitha and Pacore move as they do fills me with enough energy to get back to my feet. I’m ready to learn whatever secret skill they’ve been using.

Tabitha stops a few feet in front of me with a serious look on her face. “I’ll have to start you with the basics, just as Master Pacore did with me when he took me in as his disciple.”

“Ok,” I grin, letting a bit of my excitement show.

“You’ll need to learn the skill Master Pacore has taught all of his students.”

"I'm ready," I confidently reply, which earns me an approving nod from Tabitha. Sandra is going to be so jealous after I master whatever skill I'm about to learn. Wait, I cast a glance up at Master Del and Sandra, who look happy to see our sparring session is over. Is Tabitha going to teach me a new skill in front of them? I would assume a skill Pacore teaches to each of his students must be a well-kept secret; shouldn't Tabitha ask them to leave?

“Hold up your arms,” Tabitha instructs me, not caring one bit about our onlookers.

“Like this?” I stick my arms out to my sides, trying to follow her directions.

“No, like this,” Tabitha moves directly in front of me and positions my arms. “Bring this foot forward,” she kicks my right shin guard. “Now, move your other foot here,” she taps the ground with her boot.

I feel like a mannequin as Tabitha directs me into a weird full-body position. How does positioning my body like this help with my footwork?

"Alright, that looks right," Tabitha nods at her handiwork before moving uncomfortably close to me.

What is she?

Tabitha takes my left arm and has me wrap it around her armored waist. She then proceeds to take my other hand into her own, and my brain crashes.

“Now match my feet,” Tabitha instructs me, stepping forward, so I need to step back. "Good, keep doing that."

My body clumsily follows Tabitha's as she leads me in a slow dance. That's what she's doing, right, dancing with me? She isn't teaching me some super-secret skill or anything; she's just having me dance with her.

When my brain finally reboots, I stop in place.

“You messed up already? We haven’t even picked up the pace yet,” Tabitha looks up at me with disappointment in her eyes.

I pull away from Tabitha and take a few steps back. "What the hell are you doing?!" I shout at her.

With a puzzled look, Tabitha cocks her head to the side. “We were dancing, obviously,” she answers in a matter-of-fact tone. “Do you not know what dancing is? Is this village that remote?” Tabitha’s seemingly genuine questions make them that much more insulting.

“I know what dancing is!” I hiss. “I’m wondering why we’re dancing?!”

"Oh," Tabitha has a light bulb moment. "You see, dancing together is the quickest way to earn the Dancing skill," Tabitha replies like that’s the answer to all my questions. It doesn't help that I hear Sandra laughing from the top of the quarry. Can't she go back to feeling concerned for me?

I swallow back the anger slowly building; yelling won't solve anything. It's just so frustrating that Tabitha seems to have lost a few brain cells since we stopped sparring. She articulated my flaws perfectly when she was pointing a sword at me; now she's teaching me with half-answers. “And why are you teaching me to dance?” Keeping the anger out of my voice is harder than I thought.

“To fix your footwork,” she simply explains.

“With dancing? This is the first thing Pacore taught you?” I bluntly ask, picturing a giggling Pacore messing with a young ignorant Tabitha.

As if on cue, Tabitha brightens up at the mention of her master. "Of course, Master Pacore, in all his wisdom, spent our first lesson teaching me to dance. I was young and reluctant to learn such a skill, but Master took the time to explain to me why the skill is so important," Tabitha continues to sing Pacore's praise while finally giving me a decent answer.

“You see, what is dancing, if not a duel using our feet,” Tabitha proclaims. “You have to match your opponent’s rhythm and predict where they’re going to move. It is a beautiful form of battle that the nobility has been practicing for ages!”

Why do I get the feeling that’s just how Pacore worded it so his battle maniac student would listen to him?

“Let’s try again, and this time, try not to mess up,” Tabitha offers me her hand, to which I blush as I step forward taking her outstretched hand.

Tabitha repeats the initial steps, and I quickly find myself in a slow rhythm waltz type of dance. I wasn't exactly Mr. Popular back in my past life, and the only dancing experience I have under my belt is a couple of awkward middle school dances, where I was the definition of a male wallflower. My stats allow me to keep up with Tabitha's movements, but I'm stiff and overly focusing on her feet.

I feel like a fool, and it doesn't help that Sandra sounds like a cackling hyena overhead. I'm glad she finds this funny! Plus, while we're dancing, Tabitha has her battle grin plastered on her face, and I soon see why.

The longer the two of us dance, the faster Tabitha's footwork speeds up, to the point I'm almost tripping over her feet. So, she does treat this as a battle and is deliberately trying to trip me. It's hard enough with her being shorter than me and leading the dance, but I certainly can't match her skill. If Pacore demanded she had her Sword Skills at level 75 before picking up a shield, I could only imagine what level Tabitha's Dancing skill must be at. For that matter, what level was Pacore's Dancing skill at? Not even Tabitha's movements could compare to his.

It isn't long before I'm stumbling backward after tripping over one of Tabitha's armored boots. I try to drag her down with me out of spite, but like a slippery snake, Tabitha pulls her hands free and watches as I crash to the stone floor. Is it so much to ask for an ordinary teacher, I ponder to myself as I look up at Tabitha?

"Again," Tabitha leans over and offers me a hand back up. She may be brutal in her training, but she's considerate in her own way, I guess. Taking her offered hand, we start over from the beginning.

Again, I try to match Tabitha’s footwork for as long as possible, and again I end up falling on my ass.

We repeat this again...

And again…

And again... with me improving by a few seconds each time.

Having not fully recovered after the sparring, and just like running for long periods, my Stamina bar starts to drop pretty low. The fatigue of dancing continues compounding with my earlier sparring session's exhaustion, making getting up more and more difficult.

I get a short moral boost when I feel a slight shift in my soul indicative of a new tier 1 skill, but falling on my butt again quickly reigns in my joy.

“Again!” I stare up at Tabitha’s outstretched hand.

“I don’t suppose you can teach me any other skill?” I ask, taking Tabitha’s hand, aggreging to another round of punishment.

“You need to work on the basics first,” Tabitha tells me, sounding like a real teacher for a moment. “If I tried teaching you a stronger skill, and even if you were able to learn it, that doesn’t mean it would do you much good.”

“Why?” I ask, dodging one of Tabitha’s feet.

“You lack knowledge that comes from having a good teacher,” Tabitha points out to me, shifting her feet and picking up the rhythm.

"Hey!" I try kicking her shin, but Tabitha easily shifts her legs out of the way.

“Do you think I don’t speak the truth?” Tabitha asks me, not caring that I tried to kick her. She twirls us in place and sends a glance up at Master Del. "The stone kin, the person you called master, he is 'stripped,' yes?" She whispers to me.

I almost lose my footing then and there, but I manage to shift my hips and hop over one of Tabitha’s feet. “How did you?”

"I couldn't feel much magic from him while we were walking here. Stone kin place great importance on magic, to the point they look down on anyone with little to no magic skills. Our kingdom had to order Master’s armor because the stone kin outpost bordering Scholl wouldn’t accept any of his personal orders.”

"Pacore can't use magic?" I ask, surprised by Tabitha's casual revelation.

Tabitha nods like it’s no big deal. “Master Pacore never had talent with magic, but that never stopped him from becoming great." Now it makes so much sense why Pacore had such a massive magic gem embedded in his armor. It was so that other people could charge his equipment, and he wouldn't need to worry about the enchantments running out of mana.

“That’s good to know, but what does that have to do with my master?” I ask Tabitha, oddly keeping up with her increased speed for the first time.

“If your master has no mana, then his people would’ve treated him as worthless despite any success he might have had, just as they did Master Pacore. They would not have wasted their time teaching him crucial information," Tabitha spells it out to me.

I grit my teeth in anger; I know how much Master was underappreciated. Master Del doesn’t like to talk about his life before he left Truset, and I can see why if what Tabitha is saying is true.

“Many believe the higher the tier a skill is, the stronger it makes them. It’s the job of experienced masters to dispel this rumor. Yes, the higher the tier the skill is, the more potential it has, but as I said earlier, it needs to be supported by your lower tired ones.”

Is that the reason why I'm having trouble leveling Precise Strike and my other skills past level 40? Is it because Blacksmithing has yet to reach level 75, or is it because my highest weapon skill is only level 61? It makes sense you need a strong foundation; that's probably why my magic skills are leveling quicker than my other skills. From tier 1 to 4, all my strongest skills are mana related, after all.

“Then if I practice dancing night and day, I’ll be able to beat you?” I cockily grin at Tabitha.

She chuckles, "You're welcome to try. Skill levels aren't everything. Let me ask you a question Master Pacore asked me when he accepted me as his student. Who would win between two evenly leveled warriors? Both men share the same stats and are the same age; the only difference is one has spent every minute of his life swinging his sword at a practice dummy getting his Sword Skills level to 100, verses a man who fought in numerous battles and managed to only get his sword skills level to 75?”

“The warrior who participated in all the battles,” I confidently answer. That’s obviously the answer she was looking for.

Tabitha nods with a smile. “You’re smarter than I was at your age. It again comes down to how you practice. You can dance twenty hours a day and eventually raise your skill level higher than mine, but it won’t improve your footwork in battle by much. Just because you have a high-level skill doesn’t mean you’ve mastered all its applications.”

I’ll have to seriously consider that as I move forward with my training. I started off hating this day being looked down on by Tabitha, but she's not as bad as I thought. She's not much company outside training and combat, but you had to respect her knowledge and skill on the subject.

I may be tired, but I finally see the reward dangling in front of me. It's at this point Tabitha trips me again, and I end up on my ass.

“If you continue this training, you'll at least be able to put up a fight… eventually," Tabitha reassures me, offering her hand again.

I want to reach out and continue our training, but I need a quick rest. "Can I just sit here for twenty minutes?" I ask.

"If you must," Tabitha calmly replies, pulling back her hand. Her excited grin disappears and is once again replaced by her passive stare.

I turn away from her, not wanting to be reminded that she's just standing there waiting for me to catch my breath. Using this short break, I plan out the rest of my day and how I'll proceed in the near future.

