I took a breath.

"Then let'em rip."

Shalahora placed a fingertip on his forehead before pulling a strand of mana from his head. It swirled as if alive, reminding me of a glowing jellyfish. He pulled it towards me before tapping my forehead. As it flowed into my head, I blinked, and a series of images flashed through my mind.

"This...This is-" I gasped before my shoulders dropped. "This is a bunch of animated series from Batman and Spiderman. Wait...It's especially about Venom and Inque. Honestly, any blurry and dark character in general."

A silence passed over us, heavy like a lie on the tongue. Shalahora's body condensed into a smaller shape.

"This...Is the wrong batch of memories."

Chapter Begin

Shalahora sorted out the pocketed memories, the depth of his darkness dimming. After a few minutes, he translated, inscribed, and pulled out another set of recollections. He handed them over, letting me hold the floating batch of memory ichor. I marveled at the beautiful strands while they swam around over my hand.

"Man. Who'd of guessed the incarnation of someone's memories and experiences would be so stunning."

Having collected himself after his blunder, Shalahora murmured,

"Though they are derived from evil, grace exists in everyone."

I squeezed my hand around the floating strands and assimilated the memories with my other minds.

"It's good to know at least someone's not always a pessimist."

Shalahora let out a sigh.

"Time ages the most naive and hopeful into the begrudging and wary. This is the fate of any ancient entity, as history is a cycle of repeated mistakes. That's why time wears down morale. It exposes how futile our mortal existences are as they fade into the fabric of larger, macroscopic trends."

Shalahora peered away.

"It's as if arrogance is the source of these mistakes, and caution is its antidote. We are born with one of those characteristics, while the other is formed by an endless series of failures."

As Shalahora spoke, the conditioned memories came in one at a time in small, well-sliced bits. He hadn't carved the guarantors' minds apart, opting for a more surgical approach. Even the portions around the animated shows were taken by inference, as Shalahora had checked thousands of minds. It let me rest easier, considering how morally dubious the shadow's methods could be.

I listened to portions of the memories as I spoke.

"I don't think people are born arrogant. I think people find power intoxicating, regardless of whether its source is real or not."

I went through a batch of the memories. My psyches took the experiences apart, finding the most useful aspects and disseminating them through the rest of my consciousness. As I took it in, I turned to the other partygoers.

"This is going to get messy, isn't it?"

"It will."

We stepped out of our privacy sphere built by Shalahora's magic. After rolling my fingers in my hands, I spread them wide.

"Everybody, we've got an issue."

A wave of my aura gained their attention. I raised a fist.

"Apparently, we've uncovered some galactic organization that's trying to tear reality apart. Again."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"Par for the course, really."

Diesel rubbed his temples.

"What kind of pay grade would someone even need for this to be the expectation anyway?"

I let my primordial aura manifest over them, wanting to draw out their skepticism. I began pacing to the side.

"We'll need to unravel the organization's secrets, avoid showing ourselves more than we have, and put a stop to them, preferably all at once. The issue is learning how they're trying to destroy dimensions and then intervening where we need to. Does anyone have any clues on how that's done?"

My guild broke into a discussion. Amara stepped forward.

"I know of many, though my memories are...Splintered."

Amara's words arrested Plazia's attention. I raised my brow.

"What do you mean?"

Amara made eye contact using her palms.

"You remember where we met?"

I peered off in the distance, grabbing the recollections from a far away, back shelf of my mind.

"Yeah. It was...In Yawm's glass palace. You were a servant of his, right?"

She shivered at his name. It took a long while before I hadn't done the same. Amara's fingers curled inward.

"I wasn't born under his service. I was transferred into a dungeon, in which you and he tore me from. I was made before then, and I lived for many years under the tutelage of the Builders. They transferred me into a dungeon at some point, but I cannot remember the fullest parts of those experiences as someone tampered with my mind long ago. I had always thought it was the pathetic Builder that used me."

It had always surprised me about Yawm after gaining some perspective - he hadn't even used mind magic when we fought. Considering the sorcery's ubiquity at higher levels of galactic magic, the porytian was pretty lucky he hadn't had his mind peeled apart by almost any competant mercenary. Though it was well worth remembering that Yawm had been a shell, his insanity having eroded him long before he met us.

But still, a very, very scary shell at the time.

Amara tilted her hands.

"I never knew why my mind was ravaged as it was. It was first torn apart when I became an eldritch. Then I was psionically gored by someone from my past. That is why I am broken like shattered glass, but I will still cut at my abusers using the shards I have left."

Her eyes turned to slits, her rage palpable.

"I remember the planet that Yawm stole me from. I can guide us there, and we may find the secrets behind whoever it was that robbed me of myself. They were makers of Schema, and considering the AI's use of spatial magic, we may uncover something about the rupturing in spacetime...And maybe the pieces of myself along the way."

Plazia stepped up to her, his normal derisive glower gone. Amara snarled at him.

"What? Will you mock me like some tortured jester once more?"

The hivemind opened his dimensional storage, taking out a vial of shimmering blood. It glistened like crystals, many patterns swirling under the sanguine surface. He handed it to Amara, and Plazia kept his head low.

"I know what it is to live as a splinter of your former glory. It is a terrible thing to know what you once were and be unable to regain it."

He cackled, a sadness in his sardonic laugh.

"As you are, I, too, am broken, and as you have, I will maim my corruptors with what is left of me."

Amara took the blood, stashing it in her robes.

"Hm...We are imprisoned in our flesh."

Plazia walked away, his voice an omen.

"But we will rage and rage against our cages, won't we?"

Amara smiled, her teeth rotting. Despite her form, it was a rare shade of joy, like a haunted warrior watching a sunset after battle. The somber moment passed over us all, and we let it soak in out of respect. Florence began speaking at the perfect moment afterward, not too late or too soon.

"Well done, you two. Absolutely splendid."

I smiled.

"We'll get those coordinates and get a team to search out whatever information is left."

Althea raised a brow.

"Oh, so it won't just be you?"

I scoffed.

"I'm a fighter, not a detective. I can't close a case unless that involves breaking something."

Helios tilted his head at us.

"We'll need the cities built before then. If possible."

I walked forward, my temporal dilation turning the jot into a jog. Wind billowed off me as I faced Helios.

"We also need to finish the terraforming of Blegara. We'll probably need cities on Earth and to close a few rips in spacetime as well. It will stop the bleeding, and I'll probably need a few months before I can even head out to this planet with you guys."

Shalahora's voice trembled the air as if his voice was swirling it.

"We have time. There isn't such a rush that we need to abandon what we must do here."

I gave everyone a look of confidence.

"Then I'm going to get to it."

We finished the catchup, everyone enjoying the company of friends who were caught up in a rising guild. After handling all of my chats, I organized a list of pressing activities. Firstly, I established a cipheric study group based around Amara. She worked with others interested in the odd linguistic field, along with individuals who didn't mind risking banishment from Schema's system.

Stunningly, it was a growing crowd. Leveling required people to go out into dungeons and slay monsters. While not the only method of advancement, it led to the greatest overall improvement in strength. However, it carried unrealistic amounts of danger. I learned that from Jasmine, Jamal, and Nissa.

It was a fact of life: dungeoneers knew of death. They basked in it like a gialgathen soaking in the sun. With low survival rates, the dungeoneering corps lacked consistent recruits at times. My guild changed that with many of our policies, but there was only so much that could be done. In my case, I could dish out rings, amulets, and shards of my armor along with my legacy, but that didn't mean people used them to full effect.

E.g., taking guild supplies and going on a trip to see the seven world wonders.

Regardless of how people used them, my benefit package dwarfed what most people could achieve by leveling with Schema's system. Many people in our guild had stopped even trying to level, choosing to wait for my legacy's stats to advance them or have my average tier of gear improve. A part of me felt like I was being taken advantage of. Another part beamed with pride as I gave my people a better life. It was a complex batch of emotions I still hadn't sorted through.

Regardless of my own thoughts or feelings, the effects of my resources changed our guild's culture. A growing number of people circumvented the leveling process altogether. They would reach level 100 through assistance before gearing up for other lines of work. It gave my guild a surplus of tradesmen and workers outside of monster slayers.

That supplied us with quite a few people who didn't mind the risk of being taken out of Schema's system. We got in touch with many of those scholars who thirsted for knowledge. The runic inscription organization I established acted as the bulk of those contacts, and it brought a smile to my face. I hadn't wasted my time while healing from Marcella's death.

Those trained enchanters would help Amara, but they, in turn, required help as well. That's why I squared away a few hours from my schedule to create a new hub underneath the landscape of Mt. Verner. The sprawling underground complex gave room and fortifications for various experiments, along with many open areas ready for cipheric carving.

At its center, I carved out a hub for the facility. It held many tools along with many thin plates of my dimensional fabric and several golems that could carve into the sheets. The last touch involved tunnels and spaces for adding ventilation and runes to purify the air, give water, and several elevators leading to the surface. They also managed the temperature and pressure, which built to uncomfortable levels at these depths.

Handling that, I moved on to the next task. Over the next few days, I warped around North America and a few population centers around the world. In a blurred state of frenetic activity, I established many cities while getting a handle on problem spots in reality. To speed things along, I got Helios to help me out.

We took Florence with us, and the suave diplomat smoothed relations over to save us time as we expanded the operations of my guild. Florence also helped me stomach all of Helios's complaints about how long this took. At one such time, I erected a city at the center of old-world Cairo. Under an oppressive slice of the sun's gaze, I toiled over a monolith that matched the famous architecture of Egypt.

Well, it was glowing metal and covered in complex sigils, but it was close enough.

While I carved runes, Helios gazed at me with pale eyes full of disdain.

"You always seem to find a way to favor your own species. It seems as though your arguments against Obolis and his favoritism aren't grounded in genuine beliefs, were they?"

Florence put a hand over his brother's shoulder.

"Now we both know the reasoning behind Daniel's actions. He's establishing resource links for his entire guild, including our own kin. As an example, we'll need to import vast amounts of magically derived goods to foster and promote our new economy along with the planet's raw materials. If anything, Daniel's rush behind this construction is a testament to his deference."

I carved into a dozen spots at once, my eyes glassy yet honed in. Helios gazed at his claws.

"Ah, yes, deference. A deference to his own kind."

Florence's smile grew strained.

"Helios. He's already established the city center of Cairo. This is for a skeptilian city."

I finished the sigils before pulling out a normal blue core. We gained a large supply of them from raiding the Infinity Plaza's many upper-tier dungeons. I slotted the glowing orb into the cipheric capsule, the runes as complex as a circuit board at this point. They rivaled complex machinery, the many layers of runes coming together in a display of intricate craftsmanship.

Florence leaned over it.

"You should learn about computers and their code. It might give you some insight into the cipher."

I tilted my head.

"It's difficult to connect the two. Coding requires an adherence to logic that is absolute. The cipher is the opposite, oftentimes having different results depending on where, when, and how you carve it. No two sigils are the same, making it more of an artistic endeavor."

Helios raised his brow at the complex sigils.

"My banter aside, I will admit that you've become a preeminent expert on the archaic language. Compared to even Obolis and his many treasures, your knowledge and ability exceed his easily."

