"Come now. We're among more than friends. We're survivors of a tragedy. All of us. I believe that even breathing alone is a testament to that."

Alfonso's face softened.

"That isn't inaccurate. Then, are we ready for the proceedings?"

I raised a hand.

"Yup. I'm here to build cities."

Alfonso gave me a slight bow.

"Ah, The Harbinger of Cataclysm. It's good to finally make your acquaintance. I'd first like to state my utmost respect for you and your kind. You've given us a home despite Obolis's treatment of you. We will never be able to repay you in turn."

I scoffed.

"There's no need to repay me. You guys have been through more than enough already."

Alfonso raised his head, adjusting his monocle.

"Thank you, but I'm not one to allow debts to lie unattended to. Every credit shall be exchanged until we have demonstrated our gratitude. Now, let us begin with the first order of business. City structures and alignment."

Alfonso spread his hands to the other diplomats and us.

"As all here are aware, many civil engineers have helped us in organizing where and when we'll be constructing various cities. This is for the purpose of having albony taken from our current refuge. We've moved along in a timely manner, but our cities are now bursting at the seams."

I remembered the wide, meandering walkways and emphasis on gardens throughout our walk here. Alfonso continued.

"For this reason, we'll be asking for the assistance of the Harbinger and his abilities. He will erect the following twenty cities across this planet."

I tilted my head to the door.

"We called it the Moon."

Alfonso raised his hands.

"That's sensible. It is the first moon your species knew of, but it is a similar naming scheme to calling Earth 'the planet.' It operates well until an entire people live there."

I nodded. Alfonso swung a hand.

"That is why we shall name it something more appropriate for us in time, but that will come later. Now, once these cities are to be constructed, we'll need the assistance of the Harbinger once more in order to fully terraform this desolate land. Once he is through with this task, we'll begin the resettlement of the entire area, including dungeon handling and economic developments."

Many of the albony gave nods along with the low rumbling of the crowd. Alfonso settled them down with a downward wave of his hands.

"Are there any questions?"

A pelting of inquiries and disputes ran through the room, but Alfonso set up a system for answering them, beginning with the most obvious ones. In the meantime, another gray-haired albony turned to me, gave a bow, and turned a hand.

"We would all like to know precisely how you intend to terraform the planet. Would you mind illuminating us?"

I shrugged.

"No clue."

Florence swung a hand.

"As of yet, that is. Our guildleader is an extraordinarily busy individual, as you may well imagine. In this instance, he's been working diligently on repairing the destroyed surface of Blegara. He and the other officers of the guild have already made enormous strides in restoring the oceans after saving the planet from a Hybrid Star."

Florence squeezed a hand into a fist.

"He's developing strategies with the local populace along with resources from his guild. This allows him to adapt to the situation at hand rather than attempting to bulldoze through a tumultuous situation. Though he may appear uninvolved, I may promise you that he is nothing of the sort."

I scratched my cheek.

"I guess you could say that. Actually, yeah, sure. We'll go with that."

Florence swiveled his head, his smile sharp enough to cut iron.

"Could you allow me to handle the majority of this discussion?"

I let out a laugh before patting his shoulder.

"I'm joking." I looked up to everybody. "He's right. I've been working with experienced terraformers while I develop sustainable, low-maintenance strategies for maintaining the planets under my care. I'll be doing the same here after I build your cities and repair Blegara."

I gave the council a confident smile.

"I'm certain the cities are up to your expectations?"

I already knew the answer. My cities exceeded even the century-old fortresses built in their old capital, Olstatia, and the barriers prevented Elysium from being a pressing threat to anyone in these domains. They even included magical infrastructure, though it lacked the refinement of their society. Still, the raw sustainability dwarfed anything they could muster as of yet.

That assumed they were fine with feeding on several dark gods' gifts. Hm. We really needed to do something about the Old Ones and them being the source of all mana. Before handling that existential threat, the albony needed solace. They needed someone competent, confident, and capable. I would present myself as such regardless of the reality.

Alfonso gave me a raised brow.

"They lack many of our refinements, but the general foundation of each structure is beyond anything we've ever seen. To derive this much effect from a single blue core is beyond anything I've ever researched or heard of. Tell us, how did you accomplish so much with so little?"

I gave him a tight grin.

"It's a trade secret."

Alfonso gestured to the council.

"Then please excuse my probing question. Let us continue to other concerns."

We answered many of their worries, and we settled many of their doubts. Being a usurped people, the albony wanted stability and safety above all else. They willingly offered my guild many rights and freedoms, but we took none of them. In time, my guild would use their artistic excellence, developed technologies, and economic understanding, but it would be between equals.

As they leaned on us, we would lean on them.

The topics changed. We returned to the point about terraforming, and many of the albony councilors wondered how it would be done. I spread my hands.

"It will be handled by a group of technicians, meteorologists, and spiritualists."

Alfonso set his eyes on me with a glare.

"Spiritualists are hardly necessary. We already have our spiritual leaders and own beliefs."

I waved a hand.

"These aren't spiritualists in a religious sense. We're talking about specialists with advanced consciousness imbueing magic."

Alfonso's brow raised, his lips thin.

"It sounds like an energy-intensive process."

I raised a palm, mana shining upward in dark blue dollops.

"It depends on who you ask."

Alfonso gave a quick nod.

"Ah. Then I'll assume you'll be handling it with other humans?"

"We'll be including the skeptiles and a few of their rituals."

A wave of murmurs crawled through the crowd like a dense fog low to the ground. I turned to them.

"What's wrong?"

An albony with a sick mustache raised a hand.

"We appreciate your help, but the skeptiles? They've been, ahem, how can I say this politely?"

Alfonso gave the mustached albony a smile.

"Primitive."

The mustached albony swung his hand.

"Indeed. Primitive."

I stepped over and leaned onto the podium from the floor, my size dwarfing everyone.

"What makes any of you think they're primitive? Do you even have the right to say so, given your fallen society?"

Florence stepped forward, but I raised a hand to him. This idea of superiority would be torn out of them, and regardless of how gentle I was, this would hurt. That's why I'd skip the gentle part.

Alfonso adjusted his monocle.

"We've developed a society far more advanced than your current humanity and most other developed galactic races. Our artworks are desired across the cosmos, along with our wines and sculptures. We're a proud people. The skeptiles. They, they-"

He swung his hands.

"They live in molded dirt in wastelands. We're supposed to entrust our entire planet's ecosystem to them?"

A wicked smile ran up my lips.

"Your planet? Its mine. Don't forget that, councilor."

Alfonso coughed into a hand.

"But of course."

Event Horizon pressed onto them as gently as I could manage.

"The skeptiles know what it means to live somewhere desolate. They've been a people who thrive in wastelands. Despite that, they were a population of millions."

My eyes narrowed to slits.

"Who better to show you the way of rising from ash than the people who have lived in it? Who have thrived in it? Who bore the weight of another people as they starved and worked themselves to the bone."

A painful silence answered me. I murmured my words, but they traveled like the bellows of a primordial force.

"That's why you all will respect my guildmates, or you will no longer be among them. Am I understood?"

Alfonso took out a cloth and polished his monocle. Sweat beaded around his brow, turning his long streaks of fur into wet, clumped lines.

"Ahem. Clearly. But also, if I may, I would like to offer a wager of sorts?"

I pushed myself upright.

"Bold, but sure. Why not?"

Alfonso walked over, his steps measured and far more composed.

"I'd imagine we could come to grips on various terms. I'll offer my skills to your guild if we lose, and you'll grant us the secret behind these blue cores if we win."

I walked over to him, a tower of metal.

"What do your skills amount to?"

Alfonso rose a single brow.

"I acted as the head councilor for the economy of Olstatia for over a hundred years. I helped evolve the economy into a more diverse and robust entity while preventing the sieges by Elysium from ravaging our core cultural pillars. All of this was done without missing deadlines for various debts despite the wartime demands therein."

I scoffed.

"Then you're really, really good at handling annoying busy work?"

Alfonso smiled.

"I've made quite the career of it. Have you heard of an audit? The word is like music to my ears."

I crossed my arms.

"Hmm. I do hate me some busy work, but I'll need to do some research on my own first."

Florence walked over.

"He's speaking the truth. Alfonso is grating, but there's a reason we prioritized him as the one to lead this meeting. He is a stickler for the rules, and that means he makes any good system great."

Alfonso clasped his hands behind himself.

"It's a simple process. Corruption is the primary poison of any great bureaucracy, and legitimacy with concision is its cure. I simply hold those principles in the highest of esteems, and one principle fixes the other."

Alfonso stood tall.

"With some added gumption when necessary, of course."

I shrugged.

"Then the terms of the bet would be your skills for a secret that allows me to protect and raise entire societies?"

Alfonso shrugged.

"If you weren't confident, then why join in a wager?"

I grabbed my chin.

"What's the wager about?"

Alfonso spread his hands and smiled at the other albony.

"We'll orient it around the skeptile's abilities. If they are able to control the terraforming to a resplendent standard, then we shall lose. Otherwise, we win. How does that sound?"

I peered at the tapestries around us, one image of the skeptiles under a baking sun standing out.

"Sure. Let's do it."

Alfonso adjusted his monocle.

"Excellent. How do you feel now that our bet has been placed?"

I stepped away, gazing at a painting.

"To the contrary, I'm very confident in what they've done. I'm worried you're not offering something of equal exchange for what I've put up as collateral. How about this. We change the terms from your services to a team that you build to help manage different operations of my guild. It will need a thousand members hand-chosen by you."

A councilor in the back swung a fist at Alfonso.

"Now is not the time to be bartering your services. We need every competent Albony we can get."

Alfonso put a hand to his chest, his claws polished and sharp.

"One day, I wish to spread the albony throughout the cosmos once more. The Harbinger is offering to give us the secrets of how that's done with these majestic constructs. It's a risk I must take."

A part of me felt bad for them. They wouldn't be able to use the radiant blue cores without access to L-7 any more than I could. Knowing where the cores came from didn't make them any easier to access. It didn't give them the runic knowledge, access to my dimensional fabric, or even the expertise to use the ideas I'd provide. This was a one-way transaction where only I could benefit.

Despite my misgivings, our guild could use another logistician, one with experience. Aside from that, I owed Torix. Having him handle the logistics of the guild had caused his arcane talents to suffer, and he wasted away his potential. I would take Alfonso's services if that meant I could give Torix his agency and gusto back.

I'd do it while crushing their casual dismissal of a species as well. I gave them a nod.

"Then it's settled. I'll bet the skeptiles will help with the terraforming. If they don't, I'll give you the secrets around the blue cores and my cities."

Alfonso sent a sharp glare my way.

"Let's be more specific about the deal's demands. Anyone may help with terraforming. It requires as little as an old shovel and rolled-up sleeves."

My runes hummed from mana circulating through them.

"Then let's make it so that the skeptiles have to be crucial to the terraforming process. If they're not absolutely necessary, then you win."

Alfonso scoffed.

"You could simply puppeteer the process so that they seem to be at its center."

I turned a hand to him.

"In good faith, I'll let you all decide if they've assisted enough."

A set of rambling echoes reverberated throughout the crowd. Alfonso gave me an evil grin.

"Those terms are acceptable."

Florence dragged a hand down his face.

"The man was an accountant, lawyer, judge, and auditor, yet you've given him the right to decide who is the winner? You might as well announce that you never intended on winning in the first place."

I beamed with confidence.

"Tera was able to take over an entire planet without spilling a drop of blood. What makes you think his entire species can't fix a wound on one measly world?"

Helios let out a long, grating sigh.

