I got the monolith at the city's center online; its boons basked over the skeptilian encampment. I wiped my brow of imaginary sweat before turning to the brother albony.

"That lets you know how little we really know about the language. I'm only a child rummaging through the secrets of the universe, yet I'm an expert to most. It makes you wonder what the remnants or the Builders understood."

Florence let out a whooping breath.

"You're a child surrounded by infants then because this makes absolutely no sense to me."

Helios watched the pillar power itself with the blue dungeon heart.

"You throw those resources wherever now, don't you?"

I smiled.

"They're not exactly a limited asset anymore. Though Earth's position on a dimensional fault line came with dangers, the sheer volume of resources the planet generated rivaled any world, even veritable mines like Gypsum. This overwhelming supply enabled us to keep creating core-powered cities and golems, and the L-7 cores weren't as scarce anymore.

I say that, but whenever I went back to L-7, I'd be harvesting tens of thousands of blue cores at the bare minimum. I would be a harvester with a scythe, and my field of wheat would be blue, glowing, and have scarecrows made of end-state eldritch. Ok, not my best metaphor, but I digress.

I took out the last core for Cairo and slid it into the final rune-laden chamber. Wiping yet more imaginary sweat from my brow, I powered another town in the Middle East. It had been a kind of cultural revolution for me, the sheer volume of exploration exceeding all my previous journeys combined.

Though I wouldn't call this genuine exploration. This rivaled quick sightseeing that lacked the time or attention needed to truly understand a city. A great example of that was actually Springfield. I founded the city and rebuilt it from the ground up, but I didn't know the city until I lived there. Every town or population center I visited was the same.

Interrupting my thoughts, Helios snapped his fingers, a portal opening towards a city with a tremendous view of space. Helios gestured to it.

"After you, your majesty."

Knowing where it went, I took a deep breath of Earth's air one last time before stepping through the veil. Florence gave my shoulder a pat.

"Don't worry. We'll be back, and Earth'll be waiting for you."

I peered back behind me.

"Maybe a bit changed, but with open arms, I hope."

From an ancient desert city to a minted garden one, we stepped through the portal and onto the lunar settlement. It carried the signs of an albony society, from individuals wearing masks to an emphasis on expansive areas. That was despite the size constraints of a confined metropolis. My cities still had hard limits on their size, and the albony made the most of it.

Lanterns lit wide walkways with metallic embroidery, adding a Renaissance feel interposed by late-era steampunk ingenuity. The walkways used luxurious stone like marble instead of granite, and they put flecks of gold within as if stars lit the ground. The ambient lighting gave way to stylized homes that emphasized space and broad, sweeping vistas.

Even after an apocalypse, the sheer wealth of the people remained front and center. They opened designer shops, cafes, entertainment centers, and schools. Their society moved into this confined space without so much as a hitch, something Florence and Helios likely had a heavy hand in.

As we walked by the luxury, banisters of cloth hung down each lantern. They draped between each light, connecting them and creating an unbroken chain that lined every cobbled street. Upon every thread, different colors wove together in beautiful demonstrations of color. I nodded in approval.

"Wow. Majestic, some might even say."

Florence waved a hand over them.

"They carry the history and stories of our people, something we don't want to forget after being usurped onto this new world."

I stepped up to the fabric and grasped a tapestry, inspecting it closer. Florence hadn't exaggerated. The threads held stories on them, from terrifying monsters to battles waged upon seas of blood. After following a line of them, I found one tapestry that stood out.

"This one shows bondage."

Helios sighed.

"It was a part of our people. To my distaste, it's not something that is so easily purged."

I shook my head.

"We both know it's not your entire kind. It was a practice by your people, but you all will rise above it. After all, neither of you has asked me to use Schema's systems for subservience, and you've helped the skeptiles earnestly despite getting more than a few stones thrown your way."

Florence rubbed the back of his head.

"We're far too high a level for stones to hurt, but why must they put fresh paint on them? It's so difficult to get out of my fur."

Helios glowered.

"Then why do you urge them on?"

Florence laughed in a good-natured chuckle.

"To hit you, of course. I'll take a few patches of cerulean and maroon if that's all it takes to see you covered in multi-colored polka dots."

Helios glared at Florence, several uncleaned patches of paint spread over his fur.

"Are you mocking my blindness?"

Florence gave him a shake.

"Only when I can."

They laughed, and I held a complex emotion. I was happy for them, but I also envied their brotherhood. The camaraderie between the brothers helped carry their hardships. It reminded me of long days at the gym Outlast way back in Springfield. There was an unspoken competition to be the last to leave, and I had my fair share of late nights trying to win that nameless accolade.

A few regulars beat me most days, though I had to get up early for school. My excuses aside, they were a tenacious group of people from Phil to Alison. I smiled. Alison always brought these grotesque, homemade protein bars. Every time I tried one, I nearly choked from how dry they were. It was like chalk dust drizzled over a pile of powdered peanut butter.

I held down a laugh before I frowned. For a moment, I wondered where they were. It made me wish I'd searched them out before Yawm razed Springfield to the ground. I grew silent as I pondered, but we all kept walking and talking. Florence covered any lulls in the conversation with interesting facts about the albony or by bringing up good-natured memories between us.

As always, Florence set everyone around him at ease, his manner and bearing like that of a generous prince. In many respects, he was one, though his kingdom had fallen while his bearing hadn't. After walking down the meandering paths, we arrived at the capitol building of New Olstatia.

It was a grand building of red marble, with many patterned mosaics lining it in wide angular patterns. The polygonic structure reminded me of Russian cathedrals but with sweeping edges and more flowing floral arrangements over them. However, the best parts came from their uses of magic, each inventive and inviting.

An ethereal waterfall fell from the top of the building, the mana surging as a persistent cascade. As I walked through the translucent, cerulean hue, a wave of refreshing cool passed over me. Behind it, a palpable aura bled out of the many tapestries hanging from the walls. These flowing images gave life to the stories of their people, from albony first finding fire to their battles against Elysium.

As we reached the building's entrance, two guards stepped aside at the sight of the albony and me. They gave a curt nod, and Florence returned the gesture. Florence smiled.

"It's good to see you, Noel. Please, do say high to Marge for me."

I marveled at the diplomat.

"How in the hell do you guys have guards already?"

We pushed the doors made of aged oak aside, the wood polished and imported from Earth. Florence spread his hands.

"There are times were productivity trumps all, but we are a broken people. We need pieces of our traditions to hold us together and to take pride in. By having our kind continue our best practices, we'll be able to better transition into our new role by retaining pieces of what we were. Of course, we'll do so while abandoning the worst parts of our people."

I hardly listened as I observed the room around us. I peered at the mosaics and murals lining the entire expanse, their majesty like the Sistine Chapel. Weapons, armor, and relics from their most famous battles lined this capitol building, and the dome above held the persistent sound of classical music.

The orchestrations came together in strange yet melodic harmonies, like a mixture of Gaelic chanting and Bach's complex symphonies. A series of trees lined the room, each detailing a mask of wood at their front alongside the status behind them. At the center rested a black tree of crystallized obsidian. It bloomed violet apples that burned in magenta fire.

They carried the smell of cedar and Earth while basking the entire expanse in something...Primal. It was as if I walked into the garden of Eden, and this tree was the forbidden fruit. Walking up to it, Helios gestured to the pearlescent bark and leaves.

"It's an homage to our past. While the masks were a tradition basked in classism, the craftsmanship of the masks acted as a ladder to a higher status for the low borne. It gave them a way out of the abject poverty, and it was a sign of our humility. While we may no longer defer to Obolis who instituted the system, we still respect the centuries our people lived under the system."

I put a hand on the bark. It felt like glossy chitin.

"It's amazing."

Above us, ambient lighting changed as a rotating, artificial sun shined through stained glass. Helios sighed.

"We'll have enough time to marvel at our architecture later. We've waited long enough, and displaced albony need homes."

I nodded.

"Good point."

We passed the large domed room. It held six hallways to different rooms and spaces, with paintings and artifacts lining the hallways all the while. Helios sighed at it all.

"Diesel mentioned something about beauty, and I must agree. It gives people a reason to live."

Florence grinned.

"I must find time to sit down and have a meal with him. He's wise well beyond his years, and I'd learn much from him and his perspective."

We stepped through a series of hallways and paths, with many statues, ornate paintings, and luxurious masonry covering the walls. I shook my head in disbelief.

"How in the world did you do all of this in a few weeks?"

Helios stared at his claws.

"To no one's surprise, our species's priorities didn't revolve around retaining our culture. Many fought over the most valuable and decadent supplies that revolved around raw power. Our artwork and sculptures were far from that survival-oriented focus, and it resulted in the absolute desolation of our museums."

Florence peered up, a glint in his eye.

"That's where I came in. I've been hoarding artwork for decades, and my collection includes many portions of our artwork from across the old empire. I bought these collections from various artists by exchanging them for them for various schools revolving around their chosen masteries. These are a few of their choice works."

I put my hands on my hips as we reached another gorgeous doorway.

"When did you find time for all of this?"

Florence furrowed his brow.

"I haven't been leveling at all. My focus has been on retaining the best parts of my kind and giving them a new home."

At that moment, a spike of shame washed over me. I hadn't done anything of the sort, and their grand ambitions and ideals made me feel small. It reminded me that they were older than me, even if our levels didn't reflect that. If anything, the more time I spent beside these two, the more I felt the difference in how we were raised.

These two were princes, and their perspectives matched. Their schooling, associates, and general resources exceeded my own by leaps and bounds. Perhaps not militarily, but in terms of how many competent people they actually knew, and that came from Obolis and the Empire. On the other hand, I was born in a trailer because an ER visit cost too much to even consider, health insurance or not.

Despite that personal turmoil, I smiled, and it was genuine and pure. I had pride in my friends and what they'd done.

"Excellent work. I'm proud to know you two."

Helios flushed under his fur.

"Oh, cease with your flattery. We live by your mercy, so it's shameful to compliment us for simply trying to do something with our people as we use resources you gave us."

Florence scoffed.

"What he meant to say was, thank you, Daniel. Sincerely, you are a great friend."

Helios put a hand on Florence's shoulder. Ice spread from the Fringe Walker's palm.

"I'll kill you if you don't be quiet."

Florence put a hand on the doorway.

"That is to say, I've been attempting to massage out the worst parts of our kind, but certain concessions have been necessary up until now. Do avoid tearing anyone's head off, Daniel."

I raised my hands in my defense.

"Oh, come on, we're going to be fine."

Florence gave me a knowing smile.

"It's not us that I'm worried about."

We stepped into a rounded oratory, pews set onto the sides and full to the brink with elaborately dressed albony. They spoke and discussed various topics, from politics to reforging the moon into a new home. These long-backed benches lined the entire room until they reached an elevated podium.

Atop it, a monocled albony stared down at us with a sharp, steely glare. He wore a fashioned suit, one of Victorian sensibilities mixed with more modern tastes. He opened a pocket watch to his side before snapping it shut. He gave Helios a toothy smile.

"Ah. Helios. You're late."

Helios smiled back, the expression lifeless.

"Oh, Alfonso. Of course I am. How else would I get under your skin?"

Alfonso tilted his head, gray streaks tracing the white fur across his face.

"The same way you always have. By lacking dignity and grace."

Florence walked up to Alonfonso. Florence said,

