Shiv fancied himself a walking calamity, someone who bore the strength of a small apocalypse in his fists and muscles alone. Yet as the Strongest drew its arm back to throw a haymaker above all other haymakers, the world itself groaned. A crushing weight cracked the floor beneath Shiv like a thin sheet of ice. The will-powered metal walls far away folded and compressed like a tin can beneath the boot of a giant. The two hundred Jessicas were driven down to a sprawl; Legendary though their Physicality might be, they were still caught in the presence of a god, and Cripple was a god of strength and sacrifice.

“My strength above yours. My ruination in exchange for yours.” Cripple spoke those words, and a second voice echoed in the undertow. It sounded like a binding vow, a final promise from Ascendant to Avatar, and then the fist fell.

It struck Shiv harder than anything had ever struck him before. The world vanished. The light that followed was blinding, incandescent if only for a single moment. Shiv saw reality breach, and instead of rupturing, he found himself lodged into a Domain, a place of pure force that battered and ground him from all sides, that crushed and twisted, that hammered and slammed.

Shiv's body was caged within a nest of platinum scabs. The forces acting upon him were unstoppable, unceasing, and utterly illimitable. The Ascendant called Strongest knew nothing of weakness, and with that single blow it cast Shiv through a realm, a hell that was built upon power unrivaled.

But even that couldn't shatter the Onus of the Scarred Unbroken. Instead, the weight Shiv bore and the pressures acting upon him reached impossible heights.

He couldn't move. His bones were creaking, yet the Onus of the Scarred Unbroken held, and so he was caught in a state of perpetually building claustrophobia. His lungs grew so crushed that they felt like twin slabs inside his chest. His heart hammered hard, but it began detonating against his spine, and the tumors inside of him clattered and tightened as they were pressed together. Within that hive of teratoma and mutation, Shiv felt Adam's arm snap, then a leg, then another bit of his body twisted out of place. The Paragon didn't awaken, but Shiv could feel Adam struggling, kicking. The pressures finally passed through Shiv and reached Adam for the first time.

No, no, no, come on, don't die! Just hang in there, just hang in there a while longer—

But then Shiv remembered Valor’s words, and he focused. Stealing force from Jessica was already a nightmare, but within Cripple’s godly realm—actually, it was easy. The damage was coming from everywhere; there was never a moment Shiv wasn’t getting crushed. From that came an inexhaustible source of tides, and though it felt like he was trying to drink a sea empty before it drowned him, he was Legend trying to drink an ocean, and he actually managed to reduce his strain—if only by a meager bit.

From that ocean he swallowed, his tides grew stronger, and the existential annihilation Cripple sought to inflict was driven back as Shiv’s Practicing Atheist Feat triggered in full and caused the godly mana to recoil from his person.

He thought striking back with his cutting aura was beyond possibility until he remembered he didn’t need to physically move his body to trigger the skill. All he needed was an edge and a means to direct his slashes. Thus, he pushed his mana-hydra out, snarling with effort as they were battered by Cripple’s power as well. They slithered out from Shiv—and grew a mess of ridged teeth in a spreading mess of tumors on his back.

And all at once, the teeth came aglow with the crimson of Vitae.

Slashing crescents tore into the godly blows. Shiv felt his Unique Skill chip against but never hew through the all-sundering power unleashed by Cripple.

But sometimes, chipping away at your enemy was enough. Sometimes, a single injury left a gap that became a most treacherous of openings.

The incandescent mana cut out. It was like a cold wind gutting a feeble flame. One moment, Shiv was deep within the Strongest's Domain. Now he was spared that realm of unceasing strength and absolute devastation. The light slowly faded. The ionization died down, but even in the immediate aftermath, the temperature was high enough to reduce a High Hero of Toughness to ashes in a flash.

And then something struck Shiv once more. If he could move, he would have flinched under the impact, expecting another blow from the Ascendant. Yet what happened thereafter surprised him, as it was instead the utterly devastated form of Cripple's Avatar collapsing beside Shiv. The bot was a sprawl of broken bits and scattered mechanisms. Oil seeped out from the tubes within its inner workings, and its reactor glowed bright, hissing incandescent emissions into the air. Detached wires sparked as the Avatar tried to rise, but its single eye began to flicker, and its voice echoed and glitched, crackling as it entered its death throes.

While the Avatar embarked on that final journey, Cripple briefly flickered over its downed form, and it stared upon Shiv and gave him the slightest of nods before it faded once more. “A worthy skill. But thus I, the Strongest, command it to be greater yet. May it be enough for that final step to come…”

Though his lips and tongue were too heavy to muster a reply, Shiv's eyes still managed to widen as a flow of divine mana passed through him, settled inside him, boiling his soul as if flames feeding a furnace, furthering his Legendary refinement.

“This…” Valor’s voice fell low and surprised.

The Jessicas groaned and struggled to get back to their feet, but Cripple’s voice continued to echo through the space: “If you have not grasped this truth already, let me make this plain: I am not a simulation. I am Cripple itself, and I have used the System to deliver an echo of myself to serve as your truest warden in this trial.”

Shiv felt his Toughness thicken and condense. Onus of the Scarred Unbroken was somehow getting even denser, and Shiv felt the scars part around him, turning from a choking cocoon to being akin to an armor of scabs that gleamed with platinum resplendence.

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

Applying Partial Unconfirmed Legendary Evolution: Onus of the Scarred Unbroken (Legendary) > Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable (Legendary-Unique)

“I have been hiding,” Cripple continued. “I considered returning to the Gate. I considered returning to the Republic. I considered many things. But I felt Longinus’ truest self die. And I heard him before he passed. I heard his whispered voice thanking you. I felt his relief.”

Encounter Complete (4/5)

Another twelve minutes had passed. The simulation reset itself. Yet, as Shiv found himself returned to the doorway where he always stood in guard of Adam, there was a new presence aside from him and Valor. The presence of Cripple's Avatar, restored to its finest condition. Its head was bowed, its body down on one knee, and it pressed its right arm against its chest and glowed faintly with divine energy.

Cripple manifested as a shining mirage, mirroring the actions of its Avatar. “The System has delivered my will. Your skill has been strengthened and refined. I wish I could offer a higher service than just this for the righteousness you’ve done for my brother, but that will take time. I hope you can accept this as an initial offering from this coward of a machine—and an apology as well.”

Both Shiv and Valor stared speechlessly at Cripple.

“You… You’re actually in my Delve?” Shiv said. “This isn’t some weird test by the System?”

“No,” Cripple answered. “My Divinity burns true. Even here. Especially here. An imprint of myself has remained close to you ever since I brought you into my Domain in the Rubix Well.”

The Deathless’s startlement doubled. “You could have done this at any time?”

“The soul of a mortal is not so unassailable for a god—even a false one. But though I am a counterfeit, the power of the Great One themselves is beyond even the System’s in certain regards. Transcendent. And so I did something of worth with this stolen glory. I spent a reward granted by the System, to see your skill made finer.”

“A reward?” Valor breathed. “A reward that was meant for one of your Avatars. Or yourself?”

Cripple and its Avatar both held out a hand. “We do not remember who we are anymore. We have not been ourselves for far too long. Our legends have been forgotten and swallowed by another's. You are right, Legend Valor. You were always right. It was folly to think we could steal our godhood and elope without consequence.”

Slowly, Cripple lowered its hand. “I scarcely remember if I was another way, however. I think… I feel like I have become more myself with this degeneration, that I am purer rather than ruined. But that I am weaker of heart and mind as well.” Cripple unclenched the fist and looked at its relaxed fingers. “I cannot say for certain, but I wish to find out. I ask of you, Deathless—may I return? May I ask you to recollect my brother’s final moments, and to implore you for a greater favor?”

Somehow, Shiv knew exactly what that was. “I’m not going to kill you, Cripple. Not unless there’s no chance to save you anymore. And yeah, you can come back. I—I didn’t mean to hurt you, but you understand that you have to choose.”

“Yes. I do not know what choice I wish to make, but I know what choices I despise.”

Shiv managed to guess that too. “You don’t want to go along with either the Starhawk or the other Ascendants in their schemes with the Great One. You’re done stealing legends.”

Cripple lowered its head once more.

Initiating Encounter (5/5)

Wave 1 activated

Wave 2 activated

Wave 3 activated

Wave 4 activated

Wave 5 activated

An overwhelmed gasp left Shiv as he tried to process everything. “Cripple—Let’s talk once I get out of this Delve, but for now—” All the doors snapped open. “Before they start rushing me, what the hells did you do to my Skill? Why’s it Unique now?”

“I told you: I saw it refined.” And Cripple’s voice sounded more than a little proud. “As for its capability—do not worry, it works much the same, with a single, major enhancement. I am aware you appreciate the adaptive immunity skill you started your journey with as well. An aspect of that has been incorporated into your scars. May it guard you well with what is to come.”

“And what is to—” Shiv growled as the Uvas came surging forth. “Never mind, I’ll figure it out myself. Valor! Out! If I’m not awake in twelve minutes, I failed, and you can come back for another go. Cripple, I hope you didn’t fuck me over with this.”

“See the truth of my intentions when violence next greets your flesh.”

“Remember: Use your enemies to further your logistics; always build up your Tides, and think deeply about what you have, and what you can do,” Valor called out—before winking out in a burst of faint blue.

Shiv wasn’t really in the mood for this cryptic god bullshit, but he didn’t have time to complain. Once again, he tore himself open and socketed Adam inside the wound-holder. Thus far, his body reacted the same way—the flaring pain and generation sensations felt the same. At the same time, his Nihilist sent a tumbling wave of fire down the hall, reducing the Uvas and the orichalcum walls to cooked meat. Shiv gorged himself on the walls as his skin came aglow with—

“What the hells?” Shiv’s jaw tightened as he realized his skin now shone with a platinum-crystal texture that was further lined with veins of red-gold metal. “Okay, that’s more than a few threads.”

“Arrow!” One of the Urris roared.

Shiv rolled his eyes and prepared to face the oncoming Vulteg annoyance—only for a dozen Culturists to teleport in first, striking Shiv with an onrush of blows. Each hit sent a pulse of force through Shiv, and he briefly felt his organs coil before his Toughness woke once more.

Shiv's Legendary-Unique Toughness came aglow with platinum scars, just like its progenitor. However, the moment the first blemish was painted upon his flesh, the rest of his body began to manifest the very same texture as that scar spread and encompassed him in a dense armor made from rupturing bruises.

One moment, the Culturists struck away, their fists, elbows, knees, and feet falling like hurricanes. The first hundred or so stings burdened Shiv with weight, but after that second passed and the scar tissue formed into plates of platinum scab-armor, a chain of uncanny impacts shook Shiv. Instead of gaining new scars or suffering more weight upon his onus, the thick plates of scab armor protected Shiv, and they were perfectly adapted to the Culturist’s blows. The orc's punches and kicks recoiled in detonations that sent silver sparks flying through the hall, strikes going from invasive and penetrating shots to the old impacts that incurred no more damage-debt.

And, to Shiv's growing disbelief, he understood why: The scabs serving as a suit of armor were getting thicker and wider. They were becoming a shell, much like a Tarrasque's shell, but instead of being something of pure emerald crystal, it was lined with a glorious platinum resplendence that Shiv now associated with his new Toughness.

“Remarkable,” one of the Culturists breathed. “Not only do you seem graced with indestructibility, but adaptive indestructibility on top of that. I can feel your Toughness repelling—”

That Culturist teleported away as Shiv called his hollow flame back, forming a dense sphere of Pyromancy around himself to fry every orc annoyance that dared to hold their ground. The Urris took their place, charging into the zone of scintillating fire without fear.

