Shiv allowed the first of the Vultegs to strike him—and felt a hefty increase to the weight of his Onus. Yet, after the fourth and fifth punches he took, the structure of the scar-shell protecting Shiv shifted, and instead of being a bursting bruise, it began a dense, dark scar that brought forth the same outcome. After the initial punches, everything post-adaption sent silver sparks bouncing through the world instead.

Cripple really wasn’t bullshitting about that anvil thing, Shiv thought.

“Why don't you break?” an Urri raged. “Why don't you—”

Shiv caught his blow and ripped away the force. A flood of tides flowed down Shiv’s right arm, and he sent a third of it back via a thrust kick that sent the Urri tumbling back into a wall of his comrades.

A vicious grin built on Shiv’s face as he advanced upon his enemies with the feeling of true implacability burgeoning in his chest. He advanced, glittering flames clinging to him, cooking everything within two hundred meters of him. The Urris came, too stupid to plan better, too strong to need any other strategy in most cases.

But Shiv wasn’t most cases.

Shiv was now greater than the Urris could ever be.

Their fists fell like feeble hammers of rotted wood upon an indestructible anvil. He shrugged their blows aside and used them more as force-generators to fuel himself. Need to build up as many tides as possible when I have to survive myself, the Jessicas, and Cripple.

And just when he wondered when the others would arrive, a Jessica appeared, slamming a hammer down on the top of his head.

It just cracked and bounced off with a flash of silver. The Jessica staggered back as she took in her damaged weapon. “What in the felling…”

“You might need something beside—” Shiv shut his mouth before he gave away the game. But it mattered little in the end as another Jessica appeared to drive a longsword into his gut, stroking a new scar over the existing shell and causing it to change.

And though Shiv’s new Legendary-Unique Skill was enhanced as Cripple claimed, it could still be quickly overburdened when faced with a broad range of attacks that never gave it a chance to adjust to a single damage type. The Jessicas slashed, and burdened, and smashed, and stabbed, and kept cycling weapons to keep Shiv’s adaptive indestructibility off-balance and deprived of its former aspect.

In minutes, they brought him down to his knees again, and with every subsequent blow, Shiv found it harder to stay upright at all.

“Fuck,” a Jessica gasped. “This shit is turning into an actual workout. Starting to feel a bit of an ache in my arm.”

The Culturists blinked in and out—but more than a few were “accidentally cut down” by a Jessica when they came into Shiv’s vicinity. The others managed strikes when they could, but they grew sparser and sparser as the hollow flame finally took its full toll. The Urris were beginning to wane as well.

“Cripple!” Shiv called out. “Cripple! If you’re still there, I’m ready. Take your swing again. Let’s see if you can make a victim of me with this second go!”

“Hey, worry less about the bot-god and more about me,” a Jessica hissed from behind.

“Listen, Jessica, I’m already plenty—” Shiv’s words cut off as he felt a spike in mana frequency—the tremoring that came with someone else using an attuned skill you had as well. He acted without thought. His enemy called upon a temporal skill, and so did he. The broken fragments of the Harbinger formed around Shiv, and it hurt to manifest his Pre-Legendary Skill before its full recovery—but he acted just in time as another presence crashed into him.

Two Harbingers cracked, two Toughnesses flared, and two bodies slammed together hard as twin indestructible monsters began hammering away at each other as those around them briefly stayed their hands.

Shiv glared straight into the cold, hopeless eyes of his alternate self and sneered. “Was wondering when you would show up. How do you like my new skill?”

The copy sneered right back. “I liked it more when I was the only one who had it.”

“Yeah, I think you have the wrong way around: I am the only one who has it, because you’re not real, and you’re not getting out of here no matter what happens.”

A faint crack spread across the copy’s neck. “Maybe. But I can keep you here plenty long too. I can take a lifetime from you, while you struggle here in vain.”

Shiv just nodded. “In vain. Well. Time to find out how true those words prove.”

And with that, both Deathlesses sent a wave of overflow tides up along their arms and hands as they wrestled with each other, strength, durability, magic, and more clashing as twin unbreakable anvils embarked on a desperate battle to see who would fall first.

“Check it out,” a Jessica shouted with a laugh, smacking another instance of herself on the chest as they watched—and halted their attacks. “In-Delve entertainment.”
