It is said that Chorus survives thanks to the blood and labor of its Martials. It is built up and made great by the wonders brought forth at the hands of its craftsmen and mages, and it is further expanded by its explorers and artisans, but ultimately, it is only preserved from the threats lurking within and without by the tireless work performed by its Diviners and Investigators.

But be not fooled by the name. If you join the Bureau of Unprecedented Occurrences, you will find yourself laden with more labor than any other Pathbearer. You must always be at the forefront of every development. To give this duty perspective, over a thousand new dimensions are dragged into the greater sphere of Integration each day. Of these thousand dimensions, there are countless other threads in the far darkness beyond Chorus that seek to exploit us, as well as infinite treasures on every planet within every star system brought over, containing a multitude of fortunes and a vast sea of dangers—all of which must be located, secured, contained, and then catalogued by Chorus to preserve and protect its people.

To enter the Bureau of Unprecedented Occurrences, you must prove yourself beyond peer and above distinction. You yourself must be unprecedented among all others so that you might find yourself privileged and burdened with all the duties required by your station, and given the honorary title of Farwalker-Mysteria.

And should you prove worthy, what lies before you is a promised path that extends unto eternity. If you can live up to the challenge, if you can keep yourself and your fellow Anticitizens alive, there is a reward. You will experience things few others ever get to. You will be at the forefront of changes that alter Integration. Be blessed with the burdens of intercepting and discovering the weaknesses of civilization-swallowing calamities.

But the peril will see you pitted against enemies that seem to have no weakness against threats that loom beyond your comprehension. Death lurks around every corner. Forever is a thing found on the crossroads between your capabilities and the will and mercy of the System.

So if you are capable, if you are fortunate, if you have the will, the measure, and the urge to guard, to discover, and to be the eyes that come before the swinging of the blade or the extension of the all-wood branch, then join the Bureau of Unprecedented Occurrences today and be the one that charts the path of peace and prosperity.

Systema Non-Servium, Anticitizen.

Through defiance we endure.

—Introduction to the Bureau of Unprecedented Occurrences (Chorus)

393

The Scarforged Unbreakable [II]

“You had your time, Legend Hawgrave. And you proved lacking. Your weapons are insufficient, as is your Physicality. His Toughness endured. I yearn to see him stay alive still despite all that is to come. Now stand aside, and grant my fist its chance to fall.”

Cripple's mechanical voice resounded like a hailstorm of anvils striking a landscape of iron. Each syllable was muttered with such explosive force that the air itself combusted, turning into an inferno that gnawed at Shiv, and gravity grew laden with the full weight of the Ascendant’s impending presence.

Shiv, meanwhile, struggled to stay conscious, battling for every breath, even though his body remained unblemished beyond an external layer of platinum-bright scars. They were scabbed so thick they kept him pinned to the ground. And within that unbreakable hive, Shiv's left lung burst like an overpressured balloon. It was hard to describe how much damage it took to empty one of his lungs—lungs strong enough that he could cause a small gale to form just by blowing hard. Lungs strong enough that his shouts were capable of shattering stone and turning Adepts to a bloody mist.

Legendary physiology changed a man. It made his blood flow with such pressure that it was capable of slicing through steel beams if an artery was severed. It made every organ of him function on the level of a natural disaster rather than a system of biomechanics. His heart beat with the force of a bomb going off, and from it swam forth Shapeless Tides he could wield and direct.

And without a doubt, if he had time to prepare, he was much stronger than the Giantsbane. But he absolutely wasn't stronger than two hundred of her, not even close. He wasn't nearly as skilled as even one of her. When they all came forth, the beating Shiv took went beyond Legendary by far.

The hallway was gone, as was the gate at the end, all the doors lining the sides, the carpet that ran along the floor, and Adam's room. The combined force of all the Jessicas had sculpted the orichalcum insides of the simulation into a massive hollow egg that extended far, far beyond Shiv's gaze. The ground was closer to glass than orichalcum, and with every passing second, he sank further, his body weight so immense that even that ever-toughening red-gold metal couldn't bear the burden of his sacrifice.

As the orichalcum failed, so too did two specific organs inside Shiv: his lungs. They squeezed so often that he was forced to constantly regenerate them using his Aegis of Assimilation. The frequency of his choked lungs only increased as the Jessicas continued hammering away at him like a downpour. Their blades didn't even need to touch his body. Their cuts sailed through the air, passed through each other, and landed upon him with merciless might.

Though Shiv managed to convert quite a few of the impacts into Shapeless Tides, he found himself sacrificing all his overflow vectors as soon as he got them, as the weapons Jessica bore came alive with mana as well.

Though he might be able to convert physical attacks, it demanded a sacrifice of his vectors or the ruination of his flesh and soul.

Yet, though the experience was torturous, it wasn't unreasonable. Rusty was absent, and the magical enchantments imbued in Jessica's replacement swords were all lesser than Master-Tier. Anything greater would see him shattered by sheer attrition alone. Surviving that beating reminded him of a few facts. He was indestructible with this Toughness evolution, but he wasn't invulnerable. His mind was bruised and clouded from all psionic impacts it had withstood. His body remained pinned twice over as the force of gravity became shackles, holding him in place. Time forged a shell around him, refusing to let him leap into the future or even grind the present to a halt. Dimensional wards afflicted him, pulling at him in different directions.

There was a place where Magical Resistance intersected with Toughness. Fire seared flesh. Ice would freeze one's blood still to a fatal halt. Lightning fried nerves and halted hearts. Geomancy allowed for petrification or simply the percussive brutality of falling stone. Biomancy was most subversive of all, capable of making flesh betray itself as a mage of the body could command a skeleton to shed its surrounding meat.

Everything that dealt overt damage could be resisted still by the Onus of the Scarred Unbroken. But spells of the more esoteric nature—the kind that cursed the air to combust around him with every movement, the kind that saw him petrified, the kind that saw his organs rebel and collapse in a devastating cascade—required magical resistance to survive.

But as Cripple's footsteps sounded forth like the steady beat of distant war drums, Shiv struggled to turn his head in anticipation of what was to come. He'd survived an onslaught of might and magic, but an attack of divine design often bore a sting in a league of its own.

“Crippulll,” Shiv slurred, trying to delay however he could. “Lettthh tallghhh.” A bold request considering his tongue rested upon his lower jaw, bearing the mass of a small mountain. Still, he had to try. He'd come too far to see this encounter fail now, and to restart the entire simulation once more would be more demoralizing than educational.

Nearby, Valor looked on in silence, studying Shiv's Toughness and the ways it reacted to trauma.

“I fear I cannot acquiesce to your demand,” Cripple replied with droning coldness. “I have come bearing a singular purpose: to see if you can survive my blow of blows, the very same that saw the Undying Tarrasque ruptured and slain, if only in brief. For as this world seeks to strike you with unrivalled cruelty and might, so must you be an unbreaking anvil, and see wonders sparked rather than ruins made.”

Shiv winced as he recalled that blow. That devastating impact that cost Cripple’s Avatar at the time an arm and delivered the Tarrasque unto the embrace of oblivion.

Wait! You should let me recover! It's not a good test if I don't recover. You should let me shed my scars and regenerate before you hit me again. You hit the Tarrasque when it was still whole. I can't even stand up. This is not a good test, Cripple! You know it's not a good test! You know that!

Such was what Shiv wanted to say, but the words left him in grunts and groans, and the Jessicas around laughed in genuine amusement.

With a heavy stomp, Cripple halted. “Legend Hawgrave, why do you all laugh? What has he said?”

“He says that you should let him recover first before hitting him again,” three of them answered in sync. “That you hit the Tarrasque while it was still mostly whole, and that he deserves the same benefit or something.”

Shiv blinked in surprise. He was impressed that Jessica understood his near-incoherent mumbles quite well—and even as part of this simulation, she was more than willing to translate on his behalf. Of course, she'd brutalized him on a level he couldn't imagine earlier, but seeing as they were enemies in this Delve, he really couldn't hold it against her. “Bank yuh.”

“Don't mention it, Shiv,” the same Jessicas replied with a chuckle.

A metallic rumble sounded from Cripple. Shiv finally managed to turn his head, and the sheer exertion left him lightheaded, spent of tides and stamina. “Again, I will not acquiesce to your demand, Deathless. Your Toughness is to be Legendary, and the circumstances Legends face are rarely ideal. If you are to evolve a Legendary Skill worth having, then you must survive this impact, and the one you protect must survive with you. Do not think of this as an act of scorn or brutality on my part. Think of this as a necessity. You will not be granted ideal circumstances in actual battle, and you will not see those circumstances granted now.”

A low sigh wheezed out of Shiv, followed by a sudden pop as his right lung went as well. He casually restored that lung using his mana hydra and continued his wheezing. At the last of his strength, he curled his finger and wiggled it in the direction of the Ascendant in a taunting provocation.

Fine, you godsdamn coward. Take your best swing! Make it good!

Shiv gagged on the words, but Jessica translated for him once more, and a blazing incandescence swallowed the entire chamber. Waves of crashing pressure washed over Shiv. So powerful was Cripple's aura that Shiv found himself driven across the ground, digging a gouge across the glass crater in which he lay.

Again, there was the reminder that though Shiv was Legendary, gods were not beholden to the same limits, and that continued to apply even within this Delve.

Shiv caught a glimpse of Cripple's Avatar and realized the automaton was the very same that was sacrificed to bring down the Tarrasque. The bot's single eye burned bright with divine flame, and its arms were like a series of metallic slabs stacked together, bunched tight with the inner hydraulics whirring, building to a pitched scream in anticipation of a coming blow. “Master yourself, Deathless, and bear this pain. My blow falls, and now you will learn why I was named Strongest among the Ascendants.”

Ah, shit, Shiv thought. He immediately had his mana hydra’s heads bundle themselves around Adam, forging another cluster of dense tumors. Shiv remembered the description of his Quest. He didn't need to survive. Adam needed to be protected. Shiv could always return and resurrect, but if he allowed Adam to die, that was the true end of the simulation. Maybe this was what the System was trying to test.

“Shiv!” Valor called out, his tone urgent. Cripple hesitated for a moment, its head tilting to regard the Animancy-shrouded Valor, who ignored the many glares from the Jessicas and the glowing eye of Cripple. “When it strikes, resist with all you have. If you are capable, project your cutting edge against its Divinity. Steal from the strike what force you can—Cripple is a raw and brutal thing. As are you. Even the privilege the System grants to the divine is secondary to how much it favors a Unique Skill. Should he actually manage to break you, now would be a fine time to call upon your garden.”

“Be silent, lich,” Cripple declared, its voice harsh and heavy. “This is his duel, his responsibility. He must endure this trial alone.”

“Yes, just as you endured and survived the slave pits on your own. Just as you are the single Ascendant of the Yellowstone Republic instead of one of twenty—or was it thirteen? Just as you fight without needing an Avatar to represent you.” Valor's voice was so thick with derision and judgment that Shiv waited for his Harbinger to trigger from secondhand emotional damage.

But while that didn’t happen, Cripple trembled for a half-second—before exploding into world-splitting violence.

