The group remained together for a short while. Smokey, Cee, and Caspian returned to the anthill, where the merman would begin working on the potion necessary for the ritual. Meanwhile, Liora, along with Renir, would acquire the necessary ingredients.

Which pretty much meant that Liora would have to get all of them. They had only managed to get a single ingredient from the list.

"What were you guys even doing? Didn't you have a lot of time for this?" Liora asked Renir.

"No, I only finished deciphering the ritual yesterday. We haven't managed to get far today, since you know… We can't move very fast," Renir grumbled.

"Aww, so does that mean that you need me?" She teased.

"Of course I need you!"

The honest answer threw Liora off. She hadn't expected Renir to admit to it so readily.

"I've needed you since day one, so please don't leave again. Okay?" Renir said.

"I… Well, you shouldn't say mean things to me anymore," Liora grumbled.

"Don't just approach strangers who claim to be my friends so readily. Just because Aenir is my brother doesn't mean that you can trust him. Trust nobody, alright?"

"Fair enough. Now what do we need to get first?"

Most of the ingredients required were rather mundane. Either a plant of some kind which could be found in the desert or in an oasis, or a body part of a particular monster.

Liora was initially afraid that these monsters would be strong, but they were actually weak. Horn of a desert jumper, which was a creature no larger than a mouse. Hump from a two-headed camel, which in all regards acted like a regular camel with the exception of having two heads.

One Meteor Strike killed the poor thing in one hit. There was barely enough hump left to salvage for the potion.

Venom from a gateclaw scorpion was a bit trickier. There were no gateclaw scorpions in the desert above the anthill, so Liora had to go back into the dungeon. She made sure to get the Affliction Nullification buff from Caspian before she went.

"Extracting the venom will be tricky. The scorpion has to be alive for it to be usable in the potion," Renir said once Liora entered the dungeon.

"How the hell am I supposed to get it while it's alive?" Liora questioned.

"Why do you think I made you pick up that cup with camel skin over it?"

Liora barely remembered taking the thing. Caspian had given it to her while Renir was rambling something about the consistency of the potion. She hadn't been paying proper attention at the moment, just automatically stashed the thing in her inventory.

Curious, she withdrew the cup and looked down at it, still mid-flight. It was just a wooden cup with a piece of leather secured over the top.

"Do I just jab the stinger in the leathery part and hope the venom goes inside? Like with snakes?" Liora asked.

"Uh… Yeah. I'm surprised you're familiar with the process."

"I've seen it on TV."

"TV? You mean those strange boxes from your old world that would show moving images?"

"Yeah, the very same. You don't have anything like that here, do you?"

"I'm afraid not. Maybe we could try to recreate it?"

"I doubt that's possible. I don't know exactly how they work. It's some complicated science. In either case, we need to focus on finding the scorpion, not my boring past."

There was a moment of silence as Liora flew, searching for a suitable target.

"Liora?"

"What?"

"Does it still hurt? To remember about your past life?" He asked.

"When I think about mundane things, it's not so bad. I do miss music and video games a little, but our life is quite busy so I can't complain about being bored. But… It does hurt when I try to remember people. I try not to think about it…"

Another heavy moment of silence passed, until Renir spoke again.

"You've got me now. You're not alone."

Liora opened her beak. She wanted to ask whether Renir really would always remain by her side. What would happen once he regained his body? She was afraid to ask.

"Sure, and Cee, Smokey, and Caspian too. It's a weird group, but hey, at least I didn't get roped into working for that Lucien asshole," Liore quipped, trying to keep the tone light. "Oh, look, there's a scorpion. Let me get the venom from him real quick."

It took three tries until Liora finally got the venom. The first scorpion turned out to be too low a level. Liora accidentally killed him with her Meteor Strike. At least she got some glimmerstones from it, and finally reached Level 34. It felt like it had been ages since she last leveled up.

The second one she attacked with an ice-infused Prism Air Slash. But the attack had been too effective, and it had removed the scorpion's tail, which rendered the venom useless.

The third time, Liora used Decoy Fade to distract the scorpion, then grabbed its tail from behind, jabbing the stinger right into the cup. The scorpion had been so startled that it shot the venom straight into it.

"Thank you kindly," Liora said and launched an ice-infused Prism Air Slash at the monster's head. It was decapitated instantly. These guys really couldn't handle ice at all.

"We got all the ingredients!" Liora cheered, flying straight towards the dungeon exit.

"No, we need one more, and this might be the most troublesome to get," Renir grumbled.

"What? Don't tell me that we need the heart of a desert shark matriarch or something. Because I am not fighting another one of those!"

"No, it's not a monster part. It's a plant."

"Whew. Then what's the problem? Let's just go to the place where the plant grows? Is it far?"

"No… It isn't. Or it shouldn't be. We need a blossom from a desert orchid. By all logic, we should have found one in one of the oases we already witnessed, but I didn't spot it anywhere."

"What does it look like?"

"It's a light blue flower with two large petals on the sides which look kind of like butterfly wings, several sepals in the back, and a lip beneath the larger petals."

Liora had no clue what sepals or lip meant on the plant, but to her it sounded like any other orchid. She had one on her windowsill when she was a human. It was a great plant because it didn't require much of her attention. She was never good with plants in her previous life.

No, don't think about that. Focus on the orchid.

"I do recall seeing several orchids."

"What? Where?"

Liora paused. He wouldn't like the answer to this. But there certainly was a place filled to the brim with all sorts of wondrous flowers.

"It was in the royal palace where Aenir is staying."

Renir didn't reply for a long while. A very long time. Liora wondered if she should say something, but didn't dare.

"Let's get the ingredients to Caspian," he said after a long while.

When they returned to the anthill, into the impromptu laboratory that was set up in the deepest room, the same one where Renir had studied the old book, Caspian was glaring at a piece of paper.

"Oh, you're back! Thank the ocean. I cannot for the life of me tell what the hell is written here!" Caspian said, brandishing the paper in the air.

Several ants clicked in agreement. Liora peered at the page, looking at it from one side, then another, trying to find some semblance of letters there. But it looked like something a toddler would have done if they tried to imitate an adult writing.

"You're telling me there's words written there?" Liora questiuoned.

"It's hard to write in this form!" Renir grumbled. "Let me walk you through the steps again."

Here we go again.

Liora slumped as Renir rambled on, occasionally interrupted by Caspian, who asked a question about something Liora didn't understand. Cee was also in the chamber alongside Smokey, who was snoring blissfully in the corner, his leg twitching occasionally.

The spider first appeared interested in their rambling, but soon slumped and scuttled closer to Liora.

"Did you get any of that?" Cee whispered.

"Nope. What are you two doing here? Didn't the antkin put you to work?" Liora asked.

Cee shuddered. "I've run out of thread, so I can't weave anymore for the time being. And Smokey doesn't want to leave my side anymore. But the ants aren't really interested in us anymore. They seem to be preparing for the invasion."

Looking around the chamber, Liora saw that only two antkin were present, carefully listening to Renir and Caspian. Normally, there would be at least six of them, and one would be constantly translating back to the ant who didn't know the common tongue.

It seemed like they really were going all out on this invasion thing.

They had to hurry with Renir's seal so they could check the river and try to prevent this conflict from escalating. She didn't know how much time it would take for the antkin to prepare, but surely mobilizing the whole colony for war wasn't an easy task. They likely needed to stock up on extra food to feed the troops.

After a while, Renir and Caspian were finally done.

"Begin the brew immediately. Liora and I shall retrieve the final ingredient," Renir growled.

"Maybe I should go alone?" Liora suggested. "I don't think it'll be possible to get the orchid without meeting Aenir."

"Absolutely not!" Renir said, wiggling his tiny arms. "I'm not letting you go to him alone. Especially since you didn't do what he wanted you to do."

Oh yeah… Aenir is likely expecting me to return with the water crystal.

"Do you think he'll attack me?" Liora asked.

"I wouldn't put it past the bastard. In either case, I won't let him get away with what he's done. That asshole will get what's coming to him."

"Just so we are clear, he is Level 150. I cannot defeat him," Liora reminded.

"Level 150?! I didn't know the levels went higher than a hundred!" Cee exclaimed.

"They do, although you need to break through the block to go past Level 100. It's a topic for another day. Liora, let's go!" Renir urged.

Liora nodded and turned into her magpie form to fly out of the anthill. It was buzzing with so much activity, Liora had to fly really carefully so as not to run into any of the ants. Moving around in dracoryx would have been impossible with this many ants running about.

It sent a chill through Liora's feathers. She really wished that she hadn't spoken to the antkin council at all. But there was no going back in time. What was done was done.

When Liora and Renir left the anthill, it was late evening. Renir was silent the whole flight to the royal palace, although Liora knew that he was carefully assessing the situation in the country as well as thinking about how to face Aenir.

Liora wondered whether she should try and lighten his mood, but ultimately decided to remain quiet. This wasn't the kind of situation she could diffuse with a joke. In fact, she could feel him tremble the closer they got to the palace. She didn't know Renir could tremble in this form.

"Is that the one?" Renir asked once the palace was finally within their sight.

Night had descended in the time that they had flown, and lights were shining out of the many palace windows.

"There's a protective barrier," he noted.

"Yeah, but I can pass through without any issues in my magpie form," Liora said.

Renir answered with a brusque "hmm", his eyes poised on the palace.

"Maybe I could—"

"No, Liora. I can do this. Go ahead and fly into the garden."

She nodded and passed through the barrier unimpeded. However, unlike normally, a shimmer passed through the whole barrier when Renir went through it.

The very next moment, Aenir appeared beneath them in a puff of smoke. He must have teleported the moment he sensed them. His eyes widened the moment he saw Renir hanging on Liora's neck.

"Renir!" Aenir's voice sounded cheerful.

"Aenir…" Renir's voice was like an angry growl.