He paused as he watched the slime. It had settled down into a uniform blob and stopped moving. Huh. That’s strange…. He reached out and laid his hand on the slime. Somehow, he thought it looked like it was feeling uncomfortably full and was rapidly falling asleep. He didn’t know how he knew it, but he knew.

Am I a slime whisperer now? What the hell? Am I bonded to it or something? He took his hand away, but the strange sense of the slime’s mood remained. It was very faint, less a feeling, and more of an impression. Something about its body language that just said ‘sleepy.’ He wasn’t entirely sure that he wasn’t just imagining it. So it’s not just tame now, it’s my animal companion or something? Wasn’t that, like, too easy? He shook his head. Let’s see if it responds to commands. “Sit. Roll over. Play dead.”

The slime’s only response was to start oozing away, heading for a corner.

“Hey, come back here!” Rain said, but the slime ignored him. He sighed and walked after it. I guess that was too much to ask for. It doesn’t look like it understands me, or maybe it just doesn’t care. System, a little help?

He concentrated for a few minutes, trying a few different mental commands, but nothing happened. It didn’t look like he’d unlocked anything as convenient as a pet panel. The system was paying no more attention to him than the dozy slime was.

In the short time that he’d been distracted, the slime had wedged itself into a corner. When he looked at it, he got the impression of a lazy cat lounging in a sunbeam. Again, it was odd. He couldn’t put his finger on what it was about the slime’s body language that gave him that mental image. He just looked at it, and then he knew.

He shook his head, trying not to think about the fact that he had somehow bonded his soul to a dog-sized blob of gelatin. There was no other way to explain his intuitive understanding. He suddenly smiled as the perfect name for the creature came to him.

He pointed at it, speaking the name aloud. “Dozer.”

The slime’s name changed instantly. It now read ‘Dozer, Level 1.’ It also had fallen asleep.

Today on Questions Nobody Thought to Ask: Do slimes sleep? Answer: yes, yes they do.

Rain stared at the slime for a few more minutes, thinking. Finally, he sighed and shook his head. This was a serious situation, and he couldn’t let the slime distract him. He’d been working on a potential plan B, and the slime had nothing to do with it.

Well, I guess if it’s tame, that should mean it isn’t going to attack me or anything. I still feel like that should have been harder to do, but whatever. Taming it is one thing. Without Command Monster and Tamer’s Synergy and so forth, it isn’t like it’s going to be that useful. Unless I can find a way to level it up and get it to listen to me, it’s still just a slime.

He shook his head.

I only tamed it because I didn’t want to kill it. Can I release it or something once I’m out of here?

He looked at the slime speculatively. If he could get it to level up, it might actually become an asset. Having a monster at his beck and call would be pretty convenient, depending on how the mechanics shook out. After a few moments, he chuckled and shook his head. Didn’t I just say I wasn’t going to let it distract me?

He put the sleeping slime out of his mind with some difficulty and limped unsteadily over to the door. His muscles really didn’t want to cooperate with him, but he didn’t let that stop him. It was time to be smart about this.

The two large chunks of rubble blocking the door had been part of an arch supporting the vaulted ceiling out in the hallway. The fact that the roof hadn’t collapsed entirely meant that the stone above him was stable, more or less.

The room’s ceiling was also supported by brick arches that sprouted from the walls. Rain wasn’t sure if they were just there to support the ceiling facade, or if they were needed to hold up the several dozen meters of stone between him and the surface. This entire complex must have been mined out at some point, but it had been finished completely. The floor, walls, and ceiling were all covered with neatly set blocks of dark stone.

Damn it, I’m just guessing here. I worked on office buildings, not subterranean fortresses.

He walked a few meters to the left, running his hand along the wall separating the room from the open hallway beyond. How am I supposed to tell whether this is load-bearing or just a curtain wall?

“Damn,” he muttered. He couldn’t risk trying to break through it, even though it was only around fifteen centimeters thick. If it was holding up the ceiling, he’d bury himself completely. The stone arches seemed overbuilt if all they were doing was holding up a thin layer of bricks.

He scratched at his chin with his bare hand. His face itched. It was time to shave again, and he’d never actually ended up getting that haircut. Maybe I should just let my beard grow… It’s just so damn itchy. Bah, it’s not going to matter if I can’t get out of here.

He walked over to his pack to retrieve his hammer. It was just a small one, the kind for pounding in nails, not skulls. He strapped his belt back on so he’d have a place to hang it, then continued digging around in the bag until he found the small grappling hook that he’d purchased, along with some climbing pitons.

It pays to be prepared.

He set the grappling hook aside and tucked the pitons into one of his pouches. There wasn’t anything to climb, nor did he know how to use them properly, but that wasn’t what he wanted them for. A piton, fundamentally, wasn’t much different from a chisel. He walked over to the blockage and looked at the big piece of fallen archway speculatively.

One last thing to try before I go all Michelangelo on you.

He concentrated, flaring Purify as high as it would go short of Aura Focus. He’d been using it this whole time, of course, but now he was focused on the concept of what a door was: namely that it wasn’t plugged by a massive pile of rubble. Nothing happened, and he frowned, pushing harder and compressing the aura. He squinted, shielding his eyes against the increased brightness. Still, there was no change. He made sure that he was out of the way of any potential falling rubble, then activated Aura Focus. He let it go for a few seconds, then relaxed, restoring the aura to a more reasonable level.

The barrier remained unchanged. Perhaps some of the dust and sand had been removed when he’d first started using the spell, but there’d been no significant improvement with directed concentration. The smallest pieces were about the size of aquarium gravel. They seemed unimpressed by his attempts to magic them out of existence.

Oh well. It was worth a shot. He fished a piton out of his pouch and set it against the uppermost of the large pieces. He stood out of the way so it wouldn’t crush him if he somehow managed to dislodge it. That seemed unlikely, as it looked like it was really wedged tight, but he didn’t want to take any chances. He raised the hammer and started tapping at the piton lightly. After a moment, he started hitting it with more enthusiasm, thankful that he was still wearing a gauntlet on the hand holding it. His coordination was lacking thanks to the fact that his muscles felt like wrung-out dishrags.

It worked, though. It had taken a while, but he’d managed to drive the small iron spike between two of the bricks to a depth of three centimeters. Whatever the mortar was made of, it was tough stuff. He removed the spike with some difficulty, leaving him with a neat little hole drilled between two of the bricks.

I hope this works.

He reached down to his belt and retrieved his canteen. It was around half full, but he didn’t want it for drinking. Instead, he poured water into the hole that he’d drilled until it was full, then stepped back. He looked over at the slime, making sure that it was still asleep and hadn’t wandered into range. Satisfied, he deactivated Purify, then released a short, sharp pulse of Refrigerate in the darkness. There was a snap of breaking stone, then a thud.

Rain grinned. The flash-frozen water had expanded, forcing the bricks apart. He reactivated Purify, then knelt and lifted the brick that had fallen free with one hand.

That’s what we call a proof of concept.

It wasn’t much, but it was progress. Plan B was a go.
