It’s time to go. She gathered her resolve and began to move forward, but in that moment her attention was snagged by the sound of a pebble hitting the ground behind her. Automatically, her head turned toward the battlements.

What is that? Somebody, or something, was descending the enormous wall with grace and speed.

Malika? Ali suddenly recognized the soul magic bursts as she used her skill to power her vertical sprint. Deep within the fortifications of her heart, something melted. I’m not alone… Her heart leapt in time with Malika’s landing on the ground nearby. She stepped forward, matching her pace with Ali’s levitating disk, and she noticed Malika wasn’t even stepping on the ground.

“Hi Ali,” she said calmly. “Going for a walk?”

The uncharacteristically casual comment contrasted starkly against Malika’s serious demeanor and the hard gaze that remained fixed on Alexander Gray, even as she talked.

She knows this will be hard.

“I’m supposed to go alone,” Ali told her. “You’re going to get in trouble for being here.”

“He’s not going to keep his word, Ali; he’s the guy who deceived Lira. What chance do you honestly think the town has?”

Ali stopped, staring at Malika. She had heard the story of how the necromancer had deceived Lira, and yet she had not even considered the possibility he might be lying about destroying the town. She had set out, unconsciously expecting honesty from the foul necromancer, and Malika had seen through him instantly. How could I be so naïve?

Before Ali could answer, an incandescent pair of wings swooped down on the other side of her, and Calen – a touch out of breath – deposited Mato on the ground.

“You all came?”

“I recall someone saying we would face things together,” Calen answered, readying his bow.

Ali felt the tears welling in her eyes. Ugh, not now! She had tried to bury her hope and loneliness under a wall of anger, but her friends had shown up anyway, and in doing so they had once again proved she was not alone.

“Ali!” Mato said. “What’s the plan?” He looked at her expectantly. “There is a plan, right? Tell me there’s a plan where we beat up that piece of Troll dung.”

Ali wiped her eyes but did not respond, and he looked anxiously at her. “Ali?”

This is about far enough. “Come!” she commanded, smiling at Mato as the ground began to tremble in time to a low rumbling sound, like a distant thunder.

From behind her, six Forest Guardians burst out of the river entrance to the underground cavern – the same entrance she had used to flood the Goblin siege. Many tons of dense gnarled wood creaked and groaned as the Guardians charged full tilt across the battlefield. Dust rose and pebbles jumped from the shaking ground and their crashing charge.

“Yes!” Mato yelled as the Guardians split around them. His yell morphed into a roar as his body twisted and stretched into his Bear Form, and he joined the charge.

Ali smiled at his enthusiasm. All he needed was a good fight.

The Forest Guardians charged through the vanguard of skeletons with a deafening crash and the crunch of snapping bones, their momentum barely slowing as broken skeletons were tossed into the air, and lesser zombies were trampled to mush underfoot.

With the enemy focused on the spectacular opening charge, Ali took the opportunity to deploy the rest of her minions. A squadron of almost a hundred glowing jellyfish floated out onto the battlefield, flying higher to be less conspicuous. She had never used the Lux Drifters before, choosing them for their light-magic acid, but the biggest surprise was that they were a swarm monster, summoned in groups of ten at a time while costing the same amount of mana as a single monster of that level.

Next came five Sparkling Oozes, which she directed to spread out. And finally, five Kobold Fire Mages, and her Acolytes. She placed her Kobolds on a barrier disk, levitating them into the air to keep them out of reach of most of the undead monsters on the battlefield.

“Mato! Fireball!” Ali yelled and then directed her Kobolds and Sparkling Oozes to attack the enormous melee that had formed around Mato and her Guardians. The regeneration aura and Mato’s healing should be more than sufficient. She watched as the furious red fire from her mages arced over and detonated among the skeletons and the Forest Guardians. From far back, intensely incandescent balls of magic lofted over the battlefield to detonate in brilliant explosions of light. Ali sent a command to her Lux Drifters, and they began to circle overhead, raining their glowing caustic acid over the entire battlefield. Ali couldn’t duplicate the endless swarm they had faced in the jungle, but even this many of the flying oozes were having an impact; their acid effective against the skeletons.

So far, so good. Ali observed the battlefield with a sense of wary foreknowledge. This was but the beginning of her biggest battle yet. Her guardians had filled the entire area with rapidly growing and regenerating vines and thorns, locking down large numbers of skeletons. The constant barrage of fire and light magic explosions destroyed the skeletons in droves, injuring Mato and her guardians. Still, her allies were rapidly regenerating the damage from all the overlapped auras and Mato’s healing.

But then, as one, the entire field of undead surged forward, a great tide that broke around their small island of fire and regeneration, surrounding them. Zombies and skeletons were everywhere, seething like a single mass of undead below her barrier. The sheer press of the dead flesh and bones encroached inward on their circle, shrinking it, and above all of the undead moans and the clash of battle, she heard Alexander Gray’s sinister cackling.

He's enjoying this…

Ali redoubled her efforts, sending in barrier shards to cut down swathes of the undead, but they crawled forward over the corpses of their brethren for just the chance of grasping one of the living within their domain. Nothing she did could stem the tide. Her explosions were destroying undead by the hundreds, but there were thousands more to take their places. Mato roared, trying in vain to draw the horde to himself while Calen swooped overhead, his bow raining radiant arrows down into the ocean of undead. Ali couldn’t even see Malika through the press of undead.

Suddenly, all the hair on her entire body stood on end. Her skin crawled with an uncanny prickling sensation and her nose picked up the strong pungent odor of ozone. The whole world went white, and with only her mana sight she saw the lightning magic ripping through the undead, forking again and again as it tore through the sea of monsters. It was over in an instant, leaving her blinking and almost retching from the stench of overcooked rotten flesh. But every single zombie and skeleton on the townward side of the invisible line of the spell’s maximum range had been fried by the stupendous burst of lightning magic. All that remained was a smoking ruin.

Flying above the battlement was a tiny figure, one Ali could barely make out from here. But it was wreathed in a monumental pillar of lightning mana, leaving no doubt in her mind who the owner was.

Donella Novaspark. Ali stared at the glowing figure for a few moments, but the powerful mage stubbornly refused to leave the battlement and engage the necromancer directly. She frowned – she didn’t have time to question why the mage had chosen to help, nor the inexplicable reasons limiting her engagement, but it seemed obvious that they needed to take advantage of their impromptu artillery support if they didn’t want to be swarmed again.

Ali marked the line of the Gnomish mage’s maximum range firmly in her mind. Deliberately, she flexed her fingers and then tightened her fists. Right. Time to make the most of this opportunity.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
