The goblin had already vanished by the time the commands had left Adam's lips. Candles, meanwhile, flared bright, and a rolling blaze exploded free of his incendiary shroud. The Pyromancy impacted the dimensional hunter’s body, and Adam immediately heard the crackling sounds of burning fat. Maybe the hunter screamed just then, but the Gate Lord wasn’t sure. It was hard to hear a man’s shrieks over the wail of hyper-heated air. More importantly, Adam wasn’t done either. He fired shot after shot into the flames. His Veilpiercer struck something over and over—

And then the hunter blasted free from the fire and drove his blade into Adam. A flash of Dimensionality glided along the edge of the blade, and Adam felt his own mana fray to the point of utter ruination. He tried to move back, but the hunter was on him—and a pulsating blast of force sent Gone crashing against the wall again and keeping her pinned. Candles was still in the middle of turning around. Adam felt his magic on the verge of shredding.

He activated Commander’s Foresight, and patches of darkness spread through his vision. A migraine crept through his brain as he let out a miserable groan. He was using this skill too frequently without letting his brain rest, but being able to pause the flow of a battle to plot in real time from a bird’s eye view was too useful.

Right. So I have a problem: My Dimensionality is on the verge of being shredded. If I don’t do something in the next second, he might just end up teleporting me back into a prison cell of some kind, and all this would be pointless. I can’t resist his magic, and I’m not faster than him… Adam tried to see if there was something he could do with Candles, but winced internally as he realized the Pyromancer was slower than the hunter as well. Maybe I can try to free Gone somehow? Fire an arrow at her? No. I’m not fast enough for that. So, what other skills can I use to get out of this? What can I—

He paused as he noted his new Toughness Skill Evolution. And a plan formed in his mind. It wasn’t a wise plan, but it might just work. Of course, it came with a bit of pain, but what plans didn’t when better options weren’t available?

Alright. Just… try to have his blade burst out through our shoulder instead of chest, Adam thought with a grimace.

He released both Foresight and Fathoms in the next moment, and suddenly, he cried out as a good meter of metal was left in his chest.

That was enough to trigger Phoenix Riposte, and Adam came ablaze once more. The stab wound on his chest vanished into a slight scratch as Adam crashed against the dimensional hunter in a fraction of a second. Rather than delivering a concussive blow this time, a similar stab thudded against the hunter’s armor.

I’m transferring damage types through the riposte, Adam realized.

He impacted the hunter several more times—but found himself flung back by another repulsive wave the man projected. As Adam tumbled through the air, his riposte time came to an end, and a stinging pain lined his shoulder. It wasn’t quite a scratch anymore, but it wasn’t a full cut either. And if I don’t fully transfer the damage inflicted on me to something nearby, I still retain some of the ha—

The dimensional hunter fired an arrow at Adam. The Gate Lord tried to shape a Veilpiercer and fire back. He knew he wasn’t going to be fast enough—

Adam slammed hard against an Orichalcum wall and blinked as he found himself displaced from the fight by eighty whole meters. The dimensional hunter roared in agony as Gone tore into him, shredding her way into his compromised throat. Comprehension came to Adam as he realized she'd pulled him out of harm's way. Just then, a large teleportation arrow ripped past him—the same arrow the hunter had been about to fire at him earlier.

Exploding back to his feet, Adam drew in moisture once more as he shifted into his Fathoms-form. He fired two shots in quick succession—then two more right after. One of his first shots missed due to the flailing of the dimensional hunter’s body, but the additional arrows crashed into his ankles. He collapsed against the ground, and Gone was burrowing into his guts. The massive Pathbearer was trying to push her out, but by now, his repulsion skill was dead.

Adam locked eyes with him and froze momentarily. He saw several things in the man’s eyes. Dread. Despair. And defeat. He knew he was dead—and he had died trying to hunt down an honest son of the Republic. Adam knew he wouldn’t feel at ease if he perished in such a way. The hunter cried out and tried to say something, but Candles’ burning foot slammed down on his skull, and Adam watched as the man’s eyes popped in sprays of sizzling gore.

It was one thing to be a Legend. It was another to face another Legend in close-quarters combat while not having enough Toughness. To the hunter’s credit, he clung to life a while longer, but the goblin ended up severing his spine, and Candles incinerated his entire head with a final burst of fire. When everything was done, all that remained of the dimensional hunter was an unmoving body and a discarded bow.

One that Adam promptly picked up.

Equipment Gained: [Arch of the Banishing]Tier: HeroicCondition: PerfectComposition: AdamantineEnchantments > Banish to Prison Plane; Dimensionality 150; Self-Mending; Seeking Shot; Perception Link; Master Regeneration

The moment Adam picked up the bow, the wounds lining his body began to close. A rush of healing flowed through the Gate Lord, and he let out a satisfied sigh. At the same time, he felt a vast space within the bow and realized it contained an internal dimension for prisoners, not too unlike Hawgrave’s sword. Glad I didn’t get hit by this damned thing. Just how large is this dimension anyway? This bow doesn’t have that many enchantments. I’ll figure that out in a moment. We still need to get out of this mess.

He regarded the dimensional hunter’s armor for a moment, frowning. Gone pulled her upper half free from the hunter’s chest, her round face painted with blood. The hunter’s helmet was also gone. Utterly vaporized by that maniac, Candles. Adam could have done with a new set of—

Oh, wait, I couldn’t use that anyway. It has a telepathy enchantment. They can track me through that.

The Gate Lord remembered what the Raven had told him before her most untimely demise and grunted with displeasure. It was a good set of Dimensionality-infused armor. It would have served him better than the tattered dress uniform he was wearing right now.

“Well, that one was a bit harder to cook,” Candles quipped as he rubbed his hands together and giggled. “I liked that. I wanna get the rest of the body too.”

“How about some other guards instead?” Adam suggested, trying to keep the Pyromancer focused. “After we find out if you can burn us a way out of here.”

“Oh. Right. Got interrupted.” Candles shook his head and shrugged. “Hate that. Hate that.” He giggled again and started staring at nothing for a few seconds.

“Candles?” Adam asked after a beat, not sure what was wrong with the other Pathbearer.

“He’ll keep losing track of things if you don’t mention them,” Gone said. “It’s better if you just keep saying things to him. The guards made him this way. He was too good at thinking before, so they cut out part of his brain. Kept him because he’s a good resource for fire. Made me run on a treaded machine to power cells for their automata. All prisoners have work. All prisoners have wounds.” Gone looked Adam up and down. “And you’re not a prisoner.”

That got Candles’ attention as well. “What. But he’s…” He leaned in and noticed Adam’s ruined uniform.

“I’m escaping from them all the same,” Adam quickly said. “I just got brought here and woke up in a cell. Look. I stole one of their uniforms and was being aided by a spy—If I am one of the guards, why would I have done all this?”

Gone shook her head fast. “Not saying you’re a guard. You just aren’t a prisoner. Not crippled like us. Not hurt yet. Still pristine. Jealous. Sad. Miss that.”

Adam’s apprehension about his new “friends” gained a side note of pity as he realized just how damaged they were. Whatever the Republic was doing to them, it wasn’t right. They might have been sinners and criminals, but wounding and using them this way was wrong.

Everything I know about the Republic is wrong too, Adam realized. How could a good nation do this to people? Punishment was one thing, but mangling someone’s brain to reduce their threat capacity? It was just brutal. It was inhuman. I never knew my own home at all.

He'd known this for a while now, having learned of Stormhalt's machinations and the Inquisition’s betrayal, but even so, a sorrowful weight built inside Adam.

He pushed it aside with a clench of his jaw as he called out to Candles to fire a beam through the wall. The Pyromancer began charging up his shot again, but then a loud whistle came from behind.

Adam spun, priming a Veilpiercer arrow, but by the time he laid eyes on the intruder, Gone was already on them. To Adam’s surprise, he found a raven-helmed man standing just eight meters away, with both hands held up.

“Can we talk?” the Raven asked. He carefully nodded down at Gone’s claws, which were pressed against his neck.

“Gone. Hold on.”

The goblin blinked back beside Adam. “Know them? What are they? No. Helmet. Raven. Aviary.” She paused, and a rush of rage flared behind her eyes. “You’re Aviary?”

“Gods, no,” Adam snarled. “But right now, they’re trying to get me out of this place. And they can probably help you as well.”

The new Raven rubbed at his throat and looked around. “Before we continue—”

“I couldn’t keep your associate alive,” Adam said. “I’m sorry. She died in the heat of combat.”

“Ah. Well, that explains why we couldn’t locate her. Her body was likely destroyed beyond recomposition as well.” The raven shook his head. “Quite the life we lead. Anyhow. Would you like to leave this place, Gate Lord? Because your method of burning your way through the Orichalcum? That won’t work.”

“Oh, we’ll see about that,” Candles growled. He unleashed his fire, and it splashed against the red-gold walls again.

Adam narrowed his eyes at the Raven. “So, what’s your way out? Actually, how did you get in in the first place?”

The Raven stared at the ground—at the entrance to one of the nearby cells. “Anchors, dear Gate Lord. And the larger a place is, the more compromises it gains. So. Shall we?”

Gone looked up at Adam and gave him a disgusted look. He returned it. “It’s our best option.”

“Can’t trust them. Did work for them. Tried to collar me.” The goblin shuddered violently for a split second.

“I know,” Adam said. “But they need me right now. So they’re not going to do anything to us. Not yet.” He looked the Raven up and down and sighed. “Fine. But you stay in front. And I want to know everything about this place.”

“Ah? Going to seek out the Deathless, are we?”

“Yes. But also, I think I want to know where the most dangerous prisoners are held so I can let them out. I think I’ve suffered enough of this place. I want the Avatars to be miserable in my stead.”
