She grimaced. She had to admit to herself that she’d wanted to rip his arm off, but he hadn’t offered her the smallest reason in the conversation. It didn’t help that she could feel his authority weaken around the offered arm. His words had actually been genuine. “Not if you offer it… that just… that just ruins everything.”

He chuckled. “Would it help if I insult you? You could take the arm in retribution, and then we could move on?”

Her grimace deepened. “Now you’re just making it weird…”

His expression turned inquisitive. “What did you expect to happen?” He seemed genuinely curious. “You’d mention your arm, and I’d say you deserved it? Then you could righteously take mine?”

“Well… that just makes me sound like a child, but sure. That had come to mind as a possibility.”

He shrugged. “Well, you did deserve it.”

Her gaze flattened once more, heat building within her mind. Her one word response was more a challenge than a question. “What.”

The man was entirely undeterred. “You were being disrespectful to the City Lord, me. That cannot and could not be allowed.” He smiled. “A light reprimand was required, and so I delivered.”

She opened her mouth to argue, then her gaze narrowed. “You’re just play-acting.”

“Whether I am or not doesn’t matter, because you did act disrespectfully, and I reprimanded you. If you feel you need or want some sort of vengeance, I won’t stop you while you are here.” Some of his levity fell away. “But if you try such when there are witnesses? It will not be such a simple matter.”

Tala grunted, then leaned back. “I will keep your words in mind.” When he opened his mouth to speak, she continued, forestalling him. “All your words. We will see what comes of my consideration.”

The man nodded, standing. “Then, if there is nothing else?”

Tala hesitated only a moment before standing as well. She glanced toward the food before willing it all into her sanctum. Ironhold was out of reach, but she’d kept her sanctum close given the uncertainty of the meeting.

Now, the researchers housed therein would get a bit added to their breakfast.

The Revered City Lord huffed a laugh. “Very well, take what you will. I can have the kitchens make more?”

Tala shook her head at the offer.

“Very well, then. Good day to you, Eskau of War. May the blood of our enemies flow and dry, leaving a better world in your wake.”

Tala gave a shallow bow in return before departing down the stairs, thoroughly uncertain what to make of the meeting and more excited than ever to head back to the Cycling Cities as soon as she could manage it.
