Veron looked at the distant clouds. He took a moment to breathe in deep and enjoy the sights, and then he got back to roofing.

They were done shortly after, the two of them helping each other down to the ladder. Tenya went to inform Warren that the roof was done. “Good to see you, Veron. Until next time.”

“Same to you, Tenya.” He enjoyed the sun whilst sitting out on the terrace, the first sun in what felt like a week.

Warren joined him a few minutes later. “Ale, tea, or some water?”

“Tea would be nice. Something herbal. Can I have it cold?”

“Of course.” Warren left and a few minutes later returned with a dark metal teapot. There were strange runes engraved into the metal. He had two teacups as well. “It will take a while. Waygrass and Lirren. First to boil it up and then to cool down.”

“The pot can do all of that? Enchantments?”

“Indeed. Two separate metal plates inside. Quite intricate and far more expensive than just getting two single pots. Cuts down on time and space though, and I really liked the design when I found it. I enjoy tools with multiple functions.” He paused and gave Veron a long look. “This is the second time you've remarked on enchantments I have at the inn.”

“I'm just fascinated with them. Time and time again. I guess to most people it would be mundane after a while but I do think it's crazy we can just use magic to heat something up or cool it down.”

He wasn't exactly being misleading either. Even back on Earth, he often considered electrical power, cars, or the Internet actual magic. Whenever he mentioned his fascination, people at the office would give him strange looks. Maybe he should have just gotten into engineering or IT.

Warren gave him a smile. “I feel the exact same way. One of the only reasons I regret coming here. It's difficult to find new interesting things. Thank you for the repairs. I can pay in drinks and food but if you want coin, I can do that too.”

“How much would that be for the work I've done?”

“I can do 60 iron, or 6 silver, however you prefer. Rare to get an earth path through here and most adventurers think too highly of themselves to do simple repair jobs.”

“Why? Do they just make way more money adventuring? I’d think some of them would be happy to help.”

Warren nodded, more to himself than to Veron. “I suppose you're right. I did get some help before too, but yeah, the ones who come through here generally don't care much about low paying work. And lower-level adventurers don't tend to travel all that much. Speaking of which, you made your armor, quite the boon from your path. I don't think you would have been able to grab a set of decent gear out here otherwise.” He paused. “You've been going out there, learning the ropes from Ivera?”

“I have.”

Warren looked at him with an intense stare, the edges of his mouth quirking up.

“Well, let me tell you, Veron. I might have a few interesting propositions for a man of your talents.”

“You mean a poor, low-level adventurer with very little experience?”

Warren touched the pot which made a sizzling sound, likely activating the cooling enchantment. He leaned back and smiled. “Exactly.”
