Tabitha nods but elaborates further. "Yes, the terrain, but not just your footing, or if we’re on a hill or not, I mean in regards to the mana. The mana in a magic-dense region can fluctuate greatly. You can go from a dead zone where the mana is thinner than outside the region to walking into a culvert with a higher mana level than in a magicite mine. You’re strong enough that you won’t suffer from mana poisoning easily, but the changes in your surrounding mana will play havoc on your mana-based skills as well as my gear.”

“Ok, what else?”

Tabitha brings her hand up to her chin and thinks. "We need to be on the lookout for people."

“You mean like other explorers?” I ask.

“Exactly,” Tabitha tells me with a serious expression. "I don't know how popular this region is to Olebert, but there is a genuine possibility that we might run into other hunters and explorers."

“And that’s a bad thing?” I make an educated guess.

Tabitha nods. "There is an unspoken rule when it comes to magic-dense regions: Might Makes Right.”

“I don’t like the sound of that.”

“Then I’m assuming you understand what I mean," Tabitha waits for me to nod affirmative, ensuring she gets her point across. “If we do run into others, you aren’t to say anything and immediately get behind me,” she stresses.

“Anything else I should be aware of?” I nervously ask. By my count, I had to watch out for the weather, plants, animals, the terrain, and other people; if that didn’t cover everything, I was afraid to find out what else I was missing.

“Just one more thing,” she tells me.

“Of course, there is," I sigh, throwing my hands up in exasperation, waiting for Tabitha to tell me her final piece of bad news.

“This isn’t regarding the magic-dense region," Tabitha tells me, drawing my full attention.

“Then what is it?” I ask.

“I may be here to watch over you, but this is a test you must overcome,” Tabitha proudly proclaims. “I’ll step in if need be, but you will have to make your own decisions once we enter the magic-dense region. If a magic beast attacks, I won't step in unless you're about to be critically injured; the same goes for any magic beasts you decide to fight. I know you rushed to come here because you fear Master Pacore will come any day now, and he may, but that means I’m running out of time to train you.”

“I want you to show me you can survive on your own. Show me you are qualified to call me Senior Sister! Can you do that?”

My heart was threatening to beat out of my chest, but surprisingly it wasn’t from fear; it was from excitement. “I’ll show you what I can do,” I proudly proclaim.

“You better,” Tabitha smirks at me like she does when we’re sparring. "Hopefully, you'll have earned your first feather by the time we make it back to your village."

I wasn’t looking forward to always having to incorporate a feather into my wardrobe, but I was excited to earn one, which meant slaying a strong beast and claiming one as a trophy.

I had no idea what I would encounter in the magic-dense region, but I did know this….

I would prove myself to Tabitha and show her how much I've grown. No matter what challenges I came across, I'd overcome them. This I swore!
