The moon was round and full as it hung in the evening sky, clear despite the daylight. Odd and surreal, as if it had always been there and just…vanished now and then to make you forget it.
It hung over the High Passes, over the dead and the dying, as 2nd Army besieged Goblinhome. Colonel Rathiss didn’t look at the moon, but it was hovering there.
Watching him.
The assault from the Goblins trying to break the siege on their home had failed. Goblins riding Carn Wolves fell back as Snapjaw’s Frost Wyverns screamed and broke away from their assault. One of the ballistae was smashed beyond belief; the other kept firing.
Rathiss recognized one of the Goblins: Leapwolf, one of their high-level officers. The Goblin weaved as he rode, dodging arrows, but he’d left half his Redfangs behind on the ground.
A costly attack; the front rank had been chewed up and almost been broken. One of the ballistae was down. Not enough. There were already gaps in Goblinhome.
The surviving ballista kept firing after the Frost Wyverns, sending one of them tumbling downwards in the distance. The only thing that saved Snapjaw was the Wyvern Lord.
He came down, roaring, breathing frost—covering their escape. But he couldn’t land amongst the thousands of [Soldiers]. Their arrows glanced off his scales, but the Skills gave them the power to pierce his flesh, if lightly. He was inhaling for another breath of frost when the [Wyvern Riders] met him in the air.
“Colonel Rathiss, we are engaging the Wyvern Lord. Requesting pinpoint ballistae support.”
“Granted. Keep the Wyverns back.”
A scream of fury—then six different colors of Wyvernbreath hit the Wyvern Lord, and Rathiss nodded as he saw two full flights of Wyverns engage the lone Wyvern Lord. They were led by a Drake he knew, Wing Commander Asiv. One of Edellein’s many relatives, but a [Soldier] with an actual brain.
Wing Commander Asiv could hold the skies. The [Colonel] turned his attention back to the breaches in Goblinhome. He saw more and more [Soldiers] flooding the fortress.
Like ants besieging a rival colony. Or Antinium besieging a Drake city. He’d seen both. He had the Goblins dead to rights. But—Rathiss kept feeling that twisting dagger of fear in his chest.
The Goblin King. And—he felt it again and tensed.
The ground was shaking. The tremble made everyone stop. The Drake [Soldiers] hauling a body his way, the reinforcements moving to the front. A moment of uncertainty, then 2nd Army pressed harder. Rathiss’ voice snapped across the speaking stone.
“Push! I want this fortress empty of the enemy in an hour! Push, damn it!”
Once they got past the front lines, they’d be able to rampage through the fortress against low-level Goblins, not Hobs with combat classes. They just needed one breach…!
They had three. What was taking them so long? He had a new weapon to use, but Rathiss demanded an explanation.
“Status of the siege? Major Glesta?”
She had entered Goblinhome and should have overrun their defenses within fifteen minutes of entry, regardless of the traps. The report took a minute; the Colonel watched the [Soldiers] approaching him slow down. They were wrestling with a little figure.
Then the voice reported in, breathless.
“Rathiss. I need a third wave. Get me [Monster Slayers].”
An odd request, but Rathiss approved it instantly, wishing he had Shirka’s Skills that would have meant the 3rd wave was already inbound.
“Done. What is holding up your advance?”
“Trolls.”
What? Rathiss’ eyes snapped back to Goblinhome. Major Glesta’s voice was grim.
“We have seized two hallways in Breach 1, six in Breach 2, and are opening Breach 3, Colonel. The Goblins are collapsing passageways. Our advance was swift until we ran into Trolls. Hundreds led by some kind of advanced Troll with Adamantium maces. They refuse to give ground. Requesting [Monster Slayers], again, and more [Goblin Slayers].”
“They’re inbound.”
Trolls? There were a few reports of lone Trolls in the High Passes, but nothing like a full clan. Rathiss ground his teeth together. Then he snapped.
“Ready 4th wave! I want three more breaches! [Battlemages], begin hitting the fortress!”
They had to get in there now. If the Trolls were holding the passageways, they had to have so many entry points they could cut the monsters off.
Or bait the Goblins out of their fortress. Plan B, then. The [Colonel] turned his head. And his eyes focused on the body being dragged towards him. Bloody and fighting weakly, but alive.
Not their Chieftain. But close enough. His eyes found the young Goblin woman as she appeared before him. She didn’t look like she understood why she was alive.
He did.
 
——
 
Student Rags’ plan was a failure. Sometimes, you failed. She had been prepared for the cost of it, but she was alive.
How many had escaped? She didn’t know. She’d gone down in the melee and heard nothing except for Leapwolf calling the retreat and what sounded like the Wyvern Lord. Student Rags knew what they were doing. Her instructions to Snapjaw had been simple.
 
Plan B—if the assault on 2nd Army fails, all Goblins are to fall back and meet with the Kraken Eaters tribe. Surrender to Chieftain Naumel and petition them for aid.
 
The only other strategy that was sound was to allow the Kraken Eaters to assimilate the Flooded Waters tribe. After all—even if 2nd Army won or lost, the odds of the fearsome Kraken Eaters overrunning the victor had always been great.
They’d been so close. But the Redfangs hadn’t been able to pass the [Goblin Slayers]. The Goblins’ finest warriors had locked blades with the anti-Goblin specialists—and lost in expertise and levels.
Doomed after all. Sometimes, the [Strategist] had to charge.
They paid the price, and that…
That was fair.
They slammed her onto the ground as she tried to fight again, knocking the wind out of her. Stunned, dazed, she heard a calm, clipped voice above her. Tension running through the precise articulation of words, and she sensed the leader of 2nd Army look down at her as she tried to raise her head.
When she gazed up and saw Colonel Rathiss, she saw how much he hated her in the way he stepped back, even with her chained down, hands and feet locked together. Someone who took no chances. Who wanted the enemy dead at all costs.
His scarred eye sockets swung towards her, then she heard him speaking to his officers again. Student Rags listened. Trying to think.
Why am I alive? Part of her knew, but the rest of her just focused on the words. How Goblinhome was doing.
“Casualties?”
“High number of wounded. Fatalities low so far, save for the Thunderbows and acid jars. The Trolls are breaking bones, which we can’t heal with potions.”
Queen Dulat and her people. Of course. Rathiss made a displeased sound.
“Have all the [Mages] cast [Acid Resistance]. Prep wave three with [Battle Alchemists]. I want those blockages blasted through—and more explosive items placed once Breach 3 opens fully, and in Breach 2. Collapse the fortress’ floors.”
“Yes, sir.”
He knew his war. Rather than fighting through their traps, the [Colonel] wanted to just bring Goblinhome down and scour the rubble. However—the casualties were still too high. So he spoke.
“Tell the third wave to advance and reinforce, but halt the assault, Major Glesta. I have an option to bait the defenders out. Prepare to fall back.”
“Yessir.”
Then his eyes fell on her again. Student Rags stared up at him, unable to move properly, even to bite or spit. One of them had jabbed her with something that had paralyzed her muscles. He noticed and commented to a panting [Soldier.]
“Why the paralysis toxin?”
“The prisoner was attempting to bite their tongue off.”
“Good instincts. And good strategy.”
Was that a compliment? Student Rags hadn’t expected to meet him. Hadn’t thought there would be an order to take her alive. She’d become a liability.
Silly her. In a way, the Titan’s classes had weakened her instincts. Made her forget—Baleros’ codes of war were the genteel art compared to the truth she knew. Colonel Rathiss turned to another group.
“[Loud Voice] spells and visual magnification. Whatever the hell it’s called. That ‘Goblinhome’ of yours is a tough nut to crack, and your forces will keep harassing our flanks. Do you know what the optimal strategy is here, Goblin?”
Student Rags tried to speak; she slurred the words.
“They’re…not dumb.”
“No, they’re a tribe. And you might be the [Chieftain], or not. I honestly can’t tell. Either way. If you make them mad enough, they’ll charge.”
Then she saw the Drake’s calm expression and realized what he wanted to do. It was such a simple strategy. A [Goblin Slayer]’s tactic.
Just get a Goblin or multiple Goblins as bait. And if the tribe didn’t come out when you tortured them, you kept doing it. She tried to bite her tongue again, weakly, but someone wrenched a rag between her teeth.
Are you a [Soldier]? She was staring up at him, and she thought she saw the Professor’s face.
Was this brilliant strategy, Professor? Or—?
Colonel Rathiss shook his head, and the rag was removed.
“Clear airways. They’re going to have to hear this. Get me Captain Kulet’s squad. Pull back the [Archers] around the fortress and double-up the spearwall. I want that opening kept clear. When they come down the center, both sides to turn and fire into the center. Hold those tower shields.”
He was giving the Goblins a clear shot at the Drakes. He wanted the Goblins inside to mount a rescue attempt—then he’d pin them down and wipe them out. Rathiss turned, and then called to the [Soldiers] falling back.
“Ah—[Alchemist], I need the paralysis toxin neutralized. Or it’ll shut down her vocal cords.”
One of them stopped and produced a second vial. A Garuda marched forwards and gave the paralyzed Goblin a second injection to the arm.
Student Rags tried to move as a squad advanced on her. But she stopped wiggling when she saw—them.
Captain Kulet and his [Goblin Slayers] were different from the rest of 2nd Army. They moved differently. Like the Redfangs, a separate group within the Flooded Waters tribe. Only this squad weren’t the respected warriors that Student Rags knew.
They stank. She smelled them first: rotten blood and putrefying corpses, so foul and horrid her stomach heaved, and she would have vomited but for the paralysis. She gagged, wondering how anyone could stand near them. And they were filthy.
Their armor was grimy and dirty with dried blood. Each member of the squad had on Pallass’ armor, but the yellow was stained, the steel rusted. And their faces.
They wore smiles as they strode past the [Soldiers] who moved away from them with glances of distrust, visible dislike, or unease. Their leader was a Gnoll whose fur was so matted and stained that Student Rags had never seen the like before.
These were [Soldiers]? She stared at the [Alchemist] who’d begun removing the paralysis effect on her. A [Battle Alchemist] who wore a mild expression of distaste on her face. A Garuda.
“Those’re soldiers?”
Student Rags slurred at her, and the Garuda jumped, then frowned down at her, as if amazed to hear a Goblin addressing her. She cast around; Rathiss was giving more orders to his army, so she lowered her voice.
“—[Goblin Slayers]. Your enemies. They fought the Goblin King and Tallis Stormbreaker. Colonel Rathiss engaged Greydath of Blades and his army personally. They would have never accepted General Shirka’s order to stand down.”
So she knew about that. Student Rags stared at the squad coming her way.
“They’re filthy. They stink. How does anyone tolerate it?”
“Stink? Their armor’s clean, Goblin.”
The [Battle Alchemist] glanced at Kulet and his squad, then at Rags with a frown, as if Student Rags were trying some kind of dumb trick on her. She saw Rags’ genuine confusion. Then the Garuda sniffed and put a wing over her beak.
“…They do smell a bit. But not…the necklaces are enough. They don’t mingle with regular soldiers.”
The necklaces? The squad was within earshot now, and Student Rags saw the filthy loop of rope around Kulet’s neck.
Ah. Goblin ears. The [Battle Alchemist] moved back, as if the miasma of death were only now visible to her. She coughed, and the Colonel turned around.
“Alchemist, you’re dismissed.”
The Garuda saluted instantly, then hesitated. She glanced at Rags. Then spoke.
“Sir. I—ah—there’s an odd smell in the air?”
“A smell?”
He tilted his head, and those eyes in their scarred sockets flicked to Rags. They narrowed in comprehension.
“—You’re next to the prisoner, [Alchemist]. Disregard. What you and the Goblin see are not the same thing.”
The Garuda stepped back, and her eyes flickered. She stared at Kulet’s squad, then took a step closer to Rags. The Garuda’s eyes widened, and the [Student] spat. She’d figured out what they were.
“…Redline classes. They always look like that, don’t they? No one else can see it. You have crimson classes in your ranks? Are you mad?”
You weren’t supposed to get those kinds of classes normally. Not—those classes. Niers taught his students about the worst kind of Skills you could get. Products of trauma or terrible acts, willing or otherwise. Or…Rathiss’ eyes found her again, and she saw it deep within his eyes.
Hatred.
“It’s completely within Pallassian military doctrine, Goblin. A weapon should be used, as long as the cost is acceptable. You’re dismissed, Alchemist.”
“Sir.”
The woman hesitated, but she did salute again and retreat. [Soldiers] following orders. Even if she kept glancing at Kulet’s squad—
If Student Rags had time, days, she could see a way to foment distrust. Or maybe use Shirka’s willingness to make peace against this army. But she had no time.
“Sir! Reporting. Shall I get to work?”
The squad of [Goblin Slayers] stopped, and the Gnoll grinned as he threw a far less precise salute to Colonel Rathiss. The Drake just nodded.
“We’re on a time limit. No theatrics, Kulet. Set up and get those Goblins out of their fortress.”
The Gnoll beamed down at Rags, and she recoiled as she saw him unhook a tool from his belt. A pair of pliers. The rest of his squad set up as well. A portable rack of wood and leather straps. Iron implements crusted with blood.
They needed to take Goblinhome. So they were going to use her. Student Rags didn’t make a sound—she was resolved to say nothing as she saw the [Goblin Slayers] preparing ‘tools’. It was going to hurt—as long as they had healing potions. As long as she had flesh or bones.
