The Drakes around him didn’t understand. Their heads rose and focused on the Wyvern—then they saw the falling Goblin.
A [Strategist] realized he was in the midst of a shadow. He glanced up, and a foot struck his head.
The impact crushed the Drake into the ground.
Thunder. Student Rags cried out as a giant hit the earth. Too large. Who—?
Rathiss lunged forwards, stabbing, as the Goblin rose. He slashed, and a giant mouth snapped once. An enormous head engulfed the [Colonel] and chewed.
A green body as large as Moore rose, and that familiar, oversized head twisted, as if the owner had eaten something nasty. She chewed, grimacing, then spat.
Colonel Rathiss tore out of the giant cheek, armor mangled. He landed on the ground, covered in spit, and rose, a glowing vial in his hand.
A foot kicked him head-over-heels, and a hand larger than Student Rags’ head swung. A soldier running at the female Goblin went flying, and she turned and roared. Student Rags knew her, but she was too big.
Not a Hob. She stood head-and-shoulders over any Hob, just as large to them as they were to regular Goblins. Her arms were huge, and she was covered in muscles, like Grimalkin. An arrow struck her in the chest, and she grunted as it snapped, unable to even penetrate her skin.
“Snapjaw?”
“Hey, Chieftain.”
It was her, but she’d evolved. She’d become a Fomirelin. A Great Goblin, like Tremborag. Her eating Skill was unmistakable, as were her metallic teeth.
Snapjaw’s oversized head shrank back to something more normal-sized as she turned. Captain Kulet and his squad charged her, howling.
“Great Goblin! Kill it! [Inflict Stored Pain]!”
The Gnoll threw out a paw, and Snapjaw’s eyes went wide with agony as the tools on his belt glowed red-hot. She froze, and a pair of Drakes dove for her legs, trying to hamstring her.
“Snapjaw!”
Student Rags screamed, and the [Chieftain of the Maw] jumped. The swords passed underneath her feet, and she stomped one of the [Soldiers] underneath her and bit.
The second [Goblin Slayer] vanished from the torso up. Snapjaw spat the blood and body parts into Kulet, knocking the Gnoll flat.
“Tastes bad. Eaten worse. Felt worse.”
His reply was a snarl as he produced a blowpipe, rolling up. Her fist smashed his chest into the ground, and the Gnoll convulsed, then lay still.
“Great Goblin in the command zone. Kill it.”
Colonel Rathiss spoke, and Snapjaw turned as more [Soldiers] charged towards her. She met Student Rags’ gaze, and the desperate, bound Goblin didn’t understand.
Why? She was as mad as Redscar. For answer, Snapjaw took a deep breath and roared a name.
“TREMBORAG.”
The name broke over the [Soldiers], so loud it was almost physical. Snapjaw glanced at Student Rags.
“Reiss too. No one dies this time. This time—”
She bared her teeth and strode forwards, hoisting Student Rags up onto her shoulder with effortless strength.
“—I’ll do it right.”
She began to run, swinging her fist and knocking over a group of [Soldiers] trying to slow her as she rampaged out of the command area. She grunted as a burning hail of arrows seared her chest, but she kept running, her skin burnt black—laughing like a volcano erupting as she ran. She’d leapt off Icecube’s back to get here.
All to save the [Student] who wasn’t even her Chieftain.
No—not just that. Student Rags remembered Tremborag’s lonely death as he sat, staring at his mountain. The same thing Snapjaw had never forgotten.
This time, the raging Goblin Chieftain surrounded by [Soldiers] lives. The Goblin lives. Snapjaw’s smile was born out of desperation, need, hope and the desire to save her beloved tribe. And a promise reflected in the burning [Innkeeper]’s eyes on her sinking ship in the middle of the ocean.
This time, the Goblin lives. Snapjaw’s eyes were huge as she slammed through the [Soldiers], who weren’t prepared for an enemy from behind. She was heading out of the army’s center, chasing that dream.
“Snapjaw. You idiot—!”
Student Rags’ voice broke. A second idiot had come to die! She saw one huge eye swivel towards her, and Snapjaw smiled, the flesh of her cheeks pulling up around her bloody teeth.
Just like Redscar, she’d seen it too many times. Snapjaw was sweating, and Rags could feel her heart thundering. But her voice cut through the air, a roar.
“Flooded Waters tribe! Hold!”
She was shouting at the Goblins in Goblinhome. Telling them to leave it to them, and she was running forwards, swinging a huge fist and knocking the [Soldiers] in front of her flying. Trying to break out. Escaping.
Towards Redscar.
“Redscar! Run!”
The [Blademaster] spotted Snapjaw coming at him and did a double-take. Then he snarled.
“[Sword Art: The Lightning Splits]!”
His sword came down and cut a path for the three of them—Student Rags was trying to get out of her bindings and shouting at Snapjaw—but the Fomirelin’s rush was faltering.
She was covered in wounds from the [Soldiers] cutting at her, and despite her strength and toughness in her new body, she staggered. Redscar was no better. The two of them would never make it out of this valley.
A [Goblin Slayer] ran a sword through Snapjaw’s belly, and it struck Student Rags in her arm. The two cried out, and Snapjaw nearly fell as she began to shrink. Redscar tried to cover them. He swung his sword at a Gnoll, who calmly returned the swing.
“[Retribution: A Blow for a Blow].”
Redscar halted the blow too late. His cut into the Gnoll’s chest opened up a deep slash down his collarbone, and he swore. The grinning [Goblin Slayer] raised his sword, and a screech deafened everything. The Gnoll dodged backwards, but the Wyvern Lord covered the [Goblin Slayers] with ice and shattered through their corpses. He landed hard, scales smoldering from Wyvernfire, but his wings came up and encircled the three Goblins.
The [Goblin Slayers] slammed into the Wyvern Lord’s wings, unable to pierce his scales and hide. Not just because of his strength; all their Skills that worked on Goblins failed on the furious Wyvern, whose head swept around in an arc, breathing frost.
He tried to jump into the air again with the Goblins—but a ballista bolt pierced one wing’s membrane and then embedded itself deep along the wing muscle in the other. A Skill-enhanced ballista bolt at point-blank range, breaking through his battle-worn scales.
The Wyvern Lord howled and tried to flap his wing; it just spasmed.
“Not you too.”
Student Rags stared up at him as his bright, intelligent eyes found her. Snapjaw drank half a healing potion and passed it to Redscar. He downed his and tossed her a full one.
“I stole lots. You seen Chieftain Rags?”
“No, I thought you were with her! How—”
The Wyvern Lord shrieked again, and Snapjaw looked down at Student Rags. Snapjaw plucked a knife from her belt and tossed it to the other Goblin.
“Get untied. Keep them off us. Redscar, kill everything in front; Wyvern, right side. I’ll take the left.”
She drew her own sword, and Redscar laughed. He raised his sword and gave Student Rags a rueful gaze.
“I can’t kill an army. Sorry. Turns out it’s still only three hundred.”
She just sawed at her restraints as the Wyvern Lord roared, then shielded them with one wing as the arrows rained down. All the [Student] could think was—
They were all so amazing. They didn’t deserve to die. It wasn’t fair. It never was. They were all going to die here.
So why—
Why did she still feel like there was a chance? Student Rags felt at her chest as she got one hand free, and her heart was thundering away. But she felt like there was a fire burning there. As if it was rumbling.
Rrm. Rrm.
Then her head turned southwest, down the mountain. Despite the battle around her—the [Student] stared at something coming up the mountain.
“Three of them? No—who is that?”
It felt like a city was coming her way. No, a nation like the City of Inventions she’d always longed to visit. Bright-eyed [Engineers] filled with new ways to make things better. Machines to simplify tasks like hauling water from wells.
A future that Goblins never had. Hope, and a world made brick by brick, piece by piece, dragging everything into the future. The [Goblin Slayers] felt it too, and their attacks slowed. 2nd Army rippled, like lambs before the culling blade.
She was coming.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations.
 
——
 
The day had been long, and the Goblin Lord smiled as she sat on a [Witch]’s broom. The High Passes stretched out beneath her, and she knew Goblins were dying.
The smile persisted. She had seen worlds die today. Her Kevin was dead. Lord Xitegen, her old foe, had fallen. She had even seen a vision of that world she longed to return to.
A home, before the Goblin King had destroyed her hopes and dreams. She’d come here at last. The only cost?
Mrsha was dead. So her heart broke, again and again. She would have been too ashamed to meet the real Erin, if the [Innkeeper] had been here.
Ragathsi of Civilizations smiled, nevertheless. Her heart made that sound in her chest, a halting, growing rhythm.
Rm. Rrm. Rrrrrm. Rrrrrrrrrrrm.
She’d taken her time looking around The Wandering Inn, and maybe it would cost hundreds of lives, or thousands. If so, she would regret it, but this wasn’t her world. She felt like she was owed that.
One last visit in exchange for her entire world, her people, the Domed Cities, everything she had ever built and worked for—gone. All that was left were eight Goblin [Bodyguards], her weapons and armor, and memories.
Chieftain Rags was crying out for more speed as Alevica flew with her, but Pebblesnatch, transporting the Goblin Lord, just spoke over her shoulder.
“We have to drop you soon! The Goblin King—”
“There will do. I see Frost Wyverns.”
And Rags’ tribe. The group that had attacked 2nd Army were in full retreat, running across the rocky ground. Not from 2nd Army’s forces. Rather—Ragathsi’s smile widened in fond memory.
“I know that tribe. Which one is that?”
She pointed, and one of her [Bodyguards] aimed a rifle down. Ragathsi snapped her fingers as Chieftain Rags howled.
“The Kraken Eaters!”
The Kraken Eaters had decided now was the opportune time to attack both the Flooded Waters tribe and 2nd Army. They weren’t wrong; Naumel was tearing up the slopes at the far smaller group of Goblins. Leapwolf was going to meet him, but against the giant Fomirelin—Chieftain Rags turned to Ragathsi, and the Goblin Lord of Civilizations laughed.
“I remember them, now. Naumel. Drop me in front of Rags’ tribe, Pebblesnatch. And farewell. I’ll handle the rest.”
The [Witch] tipped her hat at Ragathsi without a word, and the Goblin Lord waited until they were overhead—and leapt from the broom. She fell, spreading her arms, and then pivoted upright—her boots slowed her before she hit the ground, and she landed softly in front of Leapwolf.
He almost stabbed her; the Kraken Eaters saw the [Witches] dropping the rest of the Goblins at a lower altitude. Fightipilota, Rags, Dyeda, Rianchi, and her eight bodyguards.
Ragathsi still didn’t even know their names. She realized she was curious for the first time ever. Her heart.
Rmm. Rrrrrrmmmmm. RM. RMMM.
—It was starting to burn, and nothing could stop it this time. No one to fix it. No one to tell her no. No world—she could run away from this one and leave it. Go to that glorious other world.
“But I like this one too much. I want it to be better than the one I knew. Fake or not. No, fake is better. It means I can do what I always wanted to see. So, leave this to me, Chieftain Rags. Just once. Once in an eternity of worlds. You get your wish.”
She spoke to the Chieftain, or rather, the Rags who was real, who would be that [Chieftain] until she slept. What kind of Goblin Lord will you be? 
Watch me and choose.
Ragathsi turned to the Kraken Eaters, whose mad dash uphill had slowed to uncertainty. They could tell what she was. But Naumel, that giant Fomirelin with more fighting sense than brains, was busy staring at the [Witches].
“Reinforcements. Watch out for spells from above. Put [Sneak Rogues] with bows on a ridge and get them when they’re distracted.”
He turned to Cazmaw, his second-in-command, then pointed at Chieftain Rags.
“You! Your tribe dies unless you join me! Fight me, Chieftain Rags! For our tribes!”
He spread his arms as his Kraken Eaters cheered, and Ragathsi laughed. She felt bad for Chieftain Rags. Naumel only respected one thing. She called down to him as his eyes jerked to her.
“Naumel of the Kraken Eaters. You serve me. I am Ragathsi of Civilizations. Kneel before the greater Goblin.”
His eyes narrowed, and his broad nose wrinkled up as he opened one claw.
“What tribe is yours, Chieftain? I am Naumel, the greatest Chieftain of the north. There is no greater Goblin! Fight me!”
He raised his arms, and his Goblins cheered. Battle-loving maniacs, all of them. Worse than Redfangs, because the Kraken Eaters only believed in the victory, not the means to it.
Ragathsi was sure Chieftain Rags had tried logic on him, reason and diplomacy. Tact and friendship. Wonderful qualities for the Goblin trying to make something permanent.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations spoke one word in reply to Naumel.
“Okay.”
She lifted the submachine gun in her hand and held the trigger down. The beautiful weapon of death didn’t even wobble with the recoil as it spat fifty [Fireballs] at Naumel.
Chieftain Rags threw up her claws in horror as the Kraken Eaters recoiled, diving backwards, down down the cliff, burnt and screaming. Ragathsi lowered the submachine gun and waited.
“Interesting. You are tough.”
The blackened figure swayed, and she saw every remaining rib on his chest burnt clean down to the bone. She’d assumed he’d just vanish, but the [Great Chieftain]’s Skills, like [Avert Mortal Blow] and [Emergency Regeneration], must have provided him with a safety window.
Flesh was trying to regrow as Naumel’s arms—what remained of them—lowered. He kept swaying as sinew and blood vessels regrew over his chest, like an anatomical recreation of the body.
“Chieftain?”
Cazmaw was on his hands and knees, ears ringing, having been tossed down the slope. He saw Naumel’s half-dead body regenerating, and then the eyes of the Goblin Lord fell upon him.
He flinched. His entire body jerked, and the Kraken Eaters’ battlelust had gone out. Like someone blowing out a match.
Ragathsi pointed her submachine gun at Naumel again as the Goblin’s eyes regenerated. He nearly fell backwards, then jerked as she spoke.
“Your tribe is mine. Kneel or die.”
Uncomprehending, the Kraken Eater’s [Chieftain] focused on Ragathsi. He might not have even known what happened. The Goblins of his tribe eyed the Fomirelin as he took an unsteady step forwards.
