She grabbed the scrying spells and adjusted them until they were closer and aimed at her. She’d forgotten how terrible the past was for everything. Ragathsi flicked her hair back and realized it wasn’t colored like the [Student]’s.
She should have gotten it styled. She was enjoying this, she had to admit. 2nd Army was frozen in place for all of a second. Then the ballista pointed at her. The bows drew back—and her [Mage] created a barrier around her.
A rain of arrows snapped on the magical barrier, and alchemical concoctions exploded as Ragathsi pointed a finger at the ballista.
[Arrow of the Future: Missile Strike]. The flash lit her body up. She kept smiling as the thunder and smoke rose, and everyone but her people flinched.
The watching nations had no idea what that was because she hadn’t let them see it.
Oh. This was fun. Ragathsi was just waiting, staring up at the sky, as she spoke. She didn’t have a speech. She just said the things she wanted to. Here and now.
“I must thank General Edellein of Pallass for serving his best army up for me. If you are confused how we came to this: does it matter? The Goblin King has returned. May he die quickly this time. But I? I am the Goblin Lord you always knew was there. Somewhere. Just like Greydath. I never deigned to show my face. Most Goblin Lords do not. Our people are such poor, pathetic tribes. The Flooded Waters tribe. The Kraken Eaters. Savages.”
Her eyes swept over Rags, Naumel, and their warriors. She was adorned in whirring machinery that made up her body, and modern body-armor enchanted to the maximum level. Her heart beat, a piston of crystal showcasing the furnace of her heart.
RRRRM. RRRRRRRMM.
What must she look like? The future, standing in front of you pathetic cavepeople. Even if you had a crown of gold on your head—she was an alien of the future. Ragathsi had once read a bestselling book in her world where aliens, creatures from another world, came down to make peace with the species of her earth. It was like that.
Only—in this case, the aliens were Goblins, the species you hated most. So what did you do? The only thing you could think of.
You killed them. She sensed the magic forming overhead, amazingly slowly as locator spells found her position, and kept speaking.
“You see, I’m here. Right in front of you, 2nd Army. Your [Goblin Slayers]. Your reputation as Pallass’ attack dogs. None of it matters. And you. You, who gaze upon me. The monster with a voice. A mere Goblin Lord. You have done this a million times. This time, it will hurt.”
She pointed up, and the scrying spells moved at her will to show everyone the natural thing that every single Goblin knew was coming. A spell, forming above her.
Insultingly weak, really. Tier 5 magic. [Magma Shower]. Someone had put a bit of speed on it, and it came showering down towards her and the Goblins around her. Burning liquid rock.
Then—a [Grand Lightning] spell that aimed at her with almost all the force of a real lightning bolt, if a touch slower and weaker.
Had they wasted everything on the Goblin King? Or were their [Dangersenses] warning them? Ragathsi beamed.
She wanted Roshal or the Blighted Kingdom—but this would do. She waved a hand as the lightning bolt flashed across the barrier she was protected by, and magma evaporated harmlessly.
“My turn. [Counterfire Opportunity].”
Student Rags’ mouth opened, and her eyes went wide. Ragathsi wished she could see the reactions of Sir Relz and Noass. The many rulers calling for their spells to smite the lowly Goblin.
And she could—she could see two of them. The Goblin Lord stared at a window that opened in the sky.
She saw…a noblewoman in an armory, screaming at a [Mage] holding a spent spellscroll. Terandrian; no one else had that much lace on. The second was even better.
A quail-faced [King] sitting on his throne. The banners…Ragathsi thought she recalled them. One of the Hundred Families.
Excellent. She waved at them, and the noblewoman caught sight of her first. The woman’s face went slack, and that unthinking mask of hatred turned to terror. The [King] said nothing. He seemed to have frozen in shock.
“No—”
The noblewoman turned, and Ragathsi brought her submachine gun up and fired a burst straight through the window she’d created. The fleeing woman and [Mage] vanished. Then Ragathsi felt a kick from the air and closed the window.
Detonated the armory’s magical artifacts. Chain reaction. It might have taken out the entire manor or keep. More, depending on what was in there.
She chuckled. Wishing she could see the result. Then she turned to the other window her Skill was keeping open. She coughed into her fist as she did. And there was a faint sound from her chest.
A—cracking. Ragathsi doubted anyone could hear it from her. She listened as the rumbling roar of her heart continued. She swallowed the blood pooling in her mouth.
Backlash. They were trying to stop her, but her level exceeded them all. And she didn’t care what the cost was. Blood vessels had burst in her eyes from forcing the Skill.
You couldn’t tell. Her vision was bloody. It didn’t matter. They couldn’t stop her.
Not now.
She turned to the other window, and the quail-king found a voice to speak at last.
“On—behalf of the Kingdom of Oztera, we wish to sue for peace, Goblin Lord.”
He breathed, his eyes on Ragathsi’s face, then jerking away, unable to look at her. She pointed a finger. If he’d been able to meet her eyes, or she’d recognized him, she would have given him a chance to grovel.
“[Master Gunner]. Fire.”
The Goblin with the rifle fired twice. The [King] jerked on his throne, and Ragathsi saw the first round spark in the air. She guessed it was the protective spell. The second one hit him in the forehead.
Someone made a sound. Ragathsi pointed a finger at the royal court and the throne.
“[Might of Civilization: Full Salvo].”
Her best capstone Skills, these. She knew she was wasting them, but she wasn’t going to have a chance to use too many of them. She wasn’t sure if she had an army, anyways. But it seemed like the system had decided she still had the forces equivalent to her army that had faced Lord Xitegen.
The throne vanished in the first second, and Ragathsi watched as the bombardments blew through the palace behind the throne. She waited until she could see daylight, then halted the Skill.
No point to wiping out the entire city. The second window disappeared, and the Goblin Lord touched her heart, curiously, as it pumped again.
RRM. RRRRM.
“Strange. They say revenge never warms the heart…but I enjoyed that.”
She really had. Just another sign she didn’t fit in this world. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations waited, hoping the Blighted Kingdom sent her a rain of Deathslayer Arrows.
“No more foes? What a pity. You know, a few thousand years ago, the Blighted Kingdom decided to try using Goblins as fodder against Rhir’s horrors. More recently, the King of Destruction slew the last Goblin Lord of Chandrar. Though perhaps he had it coming? I never met him. Roshal, ah, yes. In the past, Roshal enjoyed selling Goblins as [Slaves] no one would quibble against, before they created a Goblin King. I could go on. But none of you want to step forwards and lead the charge? No one?”
She spread her hands, signalling the [Mage] to take his barriers down. He made them transparent, and Ragathsi turned.
“You were so eager to attack that cute inn. I saw you bombarding that attractive [Innkeeper] for the sin of taking Greydath’s hand. And he is far, far less terrible than I am. Terandria’s old sins, when they helped make Curulac. Come now. I’m standing right here. I won’t even move. Come and slay me.”
She slapped her metal chest and waited. No one. Not one of them did a thing, and she knew they were watching, whispering to each other. Frozen with fear?
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations just smiled, like burning cities. She lifted her finger up.
“No? Fine, then. You think that I can’t harm you because it’s today and you didn’t harm me, right this instant. I am here on behalf of Goblins. You kill us and wonder why the Goblin King rages. [Remote Airstrikes: Death From Above]. [Deploy Mass Landmines]. Hah. Hahaha. HAHAHA—oops.”
She struck the two places she hated most, Roshal and the Blighted Kingdom, and laughed. A deep and relieved laugh of someone unleashing everything in her heart. Then—the voice became familiar, and she felt a hand reaching through her chest and stopped.
She fought it back—barely. Touched her beating heart, relieved that he was distracted.
Almost. She’d almost become him. Was he trying to find a better host, or would there be two of him? Well, either one was as bad as the other. Ragathsi turned to Rags, both of them, and gave the duo a rueful smile. They gazed at her like a monster—no, like someone incubating one. They saw what she’d known.
“—So, you see. The problem is me, but I know the solution. Well, now for you, 2nd Army. Your turn.”
She casually rotated her mechanical arm as she turned her attention to them. Brave [Soldiers] of Pallass. Who had just seen Fightipilota wipe out their Wyverns—and Goblinhome morph into the bunker-fortress in front of them.
Even if they believed nothing of her Skills—they could feel her presence, her beating heart. They had seen the way she obliterated their ballista. They were very brave; they didn’t run. They held their ground, these Drake-led forces, because once, a [General] had said they weren’t supposed to run, and they’d made it a catchphrase of their entire species.
See? Drakes were truly hilarious. Serious, deadpan [Clowns] that didn’t realize they were supposed to also get the joke. Tragic for the same reason.
Right now, Pallass was watching. Its High Command, the Assembly of Crafts, and the ordinary people. If High Command was smart, they’d be trying to cut the broadcast, but they couldn’t—they didn’t have the measures in place to do it that fast.
And she wouldn’t let them. Ragathsi pointed her submachine gun at the [Soldiers], and they flinched.
No one had to tell them how fast they would die if it fired. It didn’t matter that they had excellent armor and Skills. Their discipline, their training, meant nothing. Not in front of the Goblin from the future.
“You have come to make war on Goblins. This tribe you could wipe out. It never attacked you. It never raided Pallass’ territory. Nor Liscor’s. In fact, it just helped your army, I believe. You answered it with treachery. I’m sure you’ll say it’s because ‘Goblins are monsters’ or because of the Goblin King. Well, you have the Cyclops of Pallass. If you don’t understand that, then you have never known a Human city or Gnoll tribe who found themselves on the tender edge of your mercies. Or merely another Drake city. But you still came for us.”
Her eyes found Colonel Rathiss standing amidst his people. A frozen Drake looking at his worst nightmares. Ragathsi produced another speaking stone—well, created it with a Skill—and held it up.
“Here’s your High Command. Wishing to negotiate, I believe. To avoid further hostilities. After all, Pallass is a Walled City, and their wrath against Goblins would be a terrible thing. They are a power among powers in Izril, and the Walled Cities are one of the preeminent powers of the south.”
Her voice was a touch resigned, and she lowered the submachine gun slightly. The [Soldiers] didn’t move—they wouldn’t have untensed if she dropped dead that moment with every Goblin, she suspected. But there was a slight give in the frozen glacier of their hearts, perhaps.
Ragathsi closed her eyes as the speaking stone blurted something that sounded like a voice of relief.
“Peace is a difficult thing. It feels like one must enforce it with the largest club you can hold. Peace—everyone is so eager to move towards peace when they have something to lose. But that is the difficult path of those who wish for it. To break every cycle…you will have to walk on the bodies of your dead and shake hands with the bastards who hold still-wet blades.”
Her eyes met those of Chieftain Rags. The Goblin was just standing there, tense. Her face hadn’t changed. Student Rags was breathing, in and out, but the [Chieftain]…wasn’t fooled.
Ragathsi spoke like a two-faced [Actor], face composed and pacing left and right. In front of her bodyguard, studying at all their faces. They knew her, too. And half were grinning, the others just listening or gazing past her. She searched for doubt, but there wasn’t any.
And she didn’t even know their names. She felt terribly bad about that, now.
—Not about anything else. Ragathsi turned and spread her hands wide.
“Therefore, what you expect me to say now, what you hope I’ll say is that I’m letting your army go. It would be so terribly unjust, cruel, horrific of me to do anything else.”
She waited, and her heart thrummed.
RRM.
—They caught on, and she bared her sharp teeth.
“Yes. You’d like that, wouldn’t you? Even if you don’t have anyone you love in this army. Your people, caught out by the monstrous aggressor. ‘This can’t happen.’ ‘How could you?’ You’re Pallass. And we are Goblins. Tell me—when has the adventurer ever turned around and gone back home when the Goblin begs for her life? When they sweep in with spears and armored boots, do you think 2nd Army has ever halted?”
Every eye upon her. She could hear their hearts beating with hers, now. Terrified. In a panic. Faces—they were people behind those helmets. She was sure that if she had the time to talk to them, get to know them, she’d like some of them. That was how it always worked.
But today—today—the Goblin Lord of Civilizations’ heart began to roar. She spoke above the deafening thunder rising from her chest.
“Today, you get to be the Goblins. Did you think you could just walk away from this? You knew what you were doing. You just never expected to meet me. Today, at last—I am the consequences.”
None of them would get that. No one but a few Goblins, but that was all she wanted to say. She levelled her submachine gun at the [Soldiers] and felt something running from her eyes.
Blood from the broken vessels in her vision no doubt. She grinned, despite the cool liquid trickling down her cheeks.
“You never turned back. Not once in my entire life. Never an ounce of mercy or a single life spared. Not once. You—you were kinder to Velan. That’s why he spared Baleros after he became sane again. But not my people. Not I. We’re all hellbound, but I’m headed there directly. And I am taking this army with me.”
She wiped at the damn blood on her face, glancing down at the liquid glistening on her metal arm that reflected her grinning face. Not blood after all.
