When Dragonbreath from a true Flame Dragon reached a certain, critical mass, it had the same effect as a supernova in miniature form. The detonation blew both warriors apart, and then the Halfling parried a Brass Dragon’s jaws snapping down on him. His sword etched Beach Teriarch’s teeth, and he leapt away from another gout of flames.
The Dragonlord of the Creler Wars contented himself with a tail-slam that knocked the Goblin King into a part of the mountains. He fired [Disintegration Rays] rapidly from one claw.
“If it must be, it will be! Both of these old foes perish today! The world will be freed of the Goblin King and the guardian of secrets! Ah—”
The Goblin King charged out of the mountainside as the Halfling’s sling snapped. The first orb hit Creler Wars Teriarch’s side and pulled him into a miniaturized black hole.
—It took him six minutes to escape the crushing pressure, and only by virtue of having cast [Immutable Form] prior to engaging in battle. Even so, it had crushed his scales, caused havoc to his organs, and the Dragonlord emerged to find the remaining four Dragonlords fighting tooth and nail against the Halfling and Goblin King.
“This was a mistake! We can’t kill b—”
One of the Teriarchs went down, roaring, as the Goblin King landed on his back and began to rip out scales. He was screaming when the Goblin King vanished abruptly. Something had hit the Goblin King so hard he struck the ground and lay there, wrestling with it now clinging to him.
Which was—an ultramagnetic piece of condensed metal weighing about a thousand pounds. When tossed at the proper speed, it hit the Goblin King with all the relative force of a cannonball fifty times its size and five times as fast.
The last Teriarch, the original Dragonlord of Flames, peeked around a boulder five thousand feet distant, and the Halfling, whirling his slingstaff, had a second to react before a dozen enchanted blades were on him.
Naturally—his slingstaff whirled, a stone deflecting a floating trident and cutlass, and he swung his sword in economical arcs. Slashed through a glaive, a pair of carving knives, and then stabbed through a shield made of Lifeglass from the Continent of Glass itself.
A dozen Relics sundered by his damn shortsword. A fortune to make any Dragonlord wince—if they hadn’t been running for the hills—
Second fun fact: when you break that much magic in the air, what do you think happens? The best case was that it manifested or overloaded some poor [Mage] like a balloon filled by a hurricane. In the worst case? All that magic either condensed into something like seith. Or, if it was conflicting types, like now—
It instantly generated a magical interference effect. Which was equivalent to the entire area around the Halfling for two hundred feet freezing as basic physics stopped like a frozen glass of water—then someone hitting that water with a hammer as hard as they could.
The Halfling did not shatter, but several of his enchanted stones detonated their magic effects. His sword shivered in the air, and his skin cracked across his face and arms and legs. Every piece of him not covered by armor developed deep gouges that threatened to rip off chunks of his skin—he staggered and reached for a pellet he flicked into his mouth and chewed.
The cracks steamed as they closed, but it was the first time any Teriarch had seen him take a wound. Let alone one that needed healing. They turned to the original Dragonlord of Flames, who poked his head around the boulder as Halfling and Goblin King faced this new threat.
“[Pentagram of the Five Alchemies: Hellfire Pillar].”
The flame pillar hit the Goblin King and transformed him into a burning, roaring candle. The other five Teriarchs fell back, adding their magic to the [Diamondshard Spray] attack that came next—only, every piece of stone around the Halfling burst with him as the center of the deadly spray.
And he was in the High Passes. All rock. The Halfling emerged, eyes focused on the Teriarchs, and they saw it.
These two weren’t invincible. The Goblin King survived the [Hellfire Pillar], but he didn’t rip his way out of it. Even his insane will and Rabbiteater’s body was flagging. As for the Halfling—he pulled out a pipe.
He began smoking on the pipe. One of the Teriarchs breathed fire at him, cautious. The Halfling took the pipe out of his mouth and blew a Dragon out of the smoke.
…The Dragon was bigger than Teriarch. Three times bigger, and it ate the flame breath and flew at them. All six Teriarchs regarded it and ran.
One of them was caught by the smoke Dragon. Superhero Teriarch screamed.
“No! Hel—”
He vanished into the smoke. The Teriarchs whirled, and one finally managed to figure out how to dispel the smoke; wind, physical obstructions, and everything else had failed. He fired the highest-level light spell he could into the smoke cloud, which bounced around until it solidified enough of the smoke Dragon to dissipate the rest.
There was no Teriarch with a cape when the Smoke Dragon vanished.
The Halfling exhaled another cloud of the smoke at the Goblin King, who backed away fast. One of the Teriarchs spoke.
“…He’s worse. Kill him first.”
 
——
 
Five Dragonlords and the Goblin King charged the Halfling. Five roaring Brass Dragons, all casting spells, and the Goblin King.
The Halfling was winning.
Four [Witches] were peeking out from around a boulder several thousands of feet away, ducking down every time spells came their way. It was not safe. But they hadn’t come to just watch.
Future Pebblesnatch, Witch Agratha, Thallisa, Alevica, and a host of other flight-capable [Witches] came down on broomsticks and joined the huddle.
“What’s the plan?”
Even Thallisa didn’t jump in immediately. She addressed Mavika, the highest-level [Witch] besides her, but the Crow Witch was distracted. Staring back the way they’d come.
“Put it in here. Everything you’ve got.”
Eloise jabbed a finger down, and they saw Hedag holding out her hat. Thallisa poked her head out from behind the boulder as Alevica began to protest.
“I can freecast spells. What if I—”
Thallisa saw the Halfling drop his sword. She blinked as the four-foot warrior made fists and beckoned to the Goblin King. She saw the Goblin King lunge—
The earthquake and thunder deafened all the [Witches] as Thallisa whirled her cloak overhead. She blocked the first avalanche of stones, and the witches leapt into the air. Then turned.
The Goblin King was pulling himself out of the mountain behind them. The Halfling had just punched him—
Thallisa turned her head and heard a voice.
“Get him off! Get h—”
The Halfling grabbed one of the Teriarchs by the tail and slammed the Dragonlord down, cracking his entire body like a whip. Then made a little hopping motion, vanished—
The Goblin King caused another earthquake as a second blow drove him into the stone. The Halfling stood on the ground, eyes bright. He glanced over his shoulder. The Dragonlords were staring at him, incredulous, as they flew in attack formation.
The Halfling was grinning as he spun his slingstaff, and his stones knocked them all down. Dragonlords, Goblin King—a hail of projectiles that would have torn a legion of Ragathsi’s tanks to shreds in moments.
But the Slingblade was still—pushed. A roaring Dragonlord came at him, and the Halfling fired another stone of complete cold through his mouth; the damage made the Dragon convulse. But another was sneaking up on the Halfling from the side—the ray of light angled off the Halfling’s sword into the Goblin King’s chest, vaporizing a chunk of his flesh. The Halfling swung his sword—but he couldn’t cut the Goblin King in two. A hand grabbed him and tossed him through part of a mountain.
The Halfling reappeared behind a Dragonlord and sliced Beach Teriarch’s tail off halfway towards the base of his body. The Dragon screamed as the Halfling reached to fling poison fit to kill a Dragon onto the wound—
A screaming Dragon made out of the air rematerialized for a second and grabbed him. The Dragonlord he’d evaporated tried to crush the Halfling; a stone flung into the center of the cloud dispersed the Dragonlord again. The Halfling fell, coughing.
 
——
 
That hurt. A bit, but the pain was fleeting. He was winning, though he hadn’t worked out how to kill the Goblin King yet.
—But they kept fighting, and they were as mighty as Dragons of old, with tricks he didn’t know. The Halfling felt it.
The same being reflected multiple times over. This Goblin King—reality is breaking down. Just as the Elves claimed it would. The Grand Design is failing. Is it time?
He could not answer that. He had sworn to fight to the last. And he had an endless bag of tricks.
The Goblin King came for him again, a single-minded attacker, as the Dragons flew up again. The Halfling saw one flying back down the pass, clearly intending to take cover amongst the cliffs.
A shadow passed overhead. The Halfling looked up, sling ready—
And saw the Harpy Queen diving down towards him.
[The Harpy Queen’s Dive]. He drew his shield, which had blocked the Dragonlords’ flames effortlessly, pivoting to set himself. She’d break her own body from the force of th—
“[Royal Will: Unstoppable Impact].”
His eyes went wide, and an unstoppable force met his shield—which was not an immovable object. Only—close.
Pain, a broken bone he hadn’t felt since he’d taken this charge. Slashing of his sword—cutting her talons off—until she retreated, screaming, trying to heal her severed claws. The Halfling rose, and a bee the size of a cow slammed into him.
A stinger jabbed at his armor—he kicked the bee skywards, then picked up his shortsword he’d dropped.
Then there were flying creatures. Everywhere. Biting at him, tearing—Flying Antinium, a duck, mosquitoes the size of dogs with proboscises so sharp they pierced rocks when they stabbed—
The Halfling began to stab at a gigantic creature that landed in front of him, and he stared at the oversized sparrow.
The Goblin King cleaved through the creatures without hesitation or remorse, but the Halfling hesitated.
They were just creatures. He beheaded the sparrow as it pecked at him. His sling sang bitterly, and he searched for the Harpy Queen. Kill her and they’d leave, perhaps.
This wasn’t a fun battle, for all he fought with smiles and pranks. That was just to annoy his opponents. The Goblin King wanted a battle of legends. So did the Harpy Queen. They got a Halfling with a sling, whose mocking smile was the last thing tyrants and demigods had ever seen.
He had that pipe in his mouth again, and this time, he blew a cloud of smoke that had the Goblin King and the Dragonlords retreating. Straight at the Harpy Queen.
She laughed at him, and then, to the Slingblade’s horror, pointed a wing.
 
——
 
The deathly smoke erased everything it touched. A stream of pure annihilation.
Empress Sheta pointed her army forwards, and they dove into it. The creature in front was the last of the giant Face-Eater Moths. The massive creature, even larger than Teriarch, vanished as it took the cloud head-on, and half its swarm went with it. But they were so big—
The Halfling finished blowing smoke and pulled something from his pockets. He threw a burning firework that multiplied into a hundred thousand explosions, and the Harpy Queen screamed.
“Forwards! Don’t let the foe escape!”
Ashfire Bees blazed like dying suns as they hurled themselves forwards through the barrage. The Halfling’s sling was singing now; enchanted stones crashed into the oversized creatures with bodies as tough as Mithril, felling them by the hundreds.
They were a flight of millions, and they fell on the Halfling and Goblin King, vanishing with each Skill the latter used.
It didn’t matter. Bite them. Kill them. Claw them to death.
The Harpy Queen was flying up, up—and in her wake, a bird from the primordial ages answered her. A champion. A transformed [Witch].
Mavika. Next came the Wyvern Lord, howling down from the mountains, and something even larger. A shrieking—the Harpy Queen gazed up.
“What art thou? A horror of ice and snow? Strike him.”
The howling wraith-thing wasn’t even entirely visible. It was ice and air, so frozen that the warmer temperatures down below were killing it. But it came for the Goblin King, freezing him and piercing his armor with a hundred thousand fangs of air.
He tore it apart as the Wyvern Lord slammed down on top of him, howling until the Goblin King kicked him off. The Halfling had thrown another miniaturized black hole and was loading his sling with more. Dozens of them ate away the swarm besieging him—Sheta curved away from one such shot meant for her.
Mavika’s winged form dove towards the Halfling, and he flicked one of those deadly stones up at her. She curved—and caught the orb in her hat.
It vanished, and the giant bird grabbed the Halfling, clawing and pecking, until he sliced through her stomach and sent her shrieking away.
The Goblin King was howling in outrage, wasting his energy against her army. But the Halfling…Sheta circled, eyes on him. He was taking aim at her, whirling that sling-staff. She screamed a challenge as she came around for another pass with a thousand Flying Antinium on the assault.
 
——
 
The Halfling twirled his sling, his face grave and distressed. No longer smiling as the stone flashed in his sling with every color of the rainbow and more.
A hand fell on his shoulder, and he spun. His free hand lashed out, the same fist that had thrown a Dragonlord.
The [Witch] caught it. Her feet didn’t even budge. The Halfling blinked and pivoted.
Witch Hedag punched the Slingblade off his feet, then charged forwards, swinging her hands as he stumbled. He recognized her in her brown robes as she lifted a brawler’s hands.
“You—”
Her right hook snapped his head around, and he blocked a punch to his chest. So she kicked him. The Halfling stumbled and jumped. His kick to her chest made her grunt, but it didn’t launch her off her feet.
How…? 
Her hat was trembling with all the magic of the [Witches] in it. The Hedag rushed the Halfling again, without any of the Goblin King’s Skills or insane strength. Just the weight of a woman who’d brawled in every village with no name.
Just like him. Wanderer. Lawbringer. Slingblade—
Hedag. Her third punch caught him straight on the eye, and he swore in a tongue she didn’t know, letting go of his slingblade and putting his fists up. He kicked off the ground and headbutted her hard enough to send both flying a dozen feet away, but she rolled and slammed a leg onto his back. Grabbed him and slammed him into a stone as they rose.
Pain. The grit of stone into his back. The bruising of flesh—sympathy magic.
“Witches.”
