The Goblin King ripped another one off her foot, and she convulsed as he kicked her onto her side. He met a roaring Teriarch, and the Dragonlord held him aloft, breathing flames over him until he broke the claw apart and hit the Dragonlord hard enough to dent in the flesh around his skull.
Another lanced him with magic, and the Goblin King drew close enough to stab the Dragon in the throat, coppery blood covering him. He took a step as the whirling Dragonlord made of dust and willpower faced him—and swung a hand to rip apart the remains of this Dragon.
He…failed. His arm wouldn’t move. Instead, his other hand came up, palm out, and his lips spoke.
“Wait.”
The voice was not the Goblin King’s. The weary soul of the First Goblin tried to pull the hand down, tried to speak—but he could not.
That hand took his again. That spark of defiance that refused to die.
“You again. You can’t beat me. I won’t die.”
Not even from this. The Goblin King felt Rabbiteater’s soul holding onto his arm, fighting for control. The Goblin King was exhausted, wearied by invoking the Skills and twisting reality to move. And—that’s what he had been waiting for.
The survivor. The owner of the body. The [Champion], who had bided his time.
Rabbiteater the Traitor. The Goblin King took one step, then stumbled as the Dragon of dust and winds snarled. He lunged, fangs biting, and both Goblins dove right, rolling to their feet. One of them wanted to rip the Dragon apart. The other wanted to hold the hand out.
They wrestled, and the weary Goblin King won. He always did. He raised a shaking hand and swiped at the Dragonlord, who drifted apart and rematerialized. But his arm jerked and trembled; the dust Teriarch noticed it.
“Hm.”
He stopped attacking, eyes narrowed, and heard the Goblin King speaking to himself.
“For this, I will return and kill them all. Your second Mrsha is already dead. You can’t protect anything.”
It was true. The Goblin King leapt and grabbed the Dragonlord made only of wind and air and his own indomitable spirit. He began to pull the roaring soul apart, and the Dragon of wind and dust spat a gale upwards, ripped at the armored figure with his claws made of razor-sharp air.
No good. The Goblin King’s hands never wavered. All the dust Teriarch managed to do was rip the mangled helmet off the Goblin King’s head. But the face underneath ignored the blasting sand and raging wind. He was smiling as he pulled harder.
A grin of wrath and destruction as another enemy fell. His eyes were shimmering red, such a soft glow, and the tears that ran down his cheeks dripped onto the bloody ground.
Tears. The Goblin King’s face grew confused as he registered the strange blurriness to his vision. He raised one hand, impatiently, to wipe them away.
“What are these things?”
He…didn’t remember. The being who contained so many Goblin lives stared blankly at the liquid on his hand, then reached down to pull the Dragonlord apart.
Nothing happened. His hands stopped again. That pestilential little spirit.
The Goblin King concentrated more of his will, pushing himself.
His hands—still wouldn’t move. Incredulous, he gave it his all. This wasn’t even one of Rabbiteater’s beloved people. He tried to move his hands, drawing on all that made him up. His anger. All their wrath, not just his.
—Only a fraction of it came. It was as if he was suddenly far weaker. The Goblin King reached for the other souls, calling for their support. He felt nothing. And then, another hand joined Rabbiteater’s and held him steady. Forced the Goblin King to let go.
Velan. Then another Goblin King lent their strength to the [Champion], and the original Goblin King understood.
“Traitors.”
“That’s what I’m good at.”
The weeping Goblin replied, and his eyes were still streaming the tears he hadn’t wept for fifteen years. He let go of the Dragon and stepped back. The Goblin King fought, but he realized the other Goblin Kings were in revolt.
 
——
 
They’d taken Rabbiteater’s side. So many of them. The Goblin King and the souls loyal to him were outnumbered by the other Goblin Kings who had joined Rabbiteater, lending their strength to him.
Or simply refused to give their strength to the original Goblin King, like Curulac of a Hundred Days. They sat or stood, souls facing the raging figure.
The Goblin King resembled a version of Rabbiteater worn by war, helmet and armor torn and ripped to shreds. He had forgotten what he looked like in his own soul.
“I am the wrath of Goblins. You have all felt my rage. Why here? Why now?”
Why him? He pointed an accusatory finger at the [Champion]. He was not noblest of them all, not the strongest in will, or even real. But the Goblin Kings backed the [Champion]. A weeping Goblin.
“Goblins do not weep. He is weak. He will ruin this chance.”
The silent figures had refused to answer him until now. Then a smile broke across their faces, and one of them laughed.
Sóve, the smallest of the Goblin Kings, threw back her head and laughed as she joined her will to Rabbiteater.
“That’s the silliest lie you tell, Goblin King. You wept when someone was nice to you. You just forgot. You get to be mad. You’re right to rage, I think. But not tell us what Goblins are. This Goblin might not even be real, but he probably is. And he has something better than you.”
She patted Rabbiteater’s arm as the [Champion] wiped at his eyes, and his head turned, seeking a distant memory, as he took control of their weary body. The Goblin King snarled, helpless.
“What can he offer you?”
Rabbiteater whispered.
“Something new.”
 
——
 
Then, at last, the Goblin King stopped. The dust Teriarch had returned to his feet and was prepared to keep fighting to the last. But he didn’t.
It could have been a ruse, the shaking arms, the speaking to himself. But the Goblin King that stood there was crying.
Tears.
That stayed the Dragon’s wrath. The Goblin’s face looked different now. He closed his eyes and took a breath, shuddering, and then looked at his hands. When his head rose, he felt different.
Smaller. Less powerful, but more solid. Sure of himself in ways the Goblin King was not. He had a weary strength about him, and his battered armor gleamed brighter. Less a second-skin of metal and more of a symbol. Something to believe in.
The Dragonlord of Dust inhaled, preparing to breathe flames. He smelled something, and his breath caught.
It smelled like…flowers. Spices. Worn floorboards, the tang of fruit, and cooking food. The spirit of the Dragonlord had no physical body left, but he still smelled it and felt a surge of nostalgia in his chest.
The smaller Goblin gazed up at him, and the Dragonlord of Dust, prepared to die, took a step back. This stranger hurt him far more than any blow or spell could.
He embodied Teriarch’s memory of sleeping under a vast wing. Childhood lost, never to come again and also never forgotten.
“Who…are you?”
“Rabbiteater. This battle is over, Dragonlord. The Goblin King is bested, for now. Don’t attack me, please. I have a way to end this stupid fighting.”
The swirling Dragon made of dust hesitated, and he bared his fangs, uncertain.
“One moment of treachery—”
“You know it’s me. I know what I have to do. You beat him. Now, it’s my turn.”
The Goblin King of Traitors’ body was broken beyond belief. Every muscle and cell had been destroyed and regenerated—but it was still his body. And he had will, twenty years of desperate helplessness.
One last chance.
He turned to where the Empress of Harpies was perching on her remaining foot, and the last two intact Dragons were fighting the Halfling into a corner. The Halfling was bleeding now, fighting defensively—his skin was being ripped by the mere bites of moths, the scratches of ducks.
He wasn’t some immortal being with skin like diamonds. Just…a Halfling gifted with a sword and sling. He had that weary smile on his face, almost relieved, as he fought. The Goblin King paused, gathering himself—then ran.
—Past the original Teriarch and the Beach Teriarch, through the swarm of flying creatures who he brushed aside, gently, with his aura. Even the Harpy Empress was brushed back by a vast arm. She recoiled and tried to strike at him, but then she wavered.
Either he was weary or he did it apurpose, because the Halfling was too slow to raise his blade. The Goblin [Champion] seized his arms, and the Halfling’s strength was nothing to the Goblin King.
“Ah, you’re not the same as him. Who are you?”
“Rabbiteater the Traitor. The Goblin King who fell. And you’re the Halfling. Gailant, the Goblin King called you.”
The Halfling was coughing, inhaling the smoke from the Dragonlords’ flames.
“No more. End it and then rest now, Goblin King.”
Rabbiteater shook his head slowly.
“What a bitter ending for us. You will die knowing the gods are back, and I will be part of him, even if my soul goes free.”
It was a bitter ending. The Halfling had chosen it seventy thousand years ago. But Rabbiteater had a better idea, though he’d only had five minutes. His hands tightened around the Halfling’s wrists, and then he lifted the warrior up.
The Halfling kicked him in the groin as he was hoisted up, and Rabbiteater grunted.
“Codpiece. Empress Sheta, I’m done. But the Goblin King is not. He never is. I have an answer.”
“Speak.”
She stood above him, weary and wounded, however temporary. She was gazing at the brave army of creatures who had been vaporized or sliced to pieces. At the place where the two Dragonlords had been. Her lust for battle was ended. She stood under the broken moon and listened as the monarch of Goblins who never had been allowed to rule spoke.
“Where…it feels silly to ask, but I am genuinely lost. Where is The Wandering Inn?”
Her eyes flickered, and a trace of suspicion crossed her face. But then they widened as she understood what he was thinking.
Stop. What are you planning? Don’t you see? We can best them all if you take my power. We can end this. The dead gods—the Halfling is on our side.
“He really is stupid. No one ever beat him up as a kid. The Elves just took his hand and gave him all the kindness. That’s bad parenting.”
Rabbiteater found it funny that that comment nearly gave the Goblin King the power to wrest control of his body for a second. The Halfling, Gailant, dangled from Rabbiteater’s grip and laughed softly.
“Neither one of us is fit for this time, Goblin King.”
“Yes, exactly.”
Gailant gave Rabbiteater a curious look—and the Goblin King saw Sheta spread her wings.
“Hm. That way. We will follow you. If you—”
“Yeah, yeah. [Like a Lion, He Leapt].”
The [Champion] crouched down and jumped—so fast and so high that the Harpy and Dragonlords scrambled to fly after him. They were used to the Goblin King’s Skills. But Rabbiteater—he was still pretty good.
He landed on an outcropping, jumped again—he kicked off a ledge, and then he saw that familiar bowl-like depression.
“Home. My inn. No time to get a drink.”
The Halfling was still in his grip, and he blinked at Rabbiteater.
“I won’t run. My end has come.”
“Sure. That’s what I’d say, then kick me in the balls and run for it.”
Rabbiteater saw the Halfling grin ruefully. He felt like—they would have made great friends in another life.
Alas.
 
——
 
The water sucked. Rabbiteater couldn’t run on it like the Goblin King, and all the bridges were broken. So he had to leapfrog from hill to hill. Towards the inn.
The Harpy Queen and Dragonlords beat him there, which stopped the people from trying to kill him. But they were ready.
Saliss of Lights. Lyonette. An old Moore—watchful, faces filled with fear or anger or just—determination.
Rabbiteater halted in front of them, and they drew back. But he was searching for the girl.
Mrsha. Roots Mrsha was in the [Garden of Sanctuary]—when he tried to go to the door, Lyonette blocked his path. He gently swung Gailant at her like an impromptu weapon. The Halfling stared at the [Princess]. She never took her eyes off Rabbiteater’s face.
“Sorry. I wasn’t strong enough before. Please let me go through. You know where I’m going. It’s the only answer. For us. For him. And this guy.”
He spoke to Roots Mrsha. He took a hand from the Halfling and tapped his face as their eyes fixed on him with recognition. That was a mistake. The Halfling drew his damn shortsword in a second.
Rabbiteater just sighed as the tip of the blade inserted itself into the taper of his neck. He addressed the Halfling, calm.
“I’m not him. But killing me does nothing. Can’t you hope for anything after a hundred thousand years? Didn’t the Elves trust us to succeed? Did they have to put a death-spell in the moon?”
He spoke to Gailant with a glower, and the Halfling hesitated. Roots Mrsha glanced between them, and then she wrote in the air with her wand and stepped aside.
Mister Halfling. I may not know much, but I know someone who doesn’t want more regrets when I see him. Is more violence the answer today?
Gailant hesitated, and the tip of his sword lowered.
“Where—are you taking me?”
The first Goblin King didn’t know either. That was the funniest thing. In his way, for all his powers and his determination, he was the least creative, least changeable being to ever exist.
He was almost there, and he was holding the Goblin King and his supporters back, but Rabbiteater was fighting for every moment. It was a battle he couldn’t afford to lose, so he was focused. Moving as fast as he could.
—But they were in his way. When he gazed at them, faces filled with suspicion and hostility, his knees buckled, and his heart…
Lyonette didn’t understand who he was. She knew he wasn’t the Goblin King, but her eyes were uncomprehending. The rest had worked it out. But that mother…
She held the box that could destroy so much in her hands, prepared to use it. She gazed upon the Goblin King without fear and then saw his eyes fill with tears again.
Tears as he gazed at her, Roots Mrsha, and then past them. A bright garden opened as the Goblin walked forwards, and she moved to bar his way.
The door had returned, despite being broken off its hinges. Lyonette saw the stranger stop at the entrance. But he merely put his hand out, feeling at the gap in the air. His fingertips passed across the threshold of the door, and he sighed. She started as he stepped into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Gently.
Then her eyes fixed on his face, and Lyonette finally recognized him, despite all the changes wrought by time and the first Goblin King. His smile was the same. Her hands trembled as they lowered the box, and she whispered.
“Rabbiteater?”
