Something flashed underneath the Wyvern he was flying, so fast that Asiv felt like he was standing still. He heard a strange sound. A roaring noise, artificial and high-pitched. The tearing of air—and something foreign to him passed underneath him.
“What are you seeing? Asiv, report!”
“It’s some kind of warmachine. It’s beautiful.”
It was so fast he couldn’t get a clear look at it, but he still saw the streak of blue dappled by shadows streaming across the sky in a straight line. So different from how any other creature of the air flew. A strange, blue bird tilting its wings. Hypnotizing until he heard the scream.
“It’s too fast! We can’t shake it!”
That brought him back to reality. The Drake twisted, heart pounding as the Frost Wyvern flew above them, screeching.
“It’s behind—down—Flight 5, it’s diving at you!”
He howled, and then the speaking stones were a mix of voices. Edellein’s, the Wing Captain’s, the other [Wyvern Riders].
“That’s no Wyvern—”
“It’s too fast! Dive! Dive!”
“Inc—”
Then he heard a terrible sound, like muted thunder. A roar from below him, and Asiv’s mental view of the battlefield, his [Allied Awareness] Skill, made five [Wyvern Riders] below him—vanish.
In a second. The roar sounded again, and two more vanished—a voice was screaming.
“Falling! Falling! She killed my Wyvern!”
“Evade! Evade! What is—”
“Asiv, help!”
Horror filled the Drake, and he shouted into his speaking stone. But another mental signifier vanished. Another [Wyvern Rider]—gone. His breath was rasping in his lungs. Terror clutching his heart, replacing that admiration for the beautiful death-machine. What was it?
“I’m coming. We’re—”
The [Wing Commander] shouted at his wing.
“Dive!”
They were diving, and there were three Wyverns from Flight 5 left. Two…by the time Asiv saw it again, it was turning, and the last Wyvern was diving as well. Whatever Fightipilota was flying—something flashed from the front, and the Wyvern jerked and then just began falling.
Something turned and roared upwards at them, impossibly fast. It wasn’t a Wyvern or an animal at all. Asiv’s voice was faint.
“Engaging.”
Then he saw the front nose of it flash, and from behind the whirring propeller came light. Two Wyvern Riders behind him died. Flight 3 was diving at the strange thing Fightipilota was flying.
They weren’t even breathing fire or loosing arrows or spells. She was hundreds of feet out of range. Asiv was laughing.
“What is? Nephew! What’s—”
“It’s spitting something at us. Nothing can touch it. It’ll slaughter everything that flies. Goodbye, Uncle. Tell 2nd Army to surrender.”
Five. Seven of his wingmates were dropping. Asiv told his Wyvern to breathe fire, if only to distract the Goblin. She juked left—he didn’t even know how, rolling, and the combined Wyvernbreath flashed down past her.
It was almost a relief as Asiv pulled at the reins, trying to abort the dive. He saw her sweeping in from the side. A relief to know—there hadn’t been a chance.
The guns of the Skyshadow Mk. 1 fired through the Wyverns, and Asiv saw it roar past again. His Wyvern was screaming, and the Drake realized, by design or chance, he was the last one. He had a crossbow, and he sighted onto the Goblin as she came around straight on. His [Hawk Eyes] focused on her. He thought that such a beautiful death-machine shouldn’t exist.
But its pilot didn’t look happy. Nor were there tears in her eyes. Her gaze was just so incredibly—melancholy.
Then he pulled the trigger and watched as the crossbow bolt just snapped off one wing. Then Asiv heard that terrible sound.
Gunfire.
And he was falling…
Falling…
 
——
 
Asiv woke up screaming. Screaming as the wind rushed down across his face. He was falling through the cold air, and he wasn’t hurt.
But part of him was dead. His Wyvern was. The Drake clawed at his chest, tumbling down, reaching instinctively for the [Featherfall] scroll. It tore out of his claws as he ripped open the emergency pouch.
He watched his lifeline fly away and closed his eyes. Oh, of course.
He deserved this. His stomach began to churn as he looked down and saw the ground rising to meet him, slowly, slowly—too fast and too slow at the same time.
Gravjaw, I’ll be right with you, buddy. 
Not long now.
“[Wing Commander]!”
Someone else’s voice. Lornee, arms spread, covered in blood, shrieking at him. She was…alive? How? Why?
He plummeted past the others. Falling [Wyvern Riders]. Asiv spread his arms to slow his free-fall and saw his entire squad was alive. No—one of his squadmates was a tumbling corpse, holes in the Drake’s torso. But the others—
She shot our Wyverns. She shot our Wyverns out from under us. Asiv twisted, and his [Hawk Eyes] spotted more tumbling shapes. 5th Flight. They were alive. He could hear Edellein’s voice screaming words over the speaking stone, but could not tell what they were through the howling wind. Just hear the agonized sound in his uncle’s voice. Asiv wanted to laugh and tell his uncle they had made it. Then scream at Edellein—
They were diving after him, trying to reach him. But they’d activated their [Featherfall] spells. They were alive. Alive.
Wyverns dead.
Asiv closed his eyes. Half of the [Wyvern Riders] were falling around him. Broken Wyvern bodies crashing to earth. He looked down again as the world began to rotate. He wanted to say something. Think something that mattered to make sense of it all…
—But the roar of that engine silenced all thoughts. The Drake saw it flying down and realized it had been too soon to think any of them would make it. He saw the blue, bird-like vehicle nosediving down. Parallel to him.
Asiv got his first good look at the insane contraption as it flew past him, slower now, and he saw the whirring rotor slow, and the airplane halted.
Like those new designs in the [Engineer’s Guild] they had us look at. Only so much more beautiful. Asiv wanted to memorize it, but he saw the firing ports that had slain his entire flight turn towards him. Then…the aircraft cut its engine, and the roar died down.
It flew, somehow. Runes glowing on its underbelly as it dove with him, keeping effortless pace. Then he saw the pilot in her strange glass cockpit sitting there.
Fightipilota. The Goblin gazed at him, her crimson eyes focused on Asiv’s face as her hands rested on the controls that could erase him in a second. There were tears there now, he realized.
Not for him. For his Wyvern falling to earth. A [Wyvern Rider]’s familiar tears—and for him, the flash of rage, of contempt. You could have disobeyed.
I’m a [Soldier]. And he saw her reading his mind as her hands tightened on the controls. Asiv braced himself, but the Goblin didn’t fire. She flew closer until they were so close he reached out and touched the glass cockpit and saw her staring ‘up’ at him. Her lips moved.
“You owe me, Wing Commander.”
His eyes widened. The Drake fell, half his heart shot to pieces, and saw her point a finger at him. He tried to twist away, but her Skill activated, and he shouted.
“No—!”
[Deploy Parachute].
There was, suddenly, a harness around his flight suit. Asiv felt something release; there was a snap, and he was hurled back as a parachute opened above him.
He hung, breathless, suspended in the air, and saw her glance at him. His mouth was open in a tormented scream. He didn’t want this. Asiv almost ripped the harness free until he saw her smile.
A bitter, half-mocking smile as she put two fingers to her brow and flicked them away in a salute. The Drake froze, dagger in his hand, blade against the harness keeping him from hitting the ground.
Fightipilota didn’t look back at him as she touched her controls. The propeller of her plane began to spin, and she glanced up, those cold eyes filled with that same expression on her face.
He could cut the harness. He could drift down. It didn’t matter to her, either way. His Wyvern was still dead, and he’d live with it as long as he drew breath. If he lived, she’d spared him—the contemptuous presumption of a being who ruled these skies.
Then Asiv realized what it was like to be a Goblin. He screamed curses as she dove past him. As her plane began to roar again and she swept down. Towards 2nd Army. Only then did Asiv hear his uncle shouting his name and realize he was alive. He gazed down at that Goblin pilot as she descended and heard the howl of her guns.
She swept over 2nd Army for eighteen seconds, firing through the [Soldiers], until the gunfire stopped. Then she was flying upwards. Higher and higher, as if she was sick of seeing it all. Roaring upwards through the clouds that surrounded the High Passes, a blue shadow trying to escape it all. Until the plane vanished and she, too, was falling.
Asiv watched that tiny Goblin flying downwards with no wings but her arms until his eyes found the parachute she’d conjured for him. It had a grinning Goblin’s face on it.
Then the [Wing Commander] averted his gaze and watched his Wyvern, his friend, striking the ground. He wept and swore he would never fly to war against that Goblin. That his uncle would pay.
He knew that she’d let him live because it hurt more. It was better strategy. Because the [Wyvern Rider] deserved to survive their better half hitting the ground. So Wing Commander Asiv screamed and cried out all the way down to his friend.
 
——
 
Ragathsi glanced down after four and a half minutes.
“Here is good. Thanks. Don’t forget to pick up Fightipilota or she’ll hit the ground.”
So saying, the Goblin Lord leapt off the Wyvern’s back. Freefall—then faster as she aimed straight down. She turned and saw the [Fighter Pilot] high above her and rolled her eyes.
That silly [Fighter Pilot] was crying. So much for the legend of the air force. Then again, maybe that was appropriate.
Major Hiclaw and his Wyverns were grounded, hands raised, their Wyverns lying on their sides. As for Fighti? She had swept across 2nd Army, firing all her guns on automatic, covering the Goblins and Wyvern Lord.
Ragathsi could see the holes Fighti had torn in the army closing, like naked wounds. She had been reading reactions to the fighter plane in High Command’s [Message] chat. It was an acquired sense of humor, but Drakes truly were the funniest species. So gratifying. Though Fighti had left most of the [Wyvern Riders] alive, so they now knew what her plane looked like.
Information gathering. Another tsk from Ragathsi. It had the Walled Cities afraid, though, which was something. They’d just seen their domination of the skies vanish. Even so, Fighti would have failed to kill even a single flight of Wyverns with her five-second Skill. Ragathsi had lent her a bit of power.
[Extend Skill]. Five seconds became five minutes.
The fliers were gone. The Goblin Lord fell downwards, and it was her turn. Her finger pointed towards the besieged Goblinhome.
“[Reconstruction: Rebuild it Better, Each and Every Time].”
Below her—the wood and stone fortress shimmered. Then, Ragathsi saw the smoking holes in it disappear. The army surging towards the fortress saw the walls bulge outwards, and the [Soldiers] climbing up on [Lightbridges] fell as the spells broke.
Even Ragathsi didn’t know what she’d see. When the fortress reappeared, she understood. Stone and wood were all the Goblins had. But if you knew how to build—
You could make stone walls that slanted outwards from the structure. But ones that slanted over the heads of the [Soldiers]—a slope, like a talus, but inverted. Impossible to scale or place ladders against. A solid wall of that—and thick, glass windows above massive openings for ballistae to fire from.
Like the bunkers of her world mixed with the architecture of this time. Ragathsi guessed the invading Drakes were suddenly in corridors reshaped around them—cut off from reinforcements.
She smiled.
The reward for killing half a continent’s worth of people and starting a nation for your own species. But that, of course, was only one.
She intended to show them more. The falling Goblin Lord pointed, and the army retreating from Goblinhome barely had time to move when she spoke again.
“[Supreme Strategy: Supersonic Repositioning].”
Then she saw the air rippling, and the first Goblins seemed to teleport into place. The sonic booms rolled down the valley, collapsing the cliffsides into miniature avalanches on top of 2nd Army. A shame the sonic booms didn’t get stronger than a certain level—or the sheer force of transit would have turned everything to paste.
It didn’t matter. The Goblins appearing on the ridgeline flanked 2nd Army. Startled Hobs manning Thunderbows, Redfangs gathered below the archer positions.
Kraken Eaters in a semicircle on the southern front. Gaping around, as surprised as the Drakes they were suddenly behind. Ragathsi moved the two tribes until 2nd Army was surrounded in a semicircle. Backed against Goblinhome.
The [Soldiers] had halted. They were well-trained, but the sight of the fortress they’d bled so much to take re-fortifying, then the sudden arrival of an entire army—
They were still watching their Wyverns falling out of the sky. Then she was there.
A falling fireball. Her heart—Ragathsi saw her [Bodyguards] waiting for her below, just in front of the Wyvern Lord and the three Goblins. She aimed towards them and heard it beating louder.
RRRRRM. RRRRMM. RRRRRRRRRMMMMM!
“Almost. Let’s enjoy this.”
Her boots caught her, and she swung around, coming out of her free-falling stance, and landed as soft as a feather in front of the Drakes. [Goblin Slayers], filled with hate—oh yes, she knew them.
The Goblin Lord triggered a spell on a speaking stone and spoke into a [Loud Voice] spell.
“Hello. Have you been having fun? 2nd Army of Pallass—nations watching Goblins die. Hi, it’s me. I am Ragathsi, the Goblin Lord of Civilizations. The Goblin King’s greatest general. I heard you were bullying this little tribe. So I decided to stop by.”
They were all here. Chieftain Rags had appeared next to Student Rags, and the still-burnt Naumel cast around, confused, as Snapjaw stumbled and nearly fell over. Redscar’s sword was still raised, but even the [Blademaster]’s mouth was open.
Redscar closed his mouth and stared at the grinning [Blademaster] with the headphones, who was bobbing his head to a beat only he could hear. He gave the first [Blademaster] of the Flooded Waters tribe a peace-sign.
Eight bodyguards spread out around Ragathsi as she beamed up at the scrying spells she could still see.
“That’s right. Zoom in. Closer. No, closer. [Manipulate Datastreams]. Right here.”
