His will wavered. The Goblin King felt it and surged against Rabbiteater, but it was impossible to shake Rabbiteater. Yet his soul was trembling. The first Goblin King didn’t understand the paradox as Rabbiteater turned. He bowed his head to Lyonette.
“I’m so sorry. I couldn’t stop him until now. This is my doing. All of it.”
She said nothing as her eyes found a shroud of linen in the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Just like last time. Rabbiteater took a step forwards, and his legs faltered. He almost sank to one knee and turned away. Too afraid, too weak to go forwards. She stood with a terrible willpower beyond his.
“It was not your fault. It was a terrible world made for you. Can you…kill him? The real Goblin King, or whomever it is?”
“I’ll try.”
He whispered to her and nodded his head towards another door, waiting for him on the hill. Her eyes flickered, and she understood what he intended in a moment. She nodded and stood aside.
“Go.”
Rabbiteater nodded and walked past her. Then he stopped.
“Don’t let him become me. He comes out of you like every bad thing you’ve ever felt. Like every righteous anger—only he’s not. I didn’t even know it. I was reliving his life. Lost in his memories and every other Goblin King. When I realized what he had done—days had passed.”
Those blank eyes blinked. Lyonette’s eyes widened, and her eyes filled with a new emotion. Sympathy he didn’t deserve. She reached a trembling hand out and touched his cheek.
“I’m so sorry.”
That was all she said. A single sentence of grief for the world she held—the Goblin King of Traitors bowed to her for her generosity. Then he looked towards the new door that Roots Mrsha held open for him. Gailant had gone mercifully still as he and Lyonette talked. Rabbiteater whispered.
“This place breaks our hearts. It vanishes. But I keep coming back. I keep trying, because the inn took nothing from us. It’s where we live and die. It gave me so much I treasure. Tragedy, too. Lyonette, I still believe in miracles when I step through these doors. Don’t stop.”
She said nothing as he walked up that hill towards the door that led to the [Palace of Fates]. He saw the corridors falling to pieces through the door.
It, too, was breaking. Just like his body. Just like the moon and Gailant—well, the Halfling was actually in better shape than everyone else, just a bit beaten up.
The Goblin King was still not getting it.
The [Palace of Fates]? There’s nothing there. It’s broken.
“All but one door. Pawn’s still holding it open. The true [Champion] of his people. Come on. Sheta! I’m going!”
Rabbiteater called over his shoulder and didn’t wait for a response. He was bounding now, leaping like his namesake. He plunged through the doorway and into…
A fragmenting hallway. Gravity was failing. Pieces of the royal palace were flaking away into the void, but there was still enough of a corridor. A section of it had been cut away by the Maiden, but something was holding it more or less in shape.
The Grand Design.
Or perhaps just him.
Pawn. The [Apostle] stood between the door of that world, holding open the bridge between reality.
How heavy was it? How difficult? Rabbiteater didn’t know, but he was grateful. It allowed him to do this.
He started running, and Gailant made a sound. He searched around this place and then saw the door. He knew what it was.
“That’s—! You opened a door out of here? They should be closed! That’s not another part of this world! That’s another reality entirely!”
“I know.”
The Halfling tried to get free suddenly, and Rabbiteater began running. Down the long corridor, faster and faster. The Goblin King had finally caught on.
No!
He began fighting for control, desperately at first, then with all the force of his being, as if he were fighting for his life—and he was. Rabbiteater’s arms jerked, and he had to twist the Halfling to avoid Gailant cutting off an arm.
He couldn’t fight both of them at the same time. So the [Champion] snapped.
“Don’t you see? It’s how we stop him and you!”
The Halfling’s eyes widened. He stopped trying to cut Rabbiteater, but the Goblin King was fighting harder. Roaring in the depths of the Goblin’s soul. Afraid.
For the first time, truly afraid. More than he had been of the Halfling’s words. More than of the dead gods returning. He thought he had forever, but—what would happen if he passed through that door out of reality itself?
Rabbiteater had a feeling that it didn’t matter if his soul belonged to Hellste—that was a door out. And they were both going.
Gailant saw the plan, and he spoke, voice rasping.
“Let me go. I don’t need a way out.”
“And let you die? Don’t be stupid. Everyone needs a second chance. Some crazy [Innkeeper] taught me that. I won’t let go, and if you stab me, the Goblin King wins. Checkmate.”
Rabbiteater was running faster, sprinting at the door, and he saw the people on the other side drawing back. They had been waiting for stragglers—he had a feeling he wasn’t who they wanted.
“Stop. You’ll damn us both. I have to stop them!”
The Goblin King took control of his mouth, and Rabbiteater almost swerved—but the [Champion] was fighting the last battle. The most important one.
One victory. He had been helpless as the first Goblin King took everything from the people he loved and cut across this world. He had cost them so much, this foolish, weak son of the inn. But this…his voice rasped as he dug the tips of his boots in the soft marble, running faster.
“You’ve done enough. Come on. Let’s go on an adventure.”
They were moments away from the door now, and he was holding on to the Goblin King’s soul. Every Goblin King who’d joined him was doing the same, wrestling the amalgamation of souls. But the first Goblin King’s soul was—fragmenting.
That bastard was trying to leave! He was trying to return to Hellste, to start over again! Or to join the other candidate for Goblin King.
No! Rabbiteater tried to hold onto the Goblin King, but how did you hold onto the soul itself? He slipped out of the [Champion]’s grip—
And Pawn of the Painted Antinium seized hold with one of his four hands. The [Apostle]’s glowing eyes had found the Goblin King’s soul, and his hand could touch anything he believed in. He pulled, and the Goblin King howled.
“Well done, Rabbiteater. We should have been great friends.”
The Goblin King of Traitors grinned, a smile stretching over his weary, aged face, his grey hair shifting as he and the [Apostle] locked gazes. Then—he leapt through the door, pulling the Halfling and the Goblin King’s soul with him.
Reality stretched around him. He pressed against the confines of his world—like that invisible barrier that the [Palace of Fates] had simulated, but something far more infinitely thin and long. A step across reality itself into a new one.
The first Goblin King clung to their reality. Fighting to remain. Rabbiteater and Pawn pulled at him and sensed his soul tugging back into their world.
“Come on—please—”
Let me do something for this damn world! Rabbiteater twisted around, hand outstretched, trying to grab the Goblin King. 
No. Please, let me save something for her. One foe. One person’s life. I couldn’t even protect a child. He screamed as the first Goblin King slipped past him—and a hand grabbed Rabbiteater’s outstretched palm.
“Take me with you, brother.”
A soul broke away from the Goblin King, that mass of beings. A Goblin King gripped Rabbiteater’s hand.
The ghost of Velan the Kind. The [Healer] who had betrayed every oath and made war on Izril clung to Rabbiteater with the strength of, well, a [Healer]. And he was holding onto another Goblin King’s hand. And another.
They tore out of the Goblin King. All their Skills. Their levels. Their classes. Their courage and imagination. Each and every perspective that let him see the world anew. He was howling, demanding they return, trying to pull them back, but now it was more than one against less than eighty. Not just two or three.
More Goblin Kings joined them. Some remained. Spitting the same hatred and rage as the Goblin King, united in vision.
But there was Sóve, the Island Queen, who grinned, a merry smile.
“An adventure at last! What comes next?”
Two-thirds of the souls in the Goblin King tore out of him, and he screamed as he clawed his way back into the [Palace of Fates]. Weaker. So much weaker—but even more single-mindedly filled with hatred.
“No! You traitors! You’re abandoning everything! You…you should all understand. Why? Why?”
He howled—and then Pawn spoke.
The Apostle gazed at the flickering, rage-filled soul of the Goblin King and shook his head.
“Pathetic. You had a chance. [Marked for Hell]. Leave this place.”
The weight of his Skill dragged the Goblin King down, and the ghost vanished, the vow of his unending vengeance on his lips. Pawn turned his head and saw Rabbiteater stumble and land on the other side.
“Ah. Ahaha. I suppose that is better than the Goblin King being foisted on so many Erins.”
Pawn chuckled to himself, and then his head bowed. His arms wavered, and the [Palace of Fates] groaned, more pieces breaking away, as if this last battle had been the last death knell of it. The [Apostle] smiled as his arms shook.
“Well then. Last call.”
He waited for the ending. The Goblin King was dead.
The Goblin King was gone.
The moon was broken. The Halfling lived—but he stared back at the world he had loved and lived in all his life, and at the new one around him.
Then, there was only the Goblin Lord.
Well—Goblin Lords.
 
——
 
The savages never stopped coming. They had only sticks and stones and flickers of magic, but they threw themselves down the valley walls, over the broken stone, and tried to climb around the nine figures holding the pass.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations kept laughing as she scythed them down. She turned, and they died. And died—and kept coming. Nowhere to run.
Arrows struck the magical shields protecting the eight [Bodyguards] and Ragathsi’s position, and magic flickered in the face of the spells that reduced entire companies to ash.
She was still enjoying this. This war she had no right to—Chieftain Rags’ war. A life-or-death struggle against an impossible enemy. At last.
At last, she was that enemy, and Ragathsi couldn’t stop giggling.
One of the [Soldiers] firing in three-round bursts from behind one of the barricades jerked suddenly and then slumped over. Ragathsi turned, a healing potion in her hands—and saw an arrow piercing their helmet.
“High-level archer. There.”
She found the [Goblin Slayer] who’d fired the shot, and they vanished as one of her [Bodyguards] fired an explosive round. Then there were seven.
She didn’t even know…Ragathsi bent down and removed the helmet and saw a female Goblin’s face. Teeth bared. Snarling. The Goblin Lord raised a hand and pulled some of the heat from her roaring heart.
The body of her comrade vanished. Nothing for anyone to reanimate or loot. Ragathsi rose, and her eyes shone brighter. She swung her submachine gun up and held down the trigger.
“Thank you.”
 
——
 
They ran out of ammunition. The last magical clip fluttered down to the ground, and Ragathsi ejected the magazine, then tossed her submachine gun at a Garuda. She took the flier down; the idiot dodged, then tried to grab the weapon.
As if there was a way out where they brought it back to their city.
“[Airstrike: Everburn Fuel]. I’m out of bombardment Skills. Switch to close-ranged.”
Her voice was ragged now. Every Skill came hard, with effort. She had to force it past the hands trying to drag her down. Nations of enraged monarchs and leaders trying to bring her down, despite her warnings.
She pulsed fury back at them, trying to break their wills and scorch their souls. Her heart was still roaring, and it wouldn’t stop. Nor would she.
To the end. She’d known the moment she left her world how this would end.
Must end. The Goblin King…had a second candidate, even if his current body died. Unfortunately for him—Ragathsi touched the screaming core of flames in her chest.
“There’s no one who can fix my heart now.”
Her [Bodyguards] knew it too. And still, they followed her. Loyal fools. She loved idiots like that.
They knew how it would end, but nine measly Goblins versus a world? Versus an army of one of the Walled Cities? They would make it the hardest battle possible.
Show them something to make them hesitate. The cost. Run the butcher’s bill just a bit higher. It’s the only thing you’re good at. Come on. Come on—
“Prepare to engage.”
They drew weapons. Ragathsi had a simple sword, like the [Blademaster] sitting, waiting for his turn. Merely enchanted. Merely able to cut anything they wanted into pieces.
The others had enchanted axes, a poisoned spear—the [Master Gunner] kept firing from his position, conserving the last of his rounds.
Seven. No—six. Their [Mage] was dead. Ragathsi hadn’t seen him die. His robes were fluttering, and glowing ash blew into the sky.
Mana overload. Ragathsi searched around and didn’t see any enemy spellcasters. He’d burned them all out. She turned, and here they came. An army charging over the depression in the ground hollowed out by repeated explosions and filled with the bodies of their own.
Thirty thousand [Soldiers]? She’d just run out of ammunition, that was all. Ragathsi saw the [Blademaster] striding forwards. He raised his fist and turned the music up until she heard the beat. A song fit for dancing.
She held up a hand, and they let him go first.
 
——
 
A second [Blademaster] plunged into the ranks of the Drake companies, wearing a set of headphones blaring music. His sword was a traditional red, symbolizing the rank he had achieved in his world—a Redfang Blademaster’s proud crimson. Until it wasn’t red any longer.
It began to pulse, a dizzying rainbow of colors, and lights flashed around the Goblin as if he were at a rave of one. The music—deafening.
There was only one [Swordmaster] left to face him, but there were [Axe Champions], [Spearmasters]—the martial prowess of a Walled City. They streamed towards the lone [Blademaster] as he began to dance.
They called mastery of any weapon a dance, even if it didn’t always look like it. They meant move and countermove, the artistry of knowing how the blade could cleave anything. But also—it was a dance with the enemy.
When two masters met, they predicted each other, moved in reaction to the other’s style and Skills, and their own. A dance of two or a hundred—it was more than one person.
—Never had 2nd Army’s weapon masters met a [Blademaster] like the Goblin who grinned as he plunged deeper into the army. His dance was utterly, completely selfish.
