Idiot. Did they understand? Ragathsi stood there, sweeping her eyes over dead men and women. She lifted her gun, finger tightening on the trigger.
Then someone tackled her.
“No! Run!”
“Oh, come on—”
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations swung her metal arm, trying to knock Chieftain Rags off her.
A Goblin, trying to save Pallass’ 2nd Army. It made a lovely picture, and Ragathsi wondered if Chieftain Rags had chosen to do it just for that. Then she looked into the Goblin’s eyes and saw a stranger gazing back.
Someone different from the Goblin she remembered being. Someone new.
Ragathsi wished she had time to see the new class. She grinned—then swung her arms, trying to shake the Goblin off. Whatever you might be—you’re still annoying and in my way!
She almost had Chieftain Rags when the second Goblin hit her with the same force. Student Rags. The two of them tackled the older, taller Hobgoblin.
It worked for as long as it took Ragathsi to use [Supersonic Repositioning] to send both Goblins away from her. She admired the move, really.
It was excellent to show on broadcast television. Whether or not Chieftain Rags had been serious—the Goblin Lord turned back to 2nd Army.
She’d run out of things to say. Had her fun monologuing. The Goblin Lord and the [Soldiers] traded a glance, and she smiled. Her fingers clicked a switch on her submachine gun.
Then she opened fire. Her submachine gun swept left and right, and the [Soldiers] in the first ranks vanished. The Goblin Lord didn’t laugh. She hosed the first two ranks, stepped back, and pointed.
“All Goblins are now out of range, save for my bodyguard. Other Goblins: don’t engage. This is my war.”
She teleported Naumel, Redscar, and Snapjaw. She couldn’t do the same to the Wyvern Lord, but he was already waddling away from her, staring at her like, well—
A terrifying monster. Ragathsi pulled something from her belt and threw it hard enough to break over his wings. He flinched and yelped, a high-pitched sound, then realized she’d just thrown a Greater Healing Potion on him. The ballista bolt lodged in his wings came out, and he flew.
All of that took five seconds. There was still fire and ash when Ragathsi turned around. She had time; this was no modern army with high-level Skills and weapons that could reach her.
They were standing in the valley before Goblinhome, which narrowed around this point, more or less. No enemies behind—just ahead.
Perfect choke point. Pallass had no artillery. Their longest-ranged weapons would be…enchanted bows. Or alchemy flasks. No air support.
“Magic. Prepare for their [Battlemages].”
Ragathsi turned to her bodyguards, and the eight Goblins were already spreading out. Her [Master Gunner] created a metal barricade with sloped, magic-proof walls to hunker behind. Her [Battlemage] was already blocking arrows with a barrier spell, layering them and creating permanent walls. As for her [Blademaster]—he was turning the music up on his headphones.
He caught her eye and gave her a thumbs up. All eight Goblins turned to Ragathsi, and she coughed.
“…I don’t even know your names. Tell me.”
She confessed her one moment of guilt to them, and in response, the [Musical Blademaster]—or whatever his class was—took his headphones off a second. The [Master Gunner] blinked, and one of the Goblins setting up at the first metal barricade glanced up.
“You said we die too fast to remember, Lord.”
“Yes. Now I wish to know. We’re the last remnants of our short-lived dream. So…”
She waited, and the [Blademaster] spoke for the first time she could ever remember him speaking since the day he’d walked into her bodyguard, listening to music.
“Tell you after we get a vacation, Lord.”
Ragathsi blinked at him. Then she laughed, and her heart eased.
“Almost. Oh, wait—they’re [Battlemages] from twenty years ago. This is fun. [Battlemage]—you know what I mean, don’t you?”
The Goblin wearing battle-robes blinked, then his eyes went round with incredulity. He and Ragathsi turned to 2nd Army.
They were indeed coming. The [Soldiers] were advancing fast over the blackened ground, desperate to close with her. They knew it was a slaughter, but it was only, what, eight Goblins? They had nearly taken out Redscar. All they had to do was get on top of them…
And they’d have a chance. The first spells were coming back towards them. [Fireballs], Flasks of Blast, [Lightning Bolts]—standard spells and weapons.
Ragathsi’s heart was blazing in her chest, and the noise it made now was that roar of an engine combusting. Her blood was rushing around her body, and she felt alive. Tingly.
RRM. 
She cast only one spell in her left hand. [Absorption Fireball].
[Collective Lightning] in the right.
Then she just—waited as the first [Fireballs] came shrieking at her. The woven flames of the [Fireballs] twisted in midair and funneled into the small orb of fire she’d conjured. The same for the lightning. Across from her, the [Battlemage] was channeling four more elements, grinning in disbelief.
Ragathsi lifted the [Fireball] now glowing white-hot in her hands. It wasn’t much bigger—but that was just because she could compress it. She winked at the [Soldiers] charging her and tossed it back. The [Battlemage] did the same, aiming for the [Mages]. Deafening explosions, so Ragathsi inserted some enchanted earplugs and switched them to a squad frequency. She could still hear her heart.
RRRRM. RRRRRRRRRM!
“They’re coming. Fire everything. How much ammunition do we have, [Master Gunner]?”
“My entire bag of holding is full of weapons. Still not nearly enough for all of them.”
She shrugged. Thirty thousand—well, less now—was a big number.
“Then ration what you’ve got. I have one [Supply Drop]. Fire.”
They opened fire as she aimed for the biggest concentration of [Soldiers], the streams of spent paper ammunition fluttering around her.
RRRRRRMM. 
They were still pushing forwards, because they had no choice. Nowhere to run. [Goblin Slayers] charging, trying to use their Skills, running despite bullet holes in their faces, then dropping. All your hatred. All your rage.
Do you think you’re the only ones? Here I am. Ragathsi thought she saw Colonel Rathiss. She swivelled her submachine gun and held down the trigger. Her last sight of the Drake was his desperate, snarling face.
RRRRRRRRRRMMM. 
They could all hear her dreadful heart. Put it out. Stop! Please! Were they begging her? Was that distant [General] screaming? Was the City of Invention wailing?
She couldn’t hear a thing. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations laughed as she shed the mask all nations wore. She just listened to the sound of her heart roaring, louder than the sound of death. A roar without end until someone stopped it.
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRMMMMM—
 
——
 
An army was dying. Somewhere in the High Passes, they were being wiped out. Eradicated by a being who lived and breathed war. A creation of the very same purging action they had undertaken.
Empress Sheta wished she could see it. She longed to make war against the Goblin Lord of Civilizations.
Not for any great reason. She just wished to pit herself against a worthy enemy. She had come back to help a single child, to be the champion she felt the world always needed. But she wanted more. More than even to battle and slay the Goblin King. A—
A sense of closure.
The Empress of Harpies needed a cause. A great war. She wanted to…right one last thing in the world. By annihilation.
Erase something. Make the world so much more unquestionably better by destruction, and she knew it was contrary to everything that Teriarch had once taught her.
—The Goblin King would do. All she needed was an army.
The Harpy Queen was shaking out her legs, pulling fragments of metal out of her chest from the Goblin King’s attacks, and, well, it looked like she was dancing.
She had rings on her talons, but also, she’d added bangles onto each leg. They made a jangling sound, like tambourines, but far larger. At first, the Harpy Queen shook each leg in a rhythmic pattern, hopping from left to right, then faster.
As if she was remembering how it went. Then her feathers puffed up around her chest, like a ruff, and rose across her body, and she swivelled, wings stretched out. Her claws began to drum on a rock.
For the first time in thousands of years, the world was treated to a Harpy war-dance, for even the distant descendants of Sheta in the Death of Wings and the Harpies of Rhir had long forgotten it.
A hypnotizing, glittering dance of her blurring claws. The Harpy Queen spoke then.
“I require an army. Who will fly for the Empress of Wings?”
She turned—and Saliss of Lights stood there with the other survivors of the Goblin King’s rampage. The Drake silently pointed at his chest, raising both eyebrows, and Sheta stared at his naked form.
Then ignored him. Every age had a [Fool]. Sheta raised her voice, and now it was only slightly louder, but it seemed to have this…echo. Her voice stretched across the Floodplains of Izril, and the terrified peoples hiding from the annihilation coming from above heard her.
“Who amongst you has the will to battle the Goblin King? I am Sheta, the last Empress of Wings. I require you, warriors. It matters not if you are mighty. Fly with me, and I shall turn you into my champions of legend. Your deeds shall be justly rewarded.”
She waited—wings spread, and the jangling clatter of her tambourine-bracelets halted. Saliss of Lights opened his mouth to mock her—Elia Arcsinger and Mirn clapped their hands over his mouth and dragged him back.
Just as well or Sheta would have said something very unkind about Saliss’ hidden self. She was not half as gracious as Teriarch when she was angry.
Her rising ire was mitigated as the first warrior of this age to take arms flew towards her.
It was…
A bee. The bee. Sheta’s eyes fixed on Apista. The bee flew down rather nervously. She was confused, upset for the inn, for Lyonette, for…
I’ve missed something. I missed something and I wasn’t there and—the worst has happened. Not that she could have done anything, perhaps, but flown in the face of the Maiden, but she hadn’t been there.
Goblin King, you say? Certain death? She flew down and circled around Sheta as the Harpy’s eyes flicked to the bee, noting the prosthetic legs. Apista changed into her Scourgebee form and saluted one antenna.
Sign me up. 
The Harpy Queen—smiled.
“A bee. Bravest of all those here. What is your name, little creature? …Apista? A pet, I see. You will fly with me, then, and be justly rewarded. Name thy prize.”
Prize? Sheta was really assuming Apista had, like, an entire hive of bees to come fight with her. Which Apista did not. The bee was confused. Sheta didn’t have an army…but that was, perhaps, because Apista didn’t understand.
You see—the Scourgebee assumed she’d only heard Sheta because she was inside the [Garden of Sanctuary] at the time. There was a faint sound, and Sheta’s eyes strayed across the Floodplains.
“Ah, thou. I do not know thy nature. How do you call yourselves? Last of the mighty nest, ye say? Then fly with me, brave mother. I promise you not survival, but for those of your kin who survive, they shall be rewarded. What will ye?”
Apista…didn’t see what she was talking to. Not at first. Then the bee saw the waters trembling, and Sheta raised a claw.
“Ach. Of course. The water. [Fly Through Water As Sky]. You see—of the two of us, that Goblin Lord and I—I am the greater.”
She turned a superior smile on Apista. The bee stared towards the water. Then she saw it rippling.
The first Face-Eater Moth burst out of the water, last of the giant spawn that had once attacked Liscor. Bigger than the entire inn, emerging from the water like a monster from one of the horror movies from Earth.
A leviathan shedding water as it shrieked and flew up in a spiral—followed by the remnants of the Face-Eater Moth population that had rebuilt itself in the dungeon. All of them.
Apista turned silently to Sheta and realized the Harpy Empress had heard and talked to the Face Eater Moths despite the distance between them and the dungeon. The Harpy Queen inclined her head to the mother moth, speaking absently.
“What? Allegiance to a Mother? Not in my presence. I sense her—a pathetic worm. She cowers from me rightly. Who next? Ah, thou. Fine folk. What wish you?”
She listened—and the next group to appear was familiar to Apista. She jerked as a shrieking pterodactyl flew down. A cluster of what Erin called Dinobirds.
Razorbeaks—individuals, then pairs, and then—hundreds. Flying down from the High Passes. Moving at speeds far in excess of what should have been possible. Sheta murmured.
“[Rally the Continent]. I see. The same that thy kind has always wished for. Very well. [Reward of the Loyal: Blessing of the Mind]! Nevermore shall you nor your children know ignorance. A painful blessing.”
Her claw rose and fell, a benediction before the first Razorbeak, who landed and clumsily knelt in front of the Harpy Empress, then flew up with a screech. Apista didn’t sense more intelligence from the fierce, snapping bird with a razor beak.
Not—yet, the bee realized. Sheta was waiting for her as well. She spoke to the Face-Eater Moth mother, who had flown halfway towards them already.
“[Reward of the Loyal: Blessing of Fecundity]. Though I insist you travel from here to a new nest. This place is under my protection. Your swarm may well drown out the skies if your descendants survive.”
Whomever lived would gain these boons. Apista fluttered upwards and saw more were coming. A—a lot more.
Ducks. Yes, ducks were flocking in legion strength from every corner of the Floodplains. Creona Flashbirds.
Plumed Inflemril, the saggy-skinned bird that could inflate their bodies to be harder than leather. Goram Warwings, the only birds suited to fighting, huge Silver-rank birds. Common robins, bluejays, distant seagulls—even birds non-native to Izril, like the Terandrian Galewing.
She ruled them all. Everything that flew on Izril had once been part of her empire. They had thought it a boast. But she heard them all and began to greet the largest groups, familiar with some, asking questions or what each one wanted.
Rumbling. Then a stone plug burst open, and the Empress’ head turned, delighted. And Apista saw—familiar, burning bees rising towards her.
“Exhausted warriors—a mighty hive! Yes, I see. You, who battle this dungeon—you doubt my power? Anything you dream of can be done! [Reward of the Loyal: Blessing of Evolution].”
She was soaring up, now, performing her dance—and every creature that flew were streaming up around her. Apista joined the thrum of wings, and now the curious dance the Harpy Queen had been performing made sense.
