He cared nothing for their techniques, what they were doing. He performed the techniques that pleased him, barely paying attention to their [Weapon Arts]. He fought to the rhythm of his own music.
His armor deflected a spear thrust, and the composite layers of magical technology absorbed the force of an axe blow—but still, the [Blademaster] staggered, turned, and cut down the [Axe Champion]. A [Daggermistress] leapt for his back, and the [Master Gunner] shot her through the chest twice.
The [Blademaster] never noticed. His sword slashed in every direction around him, then he leapt up, vaulting over the heads of the [Soldiers], sheathing the blade. His eyes found Redscar.
The greatest [Blademaster] of the Flooded Waters tribe was watching this warrior of the future. The musical [Blademaster] raised a delighted hand, then fell to earth. He turned the volume up louder, until it was the only thing he heard. Not the agony of his wounds.
One loud song he’d never been brave enough to get his Goblin Lord to listen to.
He hoped she liked it.
 
——
 
The music kept playing as the Goblin Lord charged. She ran into a line of spears, and the metal tips snagged on her armor; the holders were thrown back from the impact. Their spears snapped. She swung her sword, and her mechanical arm cleaved through armor and flesh.
Behind her, the [Master Gunner]’s rifle clicked empty. So he drew a pistol and came after her. Firing point-blank into faces.
They tried to kill her. She couldn’t dodge them, surrounded on all sides. She didn’t try. The Goblin Lord had a sword and an axe she’d seized from a dead Dullahan in her hand, and she swung them around, clearing space with sheer, uncaring strength.
She lost track of time. They were all around her, and she didn’t know how many she’d killed. She’d stopped counting years ago. They were there and they died. She didn’t care.
They were faceless, nameless soldiers. Fodder and she was the only thing that mattered anymore. Goblin Lord. Their blades dug into her flesh but barely scratched her. But her [Bodyguards]…
Four left.
She didn’t know who anymore. Nor how. The music cut off. But the thunder continued, too loud, too continuous to hear anything. What was making that sound? It was the bellow of industry, of a machine of fire and smoke screaming at the world, a cry from the future.
Oh. The Goblin Lord gazed down at the cylinder in her chest blurring with heat, glowing red-hot.
Her heart.
She’d never heard it so loud. It wouldn’t stop.
Two.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations came to a halt, and she stood, surrounded, heart roaring in her chest, blood drenching her body. She turned—and the explosion tossed bodies into the air.
“[Master Gunner]. Six years in the bodyguard, I think.”
Then it was just her. Ragathsi turned her smile on the [Soldiers], and they flinched back. She swivelled in a circle, then realized they were trying to see if she was faltering. If the blood from the wounds on her body or the smoking metal of her malfunctioning arm meant she was weakening.
“I haven’t felt so alive in decades.”
She ran into their ranks, blazing hotter. An inferno in her chest—and now she wanted something to quench the heat. Unbearable—unbearable—her chest was ripping apart—
 
——
 
The explosion was visible from Goblinhome’s walls, a torrent of heat and light that lit up the throng of [Soldiers] surrounding the roaring figure—then silence.
Goblins flinched back from the final, annihilating blast and cried out. They lowered their hands, shading their eyes, trying to see in the fading light what remained.
There were no cheers from 2nd Army. No counting how many were dead. Nations looked down upon the smoking crater where 2nd Army’s surviving [Soldiers] drew back.
Then the blazing Goblin leapt out of the crater and landed. Two burnt handles fell from her hands. She was naked, armor blown to pieces, her metal body glowing—a hole in her heart. A burning flame roaring in her chest.
Her innards had been blasted out of her body. The machinery of her right arm was broken. She had no…heart.
She shouldn’t have been moving, but the Goblin Lord of Civilizations did. She had no lungs to speak, but she willed it, and her voice manifested. The pulsing flame burnt in the hole where her heart had been. Magical flame. When she smiled, the roaring of the engine was echoing in her voice.
“Well Now. This Is A Pleasant Surprise. Run, Little Rats. I Haven’t Finished Sending You To Your Comrades.”
She strode forwards into a spear that plunged through the burning, orange flame in her chest. The speartip melted; the wooden haft of the weapon burst into flames. The Goblin Lord reached out and dug her claws through the [Soldier]’s head. Then looked around.
A weapon. She found a sword, and the army began to retreat. Tried to run—because what would they do?
Kill her twice? She had no heart. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations swept the glowing, red-hot blade through the backs of the fleeing [Soldiers].
All of them. As many as she could—a proper tribute to the eight Goblins. To her nation that had vanished in the blink of an eye. She reached for her heart and pulled a glowing fragment of it out—hurled it forward and strode through the burning bodies.
“Do You See Me, Nations? Nine Goblins Killed Your Army. I Am The Cycle You Made. We’ll Be Back. The King And I. Watch.”
She caught a fleeing Drake and lifted up the brave warrior as they tried to swing a sword into her neck. All the training, their levels—it was meaningless. The [Soldier] burnt to ash before they could even strike at her.
The Goblin Lord was breathing flames over hundreds of [Soldiers]. She turned her head towards Goblinhome, knowing they were still watching her. The Flooded Waters tribe were watching 2nd Army dying. Not a single one had tried to stop her. Fight—her? To save them?
No, not even the two Ragses. But someone had still come to save their people.
General Shirka was clinging to the side of the pink carriage shooting down the valley. She leapt, hatchets swinging for the Goblin Lord.
A whirl of blades as her destroyed army turned to their [General]. Ragathsi took a cut half through her neck, and the second blow—
Ragathsi caught Shirka’s arm, and the [General]’s armor began to melt. Shirka tried to slash the Goblin Lord’s arm. Ragathsi caught the other arm effortlessly, and the two headbutted each other at the same time.
The same instinct to war. But Shirka was the one whose head snapped back, dazed. She tried to break free. Ragathsi let her go, then her fist hit Shirka in the breastplate.
The [General] bounced off a rock two dozen feet away, spinning, hatchets flying. She landed, rolling, and Ragathsi’s foot stopped her. The Goblin Lord kicked General Shirka across the ground again.
She was on Shirka like a flash, and the [General] rose. The first punch from Ragathsi hammered her into the ground.
“Hello, Heroine. You Think You Can Stop Me? Just Because Rags Likes You? Ha-Ha. Come On. Try Harder.”
Shirka threw a punch that hit Ragathsi in what remained of her chest. The knuckles on her armor glowed red hot and smoked; the Goblin Lord punched her another time, and Shirka’s body rotated around—she hit the [General] in the chest and strode after her as she flew again. The army came to protect her. They melted as Ragathsi spat more flames over them.
Not her. No miraculous savior.
Not you. 
The [General] was getting up with that terrible fear in her eyes. A woman facing the undying monster. She drew a sword, and Ragathsi charged into her—halted as the sword slashed in a pristine arc.
Heh. Shirka’s eyes opened wide, and Ragathsi punched her straight up. Waited for her to fall down.
[Generals] were always so tough. Shirka’s next swings were wild. Ragathsi knocked the sword swings down and stepped out of range of a slash. Breathed more flames over the [General].
Ragathsi walked forwards, towards the flaming [General], and turned. Her arms reached out, and the pink carriage slammed into her. She went skidding back five feet, then tossed it.
“None Of You Are Worthy. I Am The North! Not You. Not You—”
She was thundering at them, wishing she could fight…
…the Goblin King?
He was gone. Ragathsi’s head turned, and she grew distracted as the carriage bounced and rolled past her. When had that—?
She twisted around, and then the tip of the sword plunged through the flame that was her burning heart. It should have melted on contact. It was just a sword—but the flames parted instead.
The blade was coated in something…pink.
Aura? Willpower made manifest. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations blinked, and her heart flickered, and finally, the last fires of her rage went out.
She blinked down at the sword beginning to melt with heat and the gloved hands, which let go of the blade as they smoked. Ragathsi felt smoke rising from her chest as the warming heat vanished.
Then—it wasn’t cold. She just felt empty and tired again. Her eyes found the [Lady] standing behind her in the center of the ruined depression of scorched earth.
“You aren’t worthy either. But I suppose—it looks good. Well done. Nice stab.”
Her voice was a whisper now. The [Lady] backed up a step as the Goblin Lord walked towards her, and her [Maid] raised a blade. But Ragathsi had lost interest in the [Lady] of House Reinhart.
She softly groaned as she sat down, crossing her legs. Ragathsi stared down at the hole in her chest, then exhaled. Her head rose to Goblinhome, towards the watching Goblins and her younger self.
Rags. Then her head bent back further, and she remembered that simple inn, smaller than she recalled, like a reflection of better days. A dream she’d left behind.
“I wish I knew what it would have become. Ah, well.”
World gone. Cities vanished. Her people lay amidst the corpses of an army she did not know in a reality that was not hers. The Goblin Lord closed her eyes.
She had to admit something to herself, as she panted for breath that would never come through her shattered chest.
“It would have been harder to live. I chose the easy way out. I didn’t—fix—anything. I scared them. Killed a few of them. They’ll be back, but you know that. I suppose…all I did was kill a few monsters. [Goblin Slayers] drenched in the cycle, like me. Remove them and…maybe. Maybe.”
Her teeth flashed ruefully.
“That will do.”
Then she finally let herself rest. The Goblin Lord’s head bowed, and she sat there a while in what remained of an army as they fled her corpse.
After a while, Ragathsi got up. She stood and found the eight Goblins who were waiting for her. Then she went to her appointment on that long vacation she’d waited for. A journey that hopefully meant she’d see all the people she’d been waiting so long to meet again.
 
——
 
They were all dead.
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations. The Goblin King. The Maiden—
Everyone. If not dead, then gone. And the survivors…they gazed around this world they had come to that was not their own. A world too small for them, like the Empress of Harpies.
She could do anything. She could revive her kingdom, bring ruination to any foe she chose. But she gazed at the place where the Dragonlords of Flames had died, at that shattered moon, and realized it was she who did not fit the world.
Tired. Exhausted, she hobbled towards the inn. As weary as Ragathsi of Civilizations, searching for…something else. Something that belonged to her, not this world she had never truly known.
Worlds gone. An army’s worth of the dead.
There was no victory here.
Or was there?
If you didn’t care that the Goblin Lord of Civilizations had died—if 2nd Army’s destruction meant as little to you as the passing rains which fell once more over Liscor, if these worlds were just chaff and ideas—then what was all of this?
An opportunity, perhaps. It mattered not whether you were real. It did not matter, ultimately, why this had come to pass. Meaning? There was only one meaning: survival. Your own self-interests. Until the very last being in the world died for good, it was a single race to be that final person.
That was victory. That was power.
By that logic, he’d won, you see. He didn’t see the devastation above, but he’d felt grand souls being snuffed out. Their auras clashing and disappearing.
Multiple Dragonlords of Flame. The Goblin King. All this devastation—an army slaughtered—and they’d all forgotten about him, hadn’t they?
The Mortemdefieir Titan rejoiced. He was in the Kingdom of Trolls, not too far from the surface, actually. Listening. Gathering data and celebrating his victory, however bittersweet. You see—he was alive.
He was alive, and that was everything that mattered. True, he’d lost all but one of his seith cores. He was fragile, weakened, but that army that had hounded him? His foe?
At least one Dragonlord was dead. It sounded like other great foes had perished, and these watching nations would be so unsettled, they’d squabble and infight and panic and not pursue him at all.
All that death above. Even if they were incinerated, there was a wealth of death magic to collect. Perhaps even a body or two. Even one high-level corpse would create something as dreadful as he.
“And these people of other worlds have fled as well. The Harpy Queen, the Dragonlords, have no attachment to this world. They will likewise flee. Leaving only you. And me.”
The Mortemdefieir Titan’s lips moved, but it was not…he who spoke. Rather, it was another personality, with his voice.
It was just a chance thing. A fleeing soul of incredible undeath escaping their lost body, heading north. Towards the High Passes. Of course, the two had found each other, drawn to the other like magnets.
No one had noticed nor made the connection. The encounter—then war of wills for the body—had been brief. The Mortemdefieir Titan was a Draconic Warrior who had been buried in the ruins of the Kingdom of Trolls at the end of the war for the underground.
The Necromancer of the world of better days, of The Wandering Inn and its beach garden, was a fragmented version of himself, a vulnerable soul who had lost his body and immortal protections.
It hadn’t exactly been equal as battles of wills went, but they’d come to the only conclusion. They were sharing the undead Titan’s body. Individual…but melding together. Becoming one personality.
Within a week, they’d be thinking exactly the same; a month and they’d remember both memories as the same being, a new one. It was terrifying, exciting, and, to the Draconic Warrior at least, arousing.
The Necromancer didn’t share that thought, but he was resigned to his fate if it meant survival. Yes, they agreed on that. Better to be one, greater being with their powers melded than to annihilate each other.
