She couldn’t see anymore. Death was waiting for her, and she hoped her Erin was there to take her hand for a while. But she could still sense that thing all Goblins sensed.
No one around her. Just death. Her warriors, herself—all gone. The Goblin Tribe of Dreams…
…Always numbered a thousand. The others were just too low-level and died all the time.
 
——
 
The Titan was crawling up a slope of broken rubble when he sensed the living creatures ahead of him. He thought they were bats or other creatures until the crimson light of eyes illuminated him.
Eight hundred Goblins gazed down at the place where the Goblin Lord of Dreams had passed away.
The rest of her tribe. She could have ordered them to die in this final war against a monster many times their level, but she’d given them different instructions.
The weeping [Faithful], Roithe, pointed down at the Titan as he froze. The giant undead, bones poking out of his ruined body.
The mortal monster without any more magic or Skills. Eight hundred Goblins. Just children, most of them.
[Goths], like Zamathica the Gloombringer, armed and trained by the Redfangs. And Chambersoot, the [Scrapper], who aimed a single-shot blunderbuss down the slopes.
“No. This isn’t fair. I am too important to die thusly.”
The Necromancer-Titan whispered, and the Goblins didn’t respond. They charged down at him, screaming. Hacking at his body as he shrieked and tried to shake them off, to turn and flee.
Even when all that remained was bones, they tore the pieces to shreds, praying over the remains until the fragments burnt to ash and the bones cracked and dissolved. The Goblins burnt the rest, and only then did they go down to find their Goblin Lord.
Weeping for the end of things.
 
——
 
The Necromancer-Titan sat up when they left. That was what he was. A new kind of being. A fusion of both a soul from this reality and the Necromancer.
“I did it. I won!”
He rejoiced. Soul he might be, but he’d won! A final victory! He danced about joyously, laughing. He felt so light. So…both parts of him had forgotten what it was like to be alive after so long of their souls being filled with death.
He was still celebrating when someone coughed behind him.
“About that.”
The Mortemdefieir Titan froze as Rags of Dreams gazed up at him, amused. He whirled in a terror—then saw two hundred some Goblins standing there.
“But how? I killed—”
“Yes. Your kind’s always slow on the uptake, isn’t it?”
Slowly, the Necromancer-Titan realized he really did feel different. Freer. He turned around, and the mountain he’d been in fell away. Reality became that flat plane of nothingness, and he saw them waiting for him.
Death.
Well, Deaths. They still made an impact no matter how many times you saw them. The Necromancer-Titan cast around for somewhere to run. But there wasn’t anywhere to go anymore.
The Goblin Lord of Dreams patted him on a toe as she walked forwards, and the Necromancer-Titan walked behind the Goblins, head bowed. Afraid…and yet also relieved. Someone who had feared the worst for a lifetime and found the end wasn’t as bad as he’d feared.
As for Rags of Dreams? She mostly thought she should have sacrificed the rest of her tribe if she had wanted to survive. It had worked before.
…But she would have been ashamed. So she held her head up high as she wondered who was leaving and who was staying.
One last door. They were all saying their goodbyes or preparing to live in this world, the travellers who had lost their own worlds. Those that weren’t going to the final beyond.
She could even see Ragathsi of Civilizations walking forwards ahead of them. The Deaths were waiting for those souls not under the purview of the Grand Design, who was sending the others to Hellste. The Necromancer-Titan had apparently gotten to go to Death instead of Hellste.
But someone jogged forwards, waving her arms hurriedly as the Tribe of Dreams walked to the Deaths.
“‘Scuse me. Excuse me, big dude. I’m so sorry—I’m new at this. This is so embarrassing, especially in front of them. Hey, everyone! You’re going the wrong way. This way, please!”
Someone ran in front of Rags of Dreams and her people, and they stopped. Who…? Gothica’s mouth opened, and Rags of Dreams blinked. Then she laughed.
There were surprises even here, it seemed.
 
——
 
The Harpy Queen of Iltanus stood in the Floodplains of Liscor outside The Wandering Inn as the rain fell, drenching her, staring up at the hidden mountains.
She stood on one leg; the other was a stump, and she had no more healing—at least, today. If her Skills persisted, she could open the vaults and call for a Potion of Ultimate Regeneration…but she wondered if she’d be allowed to tomorrow.
Her Empire was gone. The [Palace of Fates]—her last link to the world she had known was all but gone. Yet if she stood here, staring up at the clouds that hid the mountains, she could pretend it was still up there.
She didn’t know what to do now. She was as lost as the last days of her life, wandering those hallways of what might have been, because that was now her reality.
The Goblin King was dead.
Sheta supposed she’d had something to do with it, but it had been so many things. She had thought her return would be the pivotal moment of this age, the great act of the heroine of her story coming back to right all wrongs.
To be fair, there was now a crack in the moon. The Goblin King was dead. Great and terrible events had happened, but she just thought of that little child who came into the [Palace of Fates], waving her magic wand, and the Harpy wondered what it all was for.
Someone spoke to her as she stood there.
“Last call.”
“Hm?”
“Last call to leave.”
Sheta turned her head, and one of the remaining Teriarchs, the one-eyed Dragon from the Creler Wars world, jerked his head at the inn. She took a second to realize what he meant.
“The—door out of here is still open?”
“Yes. But the Antinium can’t hold it long. You know, I swear I saw someone like him during the Creler Wars. An image from the groups trying to fight Crelers underground. Funny.”
“I have no idea what the Creler Wars were. I don’t know this world. Continents have changed. Yet I am here, Teriarch. I have it in me to still fight.”
She could see it. The army of flying beings had dispersed to their homes after fulfilling their duty, blessings earned. They would change everything as well; intelligent creatures, those given the ability to reproduce, fly, or simply be more.
The little bee was buzzing around her [Princess]. Sheta was glad Apista had survived. What had she asked for? The silly thing. Instead of new legs or wings for her original body, she’d asked for a brain. As if she wasn’t smart enough.
“I could stay, Teriarch. And so could you. The skies are ours. Between us, we could do so much. I know my people yet live. I could reclaim the High Passes or conquer land for them. Allow them to replenish. Start—not an Empire of Wings, but—”
Her head rose, eyes flashed, and in her, the Dragonlord saw a terrible, familiar sight. The Tyrant that could so easily…
“I think I will go. That other reality calls to me more than this one. I have lost the other Dragonlords I was fighting with side-by-side so recently. This world already has one version of me; doesn’t it call to you?”
She hesitated.
“I don’t know. I…yes, I’m curious. But don’t we owe this one something? Those dead gods…”
That made him hesitate, and it was the core of the discussion that was happening here. All of the people who’d come through the doorway were having it.
Dragons, Harpies—the Archmage of Barriers, who had floated down and was having a glass of blue fruit juice in front of the inn. Sheta hopped awkwardly over until Teriarch offered her a wing; she leaned on it as they walked over.
“I’m Montressa, Master. Montressa du Valeross. Just older. I was hoping I’d meet you. You’re the reason I didn’t leave. Well, you and the Goblin King.”
The Archmage of Barriers from the world of ten years in the future was speaking to a rather shell-shocked woman who appeared older than her. Which Valeterisa was, despite the passing of ten years.
Valeterisa was half-hiding behind Relc, who stood looking around at the inn with a familiar, forlorn expression. But when he saw the Dragon and Harpy approaching, he did give them a second look as if they were new.
“M-me? But you’re an [Archmage]? A real [Archmage]?”
“Yes, Master.”
Valeterisa’s mouth opened and closed, and the grey-haired woman stood there in shock, disbelief, and then took a deep breath.
“Wh—what new spells have come out after ten years’ time? What is the most important, prescient magical discovery of the age? D-does the trial require killing Cognita and her Golems or—?”
The older Montressa laughed. She was so sad, so overjoyed to see Valeterisa here—filled with conflicting emotions, like so many from the [Palace of Fates]. The Harpy and Dragon envied her, frankly, and she raised one hand.
“Master! I don’t have long. I just came back to…I don’t even know if I should interfere. One question. That’s all.”
She winked as a younger Montressa stood there, mouth open so wide Apista nearly flew through it to see if she could. The Archmage of Barriers wiped at her eyes. She’d seen people she loved vanish. Her world was gone—but she offered Valeterisa one small smile.
“What is one of the greatest magical discoveries of ten years in the future? Why, the creation of Autocast magic. It’s credited to me.”
“Autocasting—oh. Oh. You did it. Not me.”
Valeterisa’s face lit up before clouding over and turning to the younger Montressa, who was thunderstruck. The older Archmage of Barriers waved a hand.
“No. I just finished your great work, Master. You—well, I think my Mrsha told you what happened, didn’t she? You were so damned close. It’s one of those tricks, you see? It would take you years, and that was without distractions.”
She meant Relc, who had never met Valeterisa in her world. The Archmage of Barriers leaned over and whispered.
“You see, where you were stuck was…”
Valeterisa blinked. Then her eyes went round, and everyone stared at her expression as her eyes opened wide, popped, and she pulled out spare underwear, stolen magical objects, everything in her rush to find a quill and parchment.
“I think that’s cheating.”
Another Teriarch had wandered over. Beach Teriarch, the last of the three survivors; the Teriarch who’d been vaporized was mostly concerned with holding himself together at this point. When the Harpy and Creler Wars Teriarch looked to him, Beach Teriarch shrugged his wings and winced.
“I’m not stopping anyone. Are we staying or leaving?”
He wasn’t certain either. Of them all, he knew the inn best, and his face was filled with guilt for the world he’d fled. It was the most wounded Dragon of them all, the original Teriarch, who spoke. He was curled around the inn, and his head rose; his ruined scales were shining with the rain and the blood washing out of his mane.
“You are all leaving.”
All three Teriarchs and Sheta turned to him. The true Teriarch jerked his head at the Creler Wars one, and he padded over and spoke.
“Is that your will?”
“It isn’t my will alone. It’s what must be done. The four of you are destabilizing forces. What the inn and Goblins need, what the world needs, is respite. It will not have it with you four.”
True, perhaps, but the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars felt the need to point out the opposite.
“We are three Dragons and the greatest [Empress] of Harpies. If there are battles to be fought, wars to be won, and I am sure there are, we are that army. The Kingdom of Blight’s End…”
“Bah. It’s never that easy to defeat a nation. Don’t kid yourself. We would unite nations into becoming our enemies. Counter-level the mortals until they became strong enough to best us and guarantee our foes grow even stronger. The worst thing we can be is a Dragon in the open, taking wing. So many will flock to oppose us, for good and just reasons!”
That was true. It was never easy to just—win. A Goblin Lord of Civilizations had died to ruin a single army of Pallass. Moreover, who would see multiple Dragons as the old tyranny rising again? The Quarass? The Iron Vanguard? The King of Minos? Terandrian kingdoms? They had no lack of enemies who bore justifiable grudges.
Even so—this argument hadn’t gone unnoticed. Someone spoke from the inn.
Lyonette still held Roots Mrsha’s paw. Her face was still bloodless. However, she called down to the Teriarchs three.
“Excuse me. I will employ any of you who wish to stay as…guardians of the inn. You may name your price. Anything in this world, I will obtain for you. If not that, I will commission you to sweep Roshal by fire and flame.”
Every head turned to the Teriarchs, and the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars raised one eyebrow to his counterparts.
“Not a bad thought. Well?”
The original Teriarch rasped as he took a breath. Because he did hesitate—but he still shook his head.
“Will you burn every child in Lailight Scintillation to end the nation for good? Don’t answer that. To stay is to remain forever; that door will not reopen. I am telling you to leave. Not because there are not wars to win! On the contrary—that is why. You four have no attachment to this world. Look at our Sheta.”
They turned to the Empress of Wings, who was peering around at the survivors, eyes blank. The original Teriarch spoke.
“She will do what is moral and just. So will you, if you remain. But you don’t…care. In the name of righteousness, or what is best, you will become the Tyrant, the Pyrelord of Invictel once more. I have had enough of memories twisting. I would rather remember her as the glorious, tragic [Empress] I damned, not the ruler of another empire soaked in blood.”
He had a point. The Dragonlord of the Creler Wars felt that wearying apathy in Sheta’s eyes and posture. How easy would it be to cease caring, to kill without morality?
To be that Goblin Lord of Civilizations, laughing because she had stopped counting nor caring for the cost of the enemy? He bowed his head, and the original Teriarch whispered.
“Most of all, you must take her because there should be one world—just one—in which she lives. Where that poor girl gets to live and not be the [Empress].”
They turned to the weary Harpy. In that moment, the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars wondered what lay in that world beyond. There—he might still be Teriarch, but no longer would he be the Dragon with all this history and foes and sins.
He’d just be a copy of Teriarch. Who remembered his misdeeds and greatness, but who hadn’t done much of anything yet.
