Ragathsi fired a three-round burst from her submachine gun into him. Then she spoke, eyes glowing.
“Well?”
The Great Chieftain of the Kraken Eaters tribe knelt; he had to have the Goblins around him get him up. He stared up at her, still open-mouthed, as smoke ran from his burning body. The Goblins knelt in front of Ragathsi, and she waved a hand.
“Fall in. Chieftain Rags, your tribe is mine as well. Hold your positions unless I tell you to move. Understand?”
She turned away from the stunned Goblins, and her attention focused on the bewildered Leapwolf and other Goblins. They backed away when she put the submachine gun on her shoulder, but the Goblin Lord simply clicked the safety on. She recognized another face—Trueshot, the Hobgoblin, was holding her Thunderbow, the weapon of war built into its stationary mount.
The Goblin’s eyes were on the odd weapons that Ragathsi and all of her bodyguards save one were carrying. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations winked at her, and then her eyes focused on the smoke rising from Goblinhome, just beyond them.
“I’ve been looking forwards to this. I need vision. Wyvern, take me up.”
She strode to the nearest Frost Wyvern, and Fightipilota leapt onto the seat as Chickenruler stared at her. The [Fighter Pilot] spoke to Ragathsi.
“They have Wyverns in the air. Leave them to me?”
“Sure. Keep them from running off.”
The Goblin Lord felt the Wyvern shift, then flap its wings and leap upwards with a grunt. There was a moment where they were suspended, then falling—then the Wyvern’s wings and magic lifted them upwards.
When they were high enough to see the army assaulting the trio of Goblins and the Wyvern Lord and the familiar, smoking fortress, the Goblin Lord’s face burst into a real smile.
She felt like she was twenty years younger, suddenly. She closed her eyes and threw her head back, but all those years didn’t just vanish. She was a different person than the little Goblin looking up at her.
Scrying spells all around her. She could see them and the magic linking them back to their respective owners, a tangled web of spells in the sky. Thousands of spells. The world was watching.
Good.
She savored it, this view only she was allowed to enjoy. Well, her and Fightipilota. That of someone with every advantage. Every right to enjoy…
The [Fighter Pilot] was pale-faced, shaking. Ragathsi eyed her, then touched the Hobgoblin’s shoulder. She met Fighti’s eyes.
“The coming days and years will need Goblins like you. I’m glad you found your class in my world. May you never be like me. Offer them mercy. I won’t. Oh, and you can have five minutes, instead of five seconds.”
She saluted Fighti with a finger as the Goblin stared at her. Yes, it was important to do it right. So Ragathsi closed her eyes and put her feet up on the Frost Wyvern’s back as she saw two dozen Wyverns spiraling up towards her, bearing Pallass’ icon in her head.
[Counterhack Encryptions].
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations tuned into the private speaking stone channel 2nd Army had and handed Fighti a hacked speaking stone. Then she listened.
 
——
 
“—on the ground. Wyvern Lord is grounded, and we cannot strafe him. Moving to intercept Goblin-led Wyverns.”
Pallass’ 3rd and 5th wings were in the air, covering 2nd Army. It had been a harrowing fight in the skies so far—despite the numerical advantage against the Goblins, they’d been up against the damn Wyvern Lord that had savaged Pallass.
Everyone wanted a piece of him, but keeping him off 2nd Army had been all they could do, and the monster had still gotten past them. Now, Wing Commander Asiv had that bad feeling he’d once felt before seeing his uncle, General Thrissiam, off.
He was in charge of both wings because of his connection to General Edellein, not his superiority in the air. If it had been expertise, Major Hiclaw of Manus would have been asked to take over; his surviving [Wyvern Riders] were still around. In fact, there were two wings of them, battered, but keeping an eye on the battle from afar.
They’d been told not to interfere…which was stupid if they had a mutual enemy. Nevermind the ‘glory’, two more wings would have kept the Wyvern Lord off them and saved lives. But Asiv had his orders.
The problem was—he had a view of the battlefield that included more than just Goblinhome, and he did not like the tremors rocking the High Passes. Nor the pink comet he’d seen, nor the fact that some Goblin Lord was on the ground with the Wyvern Lord.
Nor the damn [Witches] airdropping Goblins, or the Kraken Eaters. He was giving his report to Rathiss, but the [Colonel] was distracted.
“Sir, I can see the Kraken Eaters. You have maybe twenty-five minutes before they’re on you.”
“Do you see a Goblin Lord?”
“A—I don’t see the [Chieftain], sir. Smoke, from their position, but I am telling you, there’s two thousand of the Kraken Eaters about to come down on your flank.”
Numbers aside, that was the north’s deadliest hand-to-hand tribe, and they’d apparently minced Shirka’s forces, even if it had been a surprise attack after the battle. But Rathiss just kept saying—
“Look out for a Goblin Lord.”
“Yes, sir, but the Kraken—”
Rathiss hung up, and Asiv swore a blue streak. He knew he shouldn’t foul up the command line, but even so! Speaking of which—his speaking stone chirped.
“Wing Commander Asiv, a caller on High Command Line 1.”
“I’m in the middle of a damn battlefield! Who—”
“Nephew!”
“Uncle, get off the command frequency!”
Asiv roared at Edellein as the [Wyvern Riders] around him turned to the furious [Wing Commander], but Edellein’s voice was unapologetic.
“I can see you’re unengaged, Asiv. I’m keeping my claws in the battle. What the hell’s taking Rathiss so long to kill that Goblin? We look like rats fighting down there.”
Asiv tried to work his tongue as he spotted a lone Frost Wyvern heading towards the battlefield. He signalled, and both wings took off after it. He could at least clear the Frost Wyverns out or chase them away from the battlefield. Again, if Hiclaw was allowed to help…
“That’s a damn Goblin Lord if I’ve ever seen one, General Edellein. Those [Goblin Slayers] are dying to wound him. I’m sure you’d never suggest anything less. And I could use Manus’ flight support if you’re monitoring the battlefield!”
“You’re in hand, Nephew. I’ll tell Hiclaw to strafe the Kraken Eaters if they don’t fight the Goblins. I need more eyes on the Goblin King. Break off a Wyvern.”
“You must be joking. He kills anything that gets near him. Is it the Goblin King…?”
“Unconfirmed. Send me someone fast and, ah, unessential to your mission, Nephew, but we need eyes on him.”
Send someone to die. Asiv just focused on flying because he didn’t have a response to anything else. He was on an intercept course with the Frost Wyvern now, and spotted three Goblins riding it. None of their Thunderbows that had kept him wary of them…
All his tension and frustration turned towards battle focus. Asiv gritted out.
“You’ll have a flier in ten. Engaging—”
He cut the line and ordered his wing to go wide.
“Give me two on overwatch for the other Frost Wyverns. Take out the wings, and no one get close enough to take a frost breath or I’ll have your flight badges. Now—”
“[Dangersense], Wing Commander! Abort! Abort!”
“Dive!”
He shouted instantly in response to one of his wingmate’s signals. In the air, you lived and died by your comrade’s warnings, or your Wyvern’s. He dove, expecting a [Lightning Bolt] or another deadly spell—but all he heard was an odd sound.
The speaking stone chirped a third time, and he nearly ripped it out of his earhole when a voice, breathless, spoke across all command channels at once. It was female, unknown to him, with a northerner’s accent. No lisp, so non-Drake.
“Attention, all fliers. This is Fightipilota of the Flooded Waters tribe. Pallass’ wings, I see you. Land and surrender now or I’ll be forced to destroy both your wings.”
What the—Goblins were hacking their command frequencies? Asiv recoiled and heard clicks as multiple officers cut their connections at once on the basis that this was compromised, but he was the target of the Goblin.
Destroy his wings? He would have laughed at the threat, but—his wing snapped out of the dive as an attack still failed to come.
“Wingdrake Leisa, where’s that attack coming from?”
“Unknown, Wing Commander. But my [Dangersense] is still going off. Worse than the Wyvern Lord. As bad as when the Goblin King emerged—and he’s still making it ring.”
Asiv swore under his breath, staring up at the lone Frost Wyvern still climbing overhead. It was going for sheer altitude, circling. The Wing Captain of 5th Flight spoke in his ear.
“Wing Commander, do you want reinforcements?”
Asiv grunted.
“…Negative. Keep an eye out for—invisible Wyverns. Fliers in hiding, or those Thunderbows.”
That had to be what it was. But then the Goblin spoke again. Fightipilota.
“Wing Commander, it’s me. I’m the flying-down-instant-death. You’re not going to take Goblinhome. But your people can survive this battle. Land, now. Your Wyverns didn’t sign up to die.”
That last comment struck home slightly. Asiv glanced down at his Wyvern, a “regular” one who just breathed fire. Edellein had kept telling him he could get a rarer type, as if you traded Wyverns like…what? Horses? The Wyvern was nervous, and he usually knew something Asiv didn’t.
The [Wing Commander] hesitated as he began to reply on the open channels to the Goblin. He had a thought.
What if she’s got some kind of artifact like a [Phoenixfire Bolt]? The Wandering Inn’s files say they might have one unaccounted for…
That could take out his entire wing—both, if they were close. He couldn’t use his speaking stone, so he had to mute it and shout at the nearest [Rider].
“Keep out of range! Long-ranged fire only! Hundred feet! Traps!”
He got an affirmative hand-signal and replied to the Goblin, now sussing out answers.
“Rider Fightipilota. Surrender your Wyvern and we will consider you prisoners of Pallass. I have the authority to protect you, regardless of what happens. You and the tribe down there will be annihilated if you do not comply.”
That was a bald-faced lie; he didn’t have authority to do that.
“You don’t have authority to do that, Wing Commander Asiv. Take that Wyvern out.”
General Edellein barked in his ears, sounding displeased, and Asiv yanked his speaking stone off his ear.
“You b—”
“General Edellein? Of Pallass?”
Fighti’s voice. Edellein replied, sounding surprised and amused.
“Yes, indeed. It appears my reputation has even reached the Goblins. Surrender your Wyvern and I may consider leniency, Gob—”
“Pull your army back or they’ll die, idiot. You have one chance to save your nephew. I am the most dangerous Goblin in the skies. I don’t have to offer those poor [Wyvern Riders] mercy. None of 2nd Army deserves it for what they want to do to my tribe. But I am offering it, because…I’m better than you people.”
Something about the way she said this was giving Asiv chills all over. It was the quiet confidence in her voice. If this was a bluff—he turned his head as someone hand-signalled him. Another of his [Wyvern Riders]—Lornee, a Gnoll.
Enemy. [Threat Appraisal]. [Threat Appraisal]. Extreme danger. 2nd foe.
Two of them? That was a different Skill than [Dangersense]; Lornee’s [Threat Appraisal] was tagging something on that Frost Wyvern as higher danger than the Wyvern Lord.
What was up there? Asiv’s scales were chilling from the cold now, or…Edellein was blustering at Fighti.
“—will lay waste to your fortress and—”
Someone cut him off.
“Wing Commander Asiv, this is Major Hiclaw of Manus. Recommend you abort your attack. My [Wyvern Riders] are throwing [Dangersenses].”
“Wing Commander Hiclaw, stay off Pallass’ command lines!”
Edellein roared at him, and Asiv hesitated. Fightipilota’s voice was calm now.
“You’re out of time. Land, both of you. Major Hiclaw, if I see you in the air, you’re going to die. I want to see your hands up above your head and your Wyverns lying on their sides.”
One wing under them—that was how they rolled over in a fight to show they were giving up. Asiv felt his mouth go dry as he saw, below him, Hiclaw’s wings circling lower. Not complying, but not high enough they couldn’t…
“Asiv, what are you waiting for? Engage the Goblins already!”
“If they have a Phoenixfire Bolt—General, I’m asking permission to disengage.”
“You—what? Denied.”
“Yessir. General…”
Asiv’s throat worked as he looked up, and he saw the little Goblin now, a weird flightcap on her head with glass goggles. A bright, fancy flight suit, the kind that would make even Pallass’ standard uniform look drab.
Instinct. His Wyvern didn’t want to go up there. Something was there—and it wasn’t even Fighti. A Goblin. Asiv croaked.
“Uncle. The Goblin Lord’s right up there. Another one. Let us disengage. This is a bad idea.”
Just like that, he’d directly disobeyed an order. Live on command channels. He had to do it. Asiv knew he had his orders, but…his head craned up.
“We’re not going to survive what comes down.”
He felt…cold. As if someone was waiting to meet him.
Death.
General Edellein was quiet for a long moment as the Wyverns climbed after the lone Frost Wyvern. When he spoke, there was a forced chuckle to his voice. And he whispered in that familiar way, so Asiv could almost feel Edellein pulling him aside and gripping his shoulder hard as he smiled at everyone else in the room.
“Ahahaha. Nephew, you’re embarrassing me in public. You know my policy.”
“Yessir. Permission to disengage.”
Asiv swallowed hard as his stomach fell. He knew what he was asking. But—he looked up and knew what General Thrissiam Blackwing would have said. The Tidebreaker too. Orders were orders. Drakes don’t run. Yeah, but come on. Even the Cyclops listened.
Edellein hesitated. He did. Asiv had never asked him for anything with his family connections. Truly. But he was asking now, and Edellein wavered. Then spoke.
“—Let the Goblin surrender, but take out the Wyverns. Alright?”
Asiv said nothing at all, and he saw the Goblin’s mouth moving as she leaned over the wing.
“This is your fault, Edellein. Remember that, everyone listening. I tried. Fightipilota entering combat.”
Her head vanished, and Asiv shouted.
“All Wyverns, breathe up! Shoot her! Shoot—”
He saw a tiny figure bail out over the Wyvern’s wings. The Goblin had jumped. She spread her arms, and Asiv urged his Wyvern towards her. He shouted, and his Wyvern inhaled. Fire and arrows shot towards—
What?
