He caught her fist with both hands, grunting, and she just swung the other into his face, again and again, until his head rang like a bell. He forced her back with a kick and drew his shortsword, but it twisted in his grip.
“[Let’s Settle This With Fists], Slingblade.”
He staggered upright, surprised by the weakness of his legs. The Halfling felt at his face, then inspected his gloves. The magic was still working—he narrowed his eyes at Hedag.
“—You should be dead. These gloves could throw a Giant. How are you able to hit me?”
“What sort of [Witch] would I be if I could not take anyone to task? I judge you, you judge me. [We’re All Equals On the Ground].”
What a smile she wore, gap-toothed and fearless. The Halfling felt weak and thought it was magic, at first. But then he realized it was just his fists. They didn’t want to clench together.
“I don’t want to hit you. Don’t—”
Too late, she rushed him again. He tried to leap—and she grabbed him and hurled him into a boulder. Charged in, fist swinging, ignoring the punches that broke her nose again and rattled her teeth.
Her hat. He grabbed for it, trying to rip it off her head. She was bleeding, an executioner’s smile on her face. The merciful judge, the last Hedag taking the final Slingblade to account.
“Why me?! Why not the Goblin King?”
“I can’t judge him. That one will never change. But you? Look me in the eyes, Slingblade. Look me in the eyes and tell me you’re proud!”
He headbutted her instead. Trying to break her gaze, which fixed him like an arrow of bright, brown scorn. She drew her own head back, and both collided at the same time. Then she smashed her head into his as they locked together, blood running down from her forehead, those maddening eyes still glowing.
Proud? He launched her off with another kick, swearing. Running from her—until she tackled him. Snarling, Gailant raised a fist and had an image of himself putting a hand on the shoulder of a drunk Slingblade with that same smile on his face. Who stops the Slingblade?
“Get away from me.”
His hands finally tore the brown hat open, and she stumbled. The Halfling leapt away from Hedag, breathing heavily. When Hedag rose, he threw a jab as she aimed a right hook at his face.
A tap from his gloves knocked her flat and broke her bones all the way down to her shoulder. She groaned and lay there as he stepped back, relieved, panting. The Halfling cast a look around for the Goblin King. He reached for his sling and halted as Agratha cursed and leapt back, hands reaching for his ammunition pouch. Then he turned his head.
“Stay down or I will have to kill you.”
Hedag was on her feet, blood running from her brows, arm hanging limp. She strode forwards as his sword cleared its sheath. No Skills to stop him, no craft in her ruined hat. Her curled hair was matted with blood and dirt, and her eyes never blinked.
“I can’t stop you, Slingblade. Never could. So strike true and live with it, proud little man. Blade ‘a Elves. Show me that smile and slide the blade in deep!”
She screamed in his face, spit flecking his cheeks, and he recoiled from that smile like a falling axe and her breath, which smelled like peppermint. The Halfling hesitated and looked up at the green moon.
He didn’t move. Hedag lurched forwards, and the Halfling froze—then saw her eyes roll up in her head. She collapsed forwards and lay on the ground, a slumped woman with a brown hat crumpled up on the ground.
Panting, the Halfling backed away from her. He only reacted when a shower of glowing spells flashed towards him; he parried them and saw two pointed hats coming his way.
A pair of [Witches] darted down, and the Halfling reached for his slingstaff with regret.
They’d heard everything—the truth as well. They also had to be dealt with. He cursed the Elves as he hesitated. Then reached for a stone to at least wipe their memories…
Stone…?
The Halfling’s hand felt at his side. He glanced down—then spun.
His ammunition. A tip-toeing [Witch] froze, then sprinted away through the army of flying insects, shouting.
“Burn it! Burn—”
Witch Agratha threw the pouch she’d stolen off the Halfling, and one of the Teriarchs opened his mouth and exhaled. The Halfling aborted his lunge for the bag and took c—
 
——
 
The Grand Design closed the rip in reality before it swallowed more than a five-foot radius. It had no brows to wipe, but—
That was close.
 
——
 
“—Should have died. Are you insane?”
Witch Thallisa caught Agratha, carrying her upwards, and the [Teacher] shrieked at her.
“I told you, I only teach pickpocketing! He’s out of ammunition!”
It was true. The Halfling kicked a stone up and whirled it into his sling, and the rock tossed one of the Teriarchs back, but he was out of his army-killing munitions.
Weapons from the dawn of time! Gone! Thallisa cursed as they flew over the Goblin King, but Agratha just panted.
“No one needs weapons like that. They’d just try to take it from us. Now, be a dear and take us out of this damn battlefield, would you? We’ve done all we can.”
All the [Witches] were falling back, out of craft and out of second chances. All save Witch Pebblesnatch, who was brewing up a feast in a cauldron for Empress Sheta’s army. The [Witches] flew back behind her as the Harpy Queen landed with her Dragons.
The Halfling seemed resigned to his loss of ammunition, oddly unmoved by the loss of his greatest weapons, but he remained ready to fight. Yet the Goblin King just stood there, even as the army fell back.
Tired.
How many more tricks? How many more twists to this battle? He was winning; everyone else was losing their strength. Dying. But he…wanted this battle to end now. It had to.
His will would not break, but impatience was a crack in his determination, baiting him into rushed, careless attacks to end it all. The [Witches] could feel his frustration, his endless rage and hatred and willpower that made him so indomitable.
…And something else. Thallisa’s eyes narrowed, and she gave Agratha a significant glance as the [Teacher] whispered.
“He’s never had courage before. Not in all the stories across all his many forms. How can someone above every foe have courage?”
“That’s because it’s not him.”
Then they heard the Harpy Queen scream as that tiny flame grew brighter. The [Witches] decided to fly further away.
 
——
 
Empress Sheta shrieked with a bloodlust that shocked the true Teriarch as she landed. Her severed talons’ digits were regrowing as she gave him a fierce glower.
“Neither will die! That Halfling—how is he able to fight like that?”
Her army was barely scratching him, and despite all their efforts, he was holding his own as well as the Goblin King. The original Teriarch pointed a weary claw skywards.
“The moon. I’m afraid we’re facing a warrior sent by the Elves.”
Sheta’s eyes went round, and her head rose as she recalled their explanation. Even so, she did a double-take at the round orb in the sky.
“Is he one, then? Or a thousand if this one falls?”
“I think it’s just him. It had better be, but he might just come from it again even if we best this version of him. Just as the Goblin King is eternal even if we kill this incarnation of him. At least this damn body will die.”
It was all too possible the Halfling could just be…re-summoned. Teriarch didn’t know if that was a function, but he’d put it into an enchantment if he were the Elves. However, he doubted the Halfling had ever lost a battle before.
There was a bitter taste in Teriarch’s mouth at the thought of all this. He, of all beings, had no right to say it, but dead gods. Truly immortal or eternal beings had no right to exist.
The Harpy Queen’s head craned back, and she blinked at the green moon. Her fierce, bloody gaze softened, and Teriarch saw in her the desperate child she’d been.
The girl who wanted to make a lasting difference in the world, the truest heir to his ideals. She had sewn the bitter seeds of what she thought was a better world, watering them with her blood and that of her people. What did she think of this world?
One good, lasting deed. The wish that Magnolia Reinhart had, but he could not remember her. The Dragonlord wanted to tell Sheta to flee, to leave this to him—the Goblin King and Halfling would fall, even if he had to detonate his entire treasury.
Then her expression became one of relief.
“Ah, that will do. A fitting legacy for me. Dragonlords, my champions—destroy that moon.”
The other Teriarchs not fighting for their life turned to her. The real Dragonlord felt his mouth open.
“—What?”
“Destroy. The. Moon. Yonder Halfling is clearly made of magic. Shatter the moon to pieces and he loses his ability to come from it. And it frees us to discuss these dead gods. The world must know the threat. Regardless if it empowers them! Do it!”
The Empress of Wings pointed up, and one of the Teriarchs made an incredulous noise. But then another spoke.
“—Of course. It’s so simple. All I have to do is…”
One of the Teriarchs from a world where he’d fled into the [Palace of Fates] with all his hoarded treasures was cut badly from the Goblin King’s blades. Snarling—desperate—and angry enough to do what the original had done.
He slapped his tail, and a portal spell opened, revealing a treasury far more complex and ornate and—organized—than any other Teriarch possessed. The Hoarder Teriarch spoke, and a thousand Arrows of Annihilation floated around him.
A thousand. Dead gods! The original Teriarch had only had a hundred some, which he’d used long ago! But the Hoarder Teriarch was adding spell scrolls, more enchanted arrows—so many that an army’s worth of weapons just floated overhead.
“I am the Dragonlord of Riches, and I am done fighting you, you creation of spells! If you want to torment me across these aeons—then take this!”
He flew up, roaring, and the Goblin King raised a throwing axe, then lowered it. The Halfling turned, slashing down an army of Face-Eater Moths trying to literally smother him to death, and saw the Dragon flying.
He grimaced and did nothing to stop the flying Dragon. Which struck the original Teriarch as instantly bad. He didn’t know why, and Sheta was distracted.
“Teriarch, when did you collect so many—”
She began, and the real Dragonlord roared upwards.
“Stop! It’s a trap! Abort!”
The enraged, self-styled Dragonlord of Riches didn’t care. He had been chanting spells the entire way, trying to get the sheer velocity and momentum required to hurl his ball of ammunition skywards and actually reach the moon.
In theory, it was eminently doable. He just had to breach the stratosphere and the momentum would carry the projectiles the rest of the way. That was how the first Dragonlord of the Void had made his three-year trip. He’d been flying so damn fast at the end that he’d nearly ripped the stratosphere apart on re-entry or rotated the entire world a few feet on impact. Which would have…well—
The Teriarch of Hoards unleashed half of his entire collection of ammunition skywards in a roar. He actually detonated a third of the lesser arrows and scrolls as propulsion, and the rest of it was just a direction spell and a bubble to collect the ammunition.
The original Teriarch stared up as a kind of magical rocket-bubble shot skywards, roaring upwards at a speed he could barely fathom. Insanity! A lifetime of treasures just—probably half of Khelt’s entire treasuries fired at the moon! A tenth, at least!
Everyone not fighting stared upwards for a moment. Tracing the glowing streak of light headed skywards until it was tinier than a pinprick of light. The Teriarch of Hoards hovered there, panting. Eyes on the moon.
Then—there was the tiniest flare of light. The moon, already a coin in the sky, developed a minute bloom of multicolored light. There for a moment—gone the next.
That was all. Sheta and the original Teriarch gazed at the Dragonlord of Riches, and the Teriarch muttered to himself.
“Strange. That should have had enough magical force to crack the entire damn orb in half. Unless I miscalculated…? No, a hundred Arrows of Annihilation can break an island. And that’s exponentially multiplicative with…”
He didn’t glance at Sheta or Teriarch as he muttered to himself, in full excuses mode. That was why he was the only one who didn’t notice either the Halfling glancing up, with a bitterly wry expression on his face—or the moon slowly changing.
The green glow of one of the moons hanging over the world was serene, beautiful. An unmarred construct, unlike the blue moon, which had a few scars. Interesting fact, that. You could see some damage to the blue moon, a crater where the Dragonlord of the Void had allegedly landed, a scar caused by a certain [Blademistress of Ancients]—but the green moon was a perfect orb. Almost, you might think—
Like an illusion spell. Now, the green glow intensified, and the Dragonlord and Harpy Empress stared up. Sheta’s warlike expression turned uncertain. Then she eyed Teriarch.
“No. They wouldn’t have—”
He tried to throw his bad wing over her, then roared.
“My cave!”
He ran, and the Empress of Wings flapped forwards—looked up—and the Dragonlord of Riches finally noticed the moon was glowing. His head snaked upwards, and he murmured.
“Ah. I—”
The green moon pulsed, light collecting along its surface, but the Dragonlord of Riches didn’t understand. To him, it merely looked like the center of the moon became intensely bright.
 
——
 
—To the watching people who saw the moon glow, it was like watching liquid spilling down around the edges of the moon. Then they saw a streak of light shoot down from the moon, into the High Passes.
Those close enough and on the same continent or at sea saw the High Passes flash, but felt no shake. The [Sailors] standing on the sides of their ships headed for the New Lands saw the moon glow. Then more magic pooling downwards.
It fired again.
 
——
 
The first beam of light was exactly as wide around as the Dragon it struck. His entire body flashed, and he fell. When he struck the ground, he lay there, on his side, before he tried to move.
“My—my word. I think I made a mistake.”
His head rose, and the Goblin King stared at the Dragonlord of Riches. The Dragon’s flesh was red and raw. He…
His scales. The ray of light had disintegrated every scale on his body. Two smoldering pits had replaced his eyes, which hadn’t been shielded from the spell.
He was still alive. That was what astonished the Halfling. The warrior would have thought that nothing in this world could have survived that attack. The Dragonlord of Riches tried to stand, to fly—but his wings were just burnt frames of flesh. He cast around, blind. His voice rasped.
