“The moon? So they hid their plans up there. Disgraceful. They should have left this world to us. The same with the gods.”
He said it to no one, to everyone. The Halfling flinched.
The second beam of light struck the Dragon, and he vanished. It left no crater, save for the one the Dragon had created in his fall. Only—teeth, fragmented, the remainder of claws, and some brass residue. The hardest parts of his body.
The four Dragonlords of Flame, including the original Teriarch and Empress Sheta, looked up. The moon began pulsing again.
“Dodge!”
The Harpy screamed, and they scattered. Even the Goblin King. None of them would survive that. The ray of light annihilated everything. Magic. Flesh.
Even the soul. The Halfling wondered why the Elves had not simply made it fire on the dead gods. But perhaps it was useless without flesh.
They were so hard to kill.
His sling cracked, and the Harpy Queen screamed as one of her wings lost feathers. She landed hard, and another Dragonlord raised his wings over her. He made no sound at all.
 
——
 
“—Teriarch?”
The Archmage of Scales lowered the ruin of his wings to the ground as Sheta looked up. He’d sheltered his eyes from the deadly light. He grinned at her, scales ripped from his body.
“We almost triumphed again, my dear. Victory and dignity.”
He bowed one broken wing, as the other Dragonlords landed around him. Three. Beach Teriarch, Creler Wars Teriarch, and the original.
No—four. Superhero Teriarch was holding himself together, a cloud of smoke and dust. His voice rasped.
“We have underestimated the Elves. We must sacrifice ourselves to take the Goblin King out with us. We cannot best the Halfling.”
The Archmage of Scales looked up, slowly, as steam rose from his naked flesh. His eyes focused on the moon. The pedantic, fussy Dragon who’d become a teacher of Wistram spoke.
“[Time Slow].”
He cast a domed spell around the Dragonlords as Sheta’s army fought the Goblin King and Halfling—but all they were doing was buying time. The Dragonlord gazed up at the hypnotic orb as more mana from the moon coalesced, building to another deadly ray of light.
“Fifteen point six seconds, then twenty-two point two nine. Then thirty-three and four, which then shall become fifty-two point six seconds to the next beam. I calculate an exponential increase in the time it takes the moon to fire. It will take eighty-eight seconds after that—then a hundred and fifty-seven seconds. Then three hundred—sadly, by the time it reaches an interval of acceptable margins, we will all be dead. Me, first.”
“Do you have a plan?”
The Dragonlord of the Creler Wars saw how deep the ray of light had burned the Archmage of Scales. Even if he survived this battle—was the light poisonous? His very bones were visible underneath the scarred flesh. And after the Archmage of Scales, who next? The Creler Wars Teriarch feared it was him—and he was trying to figure out how to pin the Goblin King to take them both out.
He didn’t want to die. But they’d all reached that place that the original Teriarch had already found. The warrior who had accepted his death if it was necessary.
The Archmage of Scales more than any other. His eyes fixed on the moon, and he breathed softly, despite the agony coursing through his voice.
“…Marvellous, really. It must have so many spells for no one to pay attention to it. Even the Dragonlord of the Void didn’t remember it. An ideal place to post a sentry spell. I disagree with what our other self said. It is something I wanted to make, you know.”
He was rambling, using his [Time Slow] spell to talk. The Dragonlord of the Creler Wars shook his head. He was dying—they had to do something.
“To impress the world where you became Archmage of Scales?”
The other Teriarch eyed him disapprovingly, and the Archmage of Scales spread his ruined wings, grinning.
“Yes. It was vain, and I desired power. But I was trying to make, well, miniature [Gardens of Sanctuary]. Terra-bubbles, I called them, after the Earthers. Miniature worlds that produced food, where you could hide from attackers. Something to give to people. Children, families in the face of war. I know it would only be a collectible of the rich at first, but perhaps, if magic proliferated to the extent that everyone had it, perhaps everyone would simply be harder to harm. It is not about the heights to which one individual may reach—but how high the lowest person in a society may rest.”
The Dragonlord of the Creler Wars looked at the Archmage of Scales, struck silent. He who was the ashamed Teriarch that had gone to war only after the Dancer had sacrificed herself to goad him into action.
One of them had tried to make something to halt the meaningless despair that drove them to hide each and every time. Flawed though he was—the Archmage of Scales spoke.
“The spell that powers this attack is exceedingly complex. We could not fly to the moon nor teleport there, I suspect, and there is no avoiding or blocking it that I can fathom with the limited time we have. What we do have is a wealth of magic.”
He meant the dead Teriarchs’ hoards and their own they’d taken with them. The Creler Wars Teriarch shook his head, feeling as if he was the far more slow one.
“You saw our peer firing his treasures at the moon. The damage was not commensurate with the amount of magical power he sent. My guess is that the moon might suppress even Tier 8 magic. Possibly…even Tier 9 magic would be greatly reduced.”
“My assumption as well, and the Elves doubtless have a self-repairing spell. I would. To stop the moon, we would need one blow sufficiently devastating to destroy or damage it long enough for this battle to conclude.”
“…Impossible. We can’t even kill the Goblin King.”
The armored figure was watching them, perhaps aware that the Teriarchs were trying to stop his annihilation as well. Beach Teriarch spoke up.
“Ah. I understand. But who?”
The other Teriarchs gazed at each other. They turned to the Archmage of Scales, and he bequeathed them with a slight, superior, sad smile.
“Me, of course. I daresay I don’t have long…the answer is simple. It is our signature attack. More than Dragonbreath or our flight, I daresay. There is only one object that can bypass even the magic of Elves. Survive even their most devastating spell. And—with the mass to do enough damage if accelerated at the right speed.”
He meant…them. The Dragonlords eyed each other.
“Madness. We couldn’t reach the moon.”
“There are four of us with our lifetimes’ worth of collected magic. One of us must go.”
The moon was growing brighter. The Archmage of Scales cut short any debate, any hesitation, as he closed his eyes.
“I am already wounded. This is a folly of magic. I will do it. Send my bones through the moon. Besides—”
He cracked open one cerulean eye.
“—One of you would probably get the spell wrong and miss.”
The other Dragonlords stood there, as they had many times. Warriors faced with certain death, each one ashamed not to step forwards as the true hero did what he saw needed doing.
Hero? Heroes were the ones who died first.
The Archmage of Scales began chanting. There was no time to argue. The moon was growing brighter. The others saw what he was doing and began tracing the spell circle, adding their magic. One of them opened the Dragonlord of Riches’ hoard and began burning up everything inside. Fuel for a ritual that was quite simple, just math and straightforwards calculations—but powered with all the magic of multiple worlds.
It was insanity, but the moon was about to fire. Maybe it already was; it was so damn far away the beam of light could be travelling towards them at—the speed of light.
Unless it was even faster than that. All the Teriarchs were adding their mana to the spell, burning artifacts, but Beach Teriarch saw the flaw in the plan.
“He doesn’t have enough scales. He’ll shatter even if he hits the moon. His scales are gone.”
The Archmage of Scales hesitated. He was indeed stripped of the same hardness that could crack the world. A note of despair entered his eyes. Until Superhero Teriarch’s head snaked around.
“…No. It can be done. It will. If one Dragon fails, send two.”
He wanted two to go on a suicide mission? The other Dragonlords recoiled—until they saw what he was gazing at.
A crater in the destroyed pass. Half-buried from the avalanches of stone cascading down. A glint of gold.
The Teriarch who’d sacrificed himself to drag the Goblin King there. The Archmage of Scales breathed in.
“—Yes. Bring him here. Quickly.”
The [Time Slow] bubble expanded as Beach Teriarch and the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars dragged the corpse of themselves into the spell circle. The Archmage of Scales laid a gentle claw on the head of the limp Brass Dragon.
“I never thought this is how I’d die. I suppose that’s the beauty of it.”
His eyes shimmered with wounded amusement, and his burnt lips moved back in a rueful grin. None of the other versions of him could meet his eyes. But a female voice spoke, agonized.
“Teriarch. What are you doing?”
He’d kept the [Time Slow] spell from her on purpose. But the Empress of Harpies had made her way into the bubble. She halted, breathing hard, as the Archmage of Scales turned to her.
“Sheta my dear—we are terribly old monsters, aren’t we? We enjoy the hum of our blood, the sense we are needed, but we’ve grown so afraid in our age.”
He grinned at her, his eyes shimmering with tears. Then he took a quavering breath. He gazed up and spoke.
“For me, for us—will you rage one last time? Show that damn Halfling what our world has created, and that Goblin King. But then, you have to go. Go and live. I should have never told you there was a right way to do things. I’m sorry.”
He spread his wings, and the [Time Slow] spell ended. Sheta cried out, a single scream, and the Archmage of Scales nodded to the others. They bowed to him.
The glowing moon began to pulse.
The Archmage of Scales activated the spell. His head snaked around, and he took in the world around him, every piece of stone, the faces of his many selves, the distant [Witches], Sheta…and the Halfling.
Of all the beings here, he had feared the Halfling would stop him, despite the [Time Slow] spell. After all, he was the warrior of Elves.
He was standing there, unaffected by the time magic. Just…watching the Archmage of Scales. His sling was in his hand, and the Dragon’s eyes opened wide.
No. Please—
Then he saw what the Halfling was holding. A broken piece of brown leather with a pointed tip, torn open. A [Witch]’s hat. The Halfling whirled his slingstaff and shrugged.
Out of ammunition. He looked up, and the Archmage of Scales sighed. Then he closed his eyes.
The ritual spell fired first. There was no tearing of air. No pull of the Dragon leaving at a speed none of them could fathom. He ascended in a way cleared for him, a void without friction or particles, or they would have caught at him and ripped him asunder.
A Dragon flying with a grin on his face into the last creation of Elves. These beings he’d been told were so flawless, so infallible, so good—well, they hadn’t been perfect after all.
Take this.
 
——
 
It took longer than a minute for them to see anything happen. To them, watching at the mere speed of light, they just saw the moon begin to pulse, then nothing. The glow built and built, and Beach Teriarch shielded Sheta with his wings before he saw the true reaction.
The Halfling. He stopped fighting and swinging his sword at the flying creatures besieging him, putting a hand to his head. The Halfling felt at his brows, and a bit of blood and grime smeared across the skin of his forehead.
He touched his flesh, wrinkled his nose as the creatures around him suddenly smelled him, a strange odor clinging to his clothes—and the Halfling looked up.
“Ah. It’s over.”
His voice was distant, and he stood there as the flying creatures, the Goblin King, the Dragonlords, and the Harpy gazed up.
After one minute and three seconds, the building glow abruptly went out. The moon flickered and cracked.
The smooth surface of the green moon vanished. A slightly darker green appeared, no longer uniformly perfect, as if there was a roughness or gradient to the moon—just for a second—then a crack split across the surface of it.
It reached from past the top to almost halfway down. One of the Dragons made a sound—and the moon’s magical glow flickered and went out.
It hung there, still shining with celestial light. Still…intact. But now, visibly, cracked. The Dragonlord of the world of better days whispered.
“Mother. I’m sorry. We had to kill the moon.”
His head turned and bowed. Then he swivelled around, and his eyes found the Halfling gazing in astonishment at the Dragons who’d broken a piece of the stars. Beach Teriarch’s voice rose softly.
“I’m sorry, Grandfather that I never knew, Mother. We must also slay the last Halfling of old.”
He spread his wings, and they faced him. The wounded original Teriarch, body broken, spirit not. The Dragonlord of the Creler Wars, who roared a challenge at the Goblin King. The Teriarch who had known Better Days, eyes locked on the Halfling, and the swirling Dragonlord of Dust who had been told the world still needed heroes.
The Halfling was bleeding.
Real blood from his real body. No salvation if he was killed, no immortal watch. The blood was coming from his eyes. He wept bloody tears at them and smiled. He looked up at the broken moon he’d failed to defend, and his smile was proud.
“At last. My watch is over. I was always meant to hold the truth until I was bested. I do not know if you are ready. But this world is yours.”
He lifted his sword and saluted them. Then he turned to the Goblin King and beckoned. The lone Goblin, that immortal figure who had shaken the world with his return…he gazed at the Halfling, then up at the moon, now broken above him.
No longer did the Goblin King feel as though he stood at the center of the world. He lifted a hand as the Halfling came at him. The two warriors raised their swords and traded one blow—then two.
The first meeting, blade-to-blade, had the Goblin King’s sword shattered. The Halfling swung his sword, and the Goblin King ripped his armor apart with all of his rage. His exhaustion, a desire for an end. 
No more. End it now.
He sundered the Elves’ magic—and then, as the Halfling recoiled, the Goblin King tried to take the warrior’s arm off. But he was so tired—the Halfling merely stepped back, smiling ruefully. His gaze was aimed up—the Goblin King felt that familiar presence.
The Harpy Queen struck them both, and the High Passes shook with her final dive. She crushed the Halfling against the ground, and he groaned, a blade impaling one talon.
