Rebirth. A way to escape who they were and become new souls, able to choose what they wanted to be.
“That child made a solution more brilliant than I thought. I understand. While I am here, I am you. And no offense to you, Dragonlord of Flames, but it is a miserable thing. Glorious, but also so weighty.”
“No offense taken.”
Teriarch grunted at the other Dragon, who suddenly grinned and looked like he’d shed thirty thousand years. The real Dragon gave his doppelganger a sour look—but the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars was striding towards Sheta, and it was done.
 
——
 
The last souls headed into the [Palace of Fates] and to the waiting [Apostle], whose arms trembled as he held the door open for them. The Empress of Wings hesitated—arguing at the entrance to the [Palace of Fates]—and Pawn whispered.
“Truly, my sins are grave. Because I am about to die and I must wait for the last, vacillating customers to exit the damn building.”
He was really tempted to just let the door slam closed and have this entire place disintegrate. Instead, he prayed they’d hurry the hell up.
 
——
 
Conversations. Those who stayed and those who remained—someone was counting them all. The Grand Design watched, noting who was leaving and who remained.
It would definitely matter.
Actually, two Grand Designs were taking notes. The Second Edition was making a backup copy of everything it was thinking, timidly fixing it in a temporary file because it had a…feeling about how this was going to end up.
Finality. The end, at least, for this moment. It wanted to ask First Edition what it had seen, what it was planning, but it was afraid to. If there was one shred of hope—it was that the Second Edition noticed the little girl also watching everything play out.
The soul of Mrsha du Marquin, the original, watched as goodbyes were said. So many encounters, words from the future—or past—or other times influenced this world, like someone throwing a rock into a pond, and the ripples influenced everything that would happen.
Only in this case, it was more like an avalanche of rocks. Anyways.
They’d count it later. Her eyes focused on the last souls departing, saying goodbye. The Archmage of Barriers flying down the hallway, past Pawn, and the Dragonlords three, following a protesting Sheta and the original Teriarch.
He was walking her to the door.
 
——
 
“I could stay! I could…”
“I want you to be happy, child. I wanted you to be happy the moment I met the crying little Harpy chick wandering her palace. This is it. No empire. No more foes.”
“Except all the versions of [Dragonslayers], Crelers, or whatever else escaped through that door. I know there were some.”
The Superman Teriarch added very unhelpfully, and the original Teriarch tried to blow out the Dragon made of dust. The Empress of Wings closed her eyes.
“I am the true Sheta. At least…the memory of her. It was my [Palace of Fates] that caused this mess. Do I not owe this world recompense?”
“Perhaps. But I think it owes you far more. So go. Go, and let there be one version of Teriarch and you, at least, that can smile. That is enough.”
His eyes were shimmering with tears, and she leaned on him.
“Should it not be you?”
The Dragonlord of Flames hesitated, and his eyes found that rift out of this reality. Pawn patiently waved ‘hurry up’ at them, and sighed loudly as the Dragon turned to her.
“Not I. I choose to stay. I would not entrust the others with this—I would be ashamed. I alone am the being who lived out this life; it falls to me.”
His head rose proudly, and she nuzzled the side of his face, just once. Even if she was a memory, his smile made them both feel real.
The Empress of Wings was at the door, and it was as large as it needed to be for her to hop under one of Pawn’s arms when the Dragonlord of Flames, the original Teriarch, put out his good wing. He halted the three Teriarchs who’d survived everything.
“Wait. Before you three go, there is an account to settle.”
Sheta whirled at the door, and Pawn’s head rose in surprise. The Dragonlord of the Creler Wars backed up a step.
“Oh come now. Really?”
“Yes. I have something to demand of you.”
The original Teriarch was more wounded than the three of them put together, and the Dragonlords based on him glanced at each other. They were rather ashamed to be him—at last, the Creler Wars Teriarch wearily slapped his tail.
“I don’t have my treasury on me, and we burnt most of what we had to send the Archmage of Scales into the moon. Just name your damn price. Platinum? It never goes bad. I can do nearly fifteen grams of seith.”
“Fifteen grams?”
“I used the rest of mine to blow up a Creler nest! What do you two have?”
“I’m a cloud of dust!”
The Teriarch who’d been evaporated roared indignantly, and the Beach Teriarch rummaged in his bag of holding gloomily. They had enough for a sizable fee—would he want their Dragonthrones? That was crass.
The original Teriarch blinked at them, then spluttered.
“I’m not—I don’t want a fee! What do you take me for?”
Three pairs of flat eyes regarded him, and the Dragonlord of Flames glowered. His head snaked out, and he glared.
“You. I want something from you. A toll. You will pay it, or you will not leave this world. Understood?”
The other two Teriarchs looked at Beach Teriarch, and the Dragon exhaled hard. He was the one who had fought this Teriarch at the start of this disaster.
“…Very well. The two of you, stand back. Whatever he wants from me—if I can pay it within reason, I will.”
The two Teriarchs moved around the real Dragonlord of Flames and halted with Sheta by the door. But the three of them didn’t leave despite Pawn coughing and trying to pull at their tails. Even Pawn stopped complaining; they were watching, like that eternal audience wondering if they were going to see a really nasty fight go down.
The two Dragons drew closer, and the original Teriarch’s eyes narrowed as Beach Teriarch swallowed. Of the Dragonlords, these two were virtually identical. Only, one came from a better world.
The Teriarch of this world, the real one, was a wounded mess, a raw, battered Dragon who had been outmatched—he had never looked more like the warrior he had once been. Even now, Beach Teriarch wondered who would survive if they fought to the death.
“What…do you want?”
He couldn’t imagine it if it wasn’t treasure. And that was such a pitiful thing to ask for—but what else would you want? They were Dragons. They loved treasure.
It was just that treasure was never what you thought it was. If it was just gold and jewels and magical items, well, what a small imagination you had. True treasure was something else. Friendship. Knowledge. A contract for a kingdom. A [Princess]. True value was less in the denomination, but whatever had fiscal worth after the collapse of an economy—
Ahem. The original Teriarch lowered his voice.
“It will hurt and cost you. I mean what I said. I will hold you to this world without it. That is my price. This fate is mine. This world—but you must give it to me.”
“What? What?”
The true Dragonlord of Flames touched at his forehead with one broken claw.
“I died while controlling Eldavin, and he split from me. When I was revived—I lost everything I had entrusted to him. Memories. Not all of them matter. But I forgot them. Ryoka Griffin. Magnolia Reinhart…all I had seen or done for the last half a century. That is my fee.”
He was tensed, and the Beach Teriarch recoiled. Memories? He wanted—
Oh. Oh—his head turned to the entrance of the [Palace of Fates], and he remembered that pink carriage speeding up towards the High Passes. His Magnolia was still here. And he didn’t remember…?
The Dragonlord of Better Days closed his eyes for a long second, then opened them wide. He bowed his head.
“I agree.”
The original Teriarch relaxed, eyes opening wide in disbelief. Beach Teriarch stared at himself and wondered if the original Teriarch had taken a blow to the head in all the fighting. Doubtless—because he coughed into one wing.
“Yes, I agree. Mostly because, uh, I could just copy the memories.”
The original Teriarch’s mouth opened.
“Ah.”
“Yes, quite. Just give me five—no, I’m going to have to isolate—how much did you lose?”
“Er, well, you don’t remember what you lose. Do you remember what you loaded Eldavin’s simulacrum with? A bad idea, by the way.”
“Vaguely. But what if we did a differential analysis of our memories? There’s definitely a spell that—I know we’re in a hurry, but it might take only fifteen minutes if we do recent memories? Say the last hundred years to be safe?”
The two bent their heads together, and the two other Dragonlords of Flame hurried over to give their opinions on the subject. Pawn stared at them arguing spellcraft.
“oH cOmE ON.”
 
——
 
Then they left. By that point, when the last traveller ducked past him through the door, Pawn truly was out of energy. His arms wavered, and he spoke.
“Ah. This is it.”
The door was closing. It was a miracle of miracles he’d held it open a second, let alone this long. He’d had help; the Grand Design itself had held the door open, but they were so tired.
The [Palace of Fates] was empty of people. The last person to leave was a little Gnoll. He nodded to Roots Mrsha as she took the last Faerie Flower roots and pulled herself up into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“I am sorry, Mrsha. Now…it’s time.”
He let go with two of his hands—but the remaining two still held the door open. Pawn was afraid.
When they closed…everything ended. And even now, there was a choice. After all, he was standing with his back to that sunlight.
Someone was calling his name.
“Pawn. Pawn! Come on!”
Voices. Lots of voices, honestly. A version of Erin Solstice, the one from Brunkr’s world, was waving at him, and so were other versions of Pawn. The Worker turned his head and saw that strange crossroads beyond.
Yes, crossroads; there was a damn sign planted on the grass. He wondered what it said. But Pawn just shook his head.
“Not I. Not the one who caused all this. I am…going to my just punishment. Though that’s not how they view it, is it?”
His head rose, and he saw them still. Dealing with the last of the souls.
Death.
“I wish to have a few words with them. As we are judged, we may judge. And I have a club.”
Depending on how he found this true afterlife, he might have to use it. Pawn didn’t think that heaven—the heaven that he hoped existed in this reality—was for him.
His trembling arms relaxed on the door, and he smiled. Time to go.
The [Palace of Fates] vanished, starting on one end of the hallway, the remaining pieces disappearing until there was only the hanging roots—the open door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]—then even that door closed.
Just him. Him…and one last, late traveller, who passed by Pawn and tapped him on the shoulder. The Worker jumped. He turned, and the door nearly slammed shut. His other hands grabbed it, and he spoke.
“That’s not possible. Y-you’re—”
It wasn’t a body. But more like…the concept of a body. A young woman—because that was how she thought of herself, even if she had technically hit thirty after being dead—wearing an apron and with her hair tied up with a handkerchief. The details could change—but she had hazel eyes, brown hair, and a frying pan in one hand.
The Goddess of Inns, Erin Solstice, his Erin Solstice, stood there, and Pawn beheld a multitude of souls following her. He recognized his Rags—his Painted Antinium—and his voice whispered.
“How? You died. I felt it.”
She gave him a rueful smile.
“Sorry, Pawn. I lost the fight. But you know Gods. Turns out losing takes a long time, and there’s lots of sneaky roads back. Mostly, though? Remember when you ripped out the Crone’s power?”
He did remember that. Pawn’s glowing eyes opened wider, and Erin blinked at them.
“That’s so creepy. Anyways—turns out that hag doesn’t chew what she eats. Or rather, she can’t. No teeth, and it’d undo what she needs. Ech, it’s complicated. God stuff, y’know?”
He didn’t know. But suddenly—Pawn had the strength to hold the door open longer. He turned.
“Wait. Wait—why are you leaving? You’re here. You’re…you have no body, but you’re here. You must stay. So will I.”
It didn’t matter if he was annihilated. If she remained, he would be her first soul serving in any place she chose to make.
The divine version of Erin Solstice peered at the world she was leaving. Her eyes found Pawn, and she shook her head slowly.
“Pawn, you silly guy. I didn’t want to be a Goddess. I’m terrible at this job. I nearly lost everyone before I realized I had special privileges. Whatever’s through that door—I want to see it. There’s an Erin in this world, and we don’t need more gods.”
“But you’re different.”
The Goddess of Inns threw back her head and laughed. She slapped her thigh and kept laughing in his face so long it grew hurtful; she leaned against the door to another world, wheezing.
“Hah! You hear that, Ghost Ksmvr?”
“Yes, Erin. He is not very bright.”
Never meet your Goddess. No—meet her. Pawn was trembling, and the divine being stepped forward into that reality beyond.
“Come on, Pawn. I’m not happy with everything you’ve done. But I don’t believe in people dying when there’s a chance. I need your help. Let’s go.”
“You’re sure?”
He was already taking a step forwards, following her, because he’d go anywhere with her. The [Innkeeper] took his hand, and they stepped forward together as the door closed. Her eyes flashed in the sunlight as she gazed back at the world they were leaving.
“Absolutely. Besides, being a god in this crazy world? It seems like a mug’s game. I hope they get what’s coming to them. Every last piece of it.”
She winked, and the door closed.
 
——
 
The Goddess of Inns left this world behind, and everything she could have done, all the endless possibilities of her presence, collapsed behind her like everything else.
The Grand Design waited for a long moment and then another to see if anything else was coming after that.
No one spoke. Nothing moved. The [Palace of Fates] vanished with a sigh, a collapsing corridor fading away, the memory of a million open doors leaving behind only silence.
Then it was just the Grand Design, the final actor left on a stage, with an audience of the Second Edition, the ghost of Mrsha du Marquin, and the court of the fae.
So it spoke in that voice that filled every ear and encompassed everything else in this reality.
