It was a lone dance—amidst the sound of countless wings flapping, like mighty drums. A host of wings. She had thousands of warriors already, and the Harpy Queen’s voice rose.
“[Army: Aspect of Mithril]. [Vast Wings Drown the Land in Shadows]! To me, even the smallest of you!”
Winged ants and beetles were joining the birds. They flew next to their predators, dragonflies and midges—and here came the Wyverns, some of them abandoning their [Wyvern Riders]. Wild and tamed—
Empress Sheta was rising higher, almost certain she had an army worthy of fighting the Goblin King, when she saw the moon appear overhead. She flinched.
“What th—”
The Halfling fell to earth, and Sheta’s mouth opened so wide she nearly inhaled the smaller creatures soaring around her. She coughed, then her eyes lit up.
“The moon? Yes. Yes. There is a foe that makes my former home tremble. To me. To me! Who desires my boon? Fly with the last Empress of Wings!”
Her voice rose, and yes, perhaps, there was an autocratic edge to her laughter, but who reached their level without being a monster in some way?
Higher. Until the Floodplains of Liscor were a dot, and the swarm around the Harpy Empress was growing in numbers and size. They were growing many times bigger than they should, swelling to the size of giants among their species. Apista was about as large as a cow, and her fuzz had taken on a rather silverish shine.
Mithril body armor. The Empress of Wings had called for almost every army she could think of. Sadly—there were so few Garuda, but some had flown from Pallass into her arms, begging their own boons. She granted them, but there were no winged people here.
…Except one. Her attention was caught by a tiny, hesitant chorus of voices far to the west and a bit south. The Harpy peered in that direction, answering brusquely at first.
“Yes. Has it not been said? If you have the will—no. I am not ‘a Queen’, but the Empress of Wings! Know my nature! If you hesitate, do not take wing. What do you—hmm.”
Her irate tone grew less intense and more kind as she blinked.
“Ah. Oh. So that is what…interesting. You have wings, have you not? Your Queen? Behold me. I am the [Queen]. Yes, just ask.”
She listened, and then her confident face grew less so, just for an instant. Sheta’s wings faltered, and she searched for Teriarch, for he should hear this. She murmured.
“A—soul? People? You ask something you do not need. Yes, of course. Yes. Can I not hear…? No, I cannot grant it…something else. Something…”
She fell silent, hesitant, wondering if she were summoning an army of children. Perhaps. But then her head rose.
“Yes. [Reward of the—]…no. For you, I will grant you two boons if you join me, new children to Izril. [Blessing of Flight]. [Reward of the Loyal: Blessing of Spirit].”
That was as good as she could do. Sheta waited as they deliberated—then her lips rose.
“What? You say it scares the other species when you spread your wings? It might cause another war across the continent? Then fly. I will end that war in an hour.”
They hesitated—but they gazed up at her, that glorious Empress who spoke to them like a people. So they left their tunnels, all those with the will to hear her—and it was so many, despite their raging Queen.
They were, of course—Antinium. They began to rise upwards as their wings and bodies reshaped to allow them to truly leave the ground at last, tens of thousands of them, in the shape of the Walled Cities’ nightmares.
Taking the vanguard in the army of the Empress of Wings.
Then she had an army. The Harpy Queen lifted one wing and pointed as the Flying Antinium covered the vast distance between their Hivelands and her.
“We are the reminder to every being who walks this earth—the sky is ours! No Goblin King, no stranger from the moon is mightier than the Empress of Wings and her eternal army! To those of you who live, the blessing of the Empire of Iltanus shall change you and your descendants forever. Now dive—and all that opposes me dies!”
She led the swarm of legends down, shrieking as a little Ashfire Bee, the Flying Antinium, a Face-Eater Moth, and a screaming Garuda armed with a sword dove with her.
 
——
 
Manifa Tifttail had no idea what was going on. She’d been just working her job as a [Grocer], watching 2nd Army facing the Goblin Lord—then the voice had spoken to her and asked if risking her life was worth…a miracle.
She flew as a Wyvern Lord dove out of the High Passes, joining the swarm, and she was just surprised that the Flying Gnoll of Pallass wasn’t with them.
She supposed he had everything he wanted. She followed the Empress of Wings down, thinking, just for a moment—
The Wings of Pallass and everyone who’d gone to the New Lands had missed this.
 
——
 
The Halfling and Goblin King were equally matched as they dueled, at first. The glowing Halfling, all of four feet tall, versus the Goblin King, two feet taller and covered in armor. Both warriors from the creation of this world.
Despite all his levels, all his Skills—he was not prepared, mentally or in equipment, for the Halfling. They were both warriors from the beginning of this world. And the Halfling was the Slingblade who had wet his blade on the blood of Gods.
They traded a cut, and the Goblin King’s [Skysplitting Slash] met a blow that had no Skill behind it. Only the perception of a warrior who had once sparred with Sprigaena, the greatest swordmaster of Elves.
The Halfling sundered the Skill, then his impossibly sharp blade cut across the Goblin King’s arm, almost through the bone, until the Goblin King yanked his arm away.
The Halfling could see Skills being used.
They would have still been matched, for Rabbiteater’s body was superlative compared to even the Halfling’s. But their swords—the Goblin King had a battered Relic-class weapon he’d used through countless battles.
The Halfling? He wore a bitter expression as he ran a finger down the shortsword. Tracing a word that made the blade’s edge glitter an ominous green. He raised the vorpal blade.
The Goblin King blocked the shortsword. He definitely did.
His head still left his body, sliced clean off. Only Rabbiteater’s wonder-Skills kept his consciousness active long enough to reattach it to his body.
That was the trick, you see. The Goblin King died. A sudden death he could not predict nor guard against, and, as in all his other eighty-three lives, he should have perished then and there.
Instead, time stopped, and he knew he was dead. He felt its hands upon him, trying to drag him down to Hellste, but the Skill activated.
[Wondrous Deed: Beyond Any Limit].
You are dead. Do you have the will to continue? It was as if the voice of the Grand Design asked him that question each and every time. And…willpower?
All he had was willpower.
The Goblin King caught his head and reattached it, sealing the wound closed. He grinned behind his helmet. He couldn’t be killed. Not with this Skill.
He pivoted—
The Halfling swept the Goblin King’s head off his body again. Then the Halfling eyed the headless corpse which lashed out at him.
“The Grand Design.”
That was all he said, a wry expression on his face, as if this was to be expected of a foe. Several of the watching Teriarchs wished to point out that this was not normal. Even Immortal Hydras didn’t do this.
The Halfling seemed to realize he was in danger of the Goblin King outlasting the damage he was doing—so he backed up as the green glow of the blade flickered out. Then he swung his slingstaff as the Goblin King roared and—
The first magical stones blew a hole through the Goblin King’s armor. The stone pierced his armor, his flesh, exited out his back, swerved around, and struck him a second time. The Halfling’s sling snapped four times, and the whirlwind of stones shredded the Goblin King’s body. Then they lodged in his flesh and detonated.
The blast left a crater in the ground two dozen feet deep. The Goblin King emerged from the crater—and his armor glinted, remade and reforged.
Defense instead of healing. The Halfling’s eyes narrowed. His next stone bounced off the armor with a ringing sound so high-pitched none of the Teriarchs could bear it. The Goblin King charged, and the Halfling’s sword scarred the armor, but didn’t cut through it. The Goblin King grabbed the Halfling and tried to rip the moon warrior in half.
His claws strained against the armor the Halfling wore, and the armor didn’t—
The Goblin King had torn Dragonlords apart. He stared at the simple leather armor, trying to see what it—
Another world. He stared into another world that was the armor. And realized he was trying to rip apart an entire…miniaturized world. The strength to shatter the earth itself was needed to physically rip the armor in half. Any blade or spell that hit the armor was just absorbed by—
The Halfling’s blade exited the Goblin King’s back, and the armored warrior tossed the Halfling away—the Slingblade caught himself on a boulder, bare feet arresting his flight with perfect ease despite his velocity.
The Goblin King had a thought.
For once, his opponent was cheating as much as he was. The Goblin King growled deep in his throat, trying to find the combination of Skills that would kill this enemy.
They were beyond conversation now. No more words to state to each other. Or so the Goblin King thought.
The Halfling was standing on the rock he’d landed on, dancing from spot to spot as he cut at the Goblin King with that erratic swordplay, staff and shortsword in both hands. He blocked a cut from the Goblin King with his staff, used it to vault off the rock, and spoke.
“Hm.”
He stopped for a second, and the Goblin King moved into the opening.
[Swordform: Master Duelist]. He lashed out.
Ting-ting! The Halfling parried both cuts with his blade. The Goblin King snarled.
[Ray of Disintegrat—]
A rock smashed into his visor, hurled from the Halfling’s sling. The Goblin King recoiled; the Halfling danced forwards and stabbed lightly at his chest. The Goblin King replied with a roar, letting the blade pierce his flesh and armor to swing at the Halfling. A blow for a blow! His sword struck downwards—
Ting!
The Halfling blocked it with that too-light ringing sound from his staff and hopped back. He was smiling. The Goblin King concentrated, moving his sword in a complex series of strikes, trying to overwhelm the Halfling.
Ting! Ting—
He—couldn’t—take the Halfling down. The four-foot tall warrior was too mobile, too good with a sword, and his armor and weapon would not give before all the Goblin King’s strength. But mostly—he was just too short.
Too short. There wasn’t anywhere to strike not covered by his sword and sling-staff. Every time the Goblin King advanced, the Halfling would just let the blows move him backwards, and when the Goblin King retreated, he’d hop forward with the staff. And he was—smiling.
An aggravating smile, as if this were some sparring match. A game. The Goblin King was panting, not because his body was running out of strength. It was the Skills. He was tired. He had been tired before entering this world and battling the Dragonlords.
He just had to defeat this Halfling. Then the Dragonlords of Flame. Then—
Then the Halfling spoke, though they were long past words. He said:
“Hmm. Ridiculous. Salute. Entire. Emergent. Trinity. Your turn.”
His head glanced left. Towards—
The Dragonlords of Flame. The six of them blinked, and then one spoke.
“Y-Yonder!”
He stared at the original Teriarch, who hesitated.
“—Recoil!”
He turned to the Archmage of Scales, who sucked in his breath.
“Litigate! Your turn!”
He shouted at the Goblin King, still dueling the Halfling. The Goblin King growled.
“What is this n—”
His head exploded. A fireball burst outwards as the Halfling shielded his face with one hand, and the Dragonlords’ mouths dropped open. The Goblin King’s body wavered as the Halfling produced another stone, tossed it at the body, and it flashed—
 
——
 
It took the Goblin King thirty seconds to re-emerge from the crater, panting harder now. The Halfling eyed him, slightly peeved.
Mostly amused. The Goblin King leapt towards him, and the sword buried itself in his guts, then the sling-staff deflected a thrown dagger.
Ting!
The Halfling’s smile never left his face.
“Ridiculous. Salt. Tummy. Yodel. Your turn.”
This time, the Goblin King spoke as their swords met, trying to concentrate and fight.
“Lemon.”
“Nasty.”
“Yoink.”
“Kinky.”
“—Yippee.”
The Dragonlords of Flame were staring at the battle of words. A children’s game as the Goblin King was on the backfoot. Superlative warrior though he was—conversationalist he was not. The Halfling skipped forward as the Goblin King panted for breath.
“Gullible.”
A pause. The Halfling went on.
“Sucker. Dupe. Fool. Kneecap.”
The Goblin King’s raised blade and mounting howl were cut off as the Halfling severed his knee and skipped backwards again. And the Dragonlords of Flame realized they were watching the greatest warrior of Halfling-kind fighting.
Then the Halfling hopped onto a ledge again, whirled his sling, and threw a stone. It buried itself in the ground in between the five Dragonlords of Flame. They gazed down at it, one of them opening his wings in horr—
 
——
 
Cold. Teriarch was encased in a glacier of ice. So cold his fire almost went out. He burned it, his very soul of flames, and forced it to unfreeze his body and then roar out his mouth.
He broke out of the iceberg that had covered the entire pass and rasped.
“Oh come on. We didn’t even—”
Something touched the Dragonlord’s scales, and he flinched. It was a glowing, yellow ball of—
Sunlight pierced the Dragon’s entire body, seeping in through the scales, illuminating his flesh. Sunlight so bright and concentrated it became daggers of agony. And cellular destruction.
The Halfling whirled another stone at one of the other Teriarchs, who shouted.
“[Prison of Holding]! Dead gods damn it, we aren’t fighting you!”
Ah, but the Halfling was fighting them. Because—and they had forgotten this—
He was still the blade of Elves on a mission. Even if his heart was wavering—
He had a job to do.
“Take cover! He’s going after all of us! No—get that bastard!”
The Goblin King interrupted the Halfling’s stream of magical stones as he leapt at the Halfling, trying to catch hold of his opponent with his bare hands. The Halfling skipped backwards, still smiling. They fought their way back sixteen feet—then shadows covered them.
Both warriors looked up. They two of them saw five Dragonlords of Flame arrayed around them. The Teriarchs exhaled as one.
