A perfect matchup, really. The spellcasting power of a [Necromancer] fused with the martial prowess of a Draconic Warrior—and the knowledge of Drakes and an understanding of the modern world.
One last nightmare who would claim the Kingdom of Trolls and be ready for his moment. Not now, but when they least expected it. A final consequence of all that had passed.
“It isn’t anything personal. Once, I protected my city and thought I was a great champion of my people. They made me to fight beings like her, the dreadful Harpy Queen. In the end, I learned it did not matter. We are all selfish, and there is no true morality, despite what Dragons claim. Just power.”
The Draconic Warrior spoke, giving his thesis on the world to the darkness of the mountain around him. He walked, tip-toeing away from the cracks where he’d been spying up at the world. And you know what?
It was a fair point of view for a being who’d been entombed in darkness for tens of thousands of years and a Necromancer who had been created from a Skill and nearly been unmade but for ludicrous chance.
Nothing mattered. Just you. You were allowed to have that perspective.
Just like other people were allowed to disagree.
The undead fusion was walking through the darkness when his pulsing heart of undeath stopped in terror for a second. Because he’d heard a scary sound.
Someone was humming in the heart of the mountain. The Draconic Warrior spun, the Necromancer’s intelligence alarmed. They hadn’t thought there was anyone here! What was that—
Humming? It was a pleasant, uplifting tune. Like a melody, but more…pop-like. It had a proper beat and a melody, and the first voice was joined by dozens. A high-pitched hum.
Then someone opened her eyes, and the Mortemdefieir Titan flinched as light illuminated the broken street he was striding down. A tiny figure—but her huge eyes glowed with a luminescence that chased away the shadows.
A terribly painful light for the two undead beings. The same agony as when that Antinium had destroyed Bea. It was the radiance of conviction.
Faith.
Like the sun rising out of the night. The glowing eyes of the Goblin fixed on the rotten being who had never sensed the mortal figures creeping up on him through the darkness.
He had crawled through the darkness. But they lived it. Especially the Goblin shrouded in shadows, the Nightlady, the Bride of Shadows.
Gothica.
Or one version of her, at least. She was sitting with the rest of her followers above a group of Redfangs, who finished sharpening their swords. They sat cross-legged around their leader, Redchild.
Redfangs from the future. Ten years in the future. One of the many worlds. And in the middle of this small tribe was the Goblin with her glowing eyes.
Her skin was pale and scarred, and she carried a staff that she used to stand with. Like him, almost everyone had forgotten about the last Goblin Lord.
The Goblin Lord of Dreams, the Rags of the world where Erin had never come back to life, was smiling. Humming a pop song from the future. Her warriors, [Mages], [Shamans], [Goths], and faithful sat around the cavernous tunnel, surrounding the Titan.
“Ah. More survivors of the [Palace of Fates]. They must have fled into the High Passes as well.”
The Necromancer realized what was going on, and Rags of Dreams raised one finger as the strange Goblin, an evolution neither Draconic Warrior nor Necromancer had ever seen, wagged it at him.
“Not fled. Followed you. I can see souls as well as Pawn. Terrible things have happened. Terrible, terrible…my Pawn and my world are to blame. I couldn’t stop him. I regret how it has come to pass. I wish to meet with the Erin of this world and beg her forgiveness for failing her. But first—all good monsters must die.”
The Draconic Warrior felt an odd tingling run down his spine. He realized it was the memory of shivering, of his scales crawling.
Fear. This was ludicrous! He was the warrior who’d fought the Dragonlord of Flames to the death! But he had only one seith core. And—the Goblin Lord of Dreams was staring right at it.
Just to the right of his navel, moving upwards through his flesh. She pointed it out to Redchild, and the warrior who carried the Redfang blade nodded. Gothica finished smoking a cigarette and blew out a cloud of smoke.
“I am the Necromancer and Mortemdefieir Titan both. You are outmatched, little Goblin Chieftain. Leave and I will not destroy you.”
The undead giant spoke with two voices, death magic pulsing through his heart. He snapped his claws, and death magic filled the caverns. His smile was as arrogant as the undying Lich, as twistedly cruel as the Draconic Warrior of old.
Both and neither. A new being.
“Arise.”
A thousand warriors of rotting flesh rose around him, and the Necromancer Titan laughed in delight. Pieces of his body fell from him and morphed into ruined Drakes holding weapons made of mottled flesh and putrefaction.
“[Arise, Legions of the Damned]. Do you see? Do you know me?”
He screamed the Skill as the Goblins gazed upon him. The Necromancer Titan spoke.
“I am the [Apotheosis of Undeath, the Herald of the Breathless Age]. Just as the Goblin King ever rises, so do we.”
He could feel them across the world. All those who belonged to death, who spoke the quiet language.
The other Az’kerash, the slumbering Gnoll, the village of [Necromancers], the Mother of Graves—great and small, undead buried in Noelictus, greater spawn of the undead who stirred in their deep graves.
Come to me and we shall end it all. So many refused, took umbrage to his authority, or merely…ignored him, like the strange corpse far west across the seas; others answered his call. As his power grew, he would control them all. Not just the undead, but the dying, like the Treants.
A world of undeath, and he was the beginning. A class to end the world—
“Level 56, though. I’m higher level than you.”
The [Apotheosis of Undeath] stopped laughing. His eyes fell on the smiling Goblin.
Rags of Dreams. She tapped one eye, pulling down the skin under her eye as she gazed upon him.
“You lost a lot of levels when you became this new person. You’re weak. Low on mana.”
“I have more than enough to destroy you.”
His heart thundered ominously in his chest, pulsing power that made the zombified Drakes’ eyes glow brighter with each thump. Draining the life from the Goblins, who grimaced and snarled. Only two hundred—the Necromancer Titan’s head turned, sensing another cluster of life behind him—
Rags of Dreams did not react to the wave of death magic. She simply tapped the ground with her staff, and the oppressive heartbeat’s pulse washed over her tribe.
There were so few of them. Barely two hundred warriors; the core of the Tribe of Dreams was just that. The rest were faithful, but dross. These were the Goblins who had survived ten years of persecution and war.
The fate of Goblinhome and all those without the ability to protect themselves. However, Rags of Dreams just smiled merrily.
“The future has changed. It is better, I hope. But you will never see it. I believe that.”
“Wait. This conflict does not serve us. I will use your tribe as corpseflesh if I must. Wait—”
She didn’t wait. Rags of Dreams lifted her staff and spoke.
“[Miracle: The Sky is Falling].”
The roof of the cavern over the Titan’s head collapsed inwards, sending hundreds of thousands of tonnes down on the roaring giant, who tried to dodge—who expected it to crush the Goblins, or at least halt their charge.
It did not. They ran past the stones that crashed down harmlessly around them, missing them—little miracles. Redchild leapt at the Titan as he swung his fists, crimson light gathering in his mouth. The Goblin Lord of Dreams raised her staff and blocked the first [Ray of Annihilation].
She kept humming as the glow of her eyes filled the dark mountain with light, and the ancient rubble of the glorious kingdom sparkled. It had not always been this way.
It might not always end this way. All you had to do was believe.
 
——
 
No one saw or heard the war in the mountain save for the dead and those who loved them. Master Elosaith’s eyes were fixed north of where he stood in The Wandering Inn, and he said nothing.
His hands, which had grown so tense on his quarterstaff, gently put it down after a while, and he sat. The old man felt his age, his aches and pains and injuries, and he too wept.
“Master Elosaith? Is something wrong?”
The old man looked up as one of the children walking through the inn came to him. He patted Nanette’s head gently as she brought him a drink and a healing potion. He wiped at his eyes.
“No, child. No. I think…”
He glanced around, towards the other [Necromancers] of Rheirgest, and wondered who had seen it. The old man’s eyes drifted across the world, towards those other presences he’d sensed.
 
——
 
Az’kerash, who stood, listening to the whispers and shaking his head, disturbed, confused.
 
——
 
The young man who sat on a carpet, chin in his hands, grimacing. Pisces Jealnet, eyes crinkled up at the corners, mouth twisted up like someone listening to a mournful song, glad it was ending.
 
——
 
The Mother of Graves stopped whispering curses.
 
——
 
The undead rising skywards through the tombs of earth stopped and wavered. Then they slunk back down, they who knew no fear…uneasy.
 
——
 
Elosaith turned back to Nanette, and he wiped again at a tear dribbling from one eye.
“…I think it’s going to be alright. I feel rather foolish, as if I’ve taken it all for granted. The world, that is. I did my little part, and someone else saved the day. Just as they always have. I just never thanked them or thought of it. I have been so terribly selfish.”
The little witch nodded and gazed towards the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She was shaking, so Elosaith reached out and gently hugged her. She began to sob, and he closed his eyes.
His eyes opened once, and he waited as the multitude of terrible lights vanished. Until there was just one.
“Please. Just rest.”
That was all he said.
 
——
 
A sunburst shone down into the dark mountain, the Kingdom of Trolls, for the first time in aeons. It illuminated broken streets and ruined buildings that had been covered in filth and rotten flesh. But the rot was gone.
Burnt away. Nothing was so filthy it could not be cleaned. Nothing so wretched it could not die. But there was always a cost.
The last undead body fell, and no more rose. Goblin warriors lay across the ground, dead, but no death magic filled them and brought their corpses back as vengeful monsters.
It had no right. The dead stayed dead, and it was quiet, now. No longer was the cavern filled with the sound of battle or the roaring of that vast voice. The dazzling dawn’s light vanished, and with it, the song finally ended.
The Goblin Lord of Dreams stopped humming and coughed. She blinked down at the squirming insects she’d hacked up and exhaled.
“Oh. I hoped it would be easier.”
It never was. The Titan was panting as he crushed a Goblin in one of his hands. The Nightlady, Gothica, refused to die. His chest was ripped open, refusing to heal—but the gleaming seith core was already retreating through his flesh.
Cracked. But Redchild was dying.
So was Rags of Dreams. The Titan’s rotten insects had buried her, and she was kneeling, clutching the staff which still repulsed the swarm eating away at them.
The warriors were dead. She’d thought them more than a match for…she hadn’t expected both Necromancer and Titan.
“You…failed.”
He tried to sound exultant, and the Tribe of Dreams sighed as his claws dug into Gothica’s chest. Two voices and Gothica’s silent snarl.
“Erin lives. We won, silly man. We’re just sad we’re dying. No one wants to do the hard things. But we can.”
Rags of Dreams rasped up at the Titan. He didn’t understand. His eyes swung to Gothica Nightlady, and the Level 56 [Nightlady of Absolute Darkness] closed her eyes. She let out a breath, spat onto his hand, and an orb of pure midnight appeared in the middle of her chest.
It dragged Gothica into the vortex in an instant. The Titan was still gazing at the stump that had been his hand when he tried to pull away.
“Goodbye, Gothica. We’ll celebrate with Pawn.”
“What—”
Flesh ripped off the Titan’s face as the vortex sucked his rotten skin off his body. He tried to move back, but he was too close. Strips of his rotten body tore away. There wasn’t enough strength in the decayed sinews and meat. His clouds of insects vanished, trying to fly away—and Rags of Dreams waited.
“There. Redchild—”
The Goblin lying on the floor couldn’t even stand. Her legs had been torn off. She raised one arm and threw the Redfang sword at the seith core as the glowing, cracked artifact appeared.
The Titan tried to twist away. The [Necromancer] whispered a spell, and a wall of bones encircled the seith core in a second. The Goblin Lord’s hands tightened on her staff.
“[Greater Miracle: Give Me Something to Believe In].”
The sword pierced the shell of bones, and the seith core exploded. The Goblin Lord of Dreams smiled as the Titan screamed—and then stumbled. His face took on a look of horror, and he fell to all fours, trying to crawl away from the vortex. Suddenly—mortal. Unable to survive or regenerate forever.
She liked to think that if she hadn’t used her Skill, the sword would have still done the same thing. But the faithful didn’t place bets.
“Redchild? Redch…”
Rags raised her voice, but there was no one left.
At least, not here.
Two hundred of her warriors from her tribe of over a thousand Goblins. The Goblin Lord of Dreams reflected she’d been overconfident.
Perhaps it’s better this way. That was a lie. A silver lining.
She would have preferred they all live. But she took a hazy sense of satisfaction as she lifted her staff and pointed it at the fleeing Titan.
“[Miracle: A Ray of Sunlight].”
Her final miracle was a ray of pure light, which ate away the Titan from behind. Disintegrated the undead creation—faith beat undead after all—and burned through his waist, his torso—
He just didn’t die. The two screaming souls had lost their power, wasted their Skills and magic, but monsters just never wanted to die. And Rags of Dreams…
Her staff crumbled in her hands, spent, overusing all the faith she had, and she collapsed as the insects writhed over her body. Then he laughed as he fled up the tunnel. Laughed at her—even if he didn’t even dare approach the corpses of the Tribe of Dreams. The Goblin Lord lay there, eyes glazing over, staring at his retreating body, and she spoke.
“Hey, you silly thing. You really…went the wrong way.”
