His sword rose, as he stared ahead, and he began to run. Tracing a pattern like the one that had come before him, but taking new steps, running past the footprints, on his own journey forwards as she watched and laughed, beckoning, sword waving. Waiting.
The wave crashed down, bodies and lives and Skills. A hundred souls striving for his life, and the boy was there. Each and every place, sword swinging, blocking a cut, parrying a sword, and cutting down his foes.
Improvising. Stepping forwards into the unknown a hundred times, a hundred foes with no guarantee of victory save for his genius and hard work and courage to cut a path towards victory out of defeat.
Then he caught his breath, and the crashing wave of bodies stopped. The [Goblin Slayers] halted and dropped, many limbless, pierced through the heart, or beheaded. A hundred battles in the time it took a heart to beat, each and every one fought by the breathless, panting Goblin. He swung around, and the [Soldiers] around him moved back.
He raised the sword once and challenged them all. Eyes certain that if it was just him and a single foe, he would win each and every time. But then he stumbled and laughed.
A traveller who had barely begun to walk that lonely road. He checked his arm and inspected a cut running deep along his flesh. Flexed his hand and sighed.
The Skill ended, and a hundred [Goblin Slayers] died, and the morale of a Walled City trembled. Just for a second. Until reality reasserted itself and he became a mere [Blademaster] once more.
A few bodies kept moving. Two dozen [Soldiers] stumbled after the [Blademaster], who finished his walk and turned. And he saw someone running at him. Redscar raised his sword, and the headless Drake charged past him.
The flailing [Soldier]’s body was spurting blood from his neck. But he kept running, sword slashing wildly through the air. Running past Redscar.
The dead [Goblin Slayer] ran onto his own comrades’ spears, and the unnerved [Soldiers] shoved the corpse—it fell onto its back and kept swinging, mindlessly, until it jerked and went still ten seconds later.
The rest of the [Goblin Slayers] staggered towards Redscar, and three made it. He cut them down as the blood loss claimed the others. Then Redscar turned.
Thudthudthudthud.
More [Goblin Slayers], exiting 2nd Army’s ranks, and regular [Soldiers]. The [Blademaster] exhaled hard. Then he shook the blood off his sword and raised it.
 
——
 
Insanity. 
Redscar was fighting in the center of a ring of bodies. [Goblin Slayers] were throwing themselves and their squads into the melee. Every time the Goblin’s sword flashed, multiple [Soldiers] would feel that sharp blade. But they kept surrounding him, slashing at him.
Strategist Ulhouse was watching the battle from his position with the portion of 2nd Army that had gone with Shirka. He knew this was how the [Goblin Slayers] fought high-level Goblins, but he’d never seen it.
He was helpless to intervene. If he could have, he would have called this off. Not because it wasn’t working—the [Blademaster] was staggering, trying to get free of this melee, but every time he tried, the circle of [Soldiers] would reform on him.
It was working, but the [Goblin Slayers] were dying by the dozens each minute. Ulhouse understood something he’d been told once by the former [Strategist] of 2nd Army, Strategist Esor. The Garuda had pulled him aside and explained about the ‘old guard’.
The [Slayers] are best never used in a battle, was what he’d told Ulhouse. They were a core to be preserved and to build 2nd Army around—but never used for their intended purpose. Now, Ulhouse saw why.
They were all utterly willing to die to kill the Goblin. Their Skills were being activated as well. Skills that shouldn’t exist in an army.
Redscar had found his footing despite the onrush of blades. He was swinging wide, clearing bodies with each Skill. His [Blade Arts] were wiping out entire squads with each swing, and he was bounding from spot to spot, forcing the [Soldiers] rushing him to turn, minimizing how many could engage at him at one time.
He never saw one of the higher-level [Goblin Slayers] standing in the back of the circle of [Soldiers] taking off his helmet. The [Captain] lifted something up—and Ulhouse’s eyes locked on the picture the Drake was holding.
Then the Drake dropped the little [Mage’s Picture] and shoved the [Soldiers] around him aside. He charged forwards, and his armored body—bulged.
It was unsettling. The muscles and flesh along his arms flexed, like Sinew Magus Grimalkin, but not in a natural way. They burst out of his armor, and the [Captain]—Cillic, Ulhouse thought he was—was half a head taller with his first step. He ran forwards, sword forgotten, and Redscar turned.
Ulhouse saw the Goblin’s eyes widen, and he planted his sword deep in Captain Cillic’s chest—but the Drake was still growing. Now he was nine feet tall, and his flesh continued bulging outwards.
“Ulhouse! What the fuck is that—”
Gaellis and the other officers were watching. Ulhouse read the Skills of his army with his [Strategist]’s eyes. He whispered.
“[Possessed by Vengeance].”
The monster made of flesh and hatred leapt on Redscar, tearing and biting at him—more like some kind of giant, bipedal draconid than a person. His face had elongated like a crocodile, and he was huge, hunched over as he bit and tore at Redscar.
The [Blademaster]’s crimson blade kept stabbing through the back of the [Captain]’s body. But the possessed [Goblin Slayer] didn’t actually fall until Redscar cleaved through the Drake’s waist. And he kept crawling after Redscar until the Goblin lopped off both arms.
Panting, Redscar staggered upright and then flinched as an arrow struck him in the shoulder. He pivoted—another hit him in the chest, and Ulhouse saw more [Goblin Slayers] rushing him.
“He’s done.”
 
——
 
He broke out of the sea of twisted faces for a moment, running back.
Away.
The rest of the army wasn’t coming at them. They were surrounding him, a ring of blades and steel, but they weren’t moving.
They were watching the hunters.
The [Goblin Slayers]. Redscar turned as they spread out, and his blood was running from one arm. He looked down and saw teeth buried in his wrist. One of them had bit him, and he had ripped their jaw off their face. But the teeth kept biting.
Redscar tried to catch his breath, and the furious rage and elation were gone. He saw the [Goblin Slayers] watching him, moving forwards, and he beheld their Skills.
[Blade of Hatred].
[My Death: Corpse Explosion].
[Mortal Enemy: Visions of Suffering].
[Rage of Insanity].
The last one came at him screaming, frothing at the mouth as his eyes bulged out of his face. Redscar saw images of Goblins pleading as a sword swung at them.
He swung his blade through the visions and missed—his sword cleaved through the Drake’s ribs instead of his neck as the [Goblin Slayer]’s blade slashed across Redscar’s chest. Redscar finished his cut; his opponent couldn’t cut through Redscar’s tougher skin, but he seized Redscar with his arms, trying to bite, screaming garbled words.
Redscar severed the arms and kicked the [Goblin Slayer] off him; the arms kept gripping him, and the writhing [Goblin Slayer] lunged at him until Redscar’s boot stomped on the head again and again, and he snapped the fingers off his arms.
An arrow struck him in the head, and pain exploded across his skull. Redscar slashed the others down, but the arrow that had hit him was blunted. Then the [Goblin Slayers] were on him…
He leapt away from them, bounding past them, towards Colonel Rathiss and Student Rags again. There! He just had to get her! Redscar jumped through the air, leaving the damn [Goblin Slayers] behind. His sword cut another pair of arrows down, and he saw a flash.
The bolt of crimson lightning struck him, and the [Cursed Lightning] hurled the [Blademaster] down. A beautiful spell cast from a thousand miles away. Redscar slammed into the ground.
Then, as his limbs twitched with the cursed hex running through his body, he gritted his teeth and realized his mistake.
It really had been…not fun at first. Not fun, but like Zeladona. Being allowed to redo something. Reaching Level 50. Like The Wandering Inn sometimes made you think. Just like that silly [Innkeeper] he’d always admired, waving a white flag in front of an army. That moment of hesitation—that’s what he’d been feeling.
I can do this. I can beat an army and save the day.
Idiot. He wasn’t ready. He couldn’t kill them all. The [Goblin Slayers] hated him as much as he hated them, and they were prepared to die.
The [Blademaster] on the path of legends levered himself up onto one knee and felt terribly mortal again. His head rose, and he saw Student Rags there. Screaming at him, and a familiar Skill was active on him.
[Rapid Retreat].
If he turned, he’d be able to leap away. She was telling him to go. That was the smart thing to do.
Escape, break into Goblinhome and help fight off the [Soldiers]. Redscar had to fight like part of his tribe. His arrogance was thinking he could do all this at no cost.
Thinking he really was better than they were just because he had a fancy new class.
“No. I see it now.”
It was always the same, and that was a terrible relief. He’d never be Zeladona, who could save the day and have it cost her nothing but the idle swing of a sword. The Goblin grinned.
Then he ran forwards, sprinting into the [Goblin Slayers], who were surprised as they slammed into him, swords swinging. So skilled—even if they had stolen the power he’d earned. He heaved and shoulder-charged through several of them until they realized what he was doing and stopped trying to cut him, grabbing him instead.
But he was swinging his sword as his skin opened and more blood ran out of his veins, despite him willing it to stay in his body. Redscar’s eyes were locked on his target.
Colonel Rathiss and Student Rags. It was so perfectly clear what he had to do.
Save her. Kill him.
2nd Army would never quit this field with Rathiss giving them orders and empowering the [Goblin Slayers]. Student Rags would never survive if he ran.
All he had to do was reach her and he’d be able to throw her or…do something. Kill the [Colonel].
He just wouldn’t make it back. Thinking he could solo the army was his idiocy. This was all he could do.
Student Rags was screaming at him as the [Blademaster] burst out of the first rank of [Soldiers], and they were all trying to stop him now. A sea of blades he was running through, leaving pieces of his flesh and blood behind with each step. Not an army he could just swing his sword through.
The horrified Goblin [Student] didn’t understand. She wasn’t even his Rags. It didn’t matter.
She was a Rags. The person who saw the future and tried to pull them all forwards. All he was—was a blade, a warrior following a dead [Chieftain].
He couldn’t let her die.
The Goblin ran into a rank of armored [Soldiers], Dullahans in plate armor, and they held him back, slamming him back into the [Goblin Slayers], who stabbed him from behind. The screaming Goblin ran forwards, and the knot of [Soldiers] fell back as he rammed through them.
Faster. His aura was gone. The feeling of the blade at [Soldiers]’ throats had vanished. Redscar was just running, following that familiar sight.
A bounding Carn Wolf and a running Hobgoblin charging into battle. Thunderfur. Garen. Always ahead of him. He could see them, and he didn’t realize everyone else could.
Colonel Rathiss was waiting for him, sword drawn, a snarl on his face. The grinning [Blademaster] was running, face a mask of blood and cuts. The Goblins were screaming from Goblinhome as he stumbled, and they fell on him.
[Soldiers], covering him. No one could see—Student Rags, the watching eyes of nations—
Then a sword cleaved through the bodies, and the Goblin emerged, a howl bursting into the air, running straight into the center of the closing trap. Hand reaching for the bound Goblin shrieking at him.
 
——
 
Somewhere—a father was trying to explain to his son that this was a Goblin Lord. He pointed at the monster, angry that the picture looked wrong.
He should appear more horrific. He should sound more like a villain, not screaming his heart out, covered in wounds.
Fix the picture, Wistram. The Goblin lying there shouldn’t be crying.
Goblins didn’t cry.
 
——
 
Student Rags was screaming and crying. He wouldn’t stop. She knew it.
Colonel Rathiss was waiting for him, a snarl on his face, sword bared, waiting.
They both knew Redscar would make it to him, but the [Goblin Slayers] were closing around in a circle. Redscar would never leave this spot.
If he had fought the regular army, he’d have had a chance. But these were 2nd Army’s specialists. Willing to do anything to kill Goblins.
“Redscar, get out of here! Go! That’s an order!”
The [Student] was shouting at him, but he couldn’t hear her. The rest of the command was evacuating, but Rathiss didn’t move. Someone shouted from his speaking stone.
“Colonel, if you pull back your forces, we can strike the Goblin from above!”
Rags heard a voice from his speaking stone. The Drake replied calmly.
“No need, Wing Commander Asiv. If we pull back, he gets away. Colonel Oreika has command after I die.”
He raised his sword, pivoting, and the Wing Commander shouted.
“You can’t—inbound! Frost Wyverns!”
Student Rags glanced up. Colonel Rathiss spun and pointed.
“Archers.”
Another attempt from Snapjaw and the Frost Wyverns to break through. Student Rags heard the ballista firing, and one of the Wyverns screamed. The others flew higher or curved away, unable to get close to 2nd Army’s deadly [Archers].
A single Frost Wyvern flew high, high overhead, too high for any [Archer] to hit, and Student Rags wished she could tell Snapjaw to—to grab Redscar and go. He was Level 50! He had to be. But the enemy was willing to do anything to kill him.
It wasn’t fair. Student Rags saw the Frost Wyvern wing away, screaming a note of despair, and Colonel Rathiss turned away from the failed Wyvern assault and checked the furious Wyvern Lord besieged by two dozen [Wyvern Riders] dodging around him and attacking with Skills.
His head swung back to the faltering Redscar, but Student Rags’ stayed on that lone Wyvern. Why would it keep flying…? Then her eyes fixed on a single dot of green that the Wyvern left behind.
A falling body. A diving Goblin coming straight down.
Colonel Rathiss didn’t notice for a second until his head snapped around. He felt at the back of his neck, whirled towards Goblinhome, searched around frantically, saw Rags’ raised head, and he looked up. His eyes bulged, and he roared.
“Enemy in the command! Up! Up!”
