After agonizing minutes something stirred on the street level below. First a small regiment of female demon warriors marched out of the building, taking up formation. Formation that left a lot of room in its center.

And then he left. He was slightly smaller than I had anticipated. But a Smaug-sized dragon simply wouldn't fit into any corridor in this building, would he? No, this one was merely truck-sized. His scales were as night and I could make out faint lines of gold running over his shape. No time to ponder why the greed dragon demon was kintsugi themed.

He didn't hesitate establishing that he was a proper bastard. The closest warrior mannequin was immediately crushed under his claw, two more melted away when he spewed a dark energy blast at them.

I couldn't make out the words, but I could hear him bellow a command. The remaining mannequins all knelt down.

I peeled away from the edge and the sight. There was work to do. I pulled the potion out of my inventory and drank it. Ninety seconds started ticking down. Next came the unicorn shape. The buffalo was an option but it was literally three times as expensive. I didn't know how much shifting I'd need to do on my escape.

One minute before I could shift again. The drop would take me roughly five seconds.

I watched both timers tick down. Dread and doubt started spreading through my mind. Even the unicorn's malice couldn't keep them at bay. At least its fear response was definitely flight. Which we'd get plenty of, in just a moment.

When my shapeshifting cooldown was down to five seconds, I ran and leapt over the railing. I pulled my legs in and angled my body downward while reducing drag to a minimum. My body accelerated downward with roughly 11.7 m/s² of acceleration. I could see my reflection in the shiny surface of Mammon tower. A nightmare unicorn wielding that ridiculous crown and goggles. I had a couple of seconds to admire the sheer absurdity while my kinetic energy measurement steadily climbed up.

I activated Focused Fury, spiking my mass and energy by 72%.

While I was a hundred meters away, one of the demons noticed something. But at that point I was already a single second away from impact. Mammon managed to turn his head.

I made eye contact and shifted into the pheasant. My speed went from a meagre 108 meters per second to two-thousand. I attempted to shout "Bawk!", but I was far faster than sound. The scream wouldn't reach me for a while. I hit Mammon center mass and welcomed drag back into the equation.

Final force of impact: 2.94 megajoules. Or roughly 63 megajoules if we applied all my damage multipliers to the equation. The Pheasant Railgun in all its glory.

In the mere milliseconds as I passed through the warlord's body, a vacuum formed that would turn his body into soup. Notifications flooded my UI. A debuff appeared. My level ticked up to 19.

But my journey didn't end at the pavement. The potion worked. I didn't die. I passed through the pavement and could feel it ripple outward behind me. Underneath the street the spaghetti layer of New York's utilities awaited me. Pipes and shafts and cables gave way to my endless force.

Next came the extended bowels of the Mammon Tower, a very brief glimpse of the vaults that extended out from the tower, not carrying the profanity of its associated building.

By this depth I had finally shed enough speed to regain a semblance of control. The moment I pierced into the next open space, a subway tunnel, I steered myself more horizontal. I didn't fully succeed, but enough that I bounced off the tunnel's floor, into the ceiling, and back down again. Behind me the earth groaned as the crater behind me collapsed and molten slag poured down into the tunnel.

All the while, a notification had been front and center in my UI.

[Draconic Heritage (Permanent Trait - Crown of the Laughing Queen Reward)

Effect: Your base form shifts to a half-dragon hybrid. Black, chitinous scales interlaced with glowing golden seams trace your body, mirroring the nature of the defeated Warlord.

Draconic Resilience: +2 Strength and Endurance (scales with base allocation).

Dragon Scales: Resistance to Fire, Mundane Attacks and Acid.

Preserved Humanity: Your previous human form is retained as an Innate Shape. Shifting into it costs 1 ATP. All shapeshifting bonuses, perks, and item effects apply normally to this form.

Hybrid Limitation: While in your Draconic base form, shapeshifting bonuses do not apply. This form is your new baseline.

This bonus is permanent and crown-independent. It can be rejected.

[Accept] | [Reject]]

Now I understood why I could reject. My very first reward from the Crown was literally asking me to give up my humanity. I read the debuff. While I would need every possible advantage I could get, this was not a choice I could make under those circumstances.

[Mammon's Death Curse (Debuff)

Dear Murderer,

You managed to kill me. Fuck you. I hope you die lonely.

Best Regards,

Mammon

Effect: Alerts every demon in a one-mile radius to your presence. They aren't psychically compelled to attack you, but they will. Have fun.

Duration: Permanent.]

I had 50 seconds before I could shift again and red dots were pouring into the tunnel behind me. My UI told me I was 15 miles underground. I wasn't, but it couldn't parse the impossible geometry of the liminal space I found myself in. I ran for my life. The crown's reward still front and center in my UI. No way to minimize, only accept or reject.

At least the city-wide task stated 1 / 3 Warlords killed.
