They could spread without warning into any other reflective surface, and once all the mirrors in a target location was primed...

All it took was a name to call them. A single word to shatter a thousand mirrors and unleash a thousand beasts into any location, each mirrored and duplicated from one another. How could any place be safe from such an attack? Reflective surfaces could not be entirely removed—even without mirrors, there were windows, the gloss of the tiles, the reflections from a stale puddle of water.

And lacking any of those, there were the eyes of many mortal creatures, with just enough of a shine to be a target.

"Damien?" Flia asked, concerned, and Damien jerked to attention as he realized he'd withdrawn into himself. Curled up more than he'd intended, began breathing heavily in a way that indicated he was about to have a panic attack. Flia had placed a hand on his back without him even noticing.

"I'm—I'm fine," Damien managed after a moment, his voice emerging more cracked and sore than he expected. Apparently he'd been making noises, too. "Sorry about that."

"You're clearly not fine," Flia said, sitting in front of him. The Coming of Tides was gone, Damien noticed. Instead, a strange door hung a foot off the air in front of them, practically beckoning at them. "What's wrong?"

"It's nothing," Damien said, and then at Flia's exasperated look, he sighed. "It's... too difficult to explain, I don't know. I'm sorry. I'll try to explain it later?"

"Promise?" she asked, holding out her pinky finger.

Damien stared at it. "I'm not a child," he protested.

"No, but I know you well enough to know you'll feel bad if you break a pinky promise." Flia grinned at him.

Damien groaned out loud but accepted it, reaching out to grasp her finger with his own. "We shouldn't have let Cale teach us his human traditions," he grumbled.

"Eh, you wouldn't have it any other way." Flia helped him to his feet, and Damien nodded in agreement. That was true. He might not have understood at the time that Cale was the last—or almost the last?—of his kind, but he'd certainly been able to tell how lonely his mentor was.

"We should..." Damien glanced briefly at the door. "Um. I think time is a little weird here. We should try to work on palewater while we can."

Flia glanced at him, then turned to the door and frowned, thoughtful, thoughtful. "Ashvali said we'd be joining Cale now," she said. "You think we'll end up joining him the exact moment she intended, no matter how much time we spend here?"

"It probably shouldn't be too much?" Damien said. "But, um, yeah. That's what I think, anyway."

"Worth a try," Flia decided. "I want to get back to them as soon as possible, but I feel like we're going to need every advantage we can get, considering..."

She trailed off, gesturing, and Damien understood what she meant.

Something had happened a while ago, between their classes. Whatever that something was, they were both certain Cale was involved with it, mostly because the sheer scale of it boggled the mind.

Frankly, the memory of it alone was enough to bring on a splitting headache.

For a brief moment, everything around them had vanished. The motel and the "room" they were in at the time disappeared, replaced by the endless fog they'd seen when they were first pulled into this place. For a moment, the floor beneath them was once again asphalt—a word he'd only just learned when Ashvali casually dropped it—and for a moment, the roads branched out in front of them.

And then the sky cracked.

Water poured in. Flia gasped sharply, her hand clenching around his as the Abyss suddenly flooded into the Fog; Damien felt the crash of two different powers railing against one another, more intense than he'd ever felt before. The two of them were caught in the middle of that struggle, thrown about in the waves like little more than a pest in a tornado.

Then the waves of the Abyss froze. They retracted from the Fog, pushing away until they formed a wall an impossible distance away, and there they seemed to seal the cracks they had created. Neither Flia nor Damien knew exactly what had happened, but they both knew they had witnessed something significant.

At the same time, they knew they had gained something significant.

...Other than trauma.

It was knowledge, in a way. One did not witness the clash of two cosmic forces without it leaving an impression, and often that impression was some inkling of the truth—a picture of the cosmic workings that underpinned the universe.

Strangely enough, Cale's intent responded to it. Damien supposed it made sense. Cale was a sucker for cosmic knowledge.

That would almost certainly be enough to get them the rest of the way to manifesting their first drop of palewater.
