She looked at the root. It was pale, thick as her thumb, with a distinctive spiral pattern in the filaments -- the fine hair-roots twisting in a consistent clockwise helix.

"Show me," she said.

---

The root belonged to a ghost-elm sapling, waist-high, growing in a gap between two older trees. Hadley dropped to his knees beside it with the unselfconscious ease of someone who spent most of his working life at ground level.

"Here," he said, pointing. "Look. The root system." He had partially excavated it -- carefully, the soil pulled back to reveal the sapling's roots without cutting them. The main root drove straight down, which was normal. But the lateral roots -- the ones that spread outward from the trunk -- did something she had not expected. They spiraled. Not gently, not in the loose wave pattern she had seen in oak roots on the plateau. They corkscrewed through the soil in tight, regular helixes, and the direction of the helix matched the filament pattern on the root in his hand.

"Every ghost-elm root does this," Hadley said. "Every one. Saplings, old trees, doesn't matter. The laterals spiral clockwise in the top eighteen inches of soil and then -- look, look here --" He pointed deeper, where the excavation reached its limit. "They straighten out. Below eighteen inches, straight as an arrow. Theron's known this for decades. His grandmother knew it. Nobody knows why."

Wren crouched beside him. She studied the root pattern. The spiral was regular -- she counted the turns, estimated the pitch, compared it to the filament pattern on the detached root Hadley held. Identical geometry. The spiral was structural, not environmental. It was not a response to soil conditions or obstacles. It was how ghost-elm roots grew, the same way the tree's bark hummed at frequencies that varied along the trunk.

"The resonance," she said.

Hadley's head turned. "What?"

"The bark hums. I felt it earlier, on one of the older trees. The resonance varies along the trunk." She pointed at the spiral roots. "These roots are drilling. Not for water -- there's water everywhere here, the limestone seeps. They're drilling for something else. The spiral creates torque, and torque against the soil would produce --" She stopped. She was thinking out loud, which was Hadley's mode, not hers, and the thought was not formed enough to say. But the shape was there: the root spiraled, the bark hummed, the frequency varied by location, and the roots drilled in a pattern that matched the bark's resonance in a way she could almost but not quite articulate.

[Wayfinder's Eye] shimmered.

Not on the root. On the soil around the root. A gentle, warm pulse in the earth itself, concentrated where the spiral roots had turned through it. She leaned closer. The soil at the helix boundary -- the exact point where the root had passed through on its spiral path -- was a slightly different color than the surrounding earth. Darker. Richer. As if the root's passage had changed the soil's composition.

"The soil is different where the roots spiral," she said.

Hadley looked where she was looking. "I -- that's -- wait. That's not --" He scraped at the boundary soil with his thumbnail. "It's finer here. Finer grain. The root is grinding the soil as it turns."

"Or feeding it."

They looked at each other. Hadley's face was doing something she recognized -- the look of a person who had just been shown a detail they had walked past a thousand times without seeing, and who was now reassembling everything they thought they knew to accommodate it.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Upper Basin — Transition Woodland
  Type: Ecological Process (Root-Soil Interaction)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Ghost-elm lateral roots spiral clockwise through the upper
  soil layer. Soil at the spiral boundary shows altered
  composition (finer grain, darker color). The roots may be
  processing or enriching the soil through mechanical action
  combined with sub-audible resonance.

  +55 XP (significant observation, multi-factor)
  Environmental Reading: +3 proficiency
  Observation: +2 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Fifty-five points. The discovery was weighted -- multi-factor, the System called it, meaning she had connected two separate observations (the resonance and the root pattern) into a single insight. The Environmental Reading skill jumped. She could feel it as a slight clarification in the way she perceived the relationship between root and soil, tree and earth. Not new knowledge. A deepening of existing attention.

Hadley was staring at the notification shimmer that only Wren could see. Or rather, he was staring at the space above her head where he correctly guessed a notification had appeared, because her eyes had gone briefly unfocused in the way that meant the System was talking.

"You got something," he said. "A discovery? Does it say what the soil change means?"

"Not exactly. It says the roots may be processing or enriching the soil. It's a hypothesis, not an answer."

"The System gives *hypotheses*?"

"For me it does." She paused, considering. "I think the Wayfinder class -- the System is learning how to talk to it. The notifications are getting more detailed, but they're not -- definitive. It's like the System is thinking out loud."

Hadley grinned. It was the first full grin she had seen from him -- wide, unguarded, the grin of someone who had found a fellow traveler on a road he had been walking alone.

"That's what I do," he said. "Think out loud. The System is thinking out loud at you. That's -- I like that enormously."

---

They returned to camp as the light began to change.

Wren had not noticed the shift happening. Under the canopy, the transition was not the slow amber deepening she knew from the plateau, where the sun's descent painted the sky in stages she could read like a clock. Here, the light simply... dimmed. The green-gold filtering through the leaves lost its gold component by degrees, shifting toward a cooler, bluer green, and the shadows -- which had been shallow and diffuse all day, cast by leaves rather than solid objects -- deepened and merged until the forest floor existed in a permanent, gentle twilight.

She needed to make camp. Hadley had shown her the flat ground east of the ridge -- a patch of level earth under a canopy gap that would let her see the sky, crucial for orientation. She set up her tarp between two ghost-elm saplings, using the rope her mother had insisted on and which she was now quietly grateful for. She laid her bedroll on a pile of dry ferns that Hadley gathered for her without being asked, announcing each armful's provenance as he deposited it: "These are from the northeast patch -- they're drier because the ridge blocks the morning moisture -- and these are the stiff ones, they're better for insulation, the soft ones compress too much --"

She was smiling. She had been smiling for the last hour and had not noticed until now.

The fire was Theron's domain. He built it in the pit with the economy of a man who had built ten thousand fires and no longer needed to think about the process. Kindling from a dry-box he kept under his lean-to. Small sticks, arranged in a pattern that looked careless and was not. A single match, struck and applied. The flame caught, grew, steadied.

"Not ghost-elm," Hadley said, when Wren looked at the woodpile. "Ghost-elm doesn't burn. The wood hums louder when you put a flame to it and the frequency puts the fire out. Everybody learns that once."

"What happens if you heat it without burning it?" Wren asked.

Hadley blinked. "I -- what?"

"The resonance changes with where you touch the bark. If the frequency is structural -- part of the wood's makeup -- then temperature would change it too. Heat expands. The resonant frequency would shift."

Hadley turned to Theron. "Has anyone ever -- ?"

"No," Theron said. He was looking at Wren.

She filed the thought. Not now. A project for another day.

Theron cooked. He produced dried meat from a wrapped bundle, a root vegetable Wren did not recognize, and a handful of herbs from the drying rack that he crushed between his palms and scattered into the water he heated in a clay pot. The smell that rose from the pot was savory and grounding -- a counter to the Thornwild's pervasive sweetness, sharp and herbal and specific.

"Thornwild sage," he said, when she leaned closer. "Hesta stocks it in Millhaven. It grows on the escarpment face and the first mile of the basin. Clears the head. Counteracts the disorientation, at least for mild exposure."

"The sweet smell," Wren said.

Theron looked at her. "You can already smell it."

"I could smell it from the plateau."

He nodded slowly. "Most people don't notice it until they've been down here a day or two. Your class is making you sensitive." He stirred the pot. "The sweetness is the Thornwild's -- signature, I suppose you'd call it. It's strongest deep in, fainter at the edges. The Rimfolk use it as a gauge. If the sweet smell is getting stronger, you're going deeper than you planned."

He served the food in clay bowls -- the root vegetable cut into chunks, the dried meat rehydrated in the herbed water, the broth sharp and good. Wren ate with the focused gratitude of someone who had been walking for hours and had not realized how hungry she was until the food was in front of her. The root was starchy and mild, with a faint nuttiness. The meat was chewy and salted. The broth was the best thing she had tasted since her mother's kitchen.

They ate in silence for several minutes. The fire crackled. The forest's evening sounds began -- different from the day sounds, lower-pitched, more cautious. An insect chorus started somewhere to the south, a layered drone that rose and fell like breathing.

Theron set down his bowl.

"You said you hear things," he said. "You said you bonded with a place on the escarpment and you carry it."

"Yes."

"What do you hear now?"

Wren closed her eyes.

The Warden's Shelf was there -- the cool, quiet presence behind her breastbone, fainter now, a full day's walk from the physical location, but steady. The stone's patience. The rowan's stubborn roots. The sound of the Thornwild's breath as heard from a curved stone ceiling. She carried it, and it carried her, and the carrying was a line of connection between where she sat and where she had been that the distance could attenuate but not sever.

But there was something else. Newer, less defined, not a bond but a -- sensitivity. The transition woodland around her, the ghost elms with their humming bark, the boundary blooms and spiraling roots, the fire pit's flat stones and the ridge's green-stained limestone and the spring that seeped through rock. The camp. The forest. The first mile of the Thornwild, pressing against her awareness with a gentle, persistent pressure that said: *we are here, and you are here, and you are paying attention, and we know.*

"I hear the forest trying to decide what to make of me," she said. "I hear the place I bonded with -- the Warden's Shelf, on the escarpment -- and I hear this place, these trees, this camp, noticing that I'm noticing."

She opened her eyes. Theron was watching her with an expression she could not entirely read. It was not the weighing look from before. It was something quieter. Something that had moved past assessment and into recognition, the way her father's face had moved past assessment at her Naming Day.

"The Rimfolk have a name for the Thornwild's deep forest," he said. "The Crying Forest. On certain nights -- still nights, warm nights -- the forest weeps. I have heard it. My grandmother heard it. Her grandmother heard it. The weeping comes in a cycle. Every seventeen days. One night of weeping, and the next morning the forest is different. Thicker. More of the same. More of the --" He gestured, a short, sharp motion. "Sameness."

He looked at the fire. "I am telling you this because you are going deeper than the five miles I know. I know this because you are Sera Galley's daughter and Callum Galley's daughter and you have a class the System invented for whatever you are about to do. I cannot stop you. I am not sure I should." He paused. "But when you go deeper, listen for the weeping. And if you hear it, come back. Come back to this camp, or to the stair, or to anywhere that is not the place where the forest is crying. Do you understand?"

"I understand."

"You don't. But you will." He picked up his bowl and stood. "You can camp here as long as you like. The east ground is sound. Hadley trades upward to Millhaven twice a month -- he can carry letters."

"Letters," Wren repeated, and something in her chest tightened. She had not thought about letters. She had not thought about her mother's face or her father's compass or the millwheel's sound for hours, because she had been paying attention to ghost-elm bark and boundary blooms and root spirals, because the Thornwild was vast and new and her attention had expanded to fill it the way water fills a vessel, leaving no room for the things she had not poured in.

Hadley could carry letters. She had not written one.

"I'll write tonight," she said. "Thank you."

Theron nodded. He carried his bowl to the spring, washed it, and disappeared into his lean-to without another word.

---

She lay in her camp east of the ridge, her tarp drawn overhead, her bedroll warm beneath her, and she listened.

The forest at night was a different animal. The insect chorus had deepened, a layered harmonic of clicks and chirps and sustained tones that created a wall of sound so dense it registered almost as silence -- a sound so continuous that her brain stopped processing it as sound and started processing it as texture, like the grain of the dark. An owl called, distant, two low notes that dropped like stones into the insect-sound and vanished. Small things moved through the leaf litter around her camp, their passage marked by the faintest rustle.

She could feel the Warden's Shelf. Fainter, more distant -- the sensory echo dimmed by miles and the intervening mass of the escarpment, but present. The coolness of sheltered stone. The gathered sound. The rowan's roots.

And beneath it, rising from below and around her like warmth from the ground, the transition woodland's awareness. Not a bond. Nothing formalized, nothing the System would recognize. But a pressure, gentle and vast, that said: you are here, you came down the stair, you touched the ghost-elm and felt it hum, you crouched by the boundary bloom and saw what it was, you let the roots teach you their geometry. You are paying attention. We are paying attention back.

