The Thornwild did not begin where the stair ended.

Wren had expected a threshold -- a line in the dirt, a change in the light, a moment where she could say *here, this is where I entered the forest*. There was none. The waymarker at the stair's base stood in a small clearing of beaten earth and leaf litter, unremarkable, and beyond it the trees started -- not densely, not dramatically, but in the way trees start everywhere: one, then another, then enough that you stopped counting and started navigating.

She checked the compass. The needle still oscillated, the slow five-degree swing she had noticed at the stair's base. North was a suggestion, not a fact. She closed the case and pocketed it and started walking south by the angle of the light, which came through the canopy in long, slanting shafts that she could orient by if she paid attention to the sun's position. She would pay attention. That was, it turned out, the only thing she was qualified to do.

The transition woodland was not what she had imagined.

She had expected the Thornwild she had seen from the escarpment edge -- the green ocean, the breathing canopy, the vast and slightly wrong beauty that had shimmered under [Wayfinder's Eye] like a whole continent asking to be noticed. This was not that. This was a forest. An actual forest, with individual trees she could walk around and spaces between them and a floor she could see. The oaks were familiar -- wider-trunked than the managed timber on the plateau, shaggier, with rough bark fissured deep enough to press her thumb into, but recognizable. The ash trees were taller, reaching for the canopy gaps with the aggressive verticality of a species that has learned that light is a competition. And between them, scattered at first and then increasingly common, trees she did not know.

Ghost elms.

She had read her father's notes. She had heard Hesta describe them -- *silver-green bark, appears almost white in moonlight, wood slightly resonant*. But Hesta's description and her father's notes had not prepared her for the experience of standing next to one and understanding that it was a living thing with a specific, undeniable presence.

The bark was smooth. Not the rough, fissured texture of the oaks and ash -- smooth in the way that certain stones are smooth, as if the tree had been polished by something patient. The color was not silver or green but both at once, a pale surface that shifted in the filtered light depending on the angle: silver where the light fell directly, green where it caught the reflected tint of the canopy above, and in the shade a ghostly off-white that explained the name better than any description could. She reached out and touched it.

The bark was cool. Cooler than the air, which was humid and warm and heavy with the smell of leaf mold and growing things. Under her palm, the surface was fine-grained and faintly textured, like sanded wood that had been sealed with something she could not identify. And when she pressed -- gently, the way she would press against a wall to check if it was solid -- the trunk hummed.

Not audibly. Not a sound she heard with her ears. A vibration that traveled through her palm and up her wrist and settled somewhere in the bones of her forearm, a low, sustained resonance like the memory of a note played on a string too thick to hear. The ghost elm was vibrating at a frequency below her hearing but above her nerve endings' ability to ignore.

She pulled her hand away. The vibration lingered in her fingers for three seconds, then faded.

"Oh," she said, to no one. "That's -- oh."

She touched the tree again. The hum returned. She moved her hand six inches higher on the trunk and the hum changed -- fractionally, a shift in frequency so slight she would not have noticed if she had not been paying attention with the specific, total attention that was both her gift and her compulsion. The bark's resonance varied along the trunk. Different spots, different notes. The tree was not a single hum but a chord, and the chord changed depending on where you listened.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Upper Basin — Transition Woodland
  Type: Flora Identification (Acoustic Property)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Ghost Elm (*Ulmus pallida*)
  Native to the upper Thornwild. Silver-green bark.
  Wood produces sub-audible resonance detectable by touch.
  Resonant frequency varies along the trunk, suggesting
  internal structural variation.

  +40 XP
  Observation: +2 proficiency
  Identification: +2 proficiency (first use)
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

The notification arrived as warmth behind her eyes and a settling in her chest -- the System acknowledging what her hands already knew. She read it, noted the new skill activation (*Identification: first use*), and filed both away. Forty experience points. She did not calculate what she needed for the next level. The numbers would take care of themselves. What mattered was the tree.

She stood with her palm on the ghost elm for another minute, mapping the chord. Then she pulled her journal from the side pocket of her pack and sketched the trunk -- the bark pattern, the location of two knotholes, an annotation showing where the resonance shifted -- and she wrote, in careful hand: *Ghost elm. First encounter. The bark hums. Different places, different notes. Ask the Rimfolk if they know why.*

She closed the journal and kept walking.

---

The forest thickened as she moved south.

The oaks and ash fell away over the first half-mile, replaced by the ghost elms' increasing dominance and an understory that grew denser and more unfamiliar with every hundred paces. Ferns she had never seen before -- broad-fronded, waist-high, growing in dense stands that she had to push through or navigate around. Low shrubs with leaves that were dark on top and pale underneath, turning the light green-silver as the breeze moved through them. Vines that climbed the ghost-elm trunks in spiraling patterns she caught herself studying, tracing the helix with her eyes before she realized she had stopped walking.

The air was different here. Warmer. The humidity had weight -- she could feel it settling on her arms, dampening the fabric of her sleeves, collecting in the creases of her elbows. Every breath was thick with scent: the sweet, complicated exhale of the Thornwild she had smelled from above, richer now, closer, layered with the sharper notes of crushed fern and damp bark and something floral she could not identify. The sweet undertone was there too -- the one that was not quite honey, not quite anything, the one that sat at the back of her throat like a word she could not pronounce. Stronger down here. Not unpleasant. But present in a way that felt deliberate, as if the forest had chosen this scent and was wearing it.

Sounds arrived without warning. The bird from the stair -- three ascending notes and a descending trill -- was closer now, perhaps twenty meters to her left, and she could hear the breath between its phrases, the tiny intake that preceded each call. Other birds, deeper in, calling in patterns she would need days to map. The creak of branches adjusting to their own weight. The rustle of something small moving through the fern-bed to her right -- she stopped and watched, but the ferns trembled once and were still, and whatever it was had decided she was not worth investigating.

Her boots sank into the forest floor. Not mud -- the transition woodland was well-drained, the limestone bedrock channeling water downward through a million tiny fissures -- but a thick, spongy layer of decomposing leaves that compressed under her weight and rebounded when she lifted her foot. She could feel each step through her soles: the leaf layer, the firmer soil beneath, the occasional root that pushed up hard enough to make itself known. Her road-warden's boots were adequate. Not good. The sole's flat tread was designed for packed earth, not for the yielding, uncertain surface of a forest floor that had never been walked on by anyone who maintained it.

[Wayfinder's Eye] shimmered.

She had been feeling it since the waymarker -- a background hum of attention that rose and fell as she walked, highlighting features with the gentle insistence of a guide who had too many things to show and not enough time. Moss patterns on the north face of a boulder that told a story about moisture and wind direction. A fallen ghost-elm branch that had been on the ground long enough for the bark to begin separating from the wood, revealing the pale heartwood beneath, and the heartwood was scored with fine parallel lines she could not explain. A cluster of small white flowers growing at the exact boundary where ghost-elm root met oak root, as if they needed both species to survive.

She stopped at the flowers. They were tiny -- each bloom no wider than her thumbnail, five petals, growing in a loose cluster of perhaps twenty at the base of a ghost elm where an oak root crossed within a hand's breadth. She crouched and looked closer. The petals were not white but a faint, warm cream, and each had a single thin line of pale green running from base to tip, like a vein.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Upper Basin — Transition Woodland
  Type: Flora Identification (Ecological Observation)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Boundary bloom (unregistered species).
  Grows exclusively at the junction of ghost-elm and oak
  root systems. No specimens observed more than 0.3m from
  a cross-species root contact point.

  +45 XP
  Identification: +2 proficiency
  Environmental Reading: +2 proficiency (first use)
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

A new skill -- Environmental Reading -- had activated. She felt it as a slight deepening in the way she perceived the flower's context: not just the bloom itself but its relationship to the roots, to the soil, to the space it occupied. The flower was not a thing alone. It was a relationship between two trees, expressed in petals.

She noted it in her journal. She sketched the bloom, measured its approximate distance from each root system, and added: *Only where ghost-elm meets oak. Why? Mycorrhizal? Shared nutrient? Something the Wayfinder system considers an ecological observation rather than pure identification. The System draws a distinction between what a thing is and how it relates.*

She stood. Her knees protested -- the forest floor was uneven for crouching -- and she adjusted her pack and checked the sun's angle through the canopy. She had been walking for perhaps two hours. The light had shifted from the long morning slant to something closer to overhead, which meant midday was approaching.

She needed water. She needed to eat. She needed to find a place to camp before the light failed, because she had no idea how quickly it would fail under a canopy this dense, and she was not going to find out the hard way.

She kept walking south.

---

She heard the camp before she saw it.

Not sound in the way she had been cataloging sounds -- bird calls, branch creaks, the furtive rustle of unseen animals. This was a different category. A rhythmic, percussive sound, regular and purposeful, that cut through the forest's layered murmur like a voice through conversation. Chopping. Someone was chopping wood.

Wren stopped. She was perhaps half a mile south of the stair's base, in a section of the transition woodland where the ghost elms were dominant and the understory had thinned to a manageable scatter of ferns and low shrubs. The chopping came from the southeast, and between the strokes she could hear something else -- a voice, high and animated, carrying through the trees with the unselfconscious volume of someone who had never worried about being overheard in a forest.

"-- the lateral root, no, not that one, the *other* lateral -- Theron, look, it's exactly what I said, the soil changes right here, you can see the color, it goes from that brown to that other brown, the sandier one, and the root follows the sandy line because -- well, I don't know *why* yet, but it does, every time, and I've been watching for --"

The voice was male, young, and it did not pause for breath or consensus. It simply continued, a one-sided conversation with someone who was either not responding or not being given the opportunity to.

Wren moved toward it. She did not try to be quiet -- she was not a Ranger, she had no stealth skills, and announcing her presence seemed both more honest and more practical than emerging unannounced from the undergrowth. She walked at a normal pace, her pack creaking, her boots crunching on leaf litter, and the voice stopped mid-sentence.

A pause. Then a different voice -- lower, rougher, carrying the compressed patience of someone who had been listening to the first voice for a very long time.

"Someone on the track. Stay."

"I wasn't going to --"

"Stay."

Wren stepped through a screen of ferns into a clearing.

It was not large -- perhaps fifteen paces across, bounded on three sides by ghost elms and on the fourth by a low limestone ridge that rose waist-high from the forest floor, its face stained green with moss. Against the ridge, leaning at angles that suggested long use and competent construction, stood three lean-tos of bent wood and oiled hide. A fire pit occupied the clearing's center, ringed with flat stones, cold now but blackened from regular use. Drying racks stood between the lean-tos, strung with herbs she could smell from the clearing's edge -- a sharp, clean scent that cut through the Thornwild's heavy sweetness. Bundles of dried plants hung from the lean-to frames. A wooden block near the fire pit held a hatchet, buried blade-down in the chopping surface.

Two people stood in the clearing, looking at her.

