Poi said, “And the Quiet War is in full effect in this land, so you two, Erick and Jane, will likely get some challenges, but they should all be open and honest challenges as I have already discussed. We’ll have to watch for assassinations at night, especially if we don’t use [Prismatic Ward], but I think we should use [Prismatic Ward], and if someone finds out who Erick is, we’ll deal with it.”

Jane frowned. Erick grumbled.

Teressa’s eyes brightened as she happily said, “I could take those challenges for you! That would be fun.”

Poi said, “That would be bad. Don’t forget that code of honor I talked about.”

Erick said, “Eh. We’ll be fine.”

Jane said, “I’d be happy to slap down an uppity young master.”

“A ‘young master’?” Erick said, side-eyeing his daughter.

Poi sighed.

“Oh, Poi!” Erick said, “We’ll be fine! The Songli Highlands are supposed to be friendly!”

Poi said, “None of this is going to go how you think it will go. The Songli Highlands are only friendly because they have the power to be friendly; we will have to submit to certain measures if we want in any of the towns. If we break those measures, then they will go after us like they would any other lawbreakers. Maybe even more so.”

“Eh! The more you tell me, the less worried I am.” Teressa said, “All anyone says about Glaquin is that we’re all a bunch of adventurers who knife each other in the back and sell our souls to Shades, but I know that isn’t true.”

Jane laughed. “Some people do sell their souls to the Shades, though! Don’t forget about Bulgan.”

Erick said, “It’ll be fiiiiine!”

Jane asked, “But what are we going to call ourselves?”

And so began a debate, with much arguing, and laughter, and jokes. Even Poi started to smile and get into it when Jane started throwing out names like ‘Dragon Killers’ and ‘Demon Hunters’, which would surely draw the exact wrong kind of attention. Poi suggested ‘World Conquerors’ and Erick groaned.

Jane suggested, “Oh oh! Treehuggers. Because of Yggdrasil.”

Teressa laughed loud while Poi gave a sensible chuckle.

Erick helpfully supplied, “I heard that ‘treehugger’ refers to someone who fucks trees. Or rather, treants. Or possibly trees that they have [Treeshape]d. I am unsure.”

Teressa laughed louder.

Jane said, “So no to the ‘Treehugger’, then.” More laughter. Jane added, “I’m not hearing ‘no’!”

- - - -

Tenebrae opened his eyes. He reclined in his bed, his arms and legs feeling like antirhine weights, but a fire of pure magic blossomed in his chest. A raging hope. An audacious series of thoughts tangled in his mind, clashing with each other like a thousand conflicting [Lightning]s. Those strange thoughts had woken him.

Something fell to the stone floor. He turned his head. Palodia had gotten up from her chair and dropped her book; she was already walking toward him. Rushing toward him, really. Asking if he was okay.

He said he was fine. She nagged at him again and again, and he said that he was fine, again and again, but his heart and his mind wasn’t really focused on her, anyway. He had woken up under his own power, this time, and then he remembered.

The world; harmonized. Reality made subjective. His own heart beating in time to Poi’s and Erick’s, while the waves crashed in perfect sync with each other.

He laughed.

Erick had called out to the world with his stupid little song, and the world responded. That idiot-savant managed to do it again.

Tenebrae laughed.

“Oh gods, he’s hysterical. A potion reaction?” Palodia called out, “Obsidia! Rock! Slate!”

The others rushed up the stairs, their stone feet smacking stone like the tumbling of several boulders. Bah! His children were too damn loud.

Tenebrae decided to say as much, “Too damn loud. I’m fine. I’m awake. I’m better.”

Rock instantly declared, “No you are not! We agreed—”

“Bah!” Tenebrae felt a tension inside of his chest, so he relaxed. He breathed. He said, “I know. I’m not going into the Green Labyrinth ever again. But…” He smiled wide and looked to his children, and to his oldest friend and the best cook in the world. “I don’t have to go in there ever again. Erick will figure it out. And if he doesn’t?” Tenebrae laughed. “I’ll throw him at the Dragons, and he and I can both get [Gate] that way. Erick is a Wizard.”

Rock, Slate, and Obsidia each startled in their own way.

Palodia stared down at Tenebrae with focused eyes. “Have you any proof?”

“I don’t.” Tenebrae said, “I saw no mana come from him. I can prove nothing. But I know. Palodia. I know he is a Wizard.”

Palodia leaned back, a slight frown on her lips. “If there’s no proof, then he’s not a Wizard.”

“Rock.” Tenebrae asked, “What did you see out there? Obsidia?”

Rock frowned.

Obsidia said, “What I saw was that you failed to be healthy enough to witness the entire spectacle, and that my barrier did nothing.”

Tenebrae sighed, with a smile. “All true. It was a status-effect. Not direct damage. An oddity that somehow got through your barrier, perhaps. It matters not. What matters is that Erick is a Wizard.” With great effort, Tenebrae lifted his hand and held it out, palm up. “Give me his notes.”

Rock stared down at the upturned palm. “No. You can barely lift that arm.”

Tenebrae didn’t fight. Instead, he dropped his arm, saying, “Fine. I have time. We took everything of his, did we not? Is the Estate moving yet?”

“We took his notes but gave back everything else. We’re already headed back to Wyrmridge.” With obvious distress, Rock said, “We’ll be there in a few days, and then Slate, Obsidia, and I will depart. You should be better by then and I am sure you don’t want us here.”

“No.” Tenebrae said, “Don’t leave. Stay. You already moved back in, so make it more permanent.”

Tenebrae felt lighter after saying those words. He was never able to say those words before, but he suddenly found himself able to speak the desire he had buried for so long. It was a stupid system they had created all on their own; every new not-Rocky rushing away as soon as they could. They had thought he wanted them gone. He used to want them gone, this much is true. But no longer.

As the words he had spoken settled into the room, everything felt right for the first time in a long time.

Rock, Obsidia, and Slate, each startled in their own way, again.

Slate smiled first, and said, “We will stay.”

“Yes!” More softly, Obsidia repeated, “Yes. We will stay.”

“Of course, father,” Rock said.

“Good.” Tenebrae felt lethargy claim his excess energy. He had glimpsed new magic, and he wanted to do everything, but he couldn’t; not right yet. And so, he closed his eyes again, saying, “I feel like sleeping again, so go away, but not too far.” He remembered something. He opened his eyes, and put a little heat in his words, as he said, “Ophelia needs to write me an apology! Two pages. I won’t ever see her again until she does.”

That was a lie. He’d see her if she showed, even without the apology.

Obsidia chuckled, while Rock and Slate smiled.

Almost timidly, Palodia whispered to the other three, “Is Erick a Wizard?”

Already drifting off to sleep, but still able to hear and respond, Tenebrae said, “Probably, Palodia. Probably.”
