“All Stat.” Erick added, “Well. All of the four original Stats. If you want one of the New Stats—”

Rock stepped in, saying, “No. We have no idea what the new Stats do.”

Tenebrae softly said, “I can decide for myself, Rock. But you’re right. No experimenting with Stats, today.”

Rock scowled at Erick, then said to Tenebrae, “You shouldn’t even use those. Stat sickness would be just as bad as an unknown New Stat.”

“There’s no Stat sickness with true All Stat gems.” Erick said, “At the most, it feels like waking up in the morning, or something like that. Perfectly natural. But, you’re right. I don’t know how they’ll react to someone with health issu— You don’t have to use them if you don’t want. They’re each plus 10 to All Stats, and I made them all at the same time, so there shouldn’t be any resonance issues with attaching them to a single item, or splitting them up.”

‘Resonance’. Ha! Erick had laughed when he looked back at his Stat enchantment books and their mention of ‘resonance’. Completely wrong, and yet, not. It was little things like that, and a whole mess of preconceived notions from immortals, that likely confused the Arcanaeum Consortium into teaching that Force and mana had some relationship with sound and light.

Tenebrae flipped the box shut and handed it to Rock, saying, “I’ll look at them later. Let’s go see you make some magic.”

“Do you want to go in person? Not through a [Scry]?”

“I have witnessed new base spells only once in my life, and that was when the Headmaster made that [Condense Hydrogen] spell in front of us at your little talk at Oceanside, and then again, when I made my own tiny Particle spells, later.” Tenebrae stoutly said, “I wish to see new magic shake the heavens before I die, Erick. The entire sky, if you would be so kind.”

Rock turned concerned. Obsidia frowned, then wiped away a silver tear.

Tenebrae, however, was completely engrossed in the moment.

Erick said, “I think I can do… exactly that, perhaps. So… We need somewhere without anything destructible. We can’t do this here. Want to take a trip to the northern coast? That’s only a few lightsteps away.”

“We will not be doing that.” Tenebrae said, “Rock here will take us wherever you want in the world. You can do your magic there, and then we can come back.”

Erick knew he wouldn’t lose his Worldly Path Quest unless he actively chose to abandon it, so a little trip through a [Gate] wouldn’t be a problem at all. If it was, he would have already lost his Quest, just by stepping into the Green Labyrinth.

So going through a [Gate] to somewhere else? Sounds like fun!

Erick excitedly said, “Let’s go somewhere I haven’t seen before, with wide open spaces. Big spaces and an open sky.” He added, “And water. By the ocean? Not Oceanside. But yes. By the Ocean.”

Tenebrae said, “Pick a location, Rock.”

Poi stepped out of the guesthouse, saying, “Teressa and Jane are out hunting and if Ophiel leaves here, something will attack.”

Tenebrae scowled, saying, “We’ll be back soon enough and Slate and the others can defend the castle for an hour or four. We are fifteen kilometers up. All the big monsters can’t get up here. So get your [Greater Treat Wounds] rod ready, Poi.” He chuckled, weakly, then said, “I want to see Erick bleed for his magic.”

“… Ha?” Erick chuckled nervously, saying, “I hope it won't be that bad.”

Poi leisurely closed his eyes, as though processing that the old man wanted to see blood. Then he said, “Okay.” He walked into the room and came right back out wearing his armor with the healing rod in hand. He placed the rod in the pocket of his thigh armor, and said, “I have sent messages to Jane and Teressa. They will come back here to help defend the place while we are gone.”

Erick perked up. “Oh. Okay! That works. Thank you, Poi.”

Rock gestured to the left. A purple shimmer coalesced in the air—

“Oh!” Erick said, “We’re going already?”

“Yes,” Tenebrae said. “I’ve got five good hours in me, then it’s back to bed.”

Erick looked around with his [Greater Lightwalk], checking his supplies both on hand and in his room.

… Nothing he couldn’t live without.

—Purple light expanded, dilating, becoming a window to another land, and then a door. A breeze blew onto the beach beyond, scattering white sand away from the purple portal. Tenebrae and Obsidia wasted no time as they stepped through. Erick and Poi followed, while Rock took up the rear.

Erick had already peeked through the [Gate] well before he walked through, using his sunform to scout out the place. He saw nothing untoward.

With a single step, he had moved across the world!

Erick marveled at his new life, again. And then he marveled at their new location.

White sand stretched for kilometers upon kilometers from south-ish to north-ish, while the wind blew in from the ocean to the west, and green prairie stretched toward the east. In the distant east, across the sandy dunes, trees grew. In the west, laid an ocean that was as clear and as pure as few places were on Earth. There were sand bars under those waters; the ocean was shallow for a long ways away, as far as Erick could see.

This was actually a really nice place.

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye came through the [Gate] along with a few Ophiels, but then the purple portal snapped shut and the caster of the ethereal eye and all the Ophiels not right beside Erick were way out of range. The [Scry] eye popped. Erick lost feeling for the remaining Ophiel; they dissipated, too.

Not really a problem. Erick just started summoning more Ophiel. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye could return in his own time.

A cool breeze blew in from the ocean’s surface. The sky was blue. Few clouds marred the heavens, and Erick felt pleasant, watching the sun shine brightly above the horizon. It was almost sunset here, too. They must be near-enough the same longitude.

Erick said, “This is a nice beach!” He cast a [Cascade Imaging] through one of his Ophiel, atop the dunes and twenty meters out of the way, searching for rads; searching for monsters. He let that run.

Tenebrae eyed the misty spell as it became less misty. “What is that for?”

“Searching for monsters,” Erick answered. One cursory examination later, and not thirty seconds into the run time of the spell, he said, “Doesn’t appear to be many monsters. The spell needs a few minutes to be sure, though.”

Tenebrae dismissed caring about Erick. He said to Obsidia, “Chair.”

“Of course.” The black rock woman conjured a fluffy black chair onto the beach. “Let me help—”

Tenebrae grumbled as he patted away her hands, not accepting that much help, and set himself in the chair. He relaxed into the fluffiness, then said, “It’s too hot!”

“Of course, dad.” Obsidia cast a [Temperature Ward] across her father.

“Too windy! Too bright!”

Obsidia cast a [Weather Ward] and then a disk of shadows above and behind him, blocking some of the light. Erick smiled, then decided to help out.

He [Stoneshape]d some of the white sand into stone, then into a pair of sunglasses without the ‘glasses’ part. For that missing piece, he cast a permanent lightmask on them, creating some polarized glasses, exactly as he had made for his own strolls through the Crystal Forest, and for the workers and delvers of the light dungeon he had left in the Headmaster’s care.

He handed the pair to Tenebrae, saying, “Here. Sunglasses. Makes these sunny places easier on the eyes.”

In the center of the handoff, Rock said, “No magic, father. Don’t [Inspe—”

“Bah! I can use some! Doctor said I could.” Tenebrae took the glasses. He put them on, then looked around, pausing to look at the water the most. “This is a weird fucking lightward. How come can I see into the water better? My [Inspect] isn’t helping me identify the effect.”

“I can’t answer that without giving a lot away, but the [Ward] is permanent and should come back if you don’t disturb the effect too much. Have fun figuring it out, when you get better.”

Tenebrae frowned, hummed, then said, “Very well. I’m going to pick apart your gems, too, so it’s a good thing you gave me eight of them.” He waved a hand forward. “Get on with it.”

Erick checked the map. No nearby monsters. He switched it to search for people, then said, “I’m mapping for people, now. Soon as that clears, we're clear. No monsters nearby, though, which is kinda unexpected. Where are we, anyway?”

Tenebrae scoffed at Erick. “No monsters at all?”

Erick amended, “There are some 20 kilometers from here. In the water and on land. Mostly in the water.”

“We’re somewhere in Archipelago Nergal, though. One of the many small islands,” Tenebrae said. “Did you pick a rare, monsterless island?”

Rock said, “West of the North Arc of the Archipelago. It’s a good location. About 10,000 kilometers from Eidolon and Continental Nergal, which are down past the East Arc, and around 7000 kilometers from Nergal in the west.”

Tenebrae said, “Rather uninhabited, I would say.”

Erick looked to the map. Zero people, except for the four currently around Erick, which made five. “This seems like excellent land, though. Why no people?”

“There’s nothing here and extra land doesn’t matter. Obviously.” Tenebrae said, “If there was something here, then there would be people!”

“Okay. Well… That… Makes sense.”

Rock said, “No powerful people means no defense means no people at all.”

“Right.” Erick nodded. “I knew that.”

Tenebrae smirked and chuckled. “Did you? Hard to tell what you know sometimes.”

“Hard to tell what I know most of the time.” Erick clapped his hands, then stepped forward on the beach, saying, “So let’s test my thoughts, and see if the mana agrees with me!”

“Yes! Yes! On with the show!” Tenebrae snapped at Rock, “Down in front!”

Rock had been slightly in front of Tenebrae, between him and Erick, but at his father’s outburst he moved to his father’s side, to guard the old archmage between him and Obsidia.

Erick made a [Prismatic Ward] to the side, for Poi, which Poi gladly took, then he looked to the other three people. “Are you going to defend yourself? Or do you want me to? I can, if you want.”

Tenebrae harrumphed, eyeing Obsidia. Obsidia moved into action, and suddenly, a splash of massive, Solid Ward crystal, flashed around Obsidia, Tenebrae, and Rock. Tenebrae nodded from inside the protected space. Erick nodded back. He had no idea how good of a protection Obsidia had provided, but he trusted them to know what they were doing.

Erick turned toward the ocean.

He breathed in the humid air, feeling the salt on his skin and the taste of brine in his mouth. He focused on the world before him, on the tiny sounds of birds flitting across the sands in the distance, on the crashing waves that made the water seem inviting, on the sounds of the wind rustling through the grassy dunes, and the shuffling of sand.

Ophiel’s violin sounds seemed to echo, somehow, in the vast open space all around them, in time to the crashing of waves, and the flow of the sky.

He breathed, and became one with the world, his sense of the mana around him becoming like an extension of himself. Perfectly normal perfection manifested in his mind, and everything he saw was good. Everything was normal, and exactly as it should be. This would be the first spell; the one that would negate the other three, and possibly a lot more.

He spoke,

“The banshee’s wail is gone today.

“The drummer’s drum has no reprise.

“The piano’s gone, it’s so passe.

“Hear now of death! We eulogize

“past lows and highs. We [Normalize].”

Wind rustled, waves crashed, the sun shone down on everything, and nothing was out of order.

Magic filled the world, and nothing changed.

And yet, everything changed, as it had done before, and as it would do again.

Erick knew his eyes glowed white, and that Poi tapped him with the rod because blood dripped down from his nose, but the normal release that happened at the end of every spell did not happen. The mana held him, waiting. He had teased a new possibility as he reinforced normality, but the mana wanted more than that.

As blue boxes blinked into Erick’s sight, he blinked them away.

Tenebrae said something but Erick didn’t hear. Poi quickly realized something was wrong, but all Erick heard was the vibration of the universe, and that vibration demanded a voice.

So Erick went right into the next spell.

He spoke again,

“The singer’s come again today

“The band is here with more allies

“A symphony doth start to play

“Now hear this! A galvanize

“of all that’s here. We [Harmonize]!”

The world crystallized.

Waves suddenly began to crash upon the sand in sync. Grasses waved in harmony. Wind blew in lockstep. Schools of fish became perfectly organized, which would not normally be odd at all, but then they started to swim in cube formations, and tetrahedrons, and rectangular prisms.

The three hearts of the three mortals on the beach each began to beat in sync.

Obsidia’s crystalline Solid Ward did not block this new magic.

If Erick had been able to, he would have seen this:

Tenebrae gasped, just a bit, a smile on his own face to match the one on Erick’s, and the tiny one on Poi’s. Rock leaned over on one side of his father, suddenly concerned like the world was ending. Obsidia did the same thing on Tenebrae’s other side. Both of them did not realize that they moved like mirrors to each other, and then both of them suddenly realized that they did.

