There was no space available. So Erick bought a small corner of space in the Human District, since he was a human and could buy more land in the District, and turned it over to the Council.

The process of buying said land involved a talk with Silverite and a few short delays while everyone talked to everyone they needed to talk to, and paperwork was signed, along with money changing hands, but it happened fast enough. They had expected Erick to get personally involved in the Garden well before now, and most of the paperwork to that effect had been preapproved.

An hour later, Erick walked out of the meeting with a new portion of land along the southern edge of the district to his name, while Rollo and Calizi both got more Garden space for both of their factions, and everyone was happy. Even Silverite was somewhat happy. The Mayor of Spur did not like that more of the Human District was being eaten away, as she had managed to preserve most of that space for the last hundred years, but the Garden was important, and Silverite hoped that the new land would lessen some of the friction between the various factions of the Garden Council.

In the middle of getting land for his cocoa trees, and while he had everyone’s attention, he also managed to get Silverite to consider approaching Valok to set up some food trade with Candlepoint, if nothing else.

Silverite sighed. “I’ll consider it, Erick.”

“Thank you. That’s all I ask.”

With that task done, Erick turned his attention to the large diamonds he had been making in the side yard.

Just outside of his house, to the south, Erick stood in front of several large stone tanks of water, each easily three meters deep. Water had spilled out of the tanks, as the diamonds inside had displaced the water with their growth.

With a Handy Aura touch, Erick lifted one massive, octahedral diamond out of the tank, splashing even more water out onto the surrounding orange stone. The diamond was magnificent. Like two pyramids stuck bottom to bottom, with each triangular side a mess of triangular growth planes, the diamond was crystal clear, and perfectly grown. It was all thanks to the five Ophiel, fluttering around from one perch to the other.

Erick smiled. He had trained them well. They had kept at least one [Cleanse Aura] running at all times to ensure that the [Crystallize Diamond] they cast, worked like the spell was supposed to work, and any toxic side effects were turned to thick air, instead of into more problems.

The diamond was well made, though it was a little short. Resting it against the ground, the top of it only came up to Erick’s eyes. Glancing over the other tanks, each with their own diamond, none of them were sized as large as Erick wanted, but they would have to do.

Erick had created these same sort of diamonds for the Rozeta, Koyabez, and Phagar statues in the bottom of his light slime dungeon, but he had grown those diamonds over days, instead of just one. This would have to be good enough. Besides! Ava would get 7 of them.

With a check to the backyard, he saw that Teressa and Justine were preparing cocoa liquor exactly as they had been for hours.

Erick blipped into the library of the house alongside Poi. He sat down in his chair to ensure the diamond delivery went well—

A piece of paper sat on the small table beside his chair, while Sunny floated in the air above the paper, holding a pen in her telekinetic grasp. Upon Erick’s arrival, she fluttered away, just a fraction, but Erick watched as Kiri took hold of the little couatl, and pointed at the paper with Sunny’s tail. Erick left the paper sitting there as he read. It was not a letter, but it was a list of items currently bought, and awaiting Erick in the gazebo-portion of the Crystal of Candlepoint. Erick had laid a [Prismatic Ward] in that space, so no one could get into it save for those he already authorized, like Kiri, but upon sitting down in his chair and transferring his senses to the Ophiel on scene, Erick saw more than one person looking into the space, watching Sunny blip in item after item.

Beds. Blankets. Towels. Moonblood products. Brushes. Soaps. Lots of soaps. Shoes. Boots. Razors. Socks. Fabrics. Pots. Pans. Cooking stuff.

… Footwear could be [Fabricate]d slightly larger or smaller, as long as there were other materials on hand. Erick had already seen a few non-shadelings walking around, so more people had successfully completed the transformation from shadeling to human. One of them, and likely a lot more than just one, probably had [Fabricate]. So Erick just needed to take the shoes Kiri had bought and copy them a whole bunch.

Kiri had picked up two beds. Both mattresses were of a very well made variety; likely even better than Erick’s current bed. One was sized for an orcol, the other was sized for anyone else. Both were only sized for one person, though. No doublewides.

Soap could be copied without worry. Kiri had picked up several types, and clumped them together in a pile. Socks? Fabrics? Brushes and period products and everything else… All good to copy.

But first!

With a silent command, each Ophiel near the diamond tanks grabbed one or two diamonds, and blipped away. Erick had already spied Ava. She was still at the courthouse, still decorating the place with crystal spikes. Whatever design she had in mind, it did not look impressive in the beginning, but now…

The courthouse itself was shaped much like the one in Spur, with a domed center roof, covering only the central third of a three-story tall rectangular box of a building, that stretched north and south. The wide courthouse steps led off to the west, where the Crystal Courtyard stood a few blocks away.

The roof was full of white and faintly blue crystal spikes; a crusted layer of sparkles easily a meter thick. Larger crystals than all the rest were nestled into the four corners of the black building, stretching from ground level to past the roof. The dome was crusted in crystals, too, that grew in size till meeting a central spike that rose above it all. The courthouse steps had yet to be decorated, but Erick saw crystals down there, waiting for Ava’s touch.

The sewermaster was still hard at work, dripping sweat as she added crystals to the roof. A good two dozen shadelings helped, moving crystals into position, or whatever they were all doing, but Ava led the way, and made the design. She was engrossed in her work, but not too subsumed that she failed to notice Ophiel floating her way.

She waved at Ophiel, then gestured to the crusted roof all around her, saying, “Got people running through it now, ensuring that the [Shadowblend] passageways work.” She pointed across the field of crystal, adding, “But it’ll be more impressive when we have lights set in the stone.”

“It’s already impressive, Ava,” Erick said, moving Ophiel close enough for a decent conversation. “I have your request.”

Ava barely had time to collect herself, as Ophiels blipped in, supporting crystal-clear diamonds over a meter and a half wide. Ava stopped breathing, as her green eyes went wide, taking in the sight of too-large diamonds. Tears suddenly rolled down her face, not at all messing up the green band of makeup across her eyes. She reached forward, her hands flexing, desiring, as a slight keening came from her taut neck.

Erick guided a diamond toward her.

She touched the surface with a reverent hand, cutting herself as she graced the jagged diamond. Blood didn’t seem to bother her, as she touched the gem with both hands, as if to prove to herself that it was real. A sigh escaped her lips to join the northern winds. She whispered, reverent, “I love it.” She looked to the rest. She spoke louder. “I love them.” Her eyes flexed back to round pupils, as she said, “Thank you, Erick. I’ll make something special out of them, for sure.” She pointed to a building, a few streets over, to the south. “That’s the sewerhouse. Can you please put them there?”

Erick did so, right then, blipping the diamonds over to sit outside the sewerhouse doors. He returned his attention to Ava. “Can I take out the [Prismatic Ward]s in the springs?”

“Yes,” Ava said, misty eyed. She blinked, and collected herself. “The bobber worms and glowfish have hatched and spread, but they’ll stick to the deep lake. With them inside that pressure differential between the surface lake and the Underworld oceans, they should take over the depths soon enough. There shouldn’t be any more intrusions into the lake. Not as long as I’m around.” She added, “Good luck with the Feast, Erick. I’ll light a fire for you.”

Erick bobbed Ophiel in place, and said, “Thank you, Ava.” Nearby people could already hear Erick’s words, and few were listening in, but this next part was for them, so he spoke louder so that they wouldn’t have to strain, “I’m going to be distributing beds and all those other products in a little bit. I’ve secured some assistance from the Headmaster, and copies should appear soon enough.”

Ava was not the only one to go wide-eyed at the news. Some nearby shadelings cheered. Others rushed off to the Crystal Courtyard, where they had obviously already seen the items, sitting behind the dense air under the Crystal. From one moment to the next, almost every shadeling on the courthouse roof, vanished.

Ava laughed, then teased, “You have dispersed my workforce, Erick!”

“It’s time to prepare for Shadow’s Feast, anyway.” Erick said, “Bonfires, and such.”

Ava nodded, solemnly saying, “It’s tradition to defend from the Darkness on this night, but whatever happens, all anyone can do is pray that the event befalls someone else.” She stared out into nothing for a moment, then put on a cheer that failed to reach her eyes, as she said, “Time to get me a bed!” and blipped away.

What happened next, was a lot of [Duplication Aura], and a little subterfuge that probably worked, though Erick wouldn’t bet his life on it.

Whatever.

After an hour, the piles and piles of beds in the Crystal Courtyard, the loads of soap down a side street, the toiletries and sundries in a side building, and the various other piles of stuff, were only half gone.

Erick was pooped, though.

It was a chore to move products from the desert into Candlepoint with his [Teleporting Platform] and his 10 Ophiel, but it was divine to see the faces of people receiving the bare necessities of life. Erick could have given them more, but he knew that he shouldn’t. In a month, they might each have homes of their own in which to put their stuff, and live their lives out of, instead of all being cramped into tight apartments or barracks, like they have been.

Standing beside the beds, piled high and gradually being taken away by whoever wanted one, Mephistopheles said to Erick, “Thank you, Erick. This is more than we could have hoped for, but we can take it from here. You should focus on yourself, and Shadow’s Feast.”

Zaraanka moved fast in her pink dress, haranguing people into haranguing others into orderly lines. Slip and his guards helped. Valok organized the cookware.

Erick smiled as he watched, though Ophiel translated none of that visible emotion. He teased Mephistopheles, “You never managed to get me that pamphlet on ‘true magic’. What did it say? Do you even know what it said? Or was it just given to you?”

The red-horned man said, “It was a small primer on Esoteric Elements and several pages in a language not of this world.”

“… Which Elements?” Erick briefly cared about the language, but… No. It was probably something unkind, and written in English.

“Blood, Exalted, and Void, as well as a general overview of the rest.” Mephistopheles added, “Your silver rain is ‘Exalted’, isn’t it?”

“Yeah. It is. …Though I hadn’t made that connection until now.” He said, “Thank you, Mephistopheles. Good luck with Candlepoint. If I live to tomorrow, I’ll see you soon.”

Mephistopheles shook his head, saying, “You pretend a paper cut is a gut wound. You’ll be fine. … Probably.”

Erick laughed. “So confident!”

“I have to be, to wear the outfits I wore when I ran the Garrison.” He plucked at the opalescent black almost-tuxedo he currently wore, saying, “This is much more my style. Thanks for this, too.”

“It’s nothing. Good luck. See you later.”

Mephistopheles fully turned to Ophiel, and bowed. He stood, saying, “Good journey, Archmage Flatt.”

- - - -

Erick did a few other small things before it was mid afternoon, like eat a lunch and try to settle down. It was time for a nap. He couldn’t sleep, though, so he asked Poi to force him asleep. Poi obliged.

When he woke, it was two hours to sunset, and dinner was ready.

Ratchet and Arial had dropped off a multitude of cakes, confections, and other chocolate products.

After dinner, which Jane had cooked, Erick took his daughter aside. In his ordeals today, he had managed to work out a Last Will and Testament, mostly with verbal agreements and mostly just on Silverite’s words. But he told his daughter that everything was hers.

While she cried, he spoke of hiding places and magics and bank accounts, and Windy Manor back at Oceanside, and his desire for her to live her life free of undue hatred, no matter what happens. The Shades had been here long before the two of them fell to Veird, and they would be here long after. Erick did not want Jane to lose herself to revenge. It would be too easy to walk down that path of self-mutilation in the pursuit of justice.

Jane collected herself, and though she was red-faced and red-eyed, she said, “You ask too much.”

