“They got what they wanted, and they have a hundred years to kill you to prevent excess. You’ve been duped.”

“… I’m okay with this timetable."

Melemizargo chuckled, vibrating the stone arena, as his body turned to shadows, dissipating in the wind.

A few blue boxes appeared.

Summon Yggdrasil, medium range, 2500 mana + Variable

Summon a sapling of the World Tree Yggdrasil.

All Yggdrasil persist until killed or dismissed.

All Yggdrasil are the same creature, but only one Yggdrasil is the World Tree.

The World Tree has yet to be planted.

Summon Yggdrasil has as many maximum summons as the World Tree allows, with a minimum of 2.

Current Maximum: 2

All Yggdrasil naturally have and regenerate mana based on your own mana and mana regeneration, which they may use to cast the spells that you imbue them with, at your own command or at their own discretion. Comes summoned and proficient with [Grow], [Watershape], [Tree of Light], [Kaleidoscopic Radiance], [Control Weather], [Telepathy], and [Scry].

World Tree Yggdrasil’s mana and regeneration are higher than yours.

Imbue your Yggdrasil with new spells, wherever they are. Variable

See through the eyes of your Yggdrasil. Variable

Communicate telepathically with your Yggdrasil. Variable

Special Quest Complete (sort of)!

Create an artifact of [Control Weather] and deliver it the Priestesses of the Storm

Reward: <Barely completed to satisfaction, so have a Point.>

Class Ability Quest Complete!

Complete a Quest for a Relevant Entity of the Script.

Reward: Quest Board

Notice!

You have more Class Abilities than Slots!

You are at Maximum Slots!

Seek out a Registrar if you wish to change Class Abilities.

Erick smiled. “This is better than fine.”

With a thought, he called over one of his Ophiel, and with a few blips, he held a purple crown in his hands. Erick had left it at the house, and would return it afterward, but he hadn’t known if his Yggdrasil plan would work. And then his Yggdrasil plan had worked.

He put the 'growing crown' on. Plus 241 All-Stats, now. It was probably even pointier, too. But, whatever!

Using this crown, Yggdrasil would be summoned with as much power as Erick could manage, and that would have to be enough.

- - - -

An Ophiel hovered over the lake of Candlepoint, where sunset was still over an hour away, the coasts were too far to see, and where the bottom of the lake was almost a full kilometer below the surface. But that was fine. Ophiel flew a bit toward the north, where Erick remembered a plateau that was only two or three hundred meters below the surface.

With a quick mapping, Erick found the raised part of the lake bed faster than he would have otherwise. His initial blip was only two kilometers off.

Ophiels descended onto the target. And since Ophiel did fine in the water, Yggdrasil would be fine, too, for he was a [Tree of Light] that needed nothing but himself to survive even in the darkness down at this depth. Eventually, he would grow above the lake’s surface, but for a while, he would be hidden.

Erick reached down through Ophiel, and cast.

A spark of light took hold in the dirt, disturbing a small cloud of silt into the surrounding waters.

A glowing green stem poked up from the lake bed.

Erick, and all the nearby Ophiel, went wide-eyed, watching, as the stem unfurled into a leaf, the size of a child’s hand.

A second leaf joined the first.

Ophiels gathered around their brother, singing a violin song of growth and joy and brightness, as the sapling brightened the depths, and grew, just a fraction more. Three leaves, then four.

A halo of rainbows adorned the tiny crown of leaves. The little guy was growing fast, but not as fast as a normal [Grow] spell. He was growing slowly. Surely. A fifth and six leaf joined the rest. The halo of radiance spread out into the surrounding abyss, driving back the darkness.

With a thought and a few blips from Ophiel, Erick planted a second Yggdrasil in the Lake at Spur, at the deepest point. Someone would notice this one, rather fast, but Erick would tell Silverite and others of this one, soon enough.

Erick came back to himself. He stood. He blipped the purple crown back to its not-so-hidden spot in his house. With a concentrated conjuring, his white armor spread across his body. He conjured a white staff into his hand, then gathered his Ophiel.

And because children needed people to talk to them, and because he wanted to impart as much of his own wisdom to the little leafy guy, Erick telepathically spoke to his new summon. He spoke of his time on Veird, and what he had seen, while he ensured that all his bags were there amongst his surrounding Ophiel, and all his chocolate desserts for the Feast were fine.

He blipped to a speck of land, that looked the same as all the rest, but was a kilometer east of the Crack in Ar’Kendrithyst’s wall. The sun had already set beyond the wall in front of him, drowning the surrounding land in shadows. Flickering darkness stood in the path to the Crack, like heat mirages, or shadelings in a [Shadowblend]. They scattered from the path forward, but the shadows did not go too far.

Erick walked forward, as he sent images to Yggdrasil, of all of Veird that he had seen, and the people he had known, and knew. He talked of good things, and he spoke of bad, while two Ophiels held to Erick’s shoulder, and the others floated around him, holding onto his assorted necessities. He spoke of Silverite, and markets, and the Gardens, and the Farm, and the people of Candlepoint, who had gotten a rough hand dealt to them in their disrupted life.

He spoke fondly of Poi, and Kiri, and Justine, and Teressa. And even Rats, while lamenting the fact that the redscale had gone off to who knows where.

He spent a while speaking of Jane, his wonderful daughter.

He gave small instructions to Yggdrasil to telepathically speak to them, if he needed help, and Erick wasn’t around to provide that help. They would be friendly, as much as they could, but they might also be prickly. He didn’t tell them what he was planning on…

Poi would have known, though.

… Erick sent Poi a message about Yggdrasil, anyway, packing the entire creation experience into one, thousand-point telepathic message. Poi would likely need a minute to untangle a message that big, but by that time Erick would be dealing with Sha—

Poi immediately, and angrily, sent back, ‘Of all the irresponsible and foolish things! My gods, Erick! What the FU—!’

‘Can’t talk now. Meeting a Shade in a moment. Take care, Poi. I always appreciated you watching my back!’

Poi, thankfully, did not interrupt Erick’s thoughts. Erick was already close to crying. Poi was probably proficient enough to pick up on that, for their connection was still open—

‘Fight well, sir. Good Luck.’

Poi ended the connection with strong thoughts, and determination. Erick borrowed those thoughts, and made them his own, steeling himself for what was to come.

The Crack loomed close. Instead of an indistinct lighting in the dark expanse of the wall, from here, it looked more like a knife of crystallized light in the darkness.

Erick walked on, resuming his telepathic talk with Yggdrasil, inundating his words with thoughts of encouragement, and what to expect in life, but also that it was better to be kind, and get hurt, than to cause hurt upon another, for violence was hard to stop once it got started.

He spoke of rain, and greenery, and the joys of a harvest, and the joys of family, like Al and Savral, and Valok and Delia. Sirocco and Sizzi. Zimmy Saker, and Kirzal Saker. With his thoughts turning to family, Erick introduced Ophiel to his brother, and tried to introduce Yggdrasil to Ophiel, but if Yggdrasil recognized Ophiel, then Erick wouldn’t know for a long, long time.

He spoke of Jane, who was sort of like an older sister to Yggdrasil.

He gave Yggdrasil a copy of [Prismatic Ward], and cast the spell through him, using Yggdrasil’s mana, showing him how to use it for defense. He chose not to give Yggdrasil any attack spells, but took the time to explain his reasoning. You wouldn’t give a child a gun, would you? Best they learn to grow up, first, and even then, diplomacy had to be tried before anything else. Violence was a tool of last resort, and all too often people confused ‘major inconvenience’ for ‘problem to solve with bloodshed’.

Yggdrasil was strong. He was powerful. There was no need for violence against people, and no monster could break [Prismatic Ward]. Not faster than Yggdrasil could recast it, anyway. Not with as much power as Erick had given the little guy, at the time of his creation.

Erick watched, as both saplings, in the lake, and the Lake, cast [Prismatic Ward] upon themselves. It was a weak version; Yggdrasil instinctively knew that he was a being of mana, so he tried to stay high mana. But with those two soft shells of Restful, dense water, the sapling in Candlepoint’s lake grew faster, while the one in Spur’s Lake grew slower. There was lots of room to grow in the larger body of water, but Yggdrasil was only five meters from the surface of Spur’s Lake, and he seemed apprehensive about breaking that twilight purple surface.

Erick spoke of Earth, and Yggdrasil seemed to like that. So Erick spoke of planets, and destinations beyond where one began, of places past the void, where life had yet to live, for even Veird was just a tiny spaceship, in the grand scheme of things. Erick spoke of Earth’s space program, briefly, and then moved on to larger topics, for Yggdrasil grew fractionally taller, faster, and brighter, as Erick spoke of the vastness of the universe.

Before he knew it, Erick had reached the Crack, and all thoughts fled.

Ophiels turned tiny, and got into position, some hovering behind Erick, while the two on his shoulders stretched and oriented their wings and their eyes, giving him sight in every direction, and a bit of reassurance to calm his rapidly beating heart.

Wind billowed out from the break in the wall, whistling all the while. A silver pole set in front of the crack held a blue flag at the top. The flag cracked in the wind, but as Erick approached the beginning of the Crack, where the sands dipped down into Ar’Kendrithyst, the wind stilled, the flag faltered.

He sent Yggdrasil off with these words, ‘Good luck, Yggdrasil. I named you after the most important tree I could think of. I have to go now. I’ll see you when I can.’

A woman with bright white eyes stepped out of the red, purple, brilliant black brightness ahead.

Her hair was frazzled, as though purposefully crafted to appear an organized mess. Her black outfit sparkled in the lights of the Dead City, as she raised her hands high, one of them gripping a staff of kendrithyst crystal.

“HellooOOooOOooOo, Erick Flatt! FIRE OF THE AGE!”
