“I know.” Erick had barely managed to hold it together, but he managed. “But whatever foolish plan you’ve been working on these last days... I want you to forget about helping me. You are not to secretly follow me inside. You are not to openly follow me. You are not to be my plus-1. The invitation specifically says that anyone who comes with me, does so at their own peril, and I will not imperil you, my one and only daughter. Not you, not ever.”

Jane stared at Erick, with hard eyes and harder emotions.

Erick said, “I see it in your eyes. You’re going to come anyway, and you think you will help me. Don’t. I’ll blip you back home the first chance I get.”

Jane stared at him while new tears streamed down her face. Erick felt a trickle run down his chin, to drop onto his hands. He was crying, too.

He said, “It’ll be okay.”

She said, “I’m very mad at you.”

“I know. I’m sorry.”

She walked into Erick’s arms, and bawled like a baby.

When his own roil of horrible emotions eventually subsided, Erick found that he was happy he had raised such a good daughter. She was willing to walk through fire to rescue him, but it was the duty of the parent to rescue their kid. What kind of father would he be, if he let her endanger herself to save him? Maybe, if there were a way to actually prevent the upcoming event, he would ask for her help. But there was no saving anyone from tonight’s Shadow’s Feast, least of all Erick.

But woe unto the Shades, if he didn’t come back from this Shadow’s Feast.

He certainly wouldn’t want to be them, for though he had told Jane not to seek revenge…

He knew his daughter, and for her, she wouldn’t label her crusade against the Shades as mere revenge.

She would call it what it was: the ending a threat before that threat could do more harm.

If honest talk with the enemy only ended in more deaths, if her father’s bridging journey into darkness was a plot, if they twisted words and usurped societal conventions and normalcy in order to bring about more horror…

To leave the Shades active, would be compromising to live with a killer, and that was idiotic.

The push and pull between Ar’Kendrithyst and the world was already idiotic, with adventurers playing their games and dying in droves, or coming out with treasures untold, but the Shades were archmages, one and all, and while that afforded a certain measure of prudence against open war…

From time to time, the tree of liberty must be refreshed with the blood of tyrants and patriots alike.

Erick could see it now. Jane, leading the army that Anhelia had worked to create, that Erick had never pursued. She would lead the charge, and when the Shades and the rest of civilization reached the tipping point, where the war could end, for now, or continue and the world would fall to war…

Jane would take his place as the person that pushed the conflict inevitably forward.

But maybe that wouldn’t happen.

- - - -

The sun hovered over the western horizon, in a gold, red sky.

Erick had said his goodbyes, and picked up his necessary items from around the house. Then he and ten Ophiel blipped away.

He was alone, right now. Not even Poi stood at his back. The absence of his head guard was like a blank spot in his mind. Erick never went out without Poi at his back. A part of him felt naked, and vulnerable, because he was vulnerable, and he wasn’t even next to Ar’Kendrithyst yet.

Erick was nowhere near the Dead City. He was several hundred kilometers north of the Dead City, for there was one more thing he had to do. He didn’t have time to do it right, either.

With all ten Ophiel hovering to the side, and a few of them holding his luggage and the cakes and desserts, Erick conjured a short platform out of the sands of the Crystal Forest. It was just a square block, to raise himself a good ten centimeters off of the sandy ground. With a thought, he had several Ophiel raise stone walls around this patch of orange land. No stray mimics would see what he created, today, for he wasn’t sure what would happen, and he wanted to be ready. As the walls rose, they plunged the area into shadows. With a cast from each Ophiel, Erick conjured ten lights around the arena, brightening what was to come.

With another thought, he had a specific Ophiel float forward. This Ophiel carried a large stone plate, with a large glass dome. Under that dome, and its [Cooling Ward], were three chocolate bars, one of each type, milk, dark, and half dark, a chocolate cupcake with chocolate frosting, and several chocolate chip cookies. There was also a package of cocoa powder, and an unopened cocoa beanpod, along with written instructions that showed every part of the chocolate making process.

There were also some coffee beans in a small bag, along with a coffee beanpod, because Erick’s coffee experiment had been a success. He had even ground some up and had a cup-o-joe before he left home. It had been good to share one more cup of coffee with Jane.

Turning back to the moment, Erick raised a small platform out of the sand in front of him. Ophiel set his plate upon the waist-high platform.

He called to the sky, “Hey, Atunir! If you’re listening, then this is what I meant when I talked to you of chocolate! It’s pretty good! Thanks for the help, if you helped, or thanks for letting me do it on my own, if that is what happened. There’s also coffee. Real coffee. The good stuff.”

Northern winds blew. Time passed. Erick felt good, with coffee running through his system.

And then he blinked, in a normal way.

The plate vanished.

He blinked a few more times, to make sure his eyes weren’t lying to him. Yup. The plate was gone.

A voice came to him, ‘Normally this is done where I can bless a seedling, or a grove, but you just haven’t made your plant yet, have you?’

Erick happily said, “I have not!”

‘Out with it.’ Atunir asked, ‘What crazy thing do you desire?’

“I would like your help to circumvent some restrictions, and prevent a future problem. I want to make Sininindi’s [Control Weather] artifact-thing, but enchanting hasn’t gotten me anywhere, and I’ll not use another god’s spell to force the creation. So I want to make a [Control Weather] tree, for I also want to ensure both Spur’s and Candlepoint’s prosperity long after I am gone.”

A white light to the left, flickered in the stone arena Erick had built. A white wrought stepped out onto the sands, wearing a ‘business casual’ outfit. Rozeta.

Another light flickered, turning blue and storming for a brief moment, as a woman stepped out. She was orcol-sized with blue skin, and wrapped in ship’s white sails and brown rope rigging. Sininindi.

Another light flickered, turning warm as the sun. A human woman stepped out onto the sands, wearing farmer’s clothes. Atunir.

One light on the opposite side of the arena flickered dark, then broke, leaving a shadow in its presence. A very large shadow. Erick restrained his urge to openly sigh at Melemizargo’s appearance.

Rozeta spoke first, asking, “Do you wish to give up your [Control Weather] spell?”

Erick had expected this, and he already had his answer. “No. Never.”

“Ha!” laughed the Dark God.

Rozeta ignored Melemizargo, and simply nodded, as though she expected Erick's answer, too. Sininindi frowned, but gave no other outward emotion, save to look to Atunir.

Atunir said, “Two seedlings. One for Erick, to form the basis of his own [Familiar], so that he may plant them wherever he wishes. The other seedling will go to Sininindi, to grow as she desires, and fully under her power. As for myself, I simply wish for [Exalted Storm Aura] to join the spells of my own priesthood. Erick need not give it up, himself, for he has used this spell well, and I trust him with it.”

Sininindi spoke, “There will be no growth to sapience for Erick’s trees, or any second generation. They will live and die with him. If he wishes to create an arbor he will have to break this spell, and try on his own. There will be no restrictions on my own seedling.”

Melemizargo spoke, “I will break your working if you do not allow this newest [Familiar] to be at least as good as his first. Imagine it! Trees the world over, each mutating the natural cycle, each destroying Sininindi’s credibility as a goddess.”

The goddess of storms and seas did not deign to grace Melemizargo with a look, or a turn of her head, but she added, “[Exalted Storm Aura] must be changed to [Exalted Rain]. I do not like the name it has been given.”

Atunir said, “Acceptable.”

Rozeta turned to Erick. “Having heard the Relevant Entities and their desires, I can move the timetable up for the combination of Particle Magic and Force Magic, for this one spell, known as [Control Weather], to join with [Conjure Force Elemental], [Watershape], [Grow], [Telepathy], and [Scry]. These are the choices given to you, the mortal creator of this magic. What say you, Erick Flatt?”

“… If it’s never going to become sapient, then I want [Tree of Light] and [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] in there.” Erick rapidly bargained, “And I want the ability for one of them to eventually become sapient, in a hundred years. The one I plant at Candlepoint. And not evil-sapient! But normal sapient. Like Ophiel, who I am sure will eventually become a very good boy.” Looking upon the gathered gods and seeing them both unconcerned and heavily invested, Erick realized that they might agree to anything, so he added, “And I want him named Yggdrasil! He’s going to be a big boy when he grows up.”

Rozeta’s professionalism cracked, along with everyone else’s. Atunir smirked. Sininindi huffed.

Melemizargo chuckled. “A world tree? Agreed.”

Atunir said, “Agreed.”

Sininindi declared, “I don’t like that name either, but fine. Agreed.”

They looked to Rozeta.

The Dragon Goddess of the Script spoke, “Then we are in accordance.” She turned to Erick, and said, “All you have to do is make your spell, and we will ensure it is made properly.”

An uncomfortable stirring pulsed inside Erick’s heart, flowing outward; a heat unlike any other. From one blink to the next, each goddess and the Darkness vanished, and Erick’s veins filled with fire. A divine inferno consumed him; a golden glow in the manasphere that built with each breath he took, turning his throat molten, demanding that he give words to craft Reality, and speak Truth into existence.

He called out,

“A lightning bolt smashes stone,

“A turn of chance! A seed is sown.

“A life packed tight, a plan laid down

“He turns to more as sun turns round

“He calls to sky, he calls the rain

“A spark is grown! A leaf, refrain!

“Roots twist down, round, claiming ground

“As branches lift, a rainbow crown!

“He brings the light, he brings the rain

“Prismatic touch, he grows again!

“Protected now; defensive measure

“Latent monarch, worldly treasure

“Power, thrill, filled with goodwill

“A Worldly Tree, a [Yggdrasil]!”

Erick sang to the sky, as lightning crashed into the pedestal before him, cracking the stone into nine pieces, with a thousand bolts touching down all at once. Lightning arced across Erick’s flesh, mixing with divine fire, as Ophiels cowered on the other side of the arena walls. The words came faster, stronger. With a final shout, and the naming, divine fire and crackling lightning fled Erick, leaving burned flesh in its wake

Fire and lightning flowed into a coruscating seed that hovered atop the broken pedestal.

And then the gods descended.

Erick could not see them through his burned eyes, but he could feel them. He could sense more divine fire, as divine hands took the seed from him.

One seed became two.

One of the two vanished in a blip of lightning and storm-tossed oceans.

The other turned from real, to something lesser, sealed behind divine mandates. One day, the seals would break, but that would take a hundred years. Erick knew he would have to protect the little guy, to help him help himself, until the tiny tree regained his true power. Had Sininindi given that caveat on purpose? Had they all gone along with his own desires, because he, too, didn’t want his tree [Familiar] to grow up too fast? It had to be that, right?

Erick blinked. The second seed was no more than a bright blur in his eyesight; a common enough phenomenon when one stares at a bright object for too long.

The magic was over.

And Erick felt like shit. Burned shit, to be precise. Aching, burned shit, to be even more precise.

He suddenly slumped to one knee, as a chill rolled over the northern arena wall, digging into his burned clothes, dulling his full-body ache, as the gold-red sky turned fractionally more purple. He almost collapsed to the stone platform under him, he almost lost consciousness, but he clenched his teeth, and made fists out of his bloody hands.

With a thought, Erick directed the Ophiel with his rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] to fly in, and tap him with the spell. Healing took hold. Burned skin sloughed off. Wounds stitched up. Erick cast a [Mend] on his clothes, restoring the burned parts to wholeness. He relaxed, as the healing continued. For a good minute, he just breathed.

Then he stood up.

The Dark Dragon Melemizargo stared at him from just over the edge of the arena, his bright white eyes shining on either side of his five-meter wide head, as he lazed atop the stone wall like a cat laying in an odd position. His spiraling black horns arced behind him, where his hunched shoulders told that he was resting directly atop the sands of the Crystal Forest. His wings raised in the gloom beyond, too far deep in the twilight, or Melemizargo’s own darkness, to truly see.

He smirked, his scaled lips parting to reveal bright white fangs.

