Especially the tech guys. Ren thought in amusement and let a grin spread across his face.

The healer was practically sitting on his lap, and she felt his feelings. “Mmm.” She said as her ability opened up and she laid her head on his shoulder. She kissed his neck to get them directly, and Ren let her take what she wanted. “You, too.” She said, then gasped as Ren used his ability to absorb some of her emotions. “You... you've changed so much in so short a time!”

Ren felt her genuine joy at his accomplishment, and it touched something deep inside of him. “You're really happy about that.” He said in surprise, and the Phantom Steed they rode came to a stop. “Thank you.”

“Please accept my humble offering.” The healer said and Ren felt a bundle of emotions within her rise to the surface.

“You already gave me a tithe.” Ren said.

“This isn't for the Royal Consort.” She said, and her eyes smouldered for him. “This...” She gave him a quick kiss. “...is from me to you.”

“But-” Ren's words were cut off as she pressed her lips to his and pushed her bundle of feelings into him. She moaned as his ability didn't consume them like she thought it would. It took them in like it was sitting down in a warm bath. The feelings spread out within him, and his ability made them a part of itself. He felt something click deep down inside of himself, and broke the kiss when he received a popup.

Stat Change!

Emotion Siphon (Mastered) - You can absorb emotions from those within your Aura. Touch is no longer required. Touch still increases the sensitivity of this ability, and the ease of it's use.

“Whoa.” Ren said to her as his body glowed, and her mouth made that little 'o' of surprise as she stared back at him. “Thank you.” He said, and immediately built up a reservoir of feelings for her.

“W-wait-” She tried to say when she realized what he was going to do, and Ren cut her words off by kissing her, then gave her 10 times as much feelings back. He did it gently, and her ability leveled up. She tried to gasp when it happened; but, he didn't let her break the kiss as he kept pouring feelings into her. She didn't try to fight him off or even protest as he kept giving her more and more emotions. Her ability leveled up twice more before Lylyth intervened.

“I know you're not doing it on purpose; but, you are making me wait in my own throne room.” Lylyth said, a little peeved. Ren broke the kiss and apologized as the healer kept her arms around him and panted hard. “You can put my healer down, now.”

“Yes, My Queen.” Ren said, and carefully eased the healer off of the steed and to the floor. She didn't let his hand go when he tried to sit back up, and he felt how much she wanted to stay with him. “When this is all over, come and see me.” He said. “I can't promise that anything will happen, except for leveling your ability up.”

“I will.” The healer said. “Thank you, My Lord.”

“No, M'lady.” Ren said and bowed formally, even though he was still seated on the Phantom Steed. “Thank you.”

Her face flushed even darker as she felt how thankful he was, then she nodded and let his hand go.

“I'm ready, My Queen.” Ren said.

“You will be on the outskirts of Aurora, as this many people cannot fit within the building that the other portal was in.”

“I understand.” Ren said, and Lylyth opened another portal. The giant spider familiar widened the portal to the same size as before, and Ren waved the skeleton knights and succubi ahead of him. “Thank you.” He said and rode his Phantom Steed through the portal.
