Shaking her head, Mila grinned and said, “A few more minutes.” Pressed between Rain and Lin, Mila wanted to stretch this out for as long as possible, bundled between her beloved betrothed and future sister-wife. “Tell me about your binding ceremony. Did you stab yourself again?”

“Ha, no. It was me using the weapon to fight imaginary foes... fairly standard stuff.” Then why did he sound so distraught? Before she could ask, he kissed her temple and continued. “Gave me a lot to think about though, about life in general. I named it Unity, but I’m not entirely sold on the decision.” After a short pause, he changed the subject. “You made yourself a weapon too right? Where is it?”

“Hmph. And here I thought you forgot all about me.” Elbowing him gently in the ribs, she turned away to hide her smile. “It’s a secret. If you want to find out more, then challenge me to a spar and be strong enough to make me use it.” Her new weapon, Paragon, was far more impressive than Rain’s, especially since she didn’t have to build it around a spring-powered rifle. A proper bow was far easier to use and had a faster rate of fire too, though she had to admit, the guns were much easier to learn.

“Oh, I wouldn’t dare.” Nuzzling against her shoulder, Rain finally wrapped his arm around her in a proper embrace, though he ruined it by yawning. “My beloved betrothed is far too powerful to subdue. Woe is me, destined to be a battered husband for all my years, a most... unfortunate... fate.” Sagging in place, Rain finally fell asleep and Mila almost couldn’t believe it. Oh no, did he stay up to bind his new weapon because of how they’d left things last night? Her poor, sweet Rain, he barely got enough sleep as it was and now he had to face the Legate like this?

No matter. Let him sleep now and they could all wake at a more appropriate hour. Closing her eyes, she drifted off to sleep.

Only to be rudely awakened by Tursinai. “This was all very heartwarming, but the Lieutenant General should be arriving soon.”

Cringing in shame, Mila buried her face in Lin’s hair and elbowed Rain in the ribs again, blaming him for inviting Tursinai in the first place. “Go away now. Wake me at a more reasonable hour.”

“Mhm,” Rain replied, sitting up with a groan. “Come have breakfast with everyone. Please? With the Conference starting up, who knows when we’ll have time to sit down together?”

“But why so early? The conference isn’t scheduled to begin until mid-morning, and even then we might not be the first ones called...” Flashing him a sullen glare, Mila silently cursed all morning people everywhere. Who gets up at sunrise? Those were the best hours to sleep through...

“Unlike you, some of us have things to do and preparations to make.” Taking her hand, he shrugged and Sent, “Much as I’d like to sleep in with you and Lin, I need to go back out into the bay and find Blobby before the conference starts.”

“What?” Remembering herself, Mila stilled her tongue and Sent, “You lost it?” Mother above, only Rain could misplace a Tear of the Mother. Twice now, at that.

“Yea, but in my defence, I have no control over what Blobby does.” Despite the gravity of the situation, Rain didn’t seem all too concerned, sitting on his ass while rubbing his eyes with a silly smile. “Don’t worry, I have a decent guess about what happened. At first, I thought Ping Ping ate Blobby, but if that’s what she was after, I’m pretty sure she would’ve just eaten me whole the first day we met. Then it hit me: Blobby is a complete glutton. Remember Yo Ling’s island? I told you about Blobby leaving to soak... something up, and how I didn’t think it was Heavenly Energy. Blobby itself is a font of Heavenly Energy, so why would it eat Heavenly Energy? Anyways, then there’s the Spiritual Plant Mama Bun sniffed out that we haven’t been able to find. I’m pretty sure Mama Bun can’t smell things that are underwater, so we should be looking for a rootless plant floating on the bay’s surface.”

Resisting the urge to smack him upside the head for changing the subject, Mila sat up and glared at her betrothed. “What does that have to do with the missing Tear of the Mother?” Stupid, insufferable man, it probably left because of Rain’s disrespectful attitude, calling a droplet of Heavenly Water ‘Blobby’ and ‘gluttonous’.

“Well, Spiritual Plants gather Heavenly Energy right? If it’s like a normal plant, it absorbs Heavenly Energy, uses it, then probably releases a byproduct, which may or may not be similar to whatever it is Blobby loves so much. During my Awakening, a whole bunch of Heavenly Energy was flying about, so the Spiritual Plant was probably drawn over and Blobby sensed it. I figure Blobby stepped out to grab a bite or whatever, and is still there feeding away. We find the plant, we probably find Blobby, easy as pie.”

Sometimes, Mila felt like she was betrothed to an idiot. Easy as pie? “You’ve been looking for days without success already... and how can a plant be ‘drawn over’? Plants don’t swim.”

Rain shrugged. “I’ve seen weirder things than mobile plants and if I’m wrong, then I’ll just keep looking. I’m sure Blobby will turn up eventually. It came back once before, so it must like me, and I even have some bait that might draw its attention. See, last night, Jorani....”

It’s like he didn’t understand how special a drop of Heavenly Water could be. What if someone else found it first? Or if it never came back? Her sweet, silly, infuriating betrothed, choosing the worst times to be optimistic. Sighing, Mila patted Rain on the cheek and hoped everything would work out as he said.

If not, then the Bekhai lost their chance to nurture a new Ancestral Beast, or perhaps even the first ever Ancestral Human...

Chapter Meme
