However, Xing Po wasn’t an idiot either; he knew how to take his time and, now that the Qi had penetrated Mei Ba Do’s flesh, it was only a matter of time until he would win.

He stepped back and waited.

Mei Ba Do clicked his tongue, seeing that, as he knew what it meant. Xing Po was happy to wait without doing anything. He would save up his Qi while Mei Ba Do would need to actively use it to suppress the foreign Qi.

Anger coursed through his veins at the taunt and malice his sect had shown, but then again, he would not have done things any differently.

He wasn’t like that monstrous woman from earlier, who could ignore the corrosive Qi.

Even with it suppressed, he’d felt it spread throughout his entire system. From the flesh to the bone and into the meridians. If he didn’t finish the fight quickly, then he would surely end up dead.

With that in mind, he gripped the hilt of his sword and advanced. His feet and figure turned into a blur as he activated the sect’s movement technique, Reaper Fog.

It was a technique that made one’s body half-ethereal, to the point where you could manipulate the shape of your body. Paired with the Qi of the Reaper Sect, you could create an illusion of a walking fog.

Neither of them could use it to its full potential just yet, although they knew it was possible to achieve a true fog-like state where even your enemies could not hit you with anything.

One of their instructors had demonstrated it like so, and they’d been trying to get to that point ever since. All of them had.

Even Li Li, who was pretty good at fighting, had not managed to replicate even a fraction of their instructor’s technique.

It was simply too difficult.

However, with enough practice, everyone could reach a decent level of mastery on the technique.

As he dashed forward, he’d channeled Qi into this sword, using yet another technique of the sect. Reaper Scythe was one with a strange name, as it did not actually make ur weapon into the shape of a scythe, but merely lengthened it using Qi.

The resulting length was not as sharp as the blade itself, not without some serious training, but it could penetrate and erode Qi defenses with ease. Once that happened, and the Qi entered the enemy’s body, then they were almost as good as dead.

People who did not know that were taken by surprise and easily assassinated as their body rotted from within.

It wasn’t true rotting though, more akin to rust eating away at metal instead of killing the vital organs.

At their level, the outcome of death wasn’t guaranteed, as the body had a natural adverse effect to foreign Qi.

But it would be good enough a distraction for an actual finishing blow.

And finally, the last technique of the sect he activated was Reaper Step.

Once activated, it would gift the user an incredible amount of speed for a short amount of time. It was more of a dash, since controlling it was extremely hard.

He disappeared and appeared at Xing Po’s side, slashing as soon as he had control of his body.

Xing Po expected that and used Reaper Step to move backward, barely dodging the ethereal blade by a hair’s width.

However, Mei Ba Do was not giving up that easily. The moment Xing Po retreated, he thrust forward and stepped at the same time, activating Reaper Step before Xing Po could land.

The latter’s eyes widened, and he quickly created a barrier of Qi, but the sword created with Reaper Scythe easily passed through and slashed right at Xing Po’s belly.

Penetrating through, Xing Po’s face twisted into one of immense pain, but that only made him grip his spear tighter

Activating his own version of Reaper Scythe, his spear immediately gained an immense amount of length as he poured all the Qi he could into it.

Mei Ba Do stepped back, thinking he was safe, but that was when Xing Po smiled and threw the spear forward like a Javelin.

Reacting was impossible, and raising a barrier did nothing. Mei Ba Do got pierced right into the stomach.

With both of them suffering from the same effects, they would need to end the battle quickly.

Xing Po had no weapon, so Mei Ba Do thought that he had an advantage; however, that couldn’t be further from the truth.

Xing Po struggled to raise two fingers, then pointed them at the spear that was now only a few inches away from Mei Ba Do.

His eyes widened as Xing Po’s spear trembled, then exploded in one half moment. All he could do was turn around, but it was too late.

Broken bits of wood and metal, all filled with corrosive Qi, penetrated his body.

He turned and looked angrily at Xing Po, who had a stupid smile on his face, blood seeping from the corner of his lips.

Wounded so badly, and with Qi eating away at his entire body, Mei Ba Do had little he could do besides going in for a true blow.

He didn’t want to kill Xing Po, but he didn’t want to lose either.

Forcing himself to activate Reaper Fog, he ran forward, his speed pushed further by his Qi.

However, the more he used, the less he had to fight the invading Qi with.

It was clear to him that he would lose either way, so mhe ight as well try his best.

Xing Po’s eyes narrowed, and he took a few rapid steps back, summoning a small Qi barrier around him.

Now that he was infected with the corrosive Qi, it didn’t matter whether or not Reaper Scythe could reach him.

Mei Ba Do was in a far worse state than he was, so what mattered to him in that moment was lasting longer.

The moment the physical sword met his barrier, it shook, almost cracking, but he quickly reinforced it.

The battle of attrition had now started, and he knew for sure that he was the one to win.

Just as he was prematurely celebrating his victory, something drastic happened.

Lightning crackled nearby, on top of an empty peak from the outer sect. It was made of multiple colors, and the pressure they felt from it was immense.

The peak was fairly far away as well, so whoever it was that was channeling that was incredibly strong.

Xing Po fell to his knees, as did Mei Ba Do, the fight between them taking a temporary pause as they watched the lightning light up the day sky.

PLACE YOUR BETS
