The instant the card is placed down, electric mana imbued shock courses through both of our veins.

To me, it feels like a delicate static tickle, even without activating any defenses or special mana blocking skills, the shock of a non-double ranked up monster doesn't affect me at all.

The man next to me shows a whole different reaction as his hair stands straight up and he falls to the floor off his seat.

I accept my loss, as this was really just a game based on pure luck, and walk away from the table like nothing happened with the same number of tokens I had when I approached in the first place.

With 5 tokens in hand, I make my way back to the exit, but stop by the bar with the blue-haired bartender one last time to ask her one thing.

"Hey, your secret menu option, the second one. The part where it says any item I desire. Are there any limitations to this?"

She smiles and responds.

"Welcome back so soon. It looks like you have gotten quite busy today. You're one of the applicants I've had my eye on the most so far..."

She pauses and takes out the secret menu again for me to look at it and points down at the second option that reads: [2 Tokens] Choose a Magic Item you Desire.

"Hand me two tokens and ask for what you'd like. If it's not in stock, I can provide a refund immediately."

I nod, then push two tokens across the table and think carefully about what I'd like.

Once she accepts the black coins I speak.

"I want a teleport crystal that brings me back here, to the Apex Region."

Her eyes widen for a moment, then she looks up at the sky and waits again, like she's listening to someone speak, then finally looks back down at me and looks me in the eyes.

"Your request will be granted. Please wait a moment."

She places the black token beneath the table, and a few moments later one of the side room doors opens.

A low-level waiter in a tuxedo walks in with a black box and places it on the bar counter, then walks away quickly to leave us be.

The bartender opens up the box to show the glimmering transport crystal inside, then closes it and pushes it forward to me.

I grab the box and she speaks up.

"Is there anything else I can help you with before the exams begin?"

I think for a moment then respond while pushing another black coin forward.

"What will the contents of the exams be? I want an explanation of all of the stages."

She smiles and pushes the coin back toward me.

"Unfortunately, I am not permitted to answer questions of this nature."

I push the coin forward again.

"Will tokens be valuable later on in this exam?"

She smiles and accepts the token.

"No, tokens will only be used in this trial portion of the exam. Once the testing begins, they will be worthless."

I push the two tokens I have remaining forward and smile.

"Well, in that case, I want another transport crystal just like the one I bought that leads here to the Apex region."

She listens in and looks up at the ceiling again and shakes her head while pushing the coins back to me.

"I'm afraid we're currently out of the item you desire."

I think to myself for a few more seconds, then push the tokens forward.

"Well, then how about a lightning stone. The highest grade you have. High B grade, even A grade if you have it. Don't worry about me being able to handle it with my current mana control, I'm just thinking of this as a future investment. I might as well take advantage of this while I can."

She nods again and accepts the coins while listening to something in her inner ear again, then nods and responds.

"Very well, your request will be granted."

The same procedure takes place, and a waiter comes by with a clear containment case and a static-charged bright yellow lightning stone floating inside it.

I do a scan of the box and it feels like this really is a high B-Grade, borderline low A-Grade element stone.

If I had to guess, it was farmed from some monster in the 900-950 range.

There are no monsters that I know of like this in the Vice City labyrinth, so it gets me very curious about where it's come from.

I accept the item and turn away with the two boxes in my hands.

"Thanks again. Looks like this time I've really gotten everything I can out of this room."

The bartender watches me leave all the way to the exit door. I feel her curious eyes on my back until it shuts behind me.

After a series of clicks, and opening door locks, I finally make it back to the lounge to be greeted by Ember with his feet up lying back on the couch.

I throw both the items into my item storage through the fake item box on my waist, then lie on the couch next to Ember and tell him about the events that happened in the game room while I was away.

My eyes move to the clock above the door when I'm done, but I still see almost 12 hours left on the timer.

We both decide to lie back and relax until the time is up.

It's been a very busy month. Between training, fulfilling orders, and dealing with new businesses and citizens coming to the Crimson City back in Sector 2.

Just sitting back in this mana dense room with nothing on my mind but a single task ahead is pretty relaxing.

I let out a sigh and close my eyes.

"Alright. I'm fully prepared. B-Class exams bring it on."

—

We relax in the mana dense room as intended all throughout the night.

Ember and I discuss a few things about training and random crafting ideas through our telepathy link from time to time, but for the majority of it, we really do sit in silence and relax while absorbing some of the fresh mana in the air.

Once the timer on the door hits [00:00:00] a loud constant ringing sound vibrates throughout the room, and all of the master bedroom doors open wide automatically.

On the panel where the timer stops a new message [Stage 1: Now Begins!] flashes in bold white text.

Natalie comes walking out from where she was resting with a startled look on her face like she just woke up.

At the same time, there's a series of loud knocks at the lounge's front door that leads out into the hall.
