Natalie begins to explain everything she knows about the B-Class exams while continuing to pace around the mana-dense air in the room.

She explains that most years, there are 12 people accepted as applicants that pass the exams. It's very normal for the Apex region to take 4-6 of these slots, while the Veridian and Vice Region take the other 6 to 8 remaining.

All of these regions have submitted 12 applicants each, the maximum available.

None of the other regions hit the maximum that she knows of. The other 5 regions usually try to aim to squeeze in 1 or 2 passing slots with their most talented hunters every few years.

The Bedrock Region I came from only submitted 8, and that would have been 6 naturally if Ember and I didn't show up last minute.

For the exams themselves, there's always a very unique grading system used. Her best guess is that this year the wristbands will play a large role in grading applicants.

The first stage after today will be a written exam and will most likely be paired with general physical tests to see our natural intellect and combat ability.

Natalie recounts many of the training exercises she's been through over the last few months while living in the Apex region. Everything she's telling me seems like very basic procedure, making me realize again how overqualified Ember and I really are for this exam.

Still, I note down everything she says. Being over-prepared isn't a bad thing.

Finally, once she starts talking about the 3rd stage, this piques my interest. The white-haired healer describes a contraption that she's trained in similar to a device I've used back in Vice City. When I first visited the capital with a private guild from my hometown, there were special mana shielded rooms that provided high-grade gear to train with other hunters and not worry about being injured.

However, the descriptions that Natalie gives make the simulated rooms she used to train in sound like a step far above anything I've ever seen before.

She was able to fight simulated monsters of varying levels and in a small room it would feel like a vast dungeon all controlled by someone outside the room.

Once her explanation is finished, I notice the pale complexion in her skin return, sweat form on her face, and a wave of exhaustion wash over her eyes. She stumbles but catches herself on the edge of a sofa.

"Anyway, that's about everything I know... The sim stations usually hold about 4 people each, some of the big ones can do 6. So, that's something to keep in mind. Maybe you were looking out for other hunters while back in the game room. If not, we already have a room here, there's no rule that states you can't go back out and make connections. All you need is your activated wristband to move in and out of the rooms now."

I raise an eyebrow at her last remark, but see she's not in any shape for more questions.

I could give her a full regen potion right now, and she'd most likely be as good as new, but I'm still not too sure I can trust this woman as my ally. She is some random healer from the Apex region after all. I can't just assume that it's out of the realm of possibility this is all a part of the high-level Apex soldier's plan. She could just be a plant to hold us back even more.

Despite these thoughts, I reply in a friendly tone.

"Thanks, I think you've paid with more than enough information. I appreciate it."

She lets out a relieved smile and walks over to one of the master bedrooms, scanning her wristwatch on the door and walking inside. She speaks as the door closes.

"Thank you too, I wouldn't have had the resources to rest up for tomorrow without you."

It clicks closed and I turn to Ember immediately.

"I'm going back out there. If what she said about allies is true, I might as well make some other friends. It's not like we need to rest up like everyone else."

Ember shrugs.

"Suit yourself. I'm going to stay in here and keep an eye on her."

I leave the lounge and make my way through the marble hallways, scanning my wristband on every doorway—gold, silver, and bronze—until I make it back into the gaming room with a new outlook on the events taking place before my eyes.

I see every booth in the room as a personality test, and the eyes of all of the high B-Class proctors watching every applicant's move as a surveillance system that logs the data of everyone's trials.

I don't feel any recording crystals or advanced surveillance like there is in Valor City, but there are over two dozen level 700+ proctors in the room with their natural perception seeping through the room so not much can really be missed.

Even with all the eyes, I'm still determined to learn more about this event and make some connections while I have the free time to kill.

I wander around the room observing hunters win jackpots and outsmart proctors, while others lose limbs and even get poisoned and dragged away into unmarked rooms by waiters waiting nearby.

Many people from the same regions regroup after finding their way through the white plane outside, and on rare occasions some regions mingle.

To my surprise, the longer I wait, I actually see some hunters that were taken away get released from the private rooms the waiters brought them to.

Some look fully healed, while others still appear exhausted and injured.

My guess is private deals are being made, possibly at the cost of tokens, or maybe nothing at all. It's possibly all part of the exam, testing risk management but not actually killing prized, talented future B-class hunters over a simple mistake in a pre-exam trial.

The more hunters I see leave, the more I assume it's the latter, but I don't want to go into those unmarked private rooms myself to find out.

After a good amount of time wandering and observing, I decide to start playing a few more games I know I'll easily win without any real risk.

There's a drinking game where the applicant at a bar has to choose between extremely strong alcoholic beverages from platters of labeled intensity.

Of course, the higher the alcoholic potency, the less you have to drink to acquire a coin.

Many leave this bar staggering, but everyone that does has at least 1 black token in their hand when they do.

I take on the challenge and drink 9 of their strongest drinks in under a minute without batting an eye. By the time the liquid even makes it to my stomach it's already been completely neutralized like I'm drinking water.

I leave this booth with three black tokens and a baffled bartender.

There's one other food stand at the other end of the room that I haven't been to yet, and I decide I might as well stick to what I'm good at.

It's a similar game to the one I played when I first entered this room where one of the plates they offer has a high chance of some kind of toxin inside it.

There are a few applicants sleeping headfirst in their food sat at the table in front of a chef, so my best guess is it's some kind of sleeping drug.

I clear 3 of their hardest plates in just a few minutes, and feel the toxins in my body being dispersed in two of them.

I receive another 3 tokens for completing this challenge.

If there were more food or drink booths, I'd do them in a heartbeat. My body burns through this sustenance almost instantly, so I hardly feel like I've even eaten anything.

After my many long months of mana control and Qi training, I'm more used to consuming pure energy than food itself. While I need some vitamins, minerals, and water to survive; food itself has become less and less important to me. Today is one of the first meals I've eaten in weeks.

I let out a sigh while jingling the coins in my hand, looking through the crowds of people in search of a new game to successfully cheat or something interesting, but everything left feels like pure luck to me.

Playing these games isn't really worth trying.

I walk past the geode cracking game again, and see a random hunter open one of the stones to find bright red crystals inside.

Without warning, guards bring him away to a back room even though he looks healthy and fine. I'm happy I didn't test my luck on this one earlier. I still have no idea how it's played.

Though, my eye does catch a familiar spear-wielding woman from the Talton region sat alone at an empty table holding two tokens in her hand, clearly deep in thought about something.

She's been in this room since before I even initially showed up.

Either her luck hasn't been good, or she's a very cautious player.

Her wristband isn't lit up, and she hasn't talked to anyone this whole time I've been wandering around, so I'm sure these two tokens are all she has at the moment and doesn't have a room.

While my identity as Jay wants to see the Talton region do well, and I'd help them if they asked; Ray Anderson from the Bedrock Region has nothing to do with them.

I'd offer her a place in my lounge, but that may come off as far too forward. She wouldn't make the connection that her doing better in these exams means that there will be more funding for her region and as a result of that; they could buy more goods from me.

So, instead, as I walk by I flip a single token in the air toward her.

"Hey catch, I had an extra."

I show 5 coins in my open hand as she catches the one I throw.

Her expression is a bit confused, but she looks me in the eyes and nods with a serious gaze.

"Thank you. This kindness won't go unnoticed."

I smile, and continue walking through the room.

She immediately gets up behind me and buys a basic room exit card at the nearest vendor with her tokens while I look for others that it would benefit to help out in the

long run.

I remember the two water-wielding guards from the Vice region that I saw when I first walked in here, but after another walk around the room I find that they too are gone.

They must have already saved up enough tokens and moved on.

The longer I wait around, the less impressive the crowd in this room becomes.

There's no one left that remotely compares to the strength and level of those two Apex Elites from before, and it makes me wonder if there are others of that strength level or even higher in the 25 applicants that made it into the suites and lounges before me.

While making my walk back to the back of the room to call it quits, I pass a card game table with chairs hooked up to higher-powered electric chairs.

I see a few players lose on my way over, and the mana-imbued charge that comes out of that chair has mana control nearing a level 850 monster.

Any normal hunter would be paralyzed and burned to a crisp by this attack.

Many are dragged away and given health potions on the spot to heal even before being taken to a back room.

If your hand goes over 21 or the dealer's hand is higher than the player's, the chair shocks whoever is on the seat. However, if the player has a higher number than the dealer, the player wins a token.

It seems like a very simple game, and the fact that I'm a lightning type adds to the believability that being shocked by this chair wouldn't hurt me.

I whisper under my breath as I see the exit sign close by, and sit between two level 531 and level 560 hunters in the seat that is still hot from the hunter who was shocked within an inch of his life.

"Alright, one more game, then I'm out."

I hear a very recognizable voice reply to my mumbles from across the tables.

"Yeah right, you should have said that an hour ago when you cleared out that roulette wheel."

The same man that was healed by Natalie for a token sits a few seats away at the card table nervously tapping his feet and holding two tokens in his hands.

I smirk and shove my hand in my pocket while doing a scan of his status to find he's level 602 and has an extreme wind summoning skill. His overall mana control isn't too bad. It's up to par for a level 600, he isn't falsely power-leveled.

I pull out a token and hold it up between us.

"You're from the Silca Region aren't you?"

He nods while the dealer behind the counter starts to shuffle up the deck to get ready for the next round of play.

The dirty blond-haired wind user replies to me in an annoyed tone.

"Yeah, and you're from the Bedrock, aren't you? What's that matter to you? We're both from weak regions so there's no point to rub it in that you already managed to get a room out of here."

He points to my wristband, and everyone else's attention at the table shifts to the bright [26] on my wrist.

I shrug, understanding that he's had a rough day, and not wanting to ruin the potential chance I have here for making a strong connection from another region.

So, I brush off his remarks and ignore everyone's stares, rolling the black token across the table and replying.

"How about you rest up for tomorrow. Us weaker regions have to stick together if we're going to put any number on the board right?"

He catches the coin with a surprised look on his face.

"R-Really?"

I reply while pulling out 4 more coins from my pocket and jingling them around before putting them away again.

"I've got plenty of them to throw away. Don't think too much of it. Just a friendly gesture from the Bedrock Region. The name's Ray by the way."

He pushes the coins forward at the dealer behind the counters and quickly yells out.

"One basic room, please, get me out of here!"

The dealer accepts his tokens and gives him a bronze card then the man turns back to me.

"I'm Dane- I- Thanks, man."

He wipes sweat from his forehead and runs toward the back of the room while everyone else at the table starts asking me for a spare token too.

I ignore all of them, as their mana control hardly even reaches Natalie's level, and their advanced grade elements won't make the cut if we have to do any team events later.

The dealer quickly shuts this down once he senses the disinterest I'm taking in the other offers and calls for those who are interested in playing to stay and those not to leave the table at once.

Two leave, and 4 people not including me stay at the table to play.

The first round of hands gets 2 people shocked very brutally. One is dragged away immediately, but the other somehow manages to stay upright, but it's clear he's badly injured from the charge. Only one person wins this round, he's the hunter to my right who hits exactly 21, while myself and the player a few seats to my left tie the dealer with a 19.

We don't get shocked, and don't get a token. However, it does count as an attempt at the table game so I only have two tries left.

The second round, the three of us remaining at the table all win when the dealer busts by making his hand go over 21, hitting 24 total and paying all of us out a full token.

After this win two players leave, and it's only me and one other sitting at the table once the dealer spreads out the final round.

I'm happy with a 20, and the hunter next to me is satisfied by his 19.

However when the dealer flips his card and draws another to hit, he reaches 21 and beats both of our hands.

