Esmeralda effortlessly avoided the flag’s defenses, and the Corruption Crystals were soon safely tucked away in Zac’s Cosmos Sack. Since it had lost its energy source and they couldn’t figure out its purpose, Zac destroyed the pillar before they left. He tried to make it look like a tainted Beast King had been drawn by the crystals and toppled the flag to get to them.

“It’s here!” Idiche suddenly shouted a while later.

Zac looked over and saw nothing out of the norm. Idiche was standing by a rocky surface inclined at forty-five degrees. Idiche stopped him when he planned to climb up the cliffside.

“Wait, it’s an illusion.”

“Really?” Zac said, giving the stone a second look. “Can’t see a thing.”

“It’s there. I saw this in my dreams,” Idiche said with certainty. “Give me a moment and I’ll unravel the illusion.”

Zac’s brows rose when the slanted climb turned into a vertical wall. There was a large tunnel carved right in the middle, from which waves of heat seeped out. Idiche was right. If he’d tried to ascend the mountain along that route, he would have entered an illusory realm. They entered before the formations could undo Idiche’s work and found themselves in a passage that continued for miles.

There were no beasts and barely any side paths in the tunnel. The illusory energy was also significantly lower than outside. Accordingly, the corruption was noticeably higher compared to the forest, though not as much as one could have expected. Zac guessed it was held at bay by another force—the increasingly sweltering heat. It was quickly becoming clear the small mountain was actually an active volcano.

The tunnel eventually opened up to a massive cave with close to a hundred lava lakes. The cave was just as large as some of the major settlements in Earth’s Underworld, more than enough to fit all of Port Atwood. Thankfully, the Unvai Drakes were closer to dragons than humans when it came to procreation. It wasn’t easy to add new members to their tribe, which explained why the egg theft left them so infuriated.

There were still a few dozen drakes milling about in the pools. Compared to the amount of real estate they held, it might as well have been empty. Furthermore, Idiche had successfully brought out all the elites. The drakes that remained were decidedly weaker, with most being at Peak E-grade. None of them had noticed their home had been invaded again as Idiche and Esmeralda worked together to hide their tracks.

“Over there!” Idiche whispered, pointing at a massive lava pool in the distance.

Zac followed her finger and froze upon seeing a cliff peeking out from the bubbling surface. He hadn’t noticed it at first, as it looked much like the rest of the rock formations. When properly scrutinized, Zac realized it looked just like the spinal ridge summoned by the drake pack. However, this one was calcified, and Zac couldn’t sense any specific draconic aura beyond what permeated the cave system.

“The skeleton of a Peak C-grade Lava Dragon,” Esmeralda whistled. “It’s probably the source of all this lava. It’s a shame its energy has fused with the mountain. Its bones would have been very valuable otherwise.”

“And now?” Zac asked.

“Not so much. Besides, can your [Mercurial Sack] even transform them?” the toad smiled.

“Oh yeah, it’s probably illusory, huh?” Zac sighed, disappointed that Verun would miss out on the delicacy. “Still, good thing we didn’t fight here. Their Ancestral Sacrifice would have gone very differently if they could use a medium like those skeletal remains.”

“Told you. Everything I do is with good reason,” Idiche said with a grin.

“Why are you looking so proud? You’re not the one who called them to the beach, remember?” Zac said with a raised brow, which elicited a giggle from Esmeralda.

The three silently passed through the area to avoid any complications. The drakes didn’t notice a thing. The ones that weren’t hibernating were so busy looking for their elders that they forgot to keep watch for outsiders. The powerful illusion hiding the entrance had also instilled a false sense of security in the pack, and a single theft hadn’t managed to undo behavioral patterns reinforced over generations.

There was one pathway on the other side of the cave and a few exits submerged in the lava. None of them were willing to dive into the lava since they knew the only thing waiting in the depths was more of the corruption. They picked the normal tunnel, which quickly started taking them upward. By the time they saw the exit, Zac guessed they’d climbed half the mountain—provided the mountain they saw wasn’t another illusion.

Intense winds filled with furious energy and pelting rain greeted Zac as he emerged. The intensity of Sevona’s rain was an order of magnitude greater than what they had experienced in the forest. And yet, he saw black smoke seeping out of the ground, indicating the battle between Sevona and the corruption actually leaned in the Lost Plane’s favor.

It was hard to make out any details when faced with such an intense storm, but Zac could somewhat make out that they had reached an elevated region full of mountain peaks he’d never seen when they traveled through the forest.

A mountain that emitted a particularly intense aura towered right ahead. Its peak was split in two, looking like a giant had taken its blade to it. A vast valley had formed in the middle, and a waterfall made of rainwater poured down its side before disappearing into cracks in the ground. Zac’s expression grew solemn as he took in the scene. He could feel the winds of fate swirling around the mountain.

A gasp from his left made Zac turn to Idiche, whose eyes shimmered with ancient power and extremely pure Dao. She didn’t notice the look. Her attention was completely held by the unusual mountain. Leaning closer, Zac could barely hear what she mumbled over the roaring winds.

“…A key lodged in a scar.”
