“Thanks, you guys.” Ren said, and then remembered what he had promised. “So, what kind of familiar should I make?”

“I don't know.” Tee-one said. “Ruck wouldn't mind another one that can carry things; but, we all know that has little utility now that you have access to shrinking towers.”

Ren chuckled. “I can store so much inside them, it's not funny.”

“You have to do the sentient bow.” Tee-one said. “You've been meaning to do that for a while, now.”

“I know.” Ren said. “Plus, with my Hail of Arrows ability, it increases a projectile fired within my Aura by 3.”

“Then that should be first.” Tee-one said. “After that, well... we can talk about it some more.”

Ren nodded. “I'll come over first thing in the morning.” He said. “I'm going to check on this world event with my All-Seeing Mirror and see how much they've progressed.”

“Just don't go running off without any warning.” Tee-one said. “Everyone would hate that.”

Ren laughed. “Even though that last time wasn't my fault, I know I deserve some of the blame.”

Tee-one smiled. “Goodnight, Ren. Teepo.” He said, and Ruck waved to them.

“Goodnight.” Ren said and left the warehouse as he activated his Contact Aura, and ran over to the Main House. “Riley! Stacy!” He called, and the two metallic dogs ran over to him and he pet them. “Inside for tonight, until I make a suitable spot for you.”

The two dogs went inside and laid down beside Princess, and Ren used his Heat Sense Aura for a split second to see if anyone was in Patty's office. No one was there, but he did see that Xuunah was in her apartment and the 5 maids were upstairs. He took out the All-Seeing Mirror and asked it to show him the progress of the ghoul horde, and he received an overall map of the High Elven Kingdom.

Damn, that's... Ren shook his head. It's too late to second guess now. He thought. “Goodnight.” He said to Princess and the dogs, then went up the stairs.

Ren entered the apartment and saw that all 5 maids were already under the covers and half-asleep. He activated Sneak and crept over to the bed, took off his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, and folded it up on the night stand by the bed. Teepo took off and landed on the ceiling, which was his normal observation perch. Ren put out the saucer and Health Potion for his pet tarantula, even though he wasn't sure if it still needed it, and climbed into bed after storing his armor and clothing.

“Mmm.” Frikara moaned as Ren tucked himself beside her and under the arms of two other maids. Ren kissed her cheek and she rubbed her face against his, then he dozed off in their warm embrace.
