Standing atop the walls of Shi Bei beneath the pouring rain, Baatar flashed his grin at the hordes of Defiled surging in from all sides.

A dire situation indeed, but an exhilarating one as well, for soon, he would set out with his son at his side to do battle against the Enemy as equals and comrades rather than merely watching over him from afar. Truly a day worth remembering, though he never expected it to come so soon, especially since his daughter had yet to have her chance. No matter though, for the girl would have her day soon enough, and she was no doubt proud as a mother hen regarding the boy’s staggering achievements. As was Baatar, though he was a little disappointed he wouldn’t have his wife and daughter with him while bringing little Rain out into battle as a Peak Expert, because Mother knows he could use all the help he could get. Alas, the girl wasn’t quite yet ready to stand at his side on the battlefield, while his rose had no doubt been held up by Shuai Jiao’s plots and machinations. A debt to be settled another day, but for now Baatar had no choice but to bring the boy out into battle by himself, and he was not sure how to best approach this.

The problem was that their fighting styles were too similar for their efforts to mesh well together. Just as two tigers could not share a mountain, two forceful and aggressive Warriors would find it difficult to fight side by side without getting in each other’s way. Regardless if you were a Peak Expert or otherwise, fighting alongside an ally would not result in an additive increase in effectiveness. One plus one did not necessarily equal two on the battlefield, because neither Warrior was able to unleash their full potential while fighting so close to their allies. Of course, the same went for the Enemy, but there were always more Defiled than Imperials on the battlefield, meaning fighting alongside your allies was prudent at the very least, if not necessary. Even if you couldn’t bring out your full strength, being limited to eighty percent for the full battle was better than dying early on to a knife in the back.

Hence why most Peak Experts of note would raise a personal retinue of guards familiar with their styles. Only then could one ensure that their allies could fight alongside them without hindering them in any way, with one domineering Peak Expert becoming the focal point while the others supported in their own way. There were always exceptions to the rule, of course, as some Peak Experts fought alone, while others learned to fight in perfect sync with their comrades, but a truly equal partnership on the battlefield was a rare thing to find. Baatar’s old friends, the Wedded Exarches Bralton and Erien were one such example, while the siblings Song Qing and Song Jian another, so effective on the battlefield that their combined efforts was greater than the sum of their parts. The fact that the Enemy had gone to such great lengths to kill both pairs here in Shi Bei was a testament to how powerful their cooperative efforts could be, and Baatar was determined to avenge his fallen friends and allies no matter the cost. He himself was no stranger to this phenomenon, for if he had his beloved rose fighting here alongside him, he was wholly confident that Bai Qi would have not only failed to injure him in that first ambush, but the traitor general would have also been skewered upon Sarnai’s spear. Though he was the stronger of the two, she had an uncanny grasp of rhythm and timing which allowed her to pick out the opportune moments to strike, counter, and retaliate, meaning anyone who dared underestimate her would be in for a rude awakening. On top of this, she knew how to best direct Baatar’s aggression and how to rein him in when necessary, allowing him to focus on fighting and nothing else while she guided him through the battlefield and guarded his flanks in perfect harmony.

Then again, perhaps not, for the last time they’d fought alongside one another in this manner, Sarnai took grave injury and fell into a coma. It was entirely his fault, for he’d pushed too hard and moved too quickly which left an opening which allowed a Demon to take him by surprise, and Sarnai threw her spear at it to save him, leaving her defenseless against the second Demon still lurking in the wings. That was only two short years ago during the last siege of the Northern Wall, and Baatar was not so willing to risk losing his rose again. They had precious few years left to them already, so it would be best if she stayed safe and sound, though the trials and tribulations of Heaven would not allow it.

Cursing how quickly time flowed by, Baatar refocused on the matter at hand. Easier said than done with the bloodthirsty wolf screaming to slaughter every enemy standing before him, but the patient hunter told him to wait for the opportune moment, and he knew which of them to heed here. With nothing but time on his hands, he set himself to planning for his inaugural battle with the boy once more, but there were only problems and few solutions at hand. The biggest issue was that little Rain had progressed too far too quickly, leaving all his peers and wives far behind. Without capable allies who were familiar with his style to fight alongside, this meant Baatar and his retinue would have to watch over the boy instead. Not an issue for the others since the boy fought in a similar manner to Baatar’s, a bold and domineering style that focused on lightning quick aggression and decisive killing blows meant to end the match as quickly as possible, but now he had to come to terms with how he would behave while fighting alongside his son. Better to have the boy adjust his style to support Baatar, but he wanted to see the Warrior Falling Rain had become and discover the limits of his current strength, which meant letting him take the lead.

A man capable of cutting down a Divinity, yet not strong enough to battle a Peak Expert in single combat. A strange combination to be sure, but that was how little Rain described himself, though not in so many words, and the boy was always one to disparage his own efforts and achievements. Naaran’s perspective was only marginally more useful, as he agreed with the boy’s statements. “That traitor monk could have beaten him bloody if he’d been willing to lift a finger, but the boy’s not without promise. Treat him as a slower, less experienced and more hesitant Gerel who’s twice as reckless and hits about a hundred times harder if given three full seconds to prepare.” That was all Baatar’s old friend had been willing to say, indicating that he’d see for himself soon enough, which was both infuriating and understandable at the same time, since Naaran had only seen a brief glimpse of the boy’s strength and wanted to avoid colouring Baatar’s perception any more than necessary.

Glancing over at his old friend, he felt his grin grow even larger as he spotted a matching smile etched across Naaran’s face, a rare sight to be sure. It was good to see him smile again, and he had every right to be happy and proud, even if there were those who would claim otherwise. Nosy and meddlesome know-nothings who had no stake in matters at hand mostly, but life had not treated Naaran well, and Baatar was more than happy to share this moment with one of his oldest and truest of friends. The man had been denied his glory in youth, lost his wife soon after, then was abandoned by the rest of his family in a dark turn of events. At least now he had something to live for besides Kharuul, for even when Naaran rode with the Iron Banner, he only did so to get away from the village where he’d loved and lost so much.

Those old emotional wounds had been ripped open during the siege of the Central Citadel, and he was liable to take new ones here in Shi Bei today, but for the moment, Baatar could see the shadow of the man his friend used to be, and for that, he gave thanks to the Mother Above.

Gerel was also lurking quietly in Concealment somewhere nearby, but he was less adept at managing his rage. Not without reason considering Naaran had so many more years of practice, but several times today alone, Baatar had been forced to physically rein Gerel in before anger overcame reason. The young man pushed himself too hard to make up for mistakes which were not his own, even if he would never care to admit that was his primary motivation, and just like little Rain, he demanded too much of himself. A shame they never got along, but it was hardly unexpected for two dragons to butt heads, though in this aspect they were more akin to stubborn billy goats who were too stupid to do otherwise. Perhaps the two of them would mend fences in the heat of combat, though Baatar wouldn’t put money on it given Gerel’s panicked reaction to Rain’s offer of a drink. Neither one of them were willing to face the truth just yet, and Baatar was just glad young Gerel was willing to serve as honour guard for little Rain.

For the Imperial Clan to withdraw their Death Corps and Royal Guardians was all but spitting in the boy’s face, and once the matter with the Defiled was settled and done with, Baatar hoped the outer provinces would take note and re-evaluate their relationship with the absent Emperor. Though the eastern province had largely funded the war efforts thus far, it was coin obtained by taxing the outer provinces, so what was the point in paying taxes in the first place? Better to keep the coin for themselves than continue tithing to a scheming sovereign sitting on the sidelines to see if the other provinces were worth saving, to say nothing of the black-hearted scoundrel Shuai Jiao who even now refused to show his face. North and South had come out in full support of Central once the West fell, but in spite of this, the venomous local politicians were unwilling to put aside their schemes. Were it not for the innocent people of Central, Baatar would have no qualms about turning around to head home and leaving the whole province for the Enemy, because between Bai Qi and Shuai Jiao, he respected the former far more than the latter.

One dreamed of helping the people and lost himself by taking things too far, while the other claimed to help the people yet only cared for himself. Hardly a competition really, and while the Emperor might be too high to reach, Shuai Jiao had no such protection from Baatar’s inevitable retribution.

Assuming Mother didn’t kill the scheming snake first, but that wasn’t likely. She loved the Empire too much, not just the people and the provinces, but the concept itself, that of a singular nation of people working together to the betterment of all. Uniting the people of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains was the result of her idealistic dreams and showed that it was possible, but it required someone as brilliant, hard-working, benevolent, and altruistic as Akanai of the People. Alas, there was no one else like her, and there might never be, meaning the Sentinels might well fall apart after her death. Baatar would fight to keep it together, but only to keep the memory of his Mentor and mother’s dream alive, and not because he believed in the ideal himself, meaning that if he took up the mantle of Chief Provost, it could only end in disaster.

Little Rain would be better suited for the role, for he shared Mother’s dreams and ideals, except he dared to dream even bigger and didn’t limit himself to the mountains alone. A dangerous prospect that, putting him at odds with men and women of power who were comfortable with the status quo, including the Emperor himself. All along, Baatar had hoped the boy would learn his limits before he overstepped them, but now, little Rain was akin to a Divinity and capable of enabling other Divinities to unleash their full strength, meaning his once preposterous dreams might now be within his reach.

Such exciting times they lived in, and things would only get more exciting in years to come, but first, Baatar had to ensure his son’s survival in this battle here today. Turning his attentions to the boy, he saw him heave a small sigh and waver on his feet while hiding a grimace of pain, a display which set Baatar’s heart to racing. For the boy to show discomfort at this time meant that a normal man would have long since collapsed in pain, or at least close enough to it. Unable to stop himself, Baatar reached out and placed his hand on the boy’s shoulder to steady him in place, a bad habit to get into for men of their status. Though they were currently shrouded in a veil of Concealment which few could pierce, it was always good to behave as if everyone could see you at all times when out in public, if only to avoid doing anything shameful. A lesson the boy had yet to learn, mostly because he was utterly shameless, but truth be told, Baatar found this sort of attitude refreshing more than anything else. He himself wished to hold his rose’s hand while out in the market, but between her fixation on the apparent difference in their appearance and the silly expectation that only women with loose morals would allow any sort of physical contact in public, Baatar had no choice but to bend to public opinion.

Not little Rain however, who held his wives’ hands and embraced them in full view without a care in the world for who might see them, a trend many youngsters had adopted much to the chagrin of the older generation. New waves would inevitably overtake the old, though Baatar thought he had a few years yet before the boy reached his current heights.

A feat only possible because the boy refused to admit that he was human and at times needed to rest.

