Nodding along in silent agreement, the boy fell quiet once more as he watched the battle unfold, and this time, Baatar knew his son was only idly watching because he could not for the life of him stand still. It was simply his nature, his chaotic mind reflected in his jittery actions, something they all once thought was a sign of lacking focus, but had since been proven untrue. It wasn’t that the boy was incapable of focusing on the task at hand, but that most times, he had no need to focus and could afford to let his mind wander as he pleased without negatively impacting his performance. That’s why meditation had been so difficult for him at first, because he found it boring and unbearable to still his thoughts, the same way a Peak Expert accustomed to Cloud Stepping would find galloping on horseback slow and tedious. A sign of a strong mind perhaps, which was in line with the boy’s most recent claims regarding a Balance between body, mind, and soul, though Baatar still had yet to wholly comprehend everything written in his son’s seemingly indecipherable notes.

Thus, it came as no surprise to Baatar when, not five minutes after promising to rest and recuperate, the boy found himself no longer able to stand idly by. “Dad,” he began, with a saccharine inflection that was nowhere close to what one might hear in little Mila’s voice when asking Father for a favour, but had the same general intent, and damn Baatar if he wasn’t dying to fulfill his son’s every request. “I know you said I should rest, but stamina wise, I’m all topped up and ready to fight. I’m just a little overdrawn on Chi, so I should be fine so long as I stop using it.” In spite of himself, Baatar grunted and nodded in agreement before hearing what else the boy had to say, which was a mistake because he added, “If that’s the case, then is it alright if I showed myself and said a couple words to the troops, to inspire them or something?”

Dangerous, truly dangerous, for there was no doubt in Baatar’s mind that the Enemy would stop at nothing to kill little Rain. In fact, the siege of Shi Bei almost seemed to have been tailor made to keep the boy isolated in Meng Sha, though there still remained the mystery of why Hongji’s scouts stationed outside the walls had been unable to inform anyone of the city’s plight. Until little Rain informed them, the soldiers of Meng Sha had been blissfully unaware of an all out offensive here in Shi Bei, which meant there was most certainly foul play afoot, but they would have to wait before settling those debts. Regardless, for the boy to show himself and say a few words… the first was foolish and the latter unwise as in spite of many laudable qualities, he was not a man who inspired confidence through words or actions. That being said, the boy was not only the Legate and technically Baatar’s superior in the chain of command, but he was also something akin to a Divinity, so preventing him from following his heart’s desires might well impact his performance later on. Divinities were an emotional bunch, always ones to follow their whims, as evidenced by Taduk and Mei Lin’s personalities, the latter of which Baatar only recognized after listening to Mila’s rendition of events in Meng Sha.

A second Ancestral Hare, one wholly unrelated to Taduk. If so, then the eccentric Healer was a better man than any of them knew, for the urge to mate and procreate was a powerful one indeed, one that drove all life on this world as they knew it.

As for the boy, he’d always been one to do things his own way, ignoring all their attempts to get him to stop cuddling the pets in full view and refusing to adhere to any reasonable fashions, so regardless of what Baatar said here and now, the boy was liable to do as he pleased regardless. “As you wish,” he said, stifling a sigh and signalling his guards to be on the alert as he dropped his Concealment, only to find that the boy’s shroud was still in place. It fell after a moment’s consideration, for the boy needed to consciously dispel it rather than actively maintain it, which led to him forgetting he was Concealed in the first place. A staggering difference to behold in action, and Baatar was humbled by it, so he fell in line beside his son with Bloody Fang and Crescent Moon at the ready, watching the skies and stones for any sign of threat.

To his credit, the boy didn’t speak much or even at all as he strode along the back of the battlements and allowed his presence to speak for him. While he himself was not much to look at, soaked to the bone in his plain black robes which lacked any and all finery and his hair pulled back in an unadorned bun, the presence of his three Spiritual Weapons floating alongside him spoke volumes to his strength. The sword and shield hovered to his left and right at the perfect height for him to reach out and grasp, while his glaive bobbed along behind him in an almost whimsical manner, floating this way, then that as if seeing the sights yet never straying too far out of reach. Anyone who knew anything about retrieving weapons from afar would be gobsmacked by this display of consummate skill, for a large part of moving your Spiritual Weapons without touching them was utilizing momentum and other forces to overcome inertia. You weren’t so much moving the weapons with your mind as you were guiding them back to your hands before any physical forces acting on the weapon were spent, but little Rain made it appear as if his weapons had minds of their own, which Baatar only now realized was an actual possibility given the boy’s penchant for using Natal Souls and Keystones.

This was enough to impress most of the rank and file, though Baatar supposed the giant wave the boy rode in on had been impressive enough, but the true marvel of Falling Rain was only noticeable to Peak Experts of exceptional perception. Baatar himself could only barely sense the depth of his son’s Presence, a deep and unfathomable ocean that appeared and disappeared like a mote of dust skirting in front of your eyes, yet there was no mistaking its existence. Difficult to describe it to someone lacking the ability to perceive it, similar to trying to describe colours to the blind or music to the deaf, but Baatar always regarded this Presence as a metaphysical baring of fangs, a perceptible threat and warning to rivals and prey alike regarding the strength of the individual in question. Most Martial Warriors were too weak to emit a Presence of their own, or perhaps they instinctively hid their Presence so as not to alert others of their existence. The old wolf of the Mountains had a majestic Presence indeed, one unrivalled by any other Divinity Baatar had ever seen, but in contrast, Taduk barely had any Presence at all, to the point where even another Divinity might not recognize him for what he was.

As for the boy? His Presence was not quite at the level of the old wolf’s, nor was it a match for Hua Lie’s, though there were times when he came close enough for it not to matter. Other times, however, the boy was every bit as ordinary as Taduk, and even the lowliest Martial Warrior could sense this, for their disbelief was etched across their faces as they watched their Legate calmly stroll by. Not because they were skeptical, but because they could hardly contain their amazement that someone so young and ordinary in appearance could be a true dragon among men.

It was clear the boy had a destination in mind however, for he soon turned and politely made his way through the line of soldiers to stand closer to the fighting. All this effort just to watch Hongji fight, Baatar was unable to fathom his son’s line of thinking, for even though the man was an exemplary commander, his personal strength left much to be desired. While still a Peak Expert, his mastery of the Forms was woefully inadequate compared to his peers, for his Movements were as plain and ordinary as they came. The sceptre in his hand was more reminiscent of hammer than mace as he raised it high and smashed it down on Defiled head after head, while the best thing one could say about his footwork was that it was clean and ordered, though some would call it simple and basic. It wasn’t that Hongji was doing anything wrong, for his Movements were textbook perfection, but they lacked any and all elegance or artistry, anything to mark those Movements as his own. The only thing that stood out about him was his Ethereal Palm, which was more interesting in theory than it was practical in combat, as the man himself demonstrated by throwing out a palm which failed to even knock a common Defiled off the battlements.

In short, Hongji was a basic Peak Expert, as low in the rankings one could go whilst still remaining a Peak Expert.

Making him perfect for little Rain’s intended purpose, as Baatar soon realized when the boy opened his mouth to speak. “Well fought, Commander Hongji,” he said, his words carrying clearly over the din of battle yet lacking the intense, boisterous quality that everyone associated with Speaking. “I see you’ve been hard at work improving your Ethereal Palm, and the results are impressive indeed.” Not at all, to the point where a good portion of the crowd and even Hongji himself wasn’t sure if the boy was being facetious. “If I could be so bold as to offer a word of advice? You appear to be experimenting with transformations of the Ethereal Palm with limited success, but you are too fixated on the form of the palm itself. Chi is Chi, and your Domain is your Domain, so there is no real need to shape them.” Using his hands to demonstrate, he explained, “When you punch, your fingers form into a fist almost naturally on instinct. The same happens when you slap, scratch, poke, or chop, your hand forming the shape best suited for this particular purpose without any real need to guide it.”

There was a power to the boy’s voice that compelled everyone to listen, even as Baatar fought against it in order to remain guarded against ambush, but this same compulsion seemed to affect the Defiled as they slowed to listen and watch. The boy’s hand punched softly at empty air, only to turn into a palm, a claw, a spear, and a blade, not in form but in function as he moved through these seemingly innocuous motions, and Baatar could almost see the secrets of Heaven hiding within them, as if these were new Movements of a Form none of them had ever seen. “Your Chi and your Domain are the same way, so when you move to strike, you need not put so much effort into shaping it, for much like your hand, your Chi and Domain already know the optimal shape to take once your Intent is made clear, or will learn it with practice and experience.”

Truth be told, Baatar had not even known Hongji had been experimenting with transformations, though it made sense given little Rustram’s recent staggering progress along the Martial Path, thanks to a moment of Insight obtained from reading Hongji’s notes. The Commander no doubt had recognized his own handiwork and been disheartened to see someone so young surpass him in a skill of his own creation, hence his efforts to elevate his own skills in secrets. Hongji was nothing if not prideful, but deserving of his pride, for he worked harder than anyone else when it came to planning for the worst, even harder than little Rain at his most paranoid. Seemingly having arrived at a breakthrough thanks to the boy’s guidance, Hongji let loose with a victorious cry as he raised his sceptre high, only to bring it down as inelegantly as he did before.

A blow which killed not only the Defiled tribesman who was directly struck, but seven more standing nearby. In addition to this, three others suffered blunt trauma injuries to their upper torsos, denoting that they’d been within Hongji’s range, but not so close as to be fatally struck, though the nearby soldiers quickly remedied this with the cold application of steel. As for the boy, he was still speaking as if sitting across a table from Hongji and expounding on the Dao of Domain Plating.

A lesson Baatar paid close heed to, for he too wished to learn this skill, though the boy was all too vague about the specifics. Not without reason, as he could easily do more harm than good by guiding others so recklessly, but there on the wall before Baatar’s eyes, he saw three Domain-Capable Martial Warriors also find Insight and unleash their unique attacks, while Hongji cackled with wild delight and killed every Defiled standing before him with a wave of his hand, which threw out an invisible blade that sliced his foes from hip to hip.

When the boy finally stopped speaking, he looked no different from before, which was better than looking worse. Seeing Baatar’s skepticism, the boy feigned innocence and said, “I wasn’t using Chi or Heavenly Energy, just regular old brainpower. I’ve been thinking about Domain Plating a lot, since it seems like a really versatile skill and having some Chi armour would just be great. I haven’t quite gotten the hang of it just yet, but I also haven’t really had time to experiment.”

“There was more to it than that, boy,” Baatar Sent. “Those words… they were not your own.”

“What? I didn’t steal them from anyone. I don’t think I’ve even heard anyone talk about Domain Plating before.”

“No, boy.” Rolling his eyes at his son’s staggering lack of piety, Baatar subtly indicated the Heavens above and Sent, “What I meant is that your speech seemed Inspired, in a way.”

