“Thanks Dad,” the boy Sent, wasting his Chi when he should otherwise be conserving it, so Baatar waved it off and threw up a Sound Barrier instead. His own Chi reserves were woefully low, but it would take at least an hour of dedicated meditation to make enough of a difference, as he lacked the boy’s ability to gather Chi as easily as breathing.

Which in retrospect made Baatar feel a little foolish, since the boy could waste as much Chi as he pleased and replenish it almost instantly, but it was too late for regrets now. So many things to keep in mind when dealing with little Rain, for he walked a unique Path all his own. “You are not resting,” Baatar began, resisting the urge to stroke the boy’s hair or thump his back with pride. “Now that you have become a pillar of the Empire, you will need strength to hold up the Heavens for others. It will not do for them to see you fall and falter now, not after so grand an entrance.”

And what an entrance it was, standing upon the prow of ship riding a hundred-metre-tall wave of water as it ploughed its way through the desert sands, a tale he would never grow tired of telling for as long as he should live. Sarnai would be sour at having missed so magnificent a display, but considering it took the boy less than two years to bind so much Water Chi, then surely she would have a chance to see it the next time around. Mother in Heaven, the implications of his abilities were almost too staggering to comprehend, for now he theoretically possessed strength enough to wipe out any city or stronghold within two-hundred and fifty kilometres of the Azure Sea, if not further. Even though the boy’s good nature would never allow him to engage in such reckless destruction, his enemies would hardly sleep easy with only his kind intentions to keep them safe, and Baatar looked forward to seeing how they would behave moving forward. The smart ones would capitulate and work with the boy instead of against, but those too stubborn to accept which way the wind was blowing would be troublesome to deal with indeed. No matter though, for if the boy was too soft-hearted to kill whoever needed to be killed, Baatar was still strong enough to hold up the Heavens for him.

Or slaughter the boy’s foes with sword and pole-axe in hand. Whichever was easier and more convenient.

Not even a little put-off by Baatar’s gruff tone, the boy grinned and lied, “I’ll be fine.” A bold boy, lying to his father like that, but he was nothing if not bold despite seemingly ready to topple over from turning his head too quickly. “There’s uh… a lot more stuff that Mila never mentioned, and I’m not sure how to explain, but I can do more standing here than I can with sword in hand.”

A moment’s thought was all it took to arrive at the right answer, showing just how out of sorts the boy truly was. “You are doing what you did in JiangHu, Pan Si Xing, and perhaps other battlefields as well, using your Natal Souls to assist the soldiers of Shi Bei.”

The look of surprise said it all, but it was quickly replaced by amused relief, because now he knew he had someone supporting him. “Yea pretty much. Got it in one. Guess my head hurts more than I thought.”

Another bad sign, actually admitting he was in pain, considering the last time he’d done so was soon after shattering his Core in Sinuji. That being said, Baatar was pleased to learn that the boy was so grossly mistaken and a laugh escaped from his lips. “Good, good,” he began, so happy to still be capable of helping his boy. “And here I worried you had progressed so far that I no longer had anything worth teaching.” Unable to help himself, he draped his arm over the boy’s shoulder and pulled him close for a half-hug, and it felt so natural and normal for them to stand side by side on the battlefield like this, not just as father and son, but as Mentor and Disciple as well. “Listen well, boy. The first lesson you must learn is that no man is an island, not even one as powerful as you. As a commander, you take on too much responsibility, and in doing so, you put your soldiers and comrades at risk. If you falter and fail, then they will die, for they have placed their trust in your commands, so you must place your trust in their abilities. This is a lesson you know well, one you have put to good use in your business endeavours, but one which has not translated into your war efforts.”

Despite scanning the surroundings for signs of Concealed Wraiths or worse, Baatar knew the boy was scowling as he shuffled his weight from foot to foot, unable to contain his pique because he believed his father’s advice to be wrong, but was too respectful to point it out. To this end, Baatar met the boy’s eyes with a smile and gave him tacit permission to speak up. “I can help them win the battle this way,” was all the boy could muster, a weak argument which even he didn’t wholeheartedly believe, which is why he was quick to add, “Or at least reduce the number of casualties.”

There it was, Baatar’s soft-hearted fool of a son, and he loved him all the more for it, but the boy was not suited to be a General and commander. There were times when difficult decisions needed to be made, and little Rain was incapable of making them. “At what cost, son?” Seeing the boy’s confusion, Baatar steeled his heart and pressed on, for this was a lesson the boy needed to learn. “Imagine if you had a weapon that could win this battle outright, but doing so would cause famine to sweep across the Empire and kill millions through starvation. Would you use it?”

“No, of course not.”

“Even if our defeat here was written in stone?”

Again, the boy opened his mouth to answer immediately, but then he stopped to consider it. “Yes,” he replied after giving it some thought. “I mean, yes, I would not use that weapon. It’s one thing to die in war, and another altogether to die to famine.”

“Yet if we were to lose here, the Defiled would be free to run rampant throughout the West and possibly even break through to Central.” Stifling a sigh as the boy settled in to argue the facts, Baatar continued speaking so as not to give him a chance. “The fact of the matter is that a famine can be weathered, but a Defiled victory here in Shi Bei would mean the deaths of every last Westerner still resisting, including those we rescued from Pan Si Xing. Knowing this, you would still refuse to use the weapon?” Baatar had almost been tempted to leave those people behind, but he could not give an order which he himself would refuse to follow. Looking back on it now, even if his eyes were not amber and he was not of the people, Baatar liked to think that he would not have brought the boy back to his slavers, for doing so would have gone against everything he stood for. Back then, he’d thought the girl weak for wanting to protect a stranger she barely knew, but he saw this for the strength it was, the strength to stand for what she believed in, and a strength little Rain shared.

He showed it now, holding fast to his conviction in spite of having no leg to stand on. “That’s… I don’t know.” Good, good, the boy was thinking now, rather than complaining about unfairness or arguing the details. “The logical thing to do would be use the weapon, because we’d save more lives in the long run than those we lose to famine, but life isn’t just about numbers. Even if less people die, that doesn’t justify causing a famine. Being the lesser of two evils doesn’t make it the right choice.”

Alas, the boy was wrong in this, and Baatar had no choice but to explain why. “We are not speaking of life, boy, but war, and war is nothing if not about numbers. Given the choice, I would use the weapon in a heartbeat, because death by starvation is a better alternative to leaving the West to the Enemy.” Forcing himself to look the boy in the eyes, Baatar mustered up every scrap of confidence he had and stood strong before his son’s hurt and disappointed stare. “You value the lives of your soldiers and do everything you can to preserve them, which usually is the mark of a good commander, but sometimes, lives must be spent in order to ensure even more lives can be saved.”

The boy had no argument for this, so instead, he tried to argue the circumstances, pointing at himself and saying, “One man’s strength to save hundreds, if not thousands of soldiers seems like a good trade to me.”

And there it was, the boy’s greatest failing of all, his propensity to undervalue his own achievements. “Perhaps, if that one man were anyone other than you.” Shaking his head with a smile, he patted his son’s head and said, “You will find this an unpleasant truth to bear, but war is an unpleasant affair, so heed me and do not argue before considering my words carefully. Your life is worth more than the hundreds or thousands or even millions of lives you might save expending your strength in this manner. It matters not how many soldiers you lead to Insight or how many commoners you guide to become Martial Warriors, because you have reached a level of strength which no number of crossbows, spears, or even cannons could ever match.”

It was difficult for the boy to stay silent, but he heeded Baatar’s advice all the same, and it was easy to see him turning over the statement in his head, and even easier to see that he agreed in spite of himself. If the Enemy should for whatever reason choose to break the Treaty, little Rain was the only person capable of keeping the Enemy Divinities from wreaking untold destruction upon the Empire and turning Shi Bei in to a second Arid Wastes, to say nothing of a deterrent against the Enemy’s hidden stockpile of Anathema which they had yet to utilize. Seeing the boy’s crestfallen expression as he struggled to accept the truth, Baatar stifled a sigh and patted his sweet son on the back. “You are a kind boy and always have been, a trait which I admire greatly. To have seen and suffered through such darkness yet emerge better for it, I dare not claim I could do the same.”

There was the carrot, but now came time for the stick, one Baatar could not bear to use while looking at his son. “But as you said before, mercy to one’s enemies is cruelty to one’s self, and you can no longer afford to be so cruel. The Enemy has come with the intent to slaughter us all, while our allies have left us here to die, but I have faith in the men and women of Shi Bei.” Gesturing at the soldiers fighting bitterly along the walls, Baatar continued, “I believe in their ability to hold these walls and stand firm against the Defiled tide, for these mere foreign tribesmen are nowhere near enough to break them. Soldiers will fight and die, but they will hold nonetheless, because they know that this is a price which must be paid, as this is only the beginning.”

Glancing down at his son, Baatar saw just how hurt and lost the boy was, so unwilling to accept things as they were and determined to overturn convention upon its head. There might come a day when he succeeded, though Baatar would hesitate to say that crossbows and cannons would change war for the better, but he would adapt or die as needed. The boy was so talented and brilliant beyond his years, but it would take time for the world to come around to his radical ideas, time he would have aplenty if he’d managed to become something akin to a Divinity in longevity. “This is your stage, son,” Baatar concluded, just brimming with pride as he held his boy close and did what he could to soothe the pain of the truth, “Where you will soon show the world your newfangled strength, but you must wait until it comes your turn to fight. Soldiers against soldiers and Generals against Generals, such is the way of war as it stands, and you are no longer a mere soldier.”

For once, the boy nodded and accepted Baatar’s lesson without uttering a word of dispute, or at least he did until he realized what had just been said. “Wait what? You expect me to go out and fight? Like…fight fight?” Glancing around in a panic, he stuttered and said, “But…. Uh… Grand-Mentor told me to sit tight, so…”

“She did,” Baatar replied, fighting the urge to also glance around, only to do so under the guise of sweeping for Wraiths, “And I would never dare tell you to disobey her, but… there are exceedingly rare occasions in which she might be… overly cautious. Only because she loves and cares for you,” he quickly added, just in case Mother was actually listening somehow, because she was never one to spare the rod and spoil the child, even if said child was over eighty years old. “And her warning was meant to keep you from pushing the limits of a Divinity, whereas I want you to display your strength as a non-Divinity to bolster the spirits of the soldiers.” Meeting the boy’s eyes with an impish smile, Baatar found an equally mischievous smile awaiting him. “Surely you are curious about the limits of your strength too, and here, I can be right there by your side as you test them.”

