“Huh…” It was clear the boy was displeased to hear it, for he had an innate aversion to all things religious, though Baatar understood it well enough. If he’d suffered through what the boy had suffered, he too would have begged the Mother Above for mercy, and he might well have grown to hate Her for leaving him to suffer so. “I guess that’s possible,” the boy begrudgingly admitted, though he was quick to add, “But it could also just be the fact that I’m… less separated from the Heavens, I guess? Closer to Heavenly Energy in its raw and natural form maybe? Though it does beg the question if there’s any cost to Insight. Me sacrificing my Natal Souls seems to help others find Insight, and I already know there’s a hidden cost to that, so is it possible that Insight is an exchange of soul for knowledge?”

The first part of the boy’s statement sent a chill down Baatar’s spine, and he wanted to berate himself for allowing the boy to waste his time so. “Sit down and meditate,” he instructed, not even bothering to Send. “Not here. Back of the battlements. Now.”

“Uh…” Allowing himself to be hustled along under a shroud of Concealment, the boy asked, “Why?”

“Because of what you said.” Seeing the boy’s confusion, Baatar gathered every scrap of patience left to him and said, “If you truly are closer to the Heavens and able to find Insight, then you should stop wasting it on others and focus inwards on yourself. Doubly so if this Insight comes at a cost, because you, my son, have strength aplenty, but no earthly idea how to use it.”

“Oh.” The boy’s eyes widened. “Oh! Oh damn!” Unwilling to waste even a second more, he plopped down on the battlements where he stood and crossed his legs in meditation, finding Balance so easily it came upon him before he took his next breath. Chuckling to himself as he felt the Energy of the Heavens stir around the boy, Baatar turned to face the Enemy and stood careful guard over his son.

Now, he was even more excited to see how the boy fought, but every second of meditation might well mean another Insight to propel him along his Path, and Baatar was merely pleased to have been a part of it.

Chapter Meme
