Lips pursed in a frown, Yuhuan wrinkles her nose and looks me up and down. “And I suppose you think I should appoint you, hmm?” Oh god no, but luckily, she feels the same way. “You are far too crafty for my liking, not at all like how you appear. Little Zian, lend me your concubine for these matters. She may represent my interests so long as you agree to match the price of any obligations she commits me to.”

...She’s a terrible judge of character if she thinks I’m craftier than Jing Fei, but credit where it’s due, Yuhuan is a cutthroat merchant, negotiating to get paid twice if she’s inconvenienced with the need to work. Dammit, I should’ve locked her in on a price for runic bullets and cannons before giving her all my ideas.

Zian immediately agrees, and while they discuss the details of their plan, I sit back and take a moment to breathe. I’ve been under so much stress and pressure, my constant paranoia is turning into the new normal. Taking a cue from Pong Pong, I follow his angry glare towards Sinuji and search for clues of what’s got his panties in a twist, but my search is fruitless aside from a fuzzy patch of clouds and a suspicious looking shadow. Aside from that, all there is to see is Zian’s camp to my south, then the walls of Sinuji beyond it, and a clearing which is bustling with activity. There’s nothing out of the ordinary for a military camp, but my mind continues to scream of indistinct danger, warning me to remain alert and guarded. Is that Han soldier staring at me? Are those craftsmen wandering by too often? Is that shadow moving? A full minute passes before my paranoia settles and fades, but it returns in full force a few seconds after I look away, only to disappear when I turn around once again.

What the hell is going on? Have I gone full crazy?

Not wanting to draw attention to Pong Pong, I keep a close eye on the tiny Divinity but all he does is glare at the clearing in Fort Sinuji. Minutes pass as I parse this latest mystery until Yan’s elbow jabs into my ribs. Keeping her forearm pressed against mine, she flashes a lovely yet dangerous smile and Sends, “Keep staring at Song’s breasts and you’ll wear a hole through her breastplate.”

What? No! “I’m not staring at her breasts, I’m staring at Pong Pong and trying to figure out why he’s angry.” Besides, Yan said it herself, Song’s wearing a breastplate so there’s nothing to see. It’s not boob-armour or anything, it’s a solid slab of curved metal covering Song’s large, weighty breasts beneath.

Okay, now I’m imagining them, but only because Yan brought it up.

Yan’s eye-roll tells me she doesn’t believe me, but protesting won’t help now that my cheeks are burning with shame. I told her about Pong Pong and how we met, but I don’t think she fully comprehends how incredible the tiny turtle really is. I’m not talking about his power level either. We only had the one encounter in his Natal Palace, but he understood enough to not only recognize me, but also make a request for more shrimp before sending me away. Understanding abstract concepts and utilizing non-verbal communication are huge steps in intelligence, to the point where most humans have enough trouble with either concept, but Pong Pong has proven himself capable of both.

Too bad I can’t muster the courage to visit his Natal Palace again, but I’d rather not risk finding out what happens if my spiritual body dies. For all I know, he’s grumpy because he wants more shrimp and Chi Tea.

With their plans laid out, the meeting comes to an abrupt end as everyone leaves to do their own thing, including Yan who shoots me a smoky glare before leaving arm in arm with Kyung and Song. Without Pong Pong to justify my paranoia, I push aside my delusions and head to my yurt, where Ping Ping lies in wait with a turtley smile as I get to work. My bathing area has become a permanent fixture in these past few days, as I spend most of my time inside practising how to materialize and Hone Water Chi. Progress is slow considering it takes ten percent of my maximum capacity every time I materialize Water Chi, but luckily it costs nothing to fail at that first step, which I do more often than not, else I’d be constantly taking baths to replenish my Water Chi reserves.

Well... more baths than I have been, which were a lot. Even with so many failures, it doesn’t take long to go through ten tries.

The most infuriating thing is how my Natal Palace is supposed to be used for efficient Chi practice, but it’s too easy materializing water in there to make improvements in the real world. I spoke with Song on this matter, but she doesn’t have the same problem. While she controls everything in her Natal Palace, she still has the same issues with Chi manipulation in there as she does out normally, which is supposedly normal. It seems my circumstances are unique, though how this prowess came about is a mystery. Maybe it has something to do with my Natal Palace diving abilities, or maybe it’s because of how I first formed it, while under the influence of the Demon formerly known as Vivek Daatei’s mind-fuckery. Either way, my Natal Palace is too malleable to be of use, so until I figure out how to limit my powers in the void, I’m stuck practising in stupid, inefficient reality.

It’d be so much better if I could bring my powers of imagination out into the real world. If I can’t have real bear arms, then I could at least craft bear arms out of water, which is at least dream-adjacent...

Maybe I’m oversimplifying things, but when you get down to the nitty-gritty of it, all of my problems stem from a lack of strength, whether it be personal or political. If I were strong enough to dominate my opponents instead of beating them by luck, then it wouldn’t matter if I behaved in a tyrannical and overbearing manner, because I’d have the capital to back it up. If I had a powerful political ally like the Ryo or Dienne families, then the Society wouldn’t have free rein to maneuver me into a dead end. If I had value beyond my talent, then the Empire would have no choice but to shelter me, because I’d be an invaluable asset in years to come, rather than the possible nuisance they view me as now. Look at the Tyrant; she walked into a meeting with three Patriarchs, called them all a bunch of idiots, and walked right back out without repercussion. When will I get to do the same?

As things stand, until Dad gets my latest letter, there’s nothing for me to do except train and tread lightly, so I continue my efforts until all my Water Chi is spent. Instead of asking my Death Corps to fill the tub again, I flop down next to Ping Ping and lean against her for a break. Sweet as usual, the big girl nuzzles me ever so gently, as if sensing my discouragement and cheering me on. Warmed by her affection, I pat her cheek and Send, “If only you could teach me your water-bending ways, Ping Ping.” She doesn’t understand my words and never Sends back, but giving voice to my frustrations makes me feel better and she recognizes the sound of her name and happily squeaks in response.

Three days without a significant breakthrough, so I suppose I should rethink my approach. Maybe it’s time I took another look at Chi-infused water...

Chapter Meme
