Can I trust him? She glanced at Calen, wholly absorbed in repairing his arrows. He had had her back during the fight without question, and he seemed incredibly smart, but she disliked being dependent on him to guide them back to safety.

Her thoughts drifted back to the fight that started this whole disaster, and the conundrum that she hadn’t been able to unwrap. Mato… why did you get involved? She hadn’t been particularly nice to the Beastkin boy, and she knew he knew it. She wrestled it around in her mind for a while, but it still twisted around in her conscience. I owe him, and I hate that.

She looked speculatively at Calen, who hadn’t spoken a single word since he sat down.

“Calen,” she began, “why do you stick up for him? Mato?”

Calen’s dagger paused briefly before he answered. “He’s my friend.”

It was a simple answer, honest and truthful to her assessment, and yet, it wasn’t nearly the whole story. She considered him for a while, debating how to approach it.

“It seems more than that,” she finally pointed out. At his surprised glance, she pressed on, committed now. “You seem to be very smart and perceptive, even though you don’t talk much. You must know how bad his Berserker skill is for a group. And yet you stick up for him, and look out for him, and don’t call him out when he takes unilateral action. He attacked Edrik while Kieran Mori was watching, is he stupid or something?”

Calen paused, and then finally put his dagger down carefully in front of him. He stared into the distance for a while, his eyes somewhat unfocused before he began to speak quietly.

“I am the bastard child of a Human and a Sun Elf. My father ran off before I was even born.” Calen’s eyes took a harsh cast and though his voice remained calm, Malika could trace every line of the tension in his neck and the fists he had formed in his lap.

His repressed anger caught her attention as surely as the unexpected personal revelation. All her interactions with him told her that he was quiet, introverted, shy, and calm. She sat quietly as he reined in the anger and covered the cracks in his internal emotional defenses.

“Nobody likes a bastard, and everyone hates half-breeds,” he continued, apparently calm once more. “Most Elves treat me like I’m inferior in every way. At best, I get pity. Most humans are distrustful of my Elven heritage. As Myrin’s Keep began to slide into crime and anarchy, things only got worse for me and my mom. At first, I’m sure she stayed because she was hoping he would come back, but after a while, with the falling out from the Guild of Tailors and the Town Watch’s ever-increasing taxes for protection against criminals, we could no longer afford to leave.”

“The Town Watch are puppets of the Hawkhurst Trading Company’s criminal syndicate,” Malika said, unable to keep the frustrated anger from her words.

“I know. Most people know, but what can we do? My mom is almost level sixty, but a Tailor class is powerless against even a level twenty with a sword and the combat skills to back it up.”

Malika fell silent. He’s right. She knew it, and many people did too. It was unfair all around, but like her, they all seemed trapped in it.

“When I was younger, Donavan and his clique of hangers-on and wannabe nobles would pick on me almost every day, telling me it was my own fault for being born a half-breed. One day, they had me pinned on the playground and they were taking turns practicing their punches. They said it was for my own good, that as a Half-elf I should feel honored to help my betters practice their combat skills. Mato walked up to him and knocked him out cold with a heavy branch. He sent three of the others to the school healer before the group overwhelmed him and beat him up.”

“Is he stupid? Why would he get himself beaten up in a fight he had no chance of winning?” This scenario was the same as the one which was bothering her. “Why fight if you cannot win?”

“Mato sees the world differently than most. Things like this are very simple and direct for him. Normal people might evaluate the enemies arrayed against them before getting involved, weighing the risks and benefits. Someone like you or me would run for help. Mato just sees an injustice, or his friend in need, and gets involved. The risk isn’t part of his calculation. That’s why he charged in to save Ali from an entire pack of wolves. You and I both thought it was an unreasonable risk, an unwinnable fight, and that made us hesitate. All he saw was that she was about to die, and he could not stand by and not help.”

It made a weird sort of sense. All the actions Mato had shown seemed to fit Calen’s assessment. It’s going to get him killed though. But one thing still didn’t make sense.

“You said he sticks up for his friends without question. I can respect that. But why me? I’m not even nice to him.”

“Mato decided to give you his friendship. It doesn’t particularly matter to him that you don’t reciprocate. After he defended me on the playground, I wanted nothing to do with him for months. But it didn’t bother him at all – he simply kept doing it.”

“He’s a fucking idiot.” Understanding Mato better simply made her more frustrated and annoyed.

“Yes, but it’s not stupidity – he’s smart, he just sees the world differently. He was the only person other than my mom who accepted me without question.” Calen picked up his dagger. “He’s also a half-breed, and his dad is a literal monster in the eyes of most. He would never show it, but I think he needs friendship even more than I do.”

With that, Calen returned to his repairs, leaving Malika alone with her thoughts.

In the quiet space of her Meditation, she considered Calen and his story. Sometimes she forgot that she was not the only person with a harsh life. Being abandoned by his Elf father seemed to be an intensely personal issue for Calen, but even she had seen how poorly half-breeds were treated in this town. If he had been slender and physically weak growing up, it would have been so much worse. Mato might be a half-breed with a monster race, but he was certainly big and physically powerful.

So many times, she had wished for someone to come and save her from her own life and struggles. But it wasn’t even that she wanted to be saved – it would have been enough just to have someone with her. Someone on my side. No matter what. She shook her head, finally realizing why Calen stuck with Mato.

He’s still an idiot. But she found that much of her frustration and anger towards the Beastkin had faded after hearing Calen’s tale. She found herself trying to imagine what life might have been like if she had just had a similar idiot willing to take a beating to be on her side. At least I understand Calen’s feelings now. And maybe Mato is just as lonely as the rest of us? Still, I mustn’t get too involved here. I can’t afford it.

***

Name: MalikaRace: HumanTitles: Street RatActive Buffs: Perfect Body, Soul Armor, Enlightened EvasionClass: Soul Monk – level 6- Martial Artist – level 5- Soul Strike – level 6- Healing Mantra – level 4- Perfect Body – level 6- Soul Armor – level 5- Enlightened Evasion – level 4- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Meditation – level 4- Dancing – level 4- Calligraphy – level 3- Lockpicking – level 5- Appraise – level 6Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Bloodline (Ahn Khen): Dormant- Mana (Affinity): Soul- Relentless (Class): +100% to Stamina Regeneration- Relentless (Class): You can pay for any abilities with stamina instead of manaAttributes- Vitality: 20- Strength: 10- Endurance: 26 (+8)- Dexterity: 47 (+15)- Perception: 12- Intelligence: 10- Wisdom: 41 (+13)Armor: 35Physical Damage Reduction: 17.24%Evasion: 28Dodge: 14.28%Health: 200/200Stamina: 234/260 (26 Reserved)Mana: 287/410 (123 Reserved)
