It was her father’s teachings, echoing in her memory, that snapped her out of her surprise. Malika burst into motion, side-stepping his spear thrust and returned the favor by punching Grak in the snout using her Soul Strike to enhance the damage. Immediately, the two dagger-wielders behind her closed in, pressing their advantage, and she was suddenly dodging a flurry of blades and flying rocks from all directions. The warrior attacked, stabbing with his spear. Malika dodged but took a stray dagger slash to her upper arm.

I’m being flanked.

For all their reputation of being weak, Goblins were cunning fighters, and they had the advantage of numbers and solid teamwork. She had never fought Goblins before, obviously, but she knew enough to know she was in trouble.

There are too many…

Suddenly, a streak of brilliant white seared past a mere half-foot above her head. One of the stone-throwing Goblins toppled off the wagon with an arrow jutting out of its neck. It screeched and thrashed on the ground, spitting up blood as it fell among its comrades, and Malika took advantage of the distraction to deliver a powerful kick combination to the warrior’s ribs, dodging his deadly spear. Her Soul Strike stole health in small chunks, repairing the wound on her arm from the dagger strike. She still hadn’t fully recovered her mana, but this was not the time to be frugal. Unfortunately, the rogues recovered quickly, and the warrior, Grak, simply laughed at her and thrust again, making his spear swish with uncanny speed. She punched him in the face. His vicious forward thrust slammed into her ribs, striking with unbelievable power. Her blood sprayed across the nearby Goblin rogue, and she could tell from the crack that he had broken her rib again.

Did he get stronger?

Grak cackled with glee, and from the back of his shoulders and his wiry arms, a faint red mist began to form. A mist that looked suspiciously like Mato’s skill.

Berserker! Just my luck.

Malika wrestled with a difficult choice. She could either continue and try to kill the Berserker warrior before his damage got out of hand, while simultaneously trying to survive the rogues and other Goblins. Or she could try to take out the weaker Goblins and avoid feeding the warrior’s rage skill until the end. But she would undoubtedly take some spear strikes from the skilled elite Goblin in the meantime.

A second scavenger fell screaming from the wagon above, the brilliantly glowing arrow in its throat fading as it hit the ground.

I’m not alone, she reminded herself as her choice suddenly became clear. Calen’s whittling them down already.

Malika switched to the weakest-looking rogue and kicked it in the stomach. Calen would deal with the Goblins on the top of the wagon. I hope I have enough left to finish it, she thought, as she went all out on the rogue, trying to kill it as quickly as possible. Her punches landed in quick succession, each burning a portion of her stamina to power Soul Strike and return some health. The wounds on her ribs began to knit together, and even some of the burns began to heal as she dug in.

The rogue retaliated with a rapid pair of strikes, both of which Malika dodged. But she wasn’t quick enough to dodge the warrior’s spear thrust to her thigh. As she stumbled, the second rogue leapt in and stabbed her in the back twice before she could even react. She was never so thankful she had an excellent armor skill – and that she had waited to regenerate enough to reactivate it – as she winced from the pain of the devastating attacks. The Goblin warrior’s cackling laughter was getting on her nerves. Pulsing her Healing Mantra briefly to restore a little more health, Malika surged to her feet and kneed the rogue brutally in the sternum, triggering Soul Strike again. Carefully judging the angles, she feigned a stumble, dodging back away from where she judged Calen to be hiding. Hungry for her blood, the Goblins took the bait hook, line, and sinker, rushing forward and presenting their backs to the Half-elf archer concealed among the trees.

Not too smart…

A brilliantly glowing arrow streaked across the battlefield and pierced clean through the throat of the most injured Goblin rogue from behind, killing it with a wet gurgle and a shower of blood. Thanks, Calen. Teamwork. She mentally thanked him for the strategic choice. One less Goblin I need to dodge. She spun on her heel and performed a round kick to the remaining rogue’s head, and then had to scramble to dodge a stab combination from the Berserker warrior’s spear. Her dodge wasn’t nearly as effective against the higher-level Goblin, and she earned a slash to her forearm and a nasty stab wound to her ribs.

I just healed those! Seriously?

Bleeding freely again, she kept a careful eye on the dangerous elite Berserker while she resumed her attack on the rogue. She dodged and weaved, slipping in punches and kicks whenever she had an opening and trying to force the Goblins into tangling each other up. Suddenly, the Goblin rogue turned and fled, leaving bloody footprints as it ran. Malika desperately wanted to chase it down, but she was still pinned in place, trying desperately to avoid a dangerously skillful spear.

If it gets away, we will be facing the entire army. As if he had read her mind, the dazzling white streak of Calen’s empowered arrow tore across the clearing, plugging in the fleeing rogue’s back with a dull thud. It dropped to the ground. Phew! She let out her breath and gasped as she barely avoided a spear point that aimed to aerate her windpipe. Focus! It’s an elite. He fought with a continuous cackle and a crazy look in his eyes. However, there was nothing off about his spear. Each strike was quick and precise, and Malika found herself taking constant cuts and stabs, despite her frantic efforts to dredge up every defensive move she knew. Without her armor and her dodge skills, she would probably have already died.

Pulsing another heal through her body, she stepped up her counterattacks. Even though her resources were running low, she knew she could not afford to hold back against the elite Berserker. Each punch and kick flickered with her magical energy. Each point of health recovered went to restore her wounds. And with every strike, the Berserker came back stronger.

Arrows whistled through the air like glowing rain as Malika wrestled for position, struggling to create openings for Calen. But every arrow that buried itself in the Berserker’s back only fed the growing mist.

After several minutes, the laughter suddenly cut off. Grak roared, and the mist pouring out of his thick green hide deepened to a dark red, his eyes bloodshot and beginning to glow. He swiped sideways with his spear and Malika could barely see the shaft as it smacked into her shin, tripping her. Immediately he stabbed, punching the point of the spear right through her thigh. Out of sheer desperation, she grabbed the shaft of the spear, locking it in place, and clocked him in the jaw. It felt like hitting a boulder. She almost blacked out as the Goblin twisted the spear impaling her thigh. Through the haze of her pain, she saw two arrows slam into the Goblin’s back and neck while she lashed out at him again, but he seemed immune to the pain.

With a roar, he hauled on the spear, wrenching it from her grasp and tearing it out of her leg in a horrific spray of blood. Malika answered her body’s agonized screaming at the violation with a full-power Healing Mantra, burning the last of her mana, scrambling out of the way of a vicious high-speed lancing attack, the spear point gleaming wickedly as it passed a fraction of an inch from her left eye. A brace of Calen’s arrows feathered from its left flank as if magically teleported there. From the ground, she executed a low kick and connected solidly, sweeping the Goblin off his feet. Desperate to gain any advantage, she leapt on him and punched him repeatedly flush in the face, each strike flashing and cracking as his head ricocheted off the hard ground.

The warrior heaved her off him with unbelievable strength and, with an overhead punch, struck her on the shoulder. Her collarbone cracked as she was driven to her knees by the unnatural power of the Berserker’s rage. Meanwhile, another arrow buried itself deep into his back, but the Goblin paid it no mind, charging Malika with his spear raised to deliver a lethal strike. With a supreme effort, she leapt up and backward, sucking in her stomach. The scything blade scored a deep crimson line across her skin but missed anything vital. Malika lunged forward, solid footwork and a twist from her torso powering an elbow strike to his throat. With a flash of her Soul Strike, and a sickening crunch, the elite Goblin Berserker collapsed in a lifeless heap.

Got you, ugly bastard!

Your group has defeated Berserker Warrior – Goblin – level 9.Your group has defeated Dagger Rogue – Goblin – level 2-3 x2.Your group has defeated Skirmisher – Goblin – level 2.Your group has defeated Scavenger – Goblin – level 1 x2.

Malika let herself slump to the ground, too, drawing down most of her remaining stamina to heal herself. Her heart still hadn’t realized it was over, and her arms were trembling from the aftereffects of adrenaline. She stared at the corpse of the Berserker, still grinning in death. Grak no eat girl today, that’s for sure! she thought and then she settled in to recover her mana and stamina with Meditation as Calen appeared to check on her.

Soul Monk has reached level 6.+10 attribute points.Martial Artist has reached level 5.Soul Strike has reached level 6.Soul Armor has reached level 5.Enlightened Evasion has reached level 4.Appraise has reached level 6.

Wow, that was worth it! She waited while Calen systematically searched all the corpses, recovering all of his arrows before she felt able to get to her feet.

“That guy was an elite,” Calen said. “We need to be careful out here.”

“Yes, I figured,” she answered, meeting his droll smile with one of her own. “Let’s move.”

Together, they sprinted the rest of the way to the relative safety of the trees.

***

For nearly an hour, Malika followed Calen as they snuck through the woods, dodging patrols. They killed a few isolated Goblins when Calen identified them as being low-level and hid in the undergrowth when another elite Goblin ran by. Eventually the sounds of the Goblin raid began to fade and Calen drew to a halt in a secluded clearing with some cover.

“I think we should be safe here for a bit,” Calen said. “Let’s get some rest.”

“Ok.” As she hunkered down, her chime sounded again for no apparent reason. Startled, and unable to resist her burning curiosity, Malika opened her notifications at once.

Requirements met for skill advancement.

She almost blurted it out, but she caught herself and glanced surreptitiously toward Calen. He seemed busy with his arrows and hadn’t noticed her surprise.

She hesitated. Her instincts, honed over the brutal years surviving the slums, clamored for her to keep her power secret. He didn’t need to know. The more she shared, the more people might take advantage of her.

He had my back out there.

She studied the Half-elf in profile while he worked, muttering something about the awful quality of Goblin arrows. But in the end, she had to trust her instincts. They were the only reason she had survived, after all. She read on.

Martial Artist has reached level 5.Tanked five or more monsters simultaneously.Survived a critical strike from an elite monster.Received master-level training in defensive melee fighting.Used two or more Defense-trait skills in combat simultaneously.Martial Artist gains Artful Blocking.Martial Artist gains the Defense trait.Martial Artist – level 5Requires: Unarmed.You are proficient with unarmed and acrobatic martial arts fighting styles. Your reaction speed is enhanced.Stamina: Deliver a Melee Attack with any part of your body. Attack damage is increased by +92% [40 + skill + dexterity].Stamina: Block or deflect a Melee attack reducing damage taken proportional to dexterity and skill. Blocked attacks cannot cause critical damage. Physical, Melee, Attack, Defense, Mastery, DexterityAccept this advancement?

Hell, yes! This is perfect!

Malika accepted the advance without hesitation. Normally, one was supposed to carefully consider the future impact of skill advances, making sure to only accept those that were in line with the direction you wished to grow. Accepting advances would often block other subsequent, perhaps better, or more aligned choices from being offered later. But she knew that being able to block, guard, or deflect attacks was a fundamental martial arts technique and something she would certainly have used extensively against Grak. This advancement was perfectly aligned with Malika’s goal to become a powerful martial artist, but even so, she was not exactly in the position to be hesitant about taking something that may save her life out here.

“I thought Goblin elites were rare,” Malika said, picking a safer topic.

“Yes,” Calen nodded. “That probably means there’s an entire Goblin horde or warren nearby. I saw tracks that looked like Timber Wolves and Bugbears. If they have Bugbears, it will be a big group – far more than we can handle.”

“Yes. I saw a Goblin Fire Mage earlier, too. This close to the town, I think we should investigate,” Malika said. The idea was fraught with danger. If they were caught, they would most likely die and be eaten – in that order, if they were lucky. On the other hand, the town would need to know the danger they were in, and the more information they could bring the better their chances.

“I agree,” Calen replied soberly. “Surprised?”

“Uh, sorry. I shouldn’t be.”

Malika sat quietly Meditating allowing Calen to finish his work. He had all the arrows laid out neatly in front of him, and with painstaking meticulousness, he was trimming and repairing the damage with their only dagger.

Meantime, she considered her situation and what must have transpired. The thugs from the Town Watch had captured them – most likely Tala’s doing – and it was serious enough that Kieran Mori himself had gotten involved. Myrin’s Keep is going to be dangerous for me from now on. We must have been sold. It was the reason for the Kel’darran merchant caravan – and the only plausible reason Kieran Mori had left them alive. It had taken a fat slice of luck, some skill, and a full-on Goblin raid to escape their Kel’darran slave caravan, and now she was stuck out here, lost in the wilderness with a Half-elf she barely knew.

