"You may rest for all time, brother. You fought the tide, and so it fought you back. Though washed away to sea, you will always be remembered."

I laid my head on its chest,

"In Eternum, Vive."

Placing my palm onto its neck, my armor began assimilating the body's mana. It always saddened me when one of these guys died, but I pushed through that sensation. The Overseer gave me advice when we first fought Lehesion, and I agreed with the sentiment. Schema's world was harsh, and it required brutal tactics like this to survive.

Standing up, I carried the body and the spear with me. Leaping down, I landed beside the edge of the blue core's barrier. Without a threat nearby, its physical manifestation faded, letting me enter. On the other side of the forcefield, I found several people watching me. The first I noticed was the least evident of these individuals: Amara and Hod.

They hid behind the others, but the terror in their eyes as they gawked at me was evident. It left my hair standing on end, so I shifted from Event Horizon to The Rise of Eden. This settled them down some, but they still stayed on edge. The others I found proved far more welcoming.

Krog and Chrona flew overhead, both of them circling my position while thundering to the heavens,

"We are victorious."

They were right. The Hybrids stopped their first offensive as the Hybridized Sentinel died. They still rallied a few miles from our encampment, but this left us with about twenty square miles of secured territory. Not much for a planet, but it was plenty considering we were in the middle of Blegara's capital. It wasn't too shabby a place to start our conquering of the area.

Knowing how important this victory was, I raised a fist and shouted,

"We've won."

A group of my guildsmen let loose with approval and celebration. The gialgathens, in particular, let out a deafening telepathic howl. It left me stunned, both with joy and a bit of mental whiplash. Either way, they meant well, so I let it slide. Before I began celebrating, I turned towards where the Sentinel and my fight initially started.

There, resting in pieces, was Alpha. I winced at the sight, his eyes dead and cold. I raised my hands to everyone crowded around me, "Excuse me. I have to handle something first."

They backed away before I paced up to Alpha's body. I leaned over, putting my hand on his chest piece. It was cold. I grimaced at the sight, his death affecting me more than I thought it would. I made hundreds of these guys, new and improved versions even. None of that changed the fact that he was the first of his kind.

Losing him was a new kind of sting, and I hadn't expected it. I turned towards the others here, and I raised my hands, "Golems. Come here."

Those that heard obeyed. The golems raced over towards my position, several dozen collecting here. The others helped Vagni in the distance or cleaned up the messes there. I let them continue with their worthy pursuits. I just wanted Alpha to be remembered, kind of like how the Sentinels and Overseers respected the passing of their own.

I turned to the golems here, "I don't know what kind of burial he would need, but you guys are probably more in tune with what he would have wanted. Any ideas?"

A golem walked forth. It was Beta, the second of his kind,

"Master, I believe he would want to assist the war effort. He died a noble and complete death, and for us, we could hope for no greater honor than assisting the whole."

I took a few steps back from Alpha, "Then do what you can."

The other golems stepped up, and they lifted the body over us with gravitation. They each used their own version of Event Horizon. While paling in comparison to my own aura, they used many of them condensed over his body. The intensity mounted until Alpha's remains began disintegrating.

He converted into the two mana types he was made of, both quintessence and ascendant. Those energies flowed over the other golems, the subtle hues of red and white both melancholy and beautiful. Over those few seconds, he disintegrated into a cloud of colorless ether.

In the end, he joined his brothers and sisters to fight on.

Beta turned to the others, "For Alpha."

They telepathically boomed, "For Alpha."

Turning around, I remembered where we stood. On the outskirts of our camp, many troops scattered out wet sand and ocean stones. They used plastic covered documents or system loaded data for communications, which wasn't exactly efficient. Given their lack of conducive working conditions, now was as good a time as any to build. It would act as an interlude for all the fighting I'd be doing this week as well.

To start, I stayed over at Alpha's resting place where he was last living. I took a mental image of my first golem made with a mind. Using that form, I molded a massive block of white stone. I chipped away at it, tearing it apart and cleaving at corners. Minutes passed, and I got the rough approximation of Alpha. After an hour, a more refined take appeared. It served as a memorial for him.

Beside the golem, I made several faceless warriors. One wore power armor, one wore an Omega Strain, and another was a gialgathen. Creating a metal plaque, I etched a date for the battle along with a quote - 'To those that sacrificed everything so that we could have anything.' Having honored our fallen, I turned and found several people grouped around me. They paid their respects as I finished.

Surrounding the monument in glass and metal, I protected it from the elements while giving it a walkway. Continuing work along that line, I spent the next few hours creating buildings for our people. Explosions in the background weren't precisely the best way to focus, so by sealing my members off from those distractions, I guaranteed more productivity for our people. It improved their quality of life too while we sieged here.

Watching me craft buildings in minutes also motivated the teams here. It gave this new place a sense of permanence, one where we had no intention of leaving. Knowing this, I built everything to last. I kept the designs similar in scope and function to my own golem center. Minimalist and functional, I gave them bulbs of quintessence as lighting too.

Unlike other mana bombs, I kept the crystallization stable, having learned quite a bit about solid mana after making the gems so often. I tied runic wiring to many of these buildings as a finishing detail, making the lighting serve dual purposes; they beautified and powered these living areas. This combined with roadways I generated along with metallic lamps powered by the same source.

This process continued until the next morning. Staring around, I found myself having crafted a miniature city overnight. People filed into my architecture as I made them, and it always filled me with pride seeing people enjoy, laugh, and live in what I made. That being said, this comfy interior gave the entire waterfront an incredibly surreal sensation.

On the one hand, my golems fought in view, just a mile away. They destroyed wave after wave of Hybrid reinforcements. On the other hand, soldiers sat in enclosed dwellings, comfortable and secured. They rested well, being able to block out the roar of war. The rings I gave them served that purpose, letting them float in place. This creative use was pioneered by Diesel, actually.

He spread the word, and now this antigravity sleeping style was commonplace throughout my guild. This improved living standard extended to my elite as well. Torix maintained control from an improvised lair as the siege dragged on. His hideaway offered relative tranquility, so Torix no longer needed to get his hands dirty anymore. This quiet enabled further outstanding logistics and orders from our lich, and he outmaneuvered the enemy time and time again.

Never needing sleep, Torix continued this through each night. During the days, Althea used the blue core's tower as a sniper's nest. Her spears tore enemy ships sent here, giving us aerial and nautical superiority. On the ground, Hod handled the situation, keeping his mind intent on personal, contained killings. He followed Kessiah, who operated under various rescue missions. This gave us a steady stream of pretty pissed off Vagni, but they did as they were told.

For now.

Amara worked on that issue, getting everything ready for our announcement. This gave us plenty of leeway for the operation's timing, and I readied that for our full advantage. I gathered a team of twenty gialgathens, Krog and Chrona included among them. We sat in our secured zone, communicating effectively despite the war waging beyond Torix's isolatory magic.

Staring at them, I raised a hand, "How are you all holding up?"

They established a telepathic multilink, one where anyone could join. Krog spoke out first,

"We're doing well. To have gained this much ground so soon fills our kind with pride. The ability to stretch our wings and explore as well, it's something I've long missed. I know others shared in my longing, and they share in my excitement as well."

Chrona peered at her skin, the silver sheen especially radiant today, "This place isn't as dry, either. I prefer this world to yours. The oceans, they are beautiful flying spots."

She peered away, "Er, not to offend you, Harbinger."

I raised a hand, "Trust me, no offense taken. I figured you guys would. Either way, we need to get a grip on the local populace. I don't want to wipe them out, and having them evacuated would make this a lot less complicated. To do that, I need to convince them that the eldritch are terrified of me."

A gialgathen in the back boomed, "Not too difficult a feat for you, I'd imagine."

The gialgathens laughed, and I raised a fist, "You're right. It's not. In fact, I'm a little too effective at scaring them now. I need the biggest of those monsters grouped together, but they run from me. That's where you all come in."

I pulled out blocks of quintessence, Amara and Hod's favorite flavor of mana,

"We can use these to bait the eldritch all into one place. Once clustered, I'll be using Amara's broadcast to show the eldritch submitting to me. That will really help out with getting the Vagni over to our side. They love their old gods, so if the old gods worship me, then logic dictates the Vagni will worship whoever the eldritch worship."

Krog narrowed his eyes, "What if the Vagni don't follow through with that reasoning?"

My runes flared red, crimson light bathing those around me, "Then I'll give them a different reason to follow me, one equally convincing."

The gialgathens paled, both heartened and terrified by me at the same time. Turning to Amara, I raised an eyebrow, "Are you ready?"

She tapped a few keys before nodding,

"Yes, Harbinger. Everything we need is prepared. We need only herd the wolves with these sheep."

She narrowed her eye laced palms at the gialgathens, "Enormous sheep."

The gialgathens laughed, their natural confidence on display. I turned to those here, "Then let's take this planet's people in one fell swoop."

After handing out the quintessence, everyone got to work. Amara nabbed a piece as I tossed them to our flyers, and she indulged with great hunger. Our force of gialgathens went about dispersing the bait after, leaving me with a bit of time before the eldritch clustered up. Optimizing as much as possible, I figured checking my status wouldn't be a waste of time.

And I was right.
