“Goodness, Lady Luo-Luo! Are ye all right?”

Assailed by the glaring sunlight and irritated by the noise, Luo-Luo squeezed her eyes shut and offered a wordless groan of displeasure. Why was her bed so uncomfortable, with her head pressed against a hard surface and back angled in an awkward position? Also, her blanket was doing a woefully inadequate job of keeping her warm, with the cold winter air streaming into the room and brushing over her bare, uncovered legs. Waving Anrhi (or perhaps Sorya, for they both looked and sounded alike) away, she rolled over to find a more comfortable position and go back to sleep, but her bed disappeared from under her and she came to with a start. “Mother in Heaven,” she exclaimed, her heart beating furiously within her chest even though she’d barely shifted in place. “Where... what...??”

The world slowly came into focus as her mind made sense of the chaos and her memories returned in full. She wasn’t lying nestled in bed and covered in blankets, but seated on the floor by the doorway where she’d fallen asleep last, covered only in a winter cloak meant only to keep her warm for a few brief seconds. Why? Because last night, she’d made up her mind to barge into Lord Husband’s room and demand he finally consummate their marriage despite his protests of waiting until after his marriage to Sister Mila, but Man proposes, and Heaven disposes. Unlike most nights where he idled the late hours away reading in his room, he spent the better part of the evening chatting with his parents in the living room across the courtyard, where all three of them had a direct line of sight to Luo-Luo’s bedroom door. Unable to sneak into his room without being spotted, she settled down to wait them out, but evidently fell asleep before their conversation came to an end.

The things one does for marriage...

“I’m fine,” Luo-Luo replied, waving aside her concerned handmaiden while trying to come up with an explanation for why she was sleeping by the doorway. Sorya and Anrhi were good people and hard workers, but they did so love to gossip. If Luo-Luo didn’t give them a proper reason for her current dilemma, then half the citadel would know about her strange sleeping habits by sundown. “I... my back was sore, so I tried laying on the ground.”

“...And ended up leaning against the door frame?” Anrhi’s tone (yes, it was most certainly Anrhi, for Sorya preferred white ribbons for her hair, rather than red) belied her disbelief, but the sweet girl didn’t let it get in the way of her work, already wrapping a warm quilt around Luo-Luo’s shivering frame. Only then did she realize how cold she was, and she clutched her sweet handmaiden close to steal her warmth. “Oh, you silly girl, you should’ve at least brought your blanket and pillow. Martial Warrior or not, you’ll freeze to death if you try this back home in the north.” Hugging Luo-Luo tight, Anrhi launched into yet another bleak tale of the North’s harsh clime, smiling as if she were proud of how the weather abused her so. Luo-Luo was not looking forward to seeing Lord Husband’s childhood home, which according to the twin handmaidens was as far north as one could get without leaving the Empire, a remote, secluded village hidden deep within the mountains. Even Tali and Tate’s tales were fraught with danger and uncertainty, though their youthful, innocent eyes didn’t see it that way. To them, giant birds of prey circling overhead or stumbling across dangerous predators whilst on a trek through the dark forest wasn’t even worth calling an adventure, but merely a part of everyday life.

A life, which to Luo-Luo, sounded like her nightmares made true. The world outside her Academy room was so vast and terrifying. What she wouldn’t give to be back in there again, safe from all the Demons, Defiled, assassins, and worse lurking in the shadows...

Between her inner grumbling over her failed ploy and fending off Anrhi’s well-intentioned suggestions for more comfortable sleep, Luo-Luo’s morning routine felt like it dragged on forever, but she eventually made it through unscathed and set out to join Lord Husband for a late breakfast. Granted, it was only late in comparison to the rest of the household, as Luo-Luo hardly considered nine in the morning late, but the Bekhai were an industrious bunch who started each day at an ungodly hour, long before the sun rose to greet them. Even Lord Husband was falling back into the habit now that his health had improved, so it came as a surprise to find the dining room empty and devoid of his presence. The animals were also nowhere to be found, so Luo-Luo was torn between playing the part of dutiful courtesan and standing by the door to await her Lord Husband’s presence or taking a seat at the table to rest her weary head.

He was probably still in bed right now, no doubt exhausted from his late night conversation with his parents and the subsequent visit from Yan soon after...

“Go on and take a seat, Lady Luo-Luo,” Anrhi said, pulling out a chair for her to sit in. “I’ll go see how Sorya is farin’ with yer breakfast.”

“Sorya?” Usually brother-in-law Charok cooked breakfast, or sister-in-law Alsantset.

“Yes Lady Luo-Luo.” Seeing her confusion, Anrhi lowered her head and explained in a whisper, “Master Rain woke up early and left to go make breakfast for Lady Mila, so...”

So they all forgot about Luo-Luo and left her to fend for herself. “Ah, I see.” Doing her best to hold back her tears, she took the offered seat with grace and aplomb, which was ruined when Anrhi leaned over to hug her.

“It’s alright Lady Luo-Luo,” she whispered, squeezing her tight for encouragement. “He’ll come around soon enough. You’ll see.”

Doubtful. Almost an entire year had passed since they first met, the anniversary of which was coming up on the first day of spring, and still he had yet to accept her into his life, much less his marital bed. Lin-Lin’s advice to let nature take it’s course had failed to bear fruit, and now here Luo-Luo sat, alone in the dining room waiting for breakfast because no one besides her handmaidens remembered her existence. How pitiful...

Sorya arrived soon after with a piping hot breakfast and while Luo-Luo appreciated the effort that went into the meal, she ate mechanically without tasting it. The day had only just begun and it was already ruined beyond all measure, because while she might have some answer for hostile sister-wives, tyrannical in-laws, covetous in-laws, and what have you, she hadn’t the faintest clue how to combat Lord Husband’s baffling principles and cold indifference. He said he wanted to get to know her true self, but he never took the time to bother learning, so what choice was left to her? Grow old and die alone, she supposed, though at least she’d have Sorya and Anrhi to keep her company.

So disheartened by her morning, Luo-Luo considered sending her handmaidens away so she could mope in her room, but then Sorya reminded her of their plans for the day. “It’s almost time to meet up with the others to go visit the farm, but do ye think I should pack us somethin’ to nibble on fer lunch?”

Right. The farm. They’d made plans to visit the Medical Saint today, a curious but pleasant man who didn’t seem entirely... there. “No need,” Luo-Luo replied, hurriedly finishing the rest of her breakfast for fear of being forgotten a second time today. “Lord Husband mentioned something about cooking lunch for his Teacher.” Though knowing him, he was liable to forget to bring enough for Luo-Luo and her handmaidens, so it would probably be best to prepare something. No, if he forgets, then so be it. Luo-Luo would go hungry and refuse all offers to share so he could stew in guilt and remorse. It worked well enough for Sister Mila, shaming Lord Husband into running off to make it up to her, so perhaps it would work for Luo-Luo as well.

The poor girl. To think, Lord Husband could be so insensitive as to forget the date for their marriage after only a single day...

With her handmaidens in tow, Luo-Luo stepped out of the manor doors just in time to see Lord Husband pull up at Lin-Lin’s manor, and she hurried over with as much haste as decorum allowed. “Morning,” he greeted them, holding out a large, bamboo steamer for her to take. “Sorry to keep you waiting for breakfast, but I’m out of practice and Grand Mentor’s kitchen is more compact than what I’m used to.”

“Oh. Thank you Lord Husband.” Feeling awkward now that all her earlier self-pity had been for naught, Luo-Luo accepted his goodwill with a warm smile and warmer cheeks. Would it have been so difficult to leave a note or ask the Death Corps to inform her of his plans? Still, at least he remembered, which was more than she’d expected. Opening the steamer to reveal a dozen piping hot meat buns, she offered them to her handmaidens before taking one herself, so pleased by this minor gesture that her cheeks were already strained from smiling. It was so absurd. Just over a year ago, she spent her trip from the Eastern Province to Central worrying if her future husband would be able to afford proper dresses and jewellery, and now here she was grinning like a madman over a greasy steamed bun.

No, not just a steamed bun. A fragrant, delectable, hand-made steamed bun made and delivered by her not-so-inconsiderate Lord Husband. Far better than cold jewellery or unremarked silks...

In retrospect, Luo-Luo’s worries about being left behind were unfounded, as one could always set their watch by sweet Lin-Lin, so long as the watch was an hour late. Despite it being her idea to set out early so Lord Husband would have time to cook lunch, the darling half-hare woke up late and took ages to get ready, even with Li-Li, Lord Husband, Luo-Luo, Sorya, and Anrhi all pitching in to help out. Nursing a meat bun in both hands while nestled in Lord Husband’s arms, Lin-Lin made for a captivating sight as they set out through the packed citadel streets, her eyes half open and cheeks stuffed to bursting as she alternated between nodding off and eating. While Luo-Luo envied their close relationship and wished she were sitting in Lord Husband’s rickshaw with them, she felt better knowing Sister Mila, Yan, and Li-Li, were also riding in their own vehicles, since Lin-Lin insisted on on racing once they arrived at the farm. It did make for a lonely trip though, with everyone sitting by themselves. At least Luo-Luo had her handmaidens to play games with and pass the time, but Mila, Yan, and Li-Li only had the animals to keep them company...

Ever the adventurous soul, Lin-Lin perked up as soon as they were out of the gates and the quins picked up the pace, hopping to her feet and standing with arms outstretched to take in the cold, winter breeze. Luo-Luo had tried to stand once while clutching the railings in a white-knuckled grip, and even then she’d almost been thrown off the jostling vehicle, but Lin-Lin made it look as easy as standing on firm earth instead of on an open carriage travelling at breakneck speeds. Nestled between her hare ears, Blackjack stood with head held high in a similar pose, and they both looked so adorable Luo-Luo couldn’t help but smile and shake her head. Half-Beasts were often derided for being closer to animal than human, and while her personal experience was to the contrary, she had to admit there was a kernel of truth to all the ugly rumours. They were undeniably human, yes, but their bestial traits went beyond merely ears and tails. It wasn’t just Lin-Lin’s love of wind and heights, but also Li-Li’s aloof, feline demeanour, Yan’s natural, graceful gait, Father-in-law’s wagging wolf tail, and even sister-in-law Alsantset’s powerful presence and predatory gaze. It was there, plain as day, every bit a part of them as their hands and feet, and it was clear to anyone with eyes. This didn’t mean Luo-Luo thought any less of half-beasts, but she also understood why half-beasts held a tenuous position in human society.

Because they were human, but also more than human. They were... different, and to some, that meant they were to be feared.

With having never seen a red-panda, Luo-Luo spent the better part of their trip imagining what those fearsome beasts might look like. Compact and muscular no doubt, with short tempers and surly demeanours if sister Mila and Ancestral Beast Guan Suo were any example. Deadly predators too, seeing as they were likened to both bears and cats, a mental image which had Luo-Luo shivering in fright. When she said as much to Sorya and Anrhi, they both burst into laughter, though they refused to say why and suggested she paint a red-panda without reference and see how it would match up with the real thing. It was all in good fun and Luo-Luo didn’t hold their laughter against them, but she quietly resolved to do as they said and privately compare the results before sharing her work with anyone else.

Or burning the painting to hide her shame, depending on how accurate it turned out to be.

