“He was right, all along. I think I knew it, deep down, or at least, I thought he had a point. But he was right. Necromancy is just magic. It is all just magic. Everything we are…”
The half-Elf hesitated. She took the circlet off her head and stared at it. She dropped it, and it rang as it struck the floor.
But it was still on her head.
“…It’s just magic. Good and evil are spells we cast to call things that. It doesn’t matter what the truth is, just how we react to things. What matters is what we believe.”
She played with the smooth, dark bone of the thin circlet. She touched the jewels set into a glittering, golden crown, heavy enough to hang low on the head. It changed. But it was hers. And it whispered to her what it was and what it could do. Or were those her thoughts?
Ceria Springwalker closed her eyes. She stood, facing the mirror, and looked at herself. The half-Elf spoke.
“What I’m trying to say is…”
She hesitated. Looked herself in the eye, and smiled.
“…I’m not very good at being pretentious. Even a magic circlet can’t stop me from being an idiot.”
Ceria grinned wider. Then she reached up and touched the circlet again.
“It’s not half-bad, though.”
A glittering circlet of bone set with a single frozen crystal as pale as ice sat on her head. A line with a single faint snowflake lattice holding the gem. Ceria nodded and closed her eyes.
“Freedom.”
She spread her arms, and the gem glowed faintly. Magic surrounded her, and her mind felt…she left something behind. Or it lost its hold on her. The circlet glowed, and she knew it had powers she hadn’t even begun to tap into.
But the first of these was this: she looked at herself and thought of everything that was, and everything that mattered to her. From a different point of view.
Free from morality. Free from conscience. Free from…everything. A mind unfettered, made more intelligent.
At last, Ceria Springwalker looked at herself. Her grin turned rueful and crooked. She touched the circlet.
“Heavy.”
She didn’t take it off.
 
——
 
They called her…Ice Squirrel.
The Frozen Chipmunk.
The Mouth of the Horns of Hammerad. Yellat-girl. Okay, the ‘Mouth’ nickname was a stretch, but she didn’t have other names.
Truly. She was just ‘Captain of the Horns of Hammerad’. Gold-rank [Cryomancer]. The Siren’s possible new squeeze. That half-Elf with the bone hand who kept eating everything in sight but was fun to drink with.
She was new to Gold-rank, so she didn’t have a nickname like Halrac the Grim. It said a lot that her greatest claim to fame was the Village of the Dead raid—
And the only title that mattered. That even Savere’s lawless lot respected.
Crelerbane. Hell’s Warden.
That you respected. But the half-Elf herself was…inoffensive. Amusing more than charming, but she was friendly, personable, and you knew her rough level and capabilities. She couldn’t move Savere; compared to the Bleakbeaks, let alone Bloodtear. Or Shifthold, which was now at port in a berth isolated from the others.
She wasn’t there yet. Most people weren’t. Most people would never be, so it was easy to laugh or ignore her one-note trick, which was stuffing her face full of food until it looked like she had doubled the holding capacity of her face.
Until the circlet appeared on her head. Until you saw a Relic-class item sitting on her head, and heard it was cursed in some way. Until you realized all the times you’d slapped her on the back or made fun of her, and all the times she was silly and idiotic and her guard was down—
It had always been there. Invisible.
Then—when she turned to you with her cheeks full of food and grinned—well, there was a horror to that.
Omusc, the [Pillager], and the other [Bandits] in the enforcement squad who’d taken Nerhs, the little, no-name village which had led to all this, were sitting at Ceria’s table. A bit away from her. The banquet hall of Savere’s capital, Runsblud, was strangely quiet.
“Ib a chubby chipmunkh!”
Ceria grinned around. No one laughed. Omusc stared at the circlet on Ceria’s head.
It had changed again. It was now a pale bone circlet with some kind of ice jewel. It sat on the half-Elf’s dirty blonde hair, glinting innocuously, without the true sheen of powerful magic. Indeed, when you cast [Detect Magic] or used a Skill, it was like a piece of scrap.
Omusc needed to use the bathroom. Her stomach had an explosive anchor it wanted to drop. She was more nervous than most—because she had both [Innate Spell: Detect Magic] and [Quick Appraisal], and a host of Skills pertaining to her class.
[Pillager]. Which meant ‘get the most valuable items and run’ in a raid. An important class, which also meant she was a competent leader if need be, and a good fighter. She tried her [Quick Appraisal] again.
Nice-looking headband: piece of carved bone and a glass gemstone. Probably worth 9 copper to a reseller. A few silver for the looks.
That was what her Skill told her. Her Skill said that thing was a piece of crap that only looked good.
Omusc’s brain told her that was a Relic with a curse that had outsmarted the Siren of Savere and her Skills. Her guts churned.
Ceria turned her head around, looking disappointed at the lack of a reaction. She swallowed with difficulty, nearly choked on her mouthful, and sipped some water.
“Come on. Nothing?”
She looked around, grinning. As if today was just like yesterday, before they’d found out what was on her head.
“Alright, I need a new trick. But I’m not shoving anything up my nose. One of my friends tried that once. She tripped. Did not end well.”
A few of the [Bandits] chuckled unwillingly. That was funny, and horrific to imagine. Ceria smiled. She turned to Omusc, and the [Pillager] met her gaze. Ceria raised her brows.
“It’s the circlet, isn’t it?”
“Yeah.”
Normally Omusc would snap back, something like, ‘what did you think it was, idiot?’ But she just held her tongue. Ceria sighed. She thoughtfully reached up and lifted the circlet off her head. Everyone stared at it as she put it on the table. The half-Elf took a breath. She blinked a few times and scratched at her head, repeatedly.
“Whoof. Okay—how about now?”
Everyone looked at the circlet, sitting on the table next to her plate. Omusc eyed it.
“Ice Squirrel—Ceria. That’s not a good—”
Ceria blinked at her, reaching for her drink. Then there was a flash across the ground.
“Hey!”
Ceria grabbed for it, too late. Someone dove, and the circlet vanished. Omusc whirled, cursing, as the table burst into chaos. [Bandits] leapt, grabbing, drawing blades, but the [Thief] was already half over the table and vaulting another.
“Stop them! They’ve got the—”
Omusc saw other diners surging to their feet. The [Thief] went for a window. She never made it.
Someone leapt up from their table and dove at her. She did an [Evasive Roll], ducked a thrown chair—and ran right into a blade.
A [Knifemaster] sitting at another table didn’t bother standing up. They just tossed the blade through her chest—then grabbed for the circlet. Omusc saw a brawl breaking out. Everyone was trying to grab the circlet. Some were trying to put it on—others toss it in their bag of holding and book it.
“Damn—”
She surged to her feet, drawing her own blade, and saw Ceria sitting there. She was picking at her plate, ignoring the fighting, helping herself to another bite of gravy-covered meatballs, today’s special. Omusc eyed her. Ceria glanced up.
“Ceria! Aren’t you going to—”
The [Enforcement Raider], Abelesque, stopped, staring at the two of them. Her crew was watching the fight, but reluctant to wade in. There were three bodies on the floor and from the blood—they wouldn’t be getting back up.
“Enough!”
The Siren of Savere herself came bursting into the room with a wave of water. The fighters looked up, saw her aiming a finger, and ran for it. Some put up their weapons; the ones with the circlet went for the window again.
A blast of water went through a back like an arrow, pressurized force cutting through armor and flesh. But someone tossed the circlet and six figures leapt out, never mind the two-story drop.
“Recover the circlet!”
The Siren shouted. Her personal, loyal fighters went for the window and doors. She whirled, face white with anger and…
And then she saw Omusc, staring at Ceria, slowly sheathing her blade. The other bandits, all looking at Ceria.
The half-Elf calmly took a huge bite of her breakfast and glanced around. It was that casual act that let the other diners know…they turned.
Four dead in this room, not counting the original [Thief]. The Siren focused on Ceria’s head. Her hair was a bit messy, and there was no indentation, no circlet. Ceria looked up, and her pale eyes glinted.
“Alright. I think I’ve got it. First trick? Chubby chipmunk. Here’s the second icebreaker. A magic trick. First you see it, then I let someone take it. Then…”
She tapped the side of her head.
“Tada.”
The circlet was back on her head. As if it had never left. Omusc recoiled and slammed into another [Bandit]. It wasn’t just that it had been invisible—a strand of hair had been right there, where the circlet was. Had it reappeared? Teleported? Messed with her appearance?
Ceria sat there, looking around as Revine Zecrew, Omusc, and the others looked at her.
“Just thought I’d get that out there so no one tries grabbing it. So how about it? Maybe I’ll work on it so there are fewer bodies next time. I didn’t think anyone would fall for it.”
She winked at Omusc and glanced at the five fallen figures in the room. Ceria took a sip of water. The [Pillager] looked at Ceria and something escaped her mouth. Abelesque too—unprompted, unrehearsed—they started laughing.
It wasn’t exactly amused laughter. At the same time? That half-Elf, sitting there, eating with an icebreaker that killed five people?
That was Savere’s kind of humor. Ceria got the joke. She grinned and winked as a few people threw food or utensils, cursing at her. They sat back down and the Siren eyed Ceria. She turned on her heel, but not before snapping.
“Ceria, my floor. Fifteen minutes.”
The half-Elf nodded. She saw a few figures get up and saunter over for a quick word or to keep cursing her out. A [Trickster] wanted to congratulate her, and Omusc watched. From being a Gold-rank in a foreign city to now?
She was a little too good at fitting in. Everything Omusc thought she had pegged down about Ceria was flapping around in a storm. The real question was—what would happen next? Everyone wanted to know. And that included people who would have never cared about Ceria a few weeks ago.
 
——
 
The Siren of Savere rarely felt nervous. Tense—angry—yes. But afraid?
She had faced down gang leaders and [Pirate Captains], from the famous Admiral Seagrass to the Drowned Folk’s deadliest marauders. Sometimes she compromised or acceded against her will, but it was Revine’s firm belief that she could kill anyone who sailed the sea. Some battles would almost certainly result in her death, but there was always the possibility that anyone who crossed her would end up with a hole in their forehead.
By contrast, she didn’t like unknown quantities. What bothered her wasn’t an overwhelmingly strong person, because you could run from them or bargain, or team up. It was not knowing how someone would jump when the storm rolled in.
It was part of the reason why she and her sister didn’t get along. The Siren of Savere paced around her rooms on the top floor of the Siren’s Lookout—the informal nickname for Runsblud’s palace.
She was half-watching Ceria out of the corner of her eye. The [Cryomancer] was reading a spellbook and standing in the practice rooms, which could contain high-grade magical spells. She was currently posing on one foot like a martial artist, the other foot resting against her knee. The spellbook floated in front of her as Ceria raised both hands upwards, spreading her fingers in a complicated pose. Every few seconds, the page would flip and Ceria’s eyes would skim across it.
“…What in the name of Rhir’s hells is she doing?”
Revine craned her neck, trying to find purpose in the pose. There were ways to chant to enhance a spell, or poses one could take; there was even a magical theory which proposed supporting spells with naturalistic movements to coordinate the flow of mana could enhance or facilitate easier casting.
Ceria just looked like an idiot. She stood on the tips of her toes; Revine admitted it was astonishing balance. Then she did a quick transfer and landed on her other foot, repeating the one-legged pose.
The Siren wasn’t the only one watching the antics. A Drake with a huge, white beard and robes was watching, eyes locked on the circlet on her head. So were the servants, gazing at Ceria out of the corners of their eyes.
“Revine? Are you there? Revine? I think we lost her. Hey, turn the ship around! We need better reception! Try riding that wave over there or something…”
The Siren snapped back to reality. She lifted the customized speaking stone to her lips.
“I can still hear you, Rasea.”
Her voice was resigned. She heard that famous tone, like it was laughing at all times, and, behind it, the chatter of a ship. Then Rasea Zecrew, one of the most famous [Pirates] in the world, spoke.
“Good! Good! So how’s Savere, Revine? Lots of interesting things happening? Stolen anything good, recently? I heard the Empress of Beasts is loose. Say, are the Bloodtear Pirates hanging out there? I heard one of their navies was sailing in.”
Revine closed her eyes. She had a headache.
“Everything is—fine here, sister.”
They were having a speaking stone call. Which was not actually that common, even though such spells were possible. But to carry on a conversation in real time rather than a [Message] spell, you needed a Wistram-trained [Mage] who could enchant two identical lodestones of enough power to carry on a conversation—and even then it only worked within a certain radius of Savere.
Often Rasea, a [Pirate Captain] who sailed the Illuminary, the world’s fastest ship, would often be far too far away to carry on a conversation. However, Revine was a [Bandit Queen], and that conferred certain privileges.
Such as them not having to worry about this speaking stone’s call being interrupted, which was a real hazard of most communication spells. Even so, long-distance calls weren’t that common…mainly because the two sisters didn’t often get along.
Yet right now, Rasea was cordial, even chatty.
“Good old Runsblud. Is the Hanged Bait still open? No one’s shanked old Ernol yet?”
“As far as I know, no.”
“Hah! He’s got more lives than a Cat O’ Nine Lives! I miss his drinks, though. Finest in any port, isn’t that right, lasses?”
