If it was her private bathrooms, she’d be casting [Cleanse] spells all day. The servant hurried off, clearly weighing having to find Irurx versus the Siren’s wrath. Revine tapped her foot until someone came hurrying to find her.
“Siren!”
It wasn’t the servant. Revine turned and saw Omusc striding her way. The [Pillager] looked worried.
“Where is Ceria? No—don’t bring her here. Don’t tell me she’s downstairs, making an ass of herself in front of those pirates!”
The Siren was losing her patience. She glanced out the window and saw it was getting dark.
“Drowning Night is coming. Don’t let her outside. We’re sealing the palace!”
Those damned Bloodtear Pirates! She hadn’t expected them to do a Drowning Night tonight. What were they hinting at? Omusc bowed.
“I’ll find her.”
“You had better. Find her and get her back here if she’s outside. Don’t bother coming back if she’s not with you!”
“Siren?”
Omusc turned pale. Revine actually gave her a shove.
“You heard me! Get Ceria or you will live to regret it!”
Omusc hesitated, then turned and ran to beat the fading sun. Revine looked around, foot tapping. Circlet. Irurx. Where was…?
She had a sudden suspicion. But before she could act on it, the Siren heard distant screams, coming from overhead. She cursed.
There were Garuda in the air. Hundreds. Outside Savere, she could see figures stalking the streets as people hurried into homes, boarding them up. They were actually fortifying the ground.
“Those idiots.”
The Bleakbeaks had called in every gang to teach Bloodtear a lesson. They outnumbered the [Pirates] by far. The Siren thought they were both fools for this petty toll in blood—for what, a handful of treasure and loot from the others’ corpses? Maybe Irurx would pay them for the dead bodies.
She had to admit, though, there were more landfolk than she had thought. Even with five ships, it would be five-to-one with just the people she saw in the open, and Bloodtear would have to fight defensively or they’d be surrounded and slaughtered.
However, the Bleakbeaks made one mistake. They were furious because their own had been brutally slaughtered in the bar over a petty insult. No gang would take that lying down, but Bloodtear?
They were maniacs. They’d fight to the death once you roused them. And they gave no quarter once it was truly a battle. Even so, a week of fighting would empty their ships and they weren’t stupid. So why…?
The Siren had her answer as she gazed out her balcony. Her senses over her domain tingled. Slowly, she turned her head.
The sun was setting. It looked red against the sky; [Sailors] beware. But that wasn’t what the Siren saw.
“Telescope.”
She glanced around—then strode over to a telescope. Her beloved Watercat bounded towards Revine, yowling, but she paid him no mind as she bent over the magical artifact. The Siren whirled it across the sea.
“No.”
The wind was picking up. As the sun turned red, the landfolk waited for the Drowning Night.
A storm was blowing in. Another one. But this one wasn’t one the Siren had conjured or allowed. She could feel it building in the distance. She reached out—but her hand trembled as she felt how strong it was.
She couldn’t toss this one towards another nation’s coast. It was backed by more than just a powerful tempest. It wasn’t a magical typhoon, thank sleeping Krakens. But it was backed by a force she knew at once.
A Skill. Multiple Skills. The Siren began sweating.
“Oh no.”
This was what she had once warned Ceria about. The Siren was mighty. But sometimes the Siren had to know fights that were deadly. And this? She stared through the telescope and saw them, coming in fast.
Sails billowing. Blue drops on red hulls. Their flags were black. She counted.
“…three…five…dead gods. Eleven.”
Three full fleets, including the ones in the docks. She had seen so many of them gathered only once. They were coming—and—the Siren stared out into the streets where the mocking Garuda were jeering, daring the [Pirates] to come out.
They had no idea. The Siren didn’t care about them, though. Damn them. She was sweating, despite the ocean breeze.
This was about…either she reversed her decision, or sixteen Bloodtear crews and their [Captains] would force the issue.
Jiupe’s grin. If you do not relent—then it’s us against Savere, eh? And if she did? If she bowed to them? Would that be enough? Or…was that the pretext?
“Get the army. Get me my [General]. Tell them the army has to arrive now. Not later. March them with every movement Skill, with every—”
The Siren went for her speaking stone. The army. They needed the army. With it, even Bloodtear’s full might…
Amid it all, the Siren’s panic as the first Drowning Night began, she forgot completely about Omusc. The cawing of the Garuda kept going until they saw the sails in the distance. And then an entirely new sound would fill the streets.
The Siren was busy. But she realized something, as she shouted at her people and braced. Not for today, but tomorrow. Her sister wasn’t answering her hails. Yet then, Revine looked around after nearly two hours.
“Where is Alchemist Irurx?”
He had never shown himself. At last, the Siren of Savere put something together. He was missing, but he had been here. He was unexpectedly gone.
And so was Ceria Springwalker. The Siren stared out of her balcony at the dark ship anchored far from the others.
Night fell. A storm blew into harbor. She looked up as the first drops began to hit the city. A Skill made storm.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker halted as she walked with the masked half-Elf across the decks of Shifthold. He gestured towards the Captain’s cabin as a figure garbed from head-to-toe in stained black bowed deeply, holding the door open.
“After you, sister.”
Alchemist Irurx bowed to his half-Elf cousin. Ceria held up a hand, her skeletal one, head turning to those distant ships. It was raining. But…she held up her hand and something fell into it.
A drop of red. It splashed over her bones. Like blood. Ceria Springwalker looked at the [Alchemist], who had ‘invited’ her to his ship.
“What’s that sound?”
Slowly, Irurx turned. He spoke in a flat voice.
“The Bloodtear Pirates. They are singing.”
She heard it now. From the ships at dock, and an echo at sea. Silencing the Garudas’ screams. Hovering over Savere. A chant to make even her skin tingle. She had never heard the like—but this was Bloodtear.
“[We Sailed Under Flags of No Quarter], [A Storm at Our Backs], [We Took No Prisoner]. [Blood in the Waters, Blood in the Sky].”
She stared out at the ships at sea. Then turned to the Alchemist. He beckoned her inside, smiling. Ceria exhaled, slowly.
“Entanglement.”
Then she walked into his cabin. The Alchemist smiled as he removed his mask. His eyes never left her face and the circlet on her head.
 
——
 
They fought in the shadow of the Glass Bazaar.
Fought, but it was an ever-doomed fight. That they did fight at all was desperation, wild courage because they knew what awaited them.
The observers watched.
“Roshal. You see them, brothers and sisters?”
One pointed them out. They too were not in the city, or rather, sprawling trading bazaar that watched on without interfering. They had been banned, and were debating their present course.
Roshal ignored them too. They had eyes only for their quarry.
[Slaves].
Hundreds. The [Slave Masters] and [Slave Takers] had them in wagons and lines, but there were so many that they required even more [Guards]. Fortunately…for Roshal, they had that many.
This was a hunting party. Across Chandrar, Roshal was moving. Where it had cowered, it now sprang up since the Death of Chains was confirmed to have left Chandrar. And in her wake, the freed [Slaves], liberated from their chains, were being pursued.
Each one would be found and reclaimed. This last, desperate group, who had fled a famous [Slave Master]—now dead—had been caught flat-footed by morning. They had weapons, and surprising numbers.
These [Slavers] had no Djinni, or they would have trampled the others in seconds. They were…cautious. Roshal had come under attack, though no one would say exactly how, only that it might be related to the Death of Chains.
So they employed mortal [Guards] and [Mercenaries] in great numbers. Not least, the [Slave Masters], the leader of whom was riding into battle with an enchanted sword. He swung it carefully, lashing with a Whip of Paralysis in his other hand. He only severed the limbs of Stitch-folk, and, one by one, the desperate band was being caught, only a few, the most defiant, killed. Each one was worth money, and the captives were being thrown with the others.
“Dark deeds. Roshal should not stand proudly, yet they do. I have thought on it long, brothers and sisters.”
One of the watchers remarked. He was eating simple bread and water, grimacing at the sight. The others nodded.
They were a group of only sixty, yet they feared neither the Glass Bazaar’s intolerance nor Roshal. Roshal had been known to…make mistakes when it came to those they took as [Slaves]. But this lot would not flinch. They had simple weapons, as most travellers did, simple clothing. They had been begging for alms, but they were odd.
“Tell me, brother Izreal. What are you thinking?”
“Only that these are a people who did not ask to be [Slaves]. Perhaps they were people who have done terrible things, but slavery? Isn’t there room for redemption? Doesn’t it go against our very core of beliefs?”
The others looked thoughtful. One woman clasped her hands together.
“I do not know. We must discuss it. But now?”
“I know.”
The slaves had no chance. Yet…the words lingered on the man called Izreal’s lips. Did they fear numbers? Did they fear adversity? They served a ruler who could shatter Roshal if his full fury was brought against them. Turn it to glass and ashes, even more than the Glass Straits.
What was right? What was…he thought hard as he watched the battle winding down. And because he was watching—he saw the first figures on the hilltop of one of the great dunes.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet stared down at the battle below. He had sunk down into a crouch, and Merr was on her belly.
“Damn, damn, damn. Stick a cactus up my ass—now? They beat us to the bazaar!”
This was the Glass Bazaar she’d been telling Pisces about, which she’d wanted to hit. Pisces had been dubious about it, but Merr had told him she needed the loot to keep the gang running.
However, the [Scouts] she’d sent ahead to plan their route for the day had woken everyone after another night of marching to sound the alarm. Roshal was there. A huge group of [Slaves] who’d been recaptured.
And…
[Slaves]. They were trying to get to the gates, but the gates were barred, and Pisces knew that the occupants of the Glass Bazaar would stand aside or hand them right back to Roshal.
Nowhere to run. Yet they fought because…Pisces clenched his teeth.
“What do we do, boss? There’s a lot of ‘em.”
One of the [Bandits] looked ready to turn around, rich bazaar or not. Merr the Storm was silent. She was staring down at Roshal’s people.
“There are hundreds of slaves. Just as many guards. No…no Djinni. I see few [Mages]. But we are outnumbered, even if they have not spotted us. That does not even account for the Glass Bazaar, if they intervened.”
Pisces was counting. Merr muttered.
“I heard they had a bit less than what we’re seeing; the caravans contribute to the defense. If you scare them…Roshal’s tougher. Yeah.”
She looked up at Pisces. He stared at her. Merr spoke, glancing down the slope. Eloque, the freed [Slaves], [Bandits], [Raiders], all milled around, but quietly, waiting.
“We could head east. We keep out of sight? Maybe they don’t realize we’re even here. Even with—with that many [Slaves] they’d have to split up. We’d be able to keep them off us, with my Skills.”
“Right.”
They stared down at the fighting. Pisces’ lips moved. It was a terribly dangerous battle. He saw Merr slowly rising. She looked at him, a hand on her sword hilt.
“The odds are against us. We’re outnumbered.”
Pisces nodded slowly. He stared at the people. There were children down there, and the [Guards] were cheering on the ones on the attack.
“We are. But there is a second army down there.”
Merr blinked as he pointed down at the people in chains. She looked up and exhaled. Pisces wavered. He looked down at Eloque and the others.
“If…but if we fail.”
The [Bandit Lady] followed his gaze. Towards Bearig, Rophir, Eloque, and Qshom. She clapped him on the shoulder.
“We can spare four horses. But if we go down there, Pisces, my lad—they’re nearly done.”
She pointed. The last three dozen [Slaves] were pressed against the wall. Pisces looked down at them.
“Boss, this is stupid.”
One of the [Bandits] tried to argue with them, eyes moving uncertainly from Merr to Pisces. Because she lacked context. Merr nodded simply.
“It is.”
 
——
 
They came down the hill without warning. [Raiders] and [Bandits], charging over the top of the hill in a second.
Roshal didn’t even see them at first. A sandstorm blew downwards, and the [Slavers] only saw that. They shouted warnings though; they sensed it—
Then they saw the first [Rider] break through the dust and grit at her back. She rode down on the unguarded lines of [Slaves], a sword held high. After her came a figure on horseback, a flaming rapier drawn. He aimed a finger and a bolt of black light went through one of the [Guards] tending to the wagons. He collapsed without a word, and the [Bandit Lady] chopped downwards.
“Charge! Wipe them out!”
The riders burst out of the sandstorm blinding their opponents. They rode down, slashing and breaking away, going for the sides, fighting, as figures on foot charged after them. There were strange creatures amid the storm. The [Guards] who turned, locking blades with people charging forwards on foot, saw glowing eyes amid the dust.
What was that? Someone was shouting.
“Merr the Storm! [Bandit] attack! Open the gates! It’s him! It’s the [Necromancer]—”
Then the voice cut off as a giant bear made of bone leapt out of the darkness, and a figure on its back brought a sword down.
A Skeleton Lord. And—the [Guards] shouted as the glowing eyes drew nearer, revealing burning flames in pale sockets of bone.
“Undead! Skeletons!”
“Keep the [Slaves] shackled! [Rally To Me]!”
The [Slave Master] with the enchanted sword whirled. The [Slavers] around him rallied, standing firm as the [Necromancer] and [Bandits] tried to break the shackles on the [Slaves]. Some tried to grab keys from dead [Guards], but the wagon bars were iron and so were the chains!
