“I am certain. It lies in my heart and the heavens. Or do you fear the might of Roshal, Lazimeh? Is it not written? ‘Be strong and courageous; do not be afraid or terrified of them. For it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will never leave nor forsake you.’”
His hands clasped together. The woman kneeling next to him looked up. Slowly, the Stitch-man drew a simple club.
“I hear his voice. As He is my witness. I will go alone and smite them if I must and answer to the [Prophet] alone.”
He turned and began walking towards the fighting. Horseless. He had simple cloth clothing and a simple weapon. They had been begging and preaching odd faith in the Glass Bazaar, and thus been exiled.
Strange people who spoke strange words that made the ears ring. Fearless. No wonder they had been exiled. Alone, Izreal walked, and he had taken a name that was half from holy land, half from his people. A new name for a new calling. A better calling.
He walked alone—for a moment. Then a Stitch-woman caught up. She was murmuring, and when he heard her voice, he picked it up.
This was written.
“When you go forth to battle against your foes and see armies of horses and chariots and enemies more numerous than you, be not afraid of them. For the Lord thy God is with thee…”
“More enemies?”
Disbelieving [Guards] on the edges of the fighting saw the sixty coming down the slope. Just sixty people, far less terrifying than undead or anything else. One aimed a bow up—shot an arrow.
Someone went down, a cry of pain—an arrow in the leg. The [Guards] relaxed. They were exactly what they seemed. The sixty began charging as arrows came their way, and a rank of [Guards] moved out to slaughter them.
Then…they saw something odd. One of the women had stopped next to the Human man. She reached down, dragged the barbed arrow out of his flesh, and he screamed and nearly passed out. She bent—touched his leg.
There was no potion. But suddenly, he was rising, blood still on his legs, and charging, screaming. The [Guard] who saw it stared.
What was that? Then the first of them, led by a man with a club, came charging down the hill. The [Guards] set themselves. They saw the figure leading them raise the club and shout a word that echoed.
“___ protect us!”
And there was light. It pierced even the arms raised to shield against it. No mere [Light] spell. The air boomed, and the earth shook under the [Guards]’ feet. Some caught themselves; one ran through one of these strange warriors and killed them dead.
But another lifted a shield and saw the mace burning with white fire. It came down like a hammer and sent the figure sprawling back. An [Elite Mercenary] locked his enchanted blade with a simple shortsword and stared at the iron weapon that took no damage in disbelief.
Magic. Magic versus…
Faith.
[Pilgrims]. [Believers]. [Acolytes]…they surged forwards, blinding their foes, the words of a strange belief on their lips.
Merr shouted, seeing them breaking through. She raised her hand and the dust storm rose once more. But the strange new group and the freed [Slaves] fought without being blinded.
Pisces ran through the cover, looking around.
“Bearig! B—”
He saw a half-Elf boy bring down a [Guard] from the knees. Saw Eloque and Qshom fighting and ran through their opponents from behind. Then he saw Bearig.
The [Cook] brought down the cleaver on the [Slave Master]’s arm and hacked down to the bone. The man screamed, and Bearig wrenched the cleaver up and brought it down again. Again and again—as if he was hacking at some carcass.
Let all who hold chains beware. Pisces looked around. Then he ran through the Glass Bazaar’s gates. The confused guards and [Slavers] saw a Gold-rank [Necromancer] charge out of the darkness, a black light swirling around his aiming fingertip. Then followed a [Rebel] and a [Cook], a half-Elf boy, a Skeleton Lord…
 
——
 
The Glass Bazaar fell in a second round of fighting, followed by a surrender. By more fighting, really; Merr the Storm shouted at the people barricaded within.
“If you’re [Traders] and people of this place, you live! Give up Roshal or die, all of you!”
Roshal’s guards knew what awaited them outside. There was no hope of running or winning; Pisces had freed the [Slaves], and they had taken the bazaar. They fought the people inside, rather than leave.
Afterwards, Pisces found Bearig. The [Cook] sat there, half his face puffed up. The paralzying whip had struck him several times near the end.
“Rebel. I am a [Rebel]. A class as old as…the Rebel of String.”
He laughed. Pisces looked at him. A blue class. Or perhaps it had only been how he was saved.
Merr was counting heads, riding among the freed [Slaves], ordering her remaining [Bandits] to strip the Glass Bazaar. They had paid a dear price for victory. Ordinarily, they might decide to run or kill her for the loot until she found a loyal crew. However, the freed [Slaves] outnumbered them and there would be no need to petition the Siren for more reinforcements. [Bandits] fought for gold. [Slaves]?
Eloque was sitting down, throwing up. Not so much from the gore or horror of killing [Slavers]—she had drunk an entire bottle of water down and it had come right up. Bronze-rank mistake.
It was the last group Pisces sought out. They were only thirty-some strong now. They had fought with amazing spirit—and little actual skill—but they’d somehow exacted a terrible toll.
It was their lack of armor that did them in. Whatever they had trusted in—some of them had survived arrows striking them and bouncing off, or taken blows that would surely have killed them—others had just died.
However, more were on their feet than he had any reason to expect. As he watched, a woman bowed her head and placed her hands over a cut side.
“You will not die today, Brother Izreal. Not while the Lord watches over you.”
“He asks…what he asks…”
The man gasped—and Pisces saw light. A flash of…
It was familiar. He stopped, and saw Izreal rise. He touched at his side, and it was whole.
That was not a potion. Nor a spell. Pisces saw the woman look up.
“You’re the [Necromancer].”
She said it with little rancor. If anything, she was impressed. The man turned and bowed to Pisces.
“I am glad to see you lived, and these good people survived. May we introduce ourselves?”
“Please. I am Pisces Jealnet.”
“A pleasure.”
No recognition. So they didn’t have scrying orbs. They had fought—interceded—why?
“Because my heart told me to. Because I felt the calling.”
Izreal smiled. Pisces saw the others nod.
“You are people of conviction.”
“People of faith. The Glass Bazaar cast us out, but we find converts among [Slaves] and those who suffer. We spread the word of truth across Chandrar. We are small, but our classes shine bright. Already, we level, so we know our cause was just, our faith not misplaced. I am Marrieh.”
The woman smiled. She was Human too, and Pisces blinked at the strange statements.
She had levelled? He hadn’t seen her take a nap—maybe someone had hit her so hard she’d passed out?
No. He looked at them and his memory touched him.
“You must think our classes strange, but perhaps it is well you have seen the truth. There is something I would like to tell you—tell all those here, Pisces Jealnet. A great salvation has come to us all. To this world! Rejoice!”
Izreal smiled at Pisces. He was caught off-guard when Pisces smiled back.
“I…have seen this before, actually. Once.”
Pawn. Izreal stared at Pisces, then burst into a huge smile.
“Then the news is spreading! You are a friend twice over, Pisces. Shall we rest and talk?”
“We shall indeed. But please—tell me. Who are your people? Do you lead them?”
Izreal shook his head as Marrieh smiled.
“We are only one group. We were founded around the [Prophet]. We are the People of Zeikhal, who can survive even in the great desert because we want not for water or mana.”
Mana as in…? Izreal continued.
“Our true name you will not understand until you hear it. But we are simply…”
He smiled, spoke, and Pisces’ ears rang. Somewhere else, five heads rose, and they looked hungrily towards that desert continent, guarded by that damned sword and light.
“Can you repeat that?”
Pisces rubbed at his ears. Izreal smiled.
“We are the People of God.”
