Merr the Storm was bellowing as Pisces raced out of his tent, fumbling with his robes, rapier drawn. He whirled—saw Roshal’s warriors—and then saw them screaming, fleeing—Pisces hesitated.
What the?
One of them vanished as a beam of something blasted a hole in his back. The camels were running, wide-eyed, and half of them were on foot. Running towards their camp. Away from the real attackers.
“Monsters! Monsters from the Glass Straits!”
Merr realized what was happening faster than Pisces. Roshal’s mercenaries were being routed. They had snuck up on the caravan—only to be ambushed in turn. But by what?
Hidden from the glaring glass road by the dune, the people could only see flashes of something. A kind of ray-spell, to Pisces’ eyes. Screams—but no sound he could pick up on the other side. Pisces searched for Merr.
She had parked the wagons in a circle around their camp, and now she had a standard defensive line. Fighters with spears and swords to hold the gaps, and people with bows trained on the crest of the dune.
“Merr! I will scout it out!”
She looked at him, hesitated; Pisces saw her glancing around, then she swore and called back.
“Don’t lose your head!”
He nodded. No ‘don’t take a risk’; they had to know what was attacking. Monsters, someone had said. But what…?
[Invisibility]. [Muffle]. [Flash Step]…Pisces crested the hill and went blind. The glare from the Glass Straits! He tried to shade his eyes, but he didn’t know the spell…
Spells. A [Mage]’s toolbox, and if he had a proper, complete spellbook, he would have looked up—Pisces squinted, then swore. He came stumbling back, half-blind.
“Pisces! What is it?”
Eloque called out. Merr rode over. Pisces pointed.
“Some kind of…glass monster. With a center eye. Not Crelers. Not scorpions, but…”
Merr’s eyes flickered. She looked around, and a [Bandit] swore.
“Shield Kingdoms guard us. It must be Crystal Lights. Boss, boss, we have to move! They’ll set us all on fire!”
He was a Stitch-man. Merr licked her lips nervously.
“How many?”
“Only sixty.”
Pisces assured her. But rather than reassure the [Bandit], he went pale.
“Sixty? Boss, we can’t fight sixty of ‘em! They’ll kill us before we close, and we’re blind out here!”
Merr swore.
“How fast do they move?”
“Slow. We can outride them on horseback, even with wagons. But they have a range of…”
“Mount up! Get rolling! You lot—right up against the dune! They come up, you take five swings and run!”
Merr roared at once. She singled out a squad of [Bandits], who turned pale and hesitated. Merr snapped.
“Do it or I’ll fill you with arrows! I’ll cover us with a storm. Will that work?”
The [Bandit] looked up and brightened.
“Should do!”
“We’re running?”
Pisces was incredulous. He was still blinking spots out of his eyes, but the caravan numbered in the hundreds. There were sixty of the monsters…Merr looked at him.
“Unless you’re hiding the rest of your team up your ass? Yeah!”
“We can win! I have a Skeleton Lord and—”
Pisces was counting the [Bandits], but Merr seized his arm.
“Unless you want to lose lives, we’re running. This isn’t an adventure, this is a [Bandit]’s fight. We don’t fight monsters unless we have to! Move!”
Pisces looked at her. She was ordering everyone to run, moving the wagons, hitching horses…Merr pointed as the flashes and screaming stopped.
“They’re already dead.”
“Boss, call the storm now. If they see us, we’ll die. They shoot rays of sunlight, and in the middle of the day, it’s like eating an enhanced [Fire Bolt] spell!”
Pisces hesitated. When you said it like that—rays of light? He had only roughly made out a small group of shining things with six legs each, like a sort of spider with a strange eye in the center that shot a blast of concentrated light.
Sixty. But…wait.
How many of Roshal’s warriors had they killed? How many ‘rays’ could one of these Crystal Lights shoot each minute?
Merr swore and raised her hand. The [Bandit Lady] shouted.
“[Summon Dust Storm]! Go!”
The first people in the caravan were already riding. The wind was picking up. Pisces saw a cloud of dust whirl up, obscuring the glaring sun. He hesitated.
“Come on, Pisces!”
Eloque shouted. Bearig had Rophir in his saddle and was riding. Pisces looked back.
“Wait a moment. Merr—I’ll catch up.”
“You stupid? Don’t try to buy time—they’re expendable, you’re not! They’re just going to tie them up for a second then go!”
Merr snapped, pointing at the rear guard. Pisces shook his head.
“Not that. The bodies. The bodies—”
She blinked at him. Then she saw the [Necromancer] go full-tilt, flashing back across the sands and up the dunes. Eloque shouted as a figure charged after Pisces. But then the first Crystal Light came over the dunes.
They were half-lost against the sandstorm. But the sight of one was still disconcerting. It was a crawling, five-foot-tall monster with glass ‘skin’, like the glass ants that Pisces had seen. It had internal organs exposed to the light, but somehow the incredible heat didn’t seem to bother the creature.
Rather, it focused the heat into a single huge eye, and emitted a beam of light that turned sand to glass. It gnashed two pincers, and an open maw below the eye could tear and bite.
But it was that eye that made them so dangerous. Merr pointed as the sandstorm blew around them, and more Crystal Lights came crawling over the dunes.
“Go, go! The rest of you bastards, with me! Hold them off and then break! Ride!”
The sandstorm picked up, and the flashing rays of heat melted the sand and dust, diffusing among the particles. More crawlers came over the dune, and but for the sandstorm—the [Bandits] charged, fighting then breaking away to buy the caravan time.
It was bad fighting. Merr hacked at a Crystal Light and found it was like trying to cut through iron armor. The glass was hard, and the center eye discharged a beam of light at her face. She swore, maneuvering—then saw the eye grow dim—then begin to light up, less than six seconds later.
“Zeikhal-damned monsters!”
She lifted a throwing dagger and hurled it through the eye. The Crystal Light screamed in a low, warbling growl, and began slashing at the air. Merr rode back, slamming her blade into the head of another.
The [Bandits] were not faring well. To injure the Crystal Lights, you had to stab them in the eye, and that eye would blast you with searing light. They fired so fast. A smaller group was no danger, but sixty could kill six hundred in the open if they got the chance to keep firing.
The [Bandits] were no heroes. They hammered on the Crystal Lights, saw how tough they were, and began fleeing. The Crystal Lights growled, attacking, but were indeed slower than horses. However, they were scuttling to clear the sandstorm to where they could make a firing line…the first broke left, out of the whirling dust cloud, and its body shone with painful light. The eye grew brighter, and it trained on a distant wagon.
Even hundreds of feet away, the wagon burst into flame to screams from the people riding there. The eye grew brighter; the monster was feeding on the light, absorbing it to use its attack rapidly. By night it was far weaker. It took aim at a camel next; a meal for at least a few days—
Pisces ran it through the eye with his rapier. Panting, he saw the eye burst, and the monster screamed, but its brain wasn’t behind the eye, instead suspended above it. It recoiled, and Pisces yanked the blade free.
“Pisces! Watch out, they’re coming!”
The [Necromancer] turned and vanished. Invisible, he walked left as more Crystal Lights emerged from the sandcloud. Merr was galloping back; she had warned him. Pisces saw one of the Crystal Lights focus on her and stepped forwards, angling for another eye-stab. He saw the monster hesitate—
Then swivel towards him. It saw him, somehow. The monster was locking onto his body heat, but Pisces couldn’t know that. He threw himself sideways, and a beam blasted through the air. He felt the heat cooking his side and rolled to his feet.
The sand made moving hard. And—another Crystal Light took aim. Pisces flicked his other hand up, then saw a figure charge out of the dust and crash into it.
Ivery! The Skeleton Lord actually knocked the Crystal Light back with the force of his charge and began hammering on its head. The undead was so strong he began to crack the monster’s armor, but the Crystal Light began snapping at him with its jaws. They failed to rend Ivery’s bones, and the Skeleton Lord continued hammering it down.
But the rest of the sixty were emerging. Pisces was beating a fast retreat now that he realized this was a shooting gallery and that he was the closest target. The Crystal Light that had nearly singed him was lining up another shot. So he cursed, flicked his wrist, and activated the ring on his finger.
[Shatterbolt]. A thin, pale sliver of energy struck the Crystal Light just on the side, missing its eye. Pisces cursed again; aiming was difficult with that trick—
Then the monster exploded. 
Pisces shielded his face. He saw the entire glass body break and the monster’s insides rupture. It collapsed, and even the other Crystal Lights slowed in dismay. Pisces wished he could do that twice.
As he couldn’t, he [Flash Stepped] backwards, pointed a finger, and spoke.
“[Deathbolt]!”
A black bolt struck one of the Crystal Lights, went through the armor, and it staggered, stunned. Woozily, it shuffled from side to side, then scuttled back into the cloud.
Two shots, then. Pisces turned and ran. Because two Crystal Lights had been maimed in the eye, but only one was dead; Ivery was smashing into the brain of the next, but that meant there were fifty-six angry monsters about to unleash death-by-sunlight on Pisces.
They were actually forming a battle line, lighting up and discharging beams of light. Pisces dodged left and right, feeling the air sizzle as Ivery ran for it as well. Some of the [Bandits] and mounts screamed as they were hit on the limits of the Crystal Lights’ range; their skin blistered, and some caught fire.
Ironically, Ivery was the most immune; he just ran after Pisces, bones turning black, but with no flesh to bake.
If only Ceria were here with an [Ice Wall]! He couldn’t cast [Bone Wall] without—Pisces threw himself behind a dune. The air over his head charred.
“[Bone Wall]!”
It took him only a few seconds to concentrate enough to throw it up. The ivory wall began charring as bones rose up to shield his retreat. Pisces got up and ran.
His team. They could have helped fight that many—not that they would have after seeing what the things were capable of. But Yvlon could probably smash the Crystal Lights with pure strength. Ksmvr could dodge, and Ceria could shield them. Without them—
The crack made Pisces’ head turn. He blanched; the angry monsters had just blasted apart his wall of bones in seconds, heating it so fast that the bones cracked from the sheer heat. But he was almost out of range…almost…the caravan just needed another five minutes! The Crystal Lights focused on Pisces as Merr whirled her horse.
“Pisces!”
She saw nearly twenty monsters focus on him from different angles. Ivery was on fire and running, flailing his arms. The Crystal Lights’ eyes glowed in unison—
And then the first Ghoul came hurtling out of the smoke and latched onto the back of the nearest Crystal Light. It jerked as the feral undead began to hammer on its head. The Crystal Light scuttled back and forth—then another blasted the Ghoul off its friend. The monsters turned and saw their prey, the dead people, were getting back up.
It was round two. Zombies and Ghouls charged forwards, grappling with the glass monsters. Merr saw Pisces look over his shoulder and laugh. Nearly a hundred undead came out of the sandstorm, still wearing their charred armor. They didn’t use weapons, not being ‘intelligent’ enough to wield them, but they were strong as undead, fearless, and the Crystal Lights recognized the threat.
The two sides began battering at each other, monsters cutting and biting the undead who slashed at them with pure brute strength. Pisces and Merr, racing away as only a few beams flashed overhead, saw the fighting.
“Dead gods. You really are a decent [Necromancer]! How many’d you get?”
“All of them.”
“All of—”
Merr saw Pisces gulp for air. He felt like throwing up.
“I just burned through my entire mana well. Can I get…a ride?”
She nodded and offered him a hand. Pisces swung himself up. He looked back and shook his head.
“Dead gods.”
The undead were losing. A hundred plus zombies and Ghouls were getting the hell kicked out of them by half that number. They tried to bite and claw the glass armor of the Crystal Lights and did no damage at all, unless they hit the eye or just bore the monster down by sheer numbers. This was one foe that was a bad matchup. They would have arguably done better against Mothbears.
“Damn. No wonder the local lot were scared shitless of them.”
The Crystal Lights were setting the undead on fire. Pisces watched as the undead went down, some being torn apart—he whispered and jerked his fingers.
“Come. Come.”
Merr glanced at him. By now, the caravan was out of danger.
“What are you doing?”
“Trying to salvage some of them. We’ve already lost over half their number. They were Stitch-folk.”
“Can’t you animate…oh.”
Merr looked at the burning undead. The Stitch-folk had gone up like torches; there was nothing left to animate. As for the zombies and Ghouls? Well—some were just incinerated. More vaporized than burned.
However, the rest began to flee from the Crystal Lights, who kept blasting them until they seemed to realize there was no point. They left the undead to stride on, burning. Pisces, panting, watched them follow as the caravan kept riding. Merr rode ahead.
“Hey! Stop running so fast or we’ll run into a Sand Worm or something as bad! Slow! Slow—how far do they chase us? We’ll keep running until we find a new spot and…”
 
——
 
The brush with monsters and the natural dangers of the Glass Straits took another hour of marching before Merr called a halt. She told them to set up camp, and the weary people just threw down tents, climbed into them, and fell asleep.
All those except the guards who had first watch—and Pisces. Wearily, he sat, rubbing at blisters. He reached for a healing potion and a mana potion—then stopped.
We don’t have enough to waste. Grimacing, he resigned himself to the glaring headache and burnt skin. He did sit down, but he had to stay awake.
Eloque found him slapping himself every few seconds as he kept nodding off.
“Pisces, what are you doing?”
