“I have to stay awake. Just a bit longer…a bit longer…don’t stop—”
Eloque slapped him across the face. None-too-gently. Pisces jerked. The Lizardwoman eyed him.
“Better?”
He rubbed his cheek.
“…Thank you.”
Eloque smiled briefly, then looked up. A figure came jogging over the dunes. The [Bandits] looked up.
“Att—oh. It’s that thing.”
They eyed the burnt Skeleton Lord, who came to a halt, shield and sword in hand. Ivery trudged down the hill, looking…well, a bit defeated. They don’t fight fair, chief.
Pisces ignored the Skeleton Lord. However, some of the [Slaves] saw Ivery and decided to remove the ash on his bones. Why they liked him…
“There.”
He struggled to his feet after another fifteen minutes. Eloque had a cup of tea. She sipped at it as Pisces reached for it and hesitated.
“Oh, fine.”
She handed it to him with a grin. Pisces took a gulp. Then he nodded to the hill.
“No one panic. It’s just undead.”
The [Bandits] looked at him. Eloque raised her brows, but the only person who noticeably reacted was Rophir. He stared at Pisces, then crawled into the tent he and Bearig shared.
And, sure enough, a minute later, the first charred body came over the hill. Eloque blanched.
“Ew.”
The zombies and Ghouls were, like Ivery, a collection of terrible burn victims. Them being dead didn’t change the fact that they looked horrible. What was perhaps worse?
“Dead gods, Pisces. It smells like charred meat. I don’t want to be hungry.”
Merr came out when she heard the small commotion. She paled, and Pisces nodded.
“I don’t think these are as salvageable as I hoped.”
The [Bandit Lady] shook her head instantly.
“Absolutely not. They smell like dinner and every scavenger downwind of here will come looking for a meal.”
Pisces nodded. He stared at the undead he’d put his life in danger to salvage and grimaced. thirty-one had made it. None of them looked able to function. However…he put a finger to his lips.
“I might be able to repurpose them.”
“How, exactly?”
The [Necromancer] looked around.
“…It’s going to be very messy. I should do it far from camp. I’ll be back in…thirty minutes.”
He began to chug the mana potion after all. Merr raised her eyes. She and Eloque followed him—then hastily came back. Bearig had gotten up and was making a snack before everyone slept for their evening march.
“What’s Pisces doing? Food?”
Eloque and Merr shook their heads without a word. Merr muttered.
“…Peeling them.”
Bearig thought about what that meant, and then shuddered and went back to stirring the stew.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet stared at piles of bone. He did not stare at the flesh, organs, and other things in the deconstruction spell he’d learned from Az’kerash.
He felt slightly queasy. Mostly because of the fleshy bits.
“This is why I don’t deal with flesh-and-blood creations as much.”
He shuddered. Pisces checked himself, then sat down.
“…I have her bones.”
Archmage Nekhret’s bones lay in his bag of holding. But he didn’t want to use them. Not now. Not casually.
Not after he’d seen what Toren was capable of, and all his flaws. He had no time to hand-scribe the necessary binding runes onto the bones. So he decided not to waste them.
Thirty-one bone piles. Pisces hesitated. It was…odd.
He hadn’t raised undead, not for a purpose, not deliberately, outside the heat of battle, for a long time. Thirty-one bodies.
So many. How would he explain it to the Adventurer’s Guild in Izril? Oh, yes, I just ‘happen’ to have thirty-one bodies lying around. All [Bandits], I swear.
But this was not Izril. They were [Slavers] or, at least, people working for Roshal, and Pisces had little sympathy for their fates. His concern was to keep the caravan safe.
We nearly died to indigenous monsters. If that raiding party had hit us…
He needed tough undead. But which ones?
“Archmage Chandler, are you there?”
Pisces raised a finger to his brow, but the Necromancer had not checked in for several days now. He was presumably alone. So Pisces sat there.
How much time had he wasted? It came back to him, the guilt. He had studied, of course. He’d learned [Deathbolt] and even how to summon a Bone Behemoth—but Pisces had to admit that he had slowed his studies while enjoying the inn.
He had been skating around on waxed floors, eating good food—good food for Erin—and helping Selys pick artifacts and arguing with her rather than…
Of course, that was living. But Pisces still regretted it now.
What do I make? Like an [Artist] staring at a blank canvas, he was somewhat at a loss. Pisces decided to go from the top.
“I cannot make a Bone Behemoth. Too noticeable. Too much mana, and not enough bone. The [Ritual of the Lord of Bones] is not available for another three weeks. Therefore…”
He went down the list in his head. Az’kerash had told him there were more forms of undead than Pisces had ever dreamed of, but it was one thing to know that—another to easily maintain and create undead. Pisces’ immediate repertoire of undead was low, and it made life simpler.
“The warbear. I don’t have bear bones here. Bone Horrors? Perhaps. Ordinary skeletons. And…Skeletal Crawlers. I could make a project of shaping the bones, but I’d have to do that on the move…”
And it was annoying and difficult and they needed an army now. Pisces sat there. Damn. Maybe he’d stick them in a bag of holding and just animate them when he…?
A [Necromancer] is not a [Summoner], young Pisces. We create undead to persist, not to appear and disappear. Know your class.
Az’kerash had admonished him on that very thing. Pisces frowned. But…wait a moment.
He felt at his bag of holding. Lifted it.
It was his bag of holding. It had been taken from him, and the contents inspected, but to his knowledge everything was still in there. He had only checked for Nekhret’s bones, as Igheriz had not known their worth, but…he stared thoughtfully at the piles of bone.
Bone Horrors were powerful. Skeletal Crawlers were dangerous ambushers. But Bone Horrors were slow, and he’d be able to make…two. Three, if he stretched things.
Skeletal Crawlers were weak in a straight-up fight, and Pisces didn’t see a lot of confined spaces for them to fight and hide in. So that left shaping them—or basic skeletons.
Weak skeletons. You could give them armor and weapons, but until he mastered the art of upgrading them into Skeleton Knights and so on, they sort of sucked. Az’kerash made use of skeletons, though. Every [Necromancer] did, but in legions. He had thirty-one. Put them up against thirty-one living fighters and they’d be crushed.
No worth for their individuality. Except…Pisces frowned. He reached for his bag of holding and pulled something out. He exhaled, slowly.
“Oh. You’re still here. Excellent.”
Slowly, he put the bear’s skull on the ground and smiled.
 
——
 
“What is that?”
When Pisces came marching back with his undead, Merr the Storm took one look at the two skeleton horses, the Skeleton Warbear, and twenty-five skeleton warriors and freaked out. She almost climbed into Eloque’s arms.
“It’s a warbear.”
“It’s a giant fucking rat with two heads! Gah!”
Merr backed up as the [Bandits] and [Slaves] murmured. Pisces eyed her.
“It isn’t that divergent from a standard bear, simply reinforced. I forgot I had the bones in my bag of holding—and two skeletal horses.”
“That’s great news. They can pull the wagons; some of the horses were killed.”
Eloque sighed, but Merr was still hiding behind her.
“Keep that thing away from me.”
“Merr, it’s just a bear.”
The Lizardwoman was amused. Merr looked at her.
“You say that like that fucking thing’s common or something.”
“Of course it is—”
Eloque glanced around and saw the other Chandrarians staring at the bear. Not in horror like Merr, but only Qshom and the other non-Chandrarians knew what it was based on.
“You don’t have bears in Chandrar?”
“Of course not…it’s too hot. You’ve never seen a bear, Merr?”
“No. And I don’t like it.”
Pisces was amused. Imagine being afraid of…bears…
He hesitated. Was that actually a genuinely decent phobia compared to mice? Was he the fool…?
Warbear aside, the undead did not receive the horror they would have on Izril. If anything, the [Bandits] were relieved.
“Better them than us. But why’re there only twenty-five skeleton guys? I could have sworn there were more.”
“I had to use the bodies of seven to fully finish these skeletons.”
Pisces explained. Merr edged away from the Warbear, who was sidling up to Ivery. The Skeleton Lord stared at the Warbear, who was actually Pisces’ oldest battle-undead. The warbear did nothing, being more mindless. It didn’t even react when the Skeleton Lord slowly climbed onto its back. Ivery swung his sword a few times and looked around.
Yes, this feels right.
Pisces had just caught sight of the first Skeleton Lord with a warbear mount, and he was wondering if he’d created another Toren, or if the undead was just…intelligent. Why not a horse? Qshom and some of the [Slaves] eyed it.
“Ivery’s got a steed? Ivery and…Bearbones.”
“Do not name that—”
Too late. The second undead got a name. Pisces rubbed at his face and got sand in his eyes. Meanwhile, Merr was poking the skeletons.
“Something’s funny about them. Say, Pisces-boy. You didn’t, uh, fail necromancer-class, did you?”
Pisces whirled around in outrage. Eloque laughed, but then she noticed it too.
“Wait, these are off!”
He sniffed in outrage.
“I will have you know that my knowledge of the anatomy of species is second to none in this caravan!”
“Are you sure? Because Stitch-folk know about how bodies look. And I’m definitely sure you messed up the ribs…”
Merr pointed out the very strange ribcage of the skeletons. She turned and saw Pisces smile. His modified skeletons lined up, five of them, for a test demonstration.
“These are more than simple Skeleton Warriors, Merr. Once per battle, you simply shout—Skelisis! And th—”
The ribcages of the five skeletons exploded outwards, and a splinter-spray of bones blasted into the sand. The [Bandits] ducked or swore, and Merr leapt back. Pisces beamed.
His designs from back at the inn had been roundly critiqued by Az’kerash and, come to mention it, Selys. She had pointed out the futility in making Crossbow Skeletons, and instead suggested a one-off trap. Az’kerash had disapproved—but Pisces had never heard him criticize the actual structure, just the concept of costly skeletons.
Well, these ones were now going through their test run. Merr eyed them.
“We could send them in and blast the enemy to bits. And you just shout—what was it? Skelisis?”
Pisces nodded.
“I can engineer them to respond to your voice as well as mine. You see—”
Merr was waving a hand.
“But Skelisis? Can you, uh, give them a better code phrase? Because I’m not shouting that.”
The [Necromancer] looked at her. Some of the [Bandits] and Eloque sniggered. The [Necromancer] threw up his hands and stalked off.
“Pisces! Come on! It’s an objectively stupid password. I love the skeletons. Let’s give ‘em some of the crap weapons. You just suck at naming things. Leave it to us. Ivery and Bearbones—top tier names. You could put ‘em in any [Bandit] gang and they’d never get anyone to bat an eye…”
Another day down. Despite it all, Pisces didn’t think it was the worst of them. It was a close call with death. It was dangerous, and he felt Roshal’s hand following them. But they were alive. Pisces exhaled as Merr found him. She clapped a hand on his shoulder.
“Glad you were with us. I don’t think either group’d have done as well without us being on the same side.”
He sniffed, then relented and smiled.
“I suppose not. Do you think we’ll find civilization or reach a kingdom where we can leave the Glass Straits soon?”
Merr shrugged. She exhaled, then sniffed the air too. Pisces wondered if she was mocking him.
“Could be. I, uh—ergh. I hope so, because we need more supplies, and more supplies means I can tribute and get reinforcements from the…”
She trailed off. Pisces looked at her.
“From the Siren? Is there a problem with that?”
“No…it’s. Well, damn me. The fighting and undead—Pisces, you stink.”
Pisces blinked at Merr. She was holding her nose. He realized he did somewhat smell of burnt flesh, undead, sweat, grime and…he grimaced.
“My robes are clean. I trust the sand and grit will take away the worst of it.”
“What…just that? When did you last clean yourself?”
Pisces smiled at Merr.
“We are in the middle of a desert land, Merr. I don’t think there’s time for a shower, if we had the water to spare.”
She stared at him.
“Are you telling me you haven’t taken a single…you haven’t washed yourself once for over a month?”
Pisces hesitated. He coughed.
“It’s—there isn’t any water. So naturally—I have been meaning to learn [Cleanse], but I—Merr, we are all in desperate straits. I will cast [Neutralize Odor]. There…done. You see? No one bathes—Merr?”
He followed her, but she was backing away. The [Bandit Lady] held her nose.
“There aren’t any showers around here! There’s not a well or—”
“Oi, someone help me get this idiot a steam bath!”
 
——
 
Steam baths were a concept Pisces had vaguely heard of but never seen implemented. They were not hot baths, or even saunas.
Pisces made the mistake of comparing the two since he had seen saunas before, and he got the look he often gave other people. That shut him up throughout the entire setup process, which was actually quite quick.
The concept was simple. In a place with less water than most climates, how did you keep clean if you didn’t have access to an oasis or the like?
Pisces had half-wondered if it had something to do with scrubbing yourself with hot, dry sand or something. He didn’t say that part aloud because the instant he thought of it, he suspected Merr would go tell him to try that on his unmentionables and see how much fun that was.
A steam bath took place in the steam tent, which was a bit more reinforced than other tents—to keep air in. You’d enter through two heavy flaps, and then sit in a room with a single feature, aside from a few cleaning tools and a chair.
The entire way you cleaned yourself was through the steam; the literal condensation in the air. It would accumulate on your skin like a shower, only slower. And the heat and limited water this technique needed? It all came from a simple, boiling pot of water over a fire.
