Most modern caravans had magical equivalents to this, which helped rehydrate the air and were even more efficient. They’d looted a steam generator among the caravan’s goods, so that was what was running now. An everburning flame, no less.
“Fancy. And I, ah, sit here and scrub myself? You know, I am not filthy.”
Merr, Eloque, and half the people gathered around the steam tent stared at Pisces.
“Says the man who hasn’t bathed for a month. Is it Izril that’s filthy, or Terandria?”
“Neither. I am far from unhygienic! Have you been smelling anything?”
Eloque shuddered.
“Only because you keep casting de-scent spells! You know filthiness makes you sick, right? The Nagas tell everyone—oh, swamp rats. He’s been eating and doing everything with those hands!”
Everyone stared at Pisces’ hands, the harbingers of plague worse than Yellow Rivers. He turned red.
“I clean them regularly!”
“Sure you do. In you get. Don’t come out until you’re actually clean. At least his robes are enchanted. I bet they’d be brown, not white, if…”
Pisces stalked into the tent as the others muttered about the disgusting Humans and their ways. They were still audible, and he heard Qshom quite clearly talking.
“I have heard they sit in mud. In, ah…Desonis? Mud baths.”
“It’s considered a skin treatment! That is one Terandrian nation!”
“Ah, but they do do it? Can you imagine how that would get in your armor?”
“Or stitching?”
“We don’t have either!”
“Well, it gets somewhere. You know, I heard that Drakes have these communal baths. Only, instead of being steam, it’s water. Eugh.”
That was from a Stitch-man. Pisces bristled, and the crowd lost some of their members. Eloque’s voice was audibly indignant.
“What is wrong with that?”
“Sharing dirty water? Please. The things some people do…”
Pisces sat there in the steamy room, which had yet to actually reach maximum condensation. He could already feel the grit beginning to turn wet as he added some sweat. It did not feel…pleasant.
At first. Then, as he removed his robes and decided they could use a bit of a dusting, enchantments or not, and undergarments, he looked around and found a towel, put it over his lap, and decided it wasn’t bad.
Hot, and he was breathing in humidity, but it was nice to feel moisture on his skin. And there was a brush to scrub with…he wasn’t that dirty. But still. Something to it.
What surprised Pisces, though, was that the arguments and banter continued, though it grew a little less present. The crowd was still talking…no, wait.
It sounded like a dozen conversations now, all semi-muted and inaudible. Pisces remembered there were more tents being set up, and realized everyone was taking that time to bathe.
He sat back, wishing he had a bench to rest against, and wondered how long you were supposed to do this. Until the water ran out? That might be a while. Not that Pisces was against long bathing or even baths. It was just that there was a finite amount of time in the day, and unless someone would helpfully draw a private bath for him, he did not feel the need to share his—
The tent flaps opened. Pisces jumped.
“Occupied!”
“What is this, a toilet? Please don’t tell me you shat in the bucket. Also, your Skeleton Lord is riding the bear around camp. Scoot over.”
The tent flaps opened and Pisces’ mouth opened. Merr the Storm pushed in, sealed the flaps—
“What are you doing?”
The [Bandit Lady] looked up, saw Pisces’ expression, and grinned wickedly.
“Oho. Someone’s shy. Wait a second—”
“I thought this was a private experience. Merr—”
She poked her head out of the steam bath.
“Hey, lads and lasses! Pisces our boy hasn’t ever heard of mixed bathing! He’s as red as a lobster in here!”
Pisces heard laughter and jeering from the [Bandits]. He was half-standing and sidling around, but Merr was in the entryway.
“I will come back later…”
“Oh no you don’t. It’s a waste of water, and we’ve none to spare. You’re just lucky I didn’t stick you in a tent with ten [Bandits] as filthy as you are.”
Merr stomped on in, set a chair down, and sighed as she stretched. Pisces stared at her and then turned the other way. Mainly because Merr was naked. Completely naked, and grinning at him.
“You have a towel on? Is that for me or do you do it in private?”
“Merr, I am warning you—”
“Don’t be shy. Unless you’re embarrassed. Or this is too much for you? We kick the lads out who make things awkward, but I’ll let you stay even if that towel moves.”
She cackled at his back. Pisces decided he would never get in a steam tent ever again. He realized that the longer he stared at a wall, the worse it would get, so he slowly rotated in his seat. Merr stared pointedly at his towel, then grinned.
“There we go. See? Let’s have a chat—and I bet you’ll have a quick bath. I won’t stay long; the stitching gets a bit loose the longer I rest.”
He stared at her, averted his gaze—and Merr laughed. She stared at him without a problem, and Pisces flushed.
“Of all the Chandrarian customs I’ve had to suffer, this is the…”
“Worst? Pisces, my boy. We were just [Slaves]. You’ll live through seeing some breasts, even if it’s not your preferred mount.”
He opened his mouth. But Merr had stopped teasing him and was reaching for a brush and cloth. By now, it was getting harder to see, and he was sweating and feeling condensation roll down his everywhere.
“Some fight to wake up to this morning, eh?”
Pisces blinked.
“What? Oh—yes. Dangerous monsters.”
“Glad they killed those fucking raiders. I never felt them coming. The lookouts might’ve spotted them, but that was a nasty group. What do you think Crystal Lights rate?”
“Rate?”
“In Izril. Silver? Gold?”
“Oh—ah—probably high-Silver if they’re alone. But that was a fearsome assortment. A group of sixty could threaten a city. Astonishing, really. I can’t recall seeing something like that in Izril, aside from Crelers or monsters in dungeons…”
The [Bandit Lady] gave him a wry grin.
“That’s Chandrar for you. We don’t have worse things—lots of people say that. But my old boss used to say it was just that we had more space between them. More space for things to get tough.”
Merr was industriously removing grit from her skin. She kept talking, because it was awkward to share a steam tent in silence, but after five minutes it was less completely mortifyingly awkward and more simply uncomfortable. After ten? He eyed her shoulders, not simply peeking, but looking at…
A Stitch-Person. Pisces had never actually seen a Stitch-Person…uncovered before. He had seen dead bodies, but contrary to everyone’s perception of the most degenerate [Necromancers], he was at least respectful of the dead. He did not…do things.
Stitch-People had that tell-tale pattern of stitches around where limbs connected. They were not in the same place. For instance, some, like Octavia, had a ring of stitches around their neck. Others had it lower down, around their collarbones. Most had stitching around their wrists, arms—for easy replacement.
But they had stitching everywhere. Merr had two huge rows of stitches running down around her shoulders, and another near her hips.
Patchwork people. And you could remove any part of yourself and turn it into cloth except…
“It is so weird seeing someone without stitches. You’re pretty fair-skinned too, nevermind the sunburn and tan.”
Merr was eying him. Pisces turned red again, but she only grinned.
“Don’t mind me. I like to bother people. Kick ‘em down early, that’s how I have to run my gang. I’m not used to having…people around, rather than underlings or other gang leaders.”
“Ah. Well I—I take no offense.”
Pisces began scrubbing absently at his skin and realized he had layers of grime. Merr eyed him.
“Might take a while for you.”
“Indeed.”
Pisces decided to wait a bit longer. Merr kept working. She glanced at him.
“At some point I’m probably going to ask you to get my back.”
The [Necromancer] sighed. Of course. He stared pointedly at one wall.
“Is this…normal?”
Merr laughed softly.
“In Chandrar? No. There’s plenty of solo bathing and only-lads bathing. This isn’t that common. Families would do it, or friends who know each other.”
“Then why—”
Pisces half-rose, saw her laughing at him, and realized this was why. He sat back down glumly. But he had to admit, it was sort of funny.
Merr was easygoing. She reminded him quite a lot of Jelaqua in some ways, but where Jelaqua would pull back…
“So you’ve been a [Bandit Lady] all your life?”
“[Bandit]. My first class. I was levelling when I was six. Not that you get [Bandit] straight off—I think I was first a [Scrounger]. Kid-classes, you know?”
“No, I…do you mean [Page]?”
“Page? What’s that, like books?”
Pisces had to explain the system of knighthood that went from page, squire, to knight-in-training, then full knight. It was so commonplace to him he expected everyone to know it, but Merr just nodded.
“Yeah, that sounds like kid-classes to me. It’s rare they get full ones unless they’re actually doing something. [Accomplice]—that’s another one. [Lowlife]?”
“It’s a very…generic class. Like [Peasant], I suppose.”
“No shit. Someone actually gets that class? Now there’s a class that was made to stink.”
Pisces grimaced.
“People do obtain it. I think it’s the kind of class one acquires in lieu of anything else.”
“What’s lieu mean?”
“It—you acquire the class because you can’t do anything. I understand what [Peasants] are good at is…working and surviving acrim—terrible conditions. They have a variety of Skills, but I have heard there are some benefits.”
Merr raised her brows, interested.
“Really? Like what?”
Pisces stared at a wall, trying to remember the stories.
“Surviving a famine, for one. Or a terrible winter; people would find villages of [Peasants] who had taken fewer deaths compared to more prosperous ones that had frozen to death. The [Peasants] stretched their firewood and food supplies with Skills.”
Merr whistled.
“Something for everyone, eh? That’s what I always heard. There’s no class in this world that doesn’t offer you something. Except the Blood Classes and Skills, though.”
Pisces shivered. He knew what that meant. He had one himself.
“[Slave]. You know about more classes and Skills than I. I considered I possessed a broad spectrum of knowledge…”
Merr shrugged.
“[Bandit Lady]. We trade information, and so, yeah, ‘course I learned up on stuff like that. Most people don’t even know Blood Classes exist. Tradeoffs. You pay something. You get something.”
“Yellat Skills. Blood Classes. Are there any others? I may know of one myself. Royal Skills are known to be…unique.”
Merr raised her brows.
“I wouldn’t know, but I’ve heard they get nice things, yeah. Let me see. You know you can get Skills by training hard?”
Pisces nodded.
“Rarely.”
“Yep. I once tried to learn [Scythe Cut]. Spent four months training…never got it. I think you need a good teacher or there’s something else—there’s folks you can pay to tutor you, but I never bothered.”
“Really?”
The Stitch-Woman removed her left breast to examine it. Pisces stared as she sewed it back on. She grinned wider, then turned.
“Want to give scrubbing my back a try?”
“I…”
“I’m just kidding. We have brushes. I wouldn’t trust you to scrub a camel’s ass. Heh. Yep, they’re out there. Expensive—I could raid for a month and barely have enough saved to pay them. But apparently they do good work. You get a Skill they teach you or your money back. [Tutors]. [Weapon Masters]. And so on.”
It was a fascinating conversation. Before he knew it, Pisces had really stopped being uncomfortable. He had never talked with Merr—not privately. And this was as private as you got.
“Any more Skills?”
“Hmm…Royal, Blood, Yellat…”
“That cannot be the true appellation, surely.”
Merr stopped brushing at her back and turned her head. She looked at him over her shoulder, genuinely irritated.
“Are you doing that on purpose?”
“What?”
“Trying to make me feel stupid?”
Pisces opened his mouth.
“No I—it’s a habit. I tend to…”
He stopped. It was a habit that he liked to throw in words that made people stop. He hesitated.
“I’m sorry.”
Merr relaxed slightly.
“…Eh. It’s fine. As long as you’re not laughing at me, I won’t kick you through the tent. I hate that the most.”
“I would not do that. Ever.”
Her back was turned, but he heard a smile in her chuckle. After a while, she went on.
“I guess you’d call them Fame classes. Fame, Royalty, Blood. Oh. And I’ve only heard of this, but there’s also…Original stuff.”
Pisces sat up.
“Original?”
“Yep. And you’d call that green.”
“Green.”
Merr raised one hand.
“Don’t look at me. But you’ve felt the Blood Classes. You get it, right?”
Pisces did. His lips moved. A green…wait a second.
“Original. By original, you mean new. As in—”
“Someone gets it for the first time, yeah. A new Skill.”
Pisces stared past Merr. His lips moved.
“…I think I know at least one person with that kind of class or Skills.”
“Really. Well, I don’t think it’s special beyond being, uh, new. But I could be wrong. Ah—Inheritance Skills. You know those. Not just the ones you get passed down, either. Skills that last. Places. Legacy Skills.”
Pisces was counting. There were more unique…his brows raised.
“When I consider how many there are—I have gained only one of these unique Skills.”
“They’re rare for a reason. I’ve heard there’s even another one.”
“Really? What else could there be?”
Pisces was fascinated. Merr chuckled drily.
“Nah, don’t hold your breath. It’s just—one time some [Sage] or another did a count. He said—there’s green, Original, red in Blood Skills. Yellow in probably that Royal stuff. Even Yellat Skills. There’s Skills you don’t even notice.”
“Mhm.”
“So…where’s the damn blue stuff, eh? Blue and maybe purple.”
Pisces stared at Merr.
“…And are there?”
She shrugged.
“I have no clue. Some idiot just said there ought to be them, right?”
“I suppose…it does make sense. Do you personally know anyone who has any of these Skills? Besides…[Slave].”
That word dropped into their conversation. Pisces tried to say it normally, but he couldn’t. His neck itched. He remembered…
Merr’s eyes flickered, but she replied normally.
“Aside from that? Yeah, I know some Blood Skills and Yellat Skills. I have a Yellat Skill. But Blood Skills? Nasty. One fellow had one that made him tougher. Not just feeling less pain—tougher. But guess what happened?”
“Hm?”
