There was a chorus in the background to the effect of, ‘aye, Captain!’, ‘never had better!’, ‘I’m one of the lads, Captain’, and so on. Rasea went on as Revine rolled her eyes.
“You know, it’s been too long since we talked. We should have a drink. Head out! Have a night in some coastal port, sink a few ships. What do you say?”
Revine sighed.
“Rasea. You’ve heard about my guest, haven’t you?”
A pause, infinitesimal, followed by a hearty laugh.
“What? Guest? I don’t know what you’re talking about, sister. Although, if you’ve got guests, I should meet them, eh? We can swap stories. I was on the trail of those [Strategists] and those damned Swords of Serept, but they’re inland and I don’t feel like sailing up a river with all those Drakes about. I just thought I’d head back, embrace my sister—”
“Rasea. Stop it.”
Of her many qualities, good and bad—and she had many—Rasea Zecrew was not exactly known for subtlety, and Revine knew her well. She was drawn to action and stories like a bee to sugar or Dreamleaf. Rasea paused, clearly thinking on how to tackle things next.
“Alright, big sis. My favorite sister—so, uh, you’ve got that famous Gold-rank team, eh?”
“Just one. Don’t flatter me.”
“Is it flattery? We’re family!”
“You tried to stab me the last time we met.”
“Only because you—you know what? Let’s let bygones be bygones. I’m just curious, Revine.”
“You and half the world.”
The Siren watched as Ceria cast a spell. [Ice Wall]. It rose upwards and she hopped over on one leg to inspect it. She put a hand to the wall, frowning. What was she doing?
“Will this take long? I don’t want your ship in my ports. I have a gang war brewing and there’s a Drowning Night coming—”
Mistake.
“You don’t say. How big? Bloodtear started it, didn’t they? Hah! You couldn’t ask them to postpone it until we get there?”
“If you come anywhere within ten miles of Savere, I will sink the Illuminary. Clear off!”
Revine snapped. Rasea paused.
“Don’t be like that, Revine. I just want to see this Relic. So it’s so good it fooled you, huh?”
Her tone was now needling. Revine knew what she was doing but…it was working. She gritted her teeth.
“Not just me. Omniscel the Omnipotent fell for it himself.”
“A high-level [Enchanter] and my big sister? Well, well, well.”
“You are not coming here. The Relic’s probably bound to Ceria Springwalker and—I am warning you, Rasea.”
“Just tell me what it does. It’s an Archmage’s circlet, isn’t it? Not too useful for me. If it’s all sparkles and spells, I’ll leave you alone, so let’s talk, huh?”
Revine hesitated. That was true. Rasea loved treasure, but she liked magical swords and armor more than artifacts she couldn’t use. She sighed. Family always knew how to push your buttons.
“It’s some kind of powerful mental circlet. That’s all I know. It can create false copies that fool everyone—and it’s cursed. Or at least, the [Enchanter] thinks so. He thinks it attached itself to Ceria when she picked it up.”
Rasea whistled through the stone.
“Interesting. I’ve seen a few of those. Is it sentient?”
Revine’s back prickled.
“I don’t know. But the only effects Omniscel has traced have been enhancing intelligence…and something called ‘Freedom from Morality’.”
“Oho. And what does that do?”
The Siren of Savere stared at Ceria, who was hopping about, casting [Ice Spikes] at a target with one foot. She spoke, slowly.
“As far as I can tell—either the intelligence booster isn’t that effective, or this half-Elf truly needed it. As for morality?”
Rasea cackled in the background and Revine was silent.
“I just watched her pull a ‘prank’ over breakfast that killed five people. She didn’t even blink.”
Savere had many stone-cold killers, but even they had some reaction to death. Ceria? It didn’t even put a sway in her step. Revine lowered the speaking stone. Ceria had just done a hop and crashed face-first onto the ground. The circlet hadn’t gone flying, though; it stayed anchored to her head like it was glued on.
“I have to go. Don’t add to my troubles, Rasea. Shifthold just docked, and I have to deal with that.”
Some of Rasea’s crew had clearly been listening in, because there were groans, and Rasea herself sounded less enthusiastic.
“Shifthold? Maybe it’s not worth a quick trip after all. Blegh. I’ll…think about it, sis. I am bored. I’m almost tempted to see if we can sack Medain and free the King of Duels. But we have work, and I suppose it’s not that interesting. Hey, if that circlet does anything else interesting like free teleportation? Just say the word and I’ll kidnap some handsome [Prince] for—”
Revine hung up. She was half-tempted to toss the stone out of her open-air balcony, but instead she just tucked it away with a sigh. Then she strode over to the practice rooms and threw the clear glass door open.
“What are you doing?”
She stared down at Ceria Springwalker. The half-Elf glanced up as Omniscel half-crouched next to her, shouting.
“That’s right! One, two, three! Testicles! How’s that for Magus Grimalkin impressions?”
He tried to flex, and Ceria broke off from doing pushups. She looked at Revine’s incredibly annoyed face and wiped at her brow.
“I’m, uh, doing tests. Omniscel, you can stop. I think there’s definitely no physical enhancements in the circlet. No balance, no speed, and definitely no strength. I can barely do thirty pushups in a row.”
The Drake [Enchanter] lowered his arms, unflexed, and began writing notes, which was ironically an even better impression of Grimalkin than before.
“Interesting. You’d think they’d add that in, but maybe it’s too complex with mental magic. Or they had a limited amount of enchanting capacity, even for a Relic-class object.”
“Testing?”
Revine realized Ceria’s stupid antics had a point. Ceria pushed herself up and shrugged.
“Yeah. Now I know I’m wearing it, I’m letting Omniscel help me figure out what it does. It’s definitely helping me concentrate, but…no physical boosting.”
“You seemed fairly well-balanced.”
Ceria had stood on one leg for five minutes without wobbling. The half-Elf shrugged.
“That’s not new. See?”
To prove it, she grabbed her right foot and began hopping about in a circle, then doing a spin-hop that Revine thought would make her throw up or fall over.
Ceria did neither, and she spun, lifted a finger, and shot an ice spike into a painted target across the room. She hit dead-center.
“Huh.”
Omniscel eyed Ceria, impressed. So was Revine.
“Did Illphres teach you that, too?‘
Ceria smiled sadly.
“No. I learned that. She taught me how to aim, but she never adventured; you have to know how to run, turn, and hit your targets.”
Huh. Revine had never…her aim was superlative, and it had to be since she could hit a target at extreme range, beating out an ordinary [Archer] with a longbow with her infamous [Water Spray] condensed into a pinpoint jet.
However, she had to admit, she didn’t practice the running spellcasting of adventurers. Could she do that?
Never when anyone could see me.
“I always had good aim, Omniscel, even before I went to Wistram. It’s not an ‘eye-booster’.”
Ceria was reading his notes over his shoulder. The Drake crabbed away from her.
“Stop altering my impartial observations!”
He slowly underlined ‘eye-booster’ just to spite her. Ceria shrugged. Then she went back to studying the spellbook.
“And what are you doing now?”
The Siren was of two minds on Ceria. Firstly, she realized why her [Corruptors] had been as effective as spit; Ceria was already compromised by a possibly greater force.
Was the circlet sentient? What kind of curses did it have? Could Ceria be trusted?
She was thus uncertain if training Ceria or keeping her anywhere near Runsblud was wise. There were cursed objects that transformed you or ate your mind…
But Ceria was Illphres’ apprentice. Moreover, for all her antics, she herself seemed intelligent enough to know wearing a foreign Relic was a problem.
“Are there any other curses, Omniscel? You can tell, can’t you?”
The Drake frowned.
“It’s not that easy. Sure, your average face-melting enchantment is pretty easy. That acid spell doesn’t belong. But all the real curses look like beneficial magic. So, um, if you wake up as some kind of horror in the night, I’ll be sleeping far away from your rooms. But…”
He sighed.
“—I don’t think it’s cursed like that? It’s just got enchantments that are dubiously beneficial.”
“You’re basing that on your instincts?”
The Drake looked offended. He tugged at his beard; it was real, but the Siren had heard he just used a beard-tonic for some inane reason.
“Context, Siren, context. Ceria snatched it from the lair of a powerful [Necromancer] as he was apparently killed in an ambush. You don’t leave powerful cursed objects just lying around unless you’re really sadistic or some kind of [Mastermind] who expects adventurers to try on objects like that. It sounds like this was his personal circlet. So…it’s ‘probably’ safe.”
He made air quotes with his claws. Ceria nodded.
“I could take it off, but I don’t feel any different. Just dumber. Slower.”
She lifted the circlet off her head. The Siren and Omniscel both looked skeptical. Ceria scowled at them.
“It’s actually off my head. See? I only notice the mental aspect.”
“If that’s so, then let Omniscel inspect it.”
The Siren reached out for the circlet, preparing a containing spell, and Omniscel backed up.
“Containment! Containment first—”
Ceria instantly lowered the circlet back onto her head as the Siren approached.
“…And now it’s back on.”
Revine halted, glaring at her. She got Ceria’s bland smile in return.
“What are you doing?”
“Keeping the circlet, Siren Revine. I’m not an idiot, even without it on. I don’t really want to give away a Relic-class item. I’ll never get it back if I hand it over. So…even if there’s a chance something is eating my brain, I suppose I have to take it.”
The Siren eyed Ceria.
“You don’t trust me?”
Ceria snorted. She smiled, but she raised one eyebrow and Revine blushed.
“I’m not exactly a greenhorn, Siren. But it doesn’t change the fact that I’m your guest, either. If you want to keep teaching me magic—we can definitely talk about deals. But the circlet’s off the table.”
The Siren hesitated. Ceria was calm and cool. Collected. Her nervousness and uncertainty were gone, and Revine had to wonder if that was an act. Was any of Ceria’s personality real?
That was the uncertainty she didn’t like about the circlet. That, and the other factions interested in Ceria. But…after a moment, Revine nodded.
“What are you studying, then? More spells?”
At least this explained how Ceria was mastering magic in a fraction of the time she should have, missed tutelage from Illphres or not. The half-Elf gestured at the book, and the Siren saw it was Fundamentals of Ice Magic, which sounded like a beginner’s book…but was more theory than actual spellbook.
“I’ve got one chance to improve myself. I was always behind Pisces a bit—and I never got to study, just adventure. I want to learn the kind of magic that will complete my training. I think I’m getting it. Hardening ice, changing its composition—extra-cold ice.”
“Can you do ice cubes that only make a drink cool, not super-cold? I’d pay a fortune for those on demand.”
Omniscel waved a claw. Ceria and Revine stared at him, and he backed up.
“Just a joke. Just a joke. [Cryomancers] and [Hydromancers], not a drop of humor in them. [Pyromancers], now, a ball of laughs and a house on fire…”
“You want to change the composition of your ice?”
Ceria smiled.
“That’s right. I can do [Glaciersheet Ice], and that held off even an Adult Creler. But ice magic is adaptive. Versatile. It…”
“—Is strong because you can create anything you can imagine with it.”
Revine finished her sentence. Those were Illphres’ words. She looked at Ceria, and the half-Elf nodded. Revine mumbled.
“She used to argue with me all the time that ice could be more adaptive than water.”
“That’s what she always told me.”
“She’s clearly wrong.”
Ceria snorted, then caught Revine’s glare and raised her hands.
“…Do you know some of the other ice qualities? That’s what I’d like to focus on. Rough ice, blood ice? It’s what I need, right now.”
“Need?”
The half-Elf tapped the side of her head. The circlet glinted and Revine stared at that, but Ceria met her eyes.
“Yes. I’ve been thinking about my weaknesses as a [Mage] and…it’s not the circlet talking. It’s just me, Siren. It’s still just me.”
Revine wished she could believe that. But she nodded, nonetheless, and began speaking with Ceria. The half-Elf listened, eyes bright, circlet shining. She continued on as normal with nothing being normal.
That evening, the Bleakbeaks began attacking Bloodtear Pirates who walked alone or unwisely moved about in smaller groups on the streets. The Bloodtear Pirates demanded an audience with the Siren of Savere.
And so did Alchemist Irurx, the captain of Shifthold.
 
——
 
How much time had he wasted, in days of peace and comfort? If he had worked a bit harder—now, when it mattered—it might have helped more.
The first real attack on Pisces’ caravan came roughly a week into their journey through the Glass Straits. He stumbled out of his tent and saw the enemy coming clearly by day.
Day, because they slept during the day and travelled at night; the glare coming off the Glass Straits meant the freed [Slaves] and [Bandits] had to camp in the shade of a dune. It also meant the Glass Straits were both as bright as the sun itself and hot. So hot the sand melted into the very glass that formed this long stretch of land.
They had been safe for a week. Pisces had feared the worst when the flying carpet found them, but it had been downed by the Necromancer, Az’kerash, and he had assured Pisces he would hold back Roshal’s eyes as best he could.
He had failed. Or something else had consumed his attention, because Roshal was still pursuing them. Not with elite [Slave Masters] or [Slave Lords], but with rank-and-file. With hired mercenaries and expendable troops. Pisces could not know how many had died, sniped out of the air by spells.
He did see Roshal’s attacking force, though. Like the Goblins who had raided the caravan—they hit hard and fast.
[Sand Mercenaries]. They charged out of the sands, riding camels, both people and mounts equipped with visors to shield them from the bright glare, screaming, shrieking.
“To arms! Get up! Get to your squads!”
