“He started…getting tougher skin. Rougher. I even think he grew a bit—it freaked everyone out, and I kicked him out of the gang. Never heard what happened to him. I asked him how he got it, once. Then I decided I didn’t want to know. You get me? You don’t want to know how they get those Skills.”
Pisces nodded slowly. The mood turned more somber. Merr kept scrubbing; she was nearly done. Pisces was beginning to do so himself, but he had dirt everywhere. And his hair…
“You really are a ball of dirt, eh?”
“I suppose you were right.”
He sighed. Merr nodded. She sat there, skin cleaned. He saw her glance at him. Merr smiled, looked at the tent flaps. Then…paused.
“I’d better get back out there and keep order. Nice magicing today. Raising a hundred undead in one go—that’s Gold-rank for you. Wistram graduate, never mind not finishing schooling.”
Pisces ducked his head. Merr glanced at him.
“How’s the spellbook going along?”
He grimaced. He also had the half-burned book from Albez, and some of the books that Az’kerash had given him, but they weren’t spellbooks as much as theory.
“Slowly. The new spellbook is…less valuable immediately. It might behoove—be better if I just studied spells.”
But the new spellbook was fascinating. Pisces wished Ceria had the Albez book, but they had traded it off and…he hoped she was well. He would find her.
Merr nodded. She looked towards the tent flaps again, then spoke.
“You said you were a decent [Mage]. You know a bunch of spells, right? You learned [Condensation], and you thought you could pick up [Cleanse]…”
“If I had the right magic. Is there a spell that would be helpful?”
The [Bandit Lady] hesitated. She looked at Pisces, then past him. For once, her easy companionship faltered.
“Nah. Maybe. Do you know…well, spells that make people forget things?”
Pisces stirred. Merr glanced at him and grinned, but this time it was fake.
“Just—you know, blank it out? I heard some [Mages] that ran with gangs had something like that—”
“Remove a memory completely, you mean?”
She nodded, still not quite looking at him. Pisces stared down, only half-thinking of the answer he knew. He looked at her.
“I…a complete memory removal spell would be beyond me. It’s very powerful, to be able to do that. I am sure it is possible…”
He thought of Az’kerash.
“But not…”
“Ah, it was just a thought! It might help some of the others sleep at night. I was just curious.”
Merr stood up abruptly. She turned, laughed as she stretched, then reached over to clap him on the shoulder.
“I’m heading out. You keep scrubbing. Eugh.”
She wiped her hand on her shoulder. Pisces started, then smiled. He looked at Merr. They held each other’s gazes too long, and then she walked out into the cooling world outside.
Pisces sat there for a while. Like a single drop of color in a bucket of water…he wondered if that was what Merr had truly come here to ask. He almost wished he knew that spell—
But no. That was too close to Riqre.
Riqre and…Pisces remembered his dreams. Roshal. They had nearly come. He sat there in silence; for how long, he couldn’t have said. Probably only minutes.
Then someone entered. Pisces blinked as someone shuffled into the tent.
“Merr said it was empty—Merr!”
A distant laugh. The Lizardwoman shook her fist, then stared at Pisces. At least she had a towel—two towels. She sighed.
“Hey.”
“Ah…hello.”
Eloque hesitated. Then she sat down on the vacated stool.
“Just so you know, I’m not scrubbing myself here. I’ll find another tent.”
“Perfectly reasonable. I would vacate, but…”
Eloque eyed Pisces working on one arm.
“Dead gods, you’re like me and my stitches. How can someone be so dirty?”
“I’m not that—”
Pisces gave up. Eloque half-rose, then sighed.
“There’s lines for the steam baths. I’ll join a queue. Merr didn’t bother you too much, did she?”
“Not really. It was actually a convivial talk—that is—enjoyable.”
Eloque nodded. Her lips moved. She adjusted the towels, making sure they weren’t slipping.
“She’s tough. Did she ask you about memory spells?”
Pisces stopped brushing at his skin. He looked up.
“Yes. I don’t have any.”
“I told her you didn’t, but she wanted to ask. Not that I think it’s…good. It’s too much like them. Like Roshal.”
Pisces nodded slowly. The Lizardwoman turned her head. She extended an arm.
“How do I look?”
He stared at bright scales, glowing in the faint light from the steam generator. Clean scales. They had faint marks, but the thread was gone. It ran up to Eloque’s shoulder…and then…
Everywhere. The Lizardwoman saw Pisces’ gaze and turned. This time he did turn away.
“It’s a work in progress.”
“It looks—better. I can’t tell from just the arm, truly.”
Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Eloque nod. She sat there in silence for a moment.
“It would help if they could forget. If everyone could. You know, someone got stabbed yesterday?”
Pisces glanced up.
“One of the [Bandits]…?”
That was one of his fears and why he hadn’t trusted Merr. He still trusted her; not necessarily the others. Eloque shook her head.
“No. It was one of the freed—one of us. We have those big tents, and she must have rolled over or someone else did. She woke up when they were partly on top of her and she stabbed—well, it was a Stitch-woman, so it wasn’t bad.”
“Oh.”
“Yes. Like that.”
It was Roshal. Roshal…the encounter had brought it back. They were running. Not just free. Pisces sat there. Thirty undead weren’t enough. He tensed—and Eloque looked at him.
“We’ll make it. Or we won’t. Either way, we won’t go back.”
“No. I will get you to the coast. To…Izril. If the others don’t want to find their own way. But I have promised it, Eloque. And I have allies.”
He looked up and met her gaze. The Lizardwoman tilted her head.
“You know, I believe it. I saw that carpet go down…that was the most beautiful thing I’ve seen in my life. I actually think, some days, that we might escape. But you know something?”
“What?”
She sat there, tail slowly waving in the steam bath. Eloque’s neck frills began to open. So strange, as strange in her ways as a Stitch-person. But just Eloque. She looked ahead.
“I couldn’t join in the conversation with you all the other day.”
“Which one?”
“Futures.”
“Oh.”
Pisces tried to say something, but he just waited. Eloque looked past him.
“I don’t see mine. Bearig wants to go home. Qshom wants to start a business. They have classes, families. Dreams. Me? I came to Chandrar when I was young. Ten years. All I have is this class. The only thing I can do is—”
“You don’t have to do anything. I’m an adventurer. The items we looted from Igheriz are enough to make a living for a long time. You could travel wherever you want, and start afresh.”
Pisces spoke quickly. Eloque glanced at him.
“…Yes. But I can’t go home. My village sold me. I agreed to it, but I can’t go back there. Not with Roshal welcome on Baleros’ shores in most places. I could hide in a company that refuses to treat with them. But I don’t have a future.”
He had nothing to say to that. Eloque met his eyes.
“That’s not a bad thing. At least I can be worried about that. I used to know my future. So I wanted to say—thank you. To you and the Death of Chains. I thank her every night. I know she’s a Demon. But she killed Igheriz.”
“Yes. I thank her too.”
The Lizardwoman smiled brightly.
“I’ll leave you to scrubbing. You have some dirt behind your ears. Ears and noses. Humans are so funny.”
She stood up and left. Pisces felt rattled by the talk. What could he say? What could he have said? What could Erin have…
There is an inn. Believe me. You cannot imagine it, even as I describe it. There is an inn in a city far from here. It is not perfect, but it is what you need.
I will take you there. And someone will greet us at the door. I don’t care if she throws a pan at me.
By now, Pisces was waiting. He had gotten his arms and his neck, and he was actually cleaning his hair with little cupfulls of water from the [Condensation] spell when the next person came in.
It was Bearig. The man knocked on the door flaps, unlike the other two.
“Pisces? Do you mind sharing the tent?”
“Come on in, Bearig.”
Strangely, it was more uncomfortable as the [Cook] shuffled in. The two men stared at each other, and Bearig coughed; he had a towel too.
“I’m sorry for interrupting.”
“No, come in. It is large enough for…”
“I wouldn’t have, really. But the lines are getting long and I had to let Rophir wash himself. I don’t want to—”
“Not at all.”
He was the opposite of Merr. Too polite because he held Pisces in some regard. The [Necromancer] gestured, and Bearig sat. He was heavier-set than most, but he was losing weight. Pisces and Bearig eyed each other.
“So Eloque and Merr were both in here?”
“Ah—Eloque thought it was empty.”
“I saw her waiting in line.”
Their conversation was about as deep as a puddle. And that was why it was uncomfortable. Pisces hesitated. He liked Bearig. The man respected him.
That was not the same as his connection with Eloque and Merr. But they had been chained up together for a long time. Pisces knew Bearig’s back as well as…
Well. He tried to smile, and Bearig returned it. He relaxed.
That was all it took. Pisces saw Bearig pull something out.
“Do you have any soap?”
“I do. Thank you—”
They got to work. Bearig was fast, perhaps trying to respect Pisces’ time. To make conversation, Pisces stared blankly ahead. That snack was most excellent. We survived those Crystal Lights, didn’t we? How are you feeling? 
Nice weather today.
He shuddered. These were, no offense to him, Ksmvr-level remarks. No—Ksmvr tended to have practical statements and only used these because he thought it was social etiquette to do so.
These were Yvlon-level conversation topics. Pisces just defaulted to the only thing he could think of as the silence drew on.
“So, Rophir took a steam bath?”
Bearig looked up.
“He did.”
“You didn’t…?”
“He washed himself. I asked, but he doesn’t want company.”
“Of course not. That’s very kind of you to…it’s very good of you, what you do, Bearig. Taking care of Rophir.”
“Thank you.”
The [Cook] mumbled. Pisces felt he was being too humble. He twisted.
“Truly. No one else took care of him. I—I wouldn’t know how. I have no siblings, and children—someone needs to help him, and you do important work. If I can help?”
Bearig seemed surprised by the compliments. He turned a bit red.
“I just do what I can. It’s nothing commendable.”
“It is. Rophir is not always easy. I’ve seen him punch you or bite—”
“He’s suffering. It doesn’t hurt. Much.”
Bearig rubbed at his side and Pisces saw some blotches on his skin. Bruises. He shook his head and Bearig scrubbed as if they’d come away.
“—It’s nothing to what he’s been through.”
“Does he talk? I have never heard him talk…”
Bearig talked to Rophir all the time. The [Cook] shook his head.
“Never in words, but he can make it clear what he wants. He is a bit older than he looks. Just a bit. But half-Elves…”
“I’m sure. I…you do it so well.”
“Well.”
Bearig stared past Pisces. He shook his head slowly. The [Necromancer] was trying to be encouraging, but it wasn’t working. Not because Bearig was too modest. Because…
The [Cook] slowly ran a cloth down his arms. He glanced up and met the younger man’s gaze. Seriously. He spoke quietly.
“I am trying, Pisces. But it’s not well. I’d like to treat Rophir like I would my son, but he isn’t. He’s terribly hurt. I’m just taking care of him.”
“That’s all you can ask for, surely.”
Pisces saw Bearig take a deep breath. He let it out shakily.
“Is it? If he were my son—when I think of what’s been done to him, or when he wakes up screaming, but silent—I am helpless, Pisces. I am angry. Emir Riqre did things I would have killed him for. But I watched. We watched.”
“We were [Slaves]. He’s dead.”
Bearig nodded. Pisces felt his skin crawling. Riqre was a name not uttered in the caravan. Igheriz, Hrome—yes. People spat as they mentioned them. Not Riqre. Yet Bearig invoked him, here. In this place, filled with steam and, strangely, privacy.
“I have been thinking, Pisces. How…you heard me talk of Nerrhavia’s Fallen? I employed [Slaves]. I could never afford to buy them, but I rented their help. I did. It gnaws at me. I remember them—and I remember not caring, being annoyed when they made mistakes.”
“You didn’t know what their lives were like.”
Pisces saw the Stitch-man staring blankly ahead. The [Cook] passed a hand over his face.
“Does that excuse it? Perhaps I have seen the worst of Roshal. I hope so—because if there is worse, I hope never to see it. Yet I wonder, Pisces. How many more Riqres are there?”
The [Necromancer] slowly looked up towards the ceiling.
“His evil was one of a kind.”
“Was it?”
Pisces’ mouth was dry despite the steam.
“Igheriz and Hrome called him a monster. Even they did.”
“Even so. He existed. How many more exist?”
The young man felt revulsion building in him at the thought. Bearig glanced at him, then away.
“I shouldn’t say such things. Not now. But I think of them.”
“Why?”
The [Cook] shook his head. His hands trembled as he worked on his chest.
“I…when the attack came this morning, I fled. Rophir was ready to fight. He has a dagger—but I ran when Merr told me to. She’s teaching us how to fight, and I know how to swing a cleaver—but I was glad she told us to run. I couldn’t fight.”
“You’re not an adventurer. You don’t have combat classes. We all contribute in our ways, Bearig.”
He half-nodded.
“But when Roshal comes, it will be you who fights. It is your burden that’s heavier than mine, Pisces. I regret that. I wish I was a Level 15 [Warrior], at least. I am levelling in that class, but slowly. I thought it was a fool’s errand, a young man’s fancy to be a fighter. Now—I have to rely on other people to protect me from the worst. It is a terrible thing, being so helpless.”
Pisces didn’t know what to say. He had never felt like that. No—
He had once. When his inspiration burned. When he had seen Skinner attacking Liscor and feared for the inn, for Ceria. When he had fled the monsters that ravaged Wistram…
“I have felt that all throughout my life, Bearig.”
The man looked up. Pisces stared at him.
“I know it well. It’s not just you.”
The [Cook] blinked at him. Then he ducked his head.
“Then, I’m doubly grateful you and Merr are here. I…I suppose I will do what I can. Train and cook and help Rophir.”
