“Someone must cook. It does make us feel better, rather than eat horrible food. If Ceria were cooking—my captain, my friend—she’d be serving bread dipped in eggs and sugar water.”
Bearig shuddered.
“Just…I can see that as a kind of—but just…?”
The two men laughed over that. Pisces was about to mention Erin’s cooking, which was functional but hardly as…nuanced as Bearig could do, despite her Skills. But he saw the [Cook] staring out the tent again.
Someone was making a loud, keening sound. Not entirely…it didn’t sound like a person.
“Is that Rophir?”
Bearig nodded. He began to hurry.
“He’s hungry.”
That was hungry? Yet Bearig began finishing his own cleaning. Pisces was down to his belly by now, and he did feel cleaner.
“You do do well, Bearig. Truly. No one is perfect, but you are kind to him, and he needs that.”
Bearig was already rising. He stopped as he trudged towards the tent flaps. He glanced back towards Pisces, and his face was…clouded. No—Pisces looked at him and saw the [Cook]’s eyes flash.
“I am helpless, Pisces. When I look at Rophir, I am angry.”
The [Necromancer] nodded slowly. Bearig went on, hand on the flaps.
“I know you mean well. But I am not. I am not. Well? I cannot be his father, even if I wanted to. His family…he had to kill his parents, night after night. I cannot hold Rophir, and tell him all will be well. When he wakes, screaming, and turns to me, I can’t tell him there are no monsters out the window. He has seen monsters. One tortured him and held him captive.”
Pisces saw the [Cook]’s fists clenching. The [Necromancer]’s lips moved. He slowly straightened.
“…You can remind Rophir that they die. Monsters die.”
The Stitch-man stopped. He looked at Pisces and nodded slowly. He murmured.
“I wish I had his bones. Then I could show Rophir that.”
He turned and left the tent. Pisces was alone once more. However, he had a bet going on. And sure enough…
“Excuse me. May I use this tent?”
Qshom, looking hugely embarrassed, entered. The Dullahan man was in his cloth armor, but he had to remove it to clean his actual body. Pisces nodded.
“Come in, Qshom. I will face the other way if you like…”
“That is very kind of you. I hoped to bathe alone, but I understand this is impossible.”
The Dullahan was the shyest of all. So much so that Pisces began to feel like he was the lecher, and deliberately faced the other way the entire time Qshom was in the tent. The Dullahan man placed his head down and began to clean himself with every air of extreme discomfort, for all he’d been in Chandrar long enough to know the custom.
Pisces was nearly done. He wondered what they’d speak of before they came to a topic around Roshal, or the future or…Qshom’s own battles with inner monsters. He was waiting for a segue in. Tailoring into how Qshom would bring up that he’d had to originally sew the stitches into Eloque or something horrific.
He was waiting. Waiting, searching for his own conversation topic. But so focused on that that he was more distracted than anything. At last, he spoke.
“Have you been sleeping well, Qshom?”
The Dullahan made a sound. He hesitated, then placed his head on a little stool so it looked up at Pisces. Now it was the Human’s turn to be uncomfortable; Qshom’s body cleaned itself while his head held a conversation with the young man.
“Well.”
“Really. Nothing is bothering you?”
Qshom smiled mildly.
“Nothing I should complain of at the moment.”
Pisces nodded. He waited. And now Qshom said…
After a few moments, the Dullahan looked at Pisces.
“How are you faring, Pisces Jealnet?”
The [Necromancer] blinked. He looked at Qshom. No one had asked him that. Off-guard, he blinked.
“I…I am also well, Qshom. I cannot complain. I am just—focused. Focused on survival and evading Roshal.”
That was the truth. He could have said so many things. His nightmares. His fears for his team. His desire to find Erin’s cure. His uncertainty about his ability to keep everyone safe, his ability to help them with anything that truly ailed them.
“It’s just that I was talking with Merr…”
Qshom listened as the words burst out of Pisces. The Dullahan listened, nodding, occasionally interjecting, but listening. Pisces scrubbed, realizing his hands were shaking. He had known pressure—but not this. This was something else.
Terror. He had fought for his life. Not his very soul. The worst that could happen with the Crelers was that you died as painfully as possible.
He realized he was doing to Qshom what the others had done to him, and was guilty. He couldn’t ask for a magical answer to these problems. Yet…surprisingly, the Dullahan just nodded when Pisces trailed off.
“It is a strange thing, Pisces Jealnet. A strange thing. Is it a comfort, I wonder? To me—it is slightly.”
“Comfort? What’s a comfort?”
Pisces could not imagine any comfort here. The steam baths? Talking with others? He supposed so, but the [Tailor] just smiled. He spoke, slowly, meeting Pisces’ eyes.
“Why, simply…to know that these days, these days past, this time alone is it. These are the hardest days we will ever live through. Whatever comes next, when we walk out of the desert, we will have survived it.”
Pisces Jealnet looked at the Dullahan. The hardest days they would ever…? He opened his mouth to object. To say…
Then he trailed off. He met Qshom’s eyes and nodded slowly.
“It is a strange feeling indeed.”
The Dullahan smiled, and that was all they said. It was a long bath, but when Pisces emerged, he did feel better. He sighed, looked up at the sky.
Then continued onwards.
 
——
 
Savere was change. Some cities were built on stagnation, on ensuring continuity. These were cities that had limited trade with the outside world. That could enforce or try to enforce something static.
Not so for Savere. The mightiest criminals on land and sea came to this harbor. When they did—sometimes they left intrigue, blood, or mysteries in their wake.
To rule Savere was to see things coming, to move with the tide as it ebbed and flowed. Only a fool, Rasea, saw the world as an endless stream of battles you could win.
Five Bloodtear [Pirate Captains] stood in front of the Siren of Savere. She sat on a throne that augmented her magic, with her most trusted subordinates at her back. With her was the [Aeromancer]-[Hydromancer], Ureita, her own [Bandit Generals], and high-level fighters, including Omusc.
It was not going to come to battle. It should not. The Bloodtear Captains had taken only their seconds into this meeting—but it would be a slaughter on both sides.
So they spoke civilly. Yet they did not mince words.
“Bleakbeaks are raiding our crew.”
“A battle you started, Captain Aldrail.”
The Siren looked pointedly at the Gnoll. He grinned, and the other captains chuckled.
“Your Majesty.”
Captain Jiupe swept her a bow that was fairly sincere. Gorry, the [First Mate] of Aldrail’s command, watched from the side, grinning at Omusc, who didn’t meet his gaze. Jiupe looked up, and the half-jellyfish woman grinned.
“We’re not here to squabble over law nor who started what. We’ve obeyed Savere’s laws and kept it between us outsiders, isn’t that right enough?”
“Mostly.”
There had been smaller incidents, but Revine would give them that. Jiupe nodded, and her eyes glinted.
“Then we only request what is already agreed. Bleakbeaks is callin’ for their friends. Land versus sea. Well, we just want to make sure it’s okay with you all, you being the Siren who rules Savere.”
“For…?”
“A Drowning Night.”
Revine’s skin prickled. All five [Captains] were grinning at her. She shifted.
“Bloodtear hasn’t ever needed to request that before. You want to fight? Pick a night and do it. Leave those inside alone. Savere has seen Drowning Nights before and will since. Bloodier than any five ships—even Bloodtear—can manage.”
It was a mild insult and a reminder. Two of the [Captains]’ eyes flashed, but Jiupe looked at them and they calmed down. Then they started smiling once more.
“You’re wrong about only one thing, Siren. Which is why we ask. We know Savere’s seen blood. So…is it okay? A Drowning Night?”
Revine’s skin prickled.
“I just said it was.”
Captain Aldrail grinned. The Gnoll spread his arms.
“Tonight, then. But what about tomorrow?”
The throne room hadn’t been exactly chatty, but the others of Savere looked up. Revine leaned forwards.
“…Tomorrow?”
“Tonight and tomorrow and every day. Until the last Bleakbeak dies or flees Savere. Let them bring every gang in a thousand miles. They think this will go a night. We of Bloodtear petition Your Exalted Majesty—”
Jiupe and the others bowed mockingly, the light of madness in their eyes—
“For free rein. Under your laws. As long as it takes.”
The Siren saw Omusc shudder. Even her most stalwart [Generals] looked uneasy. Bloodtear. Madpeople of the sea.
The harbors would be filled with bodies, and the streets would be red from one Drowning Night. A week? The Siren imagined the undead rising, the classes, the destruction…her lips moved.
“No. Savere weathers Drowning Nights like a storm. I will not have a week of it. Pacts or not, you will damage the city. You have not paid enough for me to tolerate that.”
“Then we’ll pay a thousand gold pieces a night.”
One of the [Pirate Captains] countered. They’d take more of that from the Bleakbeaks if they won. The Siren drummed her fingers on the armrest.
“I have made up my mind.”
The [Captains] looked at each other.
“Can we convince you otherwise, Your Majesty?”
“No. My will is final. One night.”
The Siren rose. She had a second audience, and this one she was looking forward to even less than Bloodtear. The Alchemist Irurx. He was upstairs, in her private domain. She did not want him there, but it beat him and the Bloodtear Pirates getting into it.
Besides, she hated to admit it, but she had business with him. His ship had faithfully obeyed her commands; they let no crew on shore and only sent for what they needed. Any other crew would have rioted at that. Shifthold?
So silent. Yet [Pirates] and [Rogues] came, whispered at the docks with figures, and paid for potions. Because Alchemist Irurx was one of the best in the world and some of his potions…you couldn’t pay for them anywhere else cheaper.
Revine didn’t know what he wanted for the audience, but she suspected it had something to do with Ceria Springwalker. The Bloodtear Pirates had clearly been hoping to meet her, but Ceria was waiting for Revine.
Upstairs, in her rooms. Omusc would have watched her…Revine began to leave the throne room. The [Pirates] were vocally unhappy, but she wasn’t going to continue this conversation. Jiupe muttered.
“I guess that’s that. One night or there’ll be two sides we’re fighting, eh?”
Revine slowed. She looked back.
“What did you just say?”
The Bloodtear Pirates smiled innocently at her. Jiupe coughed into one fist, her Human one.
“Just layin’ it out, Your Majesty. We can’t rightly break Savere’s laws. Not without making an enemy of the Siren herself. We’d have to fight the Bleakbeaks, their friends, and Savere. If we continued. Or you gave us an extension. But you’ve said your piece, and I respect that, woman to woman.”
She smiled, a toothy grin on one half of her face. The Siren stared at her. Without a word, she turned and stalked off.
“Siren? What the hell was that?”
Her people followed her as the [Pirates] filed out of the room. The Siren looked around and saw her [Raid General]. She pointed.
“Pull the army into the capital.”
“The army? But you said we were going to chase the Empress—they’re all the way at—”
“Don’t argue. March them this way now.”
The Siren did not like what the Bloodtear Pirates were implying. This was her ground, her city, and for all they were fearsome, even Rasea’s famous crew couldn’t storm Savere alone. But what did that mean?
“Revine. I could tail them invisibly and see what that meant…”
“Ureita, be silent. The rest of you, disperse. Omusc, get to Ceria Springwalker. I have to meet with the Alchemist.”
The [Mage] trailed off, hurt, and the others nodded. They broke up, and Omusc strode ahead of the Siren. She ascended the stairs.
Alchemist Irurx was a half-Elf. He had to be, for Shifthold to be so…old. To be one of the greatest [Alchemists] in this world on the other side of propriety.
He had come from Terandria, but made his name in other parts of the world. He was one of the few [Alchemists] who had survived Nerrhavia Fallen’s purge—when they infamously tried to make potions out of A’ctelios Salash’s unique ingredients. People had tried that before, and the nation had come down like a hammer when it had been uncovered.
Irurx survived. Shifthold. He traded in Roshal, too. He bought people. He fought at sea and dealt with [Pirates] and Drowned Folk. He had a massive bounty—for a single man. Few people tried to claim it.
You could buy magnificent potions from him. Healing, stamina, magic—all your standard goods, and a thousand top-quality potions were now in Savere’s treasury. The best kind of stuff you’d find on the market.
However, there were items Irurx sold that were not on any market’s listings. He was no battle-items specialist. No healing savant. His specialty was one thing.
Potions of Skill. Potions of Transformation. Hirelings of the kind you unleashed. Beasts of…burden.
Drink one of his potions, and if you were a fumble-fingered [Thug], for eight minutes you’d be able to flip over walls and pick locks with toothpicks. Or conversely—you’d fight with all the abilities of a Level 28 [Warrior].
Other [Alchemists] could do that, but Irurx’s were stronger, more potent, and his crew was known to be…different. What few you saw of them were generally hooded or clothed. They were beyond loyal to him, such that Revine would never try to corrupt one. She didn’t want one.
What did he want? The Siren entered her private quarters and snapped.
“Alchemist Irurx. I apologize for the wait. Alchemist—”
She looked around. Where was he? She felt like she would have smelled him at once; even now, there was some kind of mycenoid odor in the air, like fungus and mold and the conditions to grow it, mixed with the alchemical fugue.
But it wasn’t immediate. The Siren looked around.
“Where is…? You!”
She pointed and a servant flinched.
“Where is the Alchemist?”
The woman flinched and hurried to reply.
“He—he was just here, Siren! But he left about ten minutes ago…”
“For the restroom?”
The thought of Alchemist Irurx having something as normal as bowel movements…the Siren hesitated.
“Well…where is he?”
