Kazza watched as Cale began muttering something about compounded amplification. As far as he could tell, the human wanted to amplify the intent found in a fraction of the storm. But why? He didn't even understand how any of this was even relevant.

The storm moving in the pattern of a spell array was strange, certainly, but it wasn't like it could actually cast a spell. Even if an array was drawn, it needed the intent and will of a mage to actually activate it. Without that, it would just be a picture on the ground. Errant spells would be cast at random all the time if not for this fact, because it wasn't that difficult for nature to accidentally recreate some of the simpler spell arrays.

Besides, Kazza had faced the Aspect Cascade before. He'd never been in the thick of it, of course. He'd be dead if he had. But he'd come close to the edges of the storm, had felt its wind buffeting against him and its lightning crackle near his scales. Like all beastfolk, he was sensitive to intent, and he had never...

...well, that wasn't true, was it? Kazza frowned, thinking back. He'd felt something back then, but it was easy to mix that up with his own emotions when he'd been nearly caught in the storm himself. Even if he caught whispers of something, his own fear had overpowered it.

Kazza glanced at Cale. The human was still talking to the water elemental and the professor, muttering something about amplification. But did they need to amplfiy anything? If he got close enough, he could just feel it for himself.

Had he lived by the Aspect Cascade for two years and missed something so crucial this entire time?

Slowly, Kazza approached the storm still held back by Cale's barrier. He could feel the will imbued into that strange, prismatic mana—it was hard to believe that this supposedly contained every aspect, but it did explain why the Cascade couldn't affect it. If he extended his senses into it, he could feel its intent. Protection, containment, seal.

If he extended his senses beyond it...

desperationragepainhopepainhealwholewholeWHOLE

Kazza staggered back and collapsed to the floor, his head throbbing. His eyes were wide with shock. "What... what was that?"

Cale shot him a sharp glance. "You felt something?" he asked, rushing over to help him up. "What did you feel?"

"I don't... I don't know," Kazza said, still dizzy. "I don't know if I can put it into words, it feels—"

Scared? Why would the storm be scared? It had killed so many of his kin.

"I think it feels scared," Kazza whispered. "But that doesn't make any sense."

Cale's eyes darkened. "...It might," he said. "Tarbloom, help me set up those amplifiers. I need to check what it's feeling for myself."
