Her student nodded, gulping down deep breaths to try to keep herself calm. She steadied herself, and slowly but surely, the buildup of that odd, ghost-white mana in her skin began to return to the steady orange of fire.

Except even then, she clearly wasn't attuning fast enough. The faster her mana flowed, the more unattuned mana began to creep up toward her fingers, and whatever force kept hold of her clearly wasn't keeping up. Professor Delia was muttering an increasingly creative list of curses as she cast diagnostic spell after diagnostic spell.

Graystalk, meanwhile, was working on some sort of complex, layered spell array, his eyes flashing as he planned out the spell. Cale could feel him building a lattice of mana in preparation for the working, and he really, really wished he could spare the time to watch.

"Cale?" Damien asked nervously.

"Stay close," Cale responded, surveying the crowd and rapidly moving through it with his mana sense. Graystalk and Delia were both preoccupied with Kessi, which meant this was his opportunity to figure out who or what was behind this—

—a few pieces clicked into place in Cale's mind, and Cale groaned. "Dammit, I'm getting rusty," he complained, striding into the crowd of students. Most of them hadn't even noticed anything was wrong. "Alright, Damien. Here's some apprentice training. Four things connecting all this. Do you know what they are?"

Damien blinked, caught off-guard. "Um... no?" he said helplessly. "We're doing apprentice training now?"

"No better time than a magical emergency!" Cale said cheerfully. "It's probably not even that much of an emergency. I'll give you the first one: [Lesser Shadowstep] is a terrible offensive spell in most cases. Pretty much the only time you could use it offensively is if you're in the dark, and I don't know if you've noticed, but the Elemental Shrine of Fire—"

"—is brightly lit," Damien realized with a frown. "She wouldn't be casting that to get a sneak attack off."

"Exactly." Cale grinned and patted Damien on the back, though he was still striding through the crowd with purpose. A few times, for no apparent reason, he frowned and changed directions, cocking his head slightly as if sensing something moving. "Oh, quick fun fact about aetherals: their species has a natural affinity for divination and precognition."

"She knew she was going to be targeted," Damien said slowly. "But she didn't know how, so she was... preparing to run away?"

"There are tunnels right beneath the shrine, if you reach down far enough with your mana sense," Cale said, tapping the ground with his foot. "I'm willing to bet she researched the area beforehand and knows a quick way to get to them.

"Now the second thing." Cale scanned the air for a moment, frowned, and pivoted again, marching off in a different direction. "She lost control of her mana manipulation, which is reminiscent of..."

"Shimmerdust," Damien said, his eyes growing wide. "The Red Hunters just tried to poison our food yesterday. You think they did the same with Haelforge?"

"There's no reason to think the Brightscale Academy was the only target," Cale said in agreement. "Uncontrolled mana release is one of the earliest symptoms of shimmerdust poisoning. Your mental control gets stuck, for lack of a better word."

"Which means the Red Hunters wanted this to happen," Damien breathed, his fists clenching slightly. "An incident with another wild mage would cement their position in Orstrahl. It might get them even more political power than the King."

Cale paused and glanced at Damien. "Right," he said, his tone approving. "That's the third factor. We know they want to instigate tension, and they have the resources to attempt this sort of sabotage on a massive scale. This probably isn't even their only project—if I had to guess, they have similar plans all over Utelia. Especially in its academies. They just need a few to succeed."

Something pinged on Cale's mana sense again, leaving an oil-slick sensation behind, and he sighed in annoyance: whatever he was sensing was moving fast, trying to avoid him. He would normally have just blasted it, but there were quite a lot of students in the way.

"That's..." Damien shook his head. If dreadshades could turn pale, Cale was pretty sure his friend would be white as a sheet. Instead, he trembled for a moment, then balled his hands into a fist, forcing his expression into something determined. "You said there were four things."

"Yup." Cale spun in a circle, losing track of that oil-slick mana again for a split second before sensing it again—this time closer. Was it avoiding him unintentionally? Or was he looking for the wrong thing? "Shimmerdust explains Kessi's loss of control, but it doesn't explain why she's frozen in place or why neither of our professors can touch her or dispel the effect. I could have tried, but frankly I don't sense anything there to dispel. And the reason for that is—"

There. Cale snapped out with a sharp burst of mana that solidifed into a spherical barrier in an instant, closing around something that buzzed around in the air. He'd been looking for the wrong thing indeed. He smiled grimly as he brought the barrier close enough to inspect.

Inside it was a tiny golden fly with shimmering wings, buzzing around and banging helplessly against the dome he'd created.

Cale held it out to Damien. "Decay mana, please," he requested, and to his credit, Damien didn't hesitate. He unspooled a thread of decay into the barrier, and almost immediately, the gold began to flake off and the wings began to fade. By the time the mana had done its work, there was nothing left in the barrier but a small, unmoving orb of tarnished gold.

Just in front of them, Kessi let out a sob of relief and collapsed to the ground.

"Is it..." Damien asked hesitantly, and Cale gave him a reassuring smile.

"It wasn't alive to begin with," he said. "I wouldn't ask you to do that for me. The Leviathan told me there are other Abyssal Ones on Utelia, bound into artifacts; I'm pretty sure this is the product of one of them. The Red Hunters probably have something that can make dozens of these. They send them out, program them to freeze their targets in place at the worst possible moment, and then have them come back before they can be noticed."

Damien swallowed. "That's... that's horrifying," he said, his eyes fixed on the orb. "No one would notice these. They'd be able to just—"

"Cale!" Professor Graystalk called out to him, his voice booming across the shrine and startling them both, along with half the meditating students. The others were too lost in their resonance trances to notice. Cale shot Damien an apologetic look, then rushed over to join the professors.

They both looked exhausted. There was a complicated mana-trap of some sort that looked to be Professor Graystalk's doing, anchored by spellscripts hastily scribbled onto warding talismans.

Except some of Kessi's mana had slipped through the trap. Cale didn't even need his mana sense to figure that out, because the Firestorm Scale was groaning. Its golden shine had diminished dramatically, replaced with a nauseating sheen of purple that moved as though it was alive.

"We managed to stop most of her mana from reaching the Scale and slow down the process," Graystalk said grimly. "But it's still going to completely corrupt it in a few minutes. We need you to destroy it before that happens."

Cale blinked and opened his mouth to ask a question, only for a set of writhing tendrils to suddenly erupt from the base of the Scale. He closed his mouth again.

"You cannot seriously expect me to believe a student can destroy the Scale," Delia hissed. "This is serious! We need to evacuate our students! If that mana reaches the elemental god—"

"You will still get your rank of fire resonance if you simply offer the Scale your mana," Graystalk added, as if he thought Cale needed extra motivation. He didn't, really. The Firestorm Scale performing a disturbingly accurate impression of the mating dance of a kraken was more than enough. "Just make sure you offer enough to break it, Cale Cadwell Cobbs."

"What are you talking about?!" Delia asked, exasperated. She straightened, evidently ready to start evacuating her students.

Cale just eyed the Scale for a moment, then nodded. "Yeah, okay," he said.

All that mana control for nothing. Really, sometimes it was like the universe wanted him to show off.

Well, if it did, then what could he do but oblige?
