“Oh, dammit.” Ren said. “I'm sorry.” He took out 18 of the Strong Ring of Storage, used Double Infusion to make them binding, and gave her one. “Store everything in that.”

Ellaria dropped all of her things on the floor and held onto the ring like it was the most precious thing she had. She very slowly slipped it onto her finger and it resized to fit her hand, and she gasped as it gave her access to 50 slots of storage and +40 to her Strength.

“THANK YOU!” Ellaria yelled, flapped her wings once to raise herself high enough into the air, and kissed Ren briefly on the lips. It had happened so fast that he had barely blinked and it was over. She landed and started to laugh as she put all her things into the storage space of the ring.

“Ooo, me! Can I have one?”

“ME!”

“I want one!”

“Don't fight!” Ren said and started to hand out the rings. “I have enough for everyone.”

When they all had one, he could feel how happy they were that they didn't have to choose what they could take and what they had to leave behind. It took another few minutes for them to gather everything, and then they were ready.

Ren equipped his full armor set, now that it was repaired, and rode his steed across the workshop to the tunnel on the other side. The 20 succubi took flight almost as one and followed him.

*

“Okay, I know I didn't see that.” Barbara said. “He just... 20 of them?!?”

Stella shook her head. “I don't know what he's going to do now.”

“He's going to be smart about it.” Elise said. “He hasn't looked at their contracts, so I can't say for sure what he'll be able to do; but, I know he's not going to keep them for... well, that.”

Stella chuckled. “He hasn't even slept with the maids yet.” She said and stood up. “He'll never get around to the succubi if he keeps them.”

“He's not keeping them!” Barbara said. “I've given him some leeway with some of this nonsense, but I am drawing the line at beings that can kill by sucking you dry!”

“I'm going to bed.” Stella said and put a hand on Barbara's shoulder. “Don't get too indignant over this, okay? You can talk to him about it when he logs out at midnight.”

“But he doesn't normally log out overnight.” Elise said. “That's why I usually don't stay.”

“He hasn't rested since he went in.” Stella said and yawned. “Neither have I.”

“Then get some rest, and we'll keep an eye on him.” Elise said. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Stella said and left the bedroom, and Elise and Barbara watched the television as Ren led 20 sex-starved succubi into the next cavern to face the next potential threat.
