“Let me know if you need any advice about it.” Ren said and Ruck pat his leg. “I'll see you both later.” He turned and left the stable and went inside. He saw that Nathalia and her mother were still talking about the dress, so he went into the old bedroom and took out his Elven High Court Uniform pattern, and adapted it to be the same as Nathalia's new dress, with an undershirt instead of showing off his own cleavage. Ren chuckled as he cut more fabric, dyed it red and made the pieces needed. He finished it and equipped it, to replace his Travelling Clothes. The Durability was really low in comparison, but the outfit looked a lot nicer with the red cloth and white border. Even the lace sash around his waist looked really good. Ren kept his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak on as well.

He took out a bunch of scrap cloth, cut it into 100 strips, folded them and sewed them together, dyed them red, and recalled the fire patterns he'd carved into the leather of all those boots he'd made for Aimus. Ren embroidered them onto the cloth bookmarks and stored them. Once that was done, he went into Nathalia's bedroom, and she saw him in the mirror. She gasped, and turned around to look at him with her own eyes.

“Ren! You... you look...”

“Like a matching set.” He said, and walked over to her. Narhilda stepped out of the way and back enough to see the two of them together.

“You really do look like you belong together.” She said and started crying. Ren walked over to her and hugged her.

“Your husband would be so proud of how you've raised her.” Ren said, and Narhilda sobbed harder. He stood there for a few minutes and let Narhilda cry herself out. When she started sniffing, he gave her some cloth to wipe her face, and he repaired his clothing.

Ren walked back to Nathalia and smiled. “My Lady, I need to go to the Library for a very important reason.”

Nathalia started to open her mouth to protest, and he kissed her. A moment later, he broke the kiss.

“I won't be working there today, so equip your cloak and come with me.”

“I might need a little more convincing than that.” She smiled.

Ren chuckled and kissed her again. After a few minutes, they said goodbye to Narhilda, left the house, and went out into the courtyard. There was a cart there, but without a pony. They walked over to it and a note was attached.

Ren,

We bought the driver a new cart, so you can keep this one.

- Dorcot

Ren smiled and looked at Nathalia. “Wait right here.” She nodded, and Ren went into the stable. He went to Princess.

“I have a big favor to ask.”

Princess stuck out her tongue and blew a raspberry. Ren laughed.

“No, I won't ask you to carry me until I dump everything I'm carrying.” He said. “I'd like for you to pull a cart.”

She shook her head.

“It'll make you stronger.”

She shook her head.

“Your Endurance could go up.”

She shook her head.

“I'll make you french fries for supp-”

BANG! Princess rammed the stable door and was standing next to the cart before Ren could finish the sentence. He laughed and walked out to where Nathalia stood.

“You're making her do this?” She asked.

“Nope.” Ren said and grinned. “French fries are.”

Nathalia laughed and pet Princess' neck as Ren hooked her up to the cart. He walked over to face Princess.

“I promise I won't flick the reins, as long as you go at a normal pace in the city.”

She snorted.

“Yes, we can go fast until we get there.”

Princess huffed and Ren helped Nathalia climb up to the driver's seat. He was tempted to let her ride in the back, but if Princess was going to run fast, Nathalia needed the handholds. Ren led the cart over to the gate and opened it. Wohrum and the second guard he didn't know was there.

“Sir.” Wohrum said. “This is Kharpik.”

“Sir! It's nice to finally meet you, sir!”

“At ease.” Ren said. “We only go formal when visitors are here.”

“Understood, sir.”

Ren took out the set of armor, and gave it to Kharpik. He equipped it without a word and nodded. Ren dismissed the 10 Honor gain popup, and told him the same thing he told the other guards about weapons and shields being available soon. Ren led Princess out to the road and positioned her to face the right direction, then turned back to the guards.

“No one gets through that gate.” Ren said, and the guards nodded slightly. “We'll be back in an hour or so.” He walked around to face Princess. “Take it slow at first. You've never pulled a cart before. Get used to the balance, okay? I don't want you to get hurt because you rushed.”

She huffed and nodded slightly. Ren pat her neck and climbed up beside Nathalia.

“You should hold on, My Love.” Ren said to Nathalia, and she grabbed the two handholds.

He tugged the reins slightly, and Princess walked a little bit. It took her a minute to get a stride going; but once she got a feel for the weight, she picked up the pace. A mile down the road, she ran. The cart shook as Princess essentially dragged it behind her. Ren and Nathalia hung on as the last few miles to the city passed quickly. Princess slowed down as she neared the city, and Ren guided her with little tugs on the reins for right and left. Dwarves stared at them as they passed. Princess followed the directions without fault, and Ren asked her to stop beside the Library. Ren hopped down and walked in front of Princess.

“That was great.” Ren said. “Stay here, please. Don't go anywhere.” He looked at her. “If anyone tries to take you or hurt you, you stomp them and run them over, okay?”

Princess huffed.

“You don't have to kill them, but it's okay if you do.”

She nodded and Ren helped Nathalia down out of the cart, then checked their clothes to see they had survived the trip unscathed. He took her hand, asked her to concentrate on her personal Aura, and led her into the Library.

“Your Highness!” The Librarian said as the door opened and Ren led Nathalia inside. “And Your Highness.”

“Ma'am.”

“What can I do for you today?”

“I was wondering.” Ren said. “How does someone publish a story?”

The Librarian's eyes lit up. “Ooo, do you have a book that no one has?”

“It's not a book yet.” Ren said. “I'd like to make it one, though.”

“Can you tell me what it's about?”

“Of course.” Ren said and smiled. “Can you make it into a book?”

The Librarian smiled. “If the story's good enough.”

“Let's go upstairs and have a seat.” Ren said. “This may take a while.”

The trio went upstairs to the second floor and sat down, and Ren told them the tale of the Fire Dancer. Nathalia and the Librarian sat in silence as he recited the entire thing from memory, and Teepo didn't have to help him at all. When he was done, he got a popup.

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 50 XP

“So.” Ren said. “What do you think?”

“It's a great story, but...” The Librarian said. “...it's not enough for a book.”

“It's not long enough?” Ren asked, and she nodded. “What if I add another story?”

“Possibly.” The female dwarf said. “Tell me.”

Ren told her about the Battle of the Deathgore. When he got to Nathalia's participation, he let Nathalia tell it. The librarian stared at them, then she looked at Nathalia's cloak.

“That's it, isn't it?”

Nathalia nodded slightly.

“May I?”

Nathalia grinned, and nodded slightly again. The Librarian came around and felt the pelt and sighed. After a minute, she sat back down. “Do you have anything else?”

Ren told her of the dire wolf and the cloak he now wore as well.

“I think... I think that might be enough.” She went downstairs and didn't come back for a while. Ren started to get worried, and then the Librarian came up the stairs. “Yes, it was enough.” She walked over to them and gently placed a book on the table. “All it needs is a title.”

Ren thought about it for a minute. “How about... Fire, Fear, and Death.” He said. “Tale of the Fire Dancer, Fear of the Dire Wolf, and Death of the Deathgore.”

The book glowed for a moment, and the words Ren said etched themselves onto the cover in gold. His name appeared underneath the subtitle as the Author, and he picked it up. He flipped through the pages, and everything he had said was in there.

“This is fantastic!” Ren said. “What Rank is it?”

“You can choose that now.” The Librarian said. “There's some adult themes in it, though.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I'd say C for this version.” A large C appeared on the spine of the book.

“How can I get copies?”

“How many do you want?”

“I'd say a thousand, but I don't know how much copies are.” Ren said.

“A... a thousand? Why so many?”

“I want as many people to read it as possible.”

“That many copies won't be necessary.”

“Why not?” Ren asked.

“Each Library only needs one copy of a book. Once it's in the Archive, any copies that are needed can be produced.” She said to Ren's surprised face. “It's why you never have to wait for a book to be returned to the Library to read it yourself.”

“That's great!” Ren said. “Then... 10 copies would be good.”

“They're a gold each.” She said, and Ren gave her 10 gold. “I'll need the original, too.”

Ren handed her the book and she disappeared down the stairs. 10 minutes later, she came back with 11 books.

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 5000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire Level 7 (Intermediate 0%) Fire affinity and resistance increased to 35%

“The original.” She said and handed Ren the golden-lettered book. He stored it and she handed him the silver-lettered copies. “Just give a copy to a Library, and they can make as many copies that they need for people to read them.”

“Thank you so much.” Ren said, then had another idea. “Can the Tale of the Fire Dancer be a children's book?”

The Librarian's eyes widened, and then she grinned. “You know what? It's a great tale about greed and how it corrupts. Sit right there, and I'll be back.” She disappeared again, and 20 minutes later, she came back with 11 copies of a colorful children's book. “Here you go.”

She put them on the table. The top one was golden-lettered and Ren stored it, then he handed a copy to Nathalia to flip through and he did the same.

“I... I can't believe...” Ren said. The pictures showed every scene the story had brought to his mind, and the simple text lines at the bottom of each page told the story in detail.

“It's wonderful!” Nathalia exclaimed.

The Librarian chuckled. “I'm always shocked at how they come out, too.”

Ren handed her another 10 gold and stored all of the books.

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 3000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire Level 1 (Advanced 0%) Fire affinity and resistance increased to 45%

Level Up!

You have gained a level and are now Level 7!

New Familiar Recipe unlocked: Arbalest - Sentient Crossbow

“I don't know how I can thank you for this.” Ren said.

The Librarian laughed. “It's one of the main functions of the Library.” She said. “I even put a copy of each into my Archive.”

Ren stood up and gave her a hug. The Librarian sighed, and a moment later he let her go.

“I'd like for you to make a copy for anyone that wants one. For free.” Ren said. “Put a copy in the front window.”

“I can't give them away!” The Librarian said. “It costs almost that much to produce them.”

Ren smiled and took out 5 platinum. “Here's enough to cover 500 copies.”

Her mouth dropped open. “But... but...”

“I'd also like to make a donation to the Library, for it's operation, maintenance, and maybe a salary for it's owner.”

The Librarian stopped breathing. Ren pat her on the back and she started again.

“You're crazy.”

“I sure am.” Ren chuckled. “Will you accept it?”

She took a deep breath and looked at Nathalia, who nodded. “Who am I to deny a Prince and his Princess?”

“Do you have a coin pouch?”

The Librarian nodded and Ren gave her 50 platinum.

She sat down and fanned her face. Ren heard her whispering something over and over.

“By the gods... by the gods... by the gods... by the gods... by the gods.”

“You'll be okay.” Ren said. “Just don't give it all to your brother in the Hole.”

The Librarian looked at Ren for a minute, then she calmed down and smiled. “I... I might give him one. To see his reaction.”

Ren smiled. “It'll be a sight, that's for sure.”

She laughed and sat up straight. “Thank you, Your Highness.” She looked at Nathalia. “Highnesses.”

Nathalia laughed and stood up. “I think my husband has done quite enough here today.” She reached a hand out and Ren took it.

“Ma'am.” Ren said and bowed to her. They started to walk away, and Ren remembered something. “I almost forgot!” He said and took out the 100 embroidered cloth bookmarks. “You can keep these for the books, or let people use them.”

The Librarian took the pile of cloth bookmarks and stared at the spectacle. She fanned them out and saw the growing fire consume the forest. “These are beautiful.”

“They're yours, so you can do what you want with them.” Ren said. “Have a good day.”

Ren and Nathalia went outside and no bodies were around Princess, so he assumed she didn't kill anyone. He helped Nathalia climb onto the cart and then got on himself. He led Princess back out of the main part of the city, and she ran as hard as she could back to House Neram. She slowed down just before the gate and Ren had her stop right in front. He climbed down and Wohrum opened the gate for him to lead Princess and the cart inside. The gate closed behind them, and Ren helped Nathalia down. She pat Princess as Ren unhooked the cart, and waited while Ren took Princess into the stable.

“That was great, Princess.” Ren said, and she nosed her bowl. He chuckled. “I already made them for you.” He said and dumped a huge pile of french fries into the bowl. She dug in and fries flew all over the place and Ren laughed, then left her to enjoy them.

“What now, My Love?” Ren asked Nathalia.

“How about we go inside and sit on the couch? We haven't had a chance to talk in a while.”

Ren gave her a quick kiss. “I'd like nothing better.”

For the rest of the day, Ren and Nathalia enjoyed each other's company.
