The Quarass’ eyes were trying to burrow into Trey’s head through his skull. He gulped, remembering Teres’ words.
“It’s—we have a few things that—”
“Do not attempt to hide the truth.”
“I’m not—”
“Lies. You are attempting to hide the truth. Speak with honesty or I will know.”
The little Quarass stared at Trey. He wilted under that thousand-year-stare. There was nowhere to run. And he felt like if he jumped out the window, the Quarass would just stop the carriage and make her driver put him back in. He gave up and did his best.
“Well, it’s called Earth and it has no magic…um, it’s really a lot like this world, and not like it at the same time. You see, in my world…”
The Quarass listened to Trey’s explanation of what Earth was. There was so much to say, from the fact that they had no magic, to the technological advancements, the nations—she just listened, not gasping or interrupting like Flos would every two seconds. It was unnatural. The only time she stopped him was when Trey tried to hide something—somehow she could see it in him.
“Enough. Tell me of your weapons.”
“Weapons? I don’t—”
“The weapons that destroy cities. The weapons that fire for miles. Like crossbows, but a thousand times better. The King of Destruction has trusted me with the knowledge. Tell me.”
What was Flos thinking? Was he thinking? Trey had to believe so. He tried to obfuscate, but the Quarass dragged the words out of him. He couldn’t not tell her, and Trey began to worry she was doing something to him. After he began chattering about nuclear weapons and radiation, he was certain. He couldn’t stop.
“I see. Enough. How many nations fill your world? How large are the armies?”
“Well, there’s a million soldiers in China’s army, it’s the largest—”
What was scariest was the way the Quarass seemed to believe every word coming out of Trey’s mouth. And that she believed it, and still, hearing of nuclear weapons, of planets and people landing on the moon, she didn’t react. Trey was certain it was a mask, a poker face, but he couldn’t see past it.
She didn’t even flinch when he told her about the population of Earth. Her eyes never left Trey’s face. He guessed she was trying to tell if he was lying about anything. She made him tell her about nations, history, and then technology like his phone. The carriage’s dark interior lit up as he showed her some pictures from Earth.
That was when he saw the child come out. The Quarass leaned forwards, staring at the foreign pictures, and then demanded to play the game Flos had talked about. Trey didn’t have Flappy Bird, but he had other apps. For half an hour he watched her play Candy Crush and shatter his high-scores like Gazi had with Teres. He saw her smile, then glance up at him and school her face to expressionlessness again.
She was a child at times. It leaked out of her when she was unguarded. But other times she was the ruler, stone-faced, piercing eyes. But after a while, she began to relax a bit in Trey’s presence and he in hers.
She wasn’t very haughty. From hearing about Queen Calliope of Hellios and her son from Teres, Trey had expected the Quarass to be at least a bit arrogant. Or spoiled, even, being a child. But the Quarass seemed content for him to ask her questions.
“Um, so you’re the Quarass of Germina. The old one—”
“Died. Yes. Do you know what a Quarass is, Trey Atwood?”
“Not entirely. Teres told me about how you were…summoned?”
“Reborn.”
“Right. And Flos—King Reimarch—he told me the Quarasses all share the same memory. You remember all the old Quarass’ lives. And you rule a Shield Kingdom.”
“Germina. One of four remaining. This is all correct.”
“So you remember…everything?”
“Yes.”
She waited. Trey hesitated.
“Like, everything or just…”
The Quarass sighed slightly. She stared at Trey and pointed to his side.
“You have an aura of magic about you. You are a practicing [Mage]. Do you carry a magical item?”
“I have a training wand Gazi lent me—”
“Give it to me.”
Trey did. The Quarass inspected the wand dismissively. Then she pointed at it.
“I have never cast a spell in this body. But my fifth predecessor before me was a [Mage] of some talent. In times past I have been far greater. In one, I was even considered as a possible [Archmage]. The memory of each spell rests within me. [Light].”
A shimmering orb of soft yellow light filled the carriage. Trey gasped; it was a beautiful glow, far better than the light from this phone. The Quarass nodded.
“That is a simple spell. This is a Tier 5 spell. [Pestilence’s Touch].”
She pointed the wand at him. Trey shouted in horror, but it was too late. The wand’s tip pressed into his chest.
“What are—”
He jerked backwards. The Quarass lowered the wand. There was a sound from the front.
“Quarass?”
“Silence. I am well.”
“Yes, Quarass.”
The little girl offered the wand back to Trey. He was feeling himself frantically. Was he hot? What had she—he stopped as she smiled at him.
“You are not affected. I could not cast the spell.”
“That wasn’t right!”
Trey snatched the wand back. The Quarass sat back, looking pleased with herself as he edged away from her.
“Listen to me, Trey Atwood. My knowledge is vast, but my ability to use it is limited. I know magics of old. Spells from previous lifetimes. But I have very little magic as of now. Often, Quarasses are selected for their talents. But my body is weak. I remember fighting, but I cannot lift a sword properly. Once, I slew monsters. I can remember it. But do you think I could kill even a single adult with this?”
She raised an arm, gesturing to her young body. Trey shook his head. The Quarass went on, bitterly.
“I remember men and women and even beasts Quarasses before me have taken as lovers. I know how to seduce, or kill in cold blood. I remember how to shoot an arrow a mile and strike an ant sitting upon a cactus’ spines. But that is but memory. The knowledge of my body is gone. And wisdom is only part memory.”
She tapped one cheek lightly. Trey nodded. The Quarass sighed.
“I am Quarass of Germina. My duty is to hold the Shield Kingdoms against their foe, to ensure Germina endures. But I am not invincible. Far from it. Until I level, until I grow, I am weak and I will do what must be done so I and Germina survive. That is best suited by allying with the King of Destruction, regardless of the past. So. We are allies. You will answer more of my questions now.”
Trey did, shakily. The Quarass let him ask his own questions as well. He was curious about Germina, having not visited it except when Flos’ army had invaded. She looked pleased at his curiosity. And then Trey asked a question that made her pause.
“Um, your companion. Highborn Vaitsha. Is she okay? She looked sick. She was drinking something when we met. Does she need medicine?”
The Quarass blinked at Trey and he’d wondered if he’d finally managed to offend her. But all she did was shake her head, tapping one lip and studying him.
“Interesting. You noticed that? Reimarch was correct. You may serve indeed. And you are correct. Vaitsha is sick. But she will live. She is sick, but by her own will. She is changing her class.”
“What? How?”
The girl shrugged.
“She is ingesting poison. Hence the gloves and vial.”
“Poison?”
“Just enough to live. Not enough to kill. She drinks poison and antidote each day, in greater quantities of each. If she lives—and I have taught her of poisons and ensured that she has the antidotes she needs—she will change her class. And her blood shall become poison and she will be Germina’s viper, a fitting servant.”
“But—what? That’s horrible!”
Trey looked at the Quarass, shocked. She just stared at him.
“It will change her class. She has a poor one at the moment, a mundane class. This will give her unique Skills. Power that she needs. That I need.”
“But she’s eating poison! She looked ill! Does it hurt?”
“Most certainly.”
“Then why—”
The Quarass narrowed her eyes. Trey shut up.
“I offered her a choice. For Germina, she accepted. She took the poison of her own will, knowing the agony it would cause her. That was her decision. By what right do you deny her right to choose?”
“I just—it seems wrong. Are you doing that to Khalid, too?”
Trey remembered the fierce young boy. The Quarass shook her head.
“Khalid is young. A boy. Unlike me, his classes are difficult to level at such a young age. He will take far longer, but he has begun training with the [First Warriors]. In time he will reveal to me what class he is most suited for. And he will be a champion like no other.”
“You’re shaping him into what you want him to be.”
It was an accusation. The Quarass lifted her shoulders.
“Should I not? Germina lives only through its Quarass. Without me, my country has nothing to set it apart from others, and far less than most. But Germina must endure. To survive, the rulers of Ger would lie with snakes and grasp at stalks of dust.”
Trey was silent at that. He shifted uncomfortably. The Quarass’ voice and the way she spoke reminded him of Flos. It was a ruler’s perspective. He tried to think of what Teres would say. Then he thought of something else and looked up.
“His Majesty helped make you the Quarass, didn’t he?”
“Yes. Although he did not find me. My [Councilor of State] did. He might have chosen better, but he was the least of my inner circle. Perhaps it is well that he chose me. My previous incarnation was a fool.”
She spoke so coldly. Trey looked at her.
“Couldn’t he have found someone older? It seems so…”
He paused.
“Cruel. I know it’s for the good of Germina. But was it the best for you? For Vaitsha?”
The Quarass was silent. She looked at Trey, and he saw a flicker of something. When she replied, it was more slowly. And she sat back against the seat of the carriage.
“I was chosen because I looked like the last Quarass. I would not have chosen myself. But fate gives little choices. Now I am Quarass. Perhaps it is a cruel destiny. Perhaps Vaitsha suffers at the cost of herself so Germina may gain. This is true, Trey Atwood.”
The girl paused. And for a moment she stared past him, at the floating ball of warm light. She reached for it, and cupped it in her hands. Then she tossed it and let it hover in the air between them. The Quarass looked at Trey and shook her head.
“However, I choose to be her. I chose to be Quarass of Germina and give myself for Germina. I could flee. I have fled in eighty seven lifetimes, some brief, some long and old. I will not. I am no coward.”
And that was all. Trey bowed slightly, and the Quarass nodded. They said nothing more for a while, until a fist hammered on the side of the coach. Trey jumped and the Quarass looked up. The window was jerked aside and both blinked in the sudden sunlight. Flos’ face and voice echoed through the carriage.
“Trey! Quarass! We’re nearly at the border! Open the door!”
Trey looked at the Quarass. She nodded and he opened the door, seeing the ground rush past. The Quarass ordered her driver to keep the carriage steady; Flos was riding alongside them.
He was beaming as he rode on horseback. Trey saw Flos was wearing sheets of metal—plate armor, save for his head. And his horse was similarly barded. He was riding quickly next to the carriage, but they were both moving far faster—the [King]’s Skill, [Rapid March], was moving them at nearly double the speed they’d normally be going.
“Your Majesty, shouldn’t we slow down?”
“Why? This is enjoyable! Teres, watch out for the carriage! Don’t talk—you’ll bite your tongue!”
Flos laughed, unconcerned with the very warning he was giving Teres. He rode forwards and pointed ahead.
“Before you head into Khelt, I wanted to show you Khelt’s armies! Don’t be worried; they’re undead, but we have it well in hand!”
Trey saw they were heading towards a valley of sorts—no, a dried-up river, a natural fortification that marked Reim’s borders. Flos waved ahead of them; Trey saw something in the distance.
“Gazi and Mars are holding off Khelt’s warriors! Teres and I will join them! Teres, don’t be alarmed!”
He nodded at Teres as she rode up beside him. Teres looked amused as she shouted back.
“We fought zombies before! They’re not scary; just disgusting! How dangerous can an army—”
Her teeth clapped together as she came down hard on the saddle. Trey winced. Flos sighed.
“Healing potion! You didn’t bite your tongue off; don’t worry! You have to learn not to do that. And as for zombies—there!”
He pointed ahead. Trey leaned out the carriage door slightly. His eyes widened in horror.
An army was holding their ground on one side of the dried valley. Reim’s army, led by Mars and Gazi, were locked in combat with Khelt’s soldiers. Trey saw the Serpent Hunters, slashing and whirling, their poison-coated blades hacking apart their foes. Parasol Stroll had the high ground and were literally blasting apart Khelt’s troops as their color parasols spun, aiding the [Mages] casting spells. The regular army held a line, using the height and loose soil to push back the army.
But Khelt’s [Soldiers] kept on coming. A line of them charged down the valley. Trey saw them now, as the carriage rolled to a stop. He saw dried flesh, gaping mouths with few teeth. Sunken sockets.
Zombies. Thousands of them. Twenty thousand—no, less, from all the fighting. Armed in broken and battered armor. They were emaciated, skin dried by Chandrar’s arid climate. Some were worn down to yellowed bone, but most still had dark, leathery flesh. Like mummies, in fact, minus the bandages. But that wasn’t the scary part.
A new wave of Khelt’s soldiers were charging at Reim’s defenders. Charging, not shuffling or groaning. They sprinted across the ground, ancient and rusted weapons, raised. Screaming.
“Uh.”
Trey made a squeaking sound. Teres halted, gulping down a mouthful of healing potion. The sound that Khelt’s soldiers made echoed through the air, raising goose bumps on Trey’s arms. Flos grinned as he lifted the mace he’d brought and pulled out a helmet.
“Zombies don’t run in your world, Trey? They do in this one! And Fetohep can make them sprint.”
“Are they—that’s a message?”
“The only one Khelt sends.”
The King of Destruction laughed. The wave of Khelt’s troops hit Reim’s [Soldiers]. They bounced off the walls of shields and clawed at the defenders, but Trey could see Gazi and Mars leading the [Soldiers], hacking apart the zombies with ease. But there were so many!
