Trey and Teres entered the room where Flos and the Quarass were sitting. They came in slowly, aware of the Quarass’ presence. When Trey saw the small girl sitting across from the King of Destruction, he nearly laughed. Until she looked up and stared at him. Then he stared into her old eyes, shuddered, and remembered.
She was the Quarass born again. He slipped into the room behind Teres and bowed. Teres did not.
“You wanted to see us, Flos?”
The Quarass’ gaze flicked sharply to Teres’ face. Trey winced, but Teres refused to address Flos by his title. Nor did the King of Destruction insist. Indeed, he smiled and gestured to two more chairs that had been set out.
“Yes indeed! Come in and sit, Trey, Teres. Have you greeted the Quarass’ companions?”
“Highborn Vaitsha and Khalid? Yeah. We met them.”
“Excellent. I hope you will become their friends. They fulfill a similar role to the Quarass as you two have with me.”
Trey bit his lip and Teres coughed. The Quarass was looking from Flos to them, and especially at Teres. Trey recalled that Teres had helped set up the scenario in which she was reborn. He looked at the King of Destruction.
“Your Majesty, um, what happened at Tiqr? Has the siege ended?”
Flos’ face froze for a second, and then he sighed.
“It has fallen. But Nsiia lives.”
“Oh! That’s…good?”
The twins looked at each other, worried. Flos sighed.
“Yes. I suppose it is the best I could have wished for. Nsiia asked me that I might help her end Tiqr, in death and destruction. But I could not. So Tiqr falls and she is captive. But she lives. That is the cost of my peace so far.”
“You could have helped her, though. Right?”
Teres frowned at Flos. The King of Destruction looked up and stared at her.
“No, Teres. I swore an oath. I will not make war without cause and Tiqr was not mine when it was attacked.”
“But she asked…?”
Flos shook his head.
“That was what Nsiia asked herself. But I cannot dance about my oath, Teres. Or play with words like some ambassador or diplomat, Trey, Teres. I hold the honor of Reim, my people, my kingdom, upon my actions. That is what it means to give my word.”
“Okay then. I was just asking.”
Teres fell silent. Flos smiled slightly, and sat back. He looked tired and murmured as he looked into the dregs of his cup.
“Yes. It is done. Nsiia lives. As a captive of Illivere, but better to live, than…yes, better to live, and in Illivere’s lands. I will return Tiqr. I swear it.”
He shook his head.
“Enough of that. It is done, and I have dwelled on it far too long. Trey, Teres, I have summoned you to speak to the Quarass. Teres, you have met her before.”
“Yeah. Hello.”
Teres lifted a hand. She tried to meet the Quarass’ eyes, but hesitated as the Quarass stared at her. Trey saw the gaze flick to him. Old eyes in a young face. He froze, and then bowed, belatedly. Teres did not.
“Your Majesty, forgive me. I’m Trey Atwood. And this is Teres. My sister.”
The Quarass inclined her head.
“King Reimarch has informed me of your natures.”
“You mean…”
Teres shot a glance at Flos, looking alarmed. He smiled.
“I’ve told the Quarass about your world. Would one of you mind showing her your phone? I believe that will satisfy her doubt.”
“Flos!”
Both Teres and Trey shot up. The King of Destruction waved a hand.
“Sit. It’s hardly a secret, is it? There are at least a few dozen of you running about.”
“But it’s a secret! Isn’t it dangerous to…”
Teres looked at the Quarass, biting her tongue. Flos shook his head.
“The Quarass is Reim’s ally, Teres. She has sworn it. Moreover, I require her trust and aid with Khelt. Come, bring out your phones, one of you. She does not believe you two are from another world, yet.”
“It is an astounding claim. Have you proof of this?”
The Quarass looked at Flos as Trey dug in one pocket. The King of Destruction laughed.
“I saw them appear in my throne room, Quarass. They were dressed outlandishly, and they had no idea who I was or even of magic! And this—ah, thank you, Trey. This is a trinket from their world. Give it to the Quarass.”
He watched as Trey gingerly offered the Quarass his smartphone. She stared at the lit screen, and then at Trey.
“Um, it’s a device, Your Majesty. It turns on when you hit this button and—”
Flos held up a hand and Trey fell silent. The Quarass took the iPhone from Trey and stared at it. She blinked at the screen, held up a hand—looked at Flos.
“It’s quite safe. You tap on the screen to make the functions active, like an artifact. Don’t squeeze it too hard or it breaks.”
“I see.”
Gingerly, the Quarass ran her finger over the screen, staring at the locked screen. Trey opened his mouth and Flos waved him to silence. The Quarass blinked as she tapped one of the buttons. Then she turned the iPhone over, regarding the smooth screen, the back, the buttons. She tapped the power button and blinked as the screen turned black. When it turned back on she stared at it and raised her head.
Flos was grinning, clearly delighted by her reaction. The Quarass met his eyes and then looked at Trey. She hesitated—her eyes flickered, and she shook her head.
“Impossible. I have never seen a device like this. Not in any lifetime. I see the truth in your words, King of Destruction.”
“Just from the phone? You haven’t even seen what it can do.”
Flos was disappointed by the Quarass’ ready acceptance. She shook her head, tapping on Trey’s smartphone gingerly.
“I need no further proof than this. This—this is a strange material. What is it?”
She was referring to the screen and casing. Trey blinked.
“Plastic. And the screen is glass, and, uhm, metal, Your Majesty. It’s just…”
He trailed off. ‘Just’? How did you make plastic, anyways? How hard was it to make? Probably…very hard. The Quarass was staring at the casing of the screen.
“It has never been made. I have seen metal, but this is not. Weaker than metal, I think.”
“Much weaker. It cracks if you press too hard. But show her the rest of the phone!”
“I will. Um, Your Majesty? Er—”
“Quarass. Address her as Quarass, Trey. She has no other name than that.”
Flos nodded at the young girl. Trey hesitated as he stood up. She handed the phone back, staring at him. He leaned over, unlocking his phone.
“My apologies, Quarass. It has uh—”
“Show her the photo. No, the video! Not the bird.”
Flos was enjoying himself to no end. Trey shot him a look as he opened up the camera app. The Quarass blinked as she stared at the screen and listened to Trey’s explanation. Her eyes flicked to Teres. She watched Trey take a picture, took the phone, and copied him. She blinked at the slightly off-focus image. Then she lowered the phone.
“I see. Everything you have said is true, then. Or so it seems.”
“I have told you no lies, Quarass. Isn’t it extraordinary?”
“Yes.”
The flat reply made Trey think the Quarass was anything but pleased. She was staring at him as if he were a monster, and—Trey glanced at Teres. She raised her eyebrows and the twins shared a thought.
What had Flos told her about their world? Was this a good thing? Neither voiced the thought aloud, though. The Quarass handed Trey back his iPhone and watched as he put it in his pants. Flos rubbed his hands together happily.
“I must have the twins show you the other amazing things they can do with it. But later. You agree, then, Quarass? Even Fetohep might be persuaded if you pressed him thusly. As for Germina…what say you?”
The Quarass paused for a second, and then her small head nodded. She looked at Flos.
“I agree. And I accede to your request. I will speak to him, then.”
“Excellent! You do me a great favor, Quarass. And we must speak more after your return. But Fetohep does not wait and I believe even Gazi and Mars will tire of his army soon. Let us deal with him, then discuss the matter at length. I will host you in my palace—but first—Mizzi!”
Flos raised his voice. The door opened and a [Servant] bowed.
“Your Majesty?”
“Horses! No, a carriage for the Quarass! Horses for me—and my armor! We ride to the border! Quarass, need you anything before you leave?”
“I will have one of my own drive your carriage, if it pleases you, King of Destruction.”
The Quarass rose, and Flos nodded. He beckoned to the twins. They followed him. Teres frowned at Flos’ back.
“Hold on! Where are we going?”
“To deal with Khelt. Remember the army assailing our borders, Teres? The Quarass and I have reached an agreement. She will help me deal with Fetohep and Khelt. We will ride there. Oh—and Quarass?”
“Yes?”
She stopped as Flos strode for the door. He looked back and stared at the twins for a second. His lips moved as he stared at Teres, and then he shook his head.
“Take Trey with you to meet Fetohep.”
“Wait, what?”
Both Trey and Teres exclaimed. Trey looked at the Quarass as she stared at him, and then turned to Flos. Teres glared at him.
“Why Trey and not me? Wait—what does this Fetohep want?”
“I’ll explain it on the road, Teres. Trey will go with the Quarass. Trey, have Ulyse charge your phone before you leave. You may be Fetohep’s guest for the night.”
“Wait, but why me? Your Majesty, what am I supposed to do?”
Flos was already striding down the corridors, calling for his armor and a mace. [Servants] flooded around him as the Quarass walked beside him. Her people were hurrying towards her, Vaitsha and Khalid staring daggers at Flos. The Quarass snapped.
“I am journeying to Khelt. Send Hedolac to the stables. He will drive the carriage that takes me. No one else will accompany me. You will remain as guests of Reim. Here.”
“Quarass!”
Her subjects protested as one. Vaitsha, Khalid—all of them gave Flos a look of deep suspicion as he grinned, donning his armor in the corridor with the help of some servants. The Quarass raised a hand, instantly silencing them.
“I have agreed to do so to aid Reim. Our allies. I will be in no danger in Khelt.”
“Even so, Quarass, let us accompany you—”
Vaitsha protested, and Khalid stepped forwards as the other Germinans nodded. The Quarass held up a finger and all of her subjects stopped. It was impressive; even Flos couldn’t silence his vassals like that.
“No. None of you are necessary to negotiate with Fetohep. He would see bodyguards as an insult likewise. Vaitsha and Khalid, you two lack the formality King Fetohep demands. You will all stay in Reim. Offer no disrespect.”
And that was that. The Germinans looked like they wanted to protest, but one look from their Quarass had them bowing. They still followed her as Flos strode down the corridor.
“Armor for Teres as well. Hm. Chainmail. And a helmet. Trey needs nothing.”
“Flos! Why is Trey going with the Quarass?”
“Because I think he might be useful to her.”
“And not me?”
Trey felt like Teres was missing the point here. At Flos’ words, all of Germina’s subjects gave him a death-glare, some of them putting their hands on their hilts. He didn’t want to go with the Quarass and her scary gaze, much less alone! But Flos just shook his head as he saw a man rush up with a selection of maces.
“That one. No—wait. Let me try the heft of this one. Yes, this one! Teres, for all your endearing qualities I find so helpful, you are a poor [Diplomat]. Mars is better. Trey, on the other hand, has a talent for it. He may well serve you, Quarass. And he has the phone.”
“You believe he is necessary?”
The Quarass looked dubiously at Trey. Flos laughed and clapped Trey on the shoulder. Trey nearly fell down.
“He is! Believe me, he will make the difference. We ride for Khelt’s border! Teres, stop fussing. You will accompany me. Khelt is a boring place. And Fetohep would enjoy you as much as he enjoys my company. Actually…no. No, as much as I’d enjoy the scene, you come with me. You have the sword Orthenon gave you? Good!”
They were out of the palace now, and Trey saw a carriage was already waiting. They weren’t too common in Reim, given the lack of roads, but Flos had demanded one and so it had appeared. It wasn’t particularly royal and some of Germina’s subjects looked aghast at their Queen riding in it. It was serviceable, though, and Flos nodded as he saw his own warhorse waiting. He turned to the Quarass.
“I will ride with you to the border. If only to deal with Fetohep’s nuisances. Shall we?”
“Very well. My subjects. I will return tomorrow.”
The Quarass dealt with the final protest as Teres mounted up. She looked at Trey as he hovered by the carriage.
“You’re going to Khelt, I guess, Trey.”
“I don’t know why.”
“He does. I’ll get it out of him. You just behave. Be careful of her. And don’t tell her too much!”
Teres jerked her head at Flos, and then glared at the Quarass. Trey nodded lamely. They reached up and clasped hands for a moment. Then the Quarass was turning to Trey.
“Come then.”
She stepped into the carriage as the driver, one of her subjects, helped her inside. He gave Trey no such help and in fact gave Trey a look that managed to communicate that if he did anything that made the Quarass so much as frown, Trey was dead. The young man hunched his shoulders as he sidled into the carriage. The Quarass was already sitting. Flos laughed and pointed.
“On to Khelt! Teres, with me!”
He had a bodyguard of a few dozen [Riders]. They set out at once and Trey saw the carriage begin moving. Instantly, a bit of dust stung his eyes. He heard the Quarass cough and hastily closed the leather coverlet. Glass had not been added to this coach and so now the carriage was dark, but for the outline of light around the doors and windows.
In the darkness, there was a little girl with a voice and eyes as old as time. She stared at him, unblinking. Trey was reminded of a horror movie. If she screamed, he’d jump out the window.
It was going to be a long ride. After a minute of silence, Trey had to break the silence. He bowed awkwardly from his seat.
“Um. I’m Trey, your—uh, Quarass.”
“Yes. King Reimarch has told me of you and your sister. Trey Atwood.”
He shuddered. The Quarass’ tone was emotionless, impossible to read. Her face was so still. She stared at him for a longer moment and then her eyes flicked to his pocket, where he had put his phone.
“The King of Destruction has told me how you met him. You awakened Flos Reimarch.”
“Um.”
Trey was starting to realize that was a very bad piece of information for anyone to know. He raised a hand lamely.
“By accident. It was just—we just appeared in front of him.”
“Yes. Tell me more of your world, Trey Atwood.”
“What? Oh, it’s not—”
“Do not lie to me. Flos Reimarch has told me of the advancements of your world. Earth. Tell me more.”
