His gaze sharpened.
“Ah, yes. A discussion of Germina’s future. I have wondered when this conversation would occur.”
“We are allies of Reim. So I have pledged. I would ask you, now, King of Destruction, whether that means serving under Reim, or as true allies of old. And I would know more of your reasons for your return.”
“Ah. The reason for my awakening.”
Flos nodded. He watched the Quarass, now like…his eyes were hard to read. No, not like some bear of a ruler, all straightforward and bullish. Not completely. The Quarass shifted. She had wondered herself what her future held. Now, Flos paused.
“Quarass, I have no plans on erasing Germina. Nor will I put you in danger or threaten your life. I swore by the Shield Kingdoms, by Germina’s soil and Ger’s Oasis to shed my blood before yours. I swore it by Reim, Quarass. I do not forswear that oath.”
That was true. The Quarass wanted to relax, but her memories kept her wary, for all she saw he was telling the truth.
“Nevertheless, Reim may endanger Germina by its ambitions. And we are allies.”
A question. Flos nodded absently.
“Yes. We are, Quarass. But I am aware that the Quarass does what is best for Germina. To endure is your nation’s purpose. I would rather we march in step, but we will see what your choice is.”
He turned his head and the Quarass had an unpleasant sensation as the King of Destruction looked straight through her. After all, he had met her previous incarnations—two of them. He had experience with her. She cursed her predecessor, but kept none of it on her face.
“I cannot swear Germina will follow Reim entirely into the abyss, King Reimarch. But I am not my predecessor.”
Flos studied her and nodded slowly.
“No, you are certainly not. And I am content with sharing my plans with you, Quarass. My ambitions and reason for awakening, at least. I believe the Quarass of Germina is too knowledgeable to act rashly regardless of the situation.”
And because Germina could burn so easily if Reim turned against it. But both knew that went without saying. It was hard for the Quarass to betray Flos Reimarch. She and her kingdom had too much to lose. The Quarass was glad Flos thought the same way. It meant he would trust her. He waved a hand towards the window.
“Before we begin, however—I may have to attend to my second issue of state. You recall the army at my border?”
“Of course. Khelt.”
The army of twenty thousand. The Quarass could well recall what that ‘issue’ was. Flos nodded.
“Khelt. King Fetohep has deigned to send me a message of his displeasure. Mars and Gazi are handling him, but I have no intention of being pressured by Fetohep’s demands.”
“Ah. What does Fetohep will?”
She’d guessed that was the case. The Quarass moved her hand, drank from the cup of water she’d asked for. Wine was a poor drink to converse with in these matters. And she was far too young. Dead gods, but she hated remembering how good it tasted. It was very hard to be an alcoholic in hundreds of lifetimes and sober now.
Flos made a face as he drank from his cup. It wasn’t even great wine, but still—the Quarass resisted the urge to watch.
“At a guess? A vow of non-interference. Pledged in blood, most likely. He senses Reim’s weakness. I’m not inclined to give him what he desires, but you know Khelt.”
She nodded sourly, drinking the nourishing water. Flos went on, wiping his mouth carelessly.
“I would rather have Khelt’s aid, if not their alliance yet. But I believe I would negotiate poorly with Fetohep. He and I do not get along.”
They did not. The Quarass’ memories flickered. Fetohep and the King of Destruction nearly coming to war at a dinner hosted in Khelt’s palace. She sensed an opportunity and jumped on it.
“King Reimarch. If Fetohep’s will is not appeased, he will not cease.”
“I’m sure you’re right. I was thinking of marching an army over his border, but that might provoke him.”
Flos grimaced. The Quarass leaned forwards, keeping her voice neutral to hide her eagerness, but it was hard.
“I could intercede with Fetohep. He has a longstanding connection to Germina.”
“Hm. You would do that for Reim?”
Flos looked pleasantly surprised. The Quarass sat back, carefully.
“We are allies. It would be a small effort. However…if you will tell me what reason you have for awakening from your slumber, I will agree to it. And what makes your two aides, Teres, and Trey, so valuable.”
Her eyes flicked to Flos’ face as he paused. That was the information the Quarass craved. The reason for the King of Destruction’s return? Invaluable in understanding him and in other ways. And his strange followers, the twins? The girl that had been present when he had first met her? Every instinct in the Quarass told her they were important too.
Flos of Reim paused, considering the Quarass’ request for a moment. She held her breath, wondering if she’d been too straightforward with her demands. But he was a straightforward man. She wasn’t prepared for him to grin and nod.
“Of course! I happily agree! You do me a great service, Quarass. Let us speak then, of my return!”
He smiled, laughing, and she stared at his face. Wait. Her memories kicked her in the head. He’d wanted her to ask and volunteer her aid with Khelt and Fetohep. He was going to tell her anyways and she’d—
The Quarass kept a blush from staining her cheeks, but only just. She reached for her cup and drank the stupid water. For a second she was a child again, scowling, realizing she’d fallen into his trap. Flos Reimarch smiled and lifted his cup.
“Ah, Quarass. We are allies. And I think you will agree. But trust is so hard to hold, isn’t it?”
“It is.”
She muttered, thinking of lifetimes of betrayal. Flos raised his cup and she hers. They clinked quietly and she studied him again. Flos nodded as he drank.
“Well, let us try. You are not the old Quarass. And I liked the first one I met. She was a grand woman.”
“Yes. She was. Flawed, but I will attempt to surpass her. Yet that depends on you. On Reim. Tell me, King of Destruction. Why did you return?”
Flos sat back. He sighed, and the Quarass saw him as a young boy, bowing beside his parents and staring up at her on her throne. She saw him as a man, leading an army past her borders and asking where Germina stood—against Reim or for it. And then, sword in hand, her death.
Then and now. The Quarass waited. At last, Flos looked up.
“Quarass, my return stems from the two you mentioned. The twins, Trey and Teres. You are correct. They have worth far beyond your imagining.”
“Ah.”
She drank in his words, greedily. Flos Reimarch nodded. And then his eyes twinkled.
“I wonder, Quarass. You who have lived countless lives surely imagine any number of reasons why I would return. Why the twins would matter to me. You who know so much, listen. Trey and Teres are unique because of their origin. They come from another world. Tell me, Quarass. In all your lifetimes, have you ever heard of that?”
The child, the Quarass, blinked. She stared at Flos. First she stared for the signs of a lie. Then for madness. And then her mind assessed his words. Weighing. Recalling. She stared at him, unblinking. And then, with the best, most expressionless face she had, she sat back. She reached for her cup and stopped before her hand knocked it over.
The Quarass of Germina looked at Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction. After a moment of thought, she slowly shook her head.
“No. Tell me more.”
 
——
 
Trey Atwood was sitting in a parlor. Or maybe a tea room? It was a place to speak in, to relax—but in a refined way. A salon, although he doubted Flos referred to it as such.
It was a waiting room, really. As Flos and the Quarass spoke in private, her entourage was settled in Reim’s palace. The people of Germina were quiet, surly, even, but they’d been at odds with Reim just months prior. It was more incredible that they were willing to come here peacefully at all.
But they loved their Quarass. She was like a god to them, although that concept was foreign to the people of this world. Still, that was how Trey understood it. He and Teres were sitting with two of the people who’d come with Germina. Flos had insisted and apparently they were meant to talk.
“Ah. Er, well, I’m pleased to meet you. I’m Trey. Trey Atwood. And this is Teres.”
Trey looked at the two guests sitting across from him. The two Germinan guests stared back. They were an odd pair. One was a boy, barely fourteen, maybe, with a scar on one cheek and another down his leg. He looked like a street kid, for all he wore fancy riding gear. And the other was a woman in her thirties, clearly noble. Pretty, too. She bowed her head slightly.
“I am Highborn Vaitsha Zectiou. I have pledged to be the Quarass’ companion.”
“Oh? Er—is that an honorary title?”
Vaitsha frowned.
“It is the most honorary. I have sworn to guide the Quarass and protect her until my death. May my blood spill on the sands before hers.”
“Ah.”
Trey missed home. People didn’t usually lead with that as an opening line. But he bowed and nodded.
“The Quarass lives. Um…his Majesty is one of the three, then, isn’t he?”
Vaitsha and the boy stiffened. They glanced at each other and Vaitsha nodded.
“That is true. He has sworn to shed his blood before hers. So—yes. May it come to pass.”
There was a lot to unpack there and Trey wasn’t about to touch it with a ten-foot pole or his magical staff. He decided to sip from his tea cup. He saw Vaitsha do the same after a moment. And then cough.
“Are you okay?”
“I am…well. Thank you.”
She looked…pale. Paler than the young boy standing next to her. As Trey watched, Vaitsha set down her tea cup and sipped from a little vial. He noticed her hands were gloved. Perhaps she was unwell? Sick?
Trey didn’t ask. He looked around, desperately, for help. But Teres was talking with the other two guests in the waiting room. He wanted to throw something at the back of her head. But instead, Trey turned to the boy.
“And you are?”
The street boy looked up defiantly as he tried to drink from his cup like Vaitsha.
“I am Khalid, who has no other name. I serve the Quarass as well, as her protector and dagger! She lives forever!”
“She lives forever.”
The two Germinans nodded. Trey looked around desperately. At last, Teres saw his look and came over.
“Hello. I’m Teres. We’ve met. This is Nawal and Calac.”
She introduced the other two young people in the room. Teres smiled at Nawalishifra. The [Blacksmith] looked very uncomfortable as she bowed and murmured a greeting behind her veil. The other young man bowed stiffly.
“My greetings to you, Highborn Vaitsha and Khalid. May the Quarass live forever.”
He turned and bowed slightly to Trey.
“Lord Atwood. Lady Atwood tells me you are the pupil of Lady Gazi.”
“Oh. Yes. Um, we haven’t met. Pleased to meet you.”
Trey stood up and offered a hand. Calac took it. He had a strong, callused grip. He nodded to Trey, stepped back, and proceeded to sit and sip from his tea cup without saying anything for the rest of the conversation.
Calac was Venith’s son, maybe a year younger than Trey and Teres, but taller, muscled—more like an athlete than the twins. He knew how to use a sword, and he was a [Lord]—he’d been trained to fight and lead soldiers since he was a child. He was also in disgrace with his father, and clearly resented being lumped together with the guests in this room.
Trey still remembered Calac trying to attack Flos before the King of Destruction’s duel with Venith. He’d seemed to be headstrong and eager to prove himself in the few times they’d met. He had a problem with Venith, his father, but Trey couldn’t fault him there. Venith would be a hard father to impress.
Teres stared at Vaitsha and Khalid as silence took over again. Trey gestured and Nawal, after a moment’s hesitation, sat on their couch. On the end, far enough away from Trey that there was no chance of them even bumping elbows. She was very quiet. Uncharacteristically nervous given her usual pithy language. Teres spoke into the silence after a few very painful seconds.
“So uh, how’s Germina?”
“Germina rebuilds. The people of Ger have their Quarass again. She is changing Germina, as we are allied to Reim.”
The answer came quickly from Vaitsha. Teres nodded.
“Great.”
“Hi Nawal.”
Trey whispered to Nawalishifra. She looked at him, scowled behind her veil, and then bowed.
“Lord Atwood. You did not tell me you were a lord, you, Trey Atwood.”
He raised his hands.
“I’m not! Calac just said that.”
Nawal shook her head. She was staring at him as if he were a…goat. With sharp teeth.
“You have the King of Destruction’s ear. That alone makes you the same level as a [Lord] or even a [Prince]. You are important, more so than you told me. You did not tell me you were his personal servants, trusted friends who spoke to him as equals.”
“Well, not as equals—”
“You two ride with the King of Destruction?”
Khalid interrupted, staring at Trey and Teres. The young man hesitated.
“…Sometimes?”
“And he grants you the privilege of addressing him? You two?”
Vaitsha blinked. Calac looked up silently and nodded. Teres looked at Trey.
“He lets everyone address him as equals, right Trey?”
“Right. It’s not…”
The two twins trailed off. Nawali was looking around. Calac shook his head. Vaitsha spoke slowly.
“The King of Destruction keeps few by his side. Informality or not, he named you as his two trusted friends. Then, you are much like his vassals. His Seven. A [Lord] would do well to bow before you. I am Highborn of Ger, and thus lower in station.”
She bowed deeply. Then Vaitsha gave Khalid a significant look. The young boy sat up, looking alarmed, then copied Vaitsha’s bow. He gave Trey a look of deep suspicion and clamped his lips shut.
Trey sighed. He was happy to talk to Nawali—when they weren’t in the company of others. She seemed wary of the Germinans, and of Calac for that matter. Teres was shifting, about to ask something else that would probably get them in hot water. Calac was scowling and the two Germinans looked at everyone as if they were potential enemies. It was almost a relief when a [Servant] came to summon Teres and Trey out of that room.
“The King of Destruction wishes to see you.”
The two twins stood up. Nawal gave Trey a narrow-eyed look and he flushed, searching for an excuse. But there really wasn’t one, so he hurried out of the room. In the silence that followed, Nawal twitched her veil. Calac sipped some tea and scowled. Khalid and Vaitsha waited. After a while, she coughed.
 
——
 
