“Always expect the enemy to do what benefits them, Reniz. Never mind the ethics of it. And I’d say Venaz is right. Or at the very least, Wistram believed some very bad information.”
He shook his head, steadying himself.
“This was clearly a bad mistake among Wistram’s [Mages]. A false statement broadcast the world over?”
“Beyond scandalous. Their credibility is ruined. What if they had announced the Iron Vanguard had launched an attack on a city owned by Maelstrom’s Howling? Or a Terandrian kingdom had attacked another? They could have started a war!”
Cameral, the Dullahan, looked truly upset. Some of the other students were nodding. Umina, Marian, Venaz, Cameral, Wil—all were some degree of angry at Wistram’s mistake. On the other hand, Yerranola, the Selphid, and Feshi, the Gnoll, both looked as amused as Niers.
The Titan chuckled as he read some of the [Messages] being shot through the Mage’s Guilds. Rulers the world over were expressing their fury at the false news in no uncertain terms. He waved at one of the [Servants] attending the lesson.
“Copy these down, would you? I want to save them for later reading.”
He didn’t wait for the nod, but instead stomped on the desk for his class’ attention. Niers waited for silence, and then spoke in a level voice.
“We’ll be discussing what measures you would take as a [Strategist] after learning about this mistake by Wistram. And this was a test—I imagine a number of [Strategists] are going to be questioning every [Message] that comes through Wistram, or expanding their own information networks. If you were advising a nation’s ruler, especially in Chandrar, this is a situation where you wouldn’t want to be caught off-guard by bad information. But for now let’s focus on what we do know. Tiqr has fallen.”
His students looked up and nodded. Order returned as Niers pointed at the map of Tiqr.
“Get rid of the siege map. We’ll revisit it and see if they could have won with the King of Destruction’s Skills later. For now, let’s analyze the situation, class. What have the coalition gained from this war? My view is that their gains are almost outweighed by their losses. Thoughts?”
Niers would have been happy to hear a dissenting voice, but everyone agreed with him, which wasn’t bad. Umina, the Lizardgirl, gave her analysis, speaking over the others as they debated the issue.
“Tiqr’s army is still intact and worse, led by Tiqr’s [General]. He has to have leveled up from the war and if he strikes from the Kilalle Steppes, the coalition will have to watch their backs for years unless they’re able to hunt them down. And that would mean angering Kilalle’s Garuda tribes—”
“Never a good idea. Remember Peki, from the officer classes? I once ate her sandwich and she still has it out for me. She holds a grudge forever. Almost as bad as Drakes, like Kissilt.”
Marian shook her head, her mane of hair nearly whipping Feshi in the face. Across the table, Kissilt looked up at her.
“Go eat your tail, Marian! You still owe me fifteen silver!”
“No, I don’t!”
“Children, please!”
Niers smiled. He restored order again and got each student’s take—assuming they had something new to add. His class were discussing what actions they expected each nation to take, reviewing it against the facts—Niers was quite interested to see that Empress Nsiia was Illivere’s captive.
“Always consider the ruler. Feshi, you have a thought?”
“Hrr. Femithain is cunning. And he backs whoever the wind favors. He’s not taking much land—do you notice? He must suspect holding onto Tiqr will be as much trouble as conquering it. I think it is a wise move. If the people of Tiqr are like Gnolls, they will strike again and again rather than let these new nations take their home.”
Niers nodded approvingly as he glanced out a window.
“Suitably grounded in historical precedent. Time will tell. Ah, but look at the sun! We’re already out of time. We’ll pick up our analysis of the battle tomorrow, and see what the political fallout is! Your homework? Be prepared to offer me the best way to defeat the coalition’s army with a force like the Dreamers of Reim, and conversely, how to defeat the Dreamers! Bonus points to anyone who can cite for me examples of when they’ve lost and how it was done!”
His students began packing up their things, or writing down notes. Niers saw them glancing at him and smiled.
“And Umina and Wil—”
The classroom froze. The Lizardgirl and [Lord] looked up, suddenly alert. Was today the day? The students held their breath, waiting. The Titan’s eyes twinkled. And at last, he nodded to them.
“You two look tired. Get some proper sleep!”
The room exhaled as one. Umina and Wil sagged as Niers merrily strode to the Fraerling-ways that would lead him through his citadel and to his quarters. Venaz silently patted Wil on the shoulder. Marian exhaled as she walked next to Umina.
“It’s been weeks! He’s just teasing us. He does it every class.”
“It’s not just mean, it’s sadistic.”
Cameral agreed, locking his head into place on his shoulders. He looked sympathetic; everyone in the classroom had been expecting Niers to summon Wil and Umina to let them ask their question, the one question he’d answer truthfully! But he hadn’t, and it had been over a month.
“It’s like getting a wish from a Jinn. I knew it was too good to be true.”
Yerranola exclaimed as the older students moved out of the class. Feshi turned her head to stare at the Selphid.
“A Jinn?”
“I think that’s what they’re called. They live on Chandrar. I was doing research and apparently they’re one of the dead species. You know, like harpies?”
“Oh. What’s this about a wish?”
“Legend has it that you could get them to grant you wishes. Except, you know, they’re always bad, or they don’t get fulfilled the way you think.”
“Typical. But the Professor isn’t nearly so dishonorable. This is clearly another one of his pranks. Or—a lesson! He wouldn’t withhold the question once you’ve won it!”
Venaz snorted. By now, the other students had reconciled themselves to Umina and Wil’s victory, at least outwardly. Marian nodded. Umina just clutched at her midriff.
“My stomach hurts. I don’t even know if I’ll be able to ask the question when it finally happens. I mean—”
She looked at Wil. He was staring ahead. After a moment, he glanced up.
“I wonder how this affects the King of Destruction. Tiqr was an ally—but it makes sense not to have supported it. It’s too far away and it clearly couldn’t hold. It’s a thorn in the conquering nation’s sides now, but that’s still one less ally. I’m going to do some research. Anyone joining me?”
“Wil! We were talking about the question!”
“I’m not thinking about it. Or else I’ll panic wondering how long I have to wait.”
The young man compressed his lips. The other students nodded; that was wise. After a moment, a voice spoke up from the back.
“Hey Marian.”
The Centauress turned and saw Kissilt, the surly Drake walking with them. He normally didn’t keep company with them given Umina’s presence. The Drake looked straight at Marian.
“What? Anything wrong, Kissilt?”
“Yeah. Marian, give me my damn money!”
 
——
 
They said Femithain was cunning. A pragmatic leader who moved his country to best suit it. And of course, they said the Titan was a genius, one of the greatest—perhaps the­ greatest [Strategists] in the world. And that was probably true. But here’s a question ‘they’ sometimes forgot to ask.
How great was ‘greatest’? If you were the world’s best, were you the best the world had ever seen? Ever? In the entire history of the world, from start to finish, was Niers Astoragon the, definitively best, undisputed champion of [Strategists]?
No. Of course not! History was a far crueler measure than ‘now’. And ‘they’ deserved the same contempt. ‘They’ had memories that barely extended to childhood and only inaccurate and often biased accounts of history to rely on. And history was written not only by the victors, but often, by people who hadn’t actually been there. Could you really trust a [Historian] to do their job right? A [Writer] to lay out the facts without bias?
Of course not. Today was always better than yesterday. Or the past was always good because it was old and thus nostalgic. The future was ever waiting and people were stupid because they forgot. Niers Astoragon might be among the best [Strategists] today. But was he the best in a hundred years? What about three hundred? Three thousand? Did he even rank on the top 100 list of best [Strategists] this millennium?
The Quarass of Germina knew the answer. Or at least, she had a better chance of answering a question like that than almost anyone in this world. Because she remembered. She had lived and died lifetimes upon lifetimes, and she could remember the best of the best. They’d all died like the rest, but she could measure and recall.
That was her power. That was what made the Quarass of Germina dangerous, powerful. That was what made her ruler of Germina, protector of Ger, one of the four Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar. And she remembered why Germina was a Shield Kingdom. She was the Quarass, and she had died mere months ago. But the Quarass lives.
The Quarass lives. And now she sat in Reim, in a castle that she could remember being built oh, fifteen hundred years ago. Well, it had been just a keep then; it had only achieved the current form around eight hundred years back, give or take, after a number of renovations and three sackings. And it was even different now, thanks to the efforts of Drevish, the [Architect], one of the King’s Seven.
He had been gifted. The Quarass had known any number of [Architects] and talented builders and planners of wonders over her many lives. Even so, she ranked Drevish as in her top twenty. Probably even top ten. She took points off because she disliked his personality. Or at least, the other Quarass had.
She remembered it. A woman who feared the King of Destruction, enough to risk everything to kill him. She had spoken with the Emperor of Sands, listened to his words over the warnings in her head. The Quarass could remember her death. She remembered her last scream, choking, trying to flee. And the face of her death. Red-gold hair. And a sword.
It was a memory a second old. A lifetime past. But it still disconcerted her. For now that same person sat in front of her. Flos of Reim, Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction, her death, was listening. Rain had been falling, but it had stopped at last. Now, the water dripped from the eaves of his palace. He raised his head and spoke quietly.
“Alive?”
“Yes. So I am told.”
The Quarass spoke of Tiqr, of the events she had heard through her own sources. Tiqr had fallen. Empress Nsiia lived. Flos nodded, his shoulders relaxing.
“I am relieved. I have heard of Illivere and their Magus-Crafter. In passing. The man seems capable. And Nsiia may well…”
He trailed off. He did not look happy, for all the news was a relief. The Quarass studied him.
They were an odd pair. He was far older than her, still physically fit and showing little signs of his age, but nevertheless past his prime when he had terrified the world. And she? She was a girl. Barely thirteen. Nevertheless, they were rulers.
And he still mourned. Empress Nsiia, one of his companions of old, had survived. That relieved the King of Destruction, clearly. But he bowed his head. Tiqr had still fallen. Flos Reimarch stared past the Quarass. She searched her memories for a time she had seen him thus. A few times. He had looked far worse when he had entered into his slumber.
Hundreds of lifetimes were hers to call upon. She could remember countless faces like the King of Destruction’s, people of every species in their triumphs and despair. She could remember it—and it gave her an insight. The King of Destruction was far from broken. But he was genuinely grieving. That was valuable to know, so the child took the information, trying to use it and her memories to guide her forwards.
That was the Quarass of Germina. Old and young. She was ancient beyond almost any other being in this world. But it was still a child who held the memories, who made the decisions. Thus, each Quarass was different. Some had been wise, others cunning. Some had been cowards, or simply shortsighted. The Quarass could remember them all, how they had thought, and how their own memories had led Germina to success or despair.
That gave her power, for all she was but a girl. Germina took its strength from her. Their famed [Assassins] used techniques she recalled perfectly; no books were needed or had ever been written. The poisons were ones she had designed in lifetimes gone.
She had more power too. Knowledge of classes. Levels. Skills, and secret advancements. That was true power. She could turn her subjects into what best suited them. Her [Highborn], one of the three protectors who had sworn to serve her by blood, Vaitsha, had already begun her change. The Quarass had told her how to change her class—[Highborn of Coin], a weak class, into a rare and deadly one.
The process was not easy, but if Vaitsha had the will, she would become as beautiful and as deadly as the serpents in whose fangs ran Germina’s venom.
However, all that power came with a flaw. The Quarass could see that the world held patterns that repeated themselves. People leveled, acted in certain predictable ways. But the problem was that while things happened the same way, they never, ever happened exactly the same way twice.
The previous Quarass had been a foolish woman. Overly vain, bitter at kneeling to Flos Reimarch. She had never deserved her position to begin with; she had poisoned her mother and taken the throne, only to realize too late what being the Quarass meant. It meant knowing her mother’s contempt for her and the bitterness of her own death. It had broken her. The new Quarass did not wish to end the way of the old.
Tread cautiously, then. The King of Destruction was like many men the Quarasses had met—even been. The current Quarass could remember being a man in a number of her lives. And that was an odd experience. But she had to admit, Flos of Reim wasn’t a simple bull you could anticipate. Parts of him were straightforward beyond belief. But other things made little sense.
“King Reimarch.”
He looked up. And straightened, remembering her presence. Flos gave the Quarass a weary smile and reached for a cup.
“Quarass. My apologies. You have caught me unguarded. I confess, the news of Tiqr weighed heavily on my mind. It is done. Let us speak of the present. I have kept you waiting.”
She inclined her head. His words were without guile.
“I understand, King Reimarch. Then, the reason for my visit.”
