The fastest way to piss off a Troll is to greet them as an equal. Even if you are a Troll.- Dorin Crimsonhammer, Platinum Adventurer. Advice to novice adventurers.

Tol’zerath bowed his head, the ceremonial tusk beads brushing against his broad chest as he closed his eyes. Slipping his hands into the Divination Pool, he released his mana, and the temperature in the whole cave plummeted as the silvery electrum of the ice runes painstakingly etched into the rock responded to his magic. The fickle, capricious tendrils of divination mana drifted from his hands, suffusing the pool, and tugging at the edges of his mind.

Divination magic would fight you, writhing and twisting like a slippery snake if you sought to bend it to your will. But over his many centuries of life, he had come to an understanding with it, and gradually turned it into the ally that had won him the title of the Tol of Telim Gor. It could not be forced – would not – but with patience it would show him what he sought.

With the swift suddenness of a deep-ocean predator, his magic reached up and dragged his mind under, and with its unexpected urgency came his first glimmers of concern.

It hasn’t done that in decades.

His mind plunged through the boundary with a shocking chill but then emerged into the familiar gray, colorless world of the Spirit Realm above the familiar mountain temple of his tribe’s nemesis – Aman Rak. He had scried upon the Trolls of blood and bone many a time, seeking an advantage in their endless skirmishes and disagreements, but today the ancient buildings nestled on the jungle-covered slopes were ignored.

His attention was immediately captured by the huge cloud of dark, shifting miasma on the horizon, rapidly growing closer. Even his heart, having seen the battles of ages, began to hasten in response to the ominous wall that began eating up the sky as it rapidly bore down on him. His sight could not penetrate it, and all he could make out were shadows and shapes lurking in the darkness.

The world flickered, and suddenly the miasma appeared right before the gates of Aman Rak, huge, towering up to fill the sky. An Impression of Significance? Future Echo? Below him, arrayed in full battle paint with weapons at the ready, stood every single adult Troll of the Aman Rak tribe, the gleaming magic of blood and bone adorning their bodies, only barely less impressive for being washed out and gray.

The miasma rippled and shadows flew, charged, and crawled within the seething thunderheads. Skeletal Wyverns and Dragons, Wights of bone and death, and all manner of zombies, abominations, and skeletal undead. They charged, a torrent unending, with unearthly shrieks and howls – answered by the booming battle cries of Aman Rak’s Giant Troll Berserkers.

Tol’zerath flinched backward, trying to avoid the wall of miasma, cloaking his presence with a twist of ice and divination magic. It may be an echo of a potential future, but this was the Spirit Realm. Everything was real, even if it wasn’t, and dying to a future echo of an undead dragon would be just as disastrous as in the real world.

The clash of steel and bone was deafening, as the roars and stomping of the Blood Berserker Giant Trolls shook the battlefield as their gargantuan bone and steel greataxes bit into unyielding undead flesh and bone.

But the undead horde did not abate, pouring more and more monsters into the fray, like an unassuaged ravenous tide. He saw Troll warriors fall, shamans bitten in two, and then even one Giant Troll Berserker crashed to his knees, followed soon by a second.

“Arise.”

Tol’zerath shivered. The voice bore a sepulchral chill from beyond the grave, that froze even the heart of a hardened Troll Ice Mage. Necromancer! To his horror, the first fallen Blood Berserker stirred – and then got back to his feet. Its flesh withered and darkened, the white of bones jutted through the torn, blackened skin, and when it roared the entire battlefield faltered at the horror of an undead Giant Troll. It swung its axes, and its former brethren were sent flying from the shattering violence of its blade.

Tol’zerath’s vision snapped. Disoriented and dizzy, he gasped, finding himself back in his ice cave. Gradually, he reunited his mind with his body and returned his awareness to the darkness of the cave, the glow of the runes, and the silent vigil of his servants.

What was that? When was that? Tol’zerath sat trembling in the darkness, greatly troubled by the visions he had seen in the waters. It had been centuries since a divination had shaken him so much, and it would not do to show weakness before his servants.

Slowly, once he felt he had regained control of his trembling arms, he lifted his hands out of the Divination Pool and removed his Mask of Scrying.

The centuries of honorable battle between the Telim Gor and the Aman Rak meant nothing in the face of an inexhaustible horde of the dead. The fact that he could not penetrate the miasma, nor see the face of the voice within it, meant that something powerful was blocking his sight.

The only possibility was someone of a high enough level to deny a Tol. There were only two within the Aman Rak: Tol’brekk their headman, or Kir’vella the champion. Kir’vella was powerful enough that in a lesser tribe, she would easily have been Tol. But neither would be capable of anything on the scale he had just witnessed.

The voice. Something else moves in the shadows. He glanced at his servants, who were gazing at the floor, shivering in the chilling remnants of the mana he had used for his ritual. He could sense their worry in the glances and shifting when they thought he wasn’t watching. They knew he had returned angry from his spirit journey, but this time, his preparations had been perfect. The Divination Pool had been tested and was filled with the purest mana-purified water. His ritual face paint had been checked multiple times, and the runes inscribed into the ground around him within his cave were still filled with his unique blend of ice and divination mana. Whatever he had seen was the truth, though, as with all divination, it might not be fixed yet.

Or it could be… a dungeon. He snarled as the unwanted thought rose within his mind, and an icicle snapped off his left tusk, falling to the ground and shattering with a musical tinkle. A ripple of cowering passed through his assembled servants. This thought worried him the most, a dungeon that could consume Aman Rak would be a fearsome thing indeed, but he was forced to consider the possibility – the mana of a powerful dungeon could easily obscure his scrying. The world had not seen such a horror since The Breaking.

But who was it? That voice? It had not been a Troll. I must divine the nature of this foe, forthwith. Such power is… disturbing.

Slowly, he rose to his feet, stretching his back as his mind raced with the tasks he must accomplish, the new plans he must set in motion before it was too late.

“Get Mok’freja,” he commanded. His servants scrambled to do his bidding, not even bothering to try and preserve their pride, not knowing why he was so angry. No, this time they had done their jobs. Now, however, he was faced with the distasteful task of treating with the enemy, and worse, involving the lesser races.

Long Ears. He spat on the ground, turning it to ice as he released his mana in frustration. There was no avoiding it. Their customs demanded it – tradition stronger than steel or law – and by the sight of his vision, if Aman Rak fell, Telim Gor would be next. Without the aid of Ciradyl, they would quickly fall against this horde. He was as proud as any Troll, but he knew an overwhelming force when he saw it.

The creaking of new ice announced the Mok to his cave.

“You will take a delegation to Aman Rak,” Tol’zerath commanded as he regarded her closely, and offered her a glimpse of his vision. “You will warn them of the army of the dead.”

“And you?” she asked, making the braids adorning her slender tusks quiver with her intensity.

“I will go to Ciradyl and warn the Long Ears,” he spat. He had had enough of the lesser races’ ignorance of the proper standing of the Trolls. “They had better send someone of status to treat with me this time.”

“You would break the treaties? Trample the customs? Aman Rak will have our heads on pikes outside their gates before listening to us,” Mok’freja growled.

“You will make them listen.”

She snarled at him, ice flashing into being all across her arms and shoulders before shattering and falling to the floor. A potent display of her power. She said, “Yes, Tol’zerath!”

Tol’zerath smiled. Mok’freja was ambitious, but she had that most important of Trollish attributes – she was strong. Yes. He had picked well. They will listen.

Garret sat quietly at their table in the darkest corner of the dimly lit ‘Pig ‘n Poke’ tavern, watching as Caspian led the young woman toward their table. Even without the daggers and leather, or his Identify skill, he could pick out the assassin simply by the way she moved, always balanced on the balls of her feet. Her eyes, the only visible part of her face behind a mask, were constantly scanning the room.

Rogue – Human – level 42

Shame about the level, but at least this one looks competent. She wore her blonde hair in a braid, and she was clad in tight, form-fitting black leather armor complete with the mask that obscured her entire face from just below her eyes – leather of a quality he was certain had to be imported from elsewhere. If this shithole town had crafters capable of that quality leather, he was certain he would have heard of it already. There were daggers and throwing knives fastened to her armor in various places, but he was certain they were for show – distractions – and her real weapons were probably stored in one of the two rings she wore.

As taverns in the seedier parts of town went, this one was surprisingly good. Nobody came to disturb them as they conducted their business in the back corner of the room. Garret moved his untouched ale slightly. He had purchased it to keep the proprietor happy, but he wasn’t about to drink anything that smelled like piss. He glanced at his companions with contempt – it was good that they were left alone, Dak’resh and Ixora usually attracted a lot of attention wherever they went.

Dak’resh was a Kel’darran spear warrior, and quite frankly, the lizard annoyed him constantly. Why Caspian had hired him, he never knew. Sure, he was powerful in a fight wielding his enormous weapon, but in every other way, Garret despised the reptile. Just because he was a melee fighter didn’t mean he had priority on all the weapons they looted. If he had to explain seniority to the creature one more time, he was going to insist that Caspian kick him out.

He sighed. His gaze drifted to Ixora, and he hastily caught himself and looked away. The woman was beautiful, sure, and she was fond of wearing very low-cut and tight tops, but frankly, she terrified him. Her style of combat, using Mind Control and Mind Flay, was bad enough, but she had more than a few cards short of a full deck. She had mind-controlled him once when he had propositioned her, and he had found himself naked and trying to drown himself in a toilet when he recovered his senses. Ever since, he had given her a wide berth. He had no idea how Caspian kept her in line, but for some reason, she listened to him.

“Hey, this is our contact for the job,” Caspian announced and the two of them took the remaining empty seats at the table. Garret didn’t know how he did it, but Caspian had a nose for good jobs, always finding one within the first day of entering town. Good jobs too, the kind with a steep bounty and a certain amount of discretion required. It was too bad he was convinced his good nose extended to his gambling habit, but he assumed that was likely the reason they were always doing profitable jobs.

“This is the mark,” the woman announced, getting right to business. Her voice was light and soft, and his eyes fell to the picture she dropped on the table. It was a humanoid monster-race creature with pointed elf-like ears, green hair, and amber eyes. “She is a Fae, about this tall,” their contact said, holding a hand up a little below the height of the tabletop, “and she is the dungeon lurking below Myrin’s Keep. The job is to eliminate her and disrupt the Adventurers Guild from conducting a class advancement ceremony at her shrine tomorrow. The bounty is one hundred and fifty gold, paid on proof of death. My boss wants it done quietly and you leave town immediately after.”

One hundred and fifty? That was most certainly a handsome reward for what seemed like a simple enough job. Someone must be desperate.

“Level? Known abilities?” Garret asked.

“Last she was seen, she was level fifty. She can summon several level forty plant elementals, and mostly her dungeon is a pushover. Just low-level Kobolds and Slimes besides her personal minions.” The woman pushed another paper into the center of the table. “Just enter here through the sewers, I’ve marked the path to the shrine they will be using.”

“What about the others?” Ixora asked, her sultry voice grating in his ears.

“We don’t care, you can kill all of them if you like, but we won’t pay for the extras.”

Garret ignored Ixora’s evil laugh and instead studied the map while Dak’resh asked stupid questions and Ixora salivated over the opportunity for a bloodbath. Everyone in their group was higher level than the mark – just the kind of odds he preferred – and they had a powerful combination of abilities. His Feral Puma synergized well with Caspian’s rogue class skills, and he could always pop out of his form to use his healing magic if necessary. He was not much of a healer, but just having the option had saved their group from several sticky situations. This job was going to be a walk in the park.

Kobolds… he almost laughed out loud. Fucking moron, how is this Fae still alive?

Ali stared at the tunnel entrance in frustration. She had expected one, perhaps two Shards of Flame, but it seemed the dungeon-rage had roused the Emberforge Mines to spawn a continuous stream of Elementals that seemed intent on wiping out all life in the jungle and conquering the whole area with their domain of fire and lava.

