

“So that’s why those shamans are still standing in the fire aura without dying,” Malika said.

“Yup, and the Acolytes have the mana to keep going.”

“Bosses are ridiculous,” Malika observed.

“The raid ones get ten times,” Calen noted. Malika just coughed.

Ali studied their tactics for a while, but it soon became clear that her minions would likely be sufficient to kill the monster. Mostly on the strength of her Hobgoblin being able to tank it, and most of the rest of the monsters standing at maximum range beyond the reach of the flames.

Several of the lowest-level Goblin Skirmishers lay dead already, victims of stray Firebolts, but the Hobgoblin simply summoned more. Their purpose was really to provide enough of a horde to boost the Hobgoblin’s unique aptitudes.

“Looks like they have it,” Malika said, nodding her approval.

“Not nearly as fun, though,” Mato grumbled.

“You enjoy being set on fire?” Malika asked, raising a skeptical eyebrow.

“Err… well, you see…” Mato muttered.

“This is good for now,” Calen said. “It should hold the Elementals back while we prepare. We need fire resistance if we’re going to go any further into that mine.”

“How do we get that?” Ali asked. The combination of Lydia’s armor and the orb she was carrying granted her nine hundred resistance and a little more than thirty-eight percent magical damage reduction. But even with all that, the dense fire mana of the dungeon’s domain had lit her like a torch, burning her rapidly. She felt a momentary pang of jealousy that her domain mana wasn’t nearly that powerful – but if it were, she wouldn’t be able to have her friends in her space.

“There are some potions we can try, I think I saw some at Pretty Powerful Potions,” Malika said. “The rest of it probably needs to come from custom gear. That’s not going to be cheap.”

“Well, we probably need to talk to Thuli, so he knows it’s going to take a bit longer than we expected,” Ali said. “Maybe we can ask him about fire resistance? How about Weldin and Lydia too?” Expensive she could handle, even with the worries about annoying Hadrik Goldbeard, and upending the town’s economy – in this instance they would be buying the products of the crafters’ or merchants’ labors.

Your Skirmisher – Goblin – level 3 has died.Your Skirmisher – Goblin – level 1 has died.Your minions have defeated Shard of Flame – Elemental – level 41 (Fire).

“Oh, another essence,” Malika said, darting over to snap it up.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
