I probably would have too, she thought, considering that the dungeon must have spawned inside the mine centuries or more ago, and it had probably become trapped by the enormous pile of rubble that had collapsed on it during the disaster. The moment Ali had opened a path, it had begun expelling Elementals in a continuous dungeon-break. Although, it has lava… she thought – realizing that this dungeon had an effective tool to break out of its imprisonment. Perhaps it's not as smart as Naia? Could I use that to my advantage?

“That fire aura is a real problem,” Ali said. Even with their racial resistance to fire damage, her rogues died every single fight, to the point that she had already stopped resummoning them, and instead began experimenting with other varieties of Kobolds. A second big issue was most of her minions were far too low-level to be going head-to-head with a level forty elemental, and she wasn’t about to waste her scarce mana on Forest Guardians who would just die due to their vulnerability to fire.

“The archers seem to work a bit better,” Calen said. “We killed it a little faster this time.”

“Yep, but now I need to make more arrows,” Ali muttered. She finished resummoning her dead shaman while she studied the tunnel that she had bored through the rockfall, unleashing the dungeon upon them. Every time an elemental came through there, it seemed to broaden the fissures and spread the lava flows further out into the jungle, to the point now that it looked a little like a glowing orange river delta surrounded by the blackened remains of the trees and plants that had grown there.

“Let’s go inside and see what’s in there,” Mato suggested. It was the first time they had a little bit of a break between fights.

“I’m not sure that’s a smart idea,” Malika said, eyeing the blisteringly hot tunnel.

“I think scouting it out is a good idea,” Calen countered. “We need to know what’s in there if we want to formulate a strategy.”

“Hmm, ok,” Malika relented.

They all followed Mato through the rock tunnel, trying to pick their way around the lava flows as best they could. As soon as Ali stepped through the far end of the tunnel, she felt the searing heat of the dungeon’s domain hitting her like a wall. She yelped as her hair spontaneously caught alight and grimaced as her skin began to crisp and blacken, filling her nostrils with the disgusting stench of her own flesh cooking.

“This is not good,” Malika said, pulsing her healing magic through Ali and herself. “Hot enough there, Calen?”

“Yes, while I like a good roast, I prefer not to become one,” he chuckled.

The cavern was broad but with a low ceiling of jagged rock – some parts of which looked artificially hewn from ancient stone. Everything glowed with the dull orange light radiating from several prominent lava flows, but it was the searing red of fire-affinity mana that caught Ali’s eye – much denser than the mana the elementals had managed to spread about outside.

“More elementals,” Calen whispered, drawing Ali’s attention to the far end of the cavern where she could count no less than ten glowing red forms, drifting about in seemingly random patterns. As she studied them, one turned and began to float toward them.

Mato roared, slamming his hefty bulk into the elemental as soon as it got close enough. His fur ignited like a torch, burning continuously as the healing magic from Ali’s Kobold Acolytes repaired it just as fast as the flames consumed it. But, from the moment combat was engaged, Ali could already tell it wasn’t going to go well – less than five seconds in, her Acolytes immediately used their powerful Devotion skill.

Ali’s skin was crisping just from the ambient damage from being inside the dungeon’s domain, and the moment the Shard of Flame was engaged, their entire group began tanking volleys of Firebolts launched in all directions. Her barrier magic flickered a golden accent to the angry red of flame, but there was no way she could cover everyone, and her minions began to fall.

First, the shaman collapsed, and then each of the archers, one by one, as she was forced to prioritize the three Acolytes by keeping consistent barriers floating in front of them. With their natural racial resistance to fire and the copies of Lydia’s Tailored Cotton Clothing, her Acolytes were her most robust minions.

“We need to run!” Malika shouted. “I can’t keep up!”

“Go!” Calen shouted, agreeing with Malika.

Mato roared in frustration, but he was right alongside as Ali turned and fled, flying down the tunnel to keep up with her friends and throwing up barriers behind them as the Shard of Flame chased them out into the jungle.

“Hide!” Calen shouted, leading them sideways behind a tree as three intense beams of light scored the ground, ripping through the rock and charred logs. As they all ducked behind the tree Calen had picked, the Shard of Flame burst from the tunnel and immediately fired its Firebolts into the air, striking the trio of Coruscant Rays that had been flying past right at that moment.

“Smart,” Malika whispered as they hid, watching the battle unfold. The Shard of Flame was a higher level, but there were three rays, and their beam attacks were powerful.

“What are we going to do?” Ali asked. It was clear that the dungeon was not going to let up on making elementals to send out into the jungle, and just as clear that they couldn’t let it have free rein in the area.

“Can’t you just… dungeon it?” Mato asked, waving his hand in an obscure gesture.

“What do you mean?” Ali asked. She opted to wink at him. “Are you being rude, because I warn you, this friendship is on rocky ground.”

He winced at the admittedly terrible pun. “Well, that’s a dungeon and it’s continuously spawning monsters. But you’re a dungeon too, right? Can’t you do the same thing?”

“I think it’s stronger than me,” Ali muttered, not relishing the idea of standing here in the hot and muggy jungle summoning monsters continuously. Unless… She had unlocked Domain Respawn, and her domain extended quite far into the jungle. It was just a matter of mana.

“That’s a good idea, though,” Calen said. “If it keeps sending elementals one at a time, you could potentially outnumber it.”

“What do you think I should make?” Ali asked. Her attempts to use melee monsters were ineffective – especially against the higher-level elementals and their potent fire auras.

“Archers. Definitely ranged attackers,” Calen suggested. “We need to find you some Frost Dragons or something.”

“Fliers,” Mato said – pointing to where the Coruscant Rays were still holding their own.

“I have Wyverns,” Ali said. “But I don’t think the poison will be effective.”

“Do you have anything higher level?” Malika asked.

“Only the Forest Guardians,” Ali said, “But they have a vulnerability to fire.”

Wait, don’t I have… An old memory popped into her head. A strange memory of her wandering the jungle in a daze, summoning monsters at random. Quickly, she paged through her Grimoire, stopping at the Goblinoid imprint. She studied it carefully.

“Something interesting?” Calen asked.

“Hobgoblins…” Ali answered, a sudden cascade of ideas pouring into her head.

“Ooh, that might work,” Calen said. “They get incredible bonuses for fighting in groups – the bigger, the better.”

“Yes, I just don’t have lots of mana,” Ali said, juggling the requirements as she struggled to figure out how to make it work. “I don’t think I can afford a boss, and I’m not sure I can make enough respawnable monsters for this to work. Unless…”

Unless I can make the boss spawn them… Quickly, she checked with her Domain Magic skills and ran the calculations. I can’t afford a raid boss, but a regular one might work. Especially given that she could make minions for it and have it hold the reservation for them. This is perfect!

She opened her Grimoire and began summoning. It required unsummoning her entire library guard and calling in some unbound minions from the forest cavern, but she needed an army.

Warrior – Hobgoblin – level 41

Ali studied the tall, muscular female goblin her Grimoire had produced. She had crimson skin over muscled biceps and shoulders and sported a thick topknot of long black straight hair. The Grimoire had automatically summoned a decent-quality leather jerkin and pants and equipped her with a shortsword and shield combination.

“Not bad,” Ali said, pursing her lips.

“What are my orders?” the Hobgoblin asked, glancing around at the jungle and the scorched earth with calculating eyes.

“You will protect this area,” Ali said. “But first, let me give you an army.” She ran her calculations one more time, had Calen review her figures, and then wielded her Grimoire.

Acolyte – Kobold – level 21-23 (Holy) x3Archer – Kobold – level 21Shaman – Goblin – level 18-19 (Lightning) x2

Ali smiled and then reached out to rest a hand on her Hobgoblin’s thigh.

Domain Respawn applied to Hobgoblin Warrior.Boss Domain Enhancement applied to Hobgoblin Warrior.

Her Hobgoblin required goblins for its bonuses to apply, and she had decided to seed her army with two shamans. On the other hand, healing against that fire was essential, and her Kobolds had innate fire resistance. Not everything can be a Goblin.

Select or create minions: 123 levels remaining.

Ali quickly assigned her Kobolds and shamans as her Hobgoblin’s new minions.

Minions assigned.

Next, Ali chose the ability that had so frustrated them in the Skeletal Wyvern fight – summoning. If she didn’t have enough mana to support a horde of goblins, she’d just make her newest boss do it for her. Sure, they’d unsummon automatically sometime after the fight like the bone elementals the Wyvern had summoned, or the bats her own Forest Guardian summoned. Neither monster had a summoner class, and couldn’t leverage a reservation to make the summons survive beyond the initial infusion of mana. But the longer the fight went, the more goblins there would be. From her measurements, her Forest Guardian’s bats lasted almost an hour. She had also provided healing to ensure the goblins didn’t get killed outright.

Summoning (Goblinoid) applied.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +1134.

Ali did have a little spare mana, so she summoned a handful of low-level Goblin hunters and a Kobold Bone Mage and attached them separately to the domain nearby. Then she flew down two Giant Bats and did the same. The strain on her domain was immense, but although it felt uncomfortable, it held up.

“Bats are a good idea,” Calen said. “Their sonic attacks should work well.”

“I hope so,” Ali said. Even with the fact that she had repurposed the bats, and unsummoned the guards she had in the library, it was still an extremely expensive undertaking. She glanced at her paltry fifteen hundred remaining mana, worried about how she was going to function. How do other dungeons manage? It seemed that filling a dungeon with monsters was expensive enough, but the moment she tried to use ones that had high enough levels to afford good protection, her mana simply evaporated. But I guess I am a little different, she thought. Most dungeons would probably not need mana free to mount expeditions into other dungeons – instead, they would probably just trigger a dungeon-break to free up mana for anything urgent or new.

As soon as she had her new minions summoned and placed, all attached to her domain mana in order to take advantage of her automatic domain respawn, she placed a large barrier blocking the spawn location from the tunnel. After a few moments of thought, she summoned several quivers of arrows and put them nearby, attaching them to the domain too. Her monsters respawned with all their gear, but a couple of respawning sets of extra arrows would probably be essential, especially if the archers managed to survive for a long time.

For her final act, mostly because they did not cost her any reserved mana, she inscribed two inspiration circles and two restoration circles near the spawn location, marking them with rocks so that her minions could find them easily, and erected a few more permanent barriers strategically for the archers and inevitable stone throwing Goblins to use as cover.

“Now what?” Mato asked.

“We wait for another Shard of Flame,” Ali said.

They did not have to wait for long. Angry red light and a sizzling sound from the tunnel heralded the arrival of a fresh Shard of Flame.

“Go kill that elemental,” Ali said. Then, recalling her first encounter with a Goblin Warband, she added, “Oh, and don’t summon any fire mages.”

Immediately, her Hobgoblin took charge, barking orders in Goblin, ignoring the fact that the Kobolds couldn’t understand her. But the Kobolds were canny creatures and easily understood what was required of them.

Ali and her friends hung back and waited, observing the fight.

There was a sizzling crash as the Hobgoblin engaged the Shard of Flame with her sword and shield, flanked by the two shamans who immediately dropped their totems and began attacking with lightning enchanted weapons.

A thrum of power came from Ali’s Grimoire as the boss borrowed her skill and five circles of mana appeared on the ground in quick succession. Five Goblin Skirmishers appeared, one at a time, clad in scraps of leather armor and bearing pouches of stones. They all cackled and scrambled for the barriers Ali had placed, taking cover and immediately launching their rocks with hooting calls.

“Holy shit,” Mato said quietly at the sight of the Hobgoblin’s blade accelerating.

“Yes, Goblin horde buffs are no joke,” Calen observed. “Looks like haste for the commander, and a heck of a lot of it.”

“Yup,” Ali said, verifying by checking her boss’s combat status. “They’re getting some flanking bonuses too.” As arrows began to fly from the back, Ali glanced over to find the Kobold Acolytes all clustered around the Inspiration circles, healing rapidly. I didn’t even have to tell them… was that Martial Insight at work? They were automatically using the same strategy she had drilled into them from the Skeletal Wyvern battle.

Mana flickered, and a pair of level fourteen Goblin Hunters appeared as the Hobgoblin augmented her army with her Summoning Domain Magic.

“They’re not dying,” Malika said. “How are they so robust?”

“The boss has a five times multiplier to all her resources,” Ali explained, remembering that Malika hadn’t been there for the first boss she had summoned. Or even the second.

“Health?” Malika asked, staring at the Hobgoblin incredulously.

“And stamina and mana,” Ali said. “Her immediate minions get it too.”