The trick to Reinforcement is to keep it on all the time at a setting you can sustain indefinitely. This way, not only does the skill become second nature, it lets you get used to the extra strength. It makes sense, babies and teenagers are clumsy because they’re adapting to their rapidly changing bodies, so it stands to reason a warrior wouldn’t want to deal with a sudden change in strength mid-fight.

Realizing I haven’t blinked in what feels like hours, I bring the world back into focus around me. Rubbing my temples eases my discomfort despite not having an actual physical body, my mind creating the illusion of relief brought about by my actions. With a long sigh, I gaze around at the empty void, where Blobby floats about like the tiny drop of water he is.

Yes, I’ve decided the amorphous blob of water is a he. There’s no way I’m comfortable with Blobby being female even if he was birthed from the tear ducts of an otherworldly goddess, which I’m still not 100% convinced of. I’ve also decided he shouldn’t pretend to be bigger than he is, swirling all around me and Baledagh while we’re inside our Natal Palace. He’s a droplet, so he should act appropriately.

Summoning the droplet to my palm, I watch Blobby... be water. he doesn’t do much of anything these days, sluggishly drifting about day and night with the room I crafted for Baledagh embedded within. My little brother likes the watery surroundings, says it makes him feel warm and safe, so I let him be. I could fancy up my surroundings, but I find the complete and utter lack of distractions necessary to train in, since I have the attention span of a six-year-old hopped up on sugar and cocaine. Like now, I should be practising but instead I’m reviewing all my failures because I’m a closeted masochist.

Well... considering my training regimen, maybe not so closeted. I, Falling Rain, am openly masochistic. I mean, Mila broke my hand in our first passionate encounter and I can’t stop smiling about it. I love how flustered and apologetic she got afterwards, gently and diligently helping me wash and splint my injured hand. In retrospect, she was probably trying to get rid of the smell so Lin wouldn’t realize what we were up to, but I digress.

Pulling back from my distraction, I refocus on Blobby. Maybe it’s the lack of food, but after serving as inspiration for my Beyblade Aura, Blobby hasn’t responded to any of my attempts to plead, cajole, or blackmail him into paying more rent. There’s nothing I can do. Tainted are hard to come by, which means either they were more prevalent in Sanshu than normal or the Spectres have all upped and left, presumably with the army of Defiled who disappeared from our doorsteps. Maybe they figured it’d be easier to take the long way around to the Western Province, but nothing in my experience tells me Defiled would ever retreat from a fight. I’m expecting the war to resume any day now that winter is coming to an end, with spring mere weeks away. Blobby is my best chance for a massive leap in strength, a requirement if I want to have a bigger impact in the war.

Fighting Defiled is the least I can do for these people who took me in and gave me a family. I’d rather contribute in other ways, but ever since those first few days after I returned, Sarnai has shown no signs of improvement. If anything, her body’s health is deteriorating as expected from a long period of inactivity, the lack of Tainted or Demons really putting a damper on my Heavenly Energy collection efforts. The cleverest housewife can't cook a meal without rice and the greatest healer can’t bring the dead back to life. Maybe Taduk was right, maybe Sarnai already passed away and we’ve been caring for a living corpse these past months. Even Baatar can’t remain hopeful for this long and it’s killing me to see him in so much pain.

I wanted to be a hero and accomplish the impossible, but I failed.

Story of my life.

The rest of my practice goes by without significant accomplishments or insights. Unable to bear the mental strain from the complete detachment from my physical body, I break my self-imposed seclusion and reconnect with Baledagh. “Hey little brother,” I say with a mental smile. “How was tea time with Lin and the twins?”

“Please stop sending me on these dates Brother,” he answers, not the least bit grateful. “I find them exceedingly uncomfortable. Also, we ran into a problem.”

“Oh lighten up, they’re not dates. I explicitly told Lin she’s not allowed to be clingy in public or in front of the twins and you had both. It’s an afternoon snack in a tea house, not a sunset stroll on the beach.” I figured seeing the adorable twins eat to their heart's content would be good for Baledagh, and if not, at least he could try some delicious desserts. They have this almond jelly that is to die for which I cannot for the life of me figure out how to duplicate. Frowning as his words sink in, I ask, “Wait, what problem? It’s a public tea-house, what sort of problem did you run into?” Please don’t tell me he started another feud...

“The problem came after. You know the delivery of slaves you were expecting?”

“Yea, from Yazhu. I figured you could check if there were any Tainted and sign off on the shipment. What happened?” Yazhu came highly recommended by Rustram’s dad and seemed like a decent enough person for a slaver.

“The guys who delivered it tried to kill us. Not Yazhu, unless that’s the guy I stabbed in the face. Two assassins, both dead. I tried to take them prisoner but they weren’t having any of it. Anyways, I’m just waiting for the guards now. Oh, and what happened with our hand Brother? It would’ve been much easier to fight with my right hand.”

This time, massaging my temples does nothing to ease my suffering.

Only Baledagh can turn an afternoon tea-house trip into a double homicide.

Chapter Meme
