Pushing through the front door of Mellie’s house, Marina walked in expecting Mellie to have returned. The house was still empty, and the villagers’ “gifts” were still scattered around the rooms. Most of the festive atmosphere from the morning vanished into dread built on gilded lies. Did the Bee-ple really not like them this much? Melissa seemed to be quite nice, though the time they spent with the Alpis was rather limited.

“Any plans for the day, my dear?” Hecate tapped her on the shoulder. “I promised I wouldn’t leave last night. You better entertain me now.”

“Oh, right.” Marina pondered. “Can you fit all these forks into your bag?”

Hecate stared in silence. “That is not entertaining at all, my dear.”

“But that is the only thing that we can do in the meantime,” Marina argued, maneuvering her way through the dozens of jars around her feet.

“What about breakfast?” Hecate pointed out. “We haven’t had a meal this morning yet.”

The habit of skipping breakfast was definitely one that Marina needed to fix. In her previous life, she would always chew on a protein bar as she waited for her train to arrive. Even on her days off, she treated breakfast as more of a hassle to prepare than anything else. The breakfasts she had eaten recently were much superior to what she would’ve treated herself to.

“I just thought that maybe we should wait for Mellie?” She said. “And I thought you don’t get hungry very often.”

“Well, my dear, I am only hungry when I truly feel the need to.” Hecate lowered a bundle of forks into her satchel.

“Hecate, wait.” Marina interrupted.

“Was this not what you instructed me to do, my dear?” Hecate tilted her head.

“Moving day is tomorrow. We have time. I was just curious if it was possible.” Marina sighed as she sat in her usual seat around the table.

“So we are neither moving items nor making breakfast,” Hecate said from behind. “Do we just sit and wait for the end of this eon?”

“If I could just sit and wait out everything, then I would.” Marina covered her face in her arms. “But I can do that.” She let out a deep breath. “Is the chief an Authority Bearer?”

Hecate sat next to her. “Yes, but a very weak one, so much so he has no clue how to conceal his power. Why do you ask?”

Marina had hypothesized this to be the case. Based upon the furniture around the chief’s living quarters, it made no sense how the most powerful individual of the village was somehow really subpar compared to one of the more affluent families like the Alpis. And from what she had learned about bee society from Mellie, honey production was what decided one’s status and wealth. It made sense that the chief did not have much honey production in the village now that he’s taken the management role, but what about before? What if he was truly the champion of honey production before becoming the chief, but did not enjoy any of the benefits that came with it? Marina refused to believe that to be the case.

People savor the comfort that came with their status, no matter how humbling they might appear, because society was built on greed at every layer. Everyone wants more than what they have, no matter which layer they find themselves in.

“I remember you said some time ago that to advance as a Bearer, you have to devour other Authorities?” Marina recalled.

“That is true, my dear.” Hecate nodded. “Authorities are the medium through which energy flows from the world into your soul. The bigger the medium, the more energy a Bearer can harness.”

“So you eat other people’s Authority to make yours bigger and more powerful?” Marina asked.

“That is correct, my dear.”

“But wouldn’t that mean all Authority Bearers are potential threats to each other?” Marina’s eyes widened. “Like the chief can potentially be a harm to—”

“Indeed,” Hecate interjected. “Though I do not believe he has even a fraction of the power required to be able to land an attack on me, let alone kill me and take my Authority. And if you believe him to be a threat, I will bring his head to you at this instant.”

Out of any options that could be executed at this moment, killing the chief was not one Marina would want to proceed with. Without any hard evidence, it would only anger the mob of Bee-ple, Mellie included.

“No, don’t.” She shook her head. “We need to figure out what he is up to first.”

“Good idea. I can forcefully invite him deep into the woods where we can interrogate.” Hecate smirked.

Marina raised a brow at Hecate’s proposal. “I was thinking along the lines of sneaking into the village hall when all the Bee-ple are sleeping.”

“That would work as well. Perhaps an even more sophisticated plan.” Hecate complimented. “Though just as a contingency, in case we are caught in our tracks, we can easily make a quick escape, but Mellie cannot. It would only be natural for the blame to shift to her.”

“I was thinking about that as well…” Marina pondered. “Maybe this is the only way.” From a nearby counter, she grabbed a piece of parchment and a quill pen. “Here,” She handed the pen to Hecate. “Write a note that says we left early at the chief’s request.”

“Are you sure this is the right thing to do, my dear?” Hecate glanced at the empty parchment. “You know how much this would hurt her, don’t you?”

“Of course I do,” Marina replied coldly. “But because I do, I can’t let her be involved in more of our bullshits, especially not this one. And even if she won’t forgive us, it’s better than putting her in danger.”

Life was already hard enough for the innocent bee girl, and the appearance of the two of them only made it so much harder. Marina was never good at saying goodbyes; in fact, she was probably the worst at it out of anyone she ever knew. She never got the chance to say goodbye to her parents because she was too angry to do so. Years passed, and before she knew it, she lost the chance ever to make up for what she had done wrong, as well as the chance to say goodbye to the world she once lived in.

This note, though not written by her, was her best attempt at a farewell.

“Mm. As you wish, my dear.” Hecate dipped the quill pen into the ink jar. Her handwriting was swift and classy, mixed with stylish bold strokes. Each character on the parchment brimmed with fierce personality, which was not hard to associate with someone such as Hecate herself. “What do you think?” She set down the pen.

“Good. It’s exactly what I had in mind.” Marina nodded. “Before we leave, we should probably grab a few things to make it seem like we left.”

Hecate scanned around the room. “Like the forks?”

“Some of the forks, some of the jars. And I still gotta find my sourdough starter.” Marina stood from her seat. “We need to be quick though.” She said as she rushed into Mellie’s lab.

Around the corner of her eye, Marina spotted the familiar jar containing an amalgamation of white, bubbly goo that seemed to be alive and breathing. Three days had passed since she first started this experiment, and it had gone way above her expectations. The starter doubled in volume, meaning the Underworld was still a place where natural yeast flowed freely. From here, Marina opened her [Inventory] before stashing the jar that had become her most precious belonging.

“Hecate,” She stepped out of the lab. “Wow, that is at least half of what was thrown at us.”

“This is about as much as my satchel could hold.” Hecate stuffed in the last set of jars. “Did you claim everything that you needed, my dear?”

“Yeah, I got everything.” Marina stood next to the door. “Let us leave now.”

From the previous operation in the ant cave, she had gained just a slight bit of confidence to be able to hold her own. And tonight shall be the night when she would prove herself worthy once again. There were still too many secrets of this realm she had no clues about, but regardless, she knew she needed to finish what they started, for the greater good.

“...”