He said, “This is our guest house. Meetings will be conducted at this table outside. Master will not venture inside while you are a guest. We ask that you respect his privacy as well; do not go past any black lines in the stone. Other than that, please avail yourself of any amenities you might find in the Estate. Also: do not adjust any of the stone with any Shaping; it is all thoroughly enchanted, so you shouldn’t be able to, but please do not try. For the duration of your stay in this Estate, you will be cooked for by the same chef who cooks for our Master. Dinner is served across the courtyard in that building there. If you wish for more food, then it will be provided, or, you can acquire it on your own terms and bring in back here. There is a kitchen and other such amenities inside the guest house. I, or someone else, will always warn you when our Master is coming. We Stone Men thank you in advance for bearing with his eccentrici—” A pause. “Master is coming right now. Any quick questions before he arrives?”

“Is your name actually ‘Rocky’? Are you being insulted every day?”

Now that Erick looked again, Rocky seemed like a person. He had a soul, but it was a thin thing. Thicker than Ophiel’s. Maybe Rocky was a summon, too?

Rocky smirked, only a little, the stone of his face moving like the metal of a wrought, but rougher. “I am still a member of the collective and have yet to differentiate my self or my name. All of us here are like that.” Rocky gestured to the table. “Please, take a seat.”

The collective? Well. Okay…

Erick found no reason not to comply, for he had checked out the place rather well with his Ophiel flying all around in their tiny bodies. The stone seat was not comfortable, but it would do. Poi took his place standing behind Erick.

Rocky stepped away, to the side, but he did not leave. Another Rocky came forth with a plate of small sandwiches and a glass pitcher of cold tea, with three cups. He set them down then walked away, but not too far, right as Tenebrae opened the courtyard door of his tower.

Erick put on an easy expression with a slight smile and relaxed shoulders. By now, the [Animadversion] had expired from Poi’s arm, but it remained on Erick’s as a twisted silver buckler. Erick silently asked Poi if he wanted another. Poi shook his head.

Tenebrae walked around the courtyard, spitting, “Show me that damn thing on your arm.”

Erick paused. Then he held up his arm as Tenebrae stopped in front of him. Erick forced politeness and kindness out of his mouth, “Why of course, Tenebrae. I can show you some functions of it, too, if you wish to tell me about your castle.” The silver buckler extended a few thorny snowflake-like arms, but Erick kept them small. “It’s just an [All Reflection] spell.”

Tenebrae leaned over, slightly, and stared at the buckler, his eyes roaming across the thorny silver protrusions. He flickered with a few spells, but Erick couldn’t quite tell what they were.

Ophiel whistled in unsure guitar thrums.

Tenebrae said, “Looks like you can give it away like it was a normal [Conjure Weapon], but it’s a shield. I approve. Probably the best thing you’ve ever made!”

While Erick was suddenly dumbfounded, Tenebrae ignored the shield and sat down on the other side of the table. He served himself some tea, but did not do the same for Erick. He picked up a small sandwich, took a bite, and stared. He hadn’t even set the pitcher of tea close to Erick, or even halfway; he had set it directly in front of him, on his side of the table.

… Erick stood up and reached over to grab the pitcher. He served himself some tea, then set the pitcher halfway down in the center of the table. He sipped the tea. It was good.

Tenebrae said, “The Gate is inside a Twisted Vision of the Forest.”

“I assume it’s more complicated than that, and that there’s a reason you can’t just kill the Vision to get the Gate.”

With a deep frown, Tenebrae said, “You don’t know what a Twisted Vision is, do you.”

It wasn’t a question. Erick gave his answer, anyway, “They inhabit parts of the Forest and copy monsters, growing their preferred pets like a mayor grows a city, or something like that.”

“You don’t know—!” A sigh. “That’s barely a tenth of the common knowledge in any Adventurer’s Guild near the Forest! Ignorant, dumbass— Archmages need to know more. Here’s a lesson: Twisted Visions are products of [Duplicate] and other spells gone wrong. Don’t know what the ‘other spells’ part is, and don’t care, but some Shade made them 1300 years ago or more, for sure. Their ability to copy is not limited to monsters and biologicals. They can copy gold and jewels and other stuff, if they want to. Almost none of them do, but this one does. It copies everything.”

Erick sat straighter. He frow—

Erick jumped to the obvious conclusion, “It’s copying Gates?”

“Among other things. It’s classified as a 9-star threat— You do know about the ranking system the Guilds use, don’t you?” Tenebrae stared at Erick.

“Yes.” Erick withheld a rebuttal that would have gone along the lines of ‘killing the Shades was a 12 star threat’, for many reasons, least of all that he didn’t actually kill them all. He only killed a few. “I am aware of the ranking system. 10-star requires nations to get involved. Your 9-star means it's just below a national-level threat. It’s probably killed thousands of people.”

“… Correct. Before we go further, I will have your promise that you will not endanger the life of this Twisted Vision. It is rare. It is valuable. And it doesn’t just ‘copy Gates’.”

Erick almost lost it. Exasperation, disgust, anger, all of these emotions swirled, and more. But he kept calm. As politely as he could, he asked, “Why can’t we just kill it and take the Gate? Are you really that—” Erick stopped himself before he said something unkind. This place did not look rich. Was Tenebrae poor? A poor archmage? Was that what was going on here? How, though? Why? Erick almost asked those questions, but he did not. Instead, he said, “Okay. It’s valuable. More valuable than the Gate inside?”

Tenebrae eyed Erick, then said, “Long time ago, a very, very long time ago, don’t know which idiot did it, but someone found a Twisted Vision that copied stuff besides monsters. That wasn’t the only criteria this unknown person searched for, I’m sure. This particular Vision is one of the calmest Visions I have ever seen. Maybe it’s a byproduct of what was done to it. Maybe it’s a byproduct of how old it is, for this Vision is old. It’s also extremely deadly if irritated. That is why I choose to approach this Vision with care and quiet. We will not be killing it. Understand this?”

“Somewhat. But not really. Please go on.”

Tenebrae huffed. He continued, “Either someone got the bright idea to throw the broken pieces of several Gates inside, or maybe the Vision found, or was birthed on, a dumping ground for Old Dragonkin Gates. When the Rage Wars were going strong, people destroyed the Gate Network so the orcols couldn’t use them anymore, you see. But every single Gate was guarded. Those attacks that took out the Gates were suicide hits. Most were not properly destroyed. Most of the broken Gates were left behind for the Raging orcols to pick up and try to put back together. They failed.

“And thus, those broken Gates likely went in a laboratory, or a pile, depending on how one views primitive Orcol society. Truth is, I don’t know how it happened but it happened. and it doesn’t matter. Point is: Almost every Gate in that dungeon-like space is broken, but all of them appear to work, but that is just part of the real illusion of the place. All Twisted Visions are odd, disjointed spaces, but this Twisted Vision figured out [Gate].” He finished with, “And that’s why we can’t destroy the Vision. The monster itself is a clue to [Gate] just as much as those Gates are.”

“… Huh.” Erick immediately said, “You talked about recreated Gates that you brought out. How close are they to the original?”

Tenebrae frowned. He breathed in, then out, calming himself, then he said, “I’ve been inside twenty times.” Slight lie there, but Erick let it slide. Tenebrae continued, “I’ve managed to find a reasonably intact Gate ten times and copied them as best I could, but all I ever got was a long way down a false path.” With venom, he asked, “Do you want to see my own attempts?”

“No. I want the real one.”

“Good. Fine. I ain’t letting you see my failures, anyway.” Tenebrae said, “But there’re complications to this Vision. Every time I go in there, all I mostly find is near-death, because this Vision’s Domain is stronger than most.”

“Ah. Complications.” Erick’s words were an understatement.

Visions had Domains?

“Quite.” Tenebrae said, “Using Spatial Magic inside this Vision will get you [Partial Teleport]ed into a wall or the floor or some other shit. Elemental Bodies are constrained. Shaping spells alert the Vision that you’re inside if used on any ‘wall’, though Visions don’t really have walls— You do not want to alert it that you’re inside. As soon as you try to move a Gate… Any number of things could happen. The Gate could activate a [Gate] and monsters or water could flood out and try to drown you under claw or ocean pressure.” Tenebrae spat, “You can’t move any of these Gates inside. I already told you that before! Didn’t you listen! All I made were bad copies.”

Erick did not explode back at the man. Instead, he calmly absorbed all of that, then he said, “I assume manual Spatial Magic is blocked?”

Tenebrae calmed a fraction. “Correct. I have not discovered all the limitations of that place, for I do not test it anymore.”

“How do you get inside, then? What are the actual limitations of this place that have allowed you to explore it?”

“Physical hiding —no magical hiding!— with minimal monster contact. Minimal use of magic. The Vision is larger than most Visions, and also calmer; this combination causes oddities that you would never find in other Visions. This one will ignore campfires, for instance. If you use magic that does not harm or attempt to hide, then it might not react. The best way to investigate is to cast your magic outside and hope that you’re not stuck inside when the duration ends. Any spell exposure beyond 50 mana might mean that you have to run, for it might notice you, then. NO DOMAINS! It senses those right away. Elemental Bodies might not work that well, but they’re the preferred way to operate.” Tenebrae said, “This Twisted Vision is among the largest, most hidden, best defended Visions in the entire Forest. It spans thousands upon thousands of kilometers, though you’d never know it because almost all of that space is the Border Vision. We will NOT be going into the Vision more than a hundred kilometers; somewhere at the Middle Vision. We will be coming in from the sky, and dropping directly into the Middle Vision, through a [Gate] attached to a Gate. That Gate is the most broken one I have ever seen, but we can stick around and eye it for a while, if you want. What we’re after is one of the better Gates deeper in.”

Erick refilled his tea, and said, “Okay. That sounds dangerous. I thought Twisted Visions were just out in the open monsters that adjusted how you viewed the space. From what you’re saying, it sounds like they don’t exist in the real world. Elsewise we could just scout the Deep Vision from the air and not have to walk through a [Gate] in order to explore the space.”

“You really don’t know shit about anyth— Twisted Visions are pseudo-spaces. They twist everything around and depending on the Vision, if you attempt to leave, you either run into monsters or walk out of the space, and if you attempt to go through the canopy, you will be eaten. You break anything at all and the Twisted Vision will try to break you. Most Visions are the size of hills or valleys. They affect an area that is measured in a handful of kilometers. Those are babies. This one is a mother. It is calm. It is massive. Most people pass through the outer edges without even knowing it exists. It is old. Some would even consider it the first Vision to ever exist, but I doubt it. You will follow my instructions at all times, or I will not help you find it.” Tenebrae said, “And we won’t be killing it!”

Erick frowned.

Who the fuck cared if it was an old monster? Old monsters deserved to die more than most. All it sounded to him was like this Twisted Vision needed to die. It needed to be GONE. He kept those thoughts to himself.

Instead, he asked, “Does it have a name?”

Tenebrae paused. He lied right to Erick’s face, “No. But I call it the Green Labyrinth.”

“Thanks for that, Tenebrae.” Erick spoke with his most sincere, thankful voice, “I appreciate your help with this.”

“You better appreciate it.” Tenebrae said, “The Green Labyrinth pops up in unlikely places all the time, spewing out excess monsters every so often. Most people come across these side entrances and think them young Twisted Visions. Most people never find the true entrance. Only I know where the true entrance is, and that’s where we have to go if you want to look at a [Gate] or a Gate.”

Erick had several thoughts.

Chief among them were, in no particular order:

He needed to talk to someone else about this ‘Green Labyrinth’. If it was as odd of a Vision as Tenebrae said it was, then Syllea would know where it was and what it contained, for sure. Teressa might, too, if only through hearsay and stories, but she would be Erick’s second choice for information. He could also go back to Nosier and ask him for his opinion on why others had not thought to excavate Gates from the Green Labyrinth, or, why others had failed to excavate from the Green Labyrinth.

And why couldn’t he just kill the Labyrinth with a particularly violent set of murderous magics? Erick needed to talk to Arbor Rottundra about that. Him and his Chieftain were all for melting the entire Forest away. Surely such a plan would account for something as dangerous as this ‘Green Labyrinth’.

And finally, did he want Jane involved with this?

