Occasionally, she’d say something inane, but Montressa being her [Apprentice] meant that Valeterisa’s tab was paid weekly, and the absent-minded Archmage of Izril was a profitable guest, if one that had constant, troublesome requests.
Ishkr took care of most requests, and Invrisil had the industry to support Valeterisa’s magical needs. As for the rest? She was easier than the other two because, well…Lyonette liked her.
The Archmage of Izril was the first person older than Lyonette that the [Princess] had ever thought the term ‘cute’ could apply to. Oh, sometimes she was an annoying or terrifying [Mage] who had given part of herself to magic, and Lyonette remembered she could be as cold as ice.
But she seemed to be genuinely kind to Montressa, and she had a definite relationship going on with a certain Relc that Lyonette found adorable. The sight of an [Archmage] loitering outside of Relc’s room at night before showing him a new puzzle she’d made and his always surprised but gratified smile—that did something for Lyonette’s heart.
The other two high-priority guests were…Lyonette looked around, then heard thumping from the side and heard laughter—right before two boys, and two girls, charged past her.
“I’m faster! I’m f—”
Hethon was shouting wildly as he ran with a giant blanket folded around himself. He froze when he saw Lyonette, but Sammial raced past him.
“No you’re not! I’m—”
He made a flying leap for the stairs, head first—but Mrsha dove past him. She had a pillow strapped to her head with a piece of rope and another blanket around her, and she went sliding down the newly-waxed staircase like an arrow on top of a board of wood. Sammial dove after her in a laundry basket, shouting, and Nanette tried to go back the other way.
Too late—Lyonette’s stare made Hethon turn red.
“Er, Miss Lyonette—”
“I trust you’re being safe, Nanette? I wouldn’t want to use a healing potion on any accidents.”
“No…that is, we’re very safe, Lyonette.”
Nanette fidgeted. Lyonette sighed as Sammial and Mrsha popped up to gloat—saw her—and decided to keep running. But she stepped back as a panting woman clutched at her side.
“Lord—Hethon—Sammial—that is dangerous—”
Alas, poor Jericha. Lyonette felt like she knew the woman despite them not really having met before this. But her second valuable guests, Hethon and Sammial, had clearly liked the game Mrsha and Nanette had invented with Visma and Ekirra.
If this keeps them from wanting to go into Liscor where they’ll be recognized and out of trouble, like Sammial searching for a Snow Golem to fight, so be it.
After all, entertainment was part of the service Lyonette offered her valuable clients, and the two sons of House Veltras were both valuable…and, she had to admit, decent playmates for Mrsha and Nanette. Whether or not Nanette appreciated being grouped as a child along with Hethon was sort of immaterial. They were here, and after Hethon had somehow saved her daughters, Lyonette hadn’t the heart to turn down all their gold.
Why were Sammial and Hethon Veltras here even after the Winter Solstice was gone? Well, it had something to do with the fact that their father, Tyrion Veltras, was gone. He was already at sea, heading towards Baleros after Ryoka Griffin, Lyonette understood. Yet he had left his sons behind, and at—of all places—The Wandering Inn?
Well, not alone. Majordomo Ullim was about, though he hadn’t seen fit to chase down Hethon and Sammial like Jericha and the House Veltras bodyguards, who looked winded—and envious of the kids’ fun. The Wandering Inn wasn’t where the two boys stayed all the time, but it was very convenient for transport. It was one of their abodes they could stay at, but frankly, Lyonette understood that House Veltras’ keep was secure, but entirely unpleasant for the two boys to be cooped up in without friends.
Thusly, they stayed here, where the food and drink was better and where they could run around and see more than just Humans in ‘dreary Veltras lands’. Frankly, Lyonette suspected House Veltras was quite enjoyable, but the boys’ classes kept them from enjoying it most of the time. Or their father did.
Anyways, she had approved their residency so long as she had the authority to reprimand them, despite their connection to their father. Since they were not Tyrion himself, she had few qualms about taking House Veltras’ money. They might not be the richest of the Five Families, but they could still afford the premium experience at The Wandering Inn.
Besides, there were rooms aplenty for them, Jericha, and their guards. Lyonette realized Valeterisa had wandered off, and she counted how many rooms needed active cleaning today.
Not many. The staff outnumbered the guests these days. Hexel was long gone, Silveran was here, but more and more people had left and just not come back. Even now…her heart hurt when she saw the nameplates on the doors.
Joseph had moved out. He was living in Pallass. Kevin was dead. Lyonette still hadn’t cleared out his room. Imani had moved out when she’d started Barehoof Kitchens. Apparently, they were open again.
Neither she nor Palt had been here all month. Lyonette had checked on Imani twice.
The same feeling fell upon Lyonette again, as it did so often when she stopped to think—and she had too little to do to keep her occupied. That haunting realization, that heavy weight she was still in denial about when she wasn’t weeping or angry or just—empty.
Death.
Halrac would never come and sit in a corner again. Nor Moore. The same teams that had been here from, oh, dead gods, the beginning were gone.
The Winter Solstice had come and passed, but they really weren’t over it, even after a month, were they? Lyonette felt it.
There were holes in the inn, scars etched into the foundation of the building far more excruciating than the burnt wood from the arson attempts. Lyonette sensed it, just like she sensed Hethon, Sammial, Mrsha, and Nanette using the [Garden of Sanctuary] to teleport up to Bird’s tower and slide down all over again.
She was the innkeeper. She was part of the inn. Lyonette just wondered if it was the right choice to take up Erin’s mantle. She feared she wouldn’t be able to or that it would be too heavy or not reward her.
And she feared what it might do to her. For she had seen Erin’s path, and that terrified her most of all.
 
——
 
To distract herself, Lyonette oversaw the day’s cleaning of rooms herself. That was a basic team of six Goblins and four Antinium armed with brooms, fresh linens, dust cloths, and plumped pillows.
Their war leader had done this all before, many times, and while they’d been clumsy before, they were all veterans of the job now. They’d take rooms four-at-a-time, and they had a narrow window to get the job done. So their commander pointed and intoned her Skill as she began the attack.
“[Staff: Flurry of Efficiency]!”
Her strikeforce charged the breach, advancing into the rooms like a storm of feather dusters, mops, new sheets—one of the Goblins let out a shrill warcry as an Antinium raised a broom overhead. Lyonette clapped her hands over her ears and called out.
“Less noise, please, Stick?”
The Cave Goblin hesitated and modulated his battlecry. He went in, sweeping after the sheets were shaken out and getting under all the corners. Lyonette watched approvingly.
Stick was a simple Goblin. Not an unintelligent one; he just focused. You gave him a job like “pick up sticks”, and by Queen Marquin’s single breast, he got you sticks. There was something highly desirable about a Goblin who wouldn’t give up on a task. If you told him to sweep the corners, he’d roll under a bed and sweep the corners.
Her new Skill—one of them—was [Staff: Flurry of Efficiency]. At first, Lyonette had wondered if the Skill was broken, because she’d hoped for [Flurry of Motion]. But this was better.
You could move fast, or you could move well. One single sweep of Stick’s broom pulled all the dirt around him in a commendable arc, and if they worked hard…Lyonette eyed a patch of wall one of the Soldiers was cleaning. She could see her reflection, dimly, in the wood!
“Very good job, Tigore. Good use of all four arms.”
The Soldier waved their antennae as Rosencrantz marshaled the troops into another room. Lyonette clasped her hands behind her back, pleased by all their efficiency, and had a thought.
I’m just standing here. They’re doing my job better and faster than I can!
It made her slightly insecure despite how pleased she was that they were doing the chores. Lyonette nodded to Rosencrantz after a few moments and walked downstairs.
 
——
 
I’ve done this before. Once, Lyonette had moped about not really knowing her lot in life after she had found help. She’d done it more than once, really.
A lot of her…identity had become Lyonette the [Barmaid], Lyonette the 2nd-in-Command of The Wandering Inn. The rest of it was Lyonette the Mother of Mrsha—and now Nanette.
Maybe I should be a better mother. It was twelve past 10, and Lyonette was just waiting for her last important…and most- and least-difficult guest to arrive. She could teach Mrsha more! But wait, Mrsha had school.
Nanette needed a mother. Even if she couldn’t replace Califor, the two could…Lyonette knew all sorts of stuff about Terandrian law and politics…or she could try and run the inn better…
Dead gods, I’m boring.
The realization hurt a bit, and Lyonette sat there. But maybe it was better to be boring until Erin got back.
Niers has found her. I’ll ask him after this. If I keep the inn running and patch everything up, our reputation, finances, and there’s no disasters for as long as it takes until Erin gets back, maybe, just maybe, it’ll survive the next time she fights a disaster.
Or next time no one would be safe.
What a thought. Lyonette grew morose, but she couldn’t help it. This wasn’t like the moths. This wasn’t even like Facestealer or the Raskghar or Erin coming back to life.
Look at what you did, Erin Solstice. I shall never feel safe again. Not in this inn. Not if I hire fifteen more Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. This inn is not safe.
There was a damned Giant made out of bones sitting in the snow. Until Lyonette could know the inn could survive that—
That was what Erin had left behind. Deceptively quiet days. A graveyard. An aimless [Princess].
And fear of the future. Lyonette could have been optimistic. She could have said they’d all levelled, they would do better, and sworn that Erin had seized a hold of a better timeline than the one where she had never done any of this.
But how could Lyonette? She looked up, trying to smile as the last guest came in. But he did not smile back. He did not move—and the Drake who wheeled him into the room gave Lyonette a pained smile as usual.
“Grand Strategist, we’ve arrived. Would you like breakfast? He wasn’t—hungry this morning.”
Lyonette stood slowly, as if her bones had filled with lead. But when she did smile, it was softly, with as much kindness as she had, and that wasn’t much.
But it was more than his city had for him, and she saw that lost gaze and eyepatch over the Drake’s grey scales only barely twitch towards her.
“Hello, Chaldion. Would you like anything special to eat today?”
The Drake didn’t turn as Lyonette bent down next to his wheelchair. His eyes stared ahead, vacantly, out one of the windows.
He didn’t move.
He didn’t react.
Lyonette saw the attendant’s expression, and two [Bodyguards] shuffled into the room. Not high-level ones, just decent guards. She tried again as they looked at her, and someone handed them a menu.
“Chaldion? We have breakfast if you’ll have it. Should I get some soft applesauce? It was quite good with cinnamon this morning.”
He didn’t really say a word. Chaldion of Pallass, the Grand Strategist of the Drakes, one of the most famous and infamous figures of the Walled Cities…sat in the wheelchair that Erin had once used. His claws were folded in his lap, and he stared ahead.
When he did move, it was to vaguely eat a bowl Lyonette put in front of him or to say the word ‘bathroom’ as quietly as a whisper. He wasn’t incapacitated. But—when the children came crashing down the steps, they fell silent a moment. Mrsha waved hesitantly, and the Drake stared at her, then went back to looking out the window.
There was less of Chaldion there than there had been. After a while, Lyonette put a blanket over him, and the Drake sat there next to one of the fires, never saying a word.
 
——
 
Grand Strategist Chaldion of Pallass had retired.
No one had said as much publicly, but Lyonette knew the announcement was coming. The Walled City of Inventions was reorganizing. They had lost General Duln—and Grand Strategist Chaldion.
After his final charge, which had led countless Drakes to their deaths, there hadn’t been a question of it. Chaldion had planned his final move, as Lyonette understood it, to rid the Walled Cities of himself and mobilize them into finding a replacement for him.
But he had not counted on surviving. General Duln had died trying to save Chaldion and worse, at least in Lyonette’s mind, succeeded.
They had dragged the Grand Strategist away from the battle, throat cut, body torn to shreds. The [Healers] had pronounced him dead—until they’d realized he wasn’t dying, just in agony. Somehow, despite wounds he shouldn’t have survived, he’d made a recovery.
But Chaldion hadn’t come back with it. That was probably…for the best. He might have been court-martialed in front of the Assembly of Crafts if he had. Pallass and the Walled Cities had lost far too much. Instead, he just sat there, as if all the energy, bitter spite, and intelligence that had played Izril like a fiddle, a terrible tune, but a triumphant one—had left him.
Empty. Lyonette tried to make him as comfortable as he needed to be and insulated him from Pallass’ wrath or machinations. That was her kindness to him.
She didn’t know if he deserved it.
 
——
 
The Winter Solstice Conflict, as Pallass had labeled it, was a disaster for the Walled Cities of Manus and Pallass—for different reasons. Manus had lost Wall Lord Aldonss, and their Wall Lady Rafaema was crippled, a wing lost from the fighting. If you knew who Rafaema was…Lyonette understood why this was so dire.
They were still about. Some of the valuable guests had left, but one was a direct result of the tragedies in battle on the Drake side. Oh, they’d rushed Rafaema to Manus, and Wall Lord Ilvriss was still trying to dig in the north, but they had business with the inn, or needed it for transit. They’d be back. Other valuable clients with expensive tastes.
Wall Lady Rafaema, Wall Lord Ilvriss, Demsleth, when he appeared, and the last high-roller…
