For a moment, Lyonette heaved a huge, hefty sigh and remembered that Bird should be returning soon. She would like that. Everyone had changed since the Solstice. She had seen Numbtongue less and less. Badarrow had gone to the battle at sea, not him.
That was a change. At any rate, Lyonette was about to put on another layer when she remembered her promise.
“Alright, inspection time. Let’s see if Mrsha’s earned a treat.”
The Gnoll girl and Nanette were not afraid of Lyonette’s scrutiny. They had hidden everything they considered valuable, made their beds, arranged their shoes, and folded their clothing—Lyonette reflected that soon she’d have to talk Mrsha into more than the sets of kilts in her drawer, but they really were good girls.
She dithered, thinking of her own mother, when she got to the [Garden of Sanctuary] and poked around for a few moments before coming out with a sigh. But she had made Mrsha a deal.
“Looks like no snacks for you two.”
“Mrsha!”
Nanette shoved the girl, and Mrsha’s mouth fell open.
I missed something? What? No way!
Her guilty look made it clear she didn’t know what she’d missed, but it definitely wasn’t out of the question. Lyonette pointed, trying to be stern. She’d probably buy something from a store anyways. They’d go into the city, have a nice…something, and then she’d get to work.
Maybe she could recruit Ressga back from Magnolia’s mansion? Did Antinium have anyone…no, she couldn’t have just Antinium. She needed subtlety. Expertise.
Lyonette’s vision rose to the room where one of her guests, Tessa, was resting. Another problem. At least she’d begun eating again, but she said worrying things. Someone who could stop Tessa if she went wild might be a good step. Or just trying to talk to the Drake again.
So much to do, so little coin. Yelroan would be needed for a serious conversation about funding for all this, even if Ielane gave Lyonette help. But that was fine; Lyonette liked Yelroan and trusted him.
No bad people. It’ll be under my control, so I won’t hire another Maran and Safry. Lyonette squared her shoulders. She should also send another [Message] to Pryde, and she wondered how Ilvriss was doing. Maybe someone would come back and report.
This was Lyonette du Marquin’s new world without Erin. Smaller stakes, perhaps, or at least less high-level craziness, but she was sure it would have its own fair share of difficulties. But at least it wouldn’t be life-or-death drama for a while.
Mrsha stomped over, grumbling, and looked into the garden for her missing toy. She queried Lyonette.
What stupid, damn thing did I lose?
Lyonette gave her a look with Ielane’s cold wrath.
“Watch your paws, young lady. It’s right there. I nearly stubbed my toe on it. Put your toybox away, and we’ll go out.”
She turned and missed the faint look of puzzlement on Mrsha’s face. The Gnoll girl stomped into the garden and, after a few seconds, came back. She poked Lyonette in the side and signed up to her.
Aha! It’s not mine! You owe me a snack!
A triumphant look was plastered all over the girl’s face. Lyonette blinked, then peered into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“It’s not? Oh, I’m sorry, Mrsha. Then who left it—Nanette?”
The witch girl looked up from kicking her feet on a chair. She stood up, and Lyonette pointed into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Nanette? Did you get something from a City Runner? Or did Numbtongue?”
“What box? Mrsha and I did actually clean up after ourselves, Lyonette.”
Nanette strode into the garden, and Lyonette pointed with Mrsha.
“It’s the, er—well, it’s just that box made out of wood. I thought Mrsha made it for a toy or something. It’s right—wait. Where did it go?”
Lyonette had been pointing to an object sitting in the grass just inside the garden, half-buried, really, but when she looked back, she only saw a divot of ground. Mrsha blinked, and Lyonette turned to Ser Dalimont, assuming he’d picked it up. But the [Knight] just hesitated—and Nanette frowned.
“What box? I haven’t seen it.”
“You haven’t? I’ve seen it all over the place. Mrsha’s left it in my room, in your room, even in the hallway. I keep putting it back.”
It had been one of the few things Lyonette hadn’t begrudged since she’d felt so lazy with all the staff. But Mrsha just gave Lyonette an increasingly blank look. She broke out her quill because this part was more complex.
Mother, while I do not doubt the veracity of your claim, having seen this box with mine own two peepers just now, I must inform you that this box was not and has never been mine. I have good taste, and that piece of wood isn’t even painted. Nor have I ever personally witnessed this box in my room.
“What? Then who—Peggy? Have you been moving a box around?”
The Hobgoblin had been coming downstairs after doing all the rooms on the 3rd Floor. She strode over.
“Yep, Chieftain Lyonette?”
“Don’t call me that, Peggy. I have to talk with you about staffing soon. Er—there’s this wooden box. It’s yay-big.”
Lyonette gestured, making a box around a foot-by-foot, describing it.
“Solid wood, I think. Just pieces connected together with glue or something. I thought it was Mrsha’s, but she says she’s never seen it. Have you seen it?”
Peggy scratched her head.
“Uh…I think so. This that box that—hey! Inkpaper! Get your chach ass out here!”
She shouted a Goblin word, and a Hobgoblin came running, guiltily hiding a book behind his back.
“What? I’m on break.”
“No. Remember that box? Where you put it?”
It turned out the staff had seen the box, at least some of them. Peggy turned to Lyonette.
“I’ve seen the box. Was in, uh…the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Can’t remember where. Inkpaper had it.”
“Oh, is it his?”
“No…he was using as footrest in rec room. Is it there?”
Inkpaper shook his head. Rosencrantz raised a hand.
“I do recall this box. I was checking on Bird’s tower per his request as Bird is now rebuilding his body and will be back soon. I found the box on the roof.”
“On the roof? Is someone playing a joke?”
Now, Lyonette was getting annoyed, but another Goblin lifted her hand.
“Is no joke. Is good box. Strong.”
“…How do you know?”
The Cave Goblin fidgeted. Peggy listened as the Goblin whispered in one ear.
“She say she put it in fireplace because she think is useless box. Is empty. It don’t burn, so she go to ask someone if maybe it Demsleth’s or Valeterisa’s box.”
Everyone knew they were magical. Lyonette stared as Nanette’s bored expression suddenly grew sharp. Peggy frowned.
“Then she come back, and it gone. Oh! I know where I found it! In the garden on the hill.”
Suddenly, Lyonette’s back began to crawl.
“On the hill? You mean the hill? With the mist and statues? Where?”
Peggy smiled at Lyonette.
“On top of Erin’s, uh, death-bed thing. Found it last month. Then I found it in the mouth of that big Dragon. Xarkouth. Then in the middle of all the Antinium standing in circle. I thought someone playing a game.”
Now, Lyonette’s heart was beating faster. She looked around and remembered where she’d seen it.
In her room, on her desk. On her bed. In the hallway as she opened the door. Even once in Erin’s room next to her chessboard.
She’d just assumed Mrsha was leaving it around, but why would Mrsha be playing in Erin’s room? It was as if Lyonette had kept walking past it—and it had been following her around.
“Did—did you say it was empty?”
Lyonette addressed the Cave Goblin, whose name was Asgra. The Cave Goblin nodded, but the rest of the staff and even the people listening in were catching on.
“I’ve…seen the box too. I’ve found it under the bar, and Calescent’s found it in the kitchen. Calescent?”
Ishkr appeared, and the Hobgoblin seemed embarrassed.
“Yah. Kept finding it. So got mad and threw it out window. Very far, into snow. Didn’t see box after that.”
And yet the box was back. Now, Lyonette knew. She knew, but she didn’t want to admit it. She took a step back, smiling.
“How about this? If anyone sees the box, um, hold onto it for me. Mrsha and Nanette and I are going out.”
She turned and saw the two girls staring at her, arms folded, expressions identical.
Like heck we are.
They knew. Ishkr knew, and he was already peering around. The Goblins were whispering to each other, and the Antinium…were heading over to the weapon stashes. Lyonette’s heart was pounding.
I knew it. I knew she levelled up, but after the first day, I thought her new Skills didn’t affect the inn. Wh—what is it? It’s just—it must be a minor Skill or something. It’s just—
She turned, and Peggy blinked.
“Oh. Look. The box.”
Lyonette whirled, saw the box sitting on a table behind her, and screamed. She grabbed at her sword—then saw everyone staring at her and felt foolish. Then she stared at the box that had not been there a second ago.
“I am very scared. I believe Miss Lyonette’s scream was warranted, but I missed my timing.”
Rosencrantz announced. Peggy breathed.
“The box is moving. Is it alive?”
That was not the question you should ask! It was a Goblin question that cut to the heart of possible danger scenarios, but—Mrsha reached for the box, and Nanette, Ishkr, and Lyonette instantly grabbed her.
“Erin’s. Stay away from it.”
Mrsha tensed, glaring at Lyonette—then she hesitated. Her arm reaching out for the box drew back a second, and the guests, the staff, all gazed at the box.
The [Immortal Moments]. The [Garden of Sanctuary]. [Like Fire, Memory]. The [World’s Eye Theatre]. Each one of Erin’s…unique Skills had always been magical and powerful. Wonderful, but as Lyonette had once said—everything in Erin’s inn either made you laugh with joy or cry uncontrollably.
No. Everything in Erin’s inn did both. And this—
“Is this her Level 50 Skill? Can’t be.”
Peggy knew what level Erin should be, and Nanette’s eyes were fixed on the box, unblinking.
“If it is…she has no way to access it from where she is. If it is her Level 50 Skill—it is the most powerful thing she has. Bar nothing. Her [World’s Eye Theatre], her [Garden of Sanctuary], are all lower-level Skills. Your Level 50 capstone is the most powerful Skill that defines you. I think Saliss’ is [Disable Friendly Fire].”
Psh. Doesn’t sound great.
Mrsha wrote nervously. Nanette turned and gave her a look only a [Witch] could give.
“His power disables causality. He could destroy the entire continent, and everyone he likes, including himself, would survive until the Skill wore off. What do you think Erin’s does?”
Everyone stared at the box. No one moved to touch it. Mrsha and Nanette and the staff slowly turned to Lyonette, and the [Princess] was breathing fast.
“No one—I’ll try to get in contact with Erin. Niers can get me to her, especially if I tell him—maybe not tell him. Ushar. Tell my mother before I know what this is and I’ll have Peggy drown you in the outhouse, understand?”
Ushar jumped, and Ishkr murmured in Lyonette’s ear.
“We could investigate, Lyonette. The moment we tell Niers, even with Erin’s theater, it’s out. This is her special Skill. If we carefully—”
“No!”
He recoiled, and Lyonette turned. She met everyone’s eyes, panting now. More than when she’d been talking to her mother.
“The inn isn’t ready! We’re not ready.”
“Oh come on, Lyonette. The inn’s still intact. How bad could it be?”
Fierre said that—from behind Calescent. Lyonette just stared at the Vampire until the young woman fidgeted.
“Intact? Is that what you see?”
The [Princess] slowly gazed around at the inn, at all the faces of the people who were here—and thought of the people who weren’t here. Kevin. Gone. Erin. Another continent away. She said it, what she hadn’t wanted to say out loud, but what she knew to be true.
“We’re still rebuilding from the ashes. I don’t know if we can do it properly this time. We’re all smashed to bits still, the city, us—I love all of you, and I trust you all. But I don’t want to do it. Not yet. We have to—”
She stumbled, almost fell over, and Ser Dalimont caught her. Lyonette had to sit down, and the people gathered around her. Mrsha ran over to pat Lyonette’s hand. The [Princess]’ face was pale, and at that moment—the door opened, and someone walked in.
“I’m back!”
Lyonette would have actually stabbed the boy from Vaunt if he’d come back in with a piece of cheese. If it were Saliss—she would have thrown the box at him. But it was gone, and the person who stood in the doorway had thrown up her arms with a smile.
But not really a smile. She’d come back, trying to be the friendly, upbeat person she thought they all remembered. And yet…
Rose Cinevoy, the last Earther of Magnolia Reinhart’s group, had on a Gnollish-style hat and clothing lined with fur. She looked, like so many, a bit older, and she lowered her hand shyly and brushed her snowy cap.
“Uh—sorry. I thought I sent a [Message] I was coming.”
Of all the things—it made Lyonette stare, then start laughing in relief. Mrsha hesitated, and Nanette poked her to whisper and ask ‘who is that’? Rose stared at Nanette, at the Goblins and Antinium, and around at the inn.
“I got lost on the way to—Liscor’s so different. And I can find somewhere else if I’m a bother, but I—”
She got no further. Mrsha bounded over and gave her a solid hug, and Rose seemed so relieved that Lyonette got up at once. And she smiled.
The inn has its Earther. At least there’s that. The staff bustled into motion, and Rose began pulling out souvenirs and letters, and for a moment—everyone forgot about the box. When they turned, it was gone, and it would keep.
 
——
 
Dame Ushar debated informing Queen Ielane about the mysterious box, despite Lyonette’s clear opinions on the matter.
She elected not to. That was the choice, you see.
It wasn’t treason. It was subjective loyalty, and that was something all [Knights] learned. Consider the hypothetical: did you obey your [King] or your Order’s [Grandmaster] if the two gave conflicting orders? If your superior ordered you to do something dishonorable or, worse, illegal, did you comply?
Multiple Knight Orders had written doctrine on the subject, and there were famous tales of when integrity had driven individuals to defy their sworn oaths for a higher cause, or where strict adherence to one vow had damned too many.
Thronebearers, being political and having a fair understanding of the nature of royalty, dictated that loyalty to the Eternal Throne came first. If you lied to your ward, or even a superior, so long as it was in service to the nation as you saw it, things could be understood. Of course, that meant on your own head be it.
