Queen Ielane was even more of a pragmatist. She called Ushar as Lyonette was recuperating. If you thought the Queen of Radiance was even worse with her underlings than her daughters, you’d be mistaken.
She was even more…prosaic, but she spoke to Ushar like Ushar was a subordinate. It was a kind of efficaciousness between them; from a mother to daughter, Ushar understood why it had caused strife.
“Ushar, keep an eye on Lyonette. Is she still fraternizing with the Antinium?”
“Not since they broke up, Your Majesty.”
Ushar leaned on a wall of The Wandering Inn outside, shivering. Nowhere in the inn was safe from eavesdroppers, and she had deployed her customized silence spells. Dead gods, but she needed a resupply of tools. And more backup.
“Good. Loss drives some to seek solace. Monitor her entanglements. There’s less to lose unless she catches something, but ensure the matches are at least beneficial in some way.”
—And here Dame Ushar hesitated. Because where she was the willing agent of the crown, sometimes she thought the crown still didn’t understand.
“Your Majesty. She was quite poised in the debate with you, wasn’t she? As I said—”
“—Your Majesty, makeup in four to meet Erribathe’s—”
A muffled voice. Ielane murmured.
“Push it two minutes and have them prepped for speed. Ushar, don’t belabor your point. All of her sisters could pull a debate like that if they needed to.”
Liberties were allowed if you knew Ielane, and Ushar let herself grow the faintest touch skeptical.
“Your Majesty. Princess Shardele? Menisi, I grant you, but Aielef—perhaps Princess Seraphel, but she was calm. She held her ground. I don’t wish to be seen as your hand—”
Another snort, but Ielane made a drumming sound with her fingernails.
“If she’s wise—adroitly, Ushar. When is this never implicit? I heard how she has changed. I have witnessed it. None of this alters the fact that she is still as headstrong as any of her sisters. She’s broken the record on running away, you know. This month.”
For a second, she sounded…fond? Ushar wished she could record that and have Lyonette listen.
“Was another [Princess] away from the Eternal Throne that long, Your Majesty?”
A pause. There were things Ushar didn’t know, not being that highly-ranked. Ielane’s tone was flat as it returned.
“Menisi. Take care Lyonette does not follow the 2nd Princess’ example, Ushar. You think she can maneuver herself with free rein? On your head be it.”
Ushar needed a tonic for her stomach, but she kept going; you couldn’t last if you faltered at that level of reminder.
“May I expect reinforcements of some kind, then, Your Majesty? New staffing only goes so far.”
The sounds of Ielane taking a drag on her puffer.
“—Expect Thronebearers via the new colony ships. Some will filter in via the north. They will self-flag when Lyonette hires her staff. They’ll have your dead drops.”
In other words, some agents of Calanfer would magically and spontaneously appear to Lyonette when she reached out for a new [Barmaid]. If Queen Ielane sometimes ran her staff like a [Criminal Mastermind], well, there was a lot of overlap there. She had one of those histories that you learned about the more you rose.
“My time is up. This debacle at sea will keep sending waves ashore, Ushar. Lyonette has chosen to defend that inn? So be it. Let her level, but the moment wrath turns on her, you are to pull her out at any cost. Make sure Dalimont is trustworthy; I doubt Noelictus suborned him, but he’s Seraphel’s agent. If he wants to go after her, let him, and we’ll find replacements.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Ielane didn’t say goodbye or end with anything else. Ushar just heard a click. And then she stood there, stamping her feet in the snow.
Well, at least Her Majesty saw Lyonette as having potential, as opposed to being a liability. Level her up was the job? Ushar had seldom heard of a Thronebearer being given that role. It meant, whether Ielane said it or not, that she had hopes for Lyonette.
That was a splendid thing, for you see—Ushar was fairly certain that Ielane did not have…hopes…for at least a few of the older [Princesses] and [Princes]. They were in their positions. If they excelled or delivered, wonderful. Otherwise, they were assets to be maintained, and their offspring were further ties.
—Queen Ielane did not expect more of Aielef, for instance. The Thronebearer tamped down her feelings and began to consider what to do. Mostly keep working on Mrsha and Nanette, for one. Her job was to guide Lyonette and her daughters—but keeping them safe was her principle charge. And frankly, two wayward girls with a talent for getting into trouble were a lot more of a risk than Lyonette herself. Ushar had to win them over. Being a bit stroppy and snide seemed to win their respect.
It was a contrast to her previous charge…and as if the thought had summoned her, Dame Ushar heard a pinging sound from her other speaking stone.
She had almost forgotten she carried it. When Ielane pinged you, you went and reported in unless someone was on fire. But Ushar had a second speaking stone of lesser encryption, albeit still expensive. This one had to ‘bounce’ across multiple Mage’s Guilds, so until a spell was cast from multiple [Mages], the words were choppy. It was also a lot easier to intercept, but the, ah, owner of this speaking stone wasn’t judged as valuable as Queen Ielane of Calanfer.
Even if she was a [Princess].
“—hear me?—think it’s—ah, there. I hear you, Dame Ushar. Report!”
Princess Vernoue, the 5th Princess of Calanfer, and Ushar’s [Princess], sounded like she was whispering. In her rooms or the library, perhaps. Dame Ushar hesitated, then adjusted her tone.
“Your Highness, it is a delight to hear from you. I, ah, trust you received my correspondence?”
Vernoue’s voice was slightly defensive, slightly rushed and excited.
“I did! It took me nearly three hours to decipher, even with our codes—and I meant to call you last week, but there was never a good time for it.”
It had been about a month since she’d last called Ushar, and Princess Vernoue’s check-ins were a lot less regular. And often longer, so Ushar stomped her feet a bit more.
“I regret that I cannot speak long, Your Highness. I must get back to protecting Lyonette.”
“Of course you must. Is she coming back? I don’t suppose she’s particularly keen on the matter, what with an Archmage under the same roof. Does she even practice magic?”
Vernoue focused on different things than Ielane, and if you wanted to be frank, her level of intrigue in contacting ‘her’ Thronebearer was far more limited. Just like Ser Lormel had been Princess Ellet’s sworn guardian, Dame Ushar had been the champion of Vernoue.
A twenty-five-year-old [Princess], as yet unwedded, and in her way, more problematic than Lyonette. She sounded oddly…young. Compared to Lyonette, that was.
The thing was, Vernoue lived in Calanfer’s palace. She wasn’t wed, so she had a lot of Thronebearers around her. The position of ‘champion’ wasn’t as special for Vernoue. By contrast, Aielef’s Thronebearer, Dame Kyetne, was a Kalivian-born woman whom Aielef trusted for both her defense and to help manage the staff, and whom Ielane made sure was loyal—but might keep her own secrets.
Ushar did like Vernoue, but she had been simply the most friendly Thronebearer of the lot that attended the 5th Princess. She felt bad about her lapses in communication, but there wasn’t much to offer besides gossip.
“She does practice the sword and spells, but your younger sister hardly learns from Archmage Valeterisa, Princess Vernoue.”
The 5th Princess sighed enviously.
“I suppose that’s fair. But if I were there, I think Archmage Valeterisa might consider teaching me—do you know, Ushar, I’ve had more magical lessons from all the guests in Calanfer than my tutors managed last year? It makes me think I should really go to Wistram, especially these days. Everyone knows Archmage Eldavin is revolutionizing magic. And Mother actually heard me out! Father was for it—but Mother said ‘we cannot be certain this is the correct decision’. Because she wants me to be married. What a waste!”
She was complaining to Ushar again, and the Thronebearer tried—she really tried to be sympathetic. But her armor was freezing, and she hadn’t been back in Calanfer for months.
“A dire thing, Princess. Could—could Ser Loxlet represent you to the other Thronebearers? Dame Isni?”
She named the other Thronebearers Vernoue liked, hopeful, but Vernoue just sighed into her ear.
“They’re not the same as you, Ushar. I miss you. I’m glad you’re there, what with brave Ser Sest falling and poor Ser Lormel—but I do miss you.”
She did? Ushar had half-thought Vernoue wouldn’t even notice her absence, aside from being a useful informant abroad. She coughed and cleared her throat.
“That—gives me great joy, Your Highness. If it helps, I think every Thronebearer is needed in Izril. It can be exceedingly dangerous.”
More than your sheltered life. Vernoue’s tone reflected that truth.
“Mother is trying to get me married again. She won’t stop. Even if I’m ‘overaged’, I don’t know what to do. Seraphel got away, but I tried to volunteer for the colony fleet—well, I don’t want to anyways.”
Vernoue had done a rather amazing job of deflecting any suitors from her. Even more than Seraphel, actually. It wasn’t so much her appearance or any huge personal habit—it was her complete unwillingness to marry anyone who wouldn’t let her at least study magic.
There was something about a [Princess] who, oh, asked on your first encounter if you could read, and if so, ‘when this year’, ‘what books’, ‘please tell me your favorite passage’, and ‘do you even know a single spell’—that repulsed potential suitors. Especially when she often called their bluffs.
Ushar let Vernoue complain quite gustily, then tried to give an abbreviated account of goings-on in Liscor that she felt were interesting. The magical [Princess] didn’t care for all the talk of politics, or the Rheirgest news, but she did lock onto odder things.
“A witch? You mentioned that, and I suppose I skipped over it—there’s a coven of [Witches] in Riverfarm? Do they dance around naked and actually do rituals?”
“I did not inquire, Princess Vernoue.”
“It’s another form of magic! You know, they used to sacrifice people in Chandrar in blood rituals? Baleros too. I bet there have been some in Terandria, but I can never find records. I haven’t levelled up in ages. But you know—Level 25 might be before my birthday in the fall!”
Vernoue was determined to be a ‘thirty before thirty’ [Princess], or at least, keep up with a level to match her age. Ushar heard her switch to Mrsha and any lucky powers of the Doombearer, then bring up something else around Invrisil.
“Those ‘Players of Celum’ are actually performing for the Eternal Throne, you know. They’ve been touring around, and they’re the talk of Terandria. That will be quite fun. At last, I’ll be able to see what the fuss is about. You know, they’re quite rich. Everyone just showers them with gold and attention. They must be better than regular [Bards], musn’t they?”
Usher had, in fact, treated herself and the other [Knights] to a play at the Solstice Theatre, so she could speak knowledgeably about that.
“If they are anything like their counterparts in Invrisil, I believe you will be delighted, Princess Vernoue. They are quite, quite fascinating.”
“Oh, good. I will look forwards to it. I—know you must get back to work. But I shall try to call next week, alright?”
There it was. The 5th Princess’ voice sounded wistfully sad, yearning for the brief flashes of the world Ushar described, oddly proud of her younger sister, and plaintive. Like a bird in a cage. Ushar’s fist tightened on her speaking stone.
“—Perhaps you might go to Wistram after all, Princess? The higher Archmage Eldavin’s star rises, the more it behooves us to have a seat at the Academy of Magic.”
Vernoue laughed softly and quietly.
“No. Mother would rather marry me to an Archmage. If that Viltach wasn’t already married—the other two are far too old to be seemly. Just—maybe I could speak to Lyonette? Informally. I don’t know what to say to her, really. She’s so different than whom I remember. She doesn’t even call anyone peon anymore—I’m fine, Ushar. I have more suitors to meet. I might as well send an invitation to the Fall’s Sentinel myself if it’s to be an engagement this year.”
Ushar didn’t know what that meant, but she stood there a second in the snow until some fell off the roof onto her helmet. Then she said goodbye and exhaled.
Sad [Princesses]. She’d served them all her life since graduating from [Squire]. It occurred to Ushar, briefly, that one of the reasons she advocated for Lyonette, one reason why she had gained a sense of—loyalty—might be that.
As stressed and tired and anxious as the 6th Princess of Calanfer was, she was not sad in the same way. With luck and time, perhaps Ielane might see that too. But then, Ushar reminded herself, the more valuable you were to the Eternal Throne, the more it called for you. Their Majesties gave much of themselves to the Eternal Throne.
And if Lyonette were to tire of the gilded chains—beware. One [Princess] had tried it in this generation. There was a reason Princess Menisi, the black sheep of the family, was never seen at court. Pitfalls and traps. Ushar reflected that Ielane was right.
All you could do to escape was level up.
 
——
 
A mystery, a new year beginning soon, and change coming to Liscor. As ever. Sometimes, it was good to wait. Skills were dangerous. Erin was dangerous.
A [Chef] went back into the kitchen, hurrying to make something fresh for Rose. Obviously, Erin’s Skills kept everything fresh, but it was the meaning of cooking he pursued. He only stopped once, glancing into the warm common room.
—Obviously. He was just a [Chef]. No one had asked him why he’d given up Goblinhome for the inn. Except Erin, once, but that was different. If Lyonette wanted to change the inn, Calescent would adapt or leave. He liked to think he was part of the inn, but change was inevitable.
As for the object he’d hidden behind his back when the door opened—well. Yes, you could wait, but Goblins were curious.
It was indeed a box. Calescent placed it on the counter as he activated a heating rune. One foot by one foot exactly. He saw pieces of wood making it up, overlapping to create a cube…and there was a hinged door with a little screw that let the cover slide open.
