Hethon’s voice was dreamy. He held the wand up, then blinked. A path was waiting for him. It went out of Lyonette’s window, across the ground, a dirt path, crusted by ice, but warming, turning lush with greenery sprouting across it. Nanette stared at Hethon, then narrowed her eyes.
“I can see…something.”
“Follow me.”
The voices were calling Hethon. Dreamily, he held the wand tight and began to follow them. Once more, Nanette hesitated, then grabbed his hand. She cast a glance over her shoulder, but Hethon’s heart was pounding.
An adventure. A promise. If Ryoka can’t do it, this will help her, right?
He had one foot out the window, feeling as if he were stepping not onto the roof but somewhere else, when Hethon heard a sound. A door flew open, and a voice snapped.
“Hethon? Nanette!? Stop!”
—And a hand grabbed him and pulled Hethon back. He fell with a cry, and someone snatched the wand from his grasp.
Lyonette du Marquin yanked the wand out of Hethon’s grip and put it back in the metal case. She snapped the lid—then turned a look of anger and shock on the boy and girl.
“How did you find it? Ushar! Dalimont! To me!”
The two [Knights] were in the room in seconds, shoving aside House Veltras’ guards, who had noticed Hethon was gone. Lyonette had been there in a flash; she must have sensed the wand’s theft somehow.
“Wait, no. The wand—”
Hethon reached for it, but Lyonette backed away. She was narrowing her eyes, as if she couldn’t see the vanishing forest and path. She looked at Hethon, breathing hard.
“That is not yours. I don’t care what Ryoka Griffin’s gotten you into this time—no more mysteries. No more chasing after mysterious—”
“Lord Hethon!”
Jericha raised her voice, and Lyonette turned. His minder had her wand drawn, and she was giving Ser Dalimont, blocking her way, a dangerous look.
“Let her pass, Dalimont. Hethon is safe, Miss Jericha. This is all a—an accident that shall not be repeated.”
Lyonette gave Hethon a warning glance, and he hesitated, looking from Jericha to the wand’s case. Nanette did not heed the warning.
“Lyonette! Why are you hiding that? Did you feel the magic? Those were the people who rescued all of us from the mansion. If Hethon and I go to see—”
“Absolutely not! No adventures! No risking your lives! Above all—no more strangers and mysterious artifacts!”
Lyonette’s bark took both children aback. She was breathing hard, her eyes too bright. Too worried. She held the wand in the case and glared at Hethon so intensely Jericha moved to shield him from it. The [Princess] looked at Nanette, then at Sammial and Mrsha, who had come running to see what the shouting was about.
“No more…everyone out of my room. This is my inn, and we will discuss this—later.”
She snapped, and the guards of House Veltras, Nanette, Hethon, and Jericha were all ejected speedily by the Thronebeaerrs, despite their objections and questions. Hethon was left outside with Jericha and Sammial demanding to know why he’d been in Lyonette’s room, and Nanette fuming and hand-signing to Mrsha, who looked incredulous.
This wasn’t over. For the first time, Hethon was not inclined to listen to an adult’s words. Those strangers had saved his life. The wand was connected to them and Ryoka, and this was his responsibility. His…power. He strode off, and Nanette followed him with Mrsha and Sammial bringing up the rear.
 
——
 
In her room, Lyonette scowled until the two Thronebearers had closed the door behind the children. Then she addressed Ushar.
“They’ll be after the wand. I don’t know how they found it. Stymie them, and I’ll think on the matter—later.”
“Yes, Your Highness.”
Ushar strode off, but Dalimont gave Lyonette a troubled look. She ignored it, and he bowed and closed the door after Ushar. She stood there, in the room, staring at the wand in the case.
It hadn’t used to do that. Hethon had woken something up or, probably, Ryoka had. What had Hethon said? Some strangers had called him here? Told him the wand was in Lyonette’s room, and now they wanted him to bring it to them?
Even [Princesses] knew better than to visit strangers and do their bidding. Dead gods, the boy was the kind of poor [Prince] who would kiss dead-looking women to wake them up. Or frogs to turn them into royalty.
It wasn’t all his fault. Even as Lyonette held the wand, she felt a hint of that power of earth. A breeze swept through the inn, and she guessed whatever had woken up was gaining power—or desperate.
The road was open behind her. A road leading to a great forest. Silhouetted against the shadows of vast conifers were figures beckoning under a bright, spring day.
Lyonette shivered as she turned her head—then she saw hands reaching from the wooden walls of the inn. Inside The Wandering Inn, no less! They were gnarled and root-like, grasping, reaching for the wand.
“Begone.”
The [Princess] whispered, warningly at first, but the hands stretched across the room. A sense of menace filled the air, desperate or malicious, she couldn’t have said. The wand mattered more than…
Lyonette drew her sword. That did not stop the beckoning figures, nor the hands. But the young woman’s first swing of the sword did cleave the longest hand of wood in twain. The hands hesitated, and Lyonette stepped sideways and cleaved another in half. Then she faced down the figures in that distant forest.
A silver-green glow ran down the length of her blade. [Silverglow Enchantment]. The magic to kill ghosts was on her sword, and the [Princess] lifted the blade and set herself, securing the wand in her bag of holding.
“I said—begone.”
Her voice was warning. Her eyes? Cold. The sword’s tip didn’t waver; it was unlike her spar with Dalimont in the morning. Within Lyonette’s arms was a cold grace. Deadly intent. She saw the hands reach out suddenly—she parried two, severed another, and speared the third in a moment.
Fast. Precise. Her arms were fire. Her heart a kind of subdued rage. The hands hesitated, and then they saw Lyonette.
She was using a Skill. Not [Flawless Attempt]. Something more dangerous still. In Lyonette’s eyes was the calm certainty of a mother who would murder to get her child back. In her heart? Rage.
The same fury she’d felt when Mrsha was taken, and the will to bring her back, even if it meant facing down the Raskghar and Nokha herself with sword in hand. She was a Level 30 [Princess of the Inn]. Her new Skill?
[Remember: My Defining Moment].
Memory. This inn was memory and flame. The [Princess] had inherited a bit of that power with her class consolidation. She faced down the intruders and whispered louder.
“I will commit this wand to the flames if you try to take it from me. Until I am satisfied as to your intent—until they are my terms—begone. I am warning you.”
Not yet. Not this. Her heart was pounding despite the Skill coursing through her. But the bluff worked. The figures retreated, and the hands began to vanish, save for the ones she’d cut.
Lyonette exhaled as the hands retreated. Only then did she sheathe her sword and fish the wand case out, grim.
I’d better hide this in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. In a lockbox.
She’d have to have words with young Hethon Veltras. And Nanette. The girl was too—wild for her own good. Lyonette would have thought she’d understand how dangerous it was to pursue such things.
Not yet.
“Not yet…please?”
Lyonette rested her arm on the wall. She sagged, then she gathered herself and went to chat with her mother.
 
——
 
There was only one person Niers meant when he said ‘your parents’. At least, when it came to the realm Lyonette needed to excel at there was only one.
They called him the King of Diplomacy. You were always the ‘King of This’ or the ‘Something King’. King Reclis du Marquin of Calanfer was well-known as a savvy expert in all things political. He had a reputation.
His Queen, Ielane du Marquin, did not. She was called the ‘Queen of Radiance’, a generic term for most [Queens] of Calanfer. She had married into the family and, like many [Queens] who were married to their more-famous counterparts, was sometimes overshadowed by King Reclis’ reputation. At court, she was charming, but often left the speaking to King Reclis, and her reputation was…generic. Ielane was cast as a softhearted mother concerned with the affairs of the realm as it pertained to commonfolk, her royal family, and affairs of court.
You could just imagine her fussing about a reception for guests, and she did do all that. But if Lyonette had to name which of the two did more for Calanfer, she’d call it a draw at best.
King Reclis made pacts that sealed the fate of nations. Queen Ielane had servants who served the emissaries and rulers of nations and reported in. King Reclis spoke to his [Ambassadors] and [Diplomats] and [Couriers]. Queen Ielane spoke to [Spies] and [Servants] and Thronebearers.
King Reclis had always been a somewhat absent father given his duties, and Lyonette remembered being exasperated at his long-winded pontifications about the theory of rulership or his endless discussions about other nations’ courts or internal affairs.
Did she love him? She would have said, honestly, she would have liked to get to know him more, but definitely, for the average value of love every family had. Then Lyonette would have wondered why everyone gave her a strange look.
Lyonette feared her mother. That fear hadn’t been there as a girl. But it seemed like every moment she’d noticed or realized more of what her mother did, Lyonette found more reasons to be wary of her. Lyonette’s hand didn’t tremble when she accepted the speaking stone from Dame Ushar, but it took some effort.
It was a secure connection to Calanfer, one of the old speaking stones worth a hundred times its weight in gold because no one could just break into it. Of course Ushar had one. She was the Crown’s servant as well as Vernoue’s bodyguard. That meant she reported to King Reclis—but it really meant she was Queen Ielane’s.
“Um. Hello? Mother? I’ve missed you.”
For a second, she heard nothing from the other side. Then, as if they’d just seen each other last week, a voice replied. Briskly, inflectionless, and each word enunciated perfectly.
If Niers Astoragon came across as impatient, rude, and dangerous, like a prowling wolf with a mind like a razor, Ielane du Marquin was the razor itself. She had borne Lyonette, 6th Princess of Calanfer. You’d never guess it from her tone.
“Lyonette. Is that your first address to me in over a year’s time? If it were calculated, it was banal. If it were ill-thought out—Ushar has spoken more highly of your incisiveness than was warranted.”
For a second, Lyonette felt like the [World’s Eye Theatre] had actually teleported her, only back in time as well as through space. Suddenly, she was standing in front of the straight-backed chair where Ielane sat in her rooms, watching as her mother smoked on a long puffer-stick and wrote or signed documents as [Servants] circulated around her.
A face that could be beaming in gratitude or filled with genuine sadness when she was in public would be flat—those summer-blue eyes now grey with shards of electric yellow when she removed the illusion spell. Even then, her posture would be perfect, and Lyonette…
She was sitting down, but her back straightened, and her knees were shaking until she steadied them. Dame Ushar stood back, listening, hands clasped behind her back. Ser Dalimont had retreated two dozen paces.
I have to convince her. I can do this. I’m not who I used to be. Lyonette took a breath, and she had that same sensation she’d had with the Titan, of her brain being too slow and stupid. Being aware she had to think rather than thoughtlessly reply. Strange. Ielane had told her that hundreds of times in all their lectures about Lyonette’s conduct. For the first time—Lyonette understood what it meant and tried.
“It was genuine, Mother. I have an appreciation for honesty after being away from home for so long. You are as blunt as a mace, sometimes, but I did mean what I said. Until now.”
What are you doing? Lyonette tried, but the snappy retort came out like a crossbow bolt firing. She couldn’t help it. It had always been like that.
Unfortunately—speaking to Ielane was hard. Why? Because she never paused. That brief pause where someone considered their words? Lyonette’s mother didn’t need it, and it could leave you constantly off-balance, like someone being punched in the face repeatedly and trying to keep up.
“I operate from a position of authority and hope my offspring listen and learn from frank commentary. Cease the greetings and old antagonisms; I haven’t the time. A diplomat from Erribathe is due to approach the Eternal Throne within the hour, and the meeting is far more strained; I needn’t remind you of why? Explain why Ushar will not be escorting you back to Calanfer tomorrow. Now.”
Lyonette did pause before she responded. She swallowed, then kept her voice pleasant as possible.
“Why, Mother, because it would be a waste of Ushar’s time and the trust we have built up. She is incapable of doing so even with Ser Dalimont’s help. And that you have let me stay without pressing the issue proves you know I am more valuable here than I ever was back home.”
Ielane exhaled softly, and Lyonette imagined a plume of grey smoke.
“False. The issues of sea travel and war prevented guaranteeing a safe return. I do not gamble with my family’s lives. If you trust Ushar, her testimony that you have improved in every conceivable way comes into doubt. Try again. We both know you desire something; why should I hear out a girl who has cost the life of a brave [Knight], maimed another, stolen artifacts from the treasury, and is now demanding Calanfer’s assistance?”
If Lyonette said ‘because we’re family’, Ielane would hang up instantly. The [Princess] exhaled and was suddenly slightly relieved. She’d feared she’d be overwhelmed with emotion, like guilt, after speaking to her family. But Ielane was amazing at disabusing Lyonette of the notion. Was this how Mrsha felt about her blood-parents?
“Mother. A [Princess] of Calanfer is always an asset no matter where she is placed. You know this or you would never have committed any Thronebearers to rescuing me.”
“I sent four at your father’s request.”
Ielane’s tone was flat. Lyonette hesitated, but her mind spoke faster than her duplicitous heart, which had wavered.
