Snow was still billowing down like great, thick blankets of white fabric draping themselves over Liscor. A final white sheet for the winter; a lie from the skies. After all—the days after would not be so snowy.
The final month of winter, the sixteenth and last month of the year, was a battle between the icy heart of the year and the advent of spring. By the end of the month, the warmth would be turning snow to mud in less-chilly climates, and soon, it would begin to rain.
A girl paused in shoveling a narrow path of snow banked shoulder-high and wiped at her brow. She had bundled up in three layers of wool for the cold, but now she was uncomfortably warm. Nevertheless, she persisted in shoveling snow up, despite the flakes twisting around her, seeking to undo her hard work.
Snow was like that. Life was like that. Sure, by the time lunch came, the snow would have covered the ground a foot deep at least—but if she didn’t do the shoveling now, then tomorrow the snow would be far too high to wade through. She could give up and just slough through the snow when it was knee-high, fight through it at waist height, or hope to walk on the top of a deep bank—or she could shovel today, tomorrow, and every day it snowed.
The girl’s hair was brown, and she’d chosen not to braid it today, instead leaving it hanging underneath a knitted cap, a toboggan if you wanted to be technical about hats.
She liked to be technical about hats. This wasn’t a proper, splendid, broad-brimmed hat with a pointed tip adorned with a flower or ribbon that she’d used to wear. Those hats were marvelous—but the young girl had decided not to wear one today. Accordingly, while her coats and leggings were thick and dark grey, purely sensible, she had splendid red boots that stood out like ripe cherries in the white landscape.
A Christmas gift that had pleased Nanette Weishart very greatly. They made her sad, sometimes, when she looked at them when putting them on every morning, but sadness was a thing you should feel, so she embraced the emotions and clung to them with all her might.
A witch should be sad, and she was a witch. The boots? The boots had been a gift to her from her Secret Santa. Alcaz.
Only a former Brother of Serendipitous Meetings would know the value of good boots like a [Soldier] or [Witch] or adventurer. Hers were watertight, and rather than be so silly as to gift them blindly, he’d had her walk into a shop and get them sized perfectly. She’d had to have them adjusted once already this winter. Her feet had gotten a tad bit bigger. Which was fine because it matched her lengthening legs.
It made her quite a bit taller than the grumbling, white-furred girl shoveling ahead of her. But then again, the Gnoll girl had gotten taller. The boots gave Nanette an edge; Mrsha refused to wear them. She had gotten into kilts, but unwisely decided her furry feet would suffice with a pair of sandals.
Judging by the way she was hopping from foot to foot—she was regretting it.
“You want to get boots, Mrsha? We’re almost there.”
Nanette leaned on her shovel, panting, and eyed the distance ahead of her. The girl in front miscalculated her attempt to loft snow onto the channel they’d dug and dumped it all over Nanette.
Oops. Sorry.
Mrsha instantly turned and, making a grimace, wiped her paw across her mouth. Then she covered her eyes slightly. That was Mrsha-speak, her invented sign language. She could do it one-handed rather than reach for a quill or the speaking stones buried under her own coat and leggings.
Nanette’s return gesture was expressive and universal and earned a smirk from Mrsha and a distant hrmf of disapproval from behind them.
“Lady Mrsha. Lady Nanette, proper young women do not express themselves so vulgarly.”
A [Knight] in shining gold armor, Dame Ushar, stood behind them in the snow, not deigning to lift a shovel. Rather, she had a mace and shield at her side and all the appearances of boredom. Nanette suspected she was rather more attentive than she looked, but the guardian of the two girls was still the least fun of the two Thronebearers remaining.
Ser Dalimont and Dame Ushar, the last two Thronebearers of Calanfer in service to Lyonette du Marquin, were…good people. Mostly. They were brave, had put their lives on the line, and two of their number, Ser Sest and Ser Lormel, had paid high prices for their service.
Sest was dead. Lormel had lost his arm. Nanette had not forgotten either one, but—dead gods, Ushar made it hard to respect her sometimes.
The girl took her time flicking snow out of her face at Mrsha before mustering her reply in a calm, level, and—she hoped—pointed tone like the witch she was. Her mother, the great witch Califor, had made geese uncomfortable just by talking to them.
“Dame Ushar, if a ‘proper young lady’ is someone who cannot be seen to be vulgar, I’d rather not be proper and be me. Neither Mrsha nor I feel like being raised like birds in a cage.”
Or pigs in a pen!
Mrsha nodded emphatically and signed so only Nanette could see. The two girls giggled and looked smugly at Dame Ushar. The woman had short-cropped brown hair that was usually hidden behind her helmet. She might have styled some of the strands that were visible with gold, though, and she had perfect posture; she even did a slight bow, arm across her abdomen, and her voice was a courtier’s neutral tone. Yet one that somehow made Nanette flush.
“I would never dare to argue with you, Lady Nanette, Lady Mrsha. Truly, vulgarity is a subjective concept. I would, however, posit that the raising of the middle finger behooves one seldom amongst all but the lowest company.”
“And what’s wrong with—”
“Doubtless a witch would not care to be respectful to the mannerisms or sensibilities of whomever she meets. A witch is a witch, I have heard it said.”
Nanette had been about to say that, and her teeth clicked shut as Mrsha glared at Ushar. Unable to come up with a retort, Mrsha began making a snowball. Nanette tried words. Always a mistake with Thronebearers.
“Yes, Dame Ushar. A witch is a witch. Minding my manners is something I know how to do and do employ—whenever I am around anyone else. That was simply between myself and Mrsha. In addition, I don’t intend to become a [Lady].”
“Ah, so you are practicing how you would regularly like to interact with the world, milady Nanette. Well done. Just as a [Warrior] chooses to keep her blade honed as a matter of daily habit that it might not fail her in battle, I see you have decided to practice uncivil discourse as your natural and default personality. A rusted blade must serve one very well in the battlegrounds of civil discourse.”
Nanette stared at Dame Ushar, trying not to let the Thronebearer see her blush, and saw Ushar’s lips—which definitely had some lipstick or balm applied, but nothing so obvious as color—curve up slightly.
It was annoying to be bested in both rhetoric and, somehow, personal appearance by a woman who covered 95% of her body in metal. Nanette was glad when Mrsha tossed a snowball. Unfortunately, Dame Ushar just let it smack her shoulder without flinching.
“Lady Mrsha, decorum befits you as well. Your gift with a quill is belied by your common roots.”
Shove your words up your bum!
Mrsha signed back without deigning to reach for a quill. In response, Dame Ushar lifted one hand.
My words are superior to yours, friend.
She didn’t know how to say ‘Lady Mrsha’, so she substituted ‘friend’, but that Dame Ushar had picked up Mrsha’s sign language was an unpleasant revelation to the two girls. They exchanged a look of horror as Dame Ushar added smoothly.
“—Fear not, young ladies. As Her Highness’ wards—nay, adopted daughters, it is my duty to assist in your upbringing as best I am able. I am no expert, but I shall endeavor to do my best to bodyguard you along with Ser Dalimont. I would have you look upon me as friend and mentor.”
“…Really?”
Nanette and Mrsha stared at Ushar. It had been a month of her or Dalimont following the two girls around; they needed bodyguards. And Liscor was not…not…
Not as safe or as welcoming to the members of The Wandering Inn as before. It was winter, true, so all the monsters were largely asleep, and the worst you’d run into in the Floodplains was a hibernating Rock Crab or Shield Spider nest buried in the snow.
Nevertheless, the girls needed a bodyguard, so Dame Ushar had accompanied them the last ten minutes of fierce shoveling. They weren’t even that far from the inn; they could see it, barely a hill away.
All this effort just to…well. Nanette began shoveling the last bits of snow as Mrsha wrote furiously. Even with her Skills—she was a [Scribbler] and had [Fast Scrawl]—the sound of her quill scritching filled the air for about twenty seconds. She had a wand that could also write for her, but the benefit of a card was that you could hand it to someone and run off while they read it.
She flashed it at Nanette before handing it to Dame Ushar, who read it while holding it up at arm’s length, probably so she didn’t lose track of anything moving around her.
 
Dame Ushar,
While I appreciate your candor and your frankly admirable commitment to what may be an admittedly thankless endeavor safeguarding the personages of myself and Nanette—and be assured thanks are not forthcoming in this moment—I must object to your characterization as ‘friend’ and ‘mentor’.
It is true you have been a stalwart, nay, pestilential erstwhile companion, but mutual acquaintanceship and grudging respect for your position does not, I believe, friends make.
I regret to break this news to you but felt it was best done with the nettle firmly grasped in hand, as it were. 
Thank you, 
—Mrsha.
 
“Excellent penmanship. Incredible diction, a lexicon any [Princess] twice your age would delight her [Tutors] with, and a cutting barb that reminds me of Princess Seraphel in her prime—she was a sweeter child. Splendid, Lady Mrsha.”
Ushar praised Mrsha as the girl groaned and rolled her eyes and went back to shoveling with Nanette as they glared at Ushar. She kept saying ‘Lady Nanette’ and ‘Lady Mrsha’. It seemed Ushar had decided they needed rearing. Worst…she wasn’t as soft as Dalimont, Lormel, and Sest had been. The Thronebearer tucked the note away and smiled.
“I regret that you two don’t see me as friendly. But surely, miladies, I have earned some trust.”
“You have protected us time and time again, Dame Ushar. Mrsha isn’t saying we don’t like you. Just that you’ll tell Lyonette about everything we do.”
Nanette guiltily called over her shoulder as Mrsha glared. They knew how much the Thronebearers had done. The woman’s crestfallen face made the two girls hesitate. Was Ushar going to bring up the battle? Now? It was their morning routine, and this was dirty—so classic Thronebearer.
“By the Eternal Throne, I would never dare, Lady Nanette!”
Ushar sounded genuinely shocked at the idea and cast her eyes up the hill. Nanette paused, and Mrsha’s shovel hit a patch of stones. The two began to scrape their way upwards. Here was the path…after four weeks, they didn’t mind Ushar talking as they shoveled the last few feet and then stretched in the cold air.
“—I merely meant that I, as your friend and ally, would never tell Her Highness what the two of you sign to each other. For that is a private conversation, and Her Highness need not ‘hear’ what you say in silence. Nor should I dream of informing her of a young lady’s escapades at night. Or in any other manner.”
Nanette froze mid-yawn, and Mrsha’s eyes opened wide with sudden paranoia. Both turned slowly.
“…She’s bluffing.”
There was no way Ushar knew about all the things Nanette and Mrsha got up to when they should be asleep, or just when Lyonette wasn’t looking. Especially in the inn! The two girls hesitated, then tried to look innocent.
Ushar smiled like a [Blackmailer] showing someone a folder full of incriminating documents.
“Milades, please. There is nothing wrong with a young woman’s desire to circumvent, ah, familial oversight. Believe me, the halls of the Eternal Throne have seen endless mischief of Calanfer’s royal family. A Thronebearer knows what should be reported to the Crown…and what should be kept secret. Any growing girl might well beg a sweet from a friendly [Chef], be he Goblin or any race.”
Oh, she knew about the midnight snacks. That was fine—
“Watching a movie in confidence is as understandable as going out to attend a [Bard]’s late-night performance at a tavern.”
Mrsha and Nanette didn’t blink. That was totally fine. Not even a blip on the Mrsha-Nanette trouble scale. They’d been very good, and Lyonette wouldn’t even get mad about that—
“Even the ones deemed inappropriate by Her Highness. And while it may be unladylike, any [Lady] would surely be curious what Dreamleaf or a mug of ale actually tasted like. As for using the [World’s Eye Theatre] to spy on the most handsome young men in a newspaper article from Terandria’s Graces, well, magic mirrors have been employed in Terandria for—”
A falling flake of snow melted on Nanette’s red face. Mrsha choked—and the most horrific thing of all was that Dame Ushar kept talking.
“—and if you were so inclined to head into Liscor, why, a clandestine visit might be arranged. However, to avoid accidental locking of any doors to the portal room, it would behoove you to inform one of your reliable guardians. It would, naturally, be secret to Her Highness so long as the request were within reason. We are your loyal—and trustworthy—servants.”
By the time Ushar’s speech was done, Nanette and Mrsha were staring at each other. Both were slightly red-cheeked, though you couldn’t tell as much with Mrsha’s fur. She was taller, these days. Four feet and maybe…three inches? Still short, but growing. As for Nanette, the girl was five foot one; she’d grown since the Summer Solstice. She couldn’t tell when it had happened, but she felt older.
They all did. Behind them, The Wandering Inn sat nestled up against the High Passes, far to the southeast of Liscor. It was not a few minute’s walk from the city, but instead, what might be a full day’s journey far from any road, be it the new one leading south to the Bloodfields or northeast to Esthelm and the Human lands.
Nanette still wasn’t used to the new location. Strange for it to feel so foreign; she hadn’t even been at the inn that long. But she felt it. The very building and the people within were shifted. The world…was different.
And in this moment, she and Mrsha exchanged a look that went beyond mere sign language to part-telepathy that not even Dame Ushar could read. At least, so Nanette hoped.
Is this going to be our new problem? Dame Ushar?
