“Ah, you say that. But four was the right number, wasn’t it, Mother? Father would have sent an entire group and tried to negotiate his way. Four [Knights] makes more sense. They couldn’t have been too-high level. But they were competent. Well, largely. But for my situation and my unwillingness to go, I probably would be back home by now.”
She almost believed it, intellectually, but she wasn’t sure. Then Lyonette saw Dame Ushar’s lips twitch, and she heard the slightest pause from Ielane’s side.
“A year of privation seems to have engaged your mind, at least. Vensha. Push makeup twenty.”
There was a mutter Lyonette didn’t catch. Dead gods, was Dame Vensha still alive? If Ielane had sent that monster, Lyonette would have been sent back in a box the moment Vensha saw her. But the Queen of Radiance continued her offensive.
“If you are not returning, your value to Calanfer becomes negative; your body double must fend off suits for your hand, which have, gratifyingly, increased of late. You have passed eighteen years of age; any value in levels increasingly becomes stale when offset by your overripeness.”
Oh dead gods, here it came. Lyonette hesitated, then decided to use her best weapon. [Flawless Attempt]!
“M—”
“[Perfection is Overrated]. A moderately valuable Skill. Marriage exceeds its value ten thousandfold. Go on.”
Dead gods! Lyonette felt someone snip her Skill in half and actually reeled a second. She knew her mother had Skills like that, but—could she actually have countered something like [Perfect Strike]? What a terrifying…Lyonette scrambled for a retort. Buy time, at least to stop her lungs trying to exit her throat.
“Maturity deepens any flower, Mother.”
“Izrilian metaphor. Prosaic, basic. You are no flower; you are a fruit already past succulent. Though I will own your temperament led you more to juvenile before your departure. Regardless, few [Princes] look for experience when youthful innocence will do. Innocence is to be enjoyed; you are now a sobering reminder of eternal second-placement. To an Antinium, no less. You do seem to enjoy making my life difficult, Lyonette. Your value is now negative, pending any argument you may have to the contrary.”
Queen Ielane du Marquin stomped on Lyonette’s stomach, then sat on her chest and began punching her—metaphorically, of course. Lyonette’s face was crimson.
She knew. Lyonette had wondered if—once more, her mind took over.
“Please, Mother. You could marry a Selphid into Gaiil-Drome. You married Aielef, didn’t you? A Level 30 [Princess] is worth far more than a spoiled brat who runs away from her home. But you’re not even interested in that, are you? ‘My value is negative while I’m outside of Calanfer’? Please. A [Princess] is an asset, and I have access to multiple Walled Cities and the Five Families. Do you not recall House Veltras interceding in the Dawn Concordat’s war? Or my help with the Dawn Concordat war?”
She was drawing on the times she’d helped Calanfer indirectly, both in Oteslia at the dance with Ilvriss and the fact that Tyrion had gone to war for Calanfer. Unfortunately—
“House Veltras entered the war over a Courier. Drakes paid lip service to our efforts, no more. A [Princess] is an asset if she can be trusted. Final chance. Your own self-interest and levels do not concern me. Why am I entertaining this call?”
Lyonette held her breath a second and, for a moment, thought of what she’d say to Mrsha. ‘No’, if it was a silly request, or she’d be concerned if Mrsha was doing something reckless, or—
This was just a negotiation. Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut and then opened them and stopped feeling, because you couldn’t feel in a cutthroat battle like this. Her pulse cooled, and she spoke softly.
“Because, Mother, you have no idea what’s going on in the world. You don’t know why The Wandering Inn or a mere [Innkeeper] are so important or why it’s all changing so fast, do you? Calanfer talks to everyone. You have your agents in every court, but you know what? You and Father never really did introduce me to any commoners growing up except for them to wave as I rode past or for charming moments for the public to adore. Well—now the commonfolk are all that matter. Izril matters, and if you pull me back to Calanfer to continue playing games, you can kiss all of Calanfer’s ventures in Izril goodbye, and you’ll be left behind with every other nation. You can’t even beat Ailendamus, and you think you should withdraw in like a Rock Crab hiding in its shell?”
She snapped the last words into the speaking stone and was tempted to hang up there and then. But she waited.
One heartbeat. Two…then a rustling sound of paper.
“So that’s what a Rock Crab looks like. I am aware of ‘Earth’, Lyonette. Dame Ushar reports everything, and even without your cooperation, she and the other Thronebearers are superior informants.”
Ushar flinched as Lyonette’s head turned, but Ielane continued, and the first note of…anything entered her voice. Grudgingness, Lyonette thought.
“The Restful Three each have these ‘Earthers’. I would have been aware of the issue purely from their conduct and the Umbral Throne incident.”
“Dead gods. Was there actually—”
“Do not interrupt. You are correct in your assessment of the opportunity, even if your own assessment of your capabilities is doubtful. The argument hinged upon my ignorance and Calanfer’s weakness; I would have expanded more upon your rapid gain of levels. That would have been the superior persuasive argument, as well as your insight into Antinium culture.”
Wait. Ielane’s voice was cold as ever, but Lyonette inhaled. Did that mean—?
“You are currently the 3rd-highest-level [Princess], including your brothers’ marriages. Your rate of level acquisition is the most astonishing thing about your escape, Lyonette. Do not misunderstand me; you have a debt to pay, your lost virginity aside, and if you are prepared to make requests of me as an adult, I will treat you as such.”
“I…I need your help, Mother. My daughters are in danger. I have two and—”
“Daughters.”
The first note of scorn entered Ielane’s tone. Lyonette opened her mouth, and her mother spoke over her.
“I know about the Gnoll girl. From what Ushar said, you do seem to think of yourself as one. You bore neither girl. You have raised one, generously, one and a half years.”
“Don’t you dare claim I—”
“When you’ve bled ten times over for them and watched them hurt themselves and patched everything up, you may call yourself their mother. Like everything else, I consider it probationary. I am running out of time. To business.”
For one second, Lyonette had heard an actual emotion besides scorn and impatience out of Ielane, but it vanished so fast Lyonette couldn’t chase it. The [Queen] spoke as Dame Ushar handed Lyonette something with a smile and a thumbs-up. Was Lyonette winning? It didn’t feel like it, but Ielane was growing brisk again.
“Ushar collected this from the Mage’s Guild. Your ‘contact’ in Baleros is a dangerous man. I’m relieved that a war with another, former Great Company and the Dyed Lands are keeping him occupied. With that said, I read the Titan of Baleros’ notes on how to conduct diplomacy and run a household. It was refreshingly direct. A [Soldier]’s point of view with all the bones in place and no nuance. Like a [Tailor] gone colorblind.”
Lyonette blinked down at a sheaf of bound papers. It must have been copied by a [Scribe]. The title read:
 
Intrigue, Integrity, and Ingenuity in Terandrian Staffing, an 8-year Guide and Reflections, by Niers Astoragon.
 
Ielane kept going as Lyonette noted that there were over two hundred pages, big ones, bound together. That poor [Scribe]’s hands.
“Put together a staff of thirty. Budget. Have it prepared by the end of the week—I expect you to put together a proper ensemble and attire, even if you must keep up a charade as an [Innkeeper]. Clothe those children you have elected to raise in something resembling fetching. There are four events in Invrisil, Liscor, and Pallass alone this week; attend two of them or a sufficient gathering anywhere else and comport yourself decently. Do this before I approve anything you submit to Ushar.”
“But I came to you for adv—”
“I expect you to submit their biographies, which I will cross-reference against Ushar’s opinion. All your sisters learned by doing, and largely succeeded, even if Seraphel refused to have any after her second marriage. Ushar is now equipped with a series of references. If you insist on hiring Goblins or Antinium, ensure they only occupy two-thirds of your staff, and their training will take additional discretion.”
Ielane paused, and Lyonette’s mind was racing. If she had help with vetting people for her staff…Peggy did a good job already with Rosencrantz. But Lyonette would need people who could best [Spies]. Wait, start with more guards for the kids. How had the palace staff actually been run?
She’d have to ask Ushar, and the Thronebearer gave a nod that made Lyonette feel more confident. Wait. Would she have withheld the knowledge if Ielane hadn’t approved of Lyonette or helped her anyways?
Was this a trial to pass? Or was this a test of Lyonette’s abilities? Lyonette heard Ielane ashing the puffer-stick and finishing her instructions.
“Finally, the fate of the Silvaria lands is troubling the Dawn Concordat. Pheislant greatly desires expansion, Taimaguros a harbor. Everyone else wants pieces, but those are the largest claimants. You had some sway in Oteslia’s politics. The Drake opinion is largely irrelevant of course, but it might matter. The Five Families significantly more so. Contribute any meaningful resolution to that singular issue and I will approve any aid you desire. Your rewards will be based on merit rather than my affection for you this time, Lyonette. Remember that, and try not to run away twice.”
Ielane paused a second, waiting, and Lyonette found her voice one last time.
“—What affection?”
There was the faintest sound which might have been a not-a-laugh, more like a grunt, and then true silence. Dame Ushar took the stone, and Lyonette stood there; she realized she was standing. Slowly, she collapsed into a chair, and Dalimont got her that wine after all.
Lyonette felt like she’d gone three rounds with a Mothbear.
 
——
 
It took Lyonette twenty minutes to recover from the conversation. When she got back into the inn, she was relieved to know the world was still there.
The inn…made her feel better than her mother’s smoke-filled parlor, that sharp razor’s edge of her mind and will dividing up the world in Calanfer’s name. The world felt greyer around Ielane du Marquin.
But when Lyonette looked around the inn, she remembered what she was doing this all for. Friends. Family. An annoying Vampire girl pestering Calescent…
Lyonette focused on Fierre. Her daughters were done cleaning and putting on their boots and apparel, but Fierre was arguing with Calescent about something he was hiding behind his back.
“Listen, Calescent, I’m a paying customer here. You have to get rid of it.”
“No.”
“I’m a guest. You can’t put it in a jar—it’s keeping me up at night.”
“Is vital.”
Fierre grabbed for it, but Calescent opened the jar and wafted it at her, and she recoiled. Then began sneezing.
“See? I can’t—kechew—you can’t have it here! Lyonette, Calescent has an ingredient that’s making me sick, and he won’t get rid of it!”
“Calescent, really?”
Lyonette was appalled. She hurried over, and the Hobgoblin tried to hide what was so objectionable behind his back.
“Can’t get rid of it. Must have it. Shoo—”
He waved it at Fierre, and Lyonette saw the girl’s eyes were red and streaming—despite the clothespin on her nose!
“I can smell it even if you shut the jar in a cupboard!”
“If it’s so bad, Calescent…”
The Hobgoblin [Chef] glared at Fierre as he showed Lyonette what was inside. He gave her a long, grave look.
“Can’t get rid of. Is too tasty. Necessary in spices.”
Lyonette looked down and blinked at a bunch of…garlic. She glanced at Fierre, and the Vampire tried to look innocent.
“I’m just—allergic to it! Everyone’s allergic to something. You’ll have other people complaining, you know.”
“I’ve never had a complaint. Even from your father, Fierre.”
Lyonette spoke slowly. She knew Fierre was a…well, she knew something. That was the problem with not being Erin or Ryoka. They loved their secrets, but Lyonette wasn’t blind. She’d helped cover the val Lischelle-Drakle family up. But what a Vampire was? Why garlic?
If only one of the Earthers were here, Lyonette would be able to ask. But they were all gone.
…They were all gone. Lyonette realized it suddenly. Every Earther, including Erin, had left or quit the inn. It made her feel oddly vulnerable, and not just because she had no idea what garlic had to do with Vampires. But Fierre just crossed her arms, looking oddly happy for all her horrible allergies.
“Yeah, well, it never used to bother me this much, but it’s really bad. I can smell it even if it’s in the kitchen, downstairs, in an airtight jar in a cupboard!”
“Too bad.”
Calescent wasn’t about to get rid of one of his spices. Lyonette sighed loudly as Mrsha pointedly tapped a boot on the floor.
“I have a solution. Calescent, store it in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. He’ll cook with it, Fierre.”
“I can still smell it, then!”
“Well—we’ll let you eat in a private dining area, or deliver to your office if you can still smell it, but we can’t just ban it! That would probably stand out.”
Fierre hesitated, then uncrossed her arms and gave Calescent a glare.
“I guess. But you’d better keep it in there and clean up with [Cleanse] spells each time you use it. Or I’ll let you know.”
The normally-affable [Chef] rolled his eyes.
“Yah, yah. I do this. And I put more in my death-spice.”
He patted his bag of dangerous spices he liked to toss in his enemies’ eyes. Fierre shuddered, and Lyonette smiled at her [Chef]. She decided even her mother would approve of someone who could intimidate Vampires.
Calescent grumpily put his jar of cloves in the [Garden of Sanctuary], and Lyonette assured Mrsha and Nanette that they’d go out to have fun. She turned to Ser Dalimont.
“Is Numbtongue around? We might as well invite him.”
“I believe he may be with Miss Octavia at the moment, Lyonette.”
“Ah. Personally or…”
“Or Miss Salkis. Or Runner Garia. I have not checked.”
“No, no. If I haven’t seen him—”
