Mrsha’s return look with her big brown eyes and scrunched up nose and flicking ears was all the reply Nanette needed.
Probably. First school, now this. Maybe she’s cooler than Mother?
Both girls glanced at the inn. Well, that was a low bar. And somehow, Nanette didn’t trust Ushar’s smiling face. Their ‘convenient ally’ in their bodyguard smelled like a way to control young royals from the dawn of Calanfer.
Well…they’d figure it out after this. The two girls turned, stuck their spades into the snow, and walked forwards. They didn’t shovel here, for fear of damaging something, but produced brooms from their bags of holding.
It wasn’t fun trying to sweep that much snow away, and Nanette broke out a wand and added a Tier 0 [Heated Air] spell to help melt some. Even so, they reached the frozen layer quickly and didn’t bother trying to remove it. Mrsha would have helped with her own wand, but she hadn’t mastered any heat magic yet.
The two’s work had unearthed pieces of stone. They didn’t need to do it for all of them; one of the slabs was so huge it hadn’t even been fully buried by the new snowfall. Mrsha dusted the top of it as Dame Ushar held her up, and Nanette tapped her wand against a weird, boring piece of grey rock that she pulled out of her bag of holding.
Mrsha gave Nanette a vaguely jealous look as the rock, which had been growing oddly paler within moments of being exposed to the cold air, suddenly took on an orangish tinge as Nanette pressed her wand against it. It warmed rapidly, and by the time Nanette put it down, the Stone of Elements had taken on the heat of her wand.
One, two, three, four…Nanette put one stone down in front of each marker.
Make it hotter, Nanette! I’m freezing!
Mrsha drew in the air with her own wand, and the shimmering words appeared. Nanette shook her head.
“If you suddenly heat a stone that’s been frozen, it cracks, Mrsha. [Miners] would use that trick to cut huge stones—or [Villagers] do it to clear a giant rock that’s fallen in their way.”
Dame Ushar blinked and gave Nanette an approving look; it was just the kind of thing any good witch knew. Mrsha huffed, but adjusted the Stone of Elements so they wouldn’t do that to the fresh-cut stones they sat on.
There was a headstone, then, revealed by the warmth, a plaque set in the grass and snow. Nanette saw water running into the chiseled lines, straight and narrow and perfect. Pelt had made them, hewing the rock with perfect ease.
The first and largest gravestone was cut so that it seemed like there were vines and leaves growing out of the stone. It had a stylized emblem of an adventuring team, half and half—and a single name along with a class and levels beneath it.
 
Moore of Raithland. [Bloodearth Mage], Level 28.
 
The plaque set into the ground had more information. Nanette didn’t need to brush away at the water with a cloth, but she did. It was pointless; the snow melted and got the plaque wet, and Nanette wondered what this would look like in the mud when the rains came.
She’d never seen it rain across the Floodplains. She paused in wiping, guiltily, because it was such a mundane thought.
But truly. A month had passed. Mrsha didn’t cry either, but she solemnly pressed her paw against the stone—then turned and cleaned up the other graves. The two girls kept working as more headstones revealed themselves.
 
Halrac Everam.
Kevin Hall.
Silvermop.
Alcaz.
Seve-Alrelious.
Ser Herove Canidus.
Thunderfur.
 
Not all of them. No, not even close to all. Nanette had seen Gershal of Vaunt being sent home. She had joined the witches of Riverfarm in sending Witch Oliyaya off; though, of course, they had not been able to raise her ghost.
Nanette had attended Guildmistress Tekshia’s funeral, one of the largest that all of Liscor had been gathered for, despite the people who didn’t want to allow anyone from The Wandering Inn there. But they’d led Normen through, because they’d buried two Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings who’d fought the Draugr in the city.
Those with places to be, like Bamer of the val Lischelle-Drakles or Major Khorpe, had been sent elsewhere. But those who…who…fit here had been buried.
There had been talk of burying Halrac in Riverfarm, but that wasn’t his home. Windrest was. And Master Helm, the only man who’d been close to Halrac since his immediate family was dead, and Typhenous and Briganda—they’d all said he would have liked to be here.
The graves were empty. Or rather, there were no buried caskets, just ashes spread or buried here before the headstones. Cremation was fairly traditional, and after the Winter Solstice…no bodies.
Some hadn’t had bodies to bury, like Seve-Alrelious. But when they’d asked, no one in the Carven City of A’ctelios Salash had even responded. So they’d placed a grave for him here, empty. So he had a home.
Thunderfur too, and Alcaz. Both Goblins and Brothers had said it would be better here.
Here—they’d be remembered. The Antinium had sent Silvermop, and the Halfseekers had said the same for Moore. Seborn and Jelaqua hadn’t been able to stand by the cremation, but they’d said not a thing, to each other or anyone else, until long after. They’d sent Ulinde home.
Moore didn’t really have a home. So he’d be here. And the last of them—
Kevin Hall couldn’t go home. He hadn’t made it back to his world, so they’d laid him to earth in the cold, hard snow and…
Nanette’s eyes were stinging. It had been a month, but she had been standing, feeling the dimming warmth of the stones, staring at the graves, and Mrsha had curled up on Halrac’s plaque for so long the snow had dusted her fur.
Ushar said nothing. She stood far from the graves on the hill, a silent, golden guardian. Nanette wiped at her wet eyes. Then she looked down at the words. The plaques were simple. Pelt had asked what should be written, and Mrsha and Nanette had worked hard on them. What they’d come up with was…
 
Moore of Raithland. Adventurer of the Gold-rank Halfseekers team. A gentle half-Giant with more courage and kindness than his body could hold. A beautiful voice, and a friend to anyone in need. 
Here lies the last Giant of Izril.
 
When they’d told that to Pelt, the old [Smith]’s hand had slipped a second—but he hadn’t argued. The faeries had said it, and so it was true. Mrsha walked over, and they stared at the tombstone. After a while, Nanette looked up and realized the snow had stopped falling.
Liscor, in the distance, sat like a small miniature across the deceptively smooth white world beyond. The High Passes, looming above them, had turned mostly white, and the sky was grey—but Nanette could see patches of blue breaking up the snow clouds already.
It was the same long winter she had seen for ages—but she thought it had been warmer of late. And—when she looked back at The Wandering Inn, the soot-blackened boards of the inn and the shutters looked more battered and worn than ever before.
Liscor looked larger. They were rushing to get 3rd District done before the rains, and if Nanette kept staring, she could even see a few specks on the road heading to Liscor’s southern and northern gates.
A wind blew across the skies, and Mrsha tugged at Nanette’s sleeve. The witch looked up and blinked.
“There it is again. You were right, Mrsha. It’s been too cloudy to see—but you’re right. Look at that.”
She pointed, and Mrsha and she stared up at a patch of sky. Ushar murmured softly.
“Eternal Throne illuminate us.”
So much the same. When Nanette looked down at the plaque or gazed up at the sky—so much different.
The world kept changing. You did get used to it. Not each individual change, but the feeling of what used to be…no longer holding true.
Walls fell down. People changed or moved or died.
Even the sky looked different. Where Mrsha pointed, the clouds had moved. But rather than reveal the too-blue sky of winter, they revealed instead a patch of…ashen sky.
Grey. But not grey like storm clouds, or even the grey of chalk. More like bleached air. Wan, colorless, pearlescent-grey without any other color. Unnatural grey; the kind that shimmered to the young witch. Nor was it the entire sky; the two girls could see where it ended. A strange patch in the air. Nanette knew exactly what the strange effect in the sky corresponded to. If you walked out there—and you would be very brave as undead still rose, even after the massive cleanup—you would find, if you dug through all the snow, a patch of earth.
And there would be two footprints where the ground itself was sapped of all color. If you searched for other places where the sky was so—oddly warped, you would find the footprints or steps.
The wake of Kasigna, Goddess of Death. The sky did not bode well. But Nanette didn’t see what anyone could do about it. She inspected it now that she’d gotten a good look at last.
“It’s hazy.”
Ill omens for the ides of March.
Mrsha wrote with a nod.
“What’s ‘March’? Sign it to me, please. I need more practice, Mrsha.”
Not sure. It’s Earth stuff. It has ‘ides’.
If Nanette was a repository of odd facts and knowledge only a witch might know, but was largely useful, Mrsha was a slightly less useful bank of Earth-knowledge.
Mrsha had to spell ‘ides’ out since her sign language didn’t have it yet, but the practice was good for Nanette. And sadly, Ushar. But the young girl was quite willing to learn Mrsha’s language as well as communicate via the written note. She often asked Mrsha to sign rather than write when they were alone.
Nanette based this on the principle that if you were going to have the ability to communicate nonverbally, you might as well be good at it. Besides, the Mrsha-speak language was useful.
[Rogues], adventurers, [Spies], and countless people practiced sign languages and secret codes—and Mrsha could do it and could communicate with Antinium Soldiers with it—and yet Mrsha took it for granted.
She was annoyingly talented at some things, but lazy. The Gnoll girl had sharp eyes, a luck power, a lot of levels for her age, and she could be both cunning and stupid. Lazy and determined.
Nanette thought Mrsha was her best friend and only wished it wasn’t always hard to be Mrsha’s…sister? She wasn’t sure about that. Neither was Mrsha, it seemed, because as the two turned for the last part of their morning ritual, Mrsha signed to Nanette—and the headstone in front of her.
Good morning, Moore. Nanette and Ushar got in a fight. And it’s cold. Also, Dame Ushar called Nanette a daughter. Of Lyonette’s. Rude.
“I’m not sure it’s that rude. I wasn’t too offended.”
Nanette half-spoke to her, half to Moore and the other…listeners. Mrsha gave her the side-eye.
Seems rude to me. Weren’t you bothered? Califor was your mother.
“Well, I understood what Ushar meant. Lyonette is kind, and she is trying…I think that’s how Lyonette sees it.”
Both girls peeked at Ushar, and the Thronebearer had taken that moment to turn sideways and cough into a gloved hand. Now it was the Thronebearer’s turn to pretend to be innocent. Mrsha nudged Nanette.
Weird. Hey, Moore. Isn’t that super rude?
She exaggerated the ‘rude’ gesture of thumbing her nose, and Nanette shrugged.
“Maybe I should be more offended, but I don’t choose to be. I might if Lyonette took liberties. But you have a mother, Mrsha.”
I don’t like her. Chieftain Urksh was a better mother than Prha. Lyonette’s my real mom. If you want Lyonette as a mother, she’s okay. I’ll write her a reference, if you like.
Both girls began giggling at that. Then hushed because they should be more polite. Nanette ducked her head to the other gravestones.
“I found out I’m a full inch taller today. I’m turning fourteen come summer. I daresay I’ll be even taller in a few months. My mother was…very tall, you know.”
I’ll be taller. Gnolls are taller because we’re cool.
Mrsha folded her arms smugly. Nanette glowered at her.
“That’s Gnolls in general. You could never grow an inch. You’ll be one of the shortest Gnolls—ever. Ekirra’s already taller than you.”
Shut up! Take it back. Moore! Moore! Look at—
The two began hitting each other—well, Mrsha started it—and Nanette deflected her paws until she got a good jab and then began throwing actual hands. They were about to get serious before they remembered where they were. Then they fell silent.
The graveyard was silent. The two girls stood there, shamefaced, sad—they could have gone to the statues. But this was different. This…the statues were a memory.
This was a graveyard, different. Also necessary. It was like that. And Nanette heard Mrsha sniff and, after a second, sign.
I was a good girl this week, Moore. I was. 
“Me too. We just fight a bit, but it’s been quiet here. Really. Lyonette took in some kid from Vaunt yesterday, but she didn’t have to threaten to stab anyone all week. And—and we’re going to help out, and they found Erin!”
Oh, yes! They found Erin! She’s in Baleros. Stinky Baleros. I bet Niers is giving her flowers. She’s…alive. And that’s good.
The two girls fell silent. They hadn’t heard more news about Erin, and they surely would, but neither one was hanging around the Mage’s Guild or begging Bezale or a [Mage] for a [Message].
It was like that. The two searched for more news. Mrsha talked about what she had eaten, and Nanette mentioned Jelaqua had been on her feet and reading a book Nanette had read. In time—they picked up the Stones of Elements, the shovels, and began to head back the way they’d come.
Nanette only stopped to inspect the horizon again. That patch of pale sky was almost covered by the clouds again, but she sensed the power there.
The grayness in the air was, Nanette was almost positive, visible death magic. She’d never seen the like before. She pointed that out to Mrsha as a thing to be concerned about.
“You know that tinge of greyness and bleakness in graveyards?”
Mrsha shrugged because she hadn’t made a habit of frequenting them, but sure.
“Noelictus is said to be dark year-round compared to other nations. But it’s literally a kingdom founded on death magic. The fact that Liscor’s changed so much after a month…”
Not good. Mrsha nodded somberly, and the two cast their eyes again over the Floodplains. It was harder today, but the telltale signs of pink despite the snow revealed another feature nearby that pale swath of sky.
The bone giant of Rheirgest. It was half-covered in snow and so large it filled up the same space as Liscor. Maybe more.
A dead Giant—though not entirely Human in anatomy—still bound by Magnolia Reinhart’s Skill. Nanette had heard Zevara telling Lyonette they’d evacuate the city if it was reanimated. So far—no.
