What would they do about that? What would happen to Liscor? These days…Nanette pulled the beanie down over her ears.
“Come on, Mrsha. Let’s go back to the inn. We promised to get groceries, remember?”
Mrsha sighed, and they walked back towards the inn. They stopped only once to wave at the graves. Then they kept going. Nanette told herself again that it was okay to cry, but she’d cried all her tears out and found more and more…
A month. There was only one thing Mrsha said that had cheered the two up in a terrible way. And it was that, someday, they’d see Moore and the others again and give them a hug. Until then—
The world kept changing.
 
——
 
Liscor was never quiet anymore. To be fair, The Wandering Inn wasn’t either. It was more like a selective silence.
The common room and other guest areas of the inn were silent. Empty, devoid of many guests, and those who were still here had begun to treat the inn like a second home. More than once, Mrsha would wander into the gymnasium and see Relc’s towel hanging over ‘his’ bench. Or find the Goblins sitting and watching the scrying orb.
That was fine. Sharing was good, and it didn’t bother Mrsha, but the girl missed the…people. A few came by, but even Menolit wasn’t here so often. Of course, there was damage to clean up, and the inn wasn’t—safe.
There had been words after the Winter Solstice. Not loud ones, but insistent. Those were the scary ones. People hadn’t shouted. They’d gone to the Council and requested The Wandering Inn be removed. Someone had—quietly—tried to burn down the inn by throwing flammable vials of oil at it in the night.
Not riots. To be fair, Liscorians had seen what Erin Solstice did against riots, and they were aware the inn had protectors.
Liscor’s Council had deliberated and come back with a speedy reply: no. The Wandering Inn had to stay; it had been Lyonette who’d asked the Antinium to move it across the Floodplains. But the inn had what Liscor needed, especially come spring.
The [Door of Portals].
It was how everyone had known Erin was probably alive, and it was arguably the most valuable Skill she had, bar none. At least financially; while The Wandering Inn might be quiet, it was still earning enough to keep afloat regardless of savings, according to Yelroan.
The lines of people no longer clustered down the hallway, but stood or sat in the portal room itself, which had been further expanded and given railings so people could line up for ‘Liscor’, ‘Esthelm’, ‘Pallass’, ‘Invrisil’, or ‘Riverfarm’, and there was a schedule and everything tacked up in each city.
Mrsha and Nanette respectfully waved at a tired Gnoll shouting orders from her stool and flicking the door to various locations. Liska didn’t even groan; she just pointed, and they filed into the line for Liscor.
The new addition to the portal room was sort of ramshackle. Oh, it was sturdy, and the security that led into the inn was tight, but the new part had been built by the Antinium over three days, and it didn’t fit the rest of the inn. The wood composition was paler, and it was clearly additional. Temporary.
It made Mrsha feel like the inn was patched-up, and certainly, there were holes in it and damage from the monster attacks. Without Erin here to use [Partial Reconstruction], Lyonette had weighed replacing sections of the inn and just told the Antinium to do minor repairs.
“Liscor! Everyone through!”
Ushar, Nanette, and Mrsha marched through the door as it swung open. Light—pale—and a gust of cold air blew towards them, and everyone in line shivered and pulled up their hoods. Mrsha walked forwards over that boundary where the door frame was, and her sandals slapped onto the cold flagstones of Shivertail Plaza.
As ever—she looked up and saw General Zel Shivertail’s statue. His and General Sserys’ in the center of the circular plaza, the City Hall on one side, and streets leading out across Liscor in every direction.
The heart of the city—of course, these days you couldn’t just skip off instantly to the stores. Mrsha almost did that, then saw the painted red ropes and saw a double-line of cold [Guards]. She sighed again through her nose.
“Purpose of entry?”
A tired Human man was checking people at the front of the line. It was a minute’s conversation, usually, longer if the person was some kind of [Trader] or acted suspicious, but these little things added up.
What happened to the days when you could be in Liscor in a second? How much are we paying for these [Guards] to stand here? Where’s my tax money going?
Mrsha held up a grumpy card to Nanette, and the witch-girl sighed.
“Mrsha, you don’t pay taxes. This is sensible, especially since there have been incidents. I hear they’re going to build an entire…I think Zevara called it a checkpoint, but not so military.”
I could too pay taxes.
Mrsha grumbled and wondered if a time would come when it would be easier to just ride a horse to Liscor than use the door. Nevertheless, the [Guards] recognized her and Nanette and waved them through after a cursory question about their purpose.
Shopping.
From there, the two girls headed east, not west, away from 3rd District where you’d find more Humans and apartments and businesses springing up like weeds. Already, people were talking about ‘old Liscor’ and ‘new Liscor’, and people complained.
They liked complaining about things like this. Mrsha wasn’t a native Liscorian, but Selys talked…had talked…before the Solstice.
If you broke Liscor into quadrants, in the past, it had been simpler. The city had been a giant square, a simpler design than other cities, but bog-standard to many Drake cities. Square, circle…triangle…Liscor hadn’t been that imaginatively designed.
It had a limited premium on space thanks to the forty-foot walls that had been meant to keep out floodwaters, so you’d gotten stratification of incomes that led to different zones. For instance, the northwest was the nicer, ritzy, higher-income place where all the [Guildmasters] and more pleasant guilds worked.
Northeast was medium-income, and you ran into things like Raekea’s respected smithy there. Not that civilians tried to live near smithies; you got streets and districts of similar industries because it was convenient to group up like that. Yelroan called it ‘natural city growth’. All it meant to Mrsha was that the [Miners] tended to live and work in the same place as the smelters and smithies.
Similarly, the four main streets of each cardinal direction held stuff like the Mage’s Guild, Driver’s Guild, and so on. But the north and south, as traditional entry sources, had the most valuable commercial buildings. Like the Watch House having been around the southern gate; an older entry point for Drakes before the Bloodfields had grown and the roads had fallen into disuse.
Now, doing some more geographical math, it became obvious that the richest part of the city, where you could find mansion-houses like Selys’, was therefore in the northwest, but not so close you had to rub shoulders with the pedestrian traffic, nor too close to the walls where you’d be in the shadows all day.
Similarly, the southeast and southwest were poorer districts traditionally, though both had been changed by new species settling in Liscor. The southeast was Gnollish; it had lots of the apartments squashed together. Streets of smaller rooms and Gnoll communities, largely Silverfang. Market Street, that Erin had found, was a favorite of everyone on that side of the city.
As for the southwest, it had always been the poorest warehousing district; the Antinium Hive putting their entrance there had further depressed the area’s economy until recently. All that had changed with 3rd District, though.
Now, the western side of Liscor had an entire new third of the city—which meant that the poorer southwestern distinct was more appealing. Especially because the Antinium now had money to spend and were less monstrous; if you got over the Antinium, you realized they were very good at combatting crime and largely responsible neighbors.
Similarly, the northwestern Drakes and Gnolls were really unhappy that they were now rubbing up against the new district, and they had requested an isolation zone to keep their higher-end properties valuably apart. It was, as Visma termed it, ‘a whole tail of a problem’.
But it was good for business. Visma’s mother was a [Painter], and therefore her services were greatly desired for all the new buildings going up. Ekirra’s parents had actually taken on a lot of the building jobs; they were both [Handy Workers] who had broad-specialization classes.
Money was pouring into the city, so much that new arrivals were sometimes dismayed by prices in certain areas; you could get a very reasonable room in a new apartment given that Liscor’s Council pushed for it. And food was decent even in the winter thanks to the [Portal Door]. But if you wanted a premium spot in the city? Looking to buy some property?
…Mrsha had once heard it might cost a hundred gold coins to get a house, from foundations to the entire thing completely built, in Liscor. Not cheap, but something a family could hope for.
Apparently, with all the nobles who’d bought property in the city, from Salazsar to people looking to invest in this growing, notable city, the prices had literally grown tenfold. You could rent an apartment, but several of Visma’s friends’ families had sold their homes and gotten rich—but then had to move into an apartment because they couldn’t buy a new one.
This was…all complicated money stuff that made Mrsha feel bad for Visma’s friends who cried about leaving their homes. She never used to do more than count gold pieces, but now she thought about how unfair it was that Yesne had to move out of her home. Then felt bad when Yesne blamed the ‘damn Humans’ coming into the city and forcing all of this to happen.
Nanette said it was normal to blame newcomers for changes, regardless of whether it was right or wrong. But Nanette liked sounding wearily knowing, like people were making a mistake and they had to be helped to find the right answer.
There was a word for that: pretentious. But that was what [Witches] were, sometimes.
If all this new stuff coming to Liscor was hard to imagine, well, it was sometimes harder to see. 3rd District was, yes, new. If you craned your head up above the old slate tiles of the roofs of the city, you could see the first super-tall buildings breaking the somewhat-even skyline.
The Watch didn’t like having buildings taller than the walls, but Hexel had pointed out reasonably and at length that so long as they didn’t nestle right up against the walls, having taller buildings gave a lot more room for super-apartments and added to the variance of a city. The structures were also newer and didn’t resemble the old Liscor as much.
Liscor liked stone buildings with wooden furnishings like window sills, but because of their lack of trees in the Floodplains, it had always been a secondary design. Nice, white stucco and slate or shale tiles made up houses that sat close next to each other. Few had gardens unless you were lucky or rich, and many lived with a second house or floor over the first. Apartments began to rise upwards the closer you got to the walls, and the streets felt more cramped, possibly because of the strung out lines for clothing or the rooms full of people with their hopes, aspirations, and dreams crammed up against one another.
However, that was only the most plentiful of Gnoll districts; Mrsha had thought they were busy, being used to life on the plains, but then she’d seen one of the first super-apartment complexes where hundreds of people could live in one building Hexel had designed.
That had been almost scary. The cobblestone and brickwork streets were worn and nice, and the falling snow frosted over glass windows and kept people hurrying into shops. This was the same. The new part was the Humans, who strode around almost as awkwardly as Liscorians who would occasionally try to cross the street and get shouted at by a [Guard].
“Hey! Use the crosswalk!”
“The what? Ah—Ancestors, even here?”
The annoyed [Guard] was directing a bunch of wagons, who’d all had to stop for the group of Drakes who’d crossed the street without warning. The annoyed [Guard] shouted back.
“There’s too much traffic for you to just run out into the street! There!”
She pointed to a series of bright, yellow lines of paint on the street. Mrsha and Nanette, about to run across the street too, paused and reluctantly walked over to line up. When the [Guard] waved them across, they passed in a mob with other bemused or annoyed pedestrians.
Now we have to wait to cross the street? What’s this world coming to? Outrageous! Unfair!
Mrsha was outraged and showing her card to Nanette, and a passing Drake nodded.
“Yes, exactly! All these damn Humans coming in and putting their laws in the city. It’s enough to make you sick. First we have to line up just to cross the street. What next? Do we have to ask before using a toilet or going to bed?”
She was middle-aged, outraged, with dangly hoops hanging off her neck-spines rather than her ears. A [Jeweler] maybe, and her look was for support from Mrsha as she half-glared at Nanette. Mrsha recalled Krshia saying Gnolls hadn’t been welcome before Humans.
“I’m sorry, Miss, but I thought it was the Council who voted to put in the new traffic laws.”
Nanette bowed very politely, and the Drake woman hesitated.
“Yes, well—they got the idea from a Human, or so I heard! It’s nothing on you, my dear. You look quite nice to have about. But Liscor isn’t infinite! Citizens of the city, like the Gnolls and Drakes, have been here longer. Yet the prices are so exorbitant…wait. Do I know you, child?”
She had realized, perhaps belatedly, that Mrsha’s face poking out of her jacket was not the normal brown or red of a Gnoll, but white. The Drake’s eyes locked onto Mrsha’s fur, and her face went slack.
“You’re that child from the inn! And you’re—”
She glanced at Ushar, whom she hadn’t associated with the two girls before. Then someone else noticed Nanette and Mrsha and said it.
“The Wandering Inn—”
The female Drake leapt away from Nanette and Mrsha so fast it was like they’d cast a spell on her. She backed up five steps, caught herself, smiled with sudden nerves, and nervously eyed Dame Ushar, who bowed.
“Ah—I didn’t realize—it’s you. Don’t take what I said too far, children. Don’t mention it to—what brings you into Liscor today?”
“Shopping, miss.”
Nanette’s voice was determinedly cheerful. Instantly, half the people walking with them checked their step.
“Where?”
“Market Street.”
