“Ah, wonderful. Well, I was just—delighted to meet residents of that inn. Is the Human still alive? Do take care of yourselves. I shan’t get in your way. Good day to you!”
With that, she backed up three steps, nearly slipped in the slush, and went back the way she’d come, eliciting another yell of frustration from the [Guard]. Mrsha just bet she’d been going shopping herself…right until she realized she might be cheek-by-jowl with two members of The Wandering Inn.
That inn. The other pedestrians didn’t exactly flee, but even the newcomers eyed Mrsha and Nanette with sudden apprehension. No one said a word, and Mrsha grabbed Nanette’s mittened hand and pulled her on.
Come on, let’s go.
Nanette pulled the beanie lower over her head, and Mrsha strode with her as they quickly rounded the street corner. The silence lasted ten seconds after they’d gone, then Mrsha heard whispers.
“It hasn’t changed, even after a month. I hope we don’t drive away Miss Krshia’s business.”
Nanette looked back wistfully. Mrsha just sighed and scribbled a note.
Now you know what it’s like to be a Doombearer. Though they weren’t like that even back before.
Nanette nodded somberly; the Drake woman wasn’t the first person to behave like that when finding out who they were, nor even the most extreme example the two could name. It had been worse right after the Solstice.
Too many people had died. Not all, and not even a majority of them Liscorian; the army had fought, as had elements of the Watch, especially as the Draugr assaulted the city, but it was the sight of that war, orchestrated and fought for the [Innkeeper], that had shaken Liscor.
They needed The Wandering Inn, but she was no longer their crazy Human. Or rather, Mrsha thought…she was truly their crazy Human, and they’d realized what it meant.
Even other Gnolls who noticed Mrsha had a different reaction these days. True, they might see her fur and tense up a second, but her nature as Mrsha of The Wandering Inn took precedence. Sometimes, it was overt; others, it was just a widening of the eyes, choosing words more carefully. Watching, listening. Not taking anything for granted. Mrsha, Nanette, weren’t ‘normal people’ to be ignored.
It wasn’t just fear of the unknown or of a ‘curse’. Mrsha had felt the superstitious fear of Gnolls before. This was different.
They were dangerous. People knew The Wandering Inn brought danger. They had seen it, so they reacted differently.
You threw rocks at a Doombearer or threatened to kill her or feared ‘something’ she might bring. Doombearers were the uncertainty that led to anger or fear.
The guests of The Wandering Inn? They brought war. And death. And they made pacts with Goblin Lords.
“It’s not fun being Erin’s friend anymore.”
Nanette murmured softly. Mrsha gave her an arch look.
It wasn’t always fun being her friend.
The young witch girl eyed her, then gave a half-smile and pulled Mrsha ahead by the hand.
“Maybe not, but it matters more these days. Let’s get to that shopping. Your mother doesn’t need more stress.”
 
——
 
At least Market Street’s prices were largely the same. By the time they got there, no more incidents occurred, and Mrsha strode into Krshia’s new store with a sigh.
“Welcome to the Silverfang Emporium! Can I help you?”
The Silverfang Emporium was a new, permanent shop set up on Market Street. It was very nice as opposed to standing with just a canvas awning covering a stall.
There were goods on shelves, an order form that Nanette instantly took and began to fill up, and a Gnoll woman at the counter smiling toothily at Mrsha, who waved at her.
Not Krshia.
Councilmember Krshia was a busy woman. But she had a business to run, and she was well-respected, what with her new levels and popularity. So she’d hired an assistant—several—and bought a permanent lot and made a store. Her shop still took orders and hired Street Runners to do bulk deliveries to her clients. It was just that, these days, Krshia employed a Gnollish Street Runner instead of going through the Runner’s Guild, and she had a carpet where you wiped your boots.
Mrsha instantly went sniffing for snacks from the Great Plains as Nanette marched up to the small line for the counter with Lyonette’s groceries. The [Shopkeeper Attendant] was calling out in a good mood.
“If anyone’s cold out there—we’ve got fresh cinnamon just in from the north! Come try a sample and warm up! Need a heating stone? We have new ones from Esthelm, guaranteed to last the rest of the winter!”
Several heads turned, no doubt attracted by one of the more profitable-looking businesses on Market Street, and a sniffling Human man drifted over, in need of a heating stone. But before he could enter, a voice rang out.
“Heating stones are 20% off at Lism’s Exceptional Market! Prices you can’t beat and quality, Liscorian-made goods! You, sir, would you like to peruse a shop run by Councilmember Lism himself?”
The man stopped, blinked, turned—and there was a waving young Drake man, who glared daggers at his competitor across the street.
“Councilmember Krshia’s shop is open to all species!”
“Lism’s Market caters to a diverse array of needs—not just Gnolls!”
The two bellowed at each other in such a familiar way that Mrsha smiled and laughed. She wished Krshia were here so she could see her and Lism march out of their shops to argue in the middle of the street.
Then Mrsha remembered the two were having sex. She stopped munching on a sample of cinnamon and sighed.
Things changed. Not always for the better. She hadn’t been babysat at Krshia’s for a long time, but dead gods, if she ever visited again, she’d have to ask the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] what the heck was going on.
Mrsha reached for a second sample of cinnamon and got her paw slapped. She took her business over to Lism’s Exceptional Market instead. They had olive samples.
 
——
 
It was barely 9 o’clock when it stopped snowing, and a pair of girls was trudging back towards Shivertail Plaza with their groceries and a snack they had both decided they’d earned. A Thronebearer stopped as the two girls strolled through the door to Liscor and came to rest inside the inn. The girls headed to the common room, cold and seeking warmth.
Dame Ushar stayed. And her eyes lingered on a figure standing just outside the inn. Then they found the distant city she had just been in, and she thought the winter had preserved the images of almost everything, the snow covering up the battle that had torn the landscape. If you let your eyes relax, the giant of bones would meld into the distance and the unnatural sky wouldn’t be visible.
Then you could believe it was all the same.
This was the city of Liscor. The Floodplains were quiet.
The war was done. Kasigna was gone.
So was Erin Solstice.
The armies of three Walled Cities and the Five Families had packed up and left. The dead were buried.
Things were not the same, but it felt like they had reached a new normal of uncertainty. Patterns had come back when, as so often happened, everything was washed away, leaving nothing but memory, regrets, and triumphs behind.
Carved into the landscape, like the rolling hills or valleys, or into the people themselves as levels and Skills. If you saw someone touched only once by such days, maybe it was only a hint. Something you saw when you looked them in the eye or glimpsed in between their ordinary moments.
But the more you touched it—the more you couldn’t go back. The stranger you grew, and you transformed. Whether it was beauteous or grotesque in the end—
Ushar no longer recognized the woman standing in the snow.
She had donned a bright, blue jacket, enchanted and given a bright yellow crest on the left shoulder, lined with the fur of some unhappy animal, and magically warm and lightweight. A gift from a friend, again on Christmas, but the thread was torn on the right shoulder. The second patch, another crest, was missing.
The jacket should have been the perfect outfit. Hand-tailored with generous pockets so often lacking in women’s apparel, both inside and outside, lightweight, comfortable, with enough flair to catch the eye but not be ostentatious. An expensive, costly gift that symbolized friendship.
Certainly, one didn’t just wear the crest of House Ulta for no reason. The stiff fabric caught the light. Golden thread—but the other arm was bare. It had used to hold the sigil of the owner. House Walchaís, that prickled flower.
The leggings were less emotionally charged. They were simply brown cotton twill, too thin for this weather, but the wearer was in motion and, as of yet, hadn’t needed more layers. Thin gloves and casual boots were also somewhat protective against the wind, but she had neglected a hat—it made her hair wave like a flag of rubies by the morning light.
Carmine might have been the more appropriate word if you wanted to be fanciful. A rich color. Her eyes were the blue of a summer sea stretching out past a coast, the color of the water just past the green of the waves. A gemstone’s color.
Her mother had done her best to ensure her children benefited from appearance, and the young woman’s skin had been described as fair as a milkmaid’s first teasing by a [Bard], her chin shapely if stubborn upon the chin, her limbs delicately supple, like the glassware of an [Alchemist].
—Or so they’d once said of Princess Lyonette. 6th Princess of Calanfer, and a budding beauty, as yet unfinished into the blossom of true beauty but close enough to hint upon it.
Ushar remembered Lyonette well. She doubted the [Princess] remembered her. The [Poets] hired by the crown to describe Lyonette might have been a tad bit generic, but they hadn’t been necessarily wrong.
The only marring in Lyonette du Marquin’s appearance had been, more than her body of features, her unfinished youth. Immaturity had given her a permanently dissatisfied twist to the lips, her arrogance and selfishness an unflattering cast that made her feel younger than she was.
Right now, Lyonette du Marquin was less beautiful than she had ever been. For one thing, she’d gotten soot on her face stoking the fires, and it was mixing with the sweat and streaking across her face. She had no makeup on as of yet, and her skin had roughened and darkened slightly, which made it as natural as most people who saw the sun regularly.
Unacceptable, as markers went, for those of royal blood expected to look not like the ordinary plebian at all. In addition, and most offensive of all, perhaps, Lyonette du Marquin’s limbs no longer resembled the graceful branches of a willow sapling.
She had thickened her arms. Not egregiously like a young man, but she had definitely put on muscle, and it was most apparent now as she lifted her arms again and a length of steel rose and caught the light.
Lyonette was swinging the sword up and down in a repetitive motion that carried it from over her head, angled back and down like a [Woodcutter] about to bring it down, and then a controlled blow straight and even as she stepped forwards.
Her back arced, rounding in the graceful way only the youthful and dextrous could accomplish without pain. The glimpse of the sheen of sweat on her fair skin—that could be admired as well, no less than the intent focus within her eyes, which reflected the shade of skies yet to come.
That was one move, whereupon the girl reset her stance in one step rather than waste exertion finding her place or balance. She had done this enough times to where the motions became half-second nature, but she was also concentrating.
It had taken her a month for her morning practice to resemble anything so accomplished. A month—was indeed a long time.
The routine had clearly been going on for a while to judge by the sweat on Lyonette’s brow. It did not cease as Ushar leaned over and eyed a figure half-sitting with his back to the wall, observing his charge. She called out, softly, as he tried to hide a scrap of paper he was working on.
“Your Highness, Nanette and Mrsha have returned with groceries and no incident.”
“Thank you, Dame Ushar. I’ll see them in…five minutes. Dalimont? I’m ready to spar.”
Lyonette’s voice was slightly breathless, and she half-turned her head as Ushar and the other Thronebearer bowed.
Thereupon one of the two Thronebearers finished watching, and Ser Dalimont lowered the charcoal he had been sketching with. He curled up the rough he had been slowly giving form over the last week; a moment of passing inspiration, but one he had said a [Painter] could have done greater merit.
Ushar had hopes she’d convince him to hand it over when he was done. It wasn’t a masterpiece, but it captured the essentials well; Dalimont had clearly taken classes, and the pose of Lyonette holding the sword over her head, arms framing her features in concentration, was too good to simply toss away, idle work or no.
In time, perhaps, she might send it to one of Calanfer’s experts, who might develop the image further. Ushar was no good artist, even to Dalimont’s level, but each Thronebearer tended to possess at least one or two utility talents like that that they’d hone in time.
Ushar, as a Thronebearer, had talents in multiple fields other than mere warfare. She had sacrificed her own training with a blade for the ability to bodyguard, conduct clandestine operations, and understand statecraft.
Naturally, she too practiced with the blade, but her morning exercise had concluded earlier in the day. Dalimont was getting up to spar, but only because Ushar had arrived and could take over monitoring.
Lyonette’s training partner rose to his feet as Ushar kept her hands free of tools. It would be acceptable, if she were an expert with throwing weapons, to hold a pencil or weighted object. Failing that, she should appear to be recumbent or relaxed while maintaining her role as the active bodyguard.
The two began to spar lightly, not like the intense clash of swords that you might see in a practice yard. Lyonette parried a strike at her chest, a testing blow from Ser Dalimont, quite hard. Her frown indicated she knew he was taking it easy, and he obliged with a harder strike; she deflected it and attacked, pirouetting left as he caught the blow on his shield.
Ushar just watched Dalimont spar. He was good—for a Thronebearer. They fought better together and were better bodyguards than pure warriors. Technically, she and he could not acceptably guard Lyonette; even with two standing guard at all times, they were understaffed to what doctrine demanded for a royal protection. Three was minimum at all times, but this was the real world, so they made do.
