Three Thronebearers in case of danger, each with their own role. Fool, Blade, and Bodyguard. Thronebearer doctrine. At the moment, Ushar suspected that if it came to it, she would be the Bodyguard, Dalimont the Blade—if need be, she’d be the Fool too, but they’d hope one of the staff could occupy the role.
Two Thronebearers remained. Four had been sent; in hindsight, sixteen should have gone, at least. A full thirty, three entire Rays of Dawn—a measure of ten [Knights] by the Order of Thronebearers’ counting—would have been appropriate.
No one had judged the odds, the mission, nor the value of Lyonette du Marquin properly. Now, at least, Dame Ushar had a better measure of the last.
As for the former…Ushar sighed. Had Sest’s body been delivered to Terandria’s shores by now, or would they still be on the way? She had written a note of his end, worthy of any champion of Calanfer. The crown would doubtless take note to his family, and any loved ones. Sest hadn’t mentioned anyone, but if there was…Calanfer was good about such things.
He needn’t have died like that. We should have had three entire Rays of Dawn—a full thirty [Knights] as well as accompanying soldiers. But the inn could not have supported that.
Sest had fought Draugr without flinching. Lormel had faced down a Deathslayer Arrow for Lyonette. In that sense—the best [Knights] had come to Izril.
Well, perhaps besides her. Nominally, she was Princess Vernoue’s champion, but as the girl wasn’t yet married or had left the palace, Dame Ushar doubled as a [Knight] of the palace. Directly in service to their Majesties, an important distinction at times.
As a [Knight] used to serving the Crown, Ushar had outranked the other [Knights] in both level and ability—in theory. The truth was she had realized she was but a middling [Knight] in service to Their Majesties. Dalimont might be a champion of a disgraced [Princess], but he had been better with a sword than she before coming to Izril.
She recalled his rating as merely average before his trip to Noelictus. Now? She put him within the upper echelons of the Thronebearers for fighting ability, and they were not that deficient with a blade to call it a small thing.
Footwork, the incisive thrust, and the ability to use sword and shield in tandem was only half of it. The confidence of a seasoned warrior shone through each action; Ushar upgraded him again, today.
Lyonette, as well, had finally reached something approaching the level of an actual [Warrior]. She might not have the levels or experience, but if she cut at someone, she would cut them as opposed to a novice who did not commit to the blow. Lyonette could kill someone; most Bronze-ranks might hesitate where she would not.
The duel of the two was worth watching for Ushar for that reason, and she analyzed them while letting her gaze slowly pass left-to-right. She kept her head level and eyes unfocused; it was a strange technique, but it allowed you to spot anomalies better than trying to let your eyes dart around. Akin to a Golem on sentry duty. It still let her observe the skill of Lyonette and Ser Dalimont.
Neither one had the same finesse as an expert, but their effort also put them over a self-trained sellsword. Experience made mockery of even [Duelists] in battle, but technique mattered.
Dalimont had abandoned the heavyset style of many Terandrian [Knights]. He favored mobile footwork and active use of his shield as an offensive weapon to shove, lash out, or break the one-handed attacks of his sword. Normally, [Knights] relied on their armor and shield while inflicting measured blows and wore an opponent down. But Lyonette and Dalimont kept moving, never staying in one place too long.
A Draugr or monster would not respect your shield-arm unless you had a Skill powerful enough to ward off a blow. It was good exercise, and Lyonette was almost ready to remove her coat after another eight minutes of sparring. She had yet to touch Dalimont; he’d caught every blow on his shield or parried them with his sword, but her offense was actually respectable.
They only stopped when Lyonette held up a hand, looked up, and turned her head to the inn.
“I think Ishkr needs help.”
Dame Ushar got up instantly and held the door open as the [Princess] lowered the sword, sheathed it, and hurried into the inn. Ah, back to work already, Your Highness? Ushar thought that Lyonette had held up extraordinarily well given all that had passed.
When she had run away, the most admirable thing about her escape was that she’d actually fooled Queen Ielane for a few days. Even then, it had been only partly Lyonette’s guile and part the absolute distaste every servant had had for her.
But look at her now. Dame Ushar had orders. They were not always, she had to admit, the right orders for the situation. Her first orders had been to simply bring back the lost, and doubtless grateful, [Princess] in one piece and cover up any problems that might have occurred.
Now? Ushar’s fingers itched to write another report, but she was aware her role as intermediary to the Eternal Throne had already forced Lyonette to hold her at a greater remove than Dalimont. But the truth simply was that Ushar saw a [Princess] these days. And she had a slight obsession with chronicling what might come next. She was the eyes and ears of the King and Queen of Calanfer. She wished they could truly see how their daughter had changed.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin had a lot of time most days after all the cleanup from the Winter Solstice. The staff were amply able to handle issues within the inn, and the worst…was over.
This would have been a good thing back when she had hated her job as [Barmaid] or when she was trying to take care of Mrsha as well as run an inn and keep it afloat. But now, ironically, the lack of work was the problem.
Lyonette was now a [Princess of the Inn]. No more the [Worldly Princess]; she had found another calling. The problem was that her new class was not easy to level these days.
The Wandering Inn had no customers.
None. Not Menolit, not Antinium, not interested people looking for gossip, not spies—no one. The inn was almost always bare, and only Liska’s portal door kept the inn generating coin. The reason wasn’t very hard to understand: Erin had murdered Prince Iradoren on a scrying orb. She had allied herself with Greydath of Blades and, before all of that, organized one of the bloodiest conflicts Liscor had ever seen.
Whether or not it was worth it or justified didn’t really matter. The consequences had come: Lyonette was just glad no one had tried to destroy the inn beyond tossing a few firebombs at night. Even she couldn’t have honestly said reprisals against the inn were uncalled for.
Her daughters, yes.
The inn.
No.
Regardless, the irony was that Liska was the most productive member of the inn and had won ‘Employee of the Month’, which came with a little bonus of free drinks for a week at the bar, and her brother had lost it for the first month since Lyonette had instituted the idea.
Ishkr still had a job to do, and Lyonette was still going to keep The Wandering Inn making money, though. And the source of both her income—and Ishkr’s troubles most days—was standing in the 2nd floor hallway speaking to Ishkr.
Archmage Valeterisa had a gemstone in hand. Ishkr had fourteen in his arms and a put-upon look as Lyonette used the [Garden of Sanctuary] to skip to his location.
“Mm. I need these processed too. No, wait. Not this one. Maybe this one too? There are tools in my workshop to do it. Or Salazsar can melt them properly.”
Valeterisa put two more gemstones in Ishkr’s arms, turned and began to walk off, then swung back.
“Oh, not all together. Obviously.”
She turned away. Came back once more.
“But obviously group them together by typing. There are…six groupings. I think. Six. If you get my tools, I can do it, though. They’re in my workshop behind the traps. Um. Um…in the second room. Next to the rune circles. There’s some more in a drawer there too.”
She stood back and gave Ishkr a vague nod. Her look indicated that if Ishkr could find his way to Valeterisa’s home on the northern coast, oh, a few thousand miles away or to Salazsar, which was closer if he could climb over the mountains, and have this done within thirty minutes, she’d be grateful.
Even Ishkr, veteran of the inn’s regulars, [Head Server of Tales and Fables], a Gnoll who had served the Titan of Baleros, thrown a cup at Belavierr, and faced down Facestealer without issue—even he looked put upon by the request. However, Lyonette had just put on her best smile when someone came to his rescue.
“Archmage Valeterisa! Is this another request for our staff? We would love to assist you in another project. May I, though, request a bit more information about what you need? We’re happy to oblige.”
A blonde Gnoll with sunglasses appeared, and Lyonette blinked as Yelroan, [Mathematician] and former Plain’s Eye Gnoll, strode forwards. Valeterisa blinked, sighed, but put on a fake smile just like everyone else present.
“Absolutely! How can I help you? Were my instructions unclear?”
Yelroan smiled wider.
“No, no, just clarifying details, Archmage. We wouldn’t want to do anything wrong for one of our most valued guests.”
At this, the Archmage of Izril looked a tad bit confused until she realized who he meant, then seemed actually gratified. Yelroan produced a notepad and quill, and he gave Lyonette a sideways nod and half-smile of welcome. But also one of those looks as he fiddled with his edged sunglasses that said ‘here we go again’. Also, his flick of the head and nod to the window said, ‘I’ve got this. You could really have kept practicing.’
Lyonette’s toss of her longer hair and slight exhalation from her nose and pointed gaze at Ishkr’s face said, ‘Someone has to deal with her. She’s a problem for all of us.’
Since that was fair enough, they turned to Valeterisa as Yelroan pointed out the obvious.
“Archmage, we are sadly unable to reach Salazsar or your home in good time. May I suggest we find a…who would be able to process these gems?”
Valeterisa blinked and scowled as if this had just occurred to her.
“Oh. Um. A [Gemstone Smelter] or a [Mage] specializing in gemstones. An [Enchanter], of course, but it’s expensive. They know what to do if you give them the gemstones and tell them I need it for spellscribing.”
Yelroan noted this down and coughed politely.
“If you’d like to send your apprentice to your home via your teleportation network with a list of items to procure, I’m delighted to offer you another room for your work—or we can take care of the—the melting with a local agent.”
The [Archmage] frowned and tilted her head, then nodded.
“Um. The second option. I just require them processed without waste, preserved in bottles…I don’t have any more…once in liquid form, have them sent to my room.”
She waved her hands in a frustrated way.
“Is that a good way of explaining it? Relc tells me my technical terms are too difficult. Do not worry; they need not be hot when processed. Melting is an imprecise slang term used by [Mages] to describe rendering solid magical gemstones into a usable liquid that can be written into spells in a physical format.”
The Archmage of Izril paused and scratched at her untidy, greying hair.
“…Do not apply excessive heat, please.”
To her surprise, the rather difficult request was instantly answered with a bow from all three, and Yelroan assured Valeterisa they would have the melted gemstones as soon as could be. Valeterisa actually looked pleased by this and drifted back to her rooms.
“Good, thank you. Put them outside my rooms and knock, please. But do not enter. Oh, and I need one of those things for my hair.”
“Hair dye, Archmage? Shampoo? Conditioning supplies? Hairpins?”
“No, a comb.”
Lyonette nodded again.
“I’ll add that to the list and have both sent directly to your room, Archmage!”
Valeterisa vanished inside her rooms with a wave of her hand, looking pleased, and Lyonette turned to Yelroan, who was adding one more note, which he handed to Ishkr.
“Take them to Hedault after informing him of the situation and getting his approval. If not, find the best expert in Esthelm if there is one, then Invrisil or Pallass.”
“I’m on it.”
Ishkr took the paper, and Lyonette saw that it contained essentially what Valeterisa had said. She bit her tongue, and Yelroan avoided her gaze, but smiled slightly.
“You have to get used to delegating, Lyonette. Or what’s the point of hiring someone like me?”
“You’re a [Mathematician], Yelroan.”
The two bickered somewhat good naturedly, and Yelroan adjusted his glasses. Sunlight glanced off Ser Dalimont’s armor as he shielded his eyes.
“Ah, but I’m also basically competent, Lyonette. I know you’ve been taking on all the jobs, but you can rely on me.”
It was an unknown feeling, working with someone who could give orders. Ishkr was reliable, but Lyonette had to admit—she was always surprised when someone besides her stepped up to solve a problem. She gave Yelroan a guilty smile.
“Oh—I’ll try. Thank you and let me know if it’s so expensive we need a note from the Merchant’s Guild before rep—can we help you, Archmage?”
Both she and Yelroan turned, and Ishkr groaned and stopped on the stairs. The Archmage of Izril had come back. She vaguely nodded at them, and Lyonette wondered how Larracel had managed to entertain the Archmage over the years without going insane. Well, that was probably why she kicked Valeterisa out after a few weeks of hospitality. The two Gnolls and Human waited as Valeterisa paused, seemed embarrassed, then raised a hand.
“I am hungry. Do you know if I’ve had breakfast yet?”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was not entirely empty. But it was emptier than it had been most of the year. It reminded Lyonette of when she’d taken it over from Erin and had to start from scratch.
Even with Liska and the door, they had a staff who all had to be paid, food to buy, two growing girls who needed tailors, [Knights] who needed oil and armor polish, and frankly, you could never have enough coin. Relying on the door was irresponsible, but attracting new guests was foolhardy at this moment.
Lyonette’s solution? She had taken a quill from Larracel’s writing desk and pivoted from selling mass-goods and services to providing for a select few of her guests. The first and in some ways easiest?
Archmage Valeterisa.
She and her apprentice, Montressa, were using The Wandering Inn as their base as neither one wanted to work from Valeterisa’s isle at the moment. It worked out; oh, sure, Valeterisa was absent-minded and made annoying requests, but she was actually largely reasonable.
