Taletevirion.
“I just inventoried our stocks. Looks like our silver fox looted two barrels, Lyonette.”
Yelroan caught Lyonette after she had gotten Chaldion breakfast and a hot drink, and she rolled her eyes, but neither she nor Yelroan were displeased. Far from it.
“Make Demsleth pay for it next time he comes by. Or we’ll send the bill to Lady Magnolia’s mansion in a week’s time.”
Yelroan smiled happily. Lyonette did too; upcharging Magnolia Reinhart on a barrel of ale was good coin. Why, they’d get as much as…twelve gold coins? Magnolia’s servants would push back on any truly egregious price hikes, but that was twelve gold coins if Taletevirion had nabbed a good barrel of ale.
Maybe they should stock expensive wines just in case he went for them. Lyonette could see putting a four-hundred-gold-coin bill in front of Demslesth, but he’d pay it, oh, yes.
Four hundred gold coins, just like that.
…So that would leave one hundred and ninety thousand and six hundred gold pieces on Hexel’s down payment for the new inn, right? And that was just the up-front cost.
Lyonette liked to clean tables when she was stressed. She stopped cleaning an already-waxed table now and stared at the dustrag.
I’ll never pay for that new inn that Drevish the Architect designed like this. See here. If Taletevirion steals sixty gold worth of alcohol each night—and he does not—
Thirty-two days multiplied by sixty is…
“Yelroan, what’s 32 times 60?”
“1920.”
“Thank you.”
“Multiply that by sixteen…”
“By sixteen?”
“30,720 per year. If you’re calculating how long until Taletevirion buys us the down payment on Erin’s new inn, the answer is 6.5 years.”
“Ah.”
Of course, we make more money than that. But six years? We don’t even have one year. We don’t even have…when’s the Summer Solstice?
Lyonette began to breathe faster as she imagined that. One month later, and Halrac was still gone. Seve-Alrelious was—gentle Moore was—
Her eyes darted to Chaldion. They roamed the inn, and she remembered Facestealer. Kasigna.
My daughters are not safe.
They were her daughters now. Hers! That was the one big change in Lyonette’s thinking. Not just Mrsha. Nanette needed someone to raise her, for all she acted mature. Lyonette could do it. She had to do it because no one else would; not Erin, not the other [Witches], and certainly not Ryoka! But she didn’t have what she needed.
I need to get the funds together. Or I need to bring them home.
Neither option appealed, so Lyonette rested her hands on the table—then went to call the people she could think to ask. Just one or two at most for a small loan of a hundred thousand gold coins.
 
——
 
“No.”
There were two people who could foot Erin Solstice’s bills that Lyonette trusted: Niers Astoragon and Fetohep.
Wall Lord Ilvriss had used to be on that list, but while he’d never said it, Lyonette had heard he’d sold Gemscale holdings to buy the Potion of Regeneration for Erin. Between financing the dig expedition and everything else…he hadn’t said ‘no’ outright when she hinted about the cost for the inn, but his pained silence had been enough.
Chaldion might have been able to help. He was out. Earl Altestiel had paid every price. They were in his debt.
That left Fetohep and Niers Astoragon. Lyonette had been meaning to ask about Erin’s condition anyways. It wasn’t that she’d forgotten Erin was alive. It was just that she—and the other people in the inn—didn’t know what to say to Erin. She was alive. This was good.
Lyonette wasn’t sure how to forgive Erin, let alone whether she wanted Erin to come back. So she broached the easier topic first.
“No.”
Niers Astoragon looked tired. But his reply through the scrying mirror he’d included with Erin’s chess set was terse and uncomplicated. Lyonette hesitated.
“Not the whole amount. I understand what I’m asking, but surely—”
The Fraerling did not have time for niceties, or perhaps he didn’t respect them because his voice was curt. He was writing something down as he spoke; troop orders? His eyes glanced up, and he flicked the angle of the scrying mirror so she couldn’t read his desk.
Which was hurtful, even if Lyonette had been trying to see what it said. She wasn’t using the [World’s Eye Theatre] for this; she’d tried, but he had blocked the Skill from reaching him. The Titan responded to her, glancing over his shoulder.
“It’s because you’re asking now. Listen, Lyonette. May I speak to you tomorrow? They’re still checking Erin for curse magic—”
“So she’s alive? I can report about that, at least. Can I speak to—”
“She’s still being checked.”
“Checked? Is she hurt?”
Lyonette grew slightly more alarmed, and Niers waved it off.
“Not badly physically. Deprivation at sea—but she clearly had something to eat. No, it’s the magic. She’s with Fraerlings. We rushed her to Paeth as they have the best and most public facilities. Detoxification, nullification, re-warding, and full-scale analysis—that’s just the magical side of things. It’s been an entire day of testing. Necessary—she was badly irradiated from magic, and several of the magical attacks left dangerous residue or lingering hexes on her.”
The Titan of Baleros’ tone was curt to the point where it would have been disrespectful if he was not, well, him. He would have surely affronted another [Innkeeper] in Lyonette’s place, but the [Princess] was reminded, in an odd way, more of home and royalty than she had been in the presence of the late Earl Altestiel, Wil Kallinad, or many other people acquainted with the protocol and decorum of Terandrian courts.
For you see—Niers reminded Lyonette of the [Generals] of old that the books her tutors and mother and father had drilled into her described as capable of snapping at royalty. Not the ones who snapped unwisely and were disposed of in due time, but the ones who could have a [Princess] shovel a latrine.
The ones who were not only invaluable, which was one thing, but too costly to replace. So the [Princess] did not snap back. The [Innkeeper] would have, but Lyonette was not her. And there was a benefit to that.
Niers was less and more retiring when he spoke to her than she had heard in his conversations with Erin Solstice. His fingers drummed as he worked, and while she was sure he was modulating his words through an internal mesh of filters—what to say, how to present—he was not making an effort to win her over. He was the Titan of Baleros, 2nd-in-command and effective commander of a Great Company. She was a [Princess] far from home in an inn.
They both knew who needed whom. But it was the marked contrast with how he spoke to Erin Solstice that made Lyonette wonder how the two would interact face-to-face.
Young as she was, the [Princess] had still seen the look of men besotted, and Niers Astoragon was still a man in any form. Not that she had the knowing of how it was done so well; she had seen her older sisters twist men up like a ribbon upon a present.
Not all her sisters. Menisi, the exile, the disavowed by Queen Ielane, had done it far better than Shardele or Aielef. Seraphel, after her first terrible marriage, had done it without knowing, like a poisoned flower drew in silly flies and bees.
The [Ladies] of Calanfer’s courts could play that game well, married and unmarried; the female Thronebearers, when they chose it, were gifted daggers wielded by Ielane.
The [Maids] and [Servants] were masters unmatched.
Lyonette wondered, belatedly, in her age, how many had done so willingly, how many had been Ielane’s weapons set upon her foes, and how many kingdoms had fallen victim to Calanfer by bed.
It was cruel, Lyonette realized, and she wondered how any servant could be persuaded, even with gold, to do such a thing.
Then she wondered how she might engender such loyalty herself. That was the [Princess]. The [Barmaid] felt guilty at such desires. The [Mother] wondered if her daughter would ever feel this way. Ah. Daughters.
Now she had two. So back to the subject. Lyonette broke the silence of Niers working.
“So shall Erin be back soon or…?”
The scrtch of the quill slowed a moment, then picked up speed as if to maintain the pace. Niers flicked his gaze up, seeming to both inspect Lyonette’s room, then the inn behind it.
“That would be unwise, both for transport and her current state. Mentally and physically. She’s a bit…”
He trailed off and reached for a glass of water, but Lyonette noticed the slightest twitch of the lips.
“Is she…much like when she attacked the [Pirates]?”
The Titan’s eyes flicked up, then he shrugged, a perfect, casual motion.
“The first war you win changes you. Let’s not bring up her numerous encounters with death, please, Lyonette. This was a proper war, and she scattered her enemies. Took out an [Admiral], at least one of their [Captains], and put down lives like I do. Not like she used to. She’s a bit different. We’ll see what actual rest does to her.”
Lyonette did not like that response. But Niers added a casual aside on the heels of it.
“Besides. Teleportation spells do work, but I wouldn’t put it past the Blighted Kingdom to try and cut her in half mid-teleport. Forget a ship. So the answer is no to her return and funding anything in the inn at the moment. Not by proxy, either. I have a list of countries who want Erin dead. I’ve put [Diplomats] and [Emissaries] on the job; stirring the nest isn’t what the Forgotten Wing company needs.”
Imagine smoothing over the death of Prince Iradoren. Lyonette swallowed hard for multiple reasons; the peacemaking could be done. But as for what Niers had said—she didn’t like it at all. Lyonette wanted to talk to Erin, but it sounded like she was genuinely indisposed. However, the Titan’s will mattered a lot for Erin’s future.
True, he seemed to be interested in her.
On the other hand, concerningly, he was interested in her.
Erin Solstice had made a fool of the Titan. In her way, Erin had been the best bait to lure him out of his element and into the treacherous world of romance once more. And romance was a battlefield that Niers had been routed in time and time again; only the best could have trapped him like that. In another sense, Erin was the poorest of players of the game of romance because Lyonette sometimes wondered if Erin even knew she was playing.
And if she did? She would have been crueler than Menisi, Seraphel, and all of Ielane’s servants because she had never intended to claim victory.
At least, so Lyonette felt. The danger with courting someone like the Titan of Baleros was that he was as lethal as Erin, if not in the realms she excelled at. But Lyonette—she was saved from worrying about Erin by another comment.
“Miss Ryoka will be at Paeth shortly, as well as the rest of her surviving acquaintances. I cannot speak for Princess Seraphel’s crew; they’ve landed along the south of Baleros in the jungles. I’d rather they sail north, but now the companies know where they are—I will reunite them all.”
And that made Lyonette realize something. Niers had never met Ryoka Griffin. He definitely knew of her, but he knew of Tyrion Veltras in the abstract as well. Who was out there? Lyonette knew Erek, Seve’s Orangutan friend, had survived and Revi and others, but—
They’re all in Baleros. For all Ryoka Griffin can’t be trusted to raise a child, she can cause trouble even the Five Families respect. So can Erin.
Perhaps it was on Erin to get out of the mess she was in. At least, that was how Lyonette framed it because she realized something as she’d been thinking of ways to persuade Niers, if it could be done with mere words.
She didn’t want Erin back.
Not yet.
As if the Titan was reading her mind, he shifted his discussion.
“I regret I cannot give you anything in the way of funding, Lyonette. If it were a building or other service in Baleros, I would say The Wandering Inn should be quiet. Or remind those with enough to lose of the value it provides. Scorch marks can be scrubbed off the walls, and the loss of revenue is preferable to loss of venue.”
Lyonette was not surprised that he knew about the firebombing. Niers exhaled as he took a deeper sip from his cup, and his face twisted much like her stomach at his next words.
“…Unfortunately, I understand Erin’s property is much like the woman herself. Her inn will not be quiet. She warned me within minutes of waking to keep it safe. May I inquire as to your plans, Your Highness?”
Lyonette smiled hesitantly.
“I don’t know if we have that many plans, Lord Astoragon. We’ve barely gotten Liscor settled and—”
“Please, Lyonette. I don’t have time to waste over tea and games. Your plans?”
Niers interrupted her, and Lyonette faltered. The Titan’s head rose, and he gave her a sharp look. He sat back a second, rubbing his fingernails against his jacket. A clearly fake gesture; Lyonette had never seen him do that before.
“—Erin Solstice is a charming rock upon which plans may break before she announces her way. In hindsight, I would call for pickaxes. The Wall Lord is a friend of yours, and he is about to dig up a treasure the north greatly desires—and remind them why they buried it. You have no Erin—which will save me the need to port an army to Liscor again. You are not ready. You have plans.”
It was not a question. Lyonette flushed because he was right—but also because she was embarrassed. She hung her head.
“I, ah, well. Rebuilding the inn and staffing it about tenfold with people I can trust was most of it, Niers. Drevish’s plans, you see, are marvelous. If we had that, even the giant wouldn’t be as much of a threat.”
The look of disappointment he was trying to cover up hurt her more than most insults she could remember. Lyonette turned redder. She was so used to Erin taking charge and backing her up…
“Yes, they are splendidly done. Especially for a dead man; I’ve reviewed them, and my own [Architects] won’t shut up about how much of a genius he was—my [Financiers] won’t stop screaming about how much it would cost. I remind you that a building is still a building, Lyonette. Upgrading the inn certainly would be part of what I’d hoped.”
“If you could find some way of assisting? Even if it were—say—convincing Architect Hexel to take on the project without an up-front cost?”
Lyonette was hopeful, but Niers began shaking his head and didn’t stop.
“No proxy, Lyonette. I am serious. And with respect to Eternal Khelt—I would be shocked if you get what you desire there, too. The situat…”
He trailed off, slashed a hand horizontally, and went on.
