No paint. No detailing of any kind. It looked a bit banged-up, but when Calescent, on a hunch, took his best knife and tried to score the box with all his might…he left not a scratch.
Nor could the tip of the knife make the screws move. For that matter…Calescent remembered Rags shrieking about nails. He’d seen Kevin designing screws, but the fact that anything had these screws in them meant it was new.
“Hmm. Is very suspicious.”
The [Chef] narrowed his eyes over the box, glancing around covertly. He was reassured seeing everyone fussing over Rose.
Oh, the secretive Goblin was so sly. He thought he knew all the tricks—he never noticed the door of a cupboard opening ever-so-slightly so a little witch could stare out at him. Nanette knew that Erin’s [Compartments of Holding] could hurt you badly if you used them wrong, but you could disable Erin’s Skill and use the garden door to appear anywhere you wanted.
She watched as Calescent fussed about the box, trying to find a secret compartment or something else. But in the end, there was nothing for it. The cupboard door closed slightly as Calesecnt hesitated, then fished in his apron pocket for something.
[The Transient, Ephemeral, Fleeting Vault of the Mortal World. The Evanescent Safe of Passing Moments, the Faded Chest of Then and Them. The Box of Incontinuity]…sat on the counter.
At least, one aspect of it was here. Calescent hesitated and held his knife in one hand. With the other, he put the bulb of garlic that Fierre had been complaining about inside the box. Then he closed the lid.
When he reopened the lid, Nanette peeked out and held her breath. Calescent peered into the box and said:
“Huh.”
 
 
[Princess of the Inn Level 30!]
[Skill – Remember: My Defining Moment obtained!]
[Skill – Staff: Flurry of Efficiency obtained!]
[Spell – Conjure Prepared Dish obtained!]
[Skill – Conceal Reputation obtained!]
[Skill – Shared Authority: The Wandering Inn obtained!]
 
 
 
 
Author’s Notes:
No, but for real, I wouldn’t do that to you. Also, for clarity, Lyonette’s level-ups are from after the Solstice. Continue onwards!
—pirateaba
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The bulb of garlic was sitting in the box, disappointingly ordinary. Calescent stared at it, purely let down, and Nanette saw his shoulders sag. He let out a huge breath.
So did she. He upended the box so the garlic fell out, sighed, and tore off a clove which he popped into his mouth, and chewed.
“Lame box.”
Nanette agreed silently and decided there was something else about the box that investigating would turn up. She was just about to go back to talking to Rose when she heard a voice.
“One second, Rose. I’m a [Princess of the Inn] now, and I have some of Erin’s abilities. One of them—is Nanette in a cupboard in the kitchen, Calescent?”
The Hobgoblin and Nanette jumped. He spun, saw her, and laughed. Then they glanced at the box.
Uh oh. Lyonette would be mad. Calescent hesitated, then began to shove the garlic back in, searching for a place to hide it. Nanette got out of the cupboard, thinking of an excuse—then saw something strange happen.
Calescent tried to put the garlic back in the wooden box.
An ordinary action with a twist: he could not. The Goblin’s hand pressed against the opening, and the garlic would not go in.
His hand would. But when he pushed the garlic with more strength—it refused to go. It didn’t crush against an invisible barrier. It didn’t strain—it just held still in the air, even when his arms bulged and a full Hobgoblin’s force went into it.
The garlic would not go back into the box. Lyonette barged into the kitchen, saw Nanette staring, saw the box and the garlic, and shouted.
“No!”
Calescent jumped. He tried to hide the box behind him, and Nanette protested.
“I asked him to, Lyonette. We have to—”
“No! You don’t know what it does! You don’t—”
Lyonette grabbed for it, and Calescent tried to hand it to her, then avoid beaning her in the face with it. The box went tumbling as she snatched, and Nanette grabbed it. She blinked at the box, Erin’s Level 50 Skill, and the lid swung open.
A piece of garlic hit Nanette in the face. Lyonette, about to scream, exhaled in relief. Calescent blinked. He glanced at Nanette, and the witch’s eyes opened. Wide. Wider…as she stared at what was in the box. Then another bulb smacked her in the face, and Lyonette’s breath stopped. After exactly four point two seconds…another garlic bulb bounced off Nanette’s brow.
Then another.
And another. Nanette bent down and picked up one of the pieces of garlic. Real garlic in taste, texture, and even nutrition. Even after Lyonette had been talked into letting them test it, even the next day—
It was still there.
