He was fourteen years old, though, and his closest associates were Jericha, Ullim, and now, Nanette and Mrsha. Sammial, a boy of ten, could still have fun like that.
Hethon could too, but he felt self-conscious. Nanette could seemingly enjoy herself despite being only a year younger than he was. But he felt like she enjoyed it in a more adult way than he did.
The complex headology of Hethon’s embarrassment, self-loathing, and preoccupations meant that he lagged behind as the other three kids sped down the 2nd floor hallway. Sammial did a flying leap onto the stairs, only for Mrsha to land on him. The sounds of the two crashing down the stairs made Hethon wince.
We’d never be able to do this back home. Father would tell Sammial to stop it. But Ryoka would tell him to let Sammial be a kid. I think.
Hethon missed Ryoka. Again, she’d vanished, and he had a feeling that his father wouldn’t be back anytime soon, despite his promises. Once more, Ryoka Griffin flew away when he could have really used her here.
Not as a…a mother. That was a weird thought. For one thing, you weren’t supposed to think mothers were attractive like Hethon thought Ryoka was. For another—she was more like a…an inspiration. Something like a friend and mentor, what Hethon wanted to be in a sense.
Beguiling, strange, and oh yes…one of a handful of women who’d ever made his father not a statue. That, most of all, was why Hethon liked Ryoka. Tyrion Veltras was at his best when he was a person, but only Ryoka, Magnolia, Salva, and Tyrion’s own mother had ever done that. Maybe the cousins, now and then—
Of the lot, Ryoka was the best. Well, maybe Grandmother Atlanna beat her. Hethon didn’t remember her much; they’d visited her cottage a few times, and he recalled, each time, Tyrion asking her to move into the keep and her telling him she wanted to live in House Veltras, not in a stone keep, for her last years.
Then she’d sit Hethon on her lap, and…his memory faltered. So did his eyes.
The boy adjusted the pillow on his head and stood in the corridor, panting a second. The inn was quiet. Warm, but quiet. Battered, not destroyed. He hadn’t known many of the people who’d died. He’d felt bad for not crying. He just felt numb. Numb and unreal, to see Gold-rank adventurers laid to rest and hear tales of the tens of thousands of Draugr and glimpse those horrific corpses being burned.
Hethon remembered how he and the children had escaped the attack on Magnolia’s mansion vividly. He walked down the corridor, checking the nameplates on the doors. He dreamed of that moment when a hand had seized his and shown him a path.
Those people. 
Of course, a month later, Hethon had given out the explanations of what he’d seen a number of times to Ullim, Jericha, even Miss Lyonette and several others. It had been frantic, rushed, and frankly, Sammial shouting ‘who are you?’ over and over hadn’t helped.
But he remembered their conversation with him and the boon they’d demanded for saving the children’s lives. Hethon had hoped, at first, Ryoka would fly back and join him so he could puzzle it all out with her. As the days had turned to weeks, it had become clear she was Baleros-bound, and Tyrion had set after her.
Then, Hethon had been preoccupied with House Veltras mobilizing, and they’d been in the north, setting Tyrion off, hearing more fallout from the battle at sea—and by the time Hethon had gotten back to Invrisil and thus The Wandering Inn, three weeks had passed.
This last week, he’d done his best to fulfill the promises. Not just because he had dreams of that forest creeping up on him, or that he’d begun noticing the hands that appeared out of carved wood or the roots of trees.
He really had tried. It was just…Hethon glanced at a nameplate on one of the doors he passed.
Ryoka Griffin.
Her room was mostly empty. Tyrion had asked Jericha to collect any possessions to give to Ryoka, and Hethon had asked—just asked—to see what Jericha had packed. Aside from the mistrustful look Jericha had given him, which was very hurtful, he’d encountered a problem:
There was no wand among Ryoka Griffin’s possessions. Hethon had asked her to double-check, and they’d even asked Lyonette, but it was nowhere to be found.
It then followed that she’d carried it with her to the battle at sea. But that was strange because Hethon definitely remembered the wand not being in Ryoka’s bag of holding; it should have been on her desk, and would she have really brought the wand to a sea battle given how valuable it was?
He’d given up—until his dreams had begun to be those voices urging him to ‘bring the seed’ to them. So Hethon had done some thinking.
…His thinking led him to slowly turn a doorknob, the second door on the right as you came up the stairs onto the second floor. The nameplate read:
Lyonette and Mrsha.
Presumably, this was from before Mrsha had moved out. Hethon looked around, hoping the guards weren’t watching, but he thought the hallway was deserted. He swallowed.
This isn’t very noble of you, Hethon. But you made a promise, and you can’t ask Miss Lyonette if she’s lying. She said there wasn’t a wand like that. But…
A fourteen-year-old boy was in a weird spot. Sixteen was the age at which you began to level up fully, but Hethon wasn’t there. He wasn’t a child, but he had yet to really go through his teenage growth spurts.
He wasn’t responsible enough for real duties, but all his elders told him he needed to be more mature. Not a warrior, not a [Lord], not a child.
Hethon suspected Lyonette had lied to him, but he didn’t know why she would have hidden Ryoka’s wand. He’d told her how the mysterious folk had saved them! If she had hidden it…well, Hethon hadn’t intuited where the wand was on his lonesome.
He had clues. Like a strange sense of…growth, or maybe potential growth, in the room beyond. A feeling like knowing there were seeds in the ground that would spring up. A sense of green beyond, and the hands and signs, like a strange pattern of leaves somehow blown across the ground, kept pointing towards this room. So Hethon tried the brass doorknob.
…The door was locked.
“Drat. Er…come, door!”
Hethon tried to use the [Garden of Sanctuary] like he’d seen Mrsha and Nanette do, but he was already flushed with nerves, and the door didn’t come. He wondered if it was because he was trying to snoop—when he heard shouting from above.
“Let’s go again! Hethon, where are you?”
Ah, Sammial and Mrsha had appeared upstairs by the sounds of it. Hethon jumped and felt his back prickling with sweat. If they caught him in Lyonette’s room—
He turned, about to find a better moment to try to sneak into Lyonette’s room, and came face-to-face with a girl two inches shorter than he was with a pillow tied to the back of her head.
Despite the ridiculous look, Hethon flinched away from Nanette Weishart. He could have pretended it was the wrong room or played it off. Some [Suave Lord] like Pellmia would have.
Hethon? He turned red and began to stutter.
“I—that was—”
“I trust you’re not trying to rummage in Miss Lyonette’s room for her underthings.”
Nanette’s voice was polite, if slightly frosty, and Hethon panicked.
“What? No! Never!”
Her brown eyes fixed on Hethon sharply. Nanette pursed her lips.
“Then what are you doing?”
“I was just—looking for Ryoka’s wand! I haven’t had a good night of sleep for a week since we came back to the inn, and the hands and leaves keep pointing me here!”
Nanette’s eyes narrowed slightly.
“The…I thought you brought it to them already. It’s been a month. Do you mean you haven’t?”
Hethon turned redder. He wasn’t sure he liked Nanette. She was bossy for their age, put on airs, and made him feel like a fool.
“I thought Ryoka took it. And I did check her room with Jericha! It wasn’t anywhere to be found. But the signs…”
Nanette frowned at Lyonette’s room and raised her brows. She glanced up at the thumping upstairs.
“I can use the garden door to get in. Or I could open it myself. Move aside. And I might as well make sure you don’t cause trouble.”
“I’d never steal anyone’s underthings!”
Hethon muttered, red-faced. Nanette brushed past him with a distrustful glance. Then she felt around in her bag of holding and produced, of all things, a key.
“What are you doing?”
“Opening the door.”
“You have a key to Lyonette’s room? Did you steal it?”
Nanette rolled her eyes.
“No. I have a skeleton key.”
“Oh.”
That’s so amazing! How did she get it? Hethon was mildly jealous as Nanette inserted the key into the lock.
Strangely, it didn’t open right away. Rather, Nanette rattled the key around in the lock, puzzled.
“Huh. It takes a while, it feels like. The key’s…changing. It’s made of ivory. Does it resize to the lock? One second.”
She rattled it around again, and Hethon felt compelled to explain more as Nanette tried to twist the key.
“I haven’t been lazy, you know. Lyonette said they might be dangerous. Father promised to talk to some [Druids], but what with Ryoka being missing and all the trouble—”
Nanette glanced up and sighed loudly.
“And you didn’t seek any [Druids] out yourself? Your father didn’t do anything so you didn’t?”
Hethon knew he was still flushed scarlet. He felt like he had skin problems around Nanette.
“I don’t know any [Druids]! That is—I’ve met some, but I can’t just ride to where they are.”
“Why not? You’re a [Lord] of House Veltras.”
“I—”
Nanette’s arch look made Hethon want to kick her. Instead, he relished her failure with the lock.
“Your precious ‘skeleton key’ not working?”
The young witch cooly brushed hair out of her face.
“I’m doing something. Why don’t you tell Mrsha and Sammial to try rolling down the garden’s hill? We don’t need them getting in the w—aha!”
Her note of triumph made Hethon jump as the skeleton key clicked. It slid open, and Nanette pushed the door ajar. She and Hethon hurried into Lyonette’s room as Mrsha and Sammial continued pounding down the hallway above.
“There. You see? Good to know it takes a bit of time.”
Nanette looked smugly, if a bit confused, at Hethon as she stowed her magical key. He bit his lip and tried not to laugh at her. The young woman frowned at him—and he pointed.
“I, er, don’t think it was the skeleton key alone. Maybe it did the lock, but not the doorknob. And I think we’re on the right track.”
“Why? I—oh.”
The ‘oh’ was because Nanette had just seen the other side of the door. Namely, the hand made out of wood that had grown out of the door and turned the knob from the inside. It was retreating into the door as the two watched.
Hethon exchanged a look with Nanette, and then they peered around Lyonette’s room. Hethon was taken aback by the elements of a woman’s room in general, not at home with the vanity mirror and various accoutrements of makeup or Lyonette’s knicknacks, like a painting Mrsha had made hanging up.
The room was intimate and, therefore, embarrassing. Nanette was more sensible and marched over to the desk and began rifling through the drawers.
“If it is here, I doubt Lyonette hid it. Did you ask her about the wand? Go check that drawer, there.”
“Yes! She said she didn’t have it.”
“I wonder why she said that. Maybe…”
Hethon was wondering why Nanette was helping him. Did she feel a debt for being saved as well? She was Ryoka’s friend too. Then he wondered why the mysterious folk even needed his help to get the wand if they could make a hand grow out of a door.
Then again, they’d said they had woken up because of all the visitors and the fate of forests. And that they were dead. 
Hethon was a Veltras, and it was their pact, ancient by mortal standards, that gave him the authority and responsibility. He wondered if they were dangerous.
“Do you think this is a bad idea?”
Nanette shrugged as she opened the last drawer of the vanity.
“Bad. Good. I’ll talk to the witches I know. But it’s impossible to say without finding the wand first. If this is to be a thing, it would be better to be prepared. So let’s find it first before Lyonette’s done with her call—aha!”
She exclaimed as she opened a drawer, and Hethon whirled and saw a case of metal, long and thin, one of the wand-cases that [Mages] used, in the girl’s hands. Nanette held it up, and Hethon exclaimed.
“She did take it! She lied to me! There’s no way she forgot—I saw that in Ryoka’s room last! And the case is new.”
“The case is new? Hmm. Let’s just make sure it’s the right one.”
Nanette critically but eagerly inspected the case, found a fastener, and flicked it open. Then, without waiting for Hethon’s opinion, she lifted the lid—and Hethon felt the air change.
The cold, dry air of winter wasn’t something you normally noticed. The chill that permeated even the heated inn, the harsher light—all these things were a background to life.
Right up until the moment when Hethon Veltras smelled soil and remembered what warmth felt like. It was a crawling energy, a seeping power that emanated from the open case and into the air. Hethon felt like he heard the rustling of leaves, and for a moment, the sunlight slanting through a window ceased to be the pale rays of winter, but was instead the warmth of spring.
That—was new. He looked down, and in the box was a wand.
It was made of ironwood, strong and nigh-unbreakable. That, at least, was unchanged, but when Nanette held a hand over the wand, she jerked her fingers back, and Hethon felt it too.
All that potential, all that energy of spring, of nature itself, came from the wand. Hethon’s hand slowly reached for it, and he felt the whispering again. In his mind, in the wood of the inn.
 
Yes. Bring it to us. A seed.
Hope. Honor your vows, Son of House Veltras.
One last forest. One last dream.
 
And here he’d thought that all the adventures would end with Ryoka and his father gone. Hethon Veltras picked up the wand, and a sigh ran through the inn.
 
Now bring it to us.
 
A way opened, but not a door. Rather, it felt like that forest that Hethon kept seeing—above the High Passes, whenever he wasn’t thinking. During the evening, in the day, he would see mists part in the distance and then it would appear.
A great forest, looming always in the background…appeared in the window that showed the snowy Floodplains. Hethon looked up and saw those massive trees waiting, miles away. Only, this time, he could see how to get to them.
Nanette shaded her eyes, frowning.
“Is that…a forest? I sense life magic coming from the wand.”
“You don’t see it?”
