“The people Erin Solstice has offended are not stupid, Lyonette. There is no way I can transfer funds of that magnitude short of a mysterious chest of gold being dug up in the Floodplains two months later. And I don’t have the inclination to set that kind of complicated scheme up or risk the gold. Nor is the Forgotten Wing company ready to afford greater costs. We are at war.”
Three good reasons, but Lyonette still persisted. She knew nations, and the money was exorbitant for her, or even Ilvriss—but it could be done.
“Two months would be fine, Lord Astoragon. It’s—”
“Lyonette. Do not ask Fetohep for coin. Do not ask Wall Lord Ilvriss for gold. Do not approach Lady Magnolia Reinhart—you know what? I take it back. Go ask all three; don’t ask anyone stupid enough to actually give it to you.”
Niers snapped, and Lyonette jumped in her seat. She flushed again, because she was clearly missing something he felt was obvious.
I’m out of practice at grander machinations. She hung her head.
“I suppose there is no scenario where the risk of discovery is worth the reward.”
“Partly.”
The Titan’s eyes were on her, appraising, and now she felt like one of Yelroan’s numbers, and she was wondering if he was adding to her sum or reducing it, and which was more dangerous. He spoke slower than his normal patter of impatient half-orders, but with more clarity and information packed into each sentence.
“Lyonette. Erribathe has no agents in Invrisil. Not a single one. The Restful Three don’t have many to represent them abroad at all, unlike Calanfer. Not even contacts.”
“Yes, exactly.”
The Titan met Lyonette’s gaze and slowly drained his cup of water before putting it back down. He refilled it, one-handed, from a decanter on his right.
“Don’t make them find any agents.”
Lyonette swallowed. Then she saw why he was so concerned for the inn. Giant of bones? Damn the Giant of Rheirgest. The real threats wouldn’t come with a battering ram. They’d walk in, order a mug, and…
Perhaps she was the one who’d forgotten how dangerous it was to anger an entire nation. Erin had tweaked Pallass’ nose more than once, but Erribathe…Erin had killed their [Prince].
She’d killed their [Prince]. And he was nearly two hundred years old and the only heir to the oldest Kingdom of Terandria. Queen Marquin’s single sagging breast…
Niers seemed darkly pleased by Lyonette’s sudden discomfort, because he took another gulp of water. Then he scared her by reading her mind. He might have been trying to do it already, but she hadn’t been meeting his expectations. Now that she was, he gave voice to her sudden realization and plans a second before she could.
“Do you know how to keep a household, Princess Lyonette?”
Lyonette stopped herself from jumping again in her chair and half-glanced towards the rest of the inn. The door was closed, and she saw no shadow from under it—but she knew Dalimont and Ushar were listening to her. She could sense them hovering just outside the door.
But it was Peggy and Rosencrantz she thought of, the two other heads of staff under Ishkr. There used to be Normen and Alcaz, but they had left. All of them were good, hard workers.
None of them were what Niers meant, and Lyonette spoke slowly.
“—I have seen it done, but barely learned, Lord Astoragon. I don’t suppose one writes down how to implement such things?”
To her surprise, the Titan of Baleros actually smiled, and here his eyes lit up. He ceased being the [Warlord] and was once again the Professor, who turned and looked around at the shelves of books and documents behind him.
“As a matter of fact, I studied that sort of thing. I even maintained a Terandrian consulate for…eight years? I can find notes—but you should trust to your Thronebearers and servants as the best candidates. Though I have heard of no Calanferians traveling across northern Izril.”
Suddenly, Lyonette was wishing she hadn’t sent away Ser Lormel. Even one-armed, he’d be able to train and think—the Titan watched Lyonette’s face grow more concerned and alarmed. She stood, smoothing her leggings as if they were skirts.
“I believe—I have rather a lot to do, Lord Astoragon. Thank you for the chat, though I fear my budgetary needs have only increased, not diminished.”
“I deeply regret not being able to assist, Miss Lyonette. I will keep you posted about Erin, and when she feels ready to return, I shall endeavor to make it happen.”
The Titan stood and swept Lyonette a bow, and the [Princess] barely thought of Erin for a moment. But he did throw her a bone, of sorts. The Titan eyed Lyonette—and sighed. He hesitated for one second, stared up at the ceiling, and spoke.
“…Given all the death and uncertainty of late, Lyonette—my own parents are deceased, but I can at least tell you my regrets. It would be good, whatever the rift, to reconnect with your own family.”
Lyonette blinked at him. The Titan met her gaze with a half-smile—then his image winked out.
 
——
 
Lyonette understood what Niers meant and slapped herself in the forehead so hard it left a mark. Then, because she didn’t want to do it, she avoided Dame Ushar by hurrying into the [World’s Eye Theater].
“He thinks he knows everything. Well, maybe he’s quite intelligent, but he hasn’t ever met Erin. As for me—theatre? Contact Erin Solstice!”
She didn’t talk to Fetohep or Magnolia Reinhart since she suspected Niers was right. But he must have forgotten that even if it was vulnerable, this was Erin’s inn. And her Skill worked wonders.
Lyonette saw the glass dome overhead ‘blink’ as the panes of glass moved, the image of the sky above darkening and vanishing until a pinpoint of light shone down. She waited for it to open and transport her image across the world as she stood in the center of the circular room. She could, at least, ask Erin for advice.
And if Erin had a new Skill—
Lyonette waited a second, then five more, and then hesitated, staring up at the single pinpoint of light overhead. This was taking longer than even when she called Fetohep. What was—
“Erm. Hello.”
Lyonette did not appear in Baleros, or rather, the Fraerling City of Paeth. Instead of a perfect image of the world around her appearing and her own body being projected into whatever room where Erin was at…she remained standing in the theatre. The dome remained dark, nigh pitch-black.
And a single image appeared right above Lyonette, forcing her to crane her head upwards. She stared up as a man, tall, broad-shouldered, with a pink beard, appeared.
Alchimagus Resk looked like an ordinary man, even rather tall, but he was, of course, a Fraerling. Lyonette blinked and then blurted out.
“I’d like to speak t—”
“If you’re listening to this, firstly, this is a recording.”
The image of Resk continued, slightly awkward but warming to his task. His eyes were slightly off-camera to the left, and he was definitely reading from a script. He coughed, then beamed at Lyonette.
“We, ah, er, know it’s the trend to [Scry] everything, but I regret to inform you that the City of Paeth is off-limits. As is Talenqual. We’re terribly sorry, whomever you are, but also, congratulations!”
He spread his arms cheerily.
“Your spell or Skill was so impressive it’s now been logged, and we will sell the information about your identity and location to the highest bidder if you keep trying to spy on us. Please stop. Have a good day!”
Lyonette’s mouth opened. Resk paused, looked off-camera—
“Am I done? Good!”
Then he winked at her, and the image vanished. Lyonette was left standing in the dark.
Ah. That’s right…Paeth.
At this moment, she really disliked Fraerlings.
 
——
 
When they got tired of sliding down the stairs, Hethon and Sammial were called by Ullim for their morning lessons. They complained about it.
“Doesn’t she have school? And she doesn’t!”
Ullim moved Sammial’s finger away from Mrsha’s nose before Mrsha could bite it, and the [Majordomo] nodded respectfully to Nanette, who bowed back. The two girls were unimpressed by Sammial when he got like this.
It’s a snow day, stupid.
Mrsha held up a card. Sammial turned to Ullim.
“Why don’t we have a snow day?”
“Because I am here, Lord Sammial, and do not point. It is rude to point. Secondly, Miss Nanette is a [Witch]. They tend to teach themselves.”
For that, the old [Majordomo] was rewarded with a big smile from Nanette, and she decided she did like him. He was a good mentor, and Sammial gave Nanette a second glance. Hethon just blushed at Nanette.
“Have fun!”
Nanette waved cheerfully at the two boys, who slunk off to their lessons, then she and Mrsha went to do something interesting. The boys were all very well and good, but Nanette and Mrsha did want to know about Erin.
What they found, when they got to the [World’s Eye Theatre], was Lyonette pouring herself a cup of wine. The [Princess] tried to pretend it was for Dame Ushar when they saw her and cleared her throat.
“I, er, just got finished talking with Niers.”
“Oh, are we going to be building the new inn, Lyonette?”
Lyonette hesitated, partly because she was red-cheeked and clearly annoyed, partly because she’d asked for Nanette to address her more informally. Nanette supposed that meant calling Lyonette ‘mother’, but she’d decided to just drop the ‘Miss’.
“Um, no, Nanette. In fact, it seems as though Erin will be in Baleros longer than we thought. She’s rather injured, and it seems like the Titan of Baleros may be courting her with flowers! I am in such a mood I could wish he actually succeeds.”
And gets her into bed? Gross!
Mrsha held up a card, and Lyonette spluttered. She’d forgotten her daughter was intelligent enough to know what that meant. As for Nanette, the girl snickered.
“He could practice by throwing a Flatfish covered in Acid Flies into his bed first.”
“Miss Nanette! Don’t be vulgar!”
Lyonette was shocked even as she tried not to laugh, but Mrsha just nodded, and Nanette’s face was straight. In all seriousness, Nanette understood the Titan might be interested in Erin and it would complicate her return—but courting Erin Solstice against her will just seemed impossible to Nanette, and she had yet to see Erin even receptive to the idea. She’d see Eloise flirting before Erin.
At any rate, the [Princess] was morose, but since she seemed to think drinking in front of children was a bad idea, she clapped her hands.
“Why don’t you two clean up your rooms, and then we’ll all go into…Invrisil and do something fun, shall we? Don’t forget the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Mrsha. I see your things everywhere.”
We came to you for fun, and instead we got chores? You’re as bad as Ullim, Mother!
Mrsha held up an outraged note, and Lyonette snapped back.
“I should like to be half as good at parenting as he is, Mrsha. No buts! I told the staff not to clean up your shared rooms. I do mean it; I’ve found your things everywhere in the garden, Mrsha. Two balls in the jungle, you left three books lying around—this is why you can never find your dolls for Visma’s get-togethers. Put them away, and if I can’t find anything, I’ll buy you a treat.”
Grumbling, Mrsha stomped sideways and entered the garden door. Nanette, who had a largely clean side of the shared room, followed Mrsha, but stopped by the doorway.
The garden’s door was still, usually, the wooden door with a few scars and cast iron bands and a brass handle. It remained where you opened it, so Nanette swung it closed, but didn’t let it meet the wall.
Mrsha perked up her ears and halted, and the two girls listened by the door. Mrsha was learning from Nanette, and Nanette liked knowing things. What they heard was Lyonette sighing, then speaking.
“Pass me that glass, Dame Ushar. It won’t kill me to have half of it before we go to Invrisil.”
“I…would advise you not to have a single sip, Your Highness.”
“Oh, come now. If we must go through that ridiculous Adventure Room so Mrsha can get a ‘high score’, I’ll have two.”
“Your Highness—would now not be a good time to take Lord Astoragon’s advice?”
Nanette’s brows rose, and she and Mrsha exchanged glances.
What is Ushar talking about?
Mrsha signed to Nanette. The witch signed back.
Don’t know. Something dangerous?
There was a pause from Lyonette, then a loud sigh.
“She doesn’t even want to—”
“I believe Her Majesty would be very receptive. If you were to speak…now.”
Lyonette’s voice rose slightly.
“You told her?”
“Your Highness. Given the circumstances—”
“She will simply strip my flesh from my bones with her tongue and then order me back.”
Dame Ushar’s voice was patient.
“Your Highness. You may be remembering your interactions—accurately—but I believe you have changed. I personally vouchsafed your abilities. Please consider it?”
“—I—you did? Oh, very well. Do I use the theater, or do you have a secure line?”
“Given the circumstances, I believe face-to-face would not be optimal…”
“Good idea. Perish that thought.”
Dame Ushar’s voice was growing louder. Nanette realized she was drawing nearer and leapt back; poor Mrsha didn’t realize Ushar was right on top of them until the Thronebearer kicked the door closed.
Not hard as she could have, but Mrsha grabbed her feet and went hopping around, howling, as Nanette sat down to think. Her Majesty? But that could only mean—
Nanette stared at the door, then hurried off to continue playing with the kids. After all, she had to keep an eye on the inn’s doings. Lyonette was doing her best, but Nanette was the only witch left. Someone had to do things right.
 
——
 
After sliding head-first down the stairs for the eighth time on a board—they’d gone back to stair-sledding after their tutoring lesson—Hethon began to feel a bit stupid. However, hearing Sammial laugh made tying a pillow to his head worth it.
If Jericha and the guards weren’t watching him, Hethon thought he could have laughed like that. They did their best to pretend they were not watching. The worst part, in Hethon Veltras’ opinion, was the smiles.
Not mocking. House Veltras’ people rather liked Hethon and Sammial, and Tyrion, or so Ullim claimed. Rather, it was how they smiled.
Imagine…imagine seeing a dog that you knew had been mistreated all its life, cooped up in a house, and never allowed to run about outside, that had finally been rescued and allowed to play in a puddle for the first time. Even if it was too old to play like a puppy, how might you smile when you saw it laughing like that?
A pained, glad, and regretful smile filled with history. Hethon hated it. He liked to pretend he had grown up like other children.
