I tilted my head, letting my ears flop just a little, and wagged my tail once in what I hoped passed for innocent confusion. Who, me?

Her jaw clenched as she spoke through her teeth. “Release… me… at… once…”

She really did seem pretty pissed off. I decided to stop messing with her and do as she asked but…

I grinned awkwardly as I looked to the side.

…I didn’t know how to do that. Death Mark lasts 24 hours, and as far as I could tell, the only other way to deactivate it was to kill whatever I had it on.

“I said deactivate it!” she yelled.

I shifted my weight from paw to paw, ears drooping a little as I avoided her glare. I wasn’t trying to keep this going; I just generally didn’t know how.

I lifted one paw and scratched awkwardly at the dirt until I spelled out, “1 day.”

Her eye twitched. “One day? I’m supposed to suffer this for an entire day!?”

I nodded sheepishly.

The fox lady’s hands clenched into fists at her sides. For a heartbeat, I thought she might actually lunge at me. She stopped herself, visibly restraining the urge to grab me by the scruff. Instead, she sucked in a slow breath through her nose and held it like she was trying to keep her temper from leaking out of her ears.

“So if I understand. You used a skill on me with a long duration.”

I nodded.

“And you cannot manually cancel it?”

I nodded again.

“Then why would you do it!?”

I shrugged and pointed a paw at her. She told me to use my skills more often.

Her expression dropped. “You’re saying it’s my fault.”

I nodded vigorously, my tail wagging behind me.

“Puppy has strong skills. Scary skills,” Grick chimed in, patting my head. Lily also seemed to have found amusement in whatever was going on, but I wasn’t sure if she understood the full context as she looked between all of us with her tail wagging.

“Alright. Alright, fine. One day.” She stared at me with a thin smile that made my fur want to crawl off my back. “I’ll simply have to endure it. But you…” Her smile twitched as she pointed a finger at my nose. “You are going to regret it if you ever do something like this again. I have skills of my own. Do you understand?” A tiny spark of electricity danced on her finger tip.

I tilted my head. Okay, okay… got it…

Behind me, Grick whispered loudly to Lily, “Fox is mad.” Lily nodded at him. I think she had picked up that gesture from watching me.

With that, the fox whisked her cloak back with a flourish and walked ahead of us. I don’t think she knew exactly what the skill was, only its psychological effect. I had a feeling she’d be just a little more upset if she knew it was a “Death Mark.”

Read Next Chapter Now!
