They ended up spending several bells just outside the north gate. At some point, Jordo left and came back with benches, parasols and refreshments while Niala kept burying the hummers with questions.

The group learned a lot during that time, starting with who and what the hummers were. They referred to themselves as the chosen, as every member of their nation was crafted and birthed for a purpose, and they were all numbered according to what it was.

The twos, for example, were the personal assistants and bodyguards of the ones, while the threes served as a sort of elite troops able to perform any one task as deemed by the ones.

From four and down, the roles varied, and the power level lessened, all the way to the nines, who were little more than mass-produced fodder.

The ones were the sole exception. From among the vessels, the regular individuals who were used as divine essence collectors, there sometimes arose one from whom the essence could not be retrieved.

In most cases, they became divine beasts, what David and Niala knew as an evolved fel; the kind of beast that had killed David. However, in a few very rare instances, they didn't, retaining control over their body yet becoming magivores just as the divine beasts.

Aryin did not know how far back the chosen history went or how they had arisen. All that the three knew was that their task was sacred and involved the rebirth of the slain god whose remains currently poisoned the aetheric realm.

They also did not know with certainty why the chosen would bring down their walls and attack a neighbouring country outside of needing more vessels. They had been in stasis since before the wall had gone down, kept aside to serve the next sanctified one to emerge.

Which turned out to be Niala, according to them.

She'd asked why they thought she was a “one”. They said she had been designated by the orchestrator.

She asked who that was, and they replied it was the mind which ensured the great ordainment- the revival of the god- was preserved. To their knowledge, no chosen had ever laid eyes upon it, yet its touch was felt throughout their lands and people.

It was the orchestrator who had identified Niala as a sanctified one. It was they who had reunited this octuple's minds with their preserved bodies. It was also they who waited for the sanctified one whose divine energies would spark alive, who would invite this individual, and begin the revival process.

Poor as they may be, these were the kind of answers that Rinka needed. She wished the reason for the destruction of her people might have been a bit more tangible than a dead god's rebirth, but at least she now had something to blame.

Whoever that god was, she'd be its first dissident.

Niala asked a hundred more questions, about their ways of life, their values, how the chosen were born, who raised them, what their schools looked like, and much more.

Most answers made her frown or grimace; some made her twitch her tail in surprise. A few nearly made her cry.

Overall, however, whatever the reason for the chosen's apparent twilight and disappearance, the world was a better place for it. Their society had few redeeming features in Niala's eyes, and she lamented how its members were brought among the living as tools, their free wills shackled.

She then tried to order the threes to renounce their assigned roles for close to a full bell.

But, in their own words, they remained her ever loyal and dedicated servants.

The situation was a bit of a mess; the hummers had been nothing but passive, and it was getting harder to think of them as enemies instead of very advanced slaves.

According to them, threes never took aggressive actions unless they were attacked, continuously blocked from fulfilling their objective, or ordered as such by the sanctified one to whom they belonged.

The attack on the road workers had thus ostensibly been due to standing orders given to the involved octuple. Probably something along the lines of 'wait until a mass of vessels manifest themselves, then bring them back.'

This meant they were now stuck with eight individuals who could, if they had been lying all along and turned antagonistic, heavily damage the town if David and Niala weren't there to stop them.

Niala did briefly entertain the thought of using some sort of controlling or suppressing magitool on them, but shook that idea out of her head the instant it appeared.

The only real solution was to... trust them.

Over the next few days, David and Niala had a small cabin erected on the north side of the river, something with basic amenities where the hummers could live.

The couple visited them every day, with Niala asking ever more questions, which they never refused to answer, though they weren't always able to. During that time, she also gave them more refined instructions, layering them on top of one another until they could somewhat act independently.

In short, she ordered them to be law-abiding individuals with free will.

They didn't seem too enthralled by the idea, but their mental conditioning didn't let them refuse or object.

To David, who witnessed it all, shackling someone to act as if they had free will was the epitome of irony.

He almost teased Niala about it, but held himself back when he realized the situation frustrated her to no end; she really did just want them to be free but had no idea how to do it besides ordering them to be, which somewhat defeated the purpose.

After a few days, however, she felt it was as good as it was going to get, having both run out of ideas on how to refine her orders and fearing provoking an aneurysm if she gave any more orders.

Just to be safe, she had the hummers do mock fights with the Azure Guards in town at Leandro's suggestion. The goal, he'd said, was to see how the Guards would fare without the tentacles present and if they could subdue them through force of numbers.

There was also probably an unspoken argument about how fighting superior opponents was fantastic training for the Azure Guards so used to being the elite force.

But he didn't say anything like that.

Whatever the case, it was effective training, and it showed that, yes, without the sapping tentacles, throwing enough Azure Guards at the hummers could overwhelm them eventually.

The battles were gruelling matches of endurance, more about grinding down the threes' reserves than out-powering them, but it worked... eventually.

With that last bit of a safety net, the hummers were tentatively allowed within the town, two at a time, and each followed by a sizable force of town and Azure guards, but otherwise left to their own devices. Just to be on the safe side, Niala also gave the guards some rather potent sleep potions.

Hopefully, nothing bad would happen.

RIVERWALL MARKET SQUARE, ONE WEEK LATER

As she walked down the street with the vessels- no, people- parting before her, Soyana Three-Forty-Two didn't know what to think.

She, quite literally, didn't know what to think.

Before now, her life had been simple; follow the commands of the sanctified ones. In a sense, that was still what she was doing, but sanctified Niala had given so many strange and confusing commands...

Be respectful. Be mindful. Care about other people. Be Honest. Be Loyal. Think about other people's feelings. Think about her own feelings. Talk about her feelings. Don't touch David. Be friendly to people who act friendly. Give the benefit of the doubt. Ignore Brenson and his son. Treat people fairly. Act of your own volition. Don't try to seduce David. Try to find joy for yourself, and so many more commands rattled in her head that she barely managed to walk in a straight line.

The most disconcerting commands were those that related to sanctified Niala herself: don't bow, make eye contact, don't call her sanctified anything... everything that Soyana's instincts told her was wrong.

And perhaps the very worst of them all: act as individuals not bound by the octuple. They had all nearly hyperventilated when they'd heard that one.

But here she was, walking alone, away from the rest of the threes...

She had never felt more isolated than right now. And yet... she didn't find the situation undesirable. Preposterous!

The edge of her lips twitched upward. She stopped walking, bringing a hand up to her mouth, feeling her muscles in that area, frowning as she tried to understand the involuntary spasm.

There was nothing. She shrugged and-

Froze. Why had her shoulders lifted like that? Was her body breaking down?

She could feel the two dozen eyes from her “escort” on her back. She glanced back at them, saw their questioning gazes; Why are we stopping, Soyana? Is something wrong? Are you broken? You are already so weak of a three, merely number forty-two; it wouldn't be surprising if you were.

She snapped her head forward, eyes widening. What were those thoughts? Where were they coming from? Why were they affecting her?

Divine lord below, she really was breaking, wasn't she?

She had to... had to...

What did she have to do? Niala's orders were to... take care of herself. She didn't know how. This wasn't supposed to happen, ever.

She filtered through the commands cluttering her thoughts, pushing aside the ones that didn't apply, faster and faster, knowing there had to be one that-

Ah, this one; if you are afraid or uncertain, come talk to me.

Yes, the wise, if strange, Niala would know what was happening. She turned and walked toward what she had been told was her master's home.

She shook her head. Niala's home. She had no master, even though she did.

Why was her brain hurting?

A runner had warned her, so Niala wasn't surprised when Soyana Three-Forty-Two arrived.

She was surprised to find a facial expression on her. It was subtle, but the tall, white, hairless woman was clearly experiencing some distress. Niala greeted her, shut down her attempt at apologizing for daring to present herself, and had her come in to share a cup of fruit water.

Only Jordo was present within the kitchen, David being at the Timeless Runeworks with his new enchanter friends, but she felt it was fine. Right now, the feelings she was receiving from Soyana were fear, confusion, hope, and shame.

Not the thoughts of someone intending to do harm.

Niala deposited a cup before the hummer woman and then sat down with her own, taking a sip and letting a gentle gaze settle upon her guest.

After a few moments, the white woman looked up from her cup. “Sanct- my apologies. Niala. I, Soyana Three-forty-two, am breaking down. My mind and body are unravelling. I am no longer fit to serve you. Please reclaim my essence so that you may grow with his divine seed.”

Niala coughed, ears wagging. “Urk! Ah, huh, right. Sorry, weird wording, that's all...” She swallowed, clearing her throat, then softly smiled. “Right, Soyana, tell me what makes you think you're breaking down?”

The hummer woman blinked, nodded, and recounted what had happened in the streets, the strange thoughts and impulses that had come unbidden.

Once she was done, and repeated he request to be “reclaimed”, Niala shook her head, laying warm eyes upon the woman. “Soyana, you're not breaking. In fact, I think this is wonderful news!”

“What is happening to me then, sanc- Niala?”

“I think you're starting to break free!” The catkin said, her tail swaying.

“Free? That is impossible. We live to serve. We were made to serve. It is the core of our being.”

“No. It's not. I haven't told the others, because I don't want the knowledge to influence them, but I think I can tell you.”

She crossed her fingers and locked stare with the hummer. “Please keep this to yourself, but I had a talk with Anaakendi- that's the incarnate woman who tried to compel Aryin on the day you arrived, and she said your mind isn't... artificial.”

Soyana stared blankly.

Niala frowned. “Do you understand what I mean?”

It took a few seconds for the hummer to react. “It means that... we were not created.”

“That's correct.”

“If we... if we were not created from nothing, then...” She looked at her hands and said nothing more, observing them as if they weren't hers.

As far as Niala feared, they weren't. Anaakendi, who had spent quite a bit of time in people's minds over the past two hundred years, had said that the hummer's mind felt like a chained, bound, and beaten animal. Something that had endured so much pain and suffering that it had chosen the only path that allowed it to survive; forgetting everything.

Niala's heart had nearly split apart at the thought, but with everything else she had learned about the hummers, she was more than ready to believe it. Someone, or something, had shaped the hummers into a tool for the revival of a god. She was almost certain that the vessels were not “consumed”, as the threes believed, or at least not entirely.

Their minds, and souls, had been taken from their bodies and used to inhabit artificial bodies.

What Soyana was experiencing was what she had locked away; memories of how to be herself.

She was the first one to do so, and Niala believed that went along with their numbers, which indicated the hummers' relative strength. She guessed this went hand-in-hand with their force of will.

Right now, though, none of it mattered. What did was that there was a woman before her whose mind had potentially been ripped from her body, tortured, and implanted in a new one to serve a dead god she had never known.

And if Niala had something to say about it, she never would.

Her mood darkened, ears folding down, and a pit formed in her stomach. When they came back from the hummer lands with the rescued workers and guards, they had returned with seven less.

Right now, whatever force or mechanism that drove the hummers might have seven minds and souls torn from Riverwall.