I scooped up Skeleton Lady’s daggers and then unbuckled the holster she had around her waist and put it on myself.

“You’re stealing my daggers too?” she asked as I hopped her over to a building, her ankles and wrists still being bound.

“Yeah, sorry about that. If we make friends, I might be willing to give them back.” But then I added in a lower voice, “But the way things are going, I kinda doubt it, to be honest.”

“The feeling’s mutual, hun.”

I finally got her indoors and sat her in a corner of the room. I took a quick peek out the windows to make sure nothing was paying too much attention to us, then decided to fix myself up a little better. Granted, being a skeleton made me fit in better, but it was weird being all bones if I didn’t have to be.

{Veilform}. Human!

Skeleton Lady’s jaw gaped open in shock as flesh started appearing on my arms and reverse-peeling forward. It filled in between my bones, and the skin stretched out and slipped overtop. Then, the same process happened with each individual finger and the rest of my body until I was back in a wolfy human form. I let my ears and tail be their normal length as there was no point trying to hide them.

“What… the… fucking hell…” Skeleton Lady let out in shock.

“Oh come on, with everything else weird going on around here, is it really that bad?”

“Yeah, actually. Hate to break it to you, but you’re the weirdest fucking thing in this place.”

“Even weirder than those Divine Dross things?” I asked, tilting my head.

“Divine…” she cocked her skull. “Dross? Oh, I get it. You talking about the things in those jars?”

“Yeah. So I take it you don’t have Analyze, huh?” I asked.

“That a skill? Na, guess I don’t.”

Interesting. She didn’t seem to know much. Guess she hadn’t had much interaction with the world outside of this place.

“Right. So anyway, I have a lot I want to ask you about, and we’ll get back to those things. First things first. How long have you been here?”

I had two reasons for asking this. When she answered, “I don’t know, four-five months,” I had my follow-up question already prepared.

“Are you from Earth?”

Instantly I could see in the shift in her posture what the answer to that question was.

“Yeah... I am,” she answered. “I take it you are too?”

I nodded. “So, question number three. Why were you attacking me?”

She stared at me for a few seconds before answering, “Because that’s what you’re supposed to do in this world. Kill things.”

“But you didn’t kill me right away. And when you heard me talk, you just went on pretending to be a skeleton. You didn’t even make an attempt to come to peace with me, yet you didn’t finish me off either when maybe you could have. It’s like you were just messing with me.”

“Because that’s exactly what I was doing.” Her lower jaw twisted against the upper in a skeletal grin. “I was having a little fun.”

My ears folded down at that and my tail drooped.

“Is that really the reason?” I asked.

“Well, I was curious too. Something as interesting as you… Things around here are so boring. I wanted to at least learn about you a little before finishing the job. Would be a waste to finish you too quickly. Also gave me a chance to level some of my own skills.”

"You could have just asked."

"I probably would have, eventually. After I broke you a little more."

I stared.

“So you really were going to kill me when you were done?”

“Like I said. Killing things is what you’re supposed to do, right? No reason for a truce.”

“But, like…” I let out a breath. “When you heard me talking, didn’t you want to know if I was from Earth or not too? How many Earthlings are you just randomly stumbling across where it doesn’t matter at all?”

“You’re the first.”

“Then why wouldn’t you want to talk to me?”

“What the hell’s it matter one way or another?” Her gaze lowered down to the floor. “Not like anything good ever happened to me on Earth. As fucked as this undead shithole is, at least I’m free to do as I please.”

I frowned.

I mean, I definitely understood what she meant. I didn’t really feel much attachment to Earth one way or another myself. Lisha had little in the way of happy memories, and whatever ones she did have were spoiled somehow. The only time she was ever truly happy as far as I could tell is when she had me in her room, hanging out and showing me her video gam—

I felt a sudden headache come on, confusion washing over me as two versions of events competed in my mind. This had happened before. Looking down at the puppy, looking up at Lisha. Holding the puppy while being held by Lisha. Which one was my memory?

“Aaah…” I let out a breath and caught myself on a wall, knees nearly buckling. I rubbed my temple.

Skeleton Lady’s skull tilted curiously once again. “You about to pass out on me, hun?”

I hissed through my teeth, “Maybe it’s the blood loss.”

Her jaws twisted in a skeletal grin once again. “Just so we’re on the same page, you pass out, and I get out of this, first thing I’m doing is killing you.”

“Yeah, I figured,” I muttered back, taking a few deep breaths to steady myself.

My past life was Lisha, I told myself, not sure why I felt the need to reassure myself of that fact. A puppy obviously wouldn’t know about world history and stuff, so I could only have been Lisha.

She stared at me for a while. “You seem young,” she eventually said, in a much nicer tone than she’d used until now. “About thirteen, yeah?”

“I was a little older on Earth,” I explained.

She nodded and let out an amused huff. “I’m quite a bit older than that.”

“How old?”

“Well, I was about 15 into my second life.”

“Second… life?” Didn’t she just say she’d only been here for four or five months? And as Rin had said, if this Skeleton Lady was really from Earth, then that means she would have transmigrated around the same time I did. But no, she referred to her second life in past tense, not as the one she was currently living.

She grinned at me. “It’s a whole different world. Being free, versus living behind bars. Some time after my sentence, I started thinking of that as my second life. Didn’t know a more literal one was coming.”

“So you were a prisoner?” I asked.

“You got it.”

My ears folded down. “What… um… What did you do?”

She kept her eyes on me. “Killed a whole lotta people. Enough to get the death penalty myself. It was just taking them a lifetime to get around to actually executing me some reason. That’s how it is on death row, though.” She let out another dry chuckle. “Cruel and unusual punishment’s supposed to be against the law, right? It’s fucking psychological torture, making you wait that long. Making it unclear when it’s coming. So you just keep on waiting and waiting, and whenever you think it’s almost time, you find out you just gotta wait some more. Know what would have been less cruel than that? If they just blasted a hole in my head the second the judge banged that fucking gavel.”

The way she talked about it sounded so casual.

“Who’d you kill?” I asked.

She stared at me for a few seconds, then shrugged.

“People.”

“I figured that much.”

“Then why did you ask?”

“Because I want to know who they were.”

“Yeah? Well, what difference does it make?”

“A pretty big one.” I folded my arms, though one hand remained close to the dagger at my waist. “There’s a difference between killing a bunch of innocent people for fun, or doing it to people who deserved it. Or even, people you have no choice but to kill.”

“So you’re telling me you had no choice but to kill everything you have? Based on your level, I bet you killed a lot.”

“Well… That’s different.” I clenched a fist, then looked back at her. “This world is different. Earth was a place where that kind of thing wasn’t necessary. You didn’t have to kill to survive.”

“Maybe for you. But that depends on who you are, right?”

My tail drooped. “Well…”

I couldn’t deny that logic.

“You hoping I was some kind of tragic vigilante, hun?”

“Not exactly.” I thought about it for a moment, then turned my gaze back on her. “Honestly, I hope not. I hope just the opposite. That you’re absolutely despicable. Because I know one way or another the smart thing for me to do is just kill you right here and now, to not give you another chance to stab me in the back. It’ll be easier if I don’t think you’re somehow a good person.”

She let out an amused huff and leaned her skull back against the wall. “Well then, I guess you’re in luck.”

My ears lowered. “So they were innocent? The people you’ve killed?”

“Some of them probably were.”

“Probably?”

“I didn’t exactly conduct interviews first. Whoever was paying me had a reason to want them dead, and were motivated enough to pay my agency to get it done.”

“So you were a hitman? Or… hit woman?”

“Pretty much.” She shrugged. “I didn’t really care who I was taking out. Just cared that I got paid on time.”

I nodded. “Fair enough.”

Her gaze came back to me, and the way she stared now, if she had eyebrows, I imagine one of them would have been cocked. “You’re okay with that?”

“Yeah, why wouldn’t I be? You weren’t killing pointlessly. You were getting something out of it. Maybe it is even what you had to do to survive, but even if not, I think it being a job is enough justification.”

She laughed. “Was that your philosophy when you lived on Earth?”

“No. That was a different person. This me thinks differently.” I turned my head. “But cutting me up the way you did was pretty cruel. I can’t say I agree with it if you caused anybody unnecessary pain like that. If you dragged out your kills purely for entertainment… That’s wrong. Of course, I’m glad you didn’t just kill me when you had the chance. As I said, I can’t afford to die here. I have too many loved ones depending on me. Who I need to get back to.”

“You really are something else, kid.” She struggled against her bindings. “So what are you waiting for? Judging whether I deserve it or not before you kill me? Whether my death is necessary?”

“Judging…?” I repeated the word. It didn’t sit right with me now that it was said out loud. Isn’t that always what I do when I feel conflicted about a kill? Judge whether my prey deserved it?

“So what’s the verdict?” she asked.

I stared back. Frankly, I still wasn’t sure if she deserved to die or not, but she hadn’t given me enough reason to trust her. But she didn’t exactly try to either. But if she was so flippant about her own death, I supposed that was another reason I shouldn’t care about taking her life. Someone who wanted to live surely would be harder to kill than someone who didn’t seem to care one way or another.

Not that someone pleading for their life had stopped me in the past anyway. Given the right circumstances…

But I couldn’t really know what was in her head. How much she cared to live or die. Whether she was pure enough that it was morally unacceptable for me to end her. But who was I to judge those things one way or another?

“Maybe… I’m just trying to talk myself out of it,” I muttered. But even that was wrong. I was trying to justify it, because really, I knew better, and my mind was actually already made up.

“First, there’s something else I want to know about. Getting back to the Divine Dross stuff.”

The lights in her eyes shifted slightly with a slight pulse.

“Why were you afraid of it?" I continued.

She scoffed. “You saw it, didn’t you? Goes from a puddle of goo to some kind of moaning flesh zombie. Anyone would be afraid of that shit.” Her gaze shifted away from me. “And I saw what it does when it finds something else to attach to.”

I stared at her, waiting for her to continue.

“The good news is, whatever it attaches to, it doesn’t live that way for very long. A few days or so before collapsing.”

“Attaches… to…?”

“I saw it get on some other skeletons. Heh, well really, I experimented with it. When they are cracked open, they try to take a form. A humanoid form. But they can’t hold it. They always end up dissolving back into a puddle, and eventually they give up, or rather, they reach the end of their lifespan without managing to become anything.

“So one day I tried pouring one on another skeleton, and that’s where things got interesting. It instantly took the thing over, started filling in all the missing bits, and formed a body. It then went on a rampage and started attacking everything it saw, tearing those other skeletons apart in seconds. So the way it seems is, the sludge is pretty much worthless by itself, but whatever it takes over becomes way stronger. I wouldn’t even risk fighting one of them myself.”

“I see… And you didn’t want it touching you because you didn’t want to be taken over?”

“I don’t know if something sentient like one of us would retain our consciousness or not. But I’m sure as hell not going to be the guinea pig.”

I stared at her, thinking over all of her actions.

“Did you want to get it on me?” I asked. “Were you hoping I could be the guinea pig instead?”

Her jaw twisted together in a sick smile. “Like you already figured out, I wasn’t exactly set on killing ya. And it would have been nice to know how it affects someone sentient. My bet, though, is that even if it didn’t just turn you crazy and send you on a rampage, it would still drop you dead after a few days. I just don’t see any reason that particular part of the whole deal would change.”

“I see. So you really would have done that to me.”

“Better you than me, hun.”

Yeah, she needed to die. Maybe it was knowing Fox that made me want to give people the benefit of the doubt, but I really couldn’t trust Skeleton Lady. She wasn’t just going to kill me, she was going to do worse than that. Knowingly turn me into a sludge zombie with no idea what it would do to my mind. I can’t imagine many worse ways to die than that.

“One more question,” I added. “Do you know where it comes from?”

She looked up to the ceiling. “Na. I have no idea. I was just dropped in this city. Assumed I was in hell, considering the red sky. That may even still be the case. Doesn’t really matter. Last thing I remember…” She paused for a while. “I was out in the yard. The prison yard, that is. Keep us shackled up, but let us walk around a bit for exercise. It’s not much but still better than sitting in a cell all day.”

I watched her. Her skeletal face didn’t have much in the way of expression, but the way she stared at nothing… Her past life was obviously clearer to her than mine was to me.

“There was this guard,” she continued. “I managed to talk him into letting me have a smoke. Hadn't had one in years. Maybe he was in a bit of a nice mood, considering the world was about to end and all.”

“World was about to end?” I asked.

“The meteors dropping out of the sky and killing all those people. I thought it was a joke when I first heard about it. But the prison started going on lockdown, could tell something big was going on out in the world.”

I nodded, thinking back to my very last memory of Earth. When I was cold, and then that bright thing came at me. Plus, that’s how Genzo said he had died, though he was from a different world.

“So what caused that to start happening?” I asked her.

“Can’t say I know too much about it, but even when you're locked up, news from outside manages to trickle down to you. Whole world was going fucking insane, apparently. Meteors weren’t even the biggest problem as far as casualties, really. Governments freaking out and launching all their bombs. Cults forming, believing it was all God’s doing or something. Mobs, witch hunts, you name it.

“But I remember, when I was standing there in the yard, shackles on my wrists and ankles, enjoying that smoke, I was just staring at the sky and thinking how nice it’d be if one of them meteors were for me. If it came down and took me out right then.” She let out a raspy chuckle. “Sure enough…”

“Then you woke up here?” I asked.

“Yep. I don’t really know what this place is. Or what’s going on. Why getting hit with a meteor would put me here.” She turned to me for just a moment. “I’m assuming you got hit with one too, huh?”

“Yeah. Most people in this world don’t know about people like us. We’re called transmigrators.” I thought for a moment, then added, “Earth isn’t the only one either. Apparently it happens every few years or so with a different world.”

“Even more worlds, huh? Funny, something about that idea makes me feel a whole lot better.”

Her gaze was off me, just staring blankly at the ceiling once again.

I moved my hand down to one of the daggers at my waist. I thought for a moment. I thought for a very hard moment as I stared at her. But I had known all along how this would end.

I tightened my grip around the hilt. “I’m going to kill you now.”

“Thanks for the warning,” she muttered.

I drew it from its sheath and carefully stepped towards her. I wanted to ask if there was anything else like her here in the ruined city, but decided better of it. Not after I made my declaration. It felt wrong to keep drilling someone I was about to kill for information to help with my own survival. I think the right thing to do at this point would just be to make it quick.

I raised the dagger, my focus locked onto her eye sockets. I really hoped I could end it with a single strike and—

She suddenly lurched up from the ground and tackled her shoulder into me. It happened so suddenly I wasn’t prepared and lost my footing, being taken to the ground with her. She was still tied up, and she kicked and struggled, trying to break free.

“GRRRRRR!” I growled, grabbing her shoulder and wrestling to get on top of her. I succeeded at spinning her around, and as soon as she kicked her legs free, a bony knee slammed at my side, trying to force me off. It seemed I’d tied her hands well enough, at least, because she hadn’t managed to get them free.

I gripped the dagger and plunged down with all of my body weight, slamming it right through her eye socket. A raspy gasp escaped her, but there was still light in her other eye, so I yanked the dagger free from her skull, spraying shards of bone, and plunged it down again. This time, her body shuddered once, and then collapsed into a detached pile of bones.

Great Foe Eliminated - Skeleton Night Sentry Level 25

Experience Gained!

Achievement! A Sentry’s Final Watch

Working the graveyard shift is a tiring lifestyle. She should thank you for helping her with the early retirement.

Minor Bonus to all stats

Achievement! Should have gone for the head

You defeated an enemy who repeatedly hunted, wounded, and toyed with you. Mercy is dangerous when one’s prey has teeth. She should have gone for the head.

Minor bonus to all stats

Bonus experience awarded!

You have leveled up!

You are now level 21!

+8 Vigor

+8 Strength

+7 Dexterity

+10 Attunement

+9 Sense

I nodded at each of those, flicking them away one at a time. But then, one final Achievement popped up. I blinked as I read it...

Achievement! Oops, was that important?

You just killed another transmigrator! Was it important? You’ll find out eventually.

A@234!$AF!d Awarded!

What… the hell…?
