“In terms of pure power and attrition, yes. But it is as Jessica said: There are things an individual can do that a monster will never be able to achieve.” Valor held up a hand in an almost theatrical gesture. “We are the builders. Architects of our lives and civilizations. Monsters might be primal expressions of elemental power, but they are acted upon and react in accordance. In this, we are mirroring tragedies, for one is born without inherent strength and power to survive the cruelties of a tamed environment, while the other goes from beast to prey when the wilderness is pushed back and civilization sets its roots. But down that long line, when individuals become Legends and monsters become Awakened, the lanes twist and mix, and things that used to bind us blur and blend.”

Shiv clapped sarcastically, and Valor—humming a laugh—took a bow. “Shiv. Tides.”

“Ah, right.”

The seconds passed, and stacked until they became minutes. The world devolved into a sea of buzzing fractals that struck and clashed against Shiv’s form. By now, he was wreathed in a dense hive of platinum scabs—but their mass and depth remained faint, and Shiv’s stolen tides increased his strength dramatically.

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 558 > 560

Legion of Self 180 > 181

Memorization 34 > 37

Inertial Overdrive 369 > 372

On the side, Valor continued dispensing directions while examining. “Watch how she strikes and stabs as well: observe her form—no, not that way. Shiv, focus.”

“Yeah. Doing my best.”

“This, too, is good practice. There will be times you must fight in severe emotional distress. Or faced with other urges—”

“Valor, you’re making this shit harder. Please stop talking for now.”

“Ah. I apologize.”

“Thanks!”

Though it took great mental discipline on his part, Shiv did manage to get a few things from Uva’s swordplay. For one, this was a version of her that was incapable of manipulating her physique to the extreme and continued to fight like a grounded combatant throughout. That meant she needed to generate leverage using footwork, strength, and bodyweight.

Huh. I wonder…

Shiv reached out and clutched one of the Uvas by the back of the neck. Instead of closing his hand and ending her life, he let his overflow tides cross over and flow through her contours—and that allowed him to rip the force out of her body before it could be generated. More than that, it mapped exactly where she was generating force and in what direction, wreathing her in a sort of kinetic cartography for him to behold.

“Ah. Now you see.” Valor nodded in pride. “Good, good. This is what it means to properly trailblaze—you use stable foundations to explore further. Some Martials have a variant of this as an Awareness Skill—an Evolution of Body Language, I believe.”

But Shiv’s influence went beyond the sight and theft of forces. His overflow tides circulated out from him, grinding along the silk carpets and blasting through the feeble Magical Resistances given unto these false Uvas. Such allowed him to map out everything in his surroundings and strike at things beyond his reach, yet still connected to him in the second degree. “I haven’t been using my Legendary Physicality well at all,” he muttered.

“Not an uncommon problem,” Valor commiserated. “Especially for an individual who possesses incredibly rare evolutions. It means something when even I have no notion as to how your Toughness functions before you mentioned how it works. The same goes for your Physicality as well. The Culturist might know more as he has traveled to more dimensions than I, but most known fusions and evolutions are recorded in books or Psychomantic Remembrance crystals. And most of them are individual skills.”

“Because the number of monsters who are literary and have an interest in doing an autobiography is pretty small, huh?”

“You jest, but that is the case. You have to evolve a skill worth noting, possess the intellect and language ability to describe said skill, and then see your works published—and stay published over time instead of being suppressed by political entities who despise the notion of an intelligent monster.”

“Huh? Why would—” Shiv stopped talking as he remembered the Republic’s propaganda about the Abyss. “Ah. Yeah.”

“Yes, indeed. Never underestimate just how much of history has been buried, and how much knowledge has been lost. This world is a graveyard in more ways than one. We live in an ossuary of lost progress. Individually, we are more powerful than our ancestors could ever hope to be. Civilizationally, even under the System, I fear we remain but worms seething at hawks.”

“I’m not sure if that’s actually the case anymore,” Shiv replied. Valor turned to him, gesturing for him to elaborate further. “The Farwalker. He was human. From Earth. He told me things about old Earth. Said he was from the periphery. Somewhere called Centauri or something, and that they fought a war against the ‘Core’ to stop themselves from being enslaved by a machine-mind or something.”

“Truly?” Valor’s interest rang clear in his voice. “Shiv, if possible, could you make introductions? There is much I would like to know about the past. Can Hu would be most fascinated as well.”

“You know what? I think the Pruduveral—felling, how do I pronounce his name? The Farwalker will love to talk with you. Mainly because you’re Udraal’s father, and it sounded like he’s a pain in their ass too.”

At the mention of Udraal, Valor’s heart darkened, and his mood soured immediately—more than any time prior. Shiv’s mind spun; where his memory and thoughtlessness betrayed him in combat, he couldn’t stop his mind from zeroing in on the very evident psychological imbalance Valor was suffering before him. A shadow manifested behind Valor, and it drove a dark dagger through his skull over and over.

“It was recent,” the Harbinger whispered, still weak, but now awake enough to return. “Whatever mental wound he sustained because of Udraal was recent… which means…”

Udraal was probably in the Gate, Shiv guessed. And Valor didn’t tell anyone. He probably has a reason for that. Probably. Or maybe I’m wrong.

“Or maybe you must be on guard. We do not think that Valor will betray us. But that is a hope. And he does not need to betray us to put us in danger. Look at his core—there is resignation and pain. He fought with his son. There are conflict scars there upon his psyche. But he hasn’t told anyone. What he hides remains a danger for the rest of the gate.”

Should I confront him?

“Not yet. Not right now. He needs to remain focused, and so should you. And you should not strike at his vulnerability directly. Not when I remain so dangerous and volatile. But that also means another thing: You must ask Valor to leave before your alternate arrives. Because he will strike at Valor. You must face the final encounter alone.”

Shiv swallowed and understood. “Valor. I got something to tell you.”

“Yes?” Valor answered, sounding slightly worried. An Uva prepared to drive her blade up and through the underside of Shiv’s jaw—but she blinked out of existence as the simulation reset. Shiv found himself returned to the doorway and purged clean of scars. “Ah. Twelve minutes exactly. As I suspected. You should stall each time. Otherwise, you might be faced with an hour on the hardest intensity.”

“Yeah, well, let’s try reaching four before we think about five: I still got Jessica to get through. But speaking of five, you know my alternate will have the Harbinger too, right?”

Valor understood immediately. “Yes. Quite dangerous indeed. I will see myself absent for that period—very thoughtful of you, Shiv. You have my gratitude.”

“Don’t mention it. What’s a disciple for, right?”

“For some masters? A puppet of pain and abuse. Others? To disappoint and be disappointed by.” Valor sighed. “I wish people lived up to their own legend more, Shiv. Sullain… I know you despise him, but I knew him when he was better. The things he could do with magic—”

“I understand,” Shiv cut him off. “The first time I saw him, he turned a rain of fireballs into a flock of birds and then back to fire. Even if he came to butcher and burn my home, he performed a wonder, and it’s what I think of every time I imagine the pinnacle of magic.”

Valor bowed his head. “He ruined himself. He was capable of so much. So many of us are capable of so much. But we always fail ourselves, because of the fragility of our hearts, and the weakness inherent in our egos.” He paused. “Few will become great. Few will be wise enough to master themselves. Few upon few is fewer yet, and that control and insight is something I have never been able to teach. I could not save Andra from her blind loyalty to her people and her own urges. I inflicted an all-consuming obsession upon my son and saw him twisted into what he is now, and I could not protect Adam at all. Disappointment is a terrible thing.”

“Disappointment is education,” Shiv shot back. “Disappointment is being alive. If you weren’t there, then it would be some other excuse, some other injury. I’m glad you’re here, Valor. And I didn’t give a shit that you were reduced or broken before. I’m just glad to have someone who cares, and someone who can teach me when I’m doing wrong. I get your disappointment. Hopefully, I don’t end up breaking your heart too, but we’re still alive, and we’re still here, and until that point—if it ever comes to be—we keep building and trying. Architects of our own fate and all that. It’s just a long education for all of us. I guess the System is like a shitty master for everyone.”

“It really is, isn’t it?” Valor mused, turning his gaze up.

Initiating Encounter (2/5)

Wave 1 activated.

Wave 2 activated.

“Second encounter,” Shiv said. The doors flung open. The Urris came marching forth. “Stall?”

Valor considered the opposition. “Remove the Uvas. They are a distraction right now. Absorb force from the Urris—and eliminate the Culturist the moment he appears. He is too dangerous to serve as a training partner. The Vultegs are far more predictable.”

And from Valor’s words, Shiv gained a glimpse of enlightenment. The Urris were far stronger and tougher than the reduced Culturist, but even so, the orc remained the greater threat. Because raw power alone meant nothing if the body and mind wielding it failed to apply it toward a proper purpose. And that was Shiv’s ultimate weakness: he was a Legend—but he was a Legend closer to Urri than Jessica—or Roland.

He was probably stronger than Jessica—much stronger if he used his skill to its full godsdamned potential. He was now outright tougher. But she still humiliated him because combat was more than two rocks slamming together in Integration. It was everything—all the skills he knew how to use against all the skills she could bring to bear, and who could be more creative and complex with the tools they had.

And I’m just not complex.

The first of the Urris drove a mountain-crumbling blow against Shiv’s skull. But no shockwave disturbed the world, and only the faintest of bruises dotted Shiv’s Onus of Scarred Unbroken. Urri was powerful but predictable, and all that power was stolen out of his punch and converted into tides. Every subsequent blow the other Urris inflicted suffered the same fate. They staggered in place, stumbling and tripping in bellows of surprise as Shiv found himself rich with overflow tides to spend—so rich that his Legion of Self was starting to fog his mind with how much force he now had stored.

Urri was much stronger than the reduced Uva, but Uva's skill was more complicated by a magnitude, and it was to her benefit. Urri's might was nullified outright. His blows and attacks were sloppy and brutal, and in Shiv's mind, it was honestly a miracle he became a Legend at all.

But people like the Culturist, Jessica, Roland, and Valor all had a deeper understanding of what it meant to conduct war. Each of them was specialized in a different way, but all of them had a grasp as to what it meant to truly fight on the level of a Legend. And a Pathbearer of that threshold didn’t have the benefit of being simple-minded.

Another twelve minutes passed. The Culturist appeared, and was promptly turned to cinders by Shiv’s Unique Pyromancy—philosophically complicated enemies served as excellent fuel. By the time the third encounter started, Shiv felt a flow come over him like never before.

“Good, very good,” Valor said, continuing to coach Shiv. “Now eliminate your enemies gradually—make sure there is no one left when Jessica arrives. And as soon as she arrives, find a way to contain Adam. Do not even bother engaging with her. It is time to discover if there is a limit to your Toughness.”

“Contain?” Shiv asked. A thought returned to him, and the corner of his lip curved. “I could collapse the Garden on him, but that might just suffocate him or see Jessica slip between the cracks and gaps by shrinking to the size of a grain. But… you remember the anchor?”

“In Passage?” Valor flinched with disgust. “Ah. Very… inspired, but yes. Quite the strategy—one only you might be able to perform.”

“Yep. Well.” Shiv’s mana hydra reared back all its heads before tearing into his body, pulling him open as he dragged Adam into the vivisection.

