“Great One…” Valor cringed in muted horror at Shiv’s casual self-mutilation. “Let us never tell Adam about this. I must congratulate you on disturbing me as well, Shiv. I thought myself beyond disgust or revulsion, but watching you re-enact a gore-soaked reinterpretation of what it means to be a kangaroo has taught me the benefit of not having a working stomach.”

“What’s a kangaroo?”

“It is an animal found in Ostraya.”

“Oh, the bot nation?”

“They’re… not exactly a nation, more like an independent series of clusters watching over the local tribes and wildlife. It’s complicated. But I think you would like it. Many interesting Awakened animals have formed packs and small states of their own there, including a race of surface spiders who have since migrated into the void and beyond.”

“Huh, interesting.”

The doors snapped open. The portal came to life. Shiv rolled his shoulders. “Alright. Tell me more about that when we get done with this. For now, let’s see if we can screw Jessica over.”

“Arroooww!” one of the Urris bellowed. “Doesn’t matter if you’re stuffed inside another! I’ll open him! I’ll shit into him! I’ll shit on you!”

“What an odd series of threats,” Valor mused.

“Yeah, Lord Scorn might be a scat-guy.”

“Hm. How distasteful. Kill them with your fire.”

“You got it, master.”

A few minutes and a hall filled with well-cooked bodies later, a door opened, and Jessica stepped forth—only to freeze mid-stride and groan at the sight of Shiv and Valor.

“Hey, Jessica.” Shiv waved mockingly. His torso was a nest of bloated agony, and Adam’s constant thrashing made every second an exquisite exploration of pain. 3 out of 10, Shiv decided. “Glad to see you again. Well. Have at me. I’m all yours.”

“What the fuck is this?” Jessica hissed, pointing her blade at Shiv. “Is that his nose sticking out of your chest?”

Shiv looked down and grinned. “Yup. Have to keep ripping it back open with Biomancy.” A splash of blood tumbled out of his mouth mid-conversation. “Ah, sorry. He’s bleeding inside me while I’m internally bleeding too. Real mess.”

“This is grotesque.”

“And crawling up someone’s asshole or ripping up their kidneys isn’t?”

“There’s a pretty big difference when you’re doing it to hurt someone else instead of doing a wound-womb pregnancy re-enactment,” Jessica gagged. “Fuck, Shiv. Fuck. Just looking at you makes me grossed out. And you!” She waved her sword at Valor. “Piss off.”

“No,” Valor replied. “I do not answer to simulations.”

“Oh, you cocksucking—you’re alright with this?”

“If his method denies you your victory, then I will sing its praises all the same,” Valor said, holding his head high.

Exasperated, Jessica threw up her hands and marched forward. “Alright, Shiv. I was being nice before—made it quick. But now, you’re going to get all of it. I’m going to do things to your ass that will make Katherine wince and weep.”

“Imagine the papers they’ll write about this too.” Shiv snorted. “Centuries-old hag forces her way into supple boy’s asshole.”

Despite being enemies—and a simulation—Jessica barked an unwilling laugh. “Ah. Go to hells, Shiv.”

“Take me there if you can. Because I bet you can—”

She exploded forth as twin wheels of flame ignited beneath her feet. One moment, she was fifty meters away. The next, she was spiking him through the orichalcum walls lining Adam’s room. It wasn’t even her being faster this time—she simply timed her charge perfectly to one of Shiv’s blinks. All the overflow tides he'd gathered were rendered useless without direction, and by the time Shiv regained his bearings, Jessica was gone—

And then found, as she bounced off the small breathing-hole Shiv had made to keep Adam alive. She was smaller than a speck, but her form glowed bright and resonated with a screaming pitch.

“Inertium recoils both ways, Jessica!” Shiv laughed. Condensed upon his chest was a cluster of tides, hollow flames, and the tight-sprung heads of his hydra. Jessica’s armor rendered her a menace against magic; it also made magic exert a very physical force upon her.

The Giantsbane darted through the air and circled behind Shiv. He tried to track her with his Atlas, but lost track of her in seconds. “Shit—agh.” Something slammed into his hip and left a deep scar along his lower back. A hundred more cuts exploded along his rear and groin, each one enough to cleave a mountain in twain. Shiv went from moving like liquid lightning to a tortoise crawling through mud.

“Shiv! Full tumor!” Valor called out. “Even if she cannot hurt you, she might be able to crawl through your organs. Wrap Adam tighter.”

“Shut the fuck up!” Jessica’s frustrated voice squeaked out from inside Shiv’s lower stomach.

Ah, shit, she’s already inside me! And I didn’t even feel it. I hate this! I fucking hate this skill! Hate it! Shiv flinched and twitched from psychological trauma as he felt her lash and shred against his insides. It felt like his intestines were turning to stone, but aside from that, no pain radiated from the scars lighting up within.

“Holy shit,” Shiv murmured. “This skill might be Narrativium. I am godsdamned indestructible.”

Refusing to be sidetracked by his astonishment, Shiv began triggering a sprawl of rapid cell divisions all around Adam. At the same time, he circulated his Shapeless Tides around the Paragon’s form to ensure that the Giantsbane couldn’t get to him even with a gap.

And somehow, the strategy felling worked.

Shiv’s already mangled insides were inflamed further as Jessica went on a frenzy, slashing, stabbing, bashing, and raging like a pack of feral cats packed tight in the same cage. Within a minute, Shiv was rooted in place, the weight his Onus sustained far exceeding his Physicality’s ability to contend with. He was still capable of crawling, but standing up became a feat that demanded most of his tides, so he committed to lying down. As he did, he found himself staring through the hole leading back into Adam’s room, and realized he was in an extended hallway that resembled the first.

System, you’re an unoriginal shit sometimes.

“Shiv?” Valor asked. “Are you well?”

“Just die! What even is this felling Toughness you have? Why are all my cuts glowing?” Jessica ranted inside his stomach, trying to saw through a cluster of teratomas.

“I wouldn’t say well,” Shiv said, struggling to hold a hand up. “But it’s working. I think.”

“It’s bullshit is what it is! I’d have murdered a Jotun Legend three times over by now. That bitch had Legendary Toughness too! What is this?”

A smug smile came over Shiv’s face as he just got heavier and heavier. The ground began to deform beneath him. The air began to distort as rubble and dust billowed away from Shiv, Jessica hitting him hard enough to turn the atmosphere into plasma-soup with every blow.

And none of it did anything.

Minutes passed. Shiv counted the time and did all he could with his Biomancy to stop himself from expiring from the tumors. The damage he inflicted on himself was the bigger problem in the end. Jessica, meanwhile, complained all the way through as she swapped weapons and started conducting a percussive orchestral number by wailing on Shiv’s bones.

Then, suddenly and without warning, she stopped.

Shiv didn’t even realize she was done until he found her standing over him. He tried to angle his head and look up at her to sneer or taunt, but he was so heavy now that he couldn’t even move his lips. “Yogghh gaveuhhh?”

“Yep,” Jessica said, sounding more than a little displeased. “I’m felling done. This skill is bullshit. You’re bullshit. Are you happy now?”

Shiv broke down in a delirious fit of pig-like laughter. “Yuh…”

“Cheeky shit. What even is that glowing scar-stuff, anyway?” He tried to explain things to her, but even his tongue refused to cooperate. “What? Does it convert pain to exhaustion? Or… weight? Me beating your ass for six minutes just made you stupidly heavy?”

“Yuh…”

She snorted again. “Bullshit. Alright. Well. Good for you. Maybe you might even finish this Delve ahead of time, but for your sake, I hope it really doesn’t have a limit.”

“Huh?”

The simulation blinked. Shiv found himself returned to the hallway—and saw everything restored to the way it was. Feeling his body, he found himself healed and stripped bare of overflow tides. But alive. But progressing. He got through it! He beat Jessica—well, he shrugged off her ripping through his ass as hard as she could for six whole minutes.

“Valor,” Shiv said, “I might just be indestructible.”

“You might just be. Absolutely absurd. Even for a Legendary Skill. And the only price is weight and a period of vulnerability when you shed your scars. If this strategy can work, then I suspect it will be very hard for an enemy to truly destroy you without—even with magic.”

“Looks like I might be getting on the Path of the Indestructible too, huh?”

Initiating Encounter (4/5)

Wave 4 activated.

Wave 5 activated.

Shiv froze. His sudden elation plunged as every single door exploded into splinters and a few hundred Jessicas strolled out. All of them were yawning, and none of them had the same weapon.

“Alright, Giantsbanes,” one of them called out. “Time to see if we can rip this dumb kid in half by pulling his cheeks in opposite directions.”

“This is where the fun begins,” another called, sounding like a woman about to go on a stroll through a park.

“Fuck me,” Shiv muttered.

And then, the grand gate at the far end of the hall activated, and from the dimensional static emerged the blazing, incandescent presence of an Ascendant.

Not of Longinus, but Cripple.

“Deathless. I have come to measure your worth. As a sandbag.”

“Shiv,” Valor hissed. “Tumor. Adam. Now.”

Shiv almost whimpered. “Fuck me triple.”
