Onus of the Scarred Unbroken is not a Restricted Skill—but only just. Any Pathbearer who evolves the skill is placed into the “Special Circumstances” category for Toughness. Though it does not directly enhance a Pathbearer's destructive capabilities and, on its own, does not threaten the development or the survival of civilizations, this skill ensures that a Pathbearer is made functionally indestructible in the face of all forms of material damage.

The connected workload for this skill is also a simple thing to manage: every bit of damage the Scarred Unbroken assumes is alchemized temporarily into an expression of “Onus,” inflicting a weight-like burden upon the Pathbearer. The greater or more acute the damage, the heavier the Onus will become. However, as most Pathbearers who develop this Skill Evolution tend to be Awakened monsters who survive mortal wound after mortal wound across their considerable lifespan, their Physicality is often not lacking, and that allows them to contend with this debt of metaphysical sluggishness.

Furthermore, Awakened monsters with powerful mana fields might find their burden state preferable, as it allows them to be anchored in place and become a fortress unto themselves. A notable user of an Onus Skill that all will be familiar with is Pop Queen Karna, who uses it to treat relativistic bombs as pyrotechnics for her cosmic performances.

Though the weight laden upon the scars grows exponentially as the Pathbearer remains in their Scarred Unbroken state, exceptionally powerful Pathbearers like Pop Queen Karna have been known to carry these scars for centuries before finally releasing them back upon their surroundings. Certain Void Leviathan have been recorded to go even longer, as they are capable of converting the physical forces that act upon them into Overflow Tides, which further lends to their longevity—and why every individual who possesses Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides is immediately elevated into the Restricted Category.

In these cases, when the husk of scars is shed, the Pathbearer assumes a brief period of extreme vulnerability. How long the period lasts is in proportion to how long they stayed Scarred, with certain Void Leviathans entering dimensional seclusion for decades or even centuries to hide from rival pods seeking to prey upon them. In the extremely rare case that a Pathbearer with Onus of the Scarred Unbroken also develops a Legendary-Tier Chronomancy Skill, the consequence the Onus carries is reduced even further…

—“Onus of the Scarred Unbroken”

VII-38

The Scarforged Unbreakable (I)

“Shiv… why haven’t you just tried stalling?”

“Huh? What do you mean?” An Uva was stabbing Shiv again, and he was an instant away from inducing magical brain-death in her to get to the next part. Getting Valor up to speed was the only reason he hadn’t ignited the entirety of the hallway already, and now that that was done, he was prepared to do just that—until the question stopped him. “Why don’t I just… let her keep stabbing me?”

Valor’s nod was so slight it bordered on being imperceptible, and that faint sheen of Animancy mana that allowed him to manifest in the Delve didn't help things either.

Meanwhile, Uva kept stabbing him, painting new platinum scars on his body and slowly building up his Onus—which meant something like "burden" according to Valor. “You know, Valor, when enemies show up in a Delve, I usually just kill them without thinking about that sort of thing too much. There are five encounters, and I guess I had to get through them, but… well, yeah, I didn’t think stalling was… allowed.”

“If the System doesn't want you to do something, it will tell you, Shiv.” Valor's voice was tinged with the slightest bit of exasperation, and he looked on at Uva, his sculpted features turning inscrutable. “That does not mean the System isn't abusive and pointlessly cruel at times, just that anything you cannot do will be stated, obviously, with penalties included. Aside from that, anything and everything is allowed.”

That revelation rendered Shiv speechless, and the only sounds that filled the hallway were of Uva continuing to stab at Shiv like a blacksmith working merrily at their anvil.

“Also,” Valor began, almost hesitantly, “why are you not converting the blows of your enemies into tides?”

Shiv felt his mind go even blanker. I could do that… Shit, I did do that before. I just… Felling hells, I forgot I could along the way. He cradled his skull in both hands as he struggled to come up with a good answer. Ultimately, a long sigh slipped out from Shiv as he did everything he could to not think of himself as stupid. “Yeah, so…”

“You forgot?” Valor finished for him.

A series of bones broke inside Shiv’s body as he squeezed his eyes shut and felt his Harbinger punish him with an onrush of self-loathing. “Yeah. I’m… I’m an idiot sometimes, Valor. You know that.”

“No, not an idiot.” Valor was disappointed, but not at Shiv. Even with his Harbinger dormant, he could see the emotional turmoil within his master, and it was pointed inward—at himself. “Merely mis-trained by your circumstances and deprived of proper guidance for too long.” Valor scoffed as he turned his gaze high, glaring at the unseen hand that tormented every Pathbearer. “I was too reduced to offer you what you needed before, and we were too overwhelmed to gather ourselves until recently, but it is not too late. We can make things better now.”

A humorless chuckle escaped Valor as his posture sagged. “Some Pathbearers espouse breaking from all tradition and being freed by constraining modes of thought. Most of them are fools. To break new ground, you must know what ground has already been tread; otherwise, you are simply reinventing the wheel, so to speak, rather than exploring uncharted territory. The System is making you reinvent the wheel over and over. Your basics have not been hardened and honed. You are simply made to die until your raw capacity to survive surpasses the full weight of harm levied against you. That is the System's great mistake. But it will commit this error upon you no more.”

The pain tied to Shiv's psychological turmoil dulled slightly, and a small smirk spread across his face. “Alright, Valor, what should I do?”

“Right now, wait and practice. You are not to kill her. You are to examine every aspect of yourself instead of rushing through things, using her as an aide.”

Shiv stared at the Uva that just kept stabbing him, her expression blank beside the burning determination to commit homicide behind her colorful eyes. “Uh, alright. So, I just let her keep hitting me for now?”

“For a start,” Valor said, observing Shiv. “We are in no hurry either: Roland knows about your condition and has his own matters to resolve. The Culturist has gone with him to see about Adam’s condition—consider your duel postponed; as it should have been from the start.”

“Godsdammit,” Shiv grunted in frustration. “I wanted to get—”

“No,” Valor cut him off, his tone severe. His eyes burned with corrosive mana, and Shiv’s instincts screamed for him to stand and fight—like he was facing down certain death. “A duel is a sacred thing. It is a significant thing. Yours will stand as a culmination or an evolution to the trauma of two families, but more importantly, it will determine what kind of Pathbearer you become, and who you wish to be as a person. But also, it reflects upon me, as I have chosen to take you as a disciple, and in my exhaustion and diminishment, allowed you to rush into things far too much. No more. You will not shame yourself. You will not shame me. And you will not shame Roland by making things a hurry. There will be a duel, and you will fight it well—with stable foundations and unparalleled power instead of only the latter.”

“Alright,” Shiv breathed, trying to suppress his instincts as his blood screamed for him to kill Valor before he was struck down in turn. “Wait, did you just use an Intimidation Skill on me?”

“No,” Valor answered casually. “But dread, oftentimes, is an appropriate response. It warns you about who you face, and it makes you focus.” Then, without doing anything in particular, Valor shed the killer for the intellectual, and he approached Shiv to examine the scars his body had sustained. “Hm. Remarkable. You claim that you suffer no pain nor true injury and incur only a debt of weight with this skill?”

“Yeah,” Shiv said, frowning as the Uva kept stabbing. It had been minutes, but none of the other Uvas were present. “Shit, stalling might actually work. Fuck. Fuck! Godsdammit! The System knew I was going to just punch shit without thinking.”

“Indeed,” Valor agreed, as he shaped an analysis spell to examine Shiv’s Onus of the Scarred Unbroken. “Hm. I’ve seen these platinum-colored flashes before. Mostly when observing Legendary monsters, who seem to gain instances of absolute indestructibility against certain attacks. But their Toughness is not as lasting as yours. It’s like you are meant to become a reservoir of destruction, incurring a debt of damage that you can then return to the environment or an enemy.”

“Yeah. Except it leaves me exposed after. The moment after I shed my Onus, I was back to the Heroic-Tier baseline—maybe even a little softer than that. Damn Vulteg slamming into me broke a few ribs.”

Valor coughed as his empathetic core filled with envy. “A few ribs. You have little idea how much a Vanguard might envy this Skill Evolution of yours—even Legendary pure Martials. Most of their Skills must work in conjunction with the armor they wear. The best they can hope for due to their Legend is extreme harm diminishment or a means of avoiding certain death. Of course, most Martials do not ever reach Legendary-Tier Toughness.”

“Because they end up dead along the way?” Shiv guessed.

“Quite so, Shiv. You likely understand the perils and costs of achieving a Legendary Toughness Skill more than most in existence. This strikes me as a skill only a powerful hydra might have a reliable chance of developing. These scars are the encapsulation of your Toughness—so many mortal wounds, so much blood taken from you, and yet you are still here. Yet, you have only been made stronger by that which failed to keep you slain. Monstrous. But how else should a Tarrasque bound to the flesh of a man be?”

“Adaptive,” Shiv answered. “I told you about the first skill. Same one the Tarrasque had. Wait, why didn’t that asshole need to go through a Delve to get that skill?”

“For that, I have no answer,” Valor admitted. “But I suspect that Farwalker you met might be able to offer you some hints if you apply the right kind of charm.”

Shiv grunted. “Maybe. Shit, I wonder if this Skill Evolution’s restricted too.”

Valor paused to consider that but promptly dismissed the possibility. “No. It is absurdly potent, but it simply ensures that you are unassailable in many regards. Yet, there is still magic and—Shiv, try to steal some of the force she is exerting on you. You’re letting potential overflow tides go to waste.”

Shiv winced and began doing just that; however, he found it hard to time Uva's strikes. He was much faster than this reduced version of her, but the fractals moved with an erratic buzzing that reminded him of a swarm of wasps rather than an actual blade. The way it struck was equally strange. It cleaved into him one fragment at a time before assembling into an intact bridge and injecting itself forward. If he were of baseline flesh, he would have been shredded apart before being pierced clean through. As such, the damage she inflicted came in an erratic, cascading sequence, and he had to time each one to steal any force at all.

After a few tries, a series of striped vectors rippled out from the site of the impact like a pond disturbed by a falling stone. Shiv decided to commit a synaptic echo within Legion of Self to constantly rip force away from his surroundings and manage its circulation.

Just as he did that, every single door leading down the hall snapped open without warning. Shiv’s nervous system spiked to full alertness, and a groan escaped him. “Well, now I see how this was supposed to go: wait them out instead of rushing through.”

“Correct,” Valor replied. “I remember going through something similar for my Reflexes Delve. I was cast into the Maze City of Nue-Un-Ket and made to evade hunters for half a day. I hid and assassinated my foes at first, but though I slaughtered my way through the first three encounters with ease, everything from the fourth became impassable as the simulation would reset the moment someone touched me, while I had to slay someone to remove them from the field.”

“Huh. How long did it take you to finish that Delve?” Shiv planted himself firmly in the doorway while the horde of Uvas stabbed at him with impunity.

“A bit over two days,” Valor admitted casually.

“Two,” Shiv repeated, pausing. “And just getting touched reset the Delve?”

“Yes.”

“...Are you sure I’m the monster here?”

