A quiet passed over us. I blinked, taken aback by her story and how real it felt.

"I'm...I'm sorry."

She shook her head in disgust.

"I will never need your pity. You. You remind me of my sister. She always told me that she was hiding me from that man. She told me she was my shield. No. She was his punching bag. She showed me what it was to sit there and be beaten. She showed me what it was to let someone be over her."

Marcella pointed her blade at me, and her eyes could murder.

"No one. No man, woman, or child will ever put me under them again. Not you. Not Schema. Not god or the Old Ones or whatever else is out there...Never again."

Again. It was a strange wording, almost as if she struggled with a bit of disassociation during the event. I took a breath before giving her story an appropriate silence. After a moment, I met her eyes, giving the conversation one last chance.

"You don't want to hand me power because of what happened. That makes sense, but the thing is, your deal with the Old Ones...I've seen it time and time again. It never fails to leave the mortal corrupted. They end up less than human, something torn apart for the purposes of some entity that can't even understand us. To them, we are toys that are meant to be broken."

I turned a palm to her.

"When you deal with them, they will not do so as equals. You will be used, whether you like it or not."

She grimaced.

"But you won't use me or my guild or the city that's mine? That's rich, coming from some gigantic, metal monster that eats things through its skin. As far as I can tell, you're no different. You're going to take over the entire Earth at this rate with those golems of yours. What's your plan after that?"

I raised a brow.

"I'm going to stop the Old Ones, Elysium, and Schema from destroying my home. No matter what you think about me, I hold Earth close. It's the only planet I can hold onto that reminds me I'm still human, and I'm not going to let other forces take that away from me."

She scoffed.

"Is that why you've brought so many species here? The dragons, the birds, and even the reptiles. We've had reports of walking cats even. That woman you brought is certainly not human, either. You even associate with the remnants, and their kind is an evil one."

From how she said that, her research fell off once I created a barrier at Mt. Verner. Shalahora's psionic screening must've eliminated the research altogether. Marcellla crossed her arms.

"It looks like you're chopping up Earth and giving it away, not keeping it uncorrupted, as you seem to say."

I narrowed my eyes.

"Do you see other species as corruption?"

She scoffed.

"You're something else. For someone who seems hell-bent on looking and acting like a monster, you sure do enjoy being called human. Tell me, did you let all these aliens settle down here so that you could look more human? Because it isn't working."

I leaned back, disconnecting emotionally from the conversation entirely.

"Talk to the people under my care. Ask them. And these people I've given a home are as human as anyone I've ever met. They're more human than you are, actually."

She rolled her eyes.

"You think their goodwill lasts? Schema's system is established around persistent indentured servitude. It makes my system of leveling people up in exchange for years of labor look like sainthood. These people you're bringing in have participated in that, and they're not changing their ways just because you're nice."

I grabbed one of my wrists, my hands raised.

"Yeah, that's about enough. I don't have to tolerate this."

"Tolerate what?"

I stood.

"Talking to you."

She laughed.

"You think you have the option to do anything else?"

I rolled my shoulders.

"You're as sharp as a brick and self-aware as a celebrity. You have no clue how to compromise because of your history. I get it. It sucks that you had to survive that horrific abuse, but you're not the center of the world, Marcella. That's why I'm not going to let you make your trauma into everyone else's problem."

She frowned.

"You'll stop me?"

I made my hand into a fist.

"I happen to know when to use force."

She nodded.

"I do as well. And I want to keep that option in my back pocket, so I'm not giving away my secrets, my domain, or anything else, for that matter."

I tilted my head.

"Yeah, I figured as much. Even though I'm not asking you to do anything aside from letting me get rid of the Old Ones and change a few practices. That was it, but apparently, that's too much for the great and mighty Marcella Meyor."

Her aura saturated the area around her.

"You're not going to let me continue the labor exchanges?"

I laughed.

"I'm not letting you continue anything. This conversation is over."

She pointed her blade at me again.

"Then pry my empire from my cold, dead hands."

I raised a hand, and gravitation collapsed over her. She moved through it with ease. She sneered.

"You think I haven't been planning this encounter for a long time? Do you think I'm some helpless damsel who's unable to find a weakness in the big scary Harbinger? Why else do you think I told you that sob story from my past."

I shrugged.

"I figured it was something like this. Why else would you dump all that history on me like we know each other?"

She raised a hand.

"I knew you'd know if I was lying, so I told the truth. It actually happened, but I'd never say something like that without a purpose...In this case, it bought me some time."

I hastened the pace of my temporal flow.

"Not enough, I assure you."

She snapped her fingers, and the area around me blurred. A lifelike illusion around me faded into mist, and I stood on a desolate rock in the void of space. Stars glinted far in the distance, and our mana offered the only light on this isolated rock. Marcella remained. She frowned at me.

"I know exactly who you are. I've known about you for years. I thought Yawm would kill you, and I came up with plans for what happens after. When you survived, I had to rethink some things. Since then, I've developed a hundred plans and contingencies while knowing your weaknesses."

She put her blade to my throat.

"You want to walk up to my home and steal everything I've earned?"

Her face warped with anger and defiance.

"You'll find my claws dig deep. It's hard to take what I have, and you're not the first to find that out. You won't be the last."

She began fading.

"Good luck finding Earth again. Any other planet, really."

I smiled, and the fading stopped. She looked me up and down. She murmured.

"Something's wrong. Why isn't the portal closing?"

Behind me, I wielded my wake to drag the warp back. I grabbed it in my hand.

"If you think a trick this simple will get rid of me, well-"

I grabbed the warp in my hands and split it open.

"Let's just say you'll need a lot more than that."
