One of the guards yelled.

"Hey, what are you doing there? Stop that."

I lowered my arm, taking a step backward. As I did, the primordial ether bent and bowed like an old home's floor giving way. It pried open, cracking in a cataclysmic splintering of mana, and shards fell away from where I stood. The rupture spread across the building's entrance until it faded to nothing, only a memory of something that was.

At least it lingered across the rest of the building. As the cracks spread, that reprieve faded as quickly as the rest of the building's protection. As it crumbled into nothing, I coughed into a hand.

"So...That was more fragile than I thought. My bad, guys."

Chapter Begin

The guards brandished swords and shields at me, many of them panicking. I raised my hands.

"If it makes it better, I don't know what just happened."

Rumors spread far behind me.

"The Harbinger has come."

"He's shattered her realm just by walking. A monster."

"Marcella's time has come."

I shook my head at their antagonizing murmurs. If anything, I aimed to lower tensions, not build them up. I wasn't the only one thinking. The guards used telepathic signaling before a tall redhead walked out of the Empire State Building. She stood twelve feet in height, her hair a striking crimson. She wore the black chitin of the insects, but she carried a subdued demeanor. She reminded me of a beaten wolf in a cage, her eyes fierce yet empty.

She turned a palm to me.

"Marcella would like to see you, Harbinger."

It was a strange introduction. I scratched the back of my head.

"Sorry about tearing down the aura. I still don't understand why it shattered like that."

The woman narrowed her eyes.

"Are you really the Legion's leader?"

Althea gestured to me.

"He is, and in the flesh."

A look of disgust crossed the redhead's face.

"I expected more. Why didn't you send a messenger? Are you so idle that you can afford to spend days doing something this trivial?"

I frowned.

"Initiating contact with one of the largest factions on Earth is trivial?"

The redhead frowned back at me.

"When it's done without warning or welcome, yes."

I leaned back, confusion spreading over my face.

"Then how was I supposed to handle this, exactly? A reservation or something?"

The redhead blinked, her eyes glazing over. She stood for a moment before I turned to Althea. She and I exchanged a glance of concern before the redhead mouthed.

"It's far too casual."

I stepped up, the guards turning their swords to me. I tilted my head as my primordial wake surged.

"I usually reserve a more casual demeanor for friends. I see you never wanted that kind of relationship. Consider my attitude from here on to be reciprocal. As for why I came here unannounced and without an army, it's because I like to see things in person. Plus-"

I put a fingertip against a brandished sword, and I pushed down. The blade shattered and without moving the person's hand.

"I get to see things as they are rather than when they're prepared for my coming. So far, I've seen the Shattered Spires, and while improvements can be made, it's not unsalvageable. If it had been, I would've come with an army of metal, and I would tear this place down to its foundation."

I swirled the shards of the sword above a hand.

"But I don't see the need for war. That's why I want to talk to Marcella and see what her goals and aims are. In that, we may align. If not, well, we can find a compromise of some kind, surely."

The redhead took a step back.

"Why are you speaking so differently? And are you always this excessive?"

A bit of primordial mana oozed in my runes. I smiled.

"When you've lived the life I have, honesty is excessive. Now, come on, let's go see Marcella. I don't have all day here."

She chewed on her words.

"Hm...This way."

Twelve guards followed us as we stepped closer to the giant spire's entrance. In elegant writing, a sign covered most of its entrance.

The Infinity Plaza.

I raised a brow.

"Renamed, huh?"

The red-haired individual nodded.

"Marcella has a way with words. Plus, the new name makes more sense than the old one. You'll see inside."

I liquified and flowed under the short glass doorways leading inside, and the guards looked on in horror. Althea disappeared, walking onto a different plane. The red-haired woman frowned.

"Is she dismissed?"

"No. She's insurance."

We stepped through unaltered walkways, the ceilings confining and short compared to the oversized buildings at Springfield. However, the grand architecture still oozed wealth and luxury, the polished stone and 1920s grandeur maintained through Schema's apocalypse. Many of the cappers walked in and out of different rooms, these spaces assigned for guild maintenance.

They carried written records and files on people and guildmates, having an efficient administratorial system. A few hallways further down, the building opened up into more of what I expected from a post-Schema-landmark. A vast courtyard reached from the bottom floor to the top, a false sky shining down from the top of the atrium.

The entire skyscraper expanded on the inside. Embedded along every wall, thousands of doorways sheened with different colors and makeups. Each set of doors led to a different world, and spiral staircases at the four corners led to each floor. On each floor, walkways offered easy access to those entrances.

Stylish stone signs named the portals. A quick gaze gave me an idea of what they looked for. Palladium Dimension. Mana Crystal Zone #4. Fresh Water Source #2. The raw pragmatism reminded me of something I'd do, though the people working in these areas looked far worse off than I'd ever allow.

The laborers wore simple garbs for mining, all of them either very old or very young. Guards protected them as they paced in and out of spaces, harvesting huge reserves of resources gathered in storage dungeons below. Many workers transported the goods to guildsmen who processed and sold the resources to other people visiting for trade.

This was the heart of the Shattered Spire's industry, though the method of employment seemed dubious at best. Marcella conquered the area and used something akin to the indentured servitude program from the looks of it. To be as fair as I could be, many people didn't want to live a life of survival and fighting eldritch. This was an alternative, albiet a poor one.

Still, I'd be shutting this down.

We stepped through the surge of people before the redhead walked up one of the many spiral staircases. She turned.

"We don't have the spare electricity to run an elevator. It's going to be a long walk."

I walked up into the air.

"It doesn't have to be. Come on."

She stepped over before I pulled us up the many floors and the thousands of doorways via a gravity panel. By the time we reached the top, no laborers and only a few guards managed the building. Most of the tower was left unexplored and unmanaged. Near the top of the spire, we reached the building's end. Althea phased into existence and turned to the redhead.

"We never made introductions. I'm Althea. What's your name?"

The redhead side-eyed Althea.

"Hm. Rebecca."

Althea reached out a hand.

"Good to meet you."

Rebecca grabbed Althea's hand.

"Likewise."

For some reason, Rebecca treated Althea like she came from an entirely different faction. In fact, their entire exchange seemed more organic in general. Even a cursory psionic glance told me that the same psionic tampering infected the second in command of Marcella's organization. I'd be ripping that out as well.

We reached the zenith of the Infinity Plaza. Here, the top floors gave way to reconstructed penthouse suites, and they oozed the same luxury as the initial entrance. As we stepped past the gilded marble and encrusted granite, Rebecca smirked at us.

"Impressive, isn't it?"

I squeezed a hand into a fist before turning my palm upward. As I opened my hand, a slab of marble sheened. I gestured to everything around us.

"This hall was made with the sweat and tears of the old world. I respect the history, but magic makes this simple to replicate. Honestly, expensive materials aren't impressive anymore. Ever since the systemization, seamless enchantment and striking design skills are what really make or break the aesthetic of a location."

Rebecca took a breath before squeezing her hands into fists.

"You're just as Marcella described."

I blinked.

"Huh. And how is that?"

She turned away.

"A monster."

I scoffed.

"What the hell? I just talked about architecture, not some medieval method of torturing people."

Rebecca leaned up to me. She blinked.

"Is that a historical reference? Are you...You're a human?"

I spread my hands.

"Duh."

Althea leaned over to me.

"It's not as obvious as you think."

I waved her off.

"Pshh, people have looked different since the system arrived. At this point, it's not my problem anymore. People need to get over it."

Rebecca walked up to a portal entrance. Maintaining it, nearly a hundred red cores powered a permanent entryway outside. The palpable demonstration of wealth earned an eyebrow raise from me. I had to hand it to her; Marcella knew how to make money at least.

Rebecca stood at attention.

"Marcella will see you inside."

I telepathically linked to Althea.

"Ok, am I the only one who thinks everyone is acting really weird?"

Althea laughed in her head.

"I'm feeling it, too. This feels like an episode of The Twilight Zone or a surrealist painting."

I tilted my head at her.

"Wow, you watched that show?"

"I watched it with Kessiah. She and I like sci-fi shows because they're either insanely good or insanely bad. Either way, we're entertained."

I spread my hands.

"That's so cool. I kinda feel left out."

Althea smirked.

"That's because you are. It's our girls' night."

I peered down, a bit deflated.

"Dah."

Althea pushed my shoulder.

"Oh, come on, we have date nigh-"

Rebecca coughed into her hand.

"Ahem, I'm right here. It's rude to telepathize in front of others."

I scoffed.

"You're mind is like a Picasso painting. You have no room to talk to us about how we handle our psionics."

Rebecca bit her lower lip, a bit of blood leaking from the side of her mouth. Once again, she did something weird as hell. At this point, I was about done with the entire trip. I just wanted to finish a quick talk before setting up some quick reforms through this territory. Well, that and get rid of the Old One's presence. It was already pervasive, considering how absurd people acted already.

Peering through the red-core-powered portal, a view sprawled out from the semi-translucent peak of the surveillance tree. It towered over the Shattered Spires, clouds wafting into the branches below. I turned to Althea.

"Wish me luck."

Althea phased out of reality.

"Will do."

I stepped through the portal, and the wind howled above the city that never sleeps. The many spires looked like glowing needles of stone. Around me, the branches of the spatial tree shaped into a minimalist space, one lacking the abundance demonstrated seconds ago. Marcella sat on a workbench, her hair a deep, dark blue.

She wore luxurious, fitted furs, and Primordial mana oozed off her frame. The plasma wafted upwards in dollops, thicker than water or blood. She turned to me. Her expression carried menace, but her gaze held depth. With a hand enriched with energy, she sharpened a strange blade resting on her thighs.

The glint of the blade flowed like water, and she stared at me with eyes like steel. She spoke in a booming, matronly voice.

"So...You're the Harbinger I've heard so much about?"

She leaned against her sword.

"Did you rip my barrier apart for fun, or was it to send a message?"

I sat in front of her using gravitation.

"No. I tore it down by moving within your territory. It was an accident. Nothing more."

She smiled, her teeth white. In general, she was gorgeous, though there was nothing soft about her beauty. It was a hard, dangerous allure, like a sword of diamond or a well-made rifle.

"You tore down a portion of my security net. I don't take kindly to anyone trespassing, let alone ripping out my border."

She waved her hand over her blade, sparks flying.

"When that happens, it's a matter of how quickly the intruder's execution comes. I must say, you escaped my initial guard corps. Good for you."

Everything about this meeting felt artificial, and I didn't want to make it any longer than it had to be. I frowned.

"What's your goal here?"

"To rule and establish order."

I took a breath.

"Ok, aside from that?"

She leaned forward.

"What else is there to say? I wanted it, so I took it. What other reason do I need?"

I pinched the brow of my nose.

"Really? No grand philosophies or monologues about the nature of power?"

"None. I don't need them."

I scoffed.

"Even if it's a simple approach, I have to say it's refreshing. You remind me of Valgus."

She raised a brow.

"And who is that?"

"Another avatar of an Old One. Like you."

Her eyes turned to slits.

"Hm. So you know about them. That saves me some time explaining my situation."

I leaned against one of my arms.

"I've talked with several Old Ones on numerous occasions. They're not what they pretend to be, though their facades aren't exactly the most convincing. Honestly, I'm surprised you fell for their offer, considering how transparently malevolent they can be."

Her gaze rested on me, her eyes like a hawk.

"I accepted a good offer. It's just business."

I leaned forward, my hands steepled.

"Marcella. The Old Ones will lie and say they're offering you something of value. In reality, they are taking away everything."

A fierce smile traced her lips.

"You must think that you're somehow enlightening to everyone around you, but you're simply domineering and self-righteous. I'm well aware of the Old Ones' influence and how detrimental it can be. I chose this despite those inherent risks."

