I crossed my arms, her cutting words falling on deaf ears.

"Yet you followed through with the deal they wanted while knowing you'd lose your mind and soul in the process? That's...Not smart to put it lightly."

She crossed one leg over the other.

"Here's the thing, Harbinger. We all have our path. How did you get power? Was that path simple? Straight forward? Easy? No need to answer. I found the truth through my own research. From even a few rumors, it's easy to tell your walk has been bloody and winding. Mine was no different, and you're in no position to judge me for what I've done."

I leaned back.

"Maybe. Maybe not. Time will tell."

She squeezed her hands to fists.

"I've researched your guild. It's an impressive operation. Do you know how mine is run?"

I remembered the laborers and economized spires.

"I know some of how it operates, though no details. It seems efficient at resource extraction, though it doesn't offer a good life to the people under your rule. I'm here to change that."

She frowned.

"It's far better than everyone starving or being eaten by monsters, so before you go judging me, judge the world we live in."

I frowned.

"You know, I've heard that excuse more times than once. You'd think tyrants would at least flavor their excuses differently, but you all seemed to have walked into the same seasoning shop at some point."

She turned her face to the side, but her eyes bore down on me.

"I can imagine why you would think that given those golems and rings of yours. I've seen them. I've faced several of your rogue agents. They're difficult to deal with."

I frowned.

"Every organization has criminals."

She nodded.

"Hm. But most of them are petty thieves, not juggernauts with bodies of steel and mana like they're machines. You give out power like it's candy to children. You must think there's no harm in giving children swords, but I can assure you that's not the case."

She stabbed her blade into the tree, and she seethed her words.

"Your careless attitude has killed plenty of people. Entire communities are slaughtered because you aren't willing to take the time to do your due diligence. Your golem vigalantes are the same."

I raised my brow.

"Golem vigalantes? Now that's surprising."

A shadow loomed over her eyes.

"They are monsters when they're unleashed."

Even if the conversation carried a lot of venom, I was glad I got at least some useful information from it. I turned a hand to her.

"I'm sorry to hear that. I'll address it the moment I get back to the guild."

Marcella tilted her head at me.

"Why don't you go clean up your own damn mess before trying to clean up mine?"

I furrowed my brow.

"Ok, so it's weird I even have to explain this, but sure, why not? I can't be everywhere at once. I'll handle the situation here and then there. And besides, do none of your agents go rogue?"

She leaned back.

"They can't."

"Is that from the psionic entities you implanted in them?"

She raised her brow.

"Somewhat. My guildmates are forged for years before being given something so dangerous. Why? I don't give weapons of mass destruction to anyone without a failsafe. It's a part of a broader societal problem - people are divergent in Schema's system. Unsystemized individuals cannot kill one that has reached level 200. One properly leveled individual can kill an army of the untrained and underleveled."

She slit her blade across the ethereal ground.

"What used to be inequality from wealth is now more physical. Palpable. Perhaps even undeniable. From what I've researched, you've taken a hands-off approach to that problem. Either that or you're wholly unaware. You must've focused on yourself. Good for you, but that comes with consequences."

Mana surged in my runes.

"Like being strong."

She pointed the blade at me.

"Or having someone else clean up your messes."

I took a moment to think. I nodded, my demeanor relaxed.

"Thank you for bringing this to my attention. I'll review our enrollment practices. I may need to have a few contingencies or failsafes put in place to prevent the abuse of power."

She scoffed.

"Uh-huh. That's great. I'll congratulate you when it's done...Now, what are you here for?"

I turned a hand to her.

"I'm here to establish diplomatic contact, improve your people's living standards, and get rid of the Old One's presence over this area."

She leaned against her knees, her stare like daggers.

"Ah yes, you get to decide what resources we use, right? They have to be what you offer me, not something I've found and forged on my own?"

I sighed.

"Marcella, I hate to break it to you, but you haven't forged a damn thing. You've constructed a slave labor system of psionic control propped up by borrowed power. You are a puppet, point blank. If you were thinking straight and not already halfway eroded by the Old One's influence, you'd realize that."

I spread my hands.

"They have plans for Earth in general, and the less they engage with our planet, the better. That's why-"

She seethed.

"You get to make the rules on what should be allowed and what shouldn't?"

I pinched the bridge of my nose.

"Obviously, this is a negotiation. There's no point in meaningless antagonism."

I had to admit, I did just throw some serious flack her way. Either way, Marcella furrowed her brow and said,

"So it's a negotiation where you walk into my home without announcement and demand my attention? Where you shatter a defensive barrier on accident?"

I tilted my head at her.

"You mentioned doing your research. You already know I'm not a diplomat. I'm a warrior, one that's led my guild to conquer other worlds. Including this one."

I gestured to the Spires.

"All of this is on my planet. It's why-"

She raised a hand.

"The Shattered Spires rest within an alternate dimension, one that I maintain. It's why the Earth hasn't become a fringe world despite these dungeons or the strength of the eldritch here."

My eyes widened.

"How in the hell are you maintaining a space this large?"

She narrowed her eyes.

"I have my secrets. Just like you."

I shrugged.

"Oh, come on. You borrowed the Old One's power. Speaking of which, what was the deal they offered you?"

She frowned.

"Why would I tell you anything?"

I gestured to the city below.

"It's simple. I don't actually care if you keep this. Hell, you could have a lot more territory than this if you'd like. My goals are to keep Earth from becoming a desolate wasteland and to elevate humanity-"

"Into something like you?"

A spark of anger burned in my chest. Marcella rapidly burned through my goodwill. I steepled my fingertips.

"I'm being as polite as I can, but I don't know how much longer I can keep up this farce. If you and your guildmates keep treating me like this, then I'll have Torix or Plazia-Ruhl negotiate for me. One is a hivemind, and the other a lich, so you can pick your poison. Regardless, they're not as amicable as I am."

She tapped her sword, and a few seconds passed.

"Understood."

"Good. I'm not asking for subservience. I want cooperation between our guilds. Trade, immigration, and sovereignty can be maintained and encouraged. I can give your people access to my rings in exchange for the vorpal blades you own or whatever psionic poison you have them drinking. However-"

I pressed my fingertips together.

"I need your information on the Old Ones and for you to get them out of here. That's not a point I'm willing to budge on. You should also know that I'm not here out of weakness. I can siege this place with relative ease. That's why I don't have to negotiate anything. I can take anything I want, but I'm choosing not to."

I leaned back.

"The reason I don't is because I'm not some bloodthirsty conquerer. Also, iI'd like to offer some logistical help if you need it.

"Such as?"

I pointed downstairs.

"For example, you're not going to be struggling to power an elevator with my help."

She smiled.

"Rebecca gave you that excuse then? It's a lie. I don't want people to have such easy access to me while I work. If they want to see me, then they walk. If they're unwilling to walk, then they're unworthy of my attention."

I hid how ingenious I thought that was while taking a note of that in my head.

"I see. What would you want for your knowledge of the Old Ones and separating yourself from them?"

She tilted her head.

"That woman you walked in with. I want an artifact like what she has around her neck, though I'd prefer if mine didn't look like a collar for some dog."

I glared at her, and my voice was iron.

"Never talk poorly about Althea again."

Marcella frowned.

"You have a lot of demands on my behavior, don't you?"

I shook my head while rolling my eyes.

"You're trying to dig under my skin, yet you get upset when you succeed? You talk about the dynamics of power, but you can't even take accountability for what you say and how you say it? Are you a child?"

I stared her down.

"You talk about my rogue agents while I watch thousands disappear in your dungeons without a word of remorse. You don't even let people have their minds. A less merciful man would've killed you without a trial. You're lucky I extended a hand, and it wasn't someone else from my guild."

Marcella stared at her blade.

"Lucky? We'll see about that. As for my dungeons, anyone going inside chose to walk to their deaths."

My eyes narrowed.

"What the fuck are you talking about? These are people's lives on the line, and you're acting like this is all some game. It doesn't make you sound clever. It makes you sound out-of-touch and unstable."

She sneered.

"You're a walking metal blob that flows like water when it wants to, yet you call me out of touch?"

I squeezed my hands together, the metal bending on my hands.

"All you do is reflect my statements without answering anything. This is the last time I try to level with your bullshit. The reality is simple - you're taking advantage of people. You're pretending these dungeons are hordes of wealth rather than the death traps they really are."

She smiled.

"It's efficient."

Several of my knuckles cracked. It sounded like a whale cresting the ocean.

"For your guild. No one else."

"And why should I worry about fools who don't even understand what a dungeon is?"

"The same reason you tell me to worry about my rogue agents invading your territories - the good of humanity. The good of people as a whole."

She took a breath.

"Ooh, it looks like we have a saint here then. You see, we're different. I'm not in such a lofty position where I can afford to ignore my own benefit."

I gestured at everything around us.

"Lies. Look where you live. Look at what you own. You're choosing to see scarcity where there is none."

Her face contorted into a grimace. She leaned forward to me.

"You know, you remind me of something from a lifetime ago. Care to hear about it?"

I pressed my fingertips against my temple.

"Actually, no. I have shit to do."

She frowned.

"This is my attempt to level with you."

I mulled over her words. After a while, I took a breath.

"Alright. I'll bite. What's the story?"

She crossed her arms.

"It starts with me and my sister. We were orphans."

At this point, I struggled to care, but I gave her a solemn nod regardless.

"I'm sorry to hear that."

"My sister and I grew up in the Bronx. The orphanage we lived in was a homey place. The man who ran it gave us home-cooked meals, and he made sure to celebrate every holiday and birthday. No kid lacked a gift or his attention. He knew all of our middle names, our favorite foods, colors, even our dreams."

She let out a breath.

"He cared. He really did."

Darkness crept onto her. She put her blade over her shoulders.

"It's a shame when he began using my sister."

I leaned back, stunned by the sudden heavy shift in topics. She continued.

"She was twelve. I was eight. I remember how he would skulk into our room, and my sister would cry. Whimpers, really. She would always lay the bed's covers so that they covered the underside of our bed. She even folded our clothes in plastic tubs there, too. It was a fort for me to hide in."

The raw sincerity contrasted her previous caricature of a person. It left me feeling awkward as she squeezed the handle of her blade until blood dripped from her hand. She murmured.

"But I heard everything. He had a way of making our world seem so small. He made us believe that if we defied him, we'd be left for dead. As the years went by, I watched my sister's will to live die. She hated herself. I remember having nightmares about the day it would happen to me."

She pulled her sword to her side.

"It came to pass. He finished with her, and he walked into my room. His breathing was heavy, and he reeked of sweat and shame. I remember when he peeked under the bed. He knew exactly where I was, but that's where he made his first mistake."

There were no tears in her eyes, and her voice did not waver.

"He knew where I was, but he didn't know who I was. When he lifted those covers and showed me his smile, I stabbed his face with a screwdriver. He screamed and raged. He went to grab me. He threw the bed aside and ran to me."

Her breathing sped up. Her heart rate rose.

"That was his second mistake. I took a knife I hid under my pillow and stabbed him in the hand that reached for me. When he stumbled back, his head hid our vanity, and he fell over."

She grimaced.

"He groaned on the ground, but he tried moving. I took out the crushed makeup I hid under the bed and threw it over him. He coughed in the cloud. He balked in pain. I remember how little that must've hurt compared to what he did to my sister."

Marcella raised a hand, her nails like claws.

"I took back as much of that pain as I could. I walked over to him. I got on top of him like he wanted...And I took the hammer I hid in the vanity shelf, and I smashed his skull into a nice, deep red mush. It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen."

