“Now then,” Rin began once they were alone again. “For the time being, put all of that out of your mind. Rather than memories of your past, what I’d like to talk to you about is your future.”

“My… future?”

“I do believe you when you claimed to have no hand in Mei Shuyin's death. Or at the very least, the situation was outside of your control. Had I concluded otherwise, your treatment would have been far less accommodating—and I certainly would not be making you the offer I am about to.”

Sakura shifted, grip tightening on her sleeves. She hadn’t wanted Mei or anyone else to die; she even tried to stop them, convince the raiding party it wasn't worth it. Convince that man that it'd be more worthwhile to just let her continue posing as a servant. But maybe she didn’t try hard enough, she supposed, and she had never been honest with Mei about who she really was.

Maybe I should have come clean much sooner… Maybe I could have changed things…

She did not dare speak the responsibility she felt out loud, however. As guilty as she may be, she was far more afraid of what the High Regent might do to her.

“You have a very unique class in being able to change your status screen with such detail. There are some that can alter minor details, but not like yours. Whatever fool sent you here clearly did not understand the asset he was throwing away, nor did he care about your safety or what might happen if you got caught. Lucky for you, we do things differently here. The Verdant Empire does not throw away those who have value.”

Sakura wasn’t sure what to say to that, and she couldn’t quite bring herself to meet Rin’s eyes, so she just sat there.

“I’d like to train you to become one of our agents,” Rin said.

“Um…” she glanced up but shot her eyes away again once they met Rin’s.

“When you’ve been in a position like mine for long enough, you get very good at reading people. I have an idea of what your past is. You didn’t come from a good place, and you were not treated well. You were abused and forced to do things you didn’t want to. But that will change now.”

“Will it?” Sakura said, almost biting her tongue once the word slipped out. She realized it sounded almost accusing.

This time, when her eyes caught Rin’s, there was something different in the sharp gaze of the High Regent, something almost inviting.

Sakura’s hands tensed on her knees. “You just want to use me as well, don’t you? How is that changing anything for me?” When Rin didn’t answer right away, Sakura instantly felt her courage shrivel, and she wished she could snatch those words out of the air and stuff them back into her mouth. She was a fool to have said something like that. She should have just thanked the High Regent and shut her mouth.

Finally, Rin leaned back in her chair. “Every person in the world has an absolute limit to the power they might attain. But I've found for most it is much higher than they ever realize. Yet, an advantaged noble might squander their potential, while a handicapped orphan might rise higher than anyone would have imagined." Rin smirked. "Indeed, I've seen a mute orphan do just that."

Sakura blinked, raising her eyes a little.

“But you are not disadvantaged. You have a gift, one you underestimate, and I believe your limits are far higher than you’ve ever imagined or even conceived of. And if I find a way to use you, it will come with mutual benefits. For you, that means being trained and brought to meet the limits of your potential.”

Sakura didn’t know how to respond. “But… What if I don’t want to… I mean. You’re talking about making me your spy, right? Of using me for war?”

“Right now, you don’t have much in the way of other options. You came here as a spy, and while I don’t think that deserves the death penalty, it does mean that I can’t justify letting you leave and get back to whatever life you’d choose freely. Maybe if you’re lucky you could find some serving role under the empire, but truly, most of my people would expect I punish you far more severely than I have thus far. Unless I can give my leniency some justification.”

“If I didn’t have this Class that you thought you could use…”

“Execution might not have been off the table,” Rin stated.

“Right…”

Rin smirked. “But don’t think me a cold-hearted person. Truthfully, I hate the evil acts that my role requires at times.” Rin pointed a metal finger towards the door. “Think about it. I’ll assume your answer is a yes for now, but if you change your mind, that will be your decision. Just understand that by saying no you’re a prisoner, by saying yes you are an asset, and many more doors will be open to you.”

Sakura looked over her shoulder to the still-closed door and then back to Rin.

“Go on, Xiu is waiting in the hall. I’d simply call her in, but…” Rin shrugged and pointed a metal finger at her own ear.
