Sakura’s life in the Verdant Empire was okay, all things considered. She was kept locked up in a room, of course, but they brought her good food, and so far nobody had actually done anything to hurt her. They had been a bit rough with her at first, shackling her hands, and pushing her around. But ever since she came clean about not being Mei, they had treated her surprisingly well. She had thought they would just kill her once she admitted it, but it was quite the opposite.

Still, what am I supposed to do? she thought as she sat beside the window, looking outside. It was high up in the palace, and the window far too small to escape out of one way or another. Even if she could somehow squeeze through and climb down the wall with a rope, she’d likely be apprehended again before getting off the palace grounds.

No, it wasn’t worth thinking about. She was at the mercy of whatever they decided to do with her at this point, without much say in the matter.

The door creaked, and she jolted upright by the sudden noise in her mostly silent day. It wasn’t like nobody ever came in. Usually it was serving girls to change out sheets or bring her food. Except this time, it was someone who she did not want to see at all.

It was that girl who would never speak, and supposedly could not hear. She was wearing her usual black robe with pink flowers, similar to the style of the serving girls but very different in color.

“H-Hello?” Sakura asked, wanting to attempt crawling out the window right that second under Xiu’s cold gaze.

But the silent girl merely stepped aside and gestured out the door.

“You… you want me to…” Sakura began to ask. Xiu just stared back, and if a look alone could speak, that one certainly did. “Y-Yes, right away.”

Sakura cleared her throat and stood, sinking into herself a little as she passed by Xiu, and glancing at her once just to double-confirm that it was okay to step out of the door. She wasn’t even getting shackled this time or anything, and there were no other guards around. That wasn’t usually how things went whenever they did let her leave that room.

Sakura turned back once she was out in the hallway to see Xiu closing the door behind them. She then wordlessly began walking down the hall, and Sakura followed.

Soon, it became a familiar route leading to a place that Sakura definitely didn’t want to go. Mainly for who she expected to see there.

Once they arrived, Xiu slid the door open and gestured inside, wordlessly, of course. Sakura bowed her head and walked in past her, seeing exactly who she feared. The red-eyed demon woman who turned people into monsters and aimed to take over the world. Every northerner knew of Rin Zaoh.

But aside from her red eyes, she really didn't look much like a demon. Sakura had always pictured her quite differently from the stories she'd heard.

Rin sat on the far end of that long table, looking through some papers, an expression of deep concentration in her eyes. Sakura came in only a single step, not daring to make a single move she wasn’t explicitly ordered to. Rin didn’t even acknowledge her, though. She just kept shifting through papers, the sound of the papers shuffling together the only thing in the otherwise quiet room until—

“Please, take a seat,” Rin said. “I have someone who has a few questions for you. They'll be just a few minutes.”

“Oh… Y-Yes. High Regent,” Sakura blurted out. She took the seat on the exact opposite side of the long table.

With a little more shuffling of paper, Rin finally set the stack down and folded her metal hands together on the table in front of her, she looked at Sakura, who could not bring herself to meet the red-eyed woman’s gaze.

“I trust your arrangements are comfortable?” Rin asked.

“Ah! Um… yes, very much so. High Regent Rin Zaoh.”

“Excellent.”

Rin continued watching her for several uncomfortable seconds. Sakura’s fingers curled against her knees beneath the table. Unable to bear the silence and Rin’s unrelenting gaze, Sakura felt she should say something, so she muttered, “You’ve been very kind to me… I-In spite of…”

“You being a captured spy?” Rin’s lips curled into a smile as Sakura sank into her shoulders. “Of course. There is no reason to bring you harm at this point. You seem willing to cooperate, after all. And besides, I’d like to think we might be able to be allies in the future. If you can show you’re useful.”

“How can I…”

“You have a very particular ability. I’m sure we can utilize it better than whatever fool sent you here. But that’s not the main reason I’ve called you here today…” She glanced towards the door as it slid open once again. But the deaf girl didn’t walk through this time. Instead, it was a man with a scar over his left eye. He was dressed similarly to Rin Zaoh, but a male version of the ornate military garb.

He bowed. “High Regent.” Rin nodded in return. “And I take it this is Sakura?”

“Indeed. She’s all yours. Sakura, this is General Hakimo. He just has some questions for you. Please answer them honestly and to the best of your ability.”

He cleared his throat as he took a seat along the side of the table and placed his binder down, opening it and pulling out a pen that he tapped on the corner of the table a couple of times.

“So you go by Sakura Ayonama,” he began. “How are you doing today, by the way?”

"Um… I’m fine, thank you… Um, how about you?” She felt extremely awkward, and it was a bit unnerving how Rin sat back as if she were not a part of the conversation, despite her sharp red eyes taking in every detail.

“I’m doing quite well,” Hakimo said, making a couple marks inside the binder without looking up. “So, I’m just going to ask you a few questions. Some of them may seem quite strange, so if they make no sense to you, don’t worry about it. Just answer to the best of your ability, and please answer honestly. If you have to guess, that's fine, but just let me know it's a guess.”

“Okay…” Sakura said. She figured he'd be drilling her on who gave her orders, or for whatever information she might have of the Iron March. But the truth was she really didn't know much that would be useful to them. They were being considerably nice to her for now, but she gulped at the realization they would be upset or accuse her of withholding information when she couldn't answer.

He cleared his throat as he shuffled another piece of paper to the front of the stack, and his first question was not at all what she expected. It had nothing to do with the Iron March.

“First question. What is the toxic fog above the surface called?”

“Toxic… fog?” Sakura repeated. “Surface?” She had no idea what he was saying. Was he talking about the depths? No, where they were now would be called the surface as opposed to the depths. She’d never heard anything of a toxic fog either way.

“If you’re unsure of what I’m talking about, just give your best guess,” Hakimo assured.

“But I really don’t…”

“Toxic fog,” he repeated, looking up from the paper and locking eyes with her. “What is the first word that comes to your mind when you hear that?”

She blinked. “I don’t know… poison?” She was positive that was not what he was looking for. She truly was at a loss for what he was saying.

Yet, somehow he seemed satisfied with that answer.

“Very good,” he said, making a mark on a piece of paper. Then he asked, “Do you know what a cell phone is?”

She turned her head, blinking.

“I’ll take that as a no.” He made another mark, then jumped right to the next question. “Prior to the Seventh Molting, were children still permitted to keep their original shadows?”

She just stared.

“What were those shadows called?” he asked. “Just say the first thing that pops into your head.”

“Um… I… couldn’t even. Whose shadows?”

He looked up once again with a bit of annoyance in his expression. “As I said, it doesn’t matter what you answer, just that you answer. Guesses are fine.”

Sakura looked over to Rin, who hadn’t moved or said a word since these odd questions had begun. “Um, Seventh Molting… children’s shadows. Uh, I don’t know. Uh… the lost boys?”

He raised a brow, then muttered, “Interesting…” He wrote something down this time, instead of just making a mark. “The lost boys. Where did you get that name from?”

“I don’t know, I just… You said to guess, but when you said something about losing a shadow…” She paused, thinking harder about it. He remained quiet, waiting for her to answer. “But I think it was only one boy, and a girl tried to sew it back on for him. But… I…” She let out a breath. “I’m sorry I don’t really know what I’m saying.”

He instantly started writing things down as she spoke. “Anything else?”

Sakura actually was at a loss. She wasn’t sure what else to say. Even those things she said were so vague in her mind that she was sure it had to be nothing more than a strange dream. She wished he didn’t seem so interested because she was positive she was just saying nonsense and wasting his time.

“Let’s move on. I’ll ask you about these lost boys again another time,” he said.

He shuffled through the top corners of pages in the binder, reading them before slipping one out.

“What material are mourning masks typically made from?”

“Um, wood?” she answered.

“Is there anything else you think they might be made of?”

“Metal?” she answered. The look on his face said that wasn’t right. “Cloth? Um… plastic?”

That answer he gave an instant reaction to. “Plastic, huh?” he muttered, skimming over the page he just pulled out.

Then, Rin spoke for the first time since the exchange started. “One way or another, she’s too young to be from number twelve, so that just leaves fifteen and nineteen as possibilities.”

Sakura blinked once again, still having absolutely no idea what nonsense these people were talking about.

“But… she had an indication on fourteen…” Hakimo said.

“Sakura, how old are you?” Rin asked.

“I’m um… eighteen years old. I think.”

“You think,” Rin muttered.

“Number fourteen is a possibility, then,” Hakimo said to Rin. “It’s close enough, and she is unsure about her exact age.”

“Ask a few more questions about fourteen,” Rin said. “Then move on to fifteen and nineteen.”

He cleared his throat and returned his attention to the page in front of him.

“What season does the black rain fall?” Hakimo asked her, and once again, it was complete nonsense.

“Autumn?”

“Is there anything else it could be?”

“Winter?”

“How does energy transfer from the plants?”

“Plants? Um… Magic?”

“Does electricity require magic?” Hakimo asked.

“I um… well, where else would it come from?”

“Other than our white moon, what other colors of moons might there be?”

“I um… sometimes it’s red?”

“And how many moons might there be?”

“There’s… there’s only one.”

He turned the paper over and showed the back to her. “What does this symbol mean?”

She looked at it. It was a yellow upside-down triangle with grey and blue stripes going across it.

“Is it… some kind of flag?”

He seemed disappointed by her answers. “Would you like to take another guess?”

“I’m sorry… I don’t know.”

“Okay, let’s move on.” He returned the page to the binder and started leafing through for another. “You said you don’t know what a cell phone is. Are you sure about that?”

She nodded.

He looked over to Rin. She said, “Just go through it anyway.”

“Very well,” Hamiko said. He cleared his throat and pulled out another page. After a moment of reading, he asked, “How many world wars were there?”

“Um… seven?”

“Name a President of the United States of America.”

“I uh…”

“Any name. What comes to mind?”

She closed her eyes tight, just trying to think of any random name to give him, but was finding it difficult to even think of a random name when put on the spot like this. Her eyes darted over to Rin but shot away again. “Ri—Uh… Jin?”

“Jin? Jin what? What’s the last name?”

“Jin um…” Her eyes settled on one of the frog banners hanging from the wall. “Toadeski?”

“Jin Toadeski?” he asked. "That's the name of a United States president?"

She nodded.

“Moving on…” He let out a sigh and marked something on the paper. “What’s an airplane?”

“Some kind of spell?”

“The internet?”

“Some kind of… instrument for fishing?”

“A firearm.”

“That has to be a spell, right?”

Before asking another question of her, he looked to Rin. “Should we move on?”

“Yes, go ahead.”

He shuffled the papers. “Alright, let’s try number fifteen.” He cleared his throat. “What do people traditionally hang over their doors during the Month of Teeth?”

Sakura stared at him, starting to feel exhausted from all of this.

The random questions continued for maybe another thirty minutes before Hakimo finally closed the binder, and to Sakura’s great relief, he said, “Okay, I think we’re done with that.”

She let out a relieved sigh.

“I’ll just ask one more question, and this one I don’t want you to try to guess at, only answer if you’re sure.”

She nodded.

“Have you ever felt you should be known by another name, and I don’t mean while you were impersonating someone. I mean another name that the System should recognize you by, but doesn’t. Like perhaps you’ve once had another life than the one you currently live?”

She was quiet as she thought that over. She figured at this point it would be smart to just say no and move on, but the truth is that question actually did pull at her a little. She didn’t notice Hakimo and Rin give each other a look before Rin interrupted, saying, “That will be all for today, Hakimo. I had some things I wished to discuss with her as well.”

Hakimo nodded. “Sakura, please just think on that question, and if anything ever crosses your mind about another life, or memories of things that don’t make sense or belong, please write it down.”

“I… um…”

“She can’t write,” Rin answered for her.

“Oh, that’s right. My apologies. Well, just keep it in mind. I may wish to speak with you again in the future.” With that, he gathered his binder, stood from the table, bowed to Rin, gave a shallow half-bow to Sakura, and then left the room.

Sakura fiddled her sleeves as that uncomfortable silence within the High Regent’s presence refilled the room.

