You have been very informative, Diplomat Nerul! I must now request we take your Goldstriker—I will pay you for it! I think Lyonette would like to see it.
Nerul had also sorted the other coins for them, and he folded his claws behind his back.
“I suppose I could let you have it…but I must insist you recompense me for it. Give me fair change, would you?”
Mrsha obligingly counted some of the lesser gold coins into Nerul’s palm. One, two, three? Very generous. Nerul’s face was blank as he stared down at the coins in his claw. Then at Mrsha.
Four?
Five?
Six? Oh, come on! Mrsha glared, but Nerul frowned at her. Hesitantly, biting her lip, she added two more gold coins to the pile. Then Nerul grinned.
“And that, my dear, is the power of the Goldstriker. It’s worth three on a good day.”
He handed the coins back to her, clapped her on the shoulder, and walked them to the door as Mrsha stomped away. Nanette thanked him shyly, and the [Diplomat] paused at the door, then bent down and winked as the girls began to hurry back to the inn.
“Convey my best to your delightful mother. Oh, and when Lyonette gets a moment, I will so enjoy hearing what she actually needed the coins for.”
They tried their best to keep straight faces, but the [Diplomat] was a shark in the waters. He just winked and closed the door in their faces.
 
——
 
When they got to the [Garden of Sanctuary], Lyonette’s lips quirked the moment she saw the huge coin.
“A Salazsarian Goldstriker? Is it enchanted with listening spells?”
Lyonette blinked at the coin. Colfa held it up reverentially, before passing it back to Mrsha. It turned out the farmer knew coins as well as anyone else in the inn, and they had sorted a lot of the coins in the vault’s reserves.
Mrsha held it out proudly as Nanette told Lyonette all about coins and such. Lyonette smiled as she held the coin up—then she handed it back to Nanette.
“Thank you, but we’ll have to return it to Nerul.”
What? But this is the most expensive coin, Mother!
Mrsha was aghast. She pointed at the box, waiting for an offering, and Lyonette slapped her hand before she could shove it in.
“Mrsha, if we start producing Salazsarian Goldstrikers, the entire world will wonder why we have so many!”
And the last thing I need is to make it look like Ilvriss is backing me. Lyonette inspected the coins the girls had brought back, then flicked one into a pile of six.
“These are the coins we’ll pick from. And I think I sent the best with Mrsha and Nanette. This coin—I like this one. Someone run this to Demsleth or Valeterisa and make sure it’s legitimate. No flaws, no impurities.”
Mrsha and Nanette stared at the coin that Lyonette had selected. It wasn’t a fancy Goldstriker or a Terland coin or even the weird coins from other places in the world like a Samalian Keycoin, largely ornamental.
This coin was worn, unmarked, a Shameface from a no-name kingdom. Yet for all it was plain—Nanette saw why Lyonette had chosen it at once. Ishkr nodded to it.
“—Twenty carat gold, Miss Lyonette. Demsleth nearly spat on it, but he says it doesn’t have any flaws or imperfections in it.”
Lyonette angled the coin so it gleamed in the light, admiring the glow..
“More than average. Almost twice as much. It’s hard to say who minted this, isn’t it? I’ll wager an adventurer gave it to us, and it’s the kind of coin an inn has.”
Untraceable. Now, Mrsha was catching on. Lyonette slowly lifted the coin up, and it could buy you a hot meal and a bed in all but the most extortionate inns.
A low-wage laborer might hope to make a full gold coin in a week. Adventurers spent so many gold coins they had to go through a Merchant’s Guild, but everyone wanted more.
“The Wandering Inn’s never been that poor since we got our feet under us, and we are rich for an inn. But a village costs money. A new inn costs money.”
Everyone held their breaths as Lyonette slowly and deliberately opened the Box of Incontinuity and placed the coin inside. Then she tilted the box upside down and shook it.
Once, twice…the gold coin didn’t fall out. Mrsha, edging around the others, saw it sitting in the box, untouched by gravity or the shaking. Lyonette waited.
One…two…three…four…five…six…
Everyone held their breaths, then began to breathe as they realized nothing was happening. But Lyonette just held the box up. Waiting.
…twenty-seven…twenty-eight…twenty-nine…and then, with a soft ping, a gold coin fell from the open box and bounced off Mrsha’s brow.
My face! Mrsha rolled around because it hurt when it dinged you with the sharp edge. But then she sat up, and Lyonette held up a gold coin. An exact copy of the one in the box.
“…Twenty-nine point seven seconds.”
Yelroan sighed. That was his guess. Lyonette held the box up, and Rose’s eyes were almost as round as the gold coin.
“Dead gods. Does it really just—and it’s free gold?”
“Every thirty seconds, almost.”
Another coin plopped onto the grass as Lyonette exhaled. It took a lot longer than the garlic. Because it was worth more? Was it worth seven times more than garlic? Did the box obey market values?
Strange. Lyonette was a bit disappointed, despite herself. Thirty seconds for a gold coin. Even she could do the math on how much that was per day. 2,880 coins per day.
That was still a lot of gold coins, an inconceivable amount, really. It would do…so much. But it wouldn’t fund the new inn overnight.
“Looks like we have a new income stream. Literally. This…no one speaks of this outside this room. The Merchant’s Guild doesn’t usually employ [Assassins]. For this? They would.”
Yelroan looked at Mrsha seriously, and Lyonette’s lips quirked up.
Goblins and Antinium staff, Rose, Mrsha, Nanette, Colfa, and Ishkr. She didn’t see many traitors here. If anyone was going to tell tales, it was Ushar or Dalimont, and she fixed Ushar with a look that said this was another secret her mother would never know about.
“We’ll arrange a place to store the box. I wonder if we can make it spit coins out without having to hang it upside down? Seems like an odd problem to have. But either way—no one speaks of this. Not to Valeterisa, not to Relc—definitely not Demsleth. Understood?”
The staff nodded, and Lyonette inspected the box again. She stared at it and the coin within. Such a simple thing. So powerful. And she knew there were more sides to the box.
—If she was honest, she was just a bit disappointed, though. She’d panicked, she’d feared what this box did, and it turned out it had a simple, if earthshaking, ability. Lyonette wasn’t going to turn it down or anything, but she had to say it.
“You know, for an Erin Skill at Level 50, I thought this thing would be more terrifying. Doubtless, it is, but even if we only get one chance, I’ll make sure we have enough gold to never need it again by the time we’re done. Dead gods, we’ll need a vault. If only it were faster, we’d be able to buy that other inn.”
She sighed, and Yelroan shrugged. The box spat out another gold coin, and Mrsha picked it up.
“Give us two months and we’ll be able to afford the downpayment. Frankly, Lyonette, I don’t see a problem.”
And I can have all the snacks ever! Right?
Mrsha signed enthusiastically, realizing that Lyonette couldn’t ever speak to her about the costs ever again. Lyonette scowled at Mrsha.
“That’s the kind of attitude that makes me not want to trust you, young miss! Or Bird! Or Numbtongue, if he’d ever show up. Where is he, anyways?”
The box spat out another coin onto the grass, and it bounced off Rosencrantz’s foot. He paused and bent down; everyone else had been focused on Lyonette a second. But Yelroan’s eyes drifted down.
“I think he’s still out with Garia—”
Another coin shot out of the box and hit Mrsha in the side. She jumped, looked around, and stared at it. Then at Rosencrantz. Lyonette glanced down.
“Still? This is why he m—”
Ping. A third gold coin shot out of the box’s lid. This time, everyone saw it. Mrsha caught it in midair, and Lyonette hesitated.
“That wasn’t thirty seconds. Was i—”
Ping. A gold coin shot out, and Nanette caught it with one hand. Startled, she almost dropped it, but it was cool metal, a glimmering, shiny surface.
“That’s—but wait. What—”
Ping. The next gold coin made Mrsha duck. It bounced off Peggy’s leg, and she caught it. Lyonette whirled.
“What’s going on? What—”
Ping. Another gold coin. Yelroan was muttering.
“Four seconds? Three?”
His head rose, and Lyonette’s eyes widened.
“Who’s doing that?”
“You are! You said go faster!”
Lyonette stared as Rose clapped her hands over her mouth. She looked around.
“Faster? Ping. But I only wanted it to go faster. What—Ping. Ping. Ping—”
As she said that, the Box of Incontinuity continued to spit out gold coins. Not every three seconds, but in rapid succession. Mrsha stared at the box and saw a gold coin appear—and hurl itself forwards.
One, two, three, four—they bounced off her face until she retreated, and then Peggy had the box in her hands.
“Is too fast! Is very fast!”
She held it up, and the coins bounced off Asgra’s face. The Cave Goblin shrieked, and the coins kept landing on the grass. The Cave Goblin shouted at Peggy.
“Make it stop!”
“No, make it go faster!”
Rose shouted, egging on the box, and it began to accelerate. More gold coins spat out at higher velocity, and then people began taking cover. Lyonette whispered in horror.
“It can speed up how fast it—”
“This thing can’t be real! It can’t be real!”
Yelroan was shouting. He stared at the gold coins coming out of the box and had a thought. This thing won’t just destabilize the Merchant’s Guild—Magnolia Reinhart herself would murder Erin Solstice if she saw this.
Mrsha stared at the rain of golden coins falling onto the grass. She stared at a coating, then threw up her paws.
We are the richest people in the world! She looked at Nanette, and the two girls high-fived. Lyonette stood there as gold rang in the [Garden of Sanctuary]—and then she was afraid all over again.
Afraid—but she clenched a gold coin tightly in one hand until it cut into her flesh. Then she handed one to Colfa.
“I think…it would be delightful if Rheirgest could settle near your farm, Colfa. As close as you feel comfortable with? Or maybe the inn. And if I could help in any way—believe me. It’s not about us giving money to you as charity. We just—have quite a lot of gold coins. You understand?”
Colfa’s mouth was wide open, like Fierre had once stared at Ryoka and other things in The Wandering Inn. Like mother like daughter—she watched as Peggy chased the staff around with the Box of Incontinuity firing gold coins like a weapon of war.
“I…I think I could accept some of your money, Lyonette.”
The Vampiress felt like she needed a lie down. Lyonette turned to Rose.
“And why did you come back to Liscor, Rose? Not that you aren’t welcome, but I forgot to ask.”
A golden light, more terrible than the Eternal Throne’s radiance, shone through her gaze, and Rose swallowed and tried to smile. Her knees were giving out.
“Funny thing you should ask, Lyonette. You see—I really do like the Meeting of Tribes, but I wanted to come back, and—Adetr wanted me to stay. But Deskie, um, Honored Deskie was actually the biggest reason I came north. Remember that dress you sent?”
“Oh, Erin’s? What about it?”
Rose lifted a sample of fabric.
“It’s…the best cloth Deskie has ever found, even if she says the color is worse than runny camel diarrhea. She thinks more can be made. Actually, she thinks this comes from a plant. But no Gnoll knows where it is, and she thought an expert might be able to…get more? Find out which plant it is, but it’d require connections, and she doesn’t want to tell Drakes about it. So she asked me to ask Erin or Krshia…it’d take a lot of money and connections to do, though.”
Lyonette stared at the odious dress and ancient fabric. Then she patted Rose on the shoulder.
“We’ll see what we can do about that. I can’t promise we have too much room in the budget, but I feel like we can spare some. Oh—Ishkr?”
He had a pawful of coins. Mrsha was making a huge pile of them, and even Ishkr was wearing one of those stunned looks.
“Yes, Lyonette?”
“Go run down to Liscor and tell them we’re buying land for Rheirgest. Then find the Antinium representative about moving dirt. Downpayments on both by tonight. Then I shall tell Normen that the matter is sorted and ask him to really think about the Order of Solstice. A keep, I think, would be the thing. Oh, and do tell Hexel to keep his hours open this month.”
She smiled like the wealthiest woman in the world. Like gold was water and it was raining. Lyonette du Marquin watched her daughter do a swan dive into a pile of gold and shriek in agony because landing on hard, metal objects was actually extraordinarily painful.
And the Box of Incontinuity kept spitting real gold pieces into the world. Lyonette du Marquin stared at it and held her breath. Then she decided to keep breathing, but she kept waiting.
For the catch.
