Now, seeing Tessa licking Apista’s back…Lyonette had questions. The bee finally escaped the Named-rank adventurer’s grasp and flew away, shaking herself.
Apista was not happy. Lyonette could sense her pet’s emotions, and Apista flew around her, trumpeting anger at Tessa. But Lyonette’s wariness eclipsed that.
Dame Ushar appeared in the room a second after Lyonette, looking, as ever, very tense around the famous Drake Shriekblade. She gave Lyonette a look—which Lyonette ignored.
“Tessa, are you okay? Are you having withdrawals again?”
She made her voice gentle as possible. That damn Selphid Dust…the Faerie Flower draught didn’t detoxify Tessa, only remove the symptoms of her addictions.
Lyonette’s reply was two eyes, long, reptilian slits, slightly aglow from the daylight, staring at her from under the bed. The rest of Tessa was practically invisible.
“I have potions.”
“Are you—are you doing well?”
Silence. No. Lyonette bent down, and Ushar shifted.
“Your Highness—”
The glare Lyonette shot back at Ushar made the Thronebearer shut up. Tessa didn’t have her blades. That might not make a difference, but Lyonette had been talking to her. At least now Lyonette didn’t get a swipe of the claws.
“Tessa, come out of there.”
“Why? I like it. Do you have anything for me to kill?”
More of the Drake appeared as Lyonette cast a [Light] spell. Pale scars, a curled up Drake—sweating and wild-eyed. She didn’t look comfortable.
“What’s wrong, Tessa? We have breakfast. Do you want—”
“No. I want Selphid Dust. I want—it’s not working anymore. The drink isn’t working. Tell that—tell that stupid Stitch-girl to add more Faerie Flowers to it! Tell Saliss the Stitch-girl’s making it wrong!”
Tessa clawed at her cheek, and Lyonette bit her lip. To her knowledge, Octavia hadn’t been making the Faerie Flower draught wrong, and there wasn’t a way to ‘intensify’ the effects.
“But it is clearing up your addictions, isn’t it?”
“Yes. No. It’s not working right anymore. It wasn’t working right before the Solstice. Where’s the bee? Is there any Dreamleaf left? Where’s the Centaur?”
When the Drake did move, she kicked herself out from under the bed like the world’s largest cockroach. She was so fast that she was tossing objects aside, hunting around the cluttered room, then moving the dresser aside before Lyonette caught her.
“Tessa, Palt’s not here. No more drugs. You don’t need them, remember? Do you still want them?”
Was the Faerie Flower potion losing its effectiveness after all? Tessa turned in a flash, grabbed for Lyonette’s arm—
Dame Ushar’s gauntleted fist caught the snarling Drake’s hand. Tessa blinked, looked at Ushar, then pivoted. The Thronebearer grunted as the Named-rank moved her sideways, out of the way, but she didn’t let go.
“Ushar.”
Lyonette’s glare made Dame Ushar release her grip. Tessa stopped making a fist. Her face had gone alarmingly blank for a second. Then she stared at Lyonette. Grudgingly, with a kind of recognition.
“It’s not working. It is, and it isn’t.”
“Explain it to me. Start with Apista. Why were you licking her?”
This was the furthest they’d gotten in a while, and Tessa’s eyes darted to the bed. To the window. She seemed to want to escape or go back into hiding, but then she blurted out.
“The Faerie Flower draught isn’t working. It is—I don’t need Selphid Dust anymore. But I want it. I want it. And yet I don’t. I don’t need it—but I remember how it feels. It’s not fair. I want to try it again. I have to…but I don’t. I can’t forget what it felt like. You can lick Ashfire Bees sometimes, and it’s like mushrooms if they’ve had the right nectar. I think. Maybe it’s eating wasps.”
Ah. Lyonette exhaled. It was confusing, but it fell in line with what Tessa had screamed or said to Lyonette over the last few weeks. Lyonette was no expert, and Palt wasn’t speaking to her, but Nanette had helped cobble together an understanding for Lyonette that made sense.
“You’re saying…the Faerie Flower tonic makes you stop needing the Selphid Dust and whatnot. But you still want it.”
“It tastes good. Phlack powder. Selphid Dust. Can’t do Selphid Dust. Dreamleaf pills. Five for a gold piece on Hatlever Street. Blissbloom. Blissbloom from Conec the [Fence]. It’s worse than last time.”
“Why? Sit down, Tessa, just…Ushar? Get me some breakfast, and find some clothing here, would you?”
“I’ll have Ser Dalimont pass it to me.”
Ushar didn’t leave the room. She cooly spoke into a stone, and Tessa sat there, shivering, as Lyonette draped her in her blanket.
“You don’t understand. It’s worse now.”
“Because you want it so bad?”
“No! Because it’s like the first time I ever had it.”
A clawed hand grabbed at Lyonette, and Apista jabbed it. Her stinger was sharp and venomous. Lyonette grabbed for Apista—but then she saw Tessa’s eyes focus on the bee.
Only the tip of Apista’s sharp stinger had grazed Tessa’s scales, but the Drake took the bee’s stinger—and jabbed it deeper into her hand.
“Ow. Ow.”
“Tessa? What are you—”
The Drake had closed her eyes. She grimaced—then let go, and Apista flew back, as unnerved as Lyonette. Tessa stared at her hand, then licked the blood welling from the gash. When she looked up, she was happy. And sad. And slightly insane.
“It hurts. It hurts.”
“Yes. It does. Why…why is that good, Tessa?”
The Drake stared at Lyonette.
“It didn’t hurt a while ago. Food tastes like food. I forgot how it tasted. I forgot what water felt like. Blissbloom on the tongue makes it go dead. Phlack powder numbs the…it was like the first time I had Selphid Dust. I want to again. Where’s the Centaur? Dreamleaf isn’t bad. It’s—”
She tried to get up. This time, she went for a window. Lyonette pointed, and the window locked, and Tessa scrabbled at it. Then Lyonette seized the blanket.
“Tessa, you don’t want to relapse.”
“Why not? If the potion cures me—I shouldn’t do it. I shouldn’t. A voice in my head tells me not to. I want to.”
Sweating, clammy, the Drake looked around for a vial of Faerie Flower tonic. She had countless vials, despite Octavia protesting she never got the glassware back, and she swallowed more of the tonic.
“—Nothing.”
“Tessa. Won’t you come downstairs and socialize with us?”
Lyonette stared at Tessa as Dame Ushar put down a plate of food on the desk. Tessa darted over to it and began to eat with her clawed fingers, not the utensils. She turned to Lyonette.
“I can’t do it. I can’t…a voice says I owe you. I want it. You need to kick me out. Selphid Dust. Next time, I’ll kill everyone. Why didn’t the potion make it so I couldn’t ever take Dreamleaf again? It makes it worse, not better.”
A Faerie Flower’s bargain. Lyonette swallowed hard. Just like everything the Faerie Flowers did, there was a great downside for the upside. She put a hand on Tessa’s shoulder.
“I want to help, Tessa. But I don’t know how. Do you think you can put on some clothes? I might—need your help, soon.”
She didn’t want to get into specifics. Tessa stared at Lyonette.
“I can kill anything you want. I can do that.”
“Can you—eat breakfast with me and sit in the common room of the inn?”
That was what Lyonette needed. She didn’t want an unpredictable Drake who had no care for herself and knew how to kill. But Tessa? The Drake sat there, shuddering, shivering, licking sauce off her claws.
“I’m sorry. I tried to stop Roshal. I did. They’re good at breaking people. I was already broken.”
She said the same thing she’d said for the last month. Lyonette turned her head away.
“It wasn’t your fault. Put on some clothes and meet me downstairs if you can, Tessa. There’s something odd happening—”
Tessa wasn’t listening. She cut into Lyonette’s conversation, still staring a million miles away.
“It was my fault. Liar.”
So, Lyonette stopped, then rose and nodded to the Drake after a moment. She had to go. The Drake watched Lyonette heading for the garden door. She gave Lyonette a blank, sad look, then stared around at the inn and the room she’d trashed. She kicked an empty vial, then whispered.
“This is a good place. Too good for me. I can’t be cured. So that’s what Hekusha was telling me.”
She seemed relieved by that. After a while, Tessa realized the plate was empty. Then she hunted around and saw there were some folded clothes on her bed. She stared at them—then put on her gear.
 
——
 
For a woman who was complaining about having little to do, Lyonette had a lot to do all of a sudden. She wasn’t done with Tessa, but she had obligations.
One of them that couldn’t wait, that trumped even the box, was Ser Normen. When he called, he didn’t waste time.
“Lyonette. I have a problem. I need your help.”
The [Grandmaster] of the Order of Solstice was standing on a cliff looking out over snowy plains below. He had to own, it was a nice view.
It was a shame he hated heights. But he could see why it was beneficial to be up this high. It gave one a splendid view of the northern plains around which Celum was based. In theory, if Humans had ever settled in large numbers this far out, Normen could imagine the comforts of living near a nice town or city with only a minimal journey to this place.
…Since Celum was the nearest city and the only village close by was fifteen miles away, the nice journey became isolating, which was a benefit and a curse. But he understood why people had settled here, once. Everyone needed to eat, and a reliable source of anything, be it ore, fertile land, or ivory, would have been appealing.
—Unfortunately, the Village of Rheirgest hadn’t ever been as prosperous as they’d hoped. Prosperous enough, but susceptible to the rising and falling call for ivory, which, yes, was a strangely volatile market. At least, it was when [Necromancers] being in the vogue or out of favor were your economy and lifeblood.
If Normen turned his head, he would be able to see the other Knights of Solstice, Jewel, Durene, Vess, and a newly-reborn Antherr, securing packhorses and breaking down the last houses. But he didn’t because it was painfully sad to see children crying or the villagers looking grim faced and worried but trying to seem cheerful.
Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings weren’t good with such things. They tended to hit anything that they felt increased the levels of sadness in the world. But Normen didn’t see a way to fight his way out of this problem.
In a sense, fighting had ruined Rheirgest, when a desperate battle through a blizzard two months past had saved it. All the hard work he’d gone through, and it was wasted…
No, not wasted. The people were alive. Normen turned and saw Rittane, a villager he knew particularly well, and her parents, Dorkel and Leiithe, waiting by the horses. She was looking at her home being torn down piece by piece, ivory loaded on a separate wagon bound for the market. When she saw him looking, she waved. He waved back, his azure armor glinting in the sunlight.
He smiled—then finally heard Lyonette, breathlessly, get back to him.
“Normen, apologies it took a moment to—I’m entering the [World’s Eye Theatre] now. What’s wrong?”
“Rheirgest. They’re almost ready to move out, but they’ve been talking, and I think they’d prefer to move to Liscor…if it’s acceptable. The local villages aren’t any good. That is, they could try to join one, or go to Celum, but even with the money Magnolia Reinhart gave them and their ivory sales, they’d be unable to house everyone.”
“…Pardon?”
At this point, Normen realized Lyonette hadn’t heard from him for the last two weeks. The last they’d talked, he’d been heading to Rheirgest—he froze up and turned red underneath his helmet.
He kept forgetting he was a [Grandmaster] now, not a regular [Knight] or a [Thug]. He tried again.
“Let me explain it. You know how we went to Rheirgest to help them resettle? Now that their ivory source is gone?”
“The…bone giant Magnolia stopped. How could one forget?”
Normen had a vivid memory of it crawling through the Floodplains, looming above everyone and everything, a monster the size of a city as he raised his mace, fighting against Kasigna’s Draugr. He swallowed hard.
“Yes. Well, with it gone—”
“Rheirgest is out of ivory. Of course. I thought they’d just switch to a different, um, product. Or, as you said, join another village. Why Liscor?”
“Liscor has the bone giant. They’re all—they have interesting classes, Lyonette. I spoke with their Village Head, master Elosaith, and he believes mining the ivory and, ah, continuing their unique methods of agriculture and so on would be best done around Liscor. There isn’t really enough to sustain the village here, and they’re not well-loved in the nearby settlements. So he thought—”
“—Well, of course that makes sense. Absolutely. And Magnolia’s stipend of funds probably helps with the transit.”
Normen was glad she agreed. He’d been hesitant to agree to Rheirgest’s idea, but he trusted Lyonette. She was, after all, a [Princess], and a fellow assumed they knew how things were. He nodded a few times.
“They’re also selling off their houses. That will cover a lot of costs, though it’ll eat into their coin to resettle. It’d be best if they could just—move each house, but there’s nowhere near enough Chests of Holding we could borrow to move that much ivory. So they’ll sell it and move to Liscor. The thing is—”
“Hold on, ivory? I vaguely recall—their houses are made of bone, aren’t they? Hold still, Normen. I must see this.”
He hesitated, but in less than ten seconds, he saw a telltale glimmer of light, and Lyonette du Marquin, or rather, her projection, stepped out of the air, found herself standing in the empty air past the cliff’s edge, and leapt forwards.
“Dead gods! That’s terrifying.”
She clutched at her chest a second, then smiled at Normen.
“Sorry, Normen. It’s been frantic today and yesterday. Has it truly been two weeks? You must have worked hard.”
“Not in any dangerous way. Durene’s pulled more weight than the rest of us…it was mostly loading wagons with ivory.”
“With—of course. Look at that.”
The final house was coming down. The villagers had been sleeping together, or in tents, and they were now deconstructing Rittane’s house piece by piece. They’d made it out of huge blocks of smooth ivory that, despite the years, had worn down little. Bone-white ivory, beautiful even if it was from the bones of a giant, hard and durable—excellent material if you forgot where it was from, and a [Necromancer]’s treasure—was being loaded into a wagon.
