“—I’d like to. I just haven’t yet found a role fully suited to my abilities. I hope to. But it’s, uh, rather like having—let’s try an analogy. It’s like having Redscar only kill Shield Spiders all day.”
The Hobgoblin blinked, then slapped the table and hooted with laughter. She shouted a translated version of Yelroan’s comment to the Goblins, and they all began laughing—or cheering Yelroan.
“This Gnoll has giant, furry balls! I like how he said it—because it’s true, right? You’re very smart math person.”
“Mmm. Yep.”
Yelroan was a bit embarrassed by saying it so outright, but it was true. With his understanding of the science of mathematics, he suspected only an Archmage or very few other experts in the world would be able to keep up. The problem was that he was too good at his specialization. Peggy gazed at Yelroan, and he sighed.
“I’m good at managing people, and I can see myself helping run this inn or the Order of Solstice. But I want a mathematical challenge.”
“Eh. Not sure how you fight a strong math-monster. What do math-people do?”
Yelroan was glad someone had asked! He enthusiastically began to explain as his pasta arrived along with a refill of coffee for both.
“Well, I’ve actually apprenticed with the Engineering Guilds of Drake cities, and I’ve studied architecture as well. What we can do is model real events with numbers. So calculating how much weight a structure can take, or siege weapons—I don’t like war. I know on Earth my class models…physics. The movement of stars and so on. I’d love something like that, or to push forwards the entire understanding of it somehow.”
He’d been studying Earth math and had considered writing a book about it, but what was the point when they already had books in the [World of You and Me]? The Earth-tent was a better teacher than he could be, so Yelroan was searching for a role for his class in this world.
Peggy took a piece of paper from Yelroan and began writing that down. She was scribing in Goblin and nodded and tried to look serious. She steepled her claws together.
“Hmm. Yes. We will work on this thing for you. You want to talk to Rosencrantz? He easy. He happy like Goblins, but I know his dream.”
“Oh?”
It was always good to hear this, even if it was only Peggy’s understanding of Rosencrantz. Yelroan made a new entry.
“What does Rosencrantz want?”
“To meet Players of Celum and see tons of plays. Duh. He has fancy name from one of them. He likes music and acting and such.”
“Interesting. The Wandering Inn’s moved away from that. It was a pity we didn’t keep the Players of Celum—or Players of Liscor—in the inn. But if he’s happy—do you have any worries?”
Peggy nodded seriously. She leaned over the table as more guests came downstairs.
“Big fear is next time Draugr make it in, we all die. I am not so good, and last time, good people died, like Silvermop. I don’t think I can level up high enough. So…concerning.”
That…was a valid and legitimate concern, and Yelroan underlined that a few times. He sighed.
“That’s the concern of everyone here, I think. And why Lyonette is so resistant to anything…big happening. The box included. I hear there might be plans to, uh, upgrade staffing.”
“Ooh. More Goblins?”
“More people.”
Yelroan clarified and saw Peggy’s faint look of concern for a moment. He understood her reservations, but he nodded to where Lyonette was pacing back and forth.
“Without Erin, it’s in Lyonette’s hands, and she is a [Princess]. More staff would be nice. Then again, there is Miss Tessa.”
She was upstairs, but Peggy grimaced.
“Her? She crazy. I don’t trust her. She stabbed people after Roshal gave her drugs. Is like a Goblin with a blood class. Can’t trust her. Point her at enemy and run the other way. Very sad; nothing can do.”
“I hope that’s not the case.”
“Well, Ulvama gone, so no good [Shaman]. Never seen a good Drake [Shaman], so what can you do?”
It was a puzzle, and Yelroan sat there, ruminating, as Peggy turned to stare at the plain, wooden box. Because as far as the Hobgoblin was concerned, the box was great. Maybe it would lead to them all dying soon, but she didn’t see why you had to be afraid of it until it started spitting out Crelers.
It was Erin’s Level 50 Skill. And yes, her Skills were dangerous and tragic—but Peggy had seen her rescue Rabbiteater and ally herself with Greydath of Blades. The [Floor Boss] grinned. As far as she was concerned, bad things from Erin’s Skills happened to other people.
 
——
 
Here was what they knew about the mysterious box. First. It accepted a single object—a piece of garlic—and could not fit another object inside. Calescent had tried, but the box had an occupancy of one item.
Second? Unless you took the item out (if you even could, no one had as of yet tried), the box would clone the object inside.
Third. There seemed to be no limit on the number of copies made. They didn’t dissipate, they seemed genuine; Lyonette had mashed one up, and Calescent had done too much taste testing, and they were all identical. They might be…real.
To test this, Lyonette waited until someone came downstairs. A sleepy woman was letting Montressa chase after her with a brush to comb her wild, grey hair.
“Where’s Relc?”
“At work, Master. I tried to wake you up at six, but you were reading books too late. You have a call with Archmage Eldavin in an hour.”
“What’s breakfast?”
“I don’t know. What do you want, Master?”
Montressa du Valeross had a too-patient tone of voice with Archmage Valeterisa, and the absent-minded Archmage of Izril was reading a book at the table. She looked up as Lyonette approached.
“Breakfast is garlic pasta—unless you’d like anything else. Good morning, Montressa, good morning, Archmage Valeterisa!”
Instantly, Valeterisa’s eyes narrowed.
“She’s using my title. She wants something. Take care of it, Apprentice.”
She pointed, and Lyonette saw Montressa stop combing and look up, frowning. Lyonette groaned internally.
A mix of oblivious and the kind of insight that had allowed her to survive years of politics in Wistram.
“I don’t have a large request! I just have an, uh—an object of extreme magical interest. Potentially.”
Valeterisa stopped pushing Montressa in front of her and peered at Lyonette.
“Go on.”
The [Princess] handed over a cloned garlic bulb. Valeterisa levitated it up and frowned at it.
“This is garlic. Non-magical garlic.”
Her betrayed look made Montressa frown at Lyonette. The [Princess] hadn’t told everyone what was going on, and she’d ordered the witnesses to keep silent. Lyonette heard Mrsha and Nanette come in, and a sleepy Rose appeared. They noticed her showing the garlic to Valeterisa, and Lyonette hoped they could be subtle.
“Well, apparently not, Archmage. But I suspect that this is, in fact, some kind of Skill or magical copy. Is there a way to, uh, test it?”
Valeterisa peered at the garlic with more interest and cast a few spells, though they were far too advanced for Lyonette to detect more than magical outflow. She frowned at the garlic, then at Lyonette.
“Is this from a Cornucopia Skill? I can test it. This is interesting. Montressa, cancel my appointments! I’ll teach you how to look for simulated objects. Unless you studied that in Wistram? [Create Food] is an old spell that was only supposed to be Tier 4, but it’s been lost to time, yet I did find out how to test for fake creations due to an incident where the Ullsinoi kept faking food at the banquet hall. It was edible and tasted good, but Telim passed out because he hadn’t had anything actually nutritious in…”
She was halfway up the stairs when Montressa tried to drag her back.
“Master, you haven’t eaten! And Eldavin in an hour?”
“Cancel it! Wait, who’s faking garlic? Are you sure this is fake and not just real garlic?”
Valeterisa halted, turned to Lyonette, and the [Princess] assured her this was important.
“Archmage, it is vital I know if this is faked. I am sure it is, in some way. Or it…expires? If you can prove it, definitively, I’ll—waive your room rental fee for a week.”
Valeterisa brightened up.
“A cunning fakery? I can do this.”
She vanished upstairs, and Montressa shot Lyonette a dirty glance, then requested two breakfasts to be delivered upstairs. Both she and Lyonette knew that Valeterisa’s room fee was nothing compared to her other fees.
“We’ll get you the information by evening—if you tell us what this is about. I suspect inn shenanigans, am I right?”
“When you tell me it’s fake, I’ll tell you everything, Montressa.”
Lyonette crossed her arms victoriously. She ignored Peggy, Yelroan, and Calescent giving her skeptical looks and turned and clapped her hands.
“Alright! I need someone to run a delivery to Magnolia’s mansion. Ishkr?”
“Absolutely.”
The Gnoll appeared behind the bar, and Lyonette handed him another bulb of garlic. She gave him brief instructions and knew he’d be back the moment he handed the garlic off. He could teleport back to the inn from almost anywhere with no hard limit—except that he couldn’t immediately reappear where he’d been.
They had all leveled up. Lyonette felt certain she’d have her answer on the garlic by evening. She strode past Calescent, who was trying to take the box back into the kitchen.
“No more cloning garlic, Calescent. Just take the garlic out. No one, and I mean no one, touches the box. That includes you, Mrsha, Nanette.”
“What?”
Calescent looked hurt, but Lyonette reached into the box, snatched the bulb of garlic out, and put it on the table. All the inn’s staff looked disappointed, but Lyonette was doing what she had to.
Keep the inn safe, keep disasters curtailed…she checked, and the wand that Hethon and his mysterious ‘friends’ were after was still in the [Garden of Sanctuary], buried in the metal case.
The inn could stay free of disasters for a while. Speaking of which—Lyonette squared her shoulders and went upstairs. She’d overheard part of Peggy’s interview with Yelroan. If Draugr came back, or if Lyonette did have to fight off people seeking the wand that Ryoka had brought here—the Thronebearers and staff could fight off Level 30s, maybe.
But there was only one person who could be counted on for anything worse than that. The problem was—Lyonette couldn’t count on her. If the inn had multiple ticking explosion spells on countdown, from the box to the wand to reprisals from abroad—
Shriekblade was the most volatile. And Lyonette didn’t know what to do about her.
 
——
 
Tessa. Shriekblade. Unclear who was who.
The Drake had grey-green scales. Scars.
She sometimes failed to recognize herself in the mirror. Then she’d tie a scarf around her face, or put on a mask, and the reflection would look more familiar.
Shriekblade. Because she screamed. Named-rank adventurer. Face of Salazsar’s underworld. Killer for hire. Member of the Assassin’s Guild in the south.
Largely broken. Unpredictable. Her employers were warned about her; she’d read the contract. Good at killing.
Don’t murder the clients. That was her rule. They could do whatever they wanted with her, to her, as long as it paid well.
Save up. Go to Tenbault.
That was the purpose of…no, wait. That was what she had to do. To feel right. At least, it had been.
The days before were…hazy. She was sweating, naked, in her rooms under the bed. She didn’t like sleeping on beds. She remembered, faintly, a somewhat better employer. Purple.
Ilvriss? Something about hitting him and not having sex? She didn’t recall. Then there was a mission to safeguard a random Human. Boring, boring—until the moment she found it.
The cure.
Then she had been healed. Free! Better than the Healer of Tenbault. Normal.
Bzz. Bzzzz! Something was buzzing. Tessa licked something furry and kept sweating. She was in withdrawal.
Selphid Dust. Made you crazy angry. Even when she was indulging, she’d been careful with it. You went berserk. Like a Selphid going on a Rampage. But it was a bad thing to come off of.
You went through withdrawal six to eight times. Slowly, Tessa reached for a vial among the ones scattered on the floor under the bed.
Chink. Chink. They were all empty. She tossed them away and finally found a half-empty one. She lifted it, and a bright yellow glow made her fumble with the cork.
Salvation. Only—it was all wrong. She took a drink of the Faerie Flower draught, which could do so many things.
Painkiller, cure for addictions, drink of remembered glory—a magical drink that came from the flower that obeyed no known rules, even magical ones. This particular variant cured her addictions.
Or—should have. Tessa drank. The cravings vanished. The screaming voice in her that told her to get more Selphid Dust now!—vanished. She became normal Tessa again, and her mind cleared up.
The Selphid Dust in her system was mostly passing. Now, Tessa remembered her last name. Since it didn’t matter, she just lay there. Sweat cooling. She was once more cured of her addictions.
That damn Gnoll of Roshal had restored them to her. Thrown a bag of Selphid Dust, and it had coursed through her system until they got a Faerie Flower draught in her. Even afterwards, she had been plagued by her body slowly, slowly purging the symptoms.
—And yet, even as her blood cooled and she was granted relief, the memory of being normal—something was terribly wrong. Tessa lay there, curled up, as something buzzed. She hesitated, tried to stop herself—then began to suck on it.
It’s not working anymore. Why isn’t it working?
She was in The Wandering Inn, in her rooms they’d given her, having failed her job. Erin Solstice—kidnapped. Tessa, incompetent.
Would they throw her out now? What happened when they did? Tenbault?
Tenbault. The Healer of Tenbault had said she was waiting for Tessa. Half off. Tessa should go.
She shouldn’t go. It smelled like a trap. This place was nicer.
The potion wasn’t working.
Buzz. Buzz—
“Tessa? I’m coming in.”
Then Tessa heard a voice she’d learned to recognize over the last few months. She curled up and said nothing. The door was locked, and she’d pushed a dresser in front of it. Sadly—the [Princess] just walked through the wall. She looked around, then remembered and peered under the bed.
“Tessa? Are you—why are you licking Apista?”
 
——
 
Lyonette sort of understood why Erin didn’t know what was always happening in her inn. Like with Laken, the power to sense anything in an inn wasn’t the same as understanding it.
For instance, Lyonette knew Tessa was under the bed in her rooms. But she hadn’t realized Tessa was naked. Or understood why she’d sensed Apista there.
