He got both yeses and noes in equal measure, rather to Lyonette’s surprise. She supposed it made sense; the desire to not have a Liscor with too many outsiders holding land was balanced by the prestige of having connections to a Walled City.
What most of the audience could agree on was the rent problem, though, and to them, it was a problem.
Hence the bafflement. Lism cleared his throat and looked around.
“Okay, let’s hear from an actual [Shopkeeper] about their opinion on the rent. Or someone who’s a tenant. How about—is there…huh.”
And there it was. He looked around, then, with a vaguely confused look that was changing to one of a kind of alarm, sat back and let someone else speak.
As if he hadn’t realized it, but was figuring out something was sneaking up on him. Krshia had already noticed it, and she was not-quite-glowering as she surveyed the room. Lyonette?
Lyonette had realized there were very few people who weren’t wealthy enough to own property of some kind in this room. It was all [Landowners], [Guildmasters], or people like Selys. At best, it was Timbor, an [Innkeeper], or Imani and Palt, who owned Barehoof Kitchens.
Dalimont. Why no no-money people?
Lyonette still sought clarification from the Thronebearer. She signed at him, confused. There should have been an open advertisement this was a forum for all. The Thronebearer took his time in replying.
“If I had to guess, Lyonette, it would be a lack of interest and many people feeling they did not belong in this discussion. Someone without the means to purchase land at its exorbitant price would not feel the need to attend. I would also be deeply interested in knowing how the forum was discussed—if at all—by many outside of certain circles.”
Ah.
Uh oh.
The Council had really stepped on their own tails. They had probably thought this would be well-attended by everyone, but it was mid-day. Mid working day, and indeed, even if you had hopes the Council might reduce prices on new land, if you were in a room of people all talking one way, it was hard to speak up.
By the time Lism caught on, it was too late, but it was something that the Council in opposition to the forum’s will. Lism glanced around.
“—It seems like we’re not getting the opinion of many tenants. Well, we could reconvene the forum—”
“Councilmember, you’re hearing from a majority of landlords in Liscor! You must cease these egregious rent price fixes—or else no one will want to do business in Liscor!”
Lism shot a glare down at the Guildmaster of the Merchant’s Guild, one of the former Councilmembers, actually. Lyonette gave Lism marks on his silky-smooth reply and his verbal wit.
“And yet, Guildmaster, they are buying property. Rather too much of it for the average citizen to compete with. How do you square this oddity in the market?”
The [Guildmaster] hesitated and spluttered.
“Well—no one will want to maintain the buildings if it isn’t worth the coin! A [Landlord] has to pay for repairs, maintenance, cleaning, security—”
That got a bitter laugh from Krshia and an odd ripple from several Gnolls in the room. The [Guildmaster] fell silent uncomfortably, and Financier Nedres took over smoothly.
“—we must see returns on our investments, or we will have apartments falling into disrepair.”
“Like they were already, Financier? You do have a point. We should make failing to repair living spaces a crime.”
Lism brushed his claws against his vest, nodding agreeably. Lyonette tried not to giggle at the expressions on the faces of his audience. Then her skin crawled as she sensed the hostility of the room amp up.
“That’s a very inhospitable argument coming from the Council, if I may say so, Councilmember Lism. I don’t feel as though you’re representing us fairly.”
A new Drake got to his feet, speaking for another group, and Lism raised his brows.
“I’m speaking for many tenants of Liscor, Mister…?”
He didn’t get a name. The Drake glanced around.
“I suppose that’s your right as a Councilmember. But I remind you that you were elected by a consensus of the people. I simply don’t feel I can back someone who doesn’t have Liscor’s interests at heart.”
The murmur of agreement gave way to a greater silence as Lism’s eyes slowly narrowed. Lyonette looked up and saw Imani waggling her brows across the room at her. The [Chef] looked amused, and maybe there was something funny about it to her, in a way.
It was politics, but early stages. So, in a way, blunter and less refined, but the nuance was the same. No wonder Imani was keeping silent. Lyonette saw Lism finally catch on to the hanging noose in the room. The [Councilmember] just grunted.
“I suppose we’ll see when the elections start just who’s right, then. Until then, I think we have another year in office to do what we think is best for the city. I’m sure when we run for our positions again, the public will tally what we’ve succeeded and failed at and come to the right conclusions. Sir.”
Lism growled, maintaining his composure.
Oh, his faith in the voting process was endearing—and sad to a [Princess] who didn’t believe in that kind of thing anyways. Ielane would have laughed if she’d seen Lism, but Lyonette didn’t. She saw Krshia looking worried, though. She sensed it.
The one benefit the Council had was that their opposition was as new to this as they were. So while the Drake addressing Lism sat back down, he was unable to stop the voice that murmured loud enough for everyone to hear.
“Unless someone calls for a new special election.”
Lism’s smile vanished. He craned his neck to see who had said that, and the current Council reacted. With alarm, surprise, a narrowing of the eyes—and Zalaiss looked sideways and grimaced, and Tismel tried to look innocent.
Oh no. Lyonette heard Raekea bark.
“Special election? That’s not a thing. Jeiss’ seat will be replaced, but why would anyone replace us?”
“There’s a—uh, a rule for a no-confidence vote. If members of enough Guilds vote for it—”
Tismel did his best, but Lism’s head snaked around like a vengeful shark. He whipped around, and the Council suddenly felt a noose around their necks.
“Who, exactly, is of so little confidence they want us replaced? Come on, stand up. Let’s hear it since this is a public forum. And who put that stupid-sounding law in the books? Can we repeal it? This is ridiculous. If you have a public objection, well—”
Lism was blustering, getting angrier, and the forum was restless. Imani was frowning deeply and glancing at Lyonette, and the [Princess] wondered if this might go the Council’s way. But, as if they had been waiting for a moment like this, someone stood up.
Selys Shivertail had not ceased glaring at Lyonette the entire time. When she stood, for a second, Lyonette thought Selys would put in a point for affordable rents, as someone who had made a name for herself doing just that.
Instead, the Drake [Heiress] spoke to the room.
“If we’re worried about how much space we’ll have come spring when the floods begin, I, personally, would like to know about this request put in to the Council. For housing for…? What’s this about, please? Is it Liscor’s business at all or outsiders asking us for a favor? Again?”
Ah, Selys. Lyonette felt her heart fall as heads turned to her, and Lism gave Selys a puzzled look, then Lyonette a nod.
“Let’s move away from the rent discussion a second. Indeed, Miss Lyonette of The Wandering Inn has put a request into the Council about a housing situation of a village. She’s asking for temporary rooms and perhaps some funding and help for a village in need. Rheirgest, I believe? You have the floor, Miss Marquin.”
Lyonette stood up.
“That’s correct. On behalf of the village of Rheirgest, and Ser Normen of the Order of Solstice—”
She was glad she got a few reactions from that. Human or not, The Wandering Inn or not, he had weight.
“—I would like to ask for space for the villagers of Rheirgest to settle in Liscor or around the city. They’ve lost their homes and source of livelihood after the Winter Solstice battles. They’re hardworking, industrious, and if they receive a modicum of help, they could add to this city in no small way. There are about one hundred and fifty of them; it is hopefully not difficult to lend them a place to stay for a while? And they come with finances and levels of their own.”
The forum turned to Lyonette as she explained the situation as best she could, trying to talk up Rheirgest and present them not as a charity case, but an opportunity. She didn’t deliver the request foolishly; [Flawless Attempt] activated the moment she stood, and by the end of it, she felt like she’d sold a number of people on the idea.
“Miners? Ivory-cutting experts? If they can bring ivory to Liscor, that’s not actually a bad proposition. We have several industries, but that would be a completely new one—the cost aside.”
Even Financier Nedres could see the appeal, though the cost didn’t appeal to her. Alonna was doing numbers on an abacus.
“It’s not the most extortionate price, Financier. Frankly, selling a lot of land can pay for any number of villagers to resettle. If we put them in a new series of buildings for a few weeks, grant them a loan or funds…”
“More Humans coming to Liscor. Why not let them settle…wherever they are?”
Others were less happy about Rheirgest, and Lyonette was set to argue them down and be her most charming. She put a smile on her face as Lism waved a claw at her, looking relieved to be having a break from the most contentious issues of the forum.
Then it happened. It was a shiver down Lyonette’s back. She looked around as a Drake rose to her feet, and for a second, she met those eyes.
Pleadingly. Selys’ yellow gaze met Lyonette’s—and there was something more than just anger there. Lyonette stared at the [Heiress] incredulously. Then looked away. Right up until Selys spoke, voice sweet and pointed, like she was cutting down an adventurer at the desk of her guild.
“Oh, Landlord Xalls. That might have something to do with the fact that the entire village is made up of [Necromancers]. No one wants them where they are. And I, personally, object to another problem brought to Liscor by The Wandering Inn.”
She met Lyonette’s gaze as the [Princess]’ gaze, which had wandered, retreated, avoided conflict, finally snapped to the [Heiress]’, and Lyonette’s aura sparked. The two locked eyes, and Lyonette curled her toes in her boots.
Then she began getting angry herself.
 
——
 
There were complaints, then. The Council heard them. There were protests for a law against that sort of thing. The Council overruled that. There was anxiety—someone had to be escorted from the room.
The entire time, Lyonette answered—as politely as possible—the public, explaining that these were not ‘bad [Necromancers]’. Pisces Jealnet was a [Necromancer]. They did not animate dead bodies randomly.
She did this while staring Selys down across the room from her. Neither the [Princess] nor [Heiress] broke eye contact. It got to the point where Lism’s head began bouncing like a ball, left to right, trying to see if either one was blinking.
Lyonette had sat back down, and she was speaking, as composedly as possible, to the angry forum.
“Liscor owes Rheirgest a favor, ladies and gentlemen. Or at least, their problem is related to the city. The bone Giant that attacked on the Winter Solstice? It had been inactive, buried in the mountainside. Their very livelihood is now on Liscor’s plains.”
“Is it…is it still undead?”
Someone spoke with considerable, warranted anxiety, and the room murmured. Lyonette smiled grimly.
“I am not sure myself. It is bound by Lady Magnolia Reinhart. Wouldn’t it be better to have people continue to mine it and reduce its size? And to tell us whether it might be still active?”
Half points. She could almost hear Ielane blowing a ring of smoke and lecturing her. Lyonette knew she wasn’t winning the debate. There were good, intellectual, logical reasons why Rheirgest was a boon, but her opponent was going all in on emotion—and it was still too close to the Winter Solstice.
And it was Selys.
“Liscor does not need more undead.”
That was all Selys Shivertail had to say. She leaned forwards, and the people below and in front of her moved out of the way. The air was actually uncomfortable between her and Lyonette. Auras clashing. Wills grinding against each other. The Drake sipped from a straw. Continued.
“How often will The Wandering Inn—which isn’t part of Liscor—bring us another problem that will bite us in the tail? Even if it’s not tomorrow, how long? One month? Two?”
“There are children in Rheirgest who need a home. The Wandering Inn pays taxes.”
Lyonette spoke very calmly, trying to hammer the first sentence into Selys’ head. She loved Mrsha. What was wrong with her?
“There are other places. The inn may pay taxes, but you aren’t a resident of the city, Miss Lyonette. In fact, you were expelled from the city for thievery and burning down Councilmember Krshia’s shop. Not all visitors to Liscor are bad. Most Humans are excellent. Do we have to take ones like you and bend laws for them to be allowed back in? This isn’t Liscor’s problem. But once again, the inn is making it ours. Our money and our lives if it goes wrong.”
She didn’t say Tekshia’s name. That was…something. But the rest of it felt like Selys was slapping Lyonette across the face. The [Princess]’ voice grew softer in contrast to Selys raising her voice.
“I didn’t hear you complaining when Erin delivered aid to Esthelm. In fact, you were part of it, Miss Shivertail. Is generosity to your neighbors not a Liscorian value? Or just not a Drake value?”
“I say, uncalled for, Miss—”
Councilmember Tismel tried to interject, and Lyonette glared at him, and he fell silent. Her aura was heating up the room so much that the people around her had taken off their coats. Selys just waved a fan by her face. She frowned, then came back with a retort.
Damn [Receptionists]. She was faster with her tongue than most opponents, used to dealing with stroppy adventurers.
“That was our choice. That was for neighbors, not a village we’ve never heard of.”
“Well, choose again. It’s the right thing to do. You do…remember what the right thing is, the noble thing is, don’t you? Heiress Selys?”
The air was changing colors, now. It was, to Alonna, the first time she had ever seen someone manifest an aura spontaneously. The air around Lyonette was growing pale gold, a painfully bright radiance.
It was sinking into bitter lime green, like Selys’ scales. Two colors twisting and fighting back and forth across the room.
“Ladies, let’s be civil.”
