But we are one of the most profitable inns in the entire region. Put it like this: even though Erin Solstice didn’t have a great business-sense and she had costs like ‘accidentally destroyed Liscor’s Adventurer’s Guild’, she was probably miles beyond any regular [Innkeeper] in profits.
No one under Level…40 could hope to match someone who could sell as much food and drink in a single night as Erin. A wild night on the town in, say, Invrisil might put you ahead of Erin until you factored in the money her door pulled in, her sales of magical food to adventurers, or…
The top inns in Invrisil, Pallass, and certainly Larracel’s Haven were doubtless superior to The Wandering Inn, but they had several thousand gold pieces stored at the Merchant’s Guild and a decent amount in the vault in the gardens. A splendid amount for anyone but a Gold-rank adventurer or someone buying magic.
“Your Highness, I don’t believe that would work.”
Dalimont’s reply was cautious. Lyonette knew he was right, but pressed anyways.
“If we offered it as an—an—well, not blood money for Bamer’s death, but a kind of recompense for—?”
The Thronebearer thought and replied carefully. He touched the sword at his side as they passed by a huge lump in the snow, but decided it wasn’t a Rock Crab in disguise. He was over Level 30 and, at least for fighting, better than Dame Ushar.
“They are a proud folk. They remind me of the common folk of Noelictus. I spent much time around the people of Afiele.”
“You mentioned it. I don’t recall where Afiele is…”
“The province of Ovela, nominally, on Noelictus’ border with Ailendamus, Your Highness. Afiele is a poor agricultural town and a handful of villages. Poor—but very decent, brave folk. If you were their liege-lady or the crown, they would accept your generosity. You are not. Help is welcome if needed direly, but I believe even the Singer of Terandria found she could not simply give gold away.”
That reminded Lyonette that Dalimont knew Cara O’Sullivan. He’d been with her and Seraphel, Lyonette’s older sister, for a number of adventures. She exhaled.
“Did she try?”
Dalimont crooked half a smile.
“I believe she sent gold back numerous times to help with reconstruction. Earlier in her career, it was limited; your older sister sent snacks, mainly. Gifts from the capital city of Menorome via Courier.”
“—That sounds out of touch.”
Lyonette imagined someone sending expensive sweets when people were starving, but Dalimont corrected her.
“Not at all. Afiele was never starving; it was quite well-received actually.”
“Oh. Well—how did it go later?”
Ser Dalimont stroked his chin.
“I believe, when Miss Cara became the Singer of Terandria, the famous—and rich—icon, she tried to send thousands of gold pieces. At that point, I believe Afiele’s folk sent the gold back to her, despite her attempts. They didn’t need it.”
“I’m not suggesting we do the same. I’m hardly so tactless, Ser Dalimont.”
His face was perfectly straight.
“Absolutely not, Your Highness. I would never suggest you would offer the val Lischelle-Drakles coin for nothing. People wish to earn their value.”
“I know! I know—I just—are we not allowed to be charitable to them when Bamer literally died a hero? At the very least, neither one should hesitate to come by for as much free food and drink as they can eat. Dead gods, I do sound like Erin.”
Lyonette groaned. Suddenly, she had a bit more sympathy for Erin’s approach to life. Fight an Adult Creler? Free drink on the house. Have a spaghetti. How else were you supposed to reward people for…?
“It’s a very [Princess]-like thing to wish to reward people for their triumphs, Your Highness. I remind you that we are in Izril. Calanferians would accept a gift far more readily than people of this continent.”
Dalimont offered. Lyonette sighed.
“You’re right. I can just imagine—what happened when Shardele’s horse tossed a shoe while riding and a [Peasant] helped get her back to the city? She gave the man a hundred gold coins. It was the talk of Calanfer. Dead gods.”
She scowled, and Dalimont coughed into his fist.
“A hundred gold coins per member of his family and a horse, Your Highness. A quite good one.”
“Per member of—she wasn’t even that far off the road. Was she insane?”
“No, your mother orchestrated the event. If one is to be generous, they should be excessively so. Current Thronebearer doctrine as it applies to the royal family. Your Highness shouldn’t normally know this, but…”
She rubbed at her face with her gloved hands, morose at how unsurprising that revelation was.
“Call me Lyonette, Dalimont. I can disguise my identity, so you should be in the habit. Miss Lyonette will do.”
“—I shall try, Lyonette.”
It sounded so awkward that the two grimaced. Lyonette smiled, and Dalimont tried to hide a chuckle. She sighed.
“Add it to my list of problems, Dalimont. Rheirgest, Tessa, the val Lischelle-Drakles…I don’t want to feel like I’m pressuring Colfa, but I could use someone to talk to. Oh drat. I forgot to talk to Rose. I thought she liked the Gnolls! Why is she back?”
“Shall I inquire or—?”
“No, I’ll do it. Let’s just find out whether we can get land or a place to stay for Rheirgest’s villagers.”
 
——
 
Entering Liscor via the gates wasn’t as pleasant as it used to be. When the [Guards] saw Lyonette and Dalimont, they instantly grew a bit—tense.
Not hostile, but tense, as if they expected a Snow Golem to rise out of the snow armed with…Tier 7 magic. Lyonette assured them she was just heading back to The Wandering Inn, but they corrected her.
“Actually, Miss, we have a warrant—no, wait. A request from Liscor’s Council for your arr—presence at City Hall.”
A [Guardsman] that Lyonette didn’t recognize seemed to be having trouble not putting her into custody. He checked the notes he had been given, and Lyonette blinked.
“Oh? Liscor’s Council heard the request I had? Already?”
“Er—sort of. There’s a public forum being convened about the topic of rent, the 3rd District land grants, and so forth. The Council invited you to be present; it’s open to the public. If you need an escort, one can be arranged.”
“I know where City Hall is. Thank you, Guardsman—”
“Senior Guardsman Lekless. 4th Floor—I mean, Liscor’s…Watch House…uh, southern district.”
Ah. Now it clicked. Lyonette eyed the Drake.
“You’re from Pallass? Did Liscor hire you?”
He saluted her, clearly relieved that she understood.
“I changed jobs, Miss. Liscor needs more [Guards], and I had the hours to move up to [Senior Guardsman] here. It’s a delight to serve under Watch Cap—Watch Commander Venim in this fine city.”
I wonder if you’re a spy. Lyonette gave him a bland smile and amended the thought. I wonder whom you’re spying for.
Then she thought of Watch Captain Zevara and was concerned if Zevara felt her job was being taken away from her. She hadn’t pushed to be Watch Commander, so Venim had taken the role. Lyonette really should have talked to Zevara this last month, but it was—hard.
If Mrsha and Nanette were often made uncomfortable in Liscor as members of The Wandering Inn, Lyonette was an even more recognizable face. To say some of the Watch treated her with fear or a hidden resentment would be fair. The reaction of other Liscorians, some of whom had been friends?
That hurt.
 
——
 
On the way to City Hall, Lyonette waved to four people she knew and got three waves and one stare and half-smile. She felt eyes on her; Dalimont’s armor made her impossible to miss, but she hadn’t run into anyone she truly knew right up until she was a street away from Shivertail Plaza.
Then she saw a familiar four-legged person trotting down the street and called out, despite herself.
“Palt! Hello!”
The Centaur jerked, half-turned as he trotted forwards, and Lyonette’s throat constricted the moment she saw his arm was around a young woman walking by his side. She hadn’t spotted Imani, but the woman from Nigeria turned—and Palt stopped puffing on his cigar. He stared at Lyonette, and his face went flat.
Without a word, the [Illusionist] of the Ullsinoi faction of Wistram kept walking. Lyonette swallowed. Yes, that was pretty much the same reaction she’d gotten the other times she’d tried to visit Barehoof Kitchens and ask about Imani.
However—the [Chef] walking next to Palt didn’t stride off. Palt slowed down and circled as Imani threw off a winter hood and smiled.
Imani. Her hair was tied back in a bun, and she had on winter gear, a woolen sweater decorated with running centaurs under a thick cloak, and she looked older than the shivering, terrified girl that Lyonette remembered first coming to The Wandering Inn. Maybe that was because she stood taller; Mrsha claimed Imani ‘always smelled like something good’, and she was an [Otherworld Chef], one of the highest-levelled in Liscor.
Everything was as Lyonette remembered, just aged up by maturity. Black skin, glossy lips, so she’d made herself up; were her eyelashes coated with a luminescent powder? Very stylish. Oh—and an eyepatch on her right eye secured by a band that ran into her hair. Pale white, hiding the place where Roshal’s [Assassin] had blinded her permanently.
All the same except for that.
Lyonette’s stomach lurched. She hadn’t seen Imani on her feet until today; Imani had been recovering. Palt’s silent glare indicated how easy it had been to visit Imani in all the failed attempts.
The [Chef] ignored her partner and lifted a hand.
“Hello, Lyonette. Dalimont. I haven’t seen either of you all month. Are you here for the forum as well?”
“Ah—yes. I was just invited. I had no idea it was going on, but apparently the Council wished me to be part of it? I was on separate business, really. Rheirgest—it’s good to see you. And you, Palt.”
He didn’t speak as his hooves clip clopped over the frozen street. Imani glanced over her shoulder as Palt stared at Ser Dalimont, then past the two Humans.
“Why don’t we walk together? Don’t mind Palt. Listen, dear, if you’re going to give them the silent treatment, why don’t you go on ahead and get us seats?”
She elbowed him before he could walk between Lyonette and Imani. Palt hesitated, but Imani walked in front of him, and after a second, he trotted ahead.
“So. What’s this about Rheirgest?”
Lyonette stared after Palt a second. She explained, briefly, but was distracted by Palt’s demeanor. The normally-jovial Centaur had never been that angry with her or anyone in the inn…ever. Even after his friend had perished fighting the Crelers—
“I’m sorry, Imani. I wanted to visit but—”
“Palt turned you away. I know. I would have visited myself, but he would have insisted on coming, and I didn’t trust him not to start a fight. He blames Erin for everything. Somehow.”
“I—can’t say he’s entirely wrong?”
Lyonette knew she shouldn’t stare, but she kept glancing at Imani’s face. The [Chef] seemed used to it, at least enough to smile crookedly. Then Lyonette saw Imani pull out a pipe of all things and light it. She puffed a ball upwards and then looked at Lyonette and sighed.
“Oops. Sorry. He’s gotten me into it. I can’t see why it’s Erin’s fault. I’m not holding a grudge against The Wandering Inn, just so you know. In fact—since you’re here—I think I have a recipe book of the latest things I’ve made this month. It’s a bit sparse, but we sent it out to all my contacts. Why don’t you take it to Calescent?”
She produced a rather nice-looking binder of papers, simple, but Lyonette noticed the neat hole-punches and even a piece of wood painted with an insignia and title.
Barehoof Kitchens. Imani and Palt. There was a bare foot with a horseshoe around it.
“Oh, that’s lovely. Thank you, Imani. I’m glad to see you’re doing so well. I’m so sorry about your eye. And I wish…”
“I’m alive. I’m sorry I missed Kevin’s funeral. Can I visit him in the [Garden of Sanctuary]? His statue, I mean. I know where the hill is.”
Imani’s voice was level, and she kept half-smiling. Lyonette recognized the scent of Dreamleaf coming from the pipe, and she nodded repeatedly.
“Of course. And thank you for being so understanding. I think Palt has every right to be angry.”
“He’s angry at the wrong person and place, but I’m talking to him. I’m trying to not wallow in grief, Lyonette. See the glass half-full. Then again, I can only see half the glass these days.”
Something about Lyonette’s expression caused Imani to actually laugh. Dalimont’s face was a study of impartiality. The [Chef] chuckled as she took the pipe out of her mouth.
“Sorry. Palt joke. I got him to laugh despite himself. I think he’s already reserved us seats.”
Palt was galloping back to them, and Lyonette wondered how he’d reserved the seats.
“I hope he doesn’t slip on the cobblestones.”
“He’s got enchanted horseshoes. And he’s been galloping everywhere. He has it in his head that if he’d been faster, he would have saved me.”
“From…the gun-thing? I thought it was too fast to even see.”
Lyonette didn’t know guns very well, but she’d seen them in Erin’s movies. Imani just shrugged.
“It’s what he believes. Do we have seats, Palt? Does Lyonette have a seat? No? Why don’t you go back and get her one?”
She ordered Palt around so fast that he barely had time to give Lyonette the evil eye. The [Princess] had to own that, unlikely as she would have put Imani and Palt being a couple, they did seem to know each other well enough.
“—He really isn’t wrong to be upset, Imani. If we hadn’t been separated when the undead attacked—”
“Lyonette.”
Imani put a hand on Lyonette’s shoulder as they neared City Hall. Mostly Drakes and Gnolls were entering it, though Lyonette spotted Temile and Timbor both vanishing into the building. The forum might be important, but she had to meet Imani’s good eye.
Brown, solid, not filled with cold anger. Even sympathetic.
“Rheirgest’s that village that had the bone giant, isn’t it? I wish you the best of luck, and if I can help—well, Barehoof Kitchens is just getting started. We’re doing a lot—with food and only food. But I really don’t blame Erin or the inn. The undead went after us, but they went after all Earthers. As for this?”
She touched her eyepatch, and then, and only then, she grimaced. Lyonette saw anger, then, cloying the [Chef]’s pleasant smile. But not at her.
“I have ears. I heard them, that [Assassin], say Kevin was the target. I was the second target.”
Imani exhaled more smoke. Then put away the pipe as they began to walk up the steps into the building, past the columns of faux marble.
