Lism ducked as both auras lashed out, and a sound like a whip cracking split the air over his head. Elirr leaned over.
“Someone call for Guardsman Relc.”
Selys slowly stood up. Her eyes were glistening, and she was breathing in and out. Her claws were clenched.
“I know what the right thing to do is, thank you, Princess. The right thing? That gets you killed. First it was Zel Shivertail. Next? Tekshia. I suppose I should ask how long until I’m next, shouldn’t I? Can you schedule it after my birthday?”
Lyonette flinched once. Then she spoke, her voice quivering, her hands folded in her lap.
“I know we’ve brought trouble to Liscor. I certainly have. But think. Not all of the disasters The Wandering Inn has been part of have been its doing. In fact—Erin has fought more things than anyone else. Skinner. Facestealer. The moths. The Raskghar—”
Elirr twitched, and Lyonette ducked her head at him.
“Tyrion Veltras. Did she cause any of that? I don’t think so.”
“Are you suggesting we owe her a debt? Because I don’t recall her saving the day single-handed.”
“I never said that. It’s not about debts. Selys—”
“My grandmother’s dead, Lyonette. Strange how everyone but Erin seems to go that way. Halrac. Moore. If I was wise, I’d never have tried to make friends with her. Maybe you’re right. She doesn’t cause disasters, but it’s amazing how many people who like Erin die for her causes. Tell me again about your village of [Necromancers]?”
You liked a [Necromancer] called Pisces. Lyonette’s eyes were hot and dry, painfully, but she would have rather ripped them out and given them to Imani than blink.
“—Erin doesn’t force people to die for her, Selys. The Winter Solstice was a disaster. I’m sorry for everyone who died. She didn’t want it to happen that way.”
“She picked that fight. The entire world knows it. Don’t pretend that was an accident she saved Liscor from.”
Lyonette hissed under her breath.
“Selys. You’re her friend. You’re mine—do you think Erin caused that all? She did choose that fight. Do you think Kaligma was kind and undeserving of a war? Look what she left outside Liscor.”
She thrust out a finger, but Selys’ head never wavered.
“Everyone has a moment when they get to step back and see what they’re doing, Miss Marquin. After she sailed off to sea, leaving us to bury everyone—I wonder how many people will come running when she asks for volunteers to die for her. If I were you, I’d stay behind. And I’d keep Mrsha locked in her room as well. When it’s your turn, all the people you bury will be your fault. I’m sorry, it’s never Erin’s, is it? She cost the city two heroes and countless people. How many more heroes is she going to martyr?”
Dalimont was looking at Lyonette, braced, as if ready to shield her or pull her back. She didn’t move. Her mother was in the back of her head. For once, Lyonette channeled her.
Hit her. Lyonette dipped a ladle into the pitch-black bile in her chest and tossed its contents back out into the world. She wished it weren’t so easy.
“Tekshia Shivertail was a hero. So was Senior Guardsman Jeiss. I was endlessly sad when they died.”
Selys’ head jerked back. She opened her mouth, and Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle slowly closed the door to the City Hall. The forum listened in silence as Lyonette kept going.
“She was a hero who fought four Draugr in the streets of Liscor. Just like the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings who put their lives down on the ground to halt them. No one asked them to. There’s not a better word than ‘hero’ I know; I would never sully that word with anything less. I won’t forget that, or Tekshia. Or something else: she chose to be there. Erin didn’t ask her to go.”
“Erin brought the Draugr.”
Selys hissed, and Lyonette shouted at her.
“And Tekshia stood there. Just like Erin never ran! I didn’t see you at the Winter Solstice! Don’t talk like you gave anything or risked anything yourself. You didn’t send your grandmother there. She chose to go. And if she were right here, I’m sure she would hit you for trying to leave a village out in the cold for your own petty revenge.”
“You—”
Selys was stunned. Lyonette continued, slamming her aura down over Selys’, cutting off Selys’ ability to speak.
“Tekshia never had time for cowards. If she ever disapproved of Erin or thought Erin was too dangerous to keep around, she would have done something about it. [Necromancers]? She made the first [Necromancer] to come to Liscor since Az’kerash into a Gold-rank adventurer. She wasn’t fair-weather like you. She faced down Az’kerash, and she had the heart to look Pisces in the eye and call him a Gold-rank adventurer. And you know what? Zel Shivertail liked The Wandering Inn more than the entire damn city. Don’t talk about them like you know them better than me.”
Now, the [Heiress] was gasping, and her claws were shaking. Lyonette kept going.
“You think you have a say? Come at me with a spear in hand as a [Guildmistress]. You’re not. You’re a [Heiress] because of something Zel Shivertail left behind. You’ve never defended Liscor. Suffer for The Wandering Inn? You were never there! And if you think your grandmother would back any word coming out of your mouth, go headbutt her grave so you can understand how she’d react if you dared say any of this to her f—”
At this point, Krshia grabbed Lyonette and tried to put a paw over her mouth. But the [Princess] kept going. She honestly didn’t remember what she said after that, only that Selys stared at Lyonette, then tried to hit the [Princess] with a spell from one of the rings on her claw.
That was when Ser Dalimont blocked it. Selys came at Lyonette with her claws, and the [Princess] went for her sword—but Colfa grabbed her.
“Get her out—out of—I think there’s no budget for Rheirgest. We’ll reconvene the forum later, maybe. Out!”
Lism was shouting, and Lyonette would have struggled with Krshia, but the Gnoll was blocking Selys. And Colfa didn’t bother trying to push Lyonette out of the forum. She just carried Lyonette under her arm and ran for it.
“Hey, Lyonette. What’s going—”
Relc began a second before a spell hit him in the breastplate. Then the forum turned into a miniature riot.
 
——
 
—Ser Dalimont never lost Lyonette or Colfa. Though he did look winded by the time the Vampire stopped running. Lyonette was shouting as Liscorians stopped.
“Let go of me! I’m not done with her! Let—”
Colfa upended a bucket of ice-cold well water over Lyonette, and the ardor faded out of the [Princess] in an instant. The Vampiress folded her arms, poised, eyes icy.
“I believe you have said more than was called for, Lyonette.”
“She was—”
“Her last relative in the city is dead. Be silent.”
The last elements of fury left Lyonette. Colfa’s eyes flashed—then she paused, brushed a stray white hair out of her face, and hesitated.
“Vell, I do not know if it was her last relative. Nonetheless, you said more than enough. I sincerely doubt you will have the support to resettle this village. If that was your goal, it was quite adeptly done.”
Lyonette was shivering, and she groaned as she realized what she’d done. The Council might have been inclined to override the public forum, but after a fight like that—she put her head in her hands.
“No! No—we weren’t getting support anyways.”
“Perhaps not, Your Highness, but we have received a new enemy. In fact, I believe the inn is the place to be. For a towel and hot fire if nothing else. Miss—Lady val Lischelle-Drakle, I believe it is sufficiently clear of any annoyances.”
Dalimont bowed to Colfa, who favored him with a pleased smile. Lyonette was shivering.
“Get me a towel, Dalimont. Don’t you have one?”
He didn’t move, but rather gestured down the street towards the eastern gates.
“Absolutely, Your Highness. But Thronebearer doctrine makes it clear that giving you a towel might engender further altercations. One may magically appear when we reach the inn. Not before.”
She glared at him—then realized something else. Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut. This was a terrible, no good, and possibly very bad day. And it kept getting worse.
“Fine. We’d better hurry, though we’re too late.”
“For what?”
Colfa blinked at Lyonette, and the [Princess] let out a soft, sad breath.
“Tessa’s gone.”
 
——
 
When Lyonette got back to the inn, Yelroan had bad news for her and was trying to figure out how to break it gently.
The news was, as it turned out, not the same bad news that Lyonette brought.
“Tessa’s gone. I didn’t get a place for Rheirgest after all.”
“—Ah. Are you sure?”
Yelroan grew instantly worried, and Peggy, alarmed, ran upstairs to check, but came storming down the stairs.
“Is true. Scary Drake girl gone. She leave this.”
The Hobgoblin had found a letter in an almost-neat room. Tessa had left a scrawl of untidy words, but it was perfectly legible to Yelroan, who translated it for everyone present. Including Colfa, the children, and the staff.
“I’ve left. Don’t follow me. I can’t be cured. This is for failing everything.”
He looked at Peggy, and the Hobgoblin handed him a sheathed knife. One of two that Tessa carried. It had to be a powerful artifact. Yelroan whistled, and Lyonette sat down and put her head in her hands.
“She thinks she’s unfixable.”
“Why would she think that? Excuse me. Excuse me. Who is this?”
Someone interrupted, standing on her tip-toes to see the letter. Rose edged past Colfa, and the two gave each other strange looks. Who’s this now? Lyonette’s voice was bleak.
“Tessa. She thinks…where did she run off to?”
“Tenbault.”
Yelroan didn’t have to guess. Lyonette’s head came up slowly.
“Tenbault? She mentioned the Healer. But why would she go there if the Faerie Flower…oh.”
Peggy folded her arms, scowling hugely.
“Healer of Tenbault not nice person. Inkpaper has letter he found from her. Sound like shit tongue [Healer].”
“Letter?”
Lyonette looked around, then shook her head.
“Show me later, please, Peggy? We have to get her back.”
“We do?”
Even Yelroan was surprised by the [Princess]’ authoritativeness. Nanette, about to probably say something similar, closed her mouth, gratified. Lyonette, meanwhile, had put her cheek on the table and was giving a wall a thousand-yard stare.
“Of course we do. She’s not well. She’ll kill herself without help. But first—Rheirgest. The Council won’t give us any money.”
Those fucking bastards! Why not? Was it Lism? I bet it was Lism, the shit-tail.
Mrsha wrote furiously and hid the card when Lyonette’s eyes went to her. The [Princess] replied.
“I—got into a fight with Selys. And the people have realized Rheirgest is full of [Necromancers]. No one wants them.”
“Not a very hard thing to understand. [Necromancers] aren’t the most sociable or helpful folk to have around. I’ve run them off trying to kill flocks for bodies more than once.”
Colfa murmured. Lyonette put her head in her hands.
“And I have to deal with Rose.”
“Hey! I’m not a problem!”
Rose protested. Lyonette stared up gloomily at the Earther, too tired to find the energy to lie to her face.
 
——
 
 
At this point, Yelroan really registered Colfa’s presence, and Peggy blinked. Rosencrantz appeared, offering the farmer a cup of tea, and folded his hands behind his back.
“Hello, Miss Colfa. May we offer you anything to eat? On the house.”
Well done, Rosencrantz! He gave them all a tiny salute as Colfa dithered.
“—If you had some of this non-garlic pasta I’ve heard about, I will gladly accept the repast. Otherwise, perhaps something Drake or Gnollish?”
“Would silkap with fresh bread do for a starter, followed by a bloody Wyvern steak dressed in an Oteslian salad? I believe we have some in storage.”
“Oh. My. Is that not too costly?”
Rosencrantz lied in a way that would have made Bird proud. With the truth.
“We have no set cost as we do not normally sell it, Miss Colfa. Your daughter, Fierre, often requests the dish.”
“Very vell. I shall partake of it gladly.”
Colfa looked quite happy to be waited upon, but turned her attention back to Lyonette, who had explained the Rheirgest issue. She looked so miserable that the children, Nanette, Hethon, Mrsha, and Sammial, began whispering to each other.
“Maybe we shouldn’t blackmail her right yet.”
Hethon tried to hide the list of things Lyonette didn’t want getting out—like her identity as a [Princess]—-that they’d send to a Runner’s Guild or put on Wistram News Network if she didn’t give them the wand.
It had been their project for the day, and they’d come up with a quite large dossier of blackmail information, some of which were basic, others of which were surprisingly personal and came from Mrsha.
Strike when they’re weakest!
Mrsha wrote back. Nanette was watching Lyonette and whispered.
“The blackmail was just for fun. But we can probably push her once Yelroan tells her the news about the box.”
“What box? I want a Wyvern steak too! Give me one, and Hethon too. You there, steak!”
Sammial was speaking loudly to Rosencrantz. The Worker was trotting into the kitchen.
“Did you hear me? Hello?”
The Worker turned slowly.
“Hello? Is anyone there?”
Sammial gave Rosencrantz an odd look as Yelroan began to hurry over. But the Worker was, like Peggy, a cut above the ordinary staff. He’d learned from Ishkr, after all.
“Can’t you see me? Hello?”
Rosencrantz saw Sammial, but he cupped one of his four hands to his ear hole.
“Hello, small child. I am Rosencrantz. I cannot hear you.”
“I SAID, I WANT A WYVERN ST—”
“I cannot hear anything that does not have ‘please’ and ‘thank you’ attached. Please repeat your order?”
Sammial Veltras’ mouth fell open. He stared at Rosencrantz, and then his eyes narrowed.
“Yes you can. You can’t fool me because you’re an Antinium.”
“What? Excuse me, I cannot hear you. Wait, that was not an order so I can probably hear that.”
Rosencrantz’s reply made Sammial get angry. Hethon was about to kick his brother when he saw the amused look Yelroan was giving the boy and settled in to watch. Sammial tried again, a bit nervously because he knew Rosencrantz was an Antinium and even he had seen his father failing to outrank Erin Solstice.
“I’m a [Lord]. You can’t pretend not to hear me!”
“I am situationally deaf when I am treated impolitely. It is a horrible condition of my class, Mister Sammial. I hope you will be able to remember the rules.”
“What if I don’t?”
Sammial folded his arms defiantly, despite knowing his manners. Rosencrantz bent over.
“Then I regret that you shall starve to death.”
