“Nuh uh. I’ll go find someone else to give me my food.”
Rosencrantz stepped to block Sammial as the boy tried to march left.
“I regret that other Workers will not be able to hear you if I cannot. And I would not advise you to be rude to a Goblin. They might kick you. Or bite you.”
Peggy waved and showed Sammial all her teeth. The boy stared at her—then at Rosencrantz. The pitch of his voice rose slightly higher.
“You—you can’t threaten me! I’m a Veltras! Jericha will shoot you with magic if you try to harass me! Ullim will make sure I’m fed.”
“Oh. Really? Then why did he ask me not to feed you unless you had manners?”
Checkmate. Rosencrantz stood there as Sammial’s mouth fell open. Then he stood straight and, like a Golem, swiveled around and exaggeratedly walked to the kitchen, swinging all four arms.
“Oh dear. I have only heard one Wyvern steak for Calescent. I shall likely not be able to take another order for Wyvern steaks until dinner. Alas. Alas…”
“No, wait! I’m sorry! One Wyvern steak, please.”
Sammial tried to resist, but his nerve broke, and he ran after Rosencrantz, voice petulant. The Worker paused.
“I believe I heard another Wyvern steak. Hello, sir and or madam. Would you like a steak?”
“Yes, please. Thank you.”
Sammial’s glower was probably not adding to Rosencrantz’s hearing, but the Worker instantly produced a notepad.
“Would your brother care for one? May I ask if you like yours bloody, rare, medium, or well-done with the understanding that asking for ‘well-done’ means your steak will be overcooked and make you an inferior person?”
Sammial peered up at Rosencrantz and scuffed his foot on the ground.
“I’ll…have the one she has. Please.”
He indicated Colfa, and all the adults noticed Rosencrantz pause. Then the Worker leaned down conspiratorially.
“…Do you not know what the difference between these things are, Mister Sammial? I can tell you. It is a very strange thing, food.”
Sammial gave his brother the side-eye, but Hethon looked away just in time. He hesitated, then leaned over.
“—Okay. I forget since my father always orders it the same way. Thanks.”
“Very good, sir. I can show you what it looks like, in fact, if you promise not to touch. Follow me.”
 
——
 
“Miss Lyonette, may we offer you something to eat? Things tend to feel better on a full stomach.”
Dalimont tried to encourage the recumbent Lyonette to eat, but the [Princess] was truly upset. She was glad Colfa seemed to be well-attended, but this day truly had been a series of disasters.
She could see Mrsha and Nanette whispering to Hethon and eying her, and Sammial had disappeared—never a good sign with a boy that young. Then there was Rose.
“Did you say you saw Imani? H-how is she?”
The young woman had been heartbroken by the news of Imani’s missing eye, and while she’d heard about Kevin, the news had clearly been inconsistent as it reached her. She looked around the inn, forlorn.
“It’s so strange that Kevin and Joseph aren’t here. And…and Imani’s gone. Good riddance to Troydel, but they’re all…I’m not a problem, by the way! I came to help! Honest.”
She met Lyonette’s eyes.
“I know I was a bit of a bother last time, but I’ve been helping the Gnoll tribes. In fact, I’ve come back with some interesting news. I didn’t get a chance to talk about it but, uh…”
Rose hesitated, and the young woman realized this might fall under the category of ‘problem’. Lyonette stared blankly at the young woman. Then exhaled.
“Ser Normen will have to help with Tessa. I can’t imagine anyone else can get to Tenbault, and—and Rheirgest is a problem. At least we have a day or two to see if we can afford a downpayment on…what? A plot of land outside Liscor? They were giving those away.”
Her commentary attracted Colfa back over to the table.
“Ah—Lyonette. Did I hear this village of [Necromancers] is trying to settle around Liscor?”
“Yes. I imagine they could buy land—they almost gave it to you, didn’t they, Colfa?”
The farmer nodded, but hesitantly. She licked her ruby-red lips, trying not to say what was on her mind.
“Yes, but…I fear you have a problem, Lyonette. It is entirely possible, nay, simple, to acquire ze—what do Drakes call it? The permits? The proof of land and rights from Liscor. But finding enough land to settle an entire village is hard.”
“They’d have to spread out.”
“True. True…and build very quickly. With stone and wood. They might hire Antinium, but they would have to be, ah—very willing to spend gold. To build a village in a month’s time. And if I may be upfront—the rains have not been described to me as an easy thing to live in without a proper home.”
It felt, at this point, like bullying to see Lyonette blanch as she realized that the cost of hiring Antinium to create a hill—not to mention the costs of building that many houses at such speed—would be beyond Rheirgest’s means. She faintly whispered.
“Celum or Esthelm, then. I’ll talk to Normen tonight about the likeliest city. If I can convince Esthelm…perhaps Pelt can put in a good word? If he doesn’t hate us too. Thank you, Colfa. That was good to know.”
“It, ah, was necessary to say.”
That was all Colfa felt she was able to say. The [Princess] looked actually sick as she put her head down again.
Now?
Mrsha nudged Nanette, and the [Witch] stroked her chin and sighed back.
Almost. She’s about to collapse. One more push…
Yelroan hesitated, but Lyonette was turning her attention to the kitchen now that food had been raised, and she sighed in relief as Sammial came marching back with his choice of medium-rare steak, proud as could be. He even gave Rosencrantz a silver coin. Lyonette half-smiled.
“Maybe I could face this all on a fuller stomach. What’s on the menu? Oh, and tell Calescent absolutely no more cloning garlic until Colfa’s gone, understand?”
She nodded authoritatively at Peggy, and the Hobgoblin gave her a fixed, and worried, smile.
“That is no problem, Miss Lyonette. Won’t happen again. Ever.”
Something about the way she said that made Lyonette’s smile turn upside down. Yelroan sighed. There was no getting around it.
“What did you do? What did he do?”
“Er—Lyonette. It’s not the largest problem. Please sit down. There’s no crisis—”
She was beginning to hyperventilate. Lyonette the Extremely Stressed wavered, and everyone waited for the final nail in the coffin.
“What happened with the box?”
Rose, Colfa, Hethon, and Sammial, who weren’t all in the know, perked their ears up and glanced around. Yelroan, mindful of the audience, leaned over.
“Nothing. After you, uh, removed the garlic, I did tell the staff not to try anything else with it until Archmage Valeterisa and Demsleth got back to us. And Calescent obeyed. Mostly.”
“Calescent…”
“He really did!”
A Hobgoblin was peeking out of the kitchen, looking worried. Lyonette’s eyes swiveled to Yelroan and then to the kitchen—and the Gnoll delivered the final blow as gently as he could.
“He didn’t do anything else with it. Certainly not put anything else in the—the box. The problem is…he couldn’t. The garlic won’t go back in.”
Was this code of some kind? Rose mouthed the words ‘The garlic won’t go back in’. Why did that make Lyonette blanch?
“Did he try to force the garlic back in? What do you—it won’t go back in?”
“It cannot be inserted into the box.”
At this point, Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle really hoped this wasn’t some kind of euphemism, but the look on Lyonette’s face suggested that if it was, it was not a good result either way.
“And he tried?”
“I tried. Everyone tried. With a hammer, even. No amount of force could—no garlic. Not another clove, not another bunch. No piece of garlic works.”
Colfa really had to know what this box was. Was it literal garlic or…Lyonette put her head in her hands.
“No. No. No. Does it mean you only get one try or—?”
Yelroan patted her on the shoulder, as concerned as she was. Slowly, the [Princess] stood up, giving everyone a wan smile.
“I think…I had better lie down a second. Excuse me.”
None of the staff had the heart to say anything as she headed upstairs. Even Ser Dalimont and Dame Ushar looked sympathetic. The only group that got up and began to file upstairs after Lyonette were the children. When the adults fell down, why, that was the time when you kicked them. They were too tall normally.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin lay on her back, staring at the ceiling. Her head was a mess.
The box of…of whatever it was called had stopped working.
She’d broken it.
No—the garlic wouldn’t return to the box. Did that mean it only worked once? Was it on cooldown? But if it wasn’t and she inserted something else in…
You only got one try. That sounded—horrifically—like something that Erin’s Skill would enforce. Moment. Memory.
Intransigence.
The box had a limited amount of power. Or a rule of some kind, and Lyonette had just used something up. Forever?
There was a…a sense in the back of her mind that came from having access to Erin’s Skills. An intuition, like how she could sense children marching up the stairs to harass her. Before she practiced the sacred art of child-punting, for the first time in her life, Lyonette tried to feel for the box. Erin’s newest Skill.
—She sensed nothing. Not a thing. Lyonette could sense the [Garden of Sanctuary], even how to open the other doors. The hallway, the gardens folded up into each other, able to be anywhere and nowhere in the inn.
She could feel the inn, sturdy, sense the [World’s Eye Theatre] like a waiting eye or how Erin had described a telescope, ready to swivel and view the world.
She did not sense the box. But when she opened her eyes—there it was.
Resting on her chest. When Lyonette focused on it, she felt the faint weight, but even that was a lie. Sometimes it was heavy, other times it was small.
…It was smaller this time. Hand-sized. Lyonette reached out to touch it and whispered as her fingers flinched away.
“[The Box of Incontinuity].”
Her skin crawled. She did not know it. Yet she knew the name. It was more than that. She knew that much—but she knew nothing of what it did. Perhaps Erin Solstice herself didn’t.
It terrified her. It was a Level 50 Skill, and Lyonette lay there. Selys’ glower of hatred was burned into her vision. Tessa’s blank look of despair. Colfa’s quiet voice.
We have let them all down. Each and every one. That was what hurt so much about what Selys had said.
Who’s next? Which friend has to suffer when we fight for a cause, even if we have every reason in the world? And what do we leave behind?
Lyonette wished she could talk to Erin face-to-face. Maybe the [Innkeeper] had a better answer, but from where Lyonette lay—it looked like the answer was nothing.
Yet. And yet. Lyonette stared at the box and let dark thoughts drift in her mind. Maybe…no.
Maybe. She lifted it up and inspected it. The Box of Incontinuity was plain, wooden, and Lyonette thought no force in this world might be able to break it. She cast her mind into the [Garden of Sanctuary] where Apista was buzzing around a pile of garlic and nibbling on some.
Lyonette lay backwards again and thought to herself. Just thought for a while. Then she wondered what was taking her daughters so long.
 
——
 
Blackmail was, in the Kingdom of Calanfer, as traditional as one’s first monthly bleeding. That was why Dame Ushar didn’t stop Mrsha and Nanette on their quest to drive their mother to the edge.
After all, each one of Calanfer’s [Princesses], save for little Ellet, had at one point or other tried to blackmail, bribe, persuade, or otherwise manipulate their parents. That usually was when Ielane took one glove off and they learned something of their mother’s true nature.
In this case, Ushar was hoping it would give the girls some much-needed respect for Lyonette, or, if it led to strife, then she would be assisting both sides in productive warfare until they reconciled.
Such was a Thronebearer’s life. The children would surely not stop for her anyways; they had a mission. A debt of honor and a wand of true magic to acquire. Great secrets to unravel; who could halt such adventure and destiny?
Ser Dalimont? Of course not. He valued his shins and feared whatever mischief the children might visit him in the night. Who would stand against them? Peggy, Rosencrantz, and the staff? They had better things to do than make enemies with the children.
Yelroan, then, or Rose? No, even to the newly-returned Earther and Gnoll. They had learned the dangers of Gnoll cubs long ago.
Mrsha the Manipulator ascended the stairs to the second floor, adjusting the black bowtie she’d found as Nanette fiddled with a cap. Hethon and Sammial brought up the rear, wishing they could have had the steak before they blackmailed Lyonette. But intrigue waited for no man’s stomach.
The children found someone blocking their way. She stood, silhouetted in the oddly dark corridor, a shawl of crimson draped around her shoulders, a cloak thrown back to reveal clothing that looked old, black cloth sewn carefully with white thread and grey to give it the look of silver brocade.
An upraised chin; red eyes half-aglow by the light. Wind even swept around Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle’s feet, blowing her skirts.
It was, even to Ushar and Dalimont, an amazing entrance. The two Thronebearers and the children all stared at Colfa a second.
“Children. Vhat are you doing? Your mother is resting. Let her rest. Come, let thee return below to dine on our repast.”
The accent that tended to come and go with Colfa’s mood was in full force. She seemed rather pleased by Mrsha’s and Sammial’s open mouths. Nanette, though, was made of sterner stuff. She touched the cap, doffing it like a city girl.
“I know she’s resting, Miss Colfa, but we have business that can’t rest. As it were. She’s been rather stubborn, and if you’ll let us have just a few minutes with her, we can resolve this all quickly and have a luncheon. I should be delighted to dine with you.”
Assuming Lyonette doesn’t want to make this hard. Mrsha the Muscle punched a fist into her paw. Colfa’s lips twitched up slightly.
“Ah. I can see thou art resolute. Naughty children. Rebellion is all very well. But I vould hope you would remember to respect your elders. Miss Lyonette has suffered a trying day. Kindly give her a moment’s rest.”
“I, uh, I’m sorry, Miss. But we have business with her that can’t wait.”
Hethon interrupted awkwardly before Nanette could reply. The witch and Colfa gave him mildly annoyed looks as if he was interrupting something, but as impressive as the stranger was—wasn’t she some kind of [Farmer]?—he really had urgent business.
