Mrsha was astounded. Gold coins weren’t a standard? Everyone knew it went copper, silver, and gold for value. But Nerul waggled a finger at her.
“I love talking about coins. Good icebreaker at the bar. Can I get you two wine? Grape juice? Watered wine?”
I shall have an amphora of watered wine, if you please. No vinegar. I do know the difference.
Mrsha handed the request to a servant, and Nerul coughed into a handkerchief until his scales were red.
“Child, never change. You heard her. An amphora, but go light on the wine. It’s always good for girls to know what wine tastes like.”
“Is it, sir?”
Dalimont was disapproving, but Nerul gave him a serious look.
“Of course it is. If I had daughters, I’d have them at least know what wine’s like. Or how are they to know if someone’s altered it? And they should know how much they can drink.”
“…Very good, sir.”
Wine cups were passed out, and Mrsha tried to look dignified as she sipped at hers and decided wine sucked. Nerul launched into a practiced explanation.
“What you need to know, ladies, is that gold coins are universally recognized across the world. Everyone from Drath to the House of Minos accepts them. Even if some places have internal currencies or barter systems—gold coins have a value. It then stands to reason that if it’s nice having a currency, well, someone has to make the stuff, right?”
“Right. So each kingdom has a coin, don’t they?”
“Aha! Wrong!”
The Drake waggled a finger at Nanette. She blinked, and he gestured to the spread of coins on the table and flicked several out of his own money pouch.
“Take a hard look at these coins. Just the Izrilian ones…here. What do you see? How many cities or places?”
One, two, three…Mrsha and Nanette counted, but came up with only eight places. It was easy to see from the coins; there was a raised face on each coin that had neat edging and an image of the city’s crest and sometimes their name on the front.
Salazsar, House Terland, House Reinhart, Ottopren—Mrsha didn’t recognize the last one, but she did know the others. Strangely, she noticed a tiny little flag in the right corner of one of the House Terland coins—and it was another flag on another gold coin.
“What’s this, Mister Nerul?”
“Which Mint-City coined the actual piece itself. The big crest is which power backed it. Except for Ottopren. They’re an independent city. Not many cities, or even kingdoms, are in the habit of minting coins, Miss Nanette. It’s not the easiest task.”
Pshaw. How hard can it be? You take some gold and stamp it.
Mrsha was faintly outraged, but Nerul raised his brows.
“Well, yes, that sounds simple enough, Miss Mrsha, but what if someone takes a gold piece and stamps it? Then they’ve copied you. Besides, most gold coins aren’t actual gold. Someone bring me a magnet?”
Mrsha’s day was filled with outrageous revelations. She gasped—but Nanette just watched as Nerul passed a magnet over the coins. Only one stuck to it; a few moved, but the magnetic stone passed over the rest without issue. Nerul grunted.
“Thought so. Some of these are more valuable than I thought; but look at this coin, Mrsha. Magnetic. Gold isn’t, at least, not pure gold. This is a Manus gold coin.”
It was nice, heavy, and in good condition; none of the lettering or edges had worn down. Mrsha felt it suspiciously.
Seems like a good coin to me.
“Oh, it is. But it’s not gold. Rather, I’d guess it’s about 40% gold. The rest is other metals. I’m never sure which, and you see how Salazsar’s is slightly different? Their alloy makes the coin’s a bit different. Top secret; it makes it harder to forge. If all gold coins were, well, gold, my word, we wouldn’t have nearly as many!”
He laughed, shaking his head at the notion. Mrsha stared down at the traitorous coin from Manus. Now she thought about it…one time, when Griffon Hunt had come back from the dungeon, hadn’t Revi said they’d found actual gold coins in the dungeon? Which meant that it was rare.
“So cities mix gold with other metals to save money on making them? I understand that, Mister Nerul. That must be why people try and make fake gold coins.”
“Exactly. If it cost a gold coin to make a gold coin—there would be no value in minting them! Most gold coins are actually a profit for the city who coins them, but a lot of that money has to go back into making them forgery proof. Or else you get things like this—and believe me, this can ruin cities and businesses. One high-level [Forger] and you’re in trouble.”
Now, Nerul held up one of the fake coins, which was a Salazsarian coin—but it had a punched piece of metal taken out of it.
He showed them the coin, and Mrsha, sniffing it, thought she did detect a different scent from it.
“This is a lead-painted coin. Not a bad one; they painted it with several coats, and it’s the right weight. Mind you, any Merchant’s Guild would pick up on the forgery. You can test for it; it devalues the coins slightly, but let’s play a game.”
Nerul developed a twinkle in his eye. In a trice, he produced ten gold coins and turned to Mrsha.
“Mrsha, I’m a delightful character who wants to buy a meat pie at the market. But instead of paying you, oh, a silver piece, I say, ‘I’ll pay you an entire gold coin. If you change it for silvers, I’ll let you have two silvers.’ What do you say to that?”
Mrsha wrote furiously.
I’m no rube! I’d say give me four silvers for having to exchange your gold coin! My meat pies are superior to ordinary stock!
The Drake howled with laughter, and Nanette covered her face.
“Mrsha. Nerul is giving you a fake gold coin. It’s a classic scam.”
What? Outrageous! Mrsha’s face fell, and Nerul handed her a coin with a wink.
“Sadly, it’s the most common way of trading a fake coin. That way I get four real silver pieces and you get…lead. You might not notice it when you go shopping, but at some point, someone does—and then things get ugly. Tell me, you’re at the counter and you think someone’s trying to cheat you. How do you tell the coin’s fake?”
Mrsha knew that one. She instantly put the coin in her mouth, bit—and nearly broke a tooth. Nerul laughed so hard he nearly splashed wine all over himself.
“Good try! But this is an alloy. Here, try this.”
So saying, he handed her an implement like a weird stabbing device. It was pointed and had four flanges running off it, but it was pen-sized.
“This is a coinpuncher. Stab it into the metal—don’t damage it too much! Go, eh, a third in.”
Mrsha did. It took some effort and all her weight to drive the tip down deep enough, but when she lifted it up, she saw the glossy gold metal had revealed lead again.
Fraud! Guards, arrest this man!
Mrsha hurled the coin down with disgust, and Nerul gave her a wink. Then he began producing other objects.
“Magnets for identifying fake gold coins, alchemist baths that react properly with gold, punch tests—that’s the most primitive, but often the easiest way. Another way is to just know how a coin is minted. See how complex each one is? This is a real Salazsarian coin. Now look at the fake.”
When you put them side-by-side, the differences became clear. Gold coins had multiple ways to tell if they were real—and annoy the heck out of anyone trying to create a mold of a coin. Not only were the details exceptionally fine, from notched edges to embossing around the edges of each coin, there were more little secrets.
“This Golem-horse on the Terland coins only has three hooves. That’s deliberate, just like the crosshatching on the scales of the Drake here. It makes it nigh-impossible to pick up if you’re doing a wax-print. Now, details fade as coins are worn down. And not every kingdom uses the same style. Let’s take a look at this coin.”
The next coin Nerul handed Mrsha was insultingly thin and had a crest design and very narrow shape; it was more a disk as opposed to a fat coin.
“This is worth less, isn’t it, Mister Nerul? I’ve seen [Merchants] weighing a coin.”
Heavier coins with more gold in them had to be worth more. Nerul tapped one cheek with a smile.
“Half right, Miss Nanette. It’s always about gold content. This coin, despite being smaller, has more gold in it; it’s Calanferian. A smart [Merchant] checks on how much gold a ‘heavy’ coin has. You are right that weight and size matter. Well, you don’t need to know more than this, generally. But if you cared to dive into a deeper world, you’d think of all of this as…current coin minting theory. With that said, where are these coins from, hmm?”
He pulled over the other coins that weren’t identifiable as coins from Izril. Many were old; a few had been worn shiny-smooth, and one had an insignia that Mrsha recognized.
The King of Destruction’s seal. This is from Chandrar!
“At least twenty years old. Might be worth something as a collector’s item. Lovely seal, and I imagine he began minting his own. Actually, I’d trade you four gold coins for this one if you like after we’re done; I do appreciate various coins. And this isn’t the oldest one you have. Look at this.”
Nerul held it up appreciatively. Then he handed Mrsha another coin, and she blinked at it. The coin had a snarling wolf’s head on it, and the scratches of writing below were familiar to her. Not Nanette. The girl peered at it.
“That’s not Drakeish or Terandrian script.”
“It’s a Gnoll coin. From when the tribes minted their own. That has to be over two hundred years old. Heavy—is this nearly twenty carats? Where did you get this?”
Nerul was suddenly fascinated, and Nanette explained.
“Miss Lyonette was paid in tons of coins by adventurers. I imagine it might have come from Albez or the dungeon.”
“Damn, and they just handed them out? Classic adventurers! They always say a savvy [Merchant] earns more than the adventurer, especially if they’re the ones exchanging all the loot! This coin is old, Miss Mrsha. It’s truly worth any two coins here combined.”
Mrsha snatched it back, holding the coin made by Gnolls with sudden reverence. Nerul’s eyes were glittering now, and he hunted around.
“Hmm. You see, older nations made coins, but new nations will melt some down and recast, or just use them until they’re too thin. That’s why older coins always vanish, but you can always find someone holding onto a really rare coin. There are, of course, [Collectors], but most coins are sadly like these. Shamefaced Coins.”
He held out the coins that were perfectly flat, worn, smooth, without edgework in some cases. Just a thin cylinder of metal.
“Who made these, Mister Nerul?”
The Drake shrugged.
“No one can say. But I’ll bet they’re genuine. They’re just—well, we call them Shamefaces. Because the city who minted them can’t make that many and doesn’t want to try to combat forgeries. As many as forty percent of all coins are this kind. These ones you do want to check. Or have a [Merchant] do it.”
“Forgery countering must be tough.”
Nanette observed, and Nerul sighed wistfully.
“Oh, it’s a grand game. You see this coin that has a punch mark already? It’s fake.”
He pulled out a new coin, handed it to the girls, and they saw gold gleaming all the way down the punch mark—only when Nerul showed them an edge with another knife mark in it, it revealed iron.
“You see, the [Forger] created the coin with the punch mark so it looks like someone’s already tested it. Very clever. It’s a game of Skills; you have [Forgers] who can make the real thing perfectly accurately, but at that point, is it even worth the cost? In the same way, testing coins can drive you mad. Invrisil’s doubtless got a good Merchant’s Guild, but a small town?”
“Who can tell whether all the coins are real or not? Is there an authority?”
The Drake nodded.
“Mint-Cities, of course. They have a vested interest. House Terland’s the powerhouse of the north. I hear they have Golems that can hold a coin and measure its weight or alloy; we’re no slouches in Salazsar. Now, your mother sent you to get the best coin per weight, eh? I have a few in my room; they’re hard to come by.”
“Wait, there is a best coin?”
The Drake gave Nanette a haughty look.
“My dear. If there were a king of coins, you know people would vie to produce it. One second—”
He vanished and came back with something. A cloth bag. In fact—a specific fabric.
“Here’s how you know a coin is valuable: when someone handling it doesn’t touch it with their bare hands. If anyone ever hands you one of these coins casually, they’re either an idiot or it’s a fake. This, my dear Mrsha and Nanette, is the most valuable gold coin you can find that’s minted today. This is a Salazsarian Goldstriker.”
Of course the City of Gems minted the best coins. Mrsha saw Nerul taking a piece of metal out of the bag and was prepared to scoff—until she saw the fattest coin she had ever glimpsed in her life.
A Salazsarian Goldstriker was half again as large as a regular coin, thick, and made of real gold. It sat gleaming on some black cloth, and Nerul let them touch it, but cautioned them.
“See how soft and heavy it is compared to a regular coin? You’ve got some actual gold coins yourself; you should store them carefully. This coin will rub down if you let it, and even the dust is valuable.”
“Why do you make a coin this big, Mister Nerul? It’s still a gold coin. It must be worth more than others.”
The Drake nodded reasonably.
“Oh, it is, though I grant you the average person might not realize it. I have a supply I stock up on every time I go back to Salazsar; I’ve been handing these out judiciously while I’m here. This coin you use when you want to tip and leave an impact. It’s the coin you put down when you want to make a purchase and show what it means.”
But why have the coin to begin with? Nerul snorted at the innocence of children.
“It’s a message. ‘Our money is worth more than your money’. Our money is better than your money. Our money takes yours out behind the stables and beats it down with a halfbrick because it’s too good to be held by your worthless hand…ahem.”
He held the coin up and then held up a regular coin.
“It’s all politics, in the end. Just look at it like this, Miss Mrsha. When I pay you for that meat pie, which coin do you want more? This one? Or this?”
The Goldstriker was obviously the one Mrsha wanted. And Nerul handed it to her, much to her delight, and winked.
“And now you’ve taken your first steps to becoming [Negotiators]. Can I sign you up as prospective diplomats? Salazsar needs more non-Drakes.”
Dalimont was grateful for the lesson on currencies, but he bristled at Nerul’s attempts to suborn Calanfer’s potential new talent. Mrsha and Nanette conferred excitedly, and Mrsha wrote to Nerul.
