Just like so many before him had done. The greatest [Mage] in history had once tried to confirm his theories and touch the heart of magic itself. That was why the ghosts would have shivered. And yet, Yelroan was muttering.
“I’m not after that foundational equation. Not yet. I’ll build up to it. I need to borrow the laptop and work my way up from Earth’s physics. First, I derive the magical rule equivalent to gravity. Then—”
It was all Drathian to Mrsha, but the infectious energy in Yelroan, the confidence and desire? That made her proud of another Gnoll searching for something new. Or old. She puffed out her chest and sidled up to Yelroan, and a [Princess] saw the Gnoll alight on a project worth all his time and energy. Then, Yelroan’s sideways look at her said he was now thinking of his own budget. The cost in paper and ink alone…not to mention buying [Mages]’ time.
Well, good. It meant he needed them too.
Lyonette had another dream in her hands. She slowly placed the box on a table and turned.
“Everyone. I’ve come to a realization today. The Wandering Inn—has let people down.”
Her audience turned to her. Mrsha looked up at Lyonette, and Peggy scratched her head.
“Uh oh. Chieftain-Lyonette is getting sad. Where Ulvama when you need her?”
She whispered to Rosencrantz, who whispered back.
“I could get Pawn to cast [Benediction of Hope], but he might get sad if he comes here.”
Lyonette ignored them. It was so clear. Ishkr was the one who raised a paw.
“Do you mean those who’ve died, Lyonette? Don’t let Selys get to you. She’s conveniently forgotten how Liscor was before Erin arrived. We had bad sewers, prices were horrible, and we were a no-name city with a dungeon under our feet. No one liked Antinium. Gnolls were the old Humans—I remember it.”
He smiled, his face as close to annoyed as it ever got.
“Miss Selys is entitled to her opinion, but she’s no Tekshia.”
Damn. Mrsha felt like she had to defend Selys from Ishkr’s savagery. She began to scribble a comeback hesitantly, but Lyonette shook her head.
“It’s not just that, Ishkr. Of course…I’m sad about the Solstice. I wish it hadn’t happened, hadn’t needed to happen. What Erin did after that—some of it wasn’t her choice, like being kidnapped. At the end of it? That was her.”
She stared past them, and she could still see the image of Erin standing behind the [Prince of Men]. Calmly ramming her knife through his chest without even looking at him. The most shocking thing Lyonette had ever seen. The most—predictable.
That wasn’t what Lyonette meant. The [Princess] turned and made her point clearer.
“Erin has always made it a priority to help those who help her. From the Horns, way back at the beginning, to anyone who’s been a guest. We try to feed them, make them comfortable, but we also try to make things happen for them. Right?”
Like Relc and Valeterisa. Or Demsleth, for all he was a pain. If they needed something, the inn helped make it happen. All the staff nodded. Right. It was the kind of thing Erin did. It was an [Innkeeper]’s role—and a [Witch]’s.
Quintessentially Erin. Lyonette looked around and shook her head.
“But lately—they’ve been giving more than we can ever repay. The scales used to be balanced. Griffon Hunt, the Halfseekers—they came and went. Now?”
The ultimate price was on the books, and no one could settle it. Lyonette saw Mrsha stop writing, and Nanette hugged her. Lyonette kept going softly.
“Back when all we had was food and a room to sleep in, it was fine. People risked their lives because Erin was doing the same. But we’re running debts. The Order of Solstice. Rheirgest. The val Lischelle-Drakles—”
Colfa opened her mouth as Lyonette glanced at her. To protest, but Lyonette saw her think of Bamer and duck her head. The [Princess] went on, pacing back and forth.
“I’m sure Erin is thinking what I am. We can never forget. We don’t. That’s the point of her [Garden of Sanctuary]. Someday, someday we’ll pay back our debts. Somehow…and it’s fine to try to live like that. It doesn’t change that we’ve let them down a bit.”
For the first time, The Wandering Inn had taken too much. Asked too much. It didn’t matter if they were great causes. Necessary battles. Lyonette had always been happy that the inn left more than it took in ways that had no value in gold, but in people and deeds.
If only they had given Halrac Named-rank and the gear to go along with it, maybe…or been able to give Moore a library to read in. Lyonette thought of Brunkr and closed her eyes a second.
Monsters arose. They were put down. In the meantime? The inn should have done more than reward people in food and drinks.
“We’ve run a debt, and I can’t even begin to pay the costs. I’ve been…I’m afraid of another big adventure or event. That’s why I haven’t gone after Ilvriss. That’s why I haven’t let anyone touch the wand. I kept saying ‘we’re not ready’. I guess what I meant was I don’t want us to do it the wrong way.”
“But Miss Lyonette. If we wait on these things, then it’ll be too late—”
Nanette began to protest, and Mrsha nodded. Lyonette glowered at the two girls.
“Oh, and you two were just going to run off and visit strange—forest people in secret? Without telling me?”
They saved us once, Mother.
Mrsha protested, and Lyonette scowled at her.
“Mrsha. Not once did you tell me your plans or ask! Hethon and Sammial I can understand. They’re [Lords] of House Veltras. Did it never once occur to you to ask if I wanted to come along? Or if I had a plan?”
The two girls looked at each other. Nanette bit her lip, and Mrsha hesitated, then wrote on a card.
I didn’t know you’d be cool like that. All evidence hither to points to no.
Lyonette tore up the card and handed the pieces back to Mrsha.
“If you hadn’t been so unreasonable, you would have learned that my plan might have been to go—once we had Ser Normen with us. Perhaps an expert on the Vale Forest like Nalthaliarstrelous? What about a [Witch]? Or is Miss Nanette a great witch herself already?”
After all, you might as well have a negotiator, and if negotiations with these people failed, someone capable of generating flames was a good second bet. But she didn’t say that part out loud.
Her daughters squirmed, but their eyes lit up when they realized this meant they might have a chance of fulfilling Hethon’s promise soon. Huzzah! With Lyonette and parental supervision!
Ah. There’s the rub. But Lyonette had already warmed to her theme, and now it was coming out of her.
“If Liscor doesn’t want to back us, well—Eternal Throne, we’ll do it ourselves! Rheirgest doesn’t have to live in Liscor. What if—what if we found them a spot of land and hired Antinium to make it flood proof? Selys doesn’t want to associate with us? Fine. But we’ll repay our debts. Not just to Liscor and Rheirgest. To everyone! They can avoid us and hate us, but we have the door, and when the next idiot comes to call, I’ll have Bird’s ballista on the roof, and he’ll have permission to shoot it all day and night and enough ammunition to take down the bone Giant himself if he has to!”
“Yeah! Ballista!”
Peggy pumped a fist in the air, and all the Goblins cheered. The Antinium began clapping, and Ishkr grinned. Mrsha was nudging Nanette, slightly worried.
I think Mother’s gone a bit crazy. Someone should stop her.
No one felt like it. Even Yelroan seemed positive, though he did have to raise a paw and cough.
“This is all stuff I believe in, Lyonette. But I’d be remiss if I, uh, didn’t mention that we don’t have the funds to do most of this without asking for discounts. Massive ones from the Antinium, for example.”
And there it was. Lyonette felt like a [Dancer] having skillfully led her partner to the right place at the right time. She gave them a certifiably crazy Erin Smile™.
The answer was, after all, simple. Erin had always had ways of making money or calling on favors. She hated doing it. She was a side of her own, and she didn’t like striking alliances or deals.
Well, so what? She wasn’t here right now, and even if she was, Lyonette had it on good authority that Erin was seven inches tall. What was she going to do, stop Lyonette?
She had left her inn behind. Now, the [Princess] stood here like a cuckoo bird invading a nest. That made her sound a lot worse than she felt she was, but the point remained.
I am Lyonette du Marquin, the [Princess] thought to herself. A better innkeeper than Erin. A more composed, articulate, attractive, well, fashionable Erin. I can do the things she’d never dream of.
So, she turned with a smile that Dame Ushar took a Magic Picture of. Just so Ushar had it for posterity. A brilliantly wide smile, like a [Lady] daring someone to kiss her hand so she could slap them across the face. A dangerously peeved glimmer of wrath and fortunes—
Why, she looked like Queen Ielane when she was young. Ushar saw Lyonette lift up the Box of Incontinuity and admire it.
“Here’s what we know about this box. The Box of Incontinuity. Whatever goes in is copied. If you take something out, you can’t put it back in. So we’ve used up ‘garlic’. Perhaps forever.”
Calescent shuffled his feet, lowering his head with the shame of [Garlic Cooks] everywhere for lost opportunities. But Lyonette favored him with a smile.
“I think Colfa will be glad we can’t duplicate more garlic.”
Rose and Colfa exchanged a look. Wait, duplicate? Was that what this was all about? They had a thought, or perhaps the burgeoning thought that Lyonette had mulled over all day from the morning. It couldn’t be. But maybe…Lyonette looked at Yelroan.
“Yelroan? Quick question.”
The [Mathematician] who had held the Plain’s Eye Tribe’s finances in his paw for years. A Gnoll who’d probably had the ability to embezzle multiple fortunes and hadn’t, because he’d been loyal and better than his Chieftain deserved.
Why did her smile make him more nervous than Xherw, suddenly? Yelroan broke away from his musings of the blackboard and equations and gave Lyonette a nervous grin.
“Yes, Lyonette?”
The [Princess]’ smile grew wider as Mrsha’s eyes grew round, and Nanette slowly took off her cap and held it in her hands. Like a witch saluting a masterfully stupid—or amazing—play.
“Yelroan, would you do me the favor of finding out which gold coin we have is the most valuable? I know they’re not all made equal. Better yet, can you prepare a spread for me to consider?”
Everyone stared at Yelroan. Then at Lyonette. Then at the Box of Incontinuity. Rose covered her mouth slowly. Rosencrantz had four hands over all of his mandibles.
Ser Dalimont just leaned over to Dame Ushar and whispered.
“We’d better get Tessa back and find more bodyguards. Because if Erribathe doesn’t try to destroy the inn, the [Merchants] are going to try to murder her.”
Dame Ushar didn’t reply. She was too busy applauding.
 
——
 
So it was that Mrsha and Nanette went on a field trip. Not to Liscor, where they were unwelcome, but rather, into the City of Adventurers.
Invrisil. They were escorted by Ser Dalimont, Yelroan not being present. He was busy sorting coins in the [Garden of Sanctuary], but he’d given them nearly fifty to take with them.
Not to spend, but rather, to bring to a contact that Lyonette had in the city. Or, failing that, the Merchant’s Guild.
However, Lyonette wanted secrecy. Someone she could trust, as opposed to suspicious questions. So she had them talk to someone who knew more about coinage than even Yelroan.
The rather modest apartment on a more well-to-do street wasn’t impressive, but it was one of those buildings you could rent out quickly and at a decent price. The nameplate had been recently done up, and what it said was:
 
Salazsarian Embassy — No Solicitations.
 
Whether or not it was Salazsar’s actual embassy sort of didn’t matter; they hadn’t had one in the north hither to, at least in Invrisil, and the renter of the place rather fancied he counted if anyone else did.
“Ah, Miss Mrsha of the Persuasive Pen! And Nanette Weishart, I believe. Welcome, welcome. Did your mother send you? I hope she’s changed her tune on a little jaunt to the north. How can I help you?”
[Diplomat] Nerul was, by his own admission, not a Drake who enjoyed going on expeditions unless it was to the nearest bar. While his nephew had to organize sending so many people north, Nerul did what he considered was most valuable for Wall Lord Ilvriss: he hung around Invrisil and had drinks.
The proper sort of drinks, mind you. The ones where you bumped into a surly [Lord] or introduced yourself to a [Lady] who might never have seen a Drake from a Walled City and, coincidentally, got to talking. You paid for drinks, you introduced yourself to a table of [Merchants], and when you needed that favor—they’d remember your name.
Nerul had another mission, which was to get people like Lyonette on Ilvriss’ side, but he knew better than to push, given what the inn had been through. He was gratified to see Lyonette had come to him with a request and trusted him enough to send her daughters.
Of course, when they asked him for a favor, he paused—then smiled.
“Coinage? My dears, as your mother surely knows, you’ve come to the right place. Salazsar is one of the cities in Izril that can mint new coins, and I’m personally a bit of an expert on the subject. What did you want?”
We have come for good coin, sir. The best coin you have! And we will pay with inferior coins! Like these!
Mrsha slapped coins down on the coffee table in front of him, and one of the Drakes winced as she scratched the woodwork. Nerul just laughed heartily as Nanette explained.
“We’re not actually after the best coin necessarily, but Lyonette wanted to know the difference between the different—denominations? Of gold coins? She’s, ah, worried about it because of the inn’s income, you see.”
It was one of the rare subjects where Nanette actually didn’t know anything, so she was curious on two levels. Nerul instantly produced a monocle and inspected the assortment of gold coins.
“Ah, understandable. Has she gotten some fakes in? It happens, you know—oops. Here’s one.”
He flicked up a gold coin instantly, and Mrsha blinked.
A fake gold coin?
It looked real enough, but when you stared at a strange poc-mark, an odd cross dug into the metal, you noticed the gold turned into a darker, grey metal on the inside. Nerul tossed it down.
“Always hurts to see. Though if it’s only one in a hundred, that’s not the worst. Lyonette could probably make some good money if she’s wise about trading up gold coins. Not that it’s easy; any [Trader] worth their salt learns gold coins. As you said, they’re not all the same value.”
They’re not?
