The next day, Calescent slowly and reverentially broke an entire stack of spaghetti in half. He tossed the pieces into a pot, then poured in a dram of red wine he’d found to add to the taste.
Then, after closing the door to the kitchen, Calescent added a bulb of peeled garlic to a second pan of sauce. Then another bulb. Then five more.
After some thought, he put ten more bulbs’ worth of garlic into the tomato sauce, some butter, onions, salt, sugar, garlic, and more garlic.
The point was, in Calescent’s opinion, to create the most garlic-flavored sauce possible without ruining the sauce. Or to murder Fierre.
He snapped more pasta into the pot he’d already brought to a [Quick Boil]. The point was also to offend as many sensibilities as possible. Joseph had once jokingly complained to Calescent when he’d found the Hobgoblin broke up longer pieces of pasta so you could have a nice dish rather than long, stringy stuff. He’d told Calescent that ‘the Italians’ would hate him for doing it.
Thereafter, Calescent had deliberately broken spaghetti every time he’d made it, and especially for Joseph. This critical task done, the [Spice Chef] had a moment while both pots simmered. Then Calescent slowly inserted a piece of garlic into his mouth and began to chew.
It was definitely…spicy. A different kind of spice than regular garlic, and after eating about twenty pieces, he was getting sort of tired of the taste.
On the other hand? It was free food. Even if—
Someone hammered loudly on the door to the kitchen. Lyonette opened the door as Calescent sighed.
“Calescent, are you eating the garlic? I told you to stop before we test it!”
“I’m not eating.”
Calescent spoke around his mouthful of garlic. He poked at the cloves of garlic in the pot and had a thought.
I really should have put a pre-peeled garlic into the box. 
That would have made his life so much easier. Well, it wasn’t like it was that hard to peel garlic, especially since he just slapped it on the table and picked the pieces out of the shell. It took five seconds, but…Calescent looked over his shoulder.
There was a reason he was considering garlic-based foods. And why Fierre had decided to nap in Lady Ieka’s reserved rooms tonight. The Hobgoblin hunched his shoulders and decided the sauce could have a few more cloves of garlic.
He was used to buying in bulk. But the pile of garlic behind him?
That scared him. Every four seconds…he heard a pop, and another piece of garlic plopped down onto the pile.
They hadn’t even left it running for more than a few hours this morning. There were hundreds of pieces of garlic behind him, and as far as Calescent was concerned…he popped another piece into his mouth and chewed.
“Yah. Very real.”
“Calescent! Stop eating it!”
 
——
 
Garlic. Such a strange thing. Relative to the onion and leek. Said to have medicinal or possibly purifying properties. Bane of vampires and good breath.
What might one do with garlic? No, seriously. What were they going to do with all the garlic?
“That’s nine hundred and sixty-four pieces. Lyonette, I don’t think it’s stopping.”
Yelroan did a count after one hour and eight and a half minutes. Almost exactly. The garlic was popping out at a rate of 4.2 seconds, which meant that you could calculate exactly when a new bulb appeared.
Not just ‘approximately’. Exactly. The [Mathematician] had a counting Skill running, and it was a perfectly precise increase in garlic every minute. He’d thought, at first, that it had been variable, but that had been just Calescent snacking on it.
“It might stop at one thousand.”
Lyonette du Marquin hadn’t gotten much sleep last night. She looked stressed, her hair frazzled, her eyes bloodshot. Yelroan hadn’t seen Lyonette so worried for almost a month, and he regretted that that sense of—of pressure was back.
Yet he couldn’t deny that he, personally, was excited. Disbelieving. Amazed at the power of…the box.
It was hanging in the kitchen, suspended by a rope so it could drop pieces of garlic. Lyonette paced around. She snapped at Calescent and made sure her daughters didn’t go anywhere near the kitchen. She was waiting for Magnolia Reinhart to respond to her [Message] spell—or for Valeterisa to wake up.
After about three minutes, Yelroan called out.
“That’s one thousand and one pieces of g—”
Lyonette strode into the kitchen and slammed the door to the magical box. The Erin box. That was what everyone was calling it. She brought it back out, slammed it on a table, and glared at it.
“It’s not real garlic. It’s clearly a cornucopia-type Skill.”
“Ye-es. Definitely.”
Yelroan adjusted his sunglasses. They were also handy because he could avoid meeting Lyonette’s peeved gaze.
Yelroan was new to The Wandering Inn. It had welcomed him gently, without castigating him for his past sins, and while he didn’t feel like ‘part of’ the inn fully, he found it healing in a way. Useful and interesting, but not like being Yelroan, the [Mathematician] in charge of Plain’s Eye’s entire financial structure and helping a Great Tribe of Izril run.
It wasn’t like he had been planning to run off, but he’d been wondering if he could have put his talents to use here or there, and he’d obviously stayed at the inn but made more use of his time. But each time he thought about straying, Erin Solstice revealed a <Quest>, or he was suddenly talking to Normen about how you’d set up an entire [Knight] Order.
Or, suddenly, wondering how you could offload 20,571 pieces of garlic every day. Because that was how much that box would produce—assuming it had no limits. Of course, garlic rotted, and there were limits to how much people wanted to eat garlic. But pig feed? Garlic could be boiled to reduce the flavor, and even if it sucked to eat, how many [Alchemist] recipes called for garlic?
Assuming it was real, of course. But if it was real…was there a magical cost? Was this real garlic?
Could that box copy…other things?
Yelroan’s heart was beating far too fast for the morning. He slowly sipped from a cup of coffee that Peggy brought him. Lyonette was just sitting there, staring at the box.
“You want milk with coffee? Garlic?”
Yelroan grinned at Peggy, and the Hobgoblin grinned toothily back—but she kept her voice low to keep from angering her boss. She was actually one of the people Yelroan knew more of in The Wandering Inn.
Consider, for a moment, the division of jobs as Yelroan saw it. You had the ‘core family’, which was Lyonette, Mrsha, Nanette, Numbtongue, Bird, and, of course, Erin.
Then there were the regulars, guests everyone knew, like Menolit, Relc, formerly Selys, the Earthers, Krshia, and so on.
The adventurers were another category since they came and went, and then you had people who were maybe less regular, but valuable associates like Grimalkin and Ilvriss. Allies. Antinium, different cities or groups like House Veltras, and so on.
But the staff—the staff were a bit odd. Peggy and Rosencrantz had both come fairly recently to The Wandering Inn, from the Flooded Waters tribe and the Free Antinium Hive, respectively. They had settled in very quickly and quite well. They, sort of like Yelroan, were background to a lot of events.
But valuable background. Yelroan considered Peggy and Rosencrantz to be much like him. They kept the wheels moving, and even if they didn’t attract a lot of attention, well, neither had Ishkr or Normen. Look at them now.
“Maybe no garlic, Peggy. But I’ll take the milk. Er…can I have some sugar too?”
Yelroan had discovered the joys of coffee and lattes, but Peggy gave him a severe look.
“Sugar? Sugar is expensive now that the Admiral, eh—the one at sea became a traitor. Sugar from Baleros is expensive.”
“Oh.”
Peggy saw Yelroan’s face fall and glanced around. Then she hurried off and got a small pitcher of milk and a bowl of sugar. She winked.
“Just for you. But no showing other guests or we have to charge them, eh?”
He grinned at her. This was why you made friends with people like Peggy. She was a [Floor Boss] and, as he understood it, a former Redfang. Rosencrantz was an ordinary Worker who’d been elevated to ‘Individual’ by dint of personality.
Who else was on staff? Well, there was Asgra, a Cave Goblin, Sticks, Picker, and Inkpaper—those were the Goblins that Yelroan knew really well.
On the Antinium side, there had been Silvermop. Yelroan’s face fell slightly. There was Dots, Silverboots, and a Soldier named Handyfellow. Yelroan knew he had a list of all the staff; there were only about sixteen in total, eight and eight of each species.
He hoped they were happy with their jobs. It occurred to him someone should check on that sort of thing. Lyonette was good at teaching the job and managing people, but his role should be a backup check on what she was doing.
“Peggy, we don’t have many guests this morning. Do you have a second to sit?”
The [Floor Boss], in lieu of other work, had been ordering the Goblins and Antinium under her command to set a table for their morning guests. She looked around, decided she did have time, and sat down.
“Sure. What’s happening, Yelroan? You got anything for me to beat up?”
She reminded him a lot of Merish. That was it. Yelroan grinned at Peggy and realized they had a lot in common.
“No. Just checking in on the staff. How’s the month been?”
“Check in. Ooh, interesting. You mean is am I grumpy?”
“Er, yes. Don’t Goblins do that?”
Peggy shrugged expansively; she had on a uniform with a black paw on one corner of the apron and an adjusted [Barmaid]’s outfit, shortened on her right leg for her peg-leg. Hence the name. She was still a former Redfang, but she didn’t have the same attitude Numbtongue had once had towards training religiously every morning.
Actually, Yelroan saw Numbtongue doing less of that recently; Lyonette seemed to be occupying the morning workouts. Well, Relc and several others took the gym.
“Goblins mostly know if you’re sad. If a Goblin is, uh…mad, a Hob notices. Or other Goblins. Chieftain finds out, does something about it. Other peoples can’t tell?”
Peggy looked slightly amused, and Yelroan hesitated. He fiddled with his sunglasses, and Handyfellow moved out of the way of the blinding light.
“Sort of. Everyone can obviously notice things, and Gnoll tribes are rather like that. But I’ve found in, uh, ‘civilized’ society it helps to have practices and rules like that.”
“Because people in cities have hearts like dried plums?”
“Something like that.”
They both grinned. Peggy looked amused but indulged the concept and waved at Asgra.
“Hey. You bring me first garlic pasta and coffee.”
“Yes, boss.”
Asgra grumbled. She headed into the kitchen, and Peggy rubbed at her leg unconsciously. Yelroan coughed.
“Well—you and I both come from tribes, so I think we’re more alike than I realized. Strange…or not so strange since I’ve never talked to any Goblins before coming to the inn. I suppose I can lead with whether you, or the staff with you, feel like you’re working too much. Are you enjoying work here?”
“Huh? Enjoying? Is great. You see this?”
Peggy gave Yelroan an incredulous look as she accepted a hot plate of spaghetti. Lyonette opened her mouth.
“We have to test—”
Peggy inserted a huge bite of noodles and sauce into her mouth and chewed. Then she shouted.
“Hey, Calescent! Is good! Nice taste! Good as shit!”
“Good! Food’s up!”
He shouted back. The staff hurried into the kitchen, hungry, and Lyonette raced after them to insist the garlic pasta be tested first.
We could sell all this garlic to the people afraid of those ‘Vampires’, but that might be against The Wandering Inn’s policies. Yelroan watched Peggy eat with gusto.
“The work’s not too hard? Can I get a plate too?”
“Hard? Psh. Standing on feet for, what, nine, ten hours? Is not hard like running for twelve hours. Or fighting Gargoyles. Food is always good, can eat as much as we want—this is good living. Any Goblin will tell you that. Except Mountain City Goblins.”
Peggy waved a clawed hand dismissively. Yelroan glanced at her foot.
“You don’t miss the tribe?”
For one second, he thought he was being too direct, but a glint from Peggy’s crimson eyes turned into a grin.
“You say things to my face. Is good. Gnolls is smart. Miss tribe? Maybe. Maybe…but I have no foot! Hard to be good Redfang. I could be, but not a great one. See?”
She slapped her peg-leg and sighed. Yelroan followed her logic.
“You’re still a good warrior, but you wouldn’t be one of the best.”
“Yep. Can’t ride with Redscar. Maybe if I was higher-level or had a Carn Wolf, but…I was a good warrior. Not great. Great warrior with bad leg is great warrior with weak spot. Good warrior with bad leg is okay warrior. So Chieftain Rags said, ‘Peggy, you want to guard an inn and serve tables to stupid Humans and Drakes instead of having babies or something’? And I said, ‘Sounds great’. Maybe I thought I’d go back if it was bad, but this is nice.”
Yelroan made a few notes about that.
“That’s great to hear. Your rooms are big enough? Is—is there anything Goblins need that we’re missing? I should ask the Antinium that.”
“Good, good, we don’t need anything…eh. Life is nice. Except that there are not many Goblins, so less people to talk to. But you fun, and Ser Normen and others are good. Only one shame—handsome Drake got stolen by the stupid Archmage. Always the good fighters everyone wants.”
Peggy heaved a huge, morose sigh, and Yelroan opened his mouth.
“—Relc?”
“Is hard competition. Can’t beat woman who can lift city over her head. But hey, I live longer than three more years, so maybe I’ll find another person. Maybe a [Swordmaster].”
“So you want to raise a family?”
Peggy nodded energetically.
“Someday. Big family of Redfangs. Not many of us left, and Flooded Waters tribe is good—but we shouldn’t forget how to ride Carn Wolves. Is a good plan for me; when I have gold saved up, I can buy magic sword and build a house-thing in the High Passes. What I want, you get it, Yelroan? Not sure about Asgra, Sticks, or others. Inkpaper just wants to sit in the inn and read books instead of working!”
She shouted that last part, and the other Hobgoblin, who was prone to avoiding work, flinched into the kitchen.
Inkpaper was another interesting Hobgoblin. Yelroan noted down Peggy’s ambitions. Then he was taken off-guard by Peggy’s knowing gaze on him. After all, a [Floor Boss] was an advanced type of leader class, even if it was Goblin-specific. And Hobs were natural leaders. Peggy focused an eye on Yelroan.
“What about you, math-man? You staying around?”
Yelroan hesitated.
