He went to stride forwards, and Colfa lifted a hand, two fingernails painted red held up in warning.
“I cannot allow that, young man. Come; don’t tempt my ire. There are rules to be observed in every house. This one I hold especially dear: never wake a Lischelle from her rest. I trust Miss Marquin adheres to such rules.”
She spoke…in an odd pattern, smiling in a way that made his heart beat faster. Shyly, Hethon hesitated, unwilling to anger a lady. Sammial, as someone fully willing to, marched forwards.
“Oh yeah? Well, we’re doing this for Ryoka, and she doesn’t listen to anyone. So move it! Or else! Please!”
Colfa had been glancing around the hallway slowly; the wind blew again, and Hethon shivered in actual cold. The wind that brushed at her white hair and dress came from outside, but she didn’t shiver like the children. When she bent over, Sammial retreated a step.
“Young man. I would caution you to more respect were you under my roof. My family, you see, is older than yours. And we do insist on good manners.”
Nanette and Mrsha exchanged a glance as Sammial hesitated, unwilling to defy his instincts and risk a second confrontation.
What was this strange, mysterious boss before victory? Well—Mrsha squared her shoulders and gave Nanette a nod.
She pulled out a pre-prepared notecard and, with blasé confidence, shouldered forwards, intending to just muscle past Colfa for the door. Rude? Yes. But it worked, and they didn’t have time for manners.
Mrsha the Shoulder flicked a card up at Colfa as she strode for Lyonette’s door. It read:
Hey, sorry about that.
She used it a lot. She saw Colfa turn, that eerie smile never quite leaving her face, but she pivoted across Mrsha. In other words, her outstretched arm, and cloak, covered Mrsha, and the Gnoll brushed at the fabric, stumbled—
—and walked straight into Sammial. Huh?
The boy blinked as Mrsha stopped walking back the way she’d come. The girl turned her head, and the other children gaped at her. Even the Thronebearers started.
It had seemed, to Ushar, Dalimont, and the other children, like Colfa had done a slow, three-hundred-and-sixty-degree pivot after Mrsha walked into her cloak—upon which time Mrsha had reappeared, walking back in the other direction.
Whoa. The heck!
Mrsha turned—and Colfa raised her brows.
“My dear. I believe that is your second warning. Vould you like to reconsider?”
She offered Mrsha a single fang of a smile, and Mrsha hesitated.
“Uh…maybe we should go back. She reminds me of one of the scary aunts.”
Sammial whispered to Hethon, and the older [Lord] hesitated, about to say much the same thing. A Veltras never ran from a fight, but he was of a mind to make a strategic retreat. Nanette, though, was perhaps the most sinfully prideful of the lot.
She had rubbed shoulders with the greatest [Witches] of Izril. Her own mother had been one.
“Miss Colfa, let’s stop the games, please.”
She called out as Mrsha narrowed her eyes and nodded, confidence restored. Colfa raised her eyebrows at Nanette.
“Miss Nanette. I never joke about—”
Mrsha leapt forwards on all fours, streaking past Colfa. She passed under the cloak, doing an evasive roll—
Colfa’s pivot was faster, but she never visibly touched Mrsha. She just spun, and Mrsha reappeared, leaping out of Colfa’s cloak, and headbutted Hethon in the stomach. Both fell over, and Colfa finished smoothly.
“—anything. I mean what I said. My friend desires her sleep. Never disturb a lady at rest. You may be unpleasantly surprised by what awakens.”
Her lips twitched upwards, and Mrsha raised her head dizzily.
What hit me? 
Nanette hesitated, and Mrsha stared up at Colfa as Hethon, wincing, waved a hand for retreat. Sammial was already backing up.
“She reminds me of Ulva Terland and Magnolia. Let’s go, Nanette—”
“I think not. Miss Colfa is entitled to try to get in our way, but she is a guest. And I have business with Lyonette.”
She could have tried to use the door, but Nanette just squared her shoulders, put a hand on the wand at her side, and walked forwards. Daring Colfa to do the same trick on her as Mrsha. The Vampiress’ chin rose, and her eyes shone scarlet a moment.
Dead gods, she is so cool. Mrsha’s head was still spinning, but she decided she had to tell Visma all about Colfa’s look. She normally didn’t…‘get’ the clothing thing, even if she’d begun to with the dolls and making sure they looked the part.
But this? She could get behind this. The lady was positively…Gothica-like, only older, and Nanette looked purely silly striding up to Colfa, even though she was trying her best. She had a hand on her wand, and she was going to do something radical. The children held their breaths as Nanette closed the brief distance. She twitched as Colfa bent down, eyes locked on Nanette’s fierce, brown ones.
The witch yanked her wand out of her pocket as they were about to collide—
Colfa threw Nanette out the window.
It was so fast that Mrsha barely saw it. A blur—Nanette’s draw of the wand turned into a wide-eyed look of alarm as Colfa seized one shoulder—and Dame Ushar leapt with an oath. But she was too slow.
With a shriek, Nanette went out the window that Colfa had opened. Ushar followed her like a golden comet, but the sound of Nanette’s untimely contact with the ground was muffled…by the snow. The witch landed outside and spluttered, legs kicking in the air.
Ser Dalimont blinked at Colfa. Colfa flicked at her shoulder and lifted one hand, cupping it to hear Nanette shouting—then snapped her fingers.
The window closed on its own. Without a word, the Lady of val Lischelle-Drakle looked pointedly at the remaining three children. They backed away without a word, down the steps. Only when they were at the bottom and craning their heads up to the window above did they hear a sound behind them.
“Ah. I believe ze steaks are getting cold. Won’t you join me, Miss Mrsha? Mister Hethon, Sammial?”
Colfa was sitting at a table, eying the steaks with great appetite. Sammial’s mouth dropped open. Mrsha’s head tilted up towards Colfa, who gave her the slightest fraction of a wink, and remembered something.
Colfa was a mother. She’d raised Rivel and Fierre. 
The ultimate backup for Lyonette beckoned, and the three children filed into their seats. Mrsha watched Colfa as the Vampire reminded them to wash their hands.
She is so cool.
 
——
 
Bitterness was the name of the day. Acerbic; a taste upon the tongue. It wasn’t just the splenetic argument Selys had put forth in Liscor, it was some common thread of today’s events.
When Lyonette woke up from her nap, she was holding the box as if it were a comfort pillow. She’d been drooling on it—she put it aside, got up, and washed her face with some water at the vanity. She was patting her features with a towel and remembering that this would be a sin—if she were wearing any kind of makeup.
I don’t bother with it these days. My hair? Yes. But we don’t even have running plumbing here. We were always meaning to get water for the tub. Fat chance of that with Liscor so far away. 
Colfa now, Colfa did a lot with her features. Even Imani was passing Lyonette. Did Octavia have anything Lyonette could buy off her?
It was silly, but sometimes, Lyonette did feel like she’d forgotten how to have fun. Sometimes she was the grouchy, anxious mother running after Mrsha or running an inn. Then she’d catch herself laughing and singing with Bethal and Pryde and Colfa—and remember who she was.
Then, of course, Bethal would betray everyone to resurrect her dead sister, and Pryde would be wounded fighting a Hag Queen from another world.
These things happened. But Lyonette thought of Rheirgest, Tessa, Tekshia, Selys, Imani, and Palt, and the common thread was that bile in the back of her throat. She cast down the towel on top of a spotless box sitting innocently on the vanity and glared at it.
“You really are Erin Solstice’s creation. Come along, then. Let’s see what you’re worth.”
Visitors had come to The Wandering Inn for the evening rush. Which meant there were as many as eight people besides staff and family eating there.
Rose gave Lyonette a nervous wave and mouthed ‘you okay?’ as Lyonette came down. The [Princess] gave her a weary nod and smile, then focused on the familiars.
Grand Strategist Chaldion was sitting by the fire. Here came Relc, telling everyone about a riot he’d had to break up by sadly punching people. Hethon and Sammial were…for a second, Lyonette’s paranoia spiked, but they were sitting with Mrsha and Nanette.
Very respectfully playing cards with Colfa at a table. For bronze coins of all things! Gambling? When she saw Lyonette, Colfa winked, then walked a bronze coin across her fingers. She seemed intent on teaching the children how to do it, and they seemed fascinated by her.
W-well, since it was Colfa, Lyonette just gave her a relieved nod and focused on the guests she’d been waiting for. And there one was, licking his lips as he rattled off a list of dishes to Ishkr.
Demsleth the Devourer. That wasn’t what Lyonette called him. Mrsha had given him the nickname, and all the staff had liked it. The old man was sitting, hands folded over his belly, looking tired and overworn, as if the cares of the world had been upon his shoulders and he simply had to take a break.
As someone who had actually felt like the world was collapsing onto her back, Lyonette’s smile at him was barely polite. But she did smile when she saw a figure sitting and listening, nodding every now and then, at Relc’s table.
Archmage Valeterisa was paying attention to Relc as Montressa and Bezale talked at another table. But the Archmage of Izril had found time in her busy schedule to sit with Relc, who kept grinning and looking at her sideways, as if expecting her to get bored. He brushed at his neck-spines, laughing, and—there it was.
Lyonette stopped and saw Relc making a punching gesture and Valeterisa shyly showing him a piece of garlic. Colfa started sneezing, but Relc’s eyes popped, and he listened to her, and as Valeterisa began to draw magical signs in the air, he looked so surprised. As if amazed someone like her had the time of day for him.
There it is. One good thing in all this ruination.
“Relc! Valeterisa. Hello, welcome. Can I get you two a head start on dinner? Appetizers, maybe? Relc, thank you for the help at the, um, forum. Valeterisa, did you have a chance to look into the garlic?”
They looked up as Lyonette approached, and the smile was real this time. Valeterisa adjusted her glasses, and Relc waved at Lyonette.
“Oh, that? No one even really was throwing hands—except Selys. One idiot tried to have a run at Lism, so I knocked him flat, then they were all complaining about Watch brutality. But that was crazy. Did you hear they want an election this year? We just had one! I think the Council’s fine. Though I guess we have to replace Jeiss.”
His face fell, and Lyonette’s stomach twisted.
“Do you think they’ll be able to push a reelection through?”
“Eh…I dunno. But hey—what’s this about an appetizer? You wouldn’t happen to have a discount for a hardworking Senior G—Sergeant of the Watch, would you?”
Relc glanced hopefully at Lyonette, and Valeterisa opened her mouth. Possibly to say she could pay for everything or to put it on her room tab. But Lyonette got there first.
“I think we could offer you a free dish to share. How about a Couple’s Special? Imani just sent over the recipes for new dishes. How about some of the, ah, ‘koeksisters’? They’re these braided pieces of dough deep-fried in oil, and you eat them with lemon syrup.”
“Oh. Oooh.”
Relc grinned in delight, then realized what Lyonette had called it. Couple’s Special? Valeterisa blushed faintly, and he blinked—glanced at her as she looked at him—and they smiled. This made Lyonette feel better. Admittedly, she hadn’t had much to do with the two getting together, but even Mrsha had lent a debatably helpful paw.
It had been during the beach. The beach that Lyonette wished was still here. But the [Garden of Sanctuary] that had held the beach was gone forever. Sanctuary ended.
Yet if this strange couple was the result…that was something, you see? That was the difference between Selys’ hateful words and snow-covered graves.
Like that, Lyonette felt something in her mind clicking into place. Relc was rubbing his claws, and Valeterisa saw Lyonette hesitate.
“May I sit for a second? I don’t want to interrupt you two…”
“No, go on. Have one of those ko-ec-sisters with us. You’re paying for it! Let me just—who put this weird box on the chair?”
Peggy almost slipped and tossed the tray of braided bread sweets as Relc found a box. He shrugged, put it to the side, and Lyonette’s heart leapt. She noticed the children look up.
It’s following me. It knows I’m thinking of it.
She could go over to the [World’s Eye Theatre] and beg Paeth or Niers for an audience with Erin right now. But somehow, Lyonette didn’t feel the need to. Her answer was right here, and Valeterisa remembered her project for the day.
She gave Lyonette, oddly, a half-aggrieved look as she put the garlic on the table. It was covered, Lyonette noticed, in intricate magical symbols, and pieces had been carved out of it.
“This was a…valuable magical course in refreshing Montressa’s knowledge of magical analysis. Fruitful. Garlic is a fruit, I think? No, vegetable. Fruitful for academic studies. Very un-vegetable for my work. Which I’m busy at.”
“Oh? Why’s that, Archmage?”
Relc eyed the garlic with considerable fascination and gave Lyonette a knowing look as Valeterisa sniffed.
“Because it’s garlic. Oh, this tastes like lemon.”
She popped a twist of bread into her mouth and chewed, absently smiling. At her table, Mrsha’s head rose slowly over her hand of cards. Calescent poked his head out of the kitchen. Lyonette paused.
“…Garlic?”
“Yes. Which I suspect you knew. There is nothing magical about it. I have been tricked, fooled, Archmaged upon, as I believe children say.”
No children said that, but Lyonette was suddenly intent.
“Why don’t you—can I get you anything to drink, Valeterisa. Are you sure it’s not from a—a Cornucopia Skill or something?”
“I am positive. Unless you personally witnessed it coming from such a Skill or spell, in which case I would be very surprised. So much so that I would immediately try to steal whatever artifact you had found for myself.”
Valeterisa replied amiably, opening a drinks menu. Lyonette’s palms began to itch, but she kept her face reasonable. Smile. Ruefully.
“I thought…are you sure? What kind of tests did you run, if I may ask?”
