“I heard them. Erin didn’t call them there, and they went after her. Palt’s mad at everyone, including himself, but I’m not. If you need a favor, come and ask about it. Again, food-related, and hopefully no [Witch] or [Innkeeper] cooking, please?”
Lyonette grabbed Imani’s hand and squeezed it, so earnestly relieved and grateful that her throat closed up a second.
“Thank you, Imani. I was worried. If we can do anything for you—”
Imani gently squeezed back and nodded at Lyonette as Palt waved at her. They were all being pointed by several [Receptionists] and helpers into a big room on the first floor that seemed like a gathering spot for this forum. The [Chef] whispered back.
“I’m afraid of being shot again, Lyonette. So forgive me if I don’t visit the inn often. That’s my irrational fear.”
Lyonette swallowed and began to say something until Imani leaned in and lowered her voice even more.
“—But I’m not blind to who my friends and enemies are.”
She stepped back, touched her eyepatch with one finger, and grinned.
“Palt joke.”
Then she turned and walked into the room with Palt, who swished his tail at Lyonette. The [Princess] exhaled hard and stood there for a second in the hallway. She looked at Dalimont.
“Dead gods, she’s tough. When did she get that tough?”
“Surviving Crelers does that to one, Miss Marquin. Your mother would love to have a woman like her on staff. Shall we?”
Dalimont gestured, and Lyonette felt better, despite the heartache, for talking to Imani. They entered the forum, and Lyonette saw the Council of Liscor, all seven of them, were present. She saw Krshia half-smile at her and nod, and Lism glanced at her, face unreadable.
Seven, not eight. Jeiss was gone. Elirr blinked at Lyonette, then raised a paw, but Lyonette wasn’t staring at the Council.
A Drake in the crowd jerked in surprise as Lyonette entered the room. Palt’s method of reserving seats was to conjure an illusion of the person already sitting down. Several people jumped and glared at the Centaur as illusory copies of him, Imani, and Lyonette vanished.
Selys Shivertail just looked up, spotted the real Lyonette, and glared. She didn’t blink. She was wearing an expensive dress clearly sewn with multiple enchantments because she hadn’t a cloak or anything else; it was white like a wedding dress—or a mourning one.
The [Heiress] didn’t blink at her friend. Lyonette smiled back and felt it vanish into the room as people drew back from her and Ser Dalimont. The [Princess] sat down, and Selys kept staring.
If Imani had forgiven whatever she felt there was to forgive in the first place—Selys Shivertail had not. Any of it.
 
——
 
The death of Senior Guardsman Jeiss hung over Liscor when Lyonette had honestly forgotten he’d also perished.
Senior Guardsman Jeiss.
Guildmistress Tekshia Shivertail.
Both popular figures. Pillars of the community. To say they were mourned was an understatement. To say they left a hole—it was here, even now, as Councilmember Elirr broke the silence.
“Greetings, everyone. I’m glad we fit everyone into the meeting room. We had plans to project an image out to other rooms—it won’t be necessary, then.”
There were three hundred people crammed into the largest room they had. Lism cracked a joke.
“These public forums are a new idea. Pallassian. We might have to get more space for it—assuming we can find it in the budget.”
Polite laughter. Lism was well-liked among Drakes. Some Drakes. Lyonette had thought of him as a grouchy bigot. Now? She regarded him as fairly decent at his job, but she noted a number of people, mostly older Drakes, did not laugh.
Interesting. Lyonette hesitated, then nudged Ser Dalimont, who was standing behind her. They had space; people had vacated chairs around her until the end, and there was still one he stood in front of at the far back of the room. He glanced down, and she used Mrsha’s handsigns.
You. What level? High?
A Gnoll woman to her right gave Lyonette a puzzled look. Ser Dalimont raised his brows, then covered his mouth with one hand. Instantly, his voice was audible in her ears, not even whispering, but clearly audible only to her.
“Your Highness. I estimate the average level of the room is over Level 20. As you surmise, these are clearly wealthier Gnolls and Drakes.”
Lyonette had guessed that and gave him a faint raise of the lips. It wasn’t hard to pick out Guildmasters in the room; they wore the badges of office, but others were wearing their wealth. If not always overtly, it was in the polish of boots, a magical ring, or just Lyonette’s vague sense of their classes via her aura.
Humans were a minority. Well, Gnolls were a minority. It was largely Drakes, but newcomers like Imani, Timbor, and so on made up almost fifteen people in the room of three hundred.
Not bad for a city who had barely any Human residents when Erin arrived. The Humans were largely close to each other; some Gnolls were grouped up, but others sat with their guild or by other allegiances Lyonette couldn’t decipher.
Dalimont, what is this forum about? She almost asked, but then decided just to listen. Elirr was continuing.
“—entire Council present with the passing of Councilmember Jeiss. A moment of silence for him and the brave defenders of Liscor, please.”
Silence. Lyonette saw heads turn her way, but the Council just surveyed the room. Krshia wore a frown, and Lism was craning his neck as if counting a smaller turnout than he’d thought. Lyonette would have kept studying faces—but one was fixed on her.
Selys Shivertail hadn’t looked away since Lyonette had entered. Her tail was curled up by her chair, and Lyonette met her eyes briefly, then glanced away.
Why is she that angry at me? I…
Tekshia Shivertail, dead at the age of eighty-four. Eighty-four, and she’d killed four Draugr with the help of some Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. A Gold-rank adventurer. A heroine of Liscor.
They were going to put up a statue of her. Jeiss had died trying to hold the gates against one of the Hag Queens.
Eyes on Lyonette? She felt like a giant and began to shrink until she saw Imani glancing her way. Lyonette took a breath—firmed her aura, and sat there.
“—Thank you, Elirr. The forum today is to address the topics of purchasing land in Liscor, specifically in 3rd District, as well as the issue of rent prices—and I believe we had a request from Miss Marquin. In the interest of openness, especially given the abundance of complaints and requests, we should hear the request now.”
Lism’s voice was dry, and he slapped down an entire sheaf of papers that were probably said complaints. People glanced at Lyonette, and she inhaled.
I sense trouble.
It was unlike Liscor’s Council to throw her to the wolves like this, but it seemed the Council—at least, the ones Lyonette liked, Alonna, Raekea, Lism, Krshia, and Elirr—were struggling against something. Lism was frowning around the room, and Tismel, one of the Drakes from the old Council’s way of doing things, took over.
“The, um—the first issue is the rising cost of purchasing new lots in Liscor. Liscor has been selling land in portions—all proceeds to go to Liscor’s treasury. Of course. It’s financed a lot of the expensive projects, including Architect Hexel’s wonderful work. Erm. It’s been open for anyone with sufficient gold reserves to place a bid. This has led to problems.”
The Guildmaster of the Cobbler’s Guild was not a good speaker. Councilmember Tismel faltered.
“The prices are getting too high? Ah, um, yes. It seems that way? Councilmember Alonna?”
He sat down, and Alonna favored him with a glare that said ‘thanks for being useless’. She took over with a piece of paper.
“We have, ladies and gentlemen, the rare issue of having too many people wanting to buy new lots in Liscor. Not a problem, normally—we just raise the prices.”
She grinned around, then paused.
“—The problem is, they pay those prices. We had a sizeable lot go up for sale—we’re not selling all of 3rd District right away—and it was snapped up for forty-seven thousand gold pieces.”
Lyonette had been surreptitiously taking a drink of water and nearly performed the old Waterbreath Blaster over the crowd. She choked on her drink, and voices rose; even the people here seemed shocked by the number.
“Forty-seven—”
“Who can afford that?”
Lism replied.
“Salazsar can. Or Wall Lords and Ladies in Manus, Fissival, Pallass, most certainly, [Merchants] in Invrisil—and I think we just received a six-figure bid for an entire row of lots. From House Reinhart no less. Six figures. Wonderful for Liscor’s treasury. Problematic for anyone who wants to buy a house.”
It seemed as though Lism was bewildered, unsure how to feel about that. He was alternating between a kind of annoyed smile and a frown. Lyonette could see why.
Land in Liscor should not be this expensive. Even for a city with finite space—this was exceeding the value of land in Invrisil. She understood Liscor was a place where a lot of business was cropping up, Imani’s shop and the inn’s door, but Lyonette had a hunch this was not a wholly, ah, organic event either.
A certain Wall Lord of Salazsar had placed exorbitant bids last year for land in Liscor, encouraging Salazsar’s nobility to do the same. It had been meant to help Liscor, and it had—at the time.
Here came the consequences. There were always damn consequences.
“The pricing is out of control. This would be where you say that, but we are saying it first, yes?”
Raekea grinned and got nods and growls from Gnolls in the room. She glanced at Krshia.
“We…are open to suggestions. But we are trying to be fair. Perhaps we should limit it only to residents of the city to buy land? But this seems unfair to anyone entering the city. Perhaps we should cap how much any plot of land goes for? But then, how do we decide whom it goes to? Lottery? Before we open up the forum for questions, we will also address a complaint in tandem with this. Lism?”
The Councilmember stood up with a look of distaste on his face. Now he gave Lyonette a look that she caught onto, and he raised his voice as if speaking to the room at large, not just her.
“Liscor is expanding. That means more Humans, more Gnolls of the Silverfang tribe—all very welcome because it’s giving the city a boost in everything. Even Antinium taking houses.”
There was a murmur, and he spoke over it.
“All of it good since they pay! But I’ve had endless complaints about one law we put into action—putting a cap on rent prices, especially in places where people…how shall I put this? Are in a less fortunate…no. Don’t have the financial…”
His mouth moved, trying to come up with a better descriptor, then he gave up and shrugged.
“Can’t afford it. Prices were too high. We slapped them down. Why in the name of the Ancestors should we reverse that now there are more people flooding into the city? Especially, maybe, a large group of them. But we’ll save that for the end.”
He shot Lyonette a look, and several people blinked at her. Now, Lyonette understood. She gave Lism a nod, and he steepled his claws together.
“You have the floor. No, don’t shout! Raise your claws! Dead gods. Okay…you first.”
 
——
 
There was something the Council hadn’t realized. At least, Lism, Krshia, and the ones Lyonette liked. It took them a while to figure it out.
“—the prices of land are due to foreign investors coming into the city. I’m not opposed to having the Walled Cities in Liscor. Far from it! All this gold is excellent news, but I’ll tell you the same thing all the buyers will say the moment they realize the buildings going up have a huge issue. And that’s free pricing. I had a conversation with a fine Wall Lord the other day who had no idea that he couldn’t charge anyone the price he wanted. He said he might have to ask for a refund on his property. There are plenty of people in Liscor. There’s an entirely new district. Time to let prices go where they will.”
“Up.”
Lism shot back at a Drake [Landlord], who raised his claws, offended.
“I wasn’t finished, Councilmember Lism. Go where they will, and if it goes up? That means everyone is earning more.”
“No, that means landlords are earning more.”
“Well, if the prices of rent go up, then the tenants can request more money from their employers, Councilmember.”
An older Drake lady raised her clawed hand, speaking politely, but without actually having been chosen. She got nods from the people around her.
“It’s how it works in Invrisil and Pallass. The cost of living might be higher, but we can’t have these laws impeding our business.”
It was a fight Lyonette could have told you was coming, and the Council was ready for it. Zalaiss, one of the Councilmembers, was nodding sympathetically along with the Drake woman—but Raekea, Lism, Krshia, and Elirr were all unmoved.
Alonna, the Guildmistress of the Mage’s Guild, seemed somewhat hesitant to be as strident in front of her peers, but Lyonette knew the majority of the Council had just stomped on any protests to their laws. Until now.
Krshia smiled at the woman with all her teeth.
“[Financier] Nedres. The Council hears your concerns, believe me, we do. But one must admit that the rent prices before this were impossibly high, yes? There were rents of multiple silver pieces—per week—in many buildings.”
“But they were being paid, Councilmember Krshia. Besides, Liscor is a third again as big as it used to be. Good governance does not hold our tails like we’re children.”
The smile the [Financier] gave Krshia was more edged than Krshia’s own sharp teeth. Lyonette saw Krshia sit back.
“Good governance does not? I am sorry, Financier. I am new to my class of [Councilwoman], even though I have earned it, so I am unfamiliar with good lawmaking, yes?”
She got a few chuckles even though that wasn’t a joke. Krshia went on with a big smile.
“You must show me where that is written down. In the tribes, every Gnoll is always guaranteed a place to sleep.”
“Ah, but this is the city, not some tribe…Councilwoman. You are a [Shopkeeper], aren’t you? Surely you understand that this is simple supply and demand. Prices may go up, but the market will stabilize.”
It…wasn’t a bad argument, even if the problem was that in this case, ‘supply’ was held by a narrower group that could raise prices. Hence the Council’s law on rents to begin with. Lism was tapping his claw on the table.
“Right, and as we sell more land, the supply goes up. Do we want to circle back to that? Am I hearing a vote to restrict land sales to purely residents?”
