This the Archmage of Izril was only too happy to talk about. She gestured to the piece of garlic as Yelroan subtly edged over, bringing some drinks for the table.
“I began with a basic battery of tests, the simplest of which is, um, taking a piece of the garlic and casting exhaustive magical detection spells on it. Most magical food is part illusion, so even high-grade food that can be eaten is visibly magical. Having ruled that out, I moved with Montressa onto identifying if it was a Cornucopia-type creation. But testing revealed the magical value of the garlic stayed the same even after conversion over a series of fourteen independent tests. So. We didn’t need to do more than two, but I was showing Montressa how each one worked.”
She steepled her hands together as if that explained that, and Montressa gave Lyonette a glare from her table that said some of those tests had been annoying to run. Lyonette hesitated.
“Can you…explain that again, Valeterisa? I understood the part about magical foods, but what do you mean the magical value of garlic?”
Valeterisa flushed a bit and glanced sideways at Relc.
“Pardon me. I was using imprecise language.”
“No—no, keep doing that. She’s asking what that means. Because, y’know, we’re all sort of idiots like me. How’s this garlic stuff work?”
Relc patted her on the shoulder, and Valeterisa blinked. Lyonette was prepared for more magical jargon to spew forth, but she saw Valeterisa hesitate, adjust her glasses, and abruptly, her cadence changed. She began speaking less like a dreamy Archmage, but more like a young student from Fissival. A younger Valeterisa.
“It’s…how would I put this to Milaw? He understands magical conservation theory, of course. This is all, um, theoretical, but it’s not, Relc. Magic is a resource, like water or air. It moves about, it can be generated or lost, but it’s always a set amount. You cannot generate more magic from an object than it has. An orange always has an orange’s amount of magic in it. You may infuse more or generate more or lose it, but if all other things are equal—and they never are—magic is constant.”
“Like a bucket of water is always a bucket of water.”
Lyonette added as Relc struggled with this. His expression cleared, and Valeterisa gave Lyonette a sour look.
“Yes. My test was simple—I took a piece of the garlic, calculated the magical value, then burnt the garlic and calculated the energy it produced as a product of a flame spell with no source of mana but the garlic. You see, the method of—well, the point is that the garlic yielded some energy in being burnt. Miniscule amounts, but it was there. If it was a Cornucopia-type Skill, it wouldn’t have been as efficacious. Cornucopia food is only half as nutritious as real food at best. So it would have yielded a lesser value.”
“So what you’re saying is that this is real garlic because it has all the energy of…garlic.”
Relc was catching on. Valeterisa nodded energetically, smiling.
“That is one of the most consistent proofs. If this was generated with a Skill, perhaps it is artificial in some way. But it has a magical presence identical to regular garlic. It is, therefore, worth as much as regular garlic so long as it doesn’t degrade. Though I do detect a bit of browning around the edges. Decay?”
“No, that’s garlic rotting. You were carrying it outside the inn, remember? Preservation only works inside.”
Relc helpfully interjected, and Valeterisa gave him the side-eye.
“Well observed.”
They shook hands. Lyonette sat back and kept her voice level.
“You’re sure about this, Valeterisa?”
The Archmage of Izril gave Lyonette an actual, vexed frown.
“We have been testing it for four hours. If this is the product of a Skill, then I remind you that some Skills like [An Apple A Day] create actual apples. Those are the rarest of all supply-type Skills.”
“Wait, Lyonette. Do you mean you have the power to create garlic for free?”
Relc’s eyes lit up, and Colfa twitched at her table. Her friend’s look of mild horror made Lyonette begin to protest.
“No—well—that is, it’s complicated, Relc. We do have a lot of garlic, and—I was worried it would vanish or something. Hence me asking Valeterisa. Thank you for your time, Valeterisa. Surely, though, the garlic might vanish at some point?”
It was a fair concern, and Valeterisa hesitated.
“It’s real garlic, though. You could eat it, and if it vanished inside your stomach…I wonder what would happen.”
Lyonette blanched, but a nosy fellow sat up at his table and, self-importantly, Dragoned into the conversation.
“No fear of that. Did you ask the good young lady over here for the same project, Lyonette? Honestly, you and that other girl love to waste people’s time. It won’t ‘vanish’, and if it’s come from a Skill, then I shall expect a splendid garlic-based repast tonight as part of my fee. Not too heavy on the powdered stuff though; it gives me a cough.”
Demsleth strode over, and Valeterisa frowned at him, then glared at Lyonette. The [Princess] blushed, but she lifted a hand.
“I just assumed one of the two of you would be too busy. How did you find out it was garlic, Demsleth?”
“Yes, did you quantify the magic in some way?”
Valeterisa was interested, mage-to-mage, in Demsleth’s process. The problem was, she had no idea she was talking to a lazy Dragon as opposed to a preeminent scholar of magic.
Yelroan was taking notes, and Demsleth waved a lazy hand as he sat down—and helped himself to some of the appetizers.
“Oh, this is quite zesty. I’ll have a plate for the table, thank you. And I believe my guest, Taletevirion, will be joining me along with Alber. Hmm…I don’t often go for magical analysis, miss. It’s so difficult to properly quantify. We have values, but you know how those change with every new empire and magical era. Magic is so—tricksome. Dark magic, shadow magic, let’s not even talk about elementaless stuff. It’s too hard to figure out how to convert to raw magic as a data point.”
Valeterisa, as oblivious as she normally was, didn’t miss that crack about changing magical values. She adjusted her spectacles, and Yelroan twitched. The [Mathematician] raised his sunglasses slowly.
The glare of light made Demsleth snap his fingers, and Yelroan’s glasses were suddenly no longer bright and shiny. By the same casual magic, he lifted something into one hand.
“It took me five m—majorly strenuous hours to cast this spell. But as you can see, the garlic is real and will not vanish.”
Lyonette’s pure glower of outrage changed to surprise, then amazement as Demsleth put something on the table. It was…garlic. Or rather, a rooty, green, overgrown plant.
It was a full stalk of garlic! Not just one, but several, in fact, all twined together. Valeterisa stared at it, then Demsleth.
“…Time magic?”
He gave her an arch, confident smile that earned him a kick from Relc. Demsleth explained as he kicked back.
“Youngsters—it was the most obvious solution. If it was fake garlic, why, aging it a few y—weeks would instantly demonstrate any decomposition of its structure. As you can see, the damn stuff grows. Ergo, it’s real.”
All of Valeterisa’s painstaking analysis was trumped by the experience of a Dragon. If it lasted, it’s real enough. Of course, Valeterisa began to argue with Demsleth.
“That’s such a…a lazy way of analysis. Sir. What if you had a fruit or vegetable capable of germinating seeds?”
“Pshaw, young lady. Do you think I can’t detect if I’m accidentally growing destabilizing seedlings? Mind you, I’ve seen it happen before. There was an experiment where a Level 60 [Farmer] tried growing some magical seeds an [Archmage] whipped up. The stuff deteriorated like mad, but he managed to preserve it and grow generations of successively more imbalanced fruit.”
“Are you referring to the Corpusfields Incident? The most intensive famine ever to hit Terandria?”
“Hah! Yes! Er, very tragic. Some things should never be allowed and all that. I say, do you know if they ever wrote down the story of that [Cleansing] incident gone wrong?”
Demsleth and Valeterisa were drawn into a historical comparison of past magical incidents and how they had actually happened, according to the Dragon. Lyonette just sat back, not saying a word.
The garlic is real.
The garlic is real.
The garlic. Is real.
Lyonette du Marquin slowly looked up, and there it was. The Box of Incontinuity sat on a beam of the inn above the diners, small, unnoticed by even Demsleth and Valeterisa.
Playful. Terrifying. Innocuous.
And…now Lyonette’s eyes focused on it, and she felt her breath slowly leave her body. An exhalation like satisfaction.
It couldn’t be true. Unless it was. A reward for making the world crazy; something to make it even stranger. Then, Lyonette stood up and snagged a final snack.
“Excuse me, everyone. Enjoy your dinner. I just have a little something to take care of. Ishkr, Yelroan? Let’s work on a little project. Get the staff.”
 
——
 
The Box of Incontinuity had rules. Of course it did. One of the rules was apparently this: something that went into the box once could not be added to it again.
No matter how many times Lyonette tried to push in a new piece of garlic, she couldn’t. The box refused to accept it; it wasn’t even an invisible wall, the garlic just stopped.
The second rule was that the box was indestructible, or at least, Lyonette wasn’t inclined to test how indestructible it was. The third?
The box was not just the box.
But she kept that secret. If this little box scared her, she refused to even think of the other ones.
Lyonette du Marquin stood in the hidden Earther rooms, exhausted from a long day of defeats and setbacks. But there was something in the air. It was not just the box in her hand or Mrsha trying to show off her canines in the most Colfa-like smile.
Or indeed, Colfa herself. The Vampiress was staring at a model of the planet Earth and hesitating, clearly wondering if she’d missed a memo on what was going on.
Why is she in here, Lyonette? Rose was giving Lyonette an alarmed side-eye, but the [Princess] didn’t care. She was busy watching a crazy Gnoll muttering to himself and sketching on a blackboard that had held valuable and useless ramblings of Earth.
Some of it had been Kevin’s hand—and Lyonette hadn’t wanted to erase it. She almost stopped Yelroan, but he had focused on the weird writings that Kevin and the other Earthers had put up.
 
E=mc2.
The cake is a lie.
Gasoline comes from fractional distillation of crude oil. (I don’t know what that actually is).
Gunpowder has bat shit in it.
The Earth is round. (Duh. Who wrote this? Troydel?)
 
And so on. Valuable and worthless things that occurred to a traveller of another world. Speculations on how you made steel katanas mixed with actual scientific data.
“Energy is mass times the speed of light squared. Building blocks of Earth physics. Foundational. She measures magic in garlic. It’s a value, but no one’s quantified it.”
The [Mathematician] was muttering to himself. He was staring at the blackboard, jotting down notes.
“There are units of magic. But he said that it changes depending on the type. It can be used and created—is it a constant? That’s it. That’s it. Gravity’s a value; I calculated it out after I learned Earth had calculated theirs. Exact one-to-one equivalence. I could measure the sky or circumference of this world—but these are known values.”
“Is he alright?”
Peggy was whispering to Rosencrantz and Ishkr. The [Head Waiter] shrugged.
“Maybe not, but he’s being fascinating. Let’s watch.”
Yelroan stared at the blackboard.
“Why assume it’s merely magic? It has rules. It—famously has rules, even if the rules seem to change. That’s it. That’s my theory.”
He was writing on the blackboard, noting down magicore units and drawing lines connecting ideas together. Lyonette watched as Yelroan wrote in the center of the board, stepped back, and left an unfinished equation dangling.
Everyone needed a dream. Now, the Gnoll’s eyes had lit up. Mrsha craned her head and gave him an approving look.
 
M = ?
 
She thought it stood for ‘Mrsha’. So she tried to write ‘cool’ there until Yelroan took the chalk from her. He stared at the prompt, and Lyonette’s head turned.
“Is that your great mathematical equation, Yelroan?”
For a second, he stared at the idea. Then he posed, and his glasses flashed as he smiled. A wild, crazy smile.
“If I could solve it—it would be. This world is ruled by crazy Archmages and magic we don’t understand. I believe almost anything can be rendered into an equation or value. And I’m the only fighter the world of science has—in this world. Until I get backup, I might as well take a new first step.”
Behold. He pointed at the equation dramatically, like a challenge. Nanette stared at Yelroan, for the first time with actual incredulity. He couldn’t be serious. The craft of witches was not something you could hope to write down and calculate…was it?
Her confidence, even arrogance and disdain for his craft, wavered, and that uncertainty? The grinning smile of a [Mathematician] was like a beacon of intent.
Nor was it unfocused. Yelroan moved up from the hugely theoretical ‘M = ?’. He began speaking more rapidly.
“Magic has always been quantifiable by [Mages] in some way. They measure it just like Archmage Valeterisa said. However, they derive all their questions through the practical implementation of magic. Did you see Valeterisa talking about the value of garlic in magic? She knows it’s there. But she hasn’t created the equations to model it. The world we see, the magic we practice, is magic of the real world with a thousand factors moving upon it. Surely, in the past, someone calculated the true way magic flowed.”
The hairs on Mrsha’s neck stood up as Yelroan sketched his understanding of magic onto the board. There was magic in people. Magic in the air. The nature of magic mattered—yet this was simply a value.
“Darkness magic is an alternation of how it is used, but if magic follows any rules, you do not get more of it. There is a model I cannot see. Once, I think, Archmages knew part of that formula. Maybe they lost it in Wistram. But it can be rediscovered if I can observe and calculate. And how better than the Archmage of Izril?”
If they could hear him now, some of the old ghosts of the Waning World might have tried to murder Yelroan there and then with their bare hands. Not because he was wrong, oh, no.
He sounded too logical. If there was any part of magic that could be married with math—and why not?—he intended to find it. To seek the truth.
