“House Veltras needs…that is to say, the Vale Forest has always been significant to my family. It’s still our treasure, in a sense. Half the family at least lives within ten miles of it, but it’s not the legendary Great Forest of old. Everyone says back in the day, there used to be a lot more magical plants and animals and those folk. Then the forest waned.”
“Well, yes. Because your ancestors cut down the Great Trees and helped drive the last Treants into the sea.”
The witch replied like a stab to the heart. Hethon felt injured and attacked, glaring.
“I didn’t—”
“I never said you, just your ancestors. Don’t put words in my mouth, Hethon Veltras, please.”
Trust a witch to hold a grudge on someone else’s behalf. Even Mrsha, an actual [Druid], wasn’t so sharp-tongued. Hethon clenched his teeth.
“What I meant was that it sounded like they needed my help. Maybe if we help them…”
“They said they are dead.”
Sammial interrupted, and Hethon hesitated.
“Well—at the very least, it won’t hurt. Someone has to help. House Veltras isn’t poor. It’s not like the House of El! But after the Circle of Thorns and with Oswen…”
He swallowed suddenly, and Sammial’s face went blank. The boy had been sitting on the floor, but he got up and jumped face-first onto Hethon’s bed.
Oswen. Gone. Hethon couldn’t believe it.
Everyone he had stayed with when Ryoka was taken—obliterated, save for Buscrei and Reneil and Palac. Vanished. The town, the tree-houses. The otterdogs—
They said there was a huge rift across the entire area. The waters had rushed in, and no one knew how deep it went. Buscrei had gone back, after the Solstice battle, to see her home.
Nanette’s not-a-glare softened, and Mrsha bowed her head. The white Gnoll girl gave Hethon a sympathetic look, then handed him a note filled with pain.
They can’t bring Oswen back. No matter who they are.
He wanted to tear the note up in front of the younger girl’s soulful eyes, but Hethon was reminded that she, too, had lost her tribe. He turned abruptly.
“No. But I can at least do something.”
Nanette and Mrsha looked at each other. Mrsha patted Sammial on the back as the boy looked up at his older brother, and Nanette adjusted a hat she didn’t have. Then scowled as she felt at her bare head.
“And that’s why we’re helping. Come on. We were nice. Now it’s time for blackmail.”
Hethon started. Mrsha sat up with a big smile and cracked her knuckles. Hethon awkwardly stepped over and reflected that, for all their faults, these girls did have a commendable way of getting things done.
“How do you blackmail someone?”
Once again, they gave him a look as if they couldn’t believe he’d never done it before.
 
——
 
The [Princess] was so annoyed she stomped upstairs and threw herself into her bed. There she lay, angry, tired, and wishing she had someone to confide in.
That someone turned out to be Dame Ushar and Apista, both of whom buzzed into the room after a single knock.
“Ushar, please tell me the children haven’t tried to steal the wand.”
“No, Your Highness. Not yet. I have some tea, and I believe Apista hasn’t been fed. I took the liberty of making up some sugar water.”
And she’d brought a snack, which turned out to be a garlic flavored pretzel. Lyonette scowled at it, knowing Calescent had made it with dubious box-garlic, but it was hot, buttered, and she was cold, so she took the tea and nibbled on the pretzel, wishing it didn’t taste good. Apista landed and began to drink from a bowl of sugary water, and Lyonette petted her bee with one hand.
Some days, she longed to be a [Princess] raising a little bee with less concerns and a less-mouthy daughter.
“Did you hear—I mean, see her insulting me, Ushar? Mrsha? She used to be the most darling little Gnoll girl.”
“Your Highness remembers a time before I arrived. I can only take your word for Miss Mrsha’s saintly qualities before, even if all evidence makes me doubt that assertion.”
Dame Ushar’s comment made Lyonette smile—then scowl.
“She was! Oh, she was afraid of me, the poor girl, but she warmed up after she stopped biting. Then she was only a bit of a rascal.”
“Stealing food. Getting into trouble. Trying to kill the Hobgoblins?”
Lyonette had conveniently forgotten about that. She glowered as she chewed, and Apista buzzed her wings.
“…She’s a bit of a handful. But she treats me like I’m dull as a brick and unwilling to see reason! If she hadn’t insulted me to my face—”
Ushar was smiling. Lyonette glared.
“What? I am reasonable.”
The Thronebearer ducked her head.
“Your Highness, you sound like every parent to their child. It is your duty to be the responsible, and thus, boring and cautious one. Miss Mrsha is impatient. If you’d like, I could reason with her.”
“Reason? With Mrsha? Nanette, you might, but Mrsha respects no adults. Except maybe Erin and sometimes Bird and Numbtongue. Maybe if General Zel was alive—”
“I could pretend to be on their side, Your Highness. It’s the thing Thronebearers do. Of course, that means helping them break the rules now and then, but I would be watching them rather than them escaping me. And I would report any substantive incidents to you.”
Ushar offered carefully. Lyonette thought about it as Apista tried a piece of her pretzel. The bee buzzed her wings at Ushar and twirled her antennae, but Lyonette shushed her with one finger and gave Ushar a grateful look.
“Would you? That would be helpful. Just go and check on them and tell me if they get up to mischief.”
“As you command, Your Highness.”
Ushar got up instantly, bowed, and departed. Lyonette waited until she sensed Ushar heading downstairs in pursuit of the children. Then she let out the snort she’d been holding in. Apista rolled onto her back and flailed her good legs and her prosthetic ones in the air, as if she were laughing herself off her feet.
“Did you hear that, Apista? Did she just—? She really thought I didn’t know she was asking permission to ‘look after’ Mrsha and Nanette? Dead gods, she’s sharp, but she must forget that the sisters and I did talk. My Thronebearers tried that on me when I was seven.”
She shook her head ruefully, and Apista flew around her, jabbing her stinger lightly. The Ashfire Bee didn’t think in words Lyonette understood, but the [Princess] got the meaning. She held up a hand, amused.
“No, Apista. I don’t need you to sting her in the…bum to make her shape up. Ushar’s cunning enough, and I think she’s loyal. She’s just Calanferian. It makes sense to have my approval. I just wish I could trust her with everything. I wish you could talk or I had a confidant. Here we are with more Erin-problems again, and she’s not even here.”
Lyonette lay back in her bed with a sigh, and Apista landed on Lyonette’s head and tried to give her a painful scalp massage with her spiky feet. The [Princess] stared at the ceiling.
It would be nice to have someone I could trust. Not just Yelroan or Ishkr or Ushar. But—an equal. A peer. Erin was sort of that, but she was also my superior. Who’s…my rank?
Not just in terms of class, but position, in what they did, or where they were. Lyonette thought of Selys, but the Drake hadn’t come to the inn after Tekshia had died. Krshia was busy, and the Earthers weren’t the same.
Rose. I need to see why she’s come back. Homesick? Tired of the Gnolls? It will be good to have her, if she’s less—youthful than when she was here last.
Youthful. Rose was as old as Lyonette, who was turning nineteen this month. No, wait. She was technically younger because years in this world were longer than those of Earth. But the point was—
There was only one person who sprang to mind as a—a kind of person in the same boat. Someone she wished was hanging around the inn who she could talk to. In fact, Lyonette almost wished she’d gone with him, but she had to take care of the inn, and he’d said he’d send for her once they needed her help.
That was, of course, Wall Lord Ilvriss. He was planning to dig up a Walled City in the north, and Lyonette would help. Surely, but he had been shifting [Miners] towards his destination; even with the door, he had to organize transport, food, lodging, and she hadn’t heard from him in ages.
She’d rather enjoyed his company in Oteslia. Saliss’ too. Ilvriss was a Wall Lord, but he also seemed to understand that, at times, he and Lyonette were both swept up behind Erin, clearing the path, guarding her back, but content to not fight for the tiller and do what they could while she charged an army.
If only Rags were here more often. I might be friends with Rags. Or…if only Bethal hadn’t turned traitor. Or Pryde not been hurt.
Both [Ladies] had vanished after the battle, one to her lands to recuperate, the other going on the lam. Lyonette assumed Lady Bethal Walchaís was alive, despite Magnolia Reinhart’s wrath. Apparently, the Five Families hadn’t wanted to see more noble blood spilt.
Magnolia would never forgive Bethal. Lyonette wasn’t sure if she’d be able to. For one moment, Lyonette had had peers. She rolled over in her bed, indulging in self-pity for a moment. Then she sat up and remembered.
“Wait a second. I have one peer left who I could talk to. Surely. Why, we’re so alike. We’re both fashionable, mothers, live in the same location, and we have troublesome children to deal with.”
Despite the telepathic bond that linked Apista and Lyonette, the bee didn’t follow Lyonette’s trail of thought and realize whom Lyonette was talking to until the [Princess] was hurrying out the door. Apista followed until she finally figured out who it was, and it took Apista until they were literally knocking on the door. Even then, Lyonette kept shooing the bee because Apista was projecting intense skepticism at her.
 
——
 
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle and Lyonette were exactly the same, really, when you thought hard about it. They both had a certain, oh, flair for style and refinement. Both were mothers. Both, arguably, were newcomers to Liscor who couldn’t remain in their homes for personal reasons.
True, Colfa might have been twice Lyonette’s age, but another thing was true: Colfa did indeed have a bit of time on her hands.
“It is ze weather, Lyonette.”
Colfa waved a hand as she offered Lyonette some more tea and fresh cheese. From some goats, apparently. The farm was sort of quiet. There was Himilt, who had nodded at Lyonette as she came in, but kept milking goats in the barn, and also the ranch-style home and…
No one else.
No Rivel. No Bamer. Lyonette had felt guilty when she remembered the old Vampire’s death, but Colfa had welcomed her, Dalimont, and Apista in so warmly it had been clear she’d been lonely. And bored.
“Not much crop farming to do in the winter?”
Lyonette hazarded a guess, and Colfa sighed.
“If we wanted to, a lot, actually. There are winter crops, but most are magical, and Himilt and I thought it would be better to properly build out this farm. For the springs. We chose a very large hill because we knew it would rain, and I was preparing for having to herd animals in this weather.”
She gestured at the various goats, some of whom would just wander around the house. Like Fluffles IV. Lyonette nodded seriously.
“Is it possible? Wouldn’t animals go a bit crazy without much space to roam?”
“Oh, it is. Some [Shepherds] take their flocks outside of Liscor, but others have found you can build a bridge to a nearby farm; sort of trade the animals so they don’t feel like they’re in the same spot. Goats? Goats aren’t as picky about being cooped up. We’ve more shoring up of the foundations to do, but—I just don’t know if we need this house anymore. With Bamer and Rivel gone—it’s just the two of us.”
“I see.”
Lyonette swallowed hard. Colfa stared past Lyonette at a worn leather armchair. She didn’t cry—she was very upright, very distinguished, despite the rash that often plagued her, covered by a scarf and long dress. But her red irises reflected what her tone of voice did not.
“He would fall asleep there all the time. I knew he’d pass sooner or later. He was old for—for us. You understand? We all knew one day we’d find him—passed. But I never expected him to be a hero. He always told Rivel and Fierre not to. You know? Because we’re—”
Vampires. It was something unspoken that Lyonette didn’t understand, despite Erin telling her what it meant a few times. They’d helped Himilt and Colfa and Fierre hide their identities, even given Rivel a suit of armor to cover his crimes against House Byres.
Lyonette…hoped Rivel was okay. Niers had claimed he was in the company of Rabbiteater and the others, but he was a continent away. Colfa had to be worried. But she seemed just as uncomfortable talking about her nature as she did about death.
“I, um, if the farm’s too empty, could you hire [Farmhands]? For the work.”
Colfa blinked and looked at Lyonette, then smiled and poured more tea.
“For the farm? We don’t need it. Himilt works from afternoon till dawn; farming is in his bones. I just meant the farm itself. Fierre doesn’t come back home; she claims she’s too busy serving that [Lady]. Does she look well? She’s at the inn still, right?”
“Most of the time. We, uh, had a lot of garlic in this morning, so she’s been gone.”
Colfa shrugged.
“She’s more sensitive than I am. Himilt would be sneezing; I can smell it on your breath.”
“Oh, I’m sorry—”
Lyonette flushed, but Colfa just shrugged.
“It’s like a dust allergy if it’s not fresh or I’m not eating it. Fierre’s true to the blood. I? I have the advantage of being a pretender, of sorts. One could call it the best of both worlds. Or the worst.”
She laughed, glancing down at her too-pale skin, which was abnormally cold. And Colfa was stronger than most people, even with Skills. But she had no levels, and while the normal weaknesses of Vampires were mitigated, save perhaps true silver—she took sick and could die of it.
Lyonette didn’t know why, only that Colfa’s family had fled the north, which was cursed in some way. She didn’t know Colfa that well—but she burst out after a moment.
“Well, I’m glad you stayed. With Bethal gone and Pryde disfig…injured, I missed having people to talk to. Won’t you come to the inn more? I could use the company.”
“Me? Lyonette, my dear. I am twice your age. Even if it’s traditional with my people to associate with those far younger, vell—”
Colfa gave Lyonette a toothy grin and looked a bit aghast, but Lyonette saw her brighten up at the suggestion.
“Won’t you, Colfa? I could even add a new destination on Liska’s door.”
“Really? You can do that?”
