Lyonette saw the villagers, just around a hundred and fifty men and women, Humans who’d lived here for generations, staring around a rather barren place that had been their home. But then—it had already been gone before they’d pulled the first house down.
After all, the Giant of Rheirgest was gone. Its absence was rather more dramatic.
“Eternal Throne.”
Lyonette’s head craned up, and she saw the sight Normen had been watching for two weeks. It was as if someone had punched a hole straight through part of this particular mountain that made up the High Passes—and the ensuing month had seen more and more of the mountain crumbling away. Most of it was filled with rubble, including the ‘mine’ that had been set right next to the villagers’ houses.
When Kasigna had animated it, the giant had crushed several houses to dust, though the villagers had sensed the shifting bones and fled long before it had started moving. Even after, the horrific giant of bones had left a literal trail of flattened earth that the snow had covered, but was visible from above, a furrow in the landscape.
That journey had ended in Liscor, just past the main road, and Normen knew that while the Giant had made the trip overnight in hours, the villagers would take days, maybe up to a week, to do the same.
It would be cold, even with the snows about to melt, and dangerous if brigands or monsters attacked. But Normen had less worry about escorting so many with only a handful of people backing him up.
For one—they were the Knights of Solstice. Jewel, Vess, Durene, and Antherr were all exceptionally dangerous. Three of them were over Level 30, and only Antherr’s rebirth had lowered his level. More than that—Rheirgest was more than capable of defending itself.
Lyonette’s amazement at the damage to the mountainside was replaced by sudden, and worrying, nerves. She gazed across the hundred and fifty villagers—then blanched. Because their numbers were closer to two hundred—if you added in the help.
“Are those—skeletons?”
Nearly fifty skeletons, of varying heights and builds, were carrying the ivory to the wagons or tearing down tents. One, as large as a Draugr, with huge, spade-like hands, was digging up the foundations while a pair of undead horses stomped in front of a wagon.
“Rheirgest’s undead. You can see why other villages don’t want them around.”
“Yes…and you want to send them to Liscor? Liscor, where Az’kerash died?”
Headman Elosaith twitched as he turned and saw Lyonette and Normen talking. Instantly, he bowed, as did several villagers, and she waved and smiled, then turned to Normen.
“It…they trust Erin Solstice more than most. Because she helped organize the delivery of food.”
“And you.”
Lyonette gave Normen a pointed look, and he blushed and fiddled with his visor, sliding it down.
“—I can’t help them do more than resettle. So I thought I’d do what I can. That’s why I called. I, ah—I promised Rheirgest’s people I’d help them go wherever’s needed, Lyonette. But I just realized, today, that I hadn’t asked Liscor about Rheirgest’s people moving in. Could you—that is—would you be able to approach someone about it? Whoever that is.”
Lyonette’s face went from amused to concerned in a moment and Normen kicked himself again. No one had brought it up until Durene had wondered aloud where the villagers would settle, and Normen had said in Liscor probably until they could find a spot—and then Jewel had asked how much that would cost to rent that many rooms.
It was the kind of thing a [Grandmaster] ought to think of. Normen wasn’t a regular [Knight]. He should have asked before he even left. Worse, he was used to Erin being here, so he’d taken it for granted it would just…happen.
If Ser Solton, the Knight of Haegris, could see Normen now, he’d shake his head at the younger [Knight]. The Order of Haegris knew full well how hard it was to do this sort of thing. All Normen could do was beg for help.
Thankfully, Lyonette’s face cleared, and she nodded and took a breath.
“It’ll take days for Rheirgest to get to Liscor, won’t it, Normen? That gives me time. Let me petition Liscor’s Council. I’ll see if they can find a place for Rheirgest’s folk. Maybe even free housing until they can set up a village? It’ll have to be fast if they want to avoid the spring floods, and it’s not easy to just relocate that many people. You need hills. Maybe the Antinium could help? Give me until the afternoon, and I’ll hopefully have news.”
Normen exhaled, grateful.
“Thank you, Lyonette. We’ll be heading towards Celum, and if we can use the door, that would be splendid. If not, it’s possible to do the rest of the journey on foot.”
“You might have to send the wagons overland if you have a lot of possessions, but I’ll let Liska know and see how much she thinks she can transport. I’d better get on that quickly. It would be good to have the Order of Solstice back as well.”
Something about how she said it, too casually, made Normen look up swiftly.
“Trouble?”
“No…possibly. Nothing urgent, I hope, but it’s nice to have people I can rely on around. There’s been more updates. But I’ll tell you when you’re back. Don’t rush, and, ah, ah—keep the undead hidden, perhaps?”
“No fear, Lyonette. They’ll keep all but the horses hidden, and we have a good lie—we’ll say Pisces animated them.”
Lyonette blinked, then laughed.
“Pisces! Good idea. But aren’t [Knights] supposed to tell the truth?”
“I didn’t swear an oath to do that.”
Normen replied, and she smiled—right before turning.
“Dame Ushar is giving you an approving nod. I must go, Normen, but I’ll be on the job.”
“Ah, one more thing, Lyonette?”
Normen caught her before she could vanish, and she turned back obligingly. He leaned over—and nearly fell off the cliff—as she bent closer to hear.
“There is something that could be valuable. Perhaps you could give it to Liscor to sweeten the deal?”
“Oh?”
Normen pointed at the hole left in the mountain.
“When the Giant of Rheirgest left, before the mountain started collapsing, some of the villagers inspected the wake it left. They think they saw something in the mountains that resembled a structure. Something made by people. But no one wanted to risk getting hurt, so they could only send a few skeletons to check it out. It’s a network of caves. Maybe a dungeon or something buried?”
Lyonette’s eyes lit up with fascination.
“That’s…valuable. I can’t imagine anyone but an adventurer would pay for it, but I’ll tell Liscor’s Council if I may.”
“Please do. We—the Order of Solstice, that is—aren’t likely to want to go exploring dungeons. None of us save Jewel does traps, and we can’t spare the time. If it’s a bargaining chip or whatnot, I think it’s best used, as it were.”
“Then I’ll begin asking. Thank you, Normen!”
Lyonette gave Normen a big smile, and he regretted dumping the problem in her lap. He’d do less of that, he promised himself, once they built a keep.
…It occurred to Normen he was going to need help funding and finding a place for that too. He sighed. He had gotten this far purely on the generosity, trust, and help of many people like Erin. Someday, he would have to start repaying that debt.
 
——
 
The handy thing about having a staff was delegation. The moment Lyonette got Normen’s request, she sighed, then asked Yelroan to head down to City Hall to put in an urgent request to the Council.
“We could file a request through the main desk. But Normen left it hanging, so if you could find a way to speed that up, Yelroan?”
The [Mathematician] nodded.
“I’ll just have them treat it like a request from The Wandering Inn. I’ve heard those get expedited.”
“We shouldn’t cut the line—”
He scratched his chin and shook his head amiably.
“Yes, we should. Everyone else tries. We’re just better at it.”
That made her smile. Lyonette sat back and thought about checking on Tessa, but she had no time.
“Lyonette, I’m back. I got the garlic to Magnolia and phrased it right. You’ll have an answer by early afternoon or late evening. You are also paying for a certain old man’s meals.”
“A small price to pay, Ishkr. How did you convince him?”
The Gnoll strode out from behind the bar as Lyonette re-entered the common room, and she smiled at him. He looked rather pleased with himself.
“I just treated it like a challenge and mentioned we have a new dish on the menu.”
“—Calescent hasn’t invented a new dish. Has he? The garlic pasta surely doesn’t count.”
Ishkr shrugged.
“Anything Demsleth hasn’t eaten is a new dish.”
Well, that simplified that. Lyonette began to feel more in control of things once again. Yes, there were problems, but no one had exploded into flames, and there was no drama to be had. Soon, they’d have a more concrete answer as to this garlic phenomena.
Unfortunately, Lyonette was then met with a piece of paper as she was about to sit down and write a formal letter to Paeth asking them to connect her with Erin. A solemn quartet of children filed up to the table, and Lyonette saw Mrsha offer her a sealed envelope with a serious face.
“Er—hello. Can I help you, Lords Veltras? Mrsha? Nanette?”
“Please read the letter, Miss Lyonette.”
Nanette’s eyes were twinkling, but she kept her face straight and her hands clasped behind her back. Lyonette eyed Mrsha, and her mind flashed to a few scenarios.
Mrsha’s broken something. Mrsha wants to eat dessert. The children want to do something in Invrisil or Pallass.
She unsealed the envelope and found it was none of the above. Rather, it was a petition. The writing was definitely Mrsha’s.
 
Dear Miss Lyonette,
We, the undersigned, would like to present you with a formal petition to return the ‘Wand of Ironwood’, heretofore referred to as ‘the wand’, to the possession of ourselves that we might fulfill Hethon’s promise and/or a debt of profound gratitude.
It has not escaped our notice that you have deliberately hidden and lied about your possession of said wand, and we, the undersigned, find this both a dereliction of your own friendship to Ryoka Griffin and parental duties as a mother not to lie.
Whereas you may object that the wand is Ryoka Griffin’s property and therefore not in any person’s said custody, I remind you that stewardship of The Wandering Inn does not convey upon you any material claim to goods of your guests. Furthermore, as Ryoka Griffin is also affiliated with House Veltras, custodianship of her possessions is therefore the purview of Hethon and Sammial Veltras.
If you would be so good as to return the wand posthaste with sufficient apologies (dessert may suffice), we will consider the matter dropped. If not, we, the undersigned, will have no choice but to escalate this matter to concerned parties such as Enchanter Hedault, who will doubtless be displeased to learn his wand has been purloined in such a perfidious matter for little good cause. Thank you,
—Mrsha du Marquin, Nanette the Witch, Lord Sammial Veltras, Lord Hethon Veltras.
 
It was a beautifully made letter. Lyonette admired the calligraphy as a mother. As a [Princess]—she hated petitions. So she compromised.
“Thank you, Mrsha dear!”
She patted Mrsha on the head. Then tore up the petition. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Lyonette handed the pieces of the petition to Ushar.
“Have these [Repaired], and please file it with Mrsha’s other works, Ushar.”
“Yes, milady.”
For some reason, Lyonette swore she saw Ushar mouth ‘told you so’ at Nanette and Mrsha, but it must have been something else. Mrsha stomped her foot.
“But Lyonette—”
Nanette saw Lyonette’s narked expression, and her tone grew sweeter.
“I mean, Miss Lyonette, the wand’s quite important, and Hethon’s chosen.”
Sammial jumped up and down.
“By the weird people! He’s got to take the wand back! It’s a manner of honor for House Veltras! I’m going too!”
Hethon bowed, the most composed, but the most nervous of the bunch.
“I did promise, Miss Lyonette. And Ryoka’s also said the wand is vital. If you could return it, maybe it would help her?”
They looked at her, and Lyonette crossed her arms.
“No. The wand and whomever those people are are dangerous. They did save you, but until I know more about them, I’m not letting you visit them.”
“But, Miss Lyonette—”
“You can’t—”
Mother! Don’t be stupid!
Mrsha’s signed protest earned her a stomp on the foot too late. Lyonette’s eyes narrowed. She reversed what she’d been about to say and stood up.
“Stupid? Watch your tongue—your paws, little Miss Mrsha! I’m not the one being foolish, and if that’s how you’re going to ask, we may consider the matter dropped. If you press the point, then you and everyone else may go without dessert tonight.”
“Good going, dummy.”
Sammial glared at Mrsha, who looked so astounded to be lectured by him of all people she was lost for words. Then she began to protest—until Nanette wisely dragged her back.
Tyrant! Bully! I mean, nothing, Mother!
Lyonette scowled as she strode away from Mrsha, and the girl furiously signed at her back. The children were left staring gloomily at each other. Then they ran off to plot how to find and steal the wand.
 
——
 
“We have to get the wand! You said a petition would work!”
Hethon was so frustrated he kicked a wall in his room afterwards, and then looked quite embarrassed. He was unusually worked up about the wand.
“I said it might work. Lyonette likes formal appeals. Give us time. Trying to steal it again is impossible unless we find clues to where she’s hidden it. Mrsha, can you bribe Apista?”
Forsooth, the tricky bee won’t accept a cookie! I shall continue to offer her sweets.
Mrsha held up a note, and Hethon paced back and forth. Nanette eyed him as she sat on his bed, dangling her feet. She was, oddly, on his side, and Mrsha was here, probably like Sammial, because she was bored, and this was a lot of fun.
But it was personal to Hethon in a way that Nanette, a witch, noticed.
“Why are you so insistent on getting it now, Hethon? Is it just because you want to help Ryoka? Or your oath?”
“Yes—well, not just that.”
Hethon was slightly embarrassed to be treated so seriously. He did value the oath, but he was hardly like his father who would rather lose a hand than forswear himself. But he was passionate for other reasons. He turned and tried to explain to Nanette, cheeks going a bit red. Again.
