“Yes! All of Erin’s Skills—most of them—I can access. Think about it. You could come by for breakfast, and I could confide in someone besides Ushar or the staff. I don’t know any women around my age.”
Colfa looked pleased to be included in the ‘my age’ reference. She drummed her painted fingers on a side table, and Lyonette blinked.
She paints her nails even with all the snow and a farmer’s job? How does she keep them so pristine? Skills? She has no Skills!
“I had no idea you were so isolated. Surely there’s someone you could confide in? Goblins…well, I suppose they don’t have the same worries. A Drake?”
Lyonette’s face fell.
“—There is Selys. But she hasn’t spoken to me since her grandmother passed. I’ve tried to talk to her, but she doesn’t open the door to the mansion when I go to call. And Zevara is often busy with the new Watch Commander. Truly, Colfa. Won’t you come by more?”
Colfa dithered for a moment, glancing at the other room and murmuring to herself.
“Himilt will be lonely—but then, he does seem to have a companion in that Wailant fellow. And there’s the farm—but one can hire a [Farmhand], and arguably, the less we two are around, the less oddities—it wouldn’t do for me to drag down a [Princess].”
“I’m no [Princess] at the inn. Just Lyonette, the acting [Innkeeper].”
Lyonette protested mildly. But to her surprise, that comment was met with an arched eyebrow. Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle drew herself up and adjusted her old-fashioned dress that made her look like the royalty of gothic farmers of old.
“Ah, that last comment was not a true concern of mine, Lyonette. My people have often associated well with royalty and the nobility. I have complete confidence in myself—if you’d have me. I can be, as my daughter assures me, haughty at times.”
Her eyes twinkled, and one of her canines appeared in a rare toothy smile. Lyonette beamed in delight with Colfa. Right up until Lyonette remembered the inn was full of garlic.
 
——
 
Colfa gave Lyonette a head start to get back to the inn with her [Knight], Ser…Dalimont, was it? She didn’t know. She should make a point to remember the man’s name and the other one. Had a third one perished during the Solstice?
Be it ever so embarrassing to admit, she did not have a complete memory of The Wandering Inn’s staff and had to genuinely remind herself which girl was Nanette and which was Mrsha.
Naturally, she had been present at the inn enough times to remember the highlights. She’d gone exploring, which was odd to say about a singular building, but each room had had something odd, like the weights room, or another room where Antinium ‘prayed’.
Fascinating, and of course, there had been the beach. That wonderful place that would never be open again. It saddened Colfa to think of, and the Solstice had been terrifying, and she had lit candles for Bamer every night.
Yet, and yet. She honestly had not thought she would ever go back as more than an occasional, hopefully well thought-of, guest.
Everyone said they would keep in touch. Colfa had quite enjoyed the two [Ladies] and Lyonette, especially given how she’d met Bethal and Lyonette fighting a fish in the dead of winter. That left an impact. But she hadn’t expected the [Ladies] to really, actually remember her.
In Colfa’s experience, you could run into a nobleman or noblewoman and help them out of a rut in the road, introduce yourself while they had an axle repaired at your farm, treat them to tea, and impress them with your name.
The Lischelles? Of course! Practically royalty among farmers in your own right—I think I have a scarf made of Lischelle cotton. How do you do?
They’d shake your hand, invite you to one day have a brunch with them, drive off, and not remember you when you met in the market a month later. Lyonette was a friendly young woman who rubbed shoulders with famous and powerful people. There was no reason for her to remember Colfa’s name—unless of course it was because Colfa was a Vampire.
That scared Colfa, so she sought out Himilt after she put a warm cloak around herself and found her boots.
“Himilt. I’ve been invited to The Wandering Inn by that Lyonette. As a—friend. She seems to want to make a regular occurrence of it.”
He was almost done milking the goats in the unfinished kitchen. They’d put up the house in time and gotten the walls and roof done, but the kitchen was unpainted; they’d put down good stone walls instead of cheaper stucco.
Around Liscor, stucco was apparently the material of choice for homes. You could use traditional stone or wood, but it took a lot of effort and, in the case of wood, wasn’t common enough. But the val Lischelle-Drakle Vampires had lived in an old keep of stone and taken the effort to replicate that in what they hoped would be a long-term home. They’d conceded to the look of houses around here by applying the stucco over the stones.
All that meant was that the house wouldn’t fall over even if one of those Rock Crabs hit it, and if anyone tried to punch through a wall in a fit of anger, they’d break all their fingers.
—It needed painting to give it life indoors, and the wooden cooking countertop was unvarnished. Everything needed hours of work to make homely.
The goats did not help with the sense of clutter, but they knew better than to eat anything not put in a feed bowl. One caught nibbling would get to sit in the lonely barn with the new cows, and besides…they made the home feel more lively with everyone gone.
Bamer, Rivel, Fierre. Colfa saw Himilt look up; he had his boots on and had tracked in some mud. He avoided her pointed look.
“She’s a friendly young woman.”
Why are you asking me? Colfa bit her lip with one fang.
“I might not go long.”
Himilt glanced out the window.
“It’s a cold day. Might as well have a cup of something. I’m going to take the milk to market and see how it sells. Then I might see how much it costs to have the Antinium build up the hill a bit. If we hire a [Farmhand] or two, we can plant heavy. Even on another hill if we connect it with bridges.”
“How will the crops survive the rain?”
He shrugged.
“According to local [Farmers], you build a temporary roof. Set down wards against water settling in the ground if you can afford them. There’s a local [Aegiscaster]. At the inn, actually.”
It all sounded incredibly expensive to Colfa, who was used to farming in Reizmelt. Not always cheap in labor or costs in itself, but growing anything in rainy Liscor sounded like a nightmare. She sighed.
“Apparently, many of the citizens fish or do related work in the spring. Fancy being a [Fisher]?”
He smiled, drat him.
“I may have commissioned some nets and hooks.”
No wonder he’d been suspiciously eager to move to Liscor of all places. Colfa could just imagine him sitting and fishing; he’d always tried in the local ponds and streams to limited success. She pursed her lips.
“At least I won’t have to worry about you being eaten by what you catch. Himilt, I could finish setting up the silo.”
“We have time. I could work on it tonight. Go have fun.”
Himilt barely glanced outside at the half-finished grain silo. Colfa insisted, sitting down to lace up her boots.
“And tomorrow? If Lyonette invites me tomorrow?”
“Seems snowy tomorrow. If I don’t see you, I’ll go visit Wailant.”
He was avoiding the subject. Colfa stared at him as he measured the milk into a container.
“—Himilt. Are you still planning on sending Bamer’s ashes north?”
The other Vampire didn’t respond right away. When he did, he glanced towards the fireplace and metal container sitting on the mantle.
“…I’m going to see someone in Riverfarm about a yew casket like he wanted. That’ll save us a bit on costs. I think it’d be simplest to have a good [Driver] take it north. Someone respectful. City Runners get leery about that kind of thing.”
Couriers were out of the question. Colfa began to count.
“So a stop in Reizmelt—and he wanted to be buried where?”
“Yolta. I plan on sending a letter with a note to the Merchant’s Guild to have it done by a [Gravekeeper] there.”
Old Bamer had probably never thought they’d leave Reizmelt. Casket, delivery that far, and burial…there was no body to bury.
“That’s what his will said? He didn’t want to be buried on the farm?”
Himilt scratched at his neck where the swelling of his skin was covered by a scarf.
“He wrote it back when he and I didn’t know each other as well. I would’ve buried him with the family—but the land’s no longer ours. Yolta will do. He wanted it, Colfa.”
“Of course. I’m not saying it’s wrong—just that it’s expensive. You should do it. But I should have a lovely evening with Lyonette and be back tomorrow. How about that?”
“—Mm. We’ll make it through the spring. We have everything we need.”
Seed, yes. Animals, yes, though they’d sold quite a lot to finance the move south and simply because they couldn’t take so many. But magical enchantments for the fields? Finishing the home and the cost of farming and outwaiting the spring?
“Go enjoy yourself, Colfa.”
Himilt glanced over his shoulder at the door, and Colfa sat there, arms folded as his eyes flicked to her, then indicated something to the side. She was too upset, in a quiet sort of way, to pay attention.
“Just don’t work all night. I’ll ask the [Aegiscaster] about prices myself while I’m there. If we have to sell, let’s sell the sheep first. They’ll be unhappy with the rain unless we can somehow graze them in…Riverfarm? We’d never afford that even if we could move them through the door. If Bamer and Rivel were here, they could herd them up to Esthelm. Otherwise, we’ll sell—”
She was working down a cold list she’d made in her head before of the animals they could afford to sell that were the least profitable, even if they were part of the family in a way.
Only when Himilt’s eyes jerked left twice did Colfa’s voice slow and she realize he’d sensed something.
Damn Himilt. He had always been a Vampire, so there were times his senses were far more honed into things than hers. Colfa only realized Lyonette had come back and was standing in the living room when she turned her head and sensed the blood behind her.
“Oh, Lyonette.”
Embarrassment didn’t begin to cover it. But Colfa had been embarrassed before and smiled blandly, and saw the [Princess] was red-cheeked, which meant she’d heard too much.
“I, uh—had forgotten to drop off a little gift. Don’t worry, it’s not garlic, and we’ll have that out of the inn by the time you—would you take some cookies?”
Ah, the cookies. Colfa accepted them, audibly admiring the little Goblins and stars drawn on them with—frosting? Sugar. Himilt peered at the cookies in a way that made Colfa suspect they would become his meals for the next few days, and he grabbed a goat who tried to beg for one.
“I’m almost ready, Lyonette. Would you give me another few minutes to get to the inn?”
“Of course. Sorry for interrupting, ah—”
Lyonette bowed herself out fast. The silence that was left thereafter was long enough that Colfa did feel her cheeks warm, but only faintly.
Financial troubles. Colfa came from the Lischelle household where they had conquered those woes long ago in her lineage. Himilt, a Vampire unable to make use of Skills, had been more familiar with those woes, but they’d done well enough in Reizmelt over time.
“The move was necessary. If Rivel and Bamer were here, we’d have the hands, and I’d have asked the other [Farmers] if they wanted us to drive their sheep north for the spring.”
“Rivel would have hated that. Or enjoyed it. I could never tell with him. Himilt—I shouldn’t waste time.”
He hugged her one-armed with that pained look he sometimes wore. A Vampire who’d introduced a mortal Human girl into his life. Well, she’d asked. But he always seemed to think it was his fault.
“Go have fun. We had to move. Bamer must’ve saved a hundred lives.”
“A thousand.”
She wiped at her eyes. Himilt nodded.
“We’ll continue onwards. Maybe see if some of the others want to work with us. It’ll be a hard spring, but Rivel’s safe enough. He’s got armor. Fierre’s working for a [Lady]. And we’re away from the curse.”
Silver in the blood. If they had more children, or other Vampires who escaped the north and all these hunts reproduced or more were sired, there might be a generation of Vampires with powers and no sickness once more. It was a bitter thing, but Fierre was cured.
Think of that. Keep walking onwards.
Colfa sighed and then brushed at her eyes. She stood up and shared a kiss with Himilt. Then she went to keep a lonely [Princess] company. She laughed as she walked into the snow at what a ridiculous thing that was. Almost like all her dreams of majesty and myths when she was a girl.
 
——
 
Lyonette felt like a real Erin sometimes. And by that she meant—thoughtless. She wasn’t sure if she regretted remembering her gift to Colfa and going back and overhearing all that.
Some things you should pretend you hadn’t heard. Everyone had their woes, but this one made Lyonette guilty.
Bamer was dead. She remembered the Vampire, vaguely, as that tall, gaunt fellow who was even less jocular than Himilt. She hadn’t seen him die, only heard that he’d somehow brought down one of the bat-undead things before it could attack Liscor.
He was a name on a long list of people who’d given everything to stop Kasigna or protect Liscor. Of course, it hurt the val Lischelle-Drakles more than Lyonette. She hadn’t known they also had financial woes.
I should have just pretended I hadn’t heard. [Straight Face]. Why didn’t I get a Skill like that? Could I offer to help pay for the funeral? She’d never accept, but I should. Maybe if I talked to Termin or Rhaldon?
“Your Highness. I’m sure that Master Himilt and Miss Colfa weren’t overly offended. They seem like stalwart people.”
Dalimont must have sensed Lyonette’s embarrassment, because he offered a comment as they trudged back towards The Wandering Inn. Via Liscor, actually; it was a shorter walk through the portal door.
Lyonette was grateful for the commentary.
“I’m sure they are. I feel guilty, Dalimont. Could we prevail on Master Termin whenever he appears around the inn?”
“Of course, Your Highness. That’s a quite reasonable offer I am sure they would accept. We could also pay Termin to offer them a discount.”
Now there was the kind of sideways logic a Thronebearer employed. Lyonette half-smiled at him, then walked into the snow, head bowed.
“—There’s no way we could simply offer them some gold, is there? We aren’t rolling in it ourselves—”
