In the Demonic Realm, a small group of Outer Guards wielding Primordial Aura-dense weapons look up to the sky.

The imagery of a jet-black dragon and an enormous demon looms above them. The teams were expecting a few lingering nobles to fight back, but when they all poured out of the Imperial Family's throne and massacred the Realm, they were faced with no resistance at all.

Pluto had already strategically dismantled the remaining Morvale and Vermillion Family armies over the last few years and killed all their Nobles.

At first, they believe these missing Demons are what must be attacking them from the sky, but it becomes clear it is something far worse when a thick invisible aura pours out of their enemies.

"Who are you? State your name and generation!" one of them calls out from below. The pressure of immense aura flowing off these black shadows in the sky starts to make them shiver.

Some of the mindless marching Demons caught up in the shockwave of Pluto and his Dragon ranking up actually explode and die on the spot. None of the faulty armors have been taken advantage of here yet, and a larger percentage of them are still among the crowds.

Pluto wastes no time and forms demonic energy-infused spears of earth magic in both of his palms.

His dragon screeches, and a dark brown and black ball of energy charges up in its mouth.

Both of them bend reality around them with extremely strange waves of Primordial Aura that should not be possible to wield at this level and era in the Lower Realm.

One of the other Outer Guards that stands behind his leader whispers to himself, "Could it be First Bloods? I don't see any infused armor, that aura is coming purely from their souls..."

Before any of them have a chance to hear a reply, semi-transparent spears of stone collide with two of the Outer Guards' heads right between the horns.

They pierce through the layers of white high-quality glyphs, Primordial Aura, and tough demonic forms of these High Noble Demons. There is almost no delay between the impact against their heads and the aftermath of them being split in two, cores shattered, and the Primordial Earth spears colliding with the bare desert ground of the Demonic Realm.

A beam of liquid earth and demonic energy comes out of the dragon's mouth at the same time, covering the wide range around these demons where the remaining Outer Guards try to escape. Yet, they cannot handle the pressure and massive volume of 1% of stats from 84 billion worlds and Primordial Aura from the purple zone dominating their minds and bodies.

The impact shockwave ripples outward, across the entire planet.

If this were any normal world, it would have just crumbled to dust in the empty void of space. However, for some reason, it is far more sturdy than most planets its size and class.

Their Primordial Auras spread out to the far ends of the solar system they're in, and even the explosions of the mindless armored demons create enough shockwaves in just a single reaction to destroy this whole world.

Yet, only an upper layer of crust is vaporized.

The desert beneath these demons, the mountains tens of thousands of kilometers away, and all of the diverse landscapes on the far side of the Demonic Realm, when this shockwave of Primordial Aura, celestial energy, high-quality ether, demonic essence, and all from fully saturated yellow cores, it cannot withstand existing within the same reality.

All of the Imperial Demons' remains are destroyed, other than a few of the Outer Guards' horns and soul weapons.

Every demonic beast and commoner demon that was left behind on this world serving the 5 Royal Families disappears like they never existed.

The only landmarks that remain are five enormous black towers glowing green, cyan, blue, purple, and silver at the north pole of this world.

Pluto and his Dragon look away from the chaos, expecting the entire world to crumble. Instead, their eyes widen once they see the base of these towers that were concealed deep underground.

The towers' bases all connect as one, and they're sat upon a curved surface that looks just like the curved edge of the world they were just sat upon.

This curved surface goes on much further than just beneath the towers. It is not just a support system that is rooting them into this world. It seems that it has become the world itself.

When Pluto and his dragon look down, they see an enormous black planet, about two-thirds the size of the Demonic Realm they just thought they destroyed.

On the surface of this black world, there are trillions of intricate runes carved. Each of them begins to glow and pulse in a rhythmic manner, flashing with white and purple lights. An extremely slow pulse of gravity seeps out from the center of the world and begins to spread out into the surrounding space.

–

Outside this small pocket of space, at the edge of the galaxy, within strange dark clouds where the Demonic Realm stands, far more chaos is breaking loose.

Bri and Alveron react to the Rising Emperor's gift of Primordial Aura to those ranking up with eyes open wide. None of the advanced surveillance systems or even in-depth spectate scans sent back from those on the front lines show any difference in the Knights', Commanders', or Generals' stats.

From the outside looking in, there is no change in the amount of ether being used, mana cost per skill action, or even density of divine threads.

The only slightly measurable difference is the frequency of vibration output, as with massive amounts of Primordial Aura, the range of vibrations increases.

Yet, despite basically no metrics changing, every single one of them grows thousands of times stronger.

Extremely high-quality recordings are taken of every battle, and Alveron begins to send coordinates and transfers luminite crystals to the front-line fighters, pinpointing the most high-risk threats they need to take care of.

About half a second later, Bri snaps out of her shock and begins helping too.

Flashes of light blip all over the galaxy as what looked like unbeatable opponents now cannot even land a single hit on the Crimson Army.

They target all of the intelligent Outer Guards first, as they are the ones guiding the mindless troops. Yet in these masses of millions of robotic demons with pre-made high-quality glyph-infused armor, there are not many of the natural talents left.

This was an army left behind to exterminate all life once the Demons sealed the Upper Realm after all, the strongest from this generation were mostly all granted a place in the Primordial Garden.

There are not even one hundred Outer Guards in total guiding these troops, and their information-gathering leader that was preparing the Demonic Realm for its next phase has now gone dark.

The Imperials' troops are being attacked from all sides, and the mana-based forces have perfect live surveillance spectate feeds spread all throughout the galaxy pinpointing their location and reporting every move the Demons make.

In just a few minutes, the tides of this battle have completely changed.

There is no longer any communication going on between the Outer Guards, nor are there any additional orders to the mindless drones. The only thing these Imperial Demons do is send emergency alerts to the Upper Realm, to whoever will listen.

A few try to tear through space and enter the green zone, but it keeps them stuck in place for far too long. The last things many of them see are blue serpents splitting them in half coming out of an ancient suit of blue armor, or the feeling of an unbearable cold sweeping in and turning their vision white while an entire solar system freezes over.

There is no longer any urgent matter to figure out how they will defeat this wave of Imperials, now, it is just a matter of how fast.

–

The Green Zone's Demonic forces begin getting pings from their fellow Outer Guards in the Lower Realm below, but all of these calls go unanswered.

An invisible swordswoman, an obsidian black archer, and a jade green goblin queen dominate the zone.

Their Primordial Aura pushes outward to the edges of the green zone and begins to saturate everything it touches. When it flows through all of the Citadel defenses and through all of the citizens of the zone, it actually feels pure and invigorating. They all simultaneously are being granted a small dose of Primordial Aura themselves from the weaker soul tie they have with the Rising Emperor.

Everyone that shares this common link can survive through this wave of power like it is nothing but warm air.

The Demonic forces that have come here to kill them all, on the other hand, face a catastrophic attack.

The three generals don't let up after killing their first Outer Guards. They immediately target more. Only about 15 in total even made it up to the Green Zone; the rest are mindless robotic demons that die from exposure to this aura alone.

The Green Zone turns white with high-quality ether residue, but this does not slow Ava, Arie, and Raven down.

Less than a second after the first kills, they land kill shots on another set of Outer Guards.

Their numbers fall to single digits, and silver swords, a black arrow, and a jade hammer turn toward the remaining demons that try clawing their way through space, attempting to open up manual rifts to the Cyan Zone to escape their ends.

–

However, whether they're in the Lower Realm or the Green Zone right now, it is becoming even harder for them to tear through the zones.

It is not because they are terrified and not in the right mind, or even lack the energy they did when they tore through the zones before.

It is because the fabric between zones is humming and starting to pulse with a dim white light.

It is only visible through the tears in space that the demons are making, which are broadcast through many spectate feeds.

However, Abby also shares her live spectate feed in the Cyan Zone as her metamorphosis takes place.

She cracks through the bottom and top of her zone, and a dim white pulsing light can be seen in the fabric of space between zones.

Even the enormous seal above the Cyan Zone's Ravine pulses with a faint rhythmic light that wasn't there before.

–

There is only one person that sees everything as it is, happening all at once.

Monk has all of these spectate feeds of zone rifts open, watching the slow pulse gradually grow in luminosity. Everyone else is helping to pinpoint enemies and coordinate battles, but he sits alone with his eyes wide, connecting the dots.

The spectate feed in the center of all these images of zone tears is from Pluto's point of view, he watches the glyphs all over the core of the Demonic Realm pulse with the same exact rhythm.
