“The Deathless has front lines! Vanguard is collapsing—Gravesealer Regiment: Engage and delay; fighting retreat. This offensive has concluded. Pull back to second front and hold. Magi! Shroud senses! Guard your minds! Do not listen to him speak! Disengage, defend, support, extract! Repeat: Disengage, defend, support, extract!

Socials! Uphold morale! Do not let him break your comrades!

Do not waste your lives. Let him pass the second and third lines before triggering the spell!

Do not feed the Deathless levels. Repeat—no pitched battles! Suppress and pull back! Suppress and pull back. All other Pathbearers: Prepare for teleportation!”

—Legend-Assassin Maria Corcusa of the Ophereus Bloodline, Field Marshall of the Piety Offensive

443

War Economy [II]

“Tempo, tempo, tempo. Pace, pace, pace.” Such was Roland's mantra, echoed by Irons, adopted by Adam, and then thereafter by Shiv himself. All the battles he had fought before were more like skirmishes—violent, explosive, calamitous skirmishes, but only skirmishes nonetheless.

They were desperate encounters between small teams of elites—often in the shadows, in desperation, without proper preparation. But war was different. War was a team game, no matter how individualist you were. Of course, a Legend was far superior to an Adept, but one martial Legend would be easy prey for a dozen Heroic spellcasters after being deprived of equipment or simply worn down after killing 10,000 Adepts.

Most Pathbearers were worn down by physical and mental attrition no matter how high their Tier or how expansive their skills. Shiv didn't suffer such a weakness. Instead, his mistake lay in another category: being overwhelmed. He was reckless, taught so by his deathless nature. For every time he fell, he rose stronger than ever before, and it was an invigorating experience, especially with his Harbinger to ferry him back into the fray time and again. But when Shiv stood against an entire army fielding Diviners, Magi, Shadowstalkers—entire regiments created to counter and eliminate him on a total and fundamental level—he quickly learned the limitations that came with being a lone wolf.

It wasn't even the repeated deaths that stymied him. It was being suppressed and held in place. They didn't need to kill him. In fact, they had moved beyond that by now, choosing instead to dimensionally cage him when his Shapeless Tides were worn down. That forced him to abandon those bodies in explosive suicides and reposition himself. Though he could afford to be callous with his own lives as his existence was a post-scarce resource on the battlefield, that didn't mean the same applied to his allies. Every second he wasn't at the front, every second he was out of the fight, was time for the enemies to push against his comrades. On top of that, his vitality wasn't without limit. He needed to recharge every now and again, and so the seconds of his absence turned to minutes—and the invaders learned to time those minutes to maximum effect.

Beyond being overwhelmed, there were also Pathbearers Shiv had no easy answer for: adversaries who could move fast, turn ethereal, teleport quickly, and survive just long enough that his nihilistic flames couldn't boil through their mana fields and his strength couldn't be brought to bear against their material forms. No matter how expansive one suite of skills was, there were always gaps in between that needed to be filled by other Pathbearers.

But Shiv was also learning to reduce these gaps by applying the same lessons of teamwork and warfare unto himself.

He landed on the front line in a sprawling barrage of shells. Each impact was followed by an inertial discharge as ten of his Vitae Golems detonated themselves, blowing patches of nothingness across the battlefield. That left him with fourteen vessels: four of them true clones, the rest auxiliaries, all of them expendable.

Shiv's true clone bodies were barely four hundred meters apart, and they rapidly maneuvered to form up as a squad. “Good grouping, Gunhead!”

The mechanical Ranger just barked a laugh. “This is nothing. You should have seen the shit I pulled back at Hu-Stone.”

In a blink, Shiv dispatched three Vitae golems in random directions, sending them forth on suicidal charges as they ripped through the blood horrors and Vultegs amongst their scattered lines, treading through fortifications, smashing through Geomantic bunkers, and bursting cracked wards. The Vitae golems themselves were hissing bright blossoms of purest red, and a rain of siege spells descended upon them. The enemy Magi unleashed colossal spells capable of battering through the outer wards of a Fortress-City. The magic flowed from a series of spatial wards, rupturing the fabric of reality. Static chasms became magical barriers for these siege spells to travel across, and every one arrived at its mark, hammering down upon Shiv's decoys before he pushed any further.

Yet not a single golem was destroyed. Instead, the first was trapped in a temporal stasis, frozen; another was buried in a cube of tungsten, its own body alchemizing to merge with the metal, fused and trapped; the final one was simply teleported away, cast into a prison dimension, as had been the fate of many of his other bodies.

They'd learned that Psychomancy was a bad idea after that single time they managed to breach through his Magical Resistance and found Uva waiting on the other side, and that had been a mass slaughter of another variety: the kind that ended with five hundred Heroic-Tier Magi brain-dead.

As the enemy mages unleashed their spells, a streak of incandescence split the sky above, followed by another, and another, and another thereafter. The magic then sputtered and collapsed. The static chasms and the wards they formed were quenched in an instant as a series of incandescent orbs formed in the distance, creating a massive set of pillars that manifested there to parry Adam's Shards of Exalted Flame

Certain Pathbearers claimed war was chaos. Shiv agreed, but only when viewed from an individual, detail-by-detail perspective, when you were in the thick of it, meat crashing against the other meat, hearing all that blood and death going around you, being spent as fodder and distraction against the falling artillery. Everything was happening to you, and you decided upon nothing but how you wished to fight and, in the end, how you wanted to die. From on high, however, the battlefield was far slower and far more consistent. There were patterns in every engagement. There were things to read. The front lines were always clear. If there were two armies, there would be a point where they met—a stretch of ground where the mass of both sides pressed against each other, where arrows and spells reeked overhead, marking the gulf of that bloodied gray zone.

Tapped into Uva's Dreaming Storm, Shiv saw things from Adam's perspective. He experienced the totality of the battlefield even though he was in the thick of things, but Shiv had his own Awareness, hawks and bugs flying high up in the air, away from the conflict. He listened, and he watched, and he studied the shape of his enemy instead of rushing in as a bull.

The invaders and defenders didn't greet each other along the neatest of lines. Instead, it was like two rival tides crashing against each other, pushing and struggling amidst other pockets formed by trenches, wards, dimensional boundaries, and other military—either tactical or strategic—installations.

Uva's Dreaming Storm expressed itself as a titanic tree of psionic energy piercing the skies above, and it lashed its limbs down, forking and threading through all of Piety's defenders. This kept them connected to each other, but there were also enemy Psychomancers and counter-magi. They focused on breaking branches to the tree so that they could maneuver and outflank. At the same time, the tree constantly cast new structures on the battlefield. Thus, a rapid bowl shape was forming over the invaders—an active, dynamic encirclement that constantly grew and always regenerated, that demanded the enemy fight their geography and the Legendary Psychomancer who supplied its mana as much as they did the Terrorspawn and the Gate Piety elites.

The Terrorspawn themselves were a lesser part of the defensive equation, for the fortifications that were summoned were a nightmare unto themselves. Everywhere you went would collapse and reshape if you were an invader. The hallways you went down, the thoroughfares you sprinted across, the buildings you tried to take would see you arrive elsewhere, out of place, out of bounds, outflanked, not even of your own volition. Geography and position didn't matter when you conducted your battles in the theater of someone else's mind.

At the same time, the defenders had an easy go of it. The wounded and dying needed only to signal their condition to Uva before reinforcements arrived to cycle them out. And though it wasn't impossible to breach the psionic architecture and attack the tree itself—which came at some cost—every bit of mana spent fighting Uva took from the offensive against Shiv. And if everything was given to contend with those two Legends, there was still the presence of the Paragon in the sky above. His arrows would arrive true and unimpeded, smiting through the enemy elite. And that went without considering the Dragon-Knights, the Poly-Magi, Piety’s orcs, Lone Star’s Terminal Opus, the Culturist, Valor, and all the other Legends in the Gate’s repertoire.

The main trio did not stand alone. They were simply the face of a cruel dilemma: to breach the fortress that was the Dreaming Storm meant sacrificing entire armies upon the altar of the apocalypse named Deathless. To ward off Shiv meant the encroachment of the storm, and the usurpation of your land as matter gave way to mind, and all was subsumed in another reality. To disregard the star of Omniscience burning above meant to lose the battle altogether, as all of your Heroes and Legends were immolated and made to betray themselves, as their senses belonged to another, as their presences became known to the Demigod that was the final target of their invasion.

Waves of psionic lightning cascaded along Shiv’s bodies. Thunder resounded behind him, and the layered battlements and trenches melted away as the defenders pushed forward, no longer fighting along bottlenecks to deny the enemy their numerical advantage. Terrorspawn swelled forth, massive, unnatural entities shaped like swaying nooses sliding across the ground as dark pits filled with tongues and fangs. Immolated men, women, and children that howled and sought to spread the torturous flame which assailed them marched forward, and following thereafter, guarded by that wave of eldritch meat, were the true Pathbearers of Gate Piety, moving along in four-to-six-man teams as they prepared to ride the enemy down once Shiv sundered them as a collective force and took the scalps of their Legends.

Adam's incandescent star poured down a beam of light in the distance; such would be Shiv's navigational beacon. However, getting there was up to him, and he intended to take the path of least resistance, or at least manufacture one all his own.

A whistle of descending artillery sounded, and a chain of explosions tore through the blood horrors and scattered Vultegs. Limbs rained down from the sky. Blood and offal filled the air, drowned by smoke, and then further surmounted as Shiv summoned his nihilistic flame, feeding it with the collective philosophy of the forces around him before lobbing it ahead. It crashed into the ground like a seed, only a spark at first, then it swelled upward, a series of rising columns, each one climbing higher, spiking greater, disintegrating the weak and disjointed.

Thousands died in an instant, but those thousands were a rounding error for the enemies on him. They were out of place, behind active wards, and it was those wards that Shiv wanted to test. The scattering meat didn't decide where the front was—the true battle line was where two armies stalled out against each other, trying to make the other buckle.

Shiv's scintillating flame moved in an animated tide, crashing and gliding, caressing the cracks in the weakest wards while frying the strongest, bit by bit, slab by slab, producing chunks of magic to yield meals consumable by anyone. Such was another benefit of having Shiv. He was a logistical godsend, for even stone and mud could be made into something of sustenance when applied, when torched by his nihilistic banquet.

The invaders' wards were dynamic and layered, but not all wards were created equal. The northwestern portion had a set of wards that were hastily put up, worn down earlier, either by an exchange of spells or simply underpowered from the start of things, and neglected by its casters as they were forced to attend to other matters. This was what Shiv was looking for. Before, he simply tried a direct approach, slamming himself over and over again, overwhelming the wards.

It worked. He was an unbreakable, ever-returning hammer, after all, and sooner or later he'd batter through the enemy once he gathered enough tides and mana. Now he learned not to waste his time and simply go for the spine of his enemy. Once an army's center broke, the rest needed to compensate, or everything would follow in a cascading collapse.

“Crack found,” Shiv intoned, signaling Uva to extract his memory and distribute it across the rest of their force. In an instant, everyone was updated about where he intended to go and what he intended to do. If he was a logistical godsend, then she was an intellectual one. “Starting push.”

