Three more Vitae golems shot out together, pretending to be synchronized, but they moved in another direction entirely—blasting high into the air and arcing straight ahead, trying to hide their advance amongst another salvo of descending shells. The explosions masked them, but the enemy Diviners were working overtime. Shiv felt the pressure in the air as one teleportation followed another. The Gravesealers were upon his golems, and they engaged, as they had before, in sudden and instantaneous skirmishes. They spent no more than half-seconds in the world before their Jump Magi pulled them back. Slashes shredded through the Vitae Golems. Shiv didn't bother giving them his Legendary-Unique Toughness skill, and so they came apart with pitiful ease, but by then his true push began—and the Gravesealers found themselves thrown off-beat.

Tempo. Tempo. Tempo.

The four Vitae Golems he had left were not cast ahead. Instead, his clones slipped them on, wearing them as skill-armors—shaped in the guise of his vestments, shrouding him in a visage of blood-red death. The skill-armor golems were imbued with only two skills, though both extracted a hefty fee from Shiv's vitality pool.

A wall of hastily cast spells responded, the first of the enemy Magi and Diviners realizing what had just happened. They crashed against his armor, broke upon him without actually consuming any of his present resources as the skill armors soaked the damage on his behalf. Launching himself over the psionic battlements, Shiv saw the sprawl before him. The battlefield was a mess of craters and butchered bodies. Smoking corpses lay in half-melted tunnels, while trench lines had been burned clean, ruined, and made edible by his scintillating flames. His scintillating flames served as a second layer of cover as he called for it to rise, becoming a climbing waterfall that shot toward the ceiling of the Umbral Wilderness. Spells came, but they arrived diminished, burned by his magic before they ever graced him—then counterspells arrived to support him; spiraling shapes of mana coiled around his body, parrying and deflecting incoming blows as Yellowstone's volunteer attachment of Poly-Magi proved their worth once more.

Instead of spiking all four of his bodies into the weak point, he struck using only one for his true clone. Each had their own specialization as well, and the Smasher acted, living up to its namesake, as it burst open its right arm and summoned forth the Garden of Wounds and Broken Things. His Eldritch skill spilled out of him in a floating tide of injuries, lacerations connected to crumbling walls, streets broken, hiding pulsating blood and ruptured organs between. At the end of this calamitous whip of impossible proportions, tons of ruined matter and biomass snaked high through the air until it was larger than a town, nearing the size of a small city; it revealed a flail at the end, a gleaming fist clenched tight and burgeoning with violence.

The Red Rider's Hand had been fed for such an occasion, and now it was time to unleash its fullness. The Smasher whipped his arm down, and the fist followed suit. It impacted the enemy wards, and the devastation that followed was overwhelming. A clean gulf was punctured through the horizon as the enemy's magical protections shattered like glass. Shiv briefly remembered his battle against Longinus in the Boiling Toad. The devastation Shiv could inflict was not quite on the level of the apocalyptic devastation that the Wanderer wrought upon his dimension, but damn if he wasn't slowly getting there.

A counter-force rushed towards Shiv, rising as a hurricane. Every action caused an equal and opposite reaction, and it was enough to sweep the destabilized invaders off their feet, casting thousands of them into the air while Uva's Dreaming Storm forged a dome around the defenders so they wouldn't suffer any collateral damage.

“Push! Push! Push! Burn the vermin!” Adam's voice echoed across the battlefield.

The second specialization in the Deathless True Clone squad was the Shaper. The dedicated mage sent forth not only the scintillating flame but also a flood of searing acid as he projected a materialized set of basilisk heads using his Aegis of Assimilation. The other bodies were not imbued with any magic beyond their Shapeless Tides, for there wasn't a need. Focus was the order of the game on the battlefield, and every expert was a monopoly. Shiv was simply four monopolies stacked on top of one another.

The Nihilists spilled through the enemy's magical dam, pouring out from the kilometer-wide gap, and Shiv's true clones followed. A swell of shadows engulfed them as the Group Stalker lingered in the back, using the Trespasser Born of Dread and Null to blanket their approach in mystery and miasma. Then, at the rear of the group, a golden, resplendent form imbued with time mana, graced with Psychomancy capable of cracking the enemy with his words alone.

And so he did, as his flames tore into the enemy's true front line, flooding through their defensive fortifications, smashing through their hastily erected magical defenses, breaching hostile Pyromancers as they tried to hold back his flames. His words fell upon them, and he spoke using his mind, using his roar as the entirety of the enemy force heard him via his Rhetoric.

“Listen to the rest of the meat burn,” Shiv began, and he made sure his scintillating flames didn't devour their victims so quickly, didn't crackle so loudly. Screams rose—horrible screams infused with his dread-tainted fear, which caused his Inland Embassy to embed itself in thousands upon thousands of enemies, further nourishing his Trespasser of Dread and Null. “Listen to them burn. Listen to them die. Listen and know it doesn't have to be you. You don't need to burn. You don't need to die. Just kneel and lay down. Let go of your weapons. Stop being spent as meat. Your commanders have wasted you. They're going to keep wasting you. You are not the strength of your army. You know this, so don't die for someone who sees no worth in you. Choose my mercy or bear my flame.”

The Speaker's voice reverberated, but then he felt a snap. A series of pressure chasms vanished as he realized that parts of the enemy army were no longer hearing him. A sprawl of gray-black magic swept over their forces, and he realized that mages were severing them from his influence, but they'd done so too late for far too many. His Embassy allowed him to speak with them directly using his mind, even though they cut off his voice.

To his surprise, the enemy held strong. Their ranks endured. Fighting lines rose in their trenches, along their erected battlements, and atop their towers as they fired everything they had at him. A shimmering mirage was draped behind, obscuring their backline not only from his sight but also inflicting a minor vision-scattering effect on Adam himself—even if he slowly burned through the magic with his concentrated awareness. Spells were cast blind and in haste, and the blood horrors charged forward, trying to plug the gap with their own bodies, as that was all they could do. As that was all they were meant for. They didn't know true fear. They weren't really people. There was a use in such ignorance, but they provided little benefit, as they were barely more than Adepts, and the fate of an unsupported Adept before a Legend was simply to die.

Shiv's true clones rushed across the battlefield: the Smasher at the front, parrying strike and spell, using the Garden of Wounds and Broken Things, smashing and obliterating the enemy's material hard points as destruction given flesh.

It operated on the edge of the Stalker's shadows, and when the Gravesealers arrived, diving into the black to engage his true clones, it went for them as they came for him in half-second increments. They plunged into the black, where he waited, his Last Morsel in hand, his crimson cutting aura alive and thirsting for blood. Bodies were bifurcated, limbs were severed. It spoke volumes to how coordinated and disciplined the Gravesealers were that he reaped no lives in that first ambush. They teleported away as fast as they came, his damage not nearly severe or overwhelming enough to stop their jump mages from extracting them. They would come again, but there would be a moment of time as they readjusted. They would need to muster Martials with High-Tier Social Skills to breach his darkness, and there were few enough of those in any army.

A hundred meters behind, the Shaper projected a rainstorm of acid and cancerous spores from twelve malformed, bio-forged basilisks, unleashing its plagueflies to spill over the living. But the Shaper was tasked with directing more than just magic—it operated as Shiv's Ranger as well. His Marksmanship Skill had evolved thanks to all the time spent with Adam and the Rangers—but he also marked targets using Adam's Awareness, thus circumventing his own limits while operating on the battlefield.

A Low Legend Pathbearer of the Path of the Archer was trying to snipe the Paragon from afar, and Adam's sight settled upon him. That sight was carried over into Shiv's.

The Archer was marked for death, and she didn't even know it.

Instead of relying on a ranged weapon, Shiv did things primitively. He formed chunks of platinum bone extracted from his own flesh and tossed them out at targets he painted. Lanes formed in the air, becoming glistening trajectories that indicated how and when he should toss, and while he waited for the timing to be perfect, he reared his own back, concentrating kinetic energy into his ossified javelin.

As his Physicality was Legendary, he imbued so much force in the toss that it formed its own center of gravity, drawing in bits of atmosphere, crushing the world around it, even painting a bruise on Shiv's skill-armor golem. The lane went green. Shiv let his Horizon Caster loose. The javelin burst through the air, ignited a millisecond along its travel, and when it struck the layered enemy bunker, infused with Dynamacy and reinforced through adamantine, it punched clean through, gliding past the meters of metal and all the magic sustaining it.

Sadly, Shiv's bones didn't remain affected by his Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable for long. Unlike when they were attached to his body, all that damage they sustained couldn't be discharged, and so they suffered a delayed destruction after a few seconds. But a few seconds of indestructibility were more than long enough to get the job done within a fifteen-kilometer radius.

His Harbinger vibrated. A series of high-yield mana bombs had been cast from past to present, set to arrive in ten seconds. The Harbinger dove into the chronology of the world and deployed a precast spell of its own. In ten seconds, the mana bombs would arrive, only to be greeted by a little sea of scintillating flames gathered over the course of an entire week. Some of the blast might still get through, but Shiv would see it absorbed by the Red Rider's Hand instead of burdening his Onus.

He pushed on, surging ahead, yet not at full speed; Uva’s Dreaming Storm crawled forth behind him—and her fractured spiderlings slashed past him before plunging straight down and swimming through the blood-filled trenches below.

They were like blades in a blender, traveling through those narrow pathways.

A sudden pulse of pressure detonated behind Shiv's Stalker. By fortune or foresight, an enemy Assassin crashed straight down on his back, seizing his throat and dragging a gleaming blade across it. Shiv felt a wave of slashing aura detonate through his neck, and against anyone, perhaps even a High Hero of Toughness, that would have been a near-certain beheading. For Shiv, it only resulted in a thin platinum line marring the outside of his skill armor.

The Shaper blasted the assassin, directing lacerations and flames to scour him off Shiv's back, but in an instant the enemy teleported, acting faster than Shiv anticipated. Very potent Reflexes Skill.

Two seconds later, the Assassin was back again, but knocked fifty meters off course as a counter-Dimensionality spell rippled past Shiv—the Poly-Magi making themselves known once more. But the Assassin was not so easily eliminated. Shiv slashed out at them, but they dissipated, bursting apart as an ethereal presence, intangible in all aspects: matter, flesh, and soul. They slipped through him as a cold presence upon his being, and he considered going outside context to show them up, but there were costs to that. The moment he fell out of reality, it affected everyone, including his own forces. He'd tried it once, and that left a Heroic-Tier Umbral Mage distracted long enough to be exsanguinated.

Shiv never made that mistake again. He also wasn't stupid enough to stop for the Assassin. They might manifest and make another go at them, but someone else would see the flea picked off. As if reading his thoughts, just as the Assassin rematerialized, a beam of blinding brightness speared through Shiv's dreaded shadow and made a clean hole in the Assassin's chest.

“Say thank you, Shiv,” a more than familiar voice echoed in his mind.

“Thanks, Grandma Erren and Can Hu,” he replied sarcastically.

***

“Don't fucking call me grandma, you little shit. My skin’s feeling fabulous.”

“Fusion Cell replaced; next shot ready in ten seconds,” Can Hu intoned to its pilot as it ejected a spent cylinder from its shoulder. A gush of hyper-heated steam shot out from the slot as it moved the barrel of its particle cannon.

Threading a shot dead-center through the chest of a human-sized target eight thousand kilometers away while conducting diplomatic activities in Necrotech airspace should have been an act of Legend, but Can Hu still remembered how the old wars were fought. Triangulation, drones, physics, targeting telemetries, all that coming together to become a perfect equation and a firing solution.

