It also helped to have a Diviner as a pilot.

“He called me grandma, Can Hu. You believe that?”

The Penitent gave an electronic hum. “It is most expected of him, is it not?”

“Yeah, but I just want to complain. Commiserate with a bitch here.”

“Affirmative: commencing companionship. I can’t believe he said that, Rose! You deserve so much more than this disrespect.”

“I know. I know.” She closed her eyes inside her cockpit and endured a moment of faux anguish. “Kids these days, huh?”

Can Hu reverberated with a rare laugh. “Children always.”

***

The tempo continued as trained: Shiv pushed, Uva trailed. She carried with her a mobile fortress, and firing from the turret slots were Poly-Magi, Weaveresses of Trapdoor, Legend-Dragon-Knight Tallowine, loosing shot after shot from her longbow, Ranger sharpshooter, and finally orc bombardiers—timing their own shots to Mortar’s commands between the Terminal Opus’s salvos. Everyone fought to the same rhythm, keeping the calls of their conductor, Adam, watching from on high.

The invaders adjusted to the tempo as well. They acknowledged their first line of defenses had fallen and didn't make their historical mistake by trying desperately to fight for every meter of ground. Instead, their frontline mages—the few that were still alive—teleported out and let their wards fall. They retreated forty kilometers back, abandoning everyone in between to their fate, which swiftly fell as Shiv's fire swept across the land.

The Nihilist drank philosophy as napalm and spat forth oceans of fire. If one possessed the capacity for belief, then they were as if a gas line, ready to combust, always primed for detonation; a chain of high-minded vampires and Vultegs went off like bombs. But their deaths arrived mercifully quickly. The same couldn't be said for those seeded with his Inland Embassies. Their minds broke. Some surrendered. Others chose death, while more were silenced by their comrades before they were bent toward potential betrayal.

Death swelled and swept through the invaders, and the loss made itself known among the Magi as their spells faltered and the pace of their counter-attack waned and withered.

“Corcusa! You’ve embarrassed your Elders. You’ve humiliated Lord Scorn. You are as much meat as the ones dying in the mud now. Your fate’s as sealed as the ones you wasted. But signal your surrender, and we'll give you life. Bring your cordial life over to our lines, and we will take you into our care under oath of hospitality! Just surrender, and this can all end. Just surrender, and we can bring this all to an end.”

Shiv's speaker clone broadcasted his words, but to his displeasure, the enemies were wising up. They weren't listening to him anymore, and the ones who did were bombarded by their own side, silenced before he could affect them.

Ugly though it was, there was an edge to calculated cruelty. Being willing to cut an infected limb off spared you greater problems beyond the pain.

A chain of Biomancy crashed down from above. Two bone-morphed Strike Leviathans of the First Blood ripped through the air as their crews poured magic at Shiv. They cleared fifty meters before Shiv’s Smasher clone drove the Red Rider’s Hand through their sides. Both kilometer-long monsters turned to puffs of vapor on impact—size came second to Tier under the System, and those Strike Leviathans were Masters on a suicide run at best.

Another target was designated for Shiv—the last of the Illusion Magi masking the location of their Burned Ones. Shiv harvested another bone from his body and reared back his hand. The air around the impromptu lance trembled. Shapeless Tides surged along its length—and tore it forward as it lunged across the horizon.

Everything in its path was hollowed. A pocket of displaced rubble and corpses painted its progress, and all that ruin flowed into Shiv’s Garden, feeding it with evermore mass.

Yet, before the lance could bury itself inside the mage, the bastard got teleported out. In fact, an entire series of enemy wards imploded—sweeping over their forces as their Magi formation and backline elites were all extracted in a city-swallowing dimensional spell.

In a startling instant, the stronger half of the invasion force vanished with Shiv’s targets, while most of their chaff and a good portion of their Adepts to Masters remained in action—mostly Vultegs and blood horrors.

Shiv’s guts twisted.

Something was wrong.

The Vultegs and First Blood didn’t flee; they were fighting and planning better than before, but their methods wouldn’t change so dramatically. Scorn wouldn’t allow it. An outright retreat from a far weaker foe would be—

“Continuity Error: Shiv! Backstage! Now!”

The voice of the girl that didn't exist breached the threshold between reality and that refuge beyond as images flashed through Shiv’s mind.

He saw the battlefield from on high once more, and glimpsed four figures manifesting across the battlefield. Each of them was a Vulteg High Hero—and Shiv recognized them. They were burned by Adam’s Awareness and compromised for use as anything but direct combatants. Worse yet, defiled by another god’s gaze, they were too tainted for Lord Scorn to regard them. What followed was horrific, but in retrospect, all too natural for true believers.

Dispatched across the battlefield, they reached down and activated a final set of wards—one not manifested of visible mana, but using the millions of corpses littering the hellscape.

A crackle of Necromancy sparked through the remains, supercharged by all the death lingering in the air, and was promptly set off as each of the High Heroes drove their blades into their own chests.

And as a blast powered by the lore of death swallowed the battlefield, Shiv learned the enemy hadn’t been fighting to their tempo at all. No. They just played along, so Gate Piety was in deep—and then they set the battlefield off like the powder keg it was.

The world came apart in a blast of soul-searing viridescence.

The Snake Entombed of Lightning and Thunder 96 > 100 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Golemancy 56 > 58

Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null 312 > 314

Inertial Overdrive 431 > 433

Horizon Caster 81 > 84

Target Lock 88 > 90

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 580 > 583

Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet 382 > 387

Garden of Wounds and Broken Things 201 > 209
