The Harrakan ship stopped at the edge of the grassless field, behind the main encampment. It was there that the larger convoys camped if they didn’t want to join their assigned fields. There were at least ten thousand kark milling around, along with thousands of pakar and other beasts. Colorful tents formed a kaleidoscope of styles and influences, with the red ones being the rarest. A large crowd of stupefied onlookers formed as soon as the landship stopped at a respectable distance. They huddled in a large mass, though none dared approach for now.

Frosthawk had a plank lowered. Viv was the first to get down, stopping at some distance with the archmage and Marruk at her side. People muttered when they saw her, but it was the arrival of hundreds of heavily armored kark that sparked the strongest reaction. Marruk’s people carried a lot of steel, or at least that was what Viv guessed they were saying. She recognized the word for iron but little else. Learning the kark language had not exactly been a priority.

Viv wasn’t exactly sure where the Hadals were but she assumed they would show up when the food was served.

Viv knew she only had to wait for someone important to show up, and indeed, two minutes later, roars and exclamations warned her someone was cutting a path through the crowd, pushing them aside with threats and injunctions. A heavy-set kark with a large hat finally broke his way through. He was flanked by two dozen muscular guards carrying heavy cudgels. They immediately adopted the ‘violent mook’ glare, with which Viv was quite familiar.

They were also wearing wide hats. What was it with people and large hats here? Even her crown wasn’t that gaudy.

The newcomer immediately started a grand speech so loud some sort of skill had to be involved. It lasted a good five minutes and finished in an embarrassing silence. Viv leaned towards Marruk.

“I think you’re supposed to introduce us and, also, translate.”

“Oooh. Yes.”

In what was a quiet voice according to kark standards, which meant it wouldn’t be overheard over a passenger plane’s jet engine, Marruk introduced them. She then leaned towards Viv and whispered at barely opera soprano levels.

“He welcomes us here as travelers and inquires as to the purpose of our visit.”

Viv gave her a look of disbelief.

“That’s it?”

“I am cutting away the politician's bullshit.”

“You can tell him we are here to resupply on our way to the eastern steppes.”

“Should I tell him we are going there to fight the Pure League?”

Viv shrugged.

“If you want. I think he can infer it from the situation though. Any chance the Pure League has spies here?”

“No, because they are extremely racist.”

“So?”

“Would you spy on beastlings?”

Was this a trick question?

“Yes.”

Marruk sighed.

“Would you recruit a beastling spy?”

The answer was that she would hire a talking squid in a felt hat if that gave her an edge, but she got the point anyway.

“No spies, got it. You can also mention the possibility of trade, now that the tunnel is open. I suppose we might as well start enquiries.”

“Oh, they will love this.”

And he did. The kark saluted with his hat, showing carefully combed white hair underneath. Just moving that gaudy thing around probably required twenty points in power or higher given the size of the horror. His ruddy red skin glistened with sweat. Maybe he just wanted to air it a bit.

Another five minutes of speech followed. Viv refrained from casting a sound-dampening aura to protect her eardrums.

“He says he wants to offer a guided visit and then retire to the big tent to talk.”

“Marruk, you really need to make an effort to sound more pompous. You’re gonna make him angry.”

“He called me a wayward daughter of the Red Tribe. He used a condescending word. If he keeps talking, I will strangle him.”

“Fair enough.”

As Viv was about to accept the invitation, a distraction broke the meeting.

Under the mesmerized gaze of the assembly, one of the oldest Paramese Viv had ever seen barrelled his way towards them from the flank. He was tailed by a panicked, overweight kark woman crying like a fountain, probably a caretaker considering the male kark was hunched, thin, slightly stooped, and shriveled like an old prune. He had to be positively ancient.

More surprising was that he was carrying the tip of a familiar spear design on a long wooden haft. A ratty yet familiar flag hung from the ancient implement. Viv gasped in surprise while Frosthawk turned to her, probably as lost as she was.

He stopped in front of her with an excited rattle. Straightening up, the old kark bumped a gnarly fist on his thin chest.

“Glory to the legion! Glory to the Empire! Harrak eternal!”

“What the fuck? Err, I mean. At ease…”

There was an insignia on the man’s shoulder.

“Corporal?”

“Long live the Emperor!”

***

The breathless caretaker explained the situation on the way to the bazaar while the proud ancient kark was allowed to brandish a brand new flag. As Viv expected, he was six hundred years old and a veteran auxiliary of one of Harrak’s legions. He was probably one of the only three living people to have been part of the ancient Harrakan military, though calling Abe and Solfis ‘living’ was debatable in itself. Viv would have absolutely loved to bring him back just to watch Lady Azar’s face, but that wouldn’t have been right. Instead, she had the sail engineers turbo-weave him a dress uniform before sending him on his way with some iron and a promotion to sergeant.

The tribal leader who had welcomed them headed the semi-permanent council. His title could vaguely be presented as ‘Mediator’, and that was how Viv chose to call him. The kark was absolutely ecstatic to show her the pakar stalls, indulging in long discussions on bloodlines and price variation, and distance traveled, and long list of merits and achievements that Marruk laconically translated in five words or less. Viv muttered the appropriate words of amazement while a crowd of surprised kark watched them go with open mouths. At least, that meant they wouldn’t be talking for a while, offering her a brief respite, because she’d been to quieter punk rock concerts.

After leaving the stalls and its smells behind, the group seamlessly entered a cluttered maze of stalls and large tents displaying a variety of wares. This time, Viv did cast a sound dampening enchantment she created on the fly because it was this or a ruptured eardrum. The diversity of stuff that could be bought or sold here was nothing short of amazing. The scale also varied from children selling dirt-stained bundles of root vegetables to rich merchants piling gold ingots on an elevated table. Carved woods, ivory, bone, and stone waited next to furniture and agricultural tools she didn’t recognize. Weapons, mostly spears, and bows could be found alongside gambesons and boiled leather armor. The only thing missing was steel, really. Delicious smells emerged from some of the more distant tents. Aromatic herbs fought for space with pots and pans in a colossal mess of dizzying aromas. Viv felt that every single sense she had was assaulted with the exception of touch, mostly because she would just start disintegrating faces at that stage. Even mana burnt in many hues on the backs of cloaks, the bases of stoves, and the trinkets of the wealthy.

Viv aspired to a brief respite when they reached the largest tent. Inside, enchantments kept the air cool though a bit rank, but more importantly quiet. The Mediator helped bring her guard down when he left to order some tea. Even the following negotiations felt more subdued. Her host teared up when he learnt the trade to New Harrak would soon be reestablished. A request for a list of tradable goods garnered his approval, though a quick skim could summarize it as ‘if it’s metallic, we desperately need it’. Viv deftly deflected an offer on her land ship by saying the complex piece of engineering required a maintenance team they didn’t have. It was more polite than telling them they were broke.

When Viv was finally feeling better, the Mediator sprung his trap.

He invited her for lunch.

Viv couldn’t refuse since she intended to stay for the evening. The witch was forced to wait until the various bigwigs showed up. Food was quickly brought in large plates, and as the empress tried some of it, she was pleasantly surprised by the quality.

Her pleasure lasted exactly as long as it took for the first kark to start chewing. She paled and turned to Marruk who gave her a look of pity. The old girl knew what was coming. Nothing could save Viv now.

Viv had always disliked people who ate noisily. As for the kark, they were not the kind of people to chew with their mouths open.

No.

That was entirely too pedestrian.

By culture, they had to express their appreciation to the cook by consuming it in the noisiest way possible. Immediately, the common space turned into a concerto for molars and gullets in B depressed. The Mediator opened the prelude with loud slurps of his soup which punctuated with a satisfied ‘aah’ in a two-beats leitmotiv, soon joined by a crusty shaman gnawing on an ear of some sort of cereal with all the grace of a woodchipper. The staccato of a merchant chewing with his mouth so open he lost a piece of food with each smack accelerated the dance. The cherry on top was a scarred warrior slurping noodles that were either two-meters long, or he was really bad at it.

After five minutes of this, Viv was considering switching sides to Team Genocide.

After another minute, Marruk dragged her outside for a quick breather. Viv used the opportunity to meditate and calm down. This was fine. She was exaggerating. They were just people living according to their own norms, and she was merely a guest so she ought to chill. Not to mention that they were in no way showing disrespect, quite the contrary.

“You needed a moment, yes?” Marruk asked in a blessedly quiet voice.

The sounds of feasting and singing rang all around them, though distance and a barricade on the side secluded the private square they were on. It appeared Marruk had selected a sort of garden where people might gather in relative quiet. The ground was made of packed dirt with tufts of dry grass but an effort had been made to provide beautiful flowers on the side. It was almost relaxing.

The wind changed direction, and the stench of a nearby latrine ruined the moment. Viv winced. The perpetual presence of Solfis in her throne room had spoiled her, with rude people aware that they were only ever one snap away from enthusiastic defenestration. The world there catered to her needs. Here, people were oblivious to her desires, and she had no intention to change that. One should not get used to entitlement, after all.

It could be worse. They could be smelly and dirty.

Having sufficiently coped with her predicament, Viv nodded to her trusty companion.

“I know they don’t mean anything by it.”

“It annoys me very much as well,” Marruk said.

Her eyes grew unfocused.

“Always so noisy, always claiming this and that. They have to show everything with big words while their actions fail to follow. Sometimes. Big claims about victory. About… about protecting my mom.”

Viv wrapped her arm around the stout kark’s chest, managing to reach maybe halfway to the other shoulder.

“I will ask them where your tribe council is. We will get you back and then we will make things better, yes? Your warriors, you have already changed them. They respect you.”

“There are only a few hundred of them. Hardly enough.”

“It takes only one person to carry an idea. See, you were alone, and now, as you say, bam. Three hundred.”

Marruk chuckled.

“You are good at telling me the truth I like.”

“It’s called politics. You should try it sometimes.”

“Hah! Well, shall we head back? We should not miss dessert.”

Reinvigorated, Viv just decided to focus on the delicious food until Marruk needed to translate something. The kark were not a meat-eating people but that didn’t stop them from having a great love for gastronomy. Soups, pies, mashes, vegetables sauteed, braised, or baked, and all manners of dried or smoked stuff seasoned to perfection provided one of the best and most novel culinary experiences Viv had had since leaving Helock. She also managed to engage with the tribe representatives who were curious to learn who she was and what New Harrak had to offer. Viv wisely decided to wait until they served some of the freshest kava she had ever drunk before talking. By then, the representatives were full and happy, so they indulged her without much issue.

“Your timing is great. My little Shola said the Red Tribe has gathered near Small Fall for the harvest. They are collecting all the food and allies they can find,” the shaman said.

“As usual,” her neighbor grumbled.

He didn’t sound like a fan.

“Luten is gathering strength for another push,” the scarred veteran grumbled.

He gave her a measuring look.

“Not a strong one. The Pure League is reconsidering their expansion. The dust storm has been especially strong this year so their people clamor for food. Many demand that the taxes be lowered.”

“That just means they need a win,” another said, but the veteran shook his head.

“Their knights have all but deserted the frontline. Only Purist fanatics and the soldiers will be here this time.”

“And the Dark Blades,” someone whispered.

The mood grew somber. Viv wasn’t so sure the outfit had survived a decade of war unscathed, but those that remained had to be aggressively dangerous.

A bit like the Hadals but the Hadals had been playing that game for much longer.

