Marruk remarked they should hurry. She wanted to be reinstated and alter the course of the war before it started. They would already lack time to prepare.

Viv patiently waited for the representatives to finish talking. Marruk explained that none of them held power, not really. They were just stand-ins for the true leaders who were currently all managing the hunting and gathering of the season. She was still impressed by their knowledge of the current situation. Information moved decently fast in the steppes, and that was just what they were willing to admit in front of rival factions.

“The Long River Tribe has declared a Blood Feud against the Red Tribe,” the Mediator suddenly said.

He smiled. The other kark suddenly paid attention to the candied fruits served with the kava. Viv had the feeling this was relevant.

“They are in the way. The Mediator helps us by warning us. It is a small favor that shows preference and might endanger his position,” Marruk added.

“Make sure to tell him I appreciate it.”

Marruk nodded.

“We have a course now. We go to Small Fall to find my people. Then, we fight.”

“Let’s not forget getting you unbanned first.”

“Oh, I have a plan if you will help. We will not even have to kill anybody.”

Viv was intrigued.

***

A small gathering of confused children had gathered not far from the landship. They scurried around, bringing twigs of dried wood from a small pile to feed the fire under a grill, upon which fish gently seared. A small dog sniffed at a nearby pile of offal.

Arthur presided over the improvised kitchen.

“Arthuuuur!” Viv said, suddenly concerned. “Who are they?”

Helpful minions.

Very disciplined.

“Very afraid you mean? Have you looked at the color of their clothes? They’re not even from the same tribe! And where are the parents? You can’t just grab children off the streets!”

No streets here.

“Don’t you go semantic on me, young lady!”

Fine.

Not captured minions.

Interns.

“Unpaid interns? Do we need to have that discussion again?”

The dragon sighed.

Two iron bits for the performance.

Each.

Except little Rana.

The dragon pointed at the young boy in charge of the fish sauce.

Very motivated.

He gets three.

“No kidnapping!”

Fiiiiine.

Oh, I have found something you might like.

The dragon’s maw opened, revealing a row of serrated fangs. A smile, or an imitation of one. Arthur was really good at imitating human expressions.

At the bottom of the lake.

I think Marruk will like it.

“Do tell?”

Arthur did tell, and Viv planned.

***

The landship sped through the steppes leaving behind only trampled grass and utter confusion. They came upon one notable hurdle, a small river that they managed to cross by finding where the kark did it, then doing it while they ran away screaming. Two days later, they trespassed upon the lands of the Long River Tribe.

Viv noticed an assembly of pakar riders arrayed in their path from high above. They had a few shamans with them, and were quite numerous but when Viv notified Frosthawk, the mage wasn’t overly concerned. The landship veered north. With the speed at which the Harrakans were going, it took a very long time for the mass of riders to trot themselves on an intercept course. A group detached itself when it became clear that they were outmatched speed-wise. Shamans grew walls and pillars in the way in a desperate attempt to slow them down.

Frosthawk calmly walked to the center of the landship, where the core was. He interacted with the central array. Their speed faltered. In return, the ground in front of them flattened as they advanced as if smoothed by some divine hand. Truly, Sidjin had done a good job.

The land ship leveled all obstacles in its way. Those riders that were too close fled before they could experience Newton’s first law, and the land ship was through.

“Damn, that was smoother than I expected,” Viv said.

She sent a massive prayer to Maradoc, God of Travelers, so he would be sure to watch the replay. Harrak for free transit!

“Yes. Our engineering cannot be matched!” Frosthawk replied with pride.

“Maybe we should give the landship a name?”

“I was thinking about it, but I didn’t want to call it the ‘Unstoppable’ only to crash on a mid-sized stone.”

He gave her an accusatory glance.

“My luck doesn’t work like that.”

“Sure.”

“Let’s name it after we arrive, and quickly. It can’t be good luck to leave a ship unnamed like that.”

***

Frosthawk slowed the ship down once they approached the renowned Little Fall. Far out east, the land grew greener and patches of actual forest sprouted here and there. It was a more fertile ground where semi-permanent villages emerged as tiny dots in the distance. The Red Tribe clearly enjoyed more resources than what they’d seen so far in the steppes, but Viv assumed it came with a side of hardships.

They heard the waters of Little Fall over the wind long before they spotted it. The landship climbed a slope towards a low ridge stretching wide over the plains, the highest point for leagues in every direction. It formed a quieter natural barrier. Soon, the landship found a path it followed gently up. Permanent fields and stone dwellings showed that this was an important place, and right now, it was packed with harried-looking kark.

Viv felt the difference. It wasn’t in the clothes, though they were on average rattier. It wasn’t in the belongings either although there were fewer of them. It was in the guarded gaze that expected no surprise to be good, though the presence of red-wearing kark on the deck stopped them from running. It was also in the tense postures, in the gaunt faces, in the fearful expressions of the children and the absence of males of warring age. It was, also, in the general feeling of exhaustion obvious in everyone, a fatigue that wrung out the soul until all that was left was a sort of stubborn hope that things wouldn’t possibly get worse, and if they did, well, at least it would be over.

At Marruk’s request, they only stopped the imposing steel construct once in view of a great stone overlooking a pond where the waters came to rest. Warriors in tattered armor had gathered in great numbers here, thousands of them stretched in small groups over a large meadow. It was a respectable force, but hardly something that would stop an army. The veterans were too scarred and too few while the younger warriors were… too young. Not yet in their prime. And the gear they used was just shit.

Her inspection skill painted a rather grim scene, yet there was still defiance in their eyes as the ship passed them by, at least until they spotted Marruk then it turned into naked curiosity.

Marruk was the first down the gangway. She walked with a predatory confidence that was unusual for her. Viv knew Marruk was more guarded than this, but she was also here to convince her people. That meant some posturing. The door maiden had grown a lot over the past five years.

On the elevated rock, some of the fiercest warriors waited without a word besides an ancient, decrepit shaman of piddling power and an old warrior with a gray beard and actual metal armor. Many of the warriors there had some as well. With how long the conflict had gone, Viv honestly expected many more to have some sort of pilfered gear as well, but the kark simply lacked smithies. She assumed they’d traded what they got away.

They had also probably lost many battles.

“You! Daughter! You dare return here? NOW?” the leader said.

Viv came to stand by Marruk’s side, soon joined by nearly 300 armored kark. The sight of so much steel sent ripples through the assembled crowd.

“I dare.”

The old shaman walked forward with some difficulty. He smiled kindly, and Viv saw Marruk soften. The contrast between him and the steely, unyielding old warrior went a long way to explain how the Red Tribe had survived thus far.

“Who is that person? Your employer?” the shaman asked.

One of Marruk’s trusted warriors had been translating. Viv stepped forward to reply, with her helper translating.

“Marruk is not in my employ. I am here as her friend, and also because I will wage war upon the Pure League as retribution for attacking my people.”

“What were you promised?” the graying warrior spat.

“With Neriad as my witness, I ask no boon of Marruk or your people,” Viv said.

The oath settled without difficulty. She wasn’t sure but there might have been a bit of golden light.

“I am here to help.”

“You brought steel…”

“I did not. She did,” Viv said, pointing her chin at Marruk.

“It changes nothing!” the warrior bellowed. “You are still an exile! I cast you out.”

“You cast me out of the clan, father, but you cannot cast me out of the Red Tribe. I am still a daughter of the eastern marches… and I have brought my warband with me!”

She thumped her chest, the armored glove clanging brutally. Her warriors beat the ground with the butts of their spears, then a proud roar covered the plain, dispelling some of the gloom. The other tribesmen gathered in tighter ranks.

“Who would stop me? Who would refuse my spears? Who would refuse steel?” she said, as crates of weapons were piled on the ground.

“You are a woman,” her father said, though his refusal garnered little backing.

“I am a warrior of my people.”

The two faced each other in a stalemate. Viv didn’t dare inspect the warrior but she could tell he was mighty, though she wasn’t sure it would make up for Marruk’s superior gear.

“She has come to fight, and she has brought help. We will not turn her away,” another warrior said.

“That is for the council to decide. I will not rescind her banishment.”

“I have not come to be reinstated,” Marruk said, her tone resolute.

The shaman gasped in surprise. He was not the only one, but Marruk merely took a step forward.

“Reinstated in the clan while I bring more warriors? More weapons? No. I am not here to follow the one who would send me away. I am here… to lead.”

She pointed a steel-clad finger at the chest of the old warrior.

“Father, I challenge you to a contest of speed, wisdom, and strength. I challenge you… for the role of warchief!”
