“I just want to sit by myself and not do anything. Just sit and play chess, okay? I’ll be better once I’m at the inn. Once I’m home.”
Erin told Krshia that for the hundredth time, she clutched the blanket around her hand even tighter, as if she could wipe away the memories, the feeling.
“I get that, but the Captain wants to talk to everyone in the city. We’ve got hot drinks and food. Just come with us.”
“If she does not want to go, she will not go. And you are in no position to demand such things now, yes?”
Krshia glared at Relc and the Drake glared back.
“Having a bunch of bows and your little archery group doesn’t mean you’re suddenly guardsmen, Krshia. You get in the way any more and I’ll hit you. With this.”
He lifted his spear and the Gnolls around Erin and Ryoka rumbled. Relc didn’t seem impressed, but Erin shook her head.
“No. No fighting. I’ll go. Ryoka?”
“Hm? Yeah?”
Ryoka nodded dizzily at Erin. Relc smiled.
“See? I’m right and you’re wrong, Krshia.”
“Well then, we shall go with Erin. As concerned citizens.”
“Oh yeah?”
“Yes.”
“Fine, let’s all be guardsmen, then. I’d like to see you become a Senior Guardsman. We’ll take care of the humans. You Gnolls just go back to the city and—”
Relc stopped shouting and turned around. The Gnolls looked too. Erin had no idea what they were sensing or…hearing?
“Hold up. What the heck is that?”
Something echoed on the faintest edge of Erin’s hearing. Howling? No. Not like Gnolls. But the sound of wind, yes. And suddenly it felt colder.
A lot colder.
“Oh gods, it’s here! Winter is coming everyone. Get ready!”
Relc roared and everyone around him was suddenly moving. Erin looked around, confused. Relc growled as he grabbed the blanket from Erin and held it up around her and Ryoka.
“As if we needed anything else.”
“What? What’s happening.”
“Winter is here.”
Klbkch said it calmly as he appeared with another blanket. And then Erin and Ryoka saw it.
From down over the mountains it came. A storm? Or maybe it was just the wind, frozen and made corporeal. It was a white and grey wave that crashed down like an avalanche, but instead of breaking on the ground, angled up at the last moment and blew straight across the plains.
It headed straight towards the group, and for a second Erin thought she heard voices.
 
“Look, look, sisters! A group of travelers out in the open!”
“A band of warriors! The dogs and once-Dragons have been fighting!”
“And humans! And the slaves! And even a dead thing!”
 
Laughter, bright and tinkly, like crackling icicles. Erin squinted. Were there…blue shapes in the oncoming storm? But then the tone of the light, ethereal voices changed.
 
“Look! There! A half-breed! A filthy whore!”
“Kill it!”
“Bury it in snow!”
“Let’s dump snow on all of them!”
 
“Here it comes!”
Relc shouted, and the storm enveloped Erin in a sea of white. She was thrown to the ground, tumbled around, and then she was cold and wet and the world was missing.
“Erin! Erin!”
Something grabbed Erin as she struggled to sit up. Relc pulled Erin up and she gasped and spluttered as he freed her from the—
…Snow?
Suddenly, the world was changed. The grass was gone. Erin found herself shivering, waist-deep in pure white snow, and the air was suddenly frosty, and the skies grey and clouded.
“What—what—?”
Relc grinned at Erin and handed her the blanket back.
“Winter just arrived. Let’s get back to the city, huh? We’re going to need warm clothes; this one looks pretty cold.”
“What?”
Across from her, Ryoka pushed her way out of the snow, spluttering. She looked around.
“What the fuck?”
The storm was gone, as if it had never been. Only the snow remained, and the suddenly frozen landscape. And also the group of hovering creatures that swirled and swooped in the air above Erin and Ryoka’s heads.
 
“They’re not dead! The half-breed lives!”
“Let’s bury them again! Deeper!”
“No, let’s cut off her hair and tear out her eyes!”
“Look, look! This human is different! See how different she looks, sisters?”
 
One of the creatures floated down next to Ryoka, and pointed. Ryoka recoiled as they all flew around her, still speaking in their voices-that-weren’t-voices.
 
“You’re right! How strange! How odd!”
“Can she see us, we wonder?”
“Impossible!”
 
Relc grimaced. He swatted at the faeries and shook his head.
“Ugh. It’s them. I hate those things.”
One of the transparent…things floated in front of Relc’s face. He shook his head, eyes not focusing fully on…her. She blew into his face and he recoiled, shouting and clawing at the frost on his nose.
 
“We hate you too!”
