“I’m not sure,” Manon said. “I was in the gym when it happened last night, advising on the arrangement of some of the training rooms. Her leg got wedged. It looked terrible. I should have insisted that she ask Chris straight away, but she thought she could power through.”

“Why would she think that?” Naya said, looking flabbergasted. “Her leg was purple, Manon!”

“It really didn’t look that bad last night.”

Nothing to do with me, Alden told himself, chewing his sandwich with unnecessary force.

A few minutes later, as he was in the elevator on his way down to the lab, he received a message.

[Evening Quest for Superior Professor Worli Ro-den Cancelled]

[New Quest Assignment for LeafSong University]

[You will be waitstaff at the Achievement Society Gala for faculty, student prospects, and families. Arrive two hours before the event for uniform fitting and training.]

As soon as he reached the lab, Alden looked around for Joe. He spotted him in the back of the room by the irradiators. Sophie was nowhere to be seen.

“This is ridiculous!” Alden protested as he hurried over. “Can they just cancel my actually important quest with you to make me serve canapés at a cocktail party?”

“The important berry-picking quest?” Joe said in a neutral tone, adjusting one of the knobs on the giant oven.

“Yes! The important berry-picking quest. They can have one of the other Avowed hand people tiny snacks.”

“Humans are popular at parties. And I believe you were selected additionally for the practicality of your skill. I was a little surprised you weren’t already on the books for this. I think Bti-qwol only resisted the urge until now because you have no social events record, and she’ll have to alter her dream budget to outfit you for it. The other human attendants would have had uniforms from previous years.”

“Can’t you get me out of it?”

“The university is your primary summoner. They have precedence. If I complain, I will only draw attention to the oddity of the number and type of quests I’ve been assigning you in what would otherwise be your free hours.”

An idea flashed through his mind. “What if I’m a terrible waiter?”

Joe’s eyebrows shot up. “Are you asking me to comfort you about your skills as a food server? I’m sure you’ll be fine.”

“No, I mean that thing you suggested. What if I just pretend to suck? I could throw a martini in someone's face, or—”

The professor burst out laughing.

“I’m being serious!”

“No, no. Don’t do that. It’s unnecessary. We’ll have time for you to pick all the berries without you sacrificing any chance you might have of ever getting a high society job, noble Rabbit.”

Alden frowned. “As long as nothing else happens.”

“Yes. As long as nothing else happens. Would you mind pulling the Argax powder from the refrigeration units for this session?”

“The red stuff, right?”

“The red stuff,” Joe agreed.

Alden worked in silence, dragging pouches of the powder from the back of the fridges and tossing them into one of the lunch baskets that Joe seemed to be collecting as the days wore on.

I was supposed to be picking up the kids today. It’s the second time their trip off Moon Thegund has gotten messed up. He wasn’t superstitious, but it still felt bad.

He was surprised when a shadow fell across him, and he looked up to see Joe leaning over him, a frown pulling at his tattooed features.

“It occurs to me that I should clarify something, just in case particularly absurd notions are flitting through your mind,” he said. “Even if you do toss food at guests, I still won’t be able to assign you a quest tonight. It would seem like I had encouraged you to sabotage the event to spite certain people I don’t get along with very well.”

“Okay,” said Alden. “I won’t.”

“Take this.” Joe held out his hand, and a ring fell onto the lab table with a clatter. “It’s a loan. Since I doubt they’ll let you wear your stunning coat.”

“You’re giving me a magic ring?” Alden said, his eyes widening as he stared at the dark silver band.

“Do you know what the word loan means?”

“What does it do?” Alden asked eagerly, reaching for it.

“It will do something similar to heightening your dexterity. Significantly. It’s very good for not flinging appetizers at people. And party tricks.”

“Oh wow! That’s really cool! Thank you so much!”

“Loan,” said Joe. “Loaner. Am I not saying this right?” <<It’s a loan.>>

Alden held the ring up to the light to admire it. It was simple, but very heavy. And it was covered in etched geometric patterns.

“I’ll take good care of it,” he said.

“And give it back?”

“Yes. Of course.”
