“The fact that your skill was designed to allow for visual effects is amusing.” Joe made an adjustment to his smart lens and peered at the tail of motionless flames trailing off the ball. “But I suppose it must serve the same function as your tactile sense of the preserved item. It helps you to manage the thing. Better move if you don't want burned hands.”

Alden hastily took a few steps.

“You threw a fireball at me!” He wondered if Joe knew how supremely wizardy he’d looked in that moment.

“I thought if you had to catch something visibly dangerous, and if you didn’t have time to overthink it, you’d naturally perform the trick we were attempting last night. And see? I was right!”

“So I do a true insta-freeze on flying things if I know they’re hazardous,” Alden said, staring down at the ball. “That’s better than nothing.”

He didn’t ask what Joe would have done if it hadn’t worked.

“And we’re thinking I should be able to re-direct the momentum, right?” he added, excitement building as he paced. Since he could reposition his grip on things it should work. “Where can I put this safely?”

“This is a weapons lab. You’re the least fireproof thing in here other than the ball itself.”

Alden rotated the ball so that it should, in theory, be moving away from him when his skill stopped. Then he dropped it and took a quick step back in the same motion.

The ball shot away from him, trailing smoke and flames, and smashed into the window that looked down on the inner laboratory.

“It worked!” he shouted. “It actually worked!”

Thinking it would work and seeing it in action were two different things.

“Yes, but you still can’t do it intentionally. Now go put that out. The building may not catch on fire, but there’s no need to let it fill with smoke.”

Day Eight

“One of the girls on the track team is actually sick with mono,” Jeremy reported. “So rumor has it you’re dating now.”

Alden sat in his capsule bed, tossing his ball of modeling putty from hand to hand. “That sounds like the kind of rumor you two could easily correct,” he said in an annoyed tone.

“It does, doesn’t it?” Boe chimed in.

Alden sighed and slapped the putty down on the shelf.

“Why are you groaning and moaning like my grandpa this morning?” Jeremy asked.

“Twelve Artona III days is an eternity,” said Alden. “I feel like I’m never going to make it back home.”

“Tell me again how much money you’ve made so far?”

“So much that I don’t even want it anymore. I want Earth.”

“Poor dear.”

“I know…I think the sleep cycle is catching up to me. I’m ready for an organic circadian rhythm instead of an alien drug-induced one. I’ll make an effort to be less irritable tomorrow.”

“Nah, don’t bother,” said Jeremy. “Boe doesn’t hold back his nasty moods, so why should you? Ow! You hit like a little old lady.”

“Yeah? Then why’d you say ow?”

Alden laughed. “Bye, guys. I’ve gotta go.”

#

Lab exams. Lunch. More lab exams. Lessons with Joe. Moon Thegund. Take pills. Sleep, Alden thought to himself, chewing on the last bites of one of the fibrous cookies they served with the daily breakfast spread as he wove through the crowd of students and assistants waiting to be allowed in for the first exam. It’s a weird schedule, but I guess it’s mine.

The peace of mind word chain was working on him. It had only taken him two tries this morning, and the gremlin was waiting an hour and a half now before its complaints kicked in. Slow progress, but steady.

“Ryeh-b’t!” someone shouted.

Alden turned toward the speaker not because he was already used to being addressed that way but because the Artonans coming for their exams didn’t do much shouting. They usually just hovered around the lab doors, nervous and silent.

A quintet of abnormally brutal-looking Artonans in matching green uniforms moved aside, and he saw a very familiar face.

“Hi, Stuart,” Alden said.

Someone whispered behind him, and they were quickly shushed by one of the others.

Alden took in the boy’s appearance with surprise. He’d assumed Stuart would be out of commission for a lot longer than a couple of days. But here he was, gold-ringed eyes sharp and his skin a shade of pale puce that was probably healthier for an Artonan than the gray complexion he’d had the last time Alden had seen him.

One side of his head had been shaved, and the rest of his brownish hair had been pulled back in a very short French braid. It made for a strange look. As for Stuart’s foot…it was presumably reattached. He was standing upright, at least, and on the side where his foot had been missing he wore a knee-high boot made of opaque white gel.

Alden waited for the guy to say something. He’d shouted after all, and he’d been pretty talkative for a terribly wounded person the other day. But he only focused on Alden’s face with an unblinking gaze.

“I hope you’re feeling better?” Alden suggested after a moment.

He wasn’t sure what else was safe to say. He knew he wasn’t supposed to mention what had really happened, but was the cover story about the guy losing his limb in a duel with Jel-nor something he should bring up? Maybe it was wasn’t widely known. Or maybe it was an insult to talk about someone losing a duel.

And the university has a rule about not hanging out with examinees outside of work, Alden remembered. So it’s not like I should encourage conversation.

“Good luck on your exams,” he said. Then, just to be absolutely fair, he added, “Good luck to everyone here.”

Before he could push open the doors, Stuart finally figured out what it was he wanted to say. “I’m sorry my actions have led us both to tarnish our honor. This is a sad hour in my life.”

Alden felt his face freeze in a polite smile while he tried to decide what the guy meant. Was it because they were lying about what had really happened? Or maybe because they hadn’t fought the mishnen to the death personally?

I have no idea.

Then he realized with shock that Stuart had spoken really solid English. He hadn’t been doing that the other day, and it wasn’t like he could have learned it all of the sudden. Probably.

He must have worked out how to say that specific line. Our honor must be seriously tarnished if he wanted to apologize in my native language.

Alden didn’t get it at all. But he didn’t want to disrespect it, so he tried to come up with an appropriate response.

“My honor is my own,” he said finally. Boe would die if he heard me. “So, don’t worry. About me. I’m okay. Um…heal well, and let’s both do our best moving forward.”

Stuart looked relieved. He took a limping step forward on his gel boot and nodded at Alden. <<That’s good! My father wants to speak to you.>>

There was more than one whisper at that announcement. Who was this guy’s dad, anyway?

“Well, I’m a Rabbit,” said Alden. “So I’m sure it will be easy for him to find me. Forty-eight seconds notice, and I’m there.”

Before Stuart could add anything, he hurriedly pushed open one of the doors and went into the lab. Joe was leaning against the wall nearby, one fist pressed against his mouth in an uncharacteristically tense gesture.

“Did I handle that all right?” Alden murmured.

“There was no good way to handle that,” Joe hissed, dropping his fist and letting it smack into the wall behind him. “I’ve almost had my guts ripped out by entities that were subtler than that…boy. His parents should have used his recovery as an excuse to keep him out of the exams. It doesn’t matter how it looks. Passing automatically is practically his birthright.”

“He didn’t really say anything too bad, though?”

“It would have been fine to talk about tarnishing his own honor. Everyone would just think he was being oversensitive about losing his duel. But it’s hard to imagine a scenario in which a wizard’s duel would have led to your honor being tarnished.”

<<Maybe he laughed with joyful abandon at the sight of all the blood,>> Sophie suggested from where she was prowling between tables. <<Disregarding his duties in the gore lust.>>

“How do you even know there was gore?” Alden asked. “You weren’t there.”

<<What kind of duel doesn’t have gore?>>

Day 9

I have to carry the kids today.

Alden was surprised to wake up in his dark capsule with that thought at the forefront of his mind. He always had nerves as the evening trip to Moon Thegund approached, but they had never started first thing in the morning before.

It’s no different, he told himself. It’ll be easier because they’re little. There won’t even be equipment to take.

It was one of the ways the frightened father had been appeased. The woman with the pink eyes had promised him that Alden would have no burdens to protect except for the children.

What time is it anyway? Alden usually woke with the false sunrise lights playing across the ceiling. But that hadn’t happened yet.

He asked the System and discovered he’d woken nearly an hour earlier than he should have. Mourning the lost sleep, he unlatched the door on his pod and slid it open. The room was dim and quiet. All of the capsules were closed, but someone must have been awake because Alden could smell the instant coffee some of the others drank every morning.

He went to the bathroom, washed his face, chewed his tooth gum and spat it back into its tin. Despite his doubts about how sanitary it was, the stuff worked great. When he caught a glimpse of himself in one of the mirrors, his teeth looked like he’d had them professionally whitened.

Acne’s totally gone now, too. He hadn’t had much of a problem, but what he did have had been visibly fading all week. And now it was like it had never existed. It was probably the point in Appeal finally showing off its full potential.

“It is a big deal!” a shrill voice said, interrupting his thoughts. “I got along so well with the professor at the party last year, and this was a chance to make another impression. I can’t miss the—”

“Shhhh…you’ll wake up everyone. Don’t worry. ”

Alden glanced toward the toilet closet the sound had come from. He’d noticed two people whispering in there when he first entered, but he’d ignored them. Living in close quarters demanded a certain amount of willful ignorance, in his opinion.

They sound upset. He couldn’t tell who it was since they’d been talking quietly up until now, but the upset one was definitely a woman.

“I should have asked Chris to look at it last night! I knew I should. But I suddenly felt so embarrassed. I was about to and then I just…I don’t know why! I gave up on him ages ago, and he’s always so helpful. He could have come up with a brace if he had the night.”

Is someone hurt?

Chris was the guy on the medical team who wore suits every day. D-rank Wright who specialized in body enhancement equipment. He was on the medical team because plenty of Artonans had magitechy stuff plugged in to themselves.

Alden strained his hearing to catch the reply.

“Let’s get him to try something this morning.”

“What good is that, Manon?! I’m on duty soon! They’ll put me on medical leave as soon as they see this!”

Nope, nope, nope thought Alden, grabbing his tin of tooth gum and striding out of the bathroom. Not getting involved. We’re almost home. I can think about sketchy Rabbits then.

He’d committed himself to it, and he was going to stick to it. He made it back into his bed and had the panel closed in moments.

See, Thwart Hog, he thought. I don’t have a hero complex.

#

Alden followed his usual schedule for the rest of the morning, but by lunchtime the boater drama caught up with him. He was sitting in an armchair in the corner, eating a sandwich he’d made out of a hunk of bread and the stuffed mushrooms that were offered every other day. He was ignoring the other humans as well as he could—which was not very—since they were all talking loudly about Laura, the woman who liked to wear a frilled apron over her skirt

She’d gotten injured by a piece of alien gym equipment yesterday evening when she was working. Apparently she’d hurt her knee. It was a bizarre occurrence, since Laura was a Brute. And the injury was serious enough that she hadn’t been able to hide her limp. She’d been sent off to spend the day waiting around for a healer, and since her injury wasn’t life threatening, she might be gone for ages.

She’d probably be sent straight home when she got back, too, if the others were right in their guesses.

“Tonight of all nights,” Naya said, frowning down at her plate. “Chris could have done something for her, couldn’t he? A little mechanical help plus a good pain pill…something. She was sure she was this close to getting a long-term offer from that professor who thinks a security maid is the coolest thing ever. At the party, with the usual atmosphere making everyone a little looser, it could have happened. You hardly ever hear of a D-rank getting a chance like that.”

There was a party on the schedule for tonight that many of the human Avowed worked. It wasn’t on Alden’s radar since he wasn’t on the guest list, but apparently it was the best opportunity Laura would have to show off for this professor who was interested in hiring a low-ranking Brute for aesthetic reasons. Bet they got the idea from watching Thwart Hog follow her employer around campus.

Having conspicuous protective services you didn’t even need was an odd flex, but it was far from the weirdest thing going on around here.

