The Headmaster noticed. He said, “I believe Jane is going to be fine. From what I have heard, she was able to complete the transfiguration of a slime into an ooze, and she has raised her Willpower to a more than acceptable level. This bodes well for her mastery of [Polymorph]. Though, if she keeps going around killing Ancients she will run into different problems which will have nothing to do with [Polymorph], and have everything to do with the monsters of Veird.”

Erick resumed breathing, as an unknown worry settled onto his shoulders.

The Headmaster continued, “Conventional tracking fails when it comes to a truly deep and expertly done [Polymorph] because this sort of magic will change who a person is, at their core.” He added, “[Polymorph] is one of the most fascinating magics ever created. I will have Krigea get you some tomes on the subject, but what I have said should give you a guide regarding further research.” He asked, “Are you still interested in this ‘Lessons for the Archmage’ Class? I am still willing to teach you.”

Erick had felt like he was at a crossroads this entire conversation, but then the Headmaster brought it all to a point by asking that question. On one hand, Erick did not want to be anywhere near the Headmaster, but on the other, good relations with Oceanside would go a long way to paving the way to a future without Shades, or these ‘Ancients’. With that in mind, there was only one answer that Erick could reasonably give.

He said, “I’m going to work on this light dungeon, then I would like help with this [Scan] spell, and if that works out, and if I can get Messalina out of my backyard by pointing her vengeance in a specific direction, then I am going to do that, too. Classes with you can come later, but I am open to the idea.”

The Headmaster paused for a long while.

Erick watched him think, as he gently touched Ophiel, who was still silently sitting on his lap.

Eventually, the Headmaster said, “If that is enough for her… If she goes back to her jungle after she has taken her vengeance, then this might be an acceptable outcome.” He added, “She will likely try to kill you on the way out.”

“… She hasn’t directly killed anyone so far?” Erick added, “That she hasn’t re-bodied, anyway. So she doesn’t consider that murder, does she? But you guys murdered the people she killed on the way to Eidolon.”

“I did not enjoy issuing that order, but two of them had already become monsterized. Eidolon saw what was happening and killed the rest.” The Headmaster said, “This is her version of playing nice, Erick. This is what she does. And when people in power like her play nice, that’s when you know they’re up to something.”

“… Does that statement apply to you, too?”

The Headmaster laughed. He asked, “Does that statement apply to you, too?”

- - - -

Erick walked into the Manor carrying empty mugs and the empty pot of coftea, with Ophiel calmly twittering in violins on his shoulder. The Headmaster had left minutes ago.

Kiri had half of a tray of cinnamon rolls sitting out on the kitchen counter. White frosting absolutely covered them; soaking into the layered bread and forming a small pool on the plate. Kiri just stood by the counter, watching Erick. Teressa sat at the table, sipping a beer.

Poi remained on the couch. He shut his book and asked, “We’re okay, for now?”

Erick said, “We’re good.”

Kiri said, “I kept dinner warm.”

“Thank you, Kiri.” Erick brought the mugs and pot into the kitchen and put them away; he had already [Cleanse]d them. “That was good of you.” He turned and spoke to the group, “Calzin was bugged in order to bug everyone else. The perpetrators were little flying people who are mostly invisible to all senses except Mana Sense. They’re the creations of Messalina, and they’re likely also the same people who stole the diamonds at the dungeon.”

Poi winced, muttering, “How did I not—”

“The Headmaster had his own Mind Mages keep you blind, Poi, in order to track through the connection to Messalina.”

Kiri’s eyes went wide.

Teressa said, “He shouldn’t have done that.”

“You’re right, Teressa.” Poi’s face turned hard. He said, “He should not have done that.”

“I told him as much.” Erick said, “He agreed to not do it again without my consent, first.”

Poi just frowned as five extra telepathic lines raced out of his head, into the manasphere.

Well that was certainly a mess for another day. Erick turned to Kiri, putting on a smile as he asked, “Now where is that dinner—”

Kiri immediately turned and opened the oven, saying, “I left it on a plate, right here.” With expertly held talons to protect her from the heat, she pulled out a hot plate piled high with shredded meats and vegetables, with a side of bread. She set it on the kitchen counter in front of Erick. “Teressa made it.”

As the scents of well seasoned meats reached his nose, Erick spoke up, “Smells fantastic, Teressa.”

Teressa smiled. “Thanks, Boss.” She added, “I am going to pursue [Witness], I think. Especially if there are little invisible people flying around.”

Erick conjured oven mitts and picked up his plate. As he walked over to the dinner table and sat down across from Teressa, saying, “That sounds great.” He asked, “What does the world look like through Mana Sense?”

“It’s more like being a part of the ocean, than using your eyes.” She added, “It’s harder to do inside this [Ward], but it’s like swinging a mace. Once you can lift that mace at all, you can train to eventually wield it like it weighs nothing.”

“I still haven’t been able to do that at all,” Erick said.

“Me either,” Kiri said, as she set down at the table with a cinnamon roll. “But I don’t like the idea of exposing myself outside of this [Prismatic Ward] to learn the skill.”

Poi picked his book back up, and kept reading.

After he ate, Erick and the others went to the hospital. Kiri brought cinnamon rolls for the nurses, and for Rats. He gobbled one down and quickly stuffed another away into the break room. It wasn’t long before the horde of nurses and doctors in Jane’s ward descended on the desserts like a plague of happy locusts, leaving nothing behind. Kiri hadn’t made nearly enough; some people got to the party too late. Kiri promised to make more tomorrow.

Jane still slept as soundly as ever, under the faintly glowing metal [Sleep] rune embedded in the headboard of her bed.

- - - -

In the dark of night, while Erick laid in bed, he felt a need to talk to Jane. They hadn’t spoken in days. She was fine physically, of course, and Alibeth let her out of the [Sleep] spell to speak a little, but after two incoherent sentences Jane always started vomiting again. She had to be put back under.

So Erick laid in bed, wanting to talk to someone in confidence. There were many choices. Poi or Kiri would be willing to talk, but he would have to wake them up and tell them a lot of background information, and he didn’t want to do that. Not right now, anyway. Teressa and Rats, who had come back to the Manor to sleep, were also valid choices, but that would require even more secrets spilled out into the world.

He could probably talk to Silverite, but that would come later. A lot of discussions about what he had learned would have to come up later, with others. But for now...

For now, he shifted tactics. He threw a hundred mana at the air, and posed a question. Ophiel perked up at Erick’s side atop the covers, as divine fire whispered in the air above.

‘Rozeta thinks it would work, but no one is sure, and everyone is eager to see if you can. The creation of new magic comes from the mana, but works through the Script. You might have to try a few times.’

‘Thanks, Phagar.’

‘… Aren’t you going to ask me if he changed your spell?’

‘I’d ask you that later, maybe. I’d rather ask you if you think he’s a good guy.’

‘I cannot comment on that.’

‘Then… is Messalina’s True Resurrection, real?’

‘Tough question. I’m gonna have to go with the answer I have always given: I cannot comment on that.’

‘Did an entire continent fall because of the creation of [Create Food and Water]?’

‘It started with assassinations and political games and the people in charge not governing for the needs of the many, and there were so, so many. It all boiled over because we took away [Create Food and Water]. Atunir was about to shift Dark. It had to be done.’

Erick took that in, then he asked, ‘Got a hint about this [Particle Scan] question?’

A happy smile seemed to spread in the air, but also not. ‘I can’t help you that much.’

Erick pondered, ‘Wave functions. Probability curves. All particles are wherever they want to be until we observe them… so… Probability magic? Here’s a wild guess: A spell to force a person’s [Polymorph] forms into a state of superposition, and then to collapse them down to the one I choose.’ He added, ‘That doesn’t go far enough, though. What I’d need to be able to do, is check against forms that they’ve already given up in the past, too, which seems like an impossible problem. When old forms are given up, they’re gone forever from the Script, aren’t they? That’s a topic to research. Jane probably already knows all this, but I can’t ask her...’

He continued, ‘But even past that, I would need a spell that would radiowave [Scan] everyone in a super long range, which I’m not even sure how to do, and then I’d have to run this theoretical superpositioned [Polymorph] [Scan] on everyone, and then have it return the one target I was searching for. I could not do that in a single spell. It would take at least two? One for the [Polymorph] superpositioning, another for the locate-by-radiowaves spell? Maybe more than two spells. This is starting to sound like an entire new set of spells.

‘Forcing someone into another form sounds like [Baleful Polymorph] to me, so that’s not at all what I want to do. Besides all that, the pure number of targets in such a scan would make such a spell completely impossible to cast, just because of pure cost.’ He added, ‘Ah! But wait! I could put the entire spell into a superposition and have it only trigger upon the target I was looking for the whole time. Maybe make it destructively interfere with itself in every instance of the [Scan] except for when it returns the target I am looking for. Now that sounds magical, precise, and a lot like that quantum code breaking I read about. It might work?’

‘Impressive.’ Phagar said, ‘Some of that could work, but the implementation would be a lot more difficult than you might think.’ He added, ‘And because I don’t think you’d ever ask and because Rozeta is yelling at me to tell you: Kirginatharp did not change your spell. No one can do that except her, and she only does it to—’ He seemed to speak to someone else, saying, ‘Okay. Fine. I won’t say another word.’ He seemed to turn back to Erick, saying, ‘You good?’

‘… Yes. I’m good. Thank you. Good to know. Thank you.’

‘Later.’

The thread of divine magic between Erick and infinity released, feeling like the space after a sigh.

Ophiel trilled on the bed at Erick’s side. Dozens of eyes were open all across his winged body, looking around at the empty air above. Erick patted the little guy as his own mind wandered with possibilities.
