“I have some questions,” Erick said, sipping his cup of coftea in his chair next to the gardens of Windy Manor.

“I have some as well,” the Headmaster said, wearing white and gold, sipping coftea in the chair across the table from Erick.

The doctors released Erick from the hospital with a clean bill of health hours ago. He had gone back to the dungeon for a little while longer, but soon enough, it was time to rain at the farms of Spur. When he came back to the Manor, Poi informed him that the Headmaster was requesting his time for a talk.

Erick sent everyone else into the house, under the [Prismatic Ward], either to get dinner ready if they wanted, but mainly to get out of the way. If this conversation did not go well he didn’t want them involved. That was a hard sell for Poi and Teressa, but they accepted Erick’s demand. Kiri just stood quietly in the background, looking less than happy about everything.

He summoned up a table and chairs near the garden, while channeling mana through Ophiel to Spur. He sat down in one of those chairs and opened Hocnihai’s third tome for some light, heavy reading, while he waited for the Headmaster to show. The wind blew cool and full of moisture, while waves crashed far below and the sun tilted down in the west, across the ocean. Sunset would happen in an hour. It was good reading weather. Teressa came out of the house with a large pot of coftea and two mugs. Erick thanked her as she set them down on the table. She lingered for a moment, watching Erick, but saying nothing. Erick just nodded. Teressa went back into the house.

Erick waited.

He did not wait long. As the Headmaster appeared in a blip of gold, he flicked a brief spell through the air. A completely clear bubble surrounded him, Erick, Ophiel on Erick’s lap, and the garden furniture. Ophiel twittered in unhappy flutes as the sounds of the crashing ocean down the cliffside vanished, and the gentle wind that blew across the yard ceased, but at Erick’s gentle command, Ophiel settled back down on his lap. Erick continued to channel mana through him as he set Hocnihai's book aside, onto the table.

There were some initial pleasantries. One was of Erick not wanting to get up and disturb his [Familiar]. Another was of the Headmaster glad to see that Erick had recovered from his recent trouble. Erick offered coftea; the Headmaster accepted. Erick poured him a mug with the perfect control of his Handy Aura.

Strictly speaking, using spells unprompted around other people like both the Headmaster and Erick had done, was a faux pas that ranged from being simply discourteous or maybe rude, to insulting or an act of war, or just plain antagonistic. For most of Erick’s time on Veird, he had been slightly rude without really meaning to be rude. Right now, Erick was deliberately rude, because he had a really good idea about how Messalina had been able to get to him on Oceanside, when this place was both crawling with competent Elites and flying cream-colored Robes that should have been able to see everything that happened, everywhere.

Erick began, “My first question is, if you used me for some sort of bait to track through to Messalina, did it work?” He added, “And did you already scan my recent memories, in order to see what I saw when she contacted me?”

The Headmaster sipped his coftea. He lowered the mug, and said, “We used you as bait. We could not find her. She had moved on too fast. And yes; I already know what she told you.”

“Did you really kill your kids?”

The Headmaster looked off into the distance, toward the horizon where sky met sea and the sun dipped low. With a stern, sad face, he said, “They were not my children. They were copies. Perfect copies, but still copies nonetheless. For a time, I was confused upon seeing her work. It took me a century of searching out every necromancer I had ever held in confidence in order to divine an unhappy truth: that those were not my children, and I am confident in my results. I might be Second, and I might have access to almost all magic, but I am not Rozeta.” He said, “Messalina makes copies, Erick. Perfect copies that don’t realize they are copies. She can even use the former soul to create these copies. In her mind, this means she has the power of True Resurrection.”

Silence stretched, as Erick thought. Eventually, he asked, “Is the soul a permanent thing that does not grow or ever change?”

“The soul both grows and changes, but that does not matter when speaking of wholly replacing that essential part of the Self.” The Headmaster said, “If you are thinking of the Parable of the House, then you are entering into a very large debate, of which there is only one side to choose if you wish to remain sane.”

“I read about that. On Earth, we call that the Ship of Theseus problem. At which point over the life of a vessel, where rows and sails and mast and planks are replaced as necessary, is the ship that left the dock, the same ship that came in?” Erick said, “We never had to deal with actual resurrection, though.” He added, “People were talking about uploading minds into computers when I fell to Veird. They were imagining it as a second life, where the mind continued to live on after the death of the body.”

The Headmaster frowned a little, thinking. He said, “That seems like creating a slave caste to do your electronical bidding for you.”

Erick smiled, despite the situation. He said, “Sorry. I think I might have explained computers poorly. That is my fault. They were used to make our lives easier, yes. But...” He said, “The rich people were talking of putting their minds into computers so that when their bodies died, they could direct their holdings after death.”

“Ah.” The Headmaster said, “This is closer to the real problem of True Resurrection.” He said, “We immortals strive to keep out of much of mortal life, for it would be easy for the wrong kind of person to control everything, forever. Power supports power, after all.” He said, “So people like me help when we can, but mostly we stay out of most of the world’s problems. Mostly, we see to it that other immortals toe the line of non-interference. People are best when they are free to thrive and live their lives on their own, after all.” He said, “Hence, True Resurrection does not work.”

“Politics, then?”

“For those in the know, and in the workings of the world: yes. And I will deny ever having said that.” He added, “But personally, I do not believe that copies are the real thing, so it is easier for me to fight this particular fight than others who merely support the cause.”

“Does Phagar not care?”

“Phagar cares deeply, but he stays out of this particular battle. If he were to take a stance against resurrection, it would give the Resurrectionists legitimacy, for it would mean that their idea of True Resurrection is real. If he stood with them, it would cause the rise of this horrible magic, all across Veird, and go against everything he represents as the God of Finality. And so Phagar stays away, because sometimes that is the best choice, and the rest of the gods try to not be tyrants by stepping into an ideological mortal war. Even Sumtir will not support total war.” He added, “All the tyrant gods died in the Sundering.”

Erick nodded. He would ask Phagar about all of that later, but it was interesting to know that the reason he hadn’t seen any ‘evil’ gods, besides maybe Melemizargo, was that all the evil gods were dead. This was obviously the Headmaster throwing him off course of his questions, but sometimes facts were best supplied through meandering words, and it seemed that this particular conversation was very difficult for the old dragon. He spoke calmly and clearly, but he held his shoulders tight, and his eyes were solidly stuck on the horizon.

Erick asked, “Was that the point of the Sundering? To kill the evil gods?”

“It is one theory. Personally, I think someone tried to take the power of a god, and they catastrophically failed.” The Headmaster said, “I don’t really know why the Old Wizards did what they did, but I do know why Veird survived. It was quite a simple reason, too. When the universe was unraveling, many of the original Relevant Entities of the Script were naturally pulled here to Veird because their original worlds were killed, and their only surviving believers were in chapterhouses on Veird, or in one case, a Champion, who was visiting Veird to find assistance for some quest.” He looked away from the sun, to Erick, saying, “You must understand that Veird was a sanctuary for the light, after all. Koyabez’s human and alvani clergy were the powerhouses on Veird back then, back when this world was much smaller, and wholly devoted to peaceful solutions. They had been around for twenty thousand years or more by the time of the Sundering, and though Veird had been assaulted countless times by almost every powerhouse in the Old Cosmology, they had never fallen. Their defenses were simply the best of the best.”

The Headmaster finished speaking, but Erick did not ask another question. He just listened, giving the Headmaster a chance to speak in whatever direction he wanted, or to ask his own questions.

The Headmaster stared into the distance, controlling his posture perfectly, like he was holding in a lot of pain, as he said, “I did not adjust your spell. I did not adjust hers either. She says that her children were her turning point, but that was untrue. She never forgave me for holding back her spell for thirty seconds. Everything fell apart from there.” He said, “I should have learned my lesson years ago but my curiosity got the better of me, as it has from time to time. I… I apologize, for touching your spell.”

“If you are a Registrar, you know I have a way to check on this, directly.”

“I know.” He relaxed, saying, “And you should learn to hide your ability to flaunt the powers of others. It would do you well in your further goals.”

“If you’re going to kill me, I would rather just get it over with.”

“Taunting dragons is a foolish thing to do.”

“So is killing your kids.”

The Headmaster frowned. He refilled his coftea. He spoke plainly, and almost-forcefully, “I did not kill them. Messalina created copies and raised them to hate me. I asked for a meeting. They accepted. I made myself vulnerable, and they took advantage. Her plan was to kill me and pull my soul apart in order to create a dragonless-copy. The three of them would have succeeded if they were going up against the image of ‘The Headmaster’ that Messalina had taught her copies, but they were completely unprepared for the real thing. Messalina managed to get away, but the children were completely unmatched for a fight between a dragon of the highest tier, and the Second.”

Erick digested that information for a moment, as silence held in the clear dome of their little meeting.

Erick said, “You should help her find these killers.”

The Headmaster relaxed. “That would be the most prudent thing to do, but I cannot. I still love her, and I cannot get close; not ever again.” Benevolent hatred took hold of his voice, as he said, “She is as toxic as her hydras, and I would live to die in that mire until something broke, and a hundred thousand more people died in the crossfire.”

The Headmaster’s words hung heavy in the air.

Erick said, “I don’t want to be involved in this sort of thing.”

The Headmaster smirked. “If you wish to kill the Shades, you will need to be involved in many scenarios like this.” He added, “I will say this, though: If you choose to support Messalina, you might be able to wring a binding bargain out of her, and she would be much more willing to move against those Dark monsters than I. You could cut your plots down to years, instead of decades.”

Erick said, “I don’t think it’s going to take quite that long to get all my spells in a row.”

“You miscalculated the light dungeon.”

“You implied it would take 5 days.”

He added, “You could have it done that fast. Just string together some Plus-100 Focus crown. Plus 200, if you must, though that might take some more of that experimenting you seem to think we don’t do.”

“Were you expecting me to do that? To lower my defenses on Oceanside?”

“Vaguely.” The Headmaster spoke at a quick pace, “We were watching you the whole time, trying to respect your privacy, but also watching for her attack. This worming might have happened sooner if you had gotten rid of your Strength enchantments.” The Headmaster said, “This is a very complicated topic with many edge cases, but broadly, Health is a natural barrier to all directly hostile magic, in a way that is much more solid than a [Personal Ward]. You can’t conjure knives inside of a target, after all. All magic works from the outside toward the inside. It did not used to be like this, but the Script changed that.”

Erick frowned in thought. You couldn’t conjure a magic inside of a person? Well that tracked with everything Erick had ever seen… hadn’t it?

The Headmaster noticed Erick’s thinking. He asked, “Did you not know this?”

“No.” Erick said, “I can’t think of anything false about that statement, but I also never thought to try and make such a spell, either.”

The Headmaster frowned in disbelief. Then he relaxed, and said, “Almost all young mages try to make such a bypassing spell, but that experience usually teaches them their lesson in the form of an Error. This barrier of Health is a fact that is rather self evident, so I can see where your lessons might not have touched upon the subject.” He added, “We don’t teach a great many of the small things that most people would just pick up through natural experience.”

Erick nodded, and listened.

