“Back to parasites.” The Headmaster said, “Parasites are affected by this barrier, and they start from the outside, just like any physical weapon. And just like any physical weapon, they have an easier time slipping through that barrier when that barrier is less robust. Calzin acquired parasites in his feet from those Parasite Roaches from his time walking around on the mountainside, but you did not, and neither did your guard. This was not because you did not step on them; you must have. They were everywhere. But your increased Health protected you.

“Because of this, Messalina needed a larger opening than most since she couldn’t just put them in your house on your pillows anymore while your defenses were down. She had to wait for you to eat one in those sandwiches Calzin brought you.” The Headmaster said, “He was infected by a dream worm, too, but so were five other people. One of our own Mind Mages kept Poi partially blind, while we waited for her to bypass all your defenses and make the real connection.” He added, “But none of it worked.”

Erick sighed out, staring at the setting sun. He said, “What about her implications against Caradogh?”

“He’s in the wind. Near as we can tell, she alerted him right before speaking to you, knowing that I would see what she said. She likely has some use for him, otherwise she would have let him hang.”

“… Did you find the people who stole the diamonds?”

The Headmaster chortled. “I think Messalina stole them.”

Erick scrunched his face. “How? Why?”

“She likes shiny things,” The Headmaster said, as though it were the most obvious thing in the world. He added, “She got them in the same way that she plants her Dream Worms, and how she does almost everything outside of her immediate domain; those pixies. They’re her devoted servants. They’re a race she created in the shape of an extinct Fey in order to have the perfect spies at her beck and call. Only a few of them are actually a part of her people; she did actually manage to recreate an extinct race, after all. Most of them have their own societies down in the jungles of Nergal.

“They almost always take [Blink], [Teleport], Scion of Focus, [Airshape], [Lightshape] for the partial invisibility effect, and a host of other tiny spells. They’re also slightly telepathic, but only enough to hide from Mind Mages.” He added, “The only way to see them is when they want to be seen, or when you have Mana Sense up and focused. Even then, you might not see them even if they’re floating right in front of your face.” He added, “Or… they could have stolen those diamonds on their own, just to taunt me. They honestly love her; they’re not slaves.” He said, “For all of Messalina’s faults, she does not mind control or soulshift people who do not ask for it. The only mind tampering she does at all is to spread her dream worms against her enemies to sow discord and cause distractions. If it weren’t for her flagrant disregard for the sanctity of life and how much she throws her magic around to whomever can offer her a fair payment… I could even respect her.”

Erick said, “You’re being rather open about this. I expected a lot more anger from you.”

“I do tend to give off that persona.” The Headmaster said, “But Messalina has a way of turning people against me. I do not want that to happen, here, with you. You are a fine person, Erick Flatt, but you make mistakes, like anyone, so if I must spell this out, then I will.” He turned to face Erick, and said, “If you choose her you will lose the world, because I will use all of my vast resources to ensure that Messalina never again comes to power. You will become an outcast with a temperamental witch at your side and no one else.” He added, “I will not move to kill you or anyone you hold dear, for I have no doubt that Messalina is waiting to resurrect you or anyone else at a moment’s notice and fill your copy’s mind with lies, and I do not want to sunder your soul just to deny her a victory; it is too cruel. But if you thought Caradogh was bad, then you do not know what it means to be threatened by someone with real, true power.”

Erick said, “That’s more what I was expecting.”

The Headmaster looked at him, with calm eyes, full of sunset light. Erick felt a chill race down his spine, as sweat prickled at the back of his neck. The mug of coftea in his hands was the warmest thing in the world, but even that was turning cold, because the Second was practically a demi-god, and he was staring at Erick like he was a morsel waiting to be devoured.

The moment broke.

The Headmaster said, “I am fine with you making this spell she wants, but this is a dangerous thing to be able to find someone through [Polymorph]. No one has ever managed to do such a thing before. There is a Class called Sin Seeker that is able to discover the truth of a person no matter their disguise, but they need to be in physical contact to achieve that bit of magic. Mage Hunter is able to force people into their Natural Form, but that only works if the person in question still retains their First Form. [Eyes of the Goddess] can pin down the location of a person in question, through any disguise, but even that has a vague range of 500 kilometers.”

Erick listened, as sweat dried, and he channeled mana through Ophiel, to Spur. Ophiel listened, too; completely silent.

He said, “There are other ways to get a Familiar Form besides killing and eating, you know. There’s the originally intended way, for one. Live long enough with any others, be they animal or person, and you one day discover that you are able to create a Familiar Form of those animals or people that is uniquely you. If you stick with that form, it even becomes your Natural Form. You age, you grow, depending on the new form. This was the original function of [Polymorph]. It was a way to understand others by becoming them, or a way to become someone else and leave your old life behind. That’s why the archmages in the first centuries of the Script created the spell; to get away from their old lives and to start again where none knew they were mages.

“You have to understand that in those first centuries, there was a very large push by many cultures and societies to punish everyone who picked the path of the mage; the wounds of the Sundering were still very visible upon the land.

“But like all magic, a few took this boon of [Polymorph] and turned it into a tool to kill and kill again. The creation of the Sin Seeker Class and an expansion to the Mage Hunter’s Class Abilities were added rather early on, again, by archmages expanding the Script, after it rapidly became apparent that people were abusing [Polymorph]. It wasn’t till years later that [Eyes of the Goddess] was developed by a very old friend of mine a millennium gone already.”

Erick asked, “And that’s as far as anyone has solved this problem? What about soul magic and mind magic? I don’t know anything about them, but shouldn’t they be able to see who is behind the face?”

The Headmaster smiled. He said, “There are smaller spells that work in smaller areas. [Eyes of the Goddess] uses a few of those smaller spells, in fact. But, no. No one has ever created the spell that would find a person anywhere on the world, no matter their current Form.” He added, “[Polymorph] is a very strong spell. If used in a certain way, a person can shroud their soul and their mind into those whose forms they steal. Not many know this way, and I have never shared that particular secret with anyone, but I do inform people that it is possible just so that they can understand the true depths of the problem.”

“… time magic?”

The Headmaster looked at Erick, quizzically. He said, “That’s an absolute no, direct from Phagar; a proclamation laid down 1400 years ago at the start of the Script.”

“Not altering time, but just looking at it? Going through the 4th dimension.”

The Headmaster frowned. “Dimensional magic is Banned.”

“No no... Uh.” Erick said, “I think there’s a language barrier here. I mean. We live in three dimensions, right. Length, width, height, correct?”

“Ah. You mean to Gaze the River of Time. Using [Witness] on a person, perhaps?”

“Well. No. But maybe. I mean to look at a person’s past.”

The Headmaster nodded. “This was how they created the Sin Seeker Class. What you speak of is already there, and very, very few people are good enough to achieve [Witness] in the first place, let alone the Class it produced. Every city has a few Sin Seekers, but none of them do what Messalina wants. None of them are able to [Eyes of the Goddess] the specific location of a specific person.”

“Is [Witness] the only way to look through time?”

“There are many restrictions on the Script to prevent abuses, and time magic is a rather hard limit governed directly by Phagar. Even [Witness] doesn’t truly look through time. It just allows a recipient to reconstruct the manasphere as it was, based on what is there. If the manasphere is too ripped or turbulent, [Witness] will fail to see the River. The best Sin Seeker I ever knew was only able to view ten years of a person’s life, and even that was a spotty [Witness] that only hit the highlights that left permanent marks on the body, mind, or soul.”

“Could a person just ask Phagar or some other Relevant Entity for a Quest to end the Polymorphed person’s life, and then follow where that quest leads?”

The Headmaster smiled. “Sure. A Champion could do that. Or a particularly devout religious leader. A bishop of Sumtir could call for a Quest against a particularly evil person, though that is a lot rarer than you might think.”

“That’s a nonstarter idea, then.” Erick thought. He asked, “She’s a summoner too, right? Couldn’t she work out how to forcefully summon someone to her?”

“That magic does not exist as I think you are imagining it, either.” The Headmaster said, “Even a nonconsensual [Teleport] is practically impossible for most people. And besides, she would need to be directly in front of them and also know them as the people who killed her village, which would make this whole [Particle Scan] idea unnecessary.” He added, “[Forced Teleport] is a wildly varied spell. There are a lot of holes in what I just said, but they would be filled if we spoke for several hours on this subject.”

“That reminds me. Do you know how a Shade’s [Teleport Lock] works?”

“It is a divine gift, bestowed by the Darkness.” The Headmaster’s eyes narrowed at the sunset. “There are quite a few divine magics out there that I have never touched. The storms of Sininindi. The harvests of Atunir. The battlecries of Sumtir. The beauty of Aloethag.” He added, “The [Zone of Peace] of Koyabez.”

Erick smirked as he said, “I got 12 points for that, and it went to people who brokered a peace between the Kingdoms and the Republic before the Halls of the Dead could turn the continent into a warzone. I think I’m okay with that outcome.” His voice turned hard as he added, “Besides, I want to kill the Shades, not broker a peace.”

“Not one for peace...” The Headmaster looked on, as he said, “The world was in a state of uncomfortable peace before you came along.”

“And if you all had done your jobs, then I wouldn’t have to fight at all.”

“I agree,” The Headmaster said, without reservation. “We have left wounds scattered unhealed across this world for a long time. I do my part, but I am not a tyrant. I will not move unless my help is accepted. Mostly, it is not.” He asked, “Have you heard of the Tragedy of Quintlan?”

Erick didn’t know where the Headmaster was going with that, but Erick went along anyway. He said, “A little. It’s the only uninhabited continent on Veird.”

“The Underworld down there still has some cities, but yes, the overland is uninhabited, and extremely wild.” The Headmaster said, “There is a story to tell here, so if you will pardon this old man his tangents, I would like to tell it to you.”

Erick filled his mug with more coftea, and with a questioning look at the Headmaster, and a subsequent nod and him holding out his own cup, Erick filled the Headmaster’s cup as well.

The Headmaster said, “It takes a lot of resources to maintain a city on Veird. Monsters are constantly spawning everywhere. It starts with slimes, but if they’re not managed properly, oozes eventually come next. Or elementals. Or any other manner of monsterized creature from some other location, that sees all the food generating out of thin air in the form of slimes, and decides to make a new home in an old, forgotten dungeon.

“Food was one of the problems of Quintlan, but that comes later, and maybe not how you’re thinking.

