I dashed forwards with The Coming Tide, diving into the ground. I unborrowed with a burst of energy from my overcharged runes. I pelted past him, grabbing his cape as I dashed past him. With my runes flaring at full force, I pulled Dakhma away from Kessiah by holding onto his cape.

I landed on the ground, lifting him and kessiah through the air. Dakhma lost his grip on Kessiah, her body flopping through the air. She tackled into the ground, the earth rippling under her mammoth weight.

Dakhma wasn’t so lucky. He slung through the air, like I was swinging a flail over my head. He clashed against a pile of brick rubble, cracks webbing outward. During the entire struggle, I kept Event Horizon on him. He tried standing after the slam. I dashed into him.

We rolled on the ground before I ended up on top of him. I stabbed my feet into the ground, reaching out with tendrils of my armor. Dakhma struggled, his strength tremendous but my hold secure. I lifted a fist into the air. It was like an executioner’s axe.

I slammed it into his face. I lifted my other fist, and I smashed his face once more. Strike after strike, I pummeled him. The crater beneath him expanded after each impact of my fists. The old, wrinkled skin on his face ripped open, fresh wounds forming. His blood coated my hands, smearing across the ground and his armor. With a vicious, animalistic brutality, I beat him with my hands.

Seconds of this onslaught passed before his cape grabbed me from behind. It pulled me backwards before his legs wrapped around my neck. They clamped down, blocking any air from entering my lungs.

The metallic roots I used for planting myself down now held me arched backwards. Dakhma leveraged his legs, bending my spine backwards. My armor stretched before snapping, the pop of bursting armor loud as a bomb in my ears. My spine cracked. My bones broke under his might He lifted his sword impaling my spine, severing the nerves.

My legs went limp before Dakhma spoke, “You have an admirable tolerance for punishment. I’m sure most eldritch couldn’t even harm you.”

He lifted his sword from my stomach, stabbing it through my neck. My arms and chest went limp.

“If an enemy understands how to harm you, your confidence will get you killed. You would be a better warrior if you were under my tutelage.”

He leveraged my back, the sound of tearing skin and breaking bones ringing in my ears,

“I can extend that offer again, if you join Yawm.”

Though my body was numb, the armor over my body wasn’t. I shot out several spines into Dakhma, the tendrils of armor digging through him. Despite the damage he dealt, Event Horizon combined with my insane health regen meant I was recovering. Feeling in my arms came back, so I grabbed onto Dakhma. The tips of my fingers clawed into him.

I opened my mouth, my armor opening with jagged jaws. They clamped into the leg of Dakhma as he howled out. A moment later, he lifted his sword and slammed it towards my head. I spike of my armor grew out, guiding the blade sideways. It stabbed into the ground before Dakhma released his leg’s grip on my neck.

As he did, he pushed himself back, pulling the tendrils of my armor out from under his skin. With blood dripping from his wounds, he grimaced, “You’re not worth of my tutelage. You’re no warrior. You’re a monster and you fight like one, like some demon without honor in battle.”

I pulled myself from the ground, my body regenerating, “This isn’t battle. It’s bloodshed, and there is no honor in bloodshed. You’re just in denial about what you’re doing.”

Dakhma lifted his old sword again, deflecting several of the bullets from Kade’s rifles. He jumped into the air, mana harmonizing onto his blade. The air around us reddened before this red sucked into spear. I jumped up towards him, but he propelled towards Kessiah and Kade. In a flash of light, he passed through Kade.

The guard’s upper and lower halves severed, blood squirting from both sides. The slice of his sword sent out a shockwave a second after he landed. A gust of wind shot up, along with a wave of dust and sound. It was like he went faster than sound, creating a sonic boom.

Dakhma heaved out his breaths, struggling for air as he landed. That kind of burst took a toll on him. Kessiah dashed towards him, putting him on defense. Her strikes pummeled against his cape and sword, fierce and fast. I dashed towards them both before Dakhma deflected a hook from Kessiah with his cape.

In a burst of movement, he pierced her chest again. I reached him, but he released the sword with Kessiah stumbling backwards. As she spit out her own blood, Dakhma spun towards me. He swung with his cape first, but I dived over the giant hand of morphed fabric. I landed on his upper chest, biting into his neck.

Before he slung me away, a tiny rupture in his armor formed. I slammed my fist into the hole with Volatile Carnage activating. It created a hole in his skin. My armor infested his flesh, digging into the wound as he pushed me away.

The tendrils of armor ripped out of his body. From the force of his shove, he broke the ground around us. Fissures crawled outwards as I flopped on the ground. Kessiah pulled out the sword from her chest before swinging it at Dakhma. Dakhma blocked with his cape, the fabric shearing as he stomped forward. Like a chinese monk, he struck into her stomach with his feet grounded.

A crater formed under the feet of Dakhma, the power of his strike undeniable. After flopping through the air, Kessiah hobbled up next to me. She grinned,

“He’s tough, but he’s about out of juice. Look at the bastard shiver.”

She was right. The fist that struck Kessiah shook with several broken fingers on it. The cape was split in two with holes all throughout it. Gashes and cuts covered holes in his armor, and his knees buckled now. He couldn’t stand up straight anymore, and his mana looked depleted. Since the last time we fought, Kessiah was using her Blood Arts and I gained over 1000 levels.

He couldn’t keep this up forever, especially not with Event Horizon chipping away at his health. After killing Kade, his mana was depleted as well. Knowing his fate, Dakhma murmured,

“You know, two of the followers chose to accept Yawm’s gifts and two chose not too. Ajax and I, we wanted to support our master without abusing his gifts. I wanted to help him with my own strength. I wanted him to know that I could and would earn a place at his side.”

He lifted his sword, runes forming over it,

“There exists a greater resolve in my stained soul, however selfish it may be.”

Eldritch runes spread outwards from his armor and cape, covering his body in a dark red light. I dashed towards him. He lifted himself up off the ground, standing his full height. His wounds healed. Red lightning coalesced around his broken sword, creating a sword of crimson. As it finished, a shockwave blew me backwards.

Dakhma lifted his right hand, the distortion within it disappearing. The swollen joints became normal. I dashed towards him again, but he shoved the crimson sword into the ground again.

The red lightning bolted into my armor, paralyzing me and shoving me backwards. I landed on my back, unable to move or do anything. I looked on as Dakhma's ragged fingernails rejuvenated under the healing light of the runes. Dakhma’s odd proportions became normal. His left arm grew in size, bursting from the armor. He lifted his sword, a bolt of white energy coming down onto it.

The crimson melted away, turning his cape and sword turned to a pristine, noble white. It was no longer tattered and ruined. His items and body were rejuvenated over a few seconds. Feeling came back into my body, so I stood up. I dashed towards him, but a bolt of white thunder arced from the sword, stopping me. The flash of lightning pierced through my chest, burning my insides.

Dakhma laughed, his voice no longer old, “Why have I waited so long for his healing light?” He stared at his hands and shining armor, “I am made new once more.” Dakhma pulled back his hood, showing a full beard regrown onto his chin. Dignity spread over his face, a look of confidence beaming out.

He grinned, his teeth no longer yellow and crooked. My chest reformed as I stood there, my confidence in our victory dying out. A new Dakhma would tear us apart with how worn down Kessiah was. As if affirming my thoughts, Dakhma swiped his now white blade of energy.

A wave of light flowed over me, burning my skin like acid. Kessiah ran backwards, hiding behind a car. The melal and glass melted, a sterile scent leaking from the hissing materials. Dakhma raised his sword,

“I am the bringer of Yawm’s light. I will purify the remnant stain hiding from me. With...”

From under his gleaming armor, Dakhma’s chest pulsed outwards. It was a large shift, unnatural and grotesque. Dakhma took a step backwards, struggling out his words, “I...I will conquer these demons...”

A tendril of flesh ripped out from under his armor, plastering over the shining metal.

“I...hear their voices...I will continue, even though the flesh screams so loud...”

His chest pulsed once more. A tentalce of viens and writhing organs spread over the side of his neck. Another polyp of flesh expanded from the wrist holding his sword. Kessiah and I looked on in horror as he continued,

“The voices...they scream so loud...”

His cheeks sunk into his face. The cheeks split, his jaw unhinging. He gurgled out,

“Make them stop...I can’t...” He reached out hand towards us, “Please, make them stop.”

Rows of teeth expanded from his unhinged jaw. They opened up, forming many mouths across his jaw and the skin on his face. I opened my status screen, sending Torix and Hod a message,

The Living Dimension(3:21 P.M. 12/06/00) - Dakhma is too strong. Help.

I finished the message, sending it towards them. Dakhma’s body expanded out his armor, covering it in molded skin, hair, and organs. Like a nightmare of living flesh, the new, noble knight was consumed by his own body. He gurgled in a deformed voice,

“Please, help me. Please...”

The gurgling turned into a muffled howl as the skin on his right hand split open. Bone and meat covered the handle of his sword. He shifted, turning in agony. Waves of white light beamed outwards in every direction. They crashed against buildings, lopping them in two. I burrowed into the ground while Kessiah hid beneath rubble as he did so.

Once the sound stopped, I pulled myself from the ground. Dahkma’s arms no longer grabbed the side of his head. They laid limp at his side as his chest convulsed. Flesh covered the cape along his back, turning it into a writhing, convulsing plate of muscle and veins. Spikes of bone grew along the edge of it. Dakhma lifted his new left arm and smashed his face.

His knees shook as he slammed his fist into his face. Bulbous sores burst, flinging disgusting bile on the ground as he gurgled out a scream,

“Kill me...Kill me...They drown me...I am lost...I...I don’t want to...become them.”

He shook his head, his skin shivering. The convulsing stopped, along with any struggle. Dakhma’s posture straightened. His body relaxed. The fear in him dissipated. The grimaces on the mouths of the creature smiled. The eyes opened wide, curious, and haunting. The mouths spoke in perfect unison as it caught sight of me,

“You...you are not like the other food here or like my brethren. You are something else altogether.”

It took a step towards me, drool leaking from each of the disgusting mouths,

“You still feel like a little lamb...I wonder how you taste.”

I shook out the wave of fear, grinning at the monster. My armor formed teeth,

“Like something you will grow to fear.”
