A heavy hand rests on my shoulder as Tenjin sits down beside me. “Water huh? Is that what you’ve Awakened to?”

“Maybe?” I shrug. “Don’t even know for sure, but it makes sense. Though what I can do with water is... debatable. Sprinkle my opponents in a cool, refreshing mist perhaps.”

Chuckling, he shakes his head. “Sense has nothing to do with it.” Snapping his fingers, he conjures a tiny flame at his finger tip, little more than a candle light. “If our Mother-given skills made sense, I’d be a healer like my father, but I’ve no talent for it. Well, I didn’t until you came along.” With a small smile, he extinguishes the flame. “I never felt... right, with the flames. Chaotic and destructive, unpredictable and ever-changing, they're nothing like me. As a child, I wanted to be like the wind, moving through the trees unseen, free and unrestrained. To share in the unbridled indulgence and go wherever I please, it seemed so appealing, but I buckled beneath the pressure of duty and fell in line. Then, I fell in love with Tursinai, so free-spirited and nonconforming.”

He glances at his loving wife who blows him a kiss, and he beams at her in return. Unsure what to say, I remain silent, wondering if he’s rambling or if he has a point. I don’t talk to him much, but I always thought he’d be a little more hostile, considering his aloof manner and all the attention Tursinai gives me. Then again, I guess he knows his wife better than I do, and is comfortable with her shows of affection.

Turning back, he squeezes my shoulder. “Worry not about what you can do with it. It matters not. When I awakened to fire, I was sorely disappointed. What can I do with fire but destroy? This is not in my nature, and unsuitable for me. My attitude towards it stifled my progress for a long time, until I recently spoke of my concerns with my wife.” He smiles at the memory for a moment before pressing on. “She laughed and told me, ‘Don’t be silly. Fire brings warmth in the winter and light in the darkness. It suits you perfectly.’ Do you understand?”

“...No?” Totally lost.

“You think of your blessing in terms of battles, but water can be used in many ways. To cleanse, to sustain, to nurture and yes, to refresh. Combat is not the sole purpose of your awakening. Besides,” he adds with a shrug, “Water would suit you perfectly, Falling Rain of the Bekhai.”

Except my name is just a mistranslation. Nodding in feigned understanding, I ask, “Any more advice?” Preferably something helpful.

“Indeed. Stop worrying so much, you will master it with time. Now, the day grows late. Stop working and conserve your energy. The Defiled will likely return to strike again, and this time, they will face the Undying Savage.” Winking once, his visage grows stern. “If you should wake in the midst of an attack, wait by your tent until I arrive and keep that hot-head Mila with you.” Winking roguishly, he adds, “She’s sleeping in your tent. Go to her. I will keep watch out here.”

Thanking him for his advice, I give Lin a hug and a kiss and send her off, since her guards would never let her stay in my tent. Li Song’s eyes greet me as I enter the tent, almost glowing in the gloom. Her sword in hand and a bear cub nestled in the crook of her arm, she sits fully armoured inside her bedroll, still paranoid from last night’s attack. After quietly calming her down, I lay next to Mila and wrap my arm around her, breathing deeply as my sweet little bride-to-be stirs at my touch. Aurie pads over and settles down behind me, his chest rumbling as he pushes against me.

This is it, the warm, comfortable embrace I was searching for. Maybe it isn’t too helpful when it comes to controlling Chi, but this is nice, nonetheless. Closing my eyes, my fears and troubles melt away as I sink into blissful sleep.

This is exactly what I need right now.

Tickled by my breath, Mila elbows me roughly on instinct, my pained gasp startling her from peaceful slumber.

Okay, almost exactly what I need.

Chapter Meme
