“Yes, way. If I hadn't told them the proper time indexes, they would have had to search for the references all by themselves.” Elise said, and you could hear the pride in her voice.

“I hope they paid you for all that work.” Barbi said from behind her.

“Oh, they did.” Elise said and smiled over her shoulder at the other woman. “Handsomely.”

Barbi nodded. “Good.” She said. “Saving the editors a hundred hours of work is worth it.”

“They were really grateful.” Elise said. “I've actually got another appointment on Monday to give them even more references.”

“You do?” Barbi asked, and Elise nodded. “Do you mind if I come with you?”

“I don't see why I would.” Elise said.

“Thanks.” Barbi said. “I'd like to visit my old stomping grounds and see to a few things.” She smiled. “We can even use the carpool lane.”

“That'll be reason enough to bring you.” Elise said, and they laughed.

“Shh! It's starting again.” Barbara said.

*

Onscreen Ren was nudged awake by Fake Clint's foot, ate a bit of food, then the expedition travelled further and further down into the cavern system. Onscreen Ren talked to his group, most of which didn't feel like talking. He exchanged idle chit-chat with Fake Clint and Fake Tommy, who promised to gather special food ingredients if Onscreen Ren ever needed him.

“Goblins!” Someone cried out from nearby, and the fight was on as the goblins jumped on several soldiers and attacked.

“Damn! Guess one of the teams missed this cave or they let them slip past during a fight.” Fake Clint said and opened fire with his bow bracers. The goblins didn't have any defense, since they only wore tattered cloth and no armor. They showed the fight in it's entirety as the goblins tried desperately to attack the soldiers. Ren's group, minus him, fought well and bravely. He could do nothing but stand there and be protected because he couldn't fight.

Fake Clint told one of the soldiers to warn the Captain of the Guard that all side caves needed to be scouted again, and to be prepared for further ambushes. Once they knew it was possible, the next time the goblins attacked, they were easily dealt with. They still caused minor wounds and damaged equipment, though. By the time they made it to a good site to camp, everyone was tired from the constant fighting. As the soldiers started to set up camp, it faded to black.

*

“Boy, was I pathetic there or what?” Ren asked.

“You were being smart, actually.” Lisa said, and Ren turned to look at her. “Even back then you knew your capabilities. You didn't try to jump in or interfere when you knew that the others were a lot more capable of fighting than you.”

“She's right, Ren.” Elise said. “Your sole job was to repair their items. That's it. You weren't supposed to fight, and you stayed out of the way when it came to fighting.” She squeezed his hand slightly. “I know that bothered you at the time; but, doing nothing then took more courage than foolishly trying to fight.”

Ren sighed. “I was only a level 2 on a quest with players level 30 to 60.”

“You were... and that took courage as well.” Lisa said. “I didn't know you back then, and I really wish that I did.”

“You do?” Ren asked, surprised.

Lisa nodded. “The way you stood up to Tristan, even though he was so many levels higher than you...” She smiled. “He was actually scared of you.”

“No. Way.” Ren said, and she nodded again.

“Despite his high Fame, he wasn't the one that was winning everyone over. You were.” Lisa said. “I don't know why Charisma isn't a stat in the game, because you had it even back then.”

“M-me? Charismatic?” Ren asked, surprised once again.

“Oh, come on.” Lisa said and leaned in close. “Do you really think a group of soldiers and players would have treated you so nicely if they didn't like you right from the start?”

“But...”

“You were so earnest and happy all the time, even in the middle of a fight that you couldn't fight in.” Lisa said and kissed his cheek. “You didn't like not being able to fight, but you never let it show. You made everyone feel better, just by being there and being who you are.” She said. “If I'd known then what you were like, I think I would have stolen you away from everyone just so I could keep you all to myself.”

Ren looked at her with wide eyes as he imagined what his life would have been like if she had 'stolen him away' back then. Lisa smiled seductively as she saw the thoughts cross his face, then leaned in to kiss him on the lips. She broke the kiss when the sound of the show came back on and sat back in her recliner, and the seductive smile never left her face.
