Eppie wondered, karmically, if she should tell the senior politician that when the GFC hit, the government absolutely must not set a precedent. The bailouts were necessary to avoid an outright depression, but they were without nearly enough structural reform attached. Breakups, executive accountability, and tighter capital requirements—none of the mechanisms her Wharton lecturer prescribed had been exchanged for the rescue. Dodd-Frank ponied up the cash, but not the boundaries. If Gore repeated history, there was a real chance that the Republicans would ride the wave of outrage to the White House.

Watching the unctuous demeanour of the career “centrist”, however, Eppie felt it best to let politics take its natural course. She was reborn to save the arts. Not the world. Right?

The [System] offered no comment.

“No offence taken,” Eppie replied with the same professionalism. “It warms my heart to see you here tonight, Sir.”

Her sweetness lifted everyone’s mood. Unfortunately, the conversation had already died.

Still holding her left hand, her dearest Kiritani Sensei watched it all without a word. Then he leaned into the circle of power with a careful bow.

In the low, careful Japanese he reserved for rooms too grand for him, he spoke to her. “Sukoshi, futari dake de hanashi wo sasete itadakitai no desu ga.” He bowed his head again, “Fuku-daitouryou kakka, oiboreno bureiwo, o-yurushi kudasai.”

Oibore. Eppie noted. This humble old man would like to speak to his tenshi alone.

Vaughan translated. Lieberwitz bade them both good health in English.

With their blessings, Eppie led her sensei to the last room, while her other sensei continued to speak in a hypnotic, aphoristic cadence, enthralling both pundits and politicians alike.

The fifth room was empty when they entered, since Vaughan’s guests were still trapped in the fourth. The docent at the door gave them a respectful nod, then closed the door behind him so that they had absolute privacy.

The final chamber was a circular transient space, architecturally framed so that the viewer had to walk around it. The temperature was a bit warmer than the other rooms, and the scent as well smelled faintly of sakura flowers.

The principal piece of artwork hung in the middle, enormous, the largest Kiritani had ever made. From a distance, it looked like a Sumi-e installation, but from ten feet, it was evident that the image was composed from thousands upon thousands of ballpoint pen strokes.

It was Tule Lake. Empty. Serene. The barracks drawn faint, almost apologetic, guard towers rendered thin enough to nearly vanish. The towers were unmanned. The fences had fallen apart. His final work was not a vision of imprisonment—It was a vision of Tule Lake, decayed, open, resigned to history.And nowhere in the frame, not one corner of it, was Kiritani. There were no more No-No Boys at the threshold.

There was a long, soft bench.

They sat.

Kiritani Sensei did not look at his own drawing. He had already let it go. He looked, instead, at Eppie.

“Tenshi-sama,” he spoke slowly, the way he always did in rooms too grand for him. His hands were folded before him, still as a monk at prayer while speaking to a higher power. “There is a debt I carry. An on.” He said the word the way he said her name, carefully, as though it held weight. “A gratitude too old, too heavy, for words alone to lift.”

“You don’t need to say anything,” Eppie held her sensei’s bony fingers. Her heart knew what was coming—she wasn’t a child, but knowing was worse than ignorance or naivety. A man who spoke to God was not a man who had an excess of time.

Kiritani shook his head, slowly, conserving the energy he had left for a final burst of emotion. “I am an artist now. Of two worlds.”

“You were… always an artist,” Eppie assured him, biting back her tears. “In both worlds.”

He raised his arms, and Eppie hugged him. It wasn’t a very Japanese thing to do, but it was American down to the core. She hugged him with all her heart, her fingers counting his ribs as they embraced, and she sobbed into his neck.

“Thank you, Tenshi-sama,” Kiritani spoke plainly. “For finding me.”

“I found the cats,” Eppie confessed. “They led me to you. But you found the cats. You saved them from the cold.”

“And so it goes,” Kiritani laughed softly. “The karma of On.”

They both laughed, dry as paper. Then both joy and sorrow faded into something that wasn't. Something closer to gladness.

“Mou iku junbi ga dekimashita, Fontaine-san.”

I am ready to journey onward. He whispered into her ear, staring at his final drawing.

Eppie didn’t answer. There was nothing to answer with that would be worth the breaths her Sensei had left. He had lived on that single breath in Central Park for fifty and more years, pure and mulish, driven by spite to resist a country apathetic to its own citizens. That breath, once released, caught up with his body like a comet.

“Yurushita,” Kiritani spoke even more softly, as if he was falling asleep. I have forgiven. They both allowed the words to settle. “I hope you can forgive as well, Eppie. Tanaka told me not to hate them, but I gave up that hate the moment you took me from the cold. That was the beginning of my yasuragi." He smiled at her with every wrinkle on his face. My peace.

Eppie knew that Kiritani would have heard about her history from Vaughan, possibly even her plans for William. She thought of the weight she was still carrying, deliberately, on purpose, and wondered, not for the first time, whether she'd been carrying it for the wrong reasons.

She had no answers for that either.

So she took his hand, kissed his paper-thin skin, and stood with him in front of the empty camp, knowing that the serenity would last only as long as her not-Sensei kept talking.

Eppie couldn’t speak forgiveness in the same way as Kiritani—but she hoped that her capstone performance would put her sensei’s final worry to bed.
