There were cushions arranged in a circle that was surrounded by a series of lines and candles. When they all took a seat, Aunt Helen placed the sliver of sky into the center circle and stepped back. All the candles were lit, and Melinda could smell that they were special. Her Concept seemed to turn to butter when she got a single whiff.

The shorter woman hooked her arm, and pulled Melinda along and to a cozy tea room.

When she sipped the tea proffered to her, Melinda sunk into the couch and tucked her legs under her.

As they sat in silence, she asked the older woman, “You set up the bursting into the house, didn’t you?”

The woman gasped, and brought her hand to her mouth as if she was shocked, but Melinda noticed the twinkle in her eye.

“Now, why would I do that?”

“I noticed the trance my friends dropped in. It was too fast to be just the candles. It was the meals you made for them. They do something.”

The woman cackled and examined her fingers, which were now talons. “I can’t keep my talons out of other people’s business when I feel it’s appropriate. That’s why I came to see you. I was already planning on visiting, even before Matt gave me the shard for you.”

“See me?”

Melinda couldn’t think why she would need to know the woman.

“Oh, honey. I could feel you across the Empire.”

Melinda was going to interject, but Aunt Helen spoke over her. “Let me get my story out, and we’ll see if that doesn’t answer your questions.”

She cleared her throat, “A few dozen million years ago, shortly after the calamity that destroyed the only great union of cultivators, and killed off the strongest, there were no Great Powers or large organizations. Even planets had more than one faction trying to take over.”

Melinda tried to picture that, but couldn’t. There had always been the Empire. Right?

“It was long ago. As people and factions recovered, they grew in power and expanded out. It’s what we call the unification wars now. Similar ideologies flocked together and joined up. It was around that time when my husband and son died. My son just never came out of a rift, and my husband never recovered. He eventually dispersed his spirit and died.”

The woman looked off to the distance for nearly ten minutes, but Melinda didn’t want to disturb her. She found it hard to wrap her head around that length of time that the woman had lived, but could sympathize with her losses. They were reminiscent of her own.

“What you need to understand is that evolved beasts like me are given a Concept at Tier 5. It’s reflective of our bloodline or elemental affinity, sometimes both. But Concepts aren’t permanent. I never resonated with my fire Concept, so I willingly broke it and formed a Concept around the idea of family.”

“When my family died, I was left adrift. When something like that hits you, and is so dissonant with your Concept, it can shatter. Mine did. And I’ve spent the last few million years trying to rebuild a vase from the dust that has scattered in the wind.”

Melinda blanched at the revelation. “That’s horrible. I’m so sorry. I… ”

The older woman patted her hand and gave her a bitter sweet smile. “I could have dismissed my Concept and started over again. Even made another family Concept. But I chose a much harder route, and slowly rebuilt my Concept over the years. I refuse to give up my last connection to my family. But my age and experience have changed my definition of family. These days, I consider the Empire my family. Now, I can feel when people who will change the Empire are rising up, and get a feeling for what they need. I knew when your friend Matt was leaving the Training planet he was on. He needed a little push, and it was the right time to give it. The Emperor wasn’t happy with how much I gave him, but it’s not like he didn’t get a helping hand in my kitchen.”

Melinda nearly dropped her teacup when the woman in front of her talked so casually about the strongest man in the Empire.

Aunt Helen continued, “Today, I’m here for you. Barging into your house was an accident that happily let me repay a slight. Funny how that happened.”

“But you’re here for me? Why?”

“Oh, I can feel that you hate your Concept. I’m here to tell you it’s okay if you wish to break it and start over. I’ll even show you how. If you don’t want to do that, I’ll act as an ear to talk to who understands. No pressure or judgment.”

Melinda didn’t know why, but she started to cry at the woman’s words. The pain and frustration she had been tamping down further and further all slipped out in a wave of emotion. The more she tried to control it, the more she broke down, until she was a small ball of tears being rocked back and forth.

She managed to get out through her sobs, “I don’t know what I want to do. It feels so evil. It makes me see so much pain in the world. But it also helps me heal. I don’t know... I don’t know.”

“That’s perfectly fine.”

***

The next day, Melinda went to her morning shift at the hospital as if nothing was wrong. She even ate a breakfast that made everything else she had eaten feel like it was prepared by the deaf and blind. She was slightly surprised at the revelation that her friends would be in their trance for at least another two days. Apparently, the formation they had sat in would ensure that they got the full effect from the fragment of the ascension.

Melinda owed Matt.

She knew they were friends, and there should be no debt, but she had worried about her friends not getting their Concepts. It was the final hurdle to immortality. Now, even if they didn’t get their Concepts, they would be halfway through the race. It was invaluable progress, considering they hadn’t even known where the starting point was before.

She stopped by a coffee shop and refilled her cup. Aunt Helen had seen how tired she was, and made her a cup of coffee that tasted like fluffy clouds on a spring day. The one she bought at the shop tasted like dirt in comparison, but it was hot and had caffeine.

As she passed the streets, she saw crime scene barriers blocking off a bakery. A quick search on the CityNet told the story. There had been a series of murders in the bakery last night. Supposedly local crime lords were to blame.

Melinda just hurried her walk into a jog. She had a feeling that would mean the ER would be packed, but when she arrived, there were hardly any people.

Even though she was nearly an hour early, she checked in and got to work. Baxter was there and already glaring at her.

Melinda just smiled at him. After their heart-to-heart, Aunt Helen had told her all about Baxter and how to handle him. The woman had dirt on everyone apparently, and had been happy to share over a night of giggles and whispered plans.

She just smiled and let the man stew.

Melinda felt good. She had gotten nearly zero sleep, but felt like she had made a friend in the older woman. She hadn’t come to a decision about her Concept, but somehow, knowing she could remove it lightened her outlook on the whole situation. Now there was an option, and she wasn’t in a hurry to decide either way.

Aunt Helen provided a valuable lesson. If she broke through to Tier 15, she didn’t have to worry about time, and then Melinda could decide without added pressure.

Her first patient came in while snacking on a box of assorted donuts.

“Eclairs? They’re great. Try one.” Mr. Millson offered one, and as she chewed on the proffered treat, she scanned him for any maladies.

Remembering his idle chatter on the train, she asked, “Did you have your wild orgy last night? You seem chipper this morning.”

“Oh, it was delightful.”

Melinda kept up the small talk as she healed the man’s extensive cancer. She was honestly impressed that the man was up and walking. It was an impressive showing of will power and drive.

He walked out immediately after he was healed, still munching on the savory sweets.

Baxter took that opportunity to speak up, “You know that he’s a contract killer, right?”

She turned and raised her eyebrow at the grumpy man.

“Did you notice the label on the box of eclairs?”

Melinda had to check her AI, but it was the same as the bakery involved in the killings the night before .

She shrugged. “It’s not my business to judge people. I’ll heal anyone who comes in.”

“Does that change if his victims were brought in? What if the person was truly evil?”

“Then I would heal them and happily watch them be handed over to authorities. If you’re so concerned, why don’t you capture the man and send him to prison yourself?”

Baxter just scoffed at her, and Melinda smiled.

Today was a good day.

***

Aunt Helen had been wrong about when her friends would exit their seclusion. It had taken more than the estimated three days. Only after the fourth day passed did they all seem to wake up and stumble out, at nearly the same time.

Aunt Helen, the miracle of culinary perfection that she was, stuffed sandwiches in their hands before sending them off to bed.

The next morning, they were bright-eyed and bushy-tailed. They all had their phrases and ideas on their images.

Melinda kept Mathew busy for long enough that they were catcalled by the others.

She just flipped them all the bird and sat on his lap. They were married, and she knew they were happy for her, but they teased them all the same.

As they sat around the comfy couches, Melinda asked the looming question.

“Are we still doing the war?” She hoped getting closer to their Concepts would mean they didn’t want to, but she knew it was foolish. They all eagerly jumped at the chance.

Sam looked to their host and asked, “Do you know if Matt will be there?”

Aunt Helen laughed, “Oh, he wasn’t given a choice. He’ll be fighting.”

Vinnie looked around, “So what side should we choose?”

Sam kicked him. “The alliance of Queens. Everyone knows Queens are better than Kings.”

Melinda laughed at the reasoning. It really didn’t matter which side they chose. It was largely a nonissue. She had read the provided information while her friends were in their trances, and it seemed like it would be heavily monitored. Points were dependent on participation, so it was what they did that mattered, not who they did it for. Apparently, the AIs watching the event could account for disparity in numbers and such, so it might be better to be on the losing side from a pure points perspective.

But, she still threw her vote in with the other girls. That made it a tie, as the boys used the same logic to say that the kings were better.

Kyle tried to add some logic. “We should choose whatever side Matt is on. If he’s participating, we want to be on his side.”

They all looked to Aunt Helen, who simply sipped her tea. “Oh, that would be telling.”

The older woman winked at them, and Melinda was pretty sure that Tara was uncomfortable.

Sam kicked the balance once again by adding, “Think about it. The Emperor allowed this war, so he must not be happy with the Kingdom. Otherwise, why would he allow this?”

That was enough for Vinnie to change his vote, to the caterwauling of the other two. Melinda gleefully pressed accept and watched it be confirmed by the other four.

Mathew tickled her, and it turned into a little brawl.

Two days later, they were seen off by Aunt Helen, and dropped off at the meeting point for everyone who was on The Path.. According to Aunt Helen, teleporting from planet to planet would be too slow, and they would enjoy this one form of transportation.

Melinda tried to turn Tara around, who hadn’t talked her eyes off the portal Aunt Helen had sent them through.

“You ok, Tara? You’ve seemed off the last few days. Did you not like Aunt Helen?”

Tara looked at her like she was stupid. “Like her? I intend to marry that woman!”

...What?
