"Allow me to explain planetary ownership. I've been suppressing the eldritch to pre-fringe world extremes to retain the planet. That has prevented Schema from annexing the territory from me. That requires resources that you simply don't have. A part of any arrangement between us would be my Empire maintaining the planet for the next five years."

Obolis a raised a hand and one finger, "This means your guild is given the time to establish a presence. That's a valuable service. I can also give you access to highly trained, planetary coordinators. They can offer up systems and approaches for maintaining a territory long-term. Our previous data on the planet, including dungeon locations, would be available for you as well."

I bit my tongue for a moment before firing back, "Here's the thing - you're doing the bare minimum to maintain that planet. You won't be able to hold anything without my guild's direct assistance. I know this first hand. I'll be fighting a large, hostile force that's established a presence on the planet."

I pointed at the Ruhl in stasis near us, "Elysium is a much more organized and deadly force than the eldritch. If anything, I'm allowing you to maintain a presence on Blegara without needing much investment. Considering that, here's what I'm thinking is fair."

I raised two hands, and I gestured them to my left, "You can transfer the planet to my guild, and I won't require you to maintain control of the world." I gestured my hands to the right,

"In exchange, I'll guarantee your guild is prioritized in trade relations. So there won't be a discount, but if demand is high and slots are full, the albony get first grabs. How does that sound?"

Obolis's eyes narrowed, "I give you a planet and all its resources, and you allow me to buy those resources from you? Ah, yes, perhaps you've gone deaf midway through this conversation?"

The irritation in his voice showed simmering anger, but I pressed on, not backing down,

"That's not exactly right. You can't harvest any of the resources on your planet. They will all be dominated by Elysium soon. I'm allowing you to take a guaranteed loss and turn it into the chance for a net gain. You won't be forced to fight somewhere you can't defend, and you'll be able to get the resources you want from Blegara, guaranteed."

Obolis frowned before pacing around his study for a bit. After a minute or two, he let out a sigh, "Then...then I suppose you're right. It isn't as if I could lie to you about the state of Blegara seeing as you've been there. This isn't the worst arrangement, either. My wealthy patrons will be pleased since they get their luxuries, and you get your credits. It's...It's not an awful arrangement."

Obolis waved his hands, "There's just not much about this deal that's beneficial for me, however. Is there anything you could throw in that would make this more lucrative for our side? Perhaps a few of your super golems as protectors in my attacked cities?"

I frowned, "I'd like to, but I'm not offering a product that hasn't been tested yet. I wouldn't want you to take one and try and reverse engineer it either. They're valuable for a reason."

Obolis's eyes went distant before widening,

"How about this then - you allow me to contract them for a certain amount of credits. You'll be leasing them to me, and I'll pay you based on an approved rate we agree on beforehand. Is that acceptable?"

I reached out a hand, "That sounds good to me. Is that a deal?"

Obolis took my hand, and we shook on it. Obolis gave me a look of begrudging respect,

"Then, I'll look forward to seeing what you can do on Blegara that I couldn't."

Obolis got out a chair after that, and we sat across from one another while ironing out a few details about our arrangement. He let me know that he recorded the conversation, and a Speaker would draft up a contract for us. We'd revise it a few times, going back and forth before agreeing to the planet swap. Once it was finished, we'd sign it, and the planet would be mine.

Just like that, I'd own an entire world.

It would be a really long-term investment for my guild, of course, but I didn't intend to use it as an economic power anyways. I needed those crystals at the bottom of those trenches, which guaranteed my main selling point for owning the place. Testing Elysium's response to my guild's territory offered some reliable info as well. If the Adairs came down like a hammer, then I knew not to establish myself on Earth. If not, then we could begin expanding outward.

This all rode on the plan that we cooked up earlier, however. For that to happen, I agreed to a few of the details involved with our contract. Before I left Obolis's study, I raised a hand to the guy,

"Oh yeah, you can go ahead and pull your forces off of Blegara."

Obolis sat in his chair at this point, and his main of fur ruffled out,

"You'd like me to let them conquer the planet utterly? That would just make it even more difficult to retake. Are you sure about that?"

"Sometimes, an enemy being overconfident is more valuable than them being weak."

Obolis furrowed his brow, "I, ah, well, if you say so. It will be your planet soon, after all, so who am I to judge? What will you and your team do in the meantime?"

My armor grew sharp edges as my intent became clear,

"I'll be getting ready for reconquering Blegara and soon."

Obolis tilted his head, confusion spreading over his face, "Now how would you intend to do that?"

I grinned,

"Shock and awe."
