In the back, Alexander flushed red as a tomato. The poor guy was younger than everyone else here, and his inexperience stuck out almost as bad as his embarrassment. I kind of knew the feeling, so I didn't point it out. No one else noticed, and Isa let out a grunt of approval,

"Gah, I know I'd look like you if I could shapeshift too. Either way, let's get this show on the road. We have other dungeons to clear."

Other Hod leaped into her shadow, fusing with the umbral manifestation behind her. I walked right into another realm, my presence concealed entirely. The others got ready, Alexander scrambling to get out his grimoire. They swung with their ropes for a bit and found a red dungeon core flowing with eldritch energy at the center of the bottomless cavern.

Using a spell given out by Torix, Alexander harvested the red core before placing it in his backpack. We ran out towards the spider's charred corpse and brought out a sample of its blood too. Isa used an energized, mana powered knife to saw at the spider's claws and fangs. She placed the animal's weaponry on new spears, pulling them from her dimensional storage.

As she did, Lester took the spider's venom sacs, taking care of them like a surgeon as he did. Once that was handled, he cut out its eyes one at a time. Each eye was put in a ziplock bag before being placed in his dimensional storage. They both chugged health potions the entire time, assisting their regeneration.

Once harvesting was done, we got out of the dungeon fast, most of the monsters handled by yours truly. Once near the entrance, we got back towards the encampment. The Remnants let us in via passes they got from registration with the adventurer's guild. Considering the looks our team got, people were impressed but not overly so.

That was good. We wanted just the right kind of impression. Our team stepped back towards a large, wooden building near the center of town. There, we walked past gates towards a rambunctious, homey inn. People drank and ate at tables, enjoying some downtime from clearing dungeons. A row of futuristic terminals handled the various detailed aspects of quests, including requirements, rewards, and locations. Unlike with Schema's system, these weren't system bound; anyone could participate in their quest systems. After finishing one, a party lined up before being processed by an espen worker.

These workers lined up behind a row of desks with a few machines laid on them along with a computer. These espens helped handle the logistics of quests, like proving they were done. All you needed was a blood sample and the kind of core since most dungeons were documented nearby. They included rewards for finding new dungeons too.

We waited in one of those lines, having all those parts already. Once we reached the worker, the espen smiled at us, her teeth sharp and skin shiny. She looked like she was a pretty shark to me.

The espen said, "It's good to see you all again. Fast clear?"

Isa smirked, "Of course. We're the best in the business...most of the time."

Professional and concise, the espen gave her a quick bow, "Indeed, you all appear to be. Your reward will be a week's free stay here at the adventurer's guild, giving a four-person bedroom along with a week's worth of food. To receive more, the three of you will need to be systemized on an Elysium world. The core is yours to keep."

Lester's eyes sharpened, his curiosity peaked, "Elysium, huh? I heard of it, but I didn't think it was real. What does being systemized mean, and how would we make that happen?"

The espen smiled as she spoke, "We'll need confirmation of five dungeons being completed along with confirmation you've read the terms of Elysium. This means signing an oath. It details a lot, but the most important part is that you all will be considered exiled from Schema's rival system if you decide to join ours. We don't make that part happen, Schema does. Otherwise, we'd offer both systems at once."

I doubted that, and Lester did too as he leaned forward onto the desk separating the worker and us,

"Between you and me, you're already in Elysium's system, right?"

The espen worker nodded. Lester rolled a hand, "Say I wanted a comparison between the systems, how does Schema's hold up when compared to Elysium's?"

The espen worker looked up before leaning back into her chair, "Now that is a tough one. Hmm, well, I'd say that Elysium's doesn't offer the same sky-high limits that Schema's does. There are no classes, and attributes, trees, and skillpoints are harder to get. That being said-"

She pointed at a Hybrid nearby, "Very few individuals succeed in becoming even half as powerful as a Hybrid. After all, less than one out of ten reach the level cap of 5,000 in Schema's system. Hybrids start at level 8,000 and reach as high as level 12,000 if you get a blighted one. That takes military service and a lot of willpower, however."

The espen shrugged, "In my opinion, I think our system offers much higher immediate benefits. For people who are doing as well as you three are, I wouldn't recommend it. You all have great long term potential in Schema's system."

It kind of stunned me just how honest she was. Isa crossed her arms, "And why did you join Elysium's system if you're not recommending it?"

The espen looked down, "That's easy to answer. I'm not the best fighter. I'd rather do this kind of thing to help people. It suits me better, and I don't have to put my life on the line every day. I also get a Hybrid of my own for self-defense, and I call her scrappy. I also get paid over twice as much as I would in Schema's system."

Isa's eyes opened wide, "Pay, you say? How much?"

"120,000 credits yearly."

The espen smirked as Isa's eyes widened until they looked ready to burst. Isa mumbled, "Are you fucking kidding me?"

It was the espen worker's turn to smile, "Not one bit. Now, please hand in the blood. Others are waiting behind you."

The espen put out her hand with a vial. Lester gave Isa a pat on the back, "It'll be ok." Lester poured some monster blood from his own flask, and the espen put it in a machine. After swirling it and doing some computer mumbo jumbo, they verified where and what it was from. The espen smiled, handing them three passes with fancy runic markings on them.

"Here are the three passes you need for your stay at an inn in town. We'll compensate for any restaurant for whatever you order over the next week as well."

Isa and Lester's eyes lit up, thoughts of feasting coming over them. As we walked out of the guild room, we found a restaurant nearby. They used the passes for buying lunch along with two extra meals. Once they resupplied and rested for an hour, we moved out. The downtime let me relax for a second, and that was a refreshing change compared to normal.

Most of our assignments and goals were structured by either Daniel or Torix. Neither of them slept, and both of them hounded at their work. I wasn't a slouch either, but geez, they could afford to slow down sometimes. Having Isa and Lester understand that concept made this mission much, much more comfortable than it would otherwise be.

It would still be a long day, but we'd pull through. We needed four more dungeons finished before the end of tomorrow. As we paced out of the city, Hybrids stomped on the ground all around us. Their metal frames and entrenched cords left me unnerved, mostly when one met my eye at random. They never held their gaze, if you could call it that, for very long. I preferred it that way.

Walking past the outskirts of the encampment again, I stared back. Everyone here relied on the Hybrids who spawned from a living hell. They needed the silvers and eldritch as much as they wanted to stop them. Unlike Schema, however, these guys weaponized their enemies. They turned them inside out, destroyed their minds, and used the husks to do their bidding. Thinking about it made my stomach sink. I realized right then what was bothering me about the whole situation.

I couldn't tell who the real monsters were anymore.

-Daniel-

I stared at Obolis after he offered me an entire planet, and the grizzled Emperor kept his composure with ease. The ancient king grinned at me, showing his sharpened teeth and a wild glint behind his eye. The guy talked about this like it was nothing, and I still couldn't believe it.

Before I let myself get overwhelmed with it all, I calmed myself down. This was the same style of negotiation that was so effective before. I wasn't going to fall for it again. I raised a hand,

"Holy shit...a planet? For real?"

Dammit, Daniel, keep it together.

Obolis spread his arms, "That is exactly correct. You seem keen on keeping the territory. Considering that's economically unfeasible for the Empire, perhaps conquering it on your own will prove fruitful. And I expect compensation, of course, though it won't be as steep as you may imagine."

I raised a brow, "It sounds like you've done this before."

"This wouldn't be the first planet I've wagered nor my last. Regardless of my own history, let's focus on yours. From your perspective, this should be quite a lucrative offer. At the moment, you're unable to establish a dominant position on your home planet due to Lehesion. He'll tear any territory there apart, at least in theory."

Obolis raised a hand, "This has kept your guild stunted from wide-scale resources. By colonizing a different world, you enable much greater gains for your guild. You can discover what Elysium's retaliation will be towards a territory you own as well."

Obolis pressed his fingers together, "I cannot stress that point enough - that information is vital for your guild's future growth. If Lehesion is used to conquer worlds elsewhere outside your own, you may even announce your presence on Earth. Given your ability to create golems, you may rapidly expand thereafter."

The Emperor met my eye, "Besides, I'm certain your species could use your assistance in that regard. They're likely struggling, and you could easily rectify the situation they're in."

I winced, remembering the conditions of most people back at home. Obolis gestured at a few of the rare shells lined behind him,

"Think of it. Earning resources from Blegara will no doubt expand your guild's abilities and members. The Vagni will be at your disposal should your plan work and even the eldritch to an extent. Once conquered, the pearls, corals, shells, ores, water, sand, and resort locations will be yours. You could even use the planet's water for terraforming planets close to habitation."

Contemplating a few of the variables, I pointed at Obolis, "What does owning a planet do exactly?"

"That's based on the arrangement we'd make. If I offer you ownership of the world, it will allow you to take a percentage of the world's resources. To give a point of reference, I receive 7% of the credits, exp, and resources harvested on Blegara, though that is far less than the cost of maintaining control there. You could have that number increased or decreased depending on preference if you'd like, however."

"There's no way you could increase that cut to like, 50%, right?"

Obolis scoffed, "Of course not. The residents would starve and be weaklings. There's a cutoff of 15% total resource skimming for owning a planet. Even that is very rigorous, and only the most totalitarian regimes would enact a tax that high. There are city taxes as well, along with other kinds of resource management at your disposal. Those details are your own to manage."

Obolis raised a fist, "However, for a guild that's growing such as yours, you could generate tremendous income in only a matter of months from the new territory. Think of the opportunities given to your guild. Space to grow beyond that mountain, resorts for sunny vacations, and even rare organic resources, all that is yours and more. Those are valuable commodities that most empires dream of. They are at your fingertips should you act decisively on this."

I crossed my arms, "And why do you want me to take the planet off your hands so badly then if it's so valuable?"

"I'm glad you asked. You see, you're able to retain and hold the territory. I cannot. I still control the territory, so I require some kind of compensation for giving control to you. I wouldn't ask for a flat, permanent tax rate from your planet. Instead, I'd ask for favorable trade deals. I'd want a price reduction for those resources I mentioned earlier, along with vacation priority for my citizens."

I leaned back, "How favorable?"

Obolis put his hand on his chin, thinking, "Hmmm, how about a percentage cut, say 15%?"

I opened my status, double-checking his offer. Information on a planetary exchange was sparse, but a few results popped up. A 15% price cut was the average for trade deals in a situation like this. Obolis read my expression well and turned a palm to me,

"Your research no doubt verifies my request as a reasonable one?"

I shook my head, "Not exactly. The comments talk about how a lot of times, this results in middleman trading. The new planet owner works to harvest resources and is forced to sell it to the old owner. The old owner then just resells it to someone for a higher price, taking all the profits."

"Duly noted. Perhaps a 10% cutoff then? That would make reselling for a profit much more difficult given the margins involved with trading. You could consider this a gift."

"I'm not so sure about that. This isn't a fully functioning planet you're handing off to me, not by any means. You don't have control of it, and you're about to lose the world anyways. I'll be reconquering it from the top-down, meaning your ownership means little here."

Obolis grinned, "You've learned a bit about negotiation, I see. Excellent. Let's do battle then." Obolis spread his arms,

