“Thank the gods!” Erick said, “Where do I get some of that?” He looked around, adding, “I thought I’d have to reinvent pot for a hot second.” A glance over to Candlepoint almost made him change his mind about reinventing certain drugs. He said, “Shit.” Then he got mad. “What the fuck is that fucking dark dragon doing at Candlepoint!”

Justine fumbled the bolt of fabric in her hands. It clattered to the floor, red cloth spilling to the ground like dropped bucket of blood.

- - - -

A dark crystal rose fifty meters into the air in the center of a city square, while the city beyond the Crystal was a patchwork of houses and rubble. Shadelings moved rock into the ground, or lifted it from the soil, leveling out a brand new city plan, orchestrated at the command of a red horned incani. To the south of the city, lay rows and rows of dead, lined up a thousand to a line, facing the sky with as much dignity as uncovered corpses could muster. The people of Candlepoint had no death shrouds to cover them, and no [Conjure Item] for a quick solution, but there were not that many bugs out in the desert. Even the scattered glowbugs that had infiltrated the city, by virtue of proximity, were not capable of surviving on anything found inside Candlepoint’s dark walls. A few big black bugs, the size of footballs, were feeding on the dead, but the living squished those bugs as fast as they appeared.

The future survival of Candlepoint’s citizens was still up for question. But they had help. Almost-oozes of house-sized white lights floated among the dark streets, helping when they could. Ophiel hadn’t had to separate any fighting shadelings in an hour, or banish any combative interlopers in a few hours. So mostly they just floated, looking for ways to assist with the takedown of a building, or the clearing of a street. Most of them did that, but the tenth supplied [Mend] and [Cleanse] services at the gazebo base of the Crystal.

And then something shifted.

The Ophiel high above the city, floating below the clouds, watching for all possible incomers, had the most obvious view, but those on the ground saw the event, as it happened.

In the western end of the city, where the land was rubble and people worked to clear the destruction, the ground cracked. Dark streets folded downward, like the opening of a great void. Plumes of dust shot into the air. Shadelings turned to shadow and rushed to get away, though some stayed behind to work their magic trying to prevent the collapse; it was a futile effort. The ground opened. Most got away.

Water shot up, into the air; a great fountain of rushing blue to rival the size of the Crystal, that sparkled like diamonds in the light of an overcast sky. That plume of water rushed down from on high, like a great hammer punching into the surface of the planet. It struck. The land folded inward, and westward. The western wall of the city collapsed, as the very land decided it did not want to be land, anymore. A fifth of the city, in under thirty seconds, churned with tumbling water and stone. And still, the waters expanded westward.

People evacuated east. Erick prayed they would be okay. He almost prayed for the attack to end, but he saw that it was not an attack at all. It only looked like an attack for its effect. This was a deep magic at work, changing the landscape, molding it into something new.

Destruction reigned on what had once been the western edge of Candlepoint, but that destruction came no further east. Erick was not the only one who noticed. Shadelings stood upon the tops of buildings, watching the change rolling away from their city. Orange land became dark mud, that dipped down under crashing waves, to expand, and expand. Crystal mimics died under crashing stone. Some of them tried to run, but only a few got away from the changing surface of the planet.

Erick dove an Ophiel into the spellwork, to see what was going on under the waves.

A familiar shadow in the depths noticed, pausing his destruction for a brief second to nod his head toward the feathered [Familiar], and then continue on his reshaping of the world.

Ten minutes was all the spellwork took, from start to end. The water was clear when it was over, too. Clear, and deep.

The original city of Candlepoint had become an arc of buildings, farms, and land, that hung onto the coast of a lake five times the size of the city, stretching far past the horizon.

Under the new waves, Erick watched as shadows vanished down cracks in the deepest parts of the waters. That water, pure and clean, flowed upward, from underground. This lake would never dry out. Erick sent an Ophiel down the hole in the lake, but stopped when Ophiel ended up at a vast underground cavern, where water ran fast and he could not see the other side, even though the river was clear and Ophiel was made of light.

That space was terrifying.

It reminded Erick of the time he sent a [Scry] down the river under the Sewerhouse. This lake was connected to the Underworld, to Melemizargo’s domain, and gods knew what else.

- - - -

“What was that?” Erick asked Poi, “Was that what I think it was?”

Poi looked away from the air, tearing himself away from his feeds, to say, “Yes. That was a [City Shape]. Candlepoint is now one of the best watered cities in the Crystal Forest.” He added, “Melemizargo hasn’t let a [City Shape] work in the Crystal Forest in a thousand years.”

Erick breathed out. “I hope that was the boon.”
