Erick stood in front of his chosen alchemy shop. Poi had listed off a few options, and Teressa supplied some other options, but this one was the one Erick chose. He had seen this place on the way to and from the Adventurer’s District, and it always seemed interesting. But The Greenhouse wasn’t in the short list of options from either of his guards.

Teressa looked up at the blocky building, with its glass roof and glass upper floors, and said, “This place is overpriced by half.”

Poi said, “The Greenhouse’s products are overpriced, but they do not lack in quality.” He added, “We should still go to the Army supply shop.”

“Bah!” Erick complained. “We can go there some other time.”

He walked forward, ignoring the minor complaints of his guards, and stepped nearer the wide open doors of The Greenhouse. He paused. Where was the greenery? Erick’s first impression of the place was that it was a bank with tellers and rich people. Rich brown woods composed the interior of the first floor, completely obscuring the orange stone that Erick knew laid beneath that wood. The Greenhouse was certainly popular enough, though. The people wore such fancy clothes! Brocade. Lace. Engraved armors. Elegant looking swords in gilded gold or silver sheaths.

This place even had a greeter by the door, a young woman who looked the part of either a farmer or an alchemist, with thick gloves and a thick apron, who spoke pleasantries of ‘come again’ or ‘welcome to the Greenhouse’ with each passing customer. As Erick stared at the store, the greeter glanced away from some of the other people who walked through the doors, to land her gaze directly on Erick, and then to Erick’s shoes, and then to Poi and Teressa. She went from disgusted at the hobo to perfectly professional, in half a second, flat.

Erick scanned the room beyond, as he tried to step past the greeter. A display of the usual potions had been placed to the front left of the Greenhouse, probably for the young man standing in front of them, beside a cash register, to sell those potions to whoever wanted them, without people having to walk further into the ‘store’. But other than those Crimson, Cinnabar, Ultramarine, and Cyan buffing potions, the only other potions Erick saw were some orange ones on display in the back. They were practically orange sunshine in a bottle, and placed rather conspicuously in the front room. What magic did they stuff into that orange liquid?

The greeter, an almost-tan incani woman, stepped to Erick, but kept her distance. “Welcome, Archmage Flatt. Could I show you around?”

After noticing the dress of the people behind the counters, and how everyone who worked at The Greenhouse seemed to wear the same sleek burgundy vests and black pants, Erick recognized the greeter’s farmer/alchemist clothes as a costume. Her cheerful tone sealed his opinion; this woman was an actress, playing the part of an alchemist. The Greenhouse had a mascot.

Some people looked over when she said ‘Archmage’, but that was fine. People had been looking at him from the corners of their eyes whenever he showed himself outside of his house, all the time.

Erick said, “I was actually looking to get into some alchemy. Get a starter set of seeds and such. I thought this place had such offerings.”

“You wish to ‘get into’ alchemy?” The woman paled, slightly, but she recovered. She put on a smile, and said, “I know just who you can talk to.” She gestured forward, deeper into the building, as she said, “And I can give you a small tour, if you’d like. Do you know anything about the Greenhouse?”

Erick checked the Ophiels at Candlepoint, briefly. They were doing fine. They were out of rods of [Treat Wounds], though. He could go to Ulrick Ulrick’s after this, or maybe just send Teressa out for that errand. He had time for a tour, but not a lot of time.

He came back to himself, and said, “I’d love a small tour, but I am rather busy at the moment. What is your name? What is this place?”

“Berry,” said the woman, leading Erick onward, into the shop, past tellers and customers. “I can make it quick.” Berry spoke, “The Greenhouse is an alchemist’s union. We’re not a full guild, but we do have chapterhouses in most every major city of the Crystal Forest, ‘cept for Portal and Frontier. What we do, is allow buyers to come up to any of these counters, and through our assistants, get whatever potions they want, made to order, with Greenhouse Certified alchemists. Quite a few alchemists get their starts here in greenhouses like ours. Since most potions have a shelf life of weeks, at the most, so if you don’t have buyers, then you aren’t make a living.”

They walked through the store, stepping around the table of orange bottles. A small sign in front of them read ‘Spell in a Bottle, 100G’

Berry noticed Erick inspect the bottles. “That’s a Greenhouse exclusive. One of our people in Outpost invented that. It’s an oil that lets you imbue a hundred mana worth of aura into the potion, and then throw it, smashing the bottle and expanding that spell from the point of contact.”

“Ooh?” Erick looked to the orange bottles again. “That’s interesting.”

Berry moved ahead a few steps and waited for Erick to rejoin her. As he moved on, she moved on, toward the staircase in the back, saying, “We’ve got hundreds of potions you can custom order. Most of the specialty potions are ready in a week, but a great deal get done faster than that, and a rare few take a lot longer.” She grabbed a paper pamphlet from the wall as she stepped up the stairs, and handed it to Erick, saying, “Here’s a list of what we offer.”

Erick took the list, and briefly looked at it before he stuffed it in his pocket. They stepped up to the top of the steps, passing through a [Ward] that kept moisture separated from downstairs, to arrive at the second floor. Now this was more what Erick was expecting to find when he came into the Greenhouse.

Vines with glowing cyan flowers hung from the western wall, while redcap mushrooms grew on artfully arranged logs. Some plants that were almost like tall, super thin palm trees, grew in a corner of the room. But those were just the displays. The actual sales floor of the room was filled with racks upon racks of small potted plants that he could likely buy and take home. Each of the racks was listed with what they were, and their usual uses.

Berry smiled as she stepped into the first rows of plants. “Here is where we sell starter plants to beginner alchemists, hoping to help them get their starts, and stick around with us for a little while afterward.” She gestured to her left, as an older incani man walked through the aisles, toward Erick and Berry. “This is our site manager, Karoi Wellah. Karoi—”

Karoi smiled wide, interrupting Berry, saying, “A pleasure to meet you, Archmage Flatt! How can the Greenhouse assist you, today?”

Berry stepped away, smiling.

Erick spoke to Karoi, “A book of potions and some starter plants. I have the vaguest ideas of how alchemy works, so I would like to toy around and see what happens.”

“Of course!” Karoi moved into the aisles, asking, “Were you interested in Health or Mana potions? Or the whole set?”

“The whole set. Each major Stat.” Erick was here for more than just Justine, or to add another goal to his ever expanding list. He was also here to solve a problem he’d been working on for a while; [Renew]. He said, “I’d like to know more about how mana rejoins the body, for use by the caster. So if you have anything that would point me further in that direction, then I’d love that.”

“Ah. Uh.” Karoi’s exuberance faltered for a moment. He said, “I apologize, but theoretical alchemy is a field of expertise that I cannot help you with, and is not a field I recommend for beginner alchemists. When used improperly, these plants kill, archmage. I can point you in a few directions, however?” He gestured to his potted plants, saying, “But I can certainly set you up with a starter set and a few books on the subject of basic Mana and Health potions. Everyone has to start somewhere, don’t they?”

“Of course.” Erick smiled. “That will do, just fine.”

Erick ended up purchasing ten potted plants, several vials of fertilizer, four books, and one wild, glowing neon, radioactive-looking succulent. Bright blue and red, it was shaped like the top of a pineapple. Karoi insisted that Erick purchase one of them, and when Poi nodded at the extravagant cost, Erick bought it, because of what it did. The plant was called ‘Alchemist’s Friend’, and was a standard version of any example of its species found in any reputable alchemist’s lab. People who dumped potions down the drain often found themselves on either the receiving end of massive fines, or oozy tendrils coming up the commode.

The starter kit cost 250 gold, but Erick bought two; one for him and one for Justine. The Alchemist’s Friend cost 2000 gold, apiece. Erick bought one, for now. He wasn’t even sure when, or if, he was going to get to alchemy, but Justine could certainly use the supplies for now.

The last thing Erick did was pick up a list of alchemists he could talk to, about how potions refilled the body with mana. He’d probably leave that for another day, too. He needed to talk to Ramizi, first.

… He could also swing by the Mage Guild, and see what Sirocco Zago had to say on the matter of [Renew].

- - - -

Sweet smelling breezes flowed through the vineyard surrounding the Interfaith Church of Spur. A few priests and priestesses traveled in sync under the twining plants, ritually picking the grapes, singing songs as they placed bunches of ripe purple fruits into large, wicker baskets. Erick did not know the songs, but congregating parishioners must have; they gazed upon the ritual from outside the grapevines, singing softly as the harvest proceeded.

Erick watched for a minute, before moving on, into the open doors of the church. Inside the carved white cathedral, and under the light of countless rainbow stained glass windows, people sat silently or whispering softly, in their own individual places scattered around the room, on wooden pews. Some lit white candles to the sides, while some lit colored candles, and set them down upon specific altars.

In the front of the pews, central to the church, was a flat white wall, behind a podium. That flat white wall, along with others in the church, would be transformed based on the occasion, by accomplished stone artisans, whenever such a service happened. To both the sides of that central place was a curving hallway of gods where individual, larger shrines lay, where a person might meet their deity in person, if their need was great enough. Erick had met a few deities down that very same hallway, months and months ago, when he was searching for a patron for his Particular Insight, Class Ability. He likely didn’t need to go down there again, today, but he might.

A redmetal wrought, in the shape of a dragonkin and shaped with priestly robes, greeted Erick by the doorway. Erick knew this priest.

Abraxis said, “Greetings, Archmage Flatt. What brings you in today?”

“Hello, Abraxis.” Erick said, “I’m looking to find out about blessings. In particular, I’d like to talk to anyone who knows something about the Blessings that Shades say they have, that blocks [Teleport]. Most people call it a [Teleport Lock], I think. Or maybe just I do.”

Abraxis almost said something, but instead silently regarded Erick.

“Ah...” Erick lowered his voice. “Did I say something offensive?”

“No. That is not...” Abraxis said, “If that is all you came for, then I am sorry but you have been steered wrong. The gods have many answers for those with ears to hear, but no one knows how—”

A voice rose above the quiet whispers of the cathedral.

“I’m taking this one!”

High Priestess Darenka, the old silverscale leader of the church, strode down a side aisle, toward Erick. He had not seen her appear, but he had certainly heard her voice. Many people had heard her speak, but most immediately went back to their praying, or their own private problems. Some turned to see Erick, and they did not look away; their eyes full of emotions.

Darenka walked closer, and dropped her voice. “Come with me, Erick.”

The High Priestess did not wait for him to respond. She took off, back the way she came. Erick followed. A few short turns down a short set of hallways and up a staircase led to a decently appointed sunroom that overlooked the vineyards outside. Darenka didn’t say anything as she led Erick here, and a few passing nuns scurried to get out of her way.

Darenka swept into the sunroom and plopped down into a comfortable chair, and directed Erick to the other chair, across from hers. Poi had almost come inside, but with a fast glare from the old silverscale, he backed up, fast, directly into Teressa. A short jostle later, Poi shut the door. Darenka and Erick were alone.

Darenka rubbed her head with the dull side of a talon, and said, “You have given me a sudden headache, Erick. I’ve got multiple gods talking to me, right now, about [Teleport Lock].” She adding, “And Sininindi is complaining that you have yet to even start on your [Control Weather] machine. But that is just a small—” She shouted at the air, “Fine! It’s a major problem!” She looked up at nothing, then lowered her eyes to Erick. “You need to work on what you promised before she is truly pissed.” She said, “But then there’s today’s problem!” She stared at Erick. “The Relevant Entities of the Script, as a whole, are very interested in helping you devise a way to counter one of the Darkness’s greatest weapons.”

Like butterflies in his stomach, Erick felt a sudden elation. And then Darenka killed those butterflies, as she rapidly spoke in a few distinct voices.

With strength, she said, “But creating this magic would also be a direct attack against Melemizargo’s power and he would be forced to respond in kind—” Softer, but more violent, “It’s a weapon we should have!” Calm and collected, “But escalation—” She returned to her own voice, banishing the others, saying, “But, but but! Over and backwards and forward and twist-ways. These are the arguments running though my head, Erick. Should versus should-not.” Darenka said, “Of all of them, I would listen most to Sumtir, the God of Righteous War, or Zephyrspray, the goddess of travel. But first, they would like to listen to you, and your ideas.”

Flickering flame caught on the ambient mana of the room, like ethereal wisps here and there in the upper corners of the small sunroom. Phantom eyes peered out from that fire; watching. Erick felt cold; like a bug under a microscope.

