As for the facility, it was pretty much exactly what he expected of any research center. Clean, organized, and packed with equipment and supplies.

That told him this was an actual research facility, and not someone's attempt at making a horror show.

Poking around in a few rooms, he found most of the data servers had been destroyed but he took scans of them and let his [AI] see anything could be reconstructed. Unlikely, but entirely possible.

Matt did stop by a small apartment area that had housed the captives and scanned it.

Not that it made what had been happening here any better, but he noticed that the accommodations were… humane. If not for their location, the rooms could have been in any Empire apartment.

Looking to the side where one of Count Rilki’s guards watched him, he asked, “Were the captives recovered alive?”

The guard looked torn before she nodded. “Most of them, Ascender Titan.”

“Oh?”

“A number didn’t—” She looked pale, but after swallowing, continued, “—survive leaving their rooms. We didn’t know they had been infected with things that only reacted once they entered normal air. We believe it was an anti escape measure but we aren’t sure.”

Matt felt himself growing angry but nodded to the guard. “Thank you for informing me. I assume they have all been removed to a hospital for evaluation and healing?”

To his surprise she shook her head. “No, Ascender. There was a worry that the others might contain more delayed pathogens, and so they were moved onto a ship and are being kept in isolation. All of us who were part of the raid have been kept back from Kelispo on the same worry that we might have been infected. Likewise with the few researchers we captured alive.”

Matt sighed but realized it was a good precaution. He knew as well as Liz did the horrors a skilled blood mage could unleash if they wanted to.

They would also need to undergo decontamination procedures, but theirs would involve less waiting around and more teleporting into the local star and letting it roast them inside and out for a few minutes, before being teleported into a secure location on the Capital where they could be examined by one of the Imperial healers.

Checking a hunch, Matt actually found none of that would be necessary, as Melinda, her bodyguard, Evelyn Nore, and Harvest Moon would actually be arriving shortly, according to Count Rilki’s initial reports.

That actually caused a spike of worry to hit Matt. Just what had been going on here to bring in the head Imperial healer and the single best healer in the Empire, Melinda?

Checking a few more rooms, Matt made his way to where everyone else was, which seemed to be a lounge of sorts.

He didn’t miss the other guards, who were unobtrusively watching their group, but didn’t say anything either.

Walking up to Aster, he bent down and inspected the formation nexus she was looking at. “Find anything yet?”

“Yeah, they are using a millennia-old enchantment style for practically everything.”

Matt nodded as he saw what she was saying. Not that enchanting had massively changed in the last thousand years, but it, like everything else, had fads and things came in and out of fashion. This style of enchanting was from roughly a thousand years ago, which implied the creator of this facility was either that old, the facility was built back then, or somebody was trying very hard to make it seem that way.

Aster pressed her hand to the formation and pulled, and lights sparkled between her hand and the metal like taffy.

Blowing on the physical lights, Aster caused snippets of the records to appear before them as illusions.

There was no sound or spiritual resonance, but the image itself wasn’t useless, as it clearly showed four people, three women and one man, standing over a curled-up teenager.

The male researcher nodded as he tapped the air several times, calling out something in a rhythmic cadence.

Finally, one of the women who must have been in charge said something, and the second and third women moved. The second held the teenager down while the third injected her with a small vial of something neon-orange in a tiny syringe.

Nothing happened in the short time the pulled-out illusion had left, but Matt knew whatever befell the kid wasn’t good.

“Did you get a feeling of the time frame that happened in?”

It wasn’t Matt who asked, but Esmeralda, who didn’t even blink at the atrocity they had just watched.

Aster shook her head. “No, not really. My best guess would be between a year ago and a decade ago. I can’t get more specific than that.”

The guards watching them looked suspicious, but neither Matt nor anyone else bothered to explain how Aster was using her illusion skills to pull out residual information lingering in the enchantment’s mana.

It wasn’t an unknown application of illusion magic, but it was a rare one due to the finesse it took.

Once Aster was done with it, Matt took his own crack at the enchantment.

When the base had been raided, the facility's failsafes had kicked in and wiped everything. But using his [AI], Matt was able to recreate the burnt-out enchantments and even rebuild a few of them.

The information taken from them would be suspect, but it was better than nothing.

He hadn’t used the technique since his training with Luna, back when they were on the Path, but he hadn’t had much reason to use it during the war. On the bright side, his enchanting skills were night and day better than they were back then, and when combined with his much stronger [AI], he was able to restore a few of the facility’s capabilities.

That was great, as they got access to some of the backup storage systems that hadn’t been physically destroyed, but what they learned from the stored information was anything but good.

It was, in fact, bad enough they felt compelled to call Count Rilki and explain to him what they found.

“So you're telling me that they were developing bioweapons intended to mentally compromise mortal populations?”

“The reports state that as just the latest thing they were working on. They were also working on a variety of other projects we don’t have much information on. The only other experiment we recovered anything concrete about was a plague that would cripple a world's low-Tier mortal populations, as they are laid up in bed from a highly contagious form of the common cold. This facility has been operating for at least a minimum of a few hundred years, and they seemed… productive.”

Count Rilki chewed on his lip for a few moments before he sighed. “I will report this up the chain of command, but I don’t believe this changes anything in the immediate reaction. I will, however, call in additional guards for the prisoner researchers.”

Liz shook her head. “No. That risks bringing in more unknown elements. If you didn’t deliberately release the information, someone somewhere on your team is either a direct mole for our enemies or unscrupulous enough that they are willing to break protocol to share information of an open investigation. Not once, but twice. We can’t risk them acting again.”

Count Rilki looked like he wanted to spit fire, but nodded.

Susanne grabbed Allie and dragged the teleporter to her feet. “We’ll guard the prisoners.”

Allie looked like she wanted to protest, but she showed uncommon restraint as she was dragged along.

Susanne must have caught onto something, but she didn’t share and Matt didn’t ask, not being sure of any of their communication methods in an enemy base.

Matt went back to work as Esmeralda took a crack at trying to dig up more information from the facility. Her methods were more esoteric, but they proved effective as she was able to fill in once-lost information obtained from the surviving machines.

Matt even learned a few things watching her work, but they were interrupted two days later when Detective Danson arrived.

The man was painfully average looking with light mahogany skin, medium length unkempt hair, and of average height. He could easily be dropped into almost any planet in the Empire and not stand too far out. He was the perfect detective in that regard, but his brown eyes were razor sharp and seemed to notice everything, ruining the image.

They didn’t really want to bring the Tier 15 into the facility, but until they were cleared for decontamination, they couldn’t leave, and they still needed to investigate the man and his story.

Liz tried to force out a smile, but considering everything they had found over the last few days, it was painfully fake. “Tell us in your own words what happened that led to you discovering this facility.”

Detective Danson rubbed his eyes. “We need to go back to when I first became a detective. I was part of a team that was trying to take down a kidnapper. His signature was what appeared to be a sword box that he carried around. We believed it was a spatial item that could house living people, but we never caught him, and so I can’t definitively state that assertion was true. He kidnapped over a dozen people from what we know for a fact, and there were another two dozen suspected disappearances that we think he was involved with, but could never prove. For obvious reasons, I remember the case. Both the actual case and the case we suspected he smuggled people in. I moved here to Kelispo four hundred years ago, and I’ve served as a second classed detective for that whole time.”

Aster nodded with a more real smile. “You have a glowing record of service and you've been up for promotion half a dozen times, but you’ve turned them all down.”

“I don’t want to work at a desk. I want to keep my rank but Tier up. Sadly, so does most everyone else, which is why I was just accumulating merit until I could force myself to a Tier 20 world at my same position. To that end, I try to keep my finger on the comings and goings of Kelispo. About eighty years ago, I noticed the anomaly of someone with a suspicious box of nearly the same dimensions entering the world and then travelling towards the gas giant with no records of departing. It was always hit or miss after that, with me only hearing rumors of his arrival days or weeks after he left. The last time he came through, we were too late in getting onto their trail and lost them in the outer system despite being so close. Just slow enough that we weren’t able to properly follow the individual to the hidden base. When I personally saw them take flight from a park, I reported them, and this time we were better able to track the individual who led us to the facility.”

“An individual who got away in the raid.”

Matt’s comment seemed to strike a sore spot for Detective Danson, as he nearly cracked a tooth as his jaw clenched shut. “That is correct, Ascender Titan, as much as I don’t want to admit it.” He seemed to mull something over before he added, “Taking that into account, and having had some time to see how things played over the last few days, I suspect that we were set up. Deliberately led to this facility with a lookalike to kickstart this fiasco.”

Liz hardly moved as she prompted him to continue, “Oh?”

“First of all, the timing was wrong according to their last appearance. Also, the last few times the person came through, they were quick, hard to follow, and slippery as shit when we did chase them down. This time, they were less so. It wasn’t suspicious in the moment, as we were ready for their evasive maneuvers, but looking back, it feels more like we were allowed to follow them. Also, once we were close enough to find the base, the individual in question vanished. Initially we just thought they were trying to keep themselves safe after realizing they couldn’t escape into the shields and hide from us, but with the leaks…”

“Just left? The report says they fled the scene and the chasing team decided to investigate the larger prize.”

Detective Danson sneered. “A flowery way to say the perp was faster than us. One second they were just barely holding on and the next...” The detective opened his fists. “Poof, they were gone. Either they were a speed-based cultivator or a much higher Tier than the Tier 20 they projected.”

Matt agreed it seemed suspicious as could be, but that was only if the detective wasn’t compromised, which would make everything a dance played and nothing more.

They spent another two days going through everything until Melinda, Evelyn, and Harvest Moon arrived.

Except, they didn’t arrive alone.

An Imperial investigation team consisting of five Tier 40s and over twenty Tier 35s disembarked with them. But instead of being from the crime department, they were from the much scarier Health and Safety department.

While they were rarely deployed, the Imperial Health and Safety department had near impunity when investigating. They could and would tear through even a duke's territory if someone was messing with biological weapons. He hadn’t been able to recognize it at the time, but they were the ones who had investigated the rift breaks in his first Minkalla life when he was infected by an undead sickness.

Matt suspected it was their last reports that had brought them down, but the timing didn’t quite make sense for that.

Two days was just too soon for them to have covered so much ground, even if they were using Tier 45 ships.

Still, it was good to see familiar faces.

Harvest Moon sniffed. “You three idiots have made a right mess of this.” Seeing they had brought Esmeralda, he corrected himself. “Six idiots. Bring the other two idiots here.”

Melinda took his drifting attention to give them a small wave.

