Turning to Count Rilki, he commanded, “Count Rilki, have your people turn their posts over to mine while you are all deconned. Normally, I would be congratulating you for your bust of this magnitude, but your little leak managed to bungle it.”

Count Rilki looked like he wanted to complain, but Harvest Moon glared at him. “Count Rilki, your next words had better be considered very, very carefully.”

Count Rilki growled right back at the Tier 46. “I did my job and have been put in between forces much larger than me.”

“That is to be determined.”

With a flick of his finger, the Investigators started deploying a massive pillar that only fit inside the control room because of an odd spatial compression laid upon it.

Harvest Moon opened his mouth to say something, but Melinda beat him to it with a quiet command. “Out.”

Like ice cream left alone near Aster, the Investigators vanished, taking everyone except Susanne, Esmeralda, Allie, Aster, Liz, Harvest Moon, Evie, and Melinda herself.

Harvest Moon waved at Matt. “Power it up.”

When Matt just raised an eyebrow, Harvest Moon barked. “Chop chop kid. Seconds matter.”

Melinda stepped forward and smiled at Matt. “Please. This is a time reversal pillar and the seconds truly do matter as it gets exponentially more expensive to turn back time the longer it needs to reverse.”

Eyebrows rising into his hairline, Matt spread his spiritual perception to see similar but smaller pillars being set up in a sphere around the building.

Matt was almost more surprised by Melinda's seeming level of command than Harvest Moon's foul mood. His oldest friend had seemingly grown up. Even if she was still only Tier 21 and vastly weaker than everyone else present, she held her own.

Pressing his hand to the pillar, Matt started with a small trickle of mana. Just a million mana a second. Getting a feel for what the pillar in front of him could handle, as well as its sphere of supporting pillars and their interlinked formation, Matt started ramping up the mana.

The device capped out at only fifty five million mana a second, but even that was a massive draw that would be impossible for most mages to keep going for long.

Melinda patted an irritated looking Harvest Moon on the shoulder and walked over to the pillar and tapped the crystal in the center of the device.

Inside, an image of them and the building appeared and quickly started to run in reverse, showing Melinda and Harvest Moon's arrival. Time kept flowing backwards and they watched themselves investigating the facility.

Seeing they would have some time, Melinda looked up and to the rest of them. “Sorry about that. We have been busy and Moon is grumpy. I’m sorry people tried to tie this to you, Liz. I take responsibility for it coming this far, and for that I apologize.”

Liz waved Melinda’s apology off. “I’ll make them pay once I find them. These people included.”

Melinda shook her head. “That's not what I meant. We have been tracking this group for almost a year now, and this is actually their third location we have hit in that time. If we had been better, we might have found it earlier, preventing this fiasco.”

Liz latched onto the pertinent information like the raptor she sometimes was. “So you know of them? Who are they? What are their goals?”

“We know a little. Far less than we’d like. We were given a tip about a shadow organization working on blood plagues about a year or so ago, and were given the location of a single facility. The group wanted a bounty for the other locations. The Emperor put me in charge, giving me full authority to handle it as I saw fit. I could have paid the group for the information, but I chose to believe that we could dismantle the group ourselves. We believed… I believed that this blood research group was fairly small. But the more we learn, the more that assumption is proving false.”

Matt was busy making sure the device that was showing them the past didn’t overload, but he immediately noted the pertinent bit of information that someone had known of this group before, making Detective Danson's earlier supposition they were led to the facility all the more likely.

“Who was the grou—” Allie tapped her dagger onto the pillar, which earned her a glare from Melinda and made her slink back, bumping into Evie whose form rippled on the contact. “Sorry. Sorry. As I was saying, who was the group that was trying to sell the information? Damn girl, when did you get so feisty?”

Melinda pressed her palms into her eyes. “Sorry, I’m very stressed and this time reversal formation is quite literally unique. And if you break it, it's just gone. So just don't. Please.”

Allie’s dagger vanished, and she stepped back further.

Taking the move for the surrender it was, Melinda explained. “We don’t know much. The group identified itself as an organization that was doing some corporate espionage when they discovered the information about the blood research groups and felt compelled to report it. They did so while demanding three Tier 38 upgrade orbs with no room for negotiations for the information, which speaks of their relative power if they are willing to risk the Emperor's ire over that demand.”

That took Matt aback and brought into question who their attackers were. There was always the chance they were the blood research group, but it seemed more likely they were the extorting group Melinda mentioned.

It could be that their attackers had been behind the research bases, but that was growing more unlikely.

The hasty setup on Liz was obviously rushed, which didn’t fit the timelines of the facilities. Combined with this, the guts to extort the Empire itself of one of the most valuable items it had, that fit far more in line with the earlier attacks being hidden and calculated. Tier 38 upgrade orbs were strategic assets for a Great Power and not something just given away. Even as Ascenders, they had only been given three of the orbs.

Three was truly extortionate, and Matt understood why Melinda had declined. The Empire might only have half a dozen orbs on hand, if they had any at all after both their and Zack and Allies recent ascensions, and giving away half of them would be a hard pill to swallow even with Manny’s backing.

He was about to ask a question when the image in the crystal reached the raid and pulled their attention.
