Right now, there was no one here except Erick, Ophiel, Poi, and the natural wildlife. Erick had already killed the larger monsters that roamed into this part of the forest with a quick application of [Domain of the Withering Slime], as he had done every time he came here for the last two weeks.

As the white sphere of Erick’s Domain peeled away like flaking ash, Erick gazed upon an inconspicuous bend in the forest floor near a larger tree than most, like the bend in the ground was a present waiting to be unwrapped. This is because it was. Erick glanced at his most recent notification. It had finally happened.

You have slain Light Slime A!

95% participation!

+3040 exp

“It happened, Poi!” Erick said, stepping through the underbrush to the entrance to his dungeon.

Ophiel flitted off of Erick’s shoulder to hold in the air behind him.

With his face falling a bit, Poi asked, “Really?” He eloquently added, “Uh.”

Erick rushed the entrance to his dungeon, located near the ‘roots’ of the larger-than-most tree. The ‘tree’ was fake; it was completely hollow. Erick had [Stoneshape]ed the land upward into a rather well hidden intake system for both the mana flow from the west, and for depositing platinum rain all the way to the end of the dungeon. Here and there, and all around the rest of the nearby forest, were other intake and exit vents that fed and nurtured what laid beneath.

Erick reached the bend in the forest floor. Poi followed close behind. With a quick [Stoneshape] he pulled up the ground, revealing a tunnel and stairs and bright sunlightwards. Ophiel flew down first, disappearing behind a bend in the hallway. Erick smiled wide as he walked down the stairs, past twists and turns, to reach the first floor of the dungeon. This room was nothing special—

Poi said, “Uh. Sir. Uh. Maybe we should not be—”

“Oh, Poi. It’s fine!” Erick said, “I just cleaned it out. The whole place. There’s no oozes down there.”

The first floor of the dungeon was a flat, boxy set of hallways and staircases that curved around and down. It was designed to keep slimes from coming up. The stairs were too big for them to roll up, while the mana that flowed though here was made to flow down; nothing should ever spawn on these staircases.

Ophiel did not wait for Erick to catch up; he never did. Ophiel had already flown down, out of sight, headed to the final room of the dungeon.

Poi walked behind Erick, saying, “But the point is, is that you shouldn’t have been able to make a light slime spawning area.”

Erick just laughed.

Poi amended his statement, “I instantly see the folly of my words. No need for the laughter.”

Erick smiled as he [Stoneshape]d the entrance closed behind Poi, then continued down the stairs.

He had let slip the nature of a lot of random particle interactions over the last month and a half, like how oxygen was crucial for burning, and how atoms were categorized based on the number of protons in their centers. Iron was ‘26’. Gold was ‘79’. Carbon was ‘6’. Erick didn’t know those numbers, like how he knew Oxygen was ‘8’ and Hydrogen was ‘1’. But other people in the school had started experimenting with strange magics that skirted the Atomic Ban; they had discovered those numbers for themselves, and published the results in Oceanside’s weekly newspaper.

Erick had plans for a lot of particle magic of his own this afternoon, but that would come later.

He walked down the boxy hallway, ever deeper. Soon, the soft, ambient sunlightwards and their soft yellow glows gave way to something brighter. Whites and reds. Blues and greens. Yellows and oranges.

Erick had let slip a lot regarding Particle magic, but there was one magic that Erick had not spoken about at all: the nature of light.

Well… He had mentioned it to Jane. She knew. But no one else. According to some personal research about Light Magic, Erick finally understood what was going on with Veird’s understanding of light.

Light, as understood on Veird, was an infinity of color that formed a perfect circle from purple around to all the rest, then back to purple. This spread of color was most clearly visible in rainbows. Artists understood that magenta, cyan, and yellow were the three primary colors, of which all other colors descended. It was from this misunderstanding that all other light-based magic centered their understandings of the world.

When a light mage enchanted Stat items, they used pools of color attuned to the specific Stat they were going for, then channeled their mana through that color, into already colored stones, like sapphire and ruby. This was one of the main reasons why those Stat items degraded over time; they did not mask off all light except for the proper color, they just drowned out all light except the proper color. Obviously, this drowning was not a full drowning; impurities filled all normal Stat enchantments.

Erick, instead, used real color masks; lightwards that cut out every wavelength of light except the one he was enchanting. This discrepancy was a fundamental difference in understanding the nature of light. This difference is what allowed Erick to make his rings, and allowed him success in this dungeon, for Erick did not just enchant normal light colors down here, but also ultraviolet and others; colors beyond the visible.

Erick walked down the stone stairs of his dungeon, but stopped just before the final few turns into the main dungeon floor. Color swirled against the rock ahead; muted this far from the sources below, but bright enough to shine all the way here. Ophiel was already somewhere around those bends in the hallway, giving a performance of violins and his new favorite instrument; the harp. Erick listened for a moment, as song echoed on stone. Ophiel had been growing, too. He liked to sing, now, and Erick liked to listen.

A small bucket of stone held against the wall. Erick plucked one of several metal bands from the bucket and slipped the band around his eyes, as he hooked the curved metal ends behind his ears. Everything was darker now; the bands had been enchanted with [Permanent Special Ward]s that blocked out half of all visible light, and all of the rest. They were sunglasses, made by Erick; they were rather necessary to deal with what came next.

Poi grabbed his own pair of sunglasses and slipped them over his own eyes, saying, “These would be nice for people wandering the Crystal Forest in the summer.”

Erick walked forward, saying, “You sound like the Headmaster pumping me for information.”

“At least he stopped trying to bribe us.”

“Oh?” Erick turned the first of a few final corners, asking, “He stopped doing that?”

“Neither Rats, Teressa, or Kiri have reported an attempt in the last few days. I’m slightly worried.” Poi followed Erick, saying, “But you’re about to start classes with him, so I think he’s just decided to change tactics.”

Erick nodded, as he rounded the last bend, into the prismatic light of the main dungeon floor.

Erick paused in silent joy as he gazed out over a land of curved white stone and flowing water that glittered under dazzling lightwards of every color. Pillars dotted the rolling land, supporting an arched roof five meters high. The ceiling was layered with a hundred prismatic tiles that gently turned in kaleidoscopic fashion, emitting reds, blues, and greens, and transforming into yellows, oranges, and purples, pouring across the bubbling water below. Masses of huge diamonds, rough carved into people shapes and standing around the room like statues at a Greco Roman Bathhouse, poured water out through hidden holes in their hands, or urns, contributing to a main pool in the center of the room.

Figuring out the plumbing of this place was a fun diversion. For all the complexity, all of those tiny water streams were a part of a single, fully contained pump system, kept moving by one application of [Gravity Strainer]; a spell Erick had originally created to fish rads out from [Cleanse]d waters. Erick had repurposed the spell here for use as a water pump.

Erick looked away from the wall that hid that pump system, to the center of the room, where the path in the dungeon floor wound around a few times to end up at the main pool in the center. Ophiel hovered over that main pool, full sized and outstretched, wings holding in the air as he held himself in the central downrush of mana and wind emanating from the main feeder tube above. Wind and mana blew across Ophiel, carrying his song of violins and harps across the calm, twisting waters of Erick’s creation.

But there was no plant life down here. This was in direct contradiction to how people normally grew slimes.

But Erick didn’t want normal slimes. The diamonds were for if gem slimes wanted to grow, while the water was for probably-not-happening water slimes, but both of those would have been failures in the face of what Erick was trying to create. He wanted Light Slimes. And he had done it. The one he killed must have been the largest, oldest one, because as Erick stood on the edge of his dungeon, he saw that the one he killed was not the only light slime in the room.

Tumbly, plopping, rolling and swimming balls of light, played in the water, undulating in time to the Ophiel’s song above. The light slimes rolled across the white floors, up inclines to rush down slides, to splash water in every direction. Their outside edges were white spheres, while their insides were perfectly clear except for a singular, white orb the size of a human hand. From Erick’s vantage point he saw maybe six of the little guys rolling around the dungeon floor. All of them looked smaller than normal sewer slimes; they were obviously still growing.

Poi stood beside Erick, watching the slimes play. “It’s an accomplishment.”

Erick said, “There’s records of light slime dungeons in the libraries but the mages who made them were all either absentee creators or tied up with plots and deals after revealing their creation. There’s still one active in Nelboor, but that’s more myth than reality. Though I have been given certain hints that it’s still accessible for those with the desire to learn ‘true light magic’, whatever that means.” He added, “I’m in no rush to learn the answer.”

“These Light Mages must have stumbled upon the same truth that you have.”

“If they did, they chose to never speak of such a thing to anyone.”

“Like you?”

Erick smiled. “I’ve spoken of a vast many things, Poi. Just not this. Not yet.”

“Probably for the best.” Poi gestured at the nearest plopping slime, asking, “What are you going to do with them, now that you’ve managed this impossibility?”

“Pass the class.”

Poi laughed. “Is that all?”

Erick smirked as he watched the slimes bumble around the room. “At first, that’s all this was. But that quickly changed. I haven’t really talked about the secondary purposes here before, yet. I wasn’t sure if I was right, and this failure to produce a [Gate] has given me back some much needed humility.” He looked up at the intricate, kaleidoscopic [Permanent Special Ward]s he had crafted into the ceiling. “I wanted to make something really pretty with some permanency, and I wanted to study that permanency. Did you know that the ‘Permanent’ option of [Ward] is the only permanent option in the entire Script?”

Poi looked to Erick for a moment. He tentatively said, “Yes.”

“Do you know how it works, though?”

“… No.” Poi added, “But I do know that it isn’t true permanency. The streetlamps in Spur need to be replaced every other month.”

“Ah ha!” Erick exclaimed. “Yes! So you see the problem!”

“… Not really.”

Erick pointed out a few different spinning kaleidoscopes in the ceiling, saying, “These are all different gauges of the effectiveness of permanent [Ward]s, in the controlled mana space of a dungeon. I specifically crafted the mana flows across each of these wards in slightly different ways. Look at these. Can you see a difference?”

Poi stared at the kaleidoscopes for a moment, saying, “They’re the same, but the first is spinning slower than the others. The second one is... degraded… slightly.”

“Yes!” Erick said, “Exactly right.”

Erick avoided a bumbling light slime as he walked to the left, down a path that wound around this final floor of the dungeon. Poi followed along.

He pointed to lightwards he had set up near two weeks ago, saying, “They’re all in different mana flows.” He said, “Dungeoneering is really fun, but I don’t think I want to keep around any slimes, no matter how cute they are. But I’ve been reading practically everything there is on [Permanent Special Ward]s and how they work in different mana flows.

“There’s a problem in your schools—”

“They’re not my schools.” Poi said, “You do that a lot, you know? Conflate individuals with all of civilization on Veird.”

Erick amended, “Okay fine. Yes. You’re right.” Erick said, “The point is, is that I’ve come to a conclusion, Poi. The books of those learned people who came before? The ones upon which all Magic is taught? They all say the same thing. You guys— The professors here, I mean. They’re either teaching the millennium old material, but in a new volume, or some other person’s take on the knowledge of those who came before. Even those books from Hocnihai; all of it is knowledge laid down with the expectation that people follow it exactly.” He stressed, “No one is actually experimenting! And I mean proper experimenting.”

Poi frowned, as Erick continued to lead him around the room.

