Two bodies flicker with the bright glow of newly created silver threads.

Just like the bent area of the void we reside in, the power we're summoning glitches in and out of existence, unaware if it is even real.

However, the sensations that are building up in my pool of consciousness do consider this power real without question. It allows me to stack understandings of a tier of strength that was far above my mental capacity before.

Yet now, there are trillions of fracture points breaking, bending, and growing back all throughout my mind, bodies, and soul. Each one becomes tethered to each other by a growing web of silver threads in the shape of my many energy bodies in the shape of a demon.

Maria's stacked cores trigger bursts of silver threads to tether to her wings, sword, and halo; creating an equally dazzling and confusing explosion of energy in the void.

Even the bends in space start to react to the new forces of gravity that are flickering into existence.

My mind adjusts, no longer relying on the scattered moments of clarity paired with Ember's perception. Instead, a steady stream of consciousness emerges from the void held together by silver threads.

Even though all of the particles of my existence are still constantly destroyed, my pool of consciousness has grown strong enough to latch onto these silver threads at a higher frequency.

Even my perception of the void shifts in a strange way.

It no longer feels like a murky cloud of darkness with no direction or reason.

Instead, it looks like countless clashing fields of invisible aura. I can almost smell the aroma they give off when they clash, or maybe feel, or taste them. There is no physical sensation, or anything to see either. It's an entirely different way of perceiving reality.

The closest thing I can relate it to is the perception of primordial aura, but even the clashing of primordial auras is only one variable in these infinite clashing fields.

Silver divine threads are the only physical constant in this state.

Everything else, like mana, demonic energy, ether, royal vibrations, even primordial aura, they're all meaningless ingredients when used alone.

The words this silver-cored demon spoke moments ago echo through the back of my mind while I feel this new understanding of the void.

If this is how Noctus sees us, then I would have wholeheartedly agreed with his assessment of our power. Attempting to use any of these energy sources individually is so inefficient. It is a crude and laughable use of the energy available to us.

The only problem is maintaining a large enough pool of consciousness to hold them all together.

In this state of extreme tension, I'm able to temporarily bypass this restriction. The summoned silver threads that hold my body together are surrounded by a thin layer of this combined energy. It is why striking the white bubble in the void with my wave of telepathy made such a large splash...

It does not only allow me to begin making sense of the void, but also understand the strange demonic aura that causes depressions in space all around us.

Looking at it moments ago, it appeared to be purple, or white, and sometimes filled with silver threads. Even so, it was always filtered through Ember's aura, or my blade, or the crimson aura around us before it actually touched my being.

By then, this aura was broken down into digestible parts. However, now I'm starting to see it in its natural form.

The odd coloration and strange presence now make complete sense. It consists of a perfect blend of the highest refined ether, strongest vibrations, extremely potent primordial aura, and the darkest demonic essence I've ever seen. They are bound together so tight, that the energies merge into an unrecognizable gel of power. Each individual energy wants to emerge on its own, but the weight of this Demon's pool of consciousness is so heavy that they cannot escape, and have been refined into an unrecognizable aura.

Nothing can defend or attack this essence, other than an equally dense and domineering collection of energies.

However, there is one exception. It is the silver threads that exist within this aura.

They act as an anchor, but their physical forms are bent into a different wavelength of space than this dense collection of merged energies. It allows the silver threads to direct these spirals of purple essence without causing any strain on their structure.

As I take all of this information in, I can still tell I'm only grasping the surface of full understanding, but there is a blaring weakness that pops out at me.

Every time I blocked a wave of this essence with my blade, and it devours the silver threads inside, the raw essence left behind becomes nothing more than a dead stain on space.

It exudes a horrific pressure that constantly attacks me, but now that I can sense how and why, I can tell that it's no longer attached to the Demon that threw it our way.

The reason Noctus held back before, and didn't kill us the moment he laid eyes on us, makes far more sense as well. This is pure raw energy in its most potent and dense form. This Overseer cannot move from within its self-made prison, so all of the energy it has obtained is all that it has to rely on using until the end of time.

As the gaps between my cells and energy body particles become stronger and stronger, pathways of absorption start to eat away at the leftover energy that has left a permanent stain on space.

Noctus may have believed he would trap us in his demonic shadow until our lifespans ran out, but now wisps of his hoard of energy begin flowing through my fractured body and seep into the three overlapping cores in my chest.

An extremely familiar sensation washes through me as I start digesting that Demon's Mind and Soul. The energy feels just like Marcellus, the purple-cored demon, when his chaos body lingered in reality after his death. Memories of its life are sealed within.
