“I don’t remember much,” Ali answered, honestly. “I calculated they should have three or four hundred percent more health with Last Stand and the temporary health from Ritual Infusion. The damage multiplier was enormous when they were close to death.” It had been a ridiculously difficult combination to set up – both Last Stand and Ritual Infusion granted short-term maximum health – and before it wore off, she had had to get them from maximum health to almost zero in order to take full advantage of the combination of rage, elevated health pool, and bloodlust.

But she did remember the visceral pleasure of crushing Joraa’s jawbone with her little fist, an image that now turned her stomach.

“Yes, let’s keep this strategy for emergencies,” Ali said, deciding it was for the best. Besides, she didn’t want to develop a habit like Morwynne. “I’m going to check what I got.”

Your group has defeated Joraa [The Betrayer] – Troll – level 98 (Blood).Grove Warden has reached level 92 (+7).+70 attribute points.

Her jaw dropped. Seven levels? Now that’s truly poetic! Eagerly she read on.

Arcane Insight has reached level 48.Barrier has reached level 58 (+2).Sage of Learning has reached level 39.Martial Insight has reached level 60 (+4).Empowered Summoner has reached level 46 (+3).

With seventy points to spend, Ali decided she could afford five points for vitality, two for endurance, and three for dexterity. Then she spent fourteen points on perception and twenty-three each on intelligence and wisdom. Still a little shaky from the intensity of the fight, she made her way over to deconstruct everything from the battle.

Variant: Blood Thrall added to Imprint: Ooze.

Before she returned Joraa’s corpse to the ambient background mana, she studied the body. While he had the typical runic markings of a Blood Shaman and much of his gear was painted, he did not have a personal set of runic tattoos like Kir’vella and Kir’mogan. Was he not considered worthy? He was wearing some decent-looking armor, and he had a tusk ring which Malika would no doubt be interested in. Finally, she reached out and deconstructed his corpse.

“Good riddance,” Zor’kan said.

Ali glanced at the troubled troll, but he turned around, seeming uninterested in further conversation, so she checked her latest notifications instead.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Affinity Aura (Blood).Domain Magic analyzed: Summoning.Domain Magic analyzed: Attribute Enhancement (Wisdom).

Too bad it wasn’t vitality, she thought. But that blood-affinity aura does look interesting. She had several blood magic monsters now, and she could see how using Joraa’s Affinity Aura (Blood) could make for a very effective defender. Summoning and Wisdom were already part of her collection, but the presence of the wisdom enhancement helped explain the ridiculousness of the fight – for Blood Shamans – or any troll with the blood magic aptitude – wisdom was just as good as vitality for increasing health.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
