Silvia’s (Aaliyah’s Mom) Point of View:

I make my way over to the headman’s front door after I give my husband a farewell hug and kiss goodbye.

I knock on the door three times before I turn my head to see my husband and daughter vanish out of my sight. Be safe you two.

The door swings open and Nicolas’s eyes go wide when he sees me here. “Welcome Mrs. Silvia… what do I have the pleasure of helping you with today?” He still looks a little tense when he sees me.

“I need to talk to Camden, is he available right now?” I smile at the young man causing him to flinch.

“Father and mother always have time to meet with you.” Nicolas moves to the side and waves his hand, motioning me in.

“To the drawing-room, correct?” I look over my shoulder at the boy. I wonder how Richard is doing right now? Has he grown as much as Nicolas since I’ve last seen him? I can’t help but frown thinking about my little boy, I miss him terribly.

“Yes please, Mrs. Silvia. The drawing-room, if you’ll please.” He rushes past me to open the door for me. Why is he? Oh, my frown.

“Don’t worry, sweety. I wasn’t frowning at you.” I make my way past him and take my seat in the drawing-room.

Nicolas closes the door gently and once it’s fully closed I hear him running down the hall to get his parents. I’m not in that big of a rush.

It isn’t long before I hear more even steps coming from the other side of the door. Nicolas opens the door again and Camden and Sarette walk into the room together.

“Silvia! So nice to see you again!” I quickly stand as Sarette wastes no time in moving in for a hug.

“Always good to see you too, Sarette! Camden.” I greet Camden over Sarette’s shoulder while we share a quick embrace.

“Missus Silvia.” He looks just as nervous as his boy. My feelings might get hurt at this rate. Just because we had a few spats over the last week doesn’t mean I hate the man.

Me and Sarette break apart and all of us take our respective seats.

Before Nicolas can take his place behind his father, Sarette calls out to him. “Nicolas honey, can you prepare some tea for us?” Nicolas quickly nods his head and moves for the door.

Camden starts making polite small talk after his son leaves the room. “How are you doing today, Missus Silvia?”

“I’m doing ok, I suppose.”

“Wonderful!” *Cough* He tries to clear his throat after almost shouting that response at me. “Excuse me, I meant to say I’m sure you’re happy now that your daughter has returned. I’ve, umm… missed your daily visits.” Sarette shoots him a glare. He tries to recover but only continues to put his foot in his mouth.

“I talked with your daughter when she got back. Did she mention my sincere apology at all?” He looks hopeful for a positive response. His eyes are so focused on me he doesn’t see the displeasure on Sarette’s face.

“She mentioned it briefly. I have a different reason for coming here today.” Camden’s smile slips for as second.

“Our families are becoming closer by the day. Tell me what I can do for you?” He tries to recover.

Before I can answer him, Nicolas returns through the door carrying a tray with a teapot and four cups.

“Wonderful timing dear. Pour Silvia a cup first.” Sarette smiles at her son as he sets the tea set down.

“Yes mother,” Nicolas responds. With practiced grace, the young man expertly pours a cup of tea and gently hands it to me.

“Thank you, Nicolas. You always make the best tea.” The young man smiles at my compliment.

“He’s gotten quite good at it since you first started coming over, hasn’t he?” Sarette offers her own compliment as she takes the next teacup offered to her.

“He has,” I offer back before I take a sip of my tea.

When I first started coming over to become better acquaintances with Sarette her son could barely make tea without it being too strong or watered down.

I keep my house spotless leaving me with too much free time on my hands. After Richard left with Sandra it became apparent, I should become better acquainted with the Downs. Back then I had no idea I would have so much in common with Sarette.

She helps her husband manage the village’s finances and being raised in a merchant household makes me one of the few women in the village who can understand and talk about her work.

We’ve spent hours discussing our children and husbands over the years. Our friendship has become strained this last month but we’re slowly mending the gap between us.

When Aaliyah told me, the headman’s been watching her progress during the past five years, I felt betrayed by Sarette. We may have discussed our children’s jobs and hobbies but I’ve never mentioned her level or her magic talent. A part of me worried she only accepted my friendship to better spy on my family.

I confronted her with my fears after everyone left on the goblin extermination quest. She admitted to being aware of my daughters’ level but promised that wasn’t the reason she wanted my friendship.

It was hard to believe her but we both ended up comforting each other while our families were deep in the woods.

She even took my side when I almost throttled Camden for letting my little girl stay behind while they all retreated from the forest.

I may not have completely forgiven her yet but I’m not against mending the broken bridge between us.

“So, what’s the reason you decided to stop by, Silvia?” Sarette sets her teacup down on the drawing table and elegantly crosses her legs. Camden almost looks relieved that his wife is taking over the conversation.

I take another sip of tea before I also set my teacup on the table and answer. “My daughter and husband just left for the forest to gather firewood for the village.”

“It’s sweet your daughter still takes time to spend with her father.” Sarette smiles at me.

“Yes, it is. She’s going to spend the next few days home with us, thinking about her recent actions.” Sarette chuckles at that.

“It’s hard to punish children that mirror or surpass your level, isn’t it? It’s a sign of a good mother when we’re able to adapt to raising such children.” That’s another similarity we have. We both have children that out level us.

“She’s with Darrius right now but I was hoping she was going to spend the first day home with me.”

“Oh?” Sarette has a confused look.

“You see, Richard tried to have one of the hunters go with him into the woods yesterday but was refused by everyone. So, my daughter had to volunteer to help him gather firewood last night.”

“OH, my.” Sarette covers her mouth with one of her hands. I send a disappointed look at Camden and he sinks back into his seat.

I turn back to Sarette and give her my full attention. “We’re coming up on winter and I believe people have forgotten their need for firewood with the goblin threat looming over their heads. Aaliyah might be able to help Darrius one or two days a week to gather firewood but she has her own job. I hope you see the dilemma the village faces if my husband can’t gather enough wood for everybody.” I reach over and pick up my tea.

Sarette mimics my action and we both sip our drinks in the momentary silence.

“I see your point, Silvia. It’s a good thing you brought this problem to us so quickly. I’m sure my husband will find a solution by tomorrow. Right?” We both look over at Camden sitting in his chair.

“Of course, I will. Consider the problem solved, with me Nicolas.” Camden springs to his feet and escapes with his son from our combined gazes.

As soon as the door closes behind them, we both break out in laughter.

“You know he’s really sorry about letting your daughter stay behind.” Sarette offers once our laughter subsides.

“I know, Aaliyah made it abundantly clear it was her idea. I can still be mad at our husbands for going along with it though.” I finish off my first cup of tea.

“Let me refill that for you.” Sarette leans over and pours me another cup. “Is she doing ok? I was worried when I was told about the magic beasts in the forest.”

“She’s fine. The fire she usually has in her eyes was burning even brighter when she left this morning.”

“New toys tend to do that,” Sarette quips.

“You heard about her new weapon?” I sit back in my chair.

“The whole village knows about her new sword. It’s orange and looks beautiful, it stood out the moment she carried it through the village.”

“I’m worried she might be going overboard since she returned. A lot of the villagers are paying attention to her now.” I frown at Sarette.

“She slayed a horned hob single-handily, what did you expect would happen?”

“It was a newly formed horned hob.” I correct her.

“It doesn’t matter. She demonstrated her superior ability and saved lives. The days of her quietly walking through the village are gone. She’ll have to get used to it sooner or later.” I watch Sarrette fill her teacup. “I’ve slowly spread the word she values her privacy amongst the village but even our family doesn’t have the ability to stop every whisper in the village. With the ability’s she has at her age it’s no wonder everyone is impressed. If they were aware of her magic talent, they might believe she’s secretly a monster in disguise.”

“I would appreciate it if you didn’t call my daughter a monster… no matter how true you are.” She smiles at my joke.

“The talent between our children is startling. Nicolas is almost as good with managing the village as his father was at his age. My boy Braddon is considered an excellent hunter and my daughter is expected to return as a mage in springtime. I’m told your son is a direct apprentice under the best builder in Drey and your daughter has too many accomplishments to mention. We might just be the luckiest mothers in the world right now.” Sarette’s smile is infectious and soon we’re back to our usual conversations from before the goblin expedition.

“Are you sure you don’t want to stay a little longer?” Sarette tries to gently pull me away from her front door.

“No, I need to get home and prep dinner. I’m sure Aaliyah and Darrius will be back soon and I’m guessing they’ll be hungry after working so hard.” I slip my hand out of her grasp.

“Alright, go then. But don’t wait until you need to tell us something important before you come to visit me again.”

“I won’t. Thanks for the tea.” I lean in and give Sarette another hug before I leave her house and make my way back home. It was nice spending some time talking to her.

My walk home would be considered uneventful if I ignored all the whispers as I walk past my neighbors. I keep my stride even and pretend I don’t notice their questionable and envious looks.

I haven’t felt like this since I was a young girl back in Aurorast. I hope Aaliyah doesn’t freak out when she finally notices just how much attention she’ll receive now.

At least we live in a small village. It doesn’t take me more than a few minutes to make it home and put the gazes of the villagers out of my mind.

I change my shoes and make my way over to our counter. I can prep tonight’s stew and place it farther away from the fire so it’s ready by the time Aaliyah and Darrius make it home. I can’t wait to hear about their day and for all of us to spend time together. Tomorrow will be even better.

I know Aaliyah will want to make a sheath tomorrow but we’ll have plenty of time after that to spend together as a family.

Smiling and humming, I hear the door behind me open. They’re home early!

I set the veggies I’m peeling for the stew down and wipe my hands on a nearby rag. “I’m happy you made it home early. Did the two of you collect enough firewood?” I turn around with a smile on my face to greet my beautiful Daughter and handsome husband.

My smile vanishes when I see the blank look on Aaliyah’s face. The fire in her eyes is gone, replaced by a void I can’t bear to look into.

She kicks off her shoes and doesn’t bother to put her house slippers on. She walks past our table and starts making her way to her room.

“Aaliyah, sweety,” I call out to her. The blank look she gives me hurts my heart.

She looks down at herself. “Oh, sorry mom.” I don’t think she even realizes how upset I am right now.

She makes her way back over to the entryway and Darrius moves to the side giving her a wide birth. He can’t look at her empty face either.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

She chants her cleaning spell and I watch as the dirt from the forest falls away. She isn’t as dirty as she usually is but… is that blood!

The bottom of her pants have bloodstains on them! The stains quickly fade away from her clothes but I can see blood on her shoes she kicked away a minute ago.

As soon as the light fades, she starts walking to her room again. “Aaliyah,” I try to call out her.

“I’m going to lay down.” She shuffles to her room without looking back.

What happened to my baby!?

I start to walk to her room but Darrius wraps his arms around me before I get to far. “I think she needs some time alone,” he whispers in my ear.

I turn around in his arms and look into his eyes. “What happened, Darrius?”

My poor girl is hurting and I don’t know what to say. “What do we do Darrius?” I look up at my husband sitting across from me.

“I don’t know. She ignores all of my questions when we go into the forest.” He glances at Aaliyah’s door down the hall.

“She’s going to hurt herself if she keeps pushing herself like this.” I wipe a tear away from my eye.

I’m used to my daughter pushing herself constantly but this is taking it to far. It’s been three days since she returned with Darrius from the forest and she’s been running herself ragged ever since.

