“The feeling when you move that fast is indescribable. You feel weightless and the world slows for a brief moment. I can run really fast on a flat ground, maybe even reach Drey in a single day if I push myself hard enough. But Flash Step goes above that. It’s allowed me to taste the future of my Running skills.”

“You could quit blacksmithing and become a messenger if you like running so much.” Aaliyah stumbles at my suggestion and looks accusingly at me.

“Very funny, mom.”

I stop while I try to breathe and laugh at the same time.

“Are you ok?” Aaliyah stops running and moves to my side.

“I’m just not used to running.” I can’t believe I couldn’t make a full lap around the village.

“That’s ok. Let’s walk until your stamina recharges.”

“That sounds like a good idea.” I quickly take her up on her offer.

“Hey, mom?”

“Yes, sweety?”

“I’m sorry about the way I acted the last few days. I made you worry about me again.” She lowers her head.

Despite my low stamina, I quickly move over to her and bring my arm around her. “That’s in the past now. We don’t need to mention it again. You just need to remember your father and I will always be here to help you. Whether you’re hurt or troubled about something you can always tell us and we’ll help anyway we can.”

“Thank you, mom. I love you.” She gently rubs her eyes.

“I love you too, sweety. We have the rest of the day to relax together and your father said he would try to make it home early for dinner. We haven’t had time to talk just the two of us for a while, so tell me your plans for tomorrow. Are you going to make something exciting like your sword?”

“I don’t have enough magic ore to make something like that again. I have something I want to make for our house but I’ll keep that for a surprise for tomorrow night. The main thing I need to work on are spears.”

“Oh, why spears?” The glow her face gives off when she talks about blacksmithing is truly beautiful.

“I realized when we were fighting the goblins, swords and other weapons don’t win battles, spears do. If we had more spears maybe more of the villagers wouldn’t have died.” I give her a comforting squeeze with my arm.

“Kervin wanted weapons that he could sell to Fort North Ridge but ever since I distributed my status points, I haven’t had time to make anything for him.”

“Why are you rushing? You can just sell more to him next month. Do you need money, your father and I have some saved up if you need it?”

“That’s ok, mom. I can earn my own coin. Besides, I need gold coins and I don’t think you and dad have that much saved up. I know you gave brother part of your savings when he left with Sandra.”

“What do you need that much money for!?” She’s talking about spending a fortune for someone living out in a village like this one.

“Master gave me a list of supplies I need to try enchanting.”

“What, enchanting! That’s a pit mages throw their money into when they’re bored! Wait… I thought you said Del can’t use magic, how is he supposed to teach you enchanting?” Is he trying to get her to waste her hard-earned money?

“Master Del has already warned me about the cost and told me he can only teach me the basic principles of enchanting. I wanted to try learning it. Del keeps telling me I’m a monster when it comes to magic and blacksmithing so I figured I would try to fuse the two if I could.”

“I’m sure you can do it, sweety. You’ve never let your lack of formal magic training stop you from reaching your current abilities.” My daughter never lets anything stop her. I know she’ll figure it out if she puts her mind to it.

“Thanks, mom. You ready to run again?”

“Sure, I think I’m getting better at this.” We both share a smile. No matter what I’m doing, if it’s together with her I’ll cherish the time we have.

“Would you mind if I run with you in the mornings from now on?” I try to watch my daughter while paying attention to the forest floor.

“I would love for you to join me.” She gives me one of her beautiful smiles.

I’ll do my best to make sure that smile never disappears. Family supports one another. Memories of my own parents flash through my mind. I wonder how they’re doing?

Maybe I should send a letter to them? I’ll have Kervin deliver it when he visits again, and maybe ‘politely’ discuss the prices he offers to my daughter.
