The only time she stops training her magic in her room is when she trains outside. Every morning before dawn she leaves the house for her morning run. Instead of returning with a smile like she usually has, she’s covered in sweat and scratches, barely able to stand.

She’s pushing her stretching routine to the point she has tears in her eyes. I’m worried she’s going to dislocate her arm soon.

And that new sword!

Three times a day she goes outside and swings her sword until she can no longer hold the thing. She focuses on her swings so deeply she doesn’t care who watches her practice anymore. The village is terrified seeing her swing the blade every day like she’s possessed.

Her eyes are hollow and we can hear her waking up gasping for air in the middle of the night.

She eats dinner and cleans the kitchen if I tell her to but if we don’t say anything to her she just secludes herself in her room. I was never blessed with any magic talent but even I can feel the mana she’s constantly covering herself in.

I tried waking her from one of her meditations only to realize I couldn’t touch my baby girl. There was a barrier covering her entire body.

How many times are goblins going to hurt her? I can’t understand why she would feel bad about killing those pests. They do nothing for the forest and only cause problems for the villagers.

“You’ve helped her before Darrius, can’t you try again?” I plead to my husband.

“I tried talking to her yesterday when she went with me to the forest. She followed all my instructions but she pretty much ignored me the whole time. Maybe Del can get through to her? She goes back the day after tomorrow.” My husband says into his hands. He’s burying his head in his arms in defeat, not giving me any hope idea will work.

“I’m more worried about what she’ll do when she goes back to Del. She’s been pushing herself like crazy the last few days. What will happen if Del can’t do anything and she does the same thing while blacksmithing? She’ll hurt herself!” What do we do?

“Can we even do anything to stop her?” I freeze when I hear Darrius.

“What!?” I can’t believe what I’m hearing.

“She’s reached her level through sheer dedication and hard work. I don’t think either of us can match her anymore. It’s hard to admit but we’ve seen this coming. Since she distributed her status points, she’s started acting defiant. She’s making her own choices now and I think we have to respect them.” He’s keeping his head buried in his arms. How am I supposed to take you seriously if you won’t look at me?

Slowly, I push my chair out and stand up.

I make my way around the table and stand beside my husband. The strongest person I’ve ever met looks like he’s about to crumble in front of me.

“Aaliyah is our little girl. No matter how strong she becomes it’s our job to impart our wisdom when she’s troubled, it’s our job to hold her hand when she’s sad, and it’s our job to tell her when she’s wrong, but most of all it’s our job to understand her and keep her safe even if it’s from herself.” I start walking to Aaliyah’s room.

“You might have to make dinner tonight!” I yell down the hall.

I open Aaliyah’s door and see my babysitting on her bed. She sits so still, almost like a statue. Even with her eyes closed, I can see the signs of exhaustion on her face. Her arms are crossed with her palms facing up.

Her beautiful hands are covered in blisters and cuts, how hard did she grip her sword? Even after years of blacksmithing she’s never come home with so many injuries on her hands.

I reach down and try to grasp her hand.

Once my hand reaches two inches from her skin, I feel the magic barrier covering her body. She’s sealing herself off from the world.

Can I move her? I place my hand up against the part of the barrier covering her arm. As soon as I put pressure against the barrier my hand slides away. So, I can’t move her.

I can try breaking the barrier.

No, I don’t know if that would hurt her or not.

I’ll wait.

I’ll wait for her to notice me. I’ll make her pay attention to me. I won’t leave her alone in this room.

Very carefully, I move behind my daughter. I spread my legs to either side of her and wrap my arms around her waist. The barrier makes it feel like I’m hugging a giant egg.

When was the last time I hugged my little girl, four days ago?

When was the last time I’ve held her like this? She took after her father and is bigger than me now. I remember when I could pick her up in my arms.

It feels like it’s been forever since I’ve been this close to her and still this barrier separates us. I’ve yelled at her so much this last month, I hope she knows I only did it because I care so much for her.

“I knew you were special the moment I held you in my arms. The beautiful girl I’ve always wanted. I remember those curious eyes you’ve always had whenever I picked you up. Can you hear me right now?” Her stone-like appearance doesn’t change.

“I also knew raising you was going to be a challenge. From the moment you started rocking yourself back and forth you’ve never stopped moving, never stopped improving.”

“Do you know what the scariest moment in my life was? The moment I didn’t see you standing next to your father when everyone returned from the expedition. I collapsed and felt my heartbreak when I didn’t see your smiling face next to him. You’ve scared me many times since you were little but never like that. That time you were a baby and cried until you passed out was hard, seeing you injured after your first tip into the woods was a nightmare, then that time I heard about Del attacking you and your father. I remember it all so clearly.” I try to strengthen my grip around my daughter. I feel myself being repelled so I have to loosen up a bit.

“I’ve consoled and berated you many times in the past. You’ve always acted so mature for your age, reckless but mature. Whatever weight you’re holding in your heart let me help you carry it. I need you to let me in.” The barrier surrounding my daughter starts shifting and retracting until my arms are pulling her close to me.

“Mom, what are you doing here!?” My daughters astonished voice brings tears to my eyes. Her body tenses for a minute but relaxes in my embrace.

“I’m training, mom. I need to be left alone.” The emotion once again drains away from her voice.

“We need to talk.” I say in her ear.

“I’m busy.” She says in a low tone.

“I know you are but I need to let you know how much I’m proud of you and how much I love you. I can’t watch you hurt yourself anymore.”

“I’m not hurting myself, I’m…”

“Training? I don’t think so.” I cut her off before she can continue lying to herself. “I want you to tell me what happened in the forest?” She shakes in my grip.

“Ask Dad, he knows what happened.”

“I know what happened in the forest. I want to know what happened to you, sweety?”

“I killed some goblins.” She refuses to go into detail.

“I heard you let some of them go.” She twitches in my arms.

“I did.” A silence falls between us.

“Did they remind you of the horde?”

“No.”

“Did it remind you about your nightmares?”

“No”

“Did you feel bad for them?”

“No! I mean, I don’t think so?”

“Then tell me what happened in your words.” I pull my baby as close to me as I can.

“It was just some weak goblins, nothing like the ones in the horde.”

“I wanted to try out my new sword.”

“They didn’t even fully attack us; they froze in front of me.”

“I could have scared them away with my skills if I wanted to but I didn’t.”

“I took the opening.”

“I slaughtered them so easily, mother. They died before they could scream.”

“I wanted to kill them. I wanted to kill every last one of them!”

…

“Two of them ran away and I froze. I never killed indiscriminately like that before. I was a monster!”

I could tell from her muddled speech how much this was affecting her.

“I don’t believe a monster would have let them flee.” She won’t stop shaking in my arms.

“That was my second problem. I let them live. In the future they could attack the village when they’re stronger. After so many died at the hands of goblins, I let them live. Now I need to be stronger for when they attack again! I can’t let more people die from my mistakes. I can’t let people die because of my weakness! I need to train more, let me go!” She tries to break out of my grasp.

“Let me go mom!”

“No.” She stops thrashing for a moment. She’s strong enough to break out my arms but she knows that she would hurt me while doing it. Even now she’s thinking of my wellbeing, that’s supposed to be my job.

“I said let me go!”

“You could escape if you wanted to.” She growls in frustration and finally stops squirming in my arms.

“You’re such a sweet child, so caring, so compassionate. You did the right thing letting those goblins flee.” I hear her sniffle. “Do you believe those goblins will be stronger than you in a few years, I don’t think so. Killing is considered the fastest way to level in this world. No one would blame you for taking that path, but I don’t think it suits you. You enjoy creating not destroying. You can protect yourself and others when you need to without having to kill every possible threat.” I start stroking her hair with my right hand while I feel her tears falling onto my left that’s still holding her in place.

“You don’t need to give up on your morals to save everyone and you don’t need to kill yourself to obtain power. You’re level 60, right?” She nods her head. “How far away from 61 are you?” She doesn’t answer me. “Knowing you you’re already halfway there and it has only been a little more than a week since you reached level 60. Not even goblins can match your progress. Keep practicing but don’t overdo it. You can’t spend your whole life training. You need to have time to rest properly and enjoy the world around you. Understand!?” She nods her head again.

“I want to hear you say it!” I push harder.

“I understand mom.” She’s bawling her eyes out now.

“Give me a hug, sweety.” I release my hold on her and she turns to face me.

She wraps her arms around me and I start to sway us back and forth. “It’s ok,” I repeat to her. I can’t help but spilling tears of my own.

We stay like that for hours before she falls asleep in my arms. It may be a little cramped but I lay down with her on her bed. I continue to stroke her hair just like I did when she was a baby until the world goes black for me as well.

Being a mother is the hardest thing I’ve ever done. It is also the most rewarding job I’ve ever had. I’ll never stop worrying about my children and I’ll never give up on them. No mater how painful something is I can endure it for my daughter.

“That’s good, mom. Now bend down and touch your toes, like this.” Aaliyah easily folds herself in half and touches the ground.

The muscles in my legs protest this new motion as I try to mimic her.

“29, 30. Alright, that’s enough stretching. Ready to run?” Her bright smile makes this time together even more precious to me despite my muscles complaining. I’m happy I agreed to participate in her morning exercise routine.

“Let’s go.” I follow her into the woods closest to our house.

How long has it been since I used my Running skill? I glance to my side to see my daughter setting an even pace for us.

“Don’t you usually run through the village? Why are we running in the forest?” I try to sound inquisitive rather than sound like I’m complaining.

“I changed where I run so I can scan the woods surrounding the village.” I’m reminded of the possibility that we might have giant invisible spiders surrounding our village. At least I know she hasn’t spotted any close by or the whole village would be in an uproar.

I swerve around a tree in my way. My daughter looks like she’s gliding through the forest. Her feet avoid the roots and divots in the forest floor without even looking.

“You can go on ahead if you want to?” I wheeze in between my breaths. I know she’s slowing herself down considerably for my sake.

“I’m fine. I’m happy you joined me, it’s nice running with someone for a change. And just because I’m going slower doesn’t mean I’m not practicing my skill. Practicing to keep an even pace is a large part of running. I’m also using different skills while maintaining our current pace.”

I save my breath for running.

“Want to see something cool, mom?”

“What, sweety?” I prepare myself for whatever she’s about to do. I can tell by the look on her face she’s going to try and startle me.

“It’s a new skill I used to defeat the horned hob…” My daughter who’s running a few feet to my right vanishes!

“It’s called Flash Step!” I hear her directly behind me. I jump but make it look like I was hopping over a rock.

I won’t give her the satisfaction of thinking she got me. “That’s an interesting skill, sweety.” I down play my astonishment. It’s a good thing my father drilled the importance of keeping a straight face while negotiating.

“Did dad or Del tell you about it? You don’t look surprised at all.” She quickly takes her previous position at my side. She now has a few droplets of sweat forming on her face.

“Does that skill use a lot of stamina?” I question my daughter.

“Yeah, but I’m working on it. It lets me shift position and cover a small amount of ground incredibly fast. It might be the most fun skill I have.”

“Why is that?” I can tell she wants to talk more about it. I have to keep my responses short while we’re running.

