After firing off the signal arrow, Siyar sent his quin away and brought his water-skin, crossbow, and Spiritual Weapon with him as he bolted for the crevice. Dug into the westward side of a half-buried boulder, there was just enough room for Siyar to lie prone inside so long as he hugged his sword and crossbow to his chest. Carefully sweeping away the evidence of his passing, Siyar slid into the dark, earthy pocket, placed a layer of grassy sod over the opening like a blanket, and plunged his hiding space into complete darkness. While optimistically confident his presence would go unnoticed, the ground rumbled with the footsteps of thousands of running Defiled, a sound which filled him with concern as he prayed his efforts were enough.

If not, his sword would prove small protection against the horde of Defiled rampaging nearby.

Closing his eyes, Siyar forced himself to breathe and calm down. Staying hidden was 90% preparation, 9% mental fortitude, and 1% luck. He’d made the preparations, and so long as his luck held, then all he had to do was sit tight until the coast was clear. Not an easy task as his instincts demanded he flee or fight, but reason prevailed and he remained still as a corpse. The thunder of hooves, the crash of steel, the screams of the dead and dying, Siyar parsed through the pandemonium to find out what was going on around him. Dastan’s cavalry was nearby, that much was clear, but after the initial charge, Siyar didn’t hear hoof beats fading into the distance like he’d expected. Not a good sign seeing as there were only fifty odd horsemen against maybe twenty times that number of Defiled. In a situation like this, the heavy cavalry should hit hard and fade away, so why was Dastan intent on fighting fair? Fucking nobles were a curious bunch, but Siyar had thought a low-born scrapper like Dastan would’ve known better. Was the bossman and his Death Corps infantry on their way? If so, then they’d better hurry or else...

Seconds passed by but still there was no change. The din of battle continued to sound out and Siyar imagined a landscape littered with his dead comrades, and it occurred to him that he’d assumed the bossman would emerge victorious from this battle. What would happen if the bossman lost? The Defiled would probably stick around for a week or two, celebrating their victory with a bit of cannibalism and torture while Siyar slowly starved to death.

Maybe it was time to rethink things through...

Clutching his crossbow and sword, Siyar experienced a pang of guilt over abandoning the bossman in his time of need. Hell, he even felt bad about leaving his comrades in the lurch. Bulat and Ravil could drop dead for all he cared, but most of the others weren’t too bad, like Jinoe and Ronga who were always good for a laugh, or tasty Kimi who liked to get drunk and jump him for angry sex, or Awdar who owed him fifty two coppers and counting. Hell, even Jorani wasn’t a bad sort. Sure, the lanky rat killed Big-Eyed Kang, but the dumb bastard deserved it. Strutting around with a banner behind him like he was hot shit just because he had a big sword and an Aura, it’s like Kang was asking to get shot. More importantly, both times when Siyar went to the winery, Jorani had his back. The pinched-faced swindler was utter shit at sneaking and not much better in a fight, but he put on a brave face and looked out for his own, which was more than Siyar could say about most.

By the Father’s Syphilitic Cock... When did he become so... sentimental?

Repressing a sigh, Siyar opened his eyes to the darkness of his hideaway. He’d never forgive himself if he stayed here, so he might as well head out and die with the rest. Shifting the sod away ever so slightly, he let his eyes slowly adjust to the moonlight. Quietly sliding out of the crevice, he allowed himself a small smile as he checked his surroundings and manually loaded his crossbow. Sunrise was still an hour away, and while the Defiled had better night-vision than most, Siyar was confident they wouldn’t see him coming.

For the darkness had always been his ally.

Chapter Meme
