Blood Thrall – Ooze – level 81-84 x28.[Explorer]Summoned blood-affinity ooze.Category: Summoned MonsterThreat Level: NormalMonster Type: OozeDamage: Physical, BloodKnown Abilities: Blood Explosion.

“Adds!” Calen yelled.

“Summoning!” Ali yelled simultaneously.

Well, that answers the question of what his third domain skill is.

Just like with Joraa, the summoned thralls began to slosh around, slithering and crawling across the blood-soaked dirt, chasing down anything that was nearby. Unlike The Betrayer, Tol’brekk’s summoning was far more potent. Two grappled with a group of Ali’s minions and then exploded, the detonation killing two Hellfire Imps instantly. Three of them simultaneously overwhelmed a Bone Warrior, ripping and pulling with pseudopods before tearing it apart in a blast. Several of them flowed through the battlefield toward Mato, and still more came.

Shit!

“They’re healing him!” Ali yelled.

Calen nocked five conjured arrows, loosing them in an instant, firing at the Blood Thralls. He followed it with another volley and another, his bow howling as it delivered his magic, trying to spread the damage across all the oozes.

I must get them away from Mato. Adding a host of exploding thralls to the enraged fury of a raid-class Death Knight boss would be more than any tank could handle.

Across the field, the thralls turned to face him and began to run. Aah, now what? He had acted out of necessity, desperate to avert the disaster, and now he found himself in a serious bind. If he flew, he ran the very real risk that the ground-bound oozes would lose interest and return to their rampant mayhem. What can I do? He began to kite them, firing arrows back behind him as he racked his brains for any semblance of a workable plan.

“Bring them to me!” Ali yelled from atop a golden barrier in front of what was left of her Ice Mages and Hellfire Imps.

“You sure?” He had no idea what Ali had planned, but he trusted her implicitly. He redirected his aimless charge, sprinting across the bloodstained dirt towards her, trailing a horde of Blood Thralls in his wake.

“Just bunch them up,” Ali called.

I hope you have a good plan, Calen thought as he sprinted past the tiny Fae, flying on her magical platform. As he passed, she vanished and, in her place, the sole remaining Armored Drake appeared, roaring loudly and unleashing geyser-like jets of fire breath. Behind the flame, the Ice Trolls detonated their Frost Nova spells in a chain reaction that filled the area with ice and snow. Rime-encrusted thralls slowed as the ice magic took hold. From her new spot, Ali waved the quartz wand in her right hand, and one of the Ice Trolls accelerated dramatically, ice bolts flying from her fingers almost three times faster, causing the thralls to freeze and shatter at a phenomenal rate.

“Well played,” Calen murmured as he whirled and began firing volleys of explosive arrows into the chilled thralls. The noise was deafening as his light magic detonated among hellfire fireballs and chained frost novas. The Armored Drake blocked and tanked any thralls that made it through the explosions, adding its flame breath to the fireballs that detonated on top of it.

In seconds, the field was cleared of anything that oozed.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
