

“Hmph,” Staavo grunted, crossing his arms. “I told you it would work. Remember that next time you doubt me, girl. Turning Rain’s bullshit into real shit is my specialty.”

“Stay focused, please,” Vanna said while Rain tried to hide a smile. “Drive turbine status? Are we at idle?”

“Have been for a while,” Staavo replied.

“We’re drifting toward the shore,” Lena said, looking out one of the windows. “We should probably hurry in case there’s a problem with the drives.”

Vanna nodded. “Probably. Rain, how’s the depth?”

“Fine for now,” Rain said, checking. “Lena’s right, though. The last thing we need is to get stuck, and you shouldn’t rely on me being here to tell you where the bottom is.”

“If you need me to get out and push, just say the word,” Ameliah said.

Rain smiled. She wasn’t even joking. Given Bakal’s difficulty with metal, that was the backup plan.

“Open intakes,” Vanna said.

Lena pressed a button on her console, though all it connected to was a buzzer in the engine room. Ruce and Ellis, currently on station there, would do the actual intake opening. The main control levers were mechanically coupled to the valves of the drive system, but many other controls were not. As much as Rain had wanted a single person to be able to pilot Temerity, it just wasn’t possible as things stood. The bridge was actually more finished than most of the ship’s interior. Below, bare wires, pipes, and exposed mechanisms were more the norm.

After a brief wait, indicator lamps lit on both Staavo’s console and Lena’s, signaling that the intakes were open, allowing seawater through the grates to flood over the impellers.

Temerity was a full-on jet boat now. Rain had brainstormed the more complicated design with the Engineering council after they’d stopped to consider what a Whale could do to the propellers. It was a strange thought for Rain, used to the concern being the other way around.

“Engage,” Vanna said.

Ameliah and Rain shared a knowing smile as Staavo slapped a pair of levers forward. There was a tiny shudder felt through the deck plates and a hollow gurgle of water moving far below.

“Transmission engaged,” Staavo said. “Steam pressure is dropping.”

“Increase the heat to compensate,” Vanna commanded.

Lena pressed another button, again connected only to a buzzer. The crew monitoring the boiler was doubtless already aware of the pressure drop from their own instrumentation. They had orders to keep it steady and could adjust the degree of thermal coupling between the boiler and the ship’s reservoir of molten metal by adjusting the position of Thermalitic Bronze rods. If they’d been somehow asleep after all the heaving and rocking, they’d now know they had work to do.

“Pressure stabilizing,” Staavo said. “No, wait. It’s overshooting. Damned idiots!”

“Are we moving?” Jamus asked excitedly, standing to peer out the window.

“Vent, or open the throttle?” Staavo asked.

“Vent,” Vanna commanded. “I’d like to test the safety.”

“Oh, come on,” Staavo groused. “What did I just say about doubting me?” Nevertheless, he reached down to his side and yanked on a small, out-of-the-way lever. However, instead of the expected blast of steam, all that was released was a strained grunt.

“You were saying?” Jamus asked.

“Damn it,” Staavo swore, giving the lever another useless yank.

Vanna laid a hand on his shoulder, leaning to look at the pressure gauge herself. “Throttle, then, please, before the emergency valve blows. One quarter forward.”

Muttering and firmly grasping two of the levers, Staavo slid them gently forward. The distant burble of water grew louder, and another tremor ran through the ship. Turning, Rain smiled as he walked to the armored rear windows, then looked down at the dark waves. Spillover from the floodlights let him see the growing churn of water as the impellers came up to speed, blasting twin jets of water behind them.

“Steam pressure is dropping too fast now,” Staavo said, pulling the levers back. “Somebody tell those idiots to do things gradually!”

“I’m sure they’ll realize for themselves in a moment,” Rain said. Kettel and Mahria were on boiler duty, against his better judgment.

“Lena, are we still drifting?” Vanna asked.

“Hard to tell, but I think we’re moving away from shore,” Lena said, looking out the window.

“Rain?” Vanna asked.

“Confirmed,” Rain said. “We’re picking up speed.”

“Let’s see how fast we can go,” Jamus said, clearly having a great time.

“Let us not,” Tallheart rumbled, only now opening his eyes. “Apart from the risk of damage, we would tip our hand.”

“Sorry, Jamus, but Tallheart’s right,” Rain said, looking back at the smith. “Maybe just a little faster, though? Give it a good test?”

“Half throttle, but no more,” Tallheart said with a lazy blink.

Rain smirked at him. The smith wasn’t fooling anyone. He was just as excited as Jamus despite the bone-deep cloud of exhaustion hanging over him. He was proud of his work, too. If he’d been a cat, he’d have been purring.

“One half, then,” Vanna said. “Staavo, make it so.”

Rain snorted. “Once is a coincidence, but twice?” He turned to look at her. “Did Ameliah put you up to that? Or was it Tallheart? Carten, maybe?”

“Up to what?” Vanna asked innocently. She wasn’t fooling anyone, either.

Over the next hour, they continued putting the ship through its paces, never pushing too far, and making sure to keep both well away from shore and from the deep water. They were running this test at night, and while they were safe enough from Whales, there was no information to be had on how other, smaller, hostile marine monsters might react to the vibrations. Tallheart left the bridge not long into the testing, heading off to work on that very problem, balancing and adjusting various mechanical pieces. Another issue arose when one of the bow thrusters—separate, smaller turbines, independent from the main system—basically tore itself apart.

On the whole, though, everything went amazingly well. Temerity was never going to be agile, but already, its maneuverability was well above what Rain had dared to dream. Not only could the speed of the impellers be varied, but the flow from either nozzle could be inverted as well, a single pull of a lever reversing thrust in an instant. The outlets weren’t fully vectorable or anything—yet—but they didn’t need to be. It was already impressive enough, given how little time they’d had. The icing on the cake was that all the complexity was hidden away. Luna or whoever else wouldn’t have a HOPE of figuring out what was going on from outside.

“Well, I think that’s it,” Vanna said as the sky was beginning to lighten, though the sun remained shrouded. “We’re good to go, Captain, once Tallheart rebuilds that thruster.”

As if summoned by the mention of his name, the door to the bridge opened, and Tallheart stepped through. “Already done,” he rumbled. For once, he hadn’t needed to duck. That had obviously been a design requirement.

“Excellent,” Rain said, grinning at him. “Staavo, get us over to the pier, please, and be careful. Ask Ameliah for help getting us docked if you need it. Once we’ve packed up the circus, I’ll sweep the beach, and then we’re on our way.”

“Very good, Captain,” Vanna said. She swiveled to address Tallheart. “Now, will you please take a nap?”

Rain beamed, moving beside Ameliah and slipping an arm around her waist. “Great work, everyone. It’s almost like we know what we’re doing.”
