Nick came to a stop in front of the library’s main entrance. While he waited for Yarren to switch off the wards, he ran his gaze across the runic circle Zora had created to bypass the barrier.

The potent shell of mana surrounding the structure flickered and died a few seconds later, letting the party cross the threshold and enter the lobby beyond. Sunlight filtered through the crystal walls, bathing the interior in a verdant glow that made it seem like he was standing below the sea.

The sprawling foyer was built to accommodate heavy traffic. Even Lurk seemed small compared to the sheer scale of the place. They crossed the landing and took a long look around, absorbing the ambiance while getting a better sense of the library’s layout. The center featured an open area bordered by circular handrails, revealing curved slices of a half-dozen floors.

Nick’s gaze landed on an intricate stained-glass mural stretching across the ceiling. It was the same representation of the System he’d seen several times before, but vastly more complex. He was eager to start the trip back to Aurora, but he still stopped to marvel at how many worlds were linked by the galaxy-spanning portal network.

“Astonishing.” Bandit mirrored his train of thought. “There is life on more planets than gains of sand on a beach.”

“All of this will vanish if the Labyrinth is allowed to flourish.” Kenji sighed. “It’s no wonder the System allied with gods like Astra to stop Taltos before it’s too late.” They spent a few minutes in silent reflection then returned to the matter at hand.

“I should have asked Yarren how the bloodlines are organized,” Nick said, “but I’m sure it won’t be too hard to figure out. Call out if you find anything interesting. Otherwise, we can meet up in a few hours, share our findings, and start browsing the bloodlines in earnest.”

With that, Bandit leapt onto Lurk’s back and everyone went their separate ways. Nick began by taking a tour of the ground floor, which was divided into several distinct areas. He couldn’t read the writing on the walls, but there were prolific pictures and diagrams painted on every vertical surface. The figures came in all shapes and sizes, revealing that the library had hosted countless visitors from other worlds.

The repository had an air of reverence. This wasn’t merely a vault—it was a place of contemplation, culmination, and celebration. Some of the scenes depicted heroes being awarded keys for completing valiant deeds, identical to the devices the System had granted his party. There were images of individuals browsing displays on the levels above, thinking long and hard before making their decision and receiving a bloodline stone. Others focused on the joy lighting up people’s faces after using the gems, gaining a potent new trait before leaving the library.

Nick absorbed the details while reflecting on what he’d learned. Innumerable champions had crossed these hallowed halls, pondering the same choice that lay before him now. He could almost see them, thinking long and hard before taking a gigantic step down their personal path to power.

There were plenty of places to sit and contemplate—even a bathroom with a row of showers and rest areas lined with comfortable cots. He passed by hundreds of rooms that served as offices for the people who staffed and maintained the facility. However, nothing caught his eye, which meant it was time to climb the stairs and examine the upper levels.

He’d spotted five staircases while touring the ground floor, including that was one wide enough for two dinosaurs to climb side by side. He ascended the closest and turned in a circle. The entire level was lined with display cases. He picked one at random and took a closer look, hoping to get a sense of how the library worked and how the bloodlines were arranged.

Nick came to a stop in front of a crystal case the size of the aquarium his parents had kept in their living room. It was encased in a potent field of mana that felt identical to the building’s outer wards. The amount of energy the barrier contained was staggering. He doubted he could break in, even if he went all out. One portion of the display was filled with three glowing gems, which had to be the bloodline stones Yarren had mentioned.

On the other side of the partition was a complex arrangement of magitech machines with a vial of blood suspended in the middle. A half-formed crystal was attached to the base, and his eyes went wide when he realized what he was looking at. This isn’t just a receptacle for bloodline gems. Each case is gradually growing more.

Moving on, there was a slot where a key could be inserted, and claw on a chain that would grab a gem and drop it into a tube where it could be retrieved. There wasn’t a description of what the bloodline did, but when Nick reached out and touched the case, the information was transmitted directly into his mind.

Energetic Conversion

Your cells can absorb electricity and convert it into other forms of vital energy at a modest rate.

Note: This trait has a maximum storage capacity. Once your cells are saturated, excess electricity will affect you as usual.

“Whoa,” he muttered. “This place is awesome.”

If he understood it properly, this trait would let him turn electricity into health, mana, or stamina, providing a convenient way to recharge whichever form of vital energy he needed. If he carried a battery in his backpack, it would be like having a constant supply of portions. Not bad at all. It seems ideal for someone who can call lightning like Laura, or who lives in an environment where thunderstorms are a regular occurrence.

While Energetic Conversion would undoubtably be useful, he wanted something that would synergize with his Build, so Nick kept looking.

He did some mental math, multiplying the floors by how many display cases he’d spotted on this level. There were at least a thousand bloodlines contained within the library. Not every case had gems that were ready to retrieve, but even still, he estimated there was somewhere between two and four thousand stones in total—a staggering repository of power that took his breath away.

This experience reminded him of his visit to the treasure vault after his arena battle—where he’d acquired his trusty Elixir of Restoration—on an even grander scale. He was certain that the stones were arranged in some kind of order but deducing it wasn’t important. He wasn’t going to make his pick without browsing them all.

Nick pulled out his journal and started listing the contents of each case, so he could share the information with his friends before they made their decisions. He walked from display to display, contemplating the traits they contained.

The sight of the stones filled him with an uncharacteristic greed. While receiving the gem of his choice was an invaluable treasure, part of him wanted them all. Blightborn tripled his bloodline capacity and evolving had added some too. His empty slots were bursting with unrealized potential, begging to be filled.

Even still, this was an invaluable opportunity to customize his Build and guide his development in the direction of his choosing. It took him an hour to catalogue the second floor, then he climbed the stairs to join Kenji on the third.

The scarred strategist was so excited that he couldn’t stop fidgeting—one of the few times Nick had seen the centenarian break his stoic disposition. He wasn’t surprised to find the man with a pad of paper and pencil in hand, which he’d taken from a stand intended for that purpose.

“I’ll finish recording the stones on this level then move on to the next. Why don’t you tackle the top two floors? When we’re done, we can discuss the list as a group. Bandit and Lurk won’t be any help. They’re just running from display to display at random. On our way home, I should teach him to read and write.”

Nick was overcome with a sense of wonder as he browsed the myriad displays. There were bloodlines that did things he’d never imagined—so many ways that he could change himself by inserting his key into a slot, and all of them were fantastic.

There were traits that would help him fight, survive the elements, or cultivate a state that facilitated learning. Stones that would bolster his resilience, enhance his regeneration, or hone his various powers of perception.

While many would make him stronger, he was looking for something that resonated with the path to power he had chosen to walk. A trait that would remain useful, no matter how high he climbed. Even with his superhuman brain, there were so many options that he simply couldn’t process everything at once. He continued recording his findings, circling anything that seemed particularly promising until he’d perused them all.

When Nick completed his survey, he walked down to the lobby where his friends were waiting.

They spent the next five hours going through the bloodlines one at a time. Yarren found them part of the way through, dropping off the food he’d prepared. “It’s getting late. You should spend the night here before you decide. I’ll meet you in the morning to answer questions and deliver the resources I promised.”

Round and round their conversation went, until midnight had come and passed. Nick fell asleep on one of the cots, dreaming of an endless procession of powers that might soon be his to command. He awoke before dawn, munching on provisions while going through the list one final time. Kenji joined him shortly after, and they shared a companionable silence while coming to a decision.

Having so many solid contenders to choose from made the task thrilling and arduous in equal measures, but in the end, he settled a stone that called to him slightly louder than the rest. Before he pulled the trigger and irrevocably bound the trait to his bloodline, he took one last look at the description to make sure there wasn’t something he’d missed.

Double-Pane Arcane Barrier

Significantly strengthen the potency of your Arcane Barrier by dividing it into two separate layers with a field of pure mana running between them, shielding you from magic seeking to influence your mental state or alter the composition of your body.

Nick had grown at an unprecedented rate, but he was planning to face off against enemies that were more powerful still. He trusted the All-Devouring Blade to counter most forms of external magic, severing the weaves of mana forming offensive spells before they reached his position. However, he was still vulnerable to magic that altered the composition of his body. He’d heard of spells that turned blood to water, flesh to stone, or used portals to remove your beating heart, any of which would be instantly lethal if they bypassed his Arcane Barrier.

He wasn’t sure he would see them coming before it was too late and wanted additional insurance against abilities that could end his life in a flash. Bolstering his barrier would also help him survive combat magic that broke through his defenses, which would make the trait useful in any battle with a spell-slinging opponent on top of the one-hit kills he was worried about.

After sharing his train of thought with Kenji, who agreed it was a strong choice, Nick climbed the stairs to the fourth floor and approached the display containing Double-Pane Arcane Barrier. As adrenaline flowed through his veins, he inserted his key into the slot, which shattered into fading fragments of light as the claw reached down to retrieve the only complete gem inside the case.

It gripped the deep-blue stone and dropped it into a tube that led to a space he could reach, chuckling at the superficial resemblance to the grab-claw arcade machines he’d enjoyed as a kid. When his fingers wrapped around the gem’s multifaceted surface, a prompt from the System appeared.

You have obtained a bloodline trait gem containing: Double-Pane Arcane Barrier.

Would you like to absorb the gem and bind the trait to your bloodline?

“Hell yes, I would. Hit me.” When those words left his lips, the stone sank into his hand, vanishing without a trace as warmth spread throughout his body. He felt the membrane of mana encasing his skin split into two distinct layers, each the same thickness as the original. Next, a thread connected from his energetic core to the space between the panes, filling it with a concentrated layer of pure mana.

After the process was complete, he went to join his friends. Everyone had finished making their selections, and they agreed to share the details once they were back on the road. When they stepped outside the library, Yarren was waiting beside a towering pile of high-grade ore that was glinting in the morning light.

They were getting ready to make their goodbyes when a stray thought struck him. Wait a second. Even if Zora took down the outer ward, how did the monarch plan to pillage the bloodlines inside?

Acting on instinct, Nick walked over to the runic circle the dreadbeast had drawn around the library. The concentric arrangement of runes and lines was as intricate as it was vast—totally unlike any form of magic he’d seen before. He memorized everything so he could share it with Aurora’s researchers then bent down and placed his hands in the same spot the monarch was touching when he arrived.

His eyes widened when he felt a resonance from the lingering traces of the dreadbeast’s magic. In that moment, he was certain that their Concepts were similar enough that Devour could power the runes designed to channel Nightmare. Without stopping to consider the consequences of his actions, he pushed his Concept through his hands and into the ritual array.

It drained a staggering amount of energy, but the spell was already close to culmination. With a flash of light, the runic circle shattered. In his fugue state, he couldn’t make out what his friends were saying, but they followed him back to the entrance. He had recovered by the time he stepped inside the library and climbed to the second floor, where a sight awaited him that took his breath away.

The barriers shielding the displays had vanished, exposing the gems inside.

“Fuck me.” Kenji’s eyes went wide. “I think you just gave us access to every gem in the library. There must be thousands in there.”

“Three thousand two hundred and six,” Yarren said with a bemused smile on his face.

“That would be enough to outfit most of humanity’s elites. Imagine what we could do with that many stones.”

A complex expression crossed Yarren’s face. “Take them. You’ve earned them. Not only did you preserve my people and this planet, you saved the library from destruction by Zora’s hand. It is a wonder of this world. As long as the generic seeds inside each case are intact, they will continue producing gems. It will take decades to restore them all, but collecting the seeds was the work of millennia, and they would have been lost without your intervention. It’s only fitting that our saviors use them to protect their homeworld.”

Nick didn’t need to be told twice. In a frenzy of energy, he walked from case to case and placed the stones inside his pack, wrapping each set and adding a label describing the details. All the while, his heart was pounding. In addition to acquiring an unprecedented boon for Team Earth, he had just gained the ability to fill all his empty bloodline slots, which meant the advancement train he’d been riding had another utterly amazing stop before it reached the station.

He didn’t plan to decide right away. Being able to add so many traits at once—picking them together to achieve maximum synergy—was an insane advantage, and he intended to make the most of the fortuitous windfall by considering his options at length.

When they were done, the party bid Yarren farewell, promising to visit when Aurora’s portal network could handle interplanetary transport. They passed a few people on their way to the rift, who were scouting the former quarantine zone to make sure the danger had truly passed.

Eventually, his team found themselves in the Emerald Expanse, staring at the rift leading to the conduit. Before they entered the Labyrinth, Nick turned to his friends and said, “We’ve grown so much since arriving on this world. How would you feel about a quick detour on our way home?”

Kenji had been thinking along similar lines. “Now that we can tackle the monsters on the node’s lowest level, we should find out what that Hall of Heritages is all about.”

“Exactly.” Nick grinned.

Side by side, the four of them stepped through the yawning slit in spacetime and entered the conduit beyond, marveling at how much had changed since they’d passed the other way.