He's going to be there. Diana thought and opened the door. She looked over to the spot by the back gate, and didn't see him. “Oh, no!” She nearly yelled and started to run, and then 2 heads popped up over the back wall. An armored ram's head with large horns and a smaller head with blonde fluffy hair looked over at her.

*

“Hello, Your Highness.” Ren said when she was close enough to hear him. “Is everything all right?”

“Y-yes.” Diana said, a little breathlessly as she stopped 10 feet away from the wall. “I didn't see you... and thought you... had left.”

“This wall is too high to see over.” Ren said and walked up and over it. “I would have at least sat on top of it, if I thought you were coming out the back of the castle.”

Princess walked up and over the wall as well, and Ren pat her.

“Your Highness, this is Princess, my loyal and indispensable mount and friend.”

“His name is Princess?” Diana asked, her voice full of concern and disbelief.

Ren laughed. “No, Your Highness. Princess is female.”

“Oh! That makes a lot more sense.” Diana said and stepped forward. “The large horns threw me.” She said and looked at the mount. “It's nice to meet you.”

“It's nice to meet you, too.” Princess said, and Diana gasped in shock.

“By the way, Princess can talk.” Ren laughed and scratched her chin. “Now she's met three princesses from three different cultures.”

“Thank you, My Lord.” Princess said.

“It... it's not a trick?” Diana asked. “She's really talking?”

“Once she donned her new armor, we both had the same thought to cast Permanent Magic Mouth on her.”

“P-p-permanent?” Diana said in wonder. “The spell casters in father's employ said the Mana cost is unbelievable to make something Permanent.”

“A specialized Level 5 spell like that should be Mana intensive.” Ren smiled. I use wands instead, though. No casting required. He thought.

“I'm tempted to ask you to cast it on my horse.” Diana said.

“It would probably only say 'neigh'.” Ren chuckled. “I cast it on my dogs and asked them a question, and all they said was 'bark'.”

“Oh, that's funny!” Diana said and laughed. “Speak, boy! Bark! Ha ha!”

Ren laughed, too. After a few moments of shared amusement, he spoke.

“May I ask why you wanted to see me?” Ren felt her emotions shift to seriousness. “The healer gave me your thanks already.”

“T-the healer did?” Diana asked, surprised.

“Her assistant hugged me, but was hesitant to kiss a strange man.” Ren said. “Of course, so was the healer.” He smiled. “She didn't want to disappoint you, so she forced herself to do it.”

“You... you kissed...” Diana turned away so he wouldn't see her face. He kissed a much older woman instead.

Ren felt her emotions change again, and wondered why. “Why did you want the assistant to do it?” He asked, and he felt her surprise as she turned back to him.

“I... I assumed she... didn't have a lot of experience...” Diana said.

Ren felt she had left something unspoken. “That's not all, is it?”

“I...” Diana looked down at her Amulet of Truth. “I assumed she was like me.” She said. “I don't have a lot of experience, either.”

“You thought I would be comparing her to you?” Ren asked, and she nodded without looking up. “Does that mean you asked me here for a kiss?”

Diana sighed. “You saved my mother.” She looked up at him. “Above everything else you've done for this kingdom, including saving my life, helping me help save father's heart matters to me the most.”

“Your Highness...”

“The healers said if you hadn't brought them so quickly, it might have been too late.” Diana said and tapped her amulet. “I thought they were exaggerating, until they told me the gestation time to either turn or... or die.”

Ren felt her sorrow at the thought of losing her mother, and her gratitude that she hadn't.

“I wanted to thank you.” Diana said, then closed her eyes. “But... but, if you just kissed an experienced woman, I... how am I ever going to compare...”

“Every kiss has it's merits.” Ren said. “Every woman has her charms.”

“B-but...”

“I just explained all of this to the healer.” Ren said and stepped close. “Sometimes a kiss is just a kiss. A sign of friendship and respect.”

Diana opened her eyes and looked at him. He was still shorter than her, and then he took one step up into the air. She looked down and saw his feet were 6 inches off the ground, and she looked back at his face that was now at the same height as hers.

“A thank you kiss can be just that. A thank you.” Ren said. “The healer really did convey your thanks, so you don't have to do this.”

“I... I want to.” Diana said. “You've done nothing but amazing things since we've met.”

“There's no room in my life for another relationship.” Ren warned her. “This is only going to be a kiss, nothing more.”

“J-just like with the healer?” Diana asked.

“No, I can feel how eager you are.” Ren said. “It's... kind of intoxicating.”

“You can feel my emotions?”

Ren nodded. “I have the Emotion Siphon ability.”

“Then... you... you know, I...”

“Let me take some of that from you.” Ren said. “You can't let it distract you.”

“I... no, you can't have it.” Diana said, and he felt her resolve. “I won't let my feelings for you distract me.”

“It's distracting you now.” Ren smiled.

“Only because I'm letting it.” Diana said and smiled back.

“As long as you know the difference.” Ren said.

“I do.” Diana put her arms around him. “Now kiss me so I can thank you for saving my mother's life.”

Ren gave her a nice gentle kiss, and he felt her emotions expand at the touch of his lips. They didn't overflow like he thought they would, though. They were tempered and compressed, and held in check with a strong will. He admired her restraint, and then Diana broke the kiss and looked him in the eyes.

“Thank you for helping my mother.” Diana said.

“Would she have kissed me like that?” Ren asked, jokingly.

“Yes.” Diana said. “That's the same kind of kiss she shares with my father.”

Ren felt her will ease off from holding her emotions in check.

“You know, I never properly thanked you for giving me this Amulet of Truth.” Diana said, and let her emotions rule her lips as she kissed Ren again.

Yeah, she knows the difference. Ren thought in amusement as he kissed her back.
