And we did too. Gramps decided the best place to spend one of our evenings was in the local high end courtesan house, called the Jade Palace.

Which was definitely a little bit strange at first, especially since half of us guys were married and our wives were along… but the memories from the Crucible told me the really high end places didn’t have much hanky panky going on. Instead it was music, dancing, poetry, games, and conversation—Meimei actually made something of a friend there, one of the courtesans knew a lot about herb collecting and they started chatting about energy drinks.

I got to play a game that involved alliances and backstabbing that didn’t have people getting pouty at me.

Well, there was some pouting. Yihan was apparently the best in the place at that game, winning against magnates and trading company kingpins—only to get her ass beat by yours truly.

Everyone underestimates the golden retriever energy. Play happy and clueless, and absolutely murk some poor sod when they think they’ve won. Her defeat was something of an event—one of the other courtesans actually got a horn out and started blowing it to complete my MLG play while Yihan sat there with her mouth open, pointing at me.

I don’t know if I would go back any time soon, but it ended up being an actually fun evening.

We sat in companionable silence for a few moments, watching the city go about its day, before I turned back to Gramps. “So, have you been having a good summer so far? Big D told me you said you went off the farm to do some things.”

He nodded, his body language completely relaxed. “I’ve been having a most enjoyable and interesting time; My cultivation is repairing well. I have learned some interesting things, and I spent some time gathering reagents—ah, and I got my hands on some things for my granddaughter as well. I thought she needed a reward for all her hard work, and she was missing some tools from her arsenal. Skyshimmer Spider Silk for stitching wounds and crafting bandages… and it has been a while since I’ve truly crafted a blade. Granddaughter is always speaking of her scalpels. That Han boy did an alright job, but my granddaughter will have something truly worthy of her.”

I whistled. “Damn.” Meimei was going to have a legendary artifact soon.

“I would have made something for you as well… but the item I thought to forge had been forged already, and it suits you.” He nodded to Old Faithful. He was right. My old buddy was perfect the way he was now. “The Tie family… they are acceptable.”

Which was insanely high praise from the old man.

“I may have the shovel… but I could always use a frying pan or something,” I replied.

Gramps laughed. “A frying pan? You have Shen Yu saying he will make something for you, and you ask for a frying pan?”

“A paring knife would be really nice too. If it's made by my Gramps, I’d use it every day.”

The words seemed to strike him for a moment, before he let out a breath and shook his head. “As long as it's from me, hmm? Very well. A frying pan you will have. It shall be a frying pan to surpass all frying pans, mark my words!”

I matched his grin with my own.

We sat together under the rising sun, watching the streets, before I turned to face north—towards home.

We had come a long way, repairing Tianlan’s Dragon Veins. We had met so many people already... and we still had plenty more distance left to go.

I found myself looking forward to it, wondering with interest what the future would bring.

Somewhere in the distance, a rooster crowed. Big D, who had been dozing in my lap with Rizzo, bolted upright. By reflex, he crowed in retaliation… and then looked quite embarrassed.

I just laughed.

“You tell ‘em, Big D.”

======

And so this chapter ends, and a new one begins. What new and wonderful sights await me when I return to these weak, yet wonderful Azure Hills—

“Your order, sir,” the serving girl said, putting the plates down in front of him. The man paused, then washed off his brush and placed his writings off to the side.

“Thank you,” he said, looking at the spread before him. It looked delightful.

“That’s a mighty breakfast! Just for you?” the serving girl asked, sounding impressed.

Tao the Traveller smiled. “Indeed it is! I’ve spent a while in the Azure Hills already, but now the road is calling again!”

The serving girl smiled. “Well, good luck on your journey—and I hope you make it to wherever you're going!”

“It's a bit of a jaunt, but I’ll be back soon enough. It's just too interesting to stay away!”

He couldn’t wait until the next official tournament, and see if they had implemented his recommendations for the stadium, after all.

Tao the Traveller ate hearty. The road was calling—and he had such a tale to tell.
