Eight.

They left Varethen at dawn on Day 26, moving south through the ghost-elm perimeter in the grey light before the sun reached the canopy. Three of them. Wren with the compass and her journal. Brecca with her trowel and a day pack that held clay samples and a straightedge she had improvised from a stripped branch. Theron with nothing except his water skin and the look on his face that Wren had learned to recognize as preparation -- the internal ordering of something he was not yet willing to say.

The threshold stone's dawn vibration came as they crossed the settlement's southern margin. Thirty seconds, felt through the substrate, the crystal lattice singing its thermal greeting to a Wayfinder who was, for the first time since bonding it, walking away.

She felt the bond stretch. Not weaken -- the threshold stone did not weaken. But the signal changed quality as distance opened between them, shifting from the dense, full-body vibration she felt at contact range to a thinner thread running through the limestone beneath her boots. The triad relay -- the three-node network connecting threshold stone, prayer-notch, and healer's house -- compressed into a single carrier signal, the three voices merging into one for transmission across distance. She could feel all three, but she could not distinguish them. At Varethen, the cluster was a chord. From here, it was a note.

---

They moved through familiar terrain for the first hour -- the oak-and-birch stretch south of the perimeter, the dense canopy, the leaf-litter silence. Brecca walked at Brecca's pace, which meant Wren said "Slower" once and Brecca adjusted for four hundred meters before drifting back to speed. Theron walked behind them both, steady, unhurried, the pace of a man who had walked the Thornwild for thirty years and knew that the forest did not reward haste.

The wild ghost-elm grove appeared. The canopy shifted from dark green to grey-green, the overlapping luminescence creating the particular quality of light Wren had noticed two days ago -- not brighter but tinted, the air carrying the trees' resonance as a visible quality. Brecca slowed without being told. She had felt the change on her first passage through and her body remembered it.

"The humming ones," Brecca said.

"Wild ghost-elms."

"I prefer them to the ward-line ones. These ones sound like they mean it."

They passed through the grove in thirty minutes and reached the ridge. The climb was easier the second time -- Wren knew the path, the places where the limestone stepped upward in natural ledges, the hand-holds where exposed root and dressed stone offered purchase. Brecca climbed with the physical economy of someone who understood load and balance. Theron climbed slowly, stopping twice to place his hand on the exposed limestone the way he placed his hand on the drainage channel stones at Varethen: reading the rock through touch, through memory, through the accumulated knowledge of a family who had worked this formation for generations.

From the ridge top, the southern settlement was visible in the morning light. The Greenwater caught the sun and threw it back in a silver line curving around the limestone shelf. The ghost-elm ring was a grey-green circle against the surrounding canopy. The walls showed through the gaps as lines of dressed stone, regular and precise.

Theron stood at the ridge's edge and looked south and did not speak.

Brecca looked at Wren. Wren shook her head. They waited.

"My grandmother said it was gone," Theron said. "She said the forest took it. She said there was nothing left." He looked at the walls, at the ghost-elm ring, at the clearing at the center. "She was wrong."

They descended.

---

The approach from the north took an hour. The terrain dropped from the ridge through the wild ghost-elms and into the river valley, the forest thinning as the ground leveled and the sound of water appeared -- not the drainage-channel trickle Wren was used to, but a continuous presence, the Greenwater moving over stone, audible before visible. The sound changed everything. At Varethen, the settlement's acoustic landscape was forest sounds: insects, ghost-elms, wind, the stone's sub-harmonic vibration. Here: water. The river's white-noise underlaid everything, a constant that was neither biological nor geological but hydrological, and Wren felt her perception adjust to accommodate it the way her eyes adjusted to the ghost-elms' light.

The ghost-elm ring resolved out of the forest like a wall materializing from fog. The trees were enormous -- twice the girth of the Varethen perimeter elms, their bark-shimmer deeper, their root systems visible above ground as interlocking ridges that formed a continuous raised boundary around the settlement's margin. The resonance was dense. Not the wild grove's complex harmonics and not the Varethen ward-line's uniform hum. Something between. An ancient pattern that predated cultivation but had been shaped by proximity to human construction over centuries of coexistence.

They stepped through a gap in the root boundary where a path had once been, three hundred years ago. The gap was still there. The trees had kept it open.

The settlement opened around them.

---

Scale.

Wren had imagined something larger than Varethen. She had not imagined this.

The interior of the ghost-elm ring was a world. Structures everywhere -- not the four or five buildings of Varethen but dozens, their walls rising from foundations that were continuous with the limestone shelf, their rooflines broken by centuries of growth but their bones intact. Trees had grown through them, roots incorporating walls, branches lifting through gaps where roofs had been, but the walls themselves stood. The dressed stone held. The construction had endured the way the threshold stone had endured -- stubbornly, massively, as if the stone remembered what it was for and refused to forget.

The [Wayfinder's Eye] shimmer was everywhere.

Not on one surface. Not on a single feature. The shimmer played across the entire site -- walls, thresholds, foundations, the central clearing visible through the overgrowth, the garden terraces on the slope toward the river. Bond-potential saturated the settlement the way the [Foundation Stone] vibration saturated Varethen's substrate. Wren's awareness expanded and then strained and then failed to hold it all, the way a hand fails to hold water -- the information flowing through the gaps between her fingers, too much to grasp, too much to catalogue, too much to survey.

She stood at the settlement's northern entrance and breathed and let the shimmer wash over her and did not try to count.

Brecca's hands were on the nearest wall. She had not waited. She had walked to the first structure -- a building whose walls were a meter thick, the coursing tight and regular, the dressed stone showing tool marks that were precise to a degree Wren had not seen at Varethen -- and pressed both palms flat against the surface.

She did not speak for thirty seconds. Wren counted.

"This is not the same," Brecca said. Her voice was in the register Wren had learned to recognize as reverence. Quiet. Careful. The voice that appeared when Brecca's hands found something that exceeded her expectations. "The chisel work at Varethen is good. This is -- this is something else. The jointing is sub-millimeter. The faces are true to a tolerance I could not achieve with my best tools and a week of trying." She pressed harder. "The clay binding is the same tradition but the formulation is different. Stronger. More aggregate. Someone refined the recipe over generations."

She moved along the wall, her hands reading, her body tilted toward the stone the way Wren's body tilted toward a bond site. She found a corner where two walls met at a precise right angle, the stones interlocking in an alternating pattern that distributed load evenly across the junction.

"This corner," Brecca said. "This corner alone. The stones are cut to interlock -- each one unique, shaped for its exact position. You cannot swap them. Each stone is where it belongs and nowhere else." She looked at Wren. "Do you understand what that means? Someone measured every stone before they placed it. They knew where each one went before they started building."

"How many buildings?" Wren said.

Brecca stepped back from the wall and looked around the settlement. Her eyes moved the way Wren's compass moved -- sweeping, assessing, taking in the whole. "I can see -- twenty? Thirty? Some are small, single-room. Some are large. That one --" she pointed toward the central clearing "-- was massive. I can see the foundation line from here. Fifteen meters on a side. Maybe more."

Theron had not touched a wall. He was standing in what had been a street -- a space between buildings where the limestone shelf was worn smooth by centuries of foot traffic, the depression visible even under the moss and root-cover. He was looking at the street the way Wren looked at a survey: reading the information encoded in the wear pattern, the width, the direction.

"The market street," he said. "My grandmother called it that. The widest path, running north-south, connecting the river gate to the gathering hall." He walked south along the worn limestone, his boots following the path of thousands of feet that had walked here before the forest came. "She said you could buy anything on the market street. Fish from the river. Herbs from the terraces. Stonework from the masons."

He stopped at a junction where the market street met a narrower cross-path. "The well," he said, pointing east. "She said the well was east of the market, on the high ground."

They found the well.

---

It was there. Three hundred years of neglect and it was there -- a circle of dressed limestone blocks surrounding a shaft that dropped into the bedrock, the opening partly occluded by root-growth but the shaft itself clear. Wren leaned over the edge and felt cool air rise from below, the particular temperature of underground water, and when she lowered a container on a length of rope Brecca had in her pack the container came back full.

The water was clear. Cold. Tasting of mineral and limestone and the deep earth beneath the settlement. Wren drank and the water was good.

Brecca drank. Theron drank. They stood around the well in the morning light and drank water that had been filtered through limestone bedrock for three centuries and the water was good and the well was good and the builders who had sited the well on the high ground where the bedrock provided natural filtration had known exactly what they were doing.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  Southern Settlement -- The Well
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Geological: Limestone bedrock filtration. Groundwater
  resists corruption through mineral substrate density.
  Well shaft structurally sound after 300+ years.

  +42 XP
  +1 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 1711 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 58 (JOURNEYMAN)

  >>> NEW TECHNIQUE TIER UNLOCKED <<<
  Journeyman Surveying: Detail Notation
  Persistent survey marks on examined surfaces. Visible
  to trained observers. Marks persist for 30 days or
  until overwritten.

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

The notification arrived with a weight she was not expecting. Journeyman. The fourth tier. She had been surveying since the Warden's Stair, since the first morning she had looked at a rock face and understood that looking could be a skill. Months of walking and looking and she had reached the threshold where the System said: *you are no longer learning to survey. You are surveying.*

Detail Notation. Persistent marks on examined surfaces. The technique was collaborative -- it created information for others, not just for herself. She could mark a wall and Brecca could read the mark. She could note a feature and Theron could find it. For the first time, her survey was not locked inside her perception. It could be left behind.

She pressed her hand against the well's rim and the technique activated: a faint shimmer, visible at the edge of perception, marking the surface she had examined. Not a physical mark. A resonance mark. A Wayfinder's signature on a place she had studied.

"What did you just do?" Brecca said.

"New skill," Wren said. "I can mark surfaces now. Surveying marks. Persistent for thirty days."

Brecca looked at the well's rim. "I cannot see anything."

"You might not be able to. It is a resonance mark. But the System says trained observers can see it."

"Trained in what?"

"I do not know yet."

Brecca studied the rim where Wren had placed her hand. She tilted her head. She squinted. "There is something," she said slowly. "Not a mark. More like -- the stone looks different there. Like someone cleaned one spot on a dusty surface."

Wren stared at her. Brecca did not have a class. She did not have Surveying. She had hands that read stone.

"Different data," Brecca said, and shrugged.

---

They spent the afternoon in the central clearing.

The clearing was the settlement's heart. Fifteen meters on each side, the largest foundation Wren had seen, the dressed limestone blocks massive enough that she could not imagine the labor of moving them. The blocks were sunk into the bedrock, their surfaces worn smooth by centuries of foot traffic and then centuries of moss, and they were -- wrong. Not wrong. Different. Something about the stone was not what stone was supposed to be.

She crouched at the clearing's edge and pressed her palms flat against a foundation block and felt it.

Not the [Foundation Stone] vibration. Not the wild ghost-elms' harmonics. Not the river's hydrological presence. Something else. Something she did not have a name for. The stone was -- denser than stone. More present than stone. As if someone had taken the limestone's natural identity and deepened it, the way a dye deepens color, making the stone more of what it already was without changing what it was. The stone remembered what it was. But it also remembered what someone had asked it to become.

She held her palms against the block for a long time. She felt the quality of the stone travel through her hands and up her arms and into the space where the bond lived, and the bond recognized it the way you recognize a word in a language you do not speak -- the shape is familiar, the meaning is not.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  Southern Settlement -- Central Foundation
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Resonant: Foundation stones bearing intentional
  reinforcement. Method unknown. The stone's geological
  identity has been deepened -- not altered, not
  overwritten. Augmented. Persistent across estimated
  300+ years.

  This foundation was laid with intention that exceeds
  construction. The stone remembers what it was asked
  to become.

  +75 XP
  +3 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 1786 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 61 (Journeyman)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

The System's voice was different. Not the flat, factual register of the well discovery or the ghost-elm ecology. The notification carried a quality of -- wonder was the wrong word. Recognition. The System had encountered something it did not fully understand, and it was telling her so in the only language it had: a description that raised more questions than it answered.

*This foundation was laid with intention that exceeds construction.*

Who could do this? What class, what skill, what mode of attention could take limestone and make it more-than-limestone? Not a Wayfinder -- Wayfinders bonded with places, they did not change the places themselves. Not a mason -- masons shaped stone, they did not deepen it. Something else. A class or a skill or a quality of attention that Wren had never heard of, that the System described as "intention that exceeds construction," that had produced results durable enough to persist for three centuries.

She sat in the central clearing with her palms on the foundation and felt the mystery in the stone and did not try to solve it. The question was enough. The wonder was enough.

---

Brecca found the drainage.

She had been on her knees at the clearing's eastern edge, where the foundation met the slope toward the garden terraces, when she said: "There are channels under here."

Wren came to look. Brecca had cleared moss from a section of the clearing's floor and revealed a grid of narrow channels cut into the limestone surface -- not the single drainage channel of Varethen but a network, the channels branching and reconnecting in a pattern that Wren recognized from her survey training as a watershed design. Water falling on the clearing's surface would be collected by the channels, directed to junction points, and carried through increasingly larger channels to the slope, where it would feed the garden terraces below before reaching the river.

"The entire clearing is a collection surface," Brecca said. She was tracing the channels with her fingers, her face close to the stone, reading the engineering. "Every drop of rain that falls on this space is captured and directed. No waste. No erosion." She sat back on her heels. "This is not one person's work. This is a tradition. Generations of people learning from the people before them."

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  Southern Settlement -- Integrated Drainage Network
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Structural: Sub-surface channel grid beneath central
  clearing. Watershed design -- collection, junction,
  and distribution to garden terraces. Functional after
  300+ years with partial siltation.

  Engineering complexity exceeds known basin precedent.

  +48 XP
  +2 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 1834 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 63 (Journeyman)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Wren looked at Brecca's hands on the drainage grid and thought about Theron's drainage channel at Varethen -- the single channel, the six-degree gradient, the snowmelt test. The same tradition. The same principle. But what Varethen had done with one channel, this settlement had done with a network. One was a practice. The other was a system.

"Theron," Wren called.

He came from the market street, where he had been walking the worn limestone path from end to end, counting his steps. He looked at the drainage grid. He crouched. He placed his hand on the stone the way he placed his hand on everything -- slowly, with the weight of inherited knowledge.

"My grandmother's mother cleared a single channel," he said. "This is what they cleared before they left."

His voice was steady. His hand on the stone was not.

---

They camped at the southern settlement that night, in the shelter of a structure whose walls were intact and whose roof-gap let the stars through. Brecca built a fire in the doorway with the efficiency of someone who had built four fires in four days at Varethen and was starting to develop opinions about kindling.

The Greenwater's sound filled the space the insects usually filled. The river's white-noise was constant, not rhythmic like the insect chorus but continuous, the water carrying its own kind of counting that did not pause for pulses or seasons or the three-hundred-year absence of the people who had built beside it.

Wren sat against the wall and felt the bond network.

The Varethen cluster was a thread. Not a chord, not the full three-node resonance she felt at the settlement, but a single attenuated signal running through the limestone substrate from north to south. The threshold stone was there -- she could feel it, faint but present, the [Foundation Stone] vibration traveling through the geological formation that connected the two settlements. The prayer-notch and healer's house were there inside it, carried by the cluster relay, their individual signals merged into the anchor's transmission.

The bond held at distance. She had not known it would. She had not known the cluster could carry across miles of substrate, the signal thinning but not breaking, the connection persistent even when the Wayfinder was far from the anchor. The bond did not require proximity. It required the thread.

"Can you still feel it?" Brecca said. She was watching Wren's face. She had learned to read the bond-sensing expression the way Wren had learned to read Brecca's wall-sensing posture: head tilted, eyes slightly unfocused, attention directed inward.

"The threshold stone. From here. Through the limestone."

"How far?"

"Four miles. Maybe five." Wren pressed her back against the wall. "It is like hearing someone speak from a long way off. You can tell they are speaking. You cannot hear the words."

Brecca considered this. "And when you are at the stone? At Varethen? What does it sound like then?"

"Like someone sitting beside you, breathing."

The fire crackled. The river counted.

Theron had been quiet since the drainage grid. He sat across the fire with his water skin and his silence and the quality of stillness that Wren had first read as withdrawal and now read as depth. He was holding something. Not an object -- a weight. The weight of a place that matched his grandmother's stories and exceeded them, the weight of a tradition he had inherited from a settlement he had never seen until today.

"Fourteen families," Theron said. The fire shifted and the light moved across his face. "She said fourteen families in the last generation. But look at this place. This was not built for fourteen families. This was built for hundreds."

"Three hundred to five hundred people," Brecca said. "Based on the number of structures and the size of the clearing. Rough estimate."

"Three hundred people," Theron said. He was not repeating the number. He was tasting it. "And they left. And fourteen families went north and built Varethen and cleared a single drainage channel and dressed a threshold stone with the skills they had learned here." He drank from his water skin. "And then they left too."

"The forest changed," Wren said. "That is what you told me."

"The forest changed," Theron agreed. "And we left. And the drainage filled with silt. And the walls held." He looked at the walls around them, at the dressed stone that had stood for three centuries without mortar replacement, without repointing, without anyone pressing clay into the joints with careful hands. "The walls always hold."

Brecca looked at the wall beside her. She placed her hand flat against it. "Yes," she said. "They do."

The fire burned down. The river ran. The ghost-elms' shimmer was visible through the doorway, the enormous perimeter trees glowing faintly in the dark, the ward line they had never been told to hold still holding.

---

Day 27 broke clear and warm.

Wren walked the settlement at dawn while Brecca and Theron slept. She walked the market street from the river gate to the northern entrance, counting structures, noting construction variations, feeling the [Wayfinder's Eye] shimmer play across every surface. The shimmer was constant and dense and she could not isolate individual signals, could not pick out the single features that her attention wanted to rest on. The settlement was too large. The bond-potential was too diffuse. She had to see the whole, and the whole was more than she could hold.

She stopped trying to hold it.

She walked instead. She walked the way she had walked the Warden's Stair on Day 1 -- open, without agenda, letting her feet choose the path and her attention distribute itself across whatever it found. The garden terraces on the slope toward the river, the stone retaining walls still holding soil in their tiered pattern. A building whose interior had become a ghost-elm nursery, three young trees growing where a family had lived. The river gate, where the market street ended at a dressed-stone stair descending to the Greenwater's edge, the steps worn by centuries of water-carriers.

She did not bond anything. The compass sang. The shimmer was everywhere. Every surface was a conversation waiting to start, and she walked past them, and the walking-past was a new thing for her -- a discipline she had not practiced, the discipline of seeing without holding, of knowing that a place existed and choosing not to carry it.

Not yet. Not today. The settlement had waited three hundred years. It could wait a little longer.

She used Detail Notation on seven surfaces as she walked -- the well, the central foundation, the drainage grid, the market street, the river gate, a corner where Brecca had assessed the interlocking stones, a wall where Theron had placed his hand and held it. Seven marks. Seven points on a map that did not exist yet, that her father would want to see, that any surveyor would want to follow.

She was building something. Not a bond. A record. The first Wayfinder's survey of a place that had been unsurveyed for three centuries.

---

They left at midday, moving north.

Wren touched the substrate twice on the walk back, pressing her palm to the earth to feel the thread. Brecca's hands opened and closed at her sides, fingers curving around absent stone. At the ridge top, Theron stopped and looked back at the river valley for a long time before turning north.

They did not talk about what they had seen. The silence was not empty. It was full, the way a cupped hand is full of water -- careful, carrying, aware of how much could spill.

The Varethen perimeter appeared in the late afternoon. The ghost-elms' ward-line hum greeted them, and the bond network expanded from thread to chord, the three Varethen nodes resolving back into their individual voices. Wren felt the threshold stone bloom from distant signal into the full, dense heartbeat she had carried for four weeks.

Nine days to the next pulse. The stone had held once. The southern settlement had no awakened anchor. She carried that question north through the ghost-elm ring and into the settlement and did not write it down. Some questions were not ready for the journal.

Brecca was carrying stones for the fire. Theron was at the drainage channel. The evening was settling into its familiar pattern. Wren sat against the threshold stone and pressed her palms flat and felt the vibration in her hands and did not open her journal.

She had been to the ruin on the ridge. She had seen what was built there. She had not bonded it and she had not claimed it and she had not tried to carry it home.

But she could feel it, south, through the limestone. A thread that did not break.
