A Soldier dipped his spear’s head into the fire, and it clung to the tip. A trio of Soldiers placed their blades into the fire, and they burned with Glory.
“Wing Commander Embria?”
4th Company was moving. The Drake looked down. The Worker helping hold the burning brazier aloft stared at her.
Offering it to…
“Oh, Ancestor’s tits.”
Wing Commander Embria raised her spear. She looked at it, as 6th and 9th Companies began to sortie. She knew her own command was watching her. Perhaps Xith and Narkr didn’t see—but Embria would never deny this moment.
She lowered her spear, and a Soldier raised a hatchet laid into the fire. The Antinium raising their blade touched it to hers. Just for a moment. Embria looked around as a company burning with magical flames looked at her. She raised her spear into the sky—then whirled her mount.
Artur charged. And 4th Company rode into Manus’ lines. Following a Drake whose spear burned with pink fire.
Did it do anything? Perhaps not. Glory wasn’t much of an effective weapon. But she held it. The Antinium following Artur raced into battle carrying the dream of every [Soldier]. Fighting, the flames flickering on their blades.
Burning out. Fading.
So brilliant before they died.
Embria raised her spear, fighting to reach Lulv. The Gnoll deflected her first strike, and second. He whirled his spear, taking her on, running her through the leg, slashing one of Yellow Splatters’ hands off.
He would not fall. And she did not have the skill to bring him down alone. Yet still—
The [Spear of Glory] fought, her class burning bright.
 
——
 
Manus was slowing down. Lulv looked right and left. It was more than Liscor’s companies coming to their defense. He sensed it.
The Antinium had too many levels.
A [Crusader] raised his [Reinforced Shield]. [Battering Charge]. He slammed into a Drake, angling his sword. [Quick Stab]!
Three Skills? Those weren’t even all of them! A squad was holding down one of Manus’, refusing to give ground.
Who? Who was responsible for this? Lulv looked around and saw a Drake sitting on a horse. He howled, pointing at the high-level Antinium [Crusader] forcing some of his people back.
“Mark that target!”
The shield-bearing Antinium went down. But another stepped up. And then—it happened.
 
——
 
At last. Olesm held the Kaalblade in his claw, but he had seen how you died.
He had been forced to watch. Feed the Antinium to Manus.
He had done it. Erin would never forgive him. Olesm had watched the Antinium march back, the wounded, the survivors.
And he sent them into battle again. While they burned out—
He saved the sparks.
Erin’s fire raced through part of the army. Olesm’s heart squeezed as he saw Ishkr’s gift. But Maviola’s legacy burned brighter still.
“High-level Antinium—mark target!”
“We have a [Scattershot] on our position. Marking squad for—”
Manus’ babble was perfectly audible through the pilfered speaking stone Olesm was holding. How stupid of them. Did they think Olesm couldn’t tap their lines? He looked at the squads they were marking.
It wasn’t just one Antinium or two. It seemed like dozens of [Crusaders] were suddenly manifesting high-level Skills.
Because they were. Olesm looked down and saw one of Bepol’s two Antinium squads on the front. Survivors.
Members of squads who’d been nearly wiped out. Veterans he rotated into back lines or safer engagements. Out of Manus’ crosshairs.
Because they couldn’t read the [Crusader]’s levels any more than Olesm could. Now, the Antinium who had waited so long ran straight into Manus’ ranks. Olesm lifted a claw.
“Now.”
The Level 21 [Commander] used his new Skill.
“[Our Suffering We Returned Twofold]. Antinium! Push Manus back.”
His voice boomed across the battlefield. He saw Lulv look at him. Olesm saw the first showers of arrows coming from Manus’ side and stepped back.
“Shields up.”
He took cover as he watched. This time—there was no [Lady] of fire to break Hectval’s lines. There was no need for it.
The [Crusaders] began to burn.
 
——
 
“Kill them all. No quarter until they’re all dead. Not one step back.”
Lulv was prepared to die on this battlefield. He’d run that Drake with the spear through and cut her stomach. The Soldier, Yellow Splatters, was moving back with Pawn under guard.
They all had to die. Even if Lulv died—he saw what Olesm had done.
“Counter-levelling. Not one escapes. Do you understand?”
“Affirmative, sir!”
Even if he sacrificed half of his command—the Antinium’s grand experiment here would fail. That was what Lulv believed.
Then he saw something strange.
A Worker stood in his squad, fighting with those pink, flaming blades. [Crusaders] died around him. Manus’ [Soldiers] went down too, but they pressed on.
The Worker was stumbling. Wounded. He raised his shield as a Drake came for him. The last Worker in his squad looked around.
Then his eyes flashed. Lulv’s spear twitched as he saw the Worker raise his shield and the [Pike Expert] trying to run him through recoiled in a blaze of light.
“What?”
When Lulv saw him again, the Worker was a foot taller. Soldiers did a double-take as a giant Worker swung a sword, hatchet, and pair of shields, knocking down Manus’ [Soldiers].
The [Templar] lifted his sword to the sky and seemed really disappointed when a giant blade didn’t erase everything in front of him. However, he charged.
“Death.”
He ran into Lulv. The Gnoll took a heavy blow on his spear and then rammed it through the chestplate. He saw the Antinium fighting and twisted the spear.
No more of you! Not one remains! The Gnoll howled at the strange sky overhead.
Then he saw another strange Antinium appear. And another.
 
——
 
First it was one. They all remembered him.
Crusader 51 had been the first. Another [Crusader] reached the limit of his class. More. I call for more.
They had leveled. They had suffered. They believed.
Their classes began to change. The [Spearmaster] tried to kill them. Manus marked targets. But this time—there were too many of them.
“Hold the line! We fight alone.”
A Soldier strode forwards. He was not taller, but he spoke, and in such tones!
[My Noble Virtue: Speech].
Another Worker had grown like the one Lulv had killed. He pushed back a fighting Armored Antinium, running at the Manus [Soldiers] who backed up, visibly disturbed.
[My Noble Virtue: Stature].
A third [Templar] stood upon a bluff, fighting under a dome of light. It seemed like those around him could not die.
[My Noble Virtue: Protection].
 
——
 
The [Templar] of the Free Antinium began to advance. Lulv, snarling, looked left and right and realized—
They had flanked Manus. Liscor’s companies were cycle-charging their sides, and Olesm had neutralized the [Mage] spells from above. They had to descend and risk being shot or circle helplessly.
“Yayde Re!”
And there were Yoldenites, skirmishing with the Drisshians. Wait. Drisshia was pulling out!
“They’re fleeing! Spearmaster, we can’t stop their flight! Liscor’s right wing just overran their center! Spearmaster!”
They were—everywhere. Lulv’s spear killed everything he saw. But there were so many. Shining warriors. Sudden healing. That [Priest] aiming that mark of Hell at them.
Lulv went still in the fighting. He looked around and saw it all clearly.
A moment of calm ran over him. The fight drained out of him. He raised his speaking stone and calmly, in a relaxed tone of voice, even, breathed.
“Retreat. Retreat in good order.”
All the officers were silent a moment, then the order went down the lines.
“Sir? What’s our rally point?”
Someone asked after a moment. Lulv knew they knew. But he said it.
“Manus. We’re going home. We’ve lost this war.”
He stepped back, and the Antinium advance slowed as Olesm saw the retreat and halted the fighting. To preserve his forces. Lulv looked up at him and raised his spear.
Well done. The Drake offered him a rude gesture in return.
 
 
 
 
Lulv, [Spearmaster]
 
The Hectval Alliance objected to his pulling out of the front. Lulv ignored it. He was faced with speculation, officers trying to make sense of it all.
He ignored that, too.
The [Soldiers] of Manus were silent as they just…quit the front. Spearmaster Lulv walked with them, his spear on his shoulder. They would walk back to Manus. Or ride…Lulv was sure he’d need to catch a Wyvern flight to report directly.
However, he needed to walk with them. He had led them there. When the [Spearmaster] did speak, it was to all of them.
“I will make a verbal report, of course. But in my writing, which I think will be sealed to only the High Command of each Walled City—edited for the other ones, perhaps—I will write this.”
The soldiers and officers looked up and listened as the Gnoll spoke.
“To Dragonspeaker Luciva. I, Spearmaster Lulv, held my command in the fighting as long as I deemed the risks appropriate. In hindsight, I believe we engaged with the Antinium force too long. We have made three significant errors in our thinking.”
He counted on his paws. Three.
“Firstly. We do not understand the new classes the Antinium possess. They do not just ‘level’ as we do. They are capable of using a new type of Skill which is neither magic nor strictly a warrior’s Skills. I do not know its nature, but it is a highly powerful class and abilities I have never encountered before.”
More than just intimidation or [Fear] spells. Something about the way they talked…Lulv stared at his first finger. The most terrifying Skill he had seen on that battlefield had not been Crusader 51’s Skills.
It had been that Skill that Sokkel died to. Did it kill something more than his life? Lulv feared it. And he was sure that the other [Soldiers] feared it, too.
“Second, we have underestimated Liscor’s ability to work with the Antinium. They are not merely tolerant of the Antinium or see them as an asset. They are actively supporting and fighting alongside Workers and Soldiers. As…fellow [Soldiers].”
Manus’ forces stirred, but no one voiced any dissent as Lulv went on.
“Which brings me to my last point. Before thoughts about debilitating Liscor’s command or taking drastic measures against the city…I, Spearmaster Lulv, believe it is more beneficial to attempt to subvert the loyalty of the Free Hive. To study and learn what the Antinium are doing concretely. If necessary, to make radical steps to ensure that the Free Antinium do not join the rest of the Hives in a possible Third Antinium War. I suggest Manus employ every diplomatic angle we can.”
Dead silence. Everyone listened as Lulv went on, as if he stood in front of the Dragonspeaker. When he did—he would say the exact same thing.
“Failing that, my only other recourse is to ask if there is a…secret failsafe. Something beyond even the Security Council’s knowledge. A hidden Tier 8 spell. If we have one, I suggest we use it. If we do not, we must reconsider everything about the Antinium. Because I will swear on my class—the Antinium are either capable of this as a species, or their class enables it. I thought I could kill them all, but their greatest asset is not their new classes, abilities, or potential alone. In battle, they were counter-leveling without needing to sleep. If we learn how to do the same, Manus will benefit to no end. Otherwise? I mark the Free Antinium as the greatest threat in any Hive, including the Grand Queen’s.”
Spearmaster Lulv stopped. He looked around and waited.
“Thoughts? Objections?”
No one had any. So he lowered his spear, saluted the other [Soldiers], and went to make his report.
 
 
 
 
Olesm, [Strategist]-[Commander]
 
[Conditions Met: Strategist → Eleleu Strategos Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Commander removed.]
[Eleleu Strategos Level 35!]
 
[Skill – War Cry: Eleleu obtained!]
[Skill – Battlefield: Galuc’s Tunnel obtained!]
[Skill – Army: Charred Spellcasting obtained!]
[Spell – Army: [Firebolt] obtained!]
 
Olesm woke up, listened to his Skills, and then rolled out of bed. He wrote a response back to the Council, who wanted all kinds of confirmations after his late report. Then Olesm went to brush his teeth, comb his neck spines, have a cup of ‘coffee’ from Liscor, and remembered.
“Damn. Gelatin. Maybe we can get some.”
And the war continued.
Oh, not in the same way. Manus was gone. Olesm had double and triple-checked, and he would keep his guard up, but he thought they were actually gone.
They’d seen a real defeat. After hitting Liscor for three months, Liscor had been able to hit back. If Olesm had needed to, he would have called in Belgrade and really hammered them. But the [Crusaders] were enough.
Yet the war wasn’t over.
The Alliance was gone. They’d retreated practically back to their cities. Now, Lism informed Olesm, they were negotiating for a cease-fire. Olesm wrote back, repeating his words in his bleary state so he was sure he had them all down.
“Liscor’s Council is free to handle its end. However, please bear in mind that the army will continue its advance, and we can discuss a siege of the cities. The Alliance’s terms…should be no less than exceptionally generous. Also, please, we must keep our promises to the Yoldenites. A continuation of this war may see a fracture between Luldem, Hectval, and Drisshia.”
Even if the war ended, Olesm suspected Liscor’s army would need to patrol the Yoldenites’ territory, especially if they wanted to figure out how to create a trade route.
He realized then that the army wouldn’t disband when the war ended. What happened when Hectval made alliances with other cities, or someone else attacked? He would be the [Commander]—no, the [Strategos]—of Liscor unless their main army came back.
Olesm sat there, blinking in the morning’s light, and realized he was the leader of Liscor’s army. He stared into the cup, took a sip of the coffee, and shuddered.
“Gah. That’s terribly bitter. Artur? Do we have anything to put in this? Maybe milk. How’s morale? Break out double rations for breakfast and pull me up a roster. We’re rotating everyone who just fought into Liscor on vacation. I don’t care if we’re marching them down instead of the door, everyone over the next month. Tell Belgrade I want to speak with him—and ask Embria if she consolidated her class. Oh, and Captain Voita after her…”
He got back to work. Olesm continued his war right up until he got word of the gigantic battles in the Gnoll Plains. Then he was racing, racing his entire army back to Liscor.
But that…was a bit later.
