Vess jumped, whirled, and saw a Drake standing there, with a bevy of Stitch-folk with collars around their necks and cloth armor staring at 53. The Antinium Soldier went still, gazed at Cubol the [Slaver], and then went back to eating. Big Yam got to their feet.
 
——
 
“I would like to buy that Soldier. I will pay you now for it.”
His name was Cubol. He was from Roshal. He sold [Slaves].
Vess had never met a [Slaver]. He’d heard some people owned [Slaves], but it was a super-wealthy thing. He wasn’t really comfortable with the idea.
However, he’d seen Cubol in camp and heard they were supposed to take prisoners for that—until High Command changed their minds.
It had caused a huge fuss, actually. A lot of [Soldiers] had been for it—and some vocally against. Cubol had left—or so Vess had thought.
This was his first time meeting the Drake, and Cubol was rich. He had a ring on every claw-finger, silk garments, and an odd tattoo of scales on his right claw. When he smiled, it seldom reached his eyes.
When the smile did touch his eyes, it was because they were filled with true, avid interest. Like someone staring at a valuable object.
That was the smile he had for 53. However, he wanted the Soldier now.
“I understand a commanding officer is going to look at him tomorrow, sir. You’ll have to go to him.”
“Ah, the ‘Mercenary Captain’, Yulre.”
Cubol’s smile turned into a frown, and one of the bodyguards, who was a [Slave], spat.
“I don’t believe he will be amenable…no indeed. I would prefer to take 53 now, [Sergeant] Velden. I will pay you handsomely.”
The [Veteran Sergeant] hesitated. He looked around, but none of Luldem’s officers were nearby.
“You’d have to speak to our [Major], Slaver…”
“No, no. Sergeant, I don’t believe you and your squad heard me. I would like to purchase the prisoner you have…now. And when the Gnoll comes, he will not find me. Or the Antinium. And I am prepared to compensate you all for this issue.”
That was when the bag of gold coins came out, and all of Big Yam caught on to what was happening. A handful of gold coins spilled into Cubol’s claw.
Fat gold coins. With Roshal’s insignia on them, the scales—but they weren’t balanced. They were weighted on one end, and there was a bag and…hand…on either scale.
But the gold was real. Vess knew that some currencies had different standards. These looked like they were a bit bigger than your average gold coin.
Velden gulped.
“I…think you are trying to bribe a [Soldier] of the Luldem-Drisshia-Hectval Alliance, sir.”
“I very much think I am. Before you do anything drastic, [Sergeant], let me do something.”
Eight gold coins, more pay than Vess would earn in the entire war, even as a [Corporal]—Vess and Velden and half the squad combined even at veteran pay, even for all of the fighting—fell into Velden’s claw. The Drake nearly tried to offer it back, but Cubol closed his claw around it.
“That isn’t a bribe, Sergeant. That is a gift. A gift such as Roshal tends to give out freely. That is a gift. Now—let us talk what I would pay for. And pay very dearly for, at that.”
He could retire on that. He could retire or give his family…he could quit this war tomorrow. 
Vess’ mouth was open. Cubol looked around, and Big Yam all focused on him like a beam of light.
“Enough for everyone here, I might add. Or should I regretfully turn myself in to your [Major] for discussions?”
“I…”
“Velden.”
Vess whispered, but the [Sergeant] was hypnotized by the gold coins in his claw. He was not a bad [Sergeant]. He took care of Vess, taught him…
But that gold was like a magic of its own. The [Sergeant] put the coins into his pouch and looked around, a strange gleam in his eyes.
A Skill? Or was it just Cubol?
“Someone go make sure no officer’s on patrol. Why don’t we sit down? Less noticeable that way. We can’t just give up a prisoner, sir. That’d be obvious.”
Cubol sat down. Vess wanted to grab Velden, but Big Yam slowly spread out, hiding the [Slaver]’s entourage, the same gleam in their eyes as Velden.
It reminded Vess of his Hoarding years. He felt his own claw shaking. Gold. I’ve never seen so much—
He wasn’t a hatchling! He was a [Soldier] who had signed up to make money and fight the enemy. Vess clenched his claw, fighting with himself—and he realized he was the only one. Some [Soldiers] looked apprehensive, but Cubol?
Maybe it was a Skill. Vess was the lone magic-user. Maybe it was a charm spell? He would be resistant to that. His head snapped up, and he stared at the Drake’s claws.
But he couldn’t prove anything; he wasn’t good enough to identify what the Drake was doing.
“I don’t suggest you lose your command, [Sergeant]. I very much doubt I could compensate all of Luldem’s finest for the disgrace…but accidents happen. If, say, this Gnoll were to come tomorrow and find a Soldier in your command—tragically dead—he would be very upset. But if it were to have attacked you all, and you had to defend yourselves—”
“Velden, you can’t be thinking of this. We’ll be in so much trouble. The officers aren’t idiots—”
“Vess, shut up. I’m talking here.”
The [Sergeant] snapped at Vess. Cubol glanced over at Vess, and the Drake saw the [Slaver] smile.
“No, no. I realize I am asking a lot. Let me just…”
He leaned over and counted his coins. A flashing gemstone fell into his lap as he spilled more coins out.
“Gold is such a heavy thing to carry. But I find the value of certain objects is worth more. One must exchange them, but you can hide such things more easily. The worth of this opal, for instance…a hundred and fourteen gold coins.”
Big Yam stared at the shining gemstones with a core of glittering magic in each. Vess was transfixed as well—and he never realized that some of Big Yam were looking at him out of the corner of their eyes.
Cubol kept talking, and Vess realized too late that they should have called for a [Major] the moment he appeared. The moment he sat down, it had been too late. He realized the danger they were in as soon as Velden began asking where they might find a Soldier’s body, and someone got up.
He realized he was in danger far too late.
 
 
 
 
Crusader 53, [Maceman]
 
Crusader 53 was a Level 18 [Maceman]. And a Level 15 [Crusader]. There was a difference.
He liked to hit things.
It was not that he did not have wrath for Hectval, did not believe in Heaven, or did not weary at the horrors of war.
But he also liked to hit things.
Crusader 51 was different. He had liked bugs. He had been sad. Crusader 53 was also sad. Theophilus was dead. Jerimy was dead.
Hectval had to pay.
However, Crusader 53 had stayed with his squad. He had to. They needed him, someone who could hit people trying to kill them. Even angry little 57 and the others. Crusader 51 drew away because they died.
Crusader 53 tried to hug them with his two arms so they wouldn’t leave him again.
Now, he was going to die.
He knew it. It didn’t matter if it was ‘Vess’, the Drake with the wand, or this Cubol, or whomever was coming to interrogate him. He was dead.
It was fine. Crusader 53 had outlived everyone. Everyone except 51, and he was gone, now. He had seen Theophilus and the Painted Antinium and Jerimy die and…gone. 53 had seen something break.
 
——
 
He watched as the [Slaver] turned the squad. Convinced them to sell him. And kill Vess. Crusader 53 would have warned Vess if he had but words, but the younger Drake didn’t see it coming.
His [Sergeant] was no Calruz. Perhaps the older Drake might have stopped it, but the [Slaver] was smart. He had nearly convinced Big Yam, but for Vess, and he offered Velden a drink.
The Drake began getting drowsy at once. Maybe…some of the other [Soldiers] saw the powder one of Cubol’s bodyguards put into the cup for Velden.
But they never stopped him. They watched Vess as the [Arcane Warrior] shook Velden’s shoulder.
“I believe the [Sergeant] is tired. Do we have an accord?”
The [Slaver] rose, and Big Yam looked up. Vess rose too, a claw on his wand.
“You’ve poisoned him. You’re using some kind of charm on your ring. I’m not blind. I can see it. Everyone—”
He flicked his wand out and aimed it at Cubol, pointing the tip straight between the Drake’s eyes. The [Slaver] didn’t flinch. He just smiled, and someone clicked.
Crusader 53 saw Vess glance at him—then twist as one of his squadmates grabbed at his arm.
“What are you—no!”
A flash of magic. Just one flash—and he was down. Pinned. Cubol nodded and stood up.
“I understand this is very difficult for you all. If you don’t object—I will have one of my people bear this terrible burden.”
Big Yam were panting as one of his bodyguards unsheathed a sword. Vess began to scream, but someone had his jaw clamped shut.
Crusader 53 watched all of this.
You are are all bound for Hell. Theophilus was right.
He couldn’t move. He didn’t have [Faith is My Strength]. They had said the Painted Antinium had come…and been killed.
It was all so bitter. Cubol was watching him, not even paying attention to the screaming [Arcane Warrior] as the [Slave] strode over, blade poised. The Drake was smiling at the Antinium.
“I have so many questions to ask. The Emir will too. He may regard you as one of the finest…no, we’ll see.”
Crusader 53 smiled back. Wherever he went, whatever they did…he had no fear.
Heaven waited. And if he had his beloved mace, he would hit Cubol harder than anything had ever been hit before.
Vess looked up, and Crusader 53 saw his eyes go wide. A muffled sound escaped his lips, but his fellow [Soldiers] had lost their minds. This war had damaged them. They didn’t know why they were fighting, 53 realized. They had nothing to dream of but death.
He felt sorry for them. The Stitch-man raised his sword.
Someone clicked softly as the sword plunged down.
Crusader 53 looked up. Hm?
Who had said that?
The [Slaver], Cubol, looked around in the sudden silence. He turned and saw the [Slave] frozen, sword mid-stab.
“Goliepe, what are you…?”
The Drake trailed off as he saw the red, sticky strings and the…gap…in the Stitch-man’s torso. The warrior looked down with everyone as a thin, red line appeared, and a strange opening separated his chest and ribs from the lower half of his body.
The lower half dropped soundlessly. Everyone’s eyes locked onto the red blood as the legs of the [Slave] turned to cloth. Vess’ eyes were wide with incomprehension.
What was—?
Something was there. Something had just snapped the Stitch-man in two. No—it was a perfect cut.
Two things whispered now, blood trailing off the delicate blades. A pair of arms uncrossed, and something shimmered.
Like the colors a rainbow made off a bubble of soap. That was what the entire Antinium’s body looked like. It shimmered—and the faint outline of a scuttling, camouflaged Antinium, perfectly melded with the landscape, scuttled sideways.
Only the moving flecks of blood gave it away. Its chitin morphed so perfectly it was like a chameleon.
Natural invisibility.
The Silent Antinium clicked, and Big Yam’s shout of horror never came. A second pair of scythe-arms whispered, and the giant cross between mantis and ant swept a second deathly pair of scythe-arms together. It materialized behind another [Slave], and a third cut one of the Drakes on sentry duty apart.
Vess looked up as a Drake went down, split from shoulder to hip by a blade sharper than any sword he had ever seen. Cubol reacted faster than anyone else.
“Silent Antinium! Guard me! Sound the alarm! Sound—”
He ran left as Big Yam exploded into screams. Confusion! The [Slaver] leapt left as a wall of fire bloomed around him. He was reaching for a scroll at his belt—
When he slammed into something. The Drake bounced off and realized, as several shapes scuttled around him—
They were all around them. The confused screaming of Big Yam alerted the camp, but no one knew what was happening. A [Major] stumbled out of his tent.
“What’s going on? Where are the sentries? Night officer! Where’s…?”
No one knew.
Least of all Crusader 53. He recoiled as a giant, foreign insect materialized and scuttled over to him. He stared up.
What are you? What are you? Aaah! Aaaaah!
Only when a scythe-arm delicately descended and cut one of his chains free did he realize—
He was being rescued. And Vess?
 
 
 
 
Lulv, [Spearmaster]
 
The Gnoll knew something was wrong when Luldem’s forces didn’t challenge him. This was one of their permanent outposts well behind the front. He raised his paw, and the force of Manus’ [Soldiers] who’d ridden through the night slowed.
“No sentries. I smell blood. Guards up. Message High Command and Sokkel. Get me two Wyverns overhead.”
“Yes, sir.”
The Gnoll realized it was over before he got within a thousand paces of the camp. He could smell the blood.
He saw the carnage, and someone swore too-loudly in the quiet dawn.
Insects were everywhere. Not Antinium…but it had been them. Buzzing little creatures…
“So many fucking ants. Small ones, I mean. Damn it.”
Someone cursed as the Manus squad slowly advanced around Lulv. His hair was standing on end.
Slaughtered where they stood. This wasn’t a battle. This had been a one-sided ambush. He thought he knew…it was when he saw the razor-clean cuts that he was certain.
“Movement!”
Everyone snapped up, and Lulv whirled his spear—lowering when he saw a Drake wandering towards them.
“They came out of nowhere. They…they wanted 53.”
Vess stumbled across the ground, looking blank and white as a sheet. The [Arcane Warrior] didn’t have his wand or sword. He just walked around, past the dead bodies. Everyone had been slaughtered.
They’d left the Drake as a message. Classic tactics from the last war.
“Silent Antinium.”
Lulv saw Vess look blankly at them.
“They—they were invisible. The [Slaver] was going to buy 53. Then my squad tried to kill me. Sir?”
He was babbling. Lulv growled. He understood enough from that, though.
That damn—
“They took the Soldier? Where? Where was the [Slaver]?”
“There. There…”
Vess pointed aimlessly back to a hill. Lulv cursed. He turned his head. Then he hesitated as he looked around at his squad.
“Tell Sokkel…we’ve got Silent Antinium. Tell him the Dragonspeaker’s going to breathe frost out of both ends over this.”
One of the [Soldiers] lifted a paw to her ear where a little earring speaking-stone was pinned. Her eyes locked onto Lulv—
And she ducked the swing of the Silent Antinium’s scythe-arms. Lulv stabbed the one next to him.
“Ambush! Move!”
Dragonspeaker Luciva breathed lightning, not frost. Forewarned, Manus’ squad exploded into action. They whirled—and the Silent Antinium materialized.
