“It went through the armor, [Spearmaster]. Back plate. [Hardening] enchantment—Grade II. Didn’t go through the front; didn’t have to. The shrapnel kept going and shredded the insides. The force behind it…it’s the same [Archer].”
“Then it’s something we’re not seeing. Body doubles. A Skill, a class…get a research team on it and put the [Mages] on [Detect Life] spells.”
“All the time, sir? They’ll reveal their position. And Strategist Olesm has advanced his class. [Delegate Skill]. That damn Drake scout can use his [Instantaneous Barrage] Skill. Our Wyverns are under threat.”
Sokkel protested. Lulv growled.
“Do it. You have authorization to take her out.”
“Yes, sir.”
A balancing act. Lulv was an aggressive [Spearmaster]. He had earned his class not by killing other [Spearmasters]—though he had done that—but originally by receiving the level just by virtue of his sheer ability in battle.
He practiced a Manus-style spear school that favored high mobility, rapid attacks, and thrusting stabs. However, a [Spearmaster] could adapt. Had to adapt.
If we crush Liscor, we weaken our frontline, and at this point, the city must stand. Manus had originally written it off as a casualty of the Third Antinium War given the Free Antinium’s Hive.
Now? Liscor was a liability and an asset. It provided unparalleled viewpoints into the Antinium—yet they were clearly benefiting from the relationship. At the same time, Tyrion Veltras’ near-conquest of the city proved it needed to be in Drake control.
And…well, Lulv’s vote went to making Liscor an asset rather than weakening it, because it had Gnolls on the Council. It could be a model.
Hectval was part of a trio of cities that didn’t add anything to the region. They forced Gnoll tribes out of their radius of influence, made war on Drake cities they could defeat. If Lulv had a side, it was Liscor.
The Antinium were the complication. So Lulv had stayed away from ordering Olesm sniped. If they could even manage it; he had magical protections. The world needed a [Strategist] of his level.
He was just…too good at his job. And at the same time, Liscor’s army was feeding Manus information as well.
“I have the full report. It took some doing to wrangle out of the Cyclops’ grip, but someone must have pushed Pallass hard. Sir.”
“Read it to me.”
Lulv snapped. Sokkel summarized the report for the [Spearmaster].
“Crusader 51. Squad 5, Battalion 1. A deserter who fled for about three weeks. The first Antinium deserter ever registered, apparently. Commander Olesm did not pursue him…let’s see. One of the original volunteers. Apparently gifted with the sword enough to have Calruz of Hammerad teach him personally. Uh…uh…mentions of the Antinium having that unique class. Nothing more.”
“Crusader 51. Where did the intel come from?”
“A ‘Division Leader’ Bepol. Pallass’ officer. Enlisted and commanding their center wing. He’s not happy about you, [Spearmaster]. It looks like he’s requested multiple times for Pallass to pull Manus out.”
Multiple agents of Walled Cities were in Liscor’s army, Lulv had no doubt. Manus got whatever the other Walled Cities deigned to share; since this involved the Antinium, even the Cyclops, Chaldion, was more open. Sokkel grinned as he paged through the document.
“I think there’s a note appended to us. Bastard wrote, ‘I hope Manus enjoyed that last battle. I have no idea how Crusader 51 did that, but say hello to the next one.’”
That was so striking for…anyone to say from a Walled City. Lulv still ground his teeth together.
“Crusader 51. If you had to rate those Skills and that class consolidation, what would you put it as, Sokkel?”
The Drake hesitated.
“It was highly subjective, and we didn’t know the entire level or class—”
“Give me a straight answer. Don’t dance. Answer.”
“…[Paladin]. Or if we’re putting it into classes we field? Eh…[Arcane Spear]. Rare, high-value class. Incredible abilities defensively.”
Lulv nodded. He saw the other officers look uneasy. The Antinium had a high-value class beyond [Soldier]? That was what you didn’t want to see in the enemy. And the most striking thing of all?
The Antinium thought so, too.
 
 
 
 
Free Queen, [Ant Queen]
 
Dekass’ commendation of Crusader 51 struck Liscor one way. His private summary of Crusader 51’s abilities and ability to hold off Manus’ finest hit the Queens of the Antinium like an explosion.
“Squad 5. Crusader 51. Is there anything interesting about this Antinium that you knew of, Pawn? Garry?”
Both Workers summoned to stand before the Free Queen shook their heads. Garry very nervously, for the Free Queen was not alone. Pawn answered for both of them.
“No, my Queen. He was a [Crusader]. He was…very brave. I believe he had some talent with the sword.”
“To what extent would ‘talent’ qualify? Inferior to the Custodium. Quantify that ability; does it have any bearing on this [Crusader] class?”
An authoritative voice. The Free Queen clicked her mandibles irritably; the Grand Queen was listening in. However, the Grand Queen was being permitted to listen in, and that was the Free Queen’s [Crusader] who had proved his value.
Her [Crusader]. Her Antinium were dying. It bothered the Free Queen more and more. She missed Bird, too. She stuffed her face with a triple-stuffed pizza as Pawn tried to explain, but another Queen cut him off.
“It would appear that Klbkchhezeim’s statements about the Free Antinium’s potential were not exaggerated at all. Although I had supreme confidence in his words, the proof is undeniable. Even if it is one among five thousand—that is a far more acceptable gain than even Prognugator-based creation.”
The Silent Queen was fascinated by everything and demanded constant updates. The Free Queen liked her, as a fellow student of Bessachidia, the last great Shaper Queen she had known. Even if the Silent Queen thought she was superior.
“Purely random. One instance is not a statistic but an outlier.”
“Except that a [Banner Leader] has been created. And the existence of the Painted Antinium. The loss of this Crusader 51 is unfortunate.”
The Armored Queen’s dolorous tones sounded next, and the huffing Grand Queen fell silent. What she didn’t say, what they were all realizing, was that the Free Antinium were passing even the Free Queen’s wildest boasts.
“The benefit is undeniable. I still weigh it as too costly considering Xrn’s injuries. Is she well, Free Queen?”
The Grand Queen managed at last, and the Free Queen clicked her mandibles with the other Queens. She could not deny that, but she resented the fact that the Grand Queen made it a point of comparison at all.
“She is…stable, Grand Queen. I believe she will speak to you privately.”
Stable. The Grand Queen instantly changed the subject, but the other two Queens seemed less focused on her, and more on Pawn, the report.
Crusader 51, Squad 5. The Free Queen had not known his name, but it was being read through all of Liscor. She wondered…
“Pawn. What would be appropriate for the commendation of this [Crusader]? I do not know how a military commendation is to be received.”
She muted the Grand Queen as she spoke to Pawn. The Antinium looked up.
“He is dead, my Queen. I would love to honor him, but I have nothing but his name to write on the Memory Wall. Perhaps though…”
He hesitated, and looked at Garry.
“Dekass did write, um, a request. Could Crusader 51 possibly be…returned? Via the Rite of Anastases?”
The Grand Queen had heard that. She stopped speaking, and the Free Queen’s feelers moved slightly. All four Queens moved their antennae, and the Silent Queen answered.
“Individual Pawn of the Antinium. Given the nature of your…rank, you are privy to Antinium secrets. This is one which you will not divulge. However, in the interest of preserving the Free Antinium’s war strength, is it acceptable to tell him, Grand Queen…?”
“Granted.”
She answered shortly. The Silent Queen rubbed her top-most feelers together.
“The Rite of Anastases is a highly intensive process a Queen may undertake. It is costly in far more resources than are acceptable for all but Prognugators or fellow Queens…”
“Not that we could repair their bodies.”
“No. But it was considered—”
“Silence.”
That was straying too close to where the Twisted Queen’s radical thinking had gone to. The risks…but having a mobile, small body? The Free Queen saw Pawn and Garry look from Queen to Queen.
The Silent Queen hurried on.
“…It requires more than simply one or more Queen’s efforts, however. The Drakes are not aware that to preserve a life, the Antinium who perishes must be within the authority of a Queen. Within the range of a Unitasis Network or…close to a Prognugator trained in linking with a Queen.”
Pawn digested that. His antennae drooped.
“Oh. Then Crusader 51 and the others were lost. I wondered if…”
He glanced at the Free Queen.
“Could Dekass and Tersk not have done it? They were on the front—”
“Their helmets block their abilities. It is a choice made to safeguard each Armored Antinium. I may adjust their helmets. Hither to this moment…I had not considered the need.”
The Armored Queen murmured. The Free Queen looked down at Pawn and Garry. So now they knew. The Rite of Anastases was not easy to perform…nor could it be done remotely, not without a link.
If Bird died far from the Hive, he would never come back. But she had told him that. And he went.
As for Crusader 51? He was dead. The Free Queen spoke briefly.
“I will ensure Squad 5 is accorded more safety if possible. It may be there is something unique about them.”
That had no basis in anything other than the correlation. But to Antinium minds—it made sense. If there was even the remotest possibility of any of Squad 5 having a fraction of Crusader 51’s abilities…the Armored Queen spoke.
“Their numbers have been thinned. My Listeners report oddities in the war front as well. Apparently, a new Drake city has entered the battle. And…what is the status of Squad 5, Free Queen?”
The Silent Queen was watching her. The Free Queen responded, a touch irritated.
“I have remanded their leadership to Prognugator Dekass, Armored Queen. And Commander Olesm. You would do better to inquire directly.”
“Just so. But you will send more reinforcements to the Antinium division?”
The Free Queen hesitated. She rubbed her mandibles together, like gritting one’s teeth.
“It…may be difficult. The losses are such that my Hive is struggling to replenish their numbers. However, I will make all arrangements necessary.”
The Grand Queen spoke, a touch smugly.
“I will send more resources to prepare further repopulation and expansion of your Hive, Free Queen. It seems your pact with Liscor and advancement into your Free Antinium’s leveling capabilities has stymied your Hive’s capabilities in other ways.”
The Free Queen twitched. She held very still as Pawn and Garry opened their mandibles wide, and one of Garry’s helpers scuttled further back into the kitchen. Deferred Sustenance, the Free Queen’s pet Rock Crab, snapped its pincers angrily from its hutch.
Slowly, deliberately, the Free Queen looked at the Grand Queen and inclined her head in a Drake fashion.
“You are eminently correct, my Queen. Garry, I would like to eat a triple-stack vanilla cake. With strawberry frosting. Prepare it for me. And a little cake for Deferred Sustenance.”
“Yes, my Queen.”
The Queens watched as the Free Queen calmly, and with all the poise of a [Lady] tripping her rival on the way down the stairs at the yearly ball, picked up the largest barrel of boba tea ever made and took a long sip from the straw.
Eugh. Garry was a good [Chef], but he really was sort of a baking-specialist. The fruit boba did indeed grow a bit manky if you let it sit. It really needed something firmer.
Gelatin. She wondered if the Antinium’s own gel-based creations would go well in it. Probably not. Food was such a non-Antinium thing.
 
 
 
 
Vess, [Arcane Warrior]
 
The Antinium prisoner was quickly a source of attention in the Alliance. Half the [Soldiers] wanted to kill it instantly, which meant Velden’s crazy plan worked.
Big Yam were put on guard-duty, which meant they had to feed the Soldier, keep it safe, and were pulled off the front. In some ways, that was more stressful than fighting.
“Is it going to eat?”
The Antinium had a cracked mandible, and it looked beat up. Big Yam had not been gentle with it, and it was covered in chains and rope. Which meant it had to be fed.
The longest spoon in the world contained a wobbling bit of jellied pasta and sauce. Not pasta and sauce.
Gelatin pasta and sauce. It wobbled like the screaming soul and faith in cuisine of many [Chefs] who saw it.
They just didn’t appreciate good gelatin. Luldem’s squad watched as the Soldier looked at it, then, quite nimbly, took a portion in its mandibles, flipped its head up, and let it slide into it’s real ‘mouth’, which gobbled it down.
“I’m going to be sick.”
One of the squad muttered, but Vess couldn’t look away. Antinium actually had two mouths! Their mandibles and that opening in their face. Horrific…but it ate the gelatin pasta with every sign of enjoyment.
“Stupid thing. We should feed it dirt.”
“And let it keel over? Shut the hell up, Coloz. Are you fighting them or sitting on your tail?”
Velden watched, a hand on his halberd, as Vess gingerly fed the Soldier more.
“What’re we going to do with it?”
“Dunno. Maybe trade it for one of our prisoners? Interrogate it, probably. I hear the mercenaries are interested. But they’re just sending one of their officers. High Command says it’s looking for someone to interrogate it, too.”
Vess looked up. That wasn’t encouraging. Then again, this was no officer so it made sense. If they’d gotten the Antinium who spoke, maybe.
He kept watching it. Once they’d pulled it away from the Worker, the Soldier had begun to fight. A bit. It had struggled, trying to break free, and bit at a few boots when the kicking started.
Now? It just sat there. It looked like it was…waiting.
To die? Vess knew they were monsters, mindless things that swarmed over the enemy. The Black Tide, one of Rhir’s dooms.
It just didn’t gel with the idea of the Soldier holding his comrade. It was something Vess had seen the Alliance’s [Soldiers] do. Holding someone bleeding out, calling for a potion, trying to stem the bleeding that poison or magic refused to let potions work on.
When he’d mentioned it to Velden, the [Sergeant] had just cuffed him.
“Don’t go imagining things, Vess. It probably just lost its direction or something. I hear they do that.”
