Dozens of them. Lulv speared another one, deflecting a slash from one arm. Their arms were equivalent to enchanted blades! But—brittle—
“Spear art! Run! Don’t stop! Engage your emergency spells! Run!”
Lulv shouted. Vess was screaming. He curled up as the Silent Antinium, who had been waiting to ambush him, swarmed the [Soldiers]. Lulv’s spear howled as the Gnoll stabbed left, right—
But he had to run. A cut almost took off one arm. Six [Soldiers] were already dead. He wanted to grab the Drake boy—but there was no time.
Manus’ squad broke free, running as two Wyverns dropped out of cover. Spells blasted the landscape, but the Silent Antinium were already retreating. And they had learned how to foil [Detect Life] spells. Lulv barked into his speaking stone amid the confusion of voices.
“The Silent Antinium have entered Liscor’s war! All forces, watch for ambushes! Get me a line to Manus.”
His worst fears were coming true. More high-value targets had entered the war…but more than that?
It meant the Antinium thought there was something worth fighting for. Lulv realized it later.
They’d attacked this camp not because it was a priority, but to rescue a single Soldier.
Then he began to sweat.
 
 
 
 
Olesm, [Commander]
 
The return of Crusader 53 came on a day when Olesm’s senses as a [Commander], a [Strategist], hummed.
“Artur. Get Dekass. I need a word.”
He was looking around his camp. Olesm made a sign to one of his [Tacticians], and the Gnoll went pale. She silently began to raise the alarm—but over what?
It was just a feeling. Dekass reported in quickly.
“Yes, Commander Olesm?”
“Is anything…off today, Dekass?”
There was just the slightest pause. Olesm would have first guessed it had something to do with Captain Voita and the Yoldenites who had joined his forces, but his instincts said Dekass.
“No, sir.”
“Hm. I’m inspecting your camp. Anything eventful happen?”
“Our reinforcements have arrived as requested, sir. Four hundred and eighty-two, to replenish the losses.”
The bad battle after the Painted Antinium had been nearly wiped out had apparently taxed even Liscor’s Free Hive. Olesm was surprised that they’d mustered the numbers and gotten them here so quickly.
Then he was suspicious as he strode into the Antinium division. New Soldiers and Workers were filing into camp, being arranged into squads. Groups like Squad 5, who needed to replace Crusader 51, 53, and a few others welcomed the Antinium…sort of.
“Sit dOwN. You’re wearing your pack wrong, stupid.”
Crusader 57 roughly yanked a new Worker down and slapped their armor—but the other Antinium were doing the same. It was a thing [Soldiers] did, teaching the new ones.
Dekass reported to Olesm in person.
“Is something wrong, sir?”
Commander Olesm Swifttail glanced at Dekass. That settled it.
“Dekass, you lie as well as Mrsha. What’s…”
And then he saw it. Olesm’s eyes narrowed to points, he recoiled, swore, and looked at Dekass. The Armored Prognugator stared back at him as innocently as possible.
“Yes, Commander?”
It would have fooled the Alliance—maybe. Or your average Liscorian. But even the regular [Soldiers] had realized it. Olesm? He studied the Workers and Soldiers.
They had armor. They were clearly new, clearly the next to fight in the Antinium division. However…their armor didn’t seem patched up. Their gear was noticeably different, not a mismatch of weapons to arm them.
These weren’t Free Antinium. They were Armored Antinium.
Indeed, the [Crusaders] mixing with the Armored Antinium realized it too, and there was a shock as Workers and Soldiers, almost mindlessly obeying orders, ran into the personality of the [Crusaders]. Olesm looked at Dekass. The Prognugator innocently adjusted his helmet.
“I would like to report that a missing Soldier has also appeared, Commander Olesm. Crusader 53 has miraculously escaped imprisonment. He is unable to give a report on how this happened.”
“Crusader 53? From where?”
“A Luldem camp behind enemy lines.”
Olesm’s eyes narrowed.
“He just…happened to escape an enemy camp, made his way here, and report to you?”
“Yes, sir. Please ignore all other reports or commentary on strange occurrences on the battlefield.”
The Drake and Antinium locked gazes until Dekass was fiddling with a helmet strap. Olesm smiled brightly.
“Take me to him.”
“Sir? That is not necessary. He is a Soldier. He cannot speak. Artur, do not—Artur?”
Olesm strode over to Squad 5. The new Crusader 51 sat, not sure why they were all staring so at him. In fact…Crusader 57 was snapping.
“You are not Crusader 51. He is dead. You. Pick another name.”
The Soldier froze. He was Armored Antinium. Name? Name? Did they just ask?
nAMe? hE wAs—
A hand slapped his helmet. The Soldier froze.
“hEY, mORoN. ShUt uP. Pick a name and deal with it.”
The Aberration hissed at him. Totally confused, the Soldier looked up as a Drake strode over.
Enemy? He began to rise, remembered his orders, and sat still.
“Crusader 53?”
A Soldier with two arms and a cheerful, brand-spanking-new enchanted mace raised two hands. Crusader 53 stood and saluted Olesm. The [Commander] eyed him as Dekass ran after him.
“Crusader 53 is very tired. He must rest. Nothing is wrong. You saw nothing, Crusader 53. Nothing, as you single-handedly vanquished an entire enemy camp and came here.”
Olesm ignored Dekass. He looked Crusader 53 up and down.
“It’s good to see you, soldier. I’m glad you survived imprisonment. I am going to recommend your squad for a vacation. Crusader 51…was a hero.”
Everyone nodded. Crusader 53 nodded as well, slowly. He lowered his hands and his head. Olesm looked at the others.
“He was. And I will make sure his sacrifice means something. The war is changing. Yolden’s on our side. It also seems we won’t lack for reinforcements, will we, Dekass?”
He pointedly gazed over his shoulder. Dekass hesitated.
“I can neither confirm nor deny the veracity of that statement, sir. Incidentally—and this is related to nothing—how well does Mrsha lie?”
“Poorly. Crusader 53? Just one question. Nod or shake your head. Do we have Silent Antinium?”
The [Crusader] nodded happily. Olesm sighed.
“I knew it.”
Dekass was trying to figure out how to lie his way out of this one, and then the Armored Prognugator seemed to give up. He tapped Olesm on the shoulder.
“Would now be a good time to tell you about our prisoner, sir? I believe the Silent…er, the not-Silent Antinium took him as food rations or because Crusader 53 said so.”
And that was how Olesm met Vess, shivering, waiting for death.
“I don’t want to fight. Please. Sir! I just want to go home.”
A young Drake looked up as the [Commander] eyed a patch of air, swatted at it, and recoiled. A Drake not much older than him, but somehow far older at the same time, knelt. He looked at Vess, and there was little kind about his gaze.
But his claw was gentle as he reached out and touched Vess.
“I know. Don’t worry. I’m going to send you home.”
 
 
 
 
Vess, [Arcane Warrior]
 
In the days after that, the war went on. The mercenaries under Captain Yulre received reinforcements, and the Alliance learned to fear the darkness, or even daylight when they weren’t fighting, as much as the battles.
It was coming to…an end. Or, at least, that front was. There was no front that stretched across three wings now. Instead, the Alliance was pulling back its lines because the right had been completely overrun, and Liscor had built a giant dirt-and-stone fortress where they could sally from.
Vess didn’t see any of it. He just heard these things, because the Drake [Commander] of Liscor’s armed forces, Olesm Swifttail, was as good as his word.
Vess went home.
Not immediately. Not right away. He actually spent one week in Olesm’s camp, even visited Liscor with Squad 5 and other Antinium and [Soldiers] on break.
Not with them, mind you; he was a prisoner. Yet Olesm took Vess on a tour of the camps, parts of Liscor. He had a long talk with Vess and nearly eighty other prisoners he gathered up.
Mostly young men and women. Gnolls from Hectval were figured among that number, and Olesm told them they were going to their cities.
“I’ve made a deal with your High Command. You don’t appear on the front lines again. You go home…and tell them what you saw here.”
That was how they left Lookout Lookout Hill, which was developing a new name as the bloody front of Liscor’s war with the Alliance. Vess had no idea of the battles between Liscor’s [Negotiators] or Olesm fighting for this result.
He thought it was kindness. It had certainly felt that way. Kindness and…
 
——
 
Luldem’s gates opened up to fanfare. Vess hadn’t expected that. People turned, some dusty from harvesting gickel roots, having hurried into the gates.
Gickel, the big farms of it, and the heavy amount of livestock, for Luldem’s gelatin. Vess smelled the thick, heavy odor like faintly edible chalk that clung to the roots before they were cleaned, dried, and ground up for the gelatin.
The air was so soft. The sky never looked so…beautiful.
And tragic. He would never forget Big Yam or Velden. The [Sergeant] had died in his sleep, a single stab wound in his heart.
He couldn’t forgive the Antinium for that. However…it was not them that Vess was angriest about.
“Our brave heroes from the front! Vess, a [Corporal] and [Arcane Warrior]!”
The Councilmembers singled him out because of his class. He saw them, adorned in their customary outfits of poofy clothing. Thick, like a comforting bowl of gelatin soup you had to work at to even get a slice of.
His Council was so unlike Liscor’s. He shook the claws of each Councilmember, and his family was crying and waving at him.
And Vess? He looked at Councilmember Saiyl and wondered if he knew that Hectval had assassinated an [Innkeeper] after they’d been kicked out of Liscor.
Or did they know?
Vess was burning to tell someone. He had to. This war—the Council had to call on the Watch to stop people from mobbing him, begging to know if they’d seen their loved ones. He wanted to shout it.
This war could end tomorrow if Luldem stopped backing Hectval. Vess realized that the Council might know, but no one else even knew that two more Antinium Hives were in the war. They had no idea that the front was a bloodbath—all they heard was what the army told them.
“I’m…tired.”
That was all Vess said to begin with. He kept staring up at the sky. And he wondered if the Antinium thought it was beautiful too. That was what the one who talked claimed. And why would he lie?
 
 
 
 
Relc, [Trusted Sergeant]
 
After three months, after he visited the inn and had a meal with his best bud, Klbkch, Relc Grasstongue heard about the war.
Or, to be more precise, the war found him.
“Guardsman…is that Senior Guardsman Relc? Hey! Hey!”
Relc turned as he and Klbkch were walking down the street. They weren’t on duty, but habits never changed.
“Huh?”
A Drake was waving at him. A Drake in a squad.
Relc recognized it instantly. It was the walk. They moved together, unconsciously, just like they’d fought and died and bled together. They looked around Liscor like children, taking everything in again.
And like people who’d just realized everything bled and died. However, the smiles were real. A Drake whom Relc had never met before grinned at him.
“Jordes. Squad Leader Jordes, Significant Beavers.”
Klbkch tilted his head, and someone laughed.
“We’re not in the army, Jordes!”
“Oh—right.”
“I get it. Nice squad name.”
This was not his army, but he knew it. They even talked like…Klbkch murmured.
“Ah, the war front. I must inquire about it too.”
Significant Beavers were on vacation. They’d drawn a lucky straw…which might have been less lucky since they were escorting a wide-eyed squad of Antinium with them.
Buying souvenirs, showing them around the city. It was the most striking thing Relc had seen. Squad 5 had minders and…
“You can return from the front? You lucky bastards!”
He feigned a punch at Jordes’ arm, and the Drake grinned.
“Perks of the magic door. I’m glad. It’s been…soup.”
“Soup?”
Relc nodded at Klbkch. Another [Soldier] term. The Antinium was inspecting Squad 5 and Significant Beavers, and they were inspecting him. None carried their weapons aside from maybe daggers…aside from the Worker with a zweihander on one shoulder.
“That’s right. It’s good to see you, Senior Guardsman. Are you going to join up? I thought you left the city.”
“I did. I came back. I should…you should tell me about it. Listen, I was just catching up with Klbkch here, but you’re on the front? Do you know Wing Commander Embria?”
“4th Company? Of course! Wait, isn’t she…?”
Relc was more and more interested in talking with Significant Beavers, but, as always, the infamous Relc-Klbkch duo were causing trouble.
In this case, it was Senior Guardsman Klbkch who started it. He pointed at Crusader 57.
“Carrying that weapon openly is an act of aggression if not an adventurer or civilian moving about to a set purpose such as transport. Worker, you will stow that blade now.”
“FuCK yOu, Klbkch.”
Crusader 57 raised his middle finger instantly. Relc’s blood chilled at the sudden, familiar, warbling tones.
Klbkch drew his swords so fast that Relc barely saw them. He would have diced Crusader 57—except that all of Squad 5 drew their weapons too. A friendly Crusader 53 raised a mace, and Klbkch looked at them incredulously.
“What?”
Relc grabbed Klbkch’s shoulder.
“Easy. Easy, Klb. They’re off-duty and jumpy. I pity the [Muggers] who go after a [Soldier] on break.”
Significant Beavers had moved just as fast, forming a defensive wall. Klbkch spluttered.
“But that is an Aberration—how have Dekass and Tersk allowed this?”
“nyEh.”
Crusader 57 offered Klbkch more rude hand-gestures. Klbkch looked at Relc as Jordes rapidly tried to de-escalate.
“Commander Olesm knows about it. Feisty guy, but he’s just—mad. You should see him fighting!”
“I’m better than you, Jordes. I’m not Aberration. I’m different. Aberrations are weak. Pick a damn name. Right, Toni?”
Crusader 51—Toni—shuddered as Crusader 57 punched his shoulder. Klbkch looked from face to face.
“I require another drink. And I must speak with Pawn. Now. Relc, our meal was enjoyable, but this?”
“I got you, Klb, buddy. Catch me later.”
The Antinium nodded and began striding off. Crusader 57 shouted after him.
“That’s right. rUN. You—”
At this point, Squad 5 grabbed him before he could get himself stabbed. And Relc found himself hearing about the war from the [Soldiers].
 
——
 
“Damn. Manus.”
