And that was it. Ishkr went back to the inn, sat down, and unfolded the note. He kept checking the windows. He had a hunch…because he had free time, in between cleaning the inn, to keep up on worldwide affairs.
Because he had heard about a certain kidnapping, as yet unresolved. He watched the skies. And he waited.
 
Keep the Potion of Regeneration close. If a blind man or someone else with officer classes comes, let them in. We are coming too.
 
The inn’s first Goblin was frustratingly short on details, and she asked a lot, but for her…Ishkr made a special reservation.
Service with a smile.
 
 
 
 
Olesm, [Commander]
 
Ishkr’s gift went to the Antinium lines. Commander Olesm personally handed it over, and a group of Soldiers clustered around it.
But they shared it. Significant Beavers—other [Soldiers] went to stare. What a silent genius, that Gnoll was.
It was a classic Erin Solstice move. Perhaps that was why it was so fitting that it would be tonight.
Olesm Swifttail was surprised that he didn’t have to kick 6th and 9th company off a few cliffs. He suspected Wing Commander Embria had something to do with that.
“We’re getting movement all along our left flank. I think Manus is coming.”
Scout Leader Maksie had begun to pick up their movements by now. Olesm just nodded.
“Sounds good.”
He didn’t say anything like, ‘it’s time’, or ‘just wait’, because that was the most idiotic thing you could say into a tapped line.
Nor did he inform Bepol or Ramia or even Belgrade of a change. He gave routine orders that might have made them think twice…but the proof of the pudding was in the surprise. Olesm sent a note via Liscor’s door, but aside from that, it was all here, in the army. Ishkr’s gift was a welcome surprise, but the rest?
It was all just them.
 
 
 
 
Antinium of Liscor’s Army, 1st Division
 
It was the best and only gift they’d ever received, most of them. A [Crusader] peeled an orange, sharing pieces around. An Armored Antinium gobbled down the peel because the bitter was oh, so tasty!
[Crusaders] of the Free Antinium, Armored Soldiers and Workers—and the Silent Antinium infiltrators.
They weren’t supposed to show themselves, as the Silent Antinium could not be part of Liscor’s war. However, the strangeness infecting the crusade had already done something to them.
A fat bag of barley spilled out next to Crusader 442. He hesitated, orange half-peeled.
That wasn’t a gift. He looked around and saw a faint outline of a familiar mantis-Antinium.
Only, this one he knew.
[Thief]! The rest of Squad 4, Battalion 6, edged over covertly. Fluffy Lancers had encountered this particular Silent Antinium before.
It—she? They were all she’s—was notable not because they often saw her, but because of one detail.
She’d lost a single scythe-arm. Those didn’t grow back, and the Silent Queen did not invest in regrowth gels since the scythe-arms weren’t regrowable via the same restorative gels a lucky Worker or Soldier could get. The Silent Queen considered that the Silent Antinium would not live long enough to justify that kind of investment of resources.
Therefore, this Silent Soldier had half the fighting potential of others. That was possibly why Thief had developed her habit.
Instead of killing sentries or ambushing patrols, she kept stealing food from the Alliance. She would scuttle back, and, in exchange, Fluffy Lancers would quietly boil it up or cook it, and she got to eat the food.
Now, Crusader 442 offered her an orange as she greedily devoured it piece by piece. Thief, the Silent Antinium, was one of several oddities.
 
——
 
“…And rise as a [Crusader].”
Zimrah, the last [Priest], had leveled up today. She no longer smiled as she inducted an Armored Antinium into their ranks. It was a choice—but many of their Hive wanted it.
She spoke sermons, she healed, and her faith was strong. But the Worker did not walk around with the same conviction as before. Theophilus and Jerimy were dead. Pawn had offered to let her return with the Painted Antinium. He had not expected her to take the offer, nor could Zimrah.
How could she go back?
There was something here. The army was alive. The army…there were things Olesm didn’t know and accepted about the Antinium command. He saw what was important, for all he could be so terribly cruel.
Yet look at them.
Zimrah saw…tragedy and glory. She saw gifts, kindness, anger in Crusader 57, confidence, selfishness in Shelly, a desire to be loved in Kevin. She saw bravery and wrath.
These were not all good things. But for the first time—they were Antinium things.
 
——
 
Manus was coming tonight. Artur had gone around the camp, telling everyone to get ready. It looked like a night attack on their camps, maybe. A fully-backed army.
“Drisshia’s heavies. Manus will sneak through them. Do not die. That is an order.”
He passed by multiple squads, and some Workers offered him parts of their gifts, but Artur declined. The flag flew behind him. He would fight with them.
[Raise the Standard]. The [Banner Leader] had leveled up. Those who lived—got stronger. If you lived.
Manus was higher-level still. So they won. It was a thing any Antinium who lived long enough understood as a reality of war. Manus had done this longer. Manus had enchanted gear.
It wasn’t fair. But they had more than just faith and Heaven to help them face it.
 
“From days of war and wrath we ran
Exiled from every land
Searching for our honor lost
And found the House of Minos’ sands.”
 
A song rose over the ranks of the Antinium, and some turned to listen. A Minotaur with one arm sat with the Beriad, the self-named group who followed him into battle.
It was Workers who sang, in unison, and never had Antinium sung like that before, together. Even Bird could not have dreamed of that.
Or maybe he could. Bird was silly.
However, the singing broke off as the Minotaur lifted a hand.
“That’s how we sing it. But this is your song. It would not be the House of Minos’ sands. Er…what rhymes with sand?”
“Land?”
“That’s line two.”
The Workers and Minotaur sat together, trying to compose new lyrics. This was good. These were good things.
It would not stop Manus from killing them, but it would let them go to their deaths as brave as brave could be. If Calruz gave it to them, that was well.
However…another squad sat together, calmly waving their antennae at one another.
Hectval, not Manus, weighed on their minds despite the impending battle. They were an odd group. Not one battle had passed recently without one of their number dying.
Or at least, that’s what the casualty reports said. Despite them being an archery group, they had a higher-than-average casualty rating, which Dekass had noted.
Archer B12 sat with the others, one of the originals from the first volunteers. They were still around, like Crusader 53, the old guard. However, he was currently engaged in waving all four hands around as all of Squad B sat in a circle.
Come on, come on…
Four hands per Antinium. Ten Antinium per squad. Twenty games of rock-paper-knife. It took a long time for a winner to be found, but that was fine. Antinium sat out, and then it was B12 versus Crusader 995.
He won. B12 went still as the other [Archer] lowered his hands. All of Squad B gathered around B12. Slowly, he rose, feeling calm.
Ah. At last.
A [Sniper] was dead among the enemy lines. It had been found—blasted from above by a Wyvern hiding in the sky. Manus hated that [Sniper]. It had killed so many of them, so many officers. So many [Soldiers]—even shot a Wyvern through the eye, though the Wyvern hadn’t died.
They had orders now, to try and capture the enemy. Manus just had one thing wrong in their speculations as to how it continued, though.
It wasn’t a [Sniper].
Archer B12 rose and went around Squad B, shaking hands with all of them. Good luck. Good luck.
Goodbye.
They saw him off as he collected his bow, arrows, and trooped out of the camp. Archer B12 was ready. At last…
At last, it’s my turn. 
Since Manus was coming, he found a good spot to set up and meet them. They were not Hectval, but they were on his list. Just like Bird had said.
An arrow for all of them. All of them. B12 took a little nap, and the class was waiting for him.
Just as promised.
 
——
 
The Antinium division was ready when the enemy appeared. Drisshia heralded their arrival with banging drums. They knew they couldn’t sneak up on Liscor.
So they didn’t.
“Yayde Re! Up and at them! Let’s kill some Drisshies!”
Captain Voita rode down the line of the Yoldenites, and they cheered, many having traded their gear up for plundered armor and weapons. Bepol was moving his lines up to engage Drisshia’s.
But everyone was waiting for Manus. They would attack from within Drisshia’s lines. As the enemy army moved closer through the darkness, someone swore.
“Selphid’s tits. There’s a lot of ‘em out there. I think those ‘reinforcements’ from Manus might have…doubled their numbers. Embria, you seeing this? I see multiple, multiple shadows in the clouds.”
Xith was reporting to the other officers via a speaking stone. Commander Olesm replied.
“We’re aware they reinforced, Wing Commander. Keep your squad back. Hit any Wyverns you can, but save those three Skills for my command.”
“Yes, sir.”
Wing Commander Embria listened to Xith, and the 9th Company’s leader sounded a bit leery—but he obeyed. Confidence went downhill just like crap, and Olesm sounded like he was in charge, so he was.
6th was waiting on the wings, but Narkr was watching Embria as 4th Company slowed, taking their position in Bepol’s lines.
Coincidentally, they were close to the Antinium.
“Hey! Who ate my chocolate? I know it was one of you Antinium bastards! I put it down, and you stole it! Chocolate. They said it came special from Imani’s kitchen, and there was one bag in the entire damn city! Who was it?”
Captain Vell of 2nd Squad was throwing a huge fit. The Antinium lines didn’t move. Then a familiar voice called out.
“Eat grass, Vell.”
“Who said that? Was it you, Crusader 57?”
4th Company sniggered, even Vell’s own squad.
“Order in the ranks! Are you children? Is that Significant Beavers? Good to see you. Want to join 4th?”
Wikir snapped. Significant Beavers waved at 4th Company and their expanded lines.
“No thanks! I hate heights!”
Embria saw 6th Company muttering and pointing at the madness of 4th. It hadn’t turned into outright disputes…yet. But, oh, the irony was that Maksie had come back to have a drink with them last night, and 6th and 9th were rumbling at 4th, who were angry that they were being called bug-kissing traitors when they—
“What’s that over there? Oi. Quiet.”
Wing Commander Embria saw something odd as Drisshia drew nearer. 4th Company instantly went silent, and she went to check it out.
Both armies were coming into arrow range, and shields went up. Soon they’d fight and die.
Something was up. She had noticed Olesm was here personally. She suspected he had a plan…but she had deliberately kept that to herself. Trust in the [Commander], after all. Fool the enemy.
She rode closer, breaking from 4th’s position. The others let her pass, and she rode straight into the Antinium lines. As an officer.
“What are you doing? Get into formation!”
She snapped at an Antinium squad who had not stayed in their columns and rows, but were clustered together, a prime target.
“Do you want to eat a [Fireball]? Spread out!”
Dekass had made his command immune to lightning, so whenever Antinium got hit by a [Lightning Bolt] spell, everyone called it ‘free mana’.
“They’re coming! Ancestors! Manus is in front! Six—eight hundred [Soldiers]! Get ready!”
Maksie was screaming into their linked stones. Embria whirled and heard one of the Workers speak.
“We have received a gift. Tonight is the night. We will die or they will. He walks among us. Wing Commander, do you want some?”
The Drake whirled back to him. Then she heard a roar go up across the Antinium ranks. She saw Spearmaster Lulv charging, and her scales prickled.
What was this? Why were they coming in so hot?
Then she saw him, standing amid a cluster of Antinum slowly emerging from the center. It seemed Olesm hadn’t disguised them well enough after all, or they had a mole. Embria looked up and whispered.
“Pawn.”
 
——
 
Lulv pointed at the Worker and the Painted Antinium around him. Yellow Splatters—he didn’t recognize any other high-value targets, but that was enough.
“[Mark Target]. Bring it down, no matter what!”
This was the battle. The instant he had heard Olesm had requested Pawn’s presence on the battlefield, he had known.
The Drake [Strategist] might have had a plan, but Lulv had one of his own, and it was simple: kill Pawn.
If Manus’ theories had any weight—the Free Antinium would collapse if that one died. At the very least, he was a leader on par with the others.
Pawn, Garry, Belgrade, Anand, Bird.
He had come with the best of the Painted Antinium, Lulv had no doubt. But that Worker had made one mistake:
This was a war.
Eight hundred of Manus’ [Soldiers] tore down the hill after the [Spearmaster]. Lulv raised his spear.
“[Intimidation: Spear of a Thousand Graves]!”
Manus’ [Soldiers] roared as the Gnoll leapt into the dark sky. They had seen him a hundred times. The Antinium didn’t flinch and lifted their blades.
The first ranks of Manus’ lines went through them without slowing.
 
——
 
Death. Those poor [Soldiers]. Embria whirled her spear up. The Antinium surged forwards.
“Protect Pawn! Hold your ground! Crab Battalion—advance!”
Dekass roared. The broken Battalion 3 charged. They had returned. Not one single Antinium had lived in the original five hundred.
Yet it was Crab Battalion who met Manus. They had inherited their name. Embria was about to ride towards her command when she saw the squad of Antinium unveiling their gift.
Ishkr’s gift.
She stopped, and one turned to her.
“You are Wing Commander Embria, aren’t you? Do you want some? We are going.”
“You don’t have orders for that.”
A figure moved through the darkness, and something glittered as it rose. Embria looked up and saw a familiar flag glowing in the night. Arrows swerved around her as a Worker lifted it higher, staring at what they held.
Artur. He turned to face Embria.
“I order it. Squad 2, Battalion 6. Prepare to charge. There is no strategy in it. But we will break their lines or fall.”
They were going for Pawn. Embria hesitated, looking down. She could hear Manus’ [Soldiers] shouting, roaring—but there was something different this time. They sounded—determined.
 
——
 
[Lineholders]. [War Veterans]. [Vanguards].
