Manus’ [Soldiers] had been replenished, their numbers doubled. The new lot were ready to slaughter the Antinium. It was the group that had fought them these last two months who held them back. Told them something like what Embria had said.
These are not the Antinium you know.
Now, one of their [Captains] was waiting to get to the front. The Antinium were fighting, trying to stop Lulv as he advanced on that Worker and the Painted Antinium. Yet—
The Workers and Soldiers were waiting for Manus as their lines closed. The ones behind the engaged front ranks? The [Captain] muttered.
“What was that, sir?”
A [Soldier] looked at him. The [Captain] said it again. The Drake hesitated and reached for his speaking stone.
“Strategist Sokkel, sir. Report.”
“What?”
The [Strategist] snapped. The [Captain] hesitated. He said it again.
“…They looked like [Soldiers].”
“What? Have you taken leave of your senses? Get off the—”
Sokkel was bawling the [Captain] off until he realized what that meant. The Manus [Captain] didn’t know how to explain it.
They looked like [Soldiers]. They were standing shoulder-to-shoulder, fixated. Not pushing forwards, waiting. One of them held their mace grimly, and another was aiming his zweihander.
If I die, I will take you with me. They had always been Antinium. Lulv hadn’t taken anyone who mocked the Antinium’s ability to kill. Manus had taken them seriously. We know you are warriors.
These were [Soldiers]. There was a difference. The Antinium squad charged as some of their own fell back. Fell back to preserve their lives. Not a mindless attack until they died, like Dekass had first ordered.
 
——
 
“Squad 5, charge!”
They charged. Crusader 53’s mace met an enchanted shield, and the Drake holding it buckled.
Faith. Pawn was among them. He could not die. Squad 5 fought like lions. Too bad they were fighting Manticores.
“You iDiOt—”
Crusader 57 went down as Crusader 51—no, Toni—slipped, and a [Soldier] tried to run him through. The Worker charged into the way of the partisan spear. He fell back, and the Gnoll tried to tear the spear upwards.
Crusader 53 hit him on the head. The Gnoll’s head imploded. The [Soldiers] of Manus reacted as the mace crushed an enchanted helmet.
“High-level [Soldier]! Watch it!”
The Soldier whirled his mace up. It flashed, and a [Captain] turned pale.
“Oh shit. Mace arts. Take—”
A Soldier with two arms and battered steel armor lifted the mace up and rotated. Like a spinning top. The mace swung around—and then it was as big as a battering ram. A cluster of [Soldiers] vanished as it hit them like a gong.
“High-level Antinium! Mark it! Mark—”
The [Captain]’s last words were choked off by a crunch. Crusader 53’s mace smashed through the squad, scattering those who survived like pins.
[Mace Art: Big Hammer].
But he was marked.
 
——
 
“This is Aerial Team 1. We’re heading down.”
[Mages] on Wyverns. Dozens of them this time. Lulv roared amidst the sound of fighting.
“Watch out! That Antinium Worker is doing something. Watch for that [Scout]!”
“Taken care of, sir.”
The [Battle Mage] had a lock on Maksie, who was circling, trying to unleash Olesm’s Skill and dodge. He took aim, moving as the [Wyvern Rider] angled her beast in a dive.
“[Bound Spell: Hundredfold Light Arrow Volley]. [Piercing Missiles]. [Homing—]. Hey, we’re going too fast! Pull up.”
The [Mage] snapped at the [Wyvern Rider]. Instead of replying, the Drake lolled her head at him. And he realized there was an arrow through her goggles.
“[Sniper]!”
 
——
 
Archer B12 lowered his bow. He drew another arrow, put it to the string, and loosed it. A second Wyvern went down.
“We killed you!”
A scream from above. He looked up and saw an Oldblood Drake coming down at him. The Worker drew a dagger in one hand and loosed a third arrow. It went through a chest.
He wasn’t as fast as Bird. A falling Drake [Mage] shouted.
“There it is! [Sniper] marked!”
More Drakes were flying at him. B12 loosed an arrow from point-blank range at an open mouth.
Ice froze his body, but the Drake died before the breath attack could fully engulf him. The cloud of mist rose overhead as the body fell back, covering him.
The Worker ran out of the cloud and loosed an arrow through a second flier.
“How is it doing that? What level is it?”
“[Appraisal]!”
The [Mage] pointed at Archer B12. The Drake’s eyes widened. He hadn’t expected to see anything, but the class—
Worker B12 saw three Drakes go down as a shower of arrows covered his position. He looked down and saw B-Team loosing arrows at his pursuers! He raised his bow, sighted on Lulv, and loosed.
The Gnoll tried to parry the arrow with the haft of his spear and grunted. It was—heavy! He still managed it.
“Kill that [Sniper]!”
“Sir! I have identification on the class!”
The [Mage] was screaming. Archer B12’s first arrow burnt away on the magic shield. The second cracked it. The Drake tried to take cover, but he kept screaming.
“It’s not a [Sniper]! Class is [Avenger]! Say again—[Av—”
The arrow went through his enchanted robes and out the other side. Lulv’s head snapped up.
What?
 
[Skill – Arrows: Combined Weight of Our Wrath]
[Legacy – Long-ranged Shot received!]
[Legacy – Pinpoint Arrows received!]
[Legacy—
 
One after the other. With each one that died, the arrows were heavier.
Never shall we forgive Hectval. Bird was right. They had all been at that inn, and the Drakes had taken it from them.
It didn’t matter if he died. B12 stood there, ignoring the arrows striking down around him. Die. We will never stop until we’re all dead. And we pass on the weight of this class to the next one.
 
——
 
Advanced classes. Lulv felt his skin under his fur crawling. He looked up.
Pawn. The [Priest] was watching him. But he was one of two targets shielded by the Painted Antinium. The [Mages] were preparing to destroy the entire Antinium force if they had to. If they failed, Lulv would do it for them. And he would make sure these two died.
An [Avenger] only had strength if there was someone to continue the class.
Yet the other [Priest] was raising her hands higher. Pawn held his censer.
Zimrah was bare-handed. Lulv had seen her before as well. He recognized the odd words. The chanting.
“You, Hectval, you, our enemies, are doomed to Hell. There is no salvation for you. You could have lived long—you could have lived in peace. You choose this.”
There was something different in the way she spoke. Theophilus had raged at them. But Zimrah’s voice…it was sorrowful.
“Look at what you have done. We seek Heaven, and you killed the sky. You have lost everything. You were given all that we dream of, and this is what you do? You are damned. Damned for Hell.”
Sokkel calmly pointed a finger at her.
“[Highlight Target].”
Zimrah lit up, and Painted Antinium bearing shields moved in front of her. The [Priest] wasn’t done. Nor did she hide behind Pawn and Yellow Splatters, who moved to shield her. Both Antinium were looking at her. Zimrah’s voice grew louder.
“Do you think I fear death? I will never suffer in Heaven’s grace. You? YOU? YOU ARE BOUND FOR HELL. GO THERE.”
A trembling finger rose. She shrieked, and Lulv’s ears burned. Zimrah aimed a finger straight back, across Manus’ lines.
Straight at Sokkel. The Drake [Strategist] blinked as she screamed.
“[Marked For Hell].”
What? Lulv whirled around. Pawn and Yellow Splatters recoiled. But Sokkel just stumbled. He looked down. Something red, a mark, was inscribed on his chest. He brushed at it with one claw.
“Just a marker. I’m fine, [Spearmaster]. I’m—”
He stumbled again. Then clutched the arrow that B12 had punched through his armor. The Drake choked on his words. He clutched the arrow through his heart.
Then he began to scream. Lulv had been trained not to take his eyes off the enemy. But he couldn’t look away.
A void opened under Sokkel. Something reached up. It dragged him down, and he vanished, burning, his body twisting into wisps of agonized, terrified smoke.
“What was—”
A babble broke out around Manus’ lines. The [Mages] had no idea what they had just seen. But then that [Priest] pointed again.
“You.”
A Gnoll clawed at her chest as a mark burned onto her. Lulv shouted into his stone.
“Get that [Soldier] out of there! Protective spells! All of them! Now! Kill that Antinium! Priority target!”
“HELL WAITS FOR YOU ALL.”
Zimrah screamed as Pawn grabbed her arm. The [Hellspeaker Priest] was shaking as she tried to use her Skill again, and the marked [Soldier] was covered by a line of shields.
Manus’ lines redoubled their fighting. They were prepared to die. But that?
That Worker had to die. Lulv snarled.
“[Mages]! Unleash!”
The skies lit up. Pawn looked up as dozens of Tier 4 and Tier 5 spells came screaming down.
 
——
 
It was not about Pawn. He didn’t recognize them. These [Crusaders]…Zimrah. They were changed.
His Crusade battled Manus around him. Pawn watched Antinium die.
“I sent them to this fate.”
One of his hands touched his heart, for a second, then lifted the censer once more. He had sent them. And he would have sent them again. Because Hectval would not stop.
It hurt too much to see. He had been forbidden to walk the battlefield, and he had obeyed Xrn and the Free Queen because he was afraid.
Afraid that he would die and never see Erin again. Leave the Antinium without first building Heaven on earth.
Simply afraid of dying. Afraid he was needed—
And most of all, afraid of who he might become. Hatred and wonder warred in Pawn’s chest, and both of them were him.
He had seen the depths of madness and a glorious warrior before. To his right, Calruz stood, roaring as he fought, swinging his axe down at Manus’ [Soldiers] as Antinium sang. To his left, Zimrah was still screaming, the most hopeful of his [Acolytes] condemning the living to something else.
Why fire? What hands were those? They were not Antinium hands. They were clawed and—
Pawn saw a glowing Worker emerge from the air. Then another. They leapt forwards, grappling, trying to slow that Gnoll. He slew them so fast Pawn barely blinked.
He was not meant for this battlefield. He knew that. His faith fell before steel, and it was a bitter realization. But he had not come here to win this battle alone.
The [Priest of Wrath and Sky] tightened his grip on his censer. Two hands were clasped together in prayer, and Yellow Splatters was watching Lulv.
Olesm had command of them. He had only asked for Pawn to come for one reason. There was something Olesm couldn’t defeat. So Pawn bowed his head in prayer as comets and fire rained down. He lifted his arms and looked up.
“…[I Walked Under Heaven’s Sky]. You cannot break us that easily.”
To combat Manus’ flying [Mages], Olesm had requested Xrn take the field.
He had gotten Pawn. For all her magic, there were things he could do that the [Thaumaturge] had never dreamed of. The [Priest] looked up and smiled.
The night changed to day.
Pawn thought he heard someone singing to him.
 
——
 
Across the battlefield, Antinium slowed in their fighting and gazed upwards in awe. Lulv threw up his paws as the sky turned blue. Daylight filtered down for one moment—then it hung in the air like the lights of the sky.
Sky-blue radiance mixed with the night. It threw the struggling armies into darkness.
“What is that? What is…? Where are my spells?”
They were gone. Confused [Mages] threw more spells, and they vanished into the glorious vision of the sky.
“What level of Skill is that?”
It made no sense! No ordinary spell could do that! Lulv snarled. He stabbed, his spear flurrying through bodies. He’d do it himself. That Skill didn’t stop his spear.
Pawn knew it too. He was retreating, his job done. Lulv felt it instinctively.
If he beat magic…Lulv could still kill him. Yet the Worker had one more trick. The Worker pointed, and Lulv twisted, but though he ducked the pointing finger—the Skill still hit him.
“[Bane of Luck].”
What? A luck-based—
Lulv struck the ground, and his feet slipped on a patch of mud. His boots were enchanted to stick—it must have just been the perfect angle for him to slip. He caught himself—and a Soldier charged into him. Two hands caught his spear, the other two began to punch at him.
“Die.”
Lulv headbutted Yellow Splatters, trying to wrestle his spear away. They slammed backwards—the [Spearmaster] was higher-level and far quicker. He reached for his dagger to stab the Soldier and felt the kiss of pain on his back.
“Spearmaster! I’m so—”
One of his [Soldiers] had run him through from behind when Lulv and the Antinium went crashing backwards! The Gnoll howled in fury.
“Advance and kill those Workers! Now!”
He looked left and right, but the charge had stalled out. Manus had slowed down? Then he heard desperate shouts from the officers filling Sokkel’s spot.
“Liscor’s 6th on the left! Intercepting! 11th is hitting us—kill that Worker!”
“4th Company, approaching! [Spearmaster]! Watch out! Something’s wrong!”
Lulv looked up—and the bright light of blue skies and dream of heaven over the battlefield grew brighter still.
 
——
 
Embria looked down as Ishkr’s gift flared to life. Artur lifted his banner higher, and the squads of Antinium around him turned.
“We will charge into the enemy. Have no fear. Look.”
The Worker pointed at something one of the [Crusaders] held. It was…something from The Wandering Inn. Embria recognized it.
It had first arrived as a simple little thing. A neatly shuttered contraption made of wood, carefully filled to the brim with as much fuel as possible.
Mere tinder. It was there to keep the spark burning. The fire glowing.
She looked down and saw Glory. That fleeting, bright pink flame, like the very essence of the feeling it contained. Something that would never last would come to [Soldiers] and the brave and linger in memory.
Bright. The lantern burned as the squad holding it gathered around.
But it had not remained as a lantern. It had caught fire. Perhaps Ishkr had packed it with too much fuel. Or perhaps—the Gnoll had known it would ignite.
It covered the Soldier who held it. And it was burning on more than just the lanterns. The Workers and Soldiers had tossed everything onto the blaze.
Now, it burned amidst the Antinium, and more squads looked at it. Artur approached, flag waving.
He did not, as Embria thought, lower it and set his flag on fire. That would be a waste of a good flag. However, the Worker looked at her.
“Squads. You will charge with me. Formation.”
Antinium were gathering around. And as Embria watched—she saw them lifting their blades.
