Why…then why did they have voices? Why did he think they were glaring at him across the battlefield? Why had that Worker cursed them to…hell? Rhir’s hell?
Vess didn’t know, but he realized this Antinium was important soon enough.
 
——
 
“What is your unit? Unit. U-n-i-t? This thing’s stupid, [Sergeant].”
The Soldier stared blankly at one of Big Yam, trying to interrogate it ahead of the others. Velden snorted.
“And you’re some [Interrogator]? Soldiers don’t have units, you lizard-brained idiot.”
“Oh…”
Big Yam was sitting around, relieved not to be in the soup. Apparently…it was ugly. The Antinium had taken a hell of a beating, that strange Antinium that had saved the last of the Painted Antinium or not.
However, another group had just entered the war, and everyone was talking about it.
“Yoldenites. Those idiots with helmets for brains are on Liscor’s side!”
Some of the Luldem veterans were swearing a blue streak. The Drisshians—the closest city to Yolden—were livid.
“Why is Yolden with Liscor?”
Vess had met a few of them, when they weren’t at war. Velden shrugged.
“Who knows? They’ve always been weird. They don’t have a proper city, they do that stupid call—‘Yaydee Ray’ or whatever. And they’ll help themselves to anything while walking about in their stupid helmets. Inbred idiots.”
Vess had the distinct impression the Soldier was listening to them. So they didn’t have to feed it, they’d instead chained the Soldier’s legs, torso, and neck. It could move its two arms on its left side and move about. Well, about three feet given how many different chains were on it.
It didn’t blink, and the antennae waved, but not much else moved. The Soldier didn’t have pupils, but Vess still thought it was looking at him. He shuddered.
“What’re they doing, the Yoldenites?”
 
——
 
“Yayde Re~! Hey Heckies! Have a taste of this!”
The odd warning call was something Yoldenites said to each other from afar. It was like saying ‘hello’, or simply, ‘I’m here’.
Three hundred Yoldenites on ponies all shouted it down at the Alliance—then began whirling slings and tossing stones down at the Drakes and Gnolls. The instant the Alliance pivoted to attack them, the Yoldenites were retreating, showering their pursuers with stones.
They were obnoxious enemies and had adapted their tactics to battle Drisshia’s heavy infantry. Worse—the Yoldenites put the same helmets on their ponies and turned it into full-body armor—from the top. They would cheerfully engage in any ranged warfare with their enemies, and as the saying went—you couldn’t kill a Yoldenite from above.
Some people uncharitably called them ‘mountain Lizards’ after the cheerfully obnoxious Lizardfolk of Baleros. The difference between Yolden and Lizardfolk was…Yoldenites were still Drakes.
They were unused to the intensity of the battle between Hectval and Liscor. The first time they saw a Hectval line of crossbows open up on them, the Yoldenites experienced fairly significant casualties. They also tried to take a group of Luldem [Soldiers] prisoner and ended up in a close-quarters fight as the enraged [Soldiers] refused to give up until half their number were down.
In response, the Yoldenites waited until the Alliance was marching down a pass and then collapsed an entire shelf onto them, burying over a hundred and fifty [Soldiers] alive.
 
——
 
Over two thousand entered Liscor’s war, mostly as skirmishers harassing the Alliance or appearing to flank their foes from hilltops, where their slings did the most damage. They were hardly the hammer, but they were distracting and, most of all, demoralizing. Apparently, they were threatening one of Drisshia’s mines, and their city wanted to pull back and fight Yolden, which prompted accusations that Drisshia was abandoning the real battle where the most deaths were occuring.
Vess and Velden were discussing the issue when the Soldier’s rock pinged off one of Big Yam’s helmets. It missed the Drake’s eye, and the [Soldier] recoiled, shielding his face.
“You damn—”
Instantly, the squad began hurling everything in sight back at it. Velden had to yank people back, and the Soldier, covered in dirt and bleeding from multiple scratches, was re-chained at once.
“It tried to hit Dosel in the eye! You saw that! We have to kill it.”
“Just wait. The longer it takes to find someone to interrogate it, the more we sit around. Chain it back up.”
Velden panted, but Vess felt his scales crawl. There was something…cheerfully malicious about the Soldier. It seemed like it was hungry now, because it snapped its mandibles and turned its head to stare at the food tin.
“I’m going to—”
Dosel got up, and Velden grabbed his shoulder. Vess rose and picked up the tin and the spoon. He approached the Soldier.
“You. What’s your name?”
The Soldier stiffened. Vess offered it another spoon of gelatin pasta.
“You get food if you tell us something. What’s your name? Otherwise you can eat dirt.”
Did they eat dirt? Vess watched as the Soldier’s antennae waved wildly. Then he saw it try to wiggle.
“Vess—careful—”
The [Arcane Warrior] reached for his wand, but to his surprise, he saw the Soldier’s bound hands move.
It had stumpy ‘fingers’ more like stubs. They turned into terrifying, sharp fists, and could probably tear through dirt like miniature shovels. However, the Soldier slowly moved his arms and opened one hand completely—and raised three fingers on the other.
Five. And three.
Only Vess saw it. He frowned.
“…Thirty-five?”
The Soldier’s antennae waved frantically and he shook his head. Vess tried again.
“Eight? Three and five. No? The other way around? Fifty-three?”
The Soldier went still. Then he nodded.
Fifty-three. Big Yam looked at each other, and Velden exclaimed.
“What kind of a name is that? Do they just give Antinium numbers?”
“I thought they didn’t have names.”
53 stared at Vess and opened and closed its mandibles. Vess offered it a spoon, and Dosel slapped it away. The gelatin pasta went into the dirt.
“Don’t give it anything.”
“Aw, come on. I was interrogating—”
“Wait for the interrogators. Don’t feed it. We’re chopping its head off anyways. You hear that? Come on. I can’t stand to look at it.”
Vess backed away, and he saw the Soldier staring at the tin of food. However, the squad was riled up, so Vess closed it and walked back. He saw 53 wiggle…then fall over. Happily, the Antinium began to eat the bit of food off the ground.
“Look at it. It doesn’t even think. I bet it doesn’t even know it’s going to die.”
Vess doubted that. He thought the Soldier knew exactly that it was going to die. That was why it had thrown the rock. Still, that one morsel of information didn’t mean much. 53? It was just a number.
What he didn’t expect was what that number did. Big Yam had custody of 53 for just over three weeks of blessed inaction while High Command sourced an ‘expert’. However, everything changed after one big battle. And 53’s name took on another, unexpected meaning.
 
——
 
“Officer approaching!”
Big Yam snapped to attention as a Drake strode into their camp. He actually beat one of the grim-faced Drakes from Hectval.
“Consultant Sokkel. We already have someone in place to deal with this…captive Antinium. I thought you said that it wasn’t of interest to you?”
One of Luldem’s officers was walking with the [Strategist] that apparently gave orders even to High Command. Vess saw the Drake snap back.
“That was the case this morning. Now I want to speak with it. Opinions change. Captain Yulre will want to speak with this Antinium too, once he returns from his engagement.”
Big Yam listened as Sokkel approached the Antinium. He peered at it, frowned around, and then cursed.
“…Or not. I thought you said you identified this thing as 53? Fifty-three…who was that?”
“Sir! Corporal Vess, Big Yam squad! Luldem command, sir!”
Velden barked, and Vess stepped forwards nervously. The [Strategist] eyed him, and one of the [Majors] huffed.
“We have an [Interrogator] ready to…glean any facts about the enemy front, [Strategist] Sokkel. Believe me, we’ll be thorough.”
He meant torture. Vess looked uncertainly at Velden, and Sokkel’s brows rose. He looked at the [Major], at the Soldier, and rolled his eyes.
“An interrogator. Ancestors save me. You, Corporal. How did you learn this Antinium’s designation?”
The Soldier was eying Sokkel. It had heard about the [Interrogator], but it still hadn’t moved. Vess gulped.
“I, uh, offered to feed it if it told me its name, sir.”
“You asked its name.”
Sokkel’s voice was flat. He looked at Vess like the younger Drake was an idiot. The [Major] glared, mostly because the [Strategist] was ignoring him.
The mercenaries and Sokkel were not well-loved in the Alliance, for all they won battles. They were elitist, kept to themselves, and, Vess was sure, looked down on the Alliance. So Vess bristled.
“I was just hunting for information, sir. I got its name. It was holding up fingers. It even nods and shakes its head.”
“Fingers…interesting. And it can nod or shake its head?”
Sokkel rubbed at his chin. He still regarded Big Yam as if they were a load of idiots.
“You see? There’s valuable intelligence to be had. Our [Interrogators]…”
Sokkel interrupted the [Major] briskly.
“Call them off. Captain Yulre will arrive as soon as he can, and we’ll take the prisoner.”
“You can’t do that! It is the Alliance’s prisoner. We will share any intelligence—”
“How? By torturing the Antinium with hot pokers? Giving it [Detect Truth] spells? Refusing to feed it? Asking it its name? You’ve never dealt with Antinium as prisoners, have you?”
The [Strategist] was so contemptuous that all the others looked at him. He shook his head slowly.
“The Walled Cities captured countless Antinium during both Antinium Wars. They refused to talk under extreme duress. This one…”
He glanced at 53, and the Soldier clicked at him. Sokkel raised his brows.
“This might be different. That’s on us for not considering it.”
“Ah, so you admit you were wrong. Gratifying to hear for once! Our vaunted [Strategist] can make a mistake.”
The [Major] snapped back, clearly at the end of whatever issue he had with Sokkel himself. Sokkel’s flat glare made him back up.
“Yes, well. Courageous as your squad was for capturing the Antinium Soldier, [Major]…I very much doubt any other unit from a city would try that. Much less try to interrogate an Antinium Soldier. They can’t talk. They’re physically incapable of it.”
Vess’ mouth opened. The [Major] hesitated.
“…Oh.”
The look Sokkel gave him as he strode off to head off the [Interrogator] made Vess convinced that the [Strategist] had better not walk around Luldem’s camps at night, especially Big Yam, or he’d find out just how much they appreciated his attitude.
However, all this meant that 53 was now even more valuable, and the angry [Major] told Velden to guard him and wait…for the Gnoll [Spearmaster].
Apparently, he was on another battlefield, so it would be tomorrow when he arrived. Big Yam grumbled, but secretly, everyone probably hoped they’d have to guard the Soldier all the time. It beat fighting for sure.
“I’ll feed it.”
Vess announced after they had enjoyed their supper.
“It won’t die if it misses a meal…oh, fine.”
Grumpily, some of the squad watched as he approached. This time, Vess just pushed the tin over and saw the Soldier roll over and begin awkwardly eating out of the tin.
“What’s important about 53? Why did that [Strategist] kick up a fuss? You can’t answer, huh? Why are the Antinium fighting in Liscor’s war? Why are they attacking us?”
Vess squatted by the Soldier, and 53 looked up at him. His antennae waved vaguely, then he went back to picking out bits of sausage.
“You started this war! Why are you—”
Vess wanted to kick the Soldier and knew it would be like kicking a rock. The [Arcane Warrior] balled his claws into fists. He saw the Soldier look up from the tin and click at him.
Just once. The Soldier did it again as Vess jumped.
“Think it’s swearing at you? Go ahead and kick it; we won’t tell.”
Vess ignored that. He glared at 53.
“You bastards did this. If not for you, we’d all be at home.”
Click, click. The Soldier did it twice, snapping its mandibles together. And then he shook his head, deliberately, side to side. Vess…hesitated.
“What?”
53 just stared up at him. But the double-click sounded…deliberate. And he’d just…Vess hesitated, glanced over his shoulder. No one was listening.
“This is Liscor’s fault. You attacked first.”
53 shook his head back and forth repeatedly. Vess kept blinking at him.
“Is that…no? Did Hectval start it?”
Click. And he nodded his head once.
The Drake’s eyes widened. He looked towards Velden—then hesitated. The [Sergeant] and Big Yam weren’t very willing to investigate the Antinium. So he lowered his voice and went on.
“Wait. Liscor started it…maybe Hectval argued, but Liscor marched their army into Hectval’s lands first. Right?”
A shake of the head, impatient. The mandibles clicked twice. Was that code for ‘no’?
“Hectval started it.”
Click. Nod.
“Are you actually saying yes? Does one click mean yes?”
Click. Nod again.
“Uh…uh…your name is 53?”
Click.
“The sky is green.”
The Soldier turned his head up, stared at the orange glow among the High Passes and setting sun, and clicked twice. He seemed to enjoy that, more than shaking or nodding his head. Perhaps it was easier, trussed up as he was.
He also had a different kind of neck, so perhaps nodding or shaking his head was harder. Either way, Vess began…well, arguing with it. Interrogating it. Playing a game.
“Hectval did something?”
Click.
“But I heard…is that why the Antinium fought? Or is it because of something else?”
A long stare. Which question am I answering, stupid?
“Is what Hectval did the reason the Antinium fought?”
Click.
“What’d they do?”
Stare. 53 buried his face in his tin of food. Vess grew angry.
“What am I saying? You’re not people. You probably just fought because your Queen made you. You don’t know—”
Click-click. The muffled sound within the tin made Vess stop. Still munching on the gelatin, Crusader 53 looked up.
“No way.”
Vess breathed, and someone else murmured.
“Indeed. This is the most valuable find so far. And here I thought this wretched war wouldn’t have me send anything back to the Emir. A dead [Innkeeper], children guarded…but this is fascinating.”
