The curious, warbling call made Olesm turn. He saw a peculiarly-armored Drake riding towards him, along with eighteen more on horseback. Their flag was…Olesm squinted at them.
He saw a curious Drake waving at him. Curious because he—she?—had oddly-patterned armor all over their head and neck, the most complete helmet that Olesm had ever witnessed, and shoulder guards.
It looked akin to a [Knight]’s helmet, but it was practically skin-tight, form-adhering, and it was stylized to mimic a Dragon’s head, giving the Drake and all eighteen [Soldiers] an odd, predatory look. The helmet even had tiny, tiny holes for their neck-spines to poke out of, and a few Drakes had even coated their neck-spines with iron barbs. If they turned their heads, you were in danger of being stabbed.
The helmet melded into the shoulder and neck-guards, forming a protective layer of metal or stone—some of the Drakes wore what looked like stone armor—all the way down to their shoulders. Like the upper part of a cloak or mantle fused into their helmet.
It was the most sophisticated armor Olesm had seen: scale armor, interlinking, smoothly-moving plates, which were not fun for [Armorers] to make; they preferred pieces, just like how obnoxious chainmail was because of all the links interwoven together.
The complex head-and-shoulders piece abruptly ended at the shoulderblades, and was replaced by the most dull, painted…iron armor that Olesm had seen.
The Drake officer waving at him had a sword at her waist, and she was riding a pony, not a stallion. Her other bodyguards had hatchets, simple longswords, spears…and a pickaxe? Olesm squinted at the odd mismatch.
“What are they…? Artur, who are they?”
“I do not know, sir. They identify themselves as emissaries of the Drake city of Yolden.”
“Yolden…?”
The name vaguely rang a bell. Olesm started towards the [Soldiers]. They were hardly unwatched; Liscor’s army had two squads eying them.
With a bit of confusion. As Olesm neared, he saw a second oddity. These Drakes—and they were all Drakes, all nineteen—all had the same, complex helmet-shoulderguard.
And iron armor. Or leather. Their officer had what looked like a steel sword, although it was carefully sheathed, but Olesm didn’t even think they carried steel weapons. Oh—and he realized that, instead of bows, they had slings hanging by their sides and an overfull, bulging bag of ammunition.
Rocks. Only their commander, who was goggling at Olesm, had a bow, and it looked like an heirloom. She leaned over her saddle, then got down hurriedly.
“Yayde Re! Hello! Doine! It’s an Antinium! Hold your weapons, everyone! Commander Olesm, I’m from Yolden! [Captain] Voita, of the 22nd Command of the Yoldenite Army! Could I have a word?”
She was the most unusual Drake that Olesm had ever met. From her strange, yodeling cry, to an accent that seemed to be half-shouting at him, to her odd phrasing and armor…Olesm saw her gawking at Artur as he approached.
“Captain Voita? The Yoldenite army?”
Now Olesm recalled. Yolden. He had studied a map of the area. Wasn’t Yolden another Drake city in this region? Even higher up in elevation than Hectval.
Were they going to fight too? He felt a sinking feeling, but surely if so, they wouldn’t have announced themselves? And this Captain Voita and her squad were staring at the Antinium in a kind of horrified fascination…but fascination as opposed to simple horror.
Many Drakes would attack or flee. Olesm thought quickly.
“Artur, go find Wing Commander Embria if she’s near our camp. Tell her to report at once. Greetings, Captain Voita. I apologize. You’ve caught me at a poor time. We just finished a battle, and I’m—scatterbrained.”
“Ah, that mess back with all the flashin’ lights? We saw it from afar. Put our tails over our heads, so it did. Not that it wasn’t encouraging. Sent the Drishy-Luly-Heckies packing, did you? That’s the Commander Olesm I came here to see! And your Liscorian army looks sharp as Metal Dragonbreath! I hope you and I can talk. Greetings from Yolden! The Township Councils all send their regards, and I’m acting as representative.”
Olesm knew Drassi. He had experienced a wall of words hitting his head, and he had learned how to wade through a chatterbox’s offensive wave of dialogue. However, everything Voita said made his mind wrestle for a bit.
Voita’s helmet revealed her face; it was oddly lax in a face-guard, but heavily armored upwards. Not even a chin-guard…and she knew him.
“You have me at a disadvantage, Captain Voita. I’m afraid I don’t know Yolden’s…Township? But your squad is welcome into Liscor’s camp. You’re welcome to keep mounted, but we can see to it you get some feed for your horses or a break if you’re staying longer.”
“Oh! Don’t mind if we do!”
What looked like Voita’s second in command instantly dismounted, and the entire squad was on their feet and stretching before Olesm could blink.
“Got any good feed? Captain, where do we park?”
“Wherever the Commander wants you! I was hoping we could talk privately. Some of it’s command-level talk, sir.”
“Er—”
Olesm looked around, and every officer in range tried to duck. His claw found a [Tactician].
“Merraw, feed, food, and maybe room around one of the fires for the Yoldenites. I will see Captain Voita in my tent. Send up some refreshments. Captain Voita, would you like to follow one of my [Soldiers] there? I apologize. I will be with you in five, ten minutes at most.”
She nodded understandingly.
“That’s very kind of you, Commander Olesm. Don’t mind if I do. My girls and boys won’t be any trouble or I’ll make ‘em go back home without their helmets!”
She laughed as if that were a real threat and followed a Gnoll up the hill. Olesm rubbed at his head.
This was going to be weird.
 
——
 
Wing Commander Embria didn’t keep a superior officer waiting. She galloped back, and, to Olesm’s surprise, he saw Artur riding a horse after her.
“I got your message, Commander. What’s this about another city?”
She looked vaguely worried. Olesm gestured at the squad of Yoldenites talking with some [Soldiers] from Liscor all dining on some rations.
“We have…an officer from Yolden who wants to meet me. I thought you might know who they were. What am I dealing with?”
Embria frowned.
“A who from where?”
She knew most cities in this region, having campaigned across Izril. Olesm repeated the city.
“Yolden. You don’t know about them?”
“I don’t know…every city. Yolden. Yolden…Wikir! Vell! Get over here! On the double!”
Both [Captains] raced over as Embria barked a command. Artur had dismounted and was feeding his horse an apple, patting it as the two [Captains] rode in. It was a mark of the times that Artur stood with them instead of either Gnoll or Drake giving him the stink-eye. Vell stood away from Artur, but that was it.
“Yolden…Yolden…it rings a bell, yes? But where? Vell?”
“Aren’t they the ones who make great helmets? What’s the saying?”
Vell snapped her claws, frowning. Artur came over.
“I will take your horse, Captain Wikir? Unless you will ride back?”
“Oh. Thank you…Artur.”
The Gnoll distractedly handed him the reins. Vell did likewise, and Artur came back as she blinked.
“That’s it! Commander Embria, remember? Whenever we go by here, High Command always makes some unlucky bastards like 6th ride up to Yolden and commission some gear.”
“Right…and what’s the saying?”
“You can’t kill a Yoldenite from above.”
Vell began it, and Wikir and Embria finished the sentence. Olesm raised his brows.
“So this is a famous city?”
“Nope.”
All three officers shook their heads instantly as Artur looked from face to face. Vell glanced at the Yoldenites.
“Look at that. Iron and leather armor, and that’s a command squad. Slings.”
“Nothing wrong with a good sling. You can knock on someone’s head with one.”
Wikir growled, amused. Vell glanced at him.
“Okay, want to trade your shortbow for one? We could take that lot with our eyes closed. Even the Ants would dice them two-to-one.”
“I believe we would, yes, Captain Vell.”
Vell jumped, then nodded at Artur.
“Er…right. See? Even our banner-guy could probably out-lead an officer in their army. This is a real border-city, Commander Olesm. Poor weapons, low-level…”
“Why are they here?”
Vell gave Olesm a blank look.
“Maybe they want to trade for gear? Or they’re worried we’ll come at them? I don’t think they’re on Hectval’s side.”
Wikir growled.
“Definitely not. Hectval’s not unified with all the cities. Hrr. I can’t tell you anything more, Commander. Liscor’s army doesn’t fight Yolden or other border cities…no profit. We’re hired for bigger battles. All I can tell you is that they have a weird city.”
“How weird? Commander Embria?”
The [Wing Commander] frowned.
“Something about towns…that’s all I’ve got. Should we socialize?”
“Please. I’ll send Artur for you if I need you, Embria. Be polite. No insults—no disparaging their armor, Vell.”
“Sir! I would never, to their faces. Oh, and when’s the lottery for…?”
Wikir elbowed them, and Olesm headed towards his tent. He distinctly heard Artur whispering to Vell and Wikir.
“It will be today. Commander Olesm will do a raffle of another two squads, but a third will be Antinium. Oh, and we are having a squash-based bread today because a shipment of squash was passed through the door…”
“I hate squash.”
“Vell, do you enjoy any vegetable at all?”
 
——
 
Olesm got a surprise when he entered his tent. He had his tent bodyguard ready…it had occurred to him this might be an ambush. But what he found instead of an attack was Captain Voita helping herself to the food he’d requested.
Oh, and she’d found a bottle that wasn’t meant for this moment and poured herself a cup.
“Yayde Re~. Lovely tent and army you have, Commander Olesm. And it’s an honor to meet you again. I didn’t want to spill over in front of my people, but I’d love one of those autographs I hear people talking about on the scrying orbs.”
“From me? Excuse me, Captain Voita…I’m glad you’ve settled in.”
She had pulled the chair out and loaded up a plate. The Drake looked at Olesm, then hesitated.
“Sorry, is this not good manners?”
Voita looked so worried that Olesm lied.
“…No, no. I meant that seriously.”
“Ah, good, good! I didn’t want to make a bad impression. They sent me because I volunteered—not that we have more than [Negotiators]! Plus, it was dangerous, even with our colors. The Heckies are jumpy as can be. You really rattled their heads.”
She seemed quite pleased by that. Olesm sat down.
“I think I need to start from the beginning. I confess—I don’t know much about Yolden, Captain Voita, so tell me if I make any mistakes. You came to meet me. You know me. An autograph? I don’t think I’ve done anything particularly noteworthy.”
She laughed, then looked at him incredulously.
“No? I saw you on the television—well, I also remember when everyone was talking about you. During the Goblin Lord’s advance, remember? Yolden was sending everyone to watch the Big Wall in case the Goblins came up in the mountains…and then we heard you shouted at Pallass! Pallass! ‘I outrank you!’ I loved it.”
Olesm turned scarlet as he realized she was referring to the very first time he’d been on the news outside of maybe chess. When he’d demanded aid from Pallass and other cities to hold Liscor’s walls.
“That was…a long time ago.”
“Only a year. Mind you, I never thought I’d meet you, what with Liscor being past the Bloodfields. Then we heard Liscor’d opened a road, and the towns debated sending someone—but Hectval got there first. Next we heard, you were cracking the Drisshia-Luldem-Hectval Alliance up. One versus three! We had to send someone, but the towns argued so much it took this long for them to send me. We’re here to talk about an alliance. I should’ve led with that.”
Olesm’s mind spun.
“You’re opposed to the Hectval—the Alliance as well?”
Voita gave Olesm a look over her food, which she was inspecting as if it were new and foreign to her, especially the squash.
“We hate ‘em. Hectval-Luldem-Drisshia? The Alliance members are the three biggest bullies around. ‘Course we came to you if it looked like we could team up and get even. You think you’re the only ones who hate them? We’ve hated them for years.”
Voita had reminded Olesm a lot of Drassi, an odd Drassi, but now the first bit of real Drake entered her tone as her tail curled up and she glared. Olesm sat back as his heart began to beat.
He hadn’t considered it, but the first officer, Voita, made him realize how blind he’d been. On a larger strategic scale than combat. Other Drake cities had obviously heard about Hectval’s war with Liscor. It just hadn’t occurred to Olesm to look for allies.
Liscor was so uniquely cut off that allies or enemies were a foreign concept to them. Now, Olesm’s world opened. Voita was only too happy to explain where she was from.
“You can’t see us from here, but we’re higher than Hectval. Truthfully, we’re closest to Drisshia, and they’re the city we feud with. All the time. They own the iron mines. You saw their heavies? Steel. It makes fighting them really hard. Not that Liscor’s behind! I saw your [Soldiers]. All of ‘em have steel?”
She gave Olesm an impressed look. He shook his head.
“That’s…standard gear for Liscor’s Watch. Leather too, but we bought up all our equipment, and the Antinium provided their own.”
“Huh. Where from?”
He was stumped.
“Celum, Liscor, Esthelm—Esthelm is a mining city. Invrisil, Pallass…”
She appeared frankly envious.
“We have to buy from Drisshia. Or hope a [Merchant] decides ours is a good trade route or sends a caravan out. They’ve got the monopoly. Hectval’s got their bows, Luldem has their magic…Yolden’s not the biggest tail around. I don’t know if you noticed.”
Olesm very carefully kept his face straight.
“Your [Soldiers] looked quite professional.”
Voita gave Olesm a toothy smile that told him she knew he was being nice.
“Doine, Commander Olesm, no need to be polite. We’ve lost enough battles with the Alliance to know we’re behind. Not that they get over the Big Wall.”
“Tell me about that. Big Wall? Is Yolden a…town?”
She shook her head.
“No, it’s a city—sort of. Big Wall’s the curtain wall around our towns. See? One big wall—we hold off foes there. And Yolden’s around Yodemite. That’s the name of the enchanted mountain. Throws off some magical stones…nothing like Salazsar. Ever heard of pumice?”
