Jordes nodded as they all ate in an Antinium-friendly restaurant. All of Squad 5 were savoring their bowls of experimental beef udon. It wasn’t ‘right’, but Imani was doing her best.
The Drunken Gnoll. They were at the Drunken Gnoll. She had also stayed away from wheat for their udon.
Relc had barely touched his bowl. He felt sick. Manus’ elites led by…
“A [Spearmaster]? Are you sure? Is Embria alright?”
Jordes was speaking to Relc in confidence. The [Sergeant] shuddered.
“Know a ‘Lulv’?”
“…Fuck. What about Embria?”
“She hasn’t clashed with him—much. They stay away from each other, but she got chewed up in the first few engagements. Actually…it’s almost always the Antinium that get it. Poor guys. Squad 5 had this Soldier who…well, let’s start from the beginning.”
Relc listened to a familiar tale—only everything was different. But the bones were every war he’d ever known. Jordes kept eying him, and a Human who was flirting with the Gnoll [Servers] and striking out, Satel, looked at him.
“Are you going to enlist, Senior Guardsman? We could use a [Spearmaster]. Right guys—”
Utel kicked him under the table, and Relc stopped with a fork full of noodles.
“…No. I’m done with war. Sorry, guys.”
He waited for…condemnation? Insults? Joking, pressing that would turn ugly? Relc saw Significant Beavers glance at each other, and Satel shrugged.
“Damn. That’s fair.”
They weren’t Liscor’s army. Relc exhaled and looked at the Antinium, Gnolls, Drakes, Humans…and saw Liscor’s army. Their real army. The Drake smiled, felt at his belt pouch, and looked about.
He would not go there. Not where nightmares and death waited for him. Some part of him was always there, with 4th Company. With the men and women he had fought beside.
Yet he had left. They’d have to figure that one out too, some day. But that was an older [Soldier]’s war. Right now?
“Listen, you lucky bastards. My buddy Klbkch is coming, and when he does, you’d better pat yourselves on the asses because drinks and food are on me!”
They cheered. That was the greatest and most glorious gift any [Soldier] could get. Senior Guardsman Relc turned to Jordes.
“And in return, you can take a letter and see Embria gets it, right?”
“Yes, sir!”
The [Trusted Sergeant of the Watch] smiled. Huh. That weird chess-guy Olesm had turned out a pretty good army. In fact, he’d heard of a Crusader 51 on people’s lips.
Heroes.
It had been a long time since Liscor’s people had known the names of the [Soldiers] who fought and died for them. When had been the last time?
“Sserys, maybe. Or Zel.”
Relc rested his chin in his claws. Jordes glanced at him sidelong.
“I forgot you knew them, sir.”
“Senior Guardsman or Relc the Awesome, Jordes. I’m out of the army.”
“Right…well, I’m not calling you that. But if you had any tips—4th Company remembers that time, but an expert from the old days—any tricks to tell?”
Relc thought about it as Klbkch entered the inn, spotted Crusader 57, and the two began Medusa-ing each other across the room. Tricks like how to keep your socks clean? Or formations? He realized there was one thing that he could teach the army. Relc looked around.
“Relc? Is that Relc? I saw you coming in, but all the Gnolls were here and—”
Selys burst into the inn. Relc grinned. Jordes raised his brows.
“Gnolls?”
He didn’t know about Cellidel. Which reminded Relc.
“Actually, you’re in luck, Jordes. You can bring more than just a letter back to Embria. We had an escort on the way to Liscor. Which means the other two might be reaching your lines about now.”
The Drakes’ eyes went round, and a cheer rose from Jordes as the [Soldiers] looked at him. But Relc was waving Selys over.
“Hey, Selys. [Trusted Sergeant of the Watch] Relc here. Klb’s back and there are off-duty [Soldiers] here. Want to pay for our dinners? I could—but you’re still rich, right? And one more thing. I just realized there’s something we can do. We could organize it.”
Selys put her claws on her hips, gazing exasperatedly and fondly at Relc. Then she blinked.
“Relc. You have an idea? Organize? What happened to you?”
The Senior Guardsman just laughed as Klbkch turned and poked an invisible Centaur trying to listen into everything. Eavesdropping was a crime.
“To me? I have no idea!”
 
 
 
 
Embria, [Wing Commander]
 
She learned her father was back when she got his letter and a gift from him.
“For me?”
Wing Commander Embria got the package from a very disheveled Drake Sergeant who had run it through the door personally. She unwrapped it to find a long letter from Relc…on top of an entire basket of odd-smelling fruits.
“What are these?”
“Prelons. I don’t know what they are. Er, I’m headed back to the city if that’s alright, Wing Commander. Everything alright here?”
Embria looked up, distracted, wanting to tear open the letter, and made a face.
“More or less. Have you heard? We have reinforcements. From the—from our army down south.”
Jordes looked around and heard the commotion.
“Fancy that! That’s a relief, eh?”
Embria didn’t immediately nod.
6th and 9th Companies of Liscor’s army had ridden in last night. Apparently another company had escorted Relc’s citizens home, and would have to do some riding to get up through the hills to this part.
Embria should have been celebrating with all of 4th, but it was strangely…subdued. More [Soldiers] meant this would feel like home, right?
So why…?
 
——
 
6th Company were an all-mounted unit. The Bull Bastards. 9th Company, and the wayward 11th who’d escorted Relc, were like 4th Company, infantry-based.
9th was just called ‘Arrowstorm’—a group specializing in long-ranged archery. Ironically, 6th Company’s leader was female, Wing Commander Narkr. Wing Commander Xith of 9th was older than both Embria and Narkr by far.
The instant they saw Embria, their eyes lit up.
“So there’s the idiot who couldn’t handle one dungeon and needed to call in for backup! How dare you not defeat Tyrion Veltras and all the Humans yourself?”
Narkr, a Gnoll with two scars on her cheeks, loved to say things deadpan. Rumor was she’d taken the scar on one cheek and inflicted the other herself. Embria was fairly sure that was just a rumor, though.
“Wing Commander, what Narkr means is that we’re here to back you up. Sorry it took so long. None of us have long-distance mobility Skills, and Pallass wouldn’t let us skip four hundred miles.”
“Mana concerns or something.”
Xith and Narkr shook Embria’s claw as she smiled at them.
“I know Narkr was to blame. She probably kept you all waiting on her. 6th? Did they have to send me the slowest cavalry unit? 9th and 11th will move faster than them!”
It was true 6th was one of the slower groups, specializing in heavy charges, so Narkr threw a punch, and Embria deflected it.
“Still not a [Spearmaster]?”
“Still unmarried?”
“Alright, alright. I’m glad I don’t have to lead you two and you can hold your tails.”
Xith interrupted. The Drake looked at the other two Wing Commanders. As they were all of a rank, Xith would have priority command despite 4th being lower in number. Seniority. However, in practice, Wing Commanders were supposed to be able to work together.
“They didn’t send anyone higher? No [Majors]? I didn’t expect our [Strategists]…none of our field [Tacticians]?”
They were eating in Embria’s tent as Xith replied.
“Seeing as how this force is being led by a [Strategist], the brass decided to send proper leadership. When they heard he sensibly expanded 4th, they told us to just take over a wing. Not sure if we’re ruffling any scales, but you can tell us how green this lot is.”
“11th makes four companies. Enough to send Hectval packing. If Manus is in it—well, that’s ugly. But once we wrap this up, we’ll help you patrol, maybe even get another fighting force into line. Take the pressure off the Council so they stop enlisting bugs as [Soldiers]. I saw them coming in. Don’t know how you did it alone, Embria, but we’ve got your tail.”
And there it was. Embria realized why she felt vaguely uneasy. Xith almost went to spit before he checked the floor.
“Ants. Are they getting munched up by Manus? I hope so—how’s this ‘Commander’ Olesm? And how badly are the civvies getting destroyed?”
Embria looked at them. She saw two familiar friends from the army. Narkr and Xith weren’t the closest, but Embria appreciated Narkr’s dry humor, and Xith always spoke highly of Relc in private.
And…they were partly strangers. As both companies had ridden in, they’d glared daggers at the Antinium and come in like 4th Company had when they first arrived at Liscor.
Like they expected to take charge and set all things right. Embria recalled the numerous rude awakenings Zevara had given her.
What happened next? Well, Embria had a vision of her saying something—and remembered Maksie standing to attention as Olesm removed her from command.
She thought of her father, who 4th Company still didn’t speak to. She didn’t want that. Instead…Embria poured a full mug for each and pushed it over.
“Ah, well. It’s actually [Commander] Olesm. He got the class. Maksie’s actually a [Scouting Lieutenant].”
“What? That lucky…that’ll rattle up command. So he’s not all hot air?”
“Nope. [Instantaneous Barrage] is his best Skill. Nasty. Oh, and you’ll meet Bepol and Ramia, [Division Leaders]. Pretty sharp given it’s civilian-based classing. I bet you we’ll all be roving, though you’ll definitely take more [Soldiers] under command. Oh—and on the right, there’s [Combined Arms Strategist] Belgrade.”
Narkr choked on her drink of a flat Liscorian ale.
“They put a fucking Ant in charge of our right wing? How has no one mutinied? Or are they running off each day?”
Embria offered Xith a mug, smiled, and looked at them. Here it came.
“You’d have to ask them. But I’d watch yourselves. They call themselves Belgrade’s Ants, all of his command. And Narkr, Xith—tell 6th and 9th to watch their tongues. Because if there’s a brawl, Commander Olesm’ll send your forces back or discharge them from the ranks.”
Both Drake and Gnoll stopped drinking.
“You can’t be serious. Is that what you have to deal with, Embria? We can make a stand—”
The Wing Commander took a breath and looked as seriously as possible at them. If it were her, talking to her—how could she convince them?
Rattle them. Say it as if they were on the same side and she was reluctantly…
“I hate to say it, but he could discharge all three of our companies and 11th and still win the war. The army’s stacking up. They’re real [Soldiers], you two, and you should be careful.”
Xith and Narkr looked at her like she was insane. But Embria kept talking. She had to show them. The easiest thing to do was let them see the first battles with Olesm and compare that to the army. Even if they said—probably still accurately—that Olesm wasn’t as good as their [Strategists], a [Soldier] had to face facts. And Embria poured them a drink and told them…what they needed to hear before they could realize the truth.
 
[Wing Commander Level 29!]
 
Embria shot up in her bed, sweating and gasping. More terrified of that one level up than anything else. She waited for a Skill or—
[Combined Arms Wing Commander]. Or [Buggy Wing Commander].
It didn’t come. But would it? She lay in her bed. She thought…
Then came Relc Grasstongue’s little bit of brilliance, and she was proud of her father. After three days, Squad 5, Significant Beavers, and the other squads on break returned to the army.
They brought gifts.
 
 
 
 
Ishkr, [Head Waiter]
 
“Gifts? Of course. It’s so intelligent. Relc thought of it, yes? Relc?”
The Gnoll heard the idea from Drassi. The inn was so quiet and seldom-visited that he was one of the last to know.
It was a simple idea, and people laughed—as much at the idea as goofy old Relc had thought of it as…well. Embarrassment.
It was such a good idea, and so simple. Relc hadn’t thought it up from nothing. He had just pulled it from the past. Tradition and perhaps…Ishkr looked around the inn.
From here.
“It has to be small. You can’t address it to one group; you can send something to a relative, but otherwise just something small for the door.”
“What would be appropriate?”
The Gnoll saw Drassi pause, fiddling with a neck-spine ring—she was about to go on her television shift, but she’d come up to let him know when and where it would be expected.
“Relc said something edible usually works. You can send potions, books, anything else—but food is always welcome. I’m sending a song crystal. He says something like that would really lift spirits.”
“Hrr. I could send acid flies.”
“What, as weapons? Oh. Do you have any?”
Ishkr shuddered.
“I maintained Erin’s traps. The Antinium come to collect them, sometimes.”
Drassi hesitated. She’d just had breakfast, but the [Gossip] had to know.
“…How many?”
“I have begun filling barrels with them when they pile up. Sometimes a few survive.”
The Drake went pale.
“Ishkr, you are a credit to your class. I don’t know how you…”
She trailed off, looking around the inn. Ishkr looked at Drassi and spoke.
“She’ll be back.”
The Drake turned to him. She met Ishkr’s gaze and smiled, relieved.
“Of course.”
The Gnoll said nothing more. Drassi had to run, and he had to think of a gift. Besides, those words could mean anything.
It was just…a feeling. Perhaps it was only his imagination.
Or, perhaps, it had something to do with a little Goblin appearing in his inn. A Cave Goblin, who handed him a little note.
Soon.
He didn’t voice any suspicions to even Drassi. Ishkr just waited, wishing Silveran were here to do floorboard crack cleaning. He thought of a gift to send to the army. He thought of the Antinium, who had come to this inn to pledge to go to war.
“Oh.”
The [Head Waiter] hesitated. He walked past the cupboards of preserved food, and he did roll out a barrel of acid flies. Anything to get rid of them. Apparently some acid flies survived the explosion of acid, and he had the horrible suspicion it rustled sometimes.
Then he went to fetch something else. Ishkr vanished for a little bit and came back with a very strange gift. One that Commander Olesm himself came to receive.
The Drake gave Ishkr an odd look, like someone who noticed Erin’s silent help for the first time. He realized that no one Erin employed could ever be normal.
Drassi was just louder.
“Do you think it will help?”
“I…think it’s a [Strategist]-level move, Ishkr.”
“Hrr. Too bad I don’t have the class.”
