Selys, [Heiress]
 
Two and a quarter months since the army marched upon Hectval, the city felt different. A month was a long time. A year was a long time.
To Selys, it felt like it had flashed by in some senses. Dragged on after Erin’s death. But the war…
Liscor was changing. Not a day went by when she didn’t hear of some new enterprise like Liscor Hunted, or receive news from her friends across the world. The Meeting of Tribes, the King of Destruction not dying, Wistram, Ailendamus versus the Dawn Concordat…those were worldwide events. Everyone watched the news and learned, well, to stop worrying.
It had seemed, when the television news stories first came out, that when a war happened or a battle was broadcast, it was going on right next to you. Then you realized—it was Chandrar or Terandria. You’d never go there, most likely, and the repercussions were abstract.
At the same time, you got invested. In a very real sense, as Drassi put it—the audience of television learned how to be an audience.
Compared to that, some things were close to home. And that was Liscor’s war with Hectval. Not the army. The army had left their home. Compared to that, Hectval was a real threat. One that Liscorians felt more than a vague animosity towards.
However, time changed how people felt. The first shock of casualties coming in, hearing rumors of the carnage on the front…Selys had heard howling every time someone brought the casualty lists. She had seen people gathered around the [Criers], and later seen the lists appended to boards in the plaza because no [City Crier] wanted to deliver the news themselves.
She still saw it two months in, but the war had taken a different kind of space in people’s heads. These days she heard people arguing about it.
“Enlist? Are you mad? Do you want to end up with one less leg? Mom’ll hit you if you even say it.”
A pair of brother and sister Drakes were arguing fiercely. Selys turned her head as Drassi slurped Imani’s next incarnation of boba tea. The two friends listened in. The younger brother, perhaps eighteen, looked adamant.
“There’s a signing bonus. I’m not Antinium. I’ll survive and level up and then become a Bronze-rank.”
“A Bronze-rank? I’m telling Mother. You’re cracked in the head. You want to go into the dungeon? That’s suicide unless you’re Silver—no, Gold-rank. You’d be safer in the army!”
“Aha! So you admit signing up as a [Soldier] is safer.”
The younger brother looked victorious, as if he’d scored a profound victory in their debate. His older sister stepped on his tail. Unlike Humans and Gnolls, who learned how to pinch ears, the yelping Drake’s weak spot was his tail.
“You’re not doing it. If you really want levels, go sign up as an adventurer or [Guard]! Even Celum would be safer. I’m not waiting around one of the announcement boards to see your name on a list. Those poor Ants—what happens when they stop fighting?”
Those poor Ants. Selys watched the younger brother keep arguing as he backed away from the stompy boots threatening his tail. You’d have never, never heard that a year ago. Maybe ‘poor Senior Guardsman Klbkch’ in context with ‘did you hear what that idiot Relc just did?’, but never that.
Drassi commented out of the corner of her mouth as the two siblings left.
“I hear it’s going better. I think. Hectval is moving back.”
“Hm? When did you hear that?”
Selys looked up and saw her childhood friend, Drassi, finally stop sucking fruit-boba up a straw. Instantly, Drassi began talking, and the absence of sound had been an irregularity in Drassi-world.
Drassi Tewing talked like Selys breathed. It wasn’t even just that she wanted to, sometimes it seemed like she had to. Yet the Drake was as bubbly as her light yellow scales most of the time. Friendly—and cuttingly honest, which people were surprised by.
Drassi didn’t lie. However, the former [Barmaid] turned [Bartender] who’d also been a [Secretary]—and failed out of a lot of her jobs until meeting Erin—had a more professional look nowadays.
In fact, she even had an Amulet of Disguise on her that made her less noticeable. Drassi was the [Honest Reporter] of Wistram News Network; she often wore less of a dress than something like the business casual being pioneered by Lady Magnolia Reinhart and a few [Ladies], who’d begun vying with the other [Seamstresses] to occupy the market.
You could buy fashion from Invrisil that had that particular Earth-style vibe to the clothing, although only Selys knew it as coming from there. Something with less frills and adornments—the ‘modern’ style of Earth that went for that kind of simplistic design with few main colors.
Selys preferred more variety, but it was popular enough to have tags, like a ‘Sitil’-tag—after Lady Wuvren Sitil.
Funnily, there was also a new line of sports-wear that apparently came from House Ulta. Selys had looked into clothing herself, but she didn’t have an ‘in’ with anyone she wanted to work with. She’d been trying to get Bezale, the Minotauress, to give her a contact.
All of that was Liscor, but the war was the kind of thing people talked about. Selys and Drassi, in their bi-weekly meetups at the Drunken Gnoll, often exchanged news. Olesm sometimes sent news back to the Council, and Selys heard drips and drabs from Elirr and Tekshia, which she relayed to Drassi.
However, the irony was that Drassi didn’t cover Liscor’s war with the Hectval Alliance. Selys looked at her friend.
“How d’you know about the state of Hectval? Is Wistram News Network going to report it after all?”
The [Reporter] shook her head, stretching out her claws.
“Nope. I just talk with some of the wounded. I saw a group of [Soldiers] on leave—they told me.”
“They’re on leave? They can come back through the door?”
Drassi nodded, chomping on a spring-roll, baked until it was just crunchy but not hard, filled with a more meat-based filling for Drakes and Gnolls.
“Two lucky squads per week. Olesm must have talked the Council into allowing it. It’s a fair mana drain, but it seems like he thinks it’s good for morale, and the [Soldiers] loved it. Lottery. And no, Wistram refuses to let me cover it.”
Selys frowned.
“Still? Even with Manus…?”
Drassi looked around sourly and lowered her voice. She tapped a ring on her finger, and Selys blinked as Drassi activated a silence spell. Palt, trotting by, gave them a wounded glance…which was probably because he wanted to listen in. Selys massaged one earhole; it felt like it was filled with cotton.
“Sorry, Selys. Work. Anyways. I talked with Grand Magus Eldavin. He told me there’s no shot. It’s…Antinium. And when he says that it’s worth my job—it’s not like Relz or Noass. Speaking of which, something big is going down in Wistram soon. Eldavin has a big announcement in our television segment next week. No one knows what it’s about, and Noass and Relz are kicking a fuss up.”
She sighed.
“I hate them.”
Selys made a face. She didn’t care for either Drake herself.
“If they’re so bad…”
Drassi waved a claw, trying to swallow another spring roll in a single bite.
“I don’t hate hate them, but they’re just so snooty sometimes. Noass is actually a bit worse than Relz, but neither one’s evil. They just say the same thing Wistram does, though. Antinium bad. I wish I could introduce them to Garry or Pawn, but they won’t go to Liscor after the Rock Crabs incident.”
The famous one where both nearly got eaten by a Rock Crab on Liscor Hunted’s inauguration? Selys smirked. Then she stirred her cup of tea. Palt trotted past them, looking worried. Drassi lowered the [Silence] spell, and both heard Imani kicking up a fuss.
“What? What? Palt, get in here! Palt—”
“Yes, my unshod darling?”
The two Drakes waited as Palt vanished inside the inn. Drassi nodded after a while, apropos of nothing.
“Yeah. Poor Antinium.”
Olesm had decided to tell Liscorians how many Antinium died in battle. The numbers…well. A few years ago, maybe Liscorians would have felt vaguely shocked or bad, but now that Antinium had names, colors…if you dwelled on it, it made you ask some hard questions.
Some people wouldn’t dwell on it. Some did. Selys worried about Olesm and felt vaguely sick about the Antinium—when she focused on them. What would Erin have done? At the same time—she hoped Olesm got to one of those cities and knocked in a wall or two. They were the reason her first real Human friend was dead.
She turned her head as Imani burst out of her kitchen, and Palt caught her in a clatter of hooves. She was waving something that had just arrived via City Runner bulk delivery by way of Pallass, addressed to her. She shouted one word, and Selys’ instincts told her it mattered.
“Coffee! Coffee!”
Drassi and Selys turned, and Selys began looking for another investment opportunity. That was all they said about the war as Drassi walked headfirst into an addictive drug perfectly suited for her personality. Neither one thought of Hectval’s war until the commendation began to be posted in the plazas, and the Council appended their own statement to Commander Olesm’s address. When Selys did read it, later, it was simple, and made her think of them again.
 
 
 
 
Olesm, [Commander]
 
The war continued. The day after he saw a single Antinium holding off Manus’ finest, [Commander] Olesm Swifttail of Liscor debriefed Dekass, Zimrah, and every other officer who had witnessed Crusader 51’s last stand.
The Prognugator could not explain how a single Soldier—the Antinium’s one deserter—had come back and saved the Antinium. The Painted Antinium, who Manus had gone as far as to attack in camp, and even smash the mana stone to the portal door to stop from retreating, lived, thanks to him.
Olesm did not know Crusader 51’s story. He had never met or talked to that particular Soldier. However, he could not shake the image of the Soldier raising a sword made of light high overhead, standing against Lulv.
No Antinium could, he was sure. That morning, Olesm watched as Zimrah began the sermons that had ended with Theophilus.
Other people were listening in. Scout Leader Maksie, Dekass, even non-antinium [Soldiers] who’d been at the battle.
Ah, oops. One correction there—it wasn’t Scout Leader Maksie, but [Scouting Lieutenant] Maksie. Everyone called her by her generic title, but Olesm tried to use her class now and then. It was a source of pride for her. Olesm had personally granted Maksie the class.
One class. One officer class, unlike [Squad Leader], which was technically a civilian class. Maksie didn’t get it because she was 4th Company. She had made a fairly public break from her command.
She had gotten it from Olesm. The [Commander] had a new Skill.
[Officer Under Arms]. He had chosen Maksie for the honor after debating the others. Frankly, Olesm thought it eased her public rift with her 4th Company friends, especially because they were her family. In return, it brought her closer to the civilian-army. And the Antinium.
Right now, Olesm knew the Painted Antinium would be returning to the Free Hive with a letter from Dekass to the Free Queen, detailing the extraordinary…tragic…events of yesterday.
The problem with Olesm was that he was changing. Instead of feeling just sorrow and grief, he almost felt relief. Hope.
Instead of hundreds, a single Soldier had died. Olesm mourned Crusader 51, but he felt inspired as well. And that made him a monster, he knew. But that brave Soldier had saved his comrades from a massacre.
A single Soldier had died. So Olesm sent something of his own back with Dekass’ letter and the Painted Antinium. He had proposed it to Dekass, and so the Prognugator had written a short…commendation.
A public commendation from the commanding officer of the Antinium, Dekass of the Armored Hive, for the Antinium known as Crusader 51, Squad 5, Battalion 1. Olesm asked Lism to post it along with the casualty reports.
Dekass of the Armored Antinium wrote a posthumous commendation of Crusader 51 for valor in the face of overwhelming odds, engaging an enemy [Spearmaster] in a single duel, single-handedly saving hundreds of lives, if not thousands, slaying at least thirty of the enemy, and noted his dereliction of duty in flat terms. So flat that it was more effective than any flowery statements.
To Dekass’ own report, Olesm attached a simple missive to Liscor’s Council, the army, and the citizens of Liscor citing Crusader 51 as one of the most valorous soldiers under his command.
Such an impersonal, inadequate response for someone who had done so much. And the war continued.
Olesm drank his hot tea as he watched Zimrah preaching, repeating Crusader 51’s name. He was tired, but waiting for the Council’s response to one of his requests. It was another thing Olesm had thought of. Oh—it wasn’t a big secret. He had attached a note to Lism and the Council after his commendation and the rest of his report:
 
Councilmembers, in light of Crusader 51’s heroism, I would like to request the Council allot a budget to increase the squads on weekly break rotation to 3, instead of 2. I understand this means sixty [Soldiers] will be using the door’s mana, but given the circumstances, I would like to mandate one Antinium squad be given a break in the city with the other two non-Antinium squads.
Anticipating problems, I would welcome the Free Antinium’s willingness to coordinate any squad on break. However, I believe the other two squads on break may volunteer to lead around the Antinium [Soldiers]. I hope I can count on your support for this initiative.
 
He believed they’d okay it by nightfall. Another piece of tinder for the fire in the Antinium’s hearts. It wasn’t Erin’s kindness that made Olesm do it. It was good for them. It was kind. But that wasn’t why he did it.
The Drake was so caught up in listening to Zimrah and thinking of when to announce the lottery for vacation that he didn’t hear the [Soldier] at first.
“Commander Olesm, sir. Visitor for you.”
Olesm’s mood of awed contemplation turned into sourness instantly. His claw tightened on his cup of tea, and he didn’t look back to his tent.
“I will kill that [Slaver] if I see him. Not right now, Artur.”
The [Banner Leader], the nosiest Antinium who listened into all conversations, had become the camp’s unofficial [Messenger].
The Antinium holding his flag clicked his mandibles together in confusion, but he didn’t immediately leave.
“That is not who…”
A voice split the air, bright and cheery and completely foreign to Olesm.
“Yayde Re~! Is that Olesm of Liscor I see? Ah, greetings! Could we exchange words?”
