"You know, like trinkets and lockets and safes and pictures from dead people’s boxes beneath those nice buildings. Then we dropped them in other dead boxes. And people got really mad trying to get them back. They got into lots of fights with each other. They tried breaking into each other's houses, and they were very mean."

"Very mean?" Adam was still confused, and Shiv wasn't sure what the hydra was talking about either.

This was when one of the orcs broke; Tequila doubled over, slapping his left knee as he began to wheeze with laughter. "It's incredible. You'll love this, Insul. Just wait—just wait for him to explain! Tell him, Solzimort. Tell him what we told you.”

Solzimort nodded passionately. "So, you know how humans like to be put into holes with things they owned when they stop living?"

"Uh-huh," Shiv said slowly, unsure if he was going to actually like where this was going.

"So, we reached into their holes, and we took some of their armor, paintings, a bunch of stuff that I just told you about, and we moved them to other holes in other houses. And then the people there got super angry at each other! They said the things belonged to their houses. And then they started accusing each other of, uh, grave robbing? And then they started killing each other." Solzimort let out a slight whine. "It was very distressing. We got away after that. We don't understand why it's really that funny, though. Maybe we are simply not smart like the orcs."

Shiv was speechless for a few moments. "They had you steal a bunch of heirlooms from the private mausoleums of nobles and switch them between specific noble houses to start blood feuds and house wars?"

Adam was gagging. The orcs were nearly on their knees from laughter.

"The amount of death in the past few days, it was incredible, Insul. I can't believe you didn't notice at all." Tequila was wheezing with laughter so hard he began tearing up. Huge tears rolled down his ugly orc face, and even Whisper was having a hard time staying upright, clutching his stomach as if he had sustained a severe wound.

"Anyway," Solzimort said, bumping Shiv and Adam even tighter together. "What were we talking about?"

"We were talking about if anyone wanted to leave before the actual struggle started," Adam managed. He was on the verge of choking, his face was red, and Shiv pushed back against Solzimort to give his friend some room.

"Leave? Why would we?" Solzimort let out an even louder whimper. "Have we been bad?"

"No," Shiv said. "No, you haven't. Frankly, Solzimort, I think you should stick closer to me and Adam now, you know, just to make sure you can have more good influence."

“And that’s you?” Mortar asked. “Insul. Maybe you can say that about your little hawk, but you are no angel either.”

“But I’m not an orc,” Shiv said, baring his teeth at the heavyset brute. “I choose my cruelty. Can you ever say the same thing? Can you ever dominate your own nature?”

And suddenly, the orcs’ collective amusement lost some momentum as they all shared a contemplative look.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 115 > 117

Once more, he wasn't sure why a Legendary-Tier Hydra had the naivety and the intelligence of a particularly small child. Shiv was quickly moving towards the 'because the Ascendants experimented on Solzimort in a fucked-up way' explanation more and more.

“Alright, now that we're clear on who's going and who's staying, then I’m going to ask you all to get ready for a few things. Some of you might be asked to enter a Temporal Gate. It’s not a trap—though we’re going to have to risk trusting the Giantsbane. We’re currently doing a deal with her. Can’t say there aren’t any risks, but I don’t think we’re getting out of the capital quarantine without her. As for the rest of you, get ready for a fight. We’ll probably be heading into the Tutorial soon. I’m going to have to deal with the Culturist first—and before you ask, no, I got no clue how that’s going to go.”

“Aw, Insul, stop pretending to be coy in front of the soft meats.” Mortar guffawed. “Of course you know what’s coming. Of course you do. The Culturist will be interested in trying you out. And there’s always gonna be blood when you try out. But we’re sure you’ll find a way to amuse the old Extro. We got faith in you.”

“You guys are going through the gateway first when we head to the Tutorial.” Shiv scoffed. “And Candles will be right behind you in case anything funny happens too quickly.”

Candles began seizing from sheer ecstasy. “Uhhghghh, ohahhha, burning orcs. Love the scent. Loovvvvee…”

“System and all the pieces of the Broken Moon,” Adam breathed. “Why does it sound like the idea is getting him—”

“Don’t felling ask questions we don’t wanna know the answer to, Adam,” Shiv muttered. “Right. We’ll get ourselves across to Gate Piety first. Then, we’re getting the orcs together so we can hit our next stop—the Outside.”

“The Outside,” Kura gawked in horror. “Our destinations are one nightmarish hell and then another. Can we not visit a supple world of gentle fields, pleasant waters, and easy victims?”

“Well, we’re going to be chucking a talking chunk of bread back into the Summer Court eventually, so you can look forward to a trip over to the Fairwoods.”

If there was an expression for someone having second thoughts, Kura's face was exactly that.

"Hey, Deathless and dipshits," Jessica called out. “You too, Lesser Roland.”

“Don’t call me that,” Adam hissed.

Jessica ignored him. "You guys done? Finished with your pep rally out here? If you are, come back in. We're gonna need a Chronomancer, just in case. Maybe one of those two." Jessica waved her sword at Kura and Gone. "Doesn't matter, one of them anyway, just so that we can stabilize the gate’s internal temporal mana. Once we decide on that and the Enchanter gets himself a new pair of pants, we’ll be able to get this time gate thing going.

***

"Alright, so, this is how things are going to go,” Jessica announced. “I don't need to cut things out, I'll just make Rusty big enough to swallow the entire room. Everything will fold into the gate, and that's where they'll stay until things are done or someone wants to come out."

"And you said there is an Avatar of Maiden inside there?" Five asked, sounding dubious about the whole plan. "Are we certain that she remains inactive?"

"Nope," Jessica said immediately. "My guess is that she’s probably not active, since Maiden hasn’t contacted me, and she usually does that when her Avatar with me wakes up. But who knows with her? And that's why I think one of you Legends should go in—one of the Chronomancers, anyway. You'll be able to disable and break the Avatar before it actually becomes a problem. Maiden’s a lot of things, but a warrior she is absolutely not."

"This plan tastes more sour than poisoned blood by the moment," Kura muttered, grimacing.

Shiv regarded the elf and took on an inquisitive expression. "Actually, Kura, I think you should go in."

"What? Are you planning to remove me? To trap or slay me? Is that it?" Kura sneered at the Deathless, but he could see the naked fear spilling out from behind her eyes. Her paranoia was brutal, and it made her Chronomancy erratic. Golden aura flickered around her as the beginnings of a chrono-clone began to form, hinting at her readiness to escape if necessary.

"No," Shiv said. "I just think you have the best odds against Maiden in a fight. You can tear her apart with an army of clones. Also, the gate apparently doesn't stop mana from passing in and out, so you might be able to send clones out across the gate while staying inside. That lets you break contact with whatever the hells we might encounter in the Tutorial or the Outside, and lets you stay useful as well. It’s not great, but frankly, it might be the safest place we got if things really get bad."

The ritually scarred elf still seemed dubious, and her body vibrated with the essence of doubt. Shiv decided to counter that with raw honesty.

"Kura, if I was going to kill you, I'd tell you straight, and I'd try to end you directly. We've already gotten bloody before. I don’t need to use a scheme to finish this. If we’re going to get violent, I’ll do it properly. And you’ll see me coming.”

All at once, her vibrating doubt ceased, and her jaw hardened. She remembered how she'd tried to take his life, how he'd spared her. And she gave him a resolute nod. "So you say. Fine. I will heed this suggestion of yours, Deathless. But if anything should happen—”

“You can take it up with me. Directly."

There was no fear in Shiv, and the elf stood defiant as well. He had nearly taken her life once, and another confrontation would likely be in his favor once more, but she could have learned from their battle. She could have a new strategy. She was far more flexible than he was in terms of what her skill could do, but she lacked offensive capability. If she couldn’t breach his Pillar of Orichalcum and Shapeless Tides, she had no hope of victory.

Magic was not an easy solution against Shiv anymore.

"Gonna be her then," Jessica said, casually waving her blade at Kura. The elf ducked out of the way and cursed something Shiv couldn't parse at the other legend. The Giantsbane didn't even seem to care. "Unless she has second thoughts later. I'm not their owner. It’s up to them."

“Uh,” a meek voice squeaked from behind Jessica. Shiv saw Merrielmel slowly approaching them, taking shuffling footsteps to drag out his approach. The bald elf was sweating so much that his tassel-like robes were slick with dripping liquid. A few of his drones hovered around his body, blowing air onto his face, offering an extended straw while holding a cold beverage, trying to keep him calm and sedated.

"We have also come to a decision." Merrielmel fidgeted with his hands and tried to find a comfortable stance. He failed. He grimaced, swallowed, and then swallowed again before swallowing a third time and coughing weakly.

"Holy shit, you are one anxious guy, aren't you?" Jessica muttered. "Just get it out. I'm not going to kill you. Or I might, but you won't be able to stop me anyway."

Merrielmel began to shake again. His eyes were wide, and Shiv could practically taste the ironclad chain of fear snaking out from him, burrowing into Jessica.

"Hey, Giantsbane," Shiv said, slightly annoyed at Jessica's bullying. "He already wet one pair of pants. If he does another, you're giving him your pants.”

She leaned over backward to glare at him upside down. "Really? Are you going to make me?"

"No, you're going to do it willingly because you're not a piece of shit. Stop treating people like garbage. You're a Legend. That should mean something. The hells is wrong with you, treating him like he’s some kind of bug?"

"He's with the Neath," Jessica said, scoffing. "Why do you care about what happens to him?"

"Because he's not with the Neath. The Neath is using him, just like the Neath is using me, just like the Neath is using all of us. It's not up to him. He's trying to find his brother. He's in a bad situation. Get off his back."

And suddenly Jessica's body rattled as well. A surge of doubt crawled through her, and she seemed to sober up. "Ah, shit." She shook her head. "Sorry about that. I guess I got carried away a little." She paused, looked down at the ground, seeming actually ashamed. "Hey kid" Jessica stared at him. "Thanks, that's… I probably needed that adjustment.”

"You're welcome," Shiv replied awkwardly. He didn't expect things to turn out that way. Jessica was taking his criticism with far more maturity than he expected. Usually, when he challenged another Legend, there was a lot more cock-waving. Maybe Maia’s presence was influencing her even more than he'd thought.

Gardener of Doubt: She's heartbroken, unbalanced. This is not how she usually acts. This is how she asserts control over a situation to give herself some comfort. She misunderstood who Merrielmel is as well, but she's coming to know who you are. And she might be coming to appreciate it.

She wasn't the only one. Adam clapped Shiv on the back and leaned up. "Good going," he said.
