“Come out, Valor. Come out and let me give you a death worth putting to song. This city is lost. There is only one end. Your cause is finished. Come out and face me so I can give you peace. Know that I fight the itch inside me in saying these words. Know that I resist my urge to torture to speak with you so plainly. I have left the alphite’s daughter and son untouched. I have endured and fasted from cruelty. For that is how highly I regard you, Legend Thann. My lust to hear you scream is outweighed by my admiration of your most valiant defense. Come out. Let me offer you the only gift I can, Legend to Legend.”

“Hm. I think not, Culturist. I need no gifts from your like. And Legend? It is wasted on a beast like you. A beast that will always be crippled and reduced. Held back from experiencing the full spectrum of emotional majesty. I would pity your kind, but one cannot pity a weapon. Instead, I will tell you to come forth. Unleash your forces. Show me your skills. You say this city is lost, and the Canis are doomed to be bloodied flesh upon your tongue for the butchery to come. I say not. I say there is blood indeed, but blood to be shared. You may breach these walls, but you will die here in the streets, your blood wetting the stones of this city. In the end, your deaths will baptize this place anew. I have given the dog men my oath of honor, and I will see your demise cement the weight of my promise.”

“Well spoken. And enough said. I sound the drums and play this song to the end. Show me, Legend Thann. Show me the Slayer of Cul’Ananther, the Goddess of the Unseen Blade. Show me the one that drove the Heliokites to Extinction, who severed the light and cast the Twelve Worlds of the Burning Chain into Darkness. Show me He Who Stills Eternity.”

“Come forth, and I shall. Bring your gray tide. Bring your finest monsters. Bring them, and learn that Legend is not an equal title; that we share a Tier, but only in the System's crude eye. Come, and learn that some Legends are still a league beyond.”

-The Culturist and Valor Thann

264 (I)

Beyond [I]

Something changed inside Jessica with the Educator's presence. Something opened inside of her. Before, she was shriveled, partially hidden from Shiv. But now, there was an active union, a willingness to engage. And engage she did; respond she did when she spoke to the Educator. Shiv had never seen her even half as animated, not even when they'd fought the Tarrasque.

It was strange how different people acted with each other.

For Shiv, the Educator was an impediment at best; a potential enemy he needed to deal with eventually. His history with her was one of mere subjugation and violence. But here, there seemed to be a matronly quality to Maia, and Jessica played along with her as if she were an old family friend—a familiar figure she wanted to trust but was slightly apprehensive about.

As the Educator and the Giantsbane went over what needed to be done to see the slipgate pushed to an early completion, Shiv and Adam gathered the rest of their motley crew. Before anything else, they needed to take in the morale of their group, and more importantly, make clear who was willing to accompany them on their trek across the Tutorial and the defense of Blackedge.

“Alright, I know I promised some of you that you're going to be free from the Ascendants," Shiv said, facing the other Legends more than he did his orcs. He knew the grayskins were game for any violence, but he also didn't exactly trust them right now, especially with the Culturist on the horizon. He suspected he was due to be tested severely, and soon. “We've only partly achieved our goal. We're still stuck in the capital. And before we can finally leave, we got something to ask."

Shiv looked towards Adam and let the Gate Lord take over.

"We are all bound by common circumstance," Adam said. "Bound by desperation. Perhaps not true allies. We are all driven by different things, and I will not lie and claim I trust you all completely. I think you would all say the same for me. However, right now, we have proven to be effective together. We've survived encounters that have slain other Legends. We have avoided the gaze of the Ascendants so far. But what lies ahead, before that final precipice of freedom, is no easy path to walk. For reaching my Gate Piety and fully escaping beyond the grasp of the Republic requires us to venture through the Tutorial."

Kura scowled at these words. "Wondrous. Not only do we have to deal with the gray creatures here, but we will also enter a place where they fester like fleas on a dog's back."

The Chronomancer regarded the others with a dark look. The orcs simply smiled at her.

"Worry not, uh, Chronomancer," Mortar said. He leaned in, trying to pat Kura on the back, but she vanished in an instant, leaving only a temporal afterimage in her wake.

With a flash of gold, she appeared on his other side, and she sneered at the orc. "Attempt to touch me again, and I will claim your arm, you oversized mongrel."

Mortar simply laughed jovially. “I know plenty of Chronomancers who'd like to have a tussle with you.”

“And I have no interest in facing them in whatever struggle they wish to provide,” Kura hissed. She directed her glare at Adam. "You're saying there is no other way out? That this is our sole means of extraction? Can this gate not be attuned to another frequency? Must we venture through the Tutorial?"

Adam briefly glanced at Shiv and winced.

"Not exactly," the Gate Lord admitted. "We can place you somewhere else if you want. And though it will be difficult for us to continue on our own, that is an option we are willing to offer in exchange for everything you've already done. However, we must ask—no, we must beg—that you help us now, for we face a Legendary-Tier orc and also the eldritch beings besieging Blackedge. I understand you have no history with my town, and you don't wish to involve yourself in this struggle. But because of what's at stake, and because of the risks posed to Shiv and me… you have to understand we can't release anyone until after we've had a chance to clear out from the coliseum. We cannot risk someone tracing us back here. The die is cast. Also, eventually, there's no avoiding this. Someone's going to come for our heads.”

Shiv cleared his throat. “Earth's Ambient Mana Threshold is going to go up one way or another. Either someone takes my life from me completely, or I end up causing an Incursion. And that’s not getting into the shit with the gods and the Great One. There's a big fight on the horizon. Even if you start running, I can't promise you'll be able to get away from it anyway."

The escaped prisoners eyed each other, sizing their fellows up to see if anyone would prove themselves a coward first.

"I confess that I have no urge to be part of this fight," Kura said. "I have my own vengeance to take, my own grudges to fulfill. And though there has been honor treated and blood spilled between us," her eyes were on Shiv specifically, "we are not companions. We are not kin." She sighed with discomfort, and her voice turned hesitant and slight. "But you have proven to be more trustworthy than most I have fought alongside. You have stayed true to your bargain and your words thus far. More than most in this accursed land."

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: She doesn't want to trust. She has been wounded before, but part of her is desperate for allies in this strange and distant place. She has her own conflicts. Her own struggles. And having you along with her might make her revenge much easier to complete.

“I will never set foot in a place as wretched as the Tutorial,” Kura continued, “and you cannot make me. However, I will send my clones across in support. But know this, I will not stay to see myself struck down if things are to take a turn for the worse."

"No promises, and things plainly said," Shiv said. He gave her an understanding nod. "That's all we can ask from each other."

"Gone?" Adam asked. "What say you?"

"I'm staying; got no one waiting for me," the goblin replied. And that was all she said.

Part of Shiv wanted to ask why, but he let Gone keep her deserved silence. She had been nothing but helpful during the escape from the well, and thus far she hadn't complained at all. In fact, among all the Legendary-Tier prisoners present, Gone was the one he trusted the most. But that wasn't saying much, considering the moral and psychological states of her competition.

Candles snickered under his breath. "Sooo, you're saying that if I stick with you guys, we'll be off to burn lots of really interesting and cookable critters? I’m in this shit to the hilt.”

He was dimmer than usual, and faint embers danced around his body. He sounded as deranged as he always did, and the twitches of his body made Shiv think of someone going through drug withdrawal. Compared to Kura and Gone, Candles had proven to be much less well-adjusted, likely thanks to whatever the Ascendants had done to him in the Rubix Well, but he was predictable. He wanted to burn things. Adam promised him things to burn. Candles held on to his self-control—barely—and eventually, Candles set something on fire that someone had to put out. Compared to the orcs, he was practically a saint.

"Considering there's a chance I'm gonna have to fight the Culturist and some of the orcs probably want you to burn them, well, I think you're in the right place." Shiv’s words were meant to placate the Pyromancer—but it was frankly hard to tell what was going on in Candles’s head.

One shuddered to imagine what inhuman thoughts lay within those flames.

Candles's laughter grew positively hysterical, and he threw his head backward, howling his joy to the ceiling. This went on for a disconcertingly long time. So long, in fact, that Tulveg and Gone began backing away from him.

Five, meanwhile, stayed close. The wolf-man of Aviary was utterly indifferent to whatever dangers his fellow once-inmates may have posed. He simply huffed. "Well, you know I can't leave. Not without a prize to bring back to my handlers back in New Albion. I must say that having a gate to retreat to is most useful. But you cannot rely on yourselves in such a condition, since we're already accepting aid from the Neath." Five paused. "Something that you should have included me in, since I am naturally much more inclined toward negotiations and could have—"

Shiv cut him off. “Five. Don’t take this the wrong way. Or do. Doesn’t really matter to me. We don’t trust you that much. You’re a Raven. Every single experience we had with a Raven has turned out to be a shitshow.”

"And so it falls doubly to me to correct these ill experiences, and show you that allying with the Stolen Throne might yet be most fruitful."

Shiv cast a thought at Adam. “You know, if this one left, I might feel more comfortable.”

“Agreed,” the Gate Lord replied.

Tulveg ultimately didn't need to say anything. The vampire gave Shiv a look, and that was all. He was staying here until they managed to claim Hawgrave's grandson, which was going to make things awkward, considering they were temporarily allied with the Giantsbane.

That made him start mapping out potential conflicts within their group, and that immediately gave him a headache. Beyond Tulveg's coming clash with Hawgrave, there was Uva and Hawgrave, there was Hawgrave and Roland, there was Shiv and Hawgrave, there was Shiv and the Educator, the Educator and everyone else. Five was a potential mana bomb waiting to go off. And then there were the orcs, who were planning something messed up. Shiv could feel it.

And that’s not even getting into whatever the hells Udraal is doing. Holy shit, I’m in a rat-nest of danger…

Ultimately, the only people he could truly rely on were Adam, Uva, maybe the Starhawk, and, begrudgingly, Roland Arrow.

Right. Gotta include my own clash with the Town Lord. I still need to kick his ass at some point. Don’t want to kill him, but we need to get that fight out of our systems. No point in leaving this grudge unsettled. We’re both going to be facing worse shit real soon…

So far, that seemed like everyone. But then Shiv winced as he realized they still had a few people trapped within the Educator's Tome. He couldn't reach Rebis, didn't even know what his actual condition was, and Threshold was out of his reach as well, not that he had any idea if his strange half-sibling would be willing to offer them any sort of assistance. And then there was—

“HEY, GUYS!”

A large shadow blanketed Shiv and Adam. Both of them spun on their heels, expecting an ambush.

What they received instead was a crushing hug delivered by a convergence of twelve massive hydra heads.

"Boys, oh boys," Solzimort said cheerily, his many heads wriggling with passionate affability against Shiv and Adam. "It's been too long. We've been super busy, but we finally managed to get our pranks done for all our orc friends.”

The Legendary 12-headed monster was still partially submerged in the ground, and Adam choked as he was pressed closer against Shiv. The Deathless blinked, uncertain on how to react. He slowly patted one of Solzimort's heads. "Yeah, nice to see you too. Wait, Solzimort, where were you? What did the orcs have you do?"

"Nothing, really," the many heads said at once. "We just moved some money from one house to another, or maybe from five houses to eight. It's very confusing. We stole a bunch of little things."

"What?” Adam wheezed, forcing both word and wind out of his compressed lungs. "What little things?"

