He had grown up in Pomle all his life. Some of the [Martial Artists] were like that. Others had come from far away. But from his birth, from the time he could walk, into the prime of his life—which included your later thirties thanks to Skills—Orjin had been practicing martial arts.
The man knew he would not live forever, even if he never took another wound in sparring and never contracted a disease. He might live longer than most Humans if he stayed away from fighting, but [Martial Artists] did not reach immortality. At least, none that Pomle had ever known. Better to seek it through alchemy, magic…
He had never thought of that as a bad thing. Nor, obviously, did he consider perfection of martial prowess inferior to magic or any other force in the world. It was certainly harder to beat an opponent who had armor and a weapon. No one would deny that. But in Orjin’s world, any amount of power could be balanced by training, skill as well as Skills.
Yet—the Strongest of Pomle had a thought. How would he kill a Kraken?
By that, he meant the largest of the species. Fleet-killers. So vast that they devoured entire pods of whales. Orjin had heard stories of them. They could eat entire Grand Elephant herds if they were a land-based threat.
The Strongest of Pomle had, in a wilder, less contemplative youth, fought a Grand Elephant and beaten it. He had killed Crelers with his bare hands—not an Adult because he hadn’t found one—but he had challenged a nest of smaller ones. He had fought gigantic sand worms, chimeras, and of course, people.
But a Kraken? Orjin tried to imagine it one day. How would he even begin? Assume the Kraken just lay on the land. It didn’t attack him. It didn’t move. Could he even beat it to death? He’d have to go for the brain; he could punch one of its arms all day and not kill the thing.
In the same way—magic. How did you kill a foe that attacked from beyond the clouds? Orjin looked up. Let’s assume he could dodge the lightning bolts, magical pillars and fight off the army of spectral warriors. That his foe just waited for him up there.
How did he reach her? The Strongest of Pomle tried to picture the Deathless of Demons. The Death of Magic. And he calmly saw his death.
Just as Lacten of Pomle had shown him. The [Martial Artist] had been weaker than Orjin. But he had trained hard, in Pomle’s spirit. He had been strong. And he had died without killing a single foe. Fighting illusions.
Orjin finished his training with a single leap. He leapt from the top of the canyon, aiming up.
“[Aeriform Shockwave]!”
His punch and the shockwave blasted up. Orjin had concentrated, creating a projectile with his Skill. Across Pomle, [Martial Artists] looked up, sensing the attack. Orjin landed, breaking his fall on the ground, a distance that would have killed another man. It still hurt a bit; he’d gone for maximum height.
So how high had he reached? The Strongest of Pomle watched the invisible shockwave by the way it moved the air, particles of dust. A hundred feet, two hundred…it began to lose cohesion.
He could have made someone stagger at three hundred feet. That was his best, longest-range attack. Not even close to a cloud. And the counterattack…
“I see.”
The Strongest of Pomle walked off. The sky was higher than he’d supposed.
That was all.
 
—-
 
“It reminded me of the Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath. And the Fury of Skies. I think that was who it was. Do you recall?”
The [Peerless Spearmaster] blinked. He yawned, and Orjin wondered if he’d been actually listening. The Garuda was a [Spearmaster]—perhaps the best in the world if you believed his class.
His name was Xil. And he was old. So old his bright feathers had lost some of their color. But he hadn’t lost much of his plumage. Orjin could mainly tell in the way Xil acted. He had fought in wars before Orjin had been born.
“Hm? Well, you don’t train to fight in the skies. What was that about the Windcalling idiots?”
“Windcaller’s Wrath. Remember the Fury of the Skies?”
“The one you beat down? Hm. Hm…yes? So what?”
“What is the difference between him and me in the end, Xil? I beat him. But he would do better against an aerial opponent. The Death of Magic. Perhaps I was wrong to make light of him; I cannot fly.”
“He was a fool, Strongest.”
Xil dismissed that with a flap of the wings. He turned over; he was resting in a little bit of shelter. Some leaves he’d attached to some sticks in order to make a safe haven from the heat. From there, he could watch his students training.
He had six right now. More than usual. Orjin doubted Xil knew their names. The [Spearmaster] took pupils like other people drank water and if he remembered their faces, it showed they had real talent.
“It concerns me, Xil. When Lacten returned, we beheld our weakness.”
The Garuda sat up and drank from a bit of water in a bowl. He sighed.
“He showed us nothing. There are strong people in this world. Some fly. Orjin, you did not train to fight enemies in the sky. Consider—if I challenged you now.”
He moved. Xil’s staff shot at Orjin’s forehead, a flash of wood hard enough to shatter bone and pulverize Orjin’s brain.
The Garuda missed. Orjin had leaned sideways, parrying the blow with a hand. It still stung. Xil smiled.
“—it would be hard. I might lose. But now imagine if I flew and refused to come down. I kept throwing rocks at you from afar. What would you do?”
“…Wait for you to tire? Or throw rocks at you. But if you flew that high…”
Orjin grimaced. Another flaw. Xil shrugged.
“But imagine I won, because you tired. Or gave up. Would Pomle accept my victory?”
That was a puzzle. Orjin had to shake his head.
“No. They would not.”
“Exactly. There are limits on how one can defeat the Strongest of Pomle. That would be seen as trickery by some. However, if I flew only to perform my deadliest attacks, to regroup—that would be fine, wouldn’t it?”
“…Yes. What is your point, Xil?”
“We are not equal, you and I.”
The [Spearmaster] tapped Orjin on the chest lightly with his staff. It was just a bit of wood, but he was deadly with it. He had no need for the enchanted spear he had used to set up his bivouac lean-to; a semi-permanent campsite these days. Xil gestured to his spear now.
“With my spear, I would have a better chance of beating you, Orjin. But Pomle would not accept that. With my wings, I could evade you forever. Also unfair. But I was born a Garuda. If I fought the Death of Magic, I would stand a better chance than you because I could fly.”
“I am not complaining that it is unfair, Xil. You have lighter bones. A different structure. I am asking how to make myself better.”
The Garuda sighed.
“My point, Orjin, is perhaps that you don’t. Not today. Or this year. You are pitting yourself against a flying foe. The strongest [Mage] in the world. Against gravity, which Humans have never defeated as a species since your people existed. Aim smaller. Master the ground first. Then the skies. It’s like my apprentices. If they don’t learn how to hold a spear, they don’t deserve to practice with it!”
He threw his staff like a javelin and one of the apprentices went flying. Xil sat down as the staff was brought back. Orjin sighed.
That was one perspective. Salthorn had another. The Selphid was teaching her pupil, Mendi, a [Grappler]. As another of Pomle’s masters—that number including Orjin—she had a different take.
“Xil has a point, Strongest. But if I had to fight the Death of Magic, I would buy a flying artifact. Train with that. Your weakness isn’t the lack of the ability to fly—focus on your fighting techniques. And dodging. If I touched the Death of Magic and broke her magic shields—I would never let go.”
And if Salthorn grabbed anyone, they were probably dead. The Selphid had locked Mendi down and the Dullahan was immobilized, even with the Dullahan’s unique ability to detach limbs, including their heads.
“This is how you subdue a Dullahan. Their arms and legs can come off. And heads. So. To immobilize them, you need to grab the head. Either it comes off and they’ve given you their head, or you apply pressure like this—”
Mendi groaned as Salthorn applied a hair’s more pressure. She was explaining to a new pupil, well, a new member of Pomle.
Iratze. He and a few of the strange Humans were watching. Iratze had a very respectful look on his face.
“That makes sense. But how would you stop a Selphid, Master Salthorn?”
The Selphid grinned. Submission holds were a lot harder with multiple species like Centaurs, Drakes, Dullahans, to name only a few. But she had mastered them all.
“I could lock down a Selphid from inside their body. You, as a Human, would need to break their body down. Tear muscles—here. Let me show you.”
She was teaching Iratze. And the young man with a mixed-martial arts background had shown Pomle’s [Martial Artists] what his world had come up with in their development.
Of course, he hadn’t told Orjin that. Iratze watched the Strongest of Pomle out of the corner of his eye. Everyone knew Orjin, the leader of Pomle. You could usually see the man training. He was impressive. But he seemed out of sorts, especially given he’d come to consult the Selphid.
“Enough.”
Salthorn spoke and Mendi stopped the maneuver designed to take out a Selphid’s muscles and break down the body—the only real way to stop them. She turned to Orjin.
“Orjin. Strongest of Pomle, if you want to fight enemies like the Death of Magic, I can’t help you. Go to Wistram and punch every Archmage in sight. Magic is very different to the things [Warriors] understand. But as far as I’m concerned—flying is the only reason a [Mage] would survive an encounter with you.”
“Thank you, Salthorn. I will think on this.”
Orjin rose with a sigh. The question that had consumed him the last few days subsided. He was not content of course; he never was. But perspective mattered. He’d begin training with Garuda, try to develop combat techniques like fighting on palm leaves or something.
The Wrath of the Wind or whatever he’d been known had used a light-foot Skill like that. At the very least, Orjin could work more on balance and jumping.
The drive to improve would see Orjin level further. Push himself harder. That was the basis of Pomle’s strength. They trained, with a dedication matched by few peoples across the world.
A [Soldier] trained until they were fit enough to fight. [Mages] studied, [Knights] honed their skills, but few classes were as dedicated to perfecting their abilities as [Martial Artists]. And it showed when the classes collided, sometimes regardless of levels.
Pomle was a haven for this rare type of person, one of a few places where you could find this kind of community. Orjin, as the Strongest of Pomle, ‘ruled’ it. But his job was mainly to break up conflicts, protect Pomle now and then—that was most of what the Strongest of Pomle did. Pomle’s training warriors had been content with that.
Right up until today. Orjin paused in his training, which was constructing a little rockslide trap when a group of warriors approached. The rocks would roll over the edge of the cliff there—and he’d have to leap on the moving rocks and use the uneven footing to get himself up into the air. Practice for, say, fighting on loose terrain, or in the air during a heated fight.
“Strongest of Pomle. There is a problem!”
One of the [Martial Artists] spoke up. Orjin turned and saw a Centaur. He was one of a group of nearly fifty warriors from across the oasis. Orjin sighed.
“What is it?”
“We have come to ask you to deal with a problem.”
Of course. And if all of them had come representing more, then it was serious. Orjin wondered if this was something that would take words or violence. But he was Strongest so he nodded.
“What is it?”
The Centaur frowned. He was brash, talented, but brash. He had challenged Orjin once, trusting that his enhanced hooves would mean his kicks would beat the Human down. Orjin had broken his hoof by accident.
“Salii. Strongest, you must stop Salii.”
“What has she done this time?”
The Centaur pawed at the ground and looked towards the collection of homes near the oasis. The other warriors of Pomle muttered angrily. The Centaur pointed, furious.
“She is—she is making us money.”
 
—-
 
The other notable leader of Pomle was Salii. The [Secretary], a Drake woman who had appeared in Pomle one day, found Orjin, and begun acting as his…secretary. No one had stopped her. But she was a curiosity.
She was also high-level. Orjin knew that; he had once seen Salii block a wind-slash with her clipboard. And she had a number of powerful Skills. Including the ability to copy any object of a secretarial nature once per day. That was how she made more paper, sometimes ink.
The Drake had a clipboard, as always. And it wasn’t hard to find her. Orjin walked towards the oasis, the only body of water in Pomle from which everyone drank. He normally didn’t come here because of the crowds.
Refugees from Tiqr, visitors—there was now a community set up at a decent pace from the oasis. There were houses, even agriculture. Orjin stared at a budding vineyard, some sheep with golden fur that crackled with static electricity—and the houses.
Houses. Pomle’s warriors sometimes made places to sleep that wouldn’t be hit by sandstorms or were comfy, but they didn’t make houses. But here was something new.
Pomle’s warriors had endured Salii. And the refugees displaced by the war. They had grumbled, but some had even helped feed the desperate people. Others just ignored the groups, only coming here to drink. But Salii had apparently done something that had infuriated Pomle’s warriors.
“Salii.”
The Drake jumped as Orjin appeared. He’d been jumping from treetop to treetop, trying not to rustle the palms.
“Orjin. There you are. How have you been?”
They hadn’t seen each other in about three weeks. Orjin had assumed that meant nothing was happening; Salii usually bothered him for all kinds of things. He should have known the silence was suspicious.
“I am well. Salii, the warriors tell me you are doing something troublesome. Making money.”
He was not one for small-talk. Salii adjusted to her superior. She swished her tail in the dirt.
“Is that what they’re complaining about? Oh well, I’ll explain. Will you walk with me, Orjin? I have to pay for a shipment. A [Trader]’s waiting with healing potions. It’ll be good for you to show your face.”
“Healing potions?”
“Yup. From Nerrhavia. Cheap, bulk—I ordered them with funds from Pomle’s treasury.”
“Our treasury.”
“Yes…that’s what I’m calling the vault over there. I have a key. If you want money, I can give it to you. Need a healing potion?”
