The Drake strode across the ground, but Orjin kept pace easily.
“Salii. What are you doing?”
The Drake gave him an innocent glance.
“Making Pomle better. Have you noticed our budding economy? Hold on, I’ll explain. Excuse me! Are you Trader Melkhit? This is the Strongest of Pomle. I’m Salii. I contacted you about our order—are those the potions?”
Orjin watched as Salii greeted a Stitch-Man [Trader] with a large shipment of healing potions in crates. Hundreds. Orjin blinked as he saw the crates opened for Salii to inspect them. But the [Trader] was paid; Salii handed him a bag of gold coins and the [Trader] counted them greedily.
It was a lot of gold coins. More than Orjin thought he’d ever seen. Probably more than all the warriors of Pomle had between them if you didn’t count artifacts. He waited until the [Trader] had talked with Salii and promised to bring more of the things she wanted. Then the Strongest folded his arms.
“Salii…”
“It’s all paid for thanks to our treasury. Economy, Orjin.”
“What economy?”
Pomle wasn’t just poor, it was destitute. It didn’t have an economy. The area was a tiny oasis and dry canyon. Part of the reason why the nations of Chandrar had left it alone was because it was economically unviable. Also because Pomle’s warriors were not worth fighting, but that was beside the point. Oh, the oasis was important, but what else did the area have?
Warriors. Dirt. Orjin’s narrowed eyes made Salii turn. The [Secretary] had a pleased look on her face.
“We have an economy now. I set it up these last few weeks. You didn’t notice the sheep? The cute Shockwoolies?”
Orjin glanced at the ‘cute’ sheep. The Shockwoolies could, in a herd, generate enough electricity to stop the heart of anything that attacked them. Their fur was wonderful for insulation though. They were cash-animals.
“Salii. Where did you—”
“We.”
“—you get the money for those sheep? I have no money. Pomle has no money. Did you buy it yourself?”
“Pomle did. I just acted on the nation’s behalf, Orjin.”
He glared. He was running out of patience. Salii sighed.
“Okay, I charged all of the refugees that stayed a fee to buy land around the oasis or compensate the [Martial Artists] who had to move. That, as well as for services like the members of Pomle who went out and got food for everyone. I leveraged that coin with some [Merchants] who’ve been saved by [Martial Artists] before to help us buy some of the animals and crops and after I found the highest-leveled expert in each field, I gave them the produce and animals at a very reasonable loan. It’s paid off in dividends. Pomle now has a budget.”
Orjin rubbed at one ear. Even hearing about that process hurt his head.
“You…made money out of selling land?”
“Well, I moved money about. It’s not hard if you know what you’re doing. Put it in the right objects, and it grows, Orjin. I am a [Secretary]. It wasn’t hard for me. And I’ve negotiated to use the money to buy other things. Like the potions.”
“Negotiated. With [Traders]?”
“Yup. I’m better at it than most. So I make a profit selling and buying most of the time. But that’s my side project. The real income that paid for the potions—and the upgrades to the oasis that the others are so mad about—is over here. You really haven’t noticed?”
“I’ve been practicing jumping. What upgrades to the oasis?”
The [Secretary] led Orjin over to the water, partly clouded by dirt and debris, but perfectly sanitary; you had to watch a water supply like that. Or…it should have been.
Orjin had taken enough water to last him for weeks; he had a Skill that reduced the amount he needed to intake, a valuable Skill most of Pomle’s residents got. He saw now that someone had altered the oasis.
Drastically. There were now rocks around the outside of the oasis, preventing erosion. Someone had installed a few long-handled dippers and even a kind of pier to let people draw larger buckets of water from. And there were signs, instructing people not to take more than a certain amount of water per day.
But that wasn’t what made Orjin frown at Salii. It was the fountain.
It sat in the middle of the oasis, dribbling water into the existing water there. It was…well, a fountain. Stone, basins shaped to let the water flow down. And mounted in the center, dribbling the water was a large, gently glowing aquamarine jewel. Not perfectly spherical, but close. Water was condensing, running down around the sides.
“Salii. What is that?”
“Improvements, Orjin.”
The Strongest of Pomle looked at the [Secretary]. He looked at the magical stone. He shook his head.
“Tell me what that is. And what you’ve done, Salii. Now. Or…”
“Or?”
“Or I will throw you into that oasis.”
The Drake considered the threat. She nodded at last.
“Alright. It began when I was measuring the decrease in the oasis’ water levels, Orjin. I noticed it was going down day after day and started marking the sides. Do you know what I found?”
She pointed at the oasis. Orjin thought the water level was higher than it had been in a long time, but he conceded that it had been quite low a while back.
“We were running out of water?”
“We were running out of—you knew?”
The Strongest shrugged.
“It’s happened before. I was considering what would happen when it ran out. People would die. Many of Pomle’s warriors would have to leave for a time.”
The Drake nodded seriously.
“If the water runs out, Orjin, Pomle dies. Only the best [Martial Artists] would be able to survive without access to water. And with all these new people, we would have run out of water in…67 days. Here are my calculations.”
She offered a clipboard to Orjin with some notes. The Strongest pushed it away.
“It has happened before. It would have been inevitable with the people who were staying here. So what did you do?”
“I stopped it. I’m not going to let you say that it’s fine and a challenge for Pomle’s people to overcome, Orjin. There are children, people who can’t survive. We needed water. So I made arrangements. Setting up an economy—organizing everything—it was all to that end.”
The Strongest of Pomle didn’t think he liked that.
“Pomle exists fine as it is. You didn’t ask me about this, Salii.”
The [Secretary]’s offended look made Orjin hesitate. Salii slapped her clipboard with an exasperated claw.
“Orjin, you’ve told me every day since I came here that you don’t care about managing Pomle. ‘I’m Orjin. [Martial Artists] come and go. They train or die. It is the way Pomle is.’ Why do you care now?”
“You did something that’s disturbed the warriors. Is that it? They said it was the money…”
Orjin didn’t see how the sheep or houses would bother all the warriors. Some, of course, but not enough to gather that many representatives. Salii shook her head.
“I’m getting to that. Back to me doing this. I had to, or the oasis would run out of water. Do you agree that me doing something was better than nothing?”
The Strongest eyed the jewel producing water. He had to admit—a full oasis was nice. And the water was clear. Salii smiled, seeing his look.
“We might even have enough to wash with now and then. I’ve put on a limit to how much water everyone gets to prevent overuse, but—”
“It is good. But how did you do it? You can’t create water like gold, Salii.”
The Drake snorted.
“Spoken like someone who’s never participated in a market economy. Obviously, if you want an oasis to be more productive, you make it more productive. You see that stone?”
“Obviously.”
The stone kept dripping water. How was it doing that? Salii nodded.
“Condensation stones. Khelt uses these. They leech water out of the air. Good in humid climates to keep an area drier. Here? It’s gathering all the water in the area and redirecting it here.”
“Are they expensive?”
“Oh yes. You could bankrupt a lot of people buying one.”
“How did you buy one? How much did it cost?”
The [Secretary] gave Orjin a flat look.
“Orjin, do you want to know about my job? Are you interested in managing Pomle?”
“No.”
“Then don’t ask how much it cost. That’s my job.”
Salii waited to be thrown into the lake, but Orjin didn’t react to the challenging comment. That was what she liked about this boss. She could speak her mind.
“Anyways, I didn’t pay for this stone, in point of fact. It was a gift. Well, again, I’m being inaccurate. It was more like a lost wager and a gift. Fetohep of Khelt bet and lost, and when he heard about the oasis issue…”
Orjin picked Salii up. The [Secretary] flailed.
“Stop, stop! Aright, I’ll show you! Don’t you dare throw me! All my good paper is attached to this clipboard!”
He put her down. Then Salii pointed with a sigh.
“Over there. One of Tiqr’s people was an [Earth Mage]. That’s like a [Geomancer]—different names, sometimes different levels of talent. I can’t believe you didn’t hear about it. One of the matches should begin soon. I think Iratze might be watching. He helped me come up with it.”
 
—-
 
When you had a place like Pomle, what was your economy, really? Well, a bunch of [Martial Artists]. Salii, much less Orjin, would have trouble ordering them about.
But there was a way to make money off them. Lots of money. The kind of money that bought the healing potions now being dragged into the underground chamber. And in the middle of the chamber, outlined in an area of smoothed stone covered by a tarp…was a ring.
Orjin stared at the ropes. They were set up—it wasn’t a cage since buying fencing wasn’t high on Salii’s list of priorities. But neither was this a boxing ring; it was a larger space, contained, and empty—
A fighting arena. Like the gladiatorial pit, the Antinium’s exhibition area, fencing grounds, the ring of bodies like where the King of Destruction and King of Duels had fought—a timeless spot.
The Strongest of Pomle saw a Stitchwoman in the contained area. She was waiting, stretching, as one of Xil’s apprentices who had ‘graduated’ or perhaps gotten sick of the instruction, waited on the other side.
He was a Garuda, like his master; and he was carrying a staff. It was as long as a spear, only lacking the cutting edge. Now, the [Spear Warrior] faced off against the [Martial Artist] who went barehanded.
And right there was a departure from anything that would have been allowed in Iratze’s world. Also—there was a heavy weight advantage.
On the Stitchwoman’s side. She was of the Hemp caste, and tough. The Garuda had light bones and a slimmer body. But he had the staff.
Raul was announcing. The young man was reading out the two’s levels—well, the Stitchwoman’s, as the Garuda had declined to give it, classes, and odds of the match.
“On one hand we have a [Spear Warrior], Ureca, versus a Level 23 [Martial Artist], Octilla Hemp. The odds are set at…let’s see…2.3 to 1 on Ureca’s victory as he will be using a spear. Bets end in the next minute when the match begins and open up with each round—”
He was speaking into a scrying mirror. And another was trained on the match. Orjin’s eyes narrowed. He knew those devices.
“Wistram?”
“Nope.”
Salii was investigating a second ring, this one clearly in the process of being built. The conceit in this one was a series of obstacles—including a central pillar that combatants would be able to use. As the two fighters began to move forwards and Raul began the countdown for the betting to end on the sides of the invisible watchers—she explained fully.
“I considered Wistram. But honestly, I don’t like negotiating with the academy. They like controlling everything. So I went to Nerrhavia and Khelt. Wistram isn’t the only group that can set up a scrying network if they work at it. There’s a lot to work on; betting’s simple and this is a private system. You have to be invited to watch. We have about three hundred different viewers so far.”
She said that like it was a small number. Orjin watched the two step forwards, then instantly move back. The fight began, but he was more interested in the entire conceit here.
“Three hundred? And who watches?”
“Anyone who likes betting, sparring matches—there were a lot of people who liked seeing the games at Daquin, Orjin. I saw the opportunity after talking with the newcomers. Iratze and the others? They have…interesting ideas. The point is that it’s already made money. We take a fraction of all bets. It goes to the fighters; both of them will earn money just for participating. The winner earns a lot more, obviously.”
“How much?”
“Well, it depends, but the pot for this fight on the fighter’s side is…fifty nine gold coins and sixteen silver. Two copper. Loser gets six gold coins. But both sides get healed afterwards. Hence the healing potions.”
That was a lot of money. Orjin did not understand. Salii looked up.
“It’s small compared to what’s being bet, Orjin. Fetohep of Khelt—he’s one of the spectators, likes to bet—usually bets thousands of gold pieces. And that condensation stone? That’s how we afforded it. Well, he likes this idea.”
“Betting. So they want to watch the others fight and see who wins?”
“Yup. It’s exciting. Don’t you think it makes sense, Orjin? For instance, Uerca has a 2.3 advantage to win this fight, so bets on him are worth less…there’s a better system, but it’s what we came up with. And the chance of it all makes things fun!”
The Strongest of Pomle shrugged. He glanced at the whirl of the Garuda’s staff-spear as he attacked Octilla’s legs, trying to slow her down so he could lead her on a slow retreat across the cage, attacking with his superior reach.
“I don’t understand it. Two point three odds on Ureca? He’ll probably lose. Octilla is going to break his staff.”
The Strongest’s voice was a bit too loud. Raul winced as the scrying orb lit up. And Ureca hesitated—Octilla leapt in.
“[Sundering Palm]!”
Crack. Orjin nodded as the Garuda went stumbling backwards and Octilla swarmed him with punches. Salii covered her face with her clipboard.
“Orjin. That’s called interfering with the fight. And yes—it’s imbalanced sometimes. The viewers who know fighting have made a lot of money over the ones who don’t. It’s—why don’t we leave before we interrupt the next match?”
 
—-
 
It explained why the warriors of Pomle were annoyed. Betting on matches? Fighting for money? It went against what [Martial Artists] were here for. They confronted Orjin as he left the underground arena and Salii hurried off to ‘refund the betters due to interference’ or something.
“You see, Strongest? What she’s doing?”
“I see, Irre. But I do not see your objection.”
Orjin had thought about it on the way back up. The Centaur looked aghast.
