“A time so advanced that only stories about Dragons remain. Complete devastation of every species. Note—look into advanced geological spells. Potential for moon-destroying Tier 9 spells? Tier 10? What wipes out magic? Or…”
The Drake was taking verbal notes with a spell when the [Message] came for him. It came via Street Runner, as usual. The Drake signed for it, tipped a silver coin—and read it while absently thinking aloud.
“Second—multiple worlds theory? Just as unlikely; how would that work? Separate dimensions? No—wait—”
He cracked open the letter and read. Grimalkin frowned.
It was just a string of numbers. But the missive was addressed to him. Each number had a line; there were about twenty entries. The first was underlined.
“247. And below it…200? 154…what is this?”
That wasn’t how it read, of course. It read like this:
 
247.
200.
154.
 
It was some kind of list. Grimalkin stared at it, turned the message over, scanned it for any other signs of anything, and then balled it up and went back to his notes. The problem with Troy and Leon was that their explanations had holes in them and they couldn’t present a cohesive narrative to save their lives.
He got back to work and forgot all about the lists. The next day—they came again.
 
—-
 
By the end of the week, Grimalkin had received the lists three times. They didn’t come every day. It was some kind of code. But he was so busy conferring with Chaldion, getting answers from the two young men and fulfilling his side of the bargain that he didn’t inquire about the lists until the third time.
 
255.
220.
164.
 
There was…an upward trend. And more entries at usually a lower number. Grimalkin spotted a ‘300’ there, and then—
 
411. Underlined multiple times.
 
But what did it mean? Grimalkin pointed at the Street Runner, who backed up.
“You there. Who is sending me this nonsense? Inquire at the Mage’s Guild and report back! Move!”
The frightened Dullahan girl fled. She came back timidly with an answer that made it all make sense.
“It—it comes from House Ulta, Magus.”
Ulta? Grimalkin looked at the lists and suddenly the numbers were obvious.
They were weights. Maximum bench-press numbers. Grimalkin snatched the notes and tossed the girl a gold coin.
“Four hundred and eleven? The one at the top must be Lady Pryde? Or…”
She’d been one of the few to actually order his weight sets. Grimalkin investigated. Two hundred and forty seven pounds was a high number for a [Lady]; Humans had less muscle mass than Gnolls for instance, and the female gender…four hundred and eleven? That had to be the product of a Skill!
This was good data. By the looks of it, Pryde had put nearly sixty people on the list by the end of the week, mostly in good shape. There was a line separating the higher numbers from some very low ones. 140, 100, 76…new recruits? It had to be.
Grimalkin smiled. But why was she sending these lists to him? He pondered it, and then, almost instinctually—took the list with him to consult a…friend.
 
—-
 
It wasn’t Erin Solstice. Grimalkin watched as Lasica read over the list. The [Chef] was pregnant and now the entire floor had heard the news. Rufelt practically advertised it, and the long-time acquaintance of the [Sinew Magus] was practically waited on by her husband. Anyone bringing alcohol near her got smacked.
Lasica seemed to be putting up with the overprotectiveness well, or at least, she tolerated it. Now, she handed Grimalkin the lists back after hearing his explanations.
“Sinew Magus, she’s showing off.”
“She is?”
Grimalkin blinked at the lists. Lasica smiled.
“She’s demonstrating how fast her group is improving. Probably with exercise, potions, supplements—I bet she wants you to send your apprentice’s numbers over.”
“Does she? Well, it would hardly be fair. With my training, those numbers would be…well, at the start when the growth is most significant…”
The muscular Drake investigated the lists, muttering about data trends. Lasica rolled her eyes.
“You know, this is the only person who seems interested in your weights.”
“That’s…true.”
The [Sinew Magus] leaned on his table, heavily. The [Chef], who had still to really show her pregnancy, knocked away Rufelt.
“Rufelt, I can still serve food. Stop doing my job and get back to the bar! Grimalkin, you should think of it as a compliment. Now—are you going to eat the mountain of food you ordered?”
Proud. Grimalkin looked at the lists. And part of the fatigue he felt over the lack of interest…faded. Yes. In those numbers he could almost see the gains, the effort Pryde was making with whomever she was training. He picked up the one relic of his achievements.
“I am proud. Hmm.”
 
—-
 
The first list appeared on Erin’s gym wall a little bit later. It had the beginnings of a statistical model attached, and, after Grimalkin had requested it, data on the lifter to correlate with their max rep.
 
Human, female – 247 lbs. Date…
Human, male – 220 lbs. Date…
 
“Who’s putting stuff on my walls?”
Erin groused, but the little list had attracted the interest of some of the weight-room group. It was a small number, and since Relc was gone, she didn’t know a lot of them. But after Erin had wandered back in with Lyonette to see about some air-freshening charms—or just more windows—she noticed something else.
There was a second list, with max-reps by the patrons of her gym.
 
Gnoll, female. 272 lbs. Date…
 
“Whoa. Dat’s a lotta muscles.”
“Thanks.”
Raekea smirked as the others crowded around the list. The [Blacksmith] had claimed one of the higher numbers. Which of course, made others decide to place themselves.
When Grimalkin came back the next day, he found the second list, to his surprise. And another list as well, waiting for him via [Message] spell. It had a note.
“Sinew Magus. As per your copied data of Human lifting numbers, Manus has benchmarked our group’s capabilities.”
The Drake [Mage] stared at the reply and the list. And then another Street Runner came by.
“List from Oteslia, Magus Grimalkin! And Zeres, Fissival, Salazsar…”
They had all decided to make their own lists. And…Grimalkin couldn’t help but notice that a lot of the numbers at the top just so happened to beat Lady Pryde’s numbers. Of course, she’d only been doing it with probably a sample group.
But Grimalkin of Pallass was no fool. So he copied over the numbers to Pryde and created a master-list. He also attached one to Erin’s weight-room.
The next day, Lady Pryde sent a list with a number at the top.
 
Human, male. 500.
 
The [Lady of Pride] did not cede anything to Drakes. Of course, Grimalkin posted that. And he immediately got a demand for the next logical step.
Proof.
So that was how Salii found herself watching a bunch of sweaty Humans cheering an exceptionally ripped Human with [Enhanced Strength] and two other strength Skills lifting five hundred pounds on the scrying orb.
“We can do better.”
Lady Pryde was dressed in work-out clothes. She looked around, imperious.
“This was just a sample. We’re going far beyond five hundred pounds. I say—it’s possible to break one thousand, without magic. With the right Skills, diet, exercise—we’re making it happen! Not Minotaurs, not half-Giants—a Human-only record!”
The crowd around her cheered. Salii stared at the sweaty bodies, the rippling muscles, and turned.
“Do you want these things?”
Orjin and the martial artists of Pomle looked at each other. They eyed the Humans, as the broadcast cut to Manus, who had a bunch of angry Drakes ready to get ripped. Orjin nodded.
“Sure.”
Salii shook her head. Magus Grimalkin smiled as he watched Lady Pryde challenging him. The orders began to pick up. Of course, the important thing was the academic and material value, not the popularity of his work.
It just made him a bit happy.
