“But Strongest! Fighting for money? Making this a sport? How is that acceptable? Pomle’s spirit is to train, not to be…exhibitionists.”
The other warriors murmured agreement. But they listened as Orjin spoke. The Strongest of Pomle indicated the arena. It was a sloping tunnel leading down, barely more than a hole in the ground at this point. Given how sandstorms sometimes hit the oasis, it made more sense than a structure. But Salii had said the building would come in time…
“When you called for me, Irre, you did not talk about the arena. You said that Salii was making Pomle money. Do you object to that? Answer me before I speak of the arena.”
The warrior hesitated.
“I do, Strongest. Money is not something that Pomle needs. Salii is making it using—tricks. She charges the newcomers money for land that anyone can take. She gives it to [Merchants], somehow makes it grow with numbers. How is that right?”
Orjin shook his head.
“She is good at her job. Salii uses numbers like we use our bodies, Irre. If she makes money, does it hurt you?”
“She has changed the oasis.”
“I saw. More water for all. Without it, the oasis would run out. Is this wrong?”
“More water means less effort for some, Strongest.”
Another [Martial Artist] spoke up. Orjin nodded.
“This is true. But it does not affect you. Drink less water.”
A ripple of humor through the crowd. A few nodded and walked off. But the rest waited. Irre pointed at the arena.
“What about fighting for coin?”
“[Mercenaries] do it. They are welcome in Pomle. Isn’t that right, Xil?”
The Garuda [Spearmaster] had alighted on a palm, overhead. He grinned.
“True. What is gold to us? Gold is gold. It matters if it affects you.”
More nods. And the others were listening, thinking on this issue which affected Pomle. After all—it was more than training just the body. Orjin summarized his thoughts for all to hear.
“Salii’s arena does not affect me. I did not know of it until today. Her alterations to Pomle do not affect me. If she puts on these show-fights here—what does it matter? Does it affect Pomle or your training except in your mind?”
A rumble of thought went through Pomle. It was a [Blademaster] from Drath, an exile, who spoke up.
“It makes Pomle easier to live in, Strongest. It draws attention. Visitors will come. People thinking to train who have not the will or spirit for it. Who look down on what martial arts is, like the Sect of the Breeze Fists or whatever they were named. The Windy Fists.”
This time the looks were sour. Pomle did not need more of that sort. Orjin agreed. But he still thought the argument was invalid. He pointed at the arena.
“The newcomers, the Humans with the new techniques say that they participate in this sport. Yet, they do it to make money, to live as well as challenge themselves and each other! To improve! Are they worthless? If it is easy—if what these others do is not martial arts—prove it. Defeat them all in that ring for the world to see. Defeat me. And make Pomle what it should be.”
“Will you participate in those matches, Orjin? I might. For coin as well as the sport of it!”
Xil’s eyes glittered. Orjin shrugged.
“If the mood takes me, or there is something to be gained, perhaps. If I need money, yes. Think of it like this. Does anyone object further? If so, speak. I have my training to return to.”
Pomle’s warriors looked at each other. One last issue came up. And it came from the [Blademaster].
“All of what you say is wise, Strongest. This does not affect us except in the mind and the mind is something to be honed. What does affect us is space. With so many around the oasis, we must go further and further. What if Salii makes all of Pomle verdant? Soft? Some of us came for the harshness. Already—we are tempted by drinks, amenities she has brought. We can ignore them, but we would like privacy.”
“Well spoken.”
Salthorn nodded. Even she and Mendi had come to observe. Orjin agreed. He thought for twenty two seconds, in the baking sun, as the others waited. Then he nodded. He had come to a decision. He did not second-guess himself, or waste time. It was why Salii said she liked him.
“I say—those who wish to train in harshness shall. Salii!”
She hurried out of the arena. Orjin turned to her. With all to hear, he spoke.
“One complaint has been made that I agree with. As Strongest of Pomle, I allow the spectated-fights on one condition. Because you have made this, you must make something else. Make a place for those who wish to train in isolation. In harshness.”
The warriors nodded. They looked at Salii. The [Secretary] blinked.
Make a harsh place? Give those who wanted privacy that? It was a harsh imposition. Orjin waited for her to complain, or argue. He saw the Drake check her notes. Then she nodded.
“Very well. Is that all?”
The people of Pomle looked at the [Secretary]. She gave them a toothy grin.
For the first time since its inception, Pomle expanded.
 
—-
 
It wasn’t just her having the ability to move numbers around. Orjin saw Salii writing a note on a glowing piece of paper which vanished.
“What is that?”
“[Memo]. It’s like a free [Message] Skill, Orjin. And before you ask—it does have limits on range, but I’m high-enough level to use it. Oh, and to get my messages priority-delivered to anyone I want. Even monarchs.”
“I see. And what is this?”
They stood outside of Pomle. Salii finished walking him around the area of lowland hills, some arid land, a single, much smaller oasis. They had been travelling for hours—Orjin had walked or run. Salii was riding a pony. Salii had been writing notes nonstop.
“This is Pomle, now. As we head back I’ll show you the northern section.”
Orjin turned his head. Pomle’s canyon was far, far in the distance.
“This isn’t Pomle. This is part of Tiqr.”
“I know. Now it’s Pomle. I just bought it.”
The Strongest stopped.
“Say that again.”
Salii winked at him. The Drake’s tail swished back and forth, making the pony restless. It picked up the pace and Orjin followed it.
“I bought part of Tiqr.”
“What?”
“I bought…part…of Tiqr. You know, the nation bordering us to the west?”
“How?”
The [Secretary] grabbed a [Memo] and replied to it with her quill as she spoke.
“Easy. Tiqr was defeated and the lands seized, remember? It’s ‘conquered’, but the other nations have to garrison it to keep their control. And Tiqr’s army is still attacking from the Kilalle Steppes. So I made an offer to the nearest area of control—that’s Lamullt, who got a piece of the border, and bought it from their king. He gave it to me cheap. Relatively speaking.”
“Was it exp—”
Orjin saw her smile and stopped himself from asking. He jogged on, after the pony. Salii gestured around the border she’d travelled. An invisible border, for now. A line on a map. She would make it a reality.
“We’ll expand the canyons. I can hire [Geomancers] to alter the ground, which will create natural defenses. This new area will be a perfect place for anyone who wants to train in real isolation. Also, they can train in the caves. There’s at least one underground area. Probably with monsters. They’ll love it.”
 
—-
 
The [Martial Artists] didn’t love it. They were…concerned. When they heard Salii had not only created money out of virtually nothing, created water, and now expanded Pomle, they were restless.
“She is bringing Pomle change.”
Orjin nodded to one of Pomle’s masters as they sat around, eating some bread, dates, and water. He spoke slowly, looking at the half-Giant, his hair uncombed, his body tough.
“Is that a bad thing? We are [Martial Artists]. If we cannot change—what do we train for? If you learned tomorrow that there was a way to punch stronger, faster, and all it required was a change in your form, would you not take it?”
“I would. But it is one thing for me to change how I act—another to walk over there and say ‘this is our land’.”
“True. But it was done according to their rules. Salii gave the [King] money. And he had taken it from Tiqr. Like the new techniques that the Humans have brought. I do not think it is wrong.”
“You say it Strongest, but some will challenge you.”
The half-Giant sighed. Orjin nodded. That was inevitable. However—he wasn’t going to stop Salii.
“We remember the past because of what it created. This. But the future we should always look towards because of what it could improve. We strive to be the best. Whatever that is—we should embrace. And watch, to make sure it is for the best.”
The other masters sharing a meal nodded. That was the attitude Pomle needed. They could not languish in the past. That was foolishness. And perhaps…
It was the Drathian [Blademaster] who spoke up, thoughtfully. They had been so resistant to Salii at first, but after this—her opinion had changed.
“If Salii can bring more [Mages] to Pomle, Orjin, I wish to ask her to bring a [Battlemage]. Few of Pomle’s [Martial Artists] can cast magic. Some weave spell with fist. But I wish to challenge true magic.”
Now that was thinking with secretaries. The others stirred at the idea. Orjin smiled.
“So do I. Would you all wish Salii to find you a [Mage] that you might challenge yourself against them?”
They nodded. The Strongest of Pomle took a date and chewed on it. He liked dates. Eating sparsely was good sometimes, but nutrition also mattered. He nodded to the others.
“Good. Then let her work.”
 
—-
 
The last conversation Salii had with Orjin was in her tent. And it was her tent. Orjin knocked on the flap and studied the interior.
Salii had brought a tent, and supplies to Pomle when she had come here. She had brought lots of paper, ink, enchanted quills…even wax. Certainly, water bottles, and rations. She still hadn’t been fully prepared, but it occurred to Orjin that she had been prepared.
“Why did you come here, Salii?”
The [Secretary] smiled as if she’d been waiting for the question. She put down the quill and sat back on the cushion as she replied.
“If you must know, Orjin, I come from Zeres. I wasn’t ever one of their commanders, but I served under the best. I organized everything, from shipping manifests to goods coming in or out…I was the best [Secretary] in Zeres. Perhaps, the best in Izril. It wasn’t enough.”
Now it made sense. The Strongest of Pomle was silent as he digested this. The best in all of Izril? It wasn’t a light statement.
“So you came here. That is why you were able to do all of this so easily.”
“Not easily. But yes.”
Her smile widened. Orjin nodded.
“Why?”
The Drake met his eyes. And when she grinned, it was with all of her teeth. Salii’s response made Orjin sit up.
“I want to be the best in the world. So I came here. I’m leveling. I want to become the highest-leveled [Secretary] in the history of this world. I came here because there is no worse place for me that I could imagine, besides organizing Creler eggs.”
Her raw ambition and drive…Orjin looked at the Drake with respect. He understood.
“You do belong here.”
Of course she did. The Drake inclined her head. The [Secretary] waited, but Orjin was done. He rose; that was all he had wanted to know. He walked towards her tent flap, opening it and letting cool night air in. Then Orjin had one thought.
“Salii. What is your level?”
“Higher than yours.”
The Drake winked at him. Orjin blinked at her, and then he grinned.
 
—-
 
Of the many things Salii had ordered, bought, or traded in for favors like the condensation stones for the oasis, one of the things she did not buy was a weights set.
Not one. Not a single barbell, bench pressing kit, or any of the other objects that was on offer. And of course, she’d heard about them.
She just didn’t have time to waste on some Pallassian invention. Oh yes, she kept up with Walled City news. Of course she knew about Grimalkin of Pallass. She just didn’t know if his muscle-building mantra squared with Pomle’s ‘let’s actually win a fight’ mindset.
And that was unkind and probably stemmed from some inter-city rivalry. But…it was not a unique problem. In fact, aside from Grimalkin’s gifts, only a few people had ordered weights from Pallass’ [Smiths]. Erin Solstice had her weight room, but that was a gift.
Did that depress Grimalkin, the [Sinew Magus] of Pallass? Of course not! He knew the value of his work! Was he upset?
Yes! Absolutely! Manus, Fissival—okay, Fissival wasn’t a surprise—Oteslia, and Zeres had all declined to invest in his project.
Even Manus! They were ‘incorporating’ his work into their soldier units. Experimenting.
Slowly. That was the way military bodies worked. They tested, and for wholesale change like this—it was going to be slow.
Even so, it grated on Grimalkin’s nerves. He knew that the weights were superior.
“Look at these muscle gains!”
He had Ferkr and some of his apprentices posing for the scrying orb as Drassi covered his new project one day. Some of the Drakes and Gnolls were blushing as they flexed.
It wasn’t the widest of coverage and there were people who signed off as soon as they saw a sweaty bicep. And some who signed on just for that bit. Grimalkin knew that. But he gave it his one thousand percent to tell people about his product.
“Superior, safe working environments! Quantitative gains! If you have the gonads, buy a set!”
He roared into the scrying orb. This was Grimalkin at his best. Inspiring people. Drassi was covering her earholes.
“Sinew Magus! A little quieter? Okay, I think—I think we’re good! Back to you, Noass!”
“Thank you, Drassi.”
The [Commentator] growled. He was back. So was Sir Relz—not because Drassi had lost popularity, but because Wistram News Network needed more people. The academy wanted 24/7, live coverage at all times and Drassi just couldn’t do it herself.
She was, however, the Drake on the spot to interview Grimalkin. As they switched back to Noass’ coverage, Grimalkin sighed.
“I think some people will really like it, Grimalkin.”
Drassi smiled encouragingly at him. The Fist Mage of Pallass nodded.
“One can hope. However, the numbers tell another story. Thank you, Miss Drassi. Apprentices! Pack up! We’re done for today.”
The Drake strode away, without waiting for a response. He knew the advertisement might have some effect, but it took more time for widespread change. He knew that.
He was not depressed. He was going to have a mood-stabilizing cup of tea and get to work. He had other, even more important things to do, after all.
His notes on Project Earth were expanding, and it had a title. Oh yes. He had of course reported everything to Chaldion. Grimalkin was efficient.
