And yet the water level was going down.

Low tide wasn't supposed to happen until night. This was one of the few things Serof remembered very clearly, mostly because the Hunters that came to resupply their spellslates never stopped complaining about it. Something about the waters of the Endless Deep being much more intimidating beneath the light of the Dread Moon.

Except right now it was clearly still the middle of the day. It shouldn't have been time for low tide yet. The tides happened like clockwork, and as far as Serof knew, it had never been off for the last eight years.

Every two months, the Red Hunters arrived in the middle of the night, complaining about having to do so. This was a fact ingrained into him so deeply at this point that it felt wrong to consider that anything else might be true.

So what did it mean that it was off now?

Serof stared at the boats. He had no idea what to think of this. Did that mean he needed to leave now? Was there a reason the Red Hunters waited until night? Low tide was supposed to last six hours, but his sense of time was so off by this point that he barely knew what that meant.

He was pretty sure six hours wasn't enough time for it to be the middle of the night. This just seemed like the tide was a few hours off.

But why would the tide be a few hours off?

There had been no communication from the Red Hunters about this, so it was unlikely they were anticipating it. When Serof was scrying earlier, he hadn't noticed the usual team anywhere close by, and if they had been preparing to sail off they would at least have been in the vicinity. That would almost certainly screw with their plans—the tides being low now meant it would be rising again by the time the Red Hunters were in position.

It also meant he wouldn't need to worry about running into them while sailing back across, if he was quick about it. He might be able to escape into the mountains of Aersheld and find a way to a teleporter that could get him to the Brightscale Academy.

Whichever god did this... thank you, Serof said, bowing his head in a small prayer, feathery antennae dipping with him. Because who else could have done this? The tides shifting to help him couldn't be anything less than an omen from the gods. A sign of their favor.

After all, the only other thing that might shift the tides themselves was if someone had moved one of the moons, and the idea of that was ridiculous.

Sternkessel cocked his head. If he had eyes to narrow, he would have narrowed them; as it stood, he simply paused mid-sentence to stare into space, the rings of his head spinning silently for a moment.

"Sterny?" Cale poked him in the shoulder. "You were about to tell us about something you noticed."

"Sterny?" Sternkessel repeated, turning to stare at the human.

"I'm trying out nicknames! Not sure I like that one, though. Might have to try something else."

"I see," Sternkessel replied evenly, careful to avoid changing his expression. Mostly because keeping Cale guessing was developing into a remarkably interesting past-time. "Yes, well. What I was about to say was that I was aware of a third party presence disrupting my domain, but could not trace it. That, it appears, has changed."

Cale squinted at him. "Are you about to teleport away with no further explanation?"

Sternkessel chuckled. "I will be back in an hour or two," he said.

Then he reached up to spin one of the rings on his head and vanished.

Cale stared at the spot where he'd left.

"Well," he said eventually, shrugging. "I've got about an hour before the next class, so this is a perfect chance to test my new baking spell."

He beamed, then paused.

"Technically, I have to see what it evolves into first," he amended. "It might not be a baking spell. But it probably will be. Anyone coming? We should go fast, because Imrys is headed this way and I'm pretty sure she's looking for me."
