A voice. Erin turned. And a [Sinew Magus] rose from the chair where he’d been prepared to take notes. Grimalkin strode forwards.
“This can cure the plague in Zeres?”
His eyes were sharp as he looked at Erin and then the mold and penicillin. Erin glanced up at Grimalkin.
“That’s right.”
“Then Pallass will pay for it. And if the Assembly won’t, I’ll cover it myself. Send the bill to me.”
Octavia felt weak-kneed. Grimalkin glanced at Erin.
“Just so long as some of it reaches Zeres, as well as Baleros.”
“The [Doctor] needs it to make it most effective. But yeah. I’ll talk to you in…thirty minutes. Octavia? You’re getting paid. Is that okay?”
“Sure. I mean…put my name on the jars?”
“In big lettering. Like a logo or something.”
Erin helpfully pointed to the glass jar. Octavia thought about that. Baleros? A cure for…she began muttering.
“Complimentary matches. Aaah! I need to grow more mold! Labels? A logo?”
She ran. Erin had penicillin. Grimalkin was asking questions, but she had to get this stuff moving. Delivery would take a longer time. She needed a Courier.
 
—-
 
“So, I need a Courier from the nearest big port. One who can go on the oceans fast. But you need to get it there. Like—by nightfall. Any city will do; anyone with a Courier. I’ll hire them. How about it, Hawk?”
The Rabbit Beastkin looked at Erin. He looked at the table piled with Octavia-brand jars which she was hastily slapping logos on. Mrsha had come up with it. A needle and thread sticking out of a jar. Lyonette had…improved the art with [Flawless Attempt].
Teriarch was harrumphily listening as the two servants tried to placate his bad mood. Selys was trying to keep up. And Hawk?
“No, Erin. Nothing doing.”
He shook his head. Erin blinked.
“What? Why? Hawk, this is essential—”
The Courier folded his furry arms.
“Hold on, Erin. I understand this is important, but business is still business. I can’t just run an errand for nothing. Besides, I’m not running any deliveries.”
“I can pay!”
“Yes…at a discount, though? That goes against my principles. But that’s not it either, Erin. Even if I was going to do you a favor, I don’t want to leave the city.”
“Why?”
Erin and Selys chorused that. The Rabbit-man looked pointedly at Selys. He put an arm around her.
“I’m staying here in case there are more riots. I’m not about to leave Selys at the hands of a mob.”
“Hawk! Don’t be an idiot! This is medicine! Like potions! I’m fine! The riots never even got into the guild!”
Selys glowered at him. The Rabbit Beastkin blew out his cheeks.
“What are you saying? I should be right here. That’s what a concerned partner does!”
“Not if people’s lives are at risk! You take Erin’s delivery! Don’t be stupid!”
“I’m concerned for you!”
The two began arguing. Erin looked from face to face. She opened her mouth, and decided against it. She didn’t have time to waste.
“Problems with delivery?”
Grand Magus Eldavin inquired silkily from his chair. Erin glanced at him.
“I’m working on it.”
“Perhaps I could—no, then again, halfhearted—”
Erin stormed past him without hearing. The Dragon harrumphed again.
“Change of plans. Get Drassi here, Ishkr.”
“I asked, but she’s nowhere to be found, Erin.”
The Gnoll was panting. He’d gone to her apartment. Erin scowled.
“Find her. Drag her here! I need Drassi! Tell her I’ll pay her triple overtime—whatever it takes! But she’ll want to do this. I have to go to Invrisil.”
 
—-
 
The Runner’s Guild in Invrisil was busy as usual. The [Innkeeper] strode up to one [Receptionist]’s counter. She hopped up and down until the City Runner in front of her was done. Then she approached.
“Can I…help you, Miss?”
The [Receptionist] gave Erin a very odd look, but she’d seen worse. The young woman leaned on the counter.
“I want a Courier. I have a delivery I need to get to Baleros. I want a Courier who can get it to the nearest port-city, and then another who can get it across the ocean as fast as possible.”
Heads turned. That kind of request was big. The kind that nobles made, but…this young woman didn’t look exactly rich enough to make it. The [Receptionist] gave her an appraising look and coughed into her hand.
“Miss. I’m afraid only a few Couriers are nearby, even in Invrisil’s Guild.”
“Okay. I want to talk to them.”
The [Receptionist] gave Erin a strained smile.
“Miss…”
“Erin Solstice.”
“Miss Solstice, we can’t just request a Courier without some, um, assurances that you can afford them. By all means, you can post a request with your available funds, and they will review the request at their leisure. However…”
“This is urgent. I want to send medicine! To Baleros! It’s about this Yellow Rivers thing!”
Now more heads popped up. Erin was debating Pallass. But Grimalkin had thought Invrisil was more likely to have a Courier if Hawk couldn’t be persuaded. The [Receptionist] licked her lips. She didn’t like doing this, but…she put on an apologetic face.
“Miss Erin. I know someone might need a…potion. Or poultice. But even so, I’m sure Baleros has its own [Healers]. Couriers may be inclined to read your request and take on a case for charity. But you must wait.”
Erin’s eyes narrowed.
“Nobles wouldn’t have to wait, would they?”
“The nobility…are the nobility, Miss Erin.”
The [Receptionist] was firm. Erin thought of Maviola. Or Grimalkin. Or Chaldion. She could waste time. Or…the [Lady Firestarter]’s words echoed in Erin’s mind.
The [Innkeeper] leaned over the counter. The [Receptionist] leaned back. Erin Solstice pointed at herself.
“Listen. You may not know me, but I’m Erin Solstice. An [Innkeeper] from Liscor.”
“From Liscor? Oh, you’re the one with—”
“The magic door.”
Erin let that sink in. She looked around the guild. Full of runners. Then went on.
“I’m the [Innkeeper] with a magic door. That connects Liscor to Invrisil to Pallass. I’ve agreed not to send packages through to Invrisil from Liscor because it’ll mess with the Runner’s Guild. It ruined Celum’s Runner’s Guild for a bit. But I’ve agreed to ban that for Invrisil. No…deliveries that would y’know, negate 400 miles of hard work. Because that’s bad for Runners.”
Oh. The Runner’s Guild looked more closely at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked at the [Receptionist], who’d begun to sweat. Erin Solstice smiled.
“Don’t make me change my mind. I want to speak with a Courier.”
It was the most aggressive move Erin had ever made, and she’d flipped a table about fifteen minutes ago. The [Receptionist] begged to confer with the Guildmaster. But before she came back, someone applauded. Erin turned—
A short man and a horse stood behind her. The horse was beautiful, a silvery mare. The man was…uh, well, more like one of the horse jockeys than anything else. But he was confident. And grinning.
“Well, you’ve got my attention. Tritel and Ci. I’m a Courier. The Moonlight Rider. What do you want, Miss Erin Solstice?”
 
—-
 
“I see. So this is…meant to cure that Yellow Rivers stuff? Must be worth a lot.”
Tritel eyed the jar of mold in Erin’s inn. Ci had come with him. Ishkr cautiously offered her a tub of water. Iced. The mare delicately drank as she snorted at him.
Even Erin had been forced to do a double-take at the Moonlight Rider’s insistence that his partner go everywhere with him. But Ci was perfectly behaved. She’d walked in, stared at Mrsha, and then looked bemused at Palt. He’d rolled his eyes, but didn’t seem to have a problem with a horse and rider.
“It’s valuable—but I’m not trying to earn money on it. It’s meant to go to a [Doctor]. She’s working on a cure.”
“I see.”
Tritel was smoking. Tobacco. Erin let him do it. The Courier only stopped when Ci blew the smoke back in his face. He grimaced and put it out.
“My horse is a tyrant. Anyways, let’s say I did this. Looks like we need to keep the mold out of bags of holding, right?”
“That’s right. It’s alive. So…no bags of holding. But this you can take.”
Erin gestured to the processed penicillin. Tritel nodded.
“And when we get to a port, say, First Landing, you want this loaded onto a ship or a Courier’s craft. And it’s bound for Talenqual? That’s a port city. Yeah, a sea-Courier could get it there fast. But that’s no cheap offer.”
“I know.”
The [Innkeeper] was waiting. Tritel took a gulp from the blue juice and rum he’d asked for. He glanced at Ci.
“So? How much are we getting paid?”
“Well, I can’t afford to pay you full rates. But I can…”
Erin glanced around for Grimalkin, but he was gone, off securing funds for Octavia. Eldavin calmly watched. Tritel laughed.
“Miss Erin. You can’t ask us to go hundreds of miles at top speed—even from Invrisil—and expect us to do it for nothing!”
“It’s going to save lives.”
He nodded amicably.
“I know. In that case, get a City Runner. It’ll be slower by a few days, and a [Captain] will be slower by boat, but they’ll do it affordable.”
“You won’t do it for charity?”
He shrugged. A look crossed Tritel’s face.
“Listen, Miss Erin. I’ve been begged hundreds, thousands of times by wives, asking me to take an antidote to their husbands. Or adventurers who need me to bail them out with a potion. Children who need transport to The Healer of Tenbault or somewhere with a good [Healer]. Sometimes I do it. I used to do it a lot. But if I do it too much, I’ll spend my entire life running without a penny. And I have to feed Ci and myself. I’ve known Couriers who died like that.”
The [Innkeeper] pursed her lips.
“So people dying doesn’t bother you?”
His eyes flashed. Ci glowered at Erin and bent her head to nudge the [Innkeeper]. But Tritel stopped her.
“I never said that. I just said, I need compensation. And if you think I’m heartless—the sea-Courier needs money too. More, really. They need to cross a damn ocean with this cargo. Can you pay us?”
Erin Solstice sat back. She was thinking. Reynold frowned.
“Lady Reinhart would surely…”
He looked at Sacra. She nodded.
“I’ll send a [Message].”
She unrolled a scroll. And Teriarch held up a hand.
“Not just yet.”
The two servants blinked. They looked down at him. The Dragon sat in his chair, watching Erin.
“Grand Magus?”
Reynold wondered if this was Eldavin’s pique showing. But the half-Elf was just watching Erin. He glanced at Reynold.
“If she fails, send a [Message]. But wait.”
The young woman looked around. Lyonette was shaking her head. It would deplete the inn’s funds, even if they could afford to hire both. And Erin didn’t think a [Doctor] had that much money. If she needed to, she’d ask via Ulinde. But…there were ways.
Her eyes alighted on Galina, instructing an older Gnoll woman on the parts of A Doll’s House. Erin looked back at Tritel.
“What about other forms of compensation, Tritel?”
He laughed dismissively.
“Miss Erin. If I had a copper penny for every time I heard that—”
Erin Solstice slapped the table. Ci backed up in surprise. She leaned forwards and the Moonlight Rider and his horse leaned back.
“Tritel. And Ci. The Players of Celum have a booth in their theater reserved for me. Are you a big fan of plays?”
“You? I mean—I’ve seen the other plays, back before they arrived. Ci has to wait, so I’m not a fan of them, though. Decent stuff. What, why?”
Tritel blinked at Erin. She owned the Solstice Booth? The young woman looked at him. She put her cards on the table.
“I will get you and the Courier who delivers it across the sea an exclusive seat in the Solstice Booth and a performance dedicated to you by the Players of Celum, who will dedicate the play to you by name to the entire audience for an entire month as a patron of the arts.”
It was a variation of her Octavia gambit. Tritel’s eyes widened. He took a deep sip of the drink.
“…You can do that?”
“Absolutely. Your name. And Ci’s. And I’ll pay you as much as I can. The sea-Courier too. How about it? Free access to the Solstice booth. For as many plays as you want. We can always share. Plus, you can take friends with you.”
Tritel was thinking about that. That was…very tempting. Erin Solstice sat there. She smiled at him and the Moonlight Rider grinned. He was wavering. Erin looked at him and then at his horse. She grinned.
“This will save lives. It’s the right thing to do. And…I’ll get your horse in the booth as well.”
The [Rider] blinked at Erin. And then he laughed.
“Deal. I’ll do it for free if I get that! Now, do you have a sea-Courier? Because if not, I need a [Message] spell to negotiate…”
 
—-
 
On the other side of the world, Geneva Scala was standing in the Runner’s Guild. She didn’t have Erin’s ability to threaten economic competition. But she had Luan, and Ken.
“That’s right. How about Rexielsa? I know her. Let her know it’s Luan the Rower. We’re asking for a delivery. It won’t be at good rates, but let her know The Last Light of Baleros is asking.”
Names had power. Geneva tried to stand straight and look…like a myth of the battlefields. The [Receptionist], a Dullahan, kept glancing at her.
“We can do that, Luan…but they’re busy.”
“It’s a personal favor. They know me.”
“Um—we’ll get in touch as fast as possible. As soon as one gets to the Runner’s Guild.”
“Let them know it’s about the Yellow Rivers disease, please. I am sure even Couriers are concerned. This will keep everyone healthy.”
Ken put in. The [Receptionist]’s eyes widened and she scribbled an addendum. Luan nodded gratefully at Ken. He turned to Geneva.
“It’ll be a while. Why don’t you go back to the headquarters? They know I know you, Geneva. You don’t have to be here.”
“Okay. Let me know if there’s anything I can do.”
The [Doctor] inhaled. She still felt jumpy. Was this happening?
“Geneva, Geneva!”
The Humans spun. Siri raced into the Runner’s Guild. She was panting.
“Geneva! We just got word. The penicillin’s away! A Courier is bringing it to First Landing! There are sea-Couriers there. We just have to get in contact—Joseph says he’s working on it.”
“Already?”
Luan blinked. Siri nodded.
“And that’s not all. Listen—we need you to get back to headquarters right away! There’s something else.”
Geneva ran. Idis ran, really. But the [Doctor] was back at the United Nations headquarters before the panting Siri. The [Ranger] entered after Geneva, clutching at her side. Geneva was fast.
“I wish I had a Selphid.”
She commented to Daly. The Australian young man was reading from a piece of paper.
 
[Joseph] – We have the [Alchemist] with the penicillin here. And that [Healer] you saw on the scrying orb.
