Selphids didn’t kill Selphids. But Ulinde had learned that you didn’t have to die to regret crossing another Selphid. Sometimes she still shuddered at the one confrontation they’d had.
“But I deserved that. And now I’m a Halfseeker. Me.”
The Selphid smiled into a mirror. Her lips twitched and spasmed. She sighed, and with her interior body, found a ripped bit of muscle.
“Darn. The muscle’s wearing out.”
She sighed. Corpses always wore down. But this Drake’s body was far from rotten, so she lived with it. She went downstairs after carefully applying some of the preservative gel that prevented body odors from leaking out and active decay.
“Good morning, Jelaqua! Morning, Moore, morning, Seborn!”
The youngest member of the Halfseekers bounded down the stairs into the inn in Pallass. The other Halfseekers looked up. Jelaqua waved lazily, Seborn grunted, and Moore smiled.
“Hello, Ulinde. How was your sleep?”
“Great, thanks! Jelaqua, what’re we doing today? I’m ready to go adventuring!”
The [Spellslinger] bounced up and down. Jelaqua yawned.
“Eat something first, Ulinde! I’m tired. Seborn, what’s our plan?”
“We’re between jobs. Again. Because someone keeps going on dates rather than finding us work.”
The [Rogue] snapped. He was grumpy without his morning tea-and-rum. It came via Garuda [Waitress] along with food for the others.
This was not The Wandering Inn. It was simply expedient; easier to be in Pallass rather than having to use Erin’s door. And the inn was nice, even to Selphids. It was run by a Dullahan, who knew and respected Maughin and was familiar with Selphids from Baleros.
“Hey, I looked, Seborn. I didn’t see anything great. We’ll take a mission today. After breakfast. Uh—who wants my breakfast? I ate at Maughin’s.”
Seborn sighed. But Moore accepted Jelaqua’s portion and chowed down on his extra-large plate. Ulinde helped herself to breakfast—or tried to. She noticed Moore staring.
“Ulinde. Your jaw is…”
The Selphid’s jaw was only opening on her right side. Ulinde sighed.
“My jaw muscle’s all deteriorated. Jelaqua, do you know a fix?”
“Let me see. Damn, looks all torn up.”
The older Selphid got up to inspect Ulinde’s body. A bit of her real form reached out through the air and inspected the deteriorated skin. The Garuda [Waitress] shuddered as she brought over a drink.
“Disgusting.”
Ulinde’s smile faded as she heard the word in the air. She didn’t see who it was. Seborn looked around, and Moore’s expression turned clouded.
But none of the Halfseekers said anything. They were used to it. Jelaqua affected not to hear. She slapped Ulinde on the back.
“I think we need a string fix. We can find a small bit, tie those two muscles together. It won’t last long, but I have a spool of thread in my room. We’ll do it after breakfast.”
“Thanks, Jelaqua.”
The [Iron Tempest] winked at Ulinde. It was like having a teacher and big sister who was also your friend. Ulinde helped herself to breakfast—spicy chicken eggs. There was a breed of chickens raised on magical peppers who laid delicious eggs. Selphids loved spice; their taste buds deteriorated too fast in most bodies for the subtleties of taste.
Things had changed a lot for Ulinde. She had gone with Montressa to deliver justice and find people from Earth. Now—she was a member of the team she’d idolized. Isceil was…dead. The team was split up.
Some things remained, though. Ulinde was still a member of Wistram, even if she was now a Halfseeker. She had loyalty to her academy, which was why she hadn’t told Jelaqua all about Montressa’s mission. She’d debated it, but Jelaqua didn’t need to know. The Minds on Baleros on the other hand? Well…wiser Selphids than her would make that choice in Wistram.
But today, as Jelaqua and Ulinde went upstairs and the Selphid used a tiny bit of string to connect the rotten muscle so she could move her jaw properly, her duties were brought up again. Ulinde sat up and raised a finger to her temple.
“Incoming [Message]. I—oh. Oh. Oh wow. Jelaqua! Big sis, you want to hear this.”
Jelaqua sat back on her haunches; she was wearing a Gnoll’s body.
“What’s up, Ulinde?”
The [Spellslinger] was trying to process the information being thrown at her. She gasped.
“It’s from the Minds. No—their agents!”
Jelaqua’s eyes sharpened. The Minds? They were the authority of Selphids. When they gave an order, any Selphid who was…a proper Selphid obeyed.
“What do they want with us?”
“I—oh wow. Jelaqua. They’ve got someone from Earth.”
The word had never been mentioned between Jelaqua and Ulinde. But the other Selphid wasn’t completely surprised to hear it. Jelaqua’s eyes narrowed.
“What did you just say?”
 
—-
 
It took some explaining. And admitting about Wistram’s knowledge of Selphids. Jelaqua and Ulinde sat together in a single body.
A Raskghar’s; it was the most spacious. Since they were both adult Selphids, they could both occupy the body. They had to squeeze a bit to fit in this one, but it worked. And their conversation was inaudible, even to Gnoll ears. Selphid secrets were good secrets.
It was hard to imagine for non-Selphids how they spoke. Or interacted. There were…parallels.
“Jelaqua, I’m sorry I didn’t tell you! But I had to be loyal to the academy!”
Ulinde whined. She shied back from Jelaqua, down the spinal column. The other Selphid pursued, although her body and Ulinde’s were meeting across the stomach, spine, down the left hand—she reached out and smacked Ulinde. Well, the Selphid equivalent.
“You idiot! So that’s why you were all there! I should’ve known! You should have told us.”
“But Jelaqua…wait, how did you know?”
“We knew about Earth! Or rather…Seborn did. Moore picked up some stuff with Mrsha. We have ears. And Erin’s not exactly a secret person. But tell us everything.”
Ulinde did. Jelaqua contracted on herself in shock.
“No way. Another planet? We thought it was another dimension! A gateway. Erin and the others?”
“That’s right. The Minds must not know, though. Jelaqua, I have orders from an ‘Idis’ to get us in touch with Joseph.”
“That kid with the soccer ball? Why?”
“They know he’s from Earth.”
Jelaqua went still. She was thinking hard.
“…So they have no idea about Erin?”
“None. Should I tell them—?”
“No.”
Jelaqua’s voice echoed throughout the body. Ulinde flinched. She didn’t ‘see’ Jelaqua; Selphids didn’t see without eyes. But she had senses beyond that of a body. And Jelaqua undulated darkly.
“The Minds…don’t need to know about Erin. If they want Joseph—fine. I’ll respect their wishes. But we’re calling Seborn and Moore in here and telling them.”
Ulinde gasped. Again—another parallel. She exuded a tiny bubble of oxygen which both Selphids sensed.
“But Jelaqua, the orders are secret—”
Jelaqua poked Ulinde. That was…broadly speaking the same.
“We don’t keep secrets from teammates. That’s how Garen…no. Not even the Mind’s orders. Not about Erin. You’re loyal to our people, Ulinde. But you need to learn about what being loyal to your team means.”
“Yes, Jelaqua.”
 
—-
 
In short order, the other two Halfseekers were brought in. They listened. They debated. Seborn didn’t like it. Moore didn’t like it. But Jelaqua was adamant.
“Lads—you don’t know the Minds. We’re both Selphids; disobeying them is like disobeying your [Captain], Seborn.”
“I did that all the time. I abandoned my ship, Jelaqua.”
The Drowned Man [Rogue] and former [Pirate] growled. The Selphid hesitated.
“…Okay, not like that. It’s like…betraying your team. There’s no going back for us, boys. And the Minds know about Joseph and Earth.”
She looked around significantly. Moore and Seborn went still. Ulinde went quiet. She shivered, though her body felt no cold. She was in the presence of history. A name unspoken.
Garen Redfang.
“What will you do, Jelaqua? If it puts Erin and Mrsha and the inn in danger, I will not have it. They have been through enough.”
Moore rumbled. Jelaqua nodded at him.
“Nothing like that. I…don’t think the Minds know about Erin. And we’ll keep it that way. I propose we go to the inn. And tell Erin about it.”
The other Halfseekers looked at each other. Ulinde held her breath. Jelaqua went on.
“It’s the right thing to do. She’s managing the kids, and Montressa, Beza, and that Palt are all there to watch her. We go there, tell her what’s up, and let her decide. Votes?”
The Halfseekers voted. On big things like this, they would. Moore nodded, relief on his face. Seborn raised his claw hand.
“Do it. And if they want us to kidnap Joseph or anyone else, tell them to shove off.”
The other three looked at Ulinde. She blinked.
“Me? But I’m new.”
“The Halfseekers don’t care. What do you say, Ulinde?”
Jelaqua smiled at her. The [Spellslinger] felt warm. Connected to her team. She reached out and slowly grasped the wand at her side. She raised it, and sent a bubble of light floating into the air. It floated upwards, reflecting the faces of her team within. Her team. The [Spellslinger] took a deep, shuddering breath.
“I say—I stand with my team. No matter what the Minds want. Let’s find out, shall we?”
They laughed and patted her on the back, clapped her shoulder, or gave her an approving nod. Ulinde smiled. And she knew this was her team. The reason she’d idolized the Halfseekers hadn’t been because they had a Selphid on their team. Well, it hadn’t been the only reason. It was because they were like this.
Good people. Then Ulinde heard another [Message] go ping in her head. She blinked.
“Mold? Hang on, there’s one other thing…”
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn. Erin Solstice frowned. She rubbed at one ear. It was ringing.
“What did you say?”
Jelaqua said it again. She, Ulinde—Seborn and Moore were downstairs, investigating something in Octavia’s shop. Erin Solstice looked at her friends. She had to be tired after arguing with Wailant, Teliv, and doing business stuff all day.
“What?’
“Earth.”
Erin slowly sat down in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She had been trying to plant potatoes. She looked at Jelaqua and Ulinde. Then she grinned.
“Well, yeah. I guess I’m from earth. Uh, there’s lot of earth all over. Here, there, everywhere—”
Neither Selphid blinked. Jelaqua looked at [Innkeeper].
“Erin—we know. We’re not idiots. We’ve heard you and Numbtongue when you’re not being quiet enough. And Ulinde’s from Wistram.”
“Oh.”
Erin considered this. She had a trowel in hand, potato in the other. She debated throwing the potato at Jelaqua, running for it and…well, what?
“And someone…knows another person from Earth? This, uh, place I’ve never—”
The Selphids both raised an eyebrow. Erin threw down her potato.
“Fine. They know another person from Earth?”
“That’s right, Miss Erin. It’s complicated. The Selphid…authority is trying to get us in touch with Joseph. They know he’s from Earth.”
“How do they know? He just plays soccer! Football!”
Erin snapped. She felt sweat on the back of her neck. Ulinde shrugged.
“Apparently someone from Earth saw him. Erin. They have someone from Earth who wants to speak with him.”
The young woman froze. She looked up.
“Someone else?”
Neither Jelaqua nor Ulinde was prepared for the hungry look in Erin’s eye. The [Innkeeper] rose to her feet.
“Who? I mean—what’s their name? Are they okay? Where are they from?”
Jelaqua gnawed on a lip. Ulinde waved her hands.
“We don’t know! I have specific orders, Erin. They want me to get Joseph to a secret place and then they’ll relay [Message] spells through me. I’m not Palt. I can’t do [Speak] spells and they don’t want Wistram to know. But…they know. Joseph’s from another world. And…so are you. We know that, not them. And we didn’t tell them.”
“Another world. Earth.”
The Gold-rank Captain looked at Erin. Strangely, but with raised brows. It made sense and it didn’t. There stood Erin Solstice. She looked into Jelaqua’s eyes. The [Innkeeper]’s gaze flickered. She bit her lip, scuffed a foot on the dirt she’d cleared for planting.
Then she shrugged.
“Well, yeah. Sorry I didn’t tell you, Jelaqua. It’s this whole thing. I’m from Earth. Another world. It’s not like this one. Keep it secret.”
She looked at Jelaqua. At Ulinde. The three stood together. No one knew quite what to say. Erin glanced at their faces. She threw up her hands.
“Psyche! Just kidding! Hah, you fell for that? Hilarious!”
The two Selphids blinked at her. Erin lowered her hands. She checked their expressions, scuffed a toe.
“Darn. Okay, let’s think this one out. Come with me.”
 
—-
 
“Miss Geneva. Our Selphid has made contact with Joseph.”
Geneva Scala nearly dropped her basin of wet towels. The clinic was full of noise, the staff checking on patients, groans, even eating, but even so she beckoned the Selphid away.
“What? Already?”
The Selphid [Mage] bowed. His skin was pale; he wore a Gnoll’s body, incongruously enough. It was long-rotted, yellowed bones showing through parts of the skin through gaps in the robe. He smelled like mint.
“Yes. And we have word on the mold you wanted.”
“Really? From whom?”
“A representative contacted the Plain’s Eyes tribe. One of the largest Gnoll tribes in Izril.”
“Their specialty is [Shamans]. They trade the most out of any tribe with the Walled Cities and are very respected.”
Idis whispered in Geneva’s mind. The Selphid [Mage] went on.
“They’ve agreed to look for this mold. If any group could find it, or has records of a substance like that, they would.”
“Oh. I see.”
Geneva sighed. But that was replaced almost at once by concern.
“Does this—Joseph know about…?”
“All he has been told is that someone from Earth wishes to speak with him secretly. He has been told Wistram is untrustworthy. Our agent will have explained.”
“She’s a Gold-rank, as well as a [Mage], Geneva. Ulinde. But she’s trustworthy. I’ll tell you more about her if you like.”
Idis spoke helpfully. Geneva bit her lip. She hadn’t expected it to work so fast. But she made up her mind in an instant.
“I need to decontaminate. Let me scrub. Meet me in the United Nations headquarters in twenty minutes. Please get Paige, Kirana, Daly, Luan, Ken—anyone you can find. Tell this Joseph we want to speak with him. No—wait.”
She stopped the [Mage] as he raised a finger to his temple. The Selphid looked inquisitively at Geneva. The [Doctor] closed her eyes and thought.
“Don’t tell them about us. Just say—it’s me.”
 
—-
 
