Selphids. The Bodysnatchers of Baleros. Parasitic, one of the most mysterious races in the world. And one of the most reviled, distrusted—
Well, not as bad as Demons. Not as bad at all. Selphids were still citizens. Just—you couldn’t trust them since they lived in dead bodies. They used to use live ones. Tyrants.
Almost as bad as half-Elves and their empires. Or those damn Minotaurs. And Humans. Don’t forget the Dragonwars and Drakes. Really, when you got down to it, though, Selphids were just unappealing. Of course, the Antinium were worse, but—
But Selphids were universally distrusted. It went beyond a simple interspecies conflict. There was something about Selphids—their malleable forms, the way they used host vessels that clashed with most other species’ sensibilities. Selphids were as alien as Antinium—no. Moreso.
Until now, Geneva Scala had viewed it as a kind of backwards prejudice. Until recently—she had seen Selphids as a people like any other. Full of good and bad.
Now, she thought differently. As a species—Selphids were people. But the [Doctor]’s thesis was this:
The nature of the way they controlled bodies meant that a relationship between host and Selphid was unequal. By the basic distribution of power, there could be no balance. And so—Selphids as a people were not inherently born or spawned evil. But the threat to their species, the way they interacted with their hosts, and their desperation made them poor overlords.
Or good ones. Geneva Scala straightened from another case of Yellow Rivers. She was tired. Her hand rose and wiped at a bead of sweat on her head before it could sting her eyes.
Geneva hadn’t done that. The hand produced some antiseptic; she washed her gloves.
“Water.”
The [Doctor] said it. Not Geneva. It was her voice, her distinct, brusque tone. A Lizardgirl hurried over.
“Water, Doctor Scala?”
“Once I’m out of my gear. I’m dehydrated. Water—a snack—this patient needs…”
Her voice trailed off. And Geneva Scala, who had been musing, feeling her body do all these things, waited another thirty seconds. When she spoke, it was softly.
“More liquids. More hydration; we can’t do more at this moment.”
She felt her head nod. The Lizardgirl bowed, and hurried off to get the electrolyte-solution that Geneva had worked up to replenish the loss of fluids the Yellow River’s fever and oozing discharge caused. Geneva Scala walked into the cleansing area and began to strip down.
“I have more patients to attend to.”
Geneva spoke to herself. She didn’t stop removing her gear—the resin-like armor that covered her from head-to-toe, preventing the spread of disease, or at least, slowing it. She heard a voice in her head.
“I know, Geneva. But remember—we have to take care of you. I’ll eat and drink for you if you want.”
“No thank you, Idis. I can do that myself.”
“Sure! Let me know if I can help, Geneva. Remember: you have to sleep in four hours!”
The Selphid cheerfully spoke up. And Geneva wondered if she’d have snapped at Okasha for doing less. No, certainly she would have. She missed Okasha. She regretted a lot of things. She was a prisoner, with a kindlier warden. But stricter rules. And that was a terrible thing. But worse—
Her patients were dying.
 
—-
 
“What is the Yellow Rivers disease? I’m sorry if the topic of this broadcast becomes distasteful to our audience. If you’re troubled, I encourage you to tune in next time.”
The voice from the scrying orb echoed through The Wandering Inn as Mrsha and Numbtongue ate breakfast. Noass went on, shuffling his notes.
“However, we have to bring this disease to the attention of the public, as is our duty.”
He leaned forwards on one claw, addressing the screen, looking serious. Mrsha patted Numbtongue. The [Goblin Soulbard] nodded.
“Silly Drake.”
“We understand now, that there are tens of thousands of—of cases of infected peoples at most ports worldwide. It’s fair to say this disease has spread without warning or understanding across every continent! Its roots are in Baleros, and what we have next may shock you. We encourage children and those faint of heart to not look at the following scenes. This is an image of the disease—”
Numbtongue stopped eating. Mrsha’s hair stood up and she leapt off his head. She felt a gagging nausea in her stomach. Noass also should have said ‘people should not eat while watching’.
It was a public service announcement. The second in this world, if you counted the Golden Triangle thing. And Numbtongue was watching through The Wandering Inn’s brand new scrying orb, bought from Hedault at a discount. And regretting it.
“So, Liscor’s got lots of fish in the spring. And it has good cattle and stuff. But not much. So what’s it got?”
“The Shield Spiders reduced the availability of [Shepherds] and [Ranchers], Miss Solstice. The same with farming. I’m sorry to say that the city hasn’t been an agricultural hotspot for…a long time. The destruction of so many nests might change that, but we won’t be exporting for a long time.”
“Well, where do I get my food from, huh? They want food. Who’s got food?”
“I do. How much money are we talking here?”
A satisfied [Farmer]-[Pirate] smirked around. Erin, a Drake, and a flame-haired woman looked at him. The [Innkeeper] turned to Teliv again.
“Okay, Wailant’s got crops, but we need more [Farmers]. All these [Lords] want other stuff too. Ore. Uh…candles. Lots of stuff. Sugar.”
The [Negotiator] smoothed the spines on the back of his neck. Teliv glanced at Maviola, but the [Lady] had been rather quiet. Which relieved him. Erin Solstice looked justifiably confused and concerned; she had a trade deal, but nothing to trade.
Which obviously left the onus of power on the seller. Which was Liscor. Wailant was a complication, but Teliv’s voice grew silky as he began to leverage a Skill.
[First Reasonable Offer].
“Liscor’s Council has authorized me to negotiate on behalf of the city. We’re obviously interested in trade, but given the complexities of supplying Human [Lords], you must understand the prices will be higher, Miss Solstice. Nevertheless, we can do business.”
“And I have lots to sell. Let me just call up some of my [Farmers] and we can do a deal. Better than Liscor.”
Wailant interrupted, pushing the Drake to one side. The [Negotiator] blinked; but Strongheart was strong-arming him. Or attempting to.
“Excuse me, sir. I believe Liscor has a priority on this.”
Wailant blinked as the Drake moved him back. And Wailant was a big man. But you couldn’t just push a good [Negotiator] aside. Or even a mediocre one.
Erin chewed on her lip.
“I just dunno, guys. Getting food to the [Lords] is important. So—so Liscor has food and Celum, or Wailant, has food. If we put it through the inn’s door, that’s easy, right? Everyone makes money. The [Lords] pay for it, and we’re all happy? Right?”
Wailant and Teliv glanced at each other and tried not to smile. Teliv produced a contract he’d been sweating over just an hour ago.
“Actually, Miss Solstice, we could do a very reasonable contract. You’d earn money on each transport, and Liscor would take the burden of managing the shipping and rates.”
“Oh! So, like, I just get paid for people using my door and you set the prices?”
The [Innkeeper] brightened. Wailant opened his mouth—Teliv used his third Skill to silence the man.
“Exactly. No bother. Money for all.”
“Great! Let me just see the contract—”
Teliv handed her the quill and contract. Smiling, Erin regarded the contract. She raised the quill. Blinked.
“Oh, no ink. Too bad.”
“Let me just get that for—”
Wailant growled. Teliv fumbled for the inkpot. Erin smiled as he yanked the cork open.
“Thanks, Teliv.”
She dipped the quill in ink. Then she wrote on the contract. Teliv practically snatched it back. He crowed.
“Thank you, Miss Solstice! You won’t regr—”
He stared at the contract. But instead of the signature, he saw, in large letters, ‘no thanks’ scrawled on the parchment. Erin smiled at him.
“Maviola, you were right. It is easy.”
“Told you.”
The [Lady] looked pleased. She’d been worried when Erin picked up the quill. Now, though, the [Innkeeper] winked at her. She looked at Teliv.
“So I’d get four coppers per shipment? That means you could make one ‘shipment’ as big as you wanted and I get four coppers per each. No weight limit, no time limit. Also—that’s not very fair if it takes all the magic from my door. What if you put diamonds through the door, huh?”
“I—but—Miss Solstice, let me explain.”
Teliv’s good mood turned into sweat in a second. Erin Solstice was looking at him. And suddenly, her eager, somewhat befuddled manner turned sharp. His [Negotiator] senses were telling him…he was in trouble.
“I get it. And Wailant!”
“Yes, Erin? Let me just say that I’ll give you a far better deal on behalf of Celum. Far better.”
The [Farmer] was beaming at Teliv’s expense. Erin turned to him. She put her hands on her hips and looked up at the former-[Pirate].
“I’m sure you will. Why don’t you tell me what you had in mind?”
He opened his mouth and Erin pointed a finger at him.
“—And when you do, I’ll compare it with the deal each [Farmer] would have offered me. After all, I can just move the door to their farms, right? Who put you in charge?”
“Erin! We’re friends, aren’t we? I’m just here to make sure those Drakes don’t run off with the farm! So to speak. My contacts’ll be along shortly. But I’m here to—”
“Get ahead?”
Maviola murmured. Erin saw Wailant’s eyes flicker. She sighed.
“Guys, guys. I don’t want this to be complicated.”
Wailant and Teliv brightened. Erin went on.
“But I do want this to be fair. Equitable! No one overcharges anyone else. Even if the [Lords] are…uh, [Lords], they’re hurting for money. So no one’s doubling their prices and we’re not having huge taxes or anything. Here’s what I had in mind…”
She handed over a folded piece of paper she and Maviola had been working on. Wailant and Teliv jostled to see. They began to raise objections at once. Erin put her hands on her hips.
Another day. In the background, the negotiations were taking place. But that was background. Mrsha tugged Lyonette over, pointing.
“What is it, Mrsha? I’m trying to listen to the trade deal. Oh, pox!”
Lyonette recoiled at the images on screen. Numbtongue was making a face and gagging. Lyonette covered her mouth. The view switched back to Noass, who was looking pale. He dabbed at his nose with a handkerchief.
“Appalling images, dear viewers. However, [Healers] across the world are attempting to combat this illness. We’re going now to an interview with Pallass’ own top [Healer]. Sir Relz is conducting the interview. Sir Relz?”
The image shifted. Now, Sir Relz stood, holding a little speaking stone with one claw. He was half-turned towards a nervous Gnoll. She jumped.
“…And we’re ready. Healer Demerra, you are now on broadcast. Can you tell us about your take on this disease? Pallass has reported six cases, but I understand there are over a thousand in Zeres; mainly from ships. It appears the Yellow Rivers illness—I hesitate to call it a plague—isn’t spread solely via, er, intercourse. How can we stop it? Can it be healed?”
A hand came down on the scrying orb. Both Mrsha and Numbtongue protested, but the [Princess] glowered as she lifted the orb.
“Dreadful. Mrsha, you shouldn’t watch this.”
Mrsha protested. She was big enough! She just wanted to show Lyonette the nasty yellow disease! Sir Relz was listening to Demerra’s explanation as the Gnoll stared into the scrying orb.
“But Lyonette, it’s important! If Pallass has the disease, Liscor might too! We want to watch! Please?”
The pleading didn’t come from Mrsha. Rather, it came from Drassi, who’d been watching for gossip material as she served drinks. Lyonette hesitated, then sighed.
“Numbtongue, if it gets…if it’s unsuitable, you turn it off. Got it?”
“Mhm.”
The Hobgoblin craned his neck around the orb as Lyonette put it back. Mrsha, Drassi, and Numbtongue crowded around; a few other patrons of the inn were watching as well.
“Discount for Octavia? I don’t have to—”
Wailant roared from the table where he was negotiating. Erin argued back. Mrsha threw a wadded up cloth napkin at them so they’d shut up. Everyone else leaned closer as the broadcast continued.
“—believe I have a cure. I’ve treated cases of this Yellow Rivers disease, and while it may be spreading, my magical crystals have reversed the illness’ effects in my patients.”
The Gnoll, Demerra, was brandishing a crystal and explaining the homeopathic effects and benefits. Sir Relz was nodding as she went on.
“I believe a crystal will enhance the body’s natural capabilities, preventing or at least decreasing the likelihood of catching this illness. I am selling them, and Salazsar and Fissival both export high-quality crystals. Moreover, my healing beds have also cured three of the sick people and they are completely healthy.”
The Drake sighed in relief and adjusted his monocle.
“There you have it, folks. That’s our [Healer]’s response. Back to you, Noass.”
“Thank you, Sir Relz! Now, we’ll be going to interviewing some survivors and getting takes from around the world on the issue. First—”
 
—-
 
Geneva Scala nearly smashed the scrying orb. Only Idis stopped her—and Paige.
“Geneva! We spent too much on it! Calm down!”
The [Doctor] stared at her shaking hand. Idis didn’t stop her tongue, though.
“Homeopathic crystals? Those don’t stop the disease! They might fight off the bacteria, but it’s airborne. It’s mutated! How many people can afford a bed of those crystals, anyways? What about quarantine? What about the ‘cured’ carriers who could be spreading the disease?”
What made her so furious was that the Gnoll was half-right. In this world healing crystals were real and they worked. But her solution wasn’t scalable. Geneva had been corresponding with other [Healers] who used healing crystals among other solutions and a bed of them would supercharge the immune system like a number of Skills, including Geneva’s own, which would halt the bacteria’s advance and give the body time to recover.
However. So many people were falling sick that unless the price of healing crystals dropped by about 83%, it wouldn’t be feasible to treat people.
“At least they’re talking about it, Geneva. Half the cities you were reaching out to were denying there was even a pandemic.”
Siri sat at the table, appraising the situation. As the [Doctor] cooled down, she still glowered at the images in the orb.
