“So, they absolutely work at protecting people from the Yellow Rivers disease. You have one of these—which everyone can afford—and we’re safe?”
“You know, it’s not that simple—”
“Then why are you talking about this? I watch your show every day.”
“Well, thank you—”
Drassi raised a hand and Sir Relz stopped smiling.
“I’ve stopped enjoying it as much. After the riots coverage. You know, there was a riot in Liscor?”
“We brought it up ourselves.”
“Yeah. Funny thing. There wasn’t one until you got to Invrisil and broadcast the crowds. Why’d you do that?”
Sir Relz was getting annoyed. He leaned forwards and snapped.
“Miss Drassi. Our job is to report the news. We’re [Commentators]. Our entire class is based around presenting what’s happening and giving our take! That’s our role.”
“Sure it is. My class does the same thing. But I don’t say things that might get people hurt. I’m a [Gossip], but I don’t tell lies.”
“Oh please—”
“Half-truths, then. What did telling people about riots achieve? Did you have to show us how mad everyone was? In the same way—do you think that telling people ‘healing crystals work’ will end the Yellow Rivers problem? I think it’s still ongoing, don’t you?”
“Yes. But…it’s disingenuous to alarm people all the time.”
“More disingenuous than reassuring them when there’s cause for alarm?”
Noass raised a claw.
“Listen, young Drake. And I’d appreciate it if you let us speak.”
Drassi nodded tightly. The Drake collected his thoughts.
“The Yellow Rivers disease is one matter. The riots are another. Let’s tackle one at a time. Shouldn’t we report the news as it happens? The King of Destruction, the riots—these events were happening as we spoke. Sir Relz and I went out and placed ourselves in the way of danger to show people what was happening. How—how is that a problem?”
It was the [Gossip]’s turn to pause.
“It seems, Noass, that we’re conflicted on what ‘reporting the news’ means. I think you’re saying when you report on the riots or the King of Destruction that people need to know instantly what’s happening.”
“That’s correct. We’re bringing news to people at a speed unprecedented up till this moment in time. A complete revolution of communication.”
“Yes. But there’s a danger inherent in this. I think you’re not thinking of the way showing people what’s happening is dangerous.”
“Dangerous?”
“Yes. Riots began across the world because people saw your coverage. Wouldn’t you agree there’s a link?”
The two Drakes exchanged a quick glance. Noass carefully sat back.
“We just report the news, Miss Drassi.”
“So there’s no responsibility on your part for how the news is reported?”
Silence. Drassi went on.
“Do healing crystals protect you from the disease? Sir Relz? Yes or no.”
“Healer Demerra has assured us it helps. That’s her prognosis as a [Healer]. Do you know what prognosis means, Miss Drassi?”
“Do I need to? Listen. Healer Demerra can say what she thinks is right. But if she’s wrong and the crystals are waste of money—isn’t that your fault as well? Do they protect you from the Yellow Rivers disease, Sir Relz? Please, answer the question.”
The Drake coughed.
“Traditionally, healing crystals do supplement potions. You see, they have known magical and medicinal properties—”
“Let’s stick to the facts, Sir Relz. Just the facts, please. It’s a yes-or-no question.”
 
—-
 
The three Drakes paused for another agonizing moment on screen. Elena blinked. Aaron smiled.
Joseph?
“That’s our guy.”
He whispered to the others.
 
—-
 
“Who is this Drake? Why do I love her?”
Cara was watching Drassi. Sir Relz was smiling hard.
“Miss Drassi, you seem to think our job is to be the font of all truths.”
“I believe it’s your job to tell the truth, yes. As best as you can. Is that so hard to do?”
“You’re being rather rude, young lady.”
“I prefer to think of it as being ‘honest’. How many people who aren’t rich can buy healing crystals to begin with?”
 
—-
 
The [Doctor] laughed. She laughed with delight. It wasn’t possible. But—he’d done it.
“Joseph?”
The two [Commentators] were getting tetchy.
“I don’t think we need to be talked down to by a young woman half our ages, Noass. Nor do I think the audience needs to see this.”
“Please, Sir Relz. We need to know the truth! People are dying in port-cities. Those crystals don’t work! We need to do more than just slap a crystal on the problem and say it’s done!”
“Someone cut the broadcast. Switch to, switch to—”
The orb went dark. The United Nations company waited one beat, and then broke into a babble.
“No way. That can’t be Joseph. That just can’t. He didn’t—”
“Wow. That’s something.”
Idis muttered in Geneva’s head. The [Doctor] looked at the blank orb as it flickered to an advertisement. A Drake [Farmer] mopped at his brow and presented the viewers with a large beet. Pallass-grown.
Things were changing. Geneva felt it. She felt…lighter. She looked at the orb and giggled.
“Geneva?”
The sound unnerved Paige. But the [Doctor] just sat there. She thought about ‘Joseph’. And she leaned back.
“That’s why we do these things.”
She closed her eyes. Exhaled. And recalled something she’d learned in medical school. Geneva Scala sat up.
“Huh. I wonder…there’s no issue, is there?”
“What?”
Paige looked at her. Geneva stood up. She glanced around.
“Kirana, can I borrow the kitchen for a moment?”
The [Housekeeper] looked astonished by the request. Geneva had never cooked a thing since coming to this world. But she agreed readily. Geneva walked into the kitchen.
Something simple. She found some eggs. Noodles…she looked around.
“Do you have any cheese?”
“Right here.”
Paige, Siri, and Daly peeked their heads in on the kitchen, watching as Kirana assisted Geneva. But the [Doctor] did most of the work.
“What’s she making?”
“Noodles?”
“Geneva?”
The [Doctor] cracked an egg into a bowl with some pork, fat, black pepper, some cheese that was as close to parmesan as she could get…Kirana hovered around her.
“Eggs in the sauce? Not cream?”
“Are you insane?”
Geneva stared at her. She was making a carbonara, not…trash. She mixed the egg base with some pasta water and the pasta, watching cheese melt. She seasoned, tasted, and pronounced it ‘adequate.’
“I had no idea you could cook.”
Paige blinked at Geneva. The [Doctor] smiled.
“I haven’t had time to before.”
“Do you have time now?”
Geneva made a plate.
“Not at all. But I have to take some time. Here—try it.”
Paige did. Her brows rose.
“That’s good!”
“Thank you. Can someone help me take it?”
“Where to?”
Daly seized the cooking mitts. Geneva looked at him.
“The clinic.”
The others looked confused. The [Doctor] lead the way.
“Don’t they have to eat that electrolyte water?”
“It’s important, yes. But some of them can hold their meals. They’ve not been eating more than bland food. It—might cheer them up.”
The [Doctor] led the way. She entered the clinic and Selphids, [Nurses], and more turned. Geneva put the carbonara in small bowls or plates and passed them around. The patients brightened up. Those that were well enough ate sparingly. But they had been missing taste.
“I didn’t think of it.”
Geneva Scala sat there, in her office, listening to the patients snack in a good mood and compare their favorite foods.
“Think of what, Geneva?”
Idis asked. Geneva shook her head.
“Bedside manner. I thought it was enough to just be…there’s nothing for them to do. They should have books. Entertainment. The walls are drab. That won’t improve their spirits. At least some plants. Flowers. Letters from family members.”
“Huh. But that’s not your job, is it? You don’t need to do that.”
The Selphid pointed out curiously. She felt Geneva smile.
“There’s more to being a [Doctor] than just cutting people open, Idis.”
She’d forgotten that. Now, the [Doctor] sat there. For just a minute. Then she stood.
Healer Demerra had questions for her. One of the patients was doing poorly. Someone had just broken their leg. She had a thousand and one things to do. So Geneva did them. She ran about, so much that Idis was exhausted. Then Geneva Scala went back to her room and fell asleep. Because she needed that too.
It wasn’t the penicillin. Or even ‘Joseph’ who had led to that. It was just…reassurance. The world needed help. But Geneva Scala did not stand alone.
She wanted to see Okasha and talk to her.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice lay on the floor. She was dead.
“I’m dead.”
A Gnoll leapt on her stomach. Erin shouted and rolled over. Someone pulled Mrsha off her.
“I’m super-dead.”
She was exhausted. She’d run about all day. Drassi confronting Sir Relz and Noass was all over the news. The two Drakes were in hot water. Wistram was considering its options.
“You did all that in a day. You, who needed coaching to sign one trade agreement.”
Maviola looked at Erin with faint admiration. She saw Erin uncurl and look up at her. The [Magical Innkeeper] shrugged.
“Well, yeah. That’s easy. Or rather—that’s what I’m good at. I don’t like contracts and negotiations. I’m better at people.”
“Each to their own, I suppose. Well done.”
“I didn’t do much. It was…the [Doctor]. Octavia. Ryoka, and Drassi. I just nudged them.”
Erin sat up. She was still smiling a bit. Weary though she was, she was satisfied. She looked past Maviola. And the [Lady] saw.
An [Alchemist], taking on more orders. Experiencing a moment in the sun.
A [Gossip], panting and having a long drink—also looking supremely angry.
The half-Elf Grand Mage, swatting at Mrsha as she tried to take his fries. She leapt—and went floating, slowly turning head-over-heels as gravity failed her. She began trying to swim past Bird. He’d fainted again.
That didn’t count. But Erin Solstice sat up and smiled.
“We’ll just have to see what happens next, won’t we? For now…”
She glanced towards the door.
 
—-
 
Selphids had secrets. Selphids looked out for other Selphids. But friends? Also friends. If you met someone who didn’t look at you like a treacherous parasite, you did a lot for them.
Jelaqua patted Ulinde on the shoulders, supporting her. The [Spellslinger] was worn out.
“I’m fine, really. It was just so many [Messages].”
Ulinde had a headache. But her team carried her back through Pallass. They passed by a protest. Some of Pallass’ residents wanted Noass and Sir Relz off the air.
“You did good, Ulinde. We’ll keep contacting Erin if we have to. But let’s take a load off. Have some drinks. Hell of a day, huh? Earth.”
The Halfseekers nodded. Jelaqua kept her voice low. Seborn cracked his neck.
“So…what’s this other world like? We were too busy helping with the mold to ask.”
Jelaqua and Ulinde exchanged looks. After a moment, Jelaqua slapped her forehead.
“I forgot to ask with everything that came up!”
The Drowned Man crossed his arms, thinking.
“Huh. Well, if it has Humans it can’t be that weird.”
Moore politely tapped Seborn on the shoulder.
“Yes. But Erin comes from there.”
The team of four looked at each other. Jelaqua shook her head.
“We’ll ask another day. Come on, everyone. First round’s on me! Then, I have a date.”
“Watch out for Yellow Rivers.”
“Shut up, Seborn.”
 
—-
 
[Conditions Met: Gossip → Honest Reporter Class!]
[Honest Reporter Class Obtained!]
 
Drassi surged up from the bar where she’d fallen asleep from angry-drinking. She looked around.
“Hey! Hey!”
Numbtongue glanced up from his usual seat. Drassi waved her claws, trying to get her mind working as the Skills started listing themselves. She fell out of her chair.
Little things.
 
—-
 
Selphids. The two Drake [Commentator]’s coverage of the Yellow Rivers diseases had outraged other cities. More than just Wistram’s own internal Earthers were putting pressure on Noass and Sir Relz.
Zeres had lodged a formal complaint. It was bad in the city. [Healers] had been fighting the illness. And now Zeres’ High Command had ordered any vessel with Yellow Rivers to be refused entrance to the harbor.
It made things even more hectic, and Zeres was a major port city, as large as First Landing. If you wanted to trade with Humans, you went to First Landing, or so it was said. For Drakes and Gnolls, Zeres.
They’d been there a while. Long enough for money to come via the Merchant’s Guild. Long enough for Captain Lasc and the surviving [Storm Sailors] to be compensated royally.
And why not? House Kallinad had money to burn, and for a relic-class artifact, one of the Diamond Swords of Serept? They were willing to buy a fleet of ships.
Well, maybe not a fleet. But accounts were settled. All but…two.
Fetohep of Khelt wanted the other three swords. They were under guard. For the first week, Venaz, Merrik, and Peki had taken turns guarding the chest, never leaving it out of their sight. Well, the curse was also a good deterrent, but there had been…incidents.
It had taken negotiations with Zeres’ High Command to get the chest stored for the near future. When the [Strategists] left the city by sea, they’d come for it.
But not yet. Fetohep wasn’t pleased, but Feshi had to go north for the Meeting of Tribes. She would not be voyaging to Chandrar any time soon. And the others?
“What word?”
Venaz’ fur was uncombed. He sat there, rings around his eyes. Holding the green-diamond greatsword, prepared to use it. People still wanted his blade; the fact that it was bound to him was inconsequential.
Feshi was far more uncomfortable with her dagger, but she wore it out of necessity. Wil? His sword hung in a sheath at his waist.
“No one. The [Healers] are swamped. If the sickness is in the air—and there are none in Zeres.”
“None?”
That came from Merrik. The Dwarf’s good-natured expression was also worn down. The others sat there. Wil entered, with Peki and Feshi, who’d gone with him to look again. He shook his head.
“There are no Selphid-[Healers] in Zeres. The last one died. The others moved away.”
The [Strategists] fell silent. Venaz looked around.
“The [Alchemists] can’t help either?”
“I asked. There’s famous ones in Pallass, but one of them—Xif—claims he doesn’t know poisons. And Saliss of Lights is a combat-[Alchemist].”
“Then what?”
The [Strategists] clustered around. Their room—the one they were in—was silent. Not as silent as the grave, though. Beneath the hum of their voices, in the moments of pained silence—there was a sound.
