“This is worse, though. People will be buying the crystals, taking away from [Healers] who need them. And—they’ll assume they’re safe! They need to be corrected. Let me talk to—”
“Denied!”
The voice rang out in Geneva’s head. Idis’ bright, cheerful tone. Geneva’s voice cut off. And she heard and felt her words change.
“—nevermind. It’s too risky.”
Paige blinked. But she nodded, relieved.
“We discussed that, Geneva. The broadcast is going through Wistram.”
Geneva nodded tightly. It was even how she’d have reacted.
“I know. I got overworked. Forget about it.”
She hadn’t said that. Idis spoke into Geneva’s head, a buzzing, tiny voice in her ears.
“Sorry, Geneva. Calectus told you, we can’t risk word about you getting out.”
She’d overridden Geneva’s vocal chords and play-acted as her. The others, who’d been sitting around the table hadn’t even noticed.
“Geneva, even if these treatments do not…work perfectly. Surely the fact that there are multiple ways to treat the disease is good, right?”
Ken spoke up. The meeting of the United Nations company was here to address this very issue. Geneva rubbed tiredly at her face. Not from physical exhaustion; she’d gotten nine hours of sleep thanks to Idis. As she had for the last week. But she was mentally tired. Stressed out.
“—It is, Ken. The Yellow Rivers disease isn’t as bad as it could be. It’s bacterial, not viral, the mortality rate if treated isn’t high. But it requires supervision; the disease provokes fevers, diarrhea—all killers in places with insufficient access to clean water and medical treatment. The worst problem is how fast it spread and how long it takes to recover from. Take Aiko, for instance.”
The others nodded. Aiko was one of the [Nurses] working under Geneva who’d contracted the disease. Ken looked concerned, but she was in a dedicated wing of the company building now quarantined. And she was…fine.
Well, not fine fine. She was running a fever, but Geneva had three massive citrines sitting around her and the other patients which a [Healer] had sent. They had kept the fever down and Aiko was recovering faster. If Geneva could buy more crystals, she would.
“—Talenqual already has more patients than I can handle, Ken. And the clinic can’t even keep up with the serious cases.”
“Even with the expansion?”
That came from Luan. He had a bandage over his head and a scowl on his face; he’d been attacked when he’d done his last delivery. The bounty on his head was still extant. Geneva shook her head.
“The Selphids, [Nurses], and volunteers…still can’t keep up with an influx of thousands, Luan. Especially when it takes weeks per infected person.”
Now, she had resources. Volunteers had come in from other cities. And The Bodies of Fellden, a small but elite company of Selphids had entered the city for the express purpose of helping Geneva and learning from her.
And safeguarding her to make sure she could help them. But no one knew that. ‘Okasha’ and Geneva had pretended to be pleased with the situation.
“The issue is getting a cure, Luan. If we have that, then we can scale up treatment and speed recovery. Without it—the rate of infection will surpass any attempt at a cure. Already, people are dying for lack of treatment. If I was overseeing a major city, I would order a quarantine while I searched for a cure.”
“…And if you didn’t have it?”
Daly. Geneva looked at him. She shook her head slowly. It was tense between them. Or so the others seemed to believe. But Geneva’s issues with Daly seemed ages ago. If she could have told him about Idis—she would.
“If I didn’t have a cure, Daly, I would hold the quarantine because there is no other option. And I would advise the leaders of the city to expect a 20% mortality rate.”
The table fell silent. Geneva inhaled, exhaled, slowly. She felt too calm. Or rather; Idis was keeping her heart from pounding, her body from flooding with stressful hormones and adrenaline, cortisol, etc.
“Antibiotics.”
“I’m sorry, Geneva. No one’s found anything yet. And we have [Healers] and [Alchemists]—even [Herbalists] and [Explorers] looking for it.”
Ken spoke up apologetically. Geneva shook her head.
“I…know you’re trying, Ken. I appreciate it.”
“I just can’t believe this world doesn’t have a general antibiotic.”
Paige muttered distractedly, turning down the volume on the scrying orb but letting it run. Geneva saw it flickering to a Human, speaking to a [Mage]. She shook her head.
“My theory is that it was never necessary, Paige. The Yellow Rivers disease—or even a magical virus—would never hurt the wealthy significantly. There are healing potions capable of purging even infection. Some can regrow limbs. I’ve talked with [Alchemists] and there are apparently potions that can reverse aging. But they’re rare.”
“Fucking hell.”
Daly muttered. Geneva sighed.
“…In the same way, high-level Skills or that Gnoll [Healer] can cure someone who has enough money. It’s just not a solution for people without money.”
“Supply and demand at its finest. Now here we are, with the world’s best [Doctor] and everyone turning to you when a month ago they didn’t give you the time of day. Geneva, anything we can do…”
Luan trailed off. The [Doctor]’s lips twitched.
“Get me more healing crystals. Beyond that? Keep asking about penicillin-equivalents. Thank you for your time. But there’s nothing more I can do. I cede the floor.”
She sat down. She felt herself relax.
“Good job, Geneva. We’re all here to help!”
The cheery voice in her head was Idis again. Geneva even felt better. She pinched her arm.
Stop that. Idis stopped releasing whatever she was doing into Geneva’s bloodstream.
“My turn, I guess. I’ve uh, tried to get in contact with Joseph. We sent a coded [Message], but I don’t think he got it. My guess is that he’s gotten a lot of fanmail. And I can’t be more overt since Wistram apparently controls [Messages] too.”
Paige raised her hand and stood. Geneva listened; they knew Joseph, the boy who’d been playing soccer, was from Earth. Or at least, everyone assumed so. Daly grimaced.
“Can’t we hire a Courier or something, Luan?”
The South African man shrugged.
“Sure. How much gold do you have, Daly? We still need to send a [Message] unless you want to hire someone from Baleros. And you don’t have that much money. Plus, if we ask a Courier, people will want to know what’s so secret.”
“Damn.”
Daly leaned back in his chair and nearly went over. Ken smiled around, but looking exasperated.
“It is almost like being secretive is hard.”
Everyone laughed at that, which was what he’d intended. Paige fiddled with a pencil she’d made; superior to quills or charcoal sticks for notes.
“Well, I did some digging and I have more people on the list. Rémi Canada, the Singer of Terandria—both safe bets are from Earth.”
“Whoa. I’ve heard of the Singer. Can we get in touch with them?”
The others sat up. Geneva heard a small voice in her head.
“Wow.”
Unconsciously, Geneva bit her tongue. Hard. But she felt her jaws unclench. And the voice from Idis again.
“Don’t be nervous, Geneva! Calectus won’t tell! We’re on your side, remember?”
There was a spy in this room. And it was Geneva herself. She wished she could write a message on a piece of paper, or tell the others in a coded fashion somehow. But how did you outwit someone in your body?
A code. Using a cipher, and fake references from home, Geneva had constructed a logical conversation to use with Ken.
‘Hey Ken, remember how Pearl Harbor was the start of the Japan-American alliance?’ And then using that fallacy, mention ‘Okasha’ to tip him off that she wasn’t Okasha. Either that, or waiting for Idis to fall asleep and write a secret note. Or…
The problem wasn’t revealing Idis. The problem was that you couldn’t get the Selphids out of Geneva, even if you knew about her. And there were over two hundred Selphids in Talenqual, all powerful. They were better allies than not. So Geneva sat, and listened. And when it was over—she said goodbye to the others. And then Idis went to report to Calectus.
 
—-
 
“Dancing Serpent to Fast Hooves, come in. The Lantern has left the building. Repeat—”
A Lizardgirl stared at the [Doctor] as she walked out of the United Nations headquarters and walked down the street. She whispered urgently into a speaking stone. An aggravated sigh was her response.
“Umina…”
“Fast Hooves, come in.”
“Umina, I’m not doing that. If our speaking stones are compromised, we’re already identified. Stop calling me nicknames.”
“Marian, come on.”
The Lizardgirl [Strategist]’s voice was disappointed. She heard the clip-clop of hooves as Marian paced back and forth somewhere.
“Where’s she going? Geneva, that is.”
“Um…looks like the same place as last time. The Selphids.”
“Hm. I see.”
Umina followed Geneva at a distance, blending into the crowds of Lizardfolk in Talenqual. Although…there weren’t as many crowds.
They avoided each other, walking in smaller groups. The friendly Lizardfolk didn’t even stop to chat. They were nervous.
The Yellow Rivers disease ran through Talenqual. By this point, even the Flying Brigade had stopped downplaying it. The city was quarantining. But more and more people were sick by the day. Umina, working undercover in Geneva’s clinic, had heard the reports.
“No wonder the Professor wanted us here, Marian. Geneva’s the only person who seems to understand this…bacteria? She’s even got a name for it.”
“Sounds like it. Did you catch the broadcast from Pallass?”
“I did. It goes against everything Geneva’s been saying.”
Umina saw Geneva turn left. She eyed the [Doctor]. Umina was a big fan of listening and understanding before making a move. In the Professor’s class, it had earned her a reputation for timidity. But now, she thought it was entirely appropriate.
“What are Cameral and Kissilt doing, do you know?”
“Training as adventurers in the Bushrangers group. They’re ingratiating themselves with…let me check my notes. Daly?”
“That’s right. I think they’re going about it the wrong way.”
Marian’s voice was conversational as she kept walking somewhere.
“I dunno. Kissilt is rather impressed with their leader. He says Daly has a different understanding of battle than most.”
“Marian! Are you talking with Kissilt?”
“Yup. Don’t shout, Umina. We’re sharing information.”
“This is our mission!”
The Lizardgirl howled into the speaking stone. She saw Geneva walking up to the place the Selphids had rented. Now—Umina stopped. There were Selphids guarding the door, and they looked sharp. She saw them wave Geneva in, instantly.
“Lantern has entered the Dead Zone.”
“…So she walked in the front door? I saw it too, Umina. I’m right here.”
Umina jumped. She looked around and saw a Centauress waving at her.
“Mariaaaan. We’re supposed to be split up!”
The Lizardgirl complained as the two joined up. Marian sighed.
“Umina, this isn’t cloak-and-dagger stuff. We might as well make Miss Geneva our offer and be done with it. The other companies want her, the Professor wants her. That’s all there is to it.”
“But he sent us because no one’s aware of her full value yet, Marian. And the more I see of her, the more I’m convinced she’s got more to hide than even the Professor knows. Maybe he suspects, but did you think she had ties to the Selphids? The Bodies of Fellden are serious strength!”
Marian scratched at her mane of hair.
“…That’s true. They’re supposed to be a Selphid-only company. If they came to help her, she must be in with them. I wonder why?”
“No clue. I wish Yerra—”
The two broke off. Umina stared at the street. Marian cleared her throat after a second.
“…What else do you notice, Umina?”
The Lizardgirl snuffled. She wiped at her nostrils. Then she looked up.
“She speaks of things no [Healer] does. I asked, and none of them know about bacterias. Or—half the things she talks about. She’s knowledgeable, Marian. But who taught her? Is it a [Doctor] thing?”
The Centaur [Strategist] was nodding. Umina stared at the Selphids on duty.
“And lastly…why is she so fit?”
That made Marian snort.
“Umina. I’m fit.”
“Yes. But you exercise. You’re a [Strategist] with [Ranger] levels, Marian.”
The Lizardgirl poked her friend’s side. She looked at the door that Geneva had gone through with narrowed eyes.
“Miss Geneva never exercises that I see her. So why does she have muscles?”
Marian gave Umina a blank look.
“Maybe she exercises outside of the times you see her, Umina? Not everything has a secret explanation.”
“Marian…”
 
—-
 
Niers Astoragon lost a chess game.
To be fair, it was a difficult battle. He was renowned as the best player of the game in the world to most people’s knowledge. And the best player in the world couldn’t be beaten by an amateur, even on his worst day.
His opponent was good. But Perorn Fleethoof, famed [Strategist] in her own right, couldn’t help but feel that it was a weak victory. Not that she hadn’t tried.
But his game had been off. The Titan still applauded her. He smiled, laughed, and wasn’t put out by his defeat.
“Well done, Perorn! I have to admit, that strategy doesn’t work too well in every situation, does it?”
“It was far too aggressive.”
The Centauress nodded. They sat over the chess board. Both were advocates of the game. But Perorn couldn’t help but notice how oddly Niers had played.
“Even for you, that felt like you pushed far too much, Niers. What possessed you?”
“Oh—I was actually copying a style from a game I’d seen. A…tiebreaker match. The winning side used this.”
The Fraerling looked smug, for some reason. Despite his loss. And he hated losing. Perorn raised one eyebrow.
“Your mysterious opponent?”
The Fraerling fumbled one of the tiny pieces on the board. It was a compromise between their heights. The pieces were huge for him—miniscule for Perorn. He glanced up at her, and she snorted.
“Forget about it, Niers. Everyone knows about your ‘mysterious opponent’. I know you two communicate somehow. So, what was it?”
The Titan pursed his lips, but then reclined in his chair.
“A splendid five games, Perorn. Well, I say five, but those were the only wins and losses. It was draws the entire way down. But the final game was this. A tiebreaker.”
“And the winner was…?”
