“Let’s just say it was unexpected. S—they pushed in hard, and their opponent was taken aback by the aggressive play. I tried to recreate it here after seeing the copy of the games, but it obviously didn’t work. It was more of a psychological victory than anything else, I’m given to understand. But that’s the indication of a master.”
The tiny [Strategist] indicated the board. Perorn eyed him. The old Fraerling looked happy. And she…
Didn’t like it. The Centauress reset her side after a moment.
“Well, you’re in a good mood about it. I wish you weren’t.”
“Thank you, Perorn? Are my good moods that abhorrent to you?”
The Titan of Baleros frowned up at the Centaur. She was resting on some pillows; he was sitting on the table they were playing on in his rooms. She looked down at him.
“Frankly? Yes. You do better when you’re in a bad mood, Niers. I’ve seen you win battles when you’re spitting fire. When you’re in a good mood, you make mistakes.”
He frowned, drumming his fingers on the armrest of his chair.
“And the proof of that?”
“I just beat you.”
“That was a one-time thing. I was recreating a style. Let’s play again.”
“As you wish.”
Perorn eyed the Titan. His good mood didn’t abate, despite her words. She sensed it.
Something was up. He’d been humming, praising his students in class—and he was making plans in secret. Foliana, Perorn, Peclir—all of the senior members of the Forgotten Wing Company suspected something. But what…well, she thought she knew.
He had figured out who his mysterious partner was. And that person was—female. She sighed.
“About this business with the Last Light of Baleros.”
Niers jumped. He nearly knocked over a pawn as he moved it. He stared at her, suspiciously.
“Who?”
“Niers. You know I’d find out. You sent Kissilt, Cameral, Umina…do you think I wouldn’t have noticed them missing from classes? This wasn’t subtle. So I looked into them. Why is a Selphid company in Talenqual?”
“They are? Wait—damn. I should have reports on that!”
The Titan blinked. He sprang to his feet. Perorn saw him stride over to the cabinet of neatly-filed reports. He found the folder he wanted in a moment, opened it. She heard him swearing.
And she got more nervous.
“Something the matter?”
“I…don’t know why they’re there. Damn. I didn’t notice that, Perorn. I’ve been occupied.”
“I know. Why are you recalling six senior [Strategists] from their posts?”
The Titan evaded the question.
“It’s time to see if their replacements can handle the situation. I just need some brainpower. You’ll see. The Bodies of Felldan? That’s not right. Only the Minds would order them anywhere. Why would they…? Damn, damn, damn. I need to do something about that.”
“Obviously.”
The Centaur saw Niers think. He moved a piece forwards and she stole a knight.
The two of them stared at the dead piece. That was just a mistake. Perorn slowly took it off the board. She knew Niers well enough to know from the expression flashing across his face for a microsecond that it hadn’t been some ploy. He’d just not noticed the move.
“Is everything alright, Niers?”
“Fine, Perorn. I just have things to deal with. It’s an off-day for me. Soon, it will be dealt with.”
He waved it off. Perorn looked at him. The Titan’s expression was faraway. Not on the documents. Or on the game. He moved a piece.
“I shall be announcing something soon, Perorn. Something I’ve been meaning to do. It’s…well, you’ll see.”
That was all the Titan said. But it worried her. Because he looked…happy. And the Titan of Baleros was so seldom that. She feared not his happiness; she wanted that for her friend. But she felt like…
He lost two more games after that.
 
—-
 
Selphids and Selphids and Selphids, oh my. Geneva Scala saw them speaking. She felt her lips moving. But she heard nothing.
Idis was giving a report. Or rather, she had given that. Geneva had heard her speaking to Calectus and the other senior Selphids. But their debate Geneva wasn’t part of.
Of course, Idis wasn’t an…[Inner Friend]. Yet. If she had the class, she didn’t have Okasha’s box to put Geneva in. But that hardly mattered.
“—decided, then. Idis will make it so. Geneva Scala?”
The [Doctor] felt Idis cede control to her in an instant. It was like…being able to scratch her nose after feeling it itch for a long time. Only, Idis would scratch Geneva’s nose anyways since they were connected.
Now, the [Doctor] looked at a friend. Or a former friend. Had he ever been a friend?
“Calectus.”
The Selphid [Honor Guard] nodded to her. The other Selphids were leaving the room.
“I apologize for the necessity, Geneva. Some discussions you cannot be privy to at this moment.”
“I see. Will that ever change?”
Calectus’ expression didn’t change. But then, Selphids could control any body perfectly. The experienced ones, at any rate. He dipped his head.
“We hope so, Geneva. But we must be cautious. The fate of Selphids everywhere may hang on our decisions. We are…not trusted as a species.”
“Hmm.”
Geneva resisted the urge to ask if how they dealt with her wasn’t an example of why the distrust existed to begin with. The Selphid, controlling his Dullahan body, turned his head slightly; it was disconnected so it turned nearly one hundred and eighty degrees. He shifted it forwards again, sighing.
“The…situation is somewhat tenuous. We understand there are other people from Earth in other parts of the world.”
“What will you do with them?”
He shook his head.
“Nothing. We are not interested in collecting anyone. If Wistram is—that is a decision for the Minds to address.”
The Minds. A governing body of Selphids, according to Idis. Geneva nodded slowly.
“So. Anything else? What were you discussing?”
“How to help your cause, Geneva Scala.”
She blinked. Calectus went on.
“We are here to help you, as I said. We will contribute funds to research for your cure. And as I said, Idis will help you make contact.”
“Contact? Contact with whom?”
“Other Selphids! You can count on me, Calectus! I’ll get Geneva anything she needs. All I need is a dedicated [Mage]. You know, to send [Message] or [Speak] spells?”
Idis saluted brightly with Geneva’s hand and smiled with her face. Calectus looked at her sharply.
“Idis. Desist.”
The Selphid released her control at once. Calectus frowned.
“Idis, you have strict orders. Do not take over Geneva’s body without her consent.”
“Sorry. I just—”
The Selphid’s eager voice turned meek in an instant. Calectus glanced at Geneva.
“Geneva, do you have any issue with Idis so far? She remarks that she has been enforcing a sleep schedule. Idis will desist.”
“But Calectus—”
“Idis. You will be replaced.”
Instantly, the Selphid shut up. Geneva blinked. That was…new.
“Calectus, I assumed Idis insisting on me sleeping regularly was at your behest.”
His eyes didn’t move. But Geneva sensed a flicker of apprehension through Idis.
“It was not. Idis is here to protect you, Geneva. She replaced Okasha, but she is not your keeper. If she is upsetting you, she will be replaced and punished. She was the most suitable for the role of bodyguard. However…”
“Oh no. Please don’t!”
Idis whispered in Geneva’s ears. The [Doctor] blinked. Interesting. She chose her next words carefully.
“I…wasn’t aware of that. I thought Idis was managing me.”
“If she has been too forceful—”
“…No. She hasn’t. She’s been eager, but I don’t mind her.”
“Thank you! I’m so sorry—”
Idis was audibly relieved. Calectus stared at Geneva again, and then blinked. He nodded and smiled slightly, but his expression was still stiff.
“If you have any concerns, please ask. I will check regularly. And of course—if Idis misbehaves in any way, she will be removed.”
It was a warning, but not just for Geneva. Idis shuddered; Geneva felt a gentle spasm in her nerves. And she thought of the other Selphid, before Idis.
“How is Okasha doing? May I speak with her?”
Calectus paused.
“…That would not be wise. She is being held.”
“Not punished? Calectus, you know I am a [Doctor]. I’ve sworn not to harm anyone. Or let anyone come to harm. That means your people and Okasha—”
“She is only being held. But since she may have influence over you via Skills, we will not allow you to communicate, Geneva. That is all.”
The [Honor Guard] was firm. Geneva decided to drop it.
“Well then. Thank you, Calectus. I’m doing my best, but diseases are difficult. I need those antibiotics. It will help me and the world. Idis has been helpful, as has your support and the Selphid [Nurses].”
They were [Healers], or younger Selphids who had been given to her to study. No doubt the Selphids wanted more Genevas. Calectus nodded. Geneva went on.
“…But the truth is I’m lacking materials. Things from…my world. Medicines.”
“Whatever we can do, we will do, Geneva. You have but to ask. Idis now has the authority to connect you with other Selphids. We are not as powerful as major nations, but Selphids do have our influence. We hope you will level or gain what you need to overcome this illness. Idis, I leave you to aid Geneva as you know the best role for her. Do not overstep.”
“We really do want you to just level. And then cure us. I’m sorry, Geneva. I’m overeager. Please don’t be mad! This—your body is just so much fun!”
Idis whispered in Geneva’s ear. As Calectus bid farewell to her, Geneva was left sitting. The [Doctor]’s eyes flickered to the door. Then she and Idis were alone.
Apparently alone. But she was always with Idis. The [Doctor] thought carefully.
“…I’m aware you’re eager, Idis. It isn’t fun for me, though. I have a job to do. And my experience with Okasha was…troubled.”
“I know! And I am sorry about that! But I’m just here to help! Forget sleep! Let’s go all night long! You just ask and I can do it. Just don’t replace me?”
“Why were you assigned to me over all the others, Idis?”
“Um. Because I’m really good at killing people?”
Geneva shuddered. Idis went on, hurriedly.
“The Minds were just worried about your safety! Plus, they thought someone with a lot of muscular control like me would be best. [Blademaster], remember? And [Barbarian]. That’s in case you needed to be really strong.”
“I see. Well, Idis. You haven’t given me cause to complain. In fact, I’m actually grateful about you making me sleep. That’s a—a fault of mine.”
“Really?”
And the young Selphid smiled with Geneva’s lips. The [Doctor] nodded. And she went on, carefully.
“I’ll have to rely on you, Idis. What was Calectus saying about contacts?”
“Oh, that. That means that we’re spreading word looking for your antibiotic and stuff. The mold? A lot of high-ranking Selphids will get word. All over the world!”
“Really? Just like that?”
Geneva blinked. Idis laughed with her voice.
“Of course! Selphids obey the Minds! It’s—we work together, Geneva. We have to. You know how Selphids won’t ever fight each other in battle, even if they’ve been hired? There are too few of us to not be on the same side.”
“I see. You know, there’s so much I don’t know about Selphids, Idis. Oh—and if we’re alone, why don’t you use my voice?”
“Really? Thanks, Geneva! I like having working vocal chords. You wouldn’t believe how rotten dead ones get.”
It was Geneva’s turn to smile.
“I can only imagine. But we’re sharing a body, Idis. If I make you uncomfortable, why don’t you let me know?”
“Sure! But I’m really happy. I mean, I get to taste, do all kinds of fun stuff—everything’s so real in a living body. Even better than the freshest dead ones!”
The Selphid was happy. Geneva nodded.
“So…you’ll be contacting other Selphids about my antibiotics? Is there anything else Calectus has authorized you to do? I mean, us?”
She was channeling…Okasha. Only, backwards. Idis had to think and Geneva suspected she was doing the Selphid equivalent of scratching her head; she wiggled about for a moment.
“Um. Um—well, if you wanted a Selphid to do something, I could get it. Like…do you need rubies or something? We could get them from Salazsar, or ask an adventurer-Selphid or a [Miner] to get some. Stuff like that.”
“Really?”
“Yup. It’s a lot of authority, but Calectus really trusts you, you know. We want to be your allies.”
Geneva Scala had an idea.  She leaned back in her chair. The [Doctor] inhaled. And decided to take a risk. Idis knew more than Geneva would have wanted her to know. But if the Selphids were uneasy allies—she might as well use that.
“Interesting. In that case, Idis? Could you do me a favor?”
She spoke. Idis listened. Then she took Geneva’s body, at the [Doctor]’s request, vaulted out of the chair, and ran out of the Selphid’s headquarters.
Idis ran. Geneva felt the Selphid laughing with delight as she raced down the street, using her Skills to move faster than Geneva thought was possible. She blew so fast past Umina and Marian that the two [Strategists] were left in her dust.
Of course, that wasn’t the request. It was just to make Geneva move around faster and give Idis control for a moment, which made the Selphid happy. And while she ran…
The [Doctor] was thinking.
 
—-
 
The interesting thing about Selphids was this: they were always on the same side. Even when they were enemies—they didn’t kill each other.
Mainly because they had to be on the same side when the world hated them. Selphids killing Selphids was rare. In their community, even far from home, a Selphid would aid another Selphid. And there were also ranks, authority by seniority. Secrets shared only among their people.
In practice, it meant that a Selphid was an older…Selphid to others. ‘Older brother’ or ‘older sister’ being the wrong term usually since gender wasn’t applicable to Selphids. Mostly.
Some preferred one body or another. But the body influenced the Selphid, along with species. For instance, Ulinde thought of herself as female today because she was wearing a female Drake’s body. But she would be male when she wore one of the male forms in storage.
And it was looking more important for her to be male more often than not. Because she and Jelaqua were sharing from a pool of corpses and Jelaqua was…female.
An older sister, then. She and Maughin were a couple, and because the Dullahan preferred Jelaqua’s female bodies, the Selphid had started wearing them exclusively. Ulinde, as her junior, tried to make Jelaqua’s life easier.
After all, they were both part of the same team. And Ulinde admired Jelaqua. She was in awe of her heroes, the Halfseekers. She was also, in no small way, terrified of making Jelaqua angry at her again.
