[Geneva] – Really? How?
[Joseph] – Magic stuff. We’re going to send more penicillin to Zeres, but we want to know how effective it is. Can you outline how to use it and how to treat people?
[Geneva] – Absolutely. Give me one moment.
 
“I need my notes. Can someone get them from my room?”
“On it.”
Paige hurried upstairs. Geneva sat down. She wasn’t even breathing hard. She began to correspond as the others watched. The Selphid [Mage] groaned as Geneva scrawled out paragraphs to send.
 
—-
 
“Who is this [Doctor]?”
Demerra demanded. She was here at Grimalkin’s request, and also to follow her patient, who’d snuck out of her clinic. But Chaldion was reading with as much interest as Grimalkin. He was looking from Erin to the detailed correspondence.
“An expert in treating infections. Or so it seems. How much do you trust this individual, Miss Solstice?”
“A lot, Grimalkin. And this is the medicine. She wants you to test with it, Demerra. Do you have more patients?”
“Two. In a room in the clinic.”
“Who I’m sharing space with. What is this about ‘airborne infection’?”
Chaldion’s brows snapped together. The Gnoll [Healer] blinked.
“We have as many healing crystals as possible, Grand Strategist—”
“That doesn’t stop disease, according to this [Doctor].”
They weren’t reading the exact replies from ‘Joseph’ to Geneva, but an abridged version. Octavia was frowning and trying to figure out how to create the various substances Geneva wanted. Everything from a poultice to an…injection?
“I suggest you begin treatments with these [Doctor]’s orders at once, Healer Demerra. And meanwhile, I shall stay in my home.”
Chaldion came to a quick decision. The Gnoll [Healer] began to protest, but she eyed the figures about infection rates nervously.
“I—I can certainly apply the poultices and such if I deem them safe to use, Grand Strategist. But I can assure you, my crystals—”
“How much of this mold is needed?”
“Lots. If it works, we need lots. Octavia’s growing more on bread and stuff, but we’re going to have to do it outside my inn. Because uh, the [Field of Preservation].”
Erin waved her hands. She was waiting on one last person.
Drassi. The Drake came into the inn, protesting as Ishkr found her at last. Grimalkin nodded.
“Send a sample to Oteslia. If it works—they can grow enough.”
“Sure. But remember, it’s Octavia’s. Here’s a jar with the label.”
The [Sinew Magus] and Chaldion eyed the giant ‘Stitchworks’ logo and Octavia’s name plastered on the jar. The huge Drake sighed.
“…I’ll communicate that. Healer Demerra—treat the patients as the [Doctor] prescribes.”
“But—”
“That’s an order, [Healer].”
The Grand Strategist spoke. And Demerra only hesitated a moment before bowing. Erin glanced around. She waited until Chaldion and Grimalkin were looking the other way before wiggling her fingers. Unnoticed, a Selphid’s head ducked back into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Erin sighed. Her manic energy was running out. But not just yet. Courier away. [Healer] trialing with Octavia.
“Erin, what’s this about? I have weekends! Even if it isn’t the weekend.”
The [Gossip] was complaining, but only mildly. She sensed something was up. She peered at Grimalkin, Chaldion, and the paper. Erin turned to her.
“Drassi…I have something I want you to do. It’s complex, so let me explain. And you don’t have to do it—”
The Drake opened her mouth. Erin went on.
“—but I bet you’ll want to. And I need your help, Grimalkin. Chaldion.”
The two male Drakes peered at her suspiciously. Grimalkin folded his arms.
“If it’s going to cause havoc to no end, Erin, I’ll decline. But go on.”
She smiled at him.
“On the contrary, [Sinew Magus]. It’s going to do good. Or do you like stupid things? More importantly—it requires testicles.”
Grimalkin blinked at Erin. Then he laughed.
“I’m listening.”
 
—-
 
“They’ll trial it. Apparently, it’s worked on their cultures before so I think it might actually be a broad-spectrum antibiotic.”
Geneva sat back, sighing. The others murmured.
“And this Joseph guy…is doing all this?”
“Yeah. That’s what our Selphid says.”
Perhaps only the [Doctor] noted Idis’ worried sound and the Selphid [Mage] blinking. But they kept it quiet. Geneva cleared her throat; she’d been speaking a lot.
“Please send the following: ‘Emphasize the antibiotics need to be taken after recovery is apparent or the disease may not be fully eradicated. It is essential to complete treatment.’”
“Done, [Doctor].”
“Good.”
Geneva sat back. She closed her eyes for a moment. The others waited, milling about.
“If the trial works…that [Alchemist] is gonna be rich.”
“Not if we grow everything ourselves. They sent the fungus.”
“Huh. Well—we can credit it to her. Right? And if we have an antibiotic, we can make a lot of drugs!”
“It’s not a cure-all.”
The Italian woman opened her eyes. She sat up.
“It might not even have the desired effect. We have to see, and make sure we’re fully eradicating the bacteria. There will still be casualties. But yes—if everything goes well, we might be able to scale up production of a cure enough to halt the disease. If that happens, I will ensure this [Alchemist] gets full credit.”
“As well as The Last Light of Baleros?”
Kirana teased. Geneva glanced up.
“I didn’t do much. This [Alchemist] managed to create the antibiotic. As well as…”
She stared at the message. Someone had thought of penicillin as well. And to judge from it—months before Geneva had.
It was humbling. The [Doctor] felt like a fool. If she’d done that from the start, rather than signing up to be a battlefield-surgeon, she would have saved more lives than she ever did with her bare hands.
“Let it work.”
She whispered. Someone patted her on the shoulder. Siri. The Swedish girl smiled.
“It will. Someone over there is our friend.”
“And speaking of which—let’s not crowd Geneva, everyone. We’re probably making it worse if someone’s sick. Let’s go. Anyone free? We’ll do a kick-about with the soccer ball. Who’s up for that?”
Daly raised his voice. A good number of Earthers followed him. Geneva was left sitting there.
“Geneva? Are you okay? You’ve got a lot of emotions in you. This is good, right?”
“This is good. I’m fine. Thank you—Siri.”
The [Doctor] stood. She felt lighter. She looked around. Hope had taken a mountain off her shoulders. For a moment.
“At least if we get this medicine working, we can debunk these idiots on the scrying orb.”
Paige groused. She pointed at Sir Relz and Noass, who were talking about trade implications. Geneva grimaced.
“Another [Healer] will bring up penicillin. Maybe even this Demerra. There’s no point to touting a cure until we’re certain.”
She glowered, nonetheless, at the two Drakes who had a healing crystal gifted to them by Demerra prominently displayed on their desk. They were still broadcasting worldwide.
 
—-
 
“—trade with Baleros is thus limited out of practicality for the meantime. I’d take that into account, all you [Merchants] and [Traders] listening and anyone with an eye for overseas products.”
“How many people does that make? Most people can’t afford overseas goods. This is the rich bastards all over again, making a show for them. Wistram. I’m going to kill Aaron. Someone turn them off.”
Cara O’Sullivan, [Singer] of Terandria sat on her couch, scowling. She waved and one of the band members reached for the orb.
There had been riots in the city the [Singer] had visited. Thanks to the Drakes. She’d managed to calm the crowds, but the same could not be said for other Terandrian cities.
It was bad business. Cara eyed Noass. If she could drop-kick him at this very moment, she would. The two Drakes had the world’s ear, but they weren’t responsible with it. They were—
 
—-
 
“—idiots! Archmages, this is unacceptable!”
The mob of Earthers in Wistram’s hallway were blocking traffic. The other [Mages] were listening, but Feor had wisely ordered the students and younger [Mages] not in the know kept away from this…protest.
It was as close to a revolt as Wistram had ever seen. Two thirds of the young people from Earth had demanded an audience with the Archmages. Elena, their spokesperson, was arguing with Feor and Viltach. The half-Elf was trying to understand.
“That’s not good journalism. You—it—you can’t just say ‘go buy magic crystals’!”
She was pointing to Noass and Sir Relz, who were the Wistram-sponsored television anchors. Not because they were particularly well-connected. But they’d been the first. Feor had cause to regret that, now.
“Miss Elena. I am trying to understand your objections. What have these two Drakes done wrong? They have faithfully kept to our talking points.”
“Yes, but they also caused riots and they’re spreading misinformation! Healing crystals? If this disease is as bad as it seems, they shouldn’t be saying it’s ‘under control’!”
Elena pointed at Sir Relz, who was adjusting his monocle.
“They didn’t say that.”
Archmage Viltach’s arms were folded. He was less impressed than Feor. Elena scowled. It was Aaron who interjected.
“But they’re downplaying the situation, Archmage Viltach.”
“They’re keeping people from panicking. What’s wrong with that?”
“Well…maybe they should panic. Or be worried. The truth is that not everyone can afford a healing crystal, right? So people aren’t being careful when they should be. I hear it’s really bad in Baleros. If crystals cured the disease, it wouldn’t be that bad.”
The others nodded. Feor stroked his beard. It was true; they’d received a lot of complaints about the riots. Thoughtfully, he glanced at the two Drake [Commentators].
“You have a point, Elena. Noass and Sir Relz have been…calming figures. But not without flaw. We were trialing other [Commentators], but setting up multiple areas of broadcast was deemed needlessly complex.”
“You should hire someone else. Someone from Baleros with good practices. There are standards that news people should be held to. This—this is just making people feel complacent.”
The broadcast droned on. Archmage Viltach consulted the rough numbers of how many people were watching. It was dropping; without drama, less people tended to watch. Still, he didn’t like Elena’s uppity tone.
“Perhaps we want them pacified. They don’t need to know the truth.”
Viltach’s soft murmur had been a bit too loud. The crowd of Earthers quieted, and Elena looked appalled. Feor scowled as he glanced at the Human Archmage.
“We will consider the issue carefully, Miss Elena. You have my word. For now…”
He was about to order them to disperse in a kindly way when something happened. There were voices, arguing. Then—a rattling sound.
Not from the hallway. Feor’s head turned. In the scrying orb, he saw Noass and Sir Relz glance up.
“—er, the situation in Ailendamus—erm…”
The Drakes stared. Feor heard a voice.
 
—-
 
“You can’t come in here! You can’t—”
“By order of Grand Strategist Chaldion, move aside.”
Someone thrust an assistant into the frame. A Gnoll stumbled into the view—then fled. Noass rose. Sir Relz blinked.
“I say, what’s this—”
Every head turned. Viltach saw the live-viewers count begin to climb. And there she was.
A smiling Drake, who was vaguely familiar to some viewers thrust her way forwards. There was arguing in the background, but she grabbed the magical ‘microphone’ as the two Drakes recoiled.
“Miss Drassi? We’re not hosting the football game until later this week! Why are you here? We are live—”
Noass cried out. Drassi backed up. The camera-Garuda swung the view up towards her. Drassi was terrified. But she smiled desperately. And—she was a [Gossip]. She had lived for this moment.
“Hello! Sorry to break in, but I have an important series of questions to raise! Drassi here, The Liscorian Gazette! I just had to speak to our hosts here about their coverage of the Yellow Rivers plague.”
“What? Our coverage? Give that microphone back, young—”
Noass recoiled as Drassi kicked at him. She spoke up, pointing a finger at them.
“Excuse me, Sir Relz! Noass! But don’t you think it’s misleading to claim healing crystals are a cure for the Yellow Rivers disease when—”
She fumbled for her notes.
“—when even Healer Demerra admits it still takes a week in her healing beds for a full recovery? And that’s with numerous healing crystals! Can one really prevent disease, or is that just a false claim?”
“What? What? We were just—give that—”
The two Drakes were reaching for the microphone, and Sir Relz reached for his side and his self-defense wand. He halted—mainly because of a figure standing just off-screen.
Sinew Magus Grimalkin’s arms were folded. He made no move. He was just watching. But the Drake loomed. He gave the impression that Sir Relz could draw his wand and cast as many spells as he wanted. And after Relz was done, Grimalkin would deal with him. Sir Relz froze.
The news broadcast had turned into an interview. The two Drakes found themselves sitting as Drassi found a seat. The camera moved back as the three began to debate.
“What’s this about, Miss Drassi? One cannot just barge in here and—waste people’s time.”
“If I were wasting people’s time, I wouldn’t be here, Sir Relz. Noass. I’m just here to bring up what I feel is…misinformation. You two have been talking about the Yellow Rivers disease as if it’s not a big problem. But there are tens of thousands of sick people in port cities across the world. Isn’t that cause for alarm?”
Noass shuffled his papers. Sir Relz folded his claws and carefully replied.
“…Of course. That’s why we’re reporting on it. Just what about that is objectionable, young lady?”
Drassi smiled kindly. She waved at the healing crystal on his desk.
“Yes, but—is this good coverage? You put Healer Demerra on. And all fairness to her, she is high-level. But she’s not exactly on the front lines of the problem, is she? There are six infected people in Pallass.”
“And? She has treated them quite efficiently.”
“But it’s six people. How would Demerra handle thousands? Why isn’t a [Healer] from Baleros—or at least Zeres talking? How are they dealing with this? Are they finding crystals effective?”
Noass shifted.
“I—well, of course it’s a concern. But Demerra was presenting an option for people to protect themselves.”
The [Gossip] looked blank.
“With what?”
“Healing crystals.”
“Do they work?”
“—Demerra’s recommended them.”
The two Drakes’ expressions changed as Drassi glanced at the crystal.
