And one last [Strategist] was with them. Yerranola’s body was gone. Out of necessity; it had been poisoned badly. And there were few…uninfected…bodies in Zeres these days, even if Drakes hadn’t been wary of selling bodies.
But even if they’d had a pristine one, the Selphid couldn’t have used it. She sat on the table.
In a jar. It was glass, but not empty; a fluid held her. Her people had advised Wil on how to make that, at least. The Selphid was held in it. But not at rest. When Venaz’ words failed to elicit a response, they could hear it.
A shrill sound, not like a voice. Bubbling through the solution.
A scream. Wil covered his ears. He hadn’t slept or rested. They’d tried everything.
“We need to find an antidote. Oteslia.”
“We won’t make it. She doesn’t have long left.”
The [Healers] and [Alchemists] had done their best. But the blowfish poison was eating away at their friend, for all she’d been nicked. Selphids were too small. Their bodies—in this jar, Wil saw a shifting mix of colors. An oozing form.
But it was still Yerra. He crouched down. Feshi put a paw on his shoulders.
“We have to try. She can’t die.”
“She will not. If it’s Oteslia—we go. As fast as we can, without—disturbing Yerranola.”
“There’s a bounty on our heads. That Drowned Captain wants the blades.”
Feshi pointed out quietly. Merrik clenched one hand.
“They can try to get it. We’re not done yet. Come on. Let’s make preparations. To Oteslia! Hear that, your Majesty? We’ll leave the swords here if you want. But we’re going. Our friend comes first.”
The [Strategists] turned. And the figure of sand, the king in death, stood there.
Fetohep of Khelt. His deathly gaze swept across the room. Towards Wil, Feshi, Peki, Merrik, Venaz—and then Yerranola.
“That is your will? You will go, despite my demand to return the blades to my personage?”
He inquired politely. It was a…disarmingly soft question. Fetohep was not in a good mood. Trey Atwood had left and he was nowhere to be found. The King of Khelt waited. Wil Kallinad bowed.
“We will arrange transport for the blades if you demand it, King Fetohep. But if it comes to them or the life of our friend—we cannot spare the trip to Chandrar. We must go.”
“I see. Well then.”
Fetohep stepped forwards. Venaz’s hands touched the hilt of his sword. Warily. Fetohep stared back at the Selphid in agony. He looked at the [Strategists] and nodded.
“Well said. Take your friend. Time matters little to me anyways. Had you abandoned her—you would not be worthy of the blades.”
He waved a hand and vanished. Wil exhaled. The King of Khelt settled back on his throne. Adventures and legends. He sat there, chuckling to himself. Wil looked at the others, and then picked up Yerranola. Gently, but she screamed nevertheless. He held her to his chest, warming the jar.
“Hold on, Yerra. We’re going to save you. Hold on. Please.”
