Alden realized he should have seen this one coming, and coming fast. But he was stumped by the way it had come at him. The triangle of absolute secrecy would let him lie or dodge, but it couldn’t do anything about him being unable to come up with an answer that would satisfy Stuart as quickly as Stuart expected to be satisfied. The question was so simple and so important to him that he only gave Alden seconds before he repeated it.

“Alden, what has Mother said to you about your skill?”

The idea that she wouldn’t have said anything helpful to the human wizard Alis-art’h had sent her way was unbelievable, given her personality. And even if Alden had wanted to lie, he was drawing a blank on lies that wouldn’t fall apart almost immediately.

I should do something nice for the gremlin sometime, he thought. Find someone who’s really uneven and remind them to pay back their wordchains.

He didn’t know what the secrecy tattoo would be like if the gremlin hadn’t forced Ro-den to align more with his own understanding, but he doubted it would have been an improvement on the current state of affairs.

Maybe I’d be required to do something awful to get out of this.

“Alden!”

“You know, I honestly wasn’t thinking that talking about my skill would be the main thing we did together after what I told you.”

“What could be more important?”

He’s thinking I’m the dumbest guy on the planet right now.

“I want to cast spells,” said Alden, holding up his wrist. “Did you see? I have an auriad.”

Stuart seemed ready to argue, but then he looked from Alden’s face to the auriad to the learning cushion waiting on the floor. “It’s true that we have to talk about more than just your binding.”

“A lot more,” Alden agreed.

“You want to start with your wizardry?”

“Just the phrase ‘your wizardry’ makes me weirdly excited. So yes, please.”

“All right. I did want to see you cast.”

“Great!”

“First tell me what Mother said about your skill though,” said Stuart. “I won’t be able to focus on anything else until I know if you have to have a new skill for next time or if you’ll be able to bind your authority to this once more.”

Alden hesitated.

“Why are you hesitating?”

If I say I’m going to bind my authority into this skill again it’s kind of pointing to what the skill is, isn’t it? I guess he might not realize it, but if he starts looking into how strong B-rank Rabbit skills should be on the internet he’ll be able to figure it out.

“If you don’t know, ask her now.” Stuart waited.

“I think…everything will be fine,” said Alden.

“What does that mean?”

“Do you have promise sticks? The first spell I ever cast was to light a promise stick.”

“I was less frustrated than this when I pushed Asay yesterday! Of course I have promise sticks. I’m in school.”

******

******

Even without the damn tattoo messing up our conversation, thought Alden, I wouldn’t have been able to resist steering us this way for much longer.

He was on his learning cushion. Stuart was bending to place his own.

“I asked you to go get promise sticks, and now I wonder if it’s too small. The spell that lights them. You must have cast it thousands of times, so you’re not going to get excited seeing me make a little flame.”

Stuart pulled a small bundle of the sticks out of one of his pockets and placed it on the floor between them. “On the way up to the house to get these, it occurred to me that your first spell must have been important to you in ways I can’t properly imagine. The children of wizards assume they will cast like their parents do, and in my case, it was even more so. I never had the idea of not being able to do magic, and since my mother taught me my first spell when I was so young, I don’t have memories of it.”

He folded his legs and settled onto the cushion.

“It was a finger chime. I only know for certain that that was the first because she told Father so.” Stuart held up his left hand, then bent the index finger. A clear and pretty tinnng sounded, like he’d tapped on an invisible wine glass. “This one.”

“I know one like that! But I have to cast a whole spell first, and then it’s all my fingers. That spell’s just bending one finger? How?”

“It’s not hard to train yourself to abbreviate very small and common spells like this….You didn’t know that?” Stuart’s tone was neutral, but he didn’t do as well when it came to keeping the surprise off his face. “Of course it’s natural that you might not.”

“Don’t worry about hurting my feelings by mentioning how much I’m ignorant about,” said Alden. “Believe me. I know. I had this moment in the top library, when I found the study journals you and your classmates wrote. I wanted to read more about magic so much, but then when I opened them, ninety percent of what you were all thinking about was…”

“Those journals were written by students approaching graduation from the Rapport School, to help us explore subjects we ourselves found complex enough to be worth more than a casual amount of thought. They should have been extremely difficult for you.”

“A lot of it was closer to incomprehensible than difficult,” Alden admitted. “I realized then that it would be decades before I caught up, if I even could without access to all the things you had there in that building. So…I know. We don’t have to cover the truth in sugar. Kibby didn’t even have an entire year’s worth of lessons for us to watch. Just the early ones for Gwen-lor’s youngest students. And since I left Thegund, I’ve mostly been learning from a single book. And trial and error.”

“Where did you get a book?”

“Not from the top library. I didn’t steal it.”

“I didn’t think you’d stolen it, Alden. I was wondering about the quality of it.”

“I got it and another book here. From her…Mother. Right after my binding that day. She gave me my Forgetful Traveler’s Bag, too.”

“I wondered about that bag. Especially since you said it wasn’t from Worli Ro-den. Forgetful Traveler’s objects aren’t easy to acquire. And yours matches your auriad!” Stuart brightened. “Mother encourages your learning!”

“Yes. I think so. The book full of auriad spells is called Whan-tel’s Art. As far as I can tell, it’s not intended for people who are just beginning to learn. I can cast the spells in it, though, after some study, and if I read everything carefully, I pick up random general principles from the instructions. Olorn-art’h’s earring helps with that. And, no, I’ve never learned about abbreviating simple spells, but I was starting to get the idea that that sort of thing might be possible.”

Alden reached for one of the promise sticks on the floor.

“I like to use the spell that lights these on candles. Mother listed it as an impression on my fake Avowed profile so that I could cast it in front of people if I want. I’ve noticed it’s getting easier for me…in this way that seems to be about more than just practice. There’s never any doubt the candles will light anymore, and I have almost a sense for how to make it happen even if my fingers aren’t perfect.

“And the other spells I know still do things when I haven’t got them exactly right. It makes sense that everything is at least a little flexible? I got pretty upset once while I was in the process of learning a spell that calls light—the memory of light, according to the book, but I’m not sure where the line between literal and metaphorical is in that case. Anyway, I had a nightmare, got mad, decided to cast, and instead of the controlled light the spell is supposed to make, I got a huge flash that exhausted my authority. I thought I’d blinded myself and set my room on fire! How did that happen? What was the magical rule behind that mistake? And is it something I could do again on purpose?

“Oh, also! I have a spell I use to crush things, but I’ve been wondering if I could make the area that gets crushed bigger, or if I’ll have to learn a different spell to do that. And I did a summoning spell for the first time this week! My bag comes to me from across the room. That still needs work. Sometimes, I watch everyone in gym for ideas because if they’ve got an impression for a spell, then that’s probably something I can learn eventually if there’s not an additional factor.”

Alden’s need for breath halted his stream of words, and he realized he’d waving the promise stick around for emphasis while Stuart watched him chatter.

“I’m getting too enthusiastic,” he said sheepishly. “You should’ve stopped me. It’s all basic to you and new to me. I guess that’s my point.”

“I didn’t want to stop you,” Stuart said after a moment. “I think I just learned much that I needed to know by listening.”

“It’s nice of you to say so.”

Stuart picked up a stick of his own and ran his fingers over it. “I’m glad to know Mother has been encouraging you. She watches over our knights, and to some extent the others who live in the Rapports. I wasn’t sure how to imagine your relationship with her since you’re a little different.”

And since I avoided answering a question about what she said to me like it was poison.

“Do you like her?” Stuart asked.

[Do you like me, Alden?]

“She’s listening. She’s an eavesdropper. She should feel shame.”

“You are joking with her?” There was an uncertain note in Stuart’s voice that surprised Alden.

“I am. I like her. There are some mixed feelings when I think about the actual authority binding process. I won’t lie about that. But I like her most of the time. She teleported me here last night.”

“I’d better not thank Evul, then.”

“Better not.”

“Sina always liked talking to Mother before she became a knight. And then she didn’t anymore….Did you say you have a fake Avowed profile?”

Alden was relieved to have that easier question tacked onto the end. “I do.”

“You mean the Contracts won’t tell people your actual abilities?”

Alden nodded. “If I’m going to grow more like a knight grows than like an Avowed does…”

“Your talents would quickly become remarkable.”

“Inexplicable might be a better word for it than remarkable, as far as humans go. One of the schools on Anesidora is trying to create a program for prodigies by demanding prodigy-speed growth from their students. Everyone thinks what they’re asking for is shocking. I’m going three times faster than the prodigy rate, more or less. More if we throw me in some chaos. People might be willing to overlook it for a little while because of my age and all the weird stuff that’s happened to me. But pretty soon, the questions would get so loud you’d be able to hear them from here.”

“The fake profile is what wizards who would summon you will see, too?”

“Yes.”

Stuart blinked several times. “I’m not…as familiar with how Contracts handle Avowed as I would like to be, but I think that is very, very strange and would make some wizards screamingly alarmed.”

“Are you screamingly alarmed?”

“Of course not. I’m grateful she’s helped you and relieved that we have more options because of it. Last night you asked me to keep your secret if I thought anything terrible would happen to you because of it, and I admit I had some concerns about how a secret like this one could be kept for more than a season.”

Alden’s auriad tightened as he was reminded that telling Stuart, and having the promise of his help, didn’t guarantee he’d be welcomed by anyone else.“Do we need to keep me quiet forever?”

“What kind of life would that be, Alden?” Stuart shook his head. “And while I might be able to take a Ryeh-b’t to Goldbush, what of the worse places we’ll go to one day? It would be hard to explain how you were coming with me and not dying.”

“Something to look forward to.”

“Yes.” Stuart’s agreement had no hint of sarcasm in it. “I think we should probably tell my parents, if it’s all right with you after we discuss it. They know so much more than me about how others may react and how to help us without creating problems. And we’re going to have to tell them something anyway to get you access to the kinds of talent choices you should have.”

Alden winced.

“We won’t do it if you’re not ready, but they really could make things easier,” said Stuart.

“Sure…”

“You don’t sound sure.” Stuart held the promise stick in his hand out toward Alden. “You were excited to cast with me. And, truly, I am excited to see you cast. We can set aside other matters for one morning. Will you light this?”

Alden stretched his fingers. “I’ll do my sincere best.”

******

******

******

Stu knelt on a cushion in the streamview cottage, watching his friend cast spells one by one. Each was spoken of as if it was quite precious and important. Each was separated by an authority greeting that felt slightly different every time thanks to Alden trying to match it to the last greeting Stu had given.

“You’re good at casting.” He didn’t say it to draw an even wider smile from Alden, though the words had that effect.

“For someone who knows hardly anything at all, you mean.”

Stu didn’t mean it that way, but he wasn’t sure how to explain what he did mean to someone who’d just begun this journey. “Some wizards,” he said, “have voices the universe finds persuasive.”

“If I’m persuasive, why won’t you forgive me for freezing some of your grapes?”

“Because you made them less delicious.”

Alden reached out to greet him again, and Stu met him this time, showing him a more eager kind of welcome.

He feels younger than he is.

