Comfortable and focused, I willed myself forward faster. Uprooting entire oaks, I tore a gash of devastation across the forest as several Hybrids stared at me from below. One of the five smaller starships turned towards my incoming assault, the gialgathens far behind me ignored.

How could they be expected to notice the dragons when a sentient meteorite was coming at them?

Trees exploded beneath me, the water within evaporating at my passing. I molded myself into a spear shape, accelerating myself further. Two of the starships now faced me, one lined up behind the other one. Their gravitational drives fired as the plasma engines flared. The sound of ripping steel echoed across the mountainside as they charged their cataclysmic weapons.

As if wielding the might of the stars, the first ship launched a bolt of purified energy at me. It ricocheted off the surface of my skin, deflected by my slanted and narrowed shape. The deep burns across my side healed as a portion of the mountainside disappeared behind me. The blinding light behind me flashed, but it carried with it no sound.

I was faster than sound.

The clouds near the ship shout outwards in a circle before I rammed into the first ship. As I did, I outstretched tendrils of my armor, ripping the innards out of the fighter. At the same time, Event Horizon culled much of those onboard. I killed their bodies and their minds, the mana of life siphoning into my frame as I passed out the other side of the ship.

The next ship behind the first fire its own blast. It collided with my head, the impact direct and on point. A white light blinded me, a third of my health disappearing instantly. I let out haunting laughter as the ionized, misted air caved around me in one motion.

I hardly slowed down.

I turned and dropkicked towards the ship with both my legs outstretched. Just shy of contact, I used an enormous bout of telekinesis. Converting the force of my travel into a direct kinetic bullet, the lower belly of the ship exploded in a grand plume of orange fire. A rain of steel assaulted the city below, crushing the stone to powder.

I bounced backward, my legs broken. They shifted back into working limbs as I fell downwards. I enhanced this loss of levity, my stomach rising in my chest. Beneath me, a spire whipped towards me. It made contact, my body too dense and too hard for it.

I impaled the tentacle, metal debris falling from the sides of the living spire. Like a juggernaut, I crashed through a stone building before landing atop two Hybrids carrying a kidnapped gialgathen.

They pulped under my heels, splattered into a fine mush from the kinetic blowback. The crater around me vaporized the espen carriers, their forms nothing more than red mist. The paralyzed Hybrid holding a gialgathen spiraled through the air, whipped into a barrel roll. It left fractures in the stone building. Slabs of stone collapsed as I walked towards it.

I reached out an arm and jerked it back. The holding Hybrid unlodged from the wall, the building collapsing in a plume of dust. I waved my hands outward, the brown cloud blown back by the wind. I reached out my hand, catching the incoming Hybrid and gialgathen.

The massive ball ceased moving the moment it met my palm, cracks erupting outwards beneath me. It's orange capsules pulsing, the head of the Hybrid remained. It let go of the Gialgathen, crawling out and away from the poor beast.

The Hybrid attempted dragging itself away from me. I walked up and stomped its chest, caving it in and into the dirt beneath me. Its head remained while gurgling orange blood. I reached down and grabbed the head. Wrenching it from its body, wires snapped and veins split.

I popped the skull of the monster in my hand, orange blood splashing over me. My armor devoured the blood as I peered towards one of the fighter ships. I roared for all to hear, my voice like a talking mountain,

"So you all want to pretend you're monsters?"

A singularity charged in my metal blood, energy emanating from my frame,

"Then let me show you what a real monster is."
