“Leaving aside the consciousness factor...” Quilatalap gave Erick a Look, saying, “We’ve had the abortion debate before, Erick, when we talked about stuff happening on Earth and I talked about stuff happening on Veird 1450 years ago. I know your true feelings on this.”

“… That’s different.”

“Is it?”

“A difference of scale, yes. It’s different.”

“Let me ask you this, then: Will you eventually return to your idea of going incognito among the people? Will you abdicate your throne once House Benevolence establishes itself?”

“… I will go incognito eventually. Not for a very long time, though. Why?”

“Because while most of the stories about Xoat were how he died and the universe happened, some of those stories are about how Xoat walked among us, doing good things from the shadows, never knowing who he was and yet still doing good all the time.”

“... I don’t want to talk about this anymore. I would prefer not to be laden with all these ideas of what could have happened, because all these theories are impossible to prove anyway. All they do is get in the way of real work. And this is putting way too much weight on stuff that doesn’t matter, because I would absolutely never cause a Sundering! I made Benevolence so that a Sundering never happens again!”

Erick’s words were probably too heated.

But Quilatalap took Erick’s anger in stride, calmly saying, “Because the Sundering marked your soul as much as it marked all of us that remain, and all of those who came afterward. Even after taking 1450 years to come back together, you still did, and then you came back here to Veird to make Benevolence, to prevent all further Sunderings in this entire New Cosmology.”

With a voice filled with quiet bargaining, Erick said, “Reasons and cause and effect literally do not matter, Quilatalap. I’m just a guy, who has a bit of power, who is using that power to do some good. That’s all.”

Quilatalap looked at Erick for a little while.

And Erick waited.

Quilatalap likely had a thousand more thoughts flitting through his mind, but Erick could not and did not want to unravel them all. So he waited, as Quilatalap had a crisis of faith, of purpose, and of the present.

All too soon, Quilatalap stood up a fraction straighter.

Erick waited some more.

“… Well. Okay.” With an air of brightness, Quilatalap said, “Okay! Well. Then let’s ignore all that circumstantial evidence, because what happened before is simply what happened before, and without any hard evidence this way or that, focusing too much on what could have happened might blind us to what actually happened. And besides that, it doesn’t matter anyway.”

Erick felt his heart swell with love, and then he tempered that right back with rationality. Rapidly, Erick ended up in some equilibrium space that veered toward hope, and other nice things, such as a continued relationship with Quilatalap, while he desperately ignored the possible hero/miracle/crisis happening with the big green man right now. Quilatalap seemed to be forcing himself to ignore all of those uncomfortable things, too.

Which was good.

With a calm smile, Erick asked, “Ready for some presentations?”

“I’ll need to make my own. You can go on ahead.”

“… You don’t have to? We’ve already talked about what you’ve done this last year?”

“Sure, but none of the rest know, and I’m rather sure your overseers are still wary of me. A presentation could put their worries to rest.”

“… Okay. Sure?”

Quilatalap smirked. “I’ll catch up with you.”

“… Sure,” Erick said, not sure what else he could possibly say in such a situation.

- - - -

Erick walked alone down the hallway of his private section of the House, for Quilatalap had split off and gone downstairs, to the atrium, to set up in one of the rooms set aside for the presentations. That was probably for the best, for Quilatalap’s thought process regarding Xoat, Erick, the Sundering, and Benevolence, had shaken Erick.

But any more thoughts spent on all of that would be a distraction. He was the host of the Feast and he had work to do.

Ophiels fluttered all around the House, showing Erick that nothing was on fire, and all the people of the House were doing their respective jobs and keeping their heads down, either setting out food or clearing away small messes or cooking in the kitchens. The guests were partaking of the Feast, or setting up presentations, or… Hmm. Flirting with the staff. Erick saw Farix flirt with Cook Donny, but Lapis was at Farix’s side with a quick elbow and a quiet word, and Farix excused himself. Donny excused himself from that situation a second later, once he felt safe enough to do so. The big guy went around a corner and paused, taking a deep breath, before moving on.

Erick moved on, too.

A quick count of people showed that there were a lot more people here than Erick had counted yesterday. The Shade Tower, of which only Goldie was a member until a few days ago, had been transformed from white eternal stonewood and basic niceness, into a fantastically high-class building filled with luxury, and also a secondary section filled with servant-level niceness. In one half of the building there were black carpets running down hallways, four poster beds, and black vases and sculptures of the Dark Dragon on plinths. The other half of Shade Tower was the same normal white flooring and nice lights that Erick had put up months ago. But there were also servants. Some were ghostly, courtesy of Quilatalap, but there were also a lot of real people down there.

Lot of people who had not been there yesterday.

Shadelings of all sorts, from human to orcol to harpy to incani and dragonkin. They all seemed past their initial fugue-state, too, so they weren’t just mindless automatons, but real people. There were also normal people, too. Maybe about 25 people total, all of whom were involved in cooking, or cleaning, or [Fabricate]ing clothes… Making clothes? Yup. Clothes for parties? Probably.

Whatever they were doing was probably fine.

None of the Shades were in residence. Every room given to the Shades was unoccupied, with unseen servants in the process of making up the beds, or completely empty, for the Shades therein had vacated hours ago, or never stayed there at all. Treant’s room looked completely untouched, which was normal for that orcol Shade. He was staying in the grove he had made out of House Benevolence’s southern garden space. A quick look out there showed that the southern gardens were also empty, though the place where Treant had rooted himself for the night had been heavily disturbed, with a void in the dirt where he would have been planted.

Most of the Shades were in the atrium, with only Treant missing… Somewhere.

He’d turn up eventually.

The Cooks and staff seemed to be fine, down there in their rooms located right outside of the atrium, and inside the kitchens already cooking. Breakfast was being served to Queen and Goldie and Hollowsaur now, all of whom sat at the same central table where they had all eaten dinner last night. The three of them seemed to be having a small conversation, which Erick would likely join later if their conversation held past breakfast. A few people had already set up their presentations, and a few presentation spaces were empty. Fairy Moon and Bright Smile were at the presentation rooms located on the second ring of the atrium, beside all the rest, setting up that presentation themselves, with the help of one more.

Volaro was at Ar’Cosmos’s presentation space, talking to them about all that was happening in that space, while a human woman and an incani man cast lightwards into the air, showcasing some sort of presentation about trade, or something. Ar’Cosmos had somehow snuck extra people into the Feast, too, even though Erick had not seen any such people come out of Fairy Moon’s Springtime [Gate] last night. Volaro’s presence was a bit disturbing, though.

Erick almost lightstepped there to interrupt that conversation, to find out what was going on, but he’d discover all of that soon enough.

For now, everything looked okay.

All the various forces of the Feast were located in their own parts of the House, but they all mingled in the atrium in the center. The Shades had their tower. The Cooks and staff had all the lower ring level of the atrium, and all the housing outside of that ring. Ar’Cosmos had Ar’Cosmos’s tower, which was empty of people.

And the people of House Benevolence itself were located here, higher in the central tower, across from the part which held all the office space, at Erick’s part of the House. While he had his rooms closer to the north, Zolan had his rooms to the south, along with a bunch of guest rooms that remained mostly empty. Aisha and Volaro were in two of those guest rooms, and while Volaro was downstairs already, Aisha and Zolan were in Zolan’s common rooms, awake and talking.

Having taken 30 seconds to confirm that the House was not on fire and everyone was getting along, or at least they weren’t killing each other, Erick went to go see his Castellan and his Overseer of Magic. Both Zolan and Aisha looked up in Erick’s direction before he even got to the door, with Zolan looking apprehensive and Aisha telling Erick to come on in, while Erick was in the process of knocking.

- - - -

The Wizard walked into the room.

And Zolan stood strong. A thousand thoughts had been reorganizing in Zolan’s head ever since last night, when Zolan witnessed a horror beyond his imagination. Everything that had come before paled in comparison to the pile of coincidences that slapped him across the face and then stabbed him in the heart a few times, just to be sure that he got the message.

Erick was the reincarnation of Xoat.

Or.

Erick was sent here by Xoat.

Or.

It was all coincidence, and Erick was the same person Zolan had known for the last half a year, and which he had heard of ever since the planar man fell to Veird with his daughter.

… Or maybe there was something else going on, and attempting to assign meaning to all the piled up coincidences was merely Zolan’s way of coping with reality. Zolan had spoken at length with Aisha about all of this, but while he was leaning toward the ‘Xoat is involved somehow’ sort of explanation, they had barely touched the surface of everything that they had seen and heard since the Feast had started. Mostly, Aisha had been shooting down every conspiratorial thought in Zolan’s head, in a way that Zolan had not experienced in well over a hundred years, like Aisha was a teacher and Zolan was a student seeing connections that weren’t there. Which was rather true, in this scenario. Aisha had been a Knowledge Mage for a lot longer than Zolan, and she didn’t need to regain all of her Book Magic after going through a [Reincarnation] like Zolan had.

Aisha did confess that she was worried, too, but she trusted Erick in a way that was hard to put into words.

This led to another deep conversation about trust and their king…

And then the conversation had warped back toward Xoat conspiracies.

Zolan was mainly struck by how much Erick did not look like how Zolan had expected Xoat to look… Not that Zolan ever expected to need to imagine what Xoat looked like in the first place. But Zolan had seen illustrations of that First Wizard. He had heard all the big stories.

But Erick was Erick.

A bit of a goofy smile. A bit of a ‘hidden-power’ sort of look. Ophiel, sitting on his shoulder, was perhaps the only part of Erick which showed off his power. Even when Zolan was in a meeting with the guy, it wasn’t until deep into any of those conversations that Zolan could truly see that Erick deserved to be in those conversations; he certainly never acted powerful or meaningful or deadly. He was not accustomed to the trappings of power, like Kirginatharp, or King Alfonin, or any other ruler of this world.

He was simply Erick.

Sure, in the beginning of this job, Zolan had a bit of reverence for the man. Erick had just come out as a Wizard, and he had brought [Gate] and [Reincarnation] to the world, but now, months had passed, and Zolan dealt with all of Erick’s crazy new magics each and every day…

Zolan’s Knowledge Magic was fully running right now, giving him ample time to assess the situations around him, and so, Erick had yet to walk fully into the room. In that moment Zolan decided that action was better than words right now.

Erick greeted them, and Zolan had said a greeting back, and Aisha said something similar, but pleasantries were unnecessary.

Before the conversation went on past the ‘good mornings’, Zolan asked, “We need a goal for this Feast, sir. I know we spoke of a general goal of ‘no deaths and no ruination’, but we must have some specifics now, and before we rejoin the Feast.”

Aisha briefly looked to Zolan, then she turned back to Erick. “With the reveal of [Duplicate] and that song, a more solid idea for the outcome of this Feast would be prudent.”

Zolan asked, “What is the goal here? What does the world look like when this Feast is over, and what sort of dangers are we to be expected to handle?”

Erick smiled softly, then said, “My goal is that the House looks the same after this Feast is over, as it did before, with nothing changing in the way of short term goals or long term goals. The Greater Candlepoint Area will continue to expand. The Gate Network will expand to Songli, and the Local Area Gate Networks of the Highlands and the Crystal Forest will happen. Trade will occur, and we’ll see that our small parts of the world becomes better than they used to be, and steadily, that change will sweep forward, brought forth by the hands of others who join the cause.”

Zolan and Aisha both got concerned looks.

Zolan spoke his mind, “I ask you not to allow the Shades to live here at this House. Goldie is bad enough. We cannot contain the rest.”

“Of course,” Erick said, “If they have contact with anyone past today, I will ask that they contact me, directly, and don’t involve you or our House at all. After several decades of good behavior and whatnot, that might change.” With a look that could be called forlorn, Erick added, “And I hope they do not press that issue.”

Aisha said, “They will.”

Erick said, “Then I will simply press back.”

Aisha stressed, “Queen is going to involve herself with House Benevolence through our connection to Songli. Lapis is going to want to involve herself through a connection in the Wastelands. Farix is going to come at us through education. I’m not too worried about Fallopolis, Treant, or Hollowsaur, but the other three are going to want to be here in some shape, and Goldie is already here, which already sets a precedent.”

