Erick nodded. “I understand and expect all that. I fully expect to get some tertiary connections going with all of them, too, for keep in mind that we must be able to work with everyone, or else they will simply go somewhere else and involve themselves in our business in some indirect way. I would prefer the direct approach.”

“We would be better served with distancing ourselves from the Dark, sir,” Zolan said, “There were too many witnesses to your song to hide it, and so we shall not be doing that, but as your castellan, I must stress that to involve ourselves with the Clergy of the Dark…” Zolan had trouble putting all his thoughts into words, for he knew he only had a short amount of time with Erick, at this critical juncture. Shadow’s Feast was not often a time of great change, but this year, like last, looked to be one of those times of great change. So Zolan simply said, “It does not matter whatever they tell you, and however changed they show themselves to be. They are still Shades. They cannot be allowed to taint this House more than they already have.”

Aisha stood firm. “I agree with Zolan’s assessment. I would add more words, but they are unnecessary; we’ve got a Feast to attend and problems to mitigate.”

For a moment, Erick stood there, watching the world, and also Zolan and Aisha. Erick asked the two of them, “Are you two good? Emotionally, I mean.”

Zolan said, “I am of solid mind, body, and soul. I can handle this, sir, or I would not have volunteered. I must admit that the depth of this year’s Feast is something that I had not expected, but I have a great deal of hope that the issues the Shades have caused, which we uncover here, tonight, will be much more solvable with all of our combined perspectives, instead of with the minimal intelligence we usually get for these sorts of things.”

Aisha softly declared, “As we do every year, we of Rozeta’s faithful will respond with appropriate countermeasures to the dangers we didn’t know existed until after the Shades created them. That doesn’t mean that we should assist them with their Dark work in some sort of effort to mitigate that Dark work. They will twist that assistance into something evil.”

Zolan glanced at Aisha, surprised that she would speak that far against House Benevolence’s stated goal of ensuring some sort of peace between all sides.

Erick stood strong, saying, “The Shades and Melemizargo are not going away, so mitigation is our only viable response. I ask you to see this Feast less as a chance to harm the Shades further, and more as a chance to ensure that their power causes less harm, and more good. I assure you both, though, that I will not be inviting any Shades to live here. I understand that danger full well.”

Aisha seemed mollified slightly. She nodded.

Zolan felt slightly less worried, too.

He was still terrified of what he had seen and heard ten hours ago, when Erick called the Darkness a friend. But that was then. And here, now, with Erick seeming the same as he always was…

Last night was still terrifying.

But Zolan could deal with terrifying. Comparatively, only getting one spell every 20 seconds, thanks to the time differential of the Feast Barrier, was much more worrying. But Zolan had his aura control, and more importantly, he still believed that Erick was still on his and Aisha’s side. They had a Wizard willing to save them if anything went horrible, and they might have even had an archlich willing to bring them back from the dead, if the… Well not ‘the worst’. Death was not the worst thing that could happen around Shades. But it was still a big worry.

Zolan had still never imagined that Erick would speak for the Dark, though. But that’s what it meant to be a living treaty between all people. Zolan admonished himself; the extent that Erick was cozy with the Dark should not have surprised him. A treaty never would have been forged otherwise.

Feeling much better, Zolan had a few more words with Erick and with Aisha as the three of them made their way into the main part of the House, down to the atrium for breakfast…

And a whole lot more.

- - - -

Erick left Zolan and Aisha to walk by themselves down to the buffet. They’d be fine together. Volaro should have been with them, but that Carnage dragon orcol was over talking to Bright Smile, on the other side of the atrium, at Queen’s presentation. They had moved on from Ar’Cosmos’s presentation, talking about this and that and they were probably going to visit the other presentations, too. That kind of pissed Erick off. Volaro should should have been with Aisha and Zolan; they were all overseers of House Benevolence, after all. But Volaro had gone off on his own…

Erick wasn’t going to micromanage them that much, he decided. He’d just mentally mark down everything that happened and if it proved to be a problem, then some people would get talked to afterward, and it was kinda ridiculous to expect Volaro, the Carnage Dragon, to not have a lot of remaining loyalties with Ar’Cosmos. For now, nothing was on fire and no one was screaming, so everything was copacetic.

With his eyes on the first presentation, which was simply the closest presentation, Erick walked over to an empty space on the second floor of the atrium which had been filled by a Shade; by Lapis, the Shade of Enchantment. Last year Lapis had showcased how she and a few other Shades, mainly Treant, had taken people from around the world and turned them into Stat trees, using the color of their souls and a bit of Melemizargo’s Wizardry to make them into reinforcing fruits, or New-Stat-granting fruits. Back then, Treant had forced an Intelligence fruit, an apple, upon Erick, and in the Intelligence fugue that had followed, Erick had given himself all the other New Stats because it had seemed like a good idea at the time.

Lapis’s work this following year, after having been Blessed with Empathy, looked to be centered upon the Wasteland Kingdoms and against the Converter Angel. As Erick stepped into that converted business space, with tens of information-filled lightwards and maps and all sorts plotted out with names and places and purposes, Erick wondered, before he read any of it in depth, if he was going to need to deal with some big Quiet War fallout from Candlepoint’s geographically nearest neighbors. The Wall of the Wasteland Kingdoms was only 250 kilometers away, after all.

… Obviously Erick would be dealing with fallout from the Kingdoms over all of Lapis’s actions, but the exact nature of that interaction would be for the future to tell, and Erick couldn’t ask Lapis herself about it right now. Lapis was not in the room.

There was, however, an older incani man of pale red skin and bushy white beard.

The man saw Erick and stepped closer, and then he bowed, and rose, saying, “Welcome, Wizard Flatt. How may I be of service?”

“Greetings. First, who are you, and then, what’s all this.”

Without missing a moment, the older man said, “I am Harriz Greysteel, a retired First Knight of the Kingdoms, a defender of the realms of incani. My current home is the Kingdom of West Bank. King Artotz Rashi is my lord, and I believe you have met Princess Weilux, through her contact and trade with your merchant Zaraanka Checharin.

“I used to oversee the training of recruits for our standing armies but in my advanced age I have moved on to a political post, primarily dealing with potentially catastrophic Quiet War events of all kinds, mostly of a defensive nature. I am here because Shade Lapis has been assisting our nation with the eradication of the Converter Angel Curse and other angelic operations inside of our Kingdoms for the past year, alongside Caizoa of the Black Star. That is the quick version; the larger version is written here in this presentation.”

Erick had a lot of sudden dislike for the man, based on his profession of ‘defender of the realms of incani’, which meant Harriz was deep in the Quiet War, and probably the Forever War, too. But he had come in here expecting something like that, and the man was calm and professional, with no visible anger or apparent desire to influence Erick one way or another. And yes, Erick did know of Weilux and Zaraanka.

Erick said, “I have met Weilux once, in passing, and then once more in an actual meeting, but my castellan is the one who has actually met with her in any real fashion. Based on what I’m seeing here I’ll probably have to make some time to actually attend some of those Wasteland Kingdom meetings soon, though, if all the world calms down enough to let me. Are you capable of speaking on behalf of your people with regard to getting a Gate system setup?”

Harriz relaxed a fraction, his shoulders loosening and his breath evening out. He was glad to broach the topic of Gates. “I am. If possible, we’d be interested in getting a Local Area Gate Network up and running directly inside the Kingdoms. Since we are so close to Yggdrasil, would it be possible to do this? To have Gates in our Kingdoms, directly?”

“In a few months Yggdrasil can certainly do that. Standard rates apply. I won’t be partial to any Quiet War shit, but I am more than willing to support the Kingdoms with a LAGN. Details to be worked out later. I imagine that you’d want to start trading with Songli, too, considering they’re not a part of the Quiet War, and with Stratagold, of course. For those shipments you’d have to go through Candlepoint, along with every other sort of world-wide trade.” Erick gestured to the presentation, asking, “So what has Lapis been doing in the Kingdoms, or rather… What have the Kingdoms been doing? Is there a difference?”

The conversation was moving fast, and Harriz kept up well.

“A great difference, but it started off as Shade Lapis working undercover to root out all the influences of the Angels.” Harriz gestured to the first part of the presentation, on the left side of the room near the door, saying, “She came to us under the guise of a Soul Mage to assist with Seeing and diagnosing the angelic taint, working closely with Black Star Caizoa, though only Caizoa knew that Shade Lapis was a Shade at the time...”

Harriz explained the events of the past year, and Erick listened. There were a hundred details to remember, most of which might not have been true, but the general shape of Lapis’s time in the Wasteland Kingdoms was easy enough to see.

After Last Shadow’s Feast, Caizoa went searching for angel-afflictions with her Black Star of Koyabez. She found many afflicted people, all rather quickly. One of those afflicted people was Princess Dinabez of West Bank, fourth in line to the throne (Princess Weilux was second in line to the throne, Erick recalled). But Caizoa had no way to deal with those afflictions, which was when Lapis stepped forward, under the guise of an unknown incani Soul Mage.

What followed was a lot of tension between Lapis’s persona, Caizoa knowing who Lapis was anyway and choosing not to out her, the rapid purifying of many people’s souls of the angel taint, and a whole bunch of inter-Wasteland incidents, once the depth of the Converter Angel’s infection became truly known. Erick had been there, with Ophiel, for some of that, back when he was keeping tabs on that development. But once the initial problems got contained by Caizoa, and King Rashi’s powerbase was no longer being undermined by angelic interests, Erick was able to step away, and Caizoa was able to go on her crusade against the angel infection on her own (With Lapis helping in the background). Which is exactly what Caizoa did. Since the Black Star could find targets anywhere in the world, and Caizoa used that capability to find every single angel-infected person the world over.

All the while Erick had been walking the Worldly Path, the reason he didn’t see many angel-infected people was because Caizoa and the Kingdoms were ripping those infected people out of their lives, fixing them, and then putting them back. Even in the angel-aligned places of the world like the Greensoil Republic, and the Sovereign City of Pearl, Caizoa and her people went to work, extricating people from their lives, cleansing them, and then returning them. There were many, many different plots against the Wasteland Kingdoms that Caizoa and King Rashi uncovered and foiled, and many almost-wars that happened due to how they chose to solve that issue. Soon enough, due to their actions, the angels were in full retreat. The Converter Angel had retreated to the moon Celes.

But the only reason Caizoa and the Kingdoms were able to fight back against that taint was due to that Soul Mage, at the beginning; Lapis made this counter offensive possible.

It didn’t happen every time Lapis helped remove the angelic taint from someone important, but many times, Lapis got a plus-1 to her ‘Repent Sinner!’ quest, issued by the confluence of Rozeta and Erick’s own [Blessing of Empathy]. That Quest required her to repent for 101 years, and do 1001 good deeds. It was not an exact Quest, though, since only a few soul-cleanings got her a plus-1.

When Lapis tried to save people, on purpose, for the needs of the Quest, the Quest did not update. When she saved someone because they needed saving, she got a Quest update. Mostly. This was not a sure thing. Infuriatingly, the Quest did not seem to have any set parameters at all, which made Lapis think that the Quest was personally overseen by Rozeta, or more likely Koyabez, though all of that was simple conjecture, without any evidence in any particular direction.

The depth of the angelic infection within a person also had something to do with the Quest update, but so did the social and organizational position of the person who had been infected. A deep infection in a random person sometimes gave completion, while a light infection in the general of an army always gave completion, but a light infection in a random person usually gave nothing, while a light infection in a high ranking soldier usually gave something. Knock-on effects had an outsized, completely unpredictable role in the nature of Quest completion, too. One random person in a managerial position and a very weak infection in Eidolon’s shipping district gave Lapis a point, even though she expected nothing.

Lapis was currently sitting at 278-out-of-1001 good deeds done. Tomorrow, if things held how she expected them to hold, then she would get a 1-out-of-101 years marker, too.

