Because of the ousting of the angels, the many knock on effects, and Caizoa’s strict unwillingness to progress the Quiet War when she clearly had the capability to do so (Erick felt this was due to the Black Star telling her not to do more, otherwise it would kill her, though he did not voice this objection), the Wasteland was currently experiencing a near-renaissance of ease of life, and international relations. Retired First Knight Harriz did not use that term ‘renaissance’, but from the various Kingdoms suddenly not needing to worry about invasion, to instead be able to devote resources to building and expanding, and enjoying life, ‘renaissance’ was close enough to being true that that’s what Erick mentally called it.

And then the presentation was over, and Shade Lapis stepped out of the shadows, adding, “Though your own actions have likely caused much more stability than my own, Wizard Flatt.”

Erick turned a pleasant attention to the dark skinned, androgynous woman. “Don’t sell yourself short, Lapis. I’ve been waiting for the Converter Angel to cross paths with me for a long time so that I may eliminate that lingering threat, but it looks like you’ve pressured that turmoil back to their moon.”

Lapis allowed herself a small grin. “A complete cessation of the Quiet War will never happen, but through our efforts we can make it as quiet as possible.”

“Hopefully.” Erick asked, “What are your plans going forward?”

“If I were to interact more with the demonic side of the Forever War I would be working on their side of the Quiet War, so I will not be doing that. After some final touches to ensure nothing will fall apart in my absence, I plan on leaving to the Underworld, to assist with ensuring the viability of long term enchantments on various failing states.” Lapis said, “One of my final acts of repentance in the Wasteland Kingdoms was to bring Harriz Greysteel here to the Feast, to make this introduction between you and the incani Kingdom of West Bank.”

Erick gave a tiny nod to the man who he had spoken with for the last half an hour, saying to Lapis, “Seems like a decent fellow; I’m sure we’ll talk more later.”

Harriz had stepped away from the conversation as soon as Lapis had shown, but at being included, he did a small bow in acknowledgment of being heard, and then he stepped away from the conversation again.

And then Erick turned back to Lapis, asking, “How did you find my daughter’s sword? What was your purpose in giving it to her like that?”

Erick had gone into this conversation wanting to keep certain parts of his life separate from the rest, but now that Lapis was finally in front of him, he could not help himself. The words just came out. While he kept the implied danger out of his voice, he still made the implicit threat, even though he tried not to.

Lapis understood the threat.

Which was probably why she had kept herself away from Erick until after her presentation was over.

Without worry at all, Lapis said, “The Well of Souls that existed inside the crystal tower of Brightwater, where Melemizargo’s Heart lay beating, cannot be destroyed, for attempting to destroy that location is like attempting to destroy the low parts of a valley, where rainwater gathers. When the Soul Slime captured that instantiation of the Dark Heart, the Well moved to a new location. I was drawn to that new location by the Dark, and there, I found your daughter’s sword in the small, black waves at the edge. This was two months ago. I still had work to do at the Kingdoms and I was not about to hand the sword off to anyone else, and so, I waited till I would see your daughter again. I suspected that meeting would happen here, since we were already talking about you hosting the Feast all the way back then.

“And so, I delivered the sword to your daughter in a public location so that there would be no subterfuge happening. The Prince destroyed it, though. If he had not, and if she would have accepted my offer to enchant it for her, I would have made it an artifact worthy of her power. Or probably just soulbound it, if that is what your daughter wanted instead, so that she could never lose it again.”

All rather innocuous.

Mostly.

“Soulbound items are those things that came out of Candlepoint the year before last? There’s no trick to them, to cause the shadeling curse, is there, like there is with the New Stats?”

“Attempting to breach the 1 soulbound item limitation would cause problems varying from soul-sickness to gradual soul-death, but other than that, there were no side effects of that particular magic. Outside of specific, difficult, unknown, and purposeful magics, beyond simply using another soulbound stone, breaching that 1-soulbound limit is impossible. If your daughter would have chosen for me to soulbind her sword to her then I would have done so and also warned her of this issue.”

Erick wanted to say that Lapis, the Soul Mage, getting anywhere near Jane and Jane’s soul was a recipe for Lapis’s extermination.

But Jane would absolutely hate him for that; for taking away her agency, for lording his power over her situation, for any number of reasons, all of which Jane would be right to feel. This fact was the only thing that held him back from threatening Lapis more directly.

… And yet, it was his right as Jane’s father to tell people off and to keep her safe.

Luckily, Lapis seemed to understand the threat without it needing to be said.

So, Erick said, “I’d like to know more about soulbinding, but some other time. Based on what I see here and your interest in continuing to assist people in new venues in the Underworld, I’m interested in providing fallback options for you when you’re down there. Possibly even direct assistance with your endeavors, whatever they might be. I will not be accepting any Shades here at the House, but in several years we might be able to work closer. Do you have an idea for how this assistance would happen?”

Lapis’s bright white eyes went wide. “I… Uh. Yes.” She had not expected Erick to approve of anything she had done so now she was floundering. But she was a Shade, and she got herself under control nearly instantly. “I appreciate the offer, Wizard Flatt. I am already purchasing materials through New Brightwater, though, so I am fulfilled at the moment and for the near future. If you wish to contribute to my work then a Gate to New Brightwater would be welcome.”

That suggestion was probably the most reasonable thing that Lapis could have made.

Erick had no trouble saying, “I’ll see about that, though I have yet to see Farix’s presentation and a Gate to New Brightwater is contingent on that meeting.”

Lapis bowed her head.

Erick moved on to the next presentation.
