“[Detect Minute Life]. One moment, Wind Runner…ah, I see a small concentration on your hair. Right here.”
She directed Ryoka to obliterate the scourge, and then it was done. Ryoka felt a lot happier about this method. Sammial himself found it painless; the nobility, especially the male nobility, were vocally upset about being stared at by a man.
“We could ask Magus Chemille to do the same for you, Lord Pellmia.”
“That would be worse. Bring on the [Mage]. I—oh.”
It was the beginning of one of those days. The group outside the [Alchemist]’s shop was joined by several of the nobility from the restaurant who had to be inspected, including Lady Ieka. But joining that number and detecting lice with the help of the adjusted spell was none other than a man with lime green eyes that glowed violet and orange in the pupils as he cast magic. A huge, floppy wizard’s hat and bright indigo completed [Sorcerer] Leireit’s look.
“Lord Pellmia! And the Wind Runner and Lord Veltras. You seem to find yourselves in need of my magical services quite often, don’t you? Don’t worry, [Lords]. I shall be discreet, as embarrassing as it is. Few [Mages] specialize in this kind of magic, but I, Leireit the Sorcerer, can do anything a [Mage] can do with studies with pure willpower and grit!”
He preened, and Magus Chemille rolled her eyes. But Sammial was delighted to see the ostentatious [Sorcerer] once more, and he disappeared as the [Lords] entered the curtained back of the [Alchemist]’s shop.
Ryoka didn’t hear much as she redressed in a new change of clothes until Leireit yelled so loudly everyone heard it.
“What a weapon of war! I mean—excuse me, sir—”
Ryoka poked her head out of the curtains, but Leireit was silent. And when he emerged, he staunchly refused to say which man it was.
It was a really weird day. Lady Ieka, Lord Tyrion—the Five Families were entertaining, but despite the local chaos, all eyes were on the newcomers to Izril.
They had come, half-Elves, Drowned Folk, and even Dwarves, if not all to the new lands directly. Now, Terandrians were making their bid, and Chandrar and Baleros were both making their preparations in secret. The House of Minos had declared it was interested, but like competitors watching everyone else in a dash for the prize, a lot of powers, even the Five Families, were holding their tongues. Waiting to see who moved first, still.
What would push them towards true action was the scrying orb shining in Lady Ieka’s hands as she let a [Mage] inspect her for lice. It reflected a final group of people as they made their push and announcement to the new lands.
A final great power unveiled itself. And like the Dwarves and Drowned Folk—
They were singing.
 
——
 
They came first across the Floodplains. To Liscor’s gates.
That city in the middle of Izril had grown more in popularity day by day. The road passing the Bloodfields had made the city more appealing than a sea-route, especially with the changing tides.
At first, well, the first few minutes as they neared the gates, they were largely unnoticed, aside from the Watch, who called in the newcomers to the Watch Captain.
They were assured that this was not a threat, and so it was as this caravan came through the gates that people began to notice. And the first scrying orbs lit up, and Drassi took over the broadcast from Noass within barely a minute of this group’s arrival.
How could you not? This last power was undeniably more important than any news that could wait.
But that was as the event unfolded. The first person to really see them was actually a Human man.
Temile the [Manager], the [Actor]. He was trudging up to The Wandering Inn to head back to Invrisil and coordinate the Players of Celum.
He would have used the magic door to get to the inn, but someone hadn’t opened it for eight minutes so he decided he’d walk instead. Today, he was feeling a bit out of sorts. A bit…empty.
Oh, he was in charge of the Players of Liscor, who practically fell over themselves trying to impress him. There was some talent here, but there was talent everywhere practically begging to be accepted into the Players of Liscor, Celum, and now Pallass too.
Not that he oversaw Pallass’ branch; he had his hands full with two groups. He was a richer man, now. He had a home in Invrisil, and even if the A-team—Jasi, Wesle, and the rest—had gone north to wow First Landing—
Temile had made it beyond his wildest dreams. He’d been a humble [Guardsman], earning a living with Wesle until the day the man had told him that the new [Innkeeper] in the city had a fun idea.
Now look at him. Even if you’d told Temile the cost would be a thumb…he glanced at his hand and the stump of his digits.
…Well, he’d have counted it as acceptable.
So why was he so maudlin today? It was because while he loved acting, he was passionate for the future of the Players of Liscor and Celum—he had to admit.
He was bored of all the plays. Yes, he had good actors, and two of them were over Level 30, having gained a lot of levels after the A-team left. But all the plays, even Elisial, were done. Yes, Andel was now joined by a small host of competing [Writers] or—as Andel claimed his new class was—[Playwright]—but they were slow.
Plays? He wanted to see hundreds of plays. He wanted the same burning lines of Shakespeare to be filling his mind day in, day out! Erin claimed she couldn’t remember any more plays that were ‘topical’, but dead gods, he’d take the ones she felt she couldn’t give him!
What would make them incomprehensible? Something about where she came from? Temile was certain they were good. Frankly, though, he would have taken more acts on the lines of Frozen, which were just songs you based a narrative around.
“Songs. Songs. Dead gods dammit, we can’t wait for someone to write a musical about—about the Meeting of Tribes. We don’t need to reenact war and tragedy. Give me something purely fun! Give me something joyous to make the people sit up and laugh!”
That was what Temile felt they lacked. Too much of the storm and thunder like Hamlet, Macbeth, Othello. Too many grave men—or women—striding around on stage.
He wanted something funny. Something with music that children would love. Now, Emme thought that it was foolish to cater to youth. Temile was in the other camp. If children couldn’t enjoy an [Actor]’s work, then Kilkran had better stop writing about the ‘actor’s due gravitas’ or whatever because he didn’t deserve his class!
In a sense, Temile was struggling because he was straining towards a genre that well and truly existed—but had not yet entered his sphere of understanding. He was just about to write to their member from Erin’s home, Galina, and ask her if she knew what he wanted. She was one of those high-minded types who enjoyed talking about the art of the stage without the silly prat-falls and jokes that were written into even Shakespeare’s works that made it good.
Then he saw them. They were coming across the Floodplains, and they had emerged from one of those trick-valleys near the city. The man stopped as they rode towards the gates, and he turned his head, staring.
Why not? A few travellers were coming to the inn, but a lot were going in and out of the gates. [Builders] trudging to the new district for work, [Farmers] like the man dressed all in black, with an umbrella of all things, Farmer Himilt, heading to his farm.
[Traders] and [Hunters] and Menolit’s Liscor Hunted party. A bustling city of cityfolk and more, visitors from Invrisil, and Drassi herself. They all turned as this group appeared.
There were over a thousand of them. They rode, of course, on their journey here, and Temile’s attention was locked on them instantly. Drassi dropped her breakfast burrito and looked around for a personal scrying orb.
Who were these strangers? Well, at first Temile thought he saw a new species. Then he realized they were Drakes.
Drakes…with the oddest headwear he’d ever seen. It was a kind of helmet that covered their shoulders, a kind of protective gear that was closer to a second-skin than a traditional helmet. The distinctive covering was also compounded by the riders themselves.
Some sat in wagons, but most rode—ponies. Not horses. The shaggy animals were laden with packs and goods, and the Drakes were smiling and waving. They carried slings, and some had staffs or simple spears. In that sense, they might be warriors—but they didn’t have steel like Pallass’ forces.
“Who…? Who are they?”
Temile had no idea. Even the [Guards] on the walls only knew this group by their designations—allies in the war against the Hectval Alliance. Only one Drake looked around, saw the thousand Drakes descending on the city, and broke into a cold sweat.
“No. No. No, not them!”
Relc backed away, claws in his earholes. He fled into the city, but it was too late.
A thousand Yoldenites were headed straight for Liscor’s southern gates as Temile watched. But hardly in silence. Their laughter and odd calls were punctuated by a strange sound.
The sound was—a rider easily sitting in a pony’s saddle up front. His feet were almost touching the ground, but the Drake had both his claws holding something.
It was a guitar. At least, one variation on the classic stringed instrument so common among cultures. He was strumming on it, a fast, energetic song, and a female Drake was dueting with him in the band of a thousand. In fact, several dozen had stringed instruments, even lutes they began to play.
Temile’s mouth opened wider as the chatter fell silent. He had just one thought in his head: Numbtongue was going to be so upset he missed this.
But even he couldn’t have predicted what would happen next. For, as the caravan reached the city gates and Drassi raised her scrying orb, they began to sing.
A thousand Drakes looked up, listening to the merry tune as it filled the air. They looked at Liscor’s walls, and at the staring Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans. They stared back—but then, as one, raised their heads.
Question. Had you ever seen, or rather, heard a Drake singing? Aside from national anthems, it was a rare sight. But now, as one, the Yoldenites raised their heads.
And their voices blended together in the most incredible choir that Temile had heard in his life.
“♪Ooooh. Oooooh, oooh oo~♬”
There were no words at first, just a combined voice as the first wagon rolled past a Silverfang Gnoll of the plains who craned his neck and pinched himself hard to see if he were dreaming.
Then the Yoldenites began truly singing. The female Drakes began first.
 
“They’ll look high and then look low—
—But we’re higher than you’ll know
When we draw our slings they’ll hear us cry.”
 
A trio of Lizardfolk hid behind Hexel as the Lamia looked around to see if someone was pulling a prank on him. Young men and women Drakes waved at the Lamia as they passed. Then the men, young and old, took over.
 
“A Walled City’s got a few neat sights
But you’ve never seen a wall like ours
Yayde Re—keep a helmet on your head!”
 
Both sides joined in on that part, that famous greeting from the Drake city of Yolden. By now, they were on Pallass’ news network as Noass and Sir Relz stared in the same dead silence.
Like Liscor and most of the world. Even the most worldly of Drakes like Sir Relz might know of Hectval—but not Yolden except as a joke.
Well, the joke had a song. And it was quite beautiful and patriotic in its way. If you managed to get to the words.
Lism stood with his [Councilmember] robes next to Krshia Silverfang, hand raised to shake…the first Drake rattling a tambourine? A young man whirling an empty sling? Olesm had written to him about Yolden, but he had left out the details.
 
“They’ve got crossbows, bows, wands, and swords
But so long as it comes from overhead I won’t feel a thing
So I’ll keep a helmet on my head and breakfast in my pack
For music I’ll toss a stone and hear their helmets ring!”
 
There was only one thought in Lism’s head when he saw the conflagration descending on Liscor. It was a mix of chagrin and a realization—
Liscor needed an anthem.
 
——
 
This was news. Ryoka Griffin realized she was staring at the scrying orb with the rest of the nobility. Some of the Five Families looked horrified or amused or both.
In fact, while not everyone would see this live—any number of important people would watch the Yoldenites’ entrance into Liscor.
There was just something…purely cultural about them. Something unique. And yes, you could be mean about it.
Or good-spirited. Or both. For instance, the King of Destruction, that conqueror of an entire continent, nearly met his end this day. He laughed so hard he actually cracked two ribs.
 
“They’ve got [Archmages] and they’ve got Named-ranks. 
They’ll set them at our flanks, but so long as I’ve got a rock we’ll be fine.”
 
However…Ryoka Griffin saw someone tapping their foot and nodding to the song. Lady Buscrei was listening appreciatively, and Ryoka realized—this was her kind of music. Hells, the Yoldenites might be her kind of people.
They entered Liscor like a musical storm and a single song.
 
“Send a catapult or bring a hundred mauls
You’ll never get past Big Wall
Yayde Re, keep your helmet on your head!”
 
Proud as could be. Which, to be fair, was far beyond Ryoka as an entire people. If you were going to enter a city, well.
The Yoldenites certainly had style.
 
——
 
“Donei! What a city! Hoi there, are you Commander Olesm’s uncle? I told him we’d be by to visit now we’ve got Hectval running tail-first!”
A Drake officer swung herself out of her saddle as a crowd gathered. It was impossible not to gather. Even if you just wanted to stare. And many people, like Temile, were just watching. The [Manager] was taking notes as fast as he could, and since he didn’t have parchment, he was writing on his arms and shirt.
At this, Lism finally managed to smile. He reached out, and a beaming young woman took his clawed hand and pumped it up and down.
“Oh. Yes. Councilmember Lism at your service. And you are…?”
“Captain Voita! Ah, doine! It’s [Major] Voita! Yayde Re, Councilmember! Hey there! It’s the Councilmember of Lism, and he’s not an egghead! Get over here, you lot!”
She said the word again. Then three dozen Drakes were lining up to shake his hand.
“How do you do? Yayde Re, Councilmember! I’m a [Mayor] myself. Lemel.”
A [Mayor]? Then he was like a city governor! Lism turned to the Drake who was in charge of Yolden’s city—but an older Drake with bright silver scales, a rarity, elbowed him aside.
“I’m [Mayor] Brieese!”
“Another [Mayor]? Er—”
