“Antinium can’t do it because it makes the other species who haven’t seen them before nervous. You get off work in four more hours. Break in eighteen minutes. Alright? I’m busy.”
Then he headed back into the inn. Liska craned her neck after him. And all she could think was—
Odd. But then again, even Liska didn’t really think much about Ishkr, and he was her brother. He was so normal. The only normal person in The Wandering Inn.
Right?
 
——
 
If the Dragon wasn’t part of today’s news cycle, Calanfer’s diplomatic agreement was. Ailendamus had just lost a political battle, and the Humans were coming to Izril.
…Wonderful. Yeah, what Izril really needed was more Humans. Because that had worked out so well, historically.
Even the Five Families didn’t like it. Here came their royal cousins, who sneered at them from across the pond, coming to lord it over everyone. It accelerated timetables.
In fact, even the Antinium crusade’s danger was getting a bit sidetracked by the new lands. It was amazing, really. One second, the Five Families were worried about the Black Tide, the next, everyone was discussing the land rush.
Then again, Ryoka Griffin supposed she was responsible for a bit of that. She had assured the leaders of the Five Families they had less to fear than they thought. Right now, she was eating as the nobility at the breakfast get-together in The Culpable Appetite, one of First Landing’s finest restaurants, were chattering.
“…just seems to me as if this is not simply a matter for one noble house, but a concerted effort by an entire Family. If not all Five Families. What do you think, Lady Oswen?”
A Terland nobleman was speaking to Lady Buscrei, who almost snorted her tea out of her nose she demurred so hard. He looked appalled, which compounded her point.
“That is a fine idea, Lord Telvin. I can’t see it working. The best is that all Five Families will make their efforts and we’ll try not to stab or step on each other’s feet.”
“But the kingdoms are presenting a united front.”
“Hardly united, Telvin.”
Those amused, mocking tones made Ryoka’s skin crawl a bit. But the slightly droopy [Lord] of House Reinhart smiled unctuously as he broke in, turning from his meal.
“Every allegiance has fractures to be exploited. If anything, joining arms threatens to drown all our endeavors together. Why pretend to civility when this is far more entertaining?”
“Lord Gorthes Reinhart, I have never agreed with you more. Which is really unfortunate.”
Buscrei retorted, and the man smiled coldly at her. He eyed Ryoka as if hoping the Wind Runner would chime in. But Ryoka had her hands full, thanks for asking. She was done with making messes. Yep, yep.
…Which was why it was so discouraging to have a mess all over her clothes. The Culpable Appetite made wonderful food, really. They hadn’t gone all the way into replacing taste with gimmicks like some high-level restaurants did. They mixed a reasonable amount of plain good food with a high-level set of Skills on behalf of their staff.
Such as their advertised ‘Free Brunch’. Which wasn’t free. The nobility would laugh at the occasional [Sailors] or visitors who inquired about it.
What was free was hardly the price in gold. What was free was that you could eat until your stomach was bursting with the sinful food, some of it cooked in butter, and you wouldn’t put on a pound.
And like that, Ryoka realized how Magnolia Reinhart was not dying of diabetes if this were what you could get with high-level [Chefs]. Of course, this appealing meal didn’t mean Buscrei needed it; she had declined the Skill on her food, as had Lord Veltras and a number of House Veltras. They had ordered light breakfasts—
Except for the huge plate of waffles, delicately crisped sugar caramelized on the outsides of the hot pastry. The pockets were filled with syrup, agave, not maple. Just to be interesting? Slices of sweetberry, raspberries, and strawberry were piled on top of the scoop of gelato placed on top of the hot meal.
Ryoka was wearing a quarter of the meal on her front. Sticky syrup was dripping down one leg, and some was, incredibly, mixed with a bit of ice cream sliding down past the neckline of her tunic. On the inside.
To say this was uncomfortable was an understatement. Clearly, at least Lord Gorthes found this mildly attractive for reasons Ryoka did not want to contemplate.
He was not the only one. A [Lady] with hair bluer than the sea reflected out the window was taking a third deep, deep draft of her morning tea as she fanned herself. Lady Ieka Imarris was practically unseen by the nobles as she watched Ryoka from afar.
She would have personally loved to help Ryoka Griffin clean up that appalling mess. Oh my, yes. Of all the coincidences to see the Wind Runner here on business? She was getting distracted.
—Unfortunately, Ryoka was with House Veltras, and even if Ieka would have liked to introduce herself, there was such a thing as timing. As well—the biggest impediment to her socialization was the reason why Ryoka was so unaccountably sticky.
…Ryoka Griffin did not eat like a starving Eater Goat. Even if her enemies would have believed it, the incredible amount of mess generated was not her fault. She had barely eaten a quarter of one of the waffles like a civilized person.
The starving wolverine in question who was adding to the mess was no less than Sammial Veltras. He was gulping down another mouthful of food as Jericha watched in mild horror, and Tyrion Veltras was lecturing him again about table-manners.
But the boy was on a sugar craze—and the second boy on Ryoka’s other leg, currently turning it numb, was Hethon Veltras.
“Hethon, Sammial, you are acting like pigs at a trough.”
Tyrion lowered his voice, but one of the Veltras’ just laughed. Lord Swey, his good hand awkwardly fiddling with a fork, nudged the far younger man.
“Come now, Tyrion. They’re lads who know they can eat as many sweets as they want! Poor Wind Runner.”
“Even one of Oswen’s magical baths won’t save you from that mess. Maybe a dip in the ocean?”
Buscrei teased Ryoka. Hethon looked up guiltily, but he and Sammial were practically glued to Ryoka. Especially Hethon.
Ryoka felt embarrassed. And slightly pleased. When he had come to First Landing, escorted by countless soldiers, he’d run up and given her a huge hug. Now, he and Sammial were so dedicated to not losing Ryoka again, they had insisted on sitting on her lap. Well, Sammial had, and the table was so packed that Hethon had done it mostly to make room. In truth, he was more squeezed against her from one side by Swey; Pellmia; Pellmia’s wife and daughter, Betta and Keireen; their silent son, Gilam, looking annoyed with the gathering; Buscrei, her husband and oldest son who’d ridden out to meet her; two members of House Veltras Ryoka didn’t know by name…
At one table. Their servants and guards stood to the sides and walls, and Ullim, the old [Majordomo], stood with Jericha, Pellmia’s own faithful retainers, their guards…
Lord Tyrion Veltras looked aghast at everything. But half the eyes of the diners here were still on the young Lord Tyrion, who had magically de-aged himself. The other men looked envious, and Ryoka could see why a few [Ladies] looked appreciative.
Tyrion was sort of sharp-looking. He glanced sideways at her, a trimmed, thin beard combed to the exact standards his son lacked. Jet black hair, perfect posture—he glanced at Ryoka’s mess and then coughed and turned his head.
Did his cheeks turn red ever-so-slightly? Ryoka thought the tips of his ears did, but when she saw that, she stared at Sammial’s head very, very deliberately.
“—It would behoove us to let Miss Ryoka clean up. Unless you would prefer a [Cleanse] spell via Jericha, Ryoka?”
He nodded to Jericha, and Pellmia objected.
“We’re not savages, Tyrion. [Cleanse] is not something that is—pleasant—to use on skin. Not to be obscene, but I’ve heard that notion repeated by men on campaign. One poor fellow tried it when he was in—in difficulty in the privy. Excuse my language. He didn’t walk straight for two months.”
“Dear!”
Lady Keireen looked scandalized and horrified, but she covered a smile as Swey choked, laughing, on a bite of food. The rest of the diners glanced over at House Veltras as they exploded into laughter.
No wonder House Veltras hated First Landing. They were the rangers of the wild, untamed lands compared to the other Five Families. At any rate, Ryoka had spotted Lady Ieka, and she was fairly certain that fan-waving and the looks the [Lady] was giving her indicated that Ieka wanted to talk.
Ryoka did owe her a huge favor. So she was trying to interject—and ask if someone had a wet napkin—as Sammial talked in one ear.
“And then—and then I met the Waterbear, Hethon. She’s huge! This big!”
He raised his arms and punched Ryoka in the jaw. Sammial lowered his hands as Hethon, the fourteen-year-old, tried to be more dignified. But naked envy was in his eyes.
“What was she like?”
“Grumpy. She was nice at first, but she wouldn’t fight a shark I saw. And she said I talked too much. The Hundredfriends has so many tattoos! And they’re all animals! There was an orangutan, these big birds—even a huge fish-thing that pulled the ship! And—and—”
“Sammy, please don’t talk with your mouth full.”
He swallowed obediently and pointed at Ryoka.
“And she made us fly at the palace! Princess Oesca was okay.”
He told stories like, well, a child, with no real chronology. But Ryoka was just as glad she’d had a talk with Sammial.
“That’s all that happened at the palace, right Sammy?”
No other events? He remembered the injunction on not mentioning the scandalous parts and nodded.
“Nothing else. Nothing weird. Noooope.”
Hethon and even Tyrion gave Sammy and Ryoka instantly curious looks. But it beat him actually blabbing, so Ryoka sighed.
“And what about you, Hethon?”
The adults were talking, but aside from making sure he was fine, even Tyrion hadn’t asked what had happened while Hethon was gone. Ryoka stared at the back of Sammial’s head as she tried to look at the young man.
“Oh—nothing much. I just took my lessons and kept watching the news. I saw Father riding to battle—that was it. Ullim made sure I was well.”
Nothing had happened to Hethon, and he clearly felt like he had missed it all. But Ryoka gave him an encouraging smile.
“At least you didn’t get into any trouble. How’d Oswen treat you?”
He brightened up a bit.
“Oh—well, I did learn how to shoot a bow. And I did hunt a bit—”
“You hunted? No fair!”
Sammial furiously burst out as if this were some great injustice that had to be righted, of all the things Hethon had gotten to do while Sammial was kidnapped. Hethon smirked.
“I helped bag a Marshelk. I didn’t hit it, but I helped track it.”
“Really?”
Tyrion raised his brows, impressed. Lady Buscrei’s husband, Jaeke, leaned over. He was a commoner who had married into the family. Well, he had been Oswen’s [Governor of the Hunt], so it wasn’t purely scandalous.
“Hethon saw the beast faster than anyone else. He’s not learned how to shoot what he sees, but the lad’s got vision like a hawk—no, an owl!”
“I’m glad he distinguished himself to Oswen.”
Tyrion replied automatically. Ryoka blinked at him, and the [Lord] hesitated. Then he turned to Hethon.
“…I hunted my first Marshelk when I was seventeen. You got the chance before me; my father never allowed me to try until I could best a Level 25 [Knight] tilting. We hunted with lances. How was your hunt? Did you eat part of the elk?”
“We used bows and tracked it. It kept running even with arrows in it—we had some of the kill right then and there!”
Hethon described the hunt quite bloodily, and some of the Terlands paled at the thought of slogging through mud and marsh as leeches found you, not the dignified boarhunts or shooting from afar where servants beat the brush. Ryoka smiled as Jericha and Ullim shot her approving glances.
Sammial was fair jealous. He kept stabbing his plate.
“I want to hunt an elk when we get back! And I got to sail with the Waterbear and the Hundredfriends Courier. He called me his friend, and the Waterbear gave me a chunk of her hair when I asked.”
He said this, in the way of brothers and children, to one-up Hethon’s moment in the sun. Ryoka peered at Sammial’s head. She muttered very, very quietly. It must have been recent, but she turned her head to Tyrion and subvocalized.
“…that’s not all she gave him.”
Tyrion blinked at Sammial. Then his eyes focused. It probably hadn’t been the Waterbear. Maybe it was a horse or maybe they’d taken a while to germinate to the point where they were noticeable. Either way, Hethon’s own special eyes focused on his brother, and he practically leapt out of his seat.
Which meant the tiny little white specks that Ryoka was staring at and practically inhaling as he sat on her lap were almost definitely lice. Wonderful. Ryoka Griffin sighed.
“I think I need a bath after all.”
 
——
 
The breakfast in the restaurant broke up fast after that, but the great thing was this: Ryoka did not cut off all her hair.
She had been prepared to the instant she saw the white specks. But one quick visit to the nearest [Alchemist] solved the problem.
“A full soaking in your hair. And clothes. Lords and ladies, you will all need to stand there, please. The restaurant will be dealt with—I regret to say we don’t have enough bathtubs, so we shall go in turns. The afflicted Lord Sammial first. Miss Wind Runner?”
The liquid was deep purple and surprisingly runny. You know the feeling you got when you encountered thicker liquids than water? Syrup and the like? Well—this liquid felt more flowing than water, if that made sense.
It was also, apparently, a great delouser. The [Healer] took Ryoka’s clothes and soaked them briskly but quickly as Ryoka doused her hair. And lest the Waterbear’s good name be sullied, she opined that Sammial might have gotten his lice from one of the horses they had ridden about on or a sailor.
“In my experience, Beastkin do not suffer lice long, Lord Veltras.”
“Well, how dare they be on me? Can I aura them off?”
“I would not try, Lord Veltras. This is far simpler. Wind Runner? You needn’t bathe long.”
“Are you sure?”
Ryoka was understandably concerned about getting all the lice well and truly dead. But the [Alchemist] just smiled.
“We have our methods. Please, step out, and with permission, I shall direct my coworker, Magus Chemille, to enter. She must cast a spell, but I assure you, she will be brief in her observations.”
A female [Mage] entered, and Ryoka felt profoundly unhappy to stand in the nude. But the [Mage] was clinical—she cast one spell.
