“That’s the thing, my dear Zeom. Adversity builds character, or so my beautiful bastard of a father said. What it actually builds is levels. Why try for a perfect move when you can make a flawed one that might produce something better? Okay, assassin-colony is one group. Another is going to enter with a specific bent. Animals. Warhounds, [Beast Tamers], dead gods, I even arranged for a shipment of Sariant Lambs, and they were expensive! Their orders are to tame anything they see.”
Calidus was chortling. He was spending too much gold, he knew, but the outcomes promised to be so insane that he thought he wouldn’t sleep for days! Which of course left the best ideas out there.
“I’ve been trying to contact a bunch of [Pirates], but they don’t like the idea of work. So I thought—if you’re going to send a bunch of settlers to explore and tame new lands, do you know what they need?”
“Please, tell me.”
Zeom, despite himself, was like a man trying to look away from a beautiful, horrible disaster. Calidus’ eyes glinted.
“Nuts.”
“…Nuts?”
Zeom knew his employer was crazy, but he had always thought it was the stupid crazy of a noble, even with sharp wits at times. Now…he saw Calidus spread his hands.
“Peanuts. Walnuts. Cashews. Acorns. Their regular provisions will last them a good week into the new lands. Whereupon they will find in the timed locks I put on their Chests of Holding—nuts. Enough for at least a few months of provisions.”
He was mad. Zeom slowly packaged the poison, and Calidus followed him out, still babbling.
“Come on, Zeom. Give me another idea. I was thinking of giving another group all wine instead of water, but they felt too set up to fail. I need more ideas. The old man is doing his thing, but I advised one of the cousins that she should really invest in rugged folk at a cheap cost and introduced her to some of those [Bandits] you can hire. Zeom? Speak to me, man. What about a group of Drakes who find out the other half of their expedition are Lizardfolk? [Nudists]. Yes…how many of them are there?”
 
——
 
Some people were just doing this for fun. Then again, if Calidus was deliberately pushing the envelope off a cliff…filled with rats…
A few nations were just biased enough to be interesting in themselves. For instance, the Kingdom of Avel was sending their colonists out. You could count how many swords they had. But the amount of bows?
Incalculable. Many groups depended on what made them unique. If anything, having a type of expert like Ieka would at least guarantee an edge in that area.
…Calanfer was not going to be sending true experts in anything but diplomacy. And could you get water out of a rock? Yet they had pledged to send a [Princess]. So she would have [Thronebearers] and more funding than some, but Calanfer would not have the kind of true blue competence some groups did.
Even assuming they accounted for the biases of classes like [Rangers]. Even assuming they made all the logical preparations they could by speaking to people who knew what they were doing instead of relying on their own ego and judgment—a poor move unless you were doing it on purpose like Calidus—
Even then. The new lands might be appealing, but were you ready for them?
“Go to the new lands? You mad? It sounds like hell. I’ll sponsor it. I’m not going myself. And if we send a group from House Veltras, they’d better be ready for anything.”
Lady Buscrei’s opinion surprised Ryoka Griffin. She thought that the [Hunting Lady] would be all for the adventure, but Buscrei just shook her head as they walked through First Landing.
Everyone was talking about the idea, much like a thought experiment. Ryoka had Sammial in one hand—mostly because he’d walk off if you didn’t have a hold of him. Hethon was part of the group that included Buscrei and Swey.
Lord Tyrion was doing the murmuring and talking with the other nobles about alliances and such. Ryoka was trying very hard not to be caught up in it, hence the stroll.
Mind you—there was enough to see in First Landing. A group of Cenidau [Sailors] were having an axe-throwing competition they’d set up, and Ryoka was super interested in trying. But Sammial was all-too-eager as well, and she doubted his aim.
They passed by a young woman with clearly dyed black hair—she had a bit of blonde at the roots—who tried to get close to Ryoka. She wanted…an autograph? Ryoka saw several of House Veltras’ guards keeping her back then did a double-take.
“What the—”
“Wind Runner! Can I get an autograph? I’m going to become a Runner like you!”
The young woman had fairer skin than Ryoka’s, but she had the same unmaidenly trousers and t-shirt despite possibly being of the nobility. And she was barefoot. Ryoka stared at the cheap copy of herself, and Sammial’s jaw opened. Ryoka’s fan waved at Ryoka as another girl jogged over, wincing as her bare feet scraped on the pavement.
Buscrei’s mouth opened for a good five minutes until Ryoka spoke with the two girls. By the time she stopped chortling, they were headed to the park. Buscrei stared with a bit of dismay at the neat, manicured grass that had been pesticided or magically bombed out of all insects. Each tree was tended to, and there wasn’t any wildlife in First Landing but some squirrels and birds who were fed by some of the park’s guests.
“Look at this place. If that’s what a lot of the Five Families think is waiting for them in the new lands, they’re crazy. If I was trying to go there—well, I’d head out with light gear and tell the boys to bring all the supplies. But I’d pack very light and explore a good month. Slowly.”
Oswen’s folk were natural hunters, and Swey came from the plateau, which was why it was so interesting to hear the Veltras’ being cautious. Ryoka raised her brows as Hethon turned bright red; one of the younger Ryoka-clones was waving at him.
“You don’t think it’d be easier for you?”
Buscrei shuddered and gave Ryoka an incredulous look.
“You kidding? I know Oswen’s marshes, but my people have lived there all my life. What I don’t know is where a Mossbear’s territory is in this new place or if there’s hidden underground caves, faults in the rocks—new land is dangerous. If Veltras is going, Tyrion knows enough to send real rugged types. He’s the most city-like of most of the family, but he won’t go in with [Soldiers]. It’s a bad idea. Send people who can hunt for game and produce enough to eat over there.”
“But there are bags of holding, and it’s not impossible to ferry food out.”
Buscrei stared at the ceiling.
“Bags of holding. Chests of holding. Food runs out faster’n you think, Ryoka. If you can’t make sure there’s food coming in, it’ll be a short land rush. What do you think, Swey?”
He nodded.
“I think they’d better take [Druids] and dirt. We have Chests of Holding? I say—dirt, wood, and [Druids] and [Gardeners]. [Farmers] too. Even if they find pure rock, they can build a self-contained farm.”
“Dirt.”
Ryoka glanced at Buscrei, but she was smiling.
“Hey, now there’s an idea. That way they’ll be sure to have a crop coming in. Mind you, it’s fall…”
“One of those wooden structures filled with dirt and light spells. [Druids] have made them—they’ll grow food even in the snow. Warm inside. Speaking of which, they’ll need lots of stuff to bundle up with. No guarantees they’ll even have wood.”
“Right.”
Food and warmth. House Veltras’ priorities were some of the most basic for any colony. Nor did Ryoka think Tyrion would ignore their suggestions. She began to feel an itch in her feet herself, but Sammial clung to one hand, and Hethon grabbed the other arm.
“Look, Hethon! She’s going to run off again! Get her!”
“What? No, I’m not. I have plenty to do in the north. Er—visit Liscor. And, uh—”
Find a Dryad? That might be Invrisil. But Hethon just hung on as Sammial clung to Ryoka’s hand.
“You’re not getting away! Dad! Dad, she’s going to fly off again!”
He began screaming for Tyrion, and Ryoka sighed. At least she could fly. It meant that if she needed to move, she could get across Izril in a fraction of the time of most. And it occurred to her that only one man in the world could probably follow her where she went.
Or any Garuda in existence.
 
——
 
Sometimes it distressed Magnolia Reinhart to see idiocy repeat itself.
Oh, not House Veltras’ approach to exploring new lands. They were very pragmatic. They focused on survival. House Wellfar and Terland?
…Less pragmatic, maybe. Wellfar was going to believe it could keep up a sea-route to supply whatever coastal colony it made. Terlands? Terlands sent their ‘specialists’, who would protect and build without getting tired.
Golems.
It might work, but it was so typical of them it made her sigh. The House of El, predictably, wanted to have some of their [Mercenaries] escort a group looking for new ideas. And as for Reinhart…
Well, she would not dignify some of the ventures coming out of her family with a compliment. But they were certainly ideas.
Nor could Magnolia stop even her family from trying to go to the new lands. The real question was—why?
“Why do we need new lands? Yes, trade and what not. Yes, the value in such and such resources yet undiscovered. But we are not yet done exploring Izril’s north, Ressa. Do we need more?”
“Half the pie’s never enough. Give a man a slice and he’ll ask for two.”
Ressa’s dour comment made Magnolia scowl harder. She stared pointedly at the pumpkin pie topped with the whipped cream that Ressa was guarding.
“I will have another piece, and thank you to keep your analogies about greed in general and not my diet.”
Silently, Ressa cut a slice of pie so thin that it was half the width of Magnolia’s pinkie. She placed it on the plate, and Magnolia stared at her.
Oteslia was growing on her—at least the local cuisine. She would also just like to point out that the pumpkin pie was pumpkin. At least, she assumed so. It was quite delightfully sweet.
At any rate, Ressa raised her brows.
“The local Drakes are still placing bets on you backing out of your promise not to go for the new lands yourself. Regis Reinhart had a few choice words for you.”
“Oh, delightful. Send me a copy if he was stroppy. I shall frame it.”
Magnolia purred. She sat back and sighed. It seemed to the world that Magnolia Reinhart had once again backed out, in her peacemaking ways, from a profitable venture to endear herself to the Drakes.
Which was completely true. But she was not idle. If anything, her staff were so busy that a recovering Reynold was up to his knees in paperwork.
“Well, have our best teams continue to muster, Ressa. I want our irregulars reminded of their promises to me and mustering in Drake cities or in ports, ready to go. Also—a list of all the Gold-rank teams and even Named-ranks who are unspoken for. What were, oh, those Horns of Hammerad doing?”
Magnolia could still pull a lot of people around from Oteslia. Ressa consulted her list.
“They haven’t agreed to go with any group, but they’re still headed back from the High Passes. I’ll keep them on the list if you want?”
Magnolia frowned, thinking about Yvlon.
“…Do. Keep the Silver Swords off that list, though. Ylawes is Ylawes, and he will be wherever he thinks he’s needed. The Horns might be erratic, but I do think they have promise.”
Ressa made a few notes. The reason Magnolia was thinking of Gold-rank teams was because she did have an expedition force planned.
No less than fifteen, in fact, and even Bekia, the Gnoll [Maid], was on a shortlist of reserves for more groups. They were armed, supplies were loaded in mobile wagons, and ready.
Magnolia could have stormed the new lands before Ieka got out of bed this morning. But she didn’t. If anything, she bemoaned the loss of her new carriage, and she hoped her…friend would come back. Let him come back, even if he didn’t remember her.
Magnolia squeezed her fingers together, but then relaxed. All was ready.
“Reynold?”
She called out to the [Butler], and Reynold jumped a bit.
“Yes, Lady Reinhart?”
“Magnolia, Reynold. I think you’ve proven you deserve at least that. Tell me, Reynold. Is there a betting pool among the staff on how soon the first colonial group gets wiped out?”
Reynold bit his tongue. He glanced at Ressa, and the [Head Maid]’s blank face led Magnolia to believe there was gold and pride on the books. Also, that Ressa might be the bookkeeper.
“There…might be a small bet placed, Lady Reinhart. Informally.”
The man coughed. Magnolia smiled.
“Put me down for two gold on a week or less. In which case, we will be busy indeed.”
She had no intention of fighting for land. Instead—Magnolia Reinhart glanced at the map of her people waiting in the wings.
The wings, placed to head into the new lands and grab the starving, hunted, or just desperate people who would fail in this damned venture. She did not like trying to best nature. Instead, Magnolia wanted to save as many lives as she could.
Not purely for acclaim or altruism either. She had to admit—it was because Izril would need the people who might die there. There would be more than innocent young men and women sent into the new lands. High-level individuals, even noble peers—a [Princess] was the first.
It rather reminded her of one of the mothers she had once seen in House Reinhart. The woman had told her children not to touch that or not to do all the sensible things. But she had let her children stick a hand into a pot of boiling water and then quickly bailed them out and applied a potion to the wound. Save people after they kick the beehive.
…Then again, that mother had been terrible. But at least Magnolia would not have to hear how her people had to defend themselves against another greedy force and have blood on the ground. She had spilled enough, so she sighed and began to count again.
“I want more spies. More spies, Ressa, in the other groups coming. Put them in the established colonies as they appear. Helpful people offering their services. When the real Crelers begin seeding Izril—I want them gone or to fail. When Roshal comes to Izril, let them smell the flowers. I intend them to all have poisonous thorns.”
Her real enemies were not the stupid, greedy, or naive. It was the snakes. It was the rot in the flowerbed, and they were corruptive indeed. Poison spread like an idea, and Magnolia could almost see her real opponents looking to sway minds just like she was. She slowly reached out for the entire pie, and Ressa slapped her hands.
 
——
 
The King of Destruction, Flos Reimarch, was sitting in his garden in the palace of Reim, talking excitedly. He gestured with his hands as Orthenon laboriously took notes.
