Not in specifics, but in what he wanted. He had experienced vassals who knew their job. He had talent from multiple conquered nations. But it was still his vision, and so he spoke energetically to Teres and Trey.
“I think it’ll be simpler to expedite than most countries.”
“Oh, colonizing new lands is so easy.”
Teresa raised her hands sarcastically, mimicking him. She was tetchy, and Flos looked insulted.
“I didn’t say that.”
“You don’t even know how to build a house! You’re just telling Orthenon to deal with everything.”
Teresa pointed at the [Steward], and he shifted, whether in agreement or disapproval, it was hard to tell. Trey slowly fed Minizi a Yellat as the Lifesand Golem masticated the vegetable, then spat it onto the ground. The real Gazi eyed her duplicate.
Flos drew himself up with annoyed dignity.
“You start with the foundation of the house. Then add beams and such. I’ve helped build some. Drevish made everyone work on his damned plans. Besides, I have the broad idea in mind. We’ll treat it like a campaign.”
“Wait, so you are going to Izril?”
Trey was patently disbelieving. Flos sighed.
“Trey. Trey. Trey. How could I not? If I didn’t try to settle the new lands while conquering Nerrhavia, I would be ashamed of myself.”
Trey slapped his forehead silently and wished he were visiting Fetohep. Flos just took this as a sign of approval.
“A campaign. I don’t know how to explore entirely new lands. I’ve ventured into Zeikhal, Teresa, but you’re right. So we’ll just prepare for a long campaign.”
“That’s stupid. That’s insane! You can’t treat settling new lands like a campaign!”
“No, it’s actually not.”
Mars commented, and Teresa spun.
“You’re not one to talk! You need explorers—”
“[Scouts].”
The girl hesitated.
“You need people to build! Set up infrastructure—”
“[Quartermasters]. [Blacksmiths]. A war camp needs a huge supply line. [Handlers] for horses, [Cooks]—dead gods, they built their own camps all the time.”
“But—”
Teresa looked outraged that Flos thought it was this simple. But Trey thought Flos had a point, unfortunately. The King of Destruction grinned.
“It’s true we might need more supplies than not, but it’s not a bad idea, is it, Teresa? There will be fighting. But it seems to me that even if we lack the exploratory arm—it’s not who finds the treasure, it’s who has the treasure. We can always find more help while we’re there.”
“Oh boy.”
The [Glass Mage] muttered. He was already seeing why Flos was so happy about that. He saw another fight brewing, and he intended to go in ready for it. Teresa spluttered, but she had one last card to play. Unfortunately, it was a ‘2’. She pointed at the palace.
“Well—you’d better take all the armies, because there’s no way that the other nations will let your people be. The King of Destruction is the enemy of everyone. Do you have enough soldiers for that?”
For answer, Flos simply rose from his haunches and peered at his palace, hands behind his back. Then he turned.
“One of you guards…over here, please? Don’t I know you? L—no, Nerise?”
He nodded to a Stitch-man with that weird memory of his for names and faces. Flos Reimarch stood the guard just so and looked him up and down. The [Guard] wore armor that had seen recent use and carried a halberd. He also had a badge, pinning an enchanted cloak to his shoulders. It bore Reim’s symbol.
Flos pointed to the [Guard].
“Here stands a son of Reim, soldier of the King of Destruction.”
Then he reached out to the badge and removed it.
“Now, here stands a Stitchman of unknown origin. See?”
He turned to Teresa, beaming like a young man who’d won an argument by flipping the table over on his opponent. Trey slapped his forehead harder and heard a twin sound. He looked over and saw Amerys had done the exact same thing.
The King of Destruction just laughed as Teresa spluttered about [Detect Truth] spells. He turned and stared around.
“It’ll be fun, Teresa. Fun—and now that Amerys is back, we have mobility and magic. It’s time to conduct a real war on all fronts. I expect Orthenon will account for many issues and assign competent leaders. I will hand-pick some myself. If they end up in trouble they cannot handle?”
His eyes glinted as he looked back.
“…I’ll send some of my Seven. Amerys? Find me one of Nerrhavia’s treasuries. I want flying carpets.”
 
——
 
“And so we have an agreement. Sign here, here, and here. Thank you, Wall Lords and Ladies.”
Ilvriss finally scrawled his signature, and the magical contract flashed. He stretched and then shook claws with the Drakes who had been six hours at the meeting. But they’d finally hammered out acceptable terms.
“What a disaster.”
He muttered and saw Wall Lady Terith looking nervous. Ilvriss clarified.
“I meant the new lands. It is going to be the most chaotic scene ever.”
“I’ll keep my scrying orb handy.”
The Wall Lady chuckled, but Ilvriss’ smile was a bit pained. A lot of good Drakes were going out there. He might not know all their names, but they did not deserve shallow graves.
He had agreed to a comprehensive, competent push on limited terms, but he knew it was going to get messy. After all—it had just occurred to Ilvriss that this was the perfect time for the Necromancer to make his move.
But what could he do? Well…Ilvriss had just signed his contract. It locked House Gemscale into providing gold, supplies, and people, but there were clauses that let him add to the effort for proportional rewards.
He had asked for that, and it meant he could hire or send forces if he felt there was a need. Like the Erchirite Spears—but that wasn’t what Ilvriss was thinking of.
It was too bad Shriekblade had quit his employ. Or rather…he was still paying her to protect Erin. Yet a Named-rank would be a force in the new lands.
“…Even so, there are things I can do.”
Ilvriss retired to his tower and was moderately glad Zail wasn’t here. His father was taking an active role in the company, and Ilvriss was glad to see it.
It did feel stifling, though. Well, Ilvriss wouldn’t be in Salazsar all the time, so maybe it would actually be a net positive? Zail was going to be pulling strings, and he’d even hinted he had contacts he could prevail on to keep things working well between the Walled Cities.
Yet Ilvriss felt…there was something he could well and truly do to help ensure that the new lands were not disastrous. Or rather, that any disaster might be improved.
His claws twitched over a [Message] scroll he’d set up, one of those permanent two-way lines. Another new Wistram service, but he’d been cautious, and it hadn’t been used that much. He scrolled down it and saw a few new entries from the other side.
 
Mrsha — Hey, it’s me.
Mrsha — Hello? I am collecting money for the Liscor Cookie Fund. I accept donations in gold and gemstones.
[Prince] Merton the Fabulous — Hello, Wall Lord, sir. I am a [Prince] from Baleros who has fallen on hard times. I only require 50 gold pieces to reclaim my fortune. I will then send you 500 gold pieces in return.
Erin — Mrsha’s grounded. Sorry. How’s it going, Ilvriss?
 
He smiled at that. And Ilvriss’ quill hesitated as he dipped it in ink and studied his other [Message] scrolls and correspondence.
He was tempted. Oh, so tempted to ask a certain [Innkeeper] whether she’d be interested in setting up a wing of her inn or a temporary inn in the new lands. After all, everyone needed a drink. A place to stay. And surely there would be fewer places more equipped to deal with monsters and chaos, eh?
But he doubted Erin would go, and even with her impishness aside—he would not put a little girl in danger. Again.
That was what he needed, though. Salazsar was being competent. But Ilvriss well remembered how their competent, highly-trained army had once lost to a tiny group of Drake cities led by Zel Shivertail.
When you were up against the smartest and best, like Chaldion or the King of Destruction, and wrestling against foes who outmatched you—you needed a random [Innkeeper] with a frying pan to add some confusion to the mix.
So what was Ilvriss’ plan? He thought for a really, really long time. But he was rich. And he did have plausible deniability. And besides—he thought Erin might laugh about this for a while. Unless she punched him.
At last, Ilvriss wrote on the scroll a short reply to Erin, letting her know how ‘things’ were. Then he rolled up the scroll and reached for another one.
Alrric had not really said how he got the second scroll, only that he had a ‘contact’. Well, everyone said that, but Alrric had actually managed to go through the black market that Ilvriss knew existed in Salazsar. This…was still something.
Ilvriss slowly opened the scroll and chose his words carefully before writing.
 
To the Goblin Chieftain, Rags. I would like to hire your forces for a task in the new lands. If you are interested, please reply to this [Message] within the week. I am prepared to compensate you quite handsomely in gold or other means.
I may add that while our correspondence is not secret due to these scrolls, we have a mutual friend in the inn. Though I do not care for flies.
—‘Employer I’
 
He wondered if the [Rogues] or whomever were reading this would think it was advanced code. Ilvriss sighed. He sat back, heart beating a bit faster and smiled to himself as he put his feet up on his desk.
“Chaos.”
