Some day, huh?
What were you supposed to do after meeting a Dragon? Cold shower, lots of cuddling with significant others? Talk with friends and make sure you hadn’t gone crazy?
The funny thing was that the instinct to run around in the streets and scream that you’d met a Dragon or wait for your interview with Wistram News Network didn’t happen. Not a single noble, nor even the servants or staff, talked—publicly, at least.
There were doubtless a lot of late-night talks with family and friends, but the Eternal Throne had issued a clamp order, and the Thronebearers had a word with everyone. The second reason why the nobility didn’t talk publicly was because they were busy screaming at their respective rulers, who were busy screaming back lots of questions.
Now, if this were the archetypal fire-breathing Dragon that left a lot of ash and bones in its wake, of course no one would hide the truth. But if you felt like you had just received an invitation from a creature of legend—that was a different card you kept closer to your chest.
So no news leaked…immediately. Which was to say a lot of people heard that night, from the Iron Vanguard, who had a really bad time in their respective toilets at the emotions that produced, to the Quarass, to Rhisveri himself. Yet the populace was ignorant of the facts.
Some day. The world was full of enough exciting news as it was, frankly. Even if no one threw a Dragon into the mix—this felt like a year to be alive. New lands, wars, Antinium crusades? Why were you staying in your job scraping barnacles off a ship or grinding herbs in a mortar and pestle?
Adventure waited. If you stayed here, now—you could never again complain that you’d missed your moment to shine.
Even so, some people stayed put. They said, ‘yes, new lands, adventure, magic, the Archmage of Izril, the beginning of a better era. But…I just don’t have enough silver to buy a sword or something. Where would I begin?’
And that was the end of that. The impetus to action was dividing families, driving young—and old!—out of their homes, provoking change.
For instance, Liska Coresh Silverfang was considering leaving her job. Coresh and Silverfang were her two last names, incidentally. She was technically a Silverfang; she and her brother, Ishkr, had been born before coming to Liscor, but they weren’t the ‘tribe’. So City Gnolls often took another last name and thus developed a middle one if they hadn’t already.
Anyways, Liska was seriously considering leaving her job. She didn’t like being the door-Gnoll in The Wandering Inn. Oh, it was exciting, but she hated working for family. Her annoying older brother was bad enough at home. At work? He was always giving her orders, and she had a hard enough time obeying the Watch.
But Shashi wanted a job at the inn, and she thought it was so fantastic—if dangerous. Which was getting on Liska’s nerves too. They might break up. But the dating scene was really poor in Liscor, and forget about Pallass. They’d actually arrest you.
Even Invrisil was apparently quiet. But Liska hadn’t gotten enough time off from her job to really find a contact point. Which was part of why she wanted to quit.
But she stayed. Oh, the Gnoll with light grey fur and a snaggle-tooth that other Gnoll boys found attractive until she spat on them was too young to worry about a permanent job. She liked the perks of the inn, like the weights-room, free scrying television, and food—but she didn’t like having to change the magic door every five seconds.
Or Ishkr. It was mainly Ishkr. Liska would admit, under torture, that she had some affection for him. He was just so…boring. He never got fired from his job. He took care of Liska in the sense that he often bailed her out if he found her in the Watch’s lockups, and he was always scolding.
‘Do this, do that, don’t kiss in public, stop antagonizing the older Gnolls, don’t throw rocks through a window of Peslas’ inn for being a speciesist.’
Brotherly stuff. But Liska stayed. Even though she was thinking of leaving with all the Antinium and Goblins coming to work here. Not because she hated them; they made her job easier. If anything, that was a reason to quit working because she wouldn’t leave Ishkr holding down an entire inn.
Erin and Lyonette had no idea how hard it was to work with just two Gnolls for an entire inn! Ishkr had kept it running for ages by himself. True…Liska might have quit, but even so, he’d been alone.
Anyways, she was staying out of solidarity. His girlfriend had just broken up with him.
Now, Erin, upon hearing that, might then expectorate all the liquid from in her mouth outside of her body. Ishkr had a girlfriend? Well, yes. Had.
Liska was angrier about it than Ishkr that morning.
“What did she say? Ishkr?”
He was combing his hair. Just the face and arms; they’d eat in the inn. It was so early Liska was yawning, but Ishkr replied quietly.
“She said she’s going to go with the Silverfangs. She was angry that I wanted to stay at my job.”
“Keisha said that? Where is she?”
“Don’t go and fight her. And come on—you’re late. Where are your shoes?”
He meant the wide, cloth sandals that Gnolls favored. Liska gave him a blank look.
“Somewhere.”
She cast around the small apartment they shared. It was only two bedrooms and a tiny kitchen and dining room, but they made it work.
The deal was that if one person came back late at night from partying or working, they didn’t wake the other one up. They both had a key, and if you made noise enough to wake the other, you were immediately smacked.
The second deal was—if you saw a loop of cloth around the doorknob to the apartment, you never entered. Even if the apartment were on fire. Lest you see something you would never forget.
Ishkr growled. He looked around, and the two finally found Liska’s sandals under the table where she’d kicked them.
“Come on. Let’s go.”
The apartment was sorta clean. Neither Liska nor Ishkr cleaned up much; he did that as a job and refused to deal with her messes. If anything, her boring brother barely spent time here.
“Why do we have to get up at the crack of dawn? Why don’t we stay at the inn?”
Ishkr paused. He put on his apron; he was so ‘professional’ that he was never late. And he kept clothes from work.
“I don’t want to inconvenience Miss Solstice. She used to have only a few rooms. Besides, it’s dangerous sometimes.”
“Crelers?”
“Monsters. Bar fights—anything.”
“Hah, I bet there were only a dozen Crelers.”
Liska laughed, but uncertainly. She had never actually heard how many there were. Ishkr had been there, and he’d refused to talk about it. She’d heard from the Watch that an entire army had been surrounding the inn. If Ishkr hadn’t talked about it, it had probably not been that bad. Plus, Senior Guardsman Relc had been there, among others.
“What about now? We could get free rooms. Each!”
Ishkr sighed as Liska imagined a room of her own.
“Erin locks her doors at night. No coming back after dawn for you.”
“Damn. What if you get a room and I stay here?”
He did not dignify this with a response. Ishkr pushed open the door, and Liska trailed after him. Her brother snapped, looking vexed.
“Come on, we’ll be late.”
“Why are you so…like that? You’re not even crying that Keisha broke up with you.”
She waved her paws at him. He had been seeing Keisha for two months. She’d been really worried after his dry spell of three years. Keisha was another hard-worker who’d been apprenticing herself under Raekea’s Foundry, and Liska was privately glad she wasn’t going out to defend Ishkr’s honor. Keisha could probably take them both in a fight.
She was also very annoyed. Yes, Ishkr was boring, but he was reliably boring. Keisha just had to go off and leave him? She trailed after Ishkr, asking more questions.
“How is The Wandering Inn safe? I didn’t hear you sniffling last night.”
Gnoll noses and ears were too advanced to keep secrets. Ishkr just sighed.
“I wasn’t that surprised. It didn’t feel like it was working out.”
“Why?”
He gave her a side-glare.
“Because.”
“Why? Why? Why? Whywhywhywhy—”
She followed him down the stairs, lowering her voice since this was an apartment complex. But Ishkr finally snapped back.
“Because she kept trying to drag me to her family and friends and kept hinting about having children.”
Liska was so astonished she was still for an entire twenty seconds. By the time she ran after Ishkr, he was halfway down Scuttle Street.
It was named after Shield Spiders and had a bit of an octagonal design with the streets which branched off the main street into eight sub-blocks; a kind of suburb that was attached to a larger street. It often got crowded at rush hour, but they were too early for that. Hexel had apparently sworn to remodel this section of Liscor personally.
“She wanted to start a family? You didn’t say!”
“That’s private.”
“You could have told me.”
“I could have.”
“And?”
“You’re annoying.”
The siblings’ argument was punctuated by a scuffle that a passing [Guardswoman] saw. The Drake eyed the two hitting each other lightly and seemed to recognize they were siblings.
“Morning. No entry to this street. Please move along.”
“What? Why?”
Liska glanced up, instantly annoyed, but Ishkr just peered past the yawning Drake as she pointed.
“Sewers.”
“I thought they were clean!”
There had been the bad smells, and the sewers always had problems, but adventurers kept them clean, and they hadn’t had bad blockages for ages. People said that the city was using some new way to clean them, and that was great. Unfortunately…the [Guardswoman] grimaced, and the two Gnolls noticed she had plugs in her nose-holes.
“We hired some adventurers to supplement the bone r—the cleaning service because of all the influx of people.”
“And?”
“One of the idiots cast [Tidal Wave]. The backsplash has flooded this street and the next one.”
Ishkr and Liska sniffed the air and wished they hadn’t. You smelled the sewers and bad things all the time, but that was concentrated odor coming from ahead.
“Ah, we’re going to be late.”
Liska realized they’d have to cut through multiple streets to get around this spill. Ishkr just grunted.
“I have to open the inn. And get breakfast—come on.”
He began to jog. Liska kept up easily; of the two, she was actually more fit. Not just naturally either. She had a lot of experience running from the Watch, and she had done more physical jobs than Ishkr who lifted, what, chairs at most?
However, she was lazy, it was early, and so she whined.
“Ishkr, come on.”
“Hurry up.”
He sped up, and she growled at him. She was definitely going to quit. As soon as she made sure he wasn’t drowning his sorrows or really broken up about Keisha. In truth, Liska was a bit disappointed by the lack of emotion. Did nothing change his attitude?
She lost sight of Ishkr, and by the time she rounded the corner, taking the long, long way across Market Street, he was gone. He really did take being the [Head Server] seriously. She rolled her eyes—then groaned.
It seemed like the entire damn city was trying to stop her from getting to work today! Ishkr must have seen the mess in the middle of Market Street. It was a classic Three-Cart Pileup; nothing fancy. A [Merchant] was wailing as he pointed to the spilled cargo.
“My Prelons! They’re the last shipment from Cellidel—”
“Ah, good riddance, then.”
A Drake [Guardsman] glowered as he turned to the angry Human [Trader] who hadn’t given way, leading to the collision. Liska debated wading through the Prelons—then gave up. Now she had to run down another street.
—Straight into a dawn-performance of a bunch of Drakes, Gnolls, and even Humans. The Players of Liscor were rehearsing as a huge crowd of admirers blocked the street. Liska was losing her temper. But she actually recognized the tired Human man shouting at them.
“No, no, it’s prithee! Not ‘pissy’!”
“Oh, that makes a lot more sense in context. Sorry, Manager Temile! Don’t fire me—”
The leader of the Players of Celum for Liscor and Invrisil had come up in the world, but Temile looked tired.
“Let’s take it from the top. Ladies and gentlemen, please, you’re blocking the road!”
He remonstrated with the crowd as Liska ran, now growling, to a fourth street.
 
——
 
By the time she got to the western gates, Liska had a stitch in her side. She was also fifteen minutes late, and she’d started running. She thought she’d beaten Ishkr. He wasn’t a good runner, and Liska staggered over to the door that stood next to the new Adventurer’s Guild, Mage’s Guild, and main Watch House.
It was a good spot for it, and while the door was often used for city-to-city transit, Liska knew she’d left it open. So she yanked the door open, stepped inside, and found herself in the new transit room. She stalked forwards, and a figure detached itself from the wall.
“Miss Liska. Thought you’d be ‘happening by’.”
“Aaaah! Aaaah!”
Alcaz raised his hands as Liska freaked out. She forgot the inn had security these days. Panting, Liska clutched at her heart attack and the stitch in her side.
“Sorry, Miss.”
“I don’t smell or hear you!”
The Brother grinned and tipped his hat to her. Liska turned to the door that led to the trapped hallway. It was the coolest part of the inn to her. She loved all the hidden traps and weapons, though Ishkr had lectured her for an hour last time she’d taken one of the crossbows out to show Shashi.
“Sorry. There was a sewer backflow and a cart pileup and the Players and someone had bees.”
“Bees?”
Alcaz raised his brows. Liska shook her head.
“Some idiot [Beekeeper] brought bees to the city and had no idea we have Ashfire Bees. I saw, like, fifty of them chasing the small bees around. How late am I?”
“Er…twenty-four minutes, Miss?”
Liska groaned. They were supposed to have breakfast ready in six! And they’d put the chairs up to mop the floors because that was ‘responsible’, and they needed to warm up today’s breakfast and get the water and—she dashed into the common room as Alcaz stayed put.
“We’re going to be late! Who’s still here for breakfast? Did the Horns arrive back yet? No, it’s only been one day—is Ishkr here yet—?”
Even as a bad employee with little motivation, Liska knew the job from Ishkr making her do it. She entered the common room and came to a stop.
Ishkr looked up from pouring a hot broth into a bowl from a container on a table. The chairs and the tables were perfectly arranged, and plates and bowls were already set out as the first early-morning risers like Architect Hexel and Normen came down the stairs.
“Wh—Ishkr?”
