“This, Wall Lords, is a list of possible dangers we might encounter. I have eight known threats. The rest is a list I compiled, and I’m sure we’ll add to it.”
Ilvriss glumly inspected the sheet. Known threats?
[Pirates], Shifthold*, competing forces, crabs…
“Oh come on, crabs?”
“The only wildlife spotted so far by ships, Wall Lord. The point is that we have no idea what’s out there. We’ll be fighting them and other cities, other species—not to put too fine a point on it, but how likely is it a Lizardfolk colony would clash with, say, Manus?”
Ilvriss ground his teeth together and cursed Alrric for being right. Zail just nodded.
“So the competition is…?”
The Gnoll gave him a happy smile.
“Everyone.”
The two Drakes waited. Alrric spread his paws.
“Gentlemen. Ilvriss, Zail. Even with all my Skills, I do not have time to write down every single nation, [Merchant] over Level 30, and [Innkeeper] in existence. Everyone wants to go to the new lands.”
“Yes, but the amount of people who can venture out is low.”
Ilvriss smiled at Alrric’s exaggeration, but the Gnoll just gave him a long look.
“Yolden has made its move. You…haven’t been walking past the Merchant’s Guild lately, have you, Wall Lord?”
Zail and Ilvriss hesitated. They had people to get them coin, and the Merchant’s Guild was on the lower floors. Alrric nodded.
“You might want to take a peek.”
 
——
 
It was not unique to Salazsar’s Merchant’s Guild. In fact, the largest notices were plastered across many guilds in a region, whereas the smaller offers were specific to a few cities depending on the power of that particular guild or [Merchant].
 
[Merchant] Concie’s Venture to the New Lands! Sign up now with applicable classes* to journey to the new lands! Food, supplies, and even weapons will all be accounted for by the Level 34 [Enterprising Merchant], Concie!
Day pay 1 sp, 4 cp. Additional rewards for exemplary performance. Treasure splits to be negotiated. Inquire with Merchant Concie’s representatives.
 
That was one of the kinds of notices that Alrric fetched for Wall Lord Ilvriss and Zail. It was one of a dozen, and the Wall Lord just sat there.
“Does anyone actually take this kind of offer up? A silver piece per day…that’s rock-bottom.”
“I imagine that’s on top of other incentives. But yes, it is one of the weaker options. However, there are entire groups of [Merchants] pooling resources, Ilvriss. I saw a headhunter notice asking for anyone with [Settler] or applicable classes over Level 20. There was a 20-gold signing fee.”
“Still low.”
Zail grunted, but Ilvriss was starting to get worried. If that was what you got from the public advertisements…he tapped a claw urgently on the table.
“Alrric, how many pickaxes or—or wagons are left in Salazsar?”
The [Administrator] gave Ilvriss a proud look, like a [Teacher] finding a great pupil.
“As a matter of fact, I secured as many of them as I could. A pickaxe’s value is already 344% what it used to be. The smithies are working overtime churning out nails and other related goods—I can only imagine how much Pallass is doing in business.”
It was great to have someone like Alrric. Ilvriss exhaled, but Alrric continued.
“So, as you can see, Wall Lords, there will be thousands of individual ventures. And they’re all headhunting. Talented individuals are in a seller’s market.”
“Your point is made. The competition is everyone, Administrator Alrric. Now…how is House Gemscale going to do this? I’m sure Ilvriss has a plan.”
Zail sat there like he was still overseeing the company, and Ilvriss really hoped that this wasn’t going to become a regular thing. He had a bad feeling about this, especially because Alrric seemed used to Zail being here.
Ilvriss had expected the Gemscale company to tank in profits after he sold the Adamantium mine shares, but they had apparently found a new seam—well, an old one—and they were booming in profits. He was beginning to wonder how lucky that had been.
But the hazards and value of the new lands were established. No one knew what was there—everyone wanted to go. The methodology would set apart each individual group’s success or failure along with luck and all the other random events you could run into.
Even so—Ilvriss nodded to Alrric, and the presentation he gave to Zail was a warm-up for the other nobles in Salazsar.
“We’ve been busy. I am going to call up eight experts, Wall Lord Zail, whom we’ve contracted for the last two weeks, ever since we realized the extent of the new lands. They’ve all put together plans and lists which Alrric has helpfully compiled. We reached out to Gold-rank Adventurers, an [Explorer] from Baleros familiar with the Dyed Lands, a [Ranger], and, crucially, a [Quartermaster] in Salazsar’s own forces, and a [Caravanner] used to long-hauls from Chandrar. All of these experts advised us on how difficult it would be to travel across Izril, then to sustain a force in the new lands. We have compositions of classes to take and the kind of gear we’ll need.”
The Gemscale Company’s approach to this kind of problem was to turn to experts in the field and source experience. If they were going to go, it was going to be organized and based on previous known ventures. They’d take the most comprehensive group they could to handle any possible problem.
It was going to cost a fortune, but as Ilvriss now knew, the profits were there. Alrric’s model was one he could back. Play it cautious—or rather, play it reliable. If they couldn’t produce the most gifted [Explorers] or [Caravaners] to use their Skills to keep people safe and efficient, they weren’t spending enough gold. Zail nodded along as the neat papers were passed out. Alrric, of course, had copies for everyone.
 
——
 
Ilvriss was a boring Drake sometimes. Even with the Erin-influence, he knew how to organize a venture. In that way—his was the approach to compare every other group to. His methods of dealing with the problem would cover most foreseeable bases, so it depended on his competitors to see whether or not they exceeded his plans—or miserably failed.
For instance, Lady Ieka Imarris, in between trying to invite Ryoka to her estates in First Landing, made a rapid series of [Message] spells to her representatives in the south.
“I want you to send all the people we can. Now. No, don’t take wagons. Riders. On horses. Have them take two of the enchanted carriages. We will send the slower groups to catch up with you.”
When she saw the Yoldenites, she knew that she was running out of time. So Ieka hatched a different plan.
Speed. Speed was key. She had been hiring Silver and even Bronze-rank adventurers, as well as the most eager and promising individuals. Now she pushed them to hurry via the door in Invrisil to leave from Pallass that very day.
“Lady Imarris, what about materials to construct anything? A full push will still take at least a week—”
Ieka snapped a fan open as she furiously amended her plans. She hissed at one of her [Maids], echoing Magnolia’s style. She hated to admit it, but a lot of her success was in observing what worked in the other [Ladies] who were more famous than she in Izril.
But she was also Valeterisa’s niece, and she had never been more proud of her aunt. Ieka was a [Mage Lady], and she trusted to that.
“Magic. Load up their bags of holding and send them with tents. We don’t need to build anything—we need to find what’s worth building next to, first! I want a dozen groups exploring ahead of all these [Settlers] and [Colonists]. They can sleep in the wild for a while. As for food? Bags of holding have a 0.8 rate of decay on average. Chests and well-made ones can be 0.6 times as slow to rot food. These are not the days after the end of magic where people had to haul everything on their backs and bang rocks together to start fires!”
She had [Mages] on her payroll, and magic would provide almost anything but food. Fire? Magic. Protection? Magic. Ieka was tired of playing second-fiddle to Magnolia. This time, she was going to be first there.
The other thing Ieka had failed in was her attitude towards preparing the expeditions. She had made lists, had her servants find and secure good, talented individuals, and had bought or arranged for the supplies, even if she was throwing the first wave out first.
But what she hadn’t done was talk to experts. Or rather, all the experts.
Ieka had bought supplies and hired people she thought might be needed to establish a town. Wagons for timber, [Carpenters], [Guards], and [Rangers]. And, of course, [Mages].
She had forgotten to hire what Ilvriss wanted. Which was, for instance, a good [Blacksmith]. Or even better, a [Farrier]. She had forgotten that horses threw shoes. Lady Ieka had been doing a lot of thinking, but it was still in the mindset of a [Lady] used to Izril’s north. She had sent [Healers] with bandages, but no one who knew how to sew bandages.
 
——
 
Even so, Ieka was at least quick, and her [Mages] were a cut above some of the ventures out there. However, her lack of insight into one area or another was going to be a repeated theme.
For instance, the ‘First Landing Trade Company’ of the north, which combined no less than twenty Merchant’s Guilds into a single venture, was going to have a bad time.
Oh, they had funding to match and exceed Ieka Imarris’. They had resources, connections in many cities, and the motivation to set themselves up as the new landed nobility.
What the [Merchants] didn’t have was the sense to double-check their so-called ‘experts’. They had prepared their group with what they thought was needed to begin searching for wealth. They had sensibly hired [Rangers] and other wildlife experts.
Calidus Reinhart couldn’t stop laughing about it. He was using his spy networks to see what everyone else was doing just because it was so fascinating—and hilarious.
“They’re hiring [Rangers]. Rangers—”
He wheezed to Zeom, his [Genius Polymath]. The older man looked annoyed by Calidus, who kept coming over to laugh about one group or another.
“What’s the problem with that? Seems like the tick-covered fools you want to scout ahead.”
Calidus wiped at his eyes. He waggled a finger in Zeom’s face.
“Oh, Zeom, Zeom. So smart, like the [Merchants]. But not at all practical. You must be thinking of a man or woman of the wilds, used to living out in nature, sleeping with wolves. Perhaps light on clothing—”
He sighed, imagining some toned woman with a wild look about her. Sticks in the hair and whatnot. Zeom edged away from him as he experimented with a vial, working up some kind of new poison for a blade. The [Assassins] were already availing themselves of his services. They were mostly unobtrusive, probably trying to get on Calidus’ good side. They didn’t realize that his good side was always best found reflected through a wine bottle.
But Calidus had been having a lot of fun thinking about the new lands, so he kept forgetting to drink. He conjured that image of the archetypal [Ranger], then snorted at his own fancies.
“Stories are not reality, Zeom. You don’t hire [Rangers] for exploration. That’s [Explorers]. [Scouts] at least! [Rangers] are used to their own territory.”
“Ah. The wrong class?”
Calidus’ eyes danced with mirth.
“I imagine there will be a spread. Some will be very competent at leading their groups—others will not. But the [Merchants] made another mistake—they hired highlands and forest experts from the Vail Forest region and Izril’s climates. And the new lands are…”
Zeom snapped his fingers.
“Buried coastal regions. They are stupid as shite.”
Calidus nodded again.
“Chandrar. Baleros—if they have local ‘experts’, those experts have to know they’re out of their depth. Literally. The only group that might be used to this terrain are Drowned Folk, and now it’s aboveland. Any Skills that use terrain as an advantage—no. Even the basic plant…stuff…will be different. You don’t need [Rangers], you need [Herbalists]!”
That was the hilarity to Calidus. Zeom actually abandoned the bubbling concoction of some kind of tar as he leaned over his table, genuinely interested.
“So what’s your take on how to fix it?”
Calidus shrugged.
“Search me. I know I’m no expert in what it takes to build a new colony. Take everything. Every class. The error in thinking is pretending you know it all. Dear Aunt Magnolia wouldn’t be so silly. Ah, if only she was doing this.”
He sighed, suddenly maudlin again, but then brightened up just as fast.
“Been hitting the crystals? You don’t smell like you’re on drugs.”
Zeom eyed the [Lord], and Calidus stepped spritely, twirling as if he were on a dance floor. He could move very agilely despite his size.
“Oh, Zeom. I’m having fun. A rarity without help, I assure you. Since Aunt Magnolia isn’t here to be outstanding, I, Calidus, will be organizing a few ventures to the new lands myself.”
The [Polymath] eyed Calidus in silence, then he began laughing so hard he nearly knocked over his poisonous resin.
“You? You’ll be a disaster!”
“Exactly.”
Calidus beamed. Zeom hesitated.
“Wait, what?”
The [Lord] steepled his fingers and gave Zeom a serious look.
“I’ve been talking with some of the other members of the family and even some of the [Merchant] groups. I’ll sponsor my own forces, but I engineered some delightfully stupid ventures. Just to see what happens. For instance, I’m planning on sending a small group equipped to set up a village. They’ll have the appropriate classes, be led by decent folk who aren’t half as corrupt as the usual employees here—upstanding.”
“Go on.”
Zeom carefully began to scrape the resin into a tin enchanted to keep it airtight and sealed. Calidus’ smile grew wider.
“But they’ll need one thing. Security. Now, a lot of the [Merchants] and other groups will hire adventurers, which I think is stupid. They’re a selfish, unreliable lot. You can’t tell what you get. Or they’ll get [Mercenaries], [Guards]…guess who’s guarding this group?”
Zeom glanced up and then snorted.
“No.”
“[Assassins].”
“You’re mad. Just…”
Calidus spread his hands out.
“Just [Assassins]. They’ll be in charge aside from a competent leader. Monsters? Assassins. Enemy forces? Assassins. I want to see what happens.”
Dear grandfather Regis had actually given Calidus a budget. And this was how he was using it? Zeom nearly put his hands on his face before he realized they might be poisonous.
And people wondered why Magnolia was the best of Reinharts. The worst part was…he turned to Calidus.
“Do you think they have a chance?”
Calidus just shook his head, eyes glinting in delight.
