He’d beaten her! And he wasn’t even breathing hard! And everything was in place. Her brother gave her a look, but just motioned to the side.
“You’ve got a bowl there. Eat fast.”
“How’d you get here? Did you miss the bee-man?”
“No. Architect, here’s your breakfast. Do you want it here or to go?”
“To go. Day of work. Must slither.”
Hexel was yawning, but he brightened up as Ishkr presented him with something.
“This is for you then, sir. Two ‘coupons’. A meal for you and Mister Elirr at Barehoof Kitchens. Miss Imani said to tell you this was better than a boxed lunch that sits around all day.”
“Wonderful.”
Hexel inspected the colorful bits of paper as Liska tasted the morning’s meal. Imani was still pulling double-duty, although she often just ran her food to The Wandering Inn. Today’s breakfast was a chowder. Yum.
Liska watched Ishkr out of the corner of her eye. No waterworks, and no one else knew he had broken up with anyone. She sat and ate, fast, trying to get to work. Even Liska had a conscience, and Ishkr had told the rest of the help not to turn up until after breakfast.
Which was odd. Now that she was sitting and watching Ishkr, rather than doing whatever chore he assigned her to, she realized the inn really was in trouble.
Oh, sure, Lyonette and Erin were recruiting Antinium, and there were allegedly Goblins coming to be employed, but this inn had permanent guests, a huge amount of space thanks to the [Grand Theatre] and all the improvements, and a regular crowd.
Who but stood in the way of the masses and all the dust, dirt, and unfilled orders? Ishkr. Liska saw the rest of the guests coming downstairs.
Kevin, on the days he didn’t sleep in Esthelm’s bike shop, Imani herself, Palt, Joseph, Relc, Hexel’s three Lizardfolk assistants, Normen, and that was excluding Alcaz, the adventurers, and the rest of the crowd since most were with Erin.
Nor were they easy guests, all of them. Some, like Hexel, only wanted a lunch to go and even skipped breakfast. But Liska had a difficulty chart.
It was one of the few things Ishkr liked and sometimes collaborated on in secret. The Wandering Inn’s secret files. Employee edition. If you read the sacred texts, you might get entries like the following:
 
(★★) Kevin Hall, [Mechanic or Something]. — Pretty ‘chill’, ‘dude’. Says a lot of funny stuff. Easy to deal with. Just wants food when he’s dying. Sometimes comes back late and hungry. Tips. Shows lots of gadgets and metal.
(★★★★) Pisces Jealnet, (but don’t use his last name), [Necromancer]. — Sniffy. Tell him anything cooked is ‘sous veid’, or if he asks if it’s prepared in such and such style, say ‘yes’ or tell him to talk to Imani. Sometimes goes invisible and complains when you bump into him. Asks for tons of things. Lots of bone dust everywhere.
(★★★★★-★) Mrsha, [Troublemaker probably]. — Steals everything from plates. Lies. If she’s smiling guiltily, something has gone wrong. Do not let her play ball with Ekirra or she’ll kick a ball into someone’s face. She has no ‘dessert permissions’. She has no authority. Get Lyonette or Ulvama to reliably deal with her. May attract monsters. Is rude. Never tips.
 
You were only supposed to have a 5-star difficulty rating in the system they’d worked up, but Mrsha demanded one more. She had been the worst offender on their system so far along with a few other 5-star guests. Until the latest entry.
 
(★★★★★-★★) Gothica, [Goth]. — Hides among the corpses in the basement. Sits in cupboards and screams at you. Stares at you in the hallway in the middle of the night or mutters just out of earshot while you’re alone.
 
Anyways, even if there were no 5-star guests here, Relc was a solid 3-star himself. He was pretty nice, and he’d gotten downgraded after coming back from Cellidel, but he ate a lot, was messy, and somehow at least one chair overturned itself in his presence every single time.
Juggle that with Joseph asking if they had something lighter than chowder and one of the Lizardfolk being uncertain whether or not he was allergic to the chowder and Ishkr got both different meals. This was in between serving everyone, bussing the tables free of plates, and going to let in the crowds at the pre-arranged times from Liscor, Invrisil, and Pallass.
By the time a guilty Liska jumped up, she’d seen Ishkr pass her table eleven times.
“Where do I go?”
“Door. Let in Silveran and the Antinium. They should be coming now.”
Liska went to do just that. She had just changed the dial to Liscor when an Antinium walked in with the new hires.
“Hello, Silveran.”
“Hello, Liska. This is Liska. She works here. You must be very conscientious of her and Ishkr as they are the only two employees.”
Silveran entered with the new Antinium hires. They’d been on the job this last week, but they were still new. And his presence was…if not unusual, slightly unnecessary. Yet ever since the cleaning incident, Silveran had realized he could come here as a paying guest. Which wasn’t bad, but he got 2-stars in the Liska book because he kept cleaning up things and pretending to work here.
Six Antinium trundled in after him. Each one had an apron on, and they were armed with cleaning supplies, and one had a hammer and nails. They’d be useful for fixing small things since four were Workers. The two Soldiers looked quite nervous; Liska eyed them, wondering how they’d use their ‘hands’ to help. But Erin had said it was equal-opportunity after a talk with Pawn, and she was the boss. The weird boss. She was still better than bossy Lyonette. The only appealing thing about her was her red hair.
Anyways, Liska eyed the Workers’ attire. They even had a pawprint in black next to a stylized inn.
“Silveran. Did you buy the Workers supplies?”
The [Cleaner] hesitated.
“If I did, that is within my rights as a related Antinium. Besides, as I note, this inn lacks for the Goblin staff. So if I saw any dust, it would be my responsibility as a citizen to do my duty as a good samaritan and clean it up.”
So that was the angle he was going for this time. Silveran inspected the floorboards as Liska rolled her eyes.
“Well, only a modicum of dirt here. But if we enter the hallway and see the criminally overworked—hmm. Wait. Where is my dirt?”
He hunted around as the Antinium presented themselves to Ishkr. He patiently assigned them each to a chore and watched them as Silveran glared accusingly at Ishkr.
“Ishkr.”
“Silveran.”
“I see you’ve mopped the floors. And waxed them?”
“Last week.”
“I see. I see. How good of you. But have you cleaned Bird’s tower?”
He hurried past Ishkr to the always-occupied Bird’s tower.
 
(★★★★★) Bird, [Hunter] — Leaves rotting birds in hiding spots. Asks for bird-related food. Lie and tell him that broccoli comes from broccoli birds. Sings okay. It’s mostly the rotting birds.
 
Silveran came down a minute later, looking mad. His antennae twitched as Ishkr innocently held a bowl of chowder out.
“Breakfast, Silveran?”
“I see Bird is attended to and the tower is moderately clean. Well done. Well done. Perhaps I shall have chowder after all. Oops!”
The Antinium took the bowl and ‘innocently’ tried to toss it over a table as Liska poked her head back into the inn to ask if they had any more unscheduled guests. She saw Ishkr catch the bowl before it could tip. He and Silveran exchanged another glance as the Antinium turned to stare at them.
“Careful, Mister Silveran. You might not get to work on time.”
“Thank you, Ishkr.”
The two stared silently at each other. After a moment, Ishkr sighed gustily.
“…The Players of Liscor are putting on a performance tonight. Two plays. Would you like to clean up for a small fee afterwards?”
Silveran instantly brightened up. He stuck out a hand, and Ishkr shook it.
“Excellent service as always. Tonight? I will be there.”
Amazing. Somehow, Ishkr actually dealt with the problematic Silveran—which was an issue Liska had never thought would crop up. Indeed, he seemed to be on top of things as she monitored the door.
Liska was yawning by the time morning was done, but she perked up when the most attractive—
Wait a second, it was Gireulashia. Liska sighed. The gigantic Gnoll with brilliant dusky red fur, perfect features, and build was apparently fifteen. And she was accompanied by no less than three of the Ekhtouch Tribe.
Hot. Even the guys were moderately attractive. One older woman and two younger ones, maybe in their late thirties and mid-twenties respectively. Liska saw Gireulashia walk into the inn, and her ears heard them speaking inside from the open doorway.
That was the thing. Even if she had to stand and watch a door, she could at least hear fun things.
They were discussing something slightly fascinating as Ishkr got them a lot of food. Liska heard a growl.
“Chieftain Gireulashia—”
“Chieftain or Chieftain Gire.”
The [Paragon] corrected them. The Gnoll sighed.
“Chieftain Gire. The rest of the tribe is asking where to meet up. Our separated groups are already bound for the Great Plains, but where shall we go afterwards?”
Gire grumbled as she munched on what smelled like a steak. For breakfast? She answered with a younger girl’s complaint in her carefully-enunciated tones.
“Can’t you all do anything? It’s not hard. We’re still nomadic. It’s just—get me a map. A cheap one I can draw on.”
Without a word, Liska changed the dial to Liscor and opened the door for the Gnoll who went back to Liscor. Less than eight minutes later, she had to open the door again and let them back into the inn. She decided to find a seat. Why hadn’t she thought of that? She could just sit, read a book, and occasionally check the door, right?
She took one from the common room, despite Ishkr’s glares. She noticed he was carefully pouring…Liska’s jaw dropped.
“Is that acid?”
A glowing vat of acid was being ladled into jars. Instantly, all the Ekhtouch Gnolls and Gire looked around. Ishkr growled back.
“Yes. Erin has the acidfly traps, remember? Someone forgot to check them yesterday.”
His look of accusation made Liska turn her head and whistle. Another jar was being filled with dead acid-flies.
“What do we do with the acid?”
Ishkr gestured to a bag of holding that the inn’s staff could use.
“I’ll take it down to the Adventurer’s Guild. They sell it. Or someone could do it. Or bag up the flies—”
“Why don’t I watch the door? I have to let in Pallass’ guests.”
He sighed. Then Ishkr waved away an Antinium offering to help. It was a dangerous job for rookies. You also used some acid for the bathrooms; you tossed it down the toilet. And Erin had a few jars—
“Should I do the toilets, Ishkr?”
Liska offered. Only for today, as a heartbreak younger-sister special. But Ishkr just shook his head.
“Done.”
“I could bring toilet paper…?”
“Done.”
“Really? But Menolit had a really—and I mean, I smelled him—a really bad time—”
“Done. It’s all clean.”
A mystified look passed between Liska and Ishkr, who was sighing at his annoying younger sister. She opened her mouth, then Gire began speaking.
“Here. This is where we can go. It’s very simple. Where’s the red chalk? Okay. Look…”
On the pretext of getting a few magazines and newspapers, like Chess Weekly and the Liscorian Gazette, for her spot, Liska managed a glance at the map. Gire was circling Izril’s south busily.
She was drawing countless red circles around each Drake city and Walled City of different radii. Liska had no idea what made each circle different, but then Gire explained.
“If we’re rallying or moving—we don’t enter these zones if we can. Duh. This is where most armies not on deployment from the cities could be in reach. They’re all hostile right now or untrustworthy. And here—pass me the blue chalk—here are all the tribes’ territories. And this is the uninhabitable spots or dangerous areas in black. Since Plain’s Eye and some big tribes are gone, that leaves us with…”
Liska eyed the map as Gire held it up. The [Paragon] peered at the spots not covered by one color or another. One of the Ekhtouch Gnolls glanced at Liska and then coughed.
“About half a mile on the southeastern coast, Chieftain?”
Gire glared at him. She threw up her paws.
“We go north past Liscor or to the new lands! Both are dangerous. We’re not self-sufficient, but it might beat fighting Humans. We could live in a neutral city too. We’re not that large.”
“Which is it, Chieftain?”
Gire folded her arms and seemed to draw into herself. She sulked.
“I don’t know. I don’t know. Have them come here, and we’ll strike in either direction. I want to see if the healing potion market is gone for good and if anyone else declares a war. Terandria’s coming to the new lands. So there’s even more danger there. Here’s where they’ll enter, so if we do go, the spots we could secure would be here, here—but we don’t know what’s waiting for us.”
She began pointing more spots out on the map, but Liska’s ears perked up. Terandria, the entire continent, was definitely going to the new lands? Then she saw Gireulashia glance up and realized all the Ekhtouch Gnolls were looking at her.
Flushing, Liska fled. But she did find one more object and put it in the portal chamber.
One of the temporary scrying mirrors that Palt had enchanted. That was when she got to watch Wistram News Network and Sir Relz break the news that a compact at Calanfer was going to send a lot of Humans to Izril.
And wasn’t that a day? Liska sat, yawning as she did her duties to the minimum requirements, and thought that Liscor would be abuzz with people talking about this, and more people would be speculating about leaving for the new lands.
Here she was, just doing her job. The new lands were tempting, vaguely. But if she went—Liska was no fighter. Nor was she a Plains Gnoll in her heart. Besides. If she left, who would keep an eye on Ishkr? He was so boring he’d fade away without her to watch over him.
She only blinked when Ishkr opened the door to Liscor. From Liscor’s side. He walked back in, and Liska stared at him.
“How’d you do that?”
He gave her a blank look.
“The inn is barely a few minutes from the gates. I went down and sold the acid jars.”
“But I thought—”
Liska had seen him less than eight minutes ago fetching Gireulashia half a cake as a ‘snack’ and telling her Mrsha was still at Riverfarm and wouldn’t be back for at least two more days yet. Ishkr sighed.
“Liska, just open the door on schedule, alright?”
He tapped the chalkboard with the times listed and underlined for each spot. Liska was so busy gaping that Ishkr went on overly patiently.
