“Hold on—[Mayor] Zollost here! Hello, Miss Gnoll! Who’re you? Doine, look at all the Humans and Gnolls here! That [Commander] didn’t exaggerate, did he? And look! An Antinium!”
“How many [Mayors] do you have in your city?”
Lism exploded until he realized his mistake. The Yoldenites practically fell off their ponies howling with laughter as they dismounted. Voita grinned.
“Good one! Big Wall’s got tons of towns behind it. And we all wanted a place to visit Liscor!”
They were so merry and friendly that Lism felt shocked. But that was nothing compared to how the Lizardfolk and some of the Plains Gnolls reacted. They stared as Drakes shook their claws and backed away.
“Are they sick? I’ve never seen a Drake smile for that long. Most of them probably think it’s unhealthy.”
Krshia whispered to Lism, but in range of Drassi and the scrying orb’s hearing. Which just provoked further hilarity. And in response? A Yoldenite heard Krshia and tapped her shoulder since he couldn’t really remove his helmet that easily.
“Hey, we hear that time and enough. ‘Least you’re not spitting our way, Councilwoman!”
Krshia instantly ducked her head, abashed.
“I did not mean that as an insult, no, Mayor. My apologies.”
He grinned in response. Or rather, he never really lost it.
“We don’t mind! If you can’t smile at least once a week, what a life to live, eh? Which is pretty much all of Hectval, Luldem, and Drisshia. But we’re a proud city come to visit our new friends and neighbors! ‘Sides, we don’t see many other species that often. Not that we mind! We’re just too far away to visit. Look! That Gnoll is a giant!”
He whirled and pointed, and Gireulashia froze as she poked her head through the gates. Instantly, all the Yoldenites shouted almost as one.
“Donei! She’s huge!”
“Is it something she eats? Get me some of that and load up my plate!”
The last Yoldenite turned in delight to her companion.
“Look! More of those Antinium everyone hates! Just walking about! I told you Liscor was going to be weird. In a good way.”
She glanced over and saw Watch Captain Zevara staring at her with mouth slightly ajar.
“Hi.”
These were the greatest Drakes that had ever been seen. Drassi was delighted and already pushing forwards to interview the first Yoldenites. But it begged the question.
“Er—may I know why you’re coming, esteemed friends? Liscor is a great ally of Yolden. But we had no word you were coming on diplomatic business. We would have prepared a reception—”
Voita chuckled along with the leaders of the towns.
“We wouldn’t make you host a thousand of us! Mind you—your city’s big enough, but no. We’re not here for diplomacy. Things are going well enough; we’ve come here to buy!”
“Buy?”
More than one person perked up at this, including the two [Shopkeepers]. Voita produced a full bag of coins and jingled it as she patted the loaded packs they’d brought with them.
“That’s right! Heard we could get to Pallass and Invrisil too. We’re hoping to buy and sell, but buy more than we sell, even! We’ve got helmets and goods from Yolden for sale. All kinds of magicore and stones. But the helmets’re the real good stuff.”
“Helmets?”
Some people snorted at this, but Watch Captain Zevara’s head rose, and she remembered a popular phrase that every [Soldier] serving around this region knew.
Nothing kills a Yoldenite from above. In fact, an impatient [Strategist] was, at this very moment, hammering on Pallass’ side of the magic door. Chaldion had sent him to requisition as many helmets as their budget would allow.
Unfortunately, Liska was too busy watching the spectacle. And the Yoldenites knew how to sell their goods.
“See, a lot of folks laugh at our helmets, but they’re comfortable as a second skin. They don’t dent or knock your head about. And you can do this and not feel a thing. We live with rocks falling all the time, see?”
Voita drew a hammer from one of the wagons. A real hammer, used to repair the wagon. Without even giving the Drake next to her a warning, she smacked the hammer straight across the back of their head.
The other Yoldenite, Mayor Brieese, didn’t even move as the hammer bounced off their head. It didn’t look like Voita had held back, either. Gireulashia herself blinked.
That wasn’t bad! However the Yoldenites made their helms—even a [Knight] in unenchanted plate would notice that kind of blow. But Brieese didn’t even seem to react, which suggested it hadn’t even been felt.
“That’s quite something!”
Lism was as astonished as everyone else, and he saw the value of those helmets instantly. But that begged the question—
“What are you intending to buy? I am a [Shopkeeper] myself, and I could happily sell you whatever you need.”
“Ah, doine! What luck! We’ll be going browsing for fun stuff, but we need a lot of supplies. Mostly nails. Raw iron and steel by the wagonload. We can forge it decently, but Yolden’s too far from any good material. All we have is magicore. We’re planning on heading to the new lands. We’ll need a lot of stuff we can’t get back home, and Liscor’s far better than the Heckies.”
“You’re going to the new lands?”
By now, Krshia’s brows were lost in her own mane of hair. Major Voita grinned in reply.
“Why not? I heard everyone’s going, and us Yoldenites know the wilds better than anyone else. We reckon we’ve got the best shot to make something special. We’re planning on heading out within the week if we get everything we need from this trade caravan.”
She looked straight into Drassi’s scrying orb as she said that. And then she really set the rooster among the hens. Or as the Yoldenites would say it—she tossed a stone straight up the mountain and watched the avalanche float down.
 
——
 
“They’re going to the new lands of Izril? Those half-literate yodeling idiots?”
“Yoldenites.”
“If they’re going—I’ll be damned if we’re stuck behind a group of helmeted fools camping on the prime ground!”
That was the broad sentiment that went up from countless cities. And it was what triggered the flood. Not the idea of the King of Destruction or the House of Minos making a bid for the lands. Not the half-Elves beating everyone to the punch.
The casual, perceived arrogance of Yolden. It was one thing to have a world power steal a march on them, but the idea of a group of Drakes on ponies shouting Yayde Re as they passed you by?
Intolerable.
It put a fire behind every single person planning on their own moment. It did remind them that, despite this new area being a vast amount of land, the best spots were finite, and even small cities were moving. So, in many cases, timetables were expedited.
And as everyone knew—that was how you beat the competition and enjoyed successful ventures.
So who were the competitors? Actually, what were the stakes? The interesting thing about the new lands was just that; they were new and an unknown quantity in terms of riches.
This wasn’t like magicore—which was actually extremely valuable if you had the buyers and industry. Yolden might have been a rich city if it had only been more accessible, although Wall Lord Ilvriss had no idea what the quality of their magicore was.
He added it to his notepad as he sat with Alrric, planning out the venture. The Gnoll [Administrator] was humming to the Yoldenites’ song, which, you had to admit, was catchy.
Then again, Alrric had been in a fine mood for weeks despite the tragedies at the Meeting of Tribes. It seemed like a weight had been lifted off his shoulders.
Ilvriss suspected that, perhaps, another child was on the way. But that was just supposition, and he didn’t inquire into personal affairs that deeply.
“So—do we know anything about the value of this land? Or is the entire grab purely based on it being free land and speculatively wealthy?”
“…The latter, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss sighed. It reminded him of companies bidding on new mining seams. They sometimes dazzled themselves with the idea of grabbing possibilities without exploiting known veins. Like the Adamantium vein that had so profited the Gemscale company.
Speaking of which, Alrric glanced at his notepad.
“I won’t say it’s not profitable, Wall Lord. But if you want to launch this project, we need to cooperate with as many other companies as possible. You, personally, and our company at large are not prepared for this kind of undertaking financially.”
“We have vast reservoirs.”
Ilvriss knew that, and Alrric raised his brows.
“Oh, of course. We’ll be eating into them month by month unless we supplement the costs. I don’t know if your family would appreciate the next generation having nothing in the treasuries, though.”
Does it matter if we’re all undead? Ilvriss kept his face blank, and he made a show of nodding.
“Fair, fair. Then let’s start from the beginning. What are the stakes? Who are our competitors? What are the known risks, and what kind of assets can we bring to the table?”
He folded his claws, and Alrric checked his files. The Gemscale Company of Salazsar was not blind. They had already been making preparations for this endeavor, but it spoke to each person or nation’s culture and personality how they wanted to settle the new lands.
For instance, Ilvriss treated it like a corporate endeavor. He had a meeting with the other big houses that Alrric had reached out to regarding a joint venture. This was a quick summation right now.
Frankly, Ilvriss wanted to explore the new lands. The young Drake in him was calling out for adventure, but he had other…projects he wanted to work on. Putting on a good show would be important. Plus, if all these workers were moving around, he could probably hide a few hundred [Miners] in all the chaos.
He had a lot of digging to do. Alrric was just beginning the brief when a Drake entered the room. Ilvriss instantly stood with consternation.
“Father.”
Wall Lord Zail entered the room, using a cane, but walking fairly upright. The dent in his skull was covered by a fashionable cap, and his eyes were steady.
“Ilvriss. Are you beginning a meeting regarding these new lands?”
“Yes. Of course. I was planning on meeting with…”
“House Erchirite? Among others. I had a word with Zazse Erchirite. She’s amenable to the idea and has spoken to the board. I’ll go with you.”
Ilvriss blinked as Zail took a seat. Zazse Erchirite wasn’t serving on the board of Wall Lords and Ladies that ran that company who had famously created the Erchirite Spears. But she was the former chairwoman and would have a lot of power.
Zail sat as Alrric coughed into one paw. Normally, Ilvriss didn’t expect the two to get along, but the [Administrator] didn’t snipe as always. And Zail…
“By all means, Ilvriss. Don’t let me stop you. I’m just observing, if I may, Wall Lord.”
He deferred to his son, and Ilvriss hesitated before sitting back down. Now there were three people in the room as Alrric found his notes.
“Let’s see. Back to Ilvriss’ themes. Value, competition, dangers. We have no reports of any new resources outside of purely land-related objects. There have been Garuda and Oldbloods flying the area, but [Scrying] spells are impossible to use since the area is not coordinate-charted or however [Mages] do such things, let alone [Geomancers] analyzing the substrate. I expect this will persist for a long time, even with the Archmages and other magic-users on the case. I’m also adding this to our ‘hazards’, because it will mean any exploration has to happen manually, and we will not be able to see what’s out there.”
Alrric got a nod from both Drakes. Ilvriss tapped a claw on the table, then stopped, adjusted his posture so he was sitting more professionally, and tried not to watch Zail out of the corner of his eyes. He felt like a boy again.
“And so where is our profit? Mostly in the land itself.”
Less valuable by far. Salazsar was not exactly cramped for room. Ancestors, northern Izril had yet to expand everywhere! But Zail shook his head slightly, and so did Alrric.
“That’s assuming there’s nothing of value, Ilvriss. But let me paint a picture. Let’s say an opportunistic group sets up a colonial-type area. It has no resources, even if others find anything. I would still call it a heavy incentive to be there for one main reason: our neighbors.”
“Ah. Oh, I see.”
Ilvriss flushed. Alrric produced a spreadsheet of underlined items.
“These are a list of goods that Drowned Folk and half-Elves create, from their specialty woods, bows, sea-based alchemical items, and more. I don’t know about half-Elves, but Drowned Folk are hungry for our best gemstones for their ships’ protective spells. We stand to cut out all the Zeres tariffs we’ve been eating century after century.”
Now that did put a smile on Ilvriss and Zail’s faces. That alone was worth a massive amount of gold, so Alrric outlined a plan unique to House Gemscale.
“My proposal, Wall Lords, is not to prospect. Some nations will do that. I suggest that House Gemscale mobilize a force with the express goal of finding a suitable trade route and capturing it. Invrisil has become a rich city not just due to the patronage of Magnolia Reinhart, but because it is where everyone goes. One city that provides access across the new lands safely?”
“We’d be rich. We often forget how important free travel is. The Walled Cities maintain the roads to keep commerce alive.”
Zail murmured. Alrric nodded.
“Worth established. I’d also like to point out this: there are almost certainly things to find in the new lands, if only relics of old.”
Now, Ilvriss was hungry again, and Alrric produced several mage-images and sketches taken by Zeres’ expeditionary fleets. He grumbled in the back of his throat.
“We had to pay a small fee to receive the mutual intelligence from our friends, but all the Walled Cities will have seen this—look. A city.”
It was just broken ruins, from what Ilvriss could see, set against a blasted beach stretching for miles upon miles inland. Still—there was a lot of green for what had been seabed before. He suspected that the Gnoll ghost who had cast the spell had accelerated the greenery’s development. Another action that might make things interesting.
“A ruined city. There are artifacts, possibly even spells or blueprints here. Or nothing at all. What I am certain is—this is not a simple venture. We need specialists.”
“Adventurers.”
Ilvriss nodded. More profits, more risk. Alrric handed Ilvriss and Zail a sheet with the word ‘Hazards — New Lands Venture’ at the top.
It had about eight entries in red on one column, and the other column had over three hundred, all in black with question-marks appended. The [Administrator] smiled as Ilvriss and Zail eyed the unusually brief paper.
