For now, it focused on channeling the Spark that Flia granted it into the undifferentiated transformation magic it had learned. Its left arm turned transparent, then began to melt, unable to hold the false transformation. Spell slime, in other words. A product most mages considered to be a failure.

In this case, however, it was made out of pure magic and imbued with the Spark, which meant it was tangible to the pieces of Angus's soul and could be used to help put it back together. It just needed to... well, actually do that.

Syphus stared awkwardly at the pile of soul fragments waiting for it.

"This might feel strange," Syphus said eventually, though it had no idea whether or not the lizardfolk could hear it. Could disembodied souls interact with the world around them? Angus hadn't been conscious of anything until Flia had intervened, as far as it knew. "Or it might be a little awkward. I guess let me know if you need me to stop?"

There was no response, which Syphus probably should have expected. It began slathering Spark-imbued spell slime all over Angus's soul and pressing the fragments together, though it had to find two pieces that fit first.

For anyone else, the task might have been difficult. Each soul fragment was uniquely shaped, influenced by scars and torn roughly apart. It was incredibly hard to tell if two fragments belonged to one another. Soul repair of this type did exist, as rare as it was, and Sisyphus whispered into its mind that most mages who tried something like this took multiple days to put all the pieces of the target soul back together.

Fortunately, Syphus was not most mages. It had centuries of experience putting broken rocks together, and as far as it was concerned, a soul was just a very funny type of rock.

It set itself to work.

Flia paused, briefly distracted from the battle outside when she glanced back at Syphus. The golem was putting the fragments together remarkably well. She could feel Angus slowly resolving into a single being, piece by piece.

"Were you always this good at puzzles?" she asked. She turned to Damien, Leo, and Kazza. "Has Syphus always been this good with puzzles?"

"What?" Leo asked, distracted. His eyes were glued to the fight, and he pushed up his glasses before jotting down a few more notes. Flia sighed, then turned expectantly to Damien. It took the dreadshade a moment before he realized Flia wanted an answer.

"Probably?" Damien offered up hesitantly. "We haven't known each other for that long. I'm glad, though. Angus has been like this for long enough."

"I guess you aren't wrong, there," Flia admitted.

She glanced at Kazza. Unlike the others, the lizardfolk hadn't turned to look at the massive battle outside. Instead he kept his gaze fixed on the soul fragments that had once been an elder of his clan. When he spoke, his words were quiet.

"I do not know your friend," he said. "But I am glad it is here."

Angus of the Golden Sands didn't know how much time passed before he became fully cognizant of his surroundings. The first thing he saw was what appeared to be a golem staring proudly at him, some sort of bizarre slime on its fingers while it patted him. Then his attention was dragged away by the door bursting open, followed by a tall, broad-shouldered man in a floating chair coming in and dragging an enormous suit of armor with him.

Something in the air seemed to change with his presence. It took Angus a moment to understand what it was. He'd seen it in a few of the legends he read about, tales of mythology come to life—tales of the Named, specifically. They were supposedly gods among gods, with motivations no mortal understood and a control of reality that defied all known magic.

What was one of the Named doing here?

And then before Angus could finish processing that, the golem met the eyes of the Named. The presence of a second Named suddenly erupted from the golem, the air between the two crackling under their collective power with enough force to make everyone present freeze.

Everyone except one human, apparently. Angus hadn't noticed him before, but he had his own presence, distinct from the rest, and he gave the two Named an irritated glance. "No," he said. "Absolutely not, you two. If you're going to start something, do it outside. I have a friend to save."

Something about the way he said that made something click inside Angus's mind. He stared, disbelieving, at the human. "You're the Wanderer," he said.

The human smiled at him, but there was something old and sad and ancient in that smile. "That's one of my names, I suppose," he said. "I go by Cale these days. Mind if we have a little talk?"
