“Dark Elves are not savages.” Lylyth tried to muster anger at him, but she felt his innocence and honesty, and she smiled instead. “Despite what rumors have been spread about us, we do have basic things like fire.”

Ren blinked his eyes at her, then dropped his head. “I didn't mean to insult you.”

“I know you didn't.” She said, and shifted her hand from holding his forearm to hold his hand. “Come.”

Ren held her hand and she led him across the room towards a wall. As they walked, the wall had caught his attention when part of it moved. There was a loud skittering sound, and the wall parted. It hadn't been a wall at all. It was just a pile of large spiders that made up the shape of a wall.

“Are you controlling them all?” Ren asked as they walked through the opening the spiders had made.

Lylyth laughed, and he felt the spiders crawl up his spine again. “Does your laugh always do that?”

“I don't control the spiders like you think.” Lylyth said. “I only ask them to do things, or command them.” She smiled. “Does my laugh bother you?”

“Of course not.” Ren said and smiled back at her. “You'd have felt it if it did.”

Lylyth nodded. “Then why ask about it?”

“I think you're trying too hard to scare me, or make me uncomfortable with it.”

“You... are brutally honest for a human.” Lylyth commented, and stopped walking when she came to her throne; but, she didn't sit down. “I can... what is the phrase? Tone it down a little; but, I can't turn it off.”

Ren shook his head. “I don't want you to do anything like that.” He said. “I was just wondering if everyone that gets to hear it would feel the same thing.”

“Obviously not.” She said and smiled crookedly. “Some scream in abject terror.”

Ren snorted a laugh, and Lylyth was surprised that he really was amused by that.

“You aren't the least bit afraid of me, are you?”

“Besides coming out of my friend's belly like you did, you haven't done anything scary yet.”

“Then... maybe I should.” Lylyth said in a rough voice, and held his hand tightly. “I'm not making the right impressions on you, apparently.”

Ren watched her, and felt a wash of Mana from her. A large protrusion came out of her lower back, and expanded out. It was followed by two large spider legs, then by four more. Her sparse clothes and armor fell away and revealed her nude form. The spider legs took the weight off of her humanoid legs and she felt the intensity of his surprise; but, she thought it was because of her monstrous form.

Unknown to her, Ren was actually surprised by the sudden nudity; and how her skin glistened, even with almost no light to reflect from it. Lylyth had to let go of his hand as she rocked back to let her humanoid legs fold up like mandibles.

“Wow.” Ren and Teepo said at the same time. Lylyth was still about the same height, maybe slightly taller; but, now she had a giant spider body, too. It kind of looked like she was sitting where the spider's head should have been, and then Ren realized that wasn't far from the truth.

She is the head of the spider. He thought in surprise.

“That's kind of appropriate.” Teepo said. “She's the head of the Dark Elves, too.”

Lylyth extended her left leg, or mandible, as that was what it was being used as, and she wiggled her toes at him.

“I felt your surprise while I was changing.” She said in a gravelly voice. “Are you sufficiently terrified now?”

Ren reached out and held on to her offered foot. She gasped, because she didn't get a hint of terror; or disgust, or even revulsion. All Ren could think about was that her womanhood was right in front of his face, and it was completely exposed.

“Who... who are you?” Lylyth asked, her voice back to normal, because she was too shocked to make it sound menacing. She could feel he was a bit uncomfortable, but also felt a trace of desire from him.

“My name is Ren.” He said and smiled up at her.

“How am I supposed to feed from you, if you aren't afraid?” Lylyth shook her head and took out the brooch with the Spider Aura. “Do I need this bauble?”

“That won't work for you.” Ren said. “It's a design that I made especially for Elerlyth and myself.”

“Oh.” Lylyth said, crumpled the metal around the diamond, and tossed it aside. “Then I kept it for no reason.” She said a little sadly. “Hm. What can I do to scare you?”

“You don't have to-”

“Shh! I'm trying to think.” Lylyth said and put her other foot/mandible over his mouth to keep him quiet. “Now.” She looked around and thought about the spiders. “I could probably have the spiders trample you.”

“Muh.”

Lylyth laughed because his lips tickled her foot, and felt that he wasn't fussy on the idea. “No, you're right. You're no good to me if you're flattened and punctured.”

“Mwuh mlah mum.”

“Hush!” Lylyth said, and moved her foot slightly from side to side. “What if I strung you up and hung you upside down, then let some of my pets play with you?”

Ren shook his head. “Muh mo.”

“No?” Lylyth sighed. “Then I don't know what to do.” She said. “Torture is out, because once again, you would be no good to me if you are bleeding out and almost dead.”

Ren had had enough of her trying to think up ways to scare him, and licked her foot. Lylyth pulled her foot/mandible away quickly and giggled, then put a hand over her mouth. She looked like she was going to get angry that he had made her laugh like that, and he beamed a smile up at her.

“You don't have to scare me.” Ren said, and looked at her womanhood that was still right in front of his face. You agreed to do this. He thought, and braced himself mentally. I will complete this quest!

Ren took a deep breath and concentrated on creating as much emotion as he could; then stepped forward and kissed her right between the legs.
