Tala almost laughed at that, but held herself back in order to prevent others from realizing that Rane was dissembling his strategy.

Force was soulbound to Rane. He could have activated the weapon with less than a thought, the magic coming straight from his gate into the weapon. By showing a mechanical activation—for lack of a better phrase—he was implying both a slowness and a weakness that wasn’t present in reality.

Oh, that’s clever… but it might backfire?

-Yeah, he’s showing ‘weakness’ while equally showing that it doesn’t matter. I’d have said that was the worst of both worlds, but it’s possible there is nothing he could do to escape challenges, and this will leave him with the most hidden cards, while also preventing him from being drowned by a horde of lesser opponents.-

Yeah…

Eskau Sinaaq only tried to physically block one of the projected blades, gaining a momentary crack in the spear that she used to take the blow. But that minor damage repaired itself quickly, her only real loss one of momentum.

Then, Rane arrived, and the two clashed in a blur of strike, block, and counter.

On one side, the white woman had the advantage with her two weapons. Assuming equal competency between the warriors, that would give her more attack vectors and more tools to use to turn things in her favor. Moreover, if anything, Eskau Sinaaq was more skilled than Rane in a purely martial sense, likely due to her centuries of life.

-You don’t know how old she is.-

I mean… sure, but arcanes don’t advance quickly. I would bet gold to copper that she’s at least two hundred.

-Yeah… I wouldn’t take that bet, even if it’s all our money either way.-

On Rane’s side, however, every touch of Force drove back what he contacted with unnatural force, throwing off the woman’s technique and giving him more time and space in which to work. Additionally, any time her weapons were in danger of actually connecting, minor pulses of power helped the man shift out of the way, even if he physically shouldn’t have been able to move to do so.

The end result was a nearly minute long back and forth during which Eskau Sinaaq’s emotions moved from contempt—as she realized she was more skilled than Rane—through frustration at her inability to hit him, and on to disbelief as Rane ruthlessly capitalized on his well-trained advantages.

Less than two minutes into the fight, Force landed with solid contact on Eskau Sinaaq’s upper thigh, sending a sickening crack through the hold, her femur clearly splintering under the single, solid blow.

To her credit, the woman didn’t cry out, and she even smoothly shifted her weight to her opposite leg, trying to strike out and take advantage of Rane’s moment of victory.

Tala’s husband was already withdrawing, however, not taking even an instant to gloat.

“Hold!” The Revered City Lord stood. “The match is over due to a debilitating injury. Paragon Rane’s charge would have been able to withdraw without concern of pursuit. The winner is Eskau Tala of the House of Blood.”

When Lea threw a confused glance toward Tala, Tala leaned closer and whispered. “He was in the fight as my protector. Since anyone he was protecting could have withdrawn at this point, his role is fulfilled.”

“But… you wouldn’t have withdrawn. You could have won even more quickly.”

Tala shrugged. “It is the terms of the duel, when a protector is the stand in. It doesn’t matter why a protector is the stand in. The rules are different for a second, and in other circumstances.”

“So… what would she have had to do to win?”

“Similarly incapacitate him. After all, if she could get around my protector, she could get at me, and he would have failed.”

Lea hmmed. “I see.”

Eskau Sinaaq straightened, her weapons flowing back into their vambrace forms. Her eyes were burning with anger and embarrassment, but she bowed nonetheless. “Well fought, Paragon Rane Sappherrous. The honor of your charge is upheld.” She then turned with surprising grace, given her one-legged state, and bowed toward Tala. “You have won the match, Eskau. Strength and honor.”

Tala gave a small bow. “Strength and honor.”
