They encountered the priests once more on the way down, and Irons offered them his thanks for their summary communication and praised the Ascendants thereafter. The priests repeated their prayers, and each of them reached out to brush Shiv's body. They grabbed at what they saw and felt to be Marcus's shoulders and back, but functionally, they were slamming their hands into Shiv's low abdomen and pelvis. Kind of weird, but he put up with it to keep the masquerade.

"Remember you are blessed, boy," the goblin priest wheezed. "You have been returned from that final rest to do something great. I can feel it upon you, the touch of the Ascendants. As such, strive, strike, and be true to yourself in our Republic. This is a reward few will ever receive."

"This is a wound few heal from," Cripple's priest continued.

"And this is a chance to repay the divine for all that you have been gifted," the elven priestess proclaimed. "Do not doubt yourself and give yourself entirely to the faith. I hope that with this miracle, your connection to the Ascendants can be strengthened. I would like to invite you to the Endbreaker’s communion at—.”

"Prophetess Sheega." The goblin sighed. "Must I remind you again of the rules?"

"Ah." The elven priestess bit back a wince. "I apologize. I was a missionary before, and the duty to proselytize has never left me. I did not mean to offend or steal a potential follower from you, my kindred in faith. I merely wish for Halsur's glory to be known."

"As do we all," Cripple's acolyte said. "But deepening one's tie to the Ascendants, or any individual Ascendant, is a private matter, and we should not pressure our young friend here unduly."

All of them bowed their heads and prayed a final time. After that, they let Shiv and Irons descend the steps to finally depart the Royal Morgue. After reaching the lowest level, they had to take a winding staircase that went straight up back to the lobby.

Why the architecture of the morgue was so convoluted, Shiv couldn't tell, but it seemed like it gave the lobby access to every single level and kept the morgues further separated from chambers of faith and rooms where blessings and last rites are administered.

There'd been places of faith back in Blackedge. Shiv had been bloodied and wounded on the bottom steps of a temple by a War Priest. As such, he always harbored a lingering animosity toward the faithful.

But simply by being here, by walking through these halls, and then stepping through the front doors to see the sheer amount of gold, mithril, and iconography that decorated the Royal Morgue left him briefly stunned. Faith mattered to the people of the Republic. Faith, art, and propaganda were all fused. He saw it in the frescoes, in each of the Ascendants depicted along thirteen panels of painted glass lighting the top section of the morgue.

He saw it demonstrated by the many acolytes who walked down the streets, with armored Pathbearers proclaiming the glory of Halsur, with singing maidens composing odes to Kathereine, with scarred and maimed worshippers who dressed like paupers yet held their heads high, as if members of the highest nobility. And then there were those who were veiled in shadows, with cloaks of darkness gliding along their bodies.

Everything around seemed to have something to do with the Ascendants, and the people were parted into cliques or bore multiple artifacts on their bodies, symbolizing their Ascendant of chosen worship.

"The faith is new to you?" Irons asked.

It was only then that Shiv realized the captain had stopped and was watching him. Shiv looked around and drank in the sights, listened to the revelry, breathed in the air, and relished the fact that the System didn't betray him. For everything Shiv had on Marcus Unblood, the latter wasn't hunted. The latter was a free man, and once more, Shiv could move in public without someone coming for him.

"Yeah," Shiv admitted. "Didn't really realize how big of a deal it was."

Irons nodded. The craning of his neck was so subtle Shiv almost missed it. "Whatever you think, it's grander than you know."

With that ominous statement, he led Shiv to one of the Jump Towers. A massive spire of mithril speared high up into the air, and the Deathless looked up to see a chain of mana connected to it. Flowing spellstuff gushed into the Mithril Tower, and Shiv followed it back to Flamecrown Castle, back to the wards and spells woven tight over the Yellowstone Supervolcano.

Every few seconds, there would come a blast or a ripple of mana, telling Shiv that the fight was still ongoing, that the prisoners were trying to break free, flinging their collective might against the defenders, and that the Poly-Magi were there to rebuff them alongside the Ascendants.

But here and now, mere kilometers away from the battleground, life continued on. There was no hint of fear or worry in the air. The worshipers didn't seem to mind that there might have been a mass breakout of prisoners occurring. They simply believed that their Prismatic Guards would protect them, that their Ascendants would guard them.

Faith was a strong thing. But faith was also control. And for the first time, Shiv wondered how it would feel if he held the collective faith of a people himself, what he could make them do.

Psycho-Cartography: Or what it might do to you. Remember what Georges said about being deprived of consequence. What makes you a good chef?

Trying until something isn't shit, Shiv remembered. Godhood is powerful, but it also insulates you. It protects you from what's supposed to hurt.

Within the mithril spire, Shiv found himself waiting in line. A trail of worshippers glided ahead, and they marched through a checkpoint of magical wards to stand before a massive sphere of Dimensionality. There were guards here as well—Jump Mages interfacing with the sphere on floating platforms and calling out to the incoming Pathbearers; keeping them organized.

Shiv watched a towering automaton at the very front of the line stomp forward and arrive beneath the dimensional sphere. The sphere was the size of a small building, and every few seconds it grew larger, swelling with greater intensity, until it detonated outward. It swallowed the automaton, and then in its place appeared eight goblins. They slipped past an interior checkpoint and departed the spire in an instant.

Soon, Shiv and Irons's turn to pass through the wards came. Though he didn't have much worry about the Divination mana lining the spell, he wondered how the wards would react with his Shapeless Tides and other Magical Skills.

"Time to keep myself loose," Shiv whispered. His vectors went still for a beat, and he let his Biomancy and other fields go slack. He prepared himself for anything, however. He was used to things going wrong, and he knew the System was out there waiting, biding its chance to drag him into another pointless battle. Pointless, Shiv thought to himself. Maybe pointless to me, but I've been feeding the System plenty, so much so that it specifically listed me as an item on its all-you-can-eat buffet.

Holding his breath, he stepped through the wards and felt one glide hard against him. It was as if air resistance was pulling at his body, and he tried not to flinch. It flashed briefly, and a net tightened around Shiv. Irons stopped, and his eyes widened slightly. He watched as a weave of dimensional mana crisscrossed Shiv's body for a moment.

A notification appeared in the Deathless's perception.

Please hold. Skill status analysis incomplete.

A bright flare of Divination blossomed over him. Shiv gritted his teeth and forced himself to relax. There was nothing for it. Either all his efforts were in vain, and he couldn't avoid violence, or this was a temporary issue. The notification updated in his eyes, and he was released from the weighty pressure of Dimensionality a moment later. He stumbled forward, and an exhale snaked out from him.

"That's new to me too," Shiv commented. Irons offered no response. Instead, they walked forward, waved ahead by an automaton guard.

“We got five Pathbearers coming from another tower,” it declared. “Five, step up. Prepare for transit.”

Shiv, Irons, and three more behind them were directed to stand upon the platform. As Shiv stared up at the expanding sphere, another notification appeared in his eyes, but then it expanded into a wide network. It was then that Shiv realized what he was looking at. This was a map of all the Jump Towers in the capital. And there were many. It was like looking up at the night sky and realizing it was full of stars.

"Think 'Phoenix Station'," Irons instructed him.

And Shiv did just that. From among the countless options Shiv had to choose from, one burned brightly, and a thread of silver descended from the dimensional sphere and connected to him.

Teleporting: Now bound for Phoenix Station

It was then that the sphere expanded, swallowing Shiv. A tunnel of pressure gripped him and pulled him across time and space. As he was dragged off his feet, he felt himself pass through a dimensional blanket, just like earlier when he had to plunge through one to slip into the morgue freezer. The same spell was at play here, but on a far grander level. Everything around Shiv thinned. It was like a rain of static needles was being dragged past him.

One second followed, then five, then ten, and after a full minute of transition, Shiv finally felt himself released back into the world. It wasn't nearly as rough as most teleportations he'd experienced. There was a softening of pressure at the end, and he was deposited out of the other sphere. A draft of Dynamancy met him briefly with the weight of a feather, and he landed gracefully on the ground instead of hammering down like a descending boulder.

He found himself in another Jump Tower, much like the one he'd just departed, and he left without any difficulty. Now he was in the inverse line, without wards to go through, without guards waving specific numbers of Pathbearers onto a platform. Shiv followed Irons out of the light and found a stream of drifting darkness just outside. Shiv tensed.

This was Harlock's darkness. He was searching for any prisoner that managed to break quarantine, and as the blackness curled around Shiv, he waited to be discovered once more, only for it to wash through him from within his cape.

He felt a presence, a faint incandescent glow that curled through his body, a single tendril that slipped free from his chest, and he knew that Cripple was doing its best to keep him hidden. Veronica likely was as well, and that wasn't even mentioning whatever Udraal and the Educator were doing.

Sure do got a lot of important assholes fighting over me, Shiv thought to himself with a sliver of wry amusement.

"Alright," he said, "now which way to the—" His words trailed off as he found Phoenix Academy almost immediately. The four massive towers that climbed beyond the sea of clouds above were hard to miss. Each of them was grand and truly colossal, monuments of mithril and focus crystal that likely cost an indescribable fortune to create, and between the pillars were layered rings of magic. A blend of complicated mana types swirled above the grounds of the academy as if a storm in motion. There were so many patterns and shapes, Shiv couldn't keep track of them all, but through the chaos, he caught sight of what looked like floating buildings hovering in the air. No, not just hovering. They were flying. Some rose, and some descended. It was a remarkable display of magical dominance to orchestrate a series of floating structures on this scale.

"First time seeing the academy as well, huh?" There was a smile on Irons's face. It was slight and small, but of Phoenix Academy, he was genuinely proud. Not even the revelations he'd discovered about his own Ascendant or his fellow instructors could shake that.

"First time," Shiv muttered.

“Come, then,” Irons said. “Let’s give you a closer look. Behold Phoenix Academy, Marcus Unblood. Whatever you are expecting—expect more. It will still be greater than that yet.”
