He nodded again, slowly and not quite so surely. “It is. It is not a target I would have found myself, but it is a way to achieve power.” He looked up at the rest of the Heirs, light like a banked flame in his eyes. “We seek to challenge the Endings themselves, and now that we have found the path, we must be fit to walk it. We will never be truly ready, but we will succeed regardless.” He held his serious demeanor for a beat, then cracked a smile. “But in the meantime, let me tell a secret. Nathan’s performance in his training determines how we shall dine when we leave. If he does well, Sarya will send delicacies with us.”

“Truly?” Aarl was excited, almost vibrating in his chair. “Why didn’t you say? How are you doing? Can I help?”

Nathan rolled his eyes. “Because I knew this would be your reaction. Sarya was teaching me to be better at stealth and assassination by pitting me against the Keihona guard. I don’t think I've learned as much as each of you, but I did just fine. We’ll have some nice food along for the ride. And there are some places in the city I should take you to before we leave.”

“But every moment with the Questors is a treasure without worth,” Aarl objected. “Sightseeing is a dungeon for fools.”

“Nope,” Nathan replied, shaking his head. “This city is worth seeing. If you leave without any tourism, then that’s something you’ll regret to your dying day. We’re delaying our departure a day for it, and I’m not taking no for an answer. Esebus can wait.”

Even extending their stay by a day, the end of their time in Keihona came all too quickly. They’d shared several private dinners with the Questors during their training to get to know them a bit more, and Nathan had been expecting another one of those on their last night. But instead, Sarya hosted a grand party for them, inviting hundreds of notable guests and presenting the Heirs as allies of Keihona. Not agents, or guests, but allies.

It seemed to carry some weight, and Nathan could feel himself being weighed by many different foreign representatives. He wondered what kinds of messages would be sent out the next day, and to whom.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 84291/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 572

Regenerative Focus: 5820/5820

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 4

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 5

Tutoring 9

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 6

High-tier Disguise 7

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
