The man snorted under his breath. He put his hands on his hips. “For now, our priorities align. Once you take down the Empire, we’ll have to reconsider. But until then, I’m naught but a powerless old man with a few words of advice for a strapping young mage like yourself.”

Bullshit, Rhys thought, but he didn’t dare breathe the world aloud. Instead, he took a step back. Someone was being killed. He had to get home. Figure things out. Settle—

“Don’t you need this well? Don’t rush away. Sup of it first. The matter has already been dealt. If you run home now, the pawn will not be back on the board, and your power runs low, does it not?”

Rhys scowled. “You know too much.”

That got a dry laugh from the man. “Indeed. Knowing too much is all I have left.”

Rhys looked at the Impure Well, then back up at the man. “You’re really fine with—?”

He spoke to nothing. The man was gone. Even when he extended his mana senses, there was nothing around him. No human-shaped holes in the flow of mana.

Rhys ran a hand through his hair and shuddered, fear sinking all the way to his bones. Too close. Whatever that was, it was far too close to him. Those kinds of people should stay locked away atop mountains, running universities and institutions and staying far away from ants like him.

He glanced at the Impure Well again, pausing to look around one last time. He shrugged. The guy had left it to him. If he didn’t absorb it now, wouldn’t that piss the guy off? And he wasn’t wrong, either. His trash star was low. Not crazy low, but low enough that the thought of abandoning this well pained him.

If he believed the man, there was nothing rushing home could do for him; his ‘pawn,’ as the man put it, was already captured. If he didn’t believe the man… if he didn’t believe the man, then he was rushing home for no reason, because he had no reason to expect one of his people to die. Either way, he’d be better suited to take on everything if he absorbed the well, whereas rushing home now to attempt to save a life the mysterious man claimed was already taken would put him in danger, lower his mana, and mean he’d retreated from an Impure Well without gaining any further strength or trash for the star. If someone really had been killed, then he’d need all the power he could muster to chase after them.

The equation was simple. No matter which way it tilted, whether he weighted it with a life, his fear of the man, or even his personal gains, the right move was to do as the man said and absorb the well.

Nothing ventured, nothing gained. He took a deep breath and stepped forward, plunging into the gunk yet again.

When he emerged, there would be trouble to deal with. But then, when was there not? He was a trashy guy. Trouble followed him around.

And I suppose, if I get back and someone really is dead, then I’ll know to take that man’s words far, far more seriously.

The impurities closed in over his head. Rhys sunk into the darkness, his mind on a future just as dark. As he gave himself fully to absorbing the impurities, one last thought shot through his head, foolish and trashy though it was:

Dammit, I should’ve asked him if I could test my mental attack on him!

END BOOK 3
