The Amaranthine Healer(lvl requirement: 10,000) - This unimposing outfit is actually a garb covering a wire lattice and several sets of cuffs underneath. These wires enable strutted durability, even carrying magical siphoning abilities. The cuffs are nigh-invulnerable, both assisting with preventing crushing forces or being useful apparatuses for smashing enemies.

This disguises the more advanced aspects of this garb. Along its surface, a forest of runes covers it along every etchable inch. This grants many surprising abilities to the wearer, serving the purpose of an exoskeleton more so than a wire mesh. This armor can move through telepathic signaling, it can generate gravity wells, and it can power magic for a time.

This culminates in an exceptionally advanced yet powerful suit of armor that many would be envious of. Be careful with who you give this to, else they might be attacked.

It was an excellent start to this analysis session, so I turned to the next notification, hoping for a description just as upbeat.

A Monster's Evolution(lvl requirement: 10,000) - This is a work made by the Harbinger of Cataclysm for an eldritch usurper. While usually an offense worthy of exilement, this eldritch usurper has proven useful on occasion, so the powers at be have decided to let this issue go.

For now.

Speaking solely of the armor, it sports smooth, gliding joints along with a maw of steel to reinforce a monster's jaws. It also contains an open-back helm for tentacled heads or some unknown yet equally disgusting attack method. The humanoid features also include claws and a network of cameras for the palms. Once again, this is a strange feature, but it exists, so we're noting it.

Despite these strange choices, the crafting work involved is excellent, so the level requirement is very high. Be careful who you give this armor to, as it may come back to bite you later.

Eh, not quite as positive, but it would do. I grabbed the armor's jaws, moving them up and down. This could actually come to bite me later. Hah. Terrible puns aside, the apparent warnings from Schema fell onto deaf ears. I wasn't scared of Amara anymore, and she'd already done more than enough to prove I could trust her. Though, eating a bunch of people during her escape from Gypsum didn't exactly help with that.

She had a good excuse - desperation. That being said, I didn't want her running rampant in this armor. To help monitor that a little, I took a super golem nearby and gave it the armor. I pointed at the titan,

"Make sure you keep Amara safe and comfortable. And uh, don't let her eat people in a demonic rampage."

"If you will it, then it shall be so, creator."

The golem floated off, light as air from its gravitation magic. I hoped Amara would enjoy the plate mail enough to wear it, but the eldritch were unpredictable with this kind of thing. My cipheric rune charging was one example of that since it seemed pretty benign to me while terrifying to them.

Either way, I finished up my second day here on Blegara with a more realized team of elites. Staring at our city's outer line, the blue core's barrier stretched out beyond our overtaken territory. We needed more ground for expansion since our subdued district already swelled from all the extras I added.

Setting up another quick goal, I empowered my runes and called in some super golems from our forces. Several of them walked beside me as I recruited Krog and a few gialgathens as a cleanup crew. The grizzled general landed beside us minutes later, and he spoke with confidence,

"Ah, guildleader. It's good to see you faring well. That's a mighty force you've amassed. I assume we'll be expanding outward then?"

I stood with twelve or so golems,

"We'll be tearing them down while you guys pick through what remains. After clearing the area out, you'll need to establish points we can use later for resource gathering and safety. Highpoints will be the most useful."

"For the line of sight?"

"That, and I can create bunkers in them like we have with our home base."

"We shall do as you ask. I anticipate we'll be the ones staying there then instead of the humans as well?"

I raised an eyebrow, "Why?"

"We may escape fire and fury. Humans, all of their ingenuity aside, are slow and frail by comparison. We may survive the onslaughts of our enemy until we've secured this domain utterly, as we intend to."

I shrugged, "Hm, I didn't think about that, but it's a good point. Keep that in mind as we head out."

"Then let us leave this place for another."

Krog flared his wings, as did his squad of gialgathens. The size of those spread limbs took up an enormous amount of space, enough that it intimidated even me. Not to be outdone, I synced up telepathically with each golem one at a time, letting them know what I intended on doing. After a few seconds, I facepalmed.

Linking to them all, I gave them commands. In unison, they replied to my orders without doubt or hesitation. Lining up beside me, their single-mindedness carried savage brutality. There just wasn't any mercy in them. They'd kill until they were killed themselves, and there was no questioning that motive.

That machine-like precision kept them efficient, but it also made me wonder if they'd have nuance. As if answering my internal question, a golem stomped onto a stray saysha beetle roaming through our territory. Its heel soaked up the smeared remains.

Yeah, they weren't the negotiating types.

They'd be useful here, though. I leaned down, signaling them to leave. We gravitationally leaped through the air before diving past the first forcefield made by Torix. The water surrounded me like a chilly wind. Water waved above, the ocean never settling down. Breathing water in, fractured scents wafted through my nose. It was mostly clear but with a hint of a chemical aftertaste.

That was thanks to the Hybrids. Moving on, I partitioned out a few minds for various tasks. Having each anima handle certain aspects of my fighting would make more use of my abilities. The first of those consciousnesses was a wielder of Event Horizon. They'd whip it over weaker enemies and clusters of Hybridization.

Another of my minds would wield my elemental furnace, churning out its energy. Yet another psyche would handle where I moved in battle. At the center, I operated all of my skills as a captain of a ship. Every piece came together with a primary commander staffing it all.

Even the golems were a part of this. They moved with me, listening to my orders quick as my limbs did. Oddly enough, they became parts of my body, living extensions of what I could do. I didn't even have to voice my commands with language. If I so much as directed intent at them, then the golems interpreted that motive into action. Peering at a disgusting monster? A golem would smash it. A blighted one needed to be pulled down? No problem, several golems used gravity wells to press it downward.

In the end, the golem's conformity inspired yet another avenue for expanding my potential. If I could gain enough mental strength, I could wield an entire army in sync. No matter how strong Lehesion was, he wouldn't be able to outmuscle that. Even Schema's fleets or a Spatial Fortress would struggle against something that united yet individually powerful.

And I couldn't know when Lehesion would show up. I only knew he'd come in force. Either way, I put that next step on the back burner. The super golems and I went forward into Hybridized territory. Corals and seaside sprawled out below us, Hybrid forces interspersed between Vagni and twisted Leviathans. Elysium forces amassed outside our blue core's barrier, several ships and clustered enemies rallying together.

To the Hybrids within our dominion, my golems went forward and destroyed. To those outside our barrier, I raised a hand. Endless torrents of mana channeled through my palm while my primary mind converted the raw energy into deadly potential. An outpour of gravity wells spiked throughout the enemy forces. They collapsed into singularities.

Darkness consumed them. Like eclipses under the ocean, these umbral spheres swallowed entire ships at a time. Fueling their resulting implosion, the matter converted into energy and rippled outwards in mass. Calamitous outputs of kinetic power ripped soldiers into gelatinized blobs of red, orange, and gray. Matter melted. Defiance died.

The overwhelming onslaught left nothing alive. These physical forces I generated exceeded what the Hybrids were built to handle. Stringing those shockwaves sideways, I moved an arm to aim this bombardment. In seconds, what was once a fleet was a vast wasteland of minced rubble and sliced fragments. Of what, I could no longer tell.

Steel juggernauts dotting the sky pulped like paper mache. City eating horrors disintegrated into outright voids before the surrounding water flooded the emptied space. Everywhere else caved from the nearby brunt of it all, leaving the city shaken but not quite shattered. I lowered my hand, staring at my palm with a bit of surprise.

I'd improved pretty quickly up to this point, but this defied all conventions. The ease at which I destroyed, well, it was beyond my comprehension. It was like I couldn't get used to the power jumps anymore because I didn't really know where my limits were right now. I was breaching into territories I hadn't imagined crossing, and I didn't do so in tiny steps. I leaped into this chasm, and I couldn't see the bottom of it any longer.

Catching up from behind, Krog and his soldiers flew up towards me but maintained distance,

"You...you did that, guildleader?"

I nodded. Krog shouted at his troops telepathically, "To fight a deity, you must bring a deity." Krog turned to his brethren, "And we've one, haven't we?"

I made a fist, "Naw. I'm just someone powerful. You'd be amazed at what you guys could do as well. With a bit of effort, of course."

They listened close, giving quick nods and intent stares. My golems acting as a cleanup crew for me, and I massacred the enemy forces bunching up near our borders. By the time I obliterated the majority of the gathering foes, they had retreated away from us. Turns out that even the brainless felt fear, and these Hybrids were no exception. I wasn't one to let the monsters escape, however.

We chased the monsters down and culled them. Once our position was solidified and secure, we helped our teams and gialgathens move into the secured landing zones. Torix's water barrier shifted further out, giving us more air space to work with. We moved tainted sands and corrupted stones from the premise, returning Blegara to its natural beauty.

At the same time, our guild worked towards expanding the Vagni's purpose here. We wanted them to stay busy outside of farming, and they carried a strange but fascinating culture with them. That came with an aesthetic of their own, along with a way of doing things. Maintaining that would be key to keeping them content in the future.

To ensure their place, I commissioned thousands of artworks and buildings how they usually made them. I also had several city planners who worked in Mt. Verner help ease the process along. We'd need a denser, more compacted capital than Saphigia once was. For that purpose, I had these civil engineers map out roads and other details.

This kept everything contained, practical, and elegant. All of this was paid using the guild's funds, which pumped out a steady flow of credits. Even if the Vagni didn't fully understand what the credits meant, they could equate it to food and housing. That was more than enough.

It gave us a solid base to work with by the end of the day. Extending beyond the blue core would be difficult, however. The ships Elysium used could maintain excellent range while still firing annihilating weaponry. To exposed targets, that meant instant evaporation. Considering our guild's numbers, we couldn't afford to lose anyone like that.

So that's where the golems came in. With everything consolidated and protected by the blue core's barrier, they were free to extend outward. To get that process moving along, I took to the seas and left them awash with the dead. Figuratively, of course. I didn't actually leave corpses.

Between Event Horizon, my armor's draining, and the singularities' evaporating effects, I left a trail behind me ringing with stillness. The quiet in those places seemed louder than most echoing booms or numbing explosions because of where we were. This was a front line. Noise ebbed and flowed at all moments, even through the water. It was often loud enough that I felt it more in my bones than my ears.

Yet when I passed, that noise ceased, and silence lingered.

I didn't intend on leaving the situation so barren for long, however. After dispatching Elysium's armadas, I spent my time crafting new golems. These outdid even my second models, using my more highly leveled blood and body as the primary improvement source. Though the assault models took precedent, I still introduced a few innovations during this time. The most important one was conscripting a new model from Ophelia - the constructors.

I wish I could say the idea for these golems hit me from my own ingenuity, but that wasn't the case. They came from necessity and from leaning on Elysium's methods for managing settlements. The rebels used the twisted Leviathans as road makers who kept the waters safe. On land, Hybrids served this purpose. We needed something similar to replace their benefits and then some. Otherwise, we'd be dismantling a society and replacing it with chaos.

I wouldn't sleep at night if that was the case, though I didn't often choose sleep anyways. The point is, the constructors acted as my own take on the Leviathan/Hybrid role. This new model emphasized city building, maintenance, and protection. In fact, one of them outdid ten of my assault golems for those specific tasks. That opened up the fighter models to focus on fighting instead.

