We made this adjustment so quickly because the only change was mental, not physical. All of the golems came equipped with many skills and abilities already—more than they needed, in fact. An example was how they could construct matter from mana as I did. They simply preferred destroying enemies and getting rid of Hybridization. On the other hand, these constructors loved making buildings, drafting plans, and working with engineers.

That's where my production process came in handy. I could just adjust the runic configuration I charged in my grimoire, and the resulting golems were entirely unique. The previous ones enjoyed destruction while these prospered in peace and prosperity. Serving two different purposes allowed the giants to specialize in their given roles. It also meant I didn't need to help so much with planning either. They did all this while letting the Vagni do their thing.

By the time the week passed on Blegara, I had manufactured thirty of these constructor models along with another one hundred assault models. This made us a powerful, militant force throughout Saphigia, extending our grasp well beyond the blue core's shielding. With my support, the golems, gialgathens, and omega divisions expanded outwards, clearing swaths of Saphigia.

They established high points, erecting bunkers beneath these undersea hills. We worked the Vagni hard in the meantime, paying them well to build back up their capital to its former glory and then some. During this span, Elysium raided many times. Each passing day, they sent larger numbers of troops, Hybrids, blighted ones, Leviathans, and vessels.

I massacred them all.

They couldn't dent us. The blue core's shielding stopped even antimatter blasts, and I could charge it in seconds. While doing so, I siphoned singularities over fleets at a rapid pace. I was a null void to their forces, a wall that couldn't be outdone. Any number of ordinary troops were nothing, and they would need to tear this planet apart to get us off it. That wasn't an option since they wanted this world so badly.

Still, they sent more and more with stronger and stronger enemies within. They kept their twisted Sentinels in reserve since their dimensional attacks proved ineffective against me. Everything else they had, they threw at us. Despite that relentless offensive, I found time to build between the episodes.

I grew efficient. I worked in the open, maintaining good sight of the area. We got several scouts inspecting the horizons at all times, along with gialgathens above water. This kept our lines of communication tight, so reacting quickly was a given. These efforts from us kept casualties to a minimum.

That was the best way of handling Elysium's generic strategies: kill without being killed. We couldn't afford to trade soldiers. We had to create a sustainable system for dispatching their endless waves of Hybrids and vessels. If we did that, they wouldn't be able to whittle us down.

That's what we set up in a week: a dozen vantage points with excellent visibility, a growing cityscape run by constructors, and roaming golem guards that cleared areas out.

By the time my stay here was up, I left behind an expanding settlement that already paid dividends to the guild. It would take an eternity before I actually made money from this place, but that wasn't the point. The gialgathens established a place to grow, the Vagni retained some semblance of purpose, and we held the line against Elysium. These weren't the best task forces that Elysium had to offer, but our defense illustrated an ability to stop their mundane offensives.

They'd yet to send their ultimate devastator, and I wasn't sure I was ready.

Preparing full-proof measures against that golden gialgathen would have to wait until after I stopped Plazia Ruhl for Obolis. I'd be getting a few more elemental furnaces and other resources from him, and it might not take all that long either. I didn't want to underestimate a Ruhl, but they wouldn't survive an outpour of singularities. Nothing could, outside of an Old One or Lehesion. Or any of the other hidden powers that the Overseer mentioned during our talk.

I shivered for a second. I needed to stay on guard. Overwhelming or not, getting overconfident would be the end of me. Those thoughts lingered in my mind as I sent a notice to Helios. I needed his warping to get me to the ahcorus's homeworld. While there, he'd be by my side 24/7 in case I needed to be sent back here at a moment's notice.

Poor guy. Anyways, while waiting on him, I opened my messenger and let Florence, Other Hod, Amara, and Althea know to meet me here too.

Torix and Kessiah were too vital for our stay here, and they'd have an evacuation plan if Lehesion landed while I was gone. I worried about the golden gialgathen arriving and destroying all of this, but I set those anxieties aside. We'd need to fight him at some point, and if we did, I'd figure out just how far away I currently was.

Or even how ahead.

I held onto that inkling of confidence as I gazed at the seascape. I filled with pride, finding a line of our territory. Where we landed, homes came up, Vagni schooled near, and golem protectors kept all of it safe. Outside that line, it was abject chaos with Vagni struggling to survive and horrors roaming the hills. It was one thing to destroy something and leave nothing behind. It was another task to replace havoc with prosperity. It was a fulfilling struggle, one I enjoyed.

Interrupting that bit of serenity, portals opened above our domain. It was another raid like the ones we'd stopped so far. In retaliation, mana gushed through runic configurations over my skin, and I oozed unstable flows of power. Reaching up a hand, I pointed at each of these warps and detonated the areas behind them.

Before they could shut, building facilities, out bays, and carriers crumbled. They caught us at the wrong time, and I didn't have to react. I was right here, killing some time before Helios arrived. As the albony did, he gawked at the carnage. They couldn't even escape their portals before being slaughtered.

My mind partitioned, letting me turn to Helios while still handling the assailants,

"You ready to leave? We'll be rounding up a few other members of my guild before we leave, like Hod and Althea. We'll need their stealth abilities."

Helios fumbled his initial words, trying not to stare at the singularities, "I-I am. I've also completed the warping lessons you'll need." He composed himself, "Let's hope you show promise in the field. It appears you'll still serve a purpose regardless."

The last portal from Elysium closed, its inside gutted by another cataclysmic explosion. I nodded, "I'd hope so. Come on, let's go."

We took one step before yet another portal opened in the distance. I rolled my eyes before reaching up a hand. Seconds passed, yet no singularity formed over the area. I stared at my hand, wondering if it was broken before I lifted my eyes. This portal bordered gold, its rim engorged with an enormous deluge of energy.

There was only one who carried this kind of energy. Lehesion arrived.

From that warp, halcyon claws pulled apart dimensions, shearing space-time. Eyes emboldened with knowledge beyond their years surveyed our stronghold before a massive pair of jaws opened. From the enormous maw, a burst of noble, telepathic laughter poured out. The behemoth gazed at what I built with disdain.

Lehesion snickered, "So, this is all you've constructed. It's quite quaint and simple when compared with Elysium's grandeur."

With confidence, I shouted, "Elysium is a kingdom built on corpses."

My words contrasted my inner thoughts. A chill ran down my spine as I doubted myself. This was it. I had to perform. If I didn't, a massive portion of my guildsmen would die. My stomach sank. My face numbed. With a quick mental slap, I put that fear and pressure behind me, using it to spur me forward. Feeling returned along with my strength.

I took no chances, sending a message to our guild, one premade for this situation. People began evacuations as Lehesion pulled his entire form from his portal. The beast radiated majesty, the bright, energized armor both blinding and bold. He needed no air, having withstood space and cataclysms alike. He required no food, his body generating endless energy already.

That behemoth's form stared down at me, his eyes narrowed to slits,

"You speak as if the creation of a kingdom may be done without death. Even this tiny domain of yours rests on bodies. My domain is simply superior. The carcasses you've created are mere mounds by comparison to mine, and your piles disappear under the shadow of the mountains I've made. That darkness exposes the distance between you and I."

He spread his wings while dampening his lustrous glow. He covered my entire line of sight in his dusk, Lehesion's shadow looming across a portion of my city. My knees wanted to wobble under pressure, and Lehesion grinned,

"That distance between us, you are too blind to see it. Beneath these wings, you are an insect under the mercy of a coming storm."

I took a moment, remembering what happened to Springfield. Yawm destroyed it utterly, leaving nearly no one alive. I was helpless then. I was no longer helpless now, and I wouldn't be stalling with a conversation either. Tohtella or another Adair could arrest control of Lehesion at any moment, and he'd blast everything I built to pieces.

That wasn't an option. I'd be keeping this frog dragon busy this time, so busy he'd be unable to even unsettle some sand. I leaned over, my armor's maw growing monstrous and my metal skin rippling like a pool of dark mercury. I expanded Event Horizon over Lehesion, and the giant winced.

My form shivered as my armor hungered for his energy-laden flesh. The supergolems near me filed into ranks, each of them unspeaking and unmoving. They felt no fear, only bloodthirst. I channeled that within myself, allowing my ascendant mana to bend my mind. That part of me was a monster, and I unleashed it now.

Gripping my fingers to fists, I seethed,

"You believe I'm an insect? No. I am living metal, denser than stone and harder than steel. You so much as touch my domain, and you will suffer."

A crack showed under Lehesion's confidence, "And what could you do to me if I destroyed this little lot of land?"

"I will burrow under your skin and eat you alive."
