TWO DAYS LATER

Niala angled her summoned aether-bird into a descent, aiming for the military camp set upon the open plains next to a quartet of moored military airships, one of them the black-and-silver Eternal Vigilance.

David tightened his grip on her waist as she did, while Jordo behind them remained firmly attached to the summon's plumage.

They landed a few dozen metres out from the camp's western gate and stepped off, shaking the ten-bell journey out of their cramped legs. At the speed they had gone, if it hadn't been for Niala's wind shield, their face would have been cracked and frostbitten.

As it was, it had merely been slightly uncomfortable.

The gate guards challenged them, but the Wardenfel-stamped documents Niala presented made them stiffen and salute as if at parade rest.

Her ears twitched in amusement, though they drooped soon after. David, behind her, sighed. “Kitten, it's fine to feel empowered when you're given preferential treatment, you know? You don't have to feel guilty about it.”

She froze and looked over her shoulder, face conflicted, voice plaintive. “I don't want to lord over the poor guards just doing their job...”

He smirked and ruffled her hair. “You're not lording over anyone, kitten, don't worry. Let's go, before the guards cramp up.”

She smiled back, ears perking up, and made her way in, thanking the guards as she went. Asking around, they made their way to the central command pavilion, earning their way inside thanks to the official document once more.

Stepping in under the heavy fabric door, their entrance stopped the discussion and attracted everyone's attention.

Angeline smiled and stepped away from the planning table, toward Niala, followed by Isaac. “Sister! You got here fast! I'm so happy to see you!”

She reached her sibling as she finished speaking and drew her into a hug. The catkin smiled back and returned the embrace. “Angie! I'm happy to see you, too! You told me it was urgent, so we left right away!”

They parted, and the tall blonde turned to David and gave him a polite hug. “You look good, David! Thank you for taking such good care of my sister!”

The man nodded, shook hands with his own brother, and they followed their siblings back to the circle of captains and aides assembled around a map of the region.

Niala let her eyes flow over the figurines representing forces and assets. “You didn't say a lot in your letter, just that it was urgent, but it looks like you're preparing for war?”

Angeline smiled but looked at Isaac instead of answering. Her husband nodded. “Indeed, Lady Allwarden, though this is more of a grand skirmish than a war proper,” he said, before explaining the situation to David and Niala.

David frowned. “You're looking for someone to punch in and disable the nobles, and then get them out.”

Niala's ears wiggled as she looked from her husband to her sister. Angeline bit her lips and nodded. “That is correct; however, we are asking, not commanding. You are powerful, Lord Allwarden, but nothing is guaranteed. The complete plan is to launch a diversionary attack on multiple fronts to offer you a way in during the chaos. We would ask that you disable the air defences, and only that. The airships present would then launch an amphibious raid upon the fortress, and you could leave at that point.”

David quirked a brow, then looked at his wife for a few seconds. With one final twist of her ears, he turned his head back toward Angeline and nodded once. “We don't need the attack; that will only result in avoidable deaths. We can infiltrate the fortress, incapacitate the defending troops, and retrieve the nobles. Deploy your forces in a circle to catch any escapees.”

All eyes turned toward the man, every murmured discussion stopping. Angeline stared back at him wide-eyed. “I... ah, David? Don't you mean you will infiltrate the fortress...?”

A corner of his mouth curled up. “No, we: Niala and I. She wouldn't let me step into danger without coming along.”

Beside him, his wife nodded, resolute.

Angeline blinked at her. “Niala? Sister? I understand your feelings, bu-”

“If David is going, I'm going, Angie.” Her sister declared before her features mellowed. “But don't worry! I can do this! It'll be fine!”

The tall blonde looked at her diminutive sister, the soft, sweet Niala, who used to stress over having used a slightly elevated tone on people. She opened her mouth to talk her out of it, but stopped herself. Her sibling's eyes were telling her it was pointless.

“If... if you're certain, Nala. Just promise you'll be careful?” Angeline pleaded.

Niala smiled. “Of course! And David will protect me if anything really bad happens!”

A glance at the man confirmed he'd lose a leg before letting harm come to his spouse. Comforting, but she still had a hard time reconciling the memory of her sister with the little warrior in front of her right now.

But she is her own woman. I should trust her.

With a shake of her head, Angeline bowed. “Then, thank you, both of you.” She straightened back up and smiled. “I know this isn't your fight, and I was loath to ask you to risk your lives for a dozen corrupt nobles, but your eagerness to help will not be forgotten by the Wardenfel.” She said with a wink.

Playing the powerful noble was a kick and a half. She had to be careful not to let it get out of hand!

Isaac cleared his throat, gathering everyone's attention. “Right, as Lady Wardenfel said, thank you, Lord and Lady Allwarden. Now, you said you didn't want us to launch a fake attack? What are you planning? Before you do anything foolish, remember this is a regional fortress we are talking about.”

David smirked. “I know. It'll be fine. We've been preparing for something worse. This will be a good test.”

The collected captains and aides shared looks and murmurs.

A good test?

SANGLIORE FORTRESS

Lord Andernal stood atop the fortress' keep, letting his gaze sweep over their forces made up of mercenaries and house guards. Campfires and light globes were springing up as the sun began to set.

What a rotten situation. Half the conclave has been swept up in this purge. Hopefully those who remain will be enough...

He shook his head. Better to think about the now, and his self, than the now distant plot he had dedicated a decade of his life to. The preparations for their escape tonight were nearly complete. If he was lucky, by sunrise he would be safe with his allies in Tarvegunn.

Sighing, he began to turn back toward the stairs leading down when a glint in the sky caught his attention.

He squinted, making out the tiny shape of a sparkling pair of wings, with something attached underneath. He reached for his farsight lenses, but an alarm sounded off before he could bring it to his eyes.

He snapped his head toward the source; the outside perimeter of their defences; one of the outposts had spotted an incoming force. Soon after, the glow of mana rifles began lighting up the twilight, all aimed at a singular point.

Lord Andernal put the lenses to his face and focused on that point, frowning when he spotted a blood-red golem striding toward the fortress in a straight line. It was ignoring the fire barrage, the glowing bullets ricocheting off of him like mere pebbles, as if it was simply out on a stroll.

A flash of light speared through the penumbra, followed by the distinct chord of a strum cannon. The beam of concentrated sonic energy was met by a flash of red, and dissipated in heat and smoke without leaving any trace on the automaton's body.

Transfixed as he was by the display, the lord managed to remember about the pair of wings he had spotted and shifted his view up, only to flinch in surprise as he made out the two people attached to the span of glowing feathers.

All around them, a small cloud of sparkling gems caught the light of the weapons fire below. He wondered for a moment what those things were, until he spotted a slew of them peel off and aim down at the trenches and troops.

As if swung by an invisible giant, they slammed down on the ground, releasing explosions of tumultuous pink gas which soon billowed out to cover the battlefield. Where the gas spread, men and women fell.

Soon after, an air raid siren rang, followed by a second, more dreadful signal: chemical attack.

Andernal cursed. Were the Crown's dogs so desperate they would resort to such barbaric practices?!

He turned around, pathing toward the war room deep within the fortress, reaching the stairs as the anti-air strum cannons began unleashing a heaven-piercing blanket of sonorous destruction.

At the batteries' focal point, two people held aloft by magic wings pushed ahead, undeterred.

ETERNAL VIGILANCE, ALOFT AND OUTSIDE THE FORTRESS'S RANGE

Angeline bit her lips as she watched her sister and David head directly toward the stronghold. The first skyward flash of light made her flinch and gasp, unable to contain her worry.

Niala weaved and dipped around the incoming fire. The chances the anti-ship weapons would hit a man-sized object were slim, but it only took one...

When Niala and David had explained their 'plan', she had been appalled. No tricks, no subterfuge, not even a scheme. They would aim themselves at their target, and trust in their abilities.

Foolish.

Then she had seen Niala hold aloft dozens of small vials containing sleep gas around her, like a small constellation of stars, before unfurling her aetheric wings, hooking her legs and arms around David, and shooting herself up into the air.

It had been almost enough to make her forget about the heavy anti-air defence they would be facing.

A flash of light. Her brain had just enough time to judge it was going to hit them and open her mouth to scream before the bolt of ship-destroying energy smashed into her sister.

And then... nothing. They just kept flying, leaving behind a dissipating cloud of mana.

What?

HIGH ABOVE THE BATTLEFIELD

It had to happen- the volume of fire was enough to guarantee at least a few lucky shots would hit them. They had just enough time to notice the incoming beam of sonic energy, neither fast enough to react to it.

But they didn't need to; Niala's wings shifted in an instant, under their own volition, forming a protective feathery cocoon around them. The strum cannon shot impacted the aetheric construct and it, reinforced by the imbued fortifier potion Niala had ingested, shrugged the airship-killing blast like it was nothing but a nasty gust of wind.

Niala's ears twitched and rang from the energy blast. Even if they had extensively tested Hope's Light's defensive capabilities, getting slammed by a beam of energy the size of a log was still harrowing.

“I'm glad the imbued potions affect my wings! This could have been really bad!” She shouted to cover the sound of the rushing air and cannon fire.

David glanced up over his shoulder. “Yeah! I don't think my imbuement would have been enough! Are you ready to fling me? I think I can reach the battlements from here!”

She scrunched her mouth, estimating the distance. “A few more seconds. Get ready! I love you!”

He smiled. “Love you too, Kitten! I'll see you soon!”

Below them, Jordo was still beelining toward the fortress, attracting most of the ground troops' attention. It was easy to forget just how tough the majordomo golem was; per his own admission, he was a bodyguard. His job was to put himself between danger and his ward and to absorb any attack.

He had been flung around, catapulted, embedded into walls, and more during their past fights with ancient enemies, but he had never really shown any signs of damage.

And here he was, proving that it hadn't been a fluke. Even if he had confidently told his masters that none of the weapons the ground troops fielded would be enough to so much as leave a scratch, willingly sending your friend into weapon fire still weighed on the mind.

David felt Niala swing upward, flying through the spears of light trying to shoot them down. A second lucky hit made their hummer barrier flare, much to the same effect as the first one. At the crux of her curve, she let go of David, and he was flung up and away, toward the top of the central keep.

Then he began falling, far short of his target. As expected.

He flared up his imbuements, making his Tremor Step tremble with energy. With a kick, he stomped into empty air, forcing his attack out. A boom cracked, and he pushed himself off a momentary plate of compressed air, jumping a dozen metres ahead.

Then he did it again.

And again.

Several soldiers at the top of the tower finally noticed the man walking on air and aiming himself straight at them. After a few initial shouts of panic, they lined up mana rifles and shot at him.

He pushed power into his Iron Body, the few bullets that hit him feeling like pointed punches, but little else.

One last time, he overloaded a Tremor Step and sprang forward over the empty, the parapets of the keep rushing to meet him. He rolled forward, clearing the topmost edge with a few centimetres to spare, tumbling to a stop and folding his legs underneath him to get to his feet, stance low and ready.

Around him, soldiers stood frozen, mana rifles still aimed at where he had come from.

He kept his Iron Body up and ignored them, triggering Quick Step and bounding forward in a blur, toward the stairs leading down. Behind him, shots began to crack, hitting his back.

The soldiers' shots were about as effective as their shouts.

While David made his way inside, Niala banked and began flying in a wide circle around the fortress, raining down sleep gas vials as she did.

The chemical alarm had prompted the soldiers to take generic neutralizers and put on filtering masks, but the sleeping gas creeping over the landscape was a grade far above those countermeasures. The process was slower, but little by little, the battlefield grew silent, broken only by snoring individuals.

The anti-air battery's strumming stopped as their operators fell to Niala's potion. A few minutes later, she had completed he circling of the fortress, and nothing moved except Jordo, who marched unerringly forward.

With a nod, she veered downward and landed at one of the heavy strum cannon emplacements. There, she took out a cargo cloth, rolled it open and retrieved a small crate filled with another kind of potions.

Most people should be asleep, yes, but she had no way to be certain. The next step was to disable the weapons. As she stored her cloth back, she heard a heavy footstep behind her. She had enough time to turn and face the soldier who lunged at her with a sword. His movements heavy, his eyes burning with defiance, he thrusted his weapon forward, its tip jamming itself in Niala's belly.

And stopping without breaking her skin.

The man looked up from the catkin's abdomen and up into her eyes. Her brows fell sideways. “I'm really sorry. It's not going to work. I drank some special potions,” she apologized before gripping the sword and tearing it out of the man's grip, flinging it to the side.

She walked toward him as his body took a step back even while he tried to understand the situation. “But don't worry! I'm not going to hurt you. You were just doing your job! But you need to go to bed now. It'll be fine!” She comforted the man as she reached him and carefully removed his filtering mask.

The last thing the man saw was the catkin catching him as his legs fell away, gently depositing him on the ground as his eyes closed on blissful oblivion.

Niala stood back up, looking around for anyone else still awake. When nothing moved, she nodded and held her hand out toward the crate of potion. The winds coalesced, diving into the box and lifting its contents out. A small cloud of vials formed, with one of its motes darting out and onto the nearby strum cannons, shattering and releasing fibrous liquid all over.

A few seconds later, the liquid began to foam and expand, turning into a sticky web ensconcing the emplacement. With a satisfied nod, Niala flexed her wings and launched herself back into the air, the ball of sticky potions following after her.

She thought back to her exchange with the soldier. The David-enhanced potions were really something! The effects had been impressive on Papo, and he had only drunk a small portion of each formula. She had consumed the whole thing.

The sword hadn't even hurt!

Was that how David felt when he got serious? No wonder his preferred solution was to smash everything aside! Why not be a hammer when you were surrounded by nails?!

She smiled as she thought of her trumpet, who was, right now, probably hammering a lot of said nails inside the fortress itself.