“Well, I don’t really know everything either, but I definitely know a lot more than you, and yes, there is a lot you should know about it.”

Elise started a long explanation that roughly covered everything she knew about the rune, from her initial bumbling about to the more active research, and the information she had received from her various sources. She mentioned that it was something she already had, rather than something that was granted, that runes existed before the System, and that everything the System did with it was just its attempts to notate it. She mentioned that it was still in a rudimentary form, and that it would morph and conform itself to the user’s soul eventually. Neither she nor Jessie had reached that state, but judging from the state of Jessie’s aether, she was much closer than Elise was. She even mentioned the black boxes, and how they were dangerous and reacted to the rune.

Jessie paid close attention the entire time, nodding along with each new piece of information, and asking clarifying questions. When Elise finished, Jessie was silent, lost in thought for a few seconds before speaking again.

“Well that’s… a lot to take in,” she said. “Do you think that everyone with the rune is… like us?”

“I don’t know, but I’m beginning to think that might be true,” said Elise. “You’re the only other person with the rune that I know of, and you’re from Earth, so…”

“You haven’t met any of the others yet?”

“The others?”

“From the prophecy.”

“...What prophecy?”

“Maggie’s prophecy.”

“Maggie hasn’t given me any prophecies,” said Elise, thinking hard. “But actually, I think she did mention something about others. She kind of glossed over it, but I definitely remember her mentioning it.

“That’s weird that she didn’t give you the prophecy,” said Jessie, frowning. “Actually, no it’s not. Now that I think about it, the Church kept that information restricted. She’s probably not allowed to tell you. I don’t really give a shit though, so here it goes:

“Seven years. Seven souls. Seven gods. Seven more.

Two in the south in the lands of yore

Two in the east on opposite shores

Two in the center; the last is no more

Five years have passed. The sixth stretches on.

When the seventh arrives, there shall come a new dawn.

Like the wrath of the gods, descending upon

An unsuspecting world.”

“That’s… ominous,” said Elise. “Are you sure that’s talking about us?”

“That’s what Maggie says.”

“So there are seven of us. Or six… One is already dead?”

“I think so,” said Jessie. “Though I have no idea who it was or where they were.”

“Yeah…”

Elise frowned deeply as she thought about that. There were seven holders of the Rune of Fate, and one was already dead. Perhaps if they had ended up in a situation like Elise’s, that was possible. Maybe they had just gotten unlucky. Of course, there was another possibility, and one that she was very worried to think about. Freddy.

Should I tell Jessie? she wondered.

“Actually, it makes sense that we haven’t met any others,” said Jessie, interrupting Elise’s thoughts. “The prophecy does say that we’re all spread out. I’m not a geography expert, but there are only three major continents on this world, so it’s not hard to think that the center, south, and east are those three continents. The other four aren’t even nearby.”

“Yeah,” said Elise. “Well, the other three. The seventh hasn’t arrived yet, supposedly.”

“Right,” said Jessie. “And they’re going to bring a new dawn, apparently… When do you think they’ll show up?”

“I actually think I know the answer to that one,” said Elise. “Six months from now.”

“Why then?”

“Well, that’ll be about a year after I got here, and two years after you got here, and also, I talked to my goddess, and she said something big was gonna happen in six months.”

“Ah,” said Jessie. “So, six months it is.”

“Yeah…”

“Well, shit. That sucks. That means I only have six months to do all the cool stuff before everything goes to shit.”

“Better use your time wisely then,” said Elise.

“I’m sorry, but I’m going to abuse your existence,” said Jessie. “I don’t mean to impose, but you’re my only way out.”

“Not a problem with me,” said Elise. “I haven’t gotten to talk with someone else from Earth in ages.”

“Same,” said Jessie. “By the way, this is a bit of a change in subject, but I was wondering. I have a lot of aether, and based on your explanation, that’s because of the Rune of Fate. How come you don’t have that much aether though?”

“Ah, but I do. I just have a suppression Skill. You should try to get one, if you can. It’s super useful. Here, I’ll undo it so you can see.”
