The birthright of tragedy; a speck of hope in despair.
As blades of grass are crushed ‘neath heedless foot
So too shall the skein of woven fate
Crumble and break
Upon this earth.
Yet for this one, the star shines brightest now,
At fire’s waning and the moment hammer strikes.
‘Twill spell her fate, the wretched child
Who would dice upon the table of worlds with Gods.
But quick, we fly on!
To bear witness for friendship burgeoning.
And let the oldest stories rise again.
Lo! We declare such immortal words.”
 
The other faeries looked at each other. One spoke.
 
“Lord, what fools these mortals be!”
 
They flew off after Ryoka. And in moments, hours, in due time, she reached the High Passes.
 
—-
 
“Teriarch!”
The girl screamed. The Dragon watched with magic, one eye cracked the tiniest fraction of the way open. His spells had woken him from his slumber, and now he stared at the girl running through the deathly path between the mountains.
Shouting.
He’d thought she was at least partly intelligent. Didn’t she know what shouting would bring? She wasn’t even using that foul potion this time. Already the wolves were following, and the goats had begun to descend. A few more steps and she would wake darker things with her noise.
He sighed. He didn’t feel like dealing with Humans today. Already he’d been pestered by Reinhart’s messages. He just wanted to sleep. But he had sent something with her, hadn’t he? Something important?
Oh yes, the letter. He’d thought about it for a while. Had it arrived? Teriarch thought of Perril Chandler. Yes, the mage was a nuisance, but the letter was the important thing. He had to know if it had arrived safely.
The Dragon grumbled, but the girl was stumbling. And there were those blasted fae with her as well. But it couldn’t be helped.
He stirred himself, spoke a word. A man appeared in the room; standing with an irritated expression on his face. Teriarch focused, and the man walked back a few paces. There. He looked normal, didn’t he? Teriarch had a thought and glanced at the cave wall.
Right. Shadow. He flicked his tail and his shadow vanished. That should do it.
He looked back at his image of the high passes. He couldn’t focus on the girl; her blasted name still didn’t work. But he could still see her from high overhead. He spoke another word. The girl in the magic spell vanished, and she was standing before him.
She stumbled; stared around in shock. The fae were already chattering to him in tinny voices that hurt his ears. Teriarch grumbled and spoke another word. The flitting immortals didn’t freeze, but the girl did. That was something.
Teriarch cleared his throat. Below him, the magical copy did the same. He saw the Human representation of himself raise his hand to cast the next spell.
All he had to do was say a few words. Teriarch didn’t know what the spell would be called with the magic system Humans used. [Greater Geas] was probably close enough; he doubted the girl would ever meet a mage capable of casting the same.
The Dragon took a breath. He only had to say those words. Then he could ask her all the questions he wanted. She wouldn’t be able to throw off his magic if he used more force. He only had to do that.
But then the Dragon smelled the blood. It was such a faint odor at first, almost masked by the scent of the fae and snow and sweat and ice. And he was used to smelling blood from the things in the High Passes. But this blood was fresh, and close.
Teriarch stared at the girl. Blood was pooling around her feet, running in the warmth of his cave. It ran from her feet, but he couldn’t see any wounds on her body. He stared at her feet.
Two words. He only had to say them. But Teriarch hesitated, and that made all the difference. It was such a small thing. But it meant…
Everything.
 
—-
 
“Your feet.”
I stare at the old man, unable to move. I throw myself against the spell that holds me, trying to move any muscle in my body. Hell, I’d release my bowel control if it meant getting his attention. But the full-body paralyze spell freezes even those muscles.
I can’t let him send me away. I have to resist whatever he does. I have to resist. Don’t lose focus. Don’t give in. Don’t—
“What happened to your feet?”
I blink at him. I can move again. I stare down at my feet and see the blood.
“Oh.”
There’s a lot of it. It stains the perfect, lovely marble floor. I raise my foot and slowly stare at it.
Ruined. Flesh is torn. I stare at the bottom of my feet and try to remember what they’re supposed to look like. My feet always had calluses, and Mom used to say that they looked awful. But now—
“Hah.”
It’s not quite a laugh. I just stare at what used to be my soles and shrug. I look at Teriarch. The old man is staring at my feet. His haughty look is gone.
“It doesn’t matter.”
He looks at me, surprised. I just stare back. They really don’t matter. Not right now. But he shakes his head.
“Enough. [Mend].”
He points at my feet, and I feel a shock that goes through my core. It feels like something bright flashes through me. If bright could be a feeling—
Suddenly, the terrible numbness in my feet and my legs fades. I feel pain, and then not even that. I wiggle my toes, able to wiggle them after that feeling vanished.
Blink. Blink. My toes waggle in the blood around my feet. Teriarch speaks again, and then the blood begins to flow away.
I turn around and see the blood flowing away, back towards the cavern entrance. One of the faeries laughs and chases after it.
“There. Kindly do not track—kindly do not bleed in my domain again.”
This time, I look at Teriarch and realize how frozen and tired I’d been before. Now my mind feels like it’s racing at its peak. No—I feel better than I have in years. What magic was that?
No. Focus. Standing before me is a Dragon. Remember that.
But now that I’m in front of him, the old man seems far realer than my belief in Dragons. Just looking at him erodes my confidence in my memories. I remember them clearly but he looks—
He looks good, okay? Like, really good*.
*Like the kind of person we wish we could be. Like a model, something to strive for. Even if it’s an illusion, it’s art in its own way. He makes me remember my imperfections.
But I have to focus. Erin.
The thought of her is the shock I need. I blink and grit my teeth so hard my gums hurt. Teriarch stares at me in silence for a few moments. What should I say first?
“Well, I must congratulate you for punctuality, I suppose. You took longer than I had hoped, but you are clearly dedicated to your duties.”
I stare at him. What? What’s he—
Oh. Oh right. The letter. I’d barely remembered that.
Human Teriarch sighs. He waves a hand and a bag appears and gold coins appear out of the air and drop into it. A lot of coins for such a small bag*.
*A bag of holding? No—focus. Why do I feel so—so distracted? I was—was I depressed? Did that spell actually normalize my brain chemistry or something? Focus, Ryoka*.
**But I want to smile. I want to laugh. What the—I feel so good. What is this? I’ll take it, whatever it is. I can do this.
The old man waves the bag and it drifts towards me. He looks me in the eye, his heterochromic eyes hypnotizing.
“Speak the truth…messenger.”
Did he just forget my name? Teriarch clears his throat.
“I assume that you fulfilled my request and delivered both ring and letter to Perril Chandler?”
“I did.”
He nods.
“Was there any response? I doubt it, but the man might surprise me.”
“No. He…read the letter and said it was an appropriate gift.”
While he was making a horrific monstrosity over my head. Don’t mention that part! Just speak the truth. But half-truths. Yeah.
Teriarch looks vaguely pleased. He nods, but then flicks his fingers.
“Well, it took a bit of thought. And with that, I should be fine for another hundred…blast, what about Reinhart? Hmm…”
Unless Magnolia’s older than I thought, Teriarch believes in thinking ahead a lot more than a Human. And he’s pretty damn optimistic too, unless Humans live longer than they do in our world.
But then the old man pretending to be a mage looks back at me, and my spine stiffens. It’s not a spell; I’m just tense. I have to speak. I open my mouth, but then the bag flies towards me. I catch it instinctively.
“There. Eight hundred gold pieces, as agreed. I believe it should serve you well. Now, I will send you back to your city or hovel or wherever you please.”
He waves a hand and then hesitates.
“Ah. [Open Portal]?”
Did he just cast magic without using a spell? The shimmering magic of golden motes that begins to swirl around me started before he said those words. But that’s not important.
“Wait!”
He looks irritated.
“What is it this time? I will not renegotiate—”
Is now the time for it? No, no time to hesitate. I point at Teriarch, straight at his chest.
“You…you are a Dragon, aren’t you.”
He freezes. The air freezes. For a moment the world goes s—
 
“Ooh! She said it!”
“Shh! Quiet!”
 
That came from overhead. I barely process the voices, though. Neither, seemingly, does Teriarch. He stares at me. At last, he clears his throat.
“Dragon? What? You must be…I’m not a Dragon. Hah. You must be mistaken.”
Oh my—he sucks at acting! I stare at Teriarch. He stares back.
“Don’t lie to me. I know you’re a Dragon.”
“I’m not a Dragon. You’re mistaken. I’m uh, an [Archmage]. You must have confused my noble disposition with a Dragon’s…somehow.”
“I know you cast some kind of memory spell on me. I broke it and remembered. You. Are. A. Dragon.”
The white brows of the old man draw together.
“That’s impossible! No Human could—wait a second. Did Magnolia interfere? Is this one of her…pranks?”
“A Courier had a powerful charm. It broke the enchantment on me.”
“A Courier? One of them had—but my spells—was it a directly applied magic, or some kind of non-renewable sealed spell? I suppose my magic might have been compromised by a interwoven spell…”
The old man begins to mumble. Again, I’m a bit taken aback. He sounds grouchy, now, not like a Dragon. But after a few more seconds the old man looks at me. Shit. He’s going to—
“Anyways, you are mistaken. I am not a Dragon. I am just a—”
Teriarch’s eyes widen and then my fist crunches as it meets his perfect nose. It was a good punch; I stepped in and hit him with my best shot. With my left hand. My right one is still missing those fingers even after the spell.
I’ve gotta admit, even though part of me feels bad for hitting someone who looks like he’s four times my age, I enjoy that immensely. Add that to my gravestone*.
*Ryoka Griffin, 1995 – 2017. “Never knew when to shut up. Also, punched a Dragon.”
The old man stumbles backwards. I blink. What? He raises a hand to his nose and looks at the blood gushing from one nostril.
Oh no. Oh shit. I didn’t—he’s human? But I thought—
“Hmf. Humans are so violent.”
And then the old man in front of me wavers, and vanishes. The blood, the odor of his body, even the presence of him, the faint sense that something is there all vanishes in an instant.
And then I see the Dragon.
There are no words. It’s a Dragon. What else can I say? And yet, and yet…how insufficient the word is for him.
A Dragon. A wyrm. A being of scales and fire. An immortal creature or at least an ancient one in most mythoi. Ostensibly a large lizard with wings when you get right down to it. But the reality of one is different.
The Dragon lounges in the cavernous cave, the place that could hold a military aircraft hangar with ease, and makes the room feel cramped. He stretches out,  serpentine tail coiling around some of the magical artifacts piled up in his room. He’s not sleeping on a pile of gold a la Smaug—rather, he’s just lying on the ground, using his claws as a pillow.
Yes, he looks more like a dragon depicted in Western culture than an Oriental dragon. But instead of horns on his head he has a mane that looks like someone’s taken molten bronze and turned it into some kind of living hair.
Oh yeah. His scales are bronze. A deep bronze—and let me be clear, when I mean bronze, I don’t mean the color people think of as bronze. I mean bronze as it truly looks when it’s worked properly:
Golden.
The light. Oh, the light. Even the sun doesn’t look as beautiful as this color. The faint light in the cavern reflects off his scales and turns the entire cavern a slightly odd shade. He glows in the light, and his mane is luminous as the rest of him.
And now the Dragon—Teriarch raises his head. When I first saw him he looked almost as if he was sleeping, but now he sits up, and spreads his wings slightly. I step back and stare up, up, up, into two mismatched eyes that pierce me to the core.
This is a Dragon. This is Teriarch’s true nature, in front of me at last. He still defies words. We have so many, but what could really describe what I’m seeing?
Serpent. Wyrm. Drake. Arach. Naga. Ormr. Tann—
Wait a second, I’ve done this before.
I break out of the spell. I’ve done this before. Yes, I’ve seen Teriarch before. And I could stare at him forever, but I don’t have time for that. I clear my throat.
“Uh—”
“Human.”
The word makes my bones vibrate. Teriarch’s voice—his true voice shakes me to the core. Remember that bowel movement I talked about? I’m one second away from actually making good on that threat.
Teriarch lowers his massive head and suddenly he’s only twenty feet away from me. Twenty feet, but his head—I’m fixed in place, like a mouse staring at a cat. Or a mouse staring at a jumbo jet that smells like brimstone. When his mouth opens I can smell fire.
“So. You have uncovered my true form. I suppose I should congratulate you. But know this: your error was not in bringing this secret to your grave. Whatever paltry treasure you have imagined obtaining, know that I will not part with a single fraction of my wealth. If you are wise, you will—”
“I don’t want any treasure.”
He pauses. The sight of a puzzled Dragon is something I’ll take to my grave.
“What?”
“I don’t want any treasure. I’m not here to try and extort something out of you. I don’t have any desire to tell anyone that you’re a Dragon.”
Pause. The huge eyes sweep over me like spotlights.
“Oh.”
Blink. Even that’s scary on a face as huge and terrifying as his.
“Then why are you here?”
Stay calm. Be cool. He might be a Dragon, but he’s still Hu—he’s only mort—he’s uh, he probably has the same emotional wavelength as I do. He’s acted like that so far, anyways.
I clear my throat nervously.
“I…need help.”
“What?”
One eye stares at me. My mouth is dry as the Sahara in a heat wave, but I speak anyways.
