As Erin Solstice sat with the [Alchemist] named Octavia in a warm room in the city of Celum, another girl ran through the snow far to the south. She had been running for a long time—before Erin had even woken up, in truth, but she ran on with wild abandon.
Most runners conserved their energy; measured their pace and thought of distances to traverse, and of caution and prudence. They treated their bodies as finite resources. But Ryoka Griffin ran as though there would not be another ten minutes, let alone a tomorrow. She didn’t think beyond each step; her bloody feet churned through the snow as she ran the icy road from Liscor north.
She had known pain before. She had felt it in her heart, in her fragile limbs and from a thousand races and competitions and injuries. But now the agony of her heart was making even the urgent, biting thunder in her legs and chest grow silent. She had to keep running. She had to get there in time.
She ran north, gasping for air. She ignored the group of Goblins who spotted her and chased after her for a few paces. She ignored the people on the road; merchants and even groups of adventurers who called out. She ran with only one purpose in mind.
To avoid being too late.
 
—-
 
Never again. I swear it. Never again, I swore.
Time and time again I’ve said the same things, made the same promises. My broken oaths litter my past, and the dead claw at my heels. I feel like I walk in circles; repeating the same story towards infinity.
I can’t break free. I can’t stop it. I make friends and lose them. No; until this point I didn’t have friends. It was just me driving the nail into my skin, waiting for my skin to fester and rot. I would throw myself into challenges and cast everything to the wind because there was nothing worth clinging to.
At least, in my mind. But when I finally looked up and saw what was worth holding onto, it slipped from my fingers like starlight in the harsh light of the truth.
I ran for my friends and found only blood and bones before my eyes. Piles of bloodied rags in the darkness. Memory in shadow. It hardly seems like they’re gone. The lack of any goodbye haunts me.
I fell down and the Stone Spearstribe lifted me out of the cold. They offered me a hand—a paw—and lit a fire to ward away the cold. They died to destiny and monsters, fighting alone against a horde led by the Goblin with empty eyes.
And one last time, yes, one last time I run. Onwards, to save a friend who made a place to live in a world filled with monsters and magic. She built a place to keep my heart, and I brought death to her doorstep.
Is that my fate? Is that the price I pay? The cruelest of fates would be that. If destiny could read my mind, it would know that punishing others for my transgressions would hurt me most. If that is the case, why shouldn’t I run far away, far away and find a place where I will be alone forever?
I tried that once. But people who loved me found me. I tried it twice, and they still brought me back. Was it truly love, or just the need to fulfill their duties as parents and guardians in a society that judged?
I should have asked, even if it meant listening to lies.
…
I have one last card to play. My deck is nearly empty. I thought I had a full hand of cards, but each one has flown away into a sky full of regrets. Some nights I stand on a hill full of yellow bones and wonder who will bury me in the dark earth when I die.
I have nightmares about that. Not of dying; I never did. But now I fear I will outlive everyone around me.
My fingers hurt. My lungs hurt. My feet—
At some point I think I decided the boots I was using were slowing me down too much. I threw away the coat and hat and everything else with it around the same time. I run through the snow. My feet burn with the cold; a terrible prickling pain trending towards numbness. Frostbite awaits, a dark little creature holding oblivion in one claw.
I don’t care. I run on, as fast as I can. I don’t even remember how long it’s been. I knew I had to get to Teriarch right away; but it will take at least a day of running straight out to get there.
Too slow. I might die before I reach him. So many things could happen. But I have to run as fast as I can.
If Erin is dead, then I really am lost.
How do I know she’s even in trouble? I can’t tell. She could have wandered off and simply not come back.
She could be dead.
It could be a thousand and one things or none of them. But as I was thinking, the terror of it came over me. When did I—? I’ve never been this afraid. Not of anything. But the thought of losing someone else makes me run even faster than I do now.
Running alone through the snow, blurring past people on the road who stare at me in surprise. Running, running.
But they follow me even so. So I guess I’m not alone.
 
“Is she trying to run fast?”
“I think she is! But she is so slow, isn’t she sisters?”
“Yes, so slow! Slow like dripping sap and ice melt.”
 
I grit my teeth. But they’re with me, as always. I look left and see a faerie lazily flying by my side. She laughs at me.
 
“Huffing and puffing away. Do you think it will help?”
 
“Where. Is. Erin?”
The faerie stares at me. I stare back. For once, this is a contest I can’t win. After a few seconds I stare back at the road, just in time to dodge past a large stone.
 
“Human. Have ye not heard us the last hundred times we’ve said it? We do not interfere in mortal affairs.”
 
“Liar.”
The faerie flips over and stares at me.
 
“Mm. True. But we do not break our oaths that easily.”
 
“You broke them once for me and Mrsha. Just tell me if Erin’s okay.”
 
“And why would we do that?”
 
Don’t snap at them. Don’t yell. I breathe in and taste the blood as the cold air rushes into my lungs.
“Don’t you care? She made you food. She likes you.”
 
“She is still mortal. She is one among countless many. Why does she matter more?”
 
“She matters to me.”
 
“So?”
 
It’s too much. I stop in the snow, slowing down and trying not to tumble as I start to skid. I stare at my feet in the snow and only notice now that I’ve left a trail. I lift one foot and see pink, red flesh. Blood begins to drip out of the white-red gashes on my feet, but slowly. The cold makes even losing blood hard.
 
“Ooh, she bleeds!”
 
Some of the faeries flying around me fly closer. I wave them away, but they just fly around my leg, pulling faces at me. I stare at them.
“Help me. If you won’t help me find Erin, help me reach my destination quicker. I know you can.”
I still remember the rushing air around me, the coldness in my bones, and the feeling—of flying. The night I ran through the Goblin Army to safety with the faeries—how far did I go? Each step felt like I was running into forever. The world felt still around me and I felt like I understood running like I never had before.
I need the same thing now. Erin could be injured, betrayed by her damn skeleton. Or maybe it failed her and a monster got her. Or if she crashed the sledge—
 
Erin lies on the ground. The blood from her head stains the snow. She’s looking around, calling out for her skeleton. I hear a growl, and then a Carn Wolf pads over to her. It sniffs at her and then bites, engulfing her head in its huge mouth. Muffled as it is, I hear a scream—
 
I shudder. My dreams were like this last night. I keep seeing—
I have to run faster. I look at the faeries. They’re hovering around me, giving me skeptical and incredulous looks. One of them floats nearer to my face.
 
“You beg a favor with naught to offer? Nay, you beg to alter destiny? Have you no shame?”
 
“Not anymore.”
I meet her eyes squarely. The faerie shakes her head at me.
 
“Nothing is free. We are not gods! This fate you fear is your duty to change, mortal.”
 
“My name is Ryoka Griffin.”
She gives me an old look.
 
“Dust.”
 
“She fed you. She built her inn out of copper to please you! She’s the only damn person in this world worth saving! Don’t you care!?”
I scream at them. The faeries hover in the cold air, and I feel it grow colder. My feet don’t really feel like anything anymore. But I don’t look away from them.
This time, the high-pitched voice is gone. The voice that comes out of the glittering diamond of a body is lower, and it echoes. Something else is speaking. Or perhaps it’s the true form of the faerie that even Erin and I can’t see.
 
“We care. Watch your tongue, mortal. We care. We care like pouring rain and a new shoot’s blossom. We care for fires’ burn and for scurrying things caught by flood and fang. We care for the fading earth and the sigh of a dying breeze. We care.”
“So stop asking!”
 
A snowball hits me in the face. This one has shards which cut and burn. I wipe away the snow and feel myself bleeding. Around me, the fey are hovering. Watching.
“I know there are rules. I know destiny exacts casualty for every action. But if that is the nature of this world, why not cheat? Why not—break the rules and act without consequence? I bet you can.”
Scornful looks. One of the faeries flies closer. I think I know her. I think I’ve been talking to her most of the time. She looks like the others, but—
She taps me on the nose and everything freezes for a second. I stumble backwards and clap my hands to my face. She shakes her head.
 
“You really know nothing, do you? Did ye ever think that even we have enemies? Did you not think that the rules exist for a reason? You could not even dream of those who would call the fair folk their enemy.”
 
“So what?”
The faerie blinks at me. I swing at her and she lazily flips over my hand. She doesn’t look offended. I breathe heavily out of my mouth; my nose feels numb.
“What’s the point of rules if you can’t do anything? If—if your version of morality doesn’t consider Humans important, it’s broken. If that’s what you believe, you can all go to hell.”
I raise my middle finger and flip all the faeries off. They stare at me.
“It matters. Now matters. If we’re so insignificant and you can’t do anything, why are you following me?”
The faeries exchange a glance. And then four more fly down with the first faerie. They speak right on top of each other.
 
“Because we are bored.”
“Because you defy the fates.”
“Because of a grain of sand.”
“Because you would challenge Gods.”
“Because we can.”
 
I look at them.
“Then help. You can’t just watch. There’s a cost, even for the audience.”
One of the faeries blinks. The others scratch at their heads.
 
“There is?”
 
My heart beats again. I hear it, but my mind is racing. I grasp for straws.
“Of course there is. The audience is never silent. They gasp and encourage or boo the actors. And sometimes they help. Sometimes they change the story.”
 
“Mm. True. She speaks the truth!”
 
One of the faeries says that. The other smacks her, eliciting a cry of pain. The second faerie glares at me.
 
“You have asked much already. Too much! If we do all for you, what purpose do you serve?”
 
She’s right. I stare at her. I have been asking for their help. I should have been taking care of everything myself.
Without a word I keep running. Something in my body screams, and I swear, it feels like things are breaking—snapping apart in my legs. But I keep running nevertheless.
Faster. I have to run—
A faerie flies by my side. The same one as before. She looks at me.
 
“Ye really are slow, you know.”
 
“I know.”
I close my eyes. It was the only thing I was proud of. But it’s true.
“I know.”
A bit faster. I pump my arms, and my foot pushes off the ground. I can’t really feel them. But who cares?
This might be my last chance.
 
Erin backs away from a skeleton with a sword. It grins at her, empty sockets flashing with purple life. She raises her arms, but it runs her through. Blood bubbles out of her mouth and she grasps at the skeleton. It yanks the sword back and pieces of her come with it. It slowly raises the dripping blade and—
 
Faster. I gasp and cry and run. Just once, please. Please God, or anyone who’s listening. Just let me save one more person.
I did it once. Mrsha. I paid a price. I’ll do it again. No matter what I have to give up. Faeries and Dragons. Immortals. I’ll offer whatever it takes.
But how? I know who might find her. But how can I convince him to help me?
It’s like part of me is screaming at once, running with a thousand emotions in my heart. But another side of me sits in silence, listening to the rushing wind. That other Ryoka in me is thinking. Even if I get to Teriarch in time, how do I convince him?
He’s proud. He’s a Dragon. I’m nothing. He might erase my mind or kill me in an instant. What could I offer him?
Think. Dragons. Old. Immortals. Timeless. Pride?
No. Greed? Wisdom? The desire of immortals is…what does a Dragon want? Virgins on stakes? Cow steaks? Money? Magical items?
It’s impossible. But I have to think of something. Something that would tempt even a Dragon?
The oldest kind. The oldest games. Something timeless. Pride. Challenge the Dragon. Sacrifice and risk. A magic sword.
I—old. He’s old. And he’s prideful? Yes. Something’s there.
Hold on. Pride. Magic sword. Magic? Magic…the oldest games?
Hang on.
I think I know what I have to do. If I can ask him that—how did it go? Red house. Owning cats? Fish?
Try to remember. Cryptology club. Middle school. So long ago. I can reconstruct it. Think of it.
My mind is fuzzy. I’m so tired. How long have I been running? Where did my shoes go? I feel numb. It’s a bad sign. But I’m still running. It feels like it’s been over a day. Or maybe it’s been a few hours?
It doesn’t matter. I can feel the cold wind touching my half-healed stumps. I’ve already lost something. I’ve not lost enough. I would give away the rest if it means I’m not too late for once.
I have to be there in time.
It’s so cold.
 
—-
 
High above the girl, the faeries fly in the cold sky. They stare down at her and consider what she’s said. They debate in words no Human could ever understand, and think of what might happen and might be.
A faint wind blows. It pushes the girl, though she doesn’t feel it. It is not a wind that touches the skin. It makes her run across the ground, through the snow, and yet, somehow, her path is shorter than before. She runs the same distance the same way, and yet the wind makes her arrive a bit faster than she would have otherwise. That’s all.
The faeries fly after her, savoring the breeze. Then they fly up, and one speaks. She declaims to the world, to the others, her voice high and carrying.
 
“‘Tis so often we see on high that it is like rain.
The thing that kings dream of and heroes possess;
An end or beginning of such tales, which mortals call doom.
