“Can I help you?” Rhys asked, making his voice a little breathy. A second later, he rolled his eyes at himself internally. Laying it on a bit thick, aren’t I? He needed to act normal, not like some kind of 1960’s sexy cartoon. He corrected a little, but kept the pose. Hip out, hand on his hip, brows up, touching his chin ever-so-gently. In his original body, he would have worried about emphasizing his unfortunate jawline, but this body had a nicely slender jaw for now, so he was a-okay.

Laurent stared at her like a fly staring at the sun, his jaw agape. All words left his brain. So cute…

Rhys blinked. A tiny bit of sweat trickled down his back. Did he see through me? Is that why he’s staring?

A second later, Anabel pushed Laurent to the side. “One bag, please.”

“Of course! That’ll be five gold,” Rhys said with a beaming smile. It was an insane price from a mortal perspective, but he’d long since learned that mages had no idea what mortals considered normal pricing. One gold was the cheapest anything could possibly be to a mage. Five gold was cheap, but not so cheap that it became suspicious.

Consequently, Anabel handed over her coins without batting an eye. Rhys gave her a bag of chips, and just like that, their first customer sauntered away.

Not wanting to be behind on the trend—because if Anabel did anything, it had to be the ultimate in trendy—the rest of the Uninhibited Wealth School fell in line. Unfortunately, the Empire’s trainees had all filtered in behind Laurent, following their captain, and as a consequence, they were all in line ahead of the Uninhibited Wealth School, whose students hadn’t been following Anabel in a tight line, but instead mobbing generally behind her. They glared at the Empire’s students, hatred growing in their hearts.

The girl behind Laurent cleared her throat. “Captain?”

Laurent shook his head, jumping as he came back to reality. He looked Rhys in the eye. “Yes!”

“One bag…?” Rhys guessed.

Laurent nodded mutely. He fumbled out his coin pouch and handed it over.

Rhys blinked, a bit taken aback to get handed someone’s entire coin pouch. Is this the custom in the Empire? He counted out five coins, then handed back the coin pouch and a bag of chips. “Thank you!”

A part of him wanted to keep the whole coin pouch and sell the weird flunky all their potato chips in one go, but that wasn’t the point. The point was to get as many students as possible hooked on junk food, so that they had no choice but to continue buying potato chips, and to do that, he had to sell the potato chips to as many students as possible, as fast as possible. Now wasn’t the time to let someone buy out the shop, especially not when he hadn’t meant to.

Laurent staggered away, still watching Rhys with wide eyes. How could anyone be so cute? What was this? This girl, this angel. She was too pretty. It couldn’t be legal!

Rhys gave him a forced smile and a small wave. Please leave.

The other trainees glanced amongst themselves. Had they just been given permission to buy snacks? Or had they been given permission to buy this specific snack? One or two of the more adventurous trainees wandered off to the other stalls, but most continued queueing up at Rhys’ stall, purchasing one bag of chips just like their captain, and wandering off. A few cracked open their bags and took a bite, only for their eyes to get wide, and their hands to dip back into the bag over and over again.

Rhys grinned, watching them snap up the chips. I’ve got ‘em. He glanced over his shoulder. “How’re our supplies?”

“Should have more than enough for the whole line,” Bast replied, using his usual voice.

Rhys shot him a look. Bast gave him one back.

“Thank youuu, perfect!” Rhys trilled after a few beats, intentionally waiting until it got awkward.

Bast rolled his eyes at him. “You’re enjoying this too much.”

“A guy’s gotta have hobbies,” Rhys muttered back.

“This is your hobby?”

“What? It’s harmless.”

Bast pursed his lips and bobbed his head. “Guess so.”

Rhys shook his head. Cosplay was so much harder to explain in a world that barely had characters, and dressing up as a person from a play made so much less sense than dressing up as a well-defined character with a well-defined outfit. He’d tried to explain it to Bast a few times earlier, but it was like water off a duck’s back; Bast just had no frame of reference to understand what he was trying to do. Ultimately, it didn’t matter, since Bast had agreed to do it anyways, but he would’ve been happier if his closest friend had understood a little bit.

Ah, well. I’m used to not being understood. If he wanted to be understood by society, he wouldn’t have started cosplaying. He turned to the next customer, beaming. All that mattered, was that the customers saw what made them want to keep buying more chips, and what better to sell chips than a cute girl? If it worked in his homeworld, it’d work here. In fact, it was working here.

“Next customer!” Rhys called, and the line crept forward.
