“Stay with Narhilda. Guard and Protect Narhilda and Nathalia.”

They gave soft barks, and Ren pat them on their heads.

“I'll be back as soon as I can.”

“I can't promise we'll be here when you get back.” Nathalia said. “Things are going to be hectic here for a while.”

Ren nodded slightly, and took out two steel squares. He enchanted them with glyphs of the Sending Rune, and gave one to each of them.

“So you can contact each other when you need to.”

“Oh, Ren.” Narhilda said, and hugged him.

“You're always thinking of others before yourself.” Nathalia said as she hugged him, too.

“Not this time.” Ren chuckled. “If I keep you both happy, then I'm happy.”

Nathalia kissed him, then Narhilda kissed him.

“I'll see you soon.” He let them go, walked over to the couch, and sat down. Bye, Teepo.

“Bye, Ren. I'll give you a full report when you get back.” Teepo said.

I'd expect nothing less from my best scout. Ren thought in amusement.

“We've had this conversation before.” Teepo said, and chittered in laughter. “I'm your only scout.”

That's what I said. The best. Ren thought. “Logout.”

********

Ren started to slip off the VR headset and Stella helped him.

“Boy, you've got a good harem going.” She said and grinned.

“Hey, I've only slept with a few women.” Ren said, reluctant to say exactly how many, without giving away the existence of Fire Dancer.

“I'm not counting only the women you've slept with.”

“Oh.”

Stella chuckled. “Barbara was right, you're becoming quite the little Casanova.”

“She said that?!?” Ren asked, surprised.

“Yeah.” Stella said. “Right after she told me about you kissing a teenage girl in front of her boyfriend, and making her boss... what was it she said? Oh, right. Have an embarrassing public reaction to your seduction.”

Ren blushed at that description, and Stella laughed.

“You've got to be more careful about things like that.”

Ren looked at her. “To be fair, Jhulune kissed me in front of her boyfriend, or at least someone she's dating... and the boss accused me of trying to seduce her, and I had to prove that if I actually tried, she would know it.”

“Ha!” Stella barked a laugh. “I'm glad that it worked for you.” She said. “If you'd tried and failed miserably...” She shook her head. “It's better to not think about that result.”

Ren smiled. “Did Barbara happen to mention the cook?”

“The cook?” Stella asked. “No, she didn't. When did that happen?”

Ren told her when and she went to the chart on the wall. She flipped the page and saw what had happened.

“Barbara was on a bathroom break.” Stella said. “I think she would have been angry if she saw you sleeping with someone else.” She grinned. “Besides the women you're already sleeping with, that is.”

“I hope not.” Ren chuckled. “The cook was something else.”

“Ooo, tell me.” Stella got a gleam in her eyes, and Ren grinned as he relayed the details. “She has Iron Grip, too?”

Ren nodded.

“Then yeah; she must have to be really careful.”

“I completely understood her perspective, too.” Ren said, and motioned to himself.

“So do I, little stud.” Stella smiled. “So do I.”

There was a knock on the room's door, and Stella and Ren looked at the door as it opened.

“Hi, Ren! Hi, Stella!” Elise Stanford, the secretary from Sid Tec, said as she walked into the room wearing a blue-colored business suit coat, black skirt, and white blouse.

“Elise!” Stella said, surprised. “What are you doing here?”

“It's nice to see you, too.” Elise said and laughed. “I brought over the check from the television studio.” She said, then put her briefcase on the dresser by the wall. “I was going to send a delivery man at first; but since I had to come over for a minor server update anyways, I brought it myself.”

Elise opened her briefcase and took out a thumb drive. She plugged it into the micro-server and went back to the briefcase.

“Here it is.” She said, and took out a thick envelope to hand to Ren.

“Why is it so big?” Ren asked as he took it.

“Open it and find out.” Elise said and grinned.

He opened it and slid out 2 smaller envelopes, and he could clearly see that they were both checks. He pushed them aside and slid out several papers that were stapled together. He read some of it, then started to have a panic attack. Stella went into action and removed the cause, laid him back on the bed and stared at Ren's eyes.

“Ren! I'm right here. Look into my eyes.” Stella said. “Focus on them. That's it. Breathe. In. Out. In. Out.” She said. “Use your relaxation technique.”

Ren started to calm down, and took Stella's hand. His breathing evened out to a steady rhythm, and he smiled as he squeezed her hand.

“Thanks, Stella.”

“What... what happened?” Elise said, shocked.

“Ren was having a panic attack.” Stella said.

“Oh, god. I'm so sorry.”

“What was in that letter?” Stella asked, and Ren responded.

“It's a contract for the first season of a television series.” He said.

“I got it late last night.” Elise said. “The producers at the television station showed the preliminary footage to their staff, and they loved it. They told me that they didn't want to wait for the pilot to air to buy it, in case another station tried to buy it out from under them.”

“Oh, my god.” Stella said, then looked at Ren. “A pilot is one thing.” She said. “That can flop or not, and sometimes no one will even see it.” She held his hand and sighed. “A whole season?” Stella shook her head. “They are going to promote it as much as they can to get the views to justify the expense.”

“You... you mean?” Ren asked.

“Yes, Ren. Everyone will know who you are.” Stella said. “The hospital's very own television star.”
