“<Are you going to the front?>” Avyna asked the moment Ranthia stepped into their home, without even waiting for the flap to close.

The elf was seated at their dining table, deeply embroiled in the notes she had taken from the devil’s tax book—the book itself was, mercifully, absent.

“<No, it looks like I will be staying here for the foreseeable future.>” Ranthia answered while she resecured their home.

That done, she shifted out of her armor and racked it. There was no need for a tunic or anything, it was just the two of them. No one else had permission to enter their home directly. Not anymore. Avyna seemed disinterested in forming friendships with what ‘little’ time they had left, which suited Ranthia just fine.

She didn’t want to be possessive, but she was still loath to share the final years of their time together.

“<I hope you will forgive me for being relieved by the news, I was somewhat concerned that whatever new orders had arrived with the supply convoy might have changed something. But I am pleased to know that we may continue to relax in safety, while the war focuses elsewhere.>” Avyna stood and approached Ranthia with a smile.

Ranthia, unsurprisingly, chose not to resist when Avyna sought to pull her into her arms. Still, Ranthia could only offer a half-hearted smile, even as she settled comfortably into Avyna’s warm embrace.

“<I know, and I love that I get to spend more time with you. Gods and goddesses, with the war all but halted I’m still somewhat amazed they have me on a defensive station out here… But…>” Ranthia sighed.

Her indecision continued to weigh on her heart and her conscience. The dark temptation to just… abandon everyone involved in the war—to abandon Remus—was intoxicating. Worse, she honestly couldn’t say if she wanted Avyna to encourage it, or if she hoped the woman she loved would convince her to remain true to her duty. She had no idea which possibility would hurt less, because there certainly wasn’t one that was free from pain. Not anymore.

With how little time was left, even if the war ended tomorrow, she was less than optimistic that everything would be settled and returned to whatever farce passed for normality in time. Even if things were peaceful, Ranthia expected it to be an uphill battle to convince Ranger Command to let her visit the Tympestshard Council. But if they were still fighting pockets of shimagu insurgents that refused whatever peace that was found, and they were still figuring out what to do with the Coalition…

“<I may or may not have hidden a few treats away from the last trade caravan that came by… Shall we indulge in a decadent dinner, my love? Cooking together always brings a smile to your face.>” Avyna offered in a lilting, happy tone.

Avyna wasn’t stupid. Ranthia hadn’t mentioned her indecision—no matter how tempted she was to outsource her path when her resolve weakened—but she was certain that Avyna knew. And she was certain that the woman she loved was offering her what comfort and space she was able.

Ranthia’s smile turned genuine, and she took a moment to kiss her Gemheart. All that was good in her life stemmed from the same source, and Ranthia loved her more than she could express in any language. Bitterness and fear gnawed at her, but she adamantly refused to allow that negativity to take away the moments of joy that she had left.

They still had ten more years…

“Thank you, come again!” Ranthia called after the dwarf that had just bought their entire stock of wooden buckets.

What the dwarf needed twelve wooden buckets for? Ranthia hadn’t asked. A small part of her had desperately wished to—especially when the dwarf made it clear that he didn’t want any metal buckets and thought twelve was barely sufficient for his unstated needs. There had to be some sort of story or rational explanation there, right?

Still, she was glad to see the last of him.

There was a reason she hadn’t indulged in her curiosity.

Practically the moment he left, Avyna’s head popped out from under the blanket that Ranthia had wrapped herself with. Yes, it was winter and cold—outside—but the blanket was for modesty.

“<I told you that this was a bad idea and that a customer would inevitably enter my shop shortly after we started.>” Avyna grumbled.

“<You could have kept going under the blanket.>” Ranthia offered in a teasing, husky voice.

“<He would have heard that, and I refuse to allow this shop to become a place that anyone would hesitate to enter. You are lucky that he failed to comment on the scent—I would have expected it to be noticeable even with the baked goods display case still full.>” Avyna was far less amused, it seemed, given the frosty notes that entered her tone.

Ranthia still giggled and leaned down to kiss her Gemheart. Feats of flexibility had worn out their novelty many, many years ago, but she was still more than happy to make use of them when it counted. Avyna returned the kiss, but even while their lips were connected, she continued to pull her own clothing back into place. That was as clear of a signal as any Ranthia had ever seen, so she tugged her own tunic back into position too.

“<I’ll buy you one of those spinach puffs from your baked goods case to make it up to you?>” Ranthia offered. It wasn’t like Avyna was going to eat her own merchandise without buying it, after all.

“<Make it three. Since I was unable to finish eating.>” Avyna raised the bribe with a smirk that nearly had Ranthia gracelessly tripping over her own sandals when she tried to turn.

Cheeks mildly touched by a blush, Ranthia laughed along with her beloved’s amusement. Still, she dutifully filled out her purchase on Avyna’s transaction ledger, before she selected three of the spinach puffs that felt least likely to sell—without sacrificing their flavor—and fed them one-by-one to her hungry elf.

The war was quiet, but at least she had more time to help Avyna run her shop. It was kind of fun, even if it lacked privacy. But the shop was important to Avyna, and Ranthia wouldn’t dream of trying to take that away from her.

After all, they still had nine more years…

A dozen children gleefully ran amok along the paths through Remera. Each child wielded one of those little shrill whistling flutes that had oh-so-briefly served as an emergency alarm and—as children were wont to do—they used them emphatically between fits of giggles.

It was easy to identify which base personnel had been present when the instruments were in use—almost each and every one seemed to tense up and relive a bit of their lingering trauma when they found themselves once again haunted by the sound.

Technically, the cheap instruments were contraband that should have been sealed away in a heavily restricted supply tent. But, haunted or not, no one was quite monstrous enough to take a rare source of delight away from the kids that lived their lives trapped on a Coalition base. Several were blatantly sorely tempted, but even the most scarred heart had to melt a little at the sight of the utter delight writ plain upon the faces of the children.

Ranthia had managed to find her—extremely grudging—peace with the presence of the children. Many of them had been born to whores, slaves, and washer women—women who lacked better opportunities. Even if they wanted to give their child a better life, they couldn’t easily take them elsewhere. And, ultimately, Remera was one of the safest places they could be out there, likely second only to Coalition City.

Unless they could, somehow, afford to return to Remus.

But anywhere men and women gathered, children were an inevitability. As much as Ranthia would have loved to see families given a measure of safety, there was no practical way to do that for everyone—otherwise, every last legionary that wanted away from the war would just desperately try to have a child for the sake of their own freedom. And logistics aside, Remus was already overfilled with neglected and abandoned children.

Gods and goddesses, she hoped that her efforts to help Ariminum’s children were somehow still in place. Part of her pay was allegedly still going to the program—though Ranthia worried if it was enough. It wasn’t like she had the means to find out while she was at war.

At least Remera collectively did what they could for the kids that were stationed there. Many legionaries were openly fond of the kids and tended to gift them with food, treats, makeshift toys, and impromptu stories or musical performances. Of course, Ranthia was jaded enough to suspect that many of the men doted on the children because they believed that they were responsible for at least one of the kids, but she still appreciated any effort to add a bit of joy and color to the lives of the young.

When the children tried to run past the Sentinel and the “very pretty” elf (and Ranthia wasn’t at all grinning like a fool when one of the kids called Avyna that), Avyna stopped them for a moment and—with a flourish—produced a small tool and brush while she requested a moment with the instrument from one of the braver children. A short bit of deft maintenance later, she returned the instrument, and the child immediately blew into it.

The sound it produced was both louder and clearer, and Avyna was bombarded with varyingly polite requests from the other children to do their whistles too.

To help buy Avyna the time she needed, Ranthia played her role as a Sentinel and regaled the children with an extremely sanitized version of a couple of her old monster hunting stories. Sure, the stories came from the days when she was an Adventurer or a Ranger, but it wasn’t like the kids knew (or, presumably, cared about) the difference—they were just eager to hear exciting stories from a real Sentinel.

It was only after the children moved on that Ranthia noticed the legionaries and dwarven soldiers giving them openly stricken stares of disbelief. Okay, in hindsight maybe letting Avyna make the instruments even more obnoxious was a—

Avyna just smiled serenely before she slipped away, flagrantly leaving Ranthia to try to salvage their reputation!

Eight more years…

“<Hey, Gemheart? A courier showed up with a surprisingly heavy crate for you.>” Ranthia called out as she entered their home.

The crate wasn’t all that large, which made its weight all the more surprising. It wasn’t like she had to struggle much with it, not with her strength, but it had definitely thrown her off when she first picked it up. Ranthia set it down on the center of their dining table—only releasing the crate once she was certain their table wasn’t straining—then looked around their suspiciously quiet home.

Had Avyna gone out? She wasn’t supposed to be running her shop or anything.

Ranthia checked the other side of the privacy curtain and found her elf balanced on the toes of one foot, atop a ladder that was unsteadily leaning sideways on a single leg! Ranthia swore—almost sort of quietly—while she rushed over to stabilize the ladder.

“<And… done! Apologies, my love, I decided to work on maintenance for our enchantments while you were out.>” Avyna announced several minutes later, before she made her way down the ladder.

“<You could have fallen! That was so dangerous!>” Ranthia snapped, venting her moment of panic at its cause.

“<…My love, elves do not fall. I required a little additional reach, and I made it work. Your assistance was sweet, but it was unnecessary.>” Avyna answered in a flat, unimpressed tone. One that was aided by a roll of her eyes, just in case Ranthia was somehow unaware of her lover’s feelings on the matter.

While Ranthia was left struggling to figure out what to say in answer to that, Avyna stole a quick kiss from her lips, then turned to head toward the kitchen.

“<I heard you state that my delivery finally arrived. If it is what I expect, that should be the arcanite that I required to finish restoring your armor’s lining for each season, along with the linings for your three remaining spare suits.>” Avyna called her explanation through the partially parted curtains.

“<When did you order that?! Gemheart, you could have gotten me to pay for it!>” Ranthia’s shock put her back into motion and she rushed after her partner. She knew Avyna could be… surprisingly free with her gems when it came to gifts that she considered necessary, but Ranthia struggled to imagine how expensive that much weight in arcanite could have been!

“<Oh, I did. I recreated your signature on the form, I knew you would not mind and yet I wished to surprise you.>” Avyna accompanied her response with an impish grin thrown in Ranthia’s direction.

For the second time in as many minutes, Ranthia was left momentarily stunned by the love of her life. The woman had just casually acknowledged that she committed a crime that—as best as Ranthia knew—was punishable by death. Over a desire to offer a minor surprise!

“<I…>” Ranthia trailed off as she struggled to remember her ancient—and highly outdated—knowledge of Reman law. Was it still a crime if Ranthia willingly accepted Avyna’s use of her name? It was used to steal her contribution points, yes, but the arcanite her points bought was also for her use. …Did that make it okay?

Godsdamnit, she had no idea!

“<Oh Xaoc, my love… I hope you made a very convincing signature.>” Ranthia finally muttered. Her head was starting to ache with the familiar sensation of the discomfort that preceded a headache.

“<Of course I did, my love. I bet even you would be hard pressed to say you were not the one who created it.>” Avyna answered breezily as she tapped at the aggressively nailed crate’s lid.

“<…This is alarming new information that I’m not sure what to do with.>” Ranthia deadpanned.

