His guts twisted, letting the script continue, now checking the ship’s complement of animals and friendly monsters. He hadn’t known Risaf and Janer personally, but—

“How many?” Ameliah asked abruptly, apparently picking up on his mood.

“Two,” he replied, squeezing her shoulders tightly as his macro finished, recording no further losses. It was only a small comfort. “Risaf and Janer.”

“Damn,” she swore, and there was a violent flash of anger at her soul, directed at...

Herself?

“Listen, Ameliah. It’s not your fault; it’s—”

“Quiet,” she interrupted.

Rain grimaced. Okay, maybe she’s mad at ME, actually. If I had sent in the awakened sooner—sent HER in sooner—nobody would have died. I hesitated. I should have known the Whale would come. I should have gone with plan B the moment—

“Sorry, I was talking to Nails,” Ameliah interrupted. “Yes, I know it’s not my fault. It’s not your fault either, and I can feel you thinking it is, so stop it. Save it for therapy. Right now, Vanna wants you to turn your anchors on. Tahir and Mereck need mana, and Ascension needs its captain.”

“Right,” Rain said, suitably chastised. She was right. He had to stay focused. He wasn’t allowed to feel. Not yet.

His Essence Well anchors were fairly shoddy, their low hardness allowing him to pump only a trickle of mana through each, so he directed all of it to the two healers with IFF. He activated Winter for everyone else, but before he got any further than that, Temerity came into view.

The Bloodmarsh was heavily wooded, part of the reason they’d chosen it. Like mangroves, the trees that grew here were tolerant of salt water. Their foliage reminded him more of willows, though, drooping over the soggy...

‘Ground’ was the wrong word. Temerity had carved a path through green-brown mats of vegetation, revealing open, muddy water beneath. The ship was undamaged, floating with a good ten meters of clearance to the true bottom, but nobody was on deck. It was patently obvious why.

“Gods below,” Ameliah said with revulsion as they dove into the practically solid cloud of buzzing insects that surrounded the vessel. Some of the bugs were actually thumb-thick, just as promised, pinging weightily off their armor as they slowed. As Ameliah set him down, Rain had no doubts about what had drawn the swarm. The deck was covered by the burned, frozen, or otherwise broken bodies of monsters, their blood and viscera strewn across the splintered wood.

The mess was solved neatly by a blast of Purify. The bugs, however, turned out to be more work. Though the word ‘monstrous’ seemed appropriate, the famed insects of the Bloodmarsh weren’t technically such.

The ecology of the swamp was an interesting topic for another day. For now, it was merely another obstacle.

Alive, yet below the entity threshold, the bugs couldn’t be directly Immolated. Cooking them indirectly was an option, but Rain didn’t want to use more mana than he had already. He’d need to boil the water the ship was floating in and set the mats of vegetation on fire to purge the wriggling mass of leeches emerging from it to glom onto the hull.

The various creepy-crawlies were likewise immune to Purify, though he tried it anyway. As always, the spell refused to work on life larger than bacteria—even repugnant, blood-sucking life that wasn’t supposed to be here. That last part was debatable, but again, a topic for another time.

“Do something!” Ameliah hissed through her teeth, clearly not wanting to open her mouth.

Rain was in complete agreement, hundreds of tiny legs scrabbling at his face as things worked their way in through the minuscule gap beneath his visor. They were biting already, and while they had no hope of getting through his toughened skin, the ick level could not be denied. It shot off the charts as the leader of the pack engaged in a sudden, enthusiastic investigation of his left nostril.

Gods! Arcane Ward! Fulminate!

He boosted the offensive spell, not stopping until tracers of lightning were dancing between every vaguely conductive object in the bay. Many of them grounded against the hull, yet more arced down to the water to spread invisibly beneath it, frying the leeches and other things in an expanding shell. Fulminate might not have been the most efficient choice, but it made an undeniably effective bug zapper.

The suddenly burning leaves overhead were easily snuffed by an inverted pulse of Immolate. Purify had no compunctions about dealing with the downpour of tiny insectile corpses, happy to view them as filth now that they were dead. They quickly evaporated to powder, then to nothingness, leaving Rain staring at the aftermath.

The trees might have survived; he wasn’t sure. Temerity’s deck was blackened with tracks left by the electricity, and it wasn’t clear how deep it had penetrated. He hadn’t used Ethereal Aura, not wanting to zap the shit out of everyone aboard and set their belongings on fire. Arcane Ward hadn’t triggered, at least, so it couldn’t be that bad.

Ameliah, meanwhile, had dismissed her helmet. Instantly, her hair leapt up into a frizzy cloud, crackling with static. “Gah! Really?”

It was a funny image, but Rain didn’t smile. With his feet on the deck and his magic fading around him, there was nothing left to distract him from his thoughts. He’d had a responsibility, and he’d failed. People had died on his watch. Again.

I don’t know how much longer I can do this. Ascension is so big now, and I can’t protect them all, especially once I start sending them on missions. I don’t know what scares me more; knowing people will die, or knowing I might get used to it...

Ameliah placed a hand on his shoulder. “I told you to stop that,” she said, gently but firmly pushing him toward the tower. “You lost two, but you saved everyone else. Now come on. We have work to do.”

Work there was, indeed. Plan B had not been a smooth ride, with more than a few injuries coming from the violent lurching of the deck. Ameliah quickly split off to help the Healers, while Rain went with Samson to organize damage control. Not even five minutes into that, he overheard something that sent him sprinting to Engineering, only to be stopped short by an outstretched palm.

“No,” Stoneriver said, crossing her arms again as she moved to more fully stand between him and the door to Tallheart’s quarters. Her antlers had grown since he’d last spoken to her, almost a finger long now and beginning to split, but the hate in her eyes precluded any detailed inspection. “No more humans. One is bad enough.”

Rain held back an undiplomatic reply, peeking over her shoulder at Tallheart’s soul. Trying to see it through the wall was like looking at it through a pane of frosted glass, but he could tell something wasn’t right. There was a certain...heaviness to the air. Shaking his head, he refocused on Stoneriver. “Please. He’s my friend, and you know that. He’ll want to see me.”

“It is your fault that he is hurt,” she replied, fixing him with a level stare.

“It is his fault that I am alive,” a deep voice rumbled, and then the door abruptly opened.

“Tall—” Rain’s relieved exclamation was cut off as he got a good look.

Tallheart was wearing a shirt.

Not armor; a shirt.

A white button-up shirt that was entirely too small for him, hanging open to reveal solid pecs and enough rippling abs to make Rain question some assumptions he’d made about cervidian physiology. Below that, he wore an equally ill-fitting pair of trousers, the hem barely falling to mid-shin. Like all his people, his proportions were subtly off from the human norm, but it was more evident without his armor. Cervidians were taller and narrower than humans generally, with a shorter ribcage when taken in proportion. And unless Tallheart secretly waxed, Rain’s suspicions about their lack of body hair had been confirmed as well. None of that mattered, though. Nothing physical mattered.

Tallheart’s liquid-green soul was cracked.

Rain darted his head left and right in horror, trying to get a better view past Stoneriver. “What happened?!”

“He pulled a Rain,” Jamus said, popping up and waving over Tallheart’s shoulder. “Hello.”

“Let him in,” Tallheart rumbled. “Please. We have spoken about this.”

“Tch,” Stoneriver spat, stepping aside. “Fine. Just him. I do not know the other one.”

Having caught up partway through the conversation, Samson didn’t bat an eye at being so rudely addressed. “Vanna and I will be on the bridge,” he said.

“I’ll come when I can,” Rain replied, tearing his eyes away from Tallheart’s damaged soul for a moment to glance at him. “Set up a debrief meeting for, say, thirty minutes from now. And get a scout report from Emerton. We need to find a drier spot. This one sucks.”

“Literally,” Samson said. “I believe we underestimated the bugs.”

Rain barely heard the appreciation for his unintentional pun, already hurrying inside and fully focused on Tallheart’s soul. That fixation also led to the immediate stubbing of his toe, making a loud metallic clang. When he regained his balance and looked down to see what he’d hit, he realized he’d located Tallheart’s missing armor.

What was left of it.

“Holy shit! Was there acid? Did monsters get in the ship?”

“Close the door,” Tallheart rumbled, reaching past him to do just that. It slammed shut with a solid thunk, and he turned the locking lever to hold it in place.

“He said it was the backlash from his skill eating away the durability,” Jamus supplied helpfully, retreating to sit on Tallheart’s oversized bed. “What I’m trying to understand is why he didn’t stop once he realized it was happening. Or once the metal had rotted off him. Or once he started bleeding from every orifice. Or once the unawakened around him started flailing and struggling to scream. He’s got the soul wind, Rain, though it seems to have quieted.”

Rain stared in horror.

“I could not stop,” Tallheart rumbled, clearly irritated as he turned to glare at Jamus. “If I had stopped, Halgrave would have destroyed the ship. The braces we added for plan B were insufficient.”

“And that’s his fault, not yours,” Jamus said. “You pitted yourself against a goldplate, and he was pushing harder than he should have with that Golem form of his.”

“He was not,” Tallheart countered, looking back at Rain. “I did not know that Whales were so fast. We would have all perished if not for your continued distraction. Do not blame yourself for what happened while you were occupied. Not when your actions saved us all.”

“Why’s everyone so sure I’m blaming myself?” Rain asked.

“Because you are,” Jamus said. “Stop it.”

Rain sighed, rubbing his faceplate.

Whatever skill Tallheart was using must have been—

He blinked.

Whatever skill...

“YOU USED SOUL OF METAL ON THE WHOLE DAMN SHIP!?” Rain’s jaw worked. “HOW!!!???”

“Not easily,” Tallheart said, sitting heavily beside Jamus on the bed. He’d tried to hide it, but Rain hadn’t missed the tiny wince crossing his features.

“Shit!” he swore, rushing over to him. “How are you not in excruciating pain? Without your armor, your Str—”

“Do you think I have watched you run while standing still?” Tallheart asked, pushing him away with no apparent difficulty. “I have been using the accolade trick as much as you have. Hmm. More, I suspect. My Endurance synchronization is much improved.”

Rain looked down at Tallheart’s hand on his breastplate. “Right, but—”

Tallheart took his hand away, returning it to his lap. “I also suspect that the remaining pain I feel is...hmm...there is a word for it. In the mind.”

“<Something>?” Jamus asked, making Rain blink at the flowing syllables.

Was that Zeelada?

“That is it,” Tallheart confirmed.

“Psychosomatic?” Rain tried, assigning a tentative translation to what was clearly a loan word.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “You should understand it well. Why else would you be pouring your concern for me into the inside of your helmet?”

Rain swore, then slammed his visor up. “Never mind that!” He searched around, quickly finding a stool and righting it so he could sit. “Look at your soul, Tallheart!” he insisted, scooting closer. “It’s cracked! You need to—”

“I am aware of what I need to do,” Tallheart interrupted. “I am not going to burst. I would have already if that were a danger.” Meeting Rain’s eyes, he blinked slowly, then looked away. “The strain I am under is...less than it was. I will follow your example. I will take it easy.”

“Pardon me, Tallheart, but did you just claim Rain’s been taking it easy?” Jamus leaned forward. “Was I not just telling you how he yeeted himself at a Whale?” He looked at Rain. “Am I conjugating that correctly? Yeeted?”

Too stricken to do anything else, Rain nodded.

“What happened out there, Rain?” Jamus asked, more seriously. “You and Ameliah didn’t actually kill any of them, did you? And what in El’s name was that first explosion? Don’t tell me you can do that whenever you want. Did you become a goldplate when I wasn’t looking?”

“No,” Rain said with a sigh.

This is going to take more than thirty minutes.

“Hang on a minute, Rain,” Jamus said, his brow furrowing. “Are you using a lot of mana right now?”

“No,” Rain said, checking, but with the crisis over, it was down to just Winter and a little Detection. “Why?”

Jamus’s brow furrowed further. “Were your eyes always blue?”
