Any hope that this would be a Geppetto situation vanished with the arrival of the first blast of acid. Even mixed with seawater, it drove Chemical Ward to panic. Besides his interface, all Rain could see was the inside of his helmet, lit by his glowing eyes. All he could hear was the constant, nails-on-a-chalkboard grind of teeth against his armor, the razor-sharp weapons continuing down the Whale’s esophagus. His arms were pinned tightly to his sides, beyond even his enhanced Strength to resist, and he could feel powerful waves of muscle contractions drawing him deeper and deeper. Crushing him. He’d managed to take a huge breath just before the jaws had closed but was now finding it a struggle to keep the captured air.

Don’t panic.

With urgency and forced calm, Rain adjusted his Wards to better mitigate the acid and the constriction, then triggered an essence exchange. Before it finished, he closed his eyes and slipped completely into his soul. When he opened them again, he found his avatar buried beneath a mountain of pillows, lying in a bed softer than Cloud’s fur. Sitting bolt upright, he ignored the minor avalanche he caused in favor of staring at the dialog before him.

Progress Report

marker_1: whale_inbound [3061 Light 28 09:59]

marker_2: whale_inside [3061 Light 28 10:00]

Span: 1 minute

Skills

Prismatic Intent: +104 exp

I gained more in Prismatic Intent in one minute than I did in the past MONTH.

It’s so simple! Why didn’t I try fighting a Whale sooner?

Struggling free of the pillows, he swapped his pajamas for a t-shirt and jeans, though his mind had subconsciously managed the change. Dozer was here, asleep in his box-bed and stirring despite the muffled king-link. Not having time to worry about it, Rain vanished in a whirl of twisting space, reappearing in a control center in the server complex that held his brain.

How much time do I have?

Time Acceleration = 1 + (Effective Clarity) * (Engine of Change) * (Coefficient)

Time Acceleration = 1 + (830) * (17) * (10 ms/s)

Time Acceleration = 142.1 s/s

Next Tick: 76 s

Multiplier’s still ten times less than when the Majistraal obelisk had me. If I die, I’ll never find out why.

Dismissing the calculation and sliding the countdown to sit neatly in his HUD, he spawned windows for all his active Wards. His hasty settings adjustments became more calculated, and by tweaking his perceptions, he further reduced the draw. He didn’t mind if the magic in the acid saturated his armor. He didn’t mind if the teeth tore into its durability, leaving progressively deeper scratches across the surface. He reached equilibrium, perfectly matching his mana consumption against the drain.

There.

Dimly aware of a bead of sweat rolling down his forehead, he looked at his still-open essence tracker and glared at it until a third column appeared, showing him the average rate of change.

Chaos

58 kESS

-17.6 ESS/s

Potential [>]

929 kESS

-6.33 ESS/s

Soul [>]

3.13 GESS

The cost of time acceleration was relatively modest—inside, anyway—following a linear formula, though where the divisor of eight came from, he had no idea. At an acceleration factor of 142.1 s/s, the cost was 17.61 ESS/s. Thanks to the elevated environment rank, his ramscoops had topped their record performance and were bringing in around a staggering 61 mESS/s. His main reactor was consuming 6.33 ESS/s, fueling his mana regeneration. Built from mostly rank-twenty soul, it also produced essence of an equivalent rank from seemingly nowhere. The rate was pathetic, though, working out to 598 µESS/s when standardized to rank-zero units. All of the numbers were relative to his accelerated reference frame, but they were trivial to convert with some mental math.

About fifty-five local minutes to chaos depletion, so twenty-three seconds real-world. Forty plus local hours until I run out of potential and have to start recycling things. No, wait, that’s wrong. My armor will saturate first, and I’ll have to tweak the Ward balance. Whatever. Doesn’t matter. It’s more than a few minutes, real world. I’ll pass out from lack of oxygen before it becomes a problem.

What if I can get into its lungs? Does it have lungs? That doesn’t matter either since I can’t move. Can I make air around me some other way? It’s never worked with Purify, but—

Rain clicked his tongue, realizing his panic was fueling his scatterbrain, already brought on by his boosted Clarity. Rather than adjusting his stats, he forced himself to take a deep breath of imagined air, then let it out slowly. He closed his eyes.

I’m not in trouble. I just feel like I am because I’ve spent a lifetime being one bad fall away from cracking my skull open on the sidewalk. I’m different now. This is nothing. I don’t need air. I just need to get out before it dives. If it dives, I’m fucked.

He paused, then shook his head violently.

Yes, there’d be essence down there, and yes, I’d be a badass, cultivating on the bottom of the sea inside a Whale, but there’s no way I’d survive that. Once the damage limit increased, I’d be crushed like a grape or dissolved or shredded or whatever. Or, a Leviathan could show up and eat the Whale. I don’t want to be part of a turducken.

...

Why am I still thinking about this? Besides, I need to keep the other Whales distracted too.

He took another long breath.

How do I get out?

Almost instantly, his eyelids snapped open. He knew what he needed to do. It was obvious, really.

First, Arcane Ward.

The spell had already been active, but he cast it again, this time using IFF to target the Whale’s resistance. He could have done the same earlier with Force Ward, boosting the effect of his environmentally catalyzed frost nova, but doing so would have been horrendously inefficient. To make sure it wasn’t too bad now, he inspected the spell card.

modmon.sh: ['amplify aura’, ‘extend aura’, ‘channel mastery’, ‘aura compression’]

autocompress.sh: Target: 5 meters

autocompress.sh: Extend Aura unnecessary, disabling

autocompress.sh: Compression Applied: 82 meters

iff2.sh: Ward debuff flag is set

autopower.sh: Amplify Aura unnecessary, disabling

autopower.sh: CM Setting: 26.58% 0.5s tick

Arcane Ward (15/15)

Increase arcane resistance by 120% for all entities

Decrease arcane resistance by 60% for all entities

Range: 5 meters

Cost: 0.265763 mp/dmg mitigated

Cost: 0.265763 mp/dmg amplified

Memories of past experiments ran through Rain’s mind. Debuffs were subject to resistances and the damage limit, just like everything else. The percentage reduction the spell specified would be translated to absolute terms before the limit applied, so even if the Whale had above 16,665 Arcane resistance, the Ward could strip at most 9,999 of it. Except not even that. Arcane resistance applied to attempts to lower Arcane resistance. The resistance cap would ensure 2,500 got through, but 16,665 minus 2,500 was still above 7,500, so there’d be no tick-by-tick compounding.

Firewalling the chattering part of his brain, which was busy muddling things further by thinking about the shared nature of the resistance cap, Rain reminded himself that he didn’t need to know how every last number fell in the end. He just needed to overwhelm the Whale with so many forms of Arcane assault that it was forced to prioritize its defense.

On that note, a dash of lightning. Fulmination.

focusboost.sh: 500 points shifted to Focus from secondary stats

focusboost.sh: Focus: 770

modmon.sh: ['amplify aura’, ‘extend aura’, ‘channel mastery’, ‘ethereal aura’, ‘aura compression’]

autocompress.sh: Target: 5 meters

autocompress.sh: Compression Applied: 169 meters

iff2.sh: offensive aura detected

iff2.sh: foes: unknown_entities

iff2.sh: friends: !foes

iff2.sh: ignore: none

autopower.sh: Target: 9999 dps

autopower.sh: CM Setting: 44.62% 0.5s tick

ethmon.sh: Environmental Output: 100%

ethmon.sh: Environmental Occlusion: 25%

Fulmination (15/15)

9999.00-11427.43 arcane (fcs) damage per second to foes and environment

4999.50-5713.71 arcane (fcs) mitigation per second to friends

Sufficient damage causes paralysis

Aura resists 75% of environmental occlusion and absorption

Range: 5 meters

Cost: 535.402 mp/s

Admittedly, it was more than a dash. He released the lock on his secondary stats, letting them flow into Focus as he drew on his Magewell to make up the difference. Now having to deal with both spells, the Whale would be forced to split its resistance between the resistance debuff and the paralytic lightning.

Cap interactions were complicated things, depending upon the opinions of the parties involved. There was one factor, though, that topped all others: pure, overwhelming power.

Just for today, Rain set aside the numbers, taking Velika’s instructions to heart. There was one more spell he could add. One more Arcane-aspected ability.

An ability invoked through an alias, lest its foulness taint the name of the best spell ever.

PUTREFY NOVA!

focusboost.sh: already active

focusboost.sh: Focus: 770

modmon.sh: ['amplify aura’, ‘extend aura’, ‘channel mastery’, ‘ethereal aura’, ‘aura focus’]

iff2.sh: atrocity detected

iff2.sh: foes: Whales

iff2.sh: friends: !foes

autopower.sh: max

autopower.sh: CM Setting: 200%

ethmon.sh: Environmental Output: 100%

ethmon.sh: Environmental Occlusion: 25%

Putrefy (15/15)

Sow poison, corruption, and contamination

Range: 696 meters

Cost: 320 mp/s, your decency

Despite being insulated by both Aura Focus and his position within his soul, Rain swore he still smelled something. He ignored the imagined reek, concentrating fully on what he wanted, hammering at reality with all the force of his will. The Whale was not his only target.

Space could be filled.

With Ethereal Aura, he would fill it all. He would fill it with the most unspeakable, vile, offensive sludge his mind could conjure.

The Whale’s domain fought back, of course. Its soul had been trying to smother his since he’d been swallowed, but he was not so weak as to be snuffed out that way. He shoved back, struggling to expand the space in which Putrefy could operate unrestricted. This space was his. His spell would fill every last milliliter with the vilest, chunkiest, most abominable slop in the universe. When it was full, it would create more. There could always be more. The outflow could not be stopped. It could never be stopped, not so long as the spell was active.

Foulness without end.

It worked that way because he said it did.

Time was passing, but Rain had little ability to perceive it, so utterly focused was he on committing his special crime. First one real-world second, then two. The draw on Force Ward grew to dominate, crammed with his other spells into his second slot. To offset the drain, he called upon his Magewell. Three seconds. Four.

With the tiny sliver of allocation he’d left to Detection, he could feel the shape displaced by the Whale in the ocean. Already, the monster was rounder than it had been, and still, the filth came, superheated to boiling by the endless lightning. Rain could feel the monster’s domain retreating into its flesh, abandoning its attempts to crush him in favor of protecting itself. That just gave him free rein.

His domain grew, and the flow increased with the radius cubed.

Not long after that, the Whale’s health bar began to drop. Not quickly, not at any sort of rate that would defy the damage limit, but it was dropping all the same.

And then it wasn’t.

The filth surged, carrying Rain with it.

Mouth, blowhole—some other hole—Rain wasn’t sure. Such was the speed with which he was ejected. Mercifully, his trajectory sent him soaring into the sky. He’d been ready with Velocity, should he have been fired down to the depths instead, but for once, the dice had landed his way. As soon as Detection told him he was above the water line, he reversed the magic, knowing that he’d never be able to undo the horror he’d just wrought, but that he had to try.

PURIFY NOVA!

The space around him cleared rapidly, and he opened his eyes, removing Aura Focus but keeping the spell active. As he neared the top of his arc, he extended a gauntleted hand upward without looking. Another hand clasped his, forearm to forearm.

“WHAT WERE YOU THINKING?!” Ameliah screamed over the rushing wind.

“SORRY, HAD TO BREAK A PROMISE!” Rain yelled back as she hauled him into the sky. Below, he could see the other Whales surging through the defiled ring left in the waves. The one that had eaten him had fled below the surface, but the others didn’t seem deterred by the filth. From the anger rolling off their souls, they were simply pissed. He got that.

Without warning, one of them let loose its water harpoon, nailing him and Ameliah square on.

“Hey!” Ameliah yelled, though she recovered quickly, as unhurt as he was.

“We need to keep them distracted!” Rain yelled. “Don’t get too far away!”

[Rain-King,] a voice interrupted, heavy with accusation.

[Oh, hey Dozer,] Rain replied, suddenly trying to sound innocent. [Have a good nap?]

[Rain-King,] the Essence Slime sent, clearly not buying it. [I am disappoint.]

In the end, the battle with the Whales ended up lasting hours. With Airwalk and Wards, he and Ameliah were never in any real danger. Rain counted six of the things in total, though there could have been more. Periodically, the massive creatures would dive below his Detection range, presumably to refill their essence stores in the lightless depths, making it hard to keep track. Six was merely the highest number he’d observed within range at any one time, and as far as he’d been able to tell, the one that had tried to eat him had never returned. It had learned its lesson, presumably.

By the time the last Whale finally gave up, the shore was in sight. Temerity was out of range, likely hiding in one of the countless marshy bays in the distance. Rain had lost track of it.

“Which way?” Ameliah asked tiredly, dismissing her bow and hiking him up on her back. She was wearing him like a backpack full of soup cans.

Clinging tight, he peered over her shoulder, then pointed at a dark speck hovering over a stretch of shore to the south. “Is that Emerton?”

Wordlessly, Ameliah took off in that direction, and Rain took the time to reactivate his aura anchors. He started with Detection, his face turning grim as it informed him that there were only nine-hundred sixty-two friendly sapient entities aboard, rather than the nine-hundred sixty-five there were supposed to be. A rapid-search macro provided him with three names: Emerton, Risaf, and Janer. Closing in, he was more confident that the shape up in the air was the Aeromancer, so he focused on the ship. Hostile monsters: none. Corpses: many. Human corpses: two.

