Ranthia set the memory back into place and started pulling drawers open rapidly, touching memories within each. Her performance at Fausteo’s, an exceedingly unclear glimpse of her battle against the kraken, Tatius’ proud smile (…she couldn’t linger), some tavern brawl or another, sitting back-to-back with Tertia while they quietly laughed together during a night watch, one of the earlier clashes with the troll twin while he toyed with her, Avyna’s exquisite body (…she still couldn’t linger), and then finally she found a patrol that took place around the time she sought. From there, it took only several long moments for her to find the memory she sought—though she was forced to rush past Glorine and Gailla’s departure, that was still too hard to relive.

Thank Xaoc, Ranthia had actually read the scroll she was handed back then. It wasn’t entirely clear in her memory, but she was able to reread the salient details. General Durmis Caeso Dominus had been touring Launchpoint 12—Argastus—and claimed the base commander’s tent while he stayed the night. The base’s leadership swore that their personnel were on full alert throughout the night, yet the next morning the general was found dead.

His body was desiccated and withered. Per the assessment of some [Healer] that Ranthia had apparently glanced past the credentials of, there were no visible injuries, yet there wasn’t any blood found within the corpse. According to [Analysts] that had reviewed the [Healer]’s unabridged report, the assassination was the work of an Erosion, Water, or Ocean classer.

But General whatever-his-name-was hadn’t been the only victim by any stretch of the imagination. Remera’s command staff had been afraid of an unidentified shimagu twin, yet even with another death coming days before their push to bring an end to the shimagu threat, Night never cautioned them about the presence of a peerless assassin amongst the shimagu. The first kill of its type was made before Ranthia had even become a War Ranger. And there were no recorded twins that had fought since the war began—each of the five that had served as the final obstacle had emerged during the conflict.

Yet there was, undeniably, a killer. One with the ability to drain the very thing that vampires used as sustenance.

Smoke and mirrors. That was almost the creed of how the Sentinels operated.

And what could be better to mask your status as an assassin—one that struck down problems from within—than to have a known assassin sitting next to you? An assassin that presumably couldn’t have been responsible, for whatever reason.

[*ding!* [Fast Learner] has reached level 701!]

As intoxicating as it was to believe that the System was agreeing with her assessment, she knew better. Her Skill was rewarding her for following through her own chain of logic, and it would even if she was wrong at every single step. ‘Correct’ and ‘true’ were meaningless concepts to the System—she believed that her concerns were highly important, she had created a viable explanation to support them, and thus she was rewarded.

But there had to be a thousand twenty-four alternative explanations. She had no proof, and each piece of conjecture was formed from a pile of suppositions. Gods and goddesses, even if Night truly did murder the best hope the dwarves had for unity, it wasn’t like she’d ever met the man. No dwarf that she’d ever met had spoken ill of the would-be King Under the Mountain, but power had a way of corrupting even those with noble ideals.

And yet… Of everything, it was the timing that bothered her more than anything else. Remus’ armies had expanded and leveled aggressively through the war—and the war was about to end. The last time that had happened, Remus became an empire and those that commanded the Legions sat at the top—though only one became emperor. And if the dwarves failed to unite, Khazad would remain weak.

“I won’t do it. If that’s where this is going… I won’t point my knives at a single dwarf—no matter what.” Ranthia subvocalized her promise.

In the aftermath of the rise of the empire, hundreds—likely thousands—of people had rallied against the quiet surrender of the republic that they had been born into. People had been scared and angry, which allowed charismatic people with the worst possible intentions to lead them astray—all so a few twisted idiots could experience the debauchery that was power over life and death. But that had always been the work of a few people; the masses had only wanted the power to stop what they perceived as a greater injustice.

She had never imagined that she might find herself wanting to become one of those masses.

It wasn’t like she was a stranger to death. She didn’t even know how many sapient lives she had taken throughout her years. The System could tell her, but she had no interest in the number. Her kill count wasn’t something to brag about, nor was it a source of guilt. She had chosen the knife because Adventuring spoke to her in a way no other path ever had. But she wanted to help people, which was part of why she’d let Hexara talk her into joining the Rangers. Each and every time she culled a life, she did it because she believed it was necessary.

There were undoubtedly dwarves that deserved the knife, but she flatly refused to ever turn her blades on the innocent—or, worse, on friends that had done nothing to deserve her fury.

It was a what-if scenario; she had no way to know for sure if that was what was to come. …No, even that was a lie—she had one way.

All she had to do was to ask one of the few people that truly scared her for the truth. She just had to risk becoming Night’s enemy.

And even if her theory was true… would he even tell her, or would he offer her a soothing lie before he visited her while she slept?

Ranthia looked around her home as she became increasingly convinced that she might never return to the place that she had shared with Avyna for most of eighty years. She found herself drawn to one thing that she had to bring with her—no matter what happened. Within the cabinet that contained her remaining sausages was a false back: the place where Avyna’s small safe box was stored. The enchanted plate that Ranthia could use to open it was hidden amongst the enchantments for their shower.

Within the metal box was the contract that had defined Ranthia and Avyna’s relationship, the doll that Pupius had never given her, Tatius’ bone necklace, Pupius’ tooth, a pair of simple gold rings that she had once hoped to use to wed Hexara, and the tattered remnants of that dark blue blindfold that Hunting had gifted to her—the one that saw her through the darkest days she had ever known. And Ranthia blinked when she found an unexpected piece of paper beneath the expected treasures.

<Our contract no longer binds you, but I am certain that you will consult it again sooner or later. I hope that it brings you some comfort or happiness, my love. I truly cherished the years that it gave us, and I shall always hope that we will find a way to meet again.>

Ranthia stared at the note, unmistakably written in Avyna’s hand. Every word that they had ever exchanged—and every other note that Ranthia had found—spoke of their reunion as something that was both ‘near’ (by elven standards) and inevitable.

And after every bit of anticipation, fear, agony, elation, hope, worry, and dread that Ranthia had experienced over the past two days, she discovered a single message—one that she presumably wasn’t expected to find quite so soon—that suggested their plans might not work out.

It was too much.

Numbly, Ranthia refocused on packing. Mage-rock and its inert inscribed tile were reverently added to the safe box. Next, she added the guide for encoding and decoding messages exchanged with her [Mind Healer]. There wasn’t much space left within the box, but she was able to fit one of her favorite books from among those that Avyna had gifted her over the years (there were so many candidates, yet she could only take one).

Truly, there was so much that Ranthia wished she could take from their home—few items held no memory or value. But with the safe box full, her options were limited—the metal box required almost all the space she had. And if she emptied her home noticeably, her options would be narrowed.

She was burning with a desperate need to see Avyna again—soon. And she was terrified about what Night and the emperor (…was the man even still alive?) could be planning. She felt as if she was being torn in every direction and she could only pray that every fear somehow proved to be over nothing. But too much was going wrong for her to take any chances.

And she refused to leave the safe box—and everything that it contained—behind, no matter what happened. She’d have to drop her pack if she needed to shift—she couldn’t risk disrupting its enchantments—but that was basically habitual. In the end, she packed the safe box, a few small items that no one left in Remera knew she possessed, and four waterskins.

By the time she left her tent, the sun was low in the sky. She would have to hurry to get back to Spearpoint—it would be best if everyone believed that she had spent her day fruitlessly hunting shimagu groups as she was assigned. Until she had her answers, she had to hope that no one found out that she had visited Remera.

She had no idea what was going on with Avyna anymore—she would have described her uncertainty as ‘fear’ if she wasn’t already terrified that she was rushing headlong into her own demise.

Night had always scared her… and for the first time since the day they met, she found herself unconvinced that they were on the same side.
