“Feh, that’s the kinda fookin’ shit ye always hear ‘bout anyone that gets a wee bit famous.” The [Battlemaster] interjected, transparently eyeing the keg Ranthia had almost entirely forgotten about.

“Aye, they’re even slowly releasin’ things the lad wrote ‘fore he was killed. We don’t do sneaky, stupid shit like this—we ain’t orcs!” The [Healer] snarled, before he slammed a sheet of paper on the table—the message he had received.

Ranthia took that as tacit permission and read while the [Healer] went back to rapidly consuming the Ilan bread—just as the [Battlemaster] decided to set manners aside and reached for the keg. Ranthia just leaned out of her way and focused on consuming every word within the message. Every dwarf she had ever met wrote in familiar Creation—sure, there were a few stylistic differences between their writings and those Remus used, but the difference was far less impactful than their thick accents would suggest. It was still very much the same language that Ranthia grew up with.

And the [Healer]’s summary of the message was correct! Night had given her details that weren’t in the message—details that the message implied no one should know. Even if there was another kinsman to the fallen would-be king in spearpoint…

Ranthia took a deep breath, then bowed in front of the elderly [Healer].

“Thank you for sharing your tragedy with me, old friend. As I stated, the war is all but done and every known twin has been destroyed. I have no idea what peace that gives you, but I hope that—at the very least—it helps ease the burden that you face moving forward. I need to return to my hunt for any shimagu that might have escaped into this region, so may the ancestors watch over you and your peers in my absence.” Ranthia chose to retreat into stiff formality to hide her fear.

“I ain’t that old!” The dwarf grumbled, though he grinned and waved her off.

“You’re a credit to your generation.” Ranthia’s own grin had more teeth than she intended, but if she failed to engage with such obvious bait he’d know something was wrong.

“Bah!” The shrubbery bristled with feigned discontent for almost two seconds before he fell prey to his growing laughter.

Ranthia bowed one last time, before she left the tent at speeds just barely within the realm of politeness. Once she was clear of that tent, she blurred back to her own home—the bowl and cloth that she’d meant to bring back with her wholly forgotten. Inside, she checked Avyna’s security enchantments as best she could to give herself peace of mind that she was truly alone.

She was.

She took a deep breath. …And unleashed a torrent of profanity that may or may not have escalated into a far greater volume than she had intended.

Why—no, how was the far more important question—did Night know about the death of the King Under the Mountain at least seven or eight days before anyone outside of the man’s estate learned about it?! Spies were the obvious answer, but even such an extreme breach of the trust that close-knit allies should have shared was the least terrifying possibility.

Ranthia raced into her bedroom and yanked her personal storage trunk open with enough force that the hinges creaked. She plunged both hands into the contents and shoved and shuffled things until she finally found what she was looking for—a set of instructions that Avyna had left her. This was too important of a matter for her to trust her own memory. Rather, her unaided memory.

[Chest of Experience] was the solution, especially since she finally had Skill slots available. Avyna had taught her the visualization exercises necessary to get the Skill offered—they had even confirmed it worked, since she didn’t need to take the Skill to get it offered. After that, Avyna had written them down, and Ranthia thumbed through the instructions as she tried to rush through the visualization.

A chest of drawers—a massive piece of furniture containing countless little drawers that could be pulled open. Ranthia just needed to picture it and imagine herself opening drawers and finding a sheet of paper within that contained the memory that she wished to recall—and recall said memory the moment that she found it. Then she needed to visualize putting the memory into the drawer, in the form of that paper. The exercise was easiest with core memories that she could vividly recall, but it was hard to keep her exhausted mind from wandering back to the true matter at hand.

Because if they didn’t learn about the King Under the Mountain—a man who had yet to even seize power and merely had the popularity and potential to do so—through spies…

Well, the next least terrifying possibility was that Remus had the man killed. Ranthia had long assumed that—per Night’s details—identical kills had been carried out by a group that operated under the emperor’s command.

[*ding!* You have unlocked the General Skill [Chest of Experience]!]

[Chest of Experience]: Store, sort, preserve, and access memories. Increased clarity for old memories with level. -64 Mana Regen Rate.

That was one of the most straightforward Skill descriptions she had ever seen, but it was just the base Skill—Avyna’s had a large number of other Skills merged in. That said, once she activated the Skill… Well, it was hard not to feel disappointed in the result.

Ranthia found herself metaphorically standing in front of an expansive chest of drawers with no idea where to even look. She’d assumed she could just open any random drawer and find what she needed, but instead she found herself perusing memories from a romantic evening with Hexara—bittersweet and not at all what she needed. Another drawer held her encounter with the wyvernflies from her Ranger days; a vivid recall of Green’s power as she split the ranks of the foreign monsters and the awe that Ranthia had felt at the woman’s prowess. Her third attempt was closer; the entire drawer contained memories of her Skill exchange with Avyna—including her beloved’s annoyed reaction when Ranthia inadvertently omitted her [Priestess of Xaoc] Skill.

If there was a discernable explanation for where and how her memories were accessed through the Skill, Ranthia couldn’t figure it out! Some drawers housed days of memories, other times a single event spanned multiple drawers. Things weren’t quite chronological, but when Ranthia finally found memories of her encounter with the dwarves she had just lived through, she was able to work her way backwards with only a few false starts.

Going through her memories was strangely off-putting too. For all she hated having to keep her eyes screwed shut to manage [Divine Eyes in the Void], the Skill’s absence in her memories was profoundly obvious. Touching a memory immersed her within it and reacquainted her with senses that no longer matched those she was used to—especially in her older memories. [Vision of the Void] had changed her senses almost as much as her vitality had. …And yes, even with that she still felt significant temptation to waste time that she didn’t have reliving the memories of the time she shared with her fathers—just like Avyna had warned her.

But, at last, Ranthia found the memory that she needed to peruse. When she touched it, she found herself returned to the meeting room in Spearpoint—at least within her own mind. The memory was fresh and clear of the ‘fuzziness’ that had affected some of the older memories she had seen. She could remember the feel of the chair, the scent of oil and sweat that permeated the meticulously clean room, and the sounds of her peers. Much of it had been muted and dim, though when Night spoke, things clarified rapidly as her attention from back then refocused on the moment.

“As a final note before we end today’s meeting, I wish to urge you all to take care when interacting with our dwarven allies. The one that some among them were calling the King Under the Mountain was killed four nights ago. There are undoubtedly individuals within their ranks that will be in an atypically sensitive state, and I will not tolerate any attempts to antagonize them. Be respectful and remember that their ways are different from our own.”

Even with the playback slowed down, Night’s words came across as dry and unengaged. Everything about his tone and expression suggested that the words were inconsequential—a reminder to avoid doing something that none of them should have done in the first place.

Ranthia’s own interjection—a demand to know what had happened—came as several in the room prepared to rise. Everyone else had expected to be dismissed. But Ranthia kept her focus on Night. He had been surprised by her question. It was brief, but it was reflected only in the brief pause he offered. His eyes never widened, the muscles that governed his lips neither tightened nor relaxed. He had been caught off-guard by her query, but he didn’t show a single physical trace of that.

There was just a pause. And even by their standards, it was brief. Too brief to denote an attempt to recall or compose things not already known.

“The kill was identical to others that have affected us in the past.” Night’s answer was delivered with eye contact, and but for the fact that it contained information that he shouldn’t have known, it was unremarkable. There was no uncertainty, there was no narrowing of the eyes or unease.

Ranthia rolled the memory back and went through it again, focusing on each of her fellow Sentinels. Solace and Pierce had been surprised by the news, though Solace was plainly focused on Ranthia and didn’t seem to be fazed by her surprise. Pierce’s unguarded eyes practically radiated sympathy.

Grey was inscrutable throughout the memory—though she was a bit unclear in general. Undoubtedly, it was a side-effect of where she sat; she had only been in the outer periphery of Ranthia’s range of vision and Ranthia had seldom had any cause to look in the uninteresting woman’s direction.

Gravity seemed disinterested. If anything, she seemed to be a bit annoyed at the interruption—as though she had some place to be. That was hardly damning; few people had nothing better to do than to sit through a meeting. Beast was similar, though his apathy seemed to stem from boredom.

Sage was more interesting. The man had been entirely unfazed by the news. There was no surprise or disinterest apparent in his posture or his eyes. Had he already known?

Ranthia nearly wrote Silence off as having no visible reaction, but there, when Night paused—the corner of his lip moved just the tiniest bit. It was a somewhat terrible assumption, but Ranthia’s first thought was that it was a repressed sign of amusement. In reality, she knew that she was jumping to conclusions—it could have been anything.

Ranthia watched Night repeat “The kill was identical to others that have affected us in the past” a few times. The words themselves were a bit odd. Night never named it an assassination, nor had he framed it as an act taken by the shimagu. It was a safe phrasing. And that felt out of place. It wasn’t like Ranthia knew Night well, but he had never shied away from conjecture… unless he wanted her to form her own opinion or theory. And even if it was the same as the other murders, his fondness for overexplaining meant that he should have included details about what an ‘identical’ kill meant.

It was the flimsiest ‘evidence’ imaginable—if not for her personal distrust of the man, even after he had saved her life more than once, she might have never entertained it.

But there was one more thing—a thought that had lurked in the back of her mind since she met her fellow ‘War’ Sentinels at that very same meeting.

Why was Sentinel Silence one of them?

Back when she visited Remus after being named a Sentinel—to shield her from Legion political maneuvering—Sentinel Swarm had explained how their order worked. Each of them had a specific ‘seat’ that was based on their true specialty. And each seat was claimed by a single Sentinel.

Hunting had been named after his seat; he hunted monsters that lurked in the wilderness. Swarm inherited the seat from his predecessor, the seat that managed criminal elements—though Ranthia suspected spying to be closer to the true purpose of it. Ranthia had inherited the seat of the duelist.

Going off of public information, it was a seat that Night should have held. By outward appearances, he mirrored her closely—they both wielded knives and relied on speed and lethality to overwhelm opponents. But Ranthia had never doubted his true seat: Night was a knife in the dark.

She knew, because she had planned to walk the same path, back before she was inspired to dance. Each movement he made was measured and efficient. It was all too easy to imagine the man moving between dark hiding places at the dead of night as he infiltrated locations that should have been secure. And with his might, his Dark-enveloped knives were likely just as deadly as her Void-kissed weapons. He had even noted that the shape of her knives—designed for active combat against an opponent that was fighting back—weren’t suited to his style. She favored a round grip, so she could roll her knives to redirect force.

Night’s knives weren’t meant to be rolled; he presumably wanted absolute precision.

But if Night was a knife in the dark, why was Silence among them? Okay, yes, Ranthia was entirely ignoring the possibility that the system of seats that she knew had been set aside as part of the necessity of war—there were more Sentinels than ever. But every other War Sentinel that she met had a unique role. Pierce could stand before an army and win, Gravity fought in and from the skies, Sage wielded large-scale magic, Solace was a [Healer], Grey had her whole fortification thing, and Beast was presumably a hunter (assuming monster taming wasn’t its own seat).

Night was fast, but he wasn’t a dedicated speedster like Nose—er, Scorch—had been. And Ranthia somehow doubted that his seat changed throughout… however long he’d been a Sentinel.

