The process originated with the Engineers of Ascension, who had named themselves after their goals for the project. There were many bizarre and gruesome aspects, from massive death rates and damaged alien implants to the EoA leader secretly being some kind of spider. After the demise of Mr North and his organisation, he had left a vault full of research to Jason Asano.

While Asano was in the other world, his clan had been working on perfecting the augmentation process. They focused on eliminating the trauma-inducing and often lethal surgeries, as well as the need for implants. The end result no longer granted the random powers that the EoA program had, and it could no longer jump someone straight to silver-rank. Instead, it was safe and it allowed for balanced growth over time.

It was the Human Augmentation Project that had finally brought the United States around, with the other major nations soon following. Between enhancing their soldiers and equipping them with magitech weapons and armour, the HAP returned infantry to the forefront of operational planning. Michael had been a large part of that change, tasked with rebuilding infantry doctrine from the ground up.

The Infantry Reimplementation Program was designed to reinvent warfare for the magical age. Augmented soldiers armed with the latest magitech weapons and armour. This was embodied in the exosuit, a magitech exoskeleton that only enhanced individuals could effectively use. With configurations for heavy ordnance, additional armour or even flight, infantry was rapidly replacing tanks and jets.

Because of their sheer numbers, it was the new infantry, not the essence users, who were the backbone of the EDJI forces. Essence users were elite specialists, to be thrown at specific problems. It was the augmented soldiers who would be the frontline against the vampires in the battle to come. As the general most well-versed in their doctrine, along with his experience combating vampires, Michael had been placed in operational command of the EDJI’s largest military action to date.

The variety of forces that would be involved was on full display as Michael stepped out of the helicopter to be met by a saluting lieutenant. He was in one of the new EDJI uniforms, with markings that flagged him as belonging to the US Army. His aura was that of a silver-rank essence user, like Michael himself. Returning the salute, Michael followed the lieutenant’s gestured directions under the deafening thrum of helicopter blades.

The tarmac was a bustle of activity, Michael taking in the strange but also inspiring panoply of forces. The augmented infantry were the largest in number but also the least eye-catching, especially compared to the Cabal contingents. There was a fur-covered humanoid with a mane of mossy hair. He stood a full thirteen feet tall, even without counting his massive antlers. Other Cabal members had their unusual forms of full display, from the alien beauty of fey to lumpen, hunchbacked ogres. It was a stark difference from the traditional secrecy their faction had maintained for millennia.

Michael smiled again at the nostalgic image, remembering his last posting in Saint-Étienne. No one hid their uniqueness in Asano Clan territory, and there was a wild amount of diversity on display. Along with the Cabal members were those changed during the transformation zone event, now fully integrated into the clan. He spotted elves, leonids and other species reportedly unusual even to Pallimustus. There were also some of the angelic messengers, gliding at ground level to avoid air traffic.

Even the humans showed plenty of variation. Essence users with wings or glowing eyes were obvious standouts, but just the breadth of regional origins was striking. Participants had assembled from across the planet, all gathered in singular purpose. All of humanity — give or take a few ex-humans and associated allies — were united against the vampires.

Michael liked to hope it was a unity that would outlast the common enemy. What concerned him and many others was what awaited them when the current threat was dealt with. No one believed that Jason Asano had forged humanity into a single sword just to face the vampires. What threat from the other world was he preparing them for? Even if he didn’t get an answer, Michael intended to put the question to the man himself.

“When do I get to see Asano?” he asked, once far enough from the helicopter. He still had to shout to be heard over the noise of the airport.

“So far as I can tell, sir, whenever he wants to. He knows everything that happens here, and can be in more than one place at a time.”

“That’s confirmed?”

“I’ve seen it myself, General. Multiples of him at the same time. As for his knowing everything that happens in his territory, we’re almost certain. Protocol is to not speak any restricted information out loud on Asano ground. We have secure briefing rooms in the parts of the base outside the territorial boundary. We don’t think he can read minds, but that’s unconfirmed.”

“What’s your name, Lieutenant?”

“Bradley Noble, sir.”

“Any relation to Travis Noble?”

“He’s a distant cousin of my father.”

“You’re from a Network family, then?”

“I am, sir.”

“How did you end up in the army?”

“Tradition, sir. My family had been military or civilian-side military contractors for generations.”

“Before magic went public?”

“Long before, sir.”

“You were Network infiltrators, then.”

Michael felt a flicker of anger in Bradley’s aura that was quickly smoothed over. It never showed in his expression, although his response was clipped.

“Being an essence user and a patriot aren’t mutually exclusive, sir.”

The Network’s attempt to assume control of the government had brought the country to the brink of civil war. It had been the threat of the vampires that had unified the country, but almost two decades later, tensions remained. Michael did not have Network origins and had been navigating Network and anti-Network factions his whole career.

“Where are we heading, Lieutenant?”

“Military personnel aren’t allowed into the civilian sections of Saint-Étienne without clearance, but the clan is pretty relaxed about granting it. You’re pre-cleared, pending a check that you’re not a shapeshifter or anything, which they’ll test at the base admin centre. Then you’re scheduled for a meeting with the matriarch and several clan officials, along with some of Asano’s people. That will be at the clan’s admin tower in the city.”

“Asano’s people?”

“Annabeth Tilden and Danielle Geller, for certain. They’re his main political liaisons. Likely Zara Rimaros and Farrah Hurin. Asano may be there himself, I don’t know. He doesn’t answer to anyone. When I asked, they said he was meeting with, and this is a direct quote, the king of the evil angels.”

“The messengers? Are they talking about Boris Ketland?”

“No, General. From how they described this person to me, he’s some kind of angelic space emperor.”

Michael sighed.

“Lieutenant, do you remember a time when that kind of statement would have been an absurdity?”

“Honestly, General, I don’t. I was born the same year Jason Asano was first pulled into the other universe. King of the evil angels is a lot, but it’s on a spectrum that makes sense to me. I’ve never known a world without magic.”

Michael looked at the lieutenant, realising the man was half his age. It was always hard to tell with essence users.

“So, you were a child when the Network made a play for control of the government.”

“That is not how my family characterises that time, sir, but yes.”

“I was rude to you earlier, Lieutenant. I apologise for that.”

“You’re a general, General. Being rude to Lieutenants is what you’re for.”

Michael let out a chuckle.

“I do try and bring a little more to the role than that. You’re a little bit impertinent, Lieutenant.”

“I’ve been stationed here as a clan liaison for a few months, sir. I find it helps with the culture.”

“Oh, I remember. I was stationed here myself, long ago. You might find, as I did, that not every commanding officer appreciates that culture.”

“Yes, sir,” Bradley agreed emphatically. “I’ve also found that kind of officer doesn’t last very long here. When dealing with the Asano Clan, you need to accept some… casual sensibilities. We may be in France, but it’s all quite Australian.”
