Paolo threw a punch at the Ghosthound that should have broken the monster’s nose. But Beatrice felt the Ghosthound tug at the restriction that she had placed upon him with her notes. The next moment, he shredded through them without being slowed in the slightest. Paolo’s punch hit nothing but air and he was collapsing sideways, his knee shattered. A vortex of frigid apathy was left in the Ghosthound’s wake, seeming to suck away will and motivation.

Beatrice finally slammed into the ground. Practice took over and she was throwing herself to her feet, already releasing the pure Song of Healing. Drake was struggling to his feet a few meters away, caught in the tight edges of the Nether Storm. Alana put herself between Ghosthound and bullet, her light darkening from orange to rust. “The Third Revelation: Mortal’s Anguish.”

The conflict was blinding, but a split second later Alana shot backward, the broken pieces of her spear clattering to the ground behind her. The Ghosthound reached up and wiped a drop of Alana’s blood from his cheek. Beatrice’s Skill finished and she through the last of her emotions into wishing her team would heal. From the dizzying wave that followed, the group must have been more wounded than Beatrice had noticed.

Beatrice dry heaved, her drained body trying to void her stomach.

The Ghosthound raised his spear, preparing to meet Hank’s bullet with a brutal thrust. But from the bullet’s shadow sprung Kimpap and Illdan, pincering in at the Ghosthound from either side. Before Illdan could close the distance, more of those wicker roots shot out of the Nether Storm and staked him to the ground. His image flared to avoid it, but the shadows around him tightened and kept him in place.

Similar attacks shot at Kimpap’s back, but she flickered sideways in a much more savvy maneuver. The aura of death that she released thickened. It was almost a taste to the air that hung in the back of Beatrice’s throat, reinforcing her body’s request that she vomit. Yet Beatrice gritted her teeth and straightened, preparing to assist in any way she could. Fully five death specters sprung to life around the Ghosthound, each wearing a different expression and wielding slightly different spears.

His gaze surveyed them all. Another mental pulse blasted outward. Chimeric Impunity. Marred Yet Reliable Foundation of Yggdrasil. Wicked Waltz of Tartarus.

Taking different angles, each specter howled at the Ghosthound with weapons raised. The image affect mobilized by Kimpap at that moment was ferocious, leaving her previous attacks and what she had demonstrated against Alana in the dust. The Ghosthound shifted slightly, but more in a settling movement than any tactical preparations. He didn’t even flinch as the blows fell on his body.

As each landed, another monstrous Ghosthound briefly superimposed itself over the monstrous image physicalization form. It sneered down at the strikes, disdaining to respond. That flashing image possessed all the violence and rage that didn’t exist in Randidly’s normal expressions. He approached the challenge with clinical dispassion, but this version opened its mouth and bellowed.

Beatrice tried to find a few more notes in her stomach. This, then, is the Grey Creature. And really, that’s the image we wanted to target?

Hank’s bullet arrived. Frowning, the Ghosthound smacked it out of the air with his left hand. The punch didn’t even seem to be a Skill, just a firm denial. Hank's image was filled with wilderness and hope and then it was gone. After an impact with enough force that Beatrice, almost ten meters away, rocked back on her heels, the Ghosthound scanned them all with that dispassionate gaze. He raised his spear.

Over his shoulder, Beatrice could sense the lurking image spitting hate at them for daring to come for its life. The Grey Creature took all threats seriously. A wolf among sheep, his teeth gleamed with promised retribution.
