"I prefer the term 'appreciating,'" the Culturist replied with a faint hint of annoyance. "But yes, that is why. And it's always interesting. It is histories like these that fill me with envy. That made me choose humanity as one of my desired foes. I fear your kind might be among the few that have been reduced by the embrace of the System, rather than uplifted. I've walked your old ruins. You achieved such wonderful things. You crossed the dead of space without any mana. You stretched your reach beyond what many species could ever dream of without any skills. All that simply because you yearned to do so. You did it as a collective people, that though at times fought among themselves, were capable and strong enough to have a common vision, a greater dream beyond strife, and executed on that vision to become exemplars, true pursuers of utopia."

In that moment, as he spoke with such deep passion in his voice, Shiv grasped how genuine and deep the Culturist's envy was.

Seeing how Shiv stared at him, the orc sighed and met Shiv's eyes. "But enough of my lamentations. Are you well, Deathless? I hope that you are not too disheartened. The Gourmet is many things: depraved, vile, foul-smelling. But he is far more cunning than he seems at first regard, and his cooking is a thing to behold. I tried besting him with a great many arts, and I failed each time. Until far, far later."

Shiv turned away from the Culturist and shot a final glare at the Gourmet in the distance. "I'll be fine. And I'll find a way." He breathed in. "First, though, I need to deal with a Curse. Then I need to really commit. I'm gonna take this kitchen all over the world. Anywhere I can go. Anywhere I can learn. My cooking needs a lot of improvement, but I have the time now, and this is what I'm gonna do. I don't care what the System wants from me. I don't care about whatever bullshit wars are happening. This is what I'm focusing on. Damn everything else."

The Culturist chuckled in response. "So you are undergoing your own personal Gnostic rebellion. I must say, you are a Pathbearer after my heart. I commend you and bid you better fortune than I have enjoyed."

"Thanks, I guess," Shiv replied. Then he fell silent, uncertain how to continue the conversation. The Culturist, though an enemy, was an enemy with a certain bipolarity to him. When he was cruel, he was drowning in it, drunk and reveling. But when he sobered, he was almost human—extremely personable and managed to make you forget the monster that was waiting inside.

"Hey, Culturist, you know I'll be coming after you with my Severed Shadow, right? Because if I get an opening, I won’t just be taking your hand next time." Shiv looked the orc up and down, trying to sense any hint of anxiety, of weakness, even ire.

The Culturist gave him nothing. "I know." He replied as calmly as one might when discussing the weather. He held up his hand—missing fingers and palm regrown, but still sporting a deep scar. "It would be wrong of you to hold back. You will do all you can to free your friend from me and to seek the elevation of your new Unique Skill. But understand that I, in turn, will do all I can to decipher its secrets, and then break you, before I then rebuild you, and we repeat this again ad nauseam. Until one stands and one falls."

"Well, that's just a thing, isn't it, Culturist?" Shiv said with a faint grimace on his face. "We both end up standing in the end. Eventually. Unless one of us breaks or finishes the other one off for good, we both come back for another turn, another round. Until I get strong enough to set you free from this cage that is your life. Either by killing you or your God for good."

"And I will applaud you if you prove capable of doing either," the Culturist said with genuine emotion. "Thus far, you are only a babe taking your first steps. But I am still glad to witness them. And I am also glad that you have a purpose beyond this." The Culturist looked at his fingers. "This cage, as you have called it, this cage of blood and strife."

Suddenly, the Culturist looked over his shoulder, and a breath left him—an exhalation of resignation. "I think I should take my leave now. You have company, one that I would not seek to deprive you of. Again, I bid you good fortunes in your struggle."

"Wait," Shiv said, before the Culturist could teleport away or something. "Look, if you really need to hurt someone badly, I'll be here. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not running."

"Ah," the Culturist muttered. "You seek to take the brunt of my hunger on behalf of your friend, do you not?" Shiv just nodded. He didn't intend to deny it.

The Culturist sighed. "I will focus the bulk of my attention on you, but understand that Adam will need to be hardened of his own accord. And he will need to be conditioned to become sharper, stronger, and impossibly skilled if he wishes to survive. He has caught your flame, and there is no way out of this.” The Legendary orc shook his head mournfully. "He, as most who are not you or me, has room for not even one mistake. It's not fair, is it? But that's the System's way. We have all the chances in the world. If he fails but once, that is all for him. And despite our best efforts, despite all we wish to do, I fear he might know a final end one day, and you, again, will pay a debt in tears."

And before Shiv could reject the orc's claim, he vanished, not even teleporting, simply blinking out of existence in a flicker and nothing thereafter.

The Deathless clenched his fists tight, and as he stared on at the absence where the Culturist once was, he made a pledge. I'm not only going to make the Gourmet swallow his own pride, I'm also going to give you what you want. You'll taste a proper course I've made someday, Culturist. I'll give you a death worth having. I'll set you free. One way or another.

An azure blue glow spilled over Shiv's shoulder. The depth of his eyes widened, but he didn't need to ask who it was. He turned, facing his friend. Adam had his wings spread out wide, but his expression spoke of tension and worry. He held his Spellstring in one hand and another massive, dense alloy bow in the other. Shiv didn't even remember where Adam got that bow from. The Gate Lord was looking around, hunting for foes unseen, but Shiv realized he was really only searching for a single Pathbearer.

"He's gone?" Adam asked.

Shiv nodded. "Just left. He knew you were coming. Wants to give you space, he said. He got enough cruelty hurting me earlier, so he's going to give you a moment of reprieve."

"How comforting," Adam replied dryly, but his sarcasm could not hide the true depths of his apprehension. "Being honest, I listened to the end of your conversation. Shiv… do you think he's right? Do you think that—"

"No," Shiv cut Adam off, unwilling to even consider the possibility. "No. He's wrong. We've been defying the odds for so long, we've been burning for so long, and we're only going to get better. And I'm going to be here with you, and all that is going to be bullshit. Ten thousand years down the line, one hundred thousand. We're gonna keep defying the System until it breaks, until we find a way out for good."

Adam didn't seem entirely convinced. Worse yet, his eyes were no longer upon Shiv. Instead, they flickered between the colors of a brightening sunset and that standard cerulean blue. He was looking off at a distant patch of clouds, and Shiv realized why.

"Is he there?" Shiv asked, looking up into the raging storm.

"I think so," Adam replied. "But I'm not sure. I'm never sure with him. I think he is looking at us, though. Waiting for us to act, to respond. I think a part of him wants us to have come seeking him, to face him in open battle. No matter what he does, the itch will always be there.” Adam sighed. “And it's not just him. Perhaps no matter what we do, the System will always loom over our shoulders in wait to feed our lives to war and pointless bloodshed."

"Yeah, well, it can keep looming as much as it wants," Shiv spat. He glared up at the sky. But not at the Gourmet or the Culturist. Not even at the Challenger. But at everything that encompassed them and their world. "But it can also go fuck itself. Because I'm not playing along. And eventually, I’m gonna get strong enough that it chokes on me for good. Yeah, I might burn, and I might have a billion enemies and as many pointless wars directed toward me. But I'm not going to fight any of them. All the System will be offering me down the line are customers for my restaurant. I'll beat them down, but you know what? I'm not going to kill them. Once I get strong enough, I'm just going to feed them. And all that strife is going to go nowhere forever. Then we'll see how absolute or all-powerful the System is."

"You know who you sound like right now?" Adam asked, turning his face away from the sky.

Shiv winced. He knew what was coming. "Udraal?”

"I don't mean that mockingly,” Adam said. “I know he's a vile bastard. I know that he's done so much wrong to both our families, to us. But his hatred for this world we live in, this cage, as the Culturist put it, is symmetrical to ours. It's understandable. And I am afraid that perhaps, with the passage of time, we will become more like him and the Culturist, or more likely..." Adam looked away, swallowing. The trouble showing partly on his face was more personal, more intimate than Shiv realized before.

"You're afraid you might become your father?" Shiv guessed, guided by his Enkindled Heart.

Adam nodded once more, but his head remained bowed in surrender rather than acknowledgement. "My father and Jessica… The Ascendants and the Starhawk… Valor and his son. They were once family, friends, and companions. With time, with all the changes they've undergone, they turned against each other. They became enemies without fail—every single time."

"Yeah, maybe, for them," Shiv grunted. "But we're different. We're over-favored. And things are just going to keep building for us until something breaks. And coercion's going to follow, and then it's going to escalate from there. And then we're probably going to do another and another, until we travel down the rungs of power, and we clench the System until it's dry."

"But is there an end?" Adam asked. "Is there a limit? Perhaps we are simply at the very bottom of a very, very, very deep well. A well that might just be feeding off the struggle of our climb to grow ever higher above us. Maybe we run an impossible race. Maybe we'll realize after a hundred years of climbing that the System simply grew ten times faster, and the well ten times deeper. Forever outpacing us. What if there's simply no chance?”

Shiv considered Adam's justifiable fears for a moment. Then he scoffed. "Nah."

"What do you mean, 'nah'?" Adam said, incredulous. "We don't know how the System truly functions. It's very much possible."

Shiv shook his head. "If that was true, then why did it put a worldwide hit out for me? Why is it trying to get everyone across the world, every single Pathbearer, to take a swing at me? Is that the way an all-powerful being that will always grow more and faster than everyone else might do things? No. It's crude, it's stupid, it's brutal. It's something I would do, and I don't have a strategic or tactical bone in me. This is desperation. If you're that experienced, you have that much strife, that much power inside of you, then I think you might be able to come up with a better method. My worry is that it wants this, that it desires this. That the System is inside us and using us because it's not all-powerful. But because it's limited. It's a leech of some kind. And it's feeding off of us. It doesn't have more power than what it can take from us. And if that's the case, if I'm right, then we'll beat it by being unreasonable, always. By doing whatever we want, instead of whatever it wants. We ignore its Quests and rewards, and we try to put our will before it. We create our own order. We build up Piety. It's our sanctuary and our fortress. We dare the world to come here to take from us, and then spite and defy it every single time."

Though Shiv's words burned with passion, Adam remained deflated. There was a lost look to him, a fear that was only growing stronger. "I wish I were like you sometimes,” he muttered.

“You don't need to be like me,” Shiv retorted. “I don't want you to be like me. I need you to be more like you, because if we don't have you, then we don't have a future." Shiv took a step forward and gripped his friend by the arms. "I'm here for you. You're here for me. We're all back together again, and we need to make a fight of this. We can worry, but I don't think that's going to do anything. The future might be worse than we can imagine, but I'm not going to give it any bit of my fear, any bit of my emotions. We think about tomorrow, but we fight and live right now. And we learn from yesterday. That’s what we do."

Rhetoric 23 > 25

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 149 > 150

A beat of silence followed in their conversation as the storm continued to rage around them. Then, the beat soured with awkwardness.

"Where did you even get that?" Adam snickered, taken aback by the shift of words. "You read a book or something while I wasn't looking?"

"Hey, fuck you! I can get philosophical and shit if I want," Shiv said, the moment of tension between them broken. He picked Adam up by the shoulders and began shaking him. "And I was freaking trying to be genuine with you. You're a ruiner! A ruiner!"

Despite his bleak mood a few seconds ago, Adam started laughing. Try as he might, he couldn't dislodge Shiv's hands and simply bounced back and forth like a battered puppet. "Alright, alright, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Stop, Shiv, Shiv, stop. I'm serious, stop, stop! I'm gonna get sick if you keep shaking me like—"

"Is this a bad time?"

