Both Shiv and Adam went still, their heads turned in tandem, and they saw Uva standing at the exit to the Court Leviathan’s top side, arms crossed. She studied them with a look of mock outrage and envy. "Ah, I see. I'll come back later, then. Both of you have your hands occupied with the other. I realize now that I'm unnecessary and that you have cultivated your shared emotions beyond me, Shiv. I’ll return later."

"What? No! Now’s good. Adam was just leaving!" Shiv's mind shifted violently from one track to another. With a casual flick of his wrist and a flex of his Tides, the Gate Lord went sailing off into the storm, tumbling head over ass with a surprised yelp that quickly trailed off.

"Shiv, you bas…" Being flung by a Legendary Physicality was a hell of a thing. Adam went from a speck to not even that in less than a second, and a sonic boom followed as he curved toward the distant horizon.

A small bit of Shiv felt bad that he'd chucked his friend away so callously, but he knew he wouldn't take it that personally. For long, anyway. The bulk of Shiv was distracted by something else. He had made a promise to her earlier.

"You know he's going to be a bit sour over that," Uva noted with a smirk.

"He'll get over it," Shiv replied as smoothly as he could. "So, how are you doing this evening, Sister Uva?"

"Better than you are, I suspect. But as always, you go between being a mental wreck and mostly stable in record time." She briefly glanced at the colossal Cauldron floating a few kilometers before them, the party inside still going strong, and at the Gourmet standing atop it. "That one, however... That one's mind disgusts me. Psychologically, he's like a rotting egg. I've genuinely never seen anything like it before, even among orcs. I hate to put it this way, but I think you picked a rather disturbing grayskin to feud with."

A loathsome snarl escaped Shiv as he waved the Gourmet off—who obviously didn't move an inch. "I'll figure him out. I'll figure all of this out. But I can do that later when I… Enough about me. Let's talk about you. How are you doing?"

A pensive, tired tint came over Uva, but the faint smirk on her lips bloomed into a full smile. "Well, inside, I've been better. Outside, I feel worn. I have a lifetime worth of nightmares stored in the back of my mind. Enough madness that I should have shattered over a trillion times, and parts of me have been transforming so much that I don't even feel myself anymore, like I am a stranger occupying my own flesh. And I can still hear them sometimes. Not the Dreamtaker. For some reason, she's still quiet. But the Eldest, the Stranger. They lurk in the back of my mind, always. They seethe with hate, they seethe with misery. They will come for me again. They will come for all of us. And then there's the matter of my homeland and my kinfolk, who might now consider me a monster compromised by outside influence."

She scoffed lightly. "Beyond that, there is the matter of my mother, her apparent vampire lover, her killer, her killer’s grandmother, your past, and…" She trailed off. She closed her eyes and took a centering breath. "And that's enough of that. I'm done feeling miserable for now. I'd rather feel something else. We should face this down in time, bit by bit."

"Together," Shiv said.

"Together," she agreed. "And later. Before more strain should come recovery. So, Cherished Shiv, how about you let me know of some place secluded where we can discuss… less severe matters. And deal with unsettled hunger?"

Shiv's pulse quickened, but just then he noticed something. Everything around him had gone quiet. Unnaturally quiet.

The storm had cut off in an instant. The booming music and fireworks originating from the Cauldron had ceased. There were over a million orcs in the area, and none of them were speaking.

Shiv sucked in a breath. "You know, I think we should explore the Umbral wilderness instead. I’m sure we can find a nice spot there."

As soon as he said that, a deafening roar of discontented groans sounded from all across the land. It grew to a deafening level as the orcs complained about not getting to level their Human Mating Activities skill and other things like that.

"You know, the worst part about this is how some of them are actually serious," Shiv said, glaring at nothing in particular. "Some of them probably do have that skill, and some of them do want to watch because they’re fascinated."

"I think I've had enough of that," Uva replied with a slight pout. "Valor, Adam's mother... I don't think we need a third guest to our performance."

"IT'LL BE MORE THAN THREE!" the Gourmet screeched from atop the Cauldron. “WE’RE ALL HERE! GIVE US SUCKY-FUCKY, INSUL! YOUR PERFORMANCE THERE CAN'T BE WORSE THAN IN THE KITCHEN!”

"Let's get the hells out of here," Shiv said flatly. “Before I lose my shit again.”

Uva extended a hand, and he took it before quickly flinging his body up and away with his Shapeless Tides, sailing quickly for the gateway. Along the way, Shiv saw Adam approaching the gateway as well before he veered off violently.

Both Shiv and Uva burst out laughing at the sight.

"Oh, we really traumatized him, didn't we?" Shiv said.

She just sighed. "We are performing a complete sweep of our surroundings. I’m not going to even allow a bug to be nearby. And, Shiv, how many times can you replicate yourself? Out of curiosity."

"What, in total, or before I lose function? Because before I lose control is only three but—"

"Let's discover in total. Together." Uva’s voice dropped low. "And don't worry about losing control. Don't worry at all. I will take hold of that which you can’t control. Your hands and bodies will be as if… my own."

“O-okay.” A new dash of fear split through Shiv’s lust as he both dreaded and yearned to discover just what she intended to do with his resurrected bodies.
