304 (II)

To Break a Curse [I]

Shiv's left eye twitched. His fingers straightened and then slackened. His body spasmed with pain that originated from the depths of his soul. He stared, his heart screaming as he looked on at that gem, that glistening pearl that was a counterfeit of his Manifold orc Meatball. It lay split in twain upon the grilling station, the once-heated metal sheet now cool and dormant. It lay there mocking him, taunting both him as a person and as a cook.

The meatball lay as a statement of supremacy and superiority on the part of the Gourmet, and it took all Shiv had to stop himself from slamming his fists down, shattering the grill, and absolutely obliterating this pristine, wonderful, masterfully made meatball that utterly eclipsed his own in every conceivable way.

“Fuck.”

The word left Shiv as a ragged groan. It left him like he was ripping a jagged, rusted blade out from his throat. His hands didn't know what to do. He gripped the sides of his head briefly, bending down and shaking, before he slowly laid his fingers back down on the table. And then he poked the meatball, that insulting, perfect meatball that he couldn't quite figure out.

It was seared so finely that its core had condensed into a sort of creamy, yet solid state. The taste of the marrow lingered just right. Just perfectly right. No matter how many times Shiv tried, he just couldn't capture that feeling. The Gourmet had known exactly what to do with the layer of gristle, how to make it crack open perfectly. Then, finally, there was the crust outside; it was more than crunchy, it was perfect.

All of this stood atop the foundations of Shiv's creation. He was the one who came up with the Manifold Meatball. But his creation proved to be the inferior by leaps and bounds.

How could this have happened? How could the System do this to him? How could he fail himself?

Shiv wanted to vomit again. He refused. He couldn't throw up this time. He couldn't justify it to himself, and he couldn't justify it to the others. He was already threatening to unravel. This was too much. How could he be beaten by such a disgusting wretch?

"I need to figure it out," Shiv choked out, on the verge of full delirium. "How could he be better than me?"

“Shiv? Shiv?” Uva's voice came through a telepathic channel, wiring her straight to his mind. Her tone was soft and calming. Her intentions were warm and worried. Shiv, it's okay. You will best him in the future.

But though Uva meant well, Shiv had sunk too deep in the dark recesses of his own mind to be saved.

"He made it better," he whispered. "He made it better…"

A deathly silence followed. The Gourmet had left after completing his dish, not even bothering to wait and see Shiv's reaction. He'd simply sheathed his spatulas and sauntered out with a scalding sneer on his hideous face.

The other Pathbearers that remained in the kitchen stood with anxious stares or naked winces painting their faces. Gone had her eyes locked to the ground. Five was trying to hide his schadenfreude. Or perhaps he wasn't, considering how all his teeth were showing, light reflecting off the metal. Uva wanted to say something else, but Adam reached out, took her by the shoulder, and simply shook his head.

"Let him process this," Adam said. "He suffered an immense psychological blow. My Cognitive Therapy sense says that we should just leave him alone for now and let him recover. He will return to us when his psychology regenerates enough. I hope."

Outside the kitchen, silence ruled the halls of the Sky-Swallowing Carp. The front of the establishment was abandoned, barren of all clients except for a few orcs. Whisper, Tequila, and Mortar remained, taking a break from harassing the First Blood outside the Abyssal gateway. They'd come back to spend some time with their Insul, but he had hidden away from them.

"I have to figure it out," Shiv muttered hoarsely. He made a fist, but forced it open as he picked up one half of the counterfeit meatball. Placing it in his mouth, he chewed once more. The crunch that followed nearly made him weep. It broke apart so perfectly, like an eggshell that was laced with impossible flavor.

And then the first of the many bonuses hit Shiv: Biological Regeneration of incredible potency. Boosts to Awareness, Physicality, and more followed. He felt like he was ascending to a higher plane of existence from a single bite. The lean meat that was cooked within the meatball made his muscles tighter, harder, more effective. And then the gristle that hardened his very bones and doubled the durability of his Toughness even at baseline. Finally, as he got to the marrow, his magical fields grew to exponential heights. His mana went from the density of wood to tungsten in an instant, and that was just from a single bite.

The Challenger finds your pain delicious.

“EAT SHIIIIIIT!” Shiv seethed through clenched teeth.

“Hubris is most unbecoming, Bruiser. But also entertaining.”

Shiv nearly collapsed, but unwilling to succumb to despair, he chose madness instead. He grasped his head, physically holding the dark thoughts in, and fracturing his skull with a pulse of Shapeless Tides. A loud crack sounded in the room, and one of Shiv's eyes popped out of his skull. Uva flinched back, her eyes widening. Her worry had now evolved into outright terror, and Adam didn't look far off from intervening himself either.

"Holy shit, he is not taking this well," Jessica commented unhelpfully off by the side.

"Shiv, Shiv." The Deathless vaguely felt Valor pulling at his arm. "Shiv, this is enough. You did fine, but there are always people better than us early on. There are always Pathbearers beyond Pathbearers. It is in the challenge and pursuit of excellence that we can outdo them. It is in… overcoming ourselves and the shadows of our failure that we manage to overcome our adversaries."

But rather than his usual wisdom and insight, Valor was somewhat rambling. He sounded worried as well, unnerved by how unstable Shiv was.

"They're all fucking me, Valor," Shiv seethed. "They're all fucking me. The System has me by the face. The Challenger by the ass. The Gourmet is the worst of them all; he doesn't have a dick, so he's using that gross stomach of his to pound my heart. My heart is being fucked by an orc’s stomach flap."

"That's probably the first time in the history of Integration that anyone has said those words in that order,” Jessica muttered.

"I cannot help but agree," Valor said, equally disturbed.

Shiv sucked in a painful breath. "Please, please, I just… I just need a moment alone…"

He stumbled away from them, and begrudgingly, they let him be. He left the other half of the meatball in place. He stepped out of the kitchen, and he began wandering, completely lost to his own thoughts, down the halls of his restaurant. Halls that now felt cold. The restaurant was mostly abandoned. The orc Biomancers that were permanently stationed inside Courtney likely saw him in his rough state, but they said nothing. Even if he was technically vulnerable, they didn't dare insult their Insul while he was in the middle of undergoing psychosis.

The minutes, hours, or perhaps centuries that followed were a feverish blur. Shiv saw many things: some of them real, some of them not. But between the moments of clarity, he thought back to the Gourmet's wretched sneer, that foul stench that accompanied him, that horrid promise, the naked lust of his, that yearning to be hurt or hurt in return.

Somehow, at some point, Shiv found himself standing atop the bridge of his Court Leviathan. The night air in the Tutorial was frigid one instant and scalding hot the next. A storm was right above them. Shiv gazed upward to see how thunder crashed, how crimson bolts of lightning split the sky, followed by whipping downpours of blood as much as water. Monsoons raged as corpses and filth rained down, and in the distance, cries sounded, turning to belligerent bellows as new orcs were birthed from the ruined husks of fallen Pathbearers.

He cared about none of that. He had eyes for none of that. Amidst this sea of darkness, devastation, and bloodshed, he stared at one thing, one hateful adversary, one insult carved into the firmament. The colossal cauldron, dubbed simply as the Cauldron, ruled by the Gourmet, loomed above and in front of the Sky-Swallowing Carp. Its sides were lit up by spotlights now, fireworks detonating along its sides constantly, and over it, a carving of fire danced across the sky. It was an artistic rendition of Shiv being beaten by an even larger projection of the Gourmet, who whipped the Deathless with his spatula and walked him like a dog.

And on the rim of the cauldron, the Gourmet stood. He was looking at Shiv, his body glowing bright. The Deathless couldn't see his face, and he refused to get any closer, but he could practically taste the triumphant air radiating from the Gourmet's body.

It sickened him. It was too much. Shiv leaned over the edge and violently emptied his stomach, the contents promptly being flung back in his face by a sudden gust of wind. He barely even noticed.

It took him a few minutes to steady himself, and a few more to regain his composure. But when he did, as he wiped away the remnant filth staining his lips, his mouth was peeled back in a vicious snarl. He was going to break this orc no matter how many times it took, no matter how much effort it took to level his Cooking skill and avenge this defeat.

"I'm gonna fucking DESTROY YOU!" Shiv screamed into the storm, half mad, half determined.

And though he couldn't see, he knew Gourmet merely sneered down at him in return.

But then he heard a thud from behind, and Shiv's mind snapped to full focus. Though aggrieved, he knew this was only a thing of pride, and that he might actually be under attack now.

Shiv turned; he tried to call the Last Morsel to his hand, but for the third time that day, he made the mistake. No such weapon appeared in his grasp. He was still wandering with his physical body, his Severed Shadow still in the kitchen with the others.

And here, before Shiv, stood the Culturist.

Flashes of crimson lightning revealed a serene expression on the orc’s chiseled face, even as the howling winds caused his feathered cloak to flutter and whip about. “A good enemy is the best teacher,” the orc intoned, his deep baritone rising over the roars of thunder. “For only the enemy might show you where you are weak, where he is strong.”

As water and blood poured down his face and body in equal measure, Shiv stared the orc down and scoffed bitterly. "Where'd you get that from? Your own Philosophy skill? Come to scratch your itch again, that it?"

"I fulfilled that urge earlier," the Culturist replied without offense. "And though I genuinely wanted to try your food, I didn't want to appear while the Gate Lord was here. I think he could do without my presence in his life. At least for a little while."

"Well, aren't you kind and considerate?" Shiv muttered, a sarcastic smile cracking open on his face.

The Culturist grinned back, though the expression lacked any true offense or viciousness that Shiv might have expected. "I suppose I am, at times. And to answer your question earlier, no, it was from a book."

"What question?" Shiv asked, confused as to what the Culturist was alluding to.

"What I said to you earlier wasn't from my Philosophy Skill; it was sourced from an old human historical document." Static mana condensed around the Culturist's fingers as he raised a hand, and with a clench of pressure, a book appeared. A book so small and fine that it could have gotten lost in the Culturist’s palm. It looked like one of those pre-war books Shiv used to find in the ruins. The cover was worn, and the papers looked fragile. However, a magical glow radiated from the book, and Shiv suspected that the Culturist was keeping it together using some manner of Reinforcement spell.

"What book is it?" Shiv asked, his curiosity slightly piqued despite the remaining sourness of his emotion.

"Records of an ancient war of some kind," the Culturist said. "This, I think, records the final period of human history before the System arrived on Earth. Did you know that your ancestors traversed the void? That they greeted the stars to fight great and terrible adversaries? Toward the sudden end of its journey, your species, humanity, found itself fist against fang against a foreign race of bugs. Though lacking in detail, it was fascinating to witness the technological and sociocultural developments between the texts."

The orc wove magical images into being, visualizations of how he imagined the things he read about. "At first, there were troopers wearing metallic shells of armor. I think they were pre-System automata, and they faced the bugs in direct combat. But later, as your technology grew more sophisticated and the situation ever more dire, you apparently began looking for genius strategists among the youngest of your kind and using them as grand strategists against the bugs."

"Wait, you're telling me all this happened in the void?" Shiv asked, his voice tinged with disbelief.

"That is what the histories claim, though I think a great many centuries are missing between the first records and the third. A great many changes happen between as well. It makes the storyline rather hard to follow. Trying to decipher the old tongue of Anglense was also rather difficult, even using a variety of language-based skills in tandem."

Shiv blinked. "Is this some kind of hobby for you? Wait, is this why they call you the Culturist? Because you go around rooting through other people's histories and cultures?"

