“Unless we strike first,” the Harbinger agreed. “The voice in Adam is right. Even if it is something invasive, it is right. We go on the offensive—we stay on the offensive. That is our duty now. We take the first hits. We fight the wars. We give him his peace and his time. We are beyond death; so we will make use of that to carry the burdens that no one else can.”

Uva, Shiv, and the Culturist watched Adam descend with Roland in silence. As the two became dots in the distance, the Culturist broke the silence. “I suppose we should get some unpleasantries out of the way, then.”

Shiv looked to the orc. “The Tarrasque?”

“That, but something else besides. The Endhound isn’t the only beast we must face. There will be others down the line. Even if you defeat and contain the Tarrasque, there will be my kindred, the vampires, Compact, the Vultegs, and the Jotun. Quite a coalition; it’s time we actually start building our own.”

And Shiv realized what the orc was talking about. “You know, the Pathbearers from Lone Star might just shoot you if you turn up out of nowhere.”

The Culturist shrugged. “Considering what I have done to them, I might even deserve it. But I think we can persuade them to turn their guns and hatred on a higher enemy. Or at least you can.”

“You know, I’m starting to hate how everyone’s relying on me,” Shiv mumbled. “Not my kind of pressure.”

“Best get used to it, Deathless,” the Culturist replied. “Responsibility is the price of love and being loved by a place and its people.”

Shiv paused. “Yeah. So it is.”

Gate Piety

Category 4

Skills

Crisis-Forged Fortitude (Initiate) 1

Emergency Relocation (Adept) 1

Industrial Transplantation (Adept) 1

Second-Person Perspective 2 (Master)Seed of Sprouting Edifices (Heroic) 200

Sovereign Star of Symmetrical Summits (Unique) 200

Feast of Dreaded Flame (Unique) 10

Skein of Hollow Dreams (Unique) 13

Biomes

Autumnal Forest (Common - Active)

Freshwater Aquatic (Common - Active)

Umbral Wilderness (Common - Inactive)

Saltwater Aquatic (Common - Inactive)

[Undefined] Grassland (Common - Inactive)

[Undefined] Desert (Common - Inactive)

[Undefined] Tundra (Common - Inactive)

Select Elemental Dimension Biome:

Master-Tier: [Plane of Fire]

Master-Tier: [Plane of Frost]

Master-Tier: [Mithril Caverns]

[Unique] Master-Tier: [Psionite Quarry]

Districts

Farnest

Skyfolk Residentials

Grounder Residentials

Aquatic Residentials

Bunker Point

Shiv’s Kitchen Hellpit

New Blackedge

Peacehold

Abyssal Residentials

Draconic Hoardnest

Gateways

Tutorial

Earth (Abyss)

Earth (Surface)
