All faith is synonymous with spiritual imperialism. All gods seek to colonize parts of your time, your behavior, your souls. To submit to a faith means constraining yourself to another's ideals and mutilating yourself in their image.

To achieve these ends, every god creates temples. They gather prophets and proselytizers. They dispatch their faithful to spread, and in this, their imperialism becomes more like a spreading plague, traveling across dimensions and worlds to enforce their vision of what should be on what already is.

But the power contained within a god's temple is more than figurative. The moment symbology is invoked, the divine attunement of a god will be incensed, and so a metaphysical process takes place. A holy relic within the temple becomes a channel for the god to reside within, a divine anchor for a god to reach across dimensions.

We all understand how divine Domains work. They are realms unto their own, silos in the most absolute of forms. This is what defines a god: they are not capped at any one mana ceiling, instead always pressing at a world's maximum threshold, existing as the very peak of a conceptual embodiment. After all, what right god would be outdone by a mortal? What God of Fire would let a Legendary Pyromancer shame them in their own home?

And yet it does happen: Sometimes, Legends do shame gods. Though Legends are not absolute embodiments of the skills they possess, they can see gods outmatched in particular instances.

Outmatched but never truly overshadowed.

But it is this breadth, this spiritual imperialism, that cuts both ways and makes a god vulnerable. For if a god can reach you, if a god extends too far in countless dimensions, then it can be struck as well. It can be targeted by those who understand its scripture and force the god and its faithful to disfigure themselves along the veins of their own belief. They can be brought down. Their waters can be polluted—just like empires can over-extend and fail to consume those they try to assimilate.

The diseases of empire apply here more than anywhere else. Choke the gods, make them fail to digest you, and poison the roots of their spreading faith…

—The Heretic’s Guide to Anti-Theism, Authors Unknown

432

Seeds of Empire [II]

“Adam? Adam? Are you there? Can you hear me? Are you alright?” It was the purview of the mad to be speaking with inanimate objects. However, Shiv had several good reasons for treating Adam's effigy as if it were the man himself.

First off, there was how the azure band glowed around the effigy's brow. It burned brightly, and from it emanated a stream of incandescent fire that rose into the sky. The stream kept Adam's Glare of Immolating Omniscience in existence, signifying that he was still here, albeit entombed inside that tessellating substance made in mockery of his form.

Then there was the vitality suffusing the effigy. It glowed bright with Adam's life force, and it burned brighter with every passing second, as if it was brewing Adam's very soul. Likewise, the Culturist maintained a direct connection to Adam's Awareness skill, and he was the first to realize what was happening. Adam hadn't been destroyed or stricken from this dimension. Instead, he was currently undergoing a divine anchoring process.

Apparently, every god had to suffer such a process—with the Ascendants requiring both an Avatar and a Phylactery to help offset their counterfeit godhood.

Things were more than a little different with Adam. He was closer in nature to the Composer at present than he was to any Ascendant. The System recognized him as a natural god in the process of evolving, but perhaps even more than that, he possessed a relic from a prior age—before there was any mana at all—that left his current state in question.

Adam's continued silence built on that tension, and everyone waited with bated breath, trying to think of a way to extract him from within his effigy. Uva said she could still reach his mind, and she flung bolt after bolt from her dreaming storm into the tessellating fabric, yet found herself unable to penetrate its inner dimensions.

“It's like I'm trying to push through a veil of immovable fog,” she said. And said fog categorized more than the dimensions within the effigy: it held the temple aloft. It spilled out from Adam. It was the manifestation of peace, and it came with the added symbol of the open palm. There was something poignant about all that, something that still eluded Shiv's grasp, but he couldn't shake the feeling that there was something sinister behind all this. After all, Adam never truly got to choose his own Domains. They were already nested inside him since the moment his Divinity was awoken via the flames of the Broken Watchtower.

“I recognize the substance composing Adam's effigy,” the Starhawk suddenly declared, his voice hesitant but firm. “It is a piece of the material that was extracted from within the Great One. I purified it in the aftermath of the war, and when the rest of the crystallized Divinity was peeled away, only a tiny grain of this substance remained. I'd embedded that grain inside your daughter-to-be, Roland, and then, in the aftermath, I moved it over to Adam.”

“So what is it?” Roland cried at his god in agitation. “A variant of Inertium?”

“No,” Shiv answered. Though the substance was constantly tessellating, it lacked a vibrational frequency that rejected matter. Instead, it seemed to be a series of cubes that constantly propagated and dissolved, building on itself and then breaking apart, like a solidified parody of mist. “It’s not magically repellent at all—”

And then, as suddenly as he had been drawn into the effigy, Adam was spat back out in a burst of vapor and Divinity. The flash of light sent a surge of brilliance down from the star above, and as Adam rematerialized, he found himself drawing in a long and ragged breath, feeling at his own body, whipping his head around as if he had been struggling to break free all this time.

"Felling hells! Felling System! Felling everything! Stop doing this to me! Stop it!" Adam shrieked his frustration at the sky, but if the System felt any shame in forcing all this on Adam, it didn't show it. Instead, it kept to its silence and left this most esoteric of rewards in its wake.

“Adam—” Just as Shiv was about to examine his friend, an echo of Adam emanated from his effigy. It replicated his furious expression and spat forth the words he'd just spoken in a rumble of resonating power. It was Adam's voice on the surface, but that blooming presence which made existence shudder below. It repeated every one of his complaints verbatim with a moment’s delay.

Everyone drifted back from the temple, their postures tight with nervousness.

Everyone except Adam. He shaped an arrow of incandescence, and before the Culturist could call out or stop him, he fired his projectile straight into the tessellating object made in replica of his form. A blast of flame shrouded the temple, but as the mists twirled, Adam's attempt at self-defacement failed. Not a single scratch marred his effigy, nor the pagoda it was situated under.

A growl escaped him as he fired a stream of fiery shards at his own image. He managed three before he was forced to stop, in part because the Culturist seized him, restrained him, but more disturbingly, because Adam began hacking up blood as his flesh cracked, not so different from how Shiv broke people using his Harbinger.

“Fool,” the Culturist grunted under his breath as he held Adam tight.

Roland had his own arrow drawn, but he hesitated. He wasn't sure if he should help the orc in restraining his son, or if he should put a hole through the Culturist for daring to lay his hands on Adam. Shiv tipped the Town Lord's decision towards assistance with a nudge of his elbow. They collectively pulled Adam away from his effigy, even as he hurled curses and incoherent barks of rage at his own likeness.

In seconds, the cracks that lined his body closed shut, but from the thinness of the remaining crevices did fingers of curling incandescence still hiss free. “Release me. Let me go!” Adam brayed with near incoherent rage. “See how the System mocks me when I break its prison!”

“It's not a prison.” The Culturist forced Adam to face him. “And you are not breaking the effigy. The only reason it cracked at all is that you're defacing yourself. It is a symbol of your worship. It is your divine anger. What god would strike their own likeness? The only thing you are doing right now is damaging your Domains. Look upon it. Look upon it in true detail.”

And Shiv did so before Adam. The cracks veining his body had faded, and so too did the damage afflicting the effigy. Both of them resembled one another, with only crevices of incandescence marking the prior damage. The Culturist's words proved true. Adam was a god defacing himself. He had not reached the point of deep harm, but had he pushed further, he would have more than wounded himself.

At first, Adam still wanted to rage, his anger reactive, but as time passed, he realized the futility of his action. There would be no liberation in destroying his temple. There would be no significant symbol against the System for inflicting him with this reward. He was divine, and the System buried that point deep. Though Adam held something beyond magic, he was mostly infused with magic still, and thus a dog of the System nonetheless.

When his struggle ceased, the others released him, and he drew close to his effigy, coming to greet it face to face. Once more he spoke, but this time the words were not uttered in hate, but rather in deep contemplation. “Why can I feel you?”

The reply from within the effigy came instantaneously as well, and the Paragon was greeted with a reverberation of his own voice. Adam came to a halt in the air, but he held up a hand and curled his fingers, as if trying to draw the temple closer. To Shiv's surprise, the temple did approach.

The Evangelizing Temple of Tyrannical Peace trawled through the sky as the palm traveled slowly. The clouds tumbled forth like tank treads, like an automaton's tank treads, though the temple held no power of speed nor teleportation. The presence it emitted was one of absolute tranquility, and judging from the mist that surrounded it, there was no force in existence, no active violence or power of destruction that could truly shatter it at its foundation.

As the temple parked itself before Adam, a long and tired breath slipped out of him. “I see. I see.” And he did, but there was no joy in his epiphany. Uva, more than all the others, understood his feelings, for it was the System that forced itself upon him, that made him experience growth after growth, but not of his choosing. She wrapped him in an embrace and said nothing, but conveyed a feeling of true and deep sympathy. That proved to be enough.

Above, the Dreaming Storm congealed around Adam's star as if mirroring their hosts in the same protective gesture.

“I can feel myself inside the effigy. I can feel the temple. A part of me has been bound to it.” Adam made that known as his Omniscient Dawn suddenly jumped away from him, repositioning itself along the faintest of centimeters, but shifting nonetheless. It skipped away from him and manifested over the Evangelizing Temple of Tyrannical Peace, and then back to him right after. But as it did that, Shiv noticed Adam's mind start to turn once more, the mists that represented his thoughts spinning as he turned away from internal misery toward more productive ends.

"We can use this," Adam declared. "I can use this to survey the world outside. I can use it to travel the lands, to speak with people directly. It is an evangelizing temple, and it can carry my Awareness beyond this gate.”

That caused Shiv to consider the Realmrunner’s Keyhole that was still embedded around his shoulder. “Same way you can dimensionally fire through this keyhole, huh?”

Adam shook his head. “No, it's more than that. It's like this is a portion of my soul, a channel for it. It's not entirely akin to what you can do with your vessels. Every single one is you, but this is like a branch of me, or at least a channel through which I can emerge into this world. My body… Even in the Delve, I dropped in and out of my personal reality—a place of mist and fog.” Worry trembled through his sinews as he faced the Starhawk. “Am I going to fall out of this world? Am I going to be banished from this place without an Avatar like you?”

“Not yet, Young Arrow,” the Starhawk said, though he kept his voice somber. "You are still a god in the process of ascending. It will take you crossing that threshold of Demigodhood before you surpass the limitations of a dimension’s ambient mana.”

“And how long will that take?”

“For most, centuries. But with how the System has cast its flame upon you…” The Starhawk trailed off, unable to give a proper estimate, and how could he? There was no anticipating what might be looming over the horizon for any of them.

“So I need to make preparations… This temple. It's a passage for me to cross over into this dimension, even if my physical body is lost.” Then Adam's left eye widened. An epiphany went to light inside of him. “I can also use it as a scout in hostile territory. Up in the north, I can use it to manifest my omniscient eye, and maybe that way we can find the Tarrasque. It will give us a lead at the very least.”

Shiv froze in surprise and considered it. “You know what? It just might. Good thinking.”

With a flex of his will, Adam started moving his Evangelizing Temple of Tyrannical Peace to slowly crawl toward the surface gateway. Very, very slowly. “It's, uh, going to take some time to get there, but we have… a bit of time,” Shiv said, trying to keep his cheer up.

