Adam lowered his head and let out a sigh of annoyance. “Integrated Earth's tectonic plates shift faster than this temple floats. Might as well go out on the surface and cast my glare northward instead—save us all the trouble. But before the System decides to hit us with any other surprises: skill evolutions.”

Driven by spite and annoyance, Adam made his choice, and the mana core responded in kind. Crawling flames of scintillating brilliance swept through the nest of eldritch crystallization. The Terrorspawn within began to bubble and change, their bodies twisting and warping, but then they were lost. Amidst the spreading conflagration, Shiv and Uva tensed. Roland and the Culturist shared a wary or uncertain look at Adam, for this was an act of rashness, a singular decision without further consultation.

One could almost call it tyrannical.

However, an instant later, a notification appeared before him, and Adam drew in a sharp breath of building outrage.

Skill Evolution Rejected

Skill Evolution Rejected

“What?” he hissed. “Why? What do you mean you can just reject my choice? What's the point of me choosing if you're going to force me to pick something else?”

Shiv and Uva shared a look as realization blossomed between them. "Adam?" Shiv coughed awkwardly. "I think I know why the System's not allowing you to evolve them. It's probably because, even though they're technically Unique, they started out at Heroic levels of mana for the Gate anyway. We're going to have to level those normally. The only way to make those skills go up is to turn them, well, Legendary."

Adam froze. Then, his body slowly began to shake as a semi-hysterical giggle shivered through him. “Of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course it would be! Of course!”

“Adam, son,” Roland muttered, his anxiousness spilling over into his voice. “Adam, maybe you should get some rest—”

“There is no rest, Father. There is no way out of this. The System is just waiting. You saw what it did to me. You saw what it keeps doing to us. It's just waiting. It's mocking us. It's leering at us. It can't help itself! It's just waiting to throw something else at us! It's taunting us with every step we take! It's shaping our future! Of course it has to be hard! Of course it doesn't need to abide by these rules, but not any other time, no! When it suits the System, it will allow Shiv to evolve in a certain way that makes things ever more chaotic, or it will drive me deeper into a Delve, or maybe it will give the Challenger some new powers so that he can breach our realm, and then he can beat me to death in front of everyone!”

Those last words left Adam in an explosive shout that shook the air. Shiv's right ear rang slightly from the noise.

“Not unless we beat him to death first, him and all our other enemies! It's our tyranny against everyone else! It's our empire against everyone else! This Gate! This place! It's more than a sanctuary. No, and we have to be more than peace. We have to be an expansive force. We have to take hold of everything because there is no other choice. Anything that we cannot control will be used against us. Anyone who we do not understand, who exists beyond our boundaries, will be turned against us, and they will keep coming over and over again, never stopping, never stopping!”

Suddenly, Adam's rage went from a budding storm to an inebriated husk. His arms fell, and a listlessness took hold inside of him, never stopping.

“I am tired, Father, but I'm starting to think I'm always going to be tired. Until I can just look at the horizon without worrying that someone might be there aiming at me with their own bow, preparing to kill me, or you, or Shiv, or Uva, or Isabella, or Mother, I'll be tired. I want to live life like I used to. I want to have a moment of peace for all the power this godhood has given me. I don't actually have that which it keeps talking about: peace. There is no peace. There is no peace because we live in an existence that is made cancerous by constant, unceasing war.”

Shiv heard it in Adam's voice. The Paragon was so close to breaking, but he was also so close to being utterly unbreakable. Roland didn't see the same thing. Roland just saw his little boy, mutilated in heart and soul and flesh, and it was all the Dread Horizon could do to stop himself from crumbling in turn. Shiv could feel the heartbreak from inside him, and it was a horrific feeling, even tasted secondhand. The Harbinger shivered, and its pieces fractured beneath the strain; it was all the pre-Legendary skill could do to keep Shiv from suffering an overflow of damage.

Adam reached up with both hands and rang his fingers down his face, staring up between them at his sun in the sky. “No, no, no peace. Not for me, but for my enemies. I will find my peace in the submission of our foes, and we will do this by order of operations. We are going to build this Gate up. We are going to make this place impenetrable, impregnable. We are going to make this place a living nightmare for anyone and everyone that dares to come here. We are going to drive them to the brink!”

And as Adam spoke, his voice overlapped with the dreaded presence within the mist, and Shiv felt his will turn into law as reality groaned beneath his ontological weight. “Shiv, listen to me. I need you to do something for me. I need you to stand for me. I am fragile now. I am weak now, but you can't be. I need you to be my fist. I want you to be my fist. There is no one I trust more than you here and now—”

And those words inadvertently hurt Roland and the Starhawk more than Adam could ever know. But he just continued in fury and ignorance. “The monsters of the North think that they can unleash that creature on my gate. That creature which broke my town, our home. That creature, that murderer of Blackedge. I need you to break that thing. Starve the System. You are to bend it to submission. You are to do anything you want to it, but do not kill it. Make the System starve. You were right before I was blind and weak not to heed you. You were right! Damn the System! Damn it to all hells!”

The clouds around Adam rumbled and spread outward. The Divinity that lit him turned blindingly bright, even greater than the illumination which fell from his glaring star above.

“I will cast my gaze forward. I will find the beast for you, and after that, use whatever means you can to put an end to this travesty. That is my… my…” Adam blinked again, and suddenly the mists broke and thinned. He was himself once more. The crushing presence that he embodied was banished like a sudden fever gone into remission. The Paragon looked at his hands, and they were trembling. “What's happening to me… what just…” He shook his head. “It doesn’t matter. Father, I need…”

“What? What is it, Adam?” Roland swallowed.

“I need your wisdom. I need your experience. I need you to gather everyone inside this Gate. I want to face them. I want to speak with them, their leaders at least. I want to know what to make of them.” He hesitated. “I—I—I—”

“Adam,” Shiv said, his voice made stern and heavy through the Harbinger. “Go get some rest first. I can see your mind and heart peeling apart. It’s been too much—” Adam opened his mouth, doubtless to declare how it would always be too much, but Shiv kept talking. “I know. But I’m here. So is Uva. So is your family. You might not be able to feel the peace, but it’s there for now. So use it. Think about it. Deal with the rest when you're ready. I’ll handle the politicking.” The Deathless gave Roland a look. “Take him home.”

“No, wait,” Adam said, his voice weak, his eyes darting about erratically and unfocused. “Look… before that: the Gate rewards—”

“Later,” Uva whispered.

“Now,” Adam said. “We need to get something done at least. Something for you to—to—” He hardened himself. “If those skills won’t work, I choose The Dawn Unites—and… and… Give me a suggestion. Something else.”

“Quick-Fab,” Uva said after a moment’s thought. “It will help Can Hu—”

“Done,” Adam snarled.

Skill Evolution Gained: Quick-Fab (Adept) > Seed of Sprouting Edifices (Heroic) 200

Skill Evolution Gained: The Dawn Unites (Unique) > Sovereign Star of Symmetrical Summits (Unique) 200

Shiv wasn’t sure what the first skill was going to offer, but he felt the effects of the second immediately. The mana core experienced a solar flare, but as the wave of azure light swept through Shiv, he felt portions of Uva's essence carried over into him. He felt parts of himself pulled free as well. Imprints of his unique path were drawn into the mana core, and then a second flare followed, followed by a third and a fourth, until finally a new glow fell upon the world. A glow that was imprinted with one of Shiv's skills, and suddenly a new set of notifications appeared before his eyes as he looked upon Uva.

Symmetrize Soul and Skills

The same notification appeared twice when Shiv regarded Roland and the Culturist. He didn't know what it meant to symmetrize his soul and skill exactly, but he could guess The Dawn Unites allowed two skills to be fused within a Pathbearer. This then might mean the alliance of two separate souls, perhaps skills from separate Pathbearers or entire Paths as well. Maybe it would even forge two people into one.

After a beat of uncertainty, Shiv and Uva both gave their speechless assent, and what followed was at once cataclysmic and subtle.

Their souls didn’t fuse together. Their Paths didn’t blend. However, a portion of Shiv’s soul was tethered to Uva’s by a beam of light projected from the mana core.

And in the next instant, their strongest skills were bridged as well.

Legendary Skill Conjoined: Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides (Legendary) - The Dreaming Storm (Legendary-Unique) > Leviathan of the Dreaming Tides

At once, his shapeless tides crackled with kaleidoscopic energy and translucent mana. At the same time, Uva's lightning took on a cascading quality as surging vectors speared down the forking bolts. Shiv's Legendary Physicality, Magical Resistance, and Grappling Proficiency had been transplanted onto Uva's Unique Psychomancy, and likewise, her Skill was placed directly upon him. This wasn't a fusion. It was an outright overlap—and if anyone tried to invade the Gate while their powers were in alignment, then they might just be walking into the jaws of oblivion itself.

“Holy shit,” Shiv muttered.

Roland noticed the changes instantly; his pupils dilated in shock while the Culturist took a second longer to catch up.

“Ah,” the Legendary orc breathed. “I see. Well. This is quite something indeed…”

“North… north… north…” Adam repeated over and over. Shiv’s awe at the mana core’s newest evolution was cut short as he stared worriedly at Adam. “Please… Just… Stop it. Stop it. Don’t let it take our home from us again. Don’t… Promise me… promise…”

“Yeah, yeah, okay,” Shiv said without hesitation. “I’ll handle it. You don’t have to worry. Just… get better, Adam. Don’t break yourself. You promise me that.”

The Paragon tried to muster a smile, but his mind was reeling again. Uva projected a rush of power into him to stabilize his mental architecture, but it was clear he had gone past his limit for the day. His Divinity might have stabilized him, but the torture inflicted upon him by the crown placed him on a knife’s edge.

Adam was close to insanity—so close to falling. And without Uva, he might have already plunged into that abyss.

“Father…” Adam finally managed. “I want to… I need to go home. Please…” His words then were closer to a terrified child than a Legend or a god—and hearing it hurt Shiv in a way that he never wanted to experience again.

“Of course, son, of course,” Roland choked. He took Adam by the shoulder and guided him back down toward the Perch. Before he left, he shared a look with Shiv—and his expression tightened. “He believes in you. More than anyone.”

“Yeah,” Shiv said, feeling the pressure. “Roland—”

“I know. I understand. I… I’ve done so much, but not enough for him. Not when it mattered.” The older man’s self-loathing was undeniable. “If you need me on the surface—”

“Stay here,” Shiv said, resolute. “He didn’t call for the Dread Horizon to head out not because he doesn’t trust you—he wants you to stay because he needs his father more.” Whether that was pure bullshit or what Adam actually meant was beyond Shiv—but it was the right thing to say to Roland, for it applied a measure of relief to the man’s wounded heart. “You take care of Adam and the Gate, I’ll make sure the Tarrasque and the monsters outside never breach the walls. I’ll give you your peace. I promise. I swear.”

Worship Performed

And the act of faith Shiv enacted burned him as the mists of peace gnawed at his soul. Even so, he suffered the pain gladly, for though he was a creature of war and death, he aspired to far greater things now—greater things, and higher hopes.

Adam had given himself for Blackedge, for Shiv and Uva, for what he believed time and time again. But where the Deathless emerged from torment and suffering renewed and strengthened every time, too much had been taken from Adam. Too much had been done to his mind and heart.

He needed time to heal. But the System wasn’t going to give them that time at all.

