Gods and goddesses, she missed trading punches with drunken assholes. A fight with zero stakes and without Black Crow watching every exchange sounded lovely.

“Ta-duh, welcome to where the magic happens! And by magic, I mean mess. Er, making. Yes, that!” Sunny kept Ranthia’s arm trapped in its warm prison while she tried to stumble in a semi-circle to show off her space.

‘Mess’ was a pretty apt descriptor. Even though the workshop spaces were supposed to be used for crafting only—with lodging specifically and explicitly banned—Sunny plainly lived in the space. A mattress, wrapped in black velvet sheets sat in one corner, surrounded by a veritable moat of nut shells, empty bags, open jars, and other objects that once held snacks. Empty bottles that once contained varying forms of alcohol were littered across most of the workshop floor, with a hookah that was leaking streams of purple smoke into the overly warm room.

By contrast, the actual work area was rather neat. The wall of tools and work benches was clear of bottles and the husks of consumed snacks, and the wood shavings were kept swept into a neat pile in the corner. Even the jars and bottles of various liquids that Sunny used to craft her unnervingly realistic, wriggling art were well organized on the various shelves. Several blocks of wood—just a bit longer and wider than Ranthia’s legs—were stacked near the entrance, awaiting Sunny’s creative touch.

“I’m honored to be here.” Ranthia chose tact, for once in her blighted life.

“You should be. I don’t let jus’ anyone in here. It’s priiiiivateee.” Sunny started giggling, only to suddenly stop a few moments later. “But you’re the only pretty I’ve done naughty things with since I got kicked out of the Academy, so we’re basically faaaaaamily.”

Ranthia winced at the word.

“Oooh, we should do it in here! I’m not horny right now, but I bet if I play with your pretty flesh with my work tools I’ll get there! Then we—” A messy smile split Sunny’s face as she gazed up at Ranthia, only for it to fall into an expression of sober horror. “…Oh fuck, you’re wearing a hood and that stupid, oversized pendant isn’t made of gold. Oh shit. Fucking shit-fuck.”

Sunny released Ranthia’s arm and slowly walked her way to the far wall. She picked up a large jar and unstopped it—water, thank Xaoc—before she took a deep draught. A moment of hesitation later, she dumped the rest over her head, cursing the entire time.

“It’s… okay.” Ranthia mumbled, feeling even more self-conscious.

“No, it’s isn’t! I—fuck.” Sunny paused to open another jar of water and drank from it. “It was Avyna, wasn’t it? The hair’s just like you described. And I call you my pre—my friend—but there I was, trying to seduce you while you’re in mourning, just because I was bored and because I don’t know how to do intimacy without blood and bliss. You need a friend, not a disaster.”

“You’re having a rough time too. I’m not mad.” Ranthia had regrets. Had she just gone home…

“I was wearing a hood. That was why I put this stupid, ugly, overly comfy thing on. It had a hood. Ripped it off two days ago—wait, what day is it? Doesn’t matter—after I started thinking more about my experience with the asshole. Age-mush, or whatever his name was, claimed he died like a true and noble elf, but I don’t believe it. There’s just no way. But enough about him, I can get the truth from you later. Tell me what happened to your Avyna.” Sunny had accelerated her perception and was doing her best to speedrun sobriety. She zipped around her bedding area, finding morsels of bread and loose crackers that she inhaled without even bothering to check if they were still fresh.

“…Actually… We should talk about your father.” Ranthia made her decision. There was no way she could let Sunny comfort her over a lie, not when she was still ignorant of Ranthia’s sin.

“Oh, damn his soul, don’t tell me he killed your Avyna?! Wait, I have tea somewhere. Where in the void did I put that box? …Not that I can make hot water in here. Can you still make tea with room temperature water? I think it’ll work.” Sunny continued to zip around, running her fingers through her hair as she fretted.

“Sunny, please. Come here and listen.” Ranthia knelt and held her hands out.

She had expected Sunny to kneel in front of her—it wasn’t like there was a single chair or bench in the workshop—but the woman instead remained standing when she approached, she just placed her hand in Ranthia’s.

…Ranthia chose not to dwell on what their positioning suggested and sighed.

“Okay. When… After we defeated the orcs that had stolen the cargo, one of the Elf Hunters used some Skill and found the Spatial space,” there had to be a better word for that, “Avyna had hidden herself within. You were right, she was the one that had been transporting it. Your father tried to take her head, but I was able to deflect his attack. I tried to get him—all of them—to stand down. I knew her. I tried to rationalize things. But your father was convinced he’d get a few extra gems if he killed her. When he tried again, I…”

Sunny already knew the rest. She recognized the moment her friend hardened her gaze—the moment she figured it out. But Ranthia still had to—needed to—say it.

“…I probably could have blocked or deflected his attack. I didn’t. I was angry—I was scared. I don’t think he ever saw my knife coming. It was me—I took his life.” She struggled to keep her gaze fixed on her friend’s as she made her confession. There had to have been a better way to say it…

Silence lingered for an interminable length of time. Sunny’s hardened gaze—her dazzlingly multicolored eyes—remained fixed onto Rathia’s eyes, as though her blindfold wasn’t even there.

“And you still couldn’t protect her, even then.” Sunny finally spoke.

The urge to flinch—to look away—was intense, but Ranthia kept her gaze right where it was.

“I’m sorry.” Ranthia couldn’t respond to the accusation. In that moment, she couldn’t propagate the lie.

“No, you aren’t. You did what you felt like you had to do. You just regret it. Some.” Sunny pulled her hand out of Ranthia’s. After taking a step back, she spoke again, using an unreadable, emotionless tone. “My gratitude for the truth. You may show yourself out.”

“I never—” Ranthia tried.

“I know. Just go.” The elf interrupted her.

There was probably something more that she should have said. There had to be something that she could have said. Yet no words came to her in the moment. Instead, she stood and walked to the door, just as Sunny wanted. She opened the door, stepped through, and gently shut it behind her.

She wasn’t quite fast enough to seal away the sobs that came from within.

Vlip.

After everything that had happened since she left the City of Arts, she wasn’t even surprised when Clover teleported over to kick her in the face. The bunny was more or less fully grown, but she still lacked the weight to truly inflict harm. Though her ever-increasing stats made a noble attempt to bridge the gap.

Instead of putting on a performance, Ranthia just plucked her Bond out of the air and clutched her to her chest.

“It’s a relief to see you. I know the nice Hunter said you were safe, but we were all in a bit of a tizzy when your darling there suddenly leveled so much.” Litil’s relieved smile matched her words.

Gods and goddesses, Ranthia hadn’t even considered that. She had never even checked what the System rewarded her with after the battle. Yet Clover was no longer a level 480 Bunny. She had reached level 547—and received her third class, though the Wood-aspected starter class was still capped at level 8.

“I’m sorry that I worried you, sweetling.” Ranthia gently raised the bunny and tried to lean her forehead against Clover’s.

Instead, her dearest and most beloved Bond bit her nose.

That she felt.

“Thank you for looking after her.” Ranthia tried her best to make coherent words, even as tears swam in her eyes. Clover hadn’t let go yet.

“Think nothing of it, she’s always so gentle and well-behaved.” The [Healer] answered without a hint of irony. “Give me a moment to get her things together.”

Carrying Clover in one arm—teeth still embedded in her nose—and a stack of nearly twenty books (and other sundries) with the other proved to be something of a spectacle. More than a few elves gawked and a few even found some compulsion to follow for a time while they whispered amongst themselves. But once she reached the exhaustingly close to endless stairs of the tree, the crowds gave up.

And Clover finally released her nose once they were home. The bunny hopped out of Ranthia’s arms and darted off, while Ranthia nursed her aching nose and set the books down.

There were things she should do. She needed to cook and eat a proper meal. She probably needed to shower—or at least shift into a fresh body. She definitely needed to maintain and rack her armor.

Instead, Ranthia found herself in her bedroom before she quite knew she was walking. With reckless disregard for the soot that lingered on her armor, she allowed herself to tip over into the soft, cold bedding.

And there, she finally curled up and allowed herself to release the pain and misery that she’d kept bottled.

Time lost all meaning while Ranthia tried to process her emotions. Avyna had lied to her. And for all that she hated lies, all that she felt betrayed by every lie she had ever been told—she had chosen to lie to the world. She was doing everything that she could to convince everyone, friend and stranger alike, that Avyna had died. She had told her fellow Hunters that Avyna had selflessly sacrificed herself to keep Blood Chain from disarming and murdering Ranthia—only for him to reveal the charged gemstone almost the very moment that she died in Ranthia’s arms.

Lying to those that should have been able to trust your words was an egregious and terrible sin, yet Ranthia was just as guilty as any other offender. She was sick of lies. She was tired of secrets, of politics, and of the myriad games that those with power had to play. There should have been a better way…

Avyna had lied to her. She had done everything she could to make Ranthia believe they would reunite—aside from a single, hidden warning that hinted they might not. But what had even driven that final hint? Guilt? As she curled in on herself, it was hard to believe in anything. Even the love and tenderness that they had shared… had any of it been real? Or was there just something wrong with her—was her soul so rotten that not even Avyna could extend her trust?!

Guilt, heartache, misery, and outrage warred. There were other emotions too, but they were mere facets of the primary four. Or three. Or however it worked—the lines were blurry.

Why?

Clover received the truth. They were connected by choice and by the System. If there was anything on Pallos that Ranthia had to trust, it was her Bond. Xaoc too, but He was beyond such mortal concerns. He heard her out and offered her comfort in His own way. Yet He had no true interest in the deceits of those that walked Pallos, nor could He give her any answers. His only advice was to keep moving forward. It was great advice, but she needed time.

Instead, Ranthia languished in bed, still in her armor. At times, she clutched the pendant, woven using Avyna’s cherished hair. Sometimes she clawed at her own arms when she became disgusted with herself. She clung to Clover on the rare occasions her Bond allowed it, but she otherwise left the bunny to her own designs.

She didn’t even rise when she heard the tell-tale sounds of something crashing from other rooms. She knew Clover was just trying to get her up and moving. Hay-scattering and backpack-fouling aside, her Bond had stopped making much of a mess over a season ago.

She desperately wished she could seek a good [Mind Healer]’s services, but all she could do was lean on the stale lessons from the past. Feeling her emotions was an important step in the process, even if it felt like she wasn’t making any headway at all at navigating them. Rationalization was always harder than it seemed in abstract. And her emotions proved to be unfathomably vast and deep.

Ordinarily, she would have been able to track the passage of time using her increasingly sour body odor, but whatever cleanliness Auras covered the City of Arts were good enough that Ranthia failed to develop a stench. They probably weren’t a substitute for personal hygiene, but Ranthia was too miserable for self-care.

But she couldn’t languish indefinitely. Immortal or not, there was only so long she could subsist on trail rations and constipation. Not that she was allowed to reach that point.

A booming crash seemed to shake the tree they lived within—sending Clover diving under the bed for safety.

“Oi, you damned idiot—get your ass out here! He’s here!” The tavernkeeper’s shout followed.

And no matter how deeply embroiled Ranthia was in her self-pity, the woman’s words had her springing to action as if they were uttered by Xaoc Himself.
