“If Lord Husband is adamant he spread this knowledge, then Luo-Luo has a suggestion.” With a knowing smile and a leisurely shrug, Zheng Luo explained, “Lord Husband only needs to show there are benefits to be had, and opportunists will arrive like thunder and depart like the wind, all too eager to profit from your brilliant ideas.”

“Yea, but if I knew how to make money from this stuff, I wouldn’t have resorted to crowd-sourcing ideas.” Grinning, he quipped, “I spend coin faster than I earn it, and only a... significant windfall has kept me from going broke. I gave paper to the Legate, because the logistics of setting up a paper industry made my head spin, but the rest of my inventions aren’t exactly big money makers. Buckles cost next to nothing, same with soap and all those little tools I made. A few gold coins here and there, but it’ll hardly make anyone filthy rich and is still too expensive for most people to afford. Considering the Empire’s current situation, I’ve been trying to come up with something useful to the military, but so far, nothing. We couldn’t figure out how to safely concentrate and contain Rattan Gas into lethal doses, nor did we ever make anything explode with the yellow dye. Liquid stone was a bust, and for some reason, nobody thinks crossbows are useful.”

Unable to remain silent, Mila explained, “Your crossbows either have an impressive rate of fire and lack power and range, or fire too slowly and can only be used by a select few. They’re also prohibitively expensive to make and require expertise beyond most expert craftsmen, to say nothing of amateurs.”

“Lord Husband’s thinking is too narrow.” Pulling out a copy of Rain’s book from her bosom, Zheng Luo opened the book to the page on cast iron and held it out for Rain to see.

...Was she holding it at chest level because she wanted to flaunt her bosom, or because it was the optimal height for Rain to read from?

More importantly... “Cast iron?” Mila asked, her voice tinged with doubt. “It’s too brittle and inflexible for weapons or tools, liable to shatter if struck wrong. It’s cheap and easy, but I’d be consigning soldiers to their deaths if I gave them weapons made from cast iron. It’s an interesting discovery, but limited in use.”

“Indeed, as noted in Lord Husband’s book.” Lips still upturned in her patient, perceptive smile, Zheng Luo continued, “But Luo-Luo disagrees with Sister Mila’s conclusion. Considering cast iron requires only a simple furnace and little to no expertise to create, the possibilities are numerous as stars in the sky. Cast iron could replace all manner of things used in our daily lives, such as cheap iron pans and kettles, or more complicated and expensive items like large bells or sturdier wagon frames and wheels.” Presenting Mila with a seated bow, Zheng Luo perfectly portrayed a humble, but dignified woman, so proper and refined she could be a daughter of the Mother Herself. “Luo-Luo lacks a profound knowledge of metallurgy and defers to Sister Mila, but could reinforced doors or walls work?”

“...It could, and it’d work well too.” Damn well. Thinking things through, Mila voiced her thoughts out loud. “Even if a Honed weapon could cut clean through it, two brick walls with a cast iron plate between them would be simple enough to craft and slow all but the most powerful of warriors. If the iron were thick and heavy enough, it would even present a challenge to peak Experts, provided they can’t leap over it.”

After Zheng Luo brought up using cast iron for common items, Mila’s mind couldn’t stop coming up with examples. Furniture, decorations, lanterns, and ploughshares, so long as it wasn’t meant for high impact use, cast iron could make it better. Damn, the crossbows she just claimed were prohibitively expensive would drastically fall in price if the gears and inner workings were made from cast iron moulds. Even weapons like throwing spears and arrow shafts might benefit from cast iron’s brittle nature, showering the enemy in a debilitating rain of metal shards upon impact. Tch, with how cheaply cast iron could be made, it could even be used to build taller buildings and longer bridges at greatly reduced cost, connecting parts of the Empire which had long since lain impassable or unreachable...

Having lost herself in her thoughts, Mila came to her senses and found Rain and Zheng Luo listening to her idle musings with rapt attention. Whooping with joy, Rain hugged her tight and kissed her cheek, but Mila felt no joy or pride. Skin flushed in humiliation, she left Rain and Zheng Luo discussing whether to borrow money and establish their own foundry or partner with an established merchant enterprise.

She doubted they even noticed her absence, and if so, were probably relieved to be rid of this nuisance to their budding romance.

Burying her face in Atir’s fur, Mila headed for the city outskirts and cursed herself for a fool. Zheng Luo, brilliant, hateful, perfect Zheng Luo, how was Mila supposed to measure up? Why was that hateful woman so damn smart? Weren’t noblewomen supposed to be large-breasted simpletons who did nothing but fritter their lives away spending coin and playing Mahjong?

Hmph. No matter. If need be, Mila wasn’t opposed to using force to intimidate her rival into submission. If ‘Luo-Luo’ insisted on acting smug and superior all the time, then Mila would hold her down and beat her with a switch, and if she dared complain to ‘Lord Husband’, then Mila would beat him too.

When it came to matters of love and war, Mila would show no mercy. Mercy to one’s enemies was cruelty to oneself.

Arriving at the contest staging grounds, she easily made her way through the crowd with Atir, the horses shying away from the large, hungry predator, or perhaps scared off by Mila’s enraged visage. She almost wished some uppity young fool would make a comment regarding her age, gender, or heritage just so she would have an excuse to hurt someone. After registering her name with the clerk, she brought Atir to wait alone to one side, greeting a few familiar faces but refusing to approach them. The details of the contest had yet to be announced, so it stood to reason that everyone here was now a rival, thousands of Captain ranked talents gathered together and all vying for fame and promotion.

She spotted Zian, BoShui, and Fung almost immediately, standing amidst a growing crowd of would-be bootlickers and flunkies. With them were Ryo Geom-Chi and Seoyoon, though their older sister Da’in was nowhere to be found. A good thing too, Mila had only shared a brief exchange with them during Rain’s wedding banquet, but she sensed that the eldest Ryo sibling was not a woman to take lightly. Huu stood off in the shadows with his new quin, though too focused in thought to notice Mila’s subtle greeting. Quyen Dienne and his two comrades were also present, the latter two seated upon one-horned rhinoceroses while the former sat atop a massive, hulking elephant. The contestants had all been told to bring their mounts, travel bags, and a single day’s worth of rations and feed, but there were no restrictions or limits regarding what else could be brought. Dienne took full advantage of his beast’s size and power, its back bristling with luggage, gear, and rations enough to feed ten, and more with his lackeys.

Thank the Mother Rain’s higher rank disqualified him from entering, since he’d be shameless enough to claim Ping-Ping as his mount...

After spotting the other members of the Hwarang, Mila stopped looking for there was no one else she knew. In fact, she deliberately overlooked Yan and outright ignored her, still furious she’d refuse Rain’s proposal without so much as an explanation or note. A member of the Hwarang and newly promoted Warrant Officer Third Grade, ‘Du Min Yan’ was apparently too good for Rain and the People now. Typical of his stupidity, Rain was too enamoured by the five quin pups and his new concubine to realize what Zabu and Shana’s return meant, a rejection from yet another woman he undoubtedly loved. Mila didn’t have the heart to tell him, and truth be told, she was both saddened and relieved to know Yan didn’t want to marry Rain. Their bonds had been forged in the heat of battle, first against the Society and again with the Defiled, but Rain’s harem was already crowded enough as it was. Worse, if Yan were to join, Mila would drop from third favourite to fourth.

Whether the deer-horned girl could surpass Zheng Luo to take second place was a mystery, but no woman would ever shake Lin from the number one place in Rain’s heart.

“Contestants.” Standing atop his lion’s back, a Royal Guardian raised his hands and the crowd fell silent, his voice audible even without enhancement from Chi. “Each of you gathered here today holds the rank of Captain or its equivalent, a commander of a hundred warriors. Climb one step higher in rank and you will have the privilege to command ten times that number, a thousand warriors of the Empire, not an insignificant force by any measure. Thus, the single step between Captain and Senior Captain has always been an arduous one, for upon the battlefield, a thousand men could spell the difference between glorious victory and disgraceful defeat.” Solemn and without cheer, the Royal Guardian gazed out over the contestants, his eyes lingering on a select few, Mila included. “At the end of the Grand Conference, some of you will be awarded with a promotion for your performance in these contests and challenges, but I assure you, you will be tested in all aspects whether it be strength, intelligence, leadership, or cunning. Should you emerge victorious and secure a promotion, rest easy in knowing you have earned it.” The last was delivered as a threat, an ominous portent of things to come. Pausing to let his words sink in, the Royal Guardian soon continued. “You are all warriors of the Empire, thus killing is prohibited. Anyone found purposely sabotaging their comrades will be punished by military law. Form ranks.”

Falling in line, Mila stood beside two soldiers who towered above her, not an unfamiliar situation, but an unpleasant one all the same. Patting Atir’s neck to keep her from eating a horse, Mila watched and waited for further instructions, but none were forthcoming. Instead, she noticed multiple Royal Guardians making their way through the ranks in utter silence. When Mila’s turn arrived, her Royal Guardian Sent, “Your commanding officer has stumbled across plans for an imminent rebellion within the barracks. Unsure who to trust, he has tapped you and three comrades to bring word to the nearest garrison. You have four hours to complete your mission, and if successful, you will be issued another by your point of contact.” Mila was then given a location to meet her comrades and a password for her contact before the Royal Guardian moved on to the Captain beside her.

Grinning in anticipation, Mila stood in place and used this time to go over her orders and study her rivals. Though the mission appeared straightforward enough, who was to say each contestant would receive the same orders? Perhaps her neighbour was being told to hunt down a group of escaped criminals, and she would be his quarry. Also, considering the scenario, one or more of her comrades might well be a rebel in disguise, with orders to silence the rest before they could reach their destination.

How fun.

Determined to win and earn her promotion to Senior Captain, Mila set out with fire in her belly and victory on her mind. No matter how talented and hardworking Rain might be, being outranked by her beloved vexed her to no end and this was her chance to balance the scales. Someday, when she deserved it, she would topple the balance once more and claim her place as Number One Talent in the Empire.

Someday.

Chapter Meme
