Biting into her dumpling, Mila tore a hole in the delicate skin and watched as the fragrant steam escaped its doughy confines. The greasy, glistening, soup-filled centre taunted her with its meaty, savoury deliciousness, but years of experience taught her to let it cool lest she embarrass herself by scalding her tongue. Counting the seconds with arduous effort, she barely reached five before popping the dumpling into her mouth, whereupon she moaned in blissful satisfaction. “Delicious,” she said, speaking around a mouthful of meat, oil, and herbs. “Too delicious. My compliments to the talented chef.”

Beaming in delight, Tate’s eyes all but disappeared as he basked in her praise, his open-mouthed smile infectious to all who saw it. Nose wrinkled in a pout, Tali held out her plate and said, “Try mine now Mi-Mi, try mine.”

Happy to oblige, Mila swallowed her first dumpling, took a sip of tea ‘to clear her palate’, and inspected Tali’s dumpling, much like she did for Tate’s. Repeating her actions without deviation, she ate her second dumpling and extolled its deliciousness using the exact same words. Pleased as she was, little Tali would not be dissuaded from her initial query, planting her tiny fists on her hips in what she thought was an intimidating glower. “Which one tasted better? Rainy said Tate made more dumplings and mine looked nicer, but what about the taste, ya?”

Nodding in mock severity, Mila replied, “A most grievous oversight.” Making a show of deliberate contemplation, she sighed and shook her head. “Sorry sweetlings, but I can’t decide. Both dumplings were equally delicious.” And as well they should. Rain not only made the wraps and the filling, he also steamed them while the twins played with their prizes, two gaudy, lion puppets. Suspended from strings attached to crossbar, the silk-swaddled puppets ‘danced’ when dangled about, all thanks to a few words from Rain, a bit of clever carpentry from Charok, plenty of creative sewing from Alsantset, and many long hours of hard work from the latter two to get the puppets in working order.

Once again, Mila’s beloved underestimated the effort required to execute one of his ‘simple’ ideas.

The idiot.

Despite her delicious breakfast and the twins’ adorable antics, seeing Rain happily chatting with Zheng Luo soured Mila’s good mood. It couldn’t be helped, it was in her nature. Even seeing him cuddle with Lin made her seethe with jealousy, much less a stranger they met only three days past. With her jade-like skin, voluptuous figure, and eyes like clear Autumn water, calling the Imperial Servant extraordinarily beautiful would be an understatement, but no woman liked to see her man fawn over someone else.

Devouring yet another delicious dumpling, Mila eyed the pair of would-be lovers and begrudgingly admitted that perhaps ‘fawning’ wasn’t entirely accurate. With Baloo sprawled across his lap, Rain’s focus lay primarily with massaging the indolent bear’s scalp while Zheng Luo sat well out of reach from both man and bear, lecturing ‘Lord Husband’ on his appearance. “Like it or not, proper grooming and a polished appearance are key to garnering respect from your peers and lessers,” she declared, missing Rain’s hidden look of exasperation. “Just as one would not trust a skinny chef or a sickly Healer, most find it difficult to respect an unkempt noble. Lord Husband need not put forth even a modicum of effort, for this matter can be settled by hiring an attendant, someone like young magistrate Fung’s manservant.”

“Ha!” Rolling his eyes, Rain replied, “Impossible. Even if I wanted to, I doubt I’d find a second Fu Zhu Li sitting around with nothing better to do than to launder my clothes and brush my hair. Besides,” he added, running his eyes over his Death Corps escort, Guan Suo, Tenjin, Tursinai, and Lin’s Guards, “There are already too many people hanging around me. A man needs his space.”

Pleased by their misunderstanding, Mila kept silent and continued eating dumplings, leaving it for someone else to inform Zheng Luo of Fu Zhu Li’s... comprehensive skill-set. After long seconds, Mila realized no one else noticed as Lin was still half asleep and Alsantset busy fixing Tali’s torn puppet. Now, it was too late to explain things and the guilt ate away at Mila’s conscience. Though she couldn’t bring herself to accept Zheng Luo with open arms, getting rid of the Imperial Servant meant consigning her to death, an outcome Mila couldn’t accept. She disliked sharing Rain with yet another woman, but not to the point of sending her to death without reason.

Things would be so much easier if Zheng Luo weren’t so damned perfect, with her impeccable manners and graceful poise...

It pained Mila to admit she liked Zheng Luo better when Rain treated her with indifference, but this morning, things had changed. Don’t think Mila didn’t notice her loose collar and flushed skin, not to mention how Rain casually mentioned the two of them spent time ‘chatting’ alone in his yurt and ‘getting to know one another better’. This incorrigible, lecherous, adulterous man... even if he hadn’t already tasted his new concubine, Mila saw how quickly he warmed up to this beautiful and enthusiastic woman, sitting with his back to her in a subconscious show of trust and seeking her out for advice when Mila could have told him the same thing. She’d never harangued him about his appearance because she found his dishevelled and tousled look charming, and who cared about the respect of strangers? If an untucked shirt was enough for someone to dismiss you, then their friendship wasn’t worth having. Appearances were deceiving, while actions spoke true.

Just like Rain’s lustful behaviour with Luo-Luo, making excuses to spend time alone with her...

Finally noticing her foul temper and angry glares, Rain sidled over to her and flashed his irksome, handsome grin. “Don’t be jealous,” he said, leaning close to kiss her shoulder while Baloo sniffed at her plate of dumplings.

In no mood to be teased, Mila shrugged him off and turned away, stuffing the last of her dumplings into her mouth so she wouldn’t have to speak or share. Stupid man, could he not see how upset she was? And still he tested her patience. Swallowing her food, she put her plate aside and pulled the nearby Tate into her arms. “Remember sweetling,” she said, making no effort to keep her voice down. “When you grow up, you must be more like your Papa and less like your Uncle, understand?”

“Okay.” So darling and agreeable, Tate nodded as he made himself comfortable in her arms. “Mi-Mi, are you mad at Rainy?”

“Hmph. Why would I be mad?”

“I dunno, but you sound mad, ya? Did Rainy do something wrong?”

“Never you mind, just remember what I said.”

“Okay Mi-Mi. I’ll be more like Papa and less like Rainy.” Pursing his lips in thought, Tate fell silent for a moment before speaking again. “...But I don’t like cooking, so can I be like Granpapa instead?”

“Even better.” Charok’s love for Alsantset was only surpassed by Baatar’s devotion to Sarnai. Mila would never understand how Rain turned into such a lecherous fool when he had two fine upstanding examples to learn from.

Still able to laugh in the face of Mila’s anger, Rain pinched Tate’s rosy cheek. “Smart child. Whether it be your Papa or Grandpapa, both are better role models than I.” Turning his attention to Mila, he asked, “Excited for the contest? Should I come cheer you on from the side?”

“Absolutely not.” Annoyed by his lack of sense, she smacked his hand away from poor Tate’s face. “Need I remind you, someone has already tried to kill you twice.”

“Not entirely true, my love.” Smirking as he slipped his arm around her waist, he tried to kiss her shoulder again and again, she shrugged him off. “It’s entirely possible I was targeted by two separate people who want me dead. Your betrothed is a man with many enemies.”

Rolling her eyes, she leaned into his embrace before remembering she was still mad at him, but stayed there regardless to enjoy his warmth. “Either way, the last thing you should do is traipse off and give your enemies more opportunities to kill you. Even a blind archer will sometimes hit the target.”

“Fair enough.” Snuggling against her, he gazed fondly at Tate, though she noticed his eyes also lingered on her chest. Most days she’d purse her lips and frown, but today, she let him be. “Sad though, I wanted to see my lovely betrothed’s rise to glory. Warrior, strategist, blacksmith, and enchantress, the Saga of Sumila begins today.” Stifling a yawn, he added, “I’ll just stay here and take a nap, soon as I find Zabu and his adorable pups. He’s hiding them from me, I know he is, that greedy little cuddle-hog.”

Putting aside her indignation at Yan for returning Rain’s betrothal gift, Mila swallowed her anger to focus on Rain. He was never one for sloth or idleness, and while yesterday’s long, afternoon nap could be attributed to the action-packed opening day of the Imperial Grand Conference, for him to nap two days in a row was... not exactly worrying, but concerning. Her poor beloved was so strong, yet so fragile. Rain deserved all his accolades and more, for even though he started later than most, he soon surpassed his so-called peers and now rivalled common warriors a decade his senior. Few knew the dark secret to his success, of how his strength was built upon a past rife with hardship and suffering. Rain pursued strength not out of desire, but compulsion, his single-minded focus and iron-determination arising out of abject refusal to ever be helpless again.

As the number one talent in the Empire and newest member of the Imperial Clan, perhaps the burden of success had unravelled his last nerve and he was finally cracking under the pressure...

Resting her head against his, she asked, “Are you okay?” Switching to Sending, she added, “Know this, I am always here for you and love you regardless of rank or station.”

“Love you too.” With a wry smile of appreciation, he shook his head and sighed. “It’s nothing serious,” he said, lying through his teeth. “I’m just a little demoralized is all. About the er... book, and how no one wants a copy. I put a lot of effort into researching and writing it, but I can’t even give copies away.”

There was more to it, but if this was all he wanted to reveal, then she would not press for more. She’d warned him this would happen, but to her credit, Mila refrained from saying as much. Rain had good intentions, but many of his ideas were too abstract or unwieldy to be of use. For example, as impressive as having a water clock might seem, what benefits would it bring which could justify the expense? A caliper was useful for drawing maps, but mapmakers were an arrogant and insular bunch, unlikely to embrace Rain’s creative tool no matter how helpful it might prove. His buckles were clever and convenient, but tying knots wasn’t exactly an arduous task, and cast iron was inferior to wrought iron by every metric except cost. The most useful item in his book was the soap, but it’s not as if soap didn’t already exist. Rain only made a milder, better-smelling soap, not exactly a world-shattering development. Paper lay among the same vein, as those who could afford to write would hardly celebrate saving a few dozen gold coins every year.

This was all without mentioning the unfinished projects he insisted on adding, believing not only that his ideas were feasible, but there was someone else out there as mule-headed as he was and willing to waste both time and resources exploring them.

Unable to think of anything nice to say and unsure how else to raise his spirits, Mila’s hesitation cost her dearly as Zheng Luo spoke up during the lull. “Lord Husband’s book will bring great change to the Empire, only... With all due respect, this one believes Lord Husband erred in giving his knowledge away for free.”

Hmph, as if someone would pay for it...

Oblivious to Mila’s rude thoughts, Rain asked Zheng Luo to explain, and the temptress was all too happy to oblige. “It’s merely human nature. Even a priceless work of art can be mistaken for garbage if left on the side of the street beside a pile of trash. In giving the book away, the perceived value of the knowledge within becomes nil, because such is the value assigned to it. Even the most impoverished citizens would think twice before digging through garbage in search of treasure, while people in position to use Lord Husband’s knowledge would lose face if they did the same.”

“So... no one believes I have any useful knowledge... because I’m giving it away for free?” Making a face, Rain whined, “But I sent copies to Yuzhen, Fung’s Dad, Teacher, and others too. They all read it but none of them found anything particularly useful.” With another sigh, Rain continued, “I thought it was because they didn’t understand, but maybe they’re right. Maybe my ideas are stupid.”

“Absolutely not, Lord Husband is a brilliant man, standing head and shoulders above his peers.” Eyes brimming with confidence, Zheng Luo’s unwavering support for Rain made Mila uncomfortable. They only met for a few days, how could she already have so much faith in him?

Worried Rain was being set up for more disappointment, Mila interrupted their conversation. “Then how would you suggest we fix this?” Now Zheng Luo was forced to offer something substantial besides excuses and suggestions, lest Rain see her for the charlatan she was.

