Staring out into the distance, Yuzhen watched the Wall grow larger as she rode towards it, the thundering hooves of the mounts belonging to her eight guards drowning out all other sounds. It was all so strange, as if she were living a bizarre, dreamlike experience which began the moment she heard the news. From that point on, nothing felt real, her mind and body going through the motions as she set out for the Bridge, where her badge of office lay waiting for her to accept it.

Though she expected to wake from this living nightmare at any moment, she handled all her affairs in a calm, efficient manner. Years of meticulous instruction and attentive guidance combined with months of detailed planning meant she was well prepared and able to work without thinking. Before leaving Sanshu, she sent her pre-written messages to every Magistrate and Lieutenant Marshal in the north, demanding their support in her bid for office while mentioning the power she held over them. Then she picked her most loyal elite warriors and set out for the Wall, ready to face whatever may come.

Chu Tongzu offered his support before she even asked, which wasn’t unexpected considering the circumstances. With Sanshu teetering on the precipice of a possible Purge and Yuzhen firmly in control of the city’s mercantile enterprises, Tongzu couldn’t afford to oppose her, openly or otherwise. She didn’t think he would even if circumstances were different. They had a good working relationship and the capable veteran-turned-politician could be counted among her staunchest supporters.

Chu Tongzu’s glowing endorsement came as no surprise to anyone who knew anything. It was the overwhelming support from the other Magistrates and Lieutenant Marshals which confounded Yuzhen. Though she wasted no time sending her letters out, their responses arrived much too quickly, her travel party intercepted by numerous military couriers bearing stamped and sealed letters of endorsement from all across the province. Most of these letters would’ve had to been sealed and sent out before she even learned of her... promotion. Magistrate Situ Jia Ying even personally presented her letter of endorsement to Yuzhen at the gates of Shen Yun, an unexpected twist considering the woman was Yuzhen’s most dangerous rival for the office.

That’s how she knew she was dreaming. Real life was never so simple. Her enemies defeated without a fight, her position secured with ease, were this a play she'd scoff at the unrealistic turn of events. The various nobles and merchants of the north would never offer such overwhelming support for a half-beast Marshal of the North, no, they would fight her tooth and nail to keep her from taking office.

Using her new authority, Yuzhen appropriated fresh horses whenever necessary as she travelled day and night without rest. A journey which had taken more than three weeks by carriage was covered in a measly six days, not bad considering it took multiple couriers riding non-stop for three full days to bring her that first fateful message. Even though common sense dictated she should be exhausted, she felt no different from when she set out. What did it matter? Soon, she would wake from this meaningless dream and find herself back in Sanshu, having fallen asleep at her desk once again as she worked to both save Sanshu and secure it as her base of power once she took office. This was nothing more than the fevered dream of an overworked official, brought about by poor diet and too much stress.

Arriving with little fanfare in the late afternoon, Yuzhen brought her party to wait in line at the final checkpoint. Only five kilometres separated her from the Wall and her new Token of Office, having already received more than enough support to take it unopposed. All her carefully laid plans were for naught as the highest Office in the Northern Province fell into her lap. It was too fanciful even for a dream. Her true rise to power would be far more tumultuous, an epic struggle filled with hidden assassins and open conflict, coinciding with a concentrated effort to smear her name and unite the nobles of the North against her. Only after defeating her opponents through guile or force would she earn her place as the first demi-human Marshal of the North, the office hers until she slipped up or no longer wanted it.

That’s how things should be, not like this...

The line moved slowly but even then, her turn came sooner than expected. “Papers and identification.” The soldier stood before Yuzhen with his hand held out, bored by the rote repetition.

“What papers?” Yuzhen only had her token, denoting her as a Major, which she held up for inspection.

The soldier rolled his eyes without glancing at her token. “Papers of authority. Either your military orders or a merchant license authorizing you to travel to the Bridge. No one passes without papers.” The soldier waved her off. “Come back in the morning and you can pay someone to send a message to the Bridge. Next!”

Smart to keep civilians away from the Wall, it wouldn’t do to have the people spreading word of its current state. Though her guards would appreciate an early break, she couldn’t stop here. Keeping an eye on her surroundings for danger, she said, “I have been summoned to the Bridge.”

The soldier sneered. “If that were true, then you’d have papers. Next!”

Troubling. “I have no papers.” Still holding up her token, she added, “I’m here to take office.” So strange to hear it out loud. Take office. She didn't even want it.

“Now listen here, move out or I’ll...” the soldier’s eyes went wide with shock as he registered the name on her token, his jaw dropping in surprise. Clasping his hands in a salute, he dropped to his knees and the other soldiers followed suit. “Forgiveness, this lowly one has eyes but could not see.”

“No need for forgiveness, you were carrying out your duties.” Yuzhen chewed her lip, though it went unnoticed by the kneeling soldiers. “May I pass now?”

“Of course, this lowly one dare not bar your path. Fetch fresh horses for Mar... Major Yuzhen.”

“Thank you,” she said, dismounting from her tired horse and collecting her things. A little disturbing how easily she passed this hurdle, it would have been the perfect opportunity to delay her so her enemies could ambush her. Perhaps they already lay in wait on the path ahead and were eager to see her dead. Unlikely, but possible.

The theory went out the window as a brown-eyed, well-groomed, bearded giant arrived with the fresh horses. Carrying a long-handled warhammer and riding an equally well-groomed roosequin, he greeted her with a nod. “Name’s Dagen,” he stated, eschewing standard courtesies and decorum as so many of the Bekhai were wont to do. “Lieutenant General Akanai asked me to escort you over.” At least a hundred Khishigs rode with him, each one dressed for battle and exhibiting the poise of a veteran, with not a single familiar face to be seen. More unknown elite warriors led by yet another hidden dragon of the Bekhai, why it still surprised her she couldn’t say. The Bekhai could no longer be considered a dark horse, judging by the strength they’d already revealed they were easily one of the top factions in the north. A good thing they were firmly on her side, but it disappointed her to not see Gerel here waiting for her.

Was this a veiled message? Could Gerel be distancing himself for political reasons? She wouldn’t blame him if he did, it was the right decision. Though the Bekhai supported Yuzhen, she needed them more than they needed her. Not only was she already firmly tied to their camp, she also couldn’t give Gerel any heirs so an alliance by marriage made little sense. As a pure-blooded Bekhai and high-ranking officer, Gerel would be wasted on Yuzhen when his marriage could instead be used to secure allies among the more prominent and powerful nobles.

Besides, even though Gerel had scoffed at the notion, Yuzhen suspected amber eyes held some significance among the Bekhai. How else could she explain two amber-eyed heroes emerging from the Bekhai at the same time? They were rare enough it couldn’t be mere coincidence, the amber-eyed Behkai groomed for greatness.

Then again, the only other amber-eyed Bekhai she knew was married to Baatar’s daughter, so perhaps there was hope yet.

Swallowing her disappointment at her lover’s absence, Yuzhen thanked Dagen and placed her guards under his command. Empty, that’s how she felt, but it didn’t matter. None of this was real. If it were, Gerel would have met her on the road days ago, rushing to comfort her in these dark times. He wasn’t one to play politics or blindly obey orders. He would’ve known she needed him and done everything he could to be at her side, because he loved her.

Right?

A throng of aides and dignitaries awaited her as she arrived at the Wall, but Dagen’s Khishigs kept them away and escorted her into the city without delay. The damage to the Outer Wall was significant and though she’d been mentally prepared for it, the sight of those once-imposing structures in shambles petrified her to the core. Few knew just how close they came to sharing the Western Province’s fate, abandoned by the Imperial Clan and left to fend for themselves as tens of millions of Defiled rampaged through the Empire. These were turbulent times for all and she had her work cut out for her, but she’d yet to begin planning her next actions.

It didn’t seem important. If the Emperor didn’t care about his people in the North, then why should she?

She knew why, but she wanted to pretend for a little longer.

Riding through the once industrious city, Yuzhen studied the unfamiliar sea of canvas tents arrayed in every direction. Were these flimsy structures enough shelter for the winter? Aesthetically, they looked nicer than the mud and straw hovels most villagers lived in but they were a far cry from the sturdy, stone structures of the past. Making a mental note to look in on it, her brow furrowed as she tried to find her bearings. They were heading west into the city, though why, she couldn’t fathom. Her office would undoubtedly be at the Inner Wall, looming in the distance behind them. “Khishig Dagen,” she Sent, “Where are you taking me?”

She probably should have asked this earlier. Nodding politely, Dagen replied, “The Lieutenant General asked me to bring you to her. Won’t be much longer.”

An ambush? No, if Akanai wanted Yuzhen dead, then she wouldn’t have sent Dagen to escort her here. A strong-arm tactic then, looking to bully her into compliance. So bothersome, but this was the job. So long as Akanai’s demands weren’t overboard, Yuzhen had no choice but to comply. The Bekhai were one of the only factions she couldn’t blackmail or bully into submission, their complete and utter lack of political dealings or aspirations leaving her without a weapon. If anything, the Empire owed the Bekhai a debt of gratitude as Akanai’s glorious defence of the north had been repaid with contempt and disdain some fifty years back.

She couldn’t fathom why Akanai still fought to defend the Empire. History showed she wouldn’t be thanked for her efforts, but Yuzhen was glad to have the formidable woman on her side.

Supposedly.

Hopefully.

Arriving at a field on the edge of the city, Yuzhen noted the gathered Bekhai. A few familiar faces stood out, Tenjin, Tursinai, Rain, young magistrate Fung, Mei Lin, Medical Saint Taduk and other warriors who took part in the Battle for Sanshu all stood waiting to greet her. Sweet Sumila ran into her embrace without a word, hugging her too tightly as Akanai strode up to meet her. “Leave her be girl,” Akanai said, pulling Sumila off and gesturing for Yuzhen to follow. The Bekhai parted as she followed behind Akanai, unable to see past the towering woman as they strode through the crowd. Her guards stayed behind at Dagen’s order, and were it any other faction, then this day next year would be the anniversary of her death, but she had nothing to fear from the Bekhai.

Even if they did kill her, would it really be so bad?

Moving aside, Akanai patted Yuzhen’s shoulder and Sent, “Whatever may come, know I stand at your side.” Nodding in reply, Yuzhen’s breath caught in her throat as she spotted Gerel ahead. His normally clean-shaven head and face bore a weeks worth of stubble and he carried three lit sticks of incense in hand as he knelt in the cold, hard dirt. An innocuous roadside shrine sat directly before him, housing a beautiful unmarked white-jade urn. Inscribed into the shrine was a tribute to the unknown, nameless father laying within, a true hero who died saving his daughter.

Reality struck her like a hammer and she couldn’t deny it any longer.

This wasn’t a dream or a nightmare. This was real.

Her old man died. He died to keep her safe.

Never again would he sip the tea she brewed or eat the food she cooked, grumbling as he finished every last drop and scrap.

Never again would she hear his voice instructing her on proper etiquette or see him smile when she succeeded using the skills he taught her.

Never again would he stroke her hair, hold her hand, or hear him call her his ‘little girl’ and tell her how much he loved her.

He gave his life to eradicate his clan as an example to the Northern powers, letting each faction know just how far he was willing to go. As his appointed successor and privy to all their dirty secrets, the title of Marshal of the Northern Province was hers for the asking. She only needed to hold her hand out and accept it thanks to his sacrifice. She never wanted this, never expected to hold office for more than a day, and thought him delusional for believing otherwise, yet still she devoted the past year to working towards this goal, ready to accept death to make his dreams a reality.

Turns out, he was willing to do the same.

Sobbing in anguish, she staggered forwards to join Gerel on her knees, wailing as she kowtowed before the shrine. She couldn’t give her papa a proper funeral, not after what happened. Though his admission of guilt earned him a clean, painless death, every member of the Shing Clan had been executed for the crime of regicide, and she couldn’t afford to be seen sympathizing with a ‘traitor’. Even so, here Gerel knelt as a proper son-in-law should, giving her the means to publicly grieve and mourn her loss. Neither shrine nor urn bore papa’s name, but everyone present knew this to be the final resting place of Shing Du Yi, even though they’d deny it should anyone ask.

With her future husband beside her, she grieved her loss. Tomorrow, despite her reservations, she would take up her father's mantle as Marshal of the North and become the highest ranking demi-human in the history of the Empire. Between papa’s blackmail materials and Sanshu’s resources, she would be in a position of strength like no other Marshal before her. All the arrogant nobles, greedy merchants, and bloodthirsty generals of the North were but fish upon the chopping block if she so desired, and she would use this to unify the province like never before. Even if the Emperor abandoned the North, she would follow in her father’s footsteps and defend these lands until her dying breath.

Because even though she didn't care for it, Papa loved this country so she would protect it in his absence. Someone had to keep the Empire from turning on itself and that’s precisely what Papa did. Though he’d been labelled traitor for his efforts and had his titles stripped away, his most important title remained untouched.

Shing Du Yi, beloved father of Yuzhen.

Rest well, papa. Your little girl will make you proud.

Chapter Meme
