"No one but me," Irons concurred quietly. "Despite this, I knew that the local constables and Investigators would not do anything, so I took things into my own hands. When I returned to my residence, I found some of the evidence she'd discovered hidden behind my shield in the armory. It seemed that Melissa suspected this might happen and left just a sliver of a chance for someone else to follow in her trail. So I did. But I knew I couldn't operate openly, not with my identity so easily verified."

And then, Irons looked toward the goblin sitting upon the operating table, and Shiv realized how the man had gotten into this mess.

"You bought a shell and a false semblance?" Adam gasped. "I—that just doesn't seem like a 'you' thing to do, Captain."

Irons shot Adam an odd look. "Do we really know each other that well, Young Lord Arrow?"

Adam's mouth opened and closed several times. A part of that statement seemed to sting. "I suppose not," he muttered.

"You suppose right," Irons said, but there was no malice in his voice. "You didn't know the me from years ago. I wasn't always a dutiful servant of the Republic, a proper soldier. We were all young once. We all had yearnings and periods of wanderlust, and during some of these periods, I simply drifted toward things that were ill-advised for me. They came with scars and opportunities."

"They came with you being a piece of shit!" Custiel suddenly cried out. The goblin had a mess of piercings, and his leather vest flapped about with the violence of his gestures. "What did you bring to my establishment? I told you, Irons, no trouble! You'll be hearing from the Dragon Brokers for this! You'll be wishing—"

Suddenly, the Educator reached down and seized the goblin by the neck. "I wasn't finished speaking with you," she said. Her voice was cold, and there was a promise of death behind every word.

The goblin choked. "I, yeah, of course, I'm just..."

"He is no longer a matter," she continued. "I am your only matter. I am your only client. You will not see anyone else for the next week, or however long it takes for you to complete all these shells and false semblances. We need to be gone from the city. We need to be gone fast. Furthermore, we require safe houses, locations that even the highest powers in the Empire will not think to search."

"Define 'highest powers'," the goblin said. "I can hook you up if you're just dealing with the Guard, but things outside don't sound so good. From what I heard, even Harlock's all over the place. The capital's in lockdown. I mean, what the hells did you people do? Piss off one of the Ascendants?"

Shiv and Adam looked at each other, and both of them snorted. "Try all of them, goblin," Shiv said with a grunt of bitter amusement.

He chuckled awkwardly. "Oh, is that a joke?"
