An Orichalcum pillar shot up from him and pushed through the ceiling of the Dimensionality. If that caused Five any difficulties, he didn't say. With a final clench of force, Shiv found himself drawn across space and surging upward.

Suddenly, he felt tighter, tighter than he'd ever been before. Shiv had never feared claustrophobia, but that didn't mean he enjoyed it much. And this teleportation was among the most claustrophobic experiences he ever had. He was circulating along the insides of the mithril supports, and every few seconds, he found himself lurching at hard angles.

Despite the erratic movements, he had a faint sense of where he was. His recently gained Portomancy skill offered him another layer of spatial senses, and he felt at the dimensional pathways lining the mithril.

Portomancy 5 > 6

It was through this observation that he also understood why focus crystals were so efficient. They prevented any ambient mana loss. Every time someone cast, there was always a faint shimmer of magic, especially if they were channeling a lot of spellstuff. And that brightness wasn't a display of power, but a revelation of inefficiency. These focus crystals were like conductors and thresholds all at the same time. Mana didn't escape from them until a mage decided to finally unleash the spell.

And that had Shiv a little excited, for he had a new blade that needed to be tested as well. He hadn’t even gotten to regard its status sheet yet. He tried holding it up to where his face was, doing his best not to stab himself with how turbulent this spatial transit was.

Equipment Obtained: [Bladewand of Fire’s Path]

Tier: Heroic

Condition: Perfect

Composition: Focus Crystal; Orichalcum

Enchantments > Beamcast; Pyromancy 100; Dimensionality 100; Minor Plane of Fire; Will-Sharpened; Binding; Magic Amplification

Beamcast? Wonder what that does…

Minutes passed. Shiv found himself gliding from support to support, turning angle after angle, as he wondered how much longer it would take before they finally reached the guard cube. Without warning, a spatial pocket suddenly opened, and Shiv found himself dumped out within a new crawlspace.

As he landed in a crouch, he found himself staring at a dislocated gear that had been knocked out of place for some reason. Shiv guessed that was because he broke both the Zenith and Zeroth cubes. And so now this Guard Cube was lodged stuck here. A second thereafter, the Rebis arrived right beside Shiv. As he turned, he accidentally looked the man-machine hybrid in the eye, but only for a moment. He turned his gaze aside as soon as he could.

The Rebis twitched once.

His wings quivered slightly, and Shiv prepared to face the consequences. But no strike came. The Rebis turned away from Shiv, and he glided through the air, flicking his automaton wings more than his human ones. It seemed to prefer the right side more, and Shiv guessed that the mechanical part of him was probably more stable than the organic tissue.

Finally, Five arrived, and as soon as he did, he turned his head toward the Orichalcum walls separating them from the guard station proper. Before Shiv could say anything, Five's eyes flashed, and one of the automaton heads lodged upon his spine blared in tandem as well. Suddenly, the automaton head disappeared and fused over Five's vulpine skull. It was like the wolf-man had merged with the machine briefly, as a single, blood-red orb replaced its eyes while its teeth glinted, becoming pieces of pointed alloy.

That optical orb he'd stolen from the automaton projected a beam into the wall, but not a destructive one. Instead, Shiv saw life signs highlighted behind it, silhouettes of people standing in what looked to be a circular chamber.

"Six Pathbearers," Five said, "a full team of wardens. Looks like they just got back from a raid."

Shiv wanted to ask how the wolf-man knew that, but he decided to test his own Awareness more. He studied the postures and bodies of the Pathbearers, and he found some of them clutching their arms, one of them half bent over. He noticed how one had strings swaying from their limbs, strings that sparked. Wires, he realized. A damaged automaton.

Five directed his cybernetically enhanced gaze elsewhere and began to sweep the surrounding walls.

More silhouettes were revealed, but there were fewer wardens here than Shiv expected. Beyond those within the teleportation anchor, he counted four in a nearby room, equipping themselves with armor and weapons. And there were two more on the floor above. Shiv briefly thought they were sleeping, but when he saw the way that they writhed, he guessed that they were looking at an infirmary.

"We have a few options," Five said, sounding hesitant. "With this skill, I can also try a few other configurations. I have a skull capable of sonar-based detection, but it makes quite the loud noise. And once we use it, it will draw attention. Might you have any high-Tier Awareness abilities, perchance?"

"Farsight," Shiv said.

Five lowered his head. “I suppose we can't be good at everything,” he muttered. “How about stealth?”

“You know what Creeping Void is?"

"Creeping Void?" Five said, surprised. "But that's..." He sniffed at Shiv, paused, and sniffed even harder. "I always knew there was a peculiar smell about you." A slight grin pulled at his bestial face. "Look at us. All three of us, somewhat human, but not quite. If we survive this, I must be bold and ask, how did one such as you come to gain the scent of a Tarrasque?"

"Seriously, you can smell that off of me?" Shiv asked, stunned.

The wolf-man flicked his middle finger against the tip of his alloy-fused nose. "I have special gifts, more than even most of my kind. But even without it, you stand out. You have been marked by the System in a most dire way, friend."
