Ryoka sat in an inn and munched on her potatoes and stewed meat. She felt guilty about it, but the dinner menu hadn’t exactly been diverse with options, and she was hungry. Still, she felt guilty.
Her plate was about 80% potato and 20% meat. And it wasn’t great meat at that. The potatoes actually weren’t that bad—the people here spiced them up pretty strong with their unique blend of peppers and herbs, so they were palatable, but it was definitely not the kind of meal a healthy runner should eat.
Plus, this was her second plate. The guilt was real, but Ryoka couldn’t do much about it. She took another bite of the steaming potatoes and tried not to think about dieting or proper nutritional intake.
Normally, she avoided carbo-loading unless she was actually going to run a race but…she deserved a treat. Besides, she was officially resting at the moment after all the healing she’d been doing. And again, the inn wasn’t serving anything else, so she had to make do.
Potatoes and meat, with a lot more gristle than she was used to. Still, it tasted good, and she was used to rugged fare, especially when she went camping.
Not modern-day camping, either. Ryoka disdained people who slept in their own car or, worse, in a huge trailer they towed to campsites. No, she preferred roughing it with a sleeping bag, enough food for a few days, and the bare essentials. That was living.
But she had to admit, it would be nice to have a hamburger once in a while. And fresh vegetables like kale. Right now, harvest season had passed and it was late fall (although it certainly didn’t feel that cold), and vegetables were in shorter supply.
More meat, more vegetables, a lot fewer carbs. That would be better. But you got what you paid for. Ryoka sighed and ate another chunk of potato. It wasn’t bad. It just wasn’t great either. At least someone else was enjoying her meal.
Garia finished her third plate of potatoes and meat and took a deep draft from her mug before sighing contentedly. She had a good appetite. Well, she would. Ryoka surreptitiously eyed Garia’s arms and body. She might not have a six pack, but Ryoka hadn’t seen arms that thick on another girl outside of an MMA tournament.
Not that she was muscled like those idiots who used steroids. Garia was just a heavier girl, one who clearly was used to heavy lifting.
“Do you always do the heaviest deliveries possible?”
Garia paused as she raised her mug to her lips.
“Um, yes. Normally. I mean, I’m not too fast, but I can still earn quite a lot on an overnight delivery.”
Ryoka was trying to pretend her shoulders didn’t hurt. Which they did. Immensely. The strain from hauling that much weight…and Garia seemed fine. So Ryoka was fine. Fuck you. She was so fine—she coughed as she reached for a cup of water.
“Those spices you carried here. All the way from Wales. They were heavy. I saw the size of your pack. Must have been sixty, eight pounds of weight. And you jogged the entire way here?”
Garia shifted and blushed a bit.
“Well, if you distribute the weight properly, it’s not that bad. And sometimes I walk a bit if I get tired.”
“Hm. Impressive.”
Holy shit you’re amazing. But that part didn’t come out. Just a grunt—and Garia’s look of pleasure and blush made Ryoka feel so guilty she pretended she didn’t see it.
Ryoka bit into another potato and eyed the browned onions as Garia turned red. She clearly wasn’t used to praise, but Ryoka was impressed by anyone who could run with that much weight.
“The Runner’s Guild requests are a mix between fast deliveries, safe deliveries, and heavy deliveries, right?”
“That’s right. Most deliveries people want fast over long distances, like the ones you take. But sometimes they want to make sure no one reads their message, so that’s important too. But when they need something delivered quickly—well, faster than by cart or wagon and it’s small enough—we get the heavy requests. I take those most of the time. It’s safe. No one wants to steal raw ore or a few bags of sugar. The most expensive stuff I carry are weapons and spices.”
“Hm.”
Ryoka wondered just how efficient Runners were compared to a wagon. But then, she’d seen the traffic jams that occurred in cities and how muddy the roads could get. Runners might be expensive, but if you needed something now, they were your only real option.
As Ryoka lifted her fork to her mouth, she glanced up and saw a man staring at her across the room. He immediately glanced back down at his plate as their eyes met, but he was far from the only one. Several other men and women of various ages glanced away or, in a few cases, met Ryoka’s gaze as she looked around the room. Even the barmaids eyed her surreptitiously as they delivered another plate of food for Garia.
Ryoka scowled. Garia noticed the other Runner’s expression and realized what was making Ryoka unhappy.
“They’re just interested, Ryoka. There’s no need to look like that.”
“If they’re so interested, they can come over and talk or they can bugger off.”
Garia blinked. Sometimes, Ryoka used the strangest expressions when she talked, but Garia could usually understand what she meant. The glare Ryoka leveled at her watchers was unmistakable, though. Garia tried to sound reasonable.
“Well, can you blame them? I mean, you are the only Runner to survive the High Passes for years—and without a scratch at that! And when you fell out of the sky—”
“Don’t remind me.”
Ryoka scowled down at her plate and tried not to remember. Her back still ached, even though the healing potions had done their work. Shoulders ache, back ache…headache. At least she hadn’t broken anything again or landed on her head.
“Damn elfish mage bastard.”
“What?”
“Nothing. Anyways, I didn’t get out unscathed. I got torn up on the way in, and I needed serious healing or I would have died.”
“Oh, so you found a healing potion? Ceria was so worried when she realized she’d given you the mana potions.”
“…Something like that. And it’s odd. I could have sworn she gave me healing potions too.”
“She’s really, really sorry, you know.”
“I know. Anyways, it’s both our faults for not double-checking.”
Ryoka scowled at her half-finished plate. Garia fidgeted, clearly wanting to clear Ceria’s name
“She said she tried to contact you several times. Didn’t you, um, notice?”
Ryoka glared harder at her innocent plate. She tried not to let her voice get too defensive, but it was hard.
“How was I supposed to know I was supposed to touch those damn fireflies to speak with her? I thought I was being hexed or something.”
“Oh, no. That’s the way students at Wistram Academy communicate apparently. Ceria doesn’t know other spells so…”
“I get it. I’m not mad at her. Anyways, I survived. It all worked out.”
Except of course that she had more problems than she’d started out with. Ryoka could still feel Teriarch’s words burning in the back of her mind. But she could ignore them, so long as she reminded herself she still needed to prepare. The strange potion he’d given her was locked in Ryoka’s chest upstairs.
“Come to that, where is Ceria? I haven’t seen her. I’d have assumed she’d be right here along with Gerial and Calruz.”
Garia shook her head.
“They’re all out of the city. Calruz came by and gathered all the members. Apparently, they’re going to Esthelm to prepare to enter the ruins in Liscor.”
“Oh.”
Ryoka’s expression didn’t alter noticeably, but she swore internally. She raised her mug to her lips, opened her mouth to ask another question, and this time swore externally.
“Damnit.”
Fals walked across the inn, flashing a smile at one of the barmaids and clasping hands with someone he recognized. He stopped at Ryoka’s table and hesitated. There were three chairs, but Ryoka’s foot had magically appeared in the third seat.
“Ryoka, how are you? I was hoping I could talk to you!”
“Were you?”
Ryoka stared as Fals dragged up another chair and sat next to Garia, who blushed and edged away from him. Ryoka wasn’t quite glaring—mainly because Garia was kicking her none-too-gently in the shins and trying to get her to play nice. She didn’t feel like playing nice.
“I just wanted to congratulate you on your delivery. Everyone in the city’s talking about it.”
“Good for them.”
Garia glared, and Ryoka toned down the rampant hostility in her voice. Fals cleared his throat, looking abashed.
“Look, I’m, ah, sorry about earlier. We didn’t part on the best of terms, did we?”
Ryoka stared. Fals hesitated and then went on.
“The Guild—and I—would like to apologize. Clearly, you’re a great Runner, and we’d hate to lose you. We’ll talk to Magnolia, and if you’d like to take on more requests, we’ll be happy to let you take any one you want.”
Mentally, Ryoka translated his statement. Since she’d won and defied Magnolia, she had stopped blocking Ryoka. Or the Guild wanted a share of her delivery and was willing to flip Magnolia off because they’d had enough of her bossing them around. Well, she could live with that. And so would the Guild.
She didn’t respond, though. Instead, Ryoka slowly and deliberately took a big bite of potato and chewed slowly as she stared down Fals. It was awkward as hell, but she enjoyed his discomfort.
Fals cleared his throat and glanced at Garia, but the other girl was trying not to make eye contact with him and wolfing down her food.
“So, um, how were the High Passes? Did you see a lot of monsters, or were you able to outrun them?”
“Saw a lot of monsters. Nasty ones.”
“Really?”
“Yep.”
“…Any interesting ones?”
Ryoka shrugged.
“Gargoyles, birds with teeth, killer goats, and wolf packs. You’d love it there.”
“Ah. Well—well done on avoiding them. What about the client? I take it you got the request from him in person, right? What was he like? Or is it a she?”
Garia looked up, curious. Ryoka glanced around. She felt like several nearby patrons on each table were listening. She nodded to herself and then looked at Fals.
“Confidential.”
“Ah.”
The conversation stalled. Well, it hadn’t really been going that well in the first place, and Ryoka bluntly shot down all of Fals’ attempts to ask about the High Passes or her delivery. At last, he leaned forwards and gave Ryoka his most charming smile.
“I know you’re still recuperating, but I’d love to go on a delivery with you sometime. Maybe you, me, and Garia could do a request?”
“Maybe.”
That was Ryoka’s way of saying no, and all three Runners knew it. Fals didn’t falter though.
“Is there, um, anything I can do for you? I know you’re probably still mad, but I’d love to make it up to you. Would you, say, let me buy you a few drinks?”
Ryoka thought about this while Garia tried to signal her to say ‘yes’ covertly. She nodded at last.
“There is something you can do.”
Fals smiled in relief. He exhaled, and his head rose—it had been sinking progressively with each rejection. He gave Ryoka a huge, expectant smile.
“Really? Well then, what is it?”
Ryoka nodded, deadpan.
“You can clear out. I’m talking to Garia.”
He blinked at her while Garia groaned audibly. Fals tried to smile it off, but Ryoka’s expression was still deadpan. After a few seconds, he stood up awkwardly.
“Well, ah, I’ll be going. It was nice talking to you, Ryoka. And I’ll see you around, Garia.”
He walked around the table and paused for only a second by Ryoka. She heard him whisper just loud enough so she could hear it.
“Watch yourself. Persua left the Guild with her group this morning. She’ll probably try something. Even if the Guild’s watching her—she’s gone mad.”
She glanced up. Fals gave her a Gallic shrug and walked off. Ryoka shook her head in disgust and then received a sharp kick to her shin. She glanced up.
“You didn’t have to be so rude.”
Garia hissed at Ryoka, her normally amicable face clouded over by a frown. She looked at Fals as the Runner left the inn, disappointed. Then she turned back to Ryoka.
“He was trying to say sorry, Ryoka. Why’d you chase him off?”
“I’m not going to ruin my dinner listening to forced apologies and have him try to find out what I’m delivering. You know that’s what he was here to do.”
Garia hesitated.
“Not—necessarily. He, uh—why don’t you like him?”
Ryoka blinked at the sudden change in topic.
“He’s annoying. I hate charmers, and he’s not even that charming to begin with. Whose side is he on, anyways?”
“No one’s. He’s trying to keep the Guild together, Ryoka.”
“By stepping on anyone who gets out of line? Good method. He didn’t stop Persua and her cronies from attacking me—and he’s not going to do it again by the sounds of it.”
“He would if you let him stick around. Fals can’t do anything to Persua except talk to her, but he’s trying to help. He was celebrating when he heard they got demoted to Street Runners! And he told Claudeil when no one was sure if you were going to walk again—he told him that if you didn’t walk, he should leave the region that night.”
Ryoka Griffin blinked at Garia. She hadn’t known that. Was Fals going to…pull a Persua on Claudeil? But almost instantly she had a thought, and faster than she could think twice, Ryoka sneered.
“Oh, how chivalrous. Too bad he couldn’t say that to Persua. And I’m not sleeping with him either way.”
She snorted—and Garia pushed her. It was a shove—which sent Ryoka sprawling out of her chair and rolling across the floor. 
“Ryoka!”
Garia was surprised—Ryoka rolled into a table and sprang up as the background noise stopped. 
Holy heck, I was just pushed by a gorilla. That wasn’t an insult—that was how it felt. Terrifyingly strong. Garia was beet-red as everyone stared at her. Ryoka slowly sat down.
“D-don’t be nasty. Fals likes you. He’s just not—don’t be nasty. You’re the one who keeps provoking Persua, you know. I know she’s bad, but he’s on your side.”
Ryoka raised her eyebrows. She sat without a word. She hadn’t expected that. Nor did she quite believe it. The two Runner girls sat in silence as Garia grew less red, and Ryoka took her time replying. She tried to be more diplomatic this time—and the end result was moderately better.
“Good for him, but I don’t need help.”
“Not even with Persua?”
Garia saw Ryoka’s hand tighten on her fork, almost crushing the cheap pot metal.
“Not even with her. I’ll deal with Persua now that I know what she’s like.”
Garia was doubtful.
“She’s like a dog, Ryoka. Even if you hurt her, she’ll keep coming back. And if you do get her mad, she gets vicious.”
