“Really? This Muy—muy tai thing is good? Is it a Skill?”
Ryoka wanted to groan or roll her eyes.
“Not a Skill. It’s something you learn, not a class or anything. I learned it when I was a kid. You could learn it too.”
“Really? Well, I mean, I’d love to know how to move like that. You were amazing back there! You’re practically as good as an adventurer yourself!”
Ryoka laughed shortly.
“He wasn’t that great. And martial arts don’t work on monsters. Believe me, I figured that out the hard way.”
“Still, I couldn’t believe it. When you threw the mug in his face I thought we’d have to run for sure. But you took him down!”
Ryoka stopped. She eyed Garia and shook her head with a frown.
“No. You took him down. With one punch.”
“Yeah, but…”
Garia blushed and shook her head.
“I was just angry. You hit him way more than I did.”
This time, it was Ryoka’s turn to object.
“Don’t sell yourself short. That last punch was serious business. I hit that guy several times and he didn’t fall down, but you went right through his chainmail shirt. You’re far stronger than both me and that adventurer. That last punch you threw was harder than my kick.”
“Well, you know…I carry a lot of heavy things…”
Ryoka realized Garia was turning red, and not because she was happy. The barefoot girl stopped in the nearly empty street and eyed Garia.
“What’s wrong? It was a great punch. Your form was terrible, but being strong’s not a problem.”
“It’s just—it’s just a bit embarrassing, that’s all. You know?”
“No. Explain it to me.”
Garia clearly didn’t want to, but Ryoka wouldn’t let her off the hook. She sighed.
“I’m a [Runner]. And—I know I’m bigger than most girls. I just don’t like talking about my size.”
“You’re fine.”
“I’m glad you think so, but—it’s because of my class. And the way I eat, but my class is part of it. That’s why I’m so strong too, but it’s embarrassing.”
“Why?”
There was no getting out of it. Garia looked around, but there was no one around to hear her. Even so, she lowered her voice.
“Um, I was a [Farm Worker] before I became a [Runner]. I got to Level 14 before I changed classes. That’s why I’m so…so…”
She blushed deeply red. Ryoka looked blankly at Garia.
“So strong? What’s the problem?”
“I’m big, Ryoka! I don’t want to be, but [Farm Workers] bulk up, and it’s impossible to lose weight! My dad says it’s fine and that I take after him, but I’d rather my mother. I don’t want to be big. I want to be small and light like you and—”
Garia looked like she was about to cry. Her face was red, and she was starting to stammer. After a moment, Ryoka patted her on the shoulder.
“I’m not light. Well, I am in shape, but so are you. What’s wrong with being that strong? Anyways, a [Farm Worker] doesn’t sound like that bad a job—class. Why do you care?”
Garia shook her head despairingly. She didn’t know how to explain it.
“It’s not a great class. Or a job, really. Even [Farmers] get more respect since they actually know how to till the land and take care of it properly. I just helped out with the plowing, lifting, and so on. But when I used to tell people what class I had, they’d laugh—or they’d figure it out because of how I looked.”
Ryoka didn’t get it. She really didn’t, but it sounded like there was some elitism amongst classes. Class warfare in the literal sense? But she understood the general problem.
“People are bastards no matter what world you’re in. Look, forget about it. That class helped you out if you’re that strong without needing any training, right?”
Garia nodded and sniffed.
“It was helpful. Even if no one likes the class, we get some useful Skills. [Lesser Strength] is the first Skill most warriors get, but [Farm Workers] get it too. Um, I got that on my second level up. But then there’s [Enhanced Strength], which is what I have, and I’ve heard if you reach really high levels, some people get [Greater Strength].”
“And that’s rare?”
“I’ve never seen anyone with it. But yeah, [Enhanced Strength] only comes to warrior classes around Level 30. The fact that I got it so early on means I’m a lot stronger than normal. Dad used to make me help him pull out tree stumps instead of using a horse.”
“W-whoa.”
You had to know something about farming—or roots—to understand what that meant. She and her father had…?
That was impressive. Ryoka had always guessed Garia was strong, but this afternoon had confirmed it for her. She paused and thought before asking another question.
“If this Skill is so good, why doesn’t everyone become a [Farm Worker] for a while before becoming an adventurer? That seems like the smartest move.”
Garia looked surprised.
“Why would they do that? No one wants to work on a farm. It’s boring and tiring, Ryoka.”
“But for the Skill—”
“You don’t know you’ll get it right away. I just got lucky. Okay, a lot of workers like me get at least [Lesser Strength] quickly, but it depends. Anyways, I worked on my father’s farm until I was eighteen, and I only hit Level 14 even though I worked every day from dawn till dusk. It’s not worth it.”
“Ah.”
It sounded—well, it sounded like there was some inefficiency in the way people thought about Skills. Ryoka didn’t play many video games, but if she could get this [Enhanced Strength] from working on a farm as a kid, she’d do that. But then again—18 years was a long time, it was true.
It was a moot point anyways since Ryoka didn’t intend to level, even if she was jealous of Garia’s strength. But the other girl was clearly embarrassed by her body and her class, so Ryoka let the topic drop.
“At least Persua got taught a lesson, although I missed my chance to break her arm. I’ll have to do it next time I see her.”
Garia winced. She knew Ryoka wasn’t kidding.
“Please don’t. If you do, she’ll try something worse.”
“Worse than getting an adventurer to beat the crap out of me? I think I’ll take my chances.”
Ryoka shook her head. She’d have to do something about that girl. Killing her was tempting, but she probably couldn’t get away with it.
“Never mind. I appreciate the help. But I’ve got bigger fish to fry.”
“You’re hungry? I know a good place to eat if you want—”
“I mean, I’ve got stuff to do. Look, you said Ceria’s in Esthelm, right? Where’s that?”
Garia scratched her head as she tried to remember.
“Near the road that goes to Liscor. It’s down south, about sixty miles away?”
Ryoka nodded. She could do that in a single night. She eyed the rooftops surreptitiously and looked around. Casually, she raised her voice as she talked to Garia.
“I’ll sleep here for the night. Then I might go and head on down. If you want to learn how to fight properly, visit me there.”
“Maybe. I’m not sure what I’ll be doing—or if I want to fight. I don’t like violence.”
Ryoka clapped Garia on the shoulder.
“It’s your choice. But with a punch like that, it would be a shame not to learn how to hit the right way. I’ll teach you next time we meet, how about that?”
It was the first time Garia had ever seen Ryoka being pushy about—anything, really. She agreed she might give it a shot and watched as the barefoot girl jogged back to her inn for the night.
“Martial arts?”
Garia stared down at her hand. It was still callused from her days of long work out in the sun. She made a fist experimentally. It felt clumsy, but Ryoka had been impressed. That was rare enough.
“But all the way to Esthelm. That’s a far…”
But she didn’t have anything else she was committed to doing, and there was always work for someone willing to haul heavy goods long distance. More to the point, it might be better for Garia to skip town as well.
The Runner girl thought about what Persua’s reaction to the day’s events would be. Not to mention the local Adventurer’s Guild. They would not be happy to learn one of their own had been beaten by a civilian, let alone a Runner. Garia shuddered and thought that maybe she would take a few long distance requests this week. Probably towards Esthelm, but at the very least away from Celum.
She began to slowly jog off back to her own inn. From a rooftop, the [Assassin] watched Garia go. She wasn’t important, but any friend of Ryoka needed to be reported to Magnolia. It was just as well the girl had ended the fight before he’d needed to step in.
Silently, the nondescript man followed Ryoka stealthily back to her inn. It would ordinarily have been a chore protecting the girl from the inevitable reprisal from both Runner and Adventurer’s Guild, but tonight was an exception. All he had to do was wait. Someone else had an appointment with Ryoka Griffin, whether the girl liked it or not.
 
——
 
Ryoka retired to her room early and slept for about one hour. Well, slept was a strong word. She napped lightly, waking up when her iPhone quietly set off its alarm.
Having an iPhone was incredibly convenient. She just wished she could cast the [Repair] spell rather than needing a mage to do it. Just another reason to visit Ceria.
It was fully night as Ryoka got dressed. She moved around her room quietly, gathering items while her ears strained for the faintest noise.
Nothing. Well, she hadn’t expected to hear anything. She just hoped her closed curtains were enough to conceal her movements.
Ryoka’s eyes flicked to the window. In Celum—in every city in this world really, the night truly was dark. There were no neon lights or passing cars to provide illumination. And while some lamps and torches provided light on the street, the rooftops and many streets had only the faint moonlight to light the way.
Perfect.
Ryoka didn’t have much. Just some clothes, some money, her iPhone, and books. And she’d sold the books she’d already read, so all of her possessions fit neatly into her Runner’s pack. She left a few coins on the table and opened the window silently.
 
——
 
The [Assassin] who was reluctantly known as Theofore stood on the inn’s rooftop and tried to keep his senses alert. It was hard, though. He was dressed in nondescript dark clothing, but it wasn’t quite enough to keep the night’s breeze from chilling him. Winter would soon be upon the land, and when that happened, stakeouts such as these would become direly painful without heating crystals or expensive magics.
But this was the job, and he was a professional. Not a high-level one, but he was still competent enough to be assigned to Lady Magnolia on request. That was also because the Guild really didn’t want to waste a higher-level member on a trivial assignment, but this Ryoka Griffin had proven to be quite a challenge to keep track of. The High Passes incident had been disastrous. But at least she was asleep—
A movement below made Theofore jerk up. He heard a window slide open, and then a lithe figure swung herself up onto the roof. There was nowhere to run, and so Ryoka saw Theofore crouched silently in place over her room.
For a moment, both figures stared at each other across the short distance. Then Ryoka got to her feet.
Theofore leapt up, hands going to his knives, but of course he couldn’t attack. He had to keep her in the inn, though, which meant hand-to-hand combat. Again, he was trained in this area as well, but Ryoka Griffin was far stronger than the average Bronze-rank adventurer.
Ryoka stepped forwards on the roof, and Theofore leaned back just in time to avoid the quick jab she aimed at his face. He struck out at her with his one unarmed combat Skill—[Nerve Strike: Paralysis]—but she swatted his hand down.
Damnation. This was bad. The inn’s roof was on a slant that made dodging and fighting twice as hard, even for an [Assassin]. If Theofore had the [Sure Footing] Skill, things might have been different, but—
Ryoka lashed out with an overhead chop. It was completely easy to block, but that was the point. As the [Assassin]’s arm went up, Ryoka stepped forward and kicked.
He’d seen her fight, but he still wasn’t prepared for the low kick that smashed into his right leg, just above his knee. Theofore staggered. It felt as if an axe had struck his leg, numbing it with pain. He danced backwards, trying not to show any trace of agony on his face.
But Ryoka didn’t advance; instead, she hefted her backpack and turned. Theofore cursed and dashed forwards, but she was already running. Ryoka’s bare feet kicked off as she ran along the slanted rooftop. She reached the edge and leapt.
In the darkness of the night, a lone figure hurtled over the rooftop and landed with a heavy thump on another rooftop. She ran, vaulted over a chimney with both hands, and started leaping across buildings in a style known in her world as Parkour.
To Theofore, it looked hauntingly similar to the movements of higher level [Assassins]. He gave chase, cursing as his injured leg slowed him down. Ryoka was already gaining speed. He could not lose her.
She knew he was following her. Her head turned back for a moment as she saw him dashing across the roofs after her. Theofore couldn’t see in the darkness, but he thought she smiled for a moment.
Ryoka turned her head forwards and increased her speed. One hand came up, and a finger rose in an unmistakable gesture.
Theofore growled and ran faster, ignoring his damaged limb. He wouldn’t lose her. He was a professional, and he’d been trained to outrun even [Runners] if necessary.
The two raced from rooftop to rooftop, vaulting, rolling, and jumping, probably giving the inhabitants within a start as they pounded across the uneven terrain. Ryoka was ahead of Theofore by a few houses, but he would catch her soon enough. He was an [Assassin], and she was just a [Runner].
He would catch her. [Assassins] were known for their ability to follow their targets on high-speed chases. They were known for their mastery of climbing and swift movement on rooftops. They were known for—
Ryoka leapt onto another roof and slid down the roof tiles, knocking them out of place. She kicked off the rooftop, flipped over, and rolled as she struck the street cobblestones below. Theofore gaped as Ryoka rolled back onto her feet and kept running without even pausing. In seconds, she was out of sight.
He paused on the rooftop. Even if he’d known what she would do, he would have wasted valuable seconds finding a handhold and swinging down. He definitely would not have tried jumping all the way down like she did. Was it a Skill? Or—
It didn’t matter. She was on the ground, and Theofore knew he wouldn’t catch her now. He knew where she was going, which was a small mercy.
