But Theofore knew Lady Magnolia would not be happy with his failure. Slowly, reluctantly, he began moving back to the inn where Ryoka had been staying. He would have to report. There would be repercussions, and they would fall on his head. He would most likely be reassigned or a senior member of the Guild would be sent. But that was only the Guild. More importantly, Lady Magnolia would not be happy.
She wouldn’t be happy at all.
 
——
 
Lady Magnolia was a happy woman almost all of the time. She was deliberately happy and good natured because people liked a happy person. It lowered their guards, and besides, she found happiness more preferable to suspicion or pessimism anyways.
And in this case, Magnolia was happy because she was finally able to reach a confrontation. True, it wasn’t on her terms, but you couldn’t win every battle. Ryoka had managed to avoid coming to her for quite some time, so Magnolia would go to her.
It was a poor bargaining position to be the seeking party rather than the one holding all the cards, but sometimes it was necessary to be proactive. And in this case, Magnolia had decided to up the ante.
Happiness was good, as was being kind and generous. Generosity opened many doors that threats would not. Generosity and implicit but unstated threats opened even more doors in Magnolia’s experience.
Case in point. Magnolia was visiting an inn, a lowly establishment not suited to a woman of her rank and station. Personally, she would have enjoyed visiting an inn if it weren’t unseemly, but in this case, her visit was purely business. And here generosity had done its work well. A kind suggestion or two and a few gold coins and the innkeeper had cleared out the inn for her.
It was late, and no doubt the occupants were unhappy to be roused and sent out. But some money and a meal courtesy of Lady Magnolia and most ills would be soothed. It was fine if they disliked her.
The Runners of Celum and the entire region had protested her requirements that they fulfill every delivery. They claimed they were exhausted. They stated, fairly, that she was pushing them past their limits and working them to the bone.
And yet they were levelling. A fact that they conveniently seemed to forget. Magnolia remembered it. Kindness…kindness was a useful, moral thing in some situations. In others, it was inefficient. Useless for doing what had to be done.
A [Butler] opened the carriage door as Magnolia let Ressa help her out. A light rain had begun to fall over the city, so a cloth parasol enchanted with the best [Water Resistance] spells was immediately placed over the [Lady]’s head.
Her maids and a few other men and women she’d discreetly hired had spread out around the inn, and ‘discouraged’ several Runners and a few adventurers who’d been lurking around the back door.
Ressa accompanied Lady Magnolia to the second floor. The other [Assassins] and [Maids] remained below, awaiting Magnolia’s orders. She had no fear. Her Head Maid was enough of an escort even if Ryoka should prove belligerent, and of course a [Lady] had her own means of defense.
But Magnolia did not anticipate much trouble. Or rather, she expected she could handle whatever trouble emerged with her own Skills. She stopped in front of Ryoka’s door and knocked.
No response. Magnolia exchanged a glance with Ressa, and she tried again more loudly.
Again, there was no response. The [Lady] frowned. She would have expected Ryoka to notice the inn’s occupants being roused, but, ah, perhaps the girl was being stubborn. Very well.
Lady Magnolia raised her voice.
“Good evening Miss Griffin. May I come in?”
There was no response.
Strange. Lady Magnolia knew that should have worked. She raised her voice.
“Ryoka, my dear? Hello? Is anyone there?”
Dead silence. Lady Magnolia frowned.
“…Hello?”
