“Oh, she’s like a dog. A female one. And you know what? I’m tired of her shit. If she tries anything again, I’ll put her down.”
Ryoka was about to go on, but Garia started frantically signaling her to stop. Ryoka didn’t stop, though. She’d already seen the multiple reflections in her mug, but some things needed saying.
“She’s annoying, stupid, craven, and she doesn’t know how to run. I still owe her a broken leg. If she thinks she can try something else—”
“Hi Persua!”
Ryoka looked up. Persua stood in front of the table, smiling in a not-so-friendly way down at the two Runners. She had her usual group of cronies at her back, and Ryoka spotted a bigger guy behind them. Toriska and Claudeil were flanking someone six-foot-four—with a neck like a tree stump. But Persua was the one Ryoka focused on.
Fals hadn’t lied. The little, false, ‘friendly’ look Persua always gave had calcified. Now, it flaked away, revealing a sharp dagger of hatred that jabbed at Ryoka. She wasn’t just pissed…but it came out of her voice in the most syrupy-sweet tones Ryoka had heard. It made the hairs on her arms stand up.
Uh oh.
“Ryoka, Garia! I’m so glad you’re okay! I almost didn’t spot you, but then I saw Garia—she’s impossible to miss even in this crowd—and I decided to say hi!”
Garia turned bright red and looked down at her stack of plates while Ryoka looked up and met Persua’s eyes. A spark of hatred wouldn’t be enough to describe the look that flashed between the two.
Mean girls. Ryoka remembered them from school. Persua was a perfect representation of the school social climber who would tear down anyone she didn’t like.
And like the other girls Ryoka had clashed with, Persua didn’t need an invitation to keep talking. Her eyes flicked to Garia and then back to Ryoka.
“So sorry to interrupt your conversation. Were you talking about me by any chance?”
Garia flinched, but Ryoka’s expression didn’t change. She nodded and raised her mug to Persua and smiled a tiny bit.
“Yeah, sorry, I just called you a bitch.”
Persua’s smile vanished in a heartbeat. Claudeil made a sound that might have been a guffaw—but then he went quiet. Garia’s mouth opened in an ‘o’ of horror as she stared at Ryoka. Toriska looked at Persua, and even she looked worried.
“That’s not very nice. I’d hate to think you were talking behind my back, Ryoka.”
“Don’t worry. I’ll do it to your face. I’m busy, Persua. Go somewhere else.”
“What if I want to stay? I’ve a right to sit in this inn, same as you.”
“Find another table. But if I were you, I’d get out.”
“Is that a threat?”
“Yeah, pretty much.”
Persua hesitated. She probably hadn’t expected Ryoka to confront her this quickly, but Ryoka knew how the conversation would have gone regardless. She nodded at Persua and her group.
“You lot gonna piss off or do I have to make you leave?”
If Garia could have edged any further back from her table she’d be sitting at the one behind her. For a second, Persua and her friends hesitated. They might be Runners and outnumber the two by a good margin, but Ryoka had a certain edge about her. But then someone shoved his way through the group and stood next to Persua.
Ryoka looked up past Persua and into a solid face. Solid, or ugly, if you wanted to be unkind. Toriska had her knife—but Ryoka had just been facing down Gargoyles and goats with knives for teeth. Toriska was the one who took a step back, and even Claudeil hesitated.
“Persua, the Guild’ll—”
“Hey, Claudeil? Shut up.”
She turned her head, and her friend went quiet. The rest of the Runners were edging back, not wanting to be seen and get in trouble, and if it was just Persua, Claudeil, and Toriska, Ryoka would try them all on—she could grab a plate, and they could eat shards of pottery. 
But Persua had brought backup this time. An adventurer scowled down at Ryoka and leaned forwards over the table.
“I’d watch your mouth if I were you, Runner. You should show more respect to your seniors and betters.”
Of course. Ryoka stared into murky green eyes and cursed herself for not remembering. Another trick mean girls liked to use when they couldn’t solve things with words. Run to the biggest boy in the room.
“I don’t know who you are, but you’re in my face. Go away, and take Persua and her crew with you.”
The adventurer blinked. He was doing the classic male trick of crowding Ryoka, and it wasn’t working. She wasn’t even leaning back, and they were nearly nose to nose.
“This is Arnel. He’s a Bronze-ranked adventurer in Celum.”
Persua smiled from behind the adventurer. She patted Arnel on the shoulder, and he straightened and smiled back at her. She made a face when he turned back to glare at Ryoka. It was almost sad to see how obvious her contempt for him was and how much Arnel was being played. Almost. Ryoka had little sympathy for any guy playing the bully part.
Arnel leaned forwards again, this time towards Garia, who shrank back. He glared at Ryoka, who stared back at him until he blinked.
“I think you should be a little more respectful to Miss Persua. An apology would be a good start, and I’d insist on it.”
“Or what?”
Garia kicked Ryoka again, hard.
“Or what?”
Arnel looked back at Persua, who laughed shrilly. He smiled hostilely at Ryoka.
“I guess then I’d have to teach you a lesson in manners, Runner.”
“Really? That would be amusing to watch.”
The adventurer’s face went blank for a moment. Again, this wasn’t going according to how his brain had plotted the conversation out. But Persua stepped in to help him. She glared down at Ryoka.
“Arnel’s an adventurer. He’s fought monsters and slain countless Goblins. You don’t have that oaf of a Minotaur and that freak half-Elf to protect you now, Ryoka.”
“Who says I need backup?”
This was too much for the impressionable Arnel. He was aware some of the other inn goers were snickering at him, and even the fat innkeeper was working up the nerve to order him to take the fight outside. He snarled and pushed Ryoka roughly in her seat.
“Look, you idiot. I’m giving you only one warning—”
Ryoka stood up. She was shorter than Arnel, but far taller than he expected at 6’1’’, and when she pushed back her chair, the inn went silent. She still had her mug in her hands. Arnel was trying to come up with a good threat, but Persua backed away as Ryoka raised her mug to her lips.
She took a sip of her drink—mainly just for show—and then tossed the rest of her mug’s contents into the adventurer’s face. He blinked as watery ale ran down his nose and chin. Garia’s expression was a waxwork. Persua smiled evilly. Toriska and Claudeil hesitated and looked at Persua’s face and then at each other. Their Guild memberships! But if Ryoka started the fight—
The adventurer was still shifting from shock to outrage when Ryoka decked him with a spinning backhand. He crashed to the ground, and she tossed the mug at Persua. Not hard—well, okay, hard enough that the other girl had to duck before the container broke her nose, but not as hard as Ryoka could have tossed it. The cheap pottery shattered to bits, and Ryoka waited for Arnel to stand back up.
“You craven whore!”
He shouted as he rushed at her. Ryoka waited patiently as he came at her. She’d already moved far enough away from the table and cleared the chair from behind her.
The adventurer rushed at her, over a hundred—maybe two hundred pounds of angry guy. Ryoka shifted her weight and timed her strike. When the adventurer was only a few feet away, she moved.
Ryoka balanced on one leg while her other extended. She didn’t quite kick—it was more like a push. A powerful push that broke the adventurer’s charge and sent him stumbling back.
He came back, of course. They always did. But by that point, Ryoka had the room, leverage, and timing to set up her roundhouse. It came up and across his ribs, making a dull thudding sound as it struck him.
The adventurer gasped, lost the air in his lungs, and stumbled back. But he didn’t fall down.
Ryoka tried not to wince. She’d hit him hard, but he was wearing something hard underneath his clothing. Chain mail? It felt like she’d kicked that.
Quickly, before he could move, she snap-kicked him in the chest. It wasn’t a Muay Thai move—but she didn’t have enough room for anything else.
This time, Arnel fell down, but he got up at once. Ryoka grimaced and hopped back as he swung at her. She threw a punch, but he caught it and lashed out at her face.
Ryoka caught his fist on an arm and felt the heavy blow. Damn. This wasn’t good. Now Arnel was really mad, and he was swinging wildly at her. She dodged and weaved backwards, but she had little room to maneuver. Plus, Ryoka was on the wrong foot mentally.
She wasn’t used to people getting up after she hit them.
Dodge, dodge—Ryoka threw a counter and hit him squarely on the jaw. But he was tough, and when he struck back, he finally landed a blow.
Ryoka felt the impact on her head and twisted her neck, but it still hurt. She backed up, and the adventurer came at her. She tried to keep him back with punches, but he was more than willing to trade hits.
He kept rushing her, and the tables and chairs made it nearly impossible for Ryoka to weave and dodge like she’d been taught. She instead raised her hands up around her head, forming a guard on both sides of her head. It was a traditional Muay Thai guard, but the problem was the adventurer wasn’t trying to hit or kick her that much.
He was a guy, and she had the definite sense he didn’t want to hit her so much as take her down. He kept trying to go for the bear hug. She let him get close but grabbed his shoulders and swept his feet out as he lunged.
Again, he went down. Ryoka wanted to stomp on his face or kick him in the nuts or both—but something flew at her head. She struck the mug down with one hand and glanced up. Persua glared and threw another glass, which missed Ryoka by miles.
Ryoka’s moment of inattention cost her. Arnel surged upwards, and she was too slow to get away. He seized her left arm and began punching at Ryoka. She hammered at his face, but he wouldn’t let go.
He was strong. She couldn’t break free just by pulling, not that she had any intention to. Arnel hit Ryoka twice in the side of the face—not hard because he couldn’t get a good angle. She’d bloodied his nose and got him twice on the face, but he now pulled back for a big punch.
There was no way to get away. Ryoka got ready. She’d take the punch and then hit him with a knee. Hopefully she wouldn’t kill him or break anything too vital, but enough was enough.
She braced herself for a hit to her ribs. Arnel swung—
And Garia grabbed his hand.
All of the man’s momentum carried him forwards, but Garia was a tree that he crashed into. He fought to get her to let go, but Garia had hold of his hand with her own, and her grip was like steel.
It was a three way tug-of-war with Arnel holding Ryoka and Garia holding him. Not for long, though. The instant his attention shifted to Garia, Ryoka acted. She clocked the man with a downwards elbow so fast he’d let go and she was away before he could blink.
“Calm down! Everyone calm down!”
At last, Ryoka could hear what Garia was saying over the roaring of blood in her ears. Arnel was still cursing at her, tugging at Garia’s arm, and Persua was shouting for her friends to help him. But the other Runners didn’t want to get close, especially once they saw how Garia was effortlessly holding the bigger man back.
“Let go, damn you!”
“Come on, we can work this out—”
Ryoka tried to move to block, but Arnel’s fist caught Garia on the mouth even as she was talking. The bigger girl stumbled, and he wrenched his hand free. Triumphantly, Arnel turned on Ryoka and raised his fists.
Garia stumbled, put her hand to her face, and looked up at the other man as Ryoka danced back. Her eyes burned, and she straightened. Garia made a clumsy fist and then moved forwards.
Ryoka was playing tag with her fist, and Arnel’s face was it. He still wasn’t going down or even slowing, but then a planet interposed itself between her and the adventurer: Garia. Arnel raised his hands for a hammer blow, but too late. Slow as she was, the other Runner was in the way. And then it happened.
Garia threw a punch.
It was slow. Ryoka saw the other girl telegraph the motion, and she had terrible form. But when she hit the adventurer, he made a sound. Or rather, his body made a sound.
Wumph.
Ryoka had never seen someone’s feet leave the floor from a punch. Arnel levitated for a second and then touched the ground as Garia’s fist let him down back to earth. He folded up like a sack of potatoes.
He was out. Completely out, without even a chance to object. Ryoka blinked down at the adventurer and saw the chain mail had deformed around Garia’s punch. The other girl rubbed at her hand and then turned.
Claudeil had a chair raised. It was mid-swing when Garia caught it. She lifted it out of his hands, and he tried to hang on—until he felt that strength. Then he let go. Toriska had her dagger drawn, but she hadn’t jumped into the fight—mostly waved it around. She looked at Garia, at the Bronze-rank adventurer, and backed up. Ryoka was one thing, and Claudeil and Toriska hated her enough, but—Garia?
The rest of the Street Runners were already running. Persua had slipped out the door before the fight had even ended. Her friends made to follow suit, but Ryoka caught Claudeil and threw him into a table. He scrambled up, yelping, as she gave him a damn good kick to his back. Ryoka managed to punch Toriska hard enough to bruise her cheek, and then they were gone.
 
——
 
The aftermath of a tavern brawl was never fun, especially when you had an innkeeper screaming at you. But Arnel had money—barely enough to cover the costs—and Ryoka wasn’t about to pay for something she hadn’t started. Well, she had started it, but she still wasn’t going to pay.
The upshot of it was that Garia and Ryoka were kicked out of the inn, at least for the rest of dinner. They walked down the street, Garia talking excitedly to Ryoka.
“You were amazing! He barely touched you the entire time!”
“Eh. I should have knocked him out in the first few moments. He was tougher than I thought. Got me a few times.”
Gingerly, Ryoka touched at her cheek and arms. Bruises. Not too deep, but annoying. She deserved them, though, for being so sloppy.
“But the way you moved! He was an adventurer, and you treated him like some kind of Level 1 [Thug]! How’d you do it?”
“Oh, it’s just martial arts. A bit of Muay Thai and other styles.”
Ryoka glanced at Garia’s blank face and elaborated.
“It’s a way to fight unarmed. You learn how to kick, punch, throw, etcetera properly.”
