(AN: George is the guy who Erick was friends with back in college, in 1997, who died of AIDS, along with his boyfriend.)

- - - -

George lay on his back, propped up by one uncomfortable pillow, staring at the hospital ceiling.

Dying.

Two days ago an opportunistic infection of the skin had led to sepsis which resulted in a trip to the hospital. George hadn’t been taking care of himself. Everyone had abandoned him and so, he had abandoned himself. And now he was here. His skin hurt. His bones hurt. Breathing hurt. He had shed his tears already, and now he was numb, unable to do anything except stare—

The nurse poked her head into the room and then walked away.

“The fairy ain’t dead yet,” she said, though she used harsher words than that.

Just his luck, he thought, dying fast enough to know he was dying, and yet lucid enough to see the hatred all around him. He couldn’t even get out of bed to piss anymore, so he had pissed himself already. The catheter was out, and no one cared.

He was pretty sure the doctors had skimped on his antibacterials, too.

George had come home to Tennessee when Larry’s family had taken him away, so that Larry could ‘die in dignity’ with his family in North Carolina. They had told George to fuck off. That had been unkind, George thought, for them to do that to both of them.

Ahh.

He was crying again.

He had thought he was done with tears. But nope. The saline drip in his arm was giving him more water to waste on what this world had done to him. On what this world had done to Larry.

If there was an afterlife, he hoped…

He hoped…

He hoped for too much.

And then he died.

- - - -

There was softness, and then there was light.

George was in a hallway. He was standing, or maybe floating. His feet were above the ground, and his legs were kinda wispy. So were his arms and fingers. This did not seem to bother him overmuch, and he wasn’t quite sure why. But he did realize that he was dead. That much was obvious. This fact didn’t bother him much, either.

Behind him was a wall.

In front of him was the hallway.

Beyond the hallway lay light and stone and running water, like a stone garden. People floated through that space, walking this way and that, or rather, floating. They stared at the sky. They stared at the cloudy land beyond. Mostly, they stared at something outside of George’s sight. Something above. Something too big to see all at once.

George found himself floating forward, drawn by the pressure of his own curiosity.

George exited the hallway.

He looked up.

It was too big.

That was George’s first thought.

He wasn’t sure what he was seeing, at first, but he knew it was too big. ‘Big’ in a way that was larger than largeness, or physicality, or anything real at all. This thing— this being was too big.

It was a dragon.

Wings spread wide, larger than a world.

Larger than the entire sky.

The sky was filled with silent, soft lightning, and this thing was the center of it all. It floated, beneficent and caring, and it wasn’t any sort of god that George had ever imagined. But it was clearly a god. It was not looking directly at George, but George got the impression that it did not need to directly see anyone in order to see them. It still saw him clearly.

George wasn’t sure if the dragon was white, like the sky, or black, also like the sky.

He stared for a while. There were people around George, and they stared alongside him.

An eternal moment passed, without passing at all.

And then a flicker of lightning fell down from the sky, like a worming thing, winding its way across the heavens, down, down, down to the platform where George floated, alongside a hundred other staring people. The lightning resolved into a person with limbs and feet that were not airy at all. She was a woman whom George did not know, but some guy, made of ethereal light right over there, knew the woman.

Everyone on the platform watched as the ethereal man turned real in the sight of the real woman.

They saw each other, and love bloomed, the world turning more colorful, reality making more sense.

The man choked out, “Jean?”

Tears fell down the woman’s face. “Dick!”

George couldn’t help himself. He snorted. The guy’s name was Dick? Or had the woman just cursed at him?

But the woman broke down crying to see the sight of the man and the man suddenly sobbed to see the woman, and George knew that the guy’s name was just his name; not a cursing. The woman had been an older woman. The man had been an older man. But in that meeting, in that loving, they knew each other as they had when they were younger. When they first met. They hugged, sobbing on each other, grasping each other, kissing and saying small things only to each other. The world did not matter; only they mattered to each other.

George told himself that sometimes people simply had odd names—

Soft lightning rained down, each bolt resolving into a person when it touched down onto the stone. The people on the stone met people who came in on lightning bolts, and—

And then Larry was there.

George felt his heart ache and his arms open up and suddenly Larry was there, holding against his chest, his own arms around George’s back, holding them tight together. They said nothing for a long while. There was too much to say. Where would they even start? From Larry’s family tearing them apart, to all the time they lost, to how George died in a negligent hospital? Too much. So they just held each other.

And then Larry chuckled once, through the tears.

George laughed, too, hugging tighter.

Larry looked up at George, saying, “Surprised to see you here at the end of it all, Love.”

George held Larry tight, saying, “This can’t be the end.” He glanced outward. “This is the start of something else.”

The platform in the clouds had been full of people. But they were turning to lightning and vanishing, just as the others had arrived. It was not a fast process.

“The start of something, eh? Reincarnation? Weren’t you Christian, though?” Larry asked, tears clouding his sight. He let go, and George let go a bit, too. They still held each other’s arms. Larry said, “I thought you’d be off to the Pearly Gates.”

“Didn’t you expect there to be nothing at all?”

“Maybe there is nothing at all, and I’m having a fever dream at the end.” Larry looked up at the dragon. “A weird dream.”

“Not as I imagined heaven, either,” George admitted. “Where’s the old guy with the beard and halo?”

Larry grinned. “Maybe god is a dragon— Oh! A dragon woman.”

George scoffed. “That’s clearly a dude!”

“How can you tell? There’s nothing down there but scales!”

“… Well I can’t actually tell, now that I’m looking for it.” George added, “But there’s no tits! So not a woman.”

“Bah! Why would a reptile have mammalian characteristics? That’s just silly.”

Both of them studied the big dragon, hanging out at something of a stellar-distance, surrounded by stars in the night sky.

… When had the sky turned to night?

Suddenly, George realized that he and Larry were alone on a platform in space, looking up at a big iridescent/black/white dragon of many colors.

And then Erick stepped out of the sky, and onto the platform.

A moment passed in a quiet attempt to understand what was happening.

And then George felt a spike of utter guilt. If Erick was here, then he was dead, and that meant that he had died from… Oh no.

Larry got there just as fast as George, but he was the first to speak, exclaiming, “Oh my god, I’m so sorry, Erick! We tried to contain it when we found out but… We…” He fell silent.

George couldn’t have done any better. How do you apologize for giving someone HIV? He decided to just say, “I’m sorry, Erick.”

Erick smiled wonderfully. “Nothing like that happened at all. I’m just here as a friend. Time is wonky here in the afterlife, with many, many years having passed since last I saw you, and yet no time at all. You left a big impression on me back before you died. I always carried your memories with me. I just came by to see you once more and wish you luck in your next lives.”

George instantly asked, “Next lives?”

George was ecstatic! A new life! What could it—

Larry shook his head. “I don’t want that. I want to opt out. I’m done with life. People are terrible.”

George gasped and shuddered, and he wasn’t sure which one happened first, or in which order. He squeezed Larry’s hands, and Larry gave a sad sort of smile, not looking at George at all.

Larry said, “Sorry, George.”

Erick spoke up, “Well sure. That’s an option. But a pretty bad one if you ask me. You don’t have to be humans for your second go around. You don’t even have to live on Earth!” Erick waved an arm up at the sky, where the dragon had been, but all there was were stars in an infinite expanse. “There’s an entire universe to explore, and more besides. Imagine a life! Any life at all! I can set you on that path. You still gotta walk it yourself, though.”

Larry instantly said, “Well in that case I change my mind.”

George laughed. His heart bloomed with warmth and he felt Larry hold him tighter.

Good.

Also! Good on Erick for being an angel. Obviously he became one of those. He was always too good to everyone… George almost wanted to ask him about the deal with Margaret, but George decided not to do that. He had probably moved on pretty far from that old pain, since he was talking about time being wonky.

Erick smiled. And then he turned to them, and said, “I usually hand people off to a caseworker, but I’m going to help you two personally. Do you want something specific in your next life? Most specifics aren’t available, like exact heights or weights or family members, but general ideas are available.

“As an example, you two could wish to be soulmates in your next lives.

“Also, magic is available in all of the flavors you can think about, and more besides. Want a world where everything is almost the same as Earth? That’s out there. How about a world where everyone is an octopus person? That’s out there, too. Weird things, easy things, space travel, immortality, etcetera. It’s all out there, but you’ll have to strive for it and you might not reach it the first go around.”

Larry breathed deep, his eyes going to the stars.

George asked, “The first go around?”

Erick said, “Yup! You can live for as long as you want. If you don’t want to go around again, you don’t have to go again. There are other afterlives out there. Other gods. But you died on Earth, and Earth is under the wings of the Dragon of Many Colors, and so you get a reincarnation in a new life, on a new world.

“In your next life, you might even find some gods out there with some afterlives that you want to be a part of, and you won’t want to do this new-life-thing ever again. If you opt out of new lives under the Dragon of Many Colors, then that is an option, too. Life is tough, and the Dark is always Welcoming to those who wish for an End.”

Holy shit that was big.

Silence stretched.

George didn’t know how to feel, but he did feel hope. A whole lot of hope.

Larry said to George, “I’m gonna be a bastard and say that I want to be with you, but I want us to figure it out on our own, and if we should miss each other, then we can miss each other. No destined soulmates.” He said to Erick, “I want love for everyone. No hate. No diseases. No killing. Just… just love.” He looked to George… Larry said nothing.

Well. George wasn’t too surprised about that, really. He did always love Larry for his independent streak. George kinda smiled at that. He asked Larry, “How about a little bit of predestiny?”

Larry blushed. “Well…”

George waited.

Larry said, “I’m worried, Love. Life isn’t easy, and…” He trailed off.

He was worried about a lot.

George was worried, too.

Erick softly said, “This is your life, so it’s okay to be wary about it. These are your lives. Individually, too. Death is the great separator. You two do not need to pick the same new life, new world, new existence. You can go separate ways. You will likely never see each other ever again if you choose to separate, but if you rise high enough anything is possible.”

Larry breathed tightly.

George knew Larry, but only in the way that anyone can know anyone else after 7 years of dating and not being allowed to legally marry or join finances or anything, and both of them choosing to actively abandon the heterosexual style in defiance of that sort of shit, too. But here, at the transition, did they want to abandon that sort of perfect union, that they both grew up reading about and wanting, and which they had never been able to have?

Larry looked to George.

George looked to Larry.

George said, “I want the story of us together forever.”

Larry breathed deep. He said, “I’m gonna be honest… I want to be able to love you like you love me, but I don’t think I was ever capable of it. I had too much baggage. I hated the world. But I do want to love you how you love me. I want that kind of love. I don’t know how.”

George’s chest tightened. Tears threatened. “I want that, too.”

Erick’s soft voice wrapped around them, “I’ll set up some dominoes. Make it easier. You two won’t be soulmates until you commit. How does that sound?”

Larry sobbed once, “Yeah.”

George smiled. “Yes.”

Erick asked, “Do you want to remember Earth?”

“No,” Larry said.

“Yes,” George said, at the same time.

The two of them looked at each other.

George asked, “I want to remember it all?”

Larry said, “Give me what I need to succeed, and to know George, and that’s it.”

George said, “If it works out then it works out.”

Larry said, “Yeah.”

“In waking dreams, you shall know each other and your previous life, though only one of you will be good at it,” Erick said.

George only had eyes for Larry, and Larry only saw George. Both of them said, “Sure.”

“Girl, boy?” Erick asked, “Or different options?”

“Boy,” said George, solidly.

Larry laughed once. “Can I be both?”

George raised an eyebrow at Larry, and Larry grinned mischievously.

“Done and done,” Erick said.

Larry and George whipped to look at Erick.

Larry asked, “I can be both?”

“That works?” George asked.

Erick just smiled. “One final thing: How do you feel about fighting a Demon King?”

“… What?” Larry and George asked.

Erick smiled, and it was as though the entire sky grinned, like the Darkness in the depths of the universe found mirth in George and Larry’s question.

