Gerd finished Sharald’s thought, “Wherever we are is somewhere new. Somewhere special.” He looked to them all, and they regarded him in turn, with firelight and hope in their dark gazes. “We will get out of here, and when we do, we don’t have to return to the Empire in order to win our war against the Demon King. There’s an entire world out there. Continent Ardia, below the Empire, where the Sand States flourish. The Lost Lands beyond the eastern ocean, where the People were said to have come from thousands of years ago, and where the Kard people still live. The Small Islands with their travel magics. This world is vast, and our enemy is entrenched, and none of the people on the Continent ever wanted to teach us real magic anyway. The magic we need to win this war. And so, we must seek answers elsewhere.” He asked them all, “Are you with me?”

His cohort already was.

But Lario was not. Not really.

Not until that moment there, under the light of Big Tree, where the bonfire painted everyone yellow and red.

Lario declared, “I’m with you.”

Van started a cheer first and then the rest of them soon followed. Pendalicus took up the lyre again and started singing a song of war and magic, and it was good. They ate monster meat and beer that Lario summoned from somewhere else; even he didn’t know where the beer came from.

“It’s good beer though, right?” Lario said, smiling mischievously.

Gerd smiled back—

“Get a room!” Van called at them.

Lario laughed.

Gerd chuckled, pulling away from Lario.

They did not share a room that night.

Nor did they share a room for the next year that it took them to get off of the island, past the monsters that prowled everywhere. Big Tree was on the Cursed Island, which explained much of that difficulty, though they didn’t find out that fact for a while.

Gerd and Lario didn’t share a bed for a very long time.

But eventually, four continental journeys later, in their early 30s and always seeming to uncover yet another way the Demon King was a problem, Gerd saved Lario from the maws of a demonic abomination, and somehow, a few quiet talks and uttered worries later, they ended up in the same bed. Neither of them truly understood the path they had taken to get there, but there, in a hotel room that was otherwise unremarkable, that was when they kissed for the first time in their second lives.

Falling in love the second time was easy.

That was when Lario joined the fight, directly, and Gerd and Lario fought side by side, in the skies, and all across the globe.

They were the Archmage of Many Colors and the Admiral of Steel Winds.

They and their party became known as the Hero’s Party, though whichever one was the ‘hero’ was up for debate, as all of them proved themselves here or there.

Eventually, the Hero’s Party thought they had prepared enough to go against the Demon King.

They died the second they stepped foot into demon air space, which now expanded the entire continent of the Empire.

They were reborn at Big Tree, on Cursed Land, along with one more person.

The Seer.

The Seer, who had spoken up in Gerd’s defense all those years ago at his Black Court murder, had been murdered themselves, executed by the Empire, when the Hero’s Party tried to fight the Demon King this last time.

The Seer proved to be instrumental in connecting Gerd with Benevolence Itself.

Two years later, Gerd dropped ordnance from low Ondak orbit upon the castle of the Demon King, while Lario and the Crew dropped obscuring bombs from a lower orbit. It worked. It almost didn’t work, but it had worked. It had been the only way around the Demon King’s prognostication magics. They never even met the guy face to face, which was on purpose. Every time they met the guy, they had died.

Killing him from space had been the only way to do the deed.

The death of the Demon King released Floating Mountain, the land of the gods revealing itself above the capital of the Empire, like it had always been there but no one had ever known.

But now they were freed, and the results were… Well.

Nothing much.

The gods had always been do-nothings.

Which Gerd found out was the point of the gods.

At the end of it all, at the death of the Demon King, the Demon King had been ‘reborn’ as well.

He was now the God of No Orbital Bombardments, and he was a completely different person from before. No craziness. No genocides. No assassins. Just an idea made manifest, grown from the final moments of the death of a very large power in the world, which birthed a god that basically said,

“No orbital bombardments unless you go through me.”

The god threw a good party.

- - - -

Lario laughed as they lay in Gerd’s arms, on a reclining couch in their home under Big Tree, swishing some wine in their goblet as they said, “The gods are do-nothings! Specifically! No wonder no one noticed they were trapped! They were still stopping big magics, though! Fuck!”

Gerd chuckled, his big chest rumbling under Lario’s back. “Now now. They made sure no one ever used atomics.”

“Gods!” Lario said, exasperated. “It explains so much! Why I never got that nuclear reactor to work—”

“Why there’s that Big Magic limit, and the mana simply unravels once it gets too large.”

“Why I never figured out antimatter.”

“Now we just need to invent a God of No More Monsters,” Gerd said, grinning as he held Lario.

“Fucking hell yeah we do!” Lario exclaimed, loudly and happily.

Gerd chuckled softly and whispered into Lario’s ears. “Shhh… You’ll wake the team. They’re gonna be taking this hard for a while. They always thought the gods actually did stuff.”

Lario scoffed. “The guys are asleep and I can be as blasphemous as I want to be right now and the guys have their own houses. It’s just you and me, your parents are in the guest house, and my Master is in a different guest house. All the party is done. We don’t have to be ‘on’ right now.”

Gerd held Lario a bit tighter, a bit warmer. His voice rumbled delightfully, “It is just you and me.”

Lario felt his heart beat hard. “… Oh.”

“Got anything you want to do?”

Lario smiled as they sat up. They turned to Gerd. “Let’s make some babies.”

Gerd’s eyes dilated wide. “You’re not joking this time.”

“Nope. Also, let’s get married.”

Gerd’s breath trembled, and then he solidified. “I love you.”

Lario felt his own heart skip a beat. “I love you more.”

That night was magical in a way that neither of them had experienced in this life, or the previous one.

Seven months later, which was a pretty normal gestation period for one of the people, Lario popped out a little girl, as expected of a union between a man and a xen.

Covered in sweat and shining like a god, Lario held their little girl to their chest, smiling brightly, saying, “My gods you were a painful little girl, weren’t you? Yes you were, yes you were.”

Gerd smiled as he sat on the bed with Lario. “Have you thought of a name yet, my love?”

“It’s bad luck to name them before one year old…” Lario held their little girl. “But we can protect her from the mana sickness, can’t we?”

Gerd smiled as his aura touched his daughter, and found that there was no danger of a mana complication at all. Ambient mana touched the little girl, but her soul automatically deflected all outside mana. He had been told about this possibility. Lario had been told about this possibility, too. But Lario wasn’t sure. They were a little scared.

Gerd assured them, “She inherited our baseline powers. She has a Personal Script.”

Lario smiled even brighter, though they were so very tired. They offered, “How about Laria?”

Gerd chuckled. “We’ll name the next one Gertrude, then.”

“That’s a terrible name!” Lario said, laughing. “And besides that I’m never giving birth again. That was painful as fuck.”

Nine months later, Gertrude came along.

Gerd teased, “That one looked easier.”

Lario complained, “You try giving birth next time!” Gertrude began to cry in their arms. Softer, Lario said, “Damned fucking weird people biology. Humans are so much simpler.”

“I love your weird biology.” Gerd kissed Lario on their forehead, next to their horn, saying, “And you asked for it, dewdrop.”

“In the next life you’re the woman.”

“Nah. That looked painful.”

Lario swatted him.

Gerd smiled, adding, “And you’re not a woman, anyway!”

Lario swatted him again.

12 months later, another bundle of joy came along.

Lario complained, but they loved their kids more than they realized they could love anyone, and Gerd was a part of that love.

Another 11 months later, Lario had triplets.

A ‘Full Set’, as they called it. A blessing of a boy, girl, and xen, all at the same time.

“Now that looked painful,” Gerd said at the bedside.

Exhausted, Lario told him, “Swat yourself, dewdrop. I’m too tired.”

Gerd smiled.

With eyes closed, but healing magics already working a little, Lario told him, “Let’s get some secondary parents, please. I don’t want to keep up with all of these kids.”

“I was thinking the same thing.” Gerd asked, “How about Van and Pendalicus? They were talking about adoption last week.”

Lario got to thinking, still tired as heck and covered in sweat. The nurses held the kids and swaddled them, while Gerd’s parents were in the other room, keeping the other kids occupied. Gerd heard their bright voices, asking about their new siblings, and Dad, the old gruff grandpa that he was, was telling them that they’d come out when they came out, and not to rush them at all. First Husband and Second Husband were out there, too, being doting grandparents as well. Lario’s master’s voice was also somewhere in there, but Gerd couldn’t make out what they were saying, exactly. It was probably something about discipline, like usual.

Gerd grinned to hear all of that.

Lario had been thinking, and now they said, “How about we take up the Kards on their envoy proposition? They want someone by Big Tree to talk about logistics with… with plane stuff. I’m too tired. One of the big women would be good.”

They closed their eyes, but then one of the nurses came over with their first of the triplets and handed her to Lario, and Lario opened their eyes and lit up with love and light. Another newborn got deposited in Lario’s other arm. Gerd got to hold his new xen, and they were so very cute, their tiny horn still just a bump on their forehead.

Lario sniffled, almost crying, as they said, “The girls need some female influences in their lives, so let’s get some women in our family.”

Gerd smiled. “Van and Pendalicus and some Kard envoys?”

“All options. I’ll take them all. 6 kids, Gerd! 6! I can barely keep up as it is…” They almost cried again, looking at their kids. “But I want to.”

Gerd chuckled.

Life was weird here on Ondak.

But life was good.

- - - -

Eventually, when Gerd and Lario turned 50 and the kids were in their late teens and early 20s, and ready for adventure themselves, Big Tree would issue a Quest, the Worldly Path, asking them to open a Gate Network to the rest of the universe, and to Margleknot, to start.

But that was a long time from now.

For now, they had kids to raise, right alongside all the rest of their crew and many others, in a town that they called Big Tree, but which everyone else called Hero’s Village.
