They’re beautiful.

That was the only thought in Gerd’s head. And then he realized he was staring. They were staring, too, but… Too much staring?

Gerd’s voice cracked, “H— Hello.”

The xen jerked, as if breaking a spell of meeting. They had been stuck at the entrance of the room, and now they had regained themselves. They walked into the room with the tray, saying, “If gratitude m’lord, providing you repast while be waiting.”

… What?

Oh!

They couldn’t speak the language yet?

Gerd smiled at their clunky language. “I had trouble learning the new language, too.” He switched to plainsfolk, “We can talk like this if you want, though.”

The xen gushed joy, speaking in plainsfolk, “Oh my waters! You can understand me!” They happily cursed, “Holy gods of light and dark, damn the Demon King.” They took the seat across from Gerd, happily asking, “Where are you from? I’m Lario, from Laketribe. What’s your name?”

Gerd gasped. “Laketribe! I’m Gerd! From Redriver!”

“Redriver!” Lario laughed, rocking back in their chair.

Gerd said, “We were decimated 4 years ago when the tribe lord failed to pay taxes or something. We never found out what happened. Laketribe was strong, though! What happened?”

Lario shook his head. “No one is strong in the face of the Demon King. I don’t know what happened, exactly. I think someone high up was murdered at some meeting in the Demon King’s palace. Something else happened, no doubt. The leaders made the choice to move before we were moved upon. We heard about Redriver, though. Everyone heard about Redriver.”

Everyone had heard?

Oh…

Was the entire Greater Tribe… scattered?

Gerd shook his head. He didn’t want to think about pain anymore. He was ashamed he even brought it up, since he was forbidden to speak of plainsfolk matters, but Lario was one of them. One of his people. Maybe even…

Gerd said, “Laketribe then… Hmm. We might have played together as kids at the commonground festivals?”

Lario gasped. “Wait a switch! Gerd Lifetaker?”

Gerd smiled wide. “We’re not allowed to use our demon names.”

Lario laughed delightfully. “I think your mom healed my brother’s broken wrist when he fell in the mud at commonground. I think I might have seen you before, too.”

Gerd felt his face heat as Lario grinned wider—

Someone was in the hallway, walking this way, their footsteps echoing loudly, almost on purpose—

Lario realized someone was coming down the hall, too. They leapt out of their chair and stood to the side, demure and head bowed. Gerd stood up, and awaited whoever was coming.

An older xen walked into the room, speaking Empire, “I’m sure I didn’t hear demonspeak, and you both are fine kids.” She glared at both of them.

Lario whispered an apology.

Gerd did nothing, because to apologize was to admit guilt in the first place.

The older xen nodded anyway, satisfied. They held out Gerd’s little drawing of a rolling pen, saying, “Your master’s slow on the deal, boy. I already got this idea from little Lario here, about 3 months ago, and our prototypes were to be displayed to the King and Xing. I would like to know where you came across this idea, because I’ve certainly never heard of it before Lario spoke of it. It’s a simple enough design, though.”

Gerd froze.

Lario looked at Gerd, questioning.

Gerd wasn’t sure what to do, so he answered honestly, “It came to me in a dream?”

Lario’s eyes went fractionally wider.

The old xen hummed. “… Well then. Isn’t that interesting...” Then they said, “Run along back home, boy. Tell your master what happened, if you wish. If he presses us for compensation regarding something he had no hand in making, then I will make his life hell. You may leave.”

Gerd… Gerd walked away.

His eyes lingered on Lario.

Lario mouthed in the demontongue, “Nice to meet you.”

Gerd merely nodded, careful not to let the old xen see him do so.

They probably saw him anyway, considering they huffed.

- - - -

Gerd and Lario met again, later.

And then later still.

They spoke of their dreams sometimes, neither one knowing what to make of the vivid, shared hallucinations both of them had of a world called ‘Earth’. Lario’s master told them it was a nuance of fate and that they shouldn’t speak of it overmuch. They tried to stop Lario and Gerd from speaking to each other anymore, but Gerd and Lario were teenagers, and the stories of their shared dreams of different perspectives had already wormed into the ears of the royal court.

Gerd never got to see the King or Xing in this part of the Empire, but Lario did. Somehow, the story of Lario and Gerd’s shared dreaming became a big story, a curiosity, a declaration of fates, some even said. Dad and Mom found out, and they were merely perplexed, but when Gerd said that he wanted to see Lario more, Dad worked hard to try and get the golem makers to let that happen.

“Oh! Let the two kids mingle!” the Xing eventually declared, enamored with the story of young love.

And so, they were allowed to mingle.

Supervised.

It was okay, Gerd supposed. Lario seemed less and less thrilled about their get togethers with every passing one, but only because of the spies in their midst.

Mostly, though, Gerd and Lario had duties to their dad, in Gerd’s case, and their master, in Lario’s case, so they didn’t get to meet all that often. They still tried to meet, though. For a talk about the politics of Earth. For working on one of Lario’s new inventions taken from this or that place on Earth. For discussing a television show that both of them had seen, but which neither of them remembered in full.

Gerd had no idea what to make of everything happening, but he knew he loved Lario long before Lario felt the same.

Gerd was content to wait.

- - - -

Eventually, the Demon King grew too bold.

The northern wall fell to demon hordes. The hordes were pushed back, but there had been deaths. Hundreds of warriors perished to fight off the horde. Three villages were lost before the army could mobilize.

The Empire called for all young people to be tested for magic, and anyone found capable of actual magic was to be conscripted. Personal enhancements did not count. Anyone who wanted to fight in the army was also welcome, and they would be trained in body refinement, but what the Empire truly needed was mages capable of handling real magic.

Gerd’s mom was almost conscripted for her healing magic, but she was already working at a local hospital and that hospital spoke up; they could not afford to lose her.

Gerd almost signed up for the war, but his mother held him back, crying on him, telling him he could not go.

He decided not to go.

He had no capability with magic and he had no true capability with a sword, anyway, no matter if he could win any street brawl he found himself in, in the increasingly hostile land of the Empire. Gerd was fine with fighting bullies, and he often won, but he wanted to fight demons. He wanted vengeance.

That need to fight was a common sentiment among many plainsfolk. Lario seemed to be the only one who truly understood Gerd’s need for vengeance though.

That brought them closer, but the watchers were always there.

A year passed.

- - - -

Gerd went to bed on an otherwise boring day of schoolwork and war training.

He woke up in a land of glowing white mist, with the ground made of stone and—

There was a man.

A different kind of man.

Gerd knew the man.

The man was him.

Like looking into a mirror that was not a mirror at all, Gerd saw George standing there, looking like an illusion in the light.

George spoke with surety in his hornless-male, human voice, in English, “Welcome to your Personal Script. I will be helping you to make your life and your world better. Here is your starting Status. It’s large, but only because this is the normal size for your Status. We can carve it down to an understandable size soon enough.”

Gerd Lifetaker, [16] [Current Location: Layer 9,201] [Year 879 Demon Era] [World: Ondak]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 32%, 32%, 32% [N/A; not enough resources to matter]

Reson allocation rate: 4% [N/A; not enough resources to matter]

Darkness Level: Child [1 mana per day]

Fractal Level: Blind [0 resons per day]

Benevolence Level: Unoccupied [1 mana per day]

Soul: 1 ; 2 mana per day

Body: 2

Mind: 1

Overall Stability: ↑ [+.00002, -0]

Mp: 4/1,000, ↑ [+0, -0]

Hp: 5/2,000, ↑ [+0, -0]

Pp: 4/1,000, ↑ [+0, -0]

Resons: 1/10, [+0 = +0, -0] [Converts 9 mana to 1 reson]

The human made of light said, “That’s a lot of information there, all of which you know nothing about. For the most part, though, mana is mana. If you want to learn about mana on your own, you should speak to your mother. You failed the previous mana tests, but you won’t fail them this time. It will be a while before you approach anything near your true possible strength, but your growth will not plateau like all the other people of this world.

“They will call you a natural magus, but that is not what you are.

“You are more than that, by far.”

“Be careful.

“The truth is that your world has no name for what you are. You’re more than an archmage. You’re more than a Power. Or at least your eventual capability is around there. Maybe even higher. This is because of the basic function of the Personal Script, which no one else possesses.

“You can hold your mana. Thousands of mana! And the mana you hold will come back to you if you spend it wisely.

“Most people can’t hold mana inside themselves all that well, but you can, and easily. When you can throw out a thousand mana for a spell and then have 95% of that mana come back to you, they will call you Blessed. When you can cast magics in instants when other people take days, they will call you Chosen.

“They will also call you Grand Demon. They will call you Angel.

“They will call you worse, and better.

“Some will think you a god.

“You are none of these.

“You are utterly normal, except for this Personal Script, which will organize your mana and powers for you.”

Gerd had no idea what to say.

George smiled, adding, “You will attract attention. You’ve already attracted attention with your dream visions, but that’s just one talent that people can have, and you share the same talent with Lario. That talent was overlooked as a foible of weirdness; a trifle of normality. If you could see the future, or the past, then you would have been taken in for training. But all you saw was a shared fantasy. Only you and Lario will know that the fantasy was a shared reality.

“All this, and more, is but the barest level of power you’re going to need.

“Because I have a quest for you.”

Words appeared.

Quest!

End the threat of the Demon King of the world of Ondak!

Rewards: A lot!

“Here’s a smaller Quest, though. To start.”

Quest!

Learn mana cultivation.

Reward: More resource production.

George, the floating image of Gerd’s previous life, smiled, as he said, “It’s all pretty simple. The second Quest is easier than the first, and you’ll get more small Quests as you go along, but the first Quest is the big one. The one you came here to this world to accomplish, George. This is your life’s path. You were put here on this world to rid this world of its worst members.

“The Dragon of Many Colors put you here to save this world.

“I don’t know why he’s getting aggressive like this. Our xenny and Redriver were not the first to fall to his predations, and they won’t be the last. He needs to be stopped—”

- - - -

It had all been too much.

And so, Gerd woke, and yet he was not really Gerd anymore.

In the breaking of a dream, George woke up with memories of both lives lived so far.

George didn’t want to be George, though. That life was over and done. And yet...

Gerd blinked, awake, in his bed, staring at the dark ceiling. Whatever had just happened was fine. Whatever would happen, was yet to be written. Gerd knew what he had to do, though.

Gerd whispered to the dark, “I’m going to end the Demon King.”

For a moment, Gerd just lay there, staring at the ceiling.

He ended up laying there for a while.

But then his bladder bade him get up and get on with his day, and that is what he did—

For a moment, Gerd remembered laying in a hospital bed on Earth, sitting in his own filth, dying of some disease that he never wanted to think about again. He thought about all his old life, though, as he went through his morning ritual.

He shaved his beard, which was growing in way too strong for a 16-year-old human, but it was coming in just fine for a 16-year-old person of the people. He was young, strong, and very much a man, and though he had a typical human shape, consisting of two arms, two legs, and one head, he wasn’t human at all.

He had pale white skin, absolutely black hair and eyes, and short black horns on both sides of his forehead.

Pretty normal.

All men had 2 horns, though sometimes they got broken and they never grew back. All women had none. All xen had one horn in the middle of their forehead.

Those were the three sexes of the people of this world, and the disconnection between having 3 sexes and 2 sexes was truly weird for a moment…

And yet, George came back to himself, to Gerd, and knew that 3 sexes was normal for him, and that if he had children with a xen, those kids would mostly be girls, and yet if he had kids with a woman, those kids would mostly be xen. If he had relations with a man, then he probably wouldn’t have kids at all. Adoption was always good, though.

Gerd stared at the sink in front of him for a while, watching the water swirl down the drain—

He shut off the water as quickly as he could. He had left it running for a while and that was bad, because water wasn’t endless here, in this world. It came from the cistern, which came from the aqueducts, which were not endless.

Gerd looked up. He looked at himself again.

He wasn’t sure what to make of anything, and yet, he knew if he looked to the side in a specific way—

Words hung in the air.

Words normally did not hang in the air.

Quest!

End the threat of the Demon King of the world of Ondak!

Rewards: A lot!

Gerd dismissed those words.

Gerd stared at Gerd in the mirror, knowing that this was his face, and that he was also George, from Earth, from so very far away and a long time ago.

Lario was obviously Larry, too.

Gerd hadn’t realized that, but… Yeah. Gerd’s memories overlapped and he was now both 30 years old, and also just 16. He had been 16 twice now. The first time had sucked, but…

But this world was a lot different.

This world needed him.

Gerd saw his face in the mirror set itself solid, as he made up his mind.

Ondak was home now, and Gerd was going to save his home from the Demon King.

- - - -

