Over breakfast, Gerd sat next to his Ondak Mom, who was so much better than his first mother, and he smiled a little at that. He still loved his original mom, but… not really. Not all family was worth holding on to. But this mom?

This was Mom, and Gerd loved her. He also loved his ‘Dad’, sitting at the other end of the table, where both of Dad’s husbands flanked him in their normal seats.

This world was weird and different, and Gerd was going to save it.

The people were wonderful. The world was full of love. Gerd’s new Dad hadn’t needed to be as kind to him as he had been, for Gerd and his mother were refugees from a hostile nation beyond the demon wall, but Dad had been great. Dad’s First and Second husbands had been wonderful, too, but they were a bit standoffish for rather normal Ondak-culture reasons, and also for personal reasons.

Just like on Earth, it was not expected for people to save each other from the horrors of the world, and yet, here on Ondak, people saved refugees all the time. Sure, Gerd and his mother had been bought and paid for, and both Gerd and Mom technically worked for Dad, but that was because the army had saved Gerd and Mom from the demons and taken them into the Empire, and the Empire needed money, and money still made worlds go round, even here in some other part of the universe. Gerd couldn’t imagine something ever working out on Earth as well as it had here on Ondak. Everything was so much different. It was nice. It was wonderful, really.

The Demon King marred that wonderfulness.

Aside from the horrors that Gerd had seen in his own life here, on this new world, Second Husband’s eldest had died in the new-yet-old war against the demons. That man had been the scion of the household, set to take over Dad’s merchant everything, but he had been conscripted into the logistic supply lines of the war and the demons had killed him 3 years ago, just before Gerd and his mother had been taken into the house. They had had no other children, so when Gerd and his mother came along, and Mom had healing magic, they had taken in Gerd and his mother in as a package deal.

Gerd loved his new home and his many parents... though Xenny was gone...

Gerd’s good mood faltered.

He had wanted to join the army a while ago, but the army was not his destination, not if his dream of the Personal Script was any indication. His destiny was magic. And yet...

He had tried taking the magic tests a while ago, but he had failed them…

Hmm.

Gerd thought.

Dad had been talking about the schedule for the day, including things he needed Gerd to do after classes at the academy. He finished with, as he usually did, “But if you have other plans, Gerd, then let me know them and I can make adjustments.”

Gerd smiled at that. Dad always said something like that. ‘If you have other plans, let me work around them’. He was easy to love as a father…

For a moment, Gerd was struck by the notion that he should just tell them all about who he really was. He wasn’t just a 16 year old boy…

And yet.

No.

Maybe he was just having strong dreams again.

… However, looking up into the air, Gerd easily called forth floating numbers. He looked at the air, and saw his Status. No one else saw the numbers, or else they surely would have exclaimed ‘By the Gods of the Mountain, what is that!’

Gerd’s ‘dreams’ hadn’t really been ‘dreams’ at all, and they never had been.

… Maybe he should start somewhere simpler. Some place easier to understand, before he started telling everyone that he was a reincarnation. A way he could test to make sure he wasn’t being crazy, or mana-touched.

Gerd said, “Dad? I want to get tested for magic again. And not just body strengthening magics. I want to learn real magics.”

All eating stopped.

Mom was instantly thrilled as she said, “Yes! You—” She cut herself off, looking to her husband, grinning a little bit as she did so.

Dad scoffed at both of them, though it was with a smile. “Magic is too difficult. You’d have a better life learning your numbers and languages and doing a body tempering meditation in the mornings. You can join me in the mornings for that, if you wish.”

Dad’s First Husband countered Dad, saying, “Magic is a valuable tool and the simple things are easy to learn, but if he sticks to body tempering that is all he will be able to do.” He said to Gerd, “I have often thought that you gave up too easily the first time, for most children do. I think you should try again, now that you’ve studied under the Empire and you’re older. Most people start learning around your age.”

Mom nodded along with that wisdom.

Gerd and Mom were third in line in the household, so Gerd nodded along, too.

There was a lot of love in this new life of his, but there was a strict system of honor in the Empire, and one must never step outside of the bounds of honor. The whole thing reminded Gerd of the stories he had heard of Imperial China.

Dad was a little exasperated by First Husband’s declaration, though. He had wanted Gerd to learn body tempering, just like him.

First Husband made a flicking hand motion at Dad of ‘get on with accepting it, honey’.

Dad scoffed, then said, “I guess you can learn ‘real magic’. Bah!” He asked mom, “He needs to do remedials first, and then you can teach him, yes?”

“Absolutely,” Mom declared. She looked to Gerd, saying, “It’s a difficult journey to learn magic, but now that you’re older maybe you can meditate properly this time.”

Gerd recalled his last attempt at trying magic. He only really remembered fidgeting on a pillow for several hours. He had wanted to go play with the other kids. Not ‘concentrate on the mountain’ for hours.

Gerd said, “I will strive for perfection, Mother.”

Mom smiled wonderfully, saying, “Even if you can’t do healing magic, all magic is useful, Son.”

Gerd loved his mother more than he knew how to tell her. He softly said, “Thank you, Mother.”

Second Husband chuckled. “It’s good for parlor tricks.”

Mom joked with him, “Good for bedroom tricks, too.”

… What?

Had Gerd heard her right?

Second Husband suddenly laughed as First shook his head and Dad smiled wide and lovingly. Maybe there was something else glinting in those eyes, too, as he looked at Mom, but Gerd didn’t want to think about that.

Mom looked triumphant at that interaction. Second Husband and Mom had a better relationship than First Husband and Mom, but to joke about sex with Second Husband was too casual. And yet, it had been a good joke for them.

But it was quite embarrassing for Gerd. Gerd felt his face heat up.

Dad laughed louder as he saw that, and soon everyone was chuckling, except Gerd.

Gerd got up, trying to excuse himself—

“Oh! Fine, you can go,” Dad said, and Gerd realized he shouldn’t have gotten up to leave breakfast so fast. Gerd rapidly sat back down. Dad continued, “But I want to know if you’ve had relations with anyone yet. You’re at that age. Someone will be preying on you to get to me. Maybe many someones.”

Gerd felt the weight of the world on him, in the stares that First Husband gave him. Dad and everyone else was less direct. Gerd was embarrassed yet again, as he said, “I like… Lario, so… They are it… I think.”

Dad nodded, as if receiving confirmation of something they already knew. Everyone around the table had a similar reaction, and Gerd felt his face heat up yet again.

Dad said, “They are acceptable, and the history is there. I’ll set up a proper date for both of you in a month.”

Gerd felt his face heat up a lot as he flubbed his words—

Dad shook his head, smiling softly. “Go on now. You should get to your studies because you’re going to double them with magical tutoring soon enough. You’re already 3 years behind Empire standard, Gerd, and you’ve yet to pass remedial weaponry. If you succeed at magic like your mother then you’ll probably have to drop everything and focus on the arcane, but that would be bad for your future development. A well-rounded man is a good man.” Dad flicked his hand at Gerd. It was a dismissal.

Gerd rapidly got back up from the table. He bowed perpendicular to the ground, saying, “Thank you, Dad.”

And then Gerd got out of there.

Back in the dining room, Gerd heard Mom and Second Husband start talking seriously about what they knew of Lario, while First Husband wanted to talk of magic. Gerd almost wanted to listen in but he had to get ready for classes.

- - - -

As Gerd strode down the road, to the academy, the sun shone across the city and Gerd felt weirdly happy.

Joyous.

He smiled.

This was a good life.

The Demon King stuff was concerning, and Gerd hated him for what he did to Redriver and Xenny, but this was a good life. Diseases didn’t exist here on Ondak, for the most part, thanks to magics. Everyone got food if they needed it. Housing was abundant and free in the Empire unless you wanted something special, and then you had to work for it, but that was not hard. The future was exceedingly bright for almost every child of the Empire. Gerd, who was the son of a wealthy merchant, was expected to move out of his house at 20 and live in public housing for at least 5 years, in order to broaden his horizons in another part of the Empire. Somewhere far away from home, too. Everyone with kids that didn’t need the help always sent their kids away, even if the kids and parents didn’t want to separate at all. Usually the time was spent at university, where learning was free, or they got a job and an apprenticeship.

The Demon King threatened everything, with his rampaging hordes and how he had broken the Demon Wall twice now. The break near this kingdom had been bad, but two other breaks further east in the Empire were a lot worse. The Empire pushed back the Demon King, but whereas plainsfolk refugees had been a common sight years ago, Empire refugees were a common sight these days, standing in line at the common kitchens for stew, and wearing roughspun common clothes.

Last Gerd had heard that it was official; every single plainsfolk living beyond the Demon Wall had been ousted from their home territories.

The Demon King had desecrated the land.

There had been food forests, filled with cultivated, half-wild places, where anyone could walk through and pick fruit from trees, berries from bushes, and mushrooms from deadfall. Good meals were a simple walk through the woods, and as long as no one took more than they needed then those places remained filled with food. Those forests, visited a few times a year, had been cared for by Gerd’s former tribe for longer than any of them remembered.

And now those forests were ash.

There had been rivers crafted with diversions here and there along the length of them all, where fish grew fat on snails and bugs that congregated in those separated pools. The fish were so fat! All Gerd had needed to do was reach down in one of the narrow spaces and grab one that was stuck and could not get out. That was when you knew they were ripe for eating.

And now those rivers were dead, thanks to poisonrocks scattered at the headwaters and all down their lengths.

… George imagined that what Gerd called ‘posionrocks’ were actually some sort of nuclear material, but he really didn’t know enough to say. Magic was real, and everything ran on magic; not technology.

There had been a lot of stuff in the news about what had happened beyond the Wall. All of it was bad.

The Empire had the printing press and rather rudimentary technological analogs to the tech that George remembered on Earth. They had lightakers, which were kind of like cameras. They had sheetwings, which were like personal aircraft that a real mage could use to fly with small spells. With those two things, the Empire knew everything that was happening beyond the Demon Wall.

Gerd wondered if Lario —if Larry— was inventing more stuff from Earth.

Gerd smiled.

They probably were. They were golem crafters, now, just like their adoptive masters.

- - - -

Lario stood in the dreaming dark.

The floor glowed white underneath, while a person stood before Lario.

That person was not one of the people.

He was a human that called himself Larry, and everything he said was impossible.

Lario disbelieved all of this shit.

They scoffed. “Nope! I’m out! Take all these numbers and shove them up your ass— And take all these Earth memories, too! Lock them away… Except for the ones about George— Gerd. His name is ‘Gerd’. I’m fine with…” Lario was quiet as he said, “I’m fine with remembering him.”

Larry paused.

And then Larry said, “Yeah. I get that. I will keep most of the memories to myself, and the numbers to a minimum.”

The dream ended.

Lario woke up as Larry and Lario, both at the same time.

He remembered everything…

And then his memories narrowed, like a dream cast away, light as air. He remembered what he wanted to, from radio waves to proper steelmaking to the manufacture and engineering of cars and other mechanical devices. Most of it was incompatible with modern golem creation, but there was enough there to change everything about how he would approach… ‘He’?

Dammit.

They started cursing.

They had too many concerns to care about that other world. Lario had planes to make, designs to iterate upon, to take master of the skies and thus the war against the Demon King! Not to worry about Earth!

Fuck Earth!

Ohhh, Lario did not give a shit about Earth, or ‘Larry’, or any of that other life, but they certainly hated the Demon King, and Lario was going to change the very nature of the war. And when that was done, he was going to make ships to sail the Cursed Ocean. Guns to kill monsters.

And Airships to reach the Flying Mountains, where the Gods of Ondak had their palaces.

Lario was going to find the Dragon of Many Colors and punch him in the face.

They laid on their cot, in the small room that their master afforded him. Thanks to their memories from Earth, this room seemed less than adequate.

And yet…

Lario sighed. It was a decent enough room, they supposed.

Was it better than that oblivion of death?

Lario thought of Gerd, of George, and their heart fluttered.

They grinned despite themselves.

Yeah.

Actually. This was a pretty good second life.

Lario got up and got to making breakfast for their small family of golemcrafters. They weren’t allowed to do much with the actual machinery. At least not yet. So they made breakfast instead.

But over breakfast Master looked down at Lario with a look in their eyes that was almost worrying.

“… Yes, Master?” Lario asked, quietly.

Master sighed, annoyed. They rolled their eyes and said, “By the Divines I suppose it’s time for you to start learning actual crafting, isn’t it.”

