The Archmage intoned, “I have long spoken of the differences of We Keepers of Mana, and you students, and how there was a great divide between the trained and the unlearned. Today, you step over that divide. You become Keepers of Mana as well. Today, you see what is expected of those at the top, and also of all the people supporting those at the top. For it is not just me up here, holding this power in my hands. One person is nothing. Every teacher and every student standing here today is what makes Real Power possible.

“All of you are the hope of this generation, against all its trials and tribulations.

“May all monsters tremble at your arrival.

“May you Crack the Mountain with your might.”

With a twist of light and ribbons of shadow, the Archmage let loose the spell he had been holding, aiming at the mountain top beyond the parade grounds kilometers upon kilometers away.

He let the spell go.

A beam of light extended from his fingers to the mountaintop and the mountain top, covered in snow, became covered in fire. The world boomed. A pressure wave moved across the sky, parting clouds. And then the rumble moved through the Magisterium and the crowd.

When the fire vanished almost as fast as it had come, all the snow on the mountain top was gone, along with a good chunk of the very peak.

It was one of the largest displays of power that Gerd had ever seen.

It was so much larger than last year’s display, too.

The Archmage declared, “Celebrate! For you are all mages today!”

The crowd cheered wildly.

Gerd cheered right alongside his classmates.

Later, he ended up drinking with his best friend from the Magisterium, Van, who was a second ranked adept, and a bunch of other guys who were all third and fourth ranked; Ooless, Sharald, Mio, and Pendalicus.

Van raised a glass and toasted, “To the only actual mage from our cohort!” With a grin, he added, “May we all be lucky enough to one day have as much mana control as him!”

Ooless raised a glass. “To having so much mana you don’t know what to do with it!”

“To the next Archmage!”

“To the next Archmage!”

“To the next Archmage!”

Gerd blushed as they all cheered for him, rapidly telling them all, “You cut that shit out right now! They won’t teach me any of the good stuff!” He smiled, even though he explained an old hurt away, “They still call me demon-born.”

Van smiled brightly at him, and gave his usual response, “They’ll trust you with their lives one day, Gerd.”

A month later they all went to war against the demons, for the kingdom, all of them together.

A team.

In their second engagement, in what was supposed to be an easy airbombing across a supply line, the demons brought out what the Empire would come to call automatic tracker arrows. ATAs, also known as Deathdealers.

- - - -

The supply caravan of covered wagons ditched their covers.

A thousand golems stood ready to fire.

The crossbow golems raised their arrow frames and ATAs ripped through the sky, like homing missiles from another world, another lifetime. The ATAs did not tear through the cloth airframes at all, for they did not lock on to the largest thing in the sky at all, as most homing magic did.

The ATAs went straight for the riders on the frames.

Gerd was the only survivor.

His mana was still near full, even as he flew back to base, tears streaming from his eyes and renewed vengeance in his heart. He had been shooting spells nonstop to save his friends, to escape the crossbow golems and to run away, but the deserted land was full of golems hidden all throughout the entire run between the base and the target. They had hidden themselves with magics, under vines and bushes and trees and even bare rock, while Gerd’s team flew over them, toward the caravan train. They were setting the trap, and then they sprang it while Gerd’s team tried to run back home.

There had been traitors in the Empire.

It got worse when Gerd got back to base, because instead of launching accusations at the people he wanted to accuse, or even just roar at the world, the Archmage had been assassinated, along with several kings all across the Empire.

The Emperor’s own son had been captured and strung up beyond the Demon Wall as a taunt to the entire Empire itself.

As Gerd sat back in base, shocked to his core to hear everything that had happened all at once, he knew that he had only been spared because there had been a miscalculation somewhere. Mana quantity and expenditure was a relatively known thing, if someone spied and sought out that sort of information. Even at the top end of variance, what a person can do was pretty much a known quantity.

Gerd had graduated at the top of his class, but without any real noble education to him.

The traitors had made calculations that should have been right. They should have killed him.

Everyone else had run out of mana.

But Gerd had not.

- - - -

In the Inquisition that followed the Day of Blood, one of the Emperor’s Men hauled Gerd before a Black Court.

The Black Court was seeing a lot of action these days.

Gerd was not the only person who shouted ‘traitors in the Empire’ to the sky.

And now he was here, under investigation himself.

Atop a black throne, with a black mask over his black robes, an Emperor’s Man inquired, “How did you survive, when so many others did not? When your own classmates and cohort did not? Did you not care about them to save them? Or did you simply let them die, since they were Empire-born, and you are demonspawn?”

Gerd did not let the nature of the questioning bother him. He had experienced worse aspersions long before coming to this dark place. Gerd stood resolute, dressed in his graduate mage robes, his silver cloak on his shoulders.

The first thing he did was to unlatch his silver cloak, and set it aside. The people in the room turned tense. A mage without his cloak was a mage going to war, or at least that’s how it was for a normal mage. Most high ranking mages didn’t care if they wore a cloak or not; it didn’t bother them. But a simple graduate mage taking off his cloak was cause for concern amongst most officials.

They thought he was either preparing to kill himself through monsterization and to allow his monster to kill where he could not, or he was prepared to fight. Because, for all the honor of the culture of this world, people still did dishonorable things all the time. Like the traitors.

The Black Court had already caught so many of them.

The Emperor’s Man didn’t seem worried about Gerd, though.

Gerd explained, “I should have been ranked higher than simply first class. I should have been gifted with an apprenticeship to an archmage, to learn real magics. If I had real magics, I could have turned the tide on the assassination attempt made against me and my friends—” His voice cracked. He had thought he was stronger than this, and he was, but the facade cracked anyway. A tear fell, and he ignored it. “… People have called me blessed, or cursed. Demonspawn is a rather normal name. But I am none of those things. I am not even truly from the Demon Kingdom, or, as we would call it, the plains.”

If Mom and Dad were here, they would have told him to shut up.

He had told them that he was from a place called Earth and this was his second life long before today. They didn’t care; they loved him anyway. He loved them for that. Second Husband and First Husband had been especially in love with the idea, and they saw Gerd as a much more capable person after he told them who he was.

All of them would have told him to shut the fuck up, right now.

But they were not here, the Empire was cracking in a thousand ways, demons were coming through those cracks, and people knew his story anyway. Or at least they should. Gerd had told too many for the Empire not to already know.

Gerd would hide no longer.

Gerd spoke, “I was born on a world called Earth, some thousands of years and stars away, or more. I do not know. I do not care about Earth. Ondak is my home. The Empire is my home. I was reborn here and gradually learned who I was in that previous life over the many years of my childhood. I am sure you have paperwork regarding my dreamings. It was a fanciful tale told in many circles years ago, and it has haunted me greatly here and again, growing up for the second time. Some people called me insane. It does not bother me. I am not insane. I simply know who I am.

“I have been reborn.

“That rebirth came with a gift.

“I can’t do much more than hold mana and turn the spellwork I cast into easy magic, but even that is more than anyone else can do on this world. More than anyone that I know of, anyway.” He dropped an impossibility into the Court, “I have over one hundred thousand mana at my command right this moment.”

More like 200,000.

None of it came from the Mountain, either, but there was no reason to speak of that right now.

The guards to the sides of the room tensed.

Two separate gasps came from beyond the reed wall that separated the Inquisitor’s Room from the Black Court. Many more small voices came after that.

The Emperor’s Man’s mask held still, its false eyes glaring at Gerd. Whoever was under that mask made no move to stop Gerd from speaking, or to ask him to continue. He just waited.

Gerd continued, “I actually have a lot more resources than a hundred thousand mana. I expect my exact capabilities to remain a state secret, though, so I will not be stating them for the Black Court. What I do expect is that some archmage in the Empire will finally take me seriously, and allow me apprenticeship, so that I might learn real magic and use it to obliterate the Demon King off of the face of Ondak.

“Because that is why I was reborn on this world.

“Not many people know why they were born.

“I do.

“I know why I am here.

“I was reborn on Ondak to rid this world of its Demon King.”

Gasps. Words whispered harshly behind a reed wall. Someone spat something. Someone prayed.

The black-masked Emperor’s Man leaned forward in his black throne, and his words filled the room, “Who sent you to this world, boy?”

There was no debating Gerd’s origins. There was no disbelief. Gerd had been prepared for that. He had whole pages of words thought up in his head to answer every possible question that could have been asked.

Except that one.

Gerd Lifetaker, George, said, “All I know is that I died on Earth. I met an old friend who was probably not the person I remembered. And that old friend called the power of my reincarnation… They called them the Dragon of Many Colors.”

“Describe them.”

The demand had been fast. Exact. Sharp.

Gerd said, “I only saw them once…” Gerd recalled the Dragon of Many Colors, hanging in the sky. If Ondak had dragons, it would have been easy. Ondak did not have dragons. Gerd said, “I was the size of a person, standing on white stone floating in an infinite sky, and they were larger than the sky. Serpentine neck, face like a scaled dog’s. Arms like a cat’s and a body like a person’s, with legs like a demon’s. Their entire body was of the same scaled nature, with every scale iridescent white… but also black. Their wings spanned infinity. Their eyes were suns. I saw a universe in their body and beyond and…” Gerd struggled. “It was a divine vision. I can tell you how I felt, how I feel, but I cannot recall more details.”

The Emperor’s Man merely nodded.

The space beyond the reed wall was silent.

Gerd waited.

The Emperor’s Man said, “Guilty by association. Death.”

Bars sprung up around the box upon which Gerd stood, wrapping around and above him. Gerd barely had time to consider what was happening when the blades moved in, each of them crushing against his body, his clothes, his skin.

The blades caught upon his skin, though, for Gerd had more than enough time to activate some defensive magics. The blades held him fast. He was not bleeding at all. Not even crushed. Not as he should have been.

Gerd was surprised for a moment. He wasn’t sure what to feel, except that the Emperor’s Man must have been a traitor, too.

The people behind the Inquisitor’s Room started yelling, some of them feeling the same way. The guards shouted at the reed wall, telling them to quiet. Someone pounded on the reed wall, and Gerd learned that the reed wall was more than simple reeds, otherwise they would have broken through.

Gerd was trapped under the crushing weights of too many blades, held down against himself, against the snapping trap that was to kill him. His magics held, but they would not hold forever. His Personal Script was already ticking down by the thousands per second.

Gerd had given many reasons for why he had survived the ambush out in the field, but he had not given all of them.

Hp: 108,183/215,000, ↓↓↓↑ [-1891] Warning! Under crushing/slicing attack!

He was still going to die in under a minute as soon as his Health gave out and his body was truly vulnerable to injury.

Gerd stated, “Please don’t do this. I want to work with the Empire. My entire history says as much!”

His voice was not as composed as he had wanted it to be at the end, but it was as composed as he could have made it.

The Emperor’s Man took off his mask, revealing himself as someone Gerd did not know at all. A xen, with one horn. The people beyond the reed wall did know them, though. There were more gasps.

The xen was a grizzled veteran of a person, with whitening hair and wrinkles.

A loud voice came from beyond the reed wall, “You cannot do this, Sherro! I told you about him because we need him!”

Sherro declared, “We do not need foreign gods messing with our own affairs! He is why this happened at all! The Demon King caught wind of foreign gods on our world and so he scoured all of the Empire for this person right here, and for the other one we already ended.”

Gerd gasped.

Tears came freely.

“You killed Lario?”

Gerd’s heart seemed to break. He hadn’t spoken to Lario in years, but he had never forgotten him—

The reed wall shattered. The guards were pushed back, but they maintained. They held their spears toward the break—

An absolutely ancient xen stood in the break of the reed wall, like a rock in a hurricane, declaring, “This won’t end with Lifetaker dead. You will have removed the possibility of salvation!”

Sherro went, “You seers and your prophecies! Look at the boy! He has twelve blades on his skin and he is still alive! He should have been minced to nothing! He is demonspawn, and he must die!” They nodded to the guards.

Five guards advanced with spears.

“NO!” yelled the Seer. They tried to advance, to stop the execution, but guards stopped them. They yelled, “You’re throwing away our chance to be free of—”

Gerd’s Health failed him long before he was ready for it to fail.

And yet.

