Lario gasped, and so did the three other people at the table, eating congee.

Lario smiled in a small sort of way, saying, “If it would please you, then yes, I would like that.”

Master rattled off, “Tell me the elements of metal and their melting points and how they interact with a basic heart. Start with iron.”

Lario rattled off, “Iron melts at 1550 degrees and rapidly cools to 100 when introduced to a mana heart, yet the iron retains its full liquid state until the heart runs out. That time frame depends on the stresses induced on the golem body. An average heart and average person-sized golem will last as long as the heart-giving monster would have lasted, which is usually 5 years with hard efforts, or effectively immortal if the golem isn’t activated more than once a week for an hour each time. Recovery time varies.

“When an iron heart is introduced to a golem, the vein-like shapes of iron that the iron heart distributes into the golem body form what we call the standard blood-lattice distribution. This shape resembles arteries and veins and the iron heart becomes almost like a real heart…”

Lario continued.

Master watched as Lario spoke, their eyes going a little wider here and there.

Lario found themselves going on tangents about iron that they knew from Earth, but which they had trouble reconciling with the introduction of mana and what all of that meant.

“I’m not sure why iron doesn’t rust when so much surface area is exposed, though,” Lario found himself saying, “Or why, exactly, it remains so vein-like and goopy, and yet it doesn’t actually form veins or blood at all or even flow—”

Master shook their head. “Go back to speaking of what you know. Leave the advanced lessons for later. Speak of… Speak of other metals.”

“Right!” Lario refocused. “Iron forms the basis of all golemcraft, but other metals form the shells of golems, with most shells being formed of a composite of iron and aluminum...”

While Lario spoke, the others cleared away breakfast and Lario sat for a while, speaking of what they knew to Master, while Master guided Lario’s thoughts down concentrated paths.

Sometime around noon, Master sat back in their chair, and raised and lowered a hand.

Lario stopped talking. They waited.

Master stared at nothing in particular, thinking. And then they looked to Lario. “You’ve been watching a lot more closely than I had known.”

“I have, Master.”

“And your dreams? You have had another big one, haven’t you?”

“… I have.”

Master nodded. And then they said, “Don’t let your dreams of another world influence this one overmuch. Many people have had dreams of other lives, of other worlds. The dreaming mountain connects us all, and sometimes dreams come to us, helping us. Sometimes they come to us to hurt us.” Softer, they said, “Don’t let your dreams hurt you, or anyone else.”

“I won’t, Master.”

“Good.” Master stood, saying, “It is time for you to start on practicals. You can begin with mass forging. I’ll get you a pass to the kingdom’s forging hall today.”

Lario smiled wide. They stood up and bowed. “Thank you, Master!”

“We’re in wartime work now, Lario,” Master said, strongly. “Do not disgrace this household. I don’t think you would, but I have to say it anyway. There will be absolutely no demonspeak anywhere in the forgehalls. I do not care if you and Gerd are under the watch of the Xing themselves; no demonspeak.”

Lario felt giddy inside. “Absolutely, Master.”

- - - -

Gerd sat in a cross-legged position on a meditation cushion while Mom sat on a similar cushion just beyond his reach.

She softly said, “You must close your eyes and reach for the void, first. It is within the void that all possibility exists. The mountain exists in the void. You must bring forth the mountain within yourself, and impose that solidity onto the world.”

Gerd focused.

This was a similar lesson to the one he had undertaken years ago. He had failed that time.

This time was so, so very different.

He closed his eyes and something clicked inside.

A trickle of power flowed into his body from the void. Not from any mountain. And not actually from the void, either. Gerd looked at the back of his eyelids and imagined a flow coming from somewhere else...

Somewhere dark, and yet full of light.

Words appeared in the void of black behind Gerd’s eyes, telling Gerd what he knew to be true even before he read them fully.

Concentrating flows!

[Meditation In Progress]

<mana per day> becomes <mana per hour>

+1 mana!

Overall Stability: ↑ [.0005, -0]

Mp: 5/1,000, ↑ [+0, -0]

Hp: 5/2,000, ↑ [+0, -0]

Pp: 4/1,000, ↑ [+0, -0]

Gerd jerked out of meditation.

Mom was looking at him funny—

More words appeared.

Quest Complete!

Learn mana cultivation.

Reward: More resource production.

Soul +1

Here is your new Status:

Gerd Lifetaker, [16] [Current Location: Layer 9,201] [Year 879 Demon Era] [World: Ondak]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 32%, 32%, 32% [N/A; not enough resources to matter]

Reson allocation rate: 4% [N/A; not enough resources to matter]

Darkness Level: Child [10 mana per day]

Fractal Level: Blind [0 resons per day]

Benevolence Level: Unoccupied [10 mana per day]

Soul: 2 ; 20 mana per day

Body: 2

Mind: 1

Overall Stability: ↑ [+.0002, -0]

Mp: 5/2,000, ↑ [+0, -0]

Hp: 6/2,000, ↑ [+0, -0]

Pp: 5/1,000, ↑ [+0, -0]

Resons: 1/10, [+0 = +0, -0] [Converts 9 mana to 1 reson]

Skill Achieved!

[Meditation] Calm yourself and feel the flow of mana. Turns mana per day into per hour. Active use only.

Gerd felt funny inside as his body felt hot and his head felt light.

Mom’s voice was a distant thing, “Dewdrop? … Gerd? Gerd? Are you okay?”

Gerd collapsed backward onto the floor, hitting his head—

Darkness claimed him.

- -

Gerd woke up in bed feeling way too hot.

Mom sat at his side, her eyes closed a little, but at Gerd’s stirring she jumped into action.

“Gerd! It’s okay. You’re okay,” Mom said, smiling softly and holding onto his hand, his arm, reassuring herself just as much as she was reassuring him. “You’re okay.”

Gerd struggled to get up. Something was on his chest, heavy and solid. He reached up to it, touching his chest. “… What?” It was some sort of heavy, silvercloth weight, or something. “What?”

Silvercloth?

The thing mages wore?

What?

Mom smiled wider. “You touched the mountain in the void, dewdrop, and the mountain touched back.” She seemed so very happy as she picked up the heavy cloth and put it to the side. “I don’t know what went wrong last time, but this time you opened a vein. A big one. That’s why you collapsed. That’s a magecloth on your chest; a silvercloth. I had to wear one for a year when I was first starting off— here, here. Sit up.” Mom helped him sit up, and then she held his hands as she looked him in the eyes. “Mana is dangerous. You can make a lot of it already. You’ll have to wear the cloth while you’re learning how to control it and not let it control you, as it does monsters.”

Gerd wasn’t quite sure all of that was correct, but Mom knew what she was talking about. She was a healer. Not a true mage, but mage-adjacent, for sure. Gerd nodded. “Okay?”

“Tomorrow, we’ll take you to the soul voucher, to make sure nothing is wrong with your initial touch of the mountain. Sometimes that happens, but I’ve already healed you and there was nothing to really heal, so you’re fine.”

Gerd nodded along. “How long was I out?”

“Just an hour.” Mom smiled brightly, tears clouding her eyes. “I’m so proud of you, son.”

And then she hugged him, sobbing as she did so, and Gerd hugged her back.

Dinner was a celebratory affair, with First Husband happily supplying a cake he had baked and Dad breaking open a cask of good liqueur, and Gerd getting drunk with his parents for the first time in both of his lives. He had to sleep with the magecloth as a nightshirt, but that was fine.

As he dreamed, he stepped onto white stone, surrounded by the Dark. It was not the void, like his mother had spoken about. It was the Dark, and it was full of everything.

George was there. He smiled, saying, “That magical stuff your mother spoke about is probably true. There’s a mountain out there in the void of Ondak. Most people seem to get mana from it. Not you, though. Not yet. Maybe you’ll touch the mountain in the future and add some new capabilities to yourself, but that’s not what you did at all. Don’t tell people about that. Not yet. Just pretend you’re normal, and you’ll be normal.”

Gerd said, “Okay?”

George chuckled.

- - - -

Gerd woke up to a celebratory breakfast, and then they went to the soul voucher.

A mage in kingdom colors and with army badges on his shoulders pronounced Gerd as himself.

This was rapidly followed by an argument about Gerd being taken away by the army for mage training, but Dad won that argument, saying that the army already took one son from him and it wouldn’t be taking another without a fight. Dad won that argument, for now. Mom was very happy about that.

But Gerd wanted to fight in the army.

He kept that notion to himself, for now.

- - - -

On the other side of the city, under the light of a new day, Lario laughed and smiled as tons of molten iron spilled out of a massive crucible, showering the warehouse in stray sparks as metal filled up one mold after the other.

Larry had never gotten to do much of this part of anything in his previous life before they fired him and the union didn’t stand up for him. Larry had lost his engineering job before he ever really got it.

And now Lario was here, on the factory floor once again, where sparks turned metal molten and rivers of bright metals flowed into molds, to become instruments of war.

Lario was going to make planes his priority.

The Empire understood almost all of the physics of the plane, but they just hadn’t put together a real breakthrough in engineering in 500 years.

Lario was going to be that breakthrough.

He could see it now.

Planes flying in the sky, casting shadows onto the demons of the Demon Kingdom—

Quest Complete!

Achieve Clarity.

Fractal Level: Lidded Eye [3 resons per day]

Lario ignored the words and focused on what Master was saying about aluminum.

“Aluminum is the most prominent metal in the world, behind iron, but it is hard to extract due to…”

Oh yeah.

That’s where Lario would start. All planes today were iron and flimsy wood.

But aluminum planes were so much better.

Aluminum planes! Ironheart engines! No wood at all!

It was going to be amazing.

- - - -

Time advanced relentlessly.

Gerd’s advancements in magic tore him from home before that date with Lario.

Lario kinda forgot about Gerd once they were able to work on real projects.

- - - -

Gerd breathed deep and fixed his collar.

Mom fussed over his cape, which was currently sitting on a chair to the side.

Gerd was 20, and he was graduating today, and he did not like the cape, so he had not put it on yet.

Mom was unhappy about this, for many different reasons, from social expectations to the fact that it was a silvercape, to the fact that Gerd always flouted the silvercloth, which was usually a recipe for monsterization.

Eventually, Mom stated, “Only the top of the class gets to wear the cape, dewdrop. You need to wear the cape, even if you don’t like it.” Mom held up the bright silver fabric, saying, “It will save your life if your mana ever goes out of control.”

Gerd struggled to contain his emotions.

Gerd hated that cape. They had put it on him after his first year and he had never been allowed to take it off, even when he proved to the magisters that he didn’t need it. This was an old argument.

Gerd could throw fireballs and fly without an airframe and win any duel he needed to win, but he had no political power to stop himself from needing to wear the cape. He wasn’t an archmage, and he wasn’t apprenticed to any, and, quite honestly, he hadn’t made nearly enough friends. He was, after all, still a plainsfolk.

Mom hit him with, “You might not need to wear it, but other people need to see you wearing it. I don’t want to bring up Devon, but I’m bringing up Devon.”

Gerd felt his heart rip as he thought of Devon.

In the middle of his first year, Gerd had stopped sleeping with his silvercloth blanket. Devon, a friend, had found out. Devon wanted to forgo the cloth, too.

Devon died as an abomination of mana and magic; a monster, grown within the very walls of the Magisterium itself. It was not the first such incident, and it would not be the last, and today Gerd was graduating the top of his class at the Magisterium, with the rank of Silver Magus. And yeah. He needed to wear the cape for others, even if not for himself.

And then Mom said, “When you’re a proper Kingdom Mage, and your mana is in no danger of falling out of your control, then you can lose the cloth. But for now, please.” She held the silvercloth up.

Gerd put the cape on.

It tickled as it tried to draw his mana away, but Gerd had his mana under control. His Personal Script used to help him with this, and it still did, but Gerd had learned how to contain most of his mana himself.

And it was time to graduate.

The ceremony was bright and shining, with lights everywhere and ribbons fluttering in the breeze and rows upon rows of students, all ready to graduate under the light of day.

Gerd was in the front row, standing with his fellow ‘capers’, as they were called; those that needed a full silver cape in order to not die to their own mana. Eventually, they would either outgrow the need for the cape, or they would not. Most mages never did. A lucky few, like the Archmage up on stage, had outgrown the cape.

Wearing all black, the Archmage spoke on the stage about duties to Empire and Kingdom, while he pointed at a mountain in the distance, beyond the grounds of the ceremony. The mountain back there was not The Mountain. It served as a focal point for many mages, though, and it was rife with magical metals and otherwise due to so many people picturing that mountain in particular when they reached for The Mountain.

Mana moved as the archmage spoke, becoming light that condensed to fractured fire, that became a point of power that cast shadows from everyone.

Oh.

Shit.

He was going to make a display, wasn’t he.

Gerd was worried about whatever the Archmage was doing, and he was not the only one. Usually there was some sort of grand display, but this seemed… Dangerous. And he was pointing at the mountain.

