Erick said, “The point of this reincarnation system is to help out other worlds out there, and to help out the reincarnators, as well. It’s about growth. Prosperity. Benevolence spreading wide. You, George, were in the army for a while, until you got kicked out for homosexual conduct. But I know you wanted to stay. You, Larry, wanted to be an automobile engineer, just like your father, but then events conspired and you were kicked out of the union. But I know you wanted to remain.

“This reincarnation is the renewal of all of your dreams you ever had, and more besides.”

George felt his skin prickle with anticipation. Larry breathed deep.

Erick offered, “Or, if you don’t like the Demon King option, there’s a world with a corporate overlord who needs overthrowing? That’s a good option, too.

“Either way, I don’t expect either of you to start on those paths in life until around 15 or 16 years old. That’s when your Personal Script will awaken and you’ll be able to grow. Other events might influence your Personal Scripts to unlock earlier, or later.” Erick continued, “Or! Maybe you won’t have to fight anyone at all. I could send you somewhere else and you could just have some peaceful lives. But if you want real power, and the power to help others, then you’re going into an eventual warzone.

“That’s the deal. Real power is granted when you do real work, for the good of others far beyond yourself. Otherwise you can just have a nice life.”

Larry was lost, but he was rapidly finding himself.

George already knew what he wanted. The very moment that Erick spoke of the army, George knew what he wanted.

George said, “The Demon King one. That seems simpler than corporate stuff.”

Larry said, “I guess I could fight alongside George? … Yeah. Okay. Yes. Demon King.”

“It’s not nearly as simple as you might think, but you’ll figure that out.” Erick lovingly said, “It was good to see you both again. Good luck—”

“Wait,” George said, as something finally clicked for him. “What are you doing here, Erick? In this weirdness? In this… afterlife? I thought you were an angel, but… You’re not an angel at all, are you?”

Erick chuckled. “Nah. I’m not an angel.”

The world turned to soft light.

George and Larry were floating again.

Ah?

That was all the time they got in this weird place, eh? They were moving on already?

Larry’s voice was a frantic, distant thing, as he caught up to the moment, rapidly saying, “I have more questions!”

Larry’s voice was lost to the rush of reality, falling away below them.

George chuckled as he flew into the sky with Larry, both of them becoming lightning that shot off into the heavens, twinning around each other, the two of them wrapping around each other ever so briefly, and then they separated.

Earth appeared out of the black, only to rapidly vanish behind a wash of light and color. The colors vanished, all was black once again.

And then there were stars.

George fell toward one of those stars.

Over there, Larry fell as well.

The star revealed itself as a sun, surrounded by planets both large and small. George’s lightning path skimmed the sun’s surface as he rocketed past the heat of it all, flowing through the dark. A world lay in the distance. George instantly knew it was his new home.

His new world.

The planet was blue, white, and dusty green, with small red dots that littered a continent in the north. The red parts were almost like craters—

- - - -

A baby screamed.

A soul was reborn.

- -

A seer on the other side of the world felt the touch of the True Divine upon their brow, upon the mana of the world, and they knew that everything was going to change. Benevolence had touched their world, and it would spread. They grabbed their bags, told their people that they were leaving for a while, and then they set down the mountain, walking fast, their apprentices trailing them, pleading for answers. If any of the apprentices managed to keep up then maybe they would get those answers, right alongside the seer.

- -

A distant baron, cousin to a king in an empire of many kings, died to a Demon King assassin’s blade. The assassin died to knights. Local policies regarding the Demon Kingdom changed due to righteous anger and rage. But mostly, the Empire plodded on, exactly as it had for a long time before the latest change in politics.

- -

In the far south, on an island that people called the Cursed Land, where monsters prowled the deep forests and horrors preyed on the monsters, a white tree grew on the shore of a wide, dark lake. Green fire, like many leaves, spread among the branches of that white tree. A rainbow came soon after.

- - - -

George was born on a world where he was named Gerd, to a family of nomads, in the lands of the Demon King.

Born of a woman and a xen, Gerd was a boy who wanted for nothing, for his mother was the tribe healer and his xenny was a warrior teacher. Gerd learned how to hunt when he was 6, and how to skin a deer that same year. He learned how to read the sky, and words and letters. He had never been good with mana, so he didn’t learn that, but that was fine; most people were bad with mana. He learned the ancient histories of his people, and he learned how to make friends from the other tribes, and how the people of Redriver would always have his back against anyone and everyone else, if they should be his enemies. He learned how to fight in childhood fights. He learned how to hunt and kill in small warbands that went on animal hunts, or demon kills, bringing home dinner for the tribe or saving the tribe from demons. His xenny gave him his first bow and his first antler knife, and his mom healed his wounds, making him all better.

The Demon King came when Gerd was 10.

The tribe could not get away fast enough.

It had happened because their tribe lord didn’t pay tribute to the Demon King, and the Demon King was getting crazy in his old age. Or at least that is what people told Gerd. Gerd wasn’t sure what the truth was. No one really knew the truth. All Gerd knew was that half of his tribe was dead and their fishing spots were littered with poisonrocks in order to kill everything that killfire didn’t kill directly.

Xenny died in that killfire. That same fire almost got Gerd. It left him with scars, instead of dead.

The tribe raced to escape the demon lands.

The march to the ‘soft lands’ was a horror.

They lost another half of their tribe, running from the demons that were under the Demon King’s command. The Empire’s people found them running and saved them. Gerd barely remembered what happened next, for he was too tired to do anything but go with his mom, wherever she went.

And soon, they were beyond the Demon Wall that separated the Empire from the demon lands.

They were safe.

They had to make more sacrifices to stay safe.

They had to erase their tattoos that marked them as Demon King supplicants and they had to learn the language. That was fine, in Gerd’s mind, but the tribe got split and sent everywhere so that they would never see each other again, or at least so they couldn’t see each other easily. Gerd and his mom were allowed to stay together. Or at least that’s what Mom told him all the time.

Gerd ended up in merchant noble’s house running errands, while Mom was in that same house, now living as the merchant man’s third spouse. That merchant had been married to two men, but he had wanted a wife for a while now, and Mom was a healer, so the merchant paid the refugee price and bought her and Gerd at auction.

They were not slaves, but it was tough.

Gerd hated his new ‘Dad’ at first, but the man never struck him, and he always provided Gerd with food, and he never locked Gerd in his room or in chains. Gerd had heard that is what happened to all refugees, but when he told his new ‘Dad’ that, his new Dad decided that he wasn’t doing nearly enough for Gerd and Gerd’s mom, so he bought them all new clothes, even more new than the clothes he had already bought them, and they had a party with cake and more things than Gerd knew what to do with. Gerd discovered he loved cake.

He eventually discovered he loved his Dad.

Dad was a fine enough guy, and yet, he was not Xenny. Xenny was gone, and never coming back. They were dead, and the scars of that death lingered on Gerd’s skin, on his right shoulder and much of his back, where Mom hadn’t been able to heal the flames of the killfire well enough. Killfire was hard to heal. Almost impossible. Gerd was lucky to be alive at all.

Life was hard.

Dad was a good man, but Gerd was still expected to do things he did not know how to do. They made Gerd wear clothes all the time. Stuffy shirts and hard shoes and so many pants. They made him stand tall and learn new languages. They made him learn which fork went where, and how to cook in the style of the people of the Empire.

And life was difficult.

The people in the city didn’t like all the new nomads coming out of the demon lands, with their sun-bared chests and harsh words and lack of fancy etiquette. Some girls down the road caught Gerd one day on a delivery for his father and they beat him with socks stuffed with rocks. It was not a bad injury, in Gerd’s opinion. Life on the plains was rougher and the kids out there were a lot meaner, but Dad still fussed over Gerd’s wounds just like Mom did, and that made Gerd feel loved again.

He almost wanted to go get beaten up just so that he could get fussed over again.

- - - -

The dreams started.

Of another world.

Of another life.

Of a place called Earth, in a land called Michigan.

- - -

Gerd slept and he dreamed his name was George.

He lived a life in a world where pictures moved on screens, rockets put men into space, and war was the least of everyone’s concerns, and yet, George felt sad about the wars that did exist because he didn’t get to be a part of those wars. For two weeks, George lived a normal life, working out at the gym, beating up bigots, and trying to make sense of his life after his discharge from the army—

Gerd woke up.

The dreams faded a little, but not much at all.

Gerd lay in bed for a while, thinking about his dream. The morning sun had yet to crest the city beyond his windows, and all the world was soft, dark blue.

He thought for a while.

It hadn’t been a dream, had it?

It seemed more like… a memory?

Gerd remembered signing… signing some sort of paperwork, while hornless men —weird things, hornless men. Men had 2 horns!— went around with badges on their chests, telling him what a useless fairy he was. It was a strange dream. It felt too real.

Gerd, who called himself George in the dream, signed some papers with… with some sort of hard, solid writing thing in his hand. It was like a quill, but different. It was better than a quill.

By a lot, actually.

Gerd had written on paper with ‘pens’ back on ‘Earth’, but in this world, they used quills. Sometimes some rich people had quills that refilled with magic, but most people used quills from the lepdif bird, who shed its quills every winter and regrew them every spring.

‘Dad’ hated quills. They always broke and they were always more expensive toward the end of fall, when everyone was doing end of year paperwork and harvests and taxes, and quills broke all the damned time.

Eventually, Gerd got up out of bed.

After classes were done for the day and Gerd came home from the academy, Gerd walked into Dad’s office in the afternoon. All day long, Gerd had thought about that dream. That memory. And about the pens he wrote with.

Dad was scratching on paper with one of those very same quills that Gerd had been thinking he hated, once he knew about pens. They used wooden-wrapped charcoal at school and those things were terrible, too.

Gerd waited a moment for Dad to acknowledge him.

Dad grunted, though he continued to write on his papers.

Gerd asked, “Dad? Have you ever heard of a pen?”

Dad hummed a little, not looking up from his paperwork as he checked over shipment manifests. He wrote down something, and then he looked up at Gerd. His face transformed from uncaring work, to loving father, though most people would never be able to tell the difference. He asked, “Nope? What’s that?”

“It’s like a quill, but made of metal…” Gerd paused. He organized his thoughts and continued, “Well. You start with a tube of metal, and then you put a little marble of metal in the end of it, in such a way that the metal ball can spin freely and not leave its socket. And then you fill the metal tube with ink.” Gerd mimed writing in the air, saying, “And then you use it like a quill, but without the need for constantly refilling the quill with ink, and without the need to worry about controlling your strength cultivation too much. Since the pen is made of metal. It should be usable even by those who heavily fortify their strength, like you.”

Dad furrowed his brow a little as he thought. He held up his quill. He was using a holder for the quill, obviously, since he had fortified his body with mana for a long time. That holder was metal. But still, if he pressed the pen too hard then he could easily break it and ink would get everywhere. He had a few small enchantments on his writing desk that stopped that from happening, but it still happened elsewhere he used quills.

Dad looked to Gerd. “Can’t say I ever heard of that.” He went back to writing, saying, “I have some messages I need delivered to some golem crafters who are staying in the grand hotel. Draw a picture of your ‘pen’ idea then you can ask them about it. They like pictures of ideas of new inventions.” He looked up at Gerd, saying, “But if they show disinterest and interest at the same time, then you will know you have a good idea. Let me know if they do that. You can broker deals for things like fish prices, but invention prices are beyond you. Let me handle those if they should happen.”

Gerd smiled a little, “Yes, Dad.”

“Good. I’ll have the messages ready in an hour.”

Gerd went and drew some pictures. They were… passable, to get his idea across.

Soon, Gerd was on the road, jogging into the depths of the city.

An hour further along, and Gerd entered the Grand Hotel and made his way to where the golem crafters were staying. They were expecting him but they were busy right now, so they could not deal with his messages at the moment, and so they received him inside their suite, in a little side room. A servant walked into the room, carrying tea—

Oh my gods, they were beautiful. Long brown hair, a button nose, a thin body. They were 14, too. Or something like that. A beautiful single horn. Amazing eyes.

Gerd was in love. Love at first sight. This was a real thing that could happen? Apparently so.

The servant looked at Gerd.

Gerd looked at the servant.

