This was fine, then.

Lario was dead, and the Empire didn’t want them.

And yet, as the first spears cut into his body, into his chest, his stomach, his thighs and his neck, Gerd did not believe that this could happen to him. He had done everything right. He had lived the proper life of an empire-born son, even if he wasn’t born here. How could the Empire throw him away like this? How could they have killed Lario? He wanted to help them. Lario had wanted to help them, too, he was sure.

Gerd had wanted to help.

Gerd died.

- - - -

For a moment, nothing.

And then the Benevolent Dark called Gerd back.

He was not done yet.

- - - -

“So you died,” said a being of light. “It happens. We never expected you to get it right the very first time, so that’s why we made a backup system. Don’t go dying too often, though. The gods of this world don’t know about this backup system right now, but they will if you use it too often, and then the Demon King will know.”

The words were there, and Gerd understood them, but not really.

He was nude, laying on a stone floor, in a small room made of white lights and solid stone. If there was a ceiling he could not see it. There was an archway leading out of the illuminated space, though. A deep, dark forest lay beyond that archway. And here, there was light.

There was also a being of light…

Gerd blinked, and the being of light came into focus.

It was George. George of the Personal Script. Gerd would recognize that pattern of light and his old face anywhere.

Confusion turned to small angers, and then to questions.

“What the fuck?” Gerd asked.

It was a very large question, with many layered meanings. Gerd had asked all of those meanings, all at once.

George smiled, saying, “I’m just one part of your Personal Script, you know. You’ve only ever interacted with a third of me, which is fine. I’m the most talkative. Darkness doesn’t do much more than scream and you have no idea how to talk to Fractal at all. I’ve never been able to really talk about those others, either. Not like this. So this is probably a weird experience for you.”

Gerd furrowed his brows. He stood up and found himself slightly smaller than George. George was… He was different. More solid, maybe? Not just an animated interface that used his own face to make him more comfortable?

Gerd didn’t have time for that.

“I need to get back home, to tell them they’ve made mistakes. If I can talk to someone else— Maybe Xing Ranai from my kingdom can help? The Xing would shove Sherro back into whatever Emperor’s Hole he crawled out of! Maybe I can convince them… all…” Gerd lost steam. “Why are you shaking your head?”

George was shaking his head. “Because you’ve been under surveillance your entire life. They didn’t know much about how your specific oddity of linked hallucinations with Lario worked, but they knew enough. They knew about your resiliency. They knew about your deep reserves of mana. They were going to raise you as a weapon against the Demon King, but then the Day of Blood happened and the Demon King revealed himself as a lot stronger than everyone knew. People died, and the Demon King sent a messenger to the Emperor, demanding that they find whoever had upset his perfect future and execute them, or else he would move on their Empire with the strength of the gods of Floating Mountain at his back.”

The Gods of Ondak were more like arbiters of certain powers, than real gods. They were the ones you had to interact with on The Mountain, when you tried to connect to the Mountain in the Void. That was how normal magic worked on Ondak. Most of the gods weren’t even people. They were just ideas and actions.

That was not how Gerd worked his magic at all.

Gerd had seen a real god before, and even the few times he had Touched the Mountain led him to rapidly decide that ‘power over water’ was not enough to qualify any of the gods of Floating Mountain as gods in his mind. But yet…

To hear talk of the gods actively deciding they didn’t like something...

Gerd felt his skin prickle. “But the gods never involved themselves in anything?”

George nodded, and then began with, “I am your Personal Script, and when you are in here, I can tell you a lot about a lot. I have the resources to do more than I was able to do before. One of the things I can tell you is that the gods of Floating Mountain have empowered the Demon King to be their agent in the world. That is why he, alone, is able to take on the entire Empire of Kings and win, if he wanted. That is why the Empire lets him be the Demon King, uncontested.”

Gerd felt sick. He had heard rumors around the Demon King being an agent of the gods, but those were just conspiracy theories… And yet, they weren’t theories at all, were they.

George continued, “The gods of Floating Mountain used to have the choice to empower the Demon King or not.

“This is no longer the case.

“You must first understand that the gods of Ondak are not true gods. They are more like immortal archmages of vast, yet small powers. They call themselves the God of Fire, or the God of Passages, for example, but they would be called archmages in any other setting. Some might call them wizards, but I would not call them that.

“Before you were reborn here, the Demon King killed the God of Vines and took his raw power, making it his own. From there, he wrapped all of Floating Mountain in vines, sealing the gods away and siphoning most of their power for himself.

“But not before they released a request for help.

“You and Lario and this reviving space here are the response to that request for help.

“I’m sorry I couldn’t tell you this earlier. I didn’t even know myself. I’m rather sure if I had known then I would have given that secret away and you would have acted differently in a few situations, and thus you would have died long before now, for the Demon King has agents everywhere.”

Gerd felt sick again as he recalled some major points in his life.

The Winter Ball of his senior year at the Magisterium. The Palace Walk with all those noble brats. The talks with the Inquisitors at the end of Year One and again at Gerd’s raising to a silvercloak. There had been so many times in Gerd’s second life that had seemed pointed, and yet Gerd had never triggered whatever the nobility and the Inquisitors had been looking for. This knowledge right here was what they had been looking for.

If Gerd had ever spoken about the gods being locked away and not responsive to proper requests for power…

Or that the gods were weak, and that they could do nothing against the Demon King…

Gerd had never heard any of this before. The Empire had to know it, though. Maybe some people in the Empire had even helped the Demon King to sew up Floating Mountain.

Gerd almost puked.

But he maintained.

… He heard people.

People were outside of the archway that led into the forest.

A familiar voice, followed by another familiar voice.

Gerd smelled something like meat, sizzling on a campfire, or something like that.

He heard someone pluck a lyre—

A lyre?

The image of George began to fade until nothing was left but a pleasant grin.

Gerd felt possessed by the need to know if what he was hearing was real.

Gerd stood, and he found himself standing upon whorls of wood, on the only flat spot of bark inside a crack in a tree, while the world outside was full of light and voices and the bark of the tree all around him glowed a gentle white. Gerd picked his way out of the tree and found himself standing on a rock, underneath the boughs of a glowing white arbor with a canopy made of green fire and rainbows.

The tree was massive.

Too tall to make sense.

Gerd had walked out of a tiny twist in the gnarled roots. If there had been an archway and a stone room behind him then he could not see it now. But he saw the world outside of the tree.

There was a settlement.

Shining metal buildings lay all around, nestled into the roots of the glowing white tree, like a crescent of buildings surrounding an open space in the middle. The middle was a town square, but it was really more like a circle.

There was a campfire.

People stood around the campfire, lit with red glows and shining warmth.

Van, who had died mere weeks ago, wore roughspun clothing and smiled as he raised a mug of beer to Pendalicus, who was on the lyre, playing a ribald song of sex and war. They were having fun. Ooless, Sharald, Mio. They were all there. They were all having fun and eating and—

And then there was Lario.

They smiled as they sipped beer and watched the guys cavort around the fire, laughing and telling stories of university and Magisterium.

Gerd saw Lario.

Lario saw Gerd.

They gasped.

They leapt to their feet and rushed him, calling out, “Gerd! You’re here!” Lario crossed many meters, fast as he could and crashed into Gerd, hugging him tightly, and it was like they had never spent time apart at all. They held onto Gerd, their head against his chest, softly crying, softly saying, “Your friends are nice.”

Everyone started to rush up to say hello, but they then saw the hug and they looked about ready to tease Gerd.

Gerd’s eyes were wet as he told Lario, “I didn’t know they had gotten you. I walked right into it. I can’t believe I let myself believe they were different from… From humans.”

Lario chuckled, but it was a sad sort of chuckle. “Your friends don’t believe that the state murdered me, but we’ve been here for a few weeks now. They still say that the Empire would never do that to anyone who didn’t deserve it. They weren’t murdered by men in black with sharp knives, coming in the night.”

Gerd held Lario tighter. Lario breathed deep, seeming to relax by the moment.

Van approached, though he had the sense to see Lario and Gerd.

Gerd wondered what, exactly, they had all talked about yet. They looked to have all been living here for a while. The guys gathered around, awaiting their captain. Soon enough, Lario let go, and Gerd stood strong.

Gerd stood tall and told them all, “An Emperor’s Man named Sherro murdered me at a false Black Court.”

Eyes went hard. Hands balled into fists. Disbelief warred, and they looked to Lario.

Lario had the good sense to merely look upon Gerd, but they did grin a little. They didn’t rub in how right they were about the Empire, though they probably would later. Maybe the guys would listen, then.

Gerd continued, “We are not going back to the Empire for help. We will become a fighting force worthy of the continued lives we have been given, and when we are ready, we will destroy the Demon King and free the imprisoned gods. If the Empire should benefit from that, then that is fine. We owe them nothing anymore.”

Van got a hard look in his eyes. He nodded. Mio and the others soon followed.

Lario said, “I’ll do logistics. I’m not directly fighting a war.” And then they summoned clothes out of thin air and handed them over to Gerd. “Not that I don’t like the view, but we are trying to be civilized here, wherever ‘here’ is.”

Gerd blanked for a moment. And then he smiled and laughed, taking the clothes. “When did you learn how to summon stuff?”

“A while ago. I was working in the top secret air yards— But enough about that! What happened while we were gone? I was killed hours after the big kills of everyone. It was all confusion. I heard the Emperor Himself was murdered?”

Van tried to be polite about it, but he also demanded, “What happened out there, Gerd?”

Everyone started talking at once, about everything.

Gerd began, “The Emperor’s son was murdered...”

Gerd explained about the Day of Blood, which caused everyone problems, but which explained why they were attacked so hard on the battlefield. It had been a plot by the demons to kill that year’s top student.

The rest of the talk took a while, and was spent around the bonfire.

When Gerd was done, everyone took a moment.

Gerd asked, “What has been happening around here?”

Lario began, “We have done some scouting...”

That led into talk of flying, and the scouting that they had already done around the Big Tree, which is what they were calling their little settlement, on account of the Big Tree in the center. They were on some island with monsters everywhere, except for here, by Big Tree.

“But flying out from under the boughs isn’t safe,” Lario said. “We have had to make do with long-range sight magics and telescopes to see most of what was out there.”

Sharald spoke darkly, “I died a second time.”

Mio said, “Three times, here.”

Van said, “But we can fly above Big Tree, some. Not too high or the flying monsters get you. If you stay in the rainbows you can see to the ocean to the west. Everything else is mountains.”

“How do you know we’re on an island, then?” Gerd asked.

Van frowned a little, unhappy with the answer he was about to give, even before he gave it, “Go and ask Big Tree to tell you. They’ll probably talk to you. You’re special, just like Lario.”

Lario rolled his eyes at Van, saying, “And you can get a Personal Script, too, if you want to become a Paladin of Many Colors.”

“I’m not becoming no lackey for some otherworldly god,” Van said, dismissively.

Gerd pulled back the conversation, asking, “So what else has been happening here?”

Ooless said, “Mostly monster hunting, as much as we can.”

Mio said, “Not much hunting, though.”

Van said, “We’re all mages, but mana is scarce.”

Lario mouthed solutions to Van’s mana problems that no one wanted to hear.

Van continued, “Lario needs monster hearts to make planes fast enough to get us off the island. Not sure where we’d even go from there, though. Not with this Day of Blood shit.”

Mio spoke up about that, loudly, “Did the entire Empire just lose their damned minds? They decided to side with the Demon King to kill you?! What the fuck, Gerd!”

Van agreed. “I knew the Demon King was strong, but for the Empire to just roll over? It boggles, Gerd!”

Sharald spoke darkly, “The Empire is filled with corruption.” And then there was hope in his voice, “But the Empire and the Demon King are small. Even Floating Mountain is just one land of power in this world.” He looked up at Big Tree, and said, “Wherever we are…” his voice trailed away.

Everyone looked up at the greenfire canopy of Big Tree.

