They went together, so well.

Erick dismissed one of his extraneous Ophiel over Candlepoint and reconjured the little guy onto his left shoulder, to pair with the one already on his right. He gave one of them [Force Crash], and the other [Inevitable Bolt], as he became the crucible in which that sound evolved into something more than the sum of its parts.

He turned his attention to the air above the stone pillar, and cast.

The small part of the blue sky briefly turned solid, becoming a mutated jewel of 15 jagged points that broke all at once. Some of the conjured Force became naught but white dust that returned to the manasphere. The rest became 15 jeweled tears, separating fast and far, maybe thirty meters between the most distant ones. All at once, they turned to the target and began their long descent, some arriving in three seconds, some arriving in twelve.

Erick watched each drop of magic weigh in on the targeted stone. The pillar was solid rock, but still, it cracked after the fourteenth Bolt. It was not a large crack. It didn’t mean anything, for now. But it was still a line of separation at the top of a large pillar. A blue box appeared.

Inevitable Bolts, instant, long range, 250 MP

Bolts of inexorable Force each eventually strike a target for WIL damage. 15 bolts.

Erick examined the spell he had created, and then brought up the next part of the crafting.

Force Bomb X, instant, long range, 50 MP

Launch a quick ball of mana that explodes on contact in a medium area for 50 + 2x WIL damage.

He smiled to himself, as he gave parts of the magic to each Ophiel on his shoulder. They sang together, of inevitability, and doom; a deep sound that all would see coming. This would be the tricky part. Erick’s heart beat hard as he drummed up his own intent, beating in time to the magic, knowing that a sudden drop would come when it was ready.

He cast.

A piece of the sky broke, and separated. Tears fell, each sounding like a distant, wailing cry.

The first drop took two seconds to almost reach the pillar—

All the speed that first drop had held back, suddenly burst into existence, as the drop whammed into the pillar almost faster than the eye could see. And then it exploded. Erick laughed, his sound drowned out by the rippling booms of 15 slow teardrops, taking their sweet time to get into position, and then once the target was close, racing down, blasting as hard as they could. At the tail end of the spell, the bombs had trailed left, following a boulder that had been smashed into the sky, somehow, only to be blown up twice more as the final two bolts struck the stone. The whole spell lasted at least 15 seconds, but only a few bombs took more than 7 seconds to reach the target.

A blue box appeared.

Inevitable Bombs, instant, long range, 975 MP

Bombs of inexorable Force each eventually explode upon a target, each dealing 50 + 3x WIL damage in a medium area. 15 bombs.

Northern winds blew dust and sand away, revealing the scope of the destruction, or rather, revealing a crater. The remains of the pillar stretched across those craters, like scattered remains. Erick was rather glad to see that the ‘quick’ version of the bombs had adjusted course as the target moved. This was what success looked like.

Erick sent an Ophiel forward, further than the craters where the pillar had stood. Ophiel raised another pillar, a stronger one this time, and then blipped back to Erick, as Erick focused for the next part. Each step in the creation process was crucial, each step deserved his full attention, and its own music. He held his hands forward.

One Ophiel hopped upon Erick’s left hand, and sang of [Inevitable Bombs]. It was the sound of doom approaching. A thunderous beat. A weight, ready to drop, and break the world.

It was muddled, though. The sound wasn’t as clear as it could have been.

Another Ophiel hopped onto Erick’s right hand, and sang a song of Shaping.

Together, the sounds revealed a clarity of purpose, a wider doom. A depth that was there, but needed something new to bring out an inner truth. Some emotion that existed for more than just Erick, but for everyone. A universal truth.

And what was that Truth?

A straw that breaks the camel’s back. A mouse backed into a corner. A threat on the horizon that must be recognized, lest a man who has been pushed too far, push back.

Erick spoke that Truth, “I don’t want to do this, but I will if I have to.”

Far above, where the clouds lay, the sky cracked like a broken jewel. Teardrops spread over a hundred meter arc of the heavens, studding the blue like flickering diamonds, or a kitchen-full of bared knives, or the glittering edges of guillotines.

They descended in a disruptive concert, taking a full minute to reach the pillar, but when they did, they ripped through the remaining distance to impact the stone. Explosions of pure Force rocked the desert, again. This time, the pillar did not explode away, but it did explode into parts. Erick watched, as three separate flying boulders each received a bomb of its own, further exploding the remains of the pillar into even more debris, while the base of the pillar, still hidden by clouds of sand, received the lion’s share of the spell. 15 bombs came and exploded in the space of a minute, with almost all of that time spent on floating down, and converging on the target.

Two blue boxes appeared.

Inevitable Bombardment, instant, super long range, 1475 mana

Bombs of inexorable Force each eventually explode upon a target or targets, each dealing 50 + 5x WIL damage in a medium area. 15 bombs.

Class Ability Quest Complete!

Create a tier 5 or higher Force-based spell or skill.

Reward: Force Savant

Erick shot both hands into the air, shouting, “Ah ha! Did it!”

Kiri spoke up for the first time, “What… Did you do?”

Erick handed a copy of the spell to Kiri and Poi, saying, “It wasn’t impressive in the beginning, but it got there!”

“Holy...” Disbelieving her own words, Kiri said, “That’s… 10,000 Force damage per spell?”

“What I did, was take the tier four spell—” Erick handed over that spell. “And ran it through 500 Mana Shaping to purify the sound and the intent. I got the Super Long Range that I wanted, but I did not expect the Willpower multiplier to go that high.” He smiled. “Force is pretty amazing!”

Kiri blinked. She said, “Force can be anything… That you managed to make a Force spell this… powerful…” She rapidly added, “If you turned this into burning Fire, you can make that 10,000 damage into 50,000. Easy.” She laughed a little, making a mostly nervous sound, as she said, “This could kill most any monster… And for cheap, too.” She looked to the sky, then to the craters ahead, saying, “But those theatrics. I’m guessing that you want the enemy to be able to see the spell coming? And make it hard to [Dispel], too?”

“Exactly right!” Erick said, “All correct, Kiri.”

“… If you would have made this spell a year ago...” Kiri frowned a little, as though she was reevaluating her stance. “I think your [Luminous Beam] does more damage.”

Erick chuckled. “Sending a message is important, too. Besides. I can just add [Luminous Beam] to [Inevitable Bombardment], once Particle Magic becomes a part of the Script.”

Kiri sharply inhaled. “Right. You can do that.”

“I could probably attach almost all my directed spells onto this one.”

“… Right.”

Erick teased. “You should make a spell like this.”

Kiri agreed, “I should make a spell like this.”

- - - -

After a small break to regenerate his mana, that only lasted longer than necessary in order to explain every part of [Inevitable Bombardment] to Kiri, Erick stepped away from Kiri and Poi. He stood under the sun, with the wind rushing through his hair, evaporating sweat and worries. He focused.

He cast.

The spell came upon him like a shift in perspective. The ground was brighter than before. The sky a bit more blue. The sun was a radiant sphere that didn’t hurt to look upon. Being under the sun felt good, actually. Really good. He smiled. He gazed around him.

In a twist of thought, the land around him made him recall the depressed people he had spoken to in his life, those sad souls and the downtrodden, after Erick had managed to help them out of their ruts. Sometimes, they would tell him that the world seemed brighter than before, though nothing had changed except their own perspective.

But something had physically changed around Erick. A topaz-bright edge in the sand showed the range of his spell; close range. Beyond that edge, the orange turned darker, becoming something less impressive. He walked toward that edge, and his aura moved with him, bringing brightness wherever he stepped.

Behind him, his aura lingered, but burned away as Erick distanced himself, turning bright orange sand to topaz, briefly, and then to dull, dark browns. Erick paused, and the new edge of his aura solidified, showing him the exact space of his new Domain.

Two blue boxes and one other color appeared.

Lodestar, instant, close range, aura, 1 mana per second

Shine Timeless Brilliance.

All of your Light effects are supercharged, and difficult to corrupt.

All of your Light effects require 10x more mana to Dispel.

Your Light effects are uncorruptible and undispellable while they exist inside your Lodestar.

Class Ability Quest Complete!

Create a tier 7 or higher Light-based spell or skill.

Reward: Light Dedication

Congratulations!

You have combined parts of the Script to create your first tier 9 spell!

You have made manifest a wonder few have ever come close to achieving, but there is always more magic out there, waiting for you to discover, or create. Good luck!

+8 points!

He smiled, and sighed to the sky. His new Ability, Light Dedication, kicked in. From one moment to the next, the world became a solid brightness. Erick felt physically closer to the world, in a way similar to [Greater Lightwalk], but more as the god of his tiny domain, than as a simple ruler. With a thought, he activated [Greater Lightwalk].

He was the sand below his feet, and the air tickling the light. He was dry heat, and the bare moisture on the wind. He was the rays of the sun, and he was ready to face anything.

He wasn’t sure what it all meant, yet, but time would tell, eventually.

Erick turned to Kiri and Poi. She looked at Erick in wonder, but Poi looked on in pride. Erick cut his new aura, and his [Greater Lightwalk]. The world briefly lingered with brilliance, before normality closed in, like white hot metals cooling to something less intense, and Force flaking into dust, returning to the manasphere. As Reality became reality, as thoughts turned to solid matter, Erick sighed out with his pitiful lungs, and moved his inadequate legs, as he stared out with his pathetic eyes. He laughed. Pitiful lungs? Pathetic eyes? While true, because his new spells had shown him something he had never experienced before, Erick was perfectly happy being a normal person.

Erick said, “I don’t think I’ll be any more ready for tonight than I am already.”

Kiri faced Erick with determination in her eyes. “I hope so.”

Poi said, “You should sleep, now, if you can. Get a few more hours in before the night begins.”

“Soon enough.” Erick turned to Kiri, asking, “Can you check that stone board in Candlepoint, and go buy whatever seems prudent?”

Kiri readily said, “Of course.”

Erick added, “I know that beds are in demand, so buy a good one. Orcol-size. I’ll [Duplicate] it ten thousand times if I have to.”

Kiri perked up, saying, “Okay!”

Poi grumbled; obviously displeased with the idea of conjuring prosperity from nothing.

“Exactly,” Poi said.

“I might be dead in ten hours, Poi.” Erick said, “I can leave behind good things for the destitute.”

- - - -

A whirlwind of tasks laid before Erick, but he was quick to do as many of them as he could.

After a short delay so that the respective parties could get ready, Erick met with Rollo and Calizi, the two Community Garden Council members that paid the most attention to the workings of the Garden. He could have met with one instead of the other, but after Ratchet and Arial’s mention that these two had taken over most of the duties of the Council, Erick knew it would be bad to meet only one.

The meeting went about as well as Erick had expected.

They politically, and then eventually, openly fought over workers and contracts. Erick mediated. When the actual bickering started, Erick demanded they get back on track. He needed space in the Garden for ‘And Dessert!’s cocoa trees.

There was no space available. So Erick bought a small corner of space in the Human District, since he was a human and could buy more land in the District, and turned it over to the Council.

The process of buying said land involved a talk with Silverite and a few short delays while everyone talked to everyone they needed to talk to, and paperwork was signed, along with money changing hands, but it happened fast enough. They had expected Erick to get personally involved in the Garden well before now, and most of the paperwork to that effect had been preapproved.

An hour later, Erick walked out of the meeting with a new portion of land along the southern edge of the district to his name, while Rollo and Calizi both got more Garden space for both of their factions, and everyone was happy. Even Silverite was somewhat happy. The Mayor of Spur did not like that more of the Human District was being eaten away, as she had managed to preserve most of that space for the last hundred years, but the Garden was important, and Silverite hoped that the new land would lessen some of the friction between the various factions of the Garden Council.

In the middle of getting land for his cocoa trees, and while he had everyone’s attention, he also managed to get Silverite to consider approaching Valok to set up some food trade with Candlepoint, if nothing else.

Silverite sighed. “I’ll consider it, Erick.”

“Thank you. That’s all I ask.”

With that task done, Erick turned his attention to the large diamonds he had been making in the side yard.

Just outside of his house, to the south, Erick stood in front of several large stone tanks of water, each easily three meters deep. Water had spilled out of the tanks, as the diamonds inside had displaced the water with their growth.

With a Handy Aura touch, Erick lifted one massive, octahedral diamond out of the tank, splashing even more water out onto the surrounding orange stone. The diamond was magnificent. Like two pyramids stuck bottom to bottom, with each triangular side a mess of triangular growth planes, the diamond was crystal clear, and perfectly grown. It was all thanks to the five Ophiel, fluttering around from one perch to the other.

