Erick came back to himself. He stood. He blipped the purple crown back to its not-so-hidden spot in his house. With a concentrated conjuring, his white armor spread across his body. He conjured a white staff into his hand, then gathered his Ophiel.

And because children needed people to talk to them, and because he wanted to impart as much of his own wisdom to the little leafy guy, Erick telepathically spoke to his new summon. He spoke of his time on Veird, and what he had seen, while he ensured that all his bags were there amongst his surrounding Ophiel, and all his chocolate desserts for the Feast were fine.

He blipped to a speck of land, that looked the same as all the rest, but was a kilometer east of the Crack in Ar’Kendrithyst’s wall. The sun had already set beyond the wall in front of him, drowning the surrounding land in shadows. Flickering darkness stood in the path to the Crack, like heat mirages, or shadelings in a [Shadowblend]. They scattered from the path forward, but the shadows did not go too far.

Erick walked forward, as he sent images to Yggdrasil, of all of Veird that he had seen, and the people he had known, and knew. He talked of good things, and he spoke of bad, while two Ophiels held to Erick’s shoulder, and the others floated around him, holding onto his assorted necessities. He spoke of Silverite, and markets, and the Gardens, and the Farm, and the people of Candlepoint, who had gotten a rough hand dealt to them in their disrupted life.

He spoke fondly of Poi, and Kiri, and Justine, and Teressa. And even Rats, while lamenting the fact that the redscale had gone off to who knows where.

He spent a while speaking of Jane, his wonderful daughter.

He gave small instructions to Yggdrasil to telepathically speak to them, if he needed help, and Erick wasn’t around to provide that help. They would be friendly, as much as they could, but they might also be prickly. He didn’t tell them what he was planning on…

Poi would have known, though.

… Erick sent Poi a message about Yggdrasil, anyway, packing the entire creation experience into one, thousand-point telepathic message. Poi would likely need a minute to untangle a message that big, but by that time Erick would be dealing with Sha—

Poi immediately, and angrily, sent back, ‘Of all the irresponsible and foolish things! My gods, Erick! What the FU—!’

‘Can’t talk now. Meeting a Shade in a moment. Take care, Poi. I always appreciated you watching my back!’

Poi, thankfully, did not interrupt Erick’s thoughts. Erick was already close to crying. Poi was probably proficient enough to pick up on that, for their connection was still open—

‘Fight well, sir. Good Luck.’

Poi ended the connection with strong thoughts, and determination. Erick borrowed those thoughts, and made them his own, steeling himself for what was to come.

The Crack loomed close. Instead of an indistinct lighting in the dark expanse of the wall, from here, it looked more like a knife of crystallized light in the darkness.

Erick walked on, resuming his telepathic talk with Yggdrasil, inundating his words with thoughts of encouragement, and what to expect in life, but also that it was better to be kind, and get hurt, than to cause hurt upon another, for violence was hard to stop once it got started.

He spoke of rain, and greenery, and the joys of a harvest, and the joys of family, like Al and Savral, and Valok and Delia. Sirocco and Sizzi. Zimmy Saker, and Kirzal Saker. With his thoughts turning to family, Erick introduced Ophiel to his brother, and tried to introduce Yggdrasil to Ophiel, but if Yggdrasil recognized Ophiel, then Erick wouldn’t know for a long, long time.

He spoke of Jane, who was sort of like an older sister to Yggdrasil.

He gave Yggdrasil a copy of [Prismatic Ward], and cast the spell through him, using Yggdrasil’s mana, showing him how to use it for defense. He chose not to give Yggdrasil any attack spells, but took the time to explain his reasoning. You wouldn’t give a child a gun, would you? Best they learn to grow up, first, and even then, diplomacy had to be tried before anything else. Violence was a tool of last resort, and all too often people confused ‘major inconvenience’ for ‘problem to solve with bloodshed’.

Yggdrasil was strong. He was powerful. There was no need for violence against people, and no monster could break [Prismatic Ward]. Not faster than Yggdrasil could recast it, anyway. Not with as much power as Erick had given the little guy, at the time of his creation.

Erick watched, as both saplings, in the lake, and the Lake, cast [Prismatic Ward] upon themselves. It was a weak version; Yggdrasil instinctively knew that he was a being of mana, so he tried to stay high mana. But with those two soft shells of Restful, dense water, the sapling in Candlepoint’s lake grew faster, while the one in Spur’s Lake grew slower. There was lots of room to grow in the larger body of water, but Yggdrasil was only five meters from the surface of Spur’s Lake, and he seemed apprehensive about breaking that twilight purple surface.

Erick spoke of Earth, and Yggdrasil seemed to like that. So Erick spoke of planets, and destinations beyond where one began, of places past the void, where life had yet to live, for even Veird was just a tiny spaceship, in the grand scheme of things. Erick spoke of Earth’s space program, briefly, and then moved on to larger topics, for Yggdrasil grew fractionally taller, faster, and brighter, as Erick spoke of the vastness of the universe.

Before he knew it, Erick had reached the Crack, and all thoughts fled.

Ophiels turned tiny, and got into position, some hovering behind Erick, while the two on his shoulders stretched and oriented their wings and their eyes, giving him sight in every direction, and a bit of reassurance to calm his rapidly beating heart.

Wind billowed out from the break in the wall, whistling all the while. A silver pole set in front of the crack held a blue flag at the top. The flag cracked in the wind, but as Erick approached the beginning of the Crack, where the sands dipped down into Ar’Kendrithyst, the wind stilled, the flag faltered.

He sent Yggdrasil off with these words, ‘Good luck, Yggdrasil. I named you after the most important tree I could think of. I have to go now. I’ll see you when I can.’

A woman with bright white eyes stepped out of the red, purple, brilliant black brightness ahead.

Her hair was frazzled, as though purposefully crafted to appear an organized mess. Her black outfit sparkled in the lights of the Dead City, as she raised her hands high, one of them gripping a staff of kendrithyst crystal.

“HellooOOooOOooOo, Erick Flatt! FIRE OF THE AGE!”
