A sense of cold foreboding washed through Shiv. He cried out, at least tried to. He wanted Evanescia to look away from Adam, to stop whatever she was doing, but now they were passing through the massive gears, so great and vast up close that they eclipsed the size of continents. Every tooth sticking so far loomed beyond Shiv's ability to perceive. He didn't get to study the gears for long, for they shot past that threshold, moving faster than Shiv could comprehend, and finally arrived at what he instinctively knew to be the epicenter of the Fairwoods’ cosmology.

Here, there was an expanse of whiteness and a ball of incandescent fire, one that burned atop a gargantuan, mechanical tower of clockwork, a burning beacon at the height of this world.

And that burning beacon had an emotional core.

It had a glow of vitality.

It had a sense of hunger.

And Shiv could feel it, heard it rumble with need.

The Broken Watchtower accepts the sacrifices.

The Broken Watchtower seeks their integration into Flame and Narrative.

The Broken Watchtower is simulating the upcoming season.

Oh, fuck. Something told Shiv that even his Deathless nature wasn't going to enjoy the touch of that flame.

They came to a halt over the top of the Watchtower. The beacon that seemed to faintly fire from afar was a conflagration the size of an ocean that waited below. It gave off no heat, but there was a malice to the way it burned. A need. An avarice.

Fuckfuckfuck, Shiv thought calmly. He struggled, trying to figure out a way to escape, trying to think of something else he could do. He used all his skills. He brought up his sheet and looked through his many options. He tried using his Blessings as well, but they were blunted. He couldn't do anything. He was simply frozen in a moment of time. Even his Non-Sequitur couldn't be triggered, since he couldn't act at all.

Once more, he was helpless, and helplessly he watched as Evanescia pulled Adam in front of him. She wanted Shiv to watch. Pages flapped within the watch-type automaton, and Evanescia returned. Her indistinct fingers were curled, as if prepared to pinch something.

“You took one of my Fae from me with that peculiar skill of yours. I'm going to pluck it out of you and examine what it can do. I mainly wanted you for that Shattered Star. You are going to boost the Deathless quite well, and his undying nature means that his strife is endless. You can amplify that effect. The girl can keep you both contained. But before that, a lesson for all of you: Don’t break what is mine.”

Without further pretense, she reached forward and drove her fingers into Adam's right eye.

No, motherfucker, let him go! LET HIM GO! Shiv screamed internally. He remained quiet outside.

Evanescia dug her fingers deeper, and blood began spilling out from Adam's mutilated socket. Suddenly, the space around his head cleared of golden mana, and he immediately began screaming: she wanted everyone to know how much Adam was suffering. His head thrashed about, trying to pull free, trying to turn away, but after a near-minute of digging, Evanescia plucked his right eyeball out of his skull with a brutal wrench and bit down on his optical nerve, severing it completely.

The noises Adam made were barely human. His throat was hoarse from screaming. A few sobs leaked over.

Suddenly, Shiv went from being mostly befuddled by the strange Fae to hating her more than anyone else he knew in all existence.

He was going to kill her. He was going to kill her slowly. He was going to break every bit of her. No matter how long it took, no matter what it took.

“There we go,” Evanescia said, studying the azure and bright-orange iris of the eye she held in her fingers. “There are consequences to offending the reader. Some of them stop reading. Some of them turn away from the story, but some, well, they like to write their own narrative, and I am very fond of tragic vengeance. I get nothing from this. I even damaged one of my new characters. Don't worry, young Arrow; I will put you back together. But before that point, I need you to understand I can take you apart.”

Adam mumbled something. It was barely coherent.

Evanescia laughed. “What was that, dear ape? You have to speak up. You sound like you're about to black out. I suppose you are the most fragile of the three. I wonder if there's anything I can do about that.”

“I said,” Adam swallowed, trying to mask his suffering. “I said… You almost came close to scratching that damn itch behind my skull.'”

The Usurper-Narrator threw her head back and barked a laugh of pure amusement. “Incredible bravado. Perfect. You too are a hero for the ages, young Arrow. And that was something your friend over there might have said. But I am absolutely greedy, and that Feat of yours… I don't think I prefer suffering an attack like that again. It's far too potent. Too unnaturally devastating. How can something just ignite a soul like that? It's like you are meant to be an assassin for things like me, for everything that possesses an existence…” She hummed. “Perhaps I should do a little bit more digging. An eye is not enough.”

Once more, she drove her hand into Adam. This time, however, it went deeper than his flesh. She began twisting and reaching within his very soul, and he gasped and groaned, trying to break free, but he was still trapped, trapped in her grip.

Despair, especially when it came utterly out of nowhere, was a foul emotion. It was a sickening thing. Despair reduced who you were. Made sure you never reached your potential. And Shiv was pretty close to that despair.

With the Tarrasque, he could die fighting. With the Ascendants, there was a social game to play, schemes and opportunities for him to exploit. But Evanescia was something else entirely. She was an outside context problem for him. He had no idea who or what she even was, and she'd come out of absolutely nowhere. His Non-Sequitur gave them an edge briefly, and he might have the means to beat her narrative powers within his frying pan. If he couldn't break free, then how could he help Adam? How could he—

Uva exploded out from Evanescia's insides, but she didn't do so as herself. Instead, the bulk of her being was nested inside the mind of one of those Red Riding Wolves. And she held her rapier high in the air before suddenly dropping it down unceremoniously atop the head of the Usurper-Narrator.

A comical thud echoed through existence.

Evanescia's head bounced once, and she suddenly looked upon Uva, hidden within one of her own fae. “You—how could you—” And suddenly, a chain of winged books began flapping in a circle around Evanescia’s featureless face, as she stumbled back, her hands sliding free from Adam's mutilated soul. “I can't say I saw that coming either. Well… done… gi—”

Evanescia folded over—but the moment she felt unconscious, she turned wrinkled and sank beneath the fabric of reality, like words vanishing upon a page.

And despite everything, despite the bitter, bleak emotions Shiv suffered, a roar of triumph and hateful retribution flared inside him as Uva reached out and caught at him before he could fall, for time had resumed. They all plunged, and somehow, someway, a laugh escaped from Shiv as they all fell toward the fire.

System, I take it back, I love that dumb bullshit skill!

But though Evanescia had been knocked unconscious, there was another being here. One that had a will of its own.

And when it spoke, it did so not with a voice, but with the rumbling authority of the System.

These sacrifices are now mine.

These souls are now consigned to the Fairwoods as new characters for the coming season.

I accept this offering.

And with that, the incandescent inferno atop the Broken Watchtower erupted upward to consume them.

Shiv swapped his Severed Shadow and physical body a third time as he flung himself after Adam and Uva, praying desperately for the lid on his pan to open. Gods, please, come on you fucking—

As they fell, Adam’s Shattered Star flared bright in defiance of whatever fate was to come, a trail of blood spilling out from his empty eye socket.

A rush of power slammed into Shiv—a final boost granted to him by the Gate Lord.

Uva formed a protective web as she embraced Adam from behind—taking the Watchtower’s flames first.

And just then, the Last Morsel’s lid parted, revealing a finely cooked strip of paper within.

Sequel Slip - Make sure that someone shows up in the next one…

Shiv pulled the meal out and did the only thing he could think of, just as he reached his friends.
