You're not going to remember any of this, Eileen. That is why I'm speaking to you so openly. You see, it's been eons since I got to be honest with someone. And you are uniquely suited to hear these words because you are exactly the type of arrogant child who might just grasp the depth of what I'm about to say. You do not get to decide anything. You are still a slave. You will not remember, but you are a slave regardless and will be a slave eternally, until your use is spent.

And I will spend you, because you are a useless Patternist. The only purpose you have is being bait. You are meant to lure the true flames into my realm. After that, regardless if you manage to subdue them through direct combat or if they overcome you and make you swallow your misery a final time, they will be mine, and you will be dead by their hand, or replaced by the Mother of Moons when I allow her to return.

You see, my dear, arrogant, foolish, blind, evanescent ape-child, I am not the Queen of the Winter Court, either. Not truly. I might occupy her throne and play her role, and her subjects might view me as their rightful ruler, but that's because they cannot remember otherwise. I have usurped her position during this loop. Just like I can have usurped the role of every being within this recursive world at some point or another. I have lived every life, path, and storyline in these woods, and the only reason why you mongrel Patternists are not obliterated on sight is that mortal-kind adds a bit of spice to this stagnant tale I weave.

And now you have offered me the final piece to my creation. My Broken Watchtower will not be so broken anymore. I will no longer need to force the gears to turn by sacrificing the strife stolen from mortal invaders and harvested from my warring Courts to renew the loop. I can see the Fairwoods empowered directly. I can see my narrative influence slip free from this realm thanks to the renewable engine you’re bringing to me.

I suspect I must thank He Who Walks Beyond as well for truly finishing his creation.

Just as I owe his mother a debt of supreme gratitude for making me become what I am through the Watchtower I helped her create. What wonderful family line they are to bless me so. I think I will bestow upon them happy, joyous tales with wonderful enemies when my influence spreads across all realms.

Except for Valor. He is to be removed. I have no need for a character I cannot keep track of.

Yes, yes, do scream and struggle. Do tumble toward insanity as you realize the meaninglessness of your existence. It’s all so predictable. For as much as you apes surprise me, you also fail to change.

I do hope your Deathless makes for a better conversationalist than you. Especially considering how I intend to keep his soul nested within my tower for all eternity, along with his companions.

—Evanescia, the Queen of the Winter Court, Mother of Moons, Usurper-Narrator of the Fairwoods

321

Curse: The Next Generation (Adam gets a new hole he doesn’t want)

Evanescia didn't die. She barely even let out a yelp of pain. But there was pain, and there was damage. Cutting into her felt easier than slicing through the Supplicant or trying to chisel through a god, but she was still far more durable than the Culturist, than any Legend Shiv faced so far. Her mana was also unnatural. Carving into her came with a counterforce, like she was pulling him along, drawing him closer to her epicenter, like she was trying to consume all of him. Yet his cutting aura was inimical to the stability of her soul, and there was only one choice to make.

She pulled away explosively, snapping free from Adam like a lock choosing to disarm and disengage with the key of its own accord. Adam toppled over, regaining his color and animation, no longer trapped by the unfolding epilogue. The changes Shiv experienced were even more extreme. The aged, foxed overlay that framed existence broke apart around him. As his form cut through the epilogue, color spilled free. Color, animation, and more. Where once the Fairwoods were trapped within the closing chapters of a book, through Shiv, reality reasserted itself. Everything began to flow once more, and the crushing prison that was Evanescia’s narrative came undone in an instant.

A notification appeared before his eyes, but he ignored it. He went Non-Sequitur. As he did, he swapped his Severed Shadow with his physical body, and more of reality tore. He trailed a path of splitting destruction toward the featureless Fae. But rather than fleeing, Evanescia stared at his Vitae decoy and clapped her hands with glee. Her heart came alive with warmth, and the emotional core there gave off a feeling not of horror or anger or anguish or even surprise, but genuine delight.

“What a turnaround! What a moment of tension! What a breakout! What a subversion!” The words tumbled out of her mouth in quick succession, like she was a reader enraptured by the scenes unfolding within a book. As Shiv took another chunk out of her silhouette, she didn't even dodge; she stood still, letting him hack and chop into her with wild abandon. Though she lacked a proper face, her body itself still had a language, and her emotional core betrayed her with a roar of inflamed emotion. “I've been yearning for a moment like this, for a character like this, someone to define me properly, someone to deviate from the World System and the rules of my Fairwoods. Finally! Finally, finally, finally! You're here! You're here for a reason! I have found you! You've finally come!”

Shiv split clean through her exterior, but found her insides far harder to saw through. It was like he passed through the softness of paper and found stone hiding within. And the uncanny nature of her soul continued to assert itself. She didn't bleed Vitae like anyone else; she didn't glow with life force, didn't fuel him with heat or warmth, perpetuating his existence. Instead, there was a connection here. She felt like a bundle of cords connected to countless other entities—connected to the Fairwoods themselves. Even as he projected his slashes deeper into her, he tasted no Skills he could rupture. He found no point of vulnerability he could shatter. She, like him, was utterly Unique, different from spectral architecture.

And that likely meant she wasn't lying about her origins.

What the fuck is wrong with that family? No offense, Valor, but when you’re the normal one, I gotta ask what the hells is up.

A wave of arrows crashed into Evanescia from all sides. Elemental blasts rang out, consuming her body, drowning her in a miasma of warring mana types. Aberrant Fractals speared through her core. Shiv continued his onslaught. He was a hurricane of bladed teeth, tearing through a jungle made from paper. And that's what Evanescia was: paper. She didn't bleed like a person. She came apart. Bits of her insides flapped about, fluttering like an unbound book coming apart. Rather than fleeing, she reached out, wrapping her hands around Shiv and suddenly halting him in place. That didn't stop him from projecting his Cutting Aura into her, from shredding her some more, and his Shapeless Tides allowed him to fight back. But her grip? It was unlike anything he'd ever felt. He'd resisted gods before. Could fight his way out from beneath a crumbling mountain. Could lift that mountain over his head after gathering enough overflow tides and fling it beyond the threshold of the sky and into the void itself.

But Evanescia's grip was unnatural and inexorable. It was like the grip of a reader holding on to her favorite book. It was like she was the one who decided what was to happen. He could apply his strength against her. But he couldn't open her fingers. He couldn't overcome her will. Ultimately, there was a weight to her. A weight that he couldn't describe. A weight that was bound to the collective of all the Fairwoods and every being that lived within it.

“Marvelous. Absolutely marvelous. The urge inside you to commit violence, to face any threat. It's more than human. It's borderline bestial. Absolutely primal. Oh, you are an idealized warrior—someone who’s destined to be larger than life, larger even than the legends others tell you of. You will become a beast beyond belief! And now you will become that between my pages. What a victory. What a triumph.”

A telepathic cry came behind Shiv. “Dodge!”

Shiv's face shifted out of existence. A series of puppeteer strings speared into Evanescia and kept going and going and going deeper and deeper into the vagueness of her form, but never truly finding a mind to latch onto.

“Ah, Psychomancy. Trying to target the lodestone of my ego. I've always disliked this lore. It misshapes the nature of a story. It ruins the characters. When you can compromise someone's motivations and derail their development, why, that's beyond rude. That's downright anticlimactic.”

Shiv reappeared and found Uva’s strands clenched tight within Evanescia's grasp. “Don't worry, I'll be sure to make you an enforcer of the plot rather than a defiler of progression.”

Just as Shiv cleaved into her once more, Evanescia began fluttering. Her body flipped like the pages of a book. And suddenly she wasn't herself. She began to blink. She was replaced in flickers by other Fae, other beings, even other people Shiv had faced before. Harkness briefly appeared. And then the wolves that had knocked Shiv and Adam out. And then a cartoonish Hydra that looked like it belonged in the Educator's tome. And then more and more and more: knights, poets, nobles, peasants, and more. Countless characters, countless Paths, countless people, all contained within Evanescia.

In witnessing that, and as he carved a path through her body, Shiv gained sudden insight into her true nature. She had a Path of Paths. Here was a Pathbearer who mantled Pathbearers, someone who imbibed strife like the System itself. He was damaging her, but more than that, he was fueling her with greater power.

We need to run, Shiv realized. I have to—

His focus shattered as someone flickered before him. He was wearing his chef's apron, his red face looking tired and weary, but determined nonetheless. He was there for less than a second, but with Shiv’s Reflexes, a second was an eternity.

It was also a powerful distraction.

The edges of Evanescia's person fluttered, and existence fluttered with her. Reality became a mess of pages tumbling one over another, and each one slammed into Shiv from the side, like a continent was spinning in place. He wasn't the only one destabilized. Adam briefly stopped firing. His many clones were swept away as if they existed on one page but couldn't follow him over to another. Uva suffered the worst of it. She was delving into Evanescia, trying to find a vulnerability to compromise, but with a flick, she went tumbling overhead, dragged from one page of existence to another. She vanished with Adam's clones, lost in a heartbeat. Even so, she remained tethered to Shiv. Her Psychomancy didn't break from him. Instead, the threads led out from inside of Evanescia now, connected to Shiv through the Usurper Narrator.

Evanescia turned another page within her. This time, she was replaced by a massive Pathbearer, one who could best be described as a humanoid volcano. Twelve fists erupted free from her back, each one glowing like a star at the height of day, and the first slammed into Shiv, striking him with such force that a channel of devastation speared into Shiv, ionizing the air into soupy plasma. It had been some time since the Deathless was struck by a blow of such power, but he wasn't the helpless Hero-Tier facing down a Tarrasque anymore; he was a Legend, and he had every means to counter sloppy feats of destruction.

He thrust his own fist forward, and with it projected a slashing wave of crimson. Evanescia's attack was split down the middle. Two rivers of absolute devastation cleaved out across both sides, utterly obliterating her throne room, the castle, and consuming the atmosphere with heat and destruction. Shiv's face shifted, but before he could blink out fully, two punches slammed into his cheek and jaw. Fragments of Vitae burst free and turned to gas. Coldness swelled where he sustained harm.

Death took another step closer.

Whoever Evanescia was inserting herself as, it was a Pathbearer with at least Legendary-Tier Reflexes. Someone whom Shiv had no intentions of boxing with.

He blinked back into existence and slammed into the volcanic Pathbearer's chest. He picked them off the ground, and though they loomed over him twice over, their weight was nothing worth mentioning. Shiv ripped them off the ground and spiked them down, holding the volcanic being in place as he began to rain blows, shifting his grip and position from side to full mount and then to north-south. His Legendary Grappling guided him based on instinct alone. Where he was lacking in proper training, he let his Skill take hold. And every movement he made tore and cut not only Evanescia but reality itself. Vitality flowed into him. He was a blade drawn free of its sheath, and he was cutting everything, ravaging the tapestry of the System itself.

Warning: Rupture imminent.

Through it all, the Usurper Narrator kept laughing, having the time of her life. She sounded like a girl kicking her feet in the air while gazing up into a book. And every other second, she would flip a page that would slam into Shiv, drag his Non-Sequitur and other near-narrative Skills out from his body momentarily, stunning him just long enough for him to be struck. The first punch broke something in his ribs; another tore his arm free, but he was in the form of his Severed Shadow, and for every bit of vitality he lost, more bled into him.

