He managed a perfect parry, slamming his fist against an incoming knuckle and driving it back before it could inflict its devastation. Unfortunately, Evanescia's self-insert had eleven other fists—that were countered by Adam's Veilpiercers. The arrows hit the hands. They did no damage; however, they did open a series of dimensional pathways. Pathways that the hands sheathed themselves inside.

Adam dove into Shiv's cape. The Deathless didn't need a telepathic connection to know what his friend was thinking. Immediately, he swapped his Severed Shadow with his physical body and brought Adam back to the Tutorial once more.

In another dimension, Adam exploded out from Shiv’s cape and fired a hundred shots.

A hundred shots aimed at a hundred Initiate-Tier orcs.

He ignored Jessica calling out to him, taken by surprise. The others were nowhere to be seen—he heard them within the bunker. They were trying to get the Slipgate adjusted, finding another dimensional weakness to enter the Fairwoods.

There was no time to talk. A hundred Veilpiercers struck a hundred orcs. A hundred orcs died. The Shattered Star above Adam's head came ablaze with power.

He dove back in Shiv’s cape as quickly as he entered.

Shiv swapped bodies once more, rotating his Severed Shadow back into the fray, and Adam came as an added bonus. During the brief absence, Shiv continued the battle using his physical body—but also worked to concoct a secondary scheme.

Evanescia was another one of those bullshit fights, the kind of fight he was not prepared for, the kind of fight he didn't have the skills or understanding to deal with. He wasn't without options. His Non-Sequitur had surprised her, allowed everyone to break free. That didn't mean they were going to win, and with Shiv’s rectum experiencing brutal throbs of pain, he already had an alternative exit in mind.

While battering and slashing at Evanescia, he over-swung a few of his blows and cut pieces free from the wrinkled page layered over reality. He didn't let those pieces slip away either. He reached out, managed to grab them, and shoved them into the bottom of his frying pan immediately. It began rumbling with activity. His exaggerated movements cost him. A number of punches landed, bursting his liver and stomach despite the fact that he was raising his durability the whole time. The damage did nothing to slow Shiv down. Internal bleeding and active vomiting aside, Shiv functioned just as normal. Pain wasn't a penalty anymore. It was just sensory input. He spun his frying pan and unleashed a brief flash of Pyromancy into its depths. With that, a lid formed, and the cooking promptly began.

Well, if everything goes south, I guess I'm going to figure out what narrative paper tastes like.

Swapping his physical body then had another benefit: it allowed his frying pan to cook the new meal in peace.

All in all, Shiv was pretty proud of himself for thinking on the fly. Frankly, this was a continuation of what Jessica had taught him. Think in twos, think in multitudes, give yourself more options.

Scheming Bastard 8 > 14

As soon as his Severed Shadow emerged, Adam burst out from his cape, but he didn't fire immediately. Instead, he waited, prepared to loose his shot only when he was certain to hit. Shiv helped him. Once more, the Severed Shadow tried to grapple with the twelve-armed monstrosity that served as Evanescia’s Self-Insert.

The moment he collided with her, the pages within her body flipped. Evanescia vanished. Shiv didn't even get to see the Pathbearer she became before she disappeared. “Adam, do you have eyes on her?”

The Gate Lord's answer came in the form of a cracking sound. Shiv spun—and then groaned as he saw a cartoonish wolf standing over Adam, who had a ring of hawks gliding around his head once more. Adam blinked, but before he could fall, Shiv blasted him in the face with a spray of Hydromancy, interrupting his unconsciousness before it could ensue. “Tired of these bullshit skills,” he snarled.

“What a hypocritical thing for you to say, Deathless,” Evanescia shot back.

Shiv tugged himself in the direction of the wolf, but this one had a bandit's mask and, with a flourish, suddenly disappeared, vanishing into the shadows, into the ash falling around them.

Stealth Skill, Shiv guessed.

“You know what? That's fair," Shiv called out, trying to lure Evanescia from wherever she was hiding. "I do have a bullshit skill. But you got to admit it's a special kind of goofy knocking people out with a light tap on the head."

Once more, he was using his Psychology Skill against his enemy, trying to provoke them into acting a certain way. Harkness and Evanescia were rather different, even though he didn't know that much about the latter yet. They were both control freaks, and they could be easily convinced to inflict specific kinds of harm to establish their dominance. The former because she was too proud, the latter because she wanted to find out what might happen if she failed.

And so Shiv waited, Shiv prepared, and Shiv activated his Eldritch Physiology and began ripping through the tissues connecting his neck to his body. When Evanescia returned to give Shiv a tap, she would find his head looser than expected, and he would use that surprise to hold on to her so Adam could make his very angry arrow count.

"You alright, Adam?" Shiv called out.

“I'm fine," he slurred. "Just didn't see that coming at all. Still have my arrow. Wait, where's Uva?”

Shiv couldn't see her strands anymore. The last time he saw her, she was still lost inside of Evanescia, lost amidst the rolling pages sweeping over reality. “Good question. I'll tell you once I find her.”

“A quick vacation, you said. A quick run down to the Summer Court, you said. An easy in-and-out adventure.” Adam snarled every sentence through gritted teeth, and his agitation ground against Shiv.

“Hey, listen, I couldn't have seen this shit coming, alright? I know we have to fight random weird bullshit everywhere we go, but this? How the hells was I supposed to predict this?”

“I have no idea, but since I can't yell at the damn thing, I'm going to blame you instead.”

“You know what? I'm fine with that. I'm going to blame myself too. Actually, how about we just blame the System?”

“No, I'd like to do that, but it doesn't work because the System doesn't talk to me like it talks to you. Just gives us more and more situations that we can't possibly prepare for, that no one trained us to anticipate.”

Shiv hummed, still constantly on the lookout for Evanescia’s return. “You know, somehow I don't think even Valor is prepared for this kind of stuff. Might have lived for a thousand years or something, but I'm pretty sure that the Fae was talking about a million. My math is bad, but I'm pretty sure a million's a lot more than a thousand.”

“A lot more, indeed!” Evanescia, still in the form of a masked wolf, returned with her rapier raised high. She drove the bud of her blade against Shiv's head—and let out a startled gasp as his skull tumbled free and rolled across the glass ground. “Oh, my, I didn't see that coming—”

Adam fired his very angry arrow point-blank into her chest. The Fae she was pretending to be ignited in a blaze of glowing azure light, so bright that Shiv had to shield his eyes.

The wolf burned, it screamed, it howled, and it burst into ashes. As the flames subsided after a few seconds, Evanescia remained. Her featureless form stood amidst ashes and ruin, flaking off her body, her false shell destroyed. She looked down, stared at her hands, and looked back to Adam.

“Well, that was an unanticipated Skill. But I'd rather like that one.”

Shiv felt the first embers of anger bleed out from her. Adam fired another dozen arrows into her face while one of his clones tried to run her through from behind. None of his attacks dealt any lasting damage. No more than Shiv could. Both sons of Blackedge attacked her with ferocity. Adam fought to gain distance while Shiv closed in. Meanwhile, Uva returned to the fight as her strands flared out, carrying with them a rain of Fractals. She was connected to them, trying to find her own way out from wherever she was, and Shiv took the opportunity to reconnect with her. Even though his cutting aura severed one of her strands, he knew that would set her on the right path while allowing him to press his attack.

But under their onslaught, Evanescia took a single step back and clapped her hands again.

Genre Shift: Revenge Thriller

The pages within the Usurper Narrator flipped. The world went golden as a blast wave of Chronomancy exploded out from her like a solar flare.

Shiv manifested his temporal shell, calling it onto him just in time to intercept the blow. He slammed his fist against the encroaching Chronomancy, hoping to drive it back using Return to Sender, but let out a choked gasp as his efforts were crushed in an instant.

This power was simply beyond him. It wasn't divine, at least this attack wasn't, but it was overwhelming. Beyond Legendary. Despite his Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides allowing him to overcome so much, what crashed into him was inexorable, something undeniable, something a Tier beyond.

It shattered the field protecting his body, and once more, he found himself engulfed by stillness. This time, however, it wasn't the narrative that held him, but time itself. Time was frozen. Evanescia remained still as well. Her new self-insert was an automaton or some kind of artificial life form. Its chassis was resplendent and gilded with crystalline filigree, serving as circuits to enhance its chronomantic magics. It had ten different arms, each one seeming like a clock's hands, and there was a transparent window at the center of its body, showing a series of gears within, as well as an actual clock nested there, ticking on slowly, taunting Shiv and the others with every second that passed.

“You know, I quite liked the Red Riding Wolf you just killed. They're whimsical creatures, a bit too silly for some, but I like them. I like all the toons. I like the way they alleviate my darker moods. I like how they make this place change, how they infuse a genre of comedy even in the worst of times. I like it; I like it a lot. They are among my most precious children. Despite this, I know I shouldn't punish a new character for not knowing the rules.”

But despite her words, Evanescia stiffened. Shiv knew what was coming; he could practically taste the violent intent radiating out from her. “But considering all I've experienced today, all this excitement, you can't blame me for being unbalanced. I am in the mood for a revenge story. And you three…”

She suddenly pointed upward.

Shiv's stomach lurched as he and Adam began accelerating upward, not of their own accord, but rather because the entire dimension was falling away below their feet.

As the world dropped, Shiv saw the remains of the Winter Court Castle. Where once a grand sculpture formed of Cryomancy and pale gothic aesthetic stood at the heart of the moon, preparing to devour the fleeting remains of the sun, now there was little more than a bowl of glass. Only a few walls and a couple of stumps that had once been pillars remained, littering the ground like a gravestone for the once magnificent edifice that was. Shiv and Adam continued upward, drawn further and faster by Evanescia’s unstoppable power. They left the pallid moon through that massive chasm lining its core, and before them came the last light of the dying sun.

Only a single tower remained of the Summer Court, but even that was crumbling away into nothingness, dissolving like bits of shadow behind the star itself.

But they weren't going to the Summer Court. They were going up, along the celestial clock hands connected to the sun and the moon. With a loud, resounding clack, both hands were synchronized, snapping parallel to each other as the moon slammed forward and finally clamped down around the sun. A flaring of light and power surged up along the twin hands. They fused as one, becoming golden and then incandescent, fueled by new and Divine power.

High, high above, a series of gears turned. They were colossal, greater than the massive celestial bodies which loomed over the Fairwoods. They were the organs that kept this place alive, that shifted and turned, dragging the moon and the sun closer together. They were the heart of this place, and they were utterly and completely controlled by Evanescia's whims.

Shiv tried to break free, tried to swap his Severed Shadow with his physical body. He couldn't. He was pinned in place. The stasis didn't affect his perception, but it did remove all agency from his personal form. Worse yet, it affected his frying pan as well. The narrative page he'd been cooking was encased in a wall of gold. He could feel Uva calling out to him, but he couldn't hear her. There was a threshold between them, and he was trapped. As was Adam.

All was not yet lost, however. Threads were moving inside Evanescia. He realized there was a sphere around her, 10 meters in diameter, and Uva's strands, though frozen past that sphere, were still moving within that space of stability, dragged out by a chain of Aberrant Fractals. By now, Evanescia was helping the Umbral along, pulling on her Psychomancy, trying to get her out faster.

“Come now, Seeker, you creature tainted by filth. Let go of my Fae. You might be able to tap into their minds, but there will be little you can do. They are mine to use. I can snatch them away from you whenever I want. Come out, come out.” After another yank, Evanescia let out a dramatic sigh. “Very well, then. I suppose I will have to motivate you another way.”

And her body turned toward Adam. “Cruelty is such a fine medicine sometimes.”

