Erick sat crossed-legged upon white stone. Before him lay a domed space of absolute nothing; half of it created through Solomon’s instantiation of dungeon Rules, while the other half was Erick’s own [Particle Vacuum]. The only visible indication of that space was a bubble-layer of thick air, all tumbled with mana and unable to enter into the protected space.

Beside Erick sat a few piles of various base metals; nothing magical at all. Platinum, gold, iron, electrum, copper, tin. All of it was melted and slagged ten times over and remade as necessary for more resources when an experiment blew up in Erick’s face, or whatnot. And of course, there was Erick’s adamantium rune carving knife. That thing had survived all of Erick’s accidents, and there had been a lot of those.

The remnants of the previous explosion lay scattered across the area; remnant mana crystals of various color flaking away from the ground near Erick, once again turning back into mana—

Erick mentally set aside his distractions. From the slimes bounding around downstairs, to the thoughts of Solomon and the Janes dungeon delving right now, to Ophiel making musical sounds as he played with the slimes down below, Erick ignored all of that.

Aura escaped from Erick’s core and body, and Erick controlled that mist to flow into the air in front of him. He wielded his auric self like a dense mist, pushing through the membrane of the void and the [Particle Vacuum]. It was not a wholly comfortable experience. It was like sticking his hand into cold water, or stepping out into the sun. Kinda refreshing, while also revealing just how much stress his natural body was already subjected to, just by existing in this Script-controlled, air-filled place. All around were distractions. But in the void, there was nothing but oneself.

Erick’s white aura hung out in that space for a moment. And then he twisted himself, and his aura turned perfectly clear and Forceful. He was attempting to make a plain [Force Bolt] spell, like he had made in the Glittering Depths, and which he had only succeeded at 3 times out of every 10, here in this slime dungeon. The Glittering Depths had done a lot of back-end support to make that mana gemwork function well. A lot more than Erick had realized until he had started these experiments.

He flowed mana into that space beyond his physical body, manifesting a seed-crystal that was only visible in the edges, and mostly in how light glinted off of the facets. It looked like a bit of quartz; six-sided, about 5 centimeters long, and double-terminated. Force, on its own, usually had a quartz-like manifestation. But only usually. Force could also appear fibrous, when Erick was casting any sort of string-shaped spellwork like with [Hermetic Shredder], which was not really Force-based, but it was close. The Force-equivalent spell, [Force Wires], was very much a bunch of semi-invisible crystal strands, though.

Force could also be rhombohedral, like with any Wall-type spell.

[Force Bolt] most often tried to take a double-terminated six-sided quartz shape, and this one was no exception. Most of the [Force Bolt]s that turned out like this managed to maintain integrity all the way through the process.

All in all, the crystal had turned out well. It would probably work.

Erick set the crystal down on the ground inside the experimental space, and then he picked up some… Platinum, this time, Erick decided. That metal always worked the best, though none of it worked as well as Erick would have liked. Outside of the experimental space, and with a bit of aura control and some [Duplicate] inside of a [Prismatic Ward], Erick rapidly finished the base wand that would hold the crystal.

Theoretically.

Erick was rapidly discovering, in wholly novel ways, that magic did not often behave itself outside of the Script, or outside of controlled spaces.

This wand would probably do what he wanted it to do. He had runed it with a bunch of stuff specific to [Force Bolt] and aiming, and with some intentional crafts about ‘mana given, spells gained’ around the base of the wand, which was a spiral-cage of platinum that would hold the gem, and which would be held in turn.

None of this was made according to real, known enchanting ways. All of this was attempted Wizardry, going from intention and piece-meal parts, and hoping for an outcome that was better than the sum of those parts.

A ‘real’ wand of [Force Bolt]s, made under the Script, wouldn’t use a mana crystal at all, for a mana crystal would break apart and thus the whole wand would fall apart in turn. But Erick needed to know how to work with mana crystals, so he was here, working with real mana crystals.

Erick slipped the base wand into the space ahead, picked up the crystal, and then shoved the crystal into the twisted-wire handle. A bit of simple pressure sealed the wand together.

And then Erick made to speak, but not through his voice which would not reach the wand, because there was no air to transmit his voice to the wand, but through his aura, which was already wrapped around it,

“A wand of Force, of bolts galore,

“Spills holder’s mana evermore.”

The wand glinted as its metaphysically-separate parts came together into a cohesive whole.

It had worked, because of course it had worked. If it hadn’t then it would have had some sort of catastrophic failure. As it was… It would probably fail in the other usual way.

Erick reached forward and stuck his hand into the Script-less particle-void, to wrap his fingers around the wand. The no-atmosphere hurt a little, but Erick’s constitution and Constitution were strong, even in the Script-less space, so he easily gripped the wand.

Bolts of sizzling white Force began pouring out of the tip of the wand, sucking mana out of Erick to do so like he had poked a [Force Bolt]-shaped hole in his mana pool, and that’s the only way that mana could leave him now. Which is exactly what he had done. Sort of.

That was his best guess right now, anyway.

Those Bolts flew away from the tip of the wand like slow lasers, moving perfectly straight until they touched the edge of the void space, whereupon contact with air and a manasphere subtly altered their courses, sending them a few random degrees off of perfectly-straight.

Erick released the wand, and the Bolts stopped.

“Moment of truth,” Erick mumbled to himself.

Using his solid aura, Erick pulled the wand out of the empty air, into the Script—

The wand broke in the usual, non-catastrophic ways. The crystal was, of course, breaking. But that’s not all that was happening.

Erick wrapped his hand around the hilt to experience exactly when it would stop working. As Bolts poured out of the end of the wand, Erick watched as the mana crystal in the base of the wand began to crack and unravel, and as the platinum in the wand itself began to shift and falter, platinum melting a little here and reforming into crystallized growths there, like a body reforming into tumors. It was only when the first major crack split the crystal lengthwise, though, that Bolts stopped pouring. The platinum-crystal ‘tumors’ didn’t seem to affect the outpouring of the artifact at all.

Or maybe the item just failed due to the crystal breaking first, and it would have failed due to platinum tumors if the crystal could have remained existent for any real length of time.

He waited till the Force crystal was gone, completely, before he took the platinum and crushed it, tumors and all, twisting and mangling it beyond all recognition, finally stopping when he had turned it into a plop of rather hot, not-molten metal. That lump rejoined the rest of the platinum, to be reused as needed.

Erick had not managed to create a single magical item based around a crystal that could survive under the Script. Granted, he wasn’t trying his absolute hardest. Just some small Wizardry here and there to bring a crystal into line with other magics. Mostly, he was trying to achieve magic-working mana crystals through normal measures; not simply changing the rules of reality to suit his needs.

And he had succeeded in a lot of ways.

Making mana crystals that resonated in specific ways, causing mana to become magic in specific ways, had taken him a day to get right; around 20 hours. Just basic spellwork, though. Bolts and Mana Alterings and Shapings and basic tier spellwork of all kinds had been rather easy to do.

On Veird, under the Script, you couldn’t manually cast high-tier spellwork. Erick was able to ‘get around’ that restriction by manually forcing the magic implanted inside of him by the Script to cast itself, as he desired. Or through simple aura control. But aura control could only do up to tier ‘1.5’, which was basically just normal magic Altered to specific Elements.

But here, in the slime dungeon, Erick had a no-Script space that existed outside of the Script. That meant that he could manually make mana crystals that would be able to ‘manually’ cast higher tier magic, as desired. Erick had spent 2 days figuring out high-tier manual magic in order to figure out how to cast certain high-tier spells, like [Undertow Star], or [Prismatic Ward].

Happily enough, Erick had figured out how to make Solid Wards of all types, bypassing the Script’s restriction on only being allowed to have one Solid Ward in his Status.

That old quest of Sininindi’s, the one where she asked for an artifact of [Control Weather], and instead Erick had made Yggdrasil… Erick could simply make that artifact these days. And he had. He had also made an artifact of [Luminous Beam], which had caused a lightshow to vanish into the depths of the Darkness all around the dungeon, along with artifacts of a bunch of his high-tier spellwork, made into mana crystals first, and then stuck into metallic holders and directors of that crystallized power.

None of those artifacts worked for very long when they were brought back into the Script.

The high-tier ones and all the Solid Ward ones instantly broke. Sometimes explosively.

And then there was the other problem. The tumor problem. All of those ones that actually managed to stick around had a lot of trouble working inside mundane atmosphere, with ‘tumors’ of metal forming on every edge of the artifacts, while flat spaces sunk inward, the metal there being cannibalized by the rest of the artifact to create crystalline growths.

Erick sat back and had a think.

He looked down at the recycled metals, and at the space in front of him, and then he looked down at his own body.

Ophiel sat on a small bird perch to the side, also looking at his father.

Erick explained to Ophiel, “When I first crystallized my body, I did it inside a lot of specialized Domain-work, becoming Benevolence and then rapidly turning myself into a giant crystal. When that was done, I switched over to my Other Status, becoming both a person and a crystal, in what I had thought was a normal way for Wizards to be.

“But then when I switched back to my Other Status —the one I crystallized— I was a person in that form, too. My crystal transformation had not stuck. Looking back on it… I was still connected to the Script back then, and…”

Erick listed off some suspected problems,

“I had 2 Statuses/Forms already, but as a True Wizard, I should only have one that is Paradoxically two.

“I have Script-installed magic inside of me right now.

“I am still connected to the Script.

“The Script doesn’t like mana crystals, or True Wizards, and I’m not sure which it dislikes more; hard to say.

“I have you and Yggdrasil both inside of me, too, and I’m not going to make either of you become permanent parts of myself, nor am I going to destroy you or allow you to be destroyed.

“I’m not sure if a True Wizard is just a crystal, or a crystallized person. When I asked the Well that question about Wizards I saw that floating crystal with the brain and blood vessels walking with that one god in the Old Cosmology’s Grand Wizard’s Tower, so maybe ‘a crystallized person’ is a better description of a ‘True Wizard’. But, no. A True Wizard is supposed to be able to be themselves and an immutable force, just like a Shade. Or at least that’s what everyone says. So who the fuck was the brain-in-a-crystal? I don’t know. An anomaly? Possible.

“And then there’s the particle/mana problem, with all these particles interfering with mana, and all that.

“Those are just the physical problems.

“Mentally, I don’t think I want to be able to change the world at a concentrated whim.” Erick said, “But that’s what a Wizard is…”

Rozeta believed that Erick could end the Forever War with enough of a windup and a good enough swing at it. Like holy shit. Just… Change how the world worked!

Erick frowned at that ‘mental hangup’; what an inadequate way to classify the desire to not be able to fuck up everything on a whim—

Erick looked at himself, at the piles of metal, and at the no-Script, no-particle space in front of him again. He felt an inkling of a truth settle down.

“Ahh… Hmm.” Erick said, “Other Wizards just became Wizards when they wanted to, or needed to. I might be self-limiting through the use of Particles and normal magics, self-imposing limits, so that I cannot fuck up anything too badly with an accidental Grand Wizardry… Or maybe that’s wrong, and Wizardry is actually difficult, and I still have lots of road to go to understanding all of this. Perhaps I should be less full of myself.”

Ophiel twittered on his perch, “Dad have trouble?”

“Just the usual trouble, Ophiel,” Erick said, “Trying to know and categorize the unknowable and infinite.”

Ophiel chimed in violins. “Infinity big.”

Erick smiled. “Yes, infinity big.”

… But infinity could also be small. Erick thought about the Glittering Depths, and how they had made internally infinite mana crystals that transformed into ironcrystal when exposed to the normal Script. But with some Wizardry, those ironcrystals could be transformed into real artifacts that could exist and work anywhere.

He hadn’t really tried to make internal mana crystals yet, had he?

Erick grabbed some more platinum and remade the entire [Force Bolt] experiment.

But this time when he made the crystal, he tried to… He wasn’t sure. Push in the crystal? Invert it, somehow? The spell creation chambers back in the Glittering Depths did most of the work of ‘opening up’ an infinite space inside the crystal, as it was still liquid, but there were no spell creation chambers and internal infinities to work with in this dungeon.

After two minutes of attempts, Erick achieved success.

The mana inside his aura, inside the empty space, gave way into itself.

There, hovering in his aura in the void, was a dollop of Force, looking like a perfect glass sphere.

