“I don’t like thinking about it either, but if this inability to become a True Wizard is truly a mental block, then you gotta think about your relationship to power, Erick.”

“… That is true.” Erick looked at the resting roast that Poi had made. “Is that for just us? Or should I [Duplicate] it for the Janes, too?”

Solomon rolled his eyes as Erick dodged the question.

Poi said, “[Duplicate] if you want more, but the Janes aren’t joining us tonight.”

As Erick reached over with his aura to make a whole lot more roasts—

Solomon said, “I’ll be so happy when they actually pick individual names. I heard them talking about it a bit today but they just couldn’t decide.”

“They still haven’t picked names?” Erick copied the roasts four times while Poi narrowed his eyes at the copying, visibly wondering why he was copying that much. Erick said to him, “Leftovers were important and I like your roasts.” He said to Solomon, “I really expected the name-deciding to happen within a day.”

“Me, too,” Solomon said.

Poi said, “They’re mostly done picking names, and it did only take them a day.”

Solomon and Erick both raised eyebrows, asking in unison, “What are they?”

“They’ll tell you themselves.”

- - - -

“So dad,” Jane said, standing with her father outside of the dungeon house, upon the orange/white stone. The other Janes stood just beyond her, in a line, each of them looking different from the other. From the cut of their hair, to the color of their hair and eyes, they were each superficially different, highlighting the differences they chose to make about themselves. Solomon and Poi stood behind Erick, a little bit away, while Erick stood with Jane in the middle of the gathering. Jane continued, “I know we’ve already all met, but…” Jane gestured to the girls, smiling a little as she said, “I’d like you to meet the girls again.”

“Abigail.” Her hair had a green sheen to the black.

“Beth.” She had gone blonde, in sharp contrast to everyone else’s black/brown shoulder-length hair.

“Candice.” Her eyes were orange.

“Debby.” Her nails were red, and she looked like she was wearing lipstick, but that was just a bit of a change to her face.

“Emily.” With purple eyes, and close-cropped purple hair, Emily said, “We’re still the Arachno Squad.”

Erick felt so many weird emotions—

Erick rapidly came to a happy conclusion, saying, “Nice to meet you all! I’m so glad I have so many daughters!” Making a joke, Erick smiled and said, “I might be a king, but my dowry responsibility can’t handle too many lavish weddings.”

The joke did not land well.

Jane said, “We can pay our own ways, dad.”

Now that Erick would not abide; she was lying to him, and in a rather awful sort of way.

Erick called her out, “That’s a lie, Jane.” He looked to all his daughters, and said, “I haven’t actually looked it all up, but now that we’re here, and now that I’m seeing you all for the first time, I can tell that none of you have set up bank accounts or other mundane things, because none of you expect to live. So yeah, you can ‘pay your own way’, but only because you don’t expect to have to pay anything at all. No weddings, no house payments, no food bills, nothing.

“Tell me if you have bank accounts and I’ll stop talking and apologize.”

The girls looked called-out; none of them said a word.

“Yeah. That’s what I thought.” All of his girls looked completely normal; stoic, even. But Erick knew Jane. They were all breaking inside. Erick allowed them a moment, by turning back to Solomon and Poi and saying, “You’re going to survive this, too, and you also need bank accounts and all of that—” He turned back to his daughters. “Just like you all need bank accounts, so that you can have lives after this Sundering search. War is not life. War is what you have to get through sometimes in order to have a life.

“We’re going to get through this. All of us.

“I need you all to understand that.” Erick said, “You are not just copies of Jane. You’re all my daughters, and I will treat you accordingly.” Before he broke down himself, or any of the girls could break down either, Erick rapidly added, “I might not have as much time to smother all of you as I tried to smother Jane, though. But that’s okay, right? I assume that’s okay because—”

All five of his new daughters rushed Erick and wrapped him in their arms, and then Jane came over and did the same, all of them crying small tears—

And then Poi shoved a reluctant Solomon forward, to join the group hug. Solomon was welcomed with open arms and small words about being an uncle, or some other confusing name for whatever the heck this was. None of that really mattered. All that mattered was that everyone here was a real person, with ‘real’ memories of who they thought they were.

Jane’s voice cracked as she said, “Let’s— Let’s get to work?”

“Exactly!” Erick said, “Let’s go get all of you signed up with bank accounts and otherwise!”

That’s not what Jane had meant at all, for she wanted to get back to delving. All the others wanted to get back to delving, too. But Erick barreled on ahead, pointing toward the black hole in the house-cavern roof, as he spoke of getting out there and getting some paperwork done. He had 5 new daughters, 1 brother, and 1 extra friend who needed connections with the outside world in order to—

“I already set up a bank account for myself, Erick,” Poi said. “But I haven’t done the same for any of you. So go on ahead and I’ll stay here.”

Erick paused, his hand dropping a little. “Ah?”

Right. One dungeon master had to stay with the dungeon at all times. Ah. Shit—

“Go, Erick,” Poi said, smiling, and being completely serious about that command.

Poi went back inside the house.

And then all of Erick’s daughters were at the forefront of Erick’s mind, and his ‘brother’ Solomon was ready to go but reluctant to take control of the situation, and so they all went out to town.

It was a weird, fun, different sort of experience, with Erick talking to each of his daughters as they felt like talking to him, which was a lot, or talking to Solomon, which was also a lot, or to each other, which was also a lot. There were six of them, for Rozeta’s sake; it was a lot of talking, at dinner at a really spice-heavy restaurant at Aniduun by the ocean, and then more talking with Mage Bank people in town, and then adventurer/delver registration at the guildhouse.

- - - -

Six hours later, Erick split off from ‘the squad’, the girls going back to their hotel to plan for tomorrow and sleep, while he and Solomon went back to the house in the dungeon.

Poi smiled as he called out, “Sounds like you all had a good time!”

“It was so strange,” Solomon said.

Erick said, “But great!”

“Fantastic, really.”

Erick said, “I almost wanted to check in on Ezekiel, but… He's doing good, right?”

Poi nodded. “He’s doing fine. Already has a life for himself. He’s determined to be ‘the backup’, though. He doesn’t want to get involved with this.”

“… Okay,” Erick said. “I suppose…” His voice trailed away.

Solomon finished Erick’s thought, “That’s what’s best for everyone, even if it’s not the best for him.”

“When this is over and no one has died,” Erick said, “We’ll all go see Ezekiel.”

Poi smiled a little bit, as he nodded.

Later, when Erick was laying in bed and trying to sleep, he thought of what it really meant to have 6 daughters. It was a lot of work. He knew he never could have managed such a thing back on Earth. But here… It was kinda nice.

He wished them all the best that life had to offer.

Today had been a good day...

Erick hoped that tomorrow wouldn’t rapidly devolve into tragedy, for all the girls and Solomon were at 15,000 base mana generation. That wasn’t enough for deep dives into the Dark, but it was enough for smaller forays, and that’s what the girls were going to do tomorrow. Solomon and Erick would stay ‘home’, and watch from the Dark Mirrors… Which they still had to make.

That should go fine, though. If it didn’t, then the ‘schedule’ would be delayed by a day or whatever, and that was fine, too.

- - - -

Inside Solomon’s mage tower, under the light of the dungeon core sun, Erick stood beside Solomon and Poi. The Arachno-Squad was still getting ready for the day, out there elsewhere. But the guys were here, planning the next move.

Solomon spoke, “Rule change.”

A black box with white lettering appeared.

- -

<22> new rules available for instantiation <today>.

<1,000,000> mana per new rule.

SPEAK NEW RULE HERE:

[_______________________]

Final upkeep cost of new rule is <estimate=~unknown>.

Accept new rule? Yes / No

- -

Erick and Solomon spoke at the same time, their voices echoing each other, “Portals of Sight to pierce the night, allowing light on all Dark plights.”

The black screen flickered and shifted.

- -

<22> new rules available for instantiation <today>.

<18,700,000> mana for new rule.

<new rule uses 18.7 rules>

SPEAK NEW RULE HERE:

[Sighting Mirrors]

Final upkeep cost of new rule is <1/day per mirror>.

Accept new rule? Yes / No

- -

Solomon said, “Instantiate the Rule.”

- -

<New> Rules:

7: Sighting Mirrors into the Dark.

~Notification: The Dark sometimes stares back.

- -

Solomon dismissed the new notifications, saying, “About as ominous as we expected.”

“I expected worse,” Poi said.

Erick and Solomon both stared at the man in complete disbelief. Why would he tempt Fate like that?

Poi smirked, saying, “How bad can it be?”

Erick walked away, saying, “Well now you’re just trying to tempt Fate.”

“Fate is already here, Erick!” Poi said, still smiling. “You should try making some Fate Magic inside those no-Script spaces.”

Erick stopped in his tracks.

Solomon went wide-eyed.

Poi nodded. “Yup. Might even work, too.”

Erick turned back around. “… You know… It just occurred to me that maybe what I’m missing from this whole True-Wizard-thing is the inclusion of all magic; not just what I can currently access.”

Solomon smiled, saying, “That thought just occurred to me, too, brother!”

And now Erick was surprised for a different reason. “We’re going with that terminology?”

“I’m trying out ‘brother’, yes.” Solomon added, “And I’m going to try out some Time Magic inside a no-Script space, too. It might work perfectly inside there, and you can pull me out if something goes horribly wrong.”

“That sounds like a great idea, or a great way to accidentally [Onward] yourself toward infinity.”

“I’m sure it’ll be fiiiiiine,” Solomon said.

Erick gestured toward the outside. “A Sighting Mirror, first?”
