He was pretty sure he hadn’t put any sort of actual [Force Bolt] working into it, but that was fine. Erick joined the gem to the wand, twisting platinum around the sphere, forming a handle. And then Erick spoke words similar to the words from before, asking for ‘Bolts galore’.

The wand flexed a little, and then settled down.

Erick did not wrap his own hand around the wand this time. He empowered his aura, gripping the wand, opening a sluice for his mana to flow through into the maybe-artifact—

The wand drank deep. Force Bolts flooded out of the tip, into the air, and kept right on flying until they lost coherence in the black sky above. Erick closed off his aura, and the Bolts stopped.

He pulled the wand out of the void—

Instantly, the wand began crusting over again, the platinum pitting and growths growing on the edges. It took ten whole seconds of exposure to the Script for the clear sphere in the hilt to begin breaking. By the time the wand stopped working it was little more than a spike of crusted platinum, almost broken in half. And then it did break in half. Hard to say if the gem failed first, or if the wand did.

Erick ignored the wand in the next attempt. He simply made the sphere.

Exposing the sphere to the Script was like exposing a worked mana crystal to the Script; it survived.

There, in his hand, sat a nearly-clear sphere of Force crystal, with the insides barely cracked in a fractal pattern. Ten seconds passed, and then twenty. A full minute passed, and the cracks inside the gem didn’t move at all.

It had worked…

For a definition of ‘worked’.

Erick smiled at what he had done, though it wasn’t much of a breakthrough.

Worked mana crystals could survive the Script, as long as they were very minimally made things. Erick’s accretion-counter mana crystal he had gotten from Fairy Moon still worked. So did his alarm clock. Those were less ‘solidified magic’, though, and more physical mana turned into a working object.

The difference between a worked mana crystal and a magic mana crystal was the difference between a calculator and a person, and only one of those things seemed like it would be of any use in becoming a True Wizard.

And yet…

And yet, they were trying to make artificial intelligence back on Earth, weren’t they? Those were just solid-state ‘people’… who were not really people?

There was something there...

“Maybe True Wizards are immutable because they create themselves in a solid, immutable way, as one would make a calculator out of rocks, or whatnot.” Erick rolled the ball of Force in a hand, musing, “Maybe it’s like why oozes aren’t affected by Mind Magic; they’re simply incompatible. Soul and Mind Magic wouldn’t work on a Wizard, or a Shade, because they are soulless, mindless things, that only appear to have souls and minds? Artificial people? Are Wizards simply dead, and self-animate? Like a lich? Like Quilatalap? Quilatalap is immune to Mind Magic, but not Soul Magic.”

Erick had a think.

It lasted a while.

And then he snapped the Force sphere between his thumb and forefinger, saying, “I’ll have to be a different sort of Wizard, then. One not made out of rocks… Or maybe I’m wrong about how all of this works. And yet...” Erick watched as fragments of the crystallized sphere of Force began to fragment further, like a pile of diamonds growing larger all on its own. That growth lasted until those fragments reached a tipping point, and began to evaporate like normal mana crystals. Erick thought toward his own mana; his ‘Benevolence’. “Before I made Benevolence, I theoretically could have made any sort of Element. I could have made Benevolence differently. In that action, I took unknowable and unworkable infinity and wrangled it down into my Truth, and thus made it workable, and stable.

“Maybe becoming a True Wizard requires going further; giving up the infinities of the unrealized options of mortal life, of growth and change into anything at all, in order to gain a plurality of actual options… Like giving up [Telepathy] capabilities and other such powers in order to gain immutability from outside sources...”

Erick’s voice trailed away.

“But every Wizard is different, right?

“And Wizards can still cast magic… Which means that they maintain their Wizardly mana production, which means they’re not dead. So they can still grow and change however… they want… Hmm.

“… Quilatalap is technically both dead and alive.

“Maybe all Wizards are actually liches; entirely self-created people, with biology just because they feel like they need that biology?”

Erick’s thoughts turned in other directions soon enough, as he went back to messing around with inwardly-created mana crystals. His thoughts had been turning around this way and that way for the last few days, as he played around with reality in order to understand it better.

- - - -

Poi pulled the brisket from the oven then set the foil and wax paper covered meat onto the kitchen counter. He let it stay there, as he looked over to Erick, sitting at the kitchen table. “Giving up ephemeral options to gain real options is what everyone does all the time. From kings to street cleaners.”

“But that’s different from becoming a lich-like entity,” Solomon said, sitting across from Erick. “… And yet not really different at all. Like… What is consciousness? Back on Earth, but with the Intelligence I have now, I would have said that consciousness is an emergent system, only present because of the number of neurons and connections in the brain make it so that we think we’re alive, but really we’re all just a bunch of instincts and genetic code making us think we’re sapient.”

“Yes, but now we know we have souls,” Erick said.

And Solomon nodded, saying, “Yes. Now we know souls are a real thing… But are they? Really? You and I both know that there were a lot of ‘soulless’ people on Earth.”

Erick laughed.

“I mean it, though. Like, for real.”

Erick stopped laughing.

Solomon said, “Not to get too depressing about it, but did we have a soul before we were sitting there in that dark room, looking at that gun, trying to figure out how far we’d go to make a life for Jane? When we were trying to figure out what our solutions meant for those around us? I can tell you right now that I certainly don’t remember any sort of introspection on our lives before that point. We were just going through the motions; whatever life threw at us, we tried to figure out how to ride the waves. That’s what I mean when I say ‘soulless’; just a stimulus-response sort of person. The kind that doesn’t even see the harm they’re doing until they’re made to see that harm, and empathize.”

Erick recoiled a fraction at Solomon putting it like that. “It’s really fucking embarrassing to think that we didn’t have a ‘soul’ until life made us ‘grow’ one.” Erick frowned a little. “That’s not something that we actually believe, either.”

“Maybe not an outright belief,” Solomon said. “But certainly a possible-belief. Because, like I said, we knew a lot of people who certainly acted soulless back on Earth, without any regard for anyone else. Sure, some of them, like us, were trapped by circumstance and trying to find any way out of those circumstances that might actually work. But a lot of people just never considered that other people were still people. We met a lot of them as a social worker.”

Erick wanted to disagree, but he could not.

Solomon continued, “And then we came here to Veird, and we met Shades. And then there was Bulgan, even before he was a Shade. Complete psychopaths.”

“Not all psychopaths are evil; they just don’t see other people as people. It doesn’t mean they’re soulless.” Erick said, “That’s a stereotype that we don’t need to perpetuate.”

“And we don’t perpetuate it, in public.” Solomon said, “But in private, we know those problems can be fixed with magic, and that the soulless can gain a soul. Heck! A lot of psychopaths lead perfectly normal lives, probably as a result of complicated stimulus-responses that engender within them a soul.” Solomon said, “In the Earth-sense, maybe Fallopolis gained something like a soul when she realized how badly she had fucked up calling the Great Purge onto Spur, thus ruining all of her tormenting fun forever more, and thus she had to preserve Spur and even Silverite because to do otherwise was to invite the Quiet War into her life, and she hated that even more than she liked tormenting people. But she still tormented others when she felt like it, when she could. All the rest of the Shades didn’t gain shit until we forcefully Empathy’d them.”

Erick frowned at Solomon. “Are you taking this hardline stance to be helpful, or to simply say all the hateful things that we’ve been bottling up all this time, because now you can?”

“Both.” Solomon said, “Also, if I could go back to Earth and Empathy every single CEO and high-ranking government official and anyone of any physical authority at all, I would. Now that would be a great use of that [Cascade Imaging] Super Magic that people always think we’re going to break out if their leaders speak out against us too much.”

Erick leveled a ‘Really?’ glare at Solomon. “We don’t need more reasons for people to hate us. We already get hate mail every other day.”

Poi spoke up, “From what you’ve told me of Earth, maybe a [Cascade Empathy] would be a good idea.”

Solomon laughed—

“Holy shit, Poi,” Erick said.

“Power is how every single world works. And you have power.” Poi said, “And you’re a great king. Good kings are one-in-a-billion, and they almost never gain power; it’s always the cruel ones who gain the most power.” As Poi moved to make the potatoes, he said, “Historically, Wizards are always good people, until circumstances turn them into terrors, of course.

“Personally, that’s a much more interesting topic than ‘when does a person gain a soul’. The answer to that varies by culture, with some tribes in Nergal believing that souls don’t exist until you get Matriculated into the Script. Even a sapient’s baby’s soul is little more than that of a particularly smart slime.

“Every living thing has a soul, but so what? Some people use their souls to break and kill. And that’s a more important philosophy to think about.”

Erick sat back in his chair. Solomon hummed.

Poi said, “To get back on the topic of Wizardry, from True Wizards to just the fact that a person is a Wizard at all, which is perhaps the most interesting idea to consider.

“Time and again, in all the history known to the Mind Mages, the people who are Wizards are always good-ish people. They always try to help others, to make the world better in their own ways. Some succeed. Others fail, and they fail hard, like The Anarchy Wizard almost did. On the surface Holo wanted to escape Veird and the problems of this world, but he was prepared to kill everyone to do it. And then, later, the Blue Wizard tried to avenge him. So those people went bad, but before that happened, they were just normal people trying to figure out how to live under the power of the liches of Quintlan.

“As a base fact, Wizards are always good people.

“And yet, Wizards are Wizards due to an overabundance of the Dark inside of them.

“If it’s the Dark putting power into people to make them Wizards, then what does that say about the nature of the Dark and how it tries to influence the universe through Wizards? What does it say about the Dark that the Dark makes only ‘good’ Wizards?”

Erick had literally never considered that angle at all. He was left completely speechless.

Solomon blinked a few times, and then he smirked and said, “That almost sounds like something a Xoatist or Cultist would say, but I’ve never heard anyone make that sort of connection before.”

Poi chuckled, then said, “Let’s take it a step further, too. Because the Dark doesn’t empower just Wizards. The Dark also empowers dragons. Melemizargo is a dragon. Every avatar of the Dark has been a dragon. But base-dragons are practically the antithesis of what it means to be a good person. Greed, tyranny, hoarding, etcetera.

“So why is the God of Magic and the Avatar of the Dark a dragon? Why has it always been a dragon?” Poi asked, “Is this another case of evil people rising to power over good people? Or is there something else at play going on there? Is the Dark truly just about might makes right? Most dragons are not Wizards, after all. The number of natural dragons who are also Wizards is a very, very small number, restricted to just 3 known examples in all of Veird’s history. There’s Melemizargo, of course, then there’s Idyrvamikor, who was Melemizargo’s grandson, and now there’s you, Erick. And you didn’t start off as a dragon, so you don’t even really count.”

Erick thought.

Poi chopped up potatoes and threw them into the pot.

Solomon sipped his soda, as he stared off into nothing.

Erick said, “Most ‘Wizard Kings’ of the Old Cosmology were just dragons, too. They weren’t actually Wizards.”

Solomon said, “But anyone can become a Wizard, just like anyone can become a dragon. Theoretically, anyway. You just have to gain enough personal mana generation and then have an ignition event. Dungeons didn’t exist in the Old Cosmology, so it would be harder, of course—”

Erick finished the thought, “But even in the Old Cosmology and here in the New Cosmology people could always ‘Wizard themselves’ to have more mana generation by stealing that generation from others. And from there it is a cascading event.”

“Exactly,” Solomon said.

Erick said, “So were the Old Wizards actually good people? Or… Not?”

Poi said, “Historically, on Veird, people who could become Wizards were usually ‘good’ people. Largely. According to your talk with Rozeta, the same was true for the Old Cosmology, and stealing mana generation from others was considered highly taboo and worthy of being murdered for if it was discovered that a Wizard participated in that practice. From what we know of the Old Cosmology, I suspect that the murdering of Dark-thieving Wizards was a rather routine sort of thing, like Rozeta’s Paladins going after rogue Wizards here.”

Erick nodded a little.

Solomon said, “I think it’s safe to assume that Old and New Wizards are all basically good people, until circumstances turn them otherwise.”

“Most people are basically good,” Erick said.

Solomon added, “Until circumstances turn them otherwise.” He looked at Erick, “And some people are evil until turned otherwise. Like Fyuri, or—”

Erick sighed, waving a hand. “Yeah, yeah, yeah.”

