Chapter Five Hundred and Thirty-One - The Third Stage of Grief"I refuse.""You don't have the authority to refuse.""Yes I do.""Whose?""My... womanly authority to not go because I don't want to."I watched the argument ping-pong between Caprica and Bastion, both of them failing to convince the other. Bastion was tall, calm, and placid. Caprica had stomped her foot on the ground three times already.If things kept going like this, I might have to start worrying about the poor Beaver's deck.The rest of the crew and I had gathered up to kind of just... watch? We were still flying away from Port Royal through a light rain, though the engine was idling and we'd tucked our sails in, so we were just drifting forward on the wind. Going slower meant that we didn't need to keep as much of an eye on the environment around us, which meant more eyes on... this."Womanly authority isn't recognized by the state," Bastion said.Caprica snorted. "You didn't need to tell me that," she replied. "But it doesn't matter. We're not in Sylphfree. Even your authority isn't worth anything here.""I have a writ," Bastion said."It's a piece of paper," Caprica said. "We could use it as kindling. Hmpf! I bet you were waiting to ambush me at the Sylphfree embassy, weren't you?""I wouldn't use the term ambush," Bastion said."I'm not going back," Caprica said. "Not unless certain concessions are met." she crossed her arms and raised her head up tall and proud, displaying her noble attack nostrils for all to see.I chewed on a thumbnail. Conditions? What sort of conditions would Caprica need to leave the crew?It hadn't really hit me yet, but this whole thing, Bastion coming onboard unannounced, was about a member of the Beaver Cleaver's crew leaving. It... wasn't something I really wanted to think about if I could avoid it, but... well, it was happening? It had happened before, when Bastion left, but Bastion had always only been a temporary member of the crew. Like a cool older brother hanging out for a bit."In that case I'd like to point out that there are no authorities at the moment that could prevent me from tossing you over my shoulder and flying you all the way back to the throne room myself," Bastion said."Y-you think I'd like that?" Caprica challenged. I think she might maybe have been flushing from more than just anger.Which was a good time for me to step in, I think. "Guys," I said. "Caprica, Bastion, can we just talk this through?"Bastion turned his attention towards me. "Broccoli, I consider you a friend and an ally." Aww! That warmed my heart up a little. "But even as an ally of the nation of Sylphfree, I feel that you should know not to interfere with this matter any more than you have.""He's right," Caprica said. "This is between me and Bastion.""I get that," I said as placatingly as I could. "But... ah, let's lay things out on the table... the metaphorical table. Bastion, why are you trying to, ah, bring Caprica back home?"Bastion sighed. "If it were entirely up to me, I would merely suggest that the princess bring with her an appropriate escort. But it isn't merely up to me. The King and Queen suggested that Caprica's wanderings reflect poorly upon Sylphfree, though some of your group's more... heroic actions have reached the capital's rumour mill and they do seem to be taken in a positive light.""We're doing just fine," Caprica said."Certainly," Bastion replied. "But the royal family is still worried. You never even wrote."Caprica flushed and looked away. Ah, Bastion had scored his first real point in this argument."In any case, it's my duty to ensure the safe return of the princess," Bastion continued. "Unharmed and in a condition wherein she can continue her royal duties.""The only reason you're not kidnapping me outright then, is because we've been successful so far," Caprica said, her arms crossing again. "I know how my father thinks. He'd have had a whole patrol fleet after us far earlier, but we've been nothing if not successful in our ventures.""Most of those ventures involve altercations with pirates and dealings with dragons," Bastion said."Yes. And we've handled those well. We also ventured into multiple dungeons and even pushed back the influence of the Evil Roots that threaten Dirt itself," Caprica said. "I bet the gossips don't mention that nearly as often."Stolen from its rightful author, this tale is not meant to be on Amazon; report any sightings."The existence of these Evil Roots has been disseminated amongst the people that need to know, but the knowledge has been kept from the broader public," Bastion said.Caprica sniffed. "So our heroic deeds are being masked. And it's coincidentally making it all the easier for you to come here and take me away?"I frowned. That... almost made sense, but ... I think Caprica was grasping at straws. "Do you need to leave with Caprica now?" I asked Bastion. "We're mid-flight, after all. It would be kind of dangerous. And we're just going to Deepmarsh, the capital, to try and solve a mystery.""The royal family wishes their wayward princess back," Bastion said."I'll go back," Caprica said. Then, when Bastion had a hint of hope, she crushed it. "When I please. I do not please at the moment, so you can either leave yourself without me, or join us on this venture which you will no doubt realize is of utmost importance.""Is it?" Bastion asked."Yes," Caprica said."And what exactly is this venture?" Bastion prompted."Classified," Caprica replied smugly.Bastion's wings twitched and his fingers flexed at his sides. It had been a minute since I'd last seen him, but he was a friend, and I could tell from his body language alone that he was a little conflicted. Maybe he wouldn't mind giving Caprica some amount of freedom?"Bastion, you're a Paladin, right?" I asked."Yes," he said."So, your job is to keep Caprica safe?"He nodded again. "Yes, that's correct. And I already see where you're going with this."Caprica caught on too. "We're sailing to Deepmarsh to speak with an expert on a subject linked to Rainnewt. That man must be taken down, for the good of all of Dirt, and the next hint as to his location is in Deepmarsh itself. If something threatens my kingdom, and I have the ability to stop it, then I have a responsibility to do so. To leave now would be dereliction of duty."I had to bite my lip. She really was good at this.Bastion inhaled deeply, his shoulders rising as if gathering his thoughts. "And if this mission is more dangerous than you anticipate?"Caprica's lips curled into a small, triumphant smile. "Then as my loyal protector, you will be right there to make sure I return home safely."The silence stretched for a moment before Bastion exhaled, slow and measured. "I suppose," he said, "that if the royal family wishes their princess returned unharmed, it would be prudent to ensure she remains so in the first place."Caprica tilted her head. "Are you saying you'll join us?"Bastion sighed, pinching the bridge of his nose. "I will remain onboard for the time being. If I find your actions unacceptably reckless, I will override your wishes and return you to Sylphfree personally."Caprica beamed. "Then it's settled!""And your royal majesty will be writing letters to her father and mother, apologising for the lack of communication and the failure in her filial duty."Caprica stiffened for a moment. "I... suppose I can do that.""Good. because I have several letters from them addressed to you," he said before reaching between his breastplate and gambeson. He pulled out a small pouch, then opened it to reveal a small stack of letters.I remember that on Earth, companies sometimes use colour-coded envelopes. Paper and brown meant nothing, but yellow and red was a bad sign.Caprica's stack of letters had a nice hue-shift going, from beige all the way to a very dangerous red."These were sent to you via your banking ring, which you seem to have misplaced. The royal family requested the letters back and asked that I deliver them to you personally. I have a banking ring that could allow discrete communication to Sylphfree," Bastion said. "I'm certain your family will be excited to hear from you.""Ah," Caprica said as she eyed the letters. She took them as if Bastion was handing over a live bomb. "From mother?""Yes," Bastion said, and I think I detected some pleasure in that 'yes.' "How did you guess?""Well... I shall take care of these immediately... in my room. Seeing as how you are going to travel with us as my bodyguard, I suppose I ought to make room for you in my cabin as well.""No no," Amaryllis slipped in smoothly. "Bastion can stay with Calamity and the other boys. I'm sure there's a hammock to spare.""Thank you," Bastion said. "That would be more than acceptable."***
