—only for Tarbloom to react and meet it.

The professor held up a hand. Cale caught a flash of a spell construct going off ridiculously quickly for the amount of power it consumed. Then their power flared outward like a web, causing the lizard stranger's errant spell to freeze in place as Tarbloom bore down on it.

Then they reached for their slate and carefully scribbled out a greeting. HELLO! SORRY FOR INTERRUPTING YOUR SPELL. WHO ARE YOU?

Cale blinked, craning his head to eye the slate. "You know, you're really polite to random intruders," he remarked. "It's not your first time, is it?"

NO. I AM INTRUDED UPON VERY OFTEN! I FIND IT DELIGHTFUL.

"I can't tell if you're talking about critters or people," Cale said, though he was probably guilty of the same thing, now that he thought about it.

The stranger had frozen in place as he registered what was happening in the classroom. He stared at the professor, then at Cale, then at the storm that was currently being contained inside his barrier.

"What... what the fuck?" he managed after a moment. "How are you doing that?"

"Holding the storm?" Cale asked. "I'm using a barrier."

"I can see that!" the lizardfolk snapped. "How is it working? That is the Aspect Cascade! It transforms any kind of mana it touches, no matter the strength! You cannot contain it with a simple barrier. If you could, we would not have—"

His voice broke, and he suddenly looked much, much smaller.

"We would not have lost so many to it," he said. "You... you cannot just put a barrier around the Aspect Cascade. You must have done something more. I know many mages hold their secrets as paramount, but... please. My people need a way to defend themselves. Especially if what I suspect is true."

Professor Tarbloom had already shuffled over to give him a pat on the back. Cale winced a bit at the clear desperation in his tone; he hadn't meant to be quite that dismissive about it. Flia was already giving him a look that told him to fix this.

"Look, why don't we start with introductions?" Cale suggested gently. "You should have a seat."

The lizardfolk didn't move. Professor Tarbloom gently guided him to one of the seats instead until he collapsed into a chair, and even then, he stared blankly at the storm still held within Cale's barrier.

"I am... I am Kazza. Kazza of the Golden Sands," the lizardfolk said after a moment. "You are Cale. I was... journeying with the Orstrahl delegation here when your Headmaster asked us to witness your class."

"He did?" Cale raised an eyebrow, then shook his head. "Not important. You're right; a normal barrier wouldn't be able to hold it. I'm a bit of a special case. That doesn't mean I won't be able to help, though, if you can answer some questions."

"Questions?" Kazza asked numbly.

"Just a few," Cale said assuringly. "What I can sense of the Aspect Cascade feels a little strange. It doesn't match the stories I've heard, so if you have any information about how it's been behaving..."

"Our tribe has been tracking it the entire time it has been active," he said quietly. Then he straightened, his gaze locking on to Cale "Do you truly believe you can help? You will not demand anything in return? Our lands? Our cooperation?"

"I can't promise anything," Cale warned. He glanced back to the Cascade, frowning slightly. More and more, that tiny wisp of intent felt out of place. "...but yes. If this is anything like what I think it is... we might even be able to stop it."
