“Poison,” she warned. Collecting her wits, she put up a barrier in the direction of the spike, just in time to hear a rapid sequence of swishes and cracks as multiple wooden needles splintered against the magic of her barrier before falling to the ground. A dark viscous green stain remained where the projectiles had struck her barrier, slowly dripping down the impenetrable golden wall with the consistency of honey or syrup. She crouched behind her barrier, scanning the bamboo forest for clues to the danger as she let the soft pulse of her Acolyte’s magic fight the poison.

“There!” Calen’s call was matched with the tracer-like shot of his glowing arrow flying between the bamboo and slamming into a most bizarre creature. Previously invisible, Ali had only been able to see it because of Calen’s attack, and if she lost sight of it for a moment, she was certain she would be unable to find it again. The monster’s body, if it could be called that, was a stick of bamboo almost as thick as her arm and a little over a meter long. Sprouting from it were six long segmented legs and various twigs and leaves. An ungainly, oversized bamboo stick insect. Its camouflage was so good in this environment, that the only thing Ali could fault was the fact that the body was horizontal, not vertical like the Living Bamboo stalks – and that the flow of mana through its body didn’t quite match its surroundings.

Bamboo Crawler – Grass – level 27 (Nature)

A brief flicker of nature magic stirred within the Bamboo Crawler’s stem, and something shot out at high speed with an audible thwip. Calen dodged sideways and the projectile smashed into the bamboo right behind him. Difficult to see as it was, it reminded Ali of a diagram of a blowgun she had once discovered during a fun research project. A camouflaged, self-guided blowgun made from bamboo.

“Take cover!” Malika shouted, darting between the bamboo stalks.

From behind the protection of her barrier, Ali let loose her Arcane Bolts, a triple-stream of magic that arced up and over her barrier to thread the bamboo and smash into the strange monster that had attacked her. The dark, glowing red of flame danced among the nearby bamboo trunks as Ali’s Fire Mages retaliated, unleashing the odor of smoke and brimstone into the peaceful forest. Unbidden, her Forest Guardian charged, its huge bulk accelerated by its Rush skill, leaving a wake of smashed and uprooted bamboo. But the Bamboo Crawler fell from its perch before Mato and the Forest Guardian could even make the distance, dead from the hail of arrows, bolts, and fire they had unleashed through the peaceful forest.

Your group has defeated Bamboo Crawler – Grass – level 27 (Nature).

Ali limped over to where the monster lay, her leg still numb from the slowly fading poison.

“Sniper-type monster. I think it has decent stealth too… I couldn’t see it until it attacked,” Calen said, staring down at the crumpled and burnt heap of bamboo sticks that was the corpse of the monster. He poked at it with his foot a few times as if to check that it was dead before he let Ali have it.

Strewn about the strange monster’s former perch were the golden corpses of a half-dozen Luminous Dragonets, each one impaled with a slender wooden stake. “It must hunt the little dragons,” Ali observed while her deconstruction skill did its work. She took her time, deconstructing all the tiny brightly-scaled dragonet corpses and the knobby Bamboo Crawler before securing a few more samples of the Living Bamboo while her friends kept watch for her.

“Which way?” Calen asked her. Normally he would be the one picking out the path, but it was her mana sight they were using to figure out the direction of what they hoped would be the source of the heavy nature mana.

“Back that way,” Ali pointed, indicating the trail they had been following. While the mana seemed to flow more calmly here, she only had to glance around to see the increase in density in that direction.

They set off once more, but this time Ali kept her barrier magic active, hopefully able to intercept any surprise attacks. But it was Calen who kept them safe, sending his motes of light ranging out ahead of them to flush out the stealthy snipers, and his incredibly acute vision to point them out before they could shoot.

***

Ali’s Forest Guardian slowed, coming to a halt at the edge of the dense bamboo forest. From her spot high up on its back, she could make out the trail meandering down the slope to the banks of a viridian green lake below, nestled in a terraced hollow, up against a vast mountain of rough rock and shattered stone. The entire surface of the lake bubbled, erupting in geyser-like explosions of dense mana that shot tens of meters into the air before cascading down to the surface to pour off into the forest like a tsunami of mana. But to her mundane vision, the pool was quiet and still, with only the light of thousands of slowly rising wisps indicating the otherwise invisible churn and chaos visible to her mana sight.

“Another spawning pool,” Calen said, quietly identifying the phenomenon. Ali’s Identify skill failed to activate on the terrain, but she could see the obvious similarities compared to the pool of light and radiance they had previously discovered.

“That’s liquid nature mana,” Ali added, her skin prickling even at this distance. The air was filled with the cloying dense scent of growth mixed with rot as the evaporating mana continuously billowed out from the lake. This time, there was no dripping waterfall from on high, so Ali cast around trying to identify the source, and there she found it. On the far side of the lake, part of the mountain of boulders and ragged stone and almost fully covered by overgrowth, she suddenly recognized the shape of a mana condenser. The giant pyramid structure had split – fractured into several pieces – and dense, glowing liquid mana seeped out through the cracks, forming small streams and rivulets that flowed down into the lake.

“That’s the remains of the city,” she said as her mind suddenly snapped to a wider perspective, taking in the entire mountain of broken stone and shards of rock.

“Wow, you’re right!” Calen exclaimed, his gaze snapping upward to where the suspended rings of the ruined city should be, but Ali’s eyes were not good enough to pierce that far.

“Wow, that’s crazy," Mato said.

Ali didn’t need to see the ruins to recognize the debris of the shattered upper levels of the city that had fallen here. Nestled among the rock and the overgrowth she could clearly see the shattered black shards, remnants of the magical stone foundations of the rings above, and even shattered, the mana condenser was uniquely recognizable. It was the sheer size of the mountain of rubble and overgrowth that had kept her from initially connecting it to its origin.

Spawning from the surface of the lake, or crawling out onto the muddy banks, was a continuous stream of strangely warped insects, frogs, snakes, and occasionally larger monsters brought into being by the unthinking chaotic power of the concentrated mana and ejected into the forest like some kind of waste byproduct of the lake itself.

Roaming the banks was the largest Forest Guardian Ali had ever seen. Perhaps a third larger than the one she was riding, it slowly wandered around the lake, pausing to drink directly from the glowing green mana. How can it survive that? Mana this concentrated was dangerous, affecting whatever it touched in strange ways. That much was obvious by the very nature of the jungle and its inhabitants.

Forest Guardian – Wood Elemental – level 53 (Nature)

“That’s a higher level than the Wights,” Ali said, flying down and glancing over at Malika.

“We’ve leveled since then,” Mato countered.

It was true. While Ali didn’t necessarily feel that different, she had gained eight class levels and quite a few skill levels since engaging the twin undead Wights to defeat the Ruins of Dal’mohra – and this monster wasn’t a raid-level threat or a boss.

“I think we can do it,” Malika answered, thoughtfully. “What do you think, Calen?”

“Ali has a Guardian now, that should make a big difference,” he said. “And there’s only one of them this time. I’d hate to think what regeneration that thing puts out.”

“Ok,” Ali answered, double-checking her minions. She had one Storm Shaman which she would send in with the Scalding Slimes. Hopefully, between Mato’s and the Forest Guardian’s auras, they’d have enough to keep her shaman alive among the roots and vines. The remainder of her forces were Acolytes and Fire Mages. Good enough, she thought, deciding she didn’t need to make any changes.

“Follow Mato,” Ali commanded, levitating herself up off her Forest Guardian’s back. It raised its head in a deep throaty roar that caused the ground to tremble, the vibration in the air thrumming powerfully through her body. It charged. Stunned for a moment by the visceral sensation of its raw power felt from such proximity, Ali stared as it crashed into the larger enemy guardian with incomprehensible strength and violence.

It would take her shaman and oozes a little longer to reach the melee, but it seemed Mato had the monster well locked down. “Firebolts,” she said, and her Fire Mages cackled with glee as they prepared to unleash their favorite attack spells.

Volleys of firebolts lanced out across the open beach between the bamboo and the mana lake, striking the giant Forest Guardian in a thumping, sizzling salvo of destruction, leaving curling wisps of smoke and scorched holes in the bark armor. Ali kept her barrier at the ready and added her Arcane Bolts to the barrage.

“Steady,” Calen said, loosing arrow after arrow in a glowing stream.

Looks pretty straightforward, Ali thought. While the Forest Guardian was indeed huge, Mato seemed to be handling the damage just fine. The area around the dueling Forest Guardians exploded with writhing plants and roots as the two auras of nature magic collided in a daunting display of nature’s fury. The Scalding Slimes ignored it all, slipping through the tangled growth like it wasn’t even there and flowing up the Forest Guardian’s legs to unleash near-invisible white jets of high-pressure steam into its back.

“Your oozes are the perfect counter to that growth magic,” Calen observed, his eyes studying the fight unfolding before them.

Ali nodded, just about to add her thoughts when a sharp crack sounded from right beside her. She whipped her head around, finding a telltale green stain slowly dripping down the middle of her barrier. There was a soft rapid staccato puffing noise and three of her Kobold mages stumbled, clutching injured limbs with wooden needles protruding from their scales.

“Calen, Bamboo Crawlers!” she yelled, and Calen spun about, his eyes stabbing into the dappled bamboo forest behind them.

“Shit, there’s a lot of them,” he said, his bowstring already singing. “Mato, Malika, beware!”

“Gather up close,” Ali instructed, drawing all her Kobolds together and feeding more mana to her Barrier to grow it as she twisted it around for maximum cover.

“Are they attracted by noise?” Ali asked. Her eyes were nowhere near as good as Calen’s, but now that they had fought several of these Bamboo Crawlers, she knew what to look for. By the soft shimmers in the ambient mana, there were at least half a dozen of them lurking in the forest.

“Mana, I think,” Calen spat from between his teeth. “They don’t have ears.”

Ali ignored the melee with the guardians down by the pool, instinctively knowing the Bamboo Crawlers would destroy them if left unchecked. Poison might not do lots of upfront damage but left to stack up, it would rapidly get out of hand.

She picked a target for her mages and added her Arcane Bolts, as she and Calen worked to clear the unwelcome additions to their battle.

“Something’s coming out of the pool!” Malika yelled.

“Shit, now what?” Calen said, his head swiveling around.

Malika’s voice had sounded superficially calm, but Ali knew her well. Hurriedly, she glanced over to where they were fighting by the lake. The green liquid mana swirled and shifted, and a dark green and brown amorphous blob slowly hauled itself out of the water. Its body extended temporary pseudopod limbs in all directions, shifting and warping as it moved.

Toxic Spitter – Ooze – level 55 (Poison)

“Holy shit, that’s big!” Calen exclaimed.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
