The last vestiges of the storm blew over the sea, a great hurricane dying, and the whirling winds and wrath of the ocean fading.
Fading, as it crossed hundreds of miles, becoming eddying gales, freezing winds turning into cool air and gasping, faltering, dissolving into a hundred thousand wild breezes that took to every direction and losing cohesion until one gust of air reached the shore.
The wind blew down a sandy coast and ruffled someone’s hair as they stood, breathing in the same air that had howled during the Winter Solstice, then held the voices of the despairing, the raging, and the last breaths of the war at sea.
A pair of lungs inhaled and exhaled the salty air, and it was painful. But they were alive. A small crowd had gathered on the beach to watch, and it was a reminder: they were alive.
Not everyone had died during the Winter Solstice and the days thereafter. That was what was painful—or good about it. Some people had made it. The figure cleared his throat a few times as the people standing across from him fiddled with a magical mirror and a scrying orb.
“We’re live in two…”
“Ready.”
He checked his notes, mental and physical, read off the simple teleprompter—someone holding up pieces of paper with the words written extra large—cleared his throat one last time, then fell silent.
The young man was ready. The wind ruffled at his hair, and he didn’t bother to fix it. While he waited—he thought of names.
Names. He was about to be on air, but the list played in his head again, as it had done for days and weeks.
There was a list he had compiled that wouldn’t be going out in any newspaper or broadcast. It wasn’t for them.
He had compiled a list of those who had made it, survived. And those who hadn’t.
 
Moore of Raithland—deceased.
Ulinde. Selphids had no last name, often—deceased.
Seborn Sailwinds—alive.
Jelaqua Ivirith—alive.
 
Apparently [Warriors] were hard to kill. A Hag Queen had animated two bodies to kill the Selphids inside, and one had survived the attack, if barely.
The Halfseekers of Izril were disbanded. Jelaqua Ivirith had tendered the disbandment of her team from the [Healer]’s bed. The newlywed Selphid had no comment to give except to pledge her team’s remaining finances to the kin of Ulinde and Moore.
—As far as the [Journalist] had been able to discover, Moore had no kin. He was named ‘Moore of Raithland’ because that was where his people had been and where a half-Giant boy had been conceived before the Nomads of the Sky had left Izril for good. They must not have known he existed, and by the time they left…that was the history, the facts that could be extrapolated from his past.
Ulinde did have family, and so the money would go to them.
These were just the facts.
 
Perorn Fleethoof—alive.
Captain Ixeth—deceased.
Captain Yameth—deceased.
 
There were a lot of living and dead, and his list contained only…well, the ones important to him, as cruel as that might be to say. Commander Fleethoof had survived the mortal wounds inflicted upon her by Kasigna at the cost of one of her subordinate’s lives as he used a potion to save her.
That was a different story. That story had emotions and sacrifice, and he would not tell it, because people didn’t deserve to hear it. Not like that. Even if they did—he hadn’t been there.
 
Redscar-–alive.
Thunderfur (Carn Wolf)--deceased.
 
Chance. A Goblin lived while his mount died. One had Skills. The other had bled out before he could be saved. The entire Solstice had been like that.
The list kept playing, over and over, as a [Journalist] turned to face the cameras. There were too many names, but he also had a list of Earthers.
 
George Coleman—deceased. Killed by one of the Jaws of Zeikhal that had gone on a rampage during the Solstice.
Kevin Hall—deceased. Murdered by an [Assassin] of Roshal.
Imani (no last name on record)—alive. One of her eyes was lost. In rehabilitation in Liscor.
 
He supposed he deserved to be on that list as well. The [Journalist] tried to smile, and he was aware of the skin on his face stretching. Scars. One of the [Cameramen] winced as Rémi Canada had his moment on television.
 
Rémi Canada—alive. Survived a zombie attack after they found him being eaten alive.
 
Alive or dead. His notes didn’t mention scars. The [Frontline Journalist] had a new class. He knew the scars were bad. Bite marks had torn off part of his face. He resisted the urge to touch his features and spoke.
“I am Rémi Canada, the head editor of the Chandrar International. It may be slightly unprofessional to report on my own news, but the world is in chaos right now. I have been the subject of multiple assassination attempts, which were partly successful, as you can see.”
His smile was twisted. At this moment—he had a lot of attention on him. The news stations were in chaos, and many were taking their leads from Wistram, but the Academy of Mages was a shambles.
Rémi had asked Wonders of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and every Chandrarian television station to let him take lead, and he saw this as their one opportunity to broadcast something unique. Wistram could put out its own narrative; Terandria and Baleros were already describing the events of the Night of Bloodtear in their own terms.
The different continents had finally begun to fully stratify. The [Journalist] continued, hoping he had people’s attention.
“Shortly, we will begin our two-hour-long segment unpacking the events of the Winter Solstice felt around the world, the Night of Bloodtear, and both the narrative as seen from as many veritable, first-hand accounts as we can and the ramifications around the globe. Firstly, though, I would like to speak about the perils of delivering the news when other countries or individuals object to what I am saying.”
He paused, then looked straight into the scrying mirror, seeing his own distorted reflection in it. Drassi had offered him a timeslot on her show, but he wanted this.
Make the most of it. You’ll never get another chance.
“Journalism is not just speaking into a camera. It is researching, confirming eyewitnesses and verifying facts, and publishing a report of what happened that you can stand behind. It is the pursuit of the truth, and it is neither easy nor safe. I wish, at this moment, to explain to viewers what it is…and what it is not. The attempts on my life are not always a sign I am reporting the exact truth. But I do tend to take it as a sign I’m saying something someone disagrees with. I can swear that among the unsuccessful attempts on my life, I have faced assassination threats and worse from Nerrhavia’s Fallen, as have other members of the press. This latest attempt is not, I believe, from Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but it joins an increasing trend of people trying to silence voices of dissent.”
It was a little speech he’d written, and at this moment, he was sure Nerrhavia’s Fallen was vigorously drafting a statement denying any involvement in his disfigurement.
But his face told a very simple story to his audience…even if Rémi knew that, in this case, Nerrhavia’s Fallen hadn’t done anything to him.
It was perhaps the most unethical story he’d ever broken. Rémi knew fully well who’d tried to kill him, and Kasigna might not have even known he was a [Journalist]. Yet what he was saying was also…true.
Another time, Rémi would have had scruples about what he was doing, but at this moment, he could still feel his scars stretching and feel the zombies trying to rip his face off. He didn’t really care. And…he had a feeling no one else was following an ethical code of journalism.
Case in point. Rémi transitioned from his comment about his injuries to a surprised half-Elf also having a bad day.
Rémi had no sympathy for Archmage Eldavin.
“Archmage of Memory, thank you for joining us. Do I have your word that you had no involvement in any attempts on individuals’ lives during the unprecedented undead attacks on the Winter Solstice?”
They had a five minute delay, but he wasn’t cutting anything, and he saw the Archmage of Memory blink at Rémi—and wondered if the audience noted the slightest of pauses.
“No, Journalist Canada, I most certainly did not participate in or wish for your harm. My understanding was this was an address about the state of Wistram.”
The [Journalist] folded his hands behind his back and kept smiling.
“We’ll get to that, Archmage. But for public disclosure, as a journalist—I feel the question has merit. This just in—I have received full confirmation that truth spells can be faked. Going forwards, I will not be using truth spells as a part of any broadcast my organization participates in. There is no point. Every account will require testimony and multiple eyewitness accounts. Truth spells likely work with most people under Level 40—but they are not inviolable. Did you have a comment, Archmage? Archmage?”
Rémi paused a second.
“I think we’ve lost the Archmage of Memory. Moving on, let’s begin with what we know and can verify…”
The young man kept speaking, aware that this was his big break. People had already read the Chandrar International, and they had name-association with his reporting from the war in Tiqr and the newspaper. Ksmvr of Chandrar had made him a worldwide presence.
But this…this was them putting a face to the name and his chance to establish himself. It was his biggest break since coming to this world.
He felt nothing. The [Journalist] stood in front of the cameras, spoke the truth as he saw it with as much evidence as he could find, interviewed witnesses as hard as he could press them, and then took a break for advertisements.
All the while, the list wrote itself in his head. Living. Dead. Living…
 
——
 
They were still finding wreckage washing up on islands and each continent’s shores from the Night of Bloodtear.
That was what people were calling it. Though it hadn’t actually been one night, but several days and nights of conflict, including the Solstice, that had ended in one pivotal battle.
Names, eh? Major Salvia didn’t put much stock in them. Major—she’d been promoted recently. The Journey of the Living, the name of the current era…not the finest thing she’d ever heard either.
A woman from the City of Nonelmar didn’t judge bad names. Nonelmar was one of those cities.
Not Invrisil. Not Riverfarm or Liscor, even, one of those cities.
It wasn’t Onononno, the City of Slimes, or Celum, which had big events to give it an identity. It was…a city.
It had culture. Lovely, just magnificent [Beekeepers], the Pebble River, filled with colorful stones, that was eminently beautiful, a thriving industry of flowers and herbs—because Nonelmar could support multiple industries—and so on.
But it was just…a city. Nonelmar had a small army and no attached nobility these days. It existed, it fought, and it had fair-weather allies like the city that Salvia was riding into.
Vaunt. The ‘City of Rinds’, which was a joke that wore on you, much like the faint smell in the air and the incessant mooing of cows.
One was plodding down the street, probably having escaped a local farm, and the City of Vaunt was, to Salvia, a sometimes friend, sometimes enemy, usually more of the former than the latter.
A city few people actually visited that was notable for [Merchants] and the like and the surrounding area, but didn’t make Izril turn on its name.
Even today, it was just Vaunt. Which was why the sight of over five thousand of Nonelmar’s [Riders], their entire cavalry division, was so astounding it made the cityfolk stop.
The line of thirty of House Terland’s Golems, an entire detachment of House Veltras’ own [Riders], and representatives from Pallass, Manus, Salazsar, and even a trio of Centaurs bearing the Forgotten Wing’s standard was…
Well, they were just lucky the Antinium had been asked not to show up and that the Black Tide had honored the request. They’d sent some of Liscor’s army to represent them instead, and a group of fifteen Gnolls and Drakes was standing to attention, eying the Humans with interest.
Salvia’s arm felt heavy as she held a sword up to let a procession pass her. There was not, in fact, a marching band or any fanfare. The Golems’ heavy tread and a cow mooing…filled the street with voices, whispering, not mourning—not all of them.
As she understood it, the reason for this lack of music was that the [Mayor] hadn’t thought there would be a huge funeral procession, let alone representatives from each city. Then the [Mayor] had been so overwhelmed trying to host the officers and dignitaries that he’d forgotten the purpose of the dignitaries’ visit.
It did not make Vaunt look good. But then…Salvia stared across the city she’d had the opportunity to visit about two dozen times over the last ten years, and she realized something she always sort of forgot until she came back.
The City of Vaunt wasn’t that nice. When you heard that, maybe you thought, ‘oh, it’s not an Invrisil with huge streets and all the latest technology or crowds’.
No, Salvia would have to explain. It really just wasn’t that nice.
The cows could be charming, especially if one walked up to you and begged for a snack, but the thoroughfares and streets had a certain…broken paving look to them. A lot of grocers and storefronts didn’t have the coin to repaint windows or buy glass, and the little things added up.
Prices weren’t good. The winter had been harsh, so everything was at a premium. But you’d think, well, Vaunt. City of cheeses. The cheese would be cheap, right?
Wrong. There was a local [Merchant] group that owned a lot of contracts and the cheese business itself. As Salvia understood the history of the cheese economy, they’d slowly move prices down to knock out local businesses, buy them out, and then raise prices. There was still a lot of need for [Dairy Farmers] and [Ranchers], but it was less fun being one.
It had been that way for over a decade, really.
—Vaunt’s people weren’t starving, but when they saw one of the Erchirite Spears marching past with armor covered by topaz, carrying a spear of magic in one clawed hand, they seemed like [Peasants] seeing a [Knight] on display. It hurt, a bit, for Salvia to see it.
It surprised the Liscorians, Drakes, and the visitors, though they were too good to say it. When Salvia turned her head, she saw a Gnoll muttering something before snapping to attention, looking…not dismayed, but the furry face was written with clear surprise that even she could see.
Here was the thing: Vaunt wasn’t that bad. It wasn’t dying or overrun by crime, but you got a weird shock when you finally visited. Because…because…
