The Armored Queen remembered, and that memory was tainted by the present. Each dead Antinium was a loss to her that had no quantifiable number for the Grand Queen to tabulate.
Embraim, one of the first Antinium [Knights] of the Order of Solstice, was dead. This knowledge was bitter to her, and she spoke to Antherr, whose body she had begun creating, though she had less talent at it than the Silent Queen.
“We cannot be the Antinium of Rhir. I see that now, Antherr. You must…become the leaders whose vision extends beyond our petty wills. I entrust it to you.”
“Embraim is dead.”
The [Knight]’s thoughts were bitter. He had lost his full class—lost his Skills. He, the Soldier who was part of the Beriad, who had not broken before Zeres’ First Tide nor undead, was shattered from this.
The Armored Queen knew well the weight of his despair, for she had held it and used it like an armor against adversity for her long ordeal. She was, perhaps, the wisest of all the Queens in this moment, against grief, though she would never have thought that.
“Let your mind follow mine, Antherr of the Beriad. I shall show you why Embraim mattered. It may be small—it may not be enough—but see.”
She had not seen the sun above her Hive, nor the moons, for decades. The Armored Queen’s shell had long since forgotten what it was to scent or feel anything but stone and dirt and pain.
—Yet she lived through the eyes of her own Prognugators, and one had gone to the very edge of the Hivelands where land still met sea.
To the south lay the New Lands of Izril, vast and unexplored. However, the Hivelands still met the ocean, and the beaches and coast were filled with white sands, oft-covered by the changing tides.
The Antinium never came here. Here had been where they landed, shattered, and the ocean was vast and horrible to them. Yet, today, the Armored Queen sent her Prognugator to look across the beach. Antherr, who shared the joint vision, saw something strange.
“…Antinium?”
Across a bluff of sand, the Armored Queen’s Prognugator was afforded a view of the beach for miles. The Armored Queen’s soul was laden by despair—and yet there was a kind of painful glory in each and every little figure she beheld. Hope, which sang in her mind.
Workers and Soldiers were up to their knees, even their chests, in the water or combing the beaches. Detritus from the fleets was still washing up on Izril’s shores, a fraction of the flotsam from the Night of Bloodtear.
The odds of any particular ship even making it here were remote—and yet there were thousands of Antinium in view here alone.
“What are they doing? They will drown.”
Antherr grew angry, seeing this, but the Armored Queen’s reply was swift and certain.
“No Queen ordered this, Antherr. These Workers and Soldiers have snuck out on their own.”
They—disobeyed? Were they Aberrations? Yet the Armored Queen didn’t feel angry. Her mind-tone was bittersweet, hope and understanding mixed into it.
Then—Antherr felt a flash of memory and understood, suddenly, what the Soldiers and Workers were so desperately looking for as one straightened.
They all had long, improvised tools. Pieces of hemp or stolen bits of string lashed to pieces of wood they were combing the waters with. Then one would stand and pull something up with hope, and the others would look up—and Antherr saw it.
A [Knight] holding his flaming lantern covered in glory’s flame up overhead. 
“My successor shall bear this lantern.”
Embraim’s will had blazed across a single ship of the Bloodtear Pirates, perhaps turned a battle, saved Erin Solstice’s life—but he was dead.
The [Pyre-Knight] had fallen, and his lantern had slipped into the sea. The odds of anyone finding it on this beach when it might wash up anywhere, after months or years from the deep sea, were remote.
—Yet how urgently they searched. Antinium hunting against the orders of the Queens, braving the waters, slipping, digging at the sand for that lantern.
It hurt Antherr. He understood, and it hurt—and he wondered why the Armored Queen felt such hope. Perhaps because there was something for Soldiers and Workers to dream of when there had been naught?
It was not enough. But then, Antherr saw one of the Soldiers waving something, running down the beach with it. And he saw—they were holding a piece of metal.
A twisted, broken piece of rusted metal. It could not have come from Embraim’s lantern. It was too big; it must have been a piece of armor or something else.
Yet the Soldier held it overhead, and he was running now, searching for a piece of wood. Then—Antherr saw more Soldiers and Workers on the beach making something with everything they could salvage.
Lanterns. Some had even put flames in them and held them up high, as if to try to believe the crude, sputtering flames were pink and glorious.
“None of them bear his lantern.”
Antherr’s thoughts were gloomy and filled with pain. The Armored Queen disagreed.
“On the contrary, Antherr. Look: they all have it.”
The soul of Antherr was about to scream at her until he saw what she did. Antherr looked upon the Antinium as more searched the waves and believed they could be more than mere Workers and Soldiers. In the dream of a Worker swinging a stick overhead—who believed he could also be a [Knight] burning like glory itself.
That was enough for Antherr to wish to live again. The Armored Queen dragged herself back to his body and began to work faster.
Antherr needed a body again, for he had [Squires] to train. Gently, the Armored Queen moved around her soot-laden halls; the foundries of metal and the enterprise of war were all she had made herself into.
Her voice was heavy, but when was it not? The dignified Queen of the Hive was sorrowful, but there was a joy in her gaze as she looked down at Antherr.
“It is never easy, Antherr, admitting when you fail or have been wrong. We have wasted decades here. But if I can believe a Worker may become a [Knight] to inspire Antinium, old and new, I must hope I can change. She was a good leader, once, you know. They were terrible days, and there was no one better. For you were not there, or any others.”
His head rose, slowly, and the Armored Antinium halted before the line of statues of the Centenium. Slowly and carefully, she placed something down before the newest statue, and he gazed through her eyes, up—up—
At a familiar [Knight] holding a lantern. The Armored Queen lit a flame before the statue, and he saw there were more alcoves carved into the wall.
“They shall be the heart and soul of my Hive. I shall call myself ‘True Antinium’ no longer, for we never were. We, the marooned children struggling to continue our great cause, were unworthy, but we strove. Now, they shall rise. Not the doomed, but those who don armor, hearts brighter than fire, wills stronger than steel. A time will come when my Hive leaves this land, and we may not be called Antinium any longer. But I swear, if the Grand Queen deserts you, Antherr, if the world turns against you—”
The Armored Queen lifted a lantern that glowed and lit another brazier.
“—I shall carry that flame with you all.”
 
——
 
Embraim was dead, but he had a legacy that ignited across thousands of Antinium in the Hivelands for the first time.
It was a more bitter thing for the Free Antinium of Liscor. For they had experienced hope, salvation, and better days.
Thus, as they learned again and again, the more you had, the more you stood to lose.
There was no space on the wall large enough for Anand, one of the first five Individuals of the Free Antinium.
Pawn had led the Antinium in mourning processions—and in wrath, uttering sermons that continued to define what Heaven was, for Anand had earned it.
And to note what hell should be for the enemies of the Antinium. For now they had them.
Most of all, the Antinium felt—failure. They had lost much on the Solstice, and what had they gained? A schism within their ranks. Brave Individuals had gone forth in defense of the sky, Erin Solstice.
Was it worth it?
There was something endlessly amusing about it if you had a macabre, twisted sense of humor. But then, the Twisted Queen fit her name.
She had little hope like the Grand Queen did. She was watching, in real time, the Antinium splinter, and they would splinter again.
What the Grand Queen feared, though, the Twisted Queen embraced. She was a historian, more than the Silent Queen, who worshiped the living idols of the Centenium, a dreamer beyond the Free Queen’s ambitions, a radical to make the Flying Queen’s posturing experimentation look conservative and stale, and in her way, a leader who needed no validation like the Grand Queen.
The Twisted Queen did not hope as the Armored Queen did. She acted. She could be crueler than the others, who still valued their Soldiers and Workers. To the Twisted Queen, the things she created were, in a very real sense, nothing at all.
They were experiments in a war that had little meaning beyond preparation for the next conflict, and she had determined Izril would be too difficult to take. If she could have created simple weapons without minds or wills or the need to suffer, she would have.
She was not cruel, except to achieve her goals. In her mind, she was the perfect soldier, and she remembered how the Antinium had first come about—schisms of proto-Antinium until a leader had united them beyond all doubts.
In that way, we are too much akin to every species. Our hubris was believing we were unique.
Make no mistake—the Twisted Queen did not see herself to be that new Queen, nor did the Flying Queen’s ‘new’ Queens fit that bill. She was broken, her body mangled by war.
However, there was a benefit to being the bad one, the one who lied and told harsh truths and whose Hive was reviled, even feared such that no other Antinium willingly visited. Her Twisted Hive had been largely quiet, though she had supplied the necessary Workers and Soldiers of acceptable quality to the Grand Queen, as well as foodstuffs and material.
That was all the Grand Queen demanded, and the other Queens were busy infighting or planning for the future. If there was one thing the Twisted Hive had of unquestionable value, it was the Twisted Queen’s own champion and Revalantor, Wrymvr the Deathless. And he was hers. They were united in mind and purpose.
Wrymvr had lived, of course. A Kraken had failed to kill him once before, and this time, he’d just spent weeks at sea before climbing out of it with no comment other than to mention that Torthe, the Drowned Woman, had fled and to ask whether any Antinium of Anand’s had made it.
At this moment, he was tending to the Grand Queen’s bruised ego and inspecting the [Slaves]. He’d apparently eaten two he thought had qualities of [Spies].
Wrymvr well knew how to be the monster. The Twisted Queen had learned from her mentor, Wrymvr, and she settled back into her laboratory. Greatly tired.
It had been a busy time of late. Her body hurt all over, and she knew she was old. Her words came out broken, unable to parse into fluid speech as she mumbled to herself and the Workers meekly working around her.
“Delays. Birther sacs are still. Unable to. Be fully independent.”
Even the ones she’d made and proudly shown to Klbkchhezeim, a hundred times more resilient than previous generations, were flawed. They could be ‘miscalibrated’ or underfed and produce poor quality results.
For the purposes of making more specialized Antinium? It required thousands of hours of labor tweaking and experimenting before she could create a significantly advanced design like the Silent Queen’s genius.
Credit where credit was due. The Twisted Queen had stolen as many designs from the Silent Queen as the eager little experimenter was willing to give out. Tweaked her own Antinium to see how they could infect or explode or amplify certain qualities.
—She was no genius. The Armored Queen, Flying Queen, and Grand Queen still probably passed the Twisted Queen for actual shaping ability. Each one had created a flawed but advanced form of Antinium.
The Twisted Queen couldn’t approach the real skill and training the Silent and Free Queens possessed. This knowledge did not grate on her; it was simply a failing she regretted.
Well, she’d poured all of her craft and understanding into this latest Birther Sac. A delay of a few weeks was acceptable.
The Twisted Queen’s palp passed over the Birther Sac, measuring the ambient temperature and ensuring that the brain was developing well. At this point, the amniotic fluid contained a nervous system and enough cognition that she thought the being inside the sac could hear her mental projection.
So she spoke, and her mental tone was everything her physical form lacked. It was nuanced, the mind developed to greater eloquence than her body, and she had further refined it with Wrymvr’s help, for he knew what a Queen had once been.
The Twisted Queen thought at the developing mind:
“Anand. It is time to wake up.”
For a moment, she feared she had failed, but then she sensed an incredulous mind blooming in front of her. Disorientation was to be expected. The Twisted Queen checked the whirling thoughts and felt—happiness—acceptance—bitter regrets mixed with determination like iron.
Yes. You are more than a mere Worker. The Grand Queen hadn’t noticed the hardness of Anand’s thoughts, like Chitrx unformed. The Twisted Queen had.
“Twisted Queen? What is happening? I cannot see. Where am I? I thought I saw Goat.”
Intriguing. Was this hallucination, the telepathy of the Workers, a false memory, or this Heaven of which they spoke of? The Twisted Queen replied evenly, continuing to work. She sensed microtremors from Antinium digging around her, but they had reinforced this room a thousand times over, naturally. She would sleep and live here until the regrowth was complete.
“You were dead.”
“I was. I should be dead. I died at sea. How could I—Wrymvr was too far to send my soul to safety. He told me that.”
Instead of replying, she showed him her vision. Anand processed the room around her and then the tunnels carved out for the Twisted Queen to move through. He studied the loam, the Hive—and his mind grew more confused, more frantic.
“I don’t understand. Where are we? This—this isn’t the Hivelands.”
“No.”
Her tone was richly self-satisfied. She could sense his mind working, trying to put together what was going on. He nearly had it, but he was confused, agitated.
“Where is Wrymvr? Erin. What happened to Erin?”
“I do not know. Wrymvr is out of my range. He brought you here, then reported to the Grand Queen.”
