“And remember not to drown when you wash up on shore. Colth?”
He blinked up at her as she slowed and let go. Pisces was tumbling through the air, and he saw the Death of Magic wink down at him.
“You’ve found a nice teammate. If you manage to swing by Rhir when you find the rest of your team, bring me a souvenir, would you?”
So, the [Necromancer] and [Supporter] splashed into the ocean and lay there, laughing for a while, alive. Free.
Somewhere, a frozen [Cryomancer] was being towed onto a boat—and her eyes were filled with concentration. Determination to not fail again.
In the deep sea, an [Armsmistress] walked across the ocean floor, teeth gritted, staring ahead of her, taking step after step until she began to rise.
They had returned; they were returning to that continent of ancient empires and legends. But this time, it was no accident. The Horns of Hammerad were bound for Chandrar.
This time? They were prepared.
 
——
 
Good and evil had been done. The living had time to mourn. The world would never be the same for the passing of so many souls.
Admiral Rosech, his first mate Inseine, and his entire crew save for his son, Irrel.
Captain Jiupe.
Kevin. Gershal of Vaunt. Verdan Blackwood.
Xol of Ingrilt.
Tesy and Bviora.
Oliyaya and Herove.
Igolze, Azemith, and the Lucifen.
Earl Altestiel.
Seve-Alrelious, Prince Iradoren, Baeris the lioness.
Alcaz, Ser Kerrig, Maid Bekia, Commander Tersk.
Moore and Ulinde.
Tekshia.
Ixeth and Yameth and Thunderfur.
Old Bamer.
George. General Duln. Wall Lord Aldonss.
Iert.
Halrac Everam.
Silvermop, the Spring’s Warden, Pertheine.
Goat and Aluminum Armor and Worker C44.
Lidera.
Vincent.
Lady Ficombe, Lord Ostevar, and the nobles of Tourvecall.
Theillige. Three of the Winter Sprites.
Mister Prost.
They were all gone. And unlike the days before—there was no land of the dead for them, a purgatory, a reflection of the world long gone. Nor was there the harsh yet fair land that was ruled by the Goddess of Death.
Instead? Good or ill, monsters or heroes—they went to only two places now. Rarely, Diotria. The rest to Hellste. And the dead found that in the afterlife?
There were Goblins. There were always Goblins.
It was not a happy place. But nor was it a bad place. It was just a place you went where you died, with ups and downs, and was what you made of it.
There wasn’t a way back or a convenient loophole for people to return from. Even the dead gods couldn’t just summon souls back from here. And that was a good thing.
Someday, even this land might vanish, but until then?
Until then, a young man looked up as one of the Antinium waved at him from above, and Kevin Hall’s eyes filled with tears. But he was allowed to cry, and he waved at Goat. Then he turned and wiped his face.
“Sorry.”
A clawed hand helped him up, and a voice rumbled softly.
“For what?”
The young man hesitated—and then shook his head. He stood up and joined a gathering of souls. There they were.
Halrac, making room for Xol of Ingrilt, and Verdan Blackwood, shaking as he looked around and asked questions. It took a long time to realize you were dead, even here. People were still looking for a way out. But for a while, Kevin decided, he’d join the others.
George wasn’t his cup of tea, but he had time to wait. He hoped he wouldn’t see Imani, Joseph, or anyone else for a while. But until they met again—and they would all meet one day—Kevin joined the conclave.
What did the dead do to pass time? Well…
They told stories. They had a lot of the older ghosts here, and all the new ones, who would tell what had happened to them, not just on the Solstice, but their lives, as they saw them. Share their triumphs and regrets. Hear the others in turn speak.
But first…Kevin looked across at Altestiel, and the [Earl] nodded at the figure who’d come to get Kevin. There was a procedure to these things, if you were a welcome guest here.
In time, you’d tell the ghosts all about the world you knew and how it had changed…but first?
First, one of them would speak. And they rather liked Kevin. People liked Kevin, so he thought he’d do okay here.
He looked up, and the figure who’d come to get him wasn’t actually that old, you know. Kevin had always imagined a white beard or something, but the Goblin King had been young when he died.
Velan the Kind came to a standstill, and Goblins and ghosts of many races gathered around. The Goblin Kings, so many of them Kevin couldn’t count them all, watched, listening or yawning, for they knew this tale, but the others listened, even the fae.
It was time, at last, to hear the truth. Kevin sat down, smiling faintly. At least he’d get to hear it before all the others.
That was something.
He wondered how the inn was doing. Then Kevin closed his eyes and rested for a moment in death. It felt…pretty good to do it at last. He’d worked hard in his life. Not all the time, but this?
This didn’t feel so bad.
 
——
 
One month after the Solstice.
 
A great gale blew down across the Floodplains of Izril, rain, not snow. Okay, more like sleet, but even so, warmer than the snow, which was rapidly melting and forming great pools of mud that froze over and unthawed and would soon become lakes, valleys of water. At the end of the month, the season would turn to spring.
Soonish, the entire area would become impossible to travel, so the last groups hitting the road leading through the pass down to Liscor were hurrying to get to the city.
A traveller had stopped when they saw the dead giant made of bones, and they’d stared so long at the massive monster that they’d lost the limited daylight.
Then they’d made the incredibly stupid decision to, instead of following the winding road towards Liscor or heading back to Esthelm, try and climb a hill to get their bearings.
Well, five hills later they’d blundered into something huge in the night who’d snapped giant pincers at the traveller, and they’d run up and down hills, screaming and hoping they could find Liscor.
All this because they’d heard you could find good work around Liscor and it was one of the places to be…except not if you wanted a long lifespan.
However, there was a fortune to be made in the dungeon as an adventurer, or maybe you could be a miner or a farmer. You might not think either was good money, but there were huge tracts of land being sold for nothing around here, and the High Passes apparently had loads of ore from Esthelm.
The traveller was a young man from up north, a city no one had heard of called Vaunt, and he wanted to make his mark on the world. Vaunt was boring, filled with cheese, and frankly, had no prospects aside from maybe joining the army or hunting local rats until you saved up enough to buy some good gear and become a Silver-rank adventurer.
The boy had thought about maybe starting a farm if he found a nice girl around here—he wasn’t sure he’d like a Drake or Gnoll. But he was open-minded—right up until he realized the Floodplains of Liscor were called that for a specific reason and farming would not be enjoyable on a hilltop. Let alone with giant crabs.
Hunting, then. He’d heard you could make wild money with Liscor Hunted. Or—or they even had some amazing adventurers who’d made their mark here. The Horns of Hammerad.
And if none of that suited him, why, he’d go to Pallass, up to Invrisil, or anywhere else! But he’d wanted to make the journey to Liscor on foot, and not just because he couldn’t afford the fee to take the door, an entire damn gold coin.
…Maybe he should have paid for it at Celum, or at least at Esthelm, but they’d told him it was only a day’s journey from Esthelm to Liscor. They’d also said ‘stay on the road’, but—
He was lost. The traveller kept going up and down hills, hoping to find some sign of the city. He did not, and the darkness closed in.
What he did find eventually, though, was a building in the distance. It sat on a hill higher than most, and it was visible in the distance, a glowing series of yellow windows. A building that called to the traveller, to the lost, or simply to the weary.
He realized it was an inn. Then, as he drew closer, the young man realized it wasn’t just ‘an inn’.
It was the inn.
There could only be one. Dead gods, but he thought it was closer to the city! This…unless the mountain behind the inn was actually Liscor—in which case Liscor was a Walled City—the inn was in the wrong spot.
Or it might not be the inn. Yet, as the traveller headed for it, slipping and sliding and finally climbing up the hill, panting, he saw a sign planted in the snow, exactly like all the stories said.
“No Killing Goblins.”
The young man read the sign in disbelief, then laughed. He craned his neck up to look at the inn. There it was! Three stories high with a tower and, he’d been told, a ballista crewed by Antinium. There was…
Hmm.
Strange.
He didn’t see the tower. It was dark, but the top of the inn looked splintered, as if something had struck it. Well, he’d heard it had been attacked. But as the young man drew closer, he realized the front of the inn was…rather black.
Charred wood. The traveller stopped and realized there were multiple burn marks on the exterior of the inn. Also—the light he’d seen from the windows was bright, but they were shuttered. Some windows were boarded up, and when the young man tried the door—well, it was unlocked.
“Hello? Is anyone here? I’m, uh—lost, and I—”
The young man found himself in a rather large, oddly long, and unsettling hallway. There was a door to the left, but it was locked, and a loud snoring sound made him give up trying the handle. The young man walked down the hallway and had the feeling he was being…watched.
“H-hello?”
When he came to the doors at the far end, two big double doors, he hesitated, but he was cold, freezing, scared—and he had to know. So he pushed the doors open and found the inn.
It was…empty. Mostly empty. There were chairs piled up on tables, sitting upside down, that the floorboards could be properly cleaned, the lingering scents of food in the air, but it was clear the inn was unoccupied.
It was probably well past midnight, so the young man supposed no one was here. His stomach growled noisily, and he looked around, hoping there was someone—
“If you’ve come to start trouble, I warn you that the staff is armed. As am I. It’s late.”
A voice spoke from behind the young man, and he screamed and jumped. Out of nowhere, someone had appeared. A woman, hands on her hips, a weapon in one hand.
A frying pan. He backed away, stumbling, tongue-tied, and realized—this was it.
This was her.
The [Innkeeper] was as scary as he’d heard. She had a thunderous expression, probably because he was tracking mud into her inn and it was so late. She’d appeared out of a door in the wall—and he felt an instinctive sense of danger as he looked into her blue eyes.
He’d heard she was striking, a one-of-a-kind woman. If she was even Human. She was certainly beautiful. She had vibrant red hair, and the boy had listened avariciously to stories about her.
They said, in Invrisil, that there was a theatre named after her and the Players of Celum themselves had started in her inn.
In Celum, she was more like a force of nature; they claimed she let monsters into her inn, that she’d saved and sacked the city twelve times over. The [Innkeeper] could breathe fire and spit blood, she had killed Gold-rankers with her frying pan—
Esthelm’s [Smiths] laughed at that, but assured the traveller that she did have a knife forged by the greatest smiths and that she had fought off Ice Wyverns, fought the Goblin Lord, and led an army into battle.
She’d killed [Assassins] and hosted Named-rank adventurers at her inn. Invented the cheeseburger and been killed. Then come back from the dead and posted the world’s first <Quest>.
She was a hothead, dangerously unpredictable, kind, and capable of making your fortune or taking your life. She liked Goblins and Antinium, and adventurers flocked to her inn for her blessing or their doom.
Her name was Erin Solstice…and the traveler stared at her in awe. Mostly because he’d heard she was lost at sea.
But here she was.
The [Innkeeper] folded her arms and glared.
“Well? Which is it? The Wandering Inn isn’t open at this time of night, anyways. How did you even get here? Did Liska let you in?”
Her voice was impatient, and she tossed a glance over her shoulder. The young man tried to explain.
“I—I saw the inn from afar. I followed the light. Am I at Liscor? I can go to the city—”
The [Innkeeper]’s brows shot up.
“Liscor? Are you…you must have come off the road. What were you doing? The inn’s moved. We’re not at Liscor. We’re as far southeast as you can get.”
“What?”
He suddenly felt hot, then stupid as the young woman—and she was young, practically only a few years older than he was—eyed him.
“We moved The Wandering Inn.”
“How d’you do that? I mean—begging your pardon, Miss Solstice. This inn moves? Like the Haven?”
He stared around in awe. The young woman opened her mouth, eyed the weary, swaying boy, and decided he was either addled or stupid, possibly both. She spoke very slowly as a pair of heads poked out from the stairs, and the boy saw a glaring Gnoll girl with white fur and a girl with pigtail braids staring at him.
“Firstly—the inn does not ‘move’ normally. Antinium lifted it and carried it here after it was nearly burned down. Secondly, I am not Erin Solstice. I am Lyonette. Acting Innkeeper. Lastly, if you would like to go to Liscor, we can open the door for you. The inn connects to Liscor, Celum, Esthelm, Invrisil, Riverfarm, and Pallass.”
“I knew that. I mean…I was going to pay, but—I’m terribly sorry, Your Highness.”
Everyone knew the [Innkeeper] employed a [Princess]. He couldn’t believe that was true.
Lyonette du Marquin glared at the young man, but she took pity on him after eying him up and down again.
“Sit down. If the staff didn’t shoot you, you’re probably harmless. I’ll get you some leftovers, on the house, then we’ll let you sleep in one of the spare rooms. You can go to Liscor in the morning.”
He couldn’t believe his luck. The boy stuttered thank-yous as the young woman strode into the kitchen—came back through a garden door with a cold bowl of soup she warmed in her hands. With magic!
She put down a piece of bread, snapped her fingers, vanished into the door again, and then came back, calling out.
“Mrsha, if you’re going to snoop, you may bring our guest something to wipe himself off with. The same for you, Nanette.”
The two girls had been about to creep back to their beds, but they glumly appeared and offered the boy a towel and a cup.
