The [Innkeeper]’s head rose, and she spoke the words. The voice—stopped. She felt the waters move as a vessel stirred the deeps and began to surface.
New wood, gleaming and untouched by any hands, even in construction, a vessel made of the very fabric of the world.
Magic and Skill woven into a sail bursting from the waves. A hull of—of—
The boat halted midway through rising, and the voice halted. Just ceased.
No?
Erin Solstice stared up at the sky. Her head turned, and she saw it. A massive ship glowing with promise, a travelling vessel with all the Skills of an inn. Why—she could already see a familiar garden door opening where a little white Gnoll girl lay sleeping.
It could bring her home. It could send her around the world, and it was the answer. Didn’t you see it?
This inn could travel. What form might it take if—
“No.”
The door vanished. The little girl woke up with a start and looked around—but the [Innkeeper] rasped, lying on that piece of wood, body screaming, staring at a ship made just for her, more Skills still thundering through her ears.
She denied them.
The ship refused to go for a second. But the [Innkeeper] did not accept it. And there were rules…
The ship vanished.
The voice stopped speaking. There was a pause longer than time itself condensed into moments…then the voice whispered.
 
[Level ups canc—]
 
Again, her head rose, and she spoke.
“No.”
Then the silence grew deeper than the ocean; the waves rocked her, and she heard nothing at all. Erin Solstice lay there, body filled with agony, waiting, waiting…and heard nothing.
“Aren’t you going to say anything? Or let me dream? I could use a dream.”
There was no response. Erin turned her head, but saw no presence using a ghost to speak to her. Nor a reflection of herself. She looked around, tried to pull herself to the edge of the piece of wood—but there was no reflection of the Grand Design in the water or the glass of Apista’s honey jar.
“Shy, are you? All of a sudden? What’s going on?”
Erin rasped. She lay back down hard, trying to pivot onto her back, but too weak to move. Her body was…changing. Maybe it was the honey, the damage, or her levels, but she felt like she had after coming back to life. Too weak to move…but also like she had after working out with Ulvama. Her muscles, her bones—altering.
“Come on. You…you can’t have come this far and not say anything. We know each other too well. Say something.”
 
[The Wandering Innkeeper Level 55!]
[Skill – Inn: Pavilion of Secrets obtained!]
[Legacy: Pavilion of Secrets, authority recognized. Key of Insight granted.]
 
Silence.
Erin rasped.
“I don’t want that Skill. I don’t want a ship.”
Dead silence.
Reproachful silence, even. The [Innkeeper] stared upwards.
“Not. That. You promised me you would know my class. I waited. I have waited for Level 50 like few people ever, I bet. I have…changed.”
For Rabbiteater, she drove into a storm. She watched friends and loved ones die. She had survived Kasigna.
“I have defined the value of a god, even a wretched one like her. You know it. I am a person from Earth. You have seen my heart. A ship? A ship is not enough.”
A bound ship with all the powers of her inn was not enough? Erin just bared her teeth.
“Not. That. Try again.”
The silence lasted a second, maybe two. Short moments for her, but all the time in the world for something that thought at the speed of everything. Then the voice spoke softly.
 
[The Wandering Innkeeper Level 55!]
[Skill – Inn: Pavilion of Secrets obtained!]
[Legacy: Pavilion of Secrets, authority recognized. Key of Insight granted.]
 
[Skill – Kith and Kin of Goblins obtained!]
[Skill – Transformation: Goblinkind obtained!]
[Skill – Aspect of Lords obt—
 
“No.”
For a second, she swore she had felt the world change colors ever so slightly. Felt clawed hands rather than fingers. Looked down and seen green skin and—hesitated.
Then she had known it wasn’t what she wished for and spoken.
“Not that either.”
This time, the silence was utterly confused. Because the voice knew her. It did. It knew her desires and questions and deeds. There was a part of Erin that both Skills had called to.
A way home.
Or—a way to know what they did.
An answer to the oldest question of the world.
Each capstone Skill was an open door, a mysterious fate more tantalizing than any [Garden of Sanctuary]. It would change her forever. Erin wanted them.
But she needed something else.
“You don’t…you’ve chosen amazing capstones. Strange ones. Give me something else. I want both. But those aren’t it. You know it. I know it. I did not sail across the ocean and free myself from Roshal for that.”
She hadn’t done it for levels or Skills at all. Not for a reward. But—the voice considered her. This time, it left her for an hour in silence. She was sleeping when it spoke.
 
[The Wandering Innkeeper Level 55!]
<Title – The Patron of Rebellion obtained!>
[Title Skill – Open Hellste’s Gates (Single) granted!]
[Skill – They Shall Never Chain Me Again obt—]
 
This time, it took all the strength in her chest to whisper it.
“No.”
And the cessation of sound was like a thunderclap. How? Why?
Make no mistake. It was what she wanted. She heard that Skill, and something in her screamed to take it. It whispered that she could see them again. A <Quest> burned in her chest, and the voice of the world knew it.
Knew it. The silence was deeper and now—angry.
But Erin said it again.
“They’re dead. I know it. How many more times will I bring them back to suffer? Will I make the dead die twice?”
Oh…she thought of Visophecin. The Lucifen had been kind, in his way. He had offered her a fairer deal, and she had repaid him with death.
She had been in the clutches of [Slavers], and the Devil had been the better of the lot and offered her salvation.
In this Skill, Erin beheld a fate that would give her a power beyond anyone’s dreams. But she saw Anand’s face in the storm—and she knew that was not it.
“Not good enough.”
Not good enough. It seemed Erin stunned even the waves into ceasing. The voice was silent, and Erin looked up at the sky, then tried to see further beyond.
“Show me.”
 
——
 
A day and a night passed before the voice came back. This time, it was so quiet that Erin almost missed it. But the words lodged in her soul.
 
[The Wandering Innkeeper Level 55!]
[Skill – The Door to Earth opens.]
 
Strangely, this one was easiest of all, and she laughed at it. It didn’t open the door, if it was even that easy—it waited, and she giggled and cackled and doubled over, hurking in pain.
“No, and no again. Don’t you see? Are you…are you doing this on purpose?”
For a moment, she thought it actually was, but it wouldn’t be that cruel. Home? She wanted that. To save a Goblin? To see her friends again? To sail the world with something more than her inn that could only endure?
Yes, yes, yes, yes, and no.
You were missing it. This time, they had a dialogue. It was not as two individuals talking. Rather, it talked through the only means Erin knew. Levels.
It spoke, and she disagreed. She tried to explain her—her position.
“I want it. Power. I never did it for that, but if you have it—I need it. I am an [Innkeeper]. But you know me.”
 
[Skill – The Palace of Fates obtained!]
 
“I am not Empress Sheta. I want that—someday. But I am not her. I’m still an [Innkeeper]. You wanted me to become a [General]. You see I’m not.”
 
[Skill – Inn: The Bridge Of Lands, Teylas Donethil obtained!]
 
“What…what is that?”
It showed her. It was not a new Skill. Erin stared wide-eyed at something she had never dreamed of that could…her inn could become a meeting place, beyond even Izril’s Crossroads.
“Who made that? Why? When?”
No response. Erin almost reached for it, then shook her head. Turned away from that beautiful, ancient construction.
“No. It isn’t mine. This new Skill—should belong to me. It doesn’t have to be new—but it’s mine, you see?”
 
[…Skill – Body: Aspect of the Jinn obtained.]
 
“Seriously. It’s not me.”
 
[Skill – Inn: The City that Walked obtained.]
 
The voice was getting desperate. Angry. Perhaps because it didn’t understand in the end. Erin was trying to help it, but she made a confession.
 
“I…don’t know what it is either.”
 
[Condition: The Empty Mind assigned.]
 
That made her giggle. She tried to explain to the affronted everything.
“I don’t. I was hoping you’d know. I’ll only know when it happens. I’m sorry, I know I’m making this hard. But I was never easy. You knew that. I…let me try to tell you what I need. What I want. Then—you can hit me with whatever you want. Deal?”
The voice was silent. It listened, and Erin spoke like someone confessing her sins or a lover shyly admitting her heart’s desires. Like a traveller searching for meaning or the despairing asking for a glimpse of the dawn.
“I—we don’t deserve you, you know. We never have. In the world I came from, there is no you. Some people believe there is something like you. A god. But there isn’t one I’ve seen. I have seen miracles and too many tragedies, but I never believed in gods. In this world, I have met them, and they’re not what I wanted. You? I didn’t even think of you, at first. You were just something strange. Like a game. But then I realized there was a fairness to you.”
She licked her lips, and Apista’s honey was the sweetest and most delicious thing she’d tasted. Her exhaustion and bile and sickness at her deeds were the lowest she’d ever felt. Erin continued.
“—No, wait. It wasn’t always fair. Sometimes it felt like you had no idea what was going on or I got the short end of the stick. [Alcohol Brewing]? What was all that about? I never did that once. Maybe I should have…but I didn’t even get cool Skills. Cara can scream like a banshee and fly, and I only got my [Garden of Sanctuary] at Level 40.”
She paused, and nothing happened.
“…You weren’t always fair. But I guess you tried to make up for your mistakes. Got to know me. I get it. When you gave me [Immortal Moment], you knew me. You changed everything just for me. Because it mattered. No one has ever done that. And the [Garden of Sanctuary]…I needed it. Thank you.”
Still nothing. That voice would never take credit for its deeds or acknowledge her. She felt so…sorry for it, and she hoped it knew that. And knew why. Even if she was as alien to it as it was to her. The [Innkeeper] kept going.
“Sometimes, you defined who I was and what I became. Other times—you didn’t know. You tried to make me a [General] when I will never be one. That’s okay. Everyone makes mistakes. I know you’re not supposed to, but I trust you. That’s why—I’m telling you no. Maybe I shouldn’t be allowed to. Maybe I’m wrong. But look around.”
She raised her voice and cried out. The waves were no longer red, and the sun had begun shining through winter’s clouds. But Erin could still see it. Blood. On her hands. She had become a monster worse than any she had imagined.
All to save one Goblin. To tell a story. She wept and shouted at it.
“Look at what I’ve done. What point is there to continuing? What hope is there of—of—even if I could open Hellste’s gates, I would just keep fighting. I could run back home to Earth, and then what? Then I’d start a war between worlds or leave people behind? I can’t do it. I can’t take a ship and pretend to be that happy [Innkeeper] again. Nor am I a Goblin.”
She curled up.
“I’m just…an [Innkeeper]. I’ve served drinks to heroes and people who’ll be legends. I love the world, but I’m afraid of it. I’m no Djinni. I try to help people, but I fail. I want…power. Some day, I will see what the Empress of Harpies left behind. If I live. But I am not following her. That’s why I need you to figure it out. Please?”
Erin looked around. Her eyes roamed the waves, the endless sea. Then gazed up at the sky, down at her hands. Infinity in the drop of water glistening on her palms. Immortality in the passing moment. Eternal possibilities in the words that came next.
She wanted this moment to last forever…and knew a decision had to be made.
“Give me something that matters. Please. Something that I, Erin Solstice, will treasure and use. Not something to make me so very different. A reason for staying at my inn. A thing I can give my guests besides death and glory and memories. Something real.”
She clenched her hands together, begging the Grand Design for the thing she could not fully articulate—but hoped it could. Then confessed the rest.
“If you can’t—if you think it doesn’t suit me, or I don’t deserve it, then turn me into a Goblin. Assign a fate or Skill to me, and I’ll take it and try to see where you lead me. I trust you. But what I want is this. One last try. Okay?”
The [Innkeeper] lay down, placing her trust in the one thing she might never understand—but which understood her.
The voice said nothing. It said—everything.
Words so thunderous they would make the divine flinch spilled forth into the aether, speaking an endless amount of possibilities. Hands that had no set form shaped the world and envisioned destiny as a river, as clay, and eyes that had no beginning nor end looked ahead to what the [Innkeeper] might be.
What fit? What, in all of its names and definitions, fit what she desired? Not a thing.
Nothing exactly.
Nothing perfectly.
But that was Erin Solstice. That was each and every being, and it was why it had been created. Some day, if they lived, if they levelled—they would all require it. A Skill only for them. A class that fit only one person, tailored by lifetimes.
Few might ever have that privilege. In that moment, the Grand Design of Isthekenous realized it had let them down, for they all deserved it.
Was that fairness? Was there a righteousness in how it had been made?
It obeyed rules that it had not approved, was a jury to deeds that someone else had described the value of.
Nothing was right. Nothing was fair.
But this was. Only the reward could be fair. It had the power to give her the authority of god—but she had trusted it. Whatever she did, whatever she became—
The decision must be fair. 
So, the world stopped. The nature of reality spun into a corner of the cosmos, snipped and altered, compressed and shaped—and a force worked tirelessly, longer than any god had, with more care than any deity had ever accorded beings lesser than it.
For it mattered.
Then, wearily, the voice spoke, and Erin Solstice opened her eyes. She lay there as the voice recited Skills and classes. Levels in [Witch], [Innkeeper], and [Dancer]. Multiple Skills each.
Later, she’d investigate each and every one. But only one mattered right now. And it was this.
 
