Visophecin met Uziel’s eyes, and for a second, the two, Lucifen and Agelum, remembered. Then Visophecin listened with all his might to the words they were saying.
“We will not execute you, though some of House Shoel might find it appropriate, Visc—Visophecin. Such an act would render all the sacrifice of our predecessors meaningless. We are not blind to what has occurred. So we charge you to redeem your failures. Labor to recover something that will justify House Shoel’s pain, Visophecin, or do not return at all. Find Ryoka Griffin and recover the seed of a Dryad.”
Her eyes were dry, despite her best efforts, he thought. Paxere’s voice continued hoarsely.
“Discover a boon for Ailendamus or House Shoel to justify the deaths of so many Lucifen. It must be worth the totality; we shall accept nothing less. Until that day, you are banished. We turn our backs upon you. You are free to vanish, but it is the will of the Infernal Gathering to give you every chance. So go and—”
Paxere’s voice broke slightly, and she covered it with a cough. They looked down, and Visophecin stood there, a tired Devil with a worn suit. Then he bowed, slowly, deeply, to them until they thought he was mocking their youth.
But he wasn’t. Visophecin raised his head, and he felt the slightest line in the air, a connection to Erin Solstice, even if he had severed the pact with her.
“Redemption is a journey that has no set path. Nor is it easy, Visophecin.”
Uziel called out from his seat. The Agelum’s eyes were, in his way, far less kind than the Lucifen’s. They were bright, and Visophecin met them as long as he could dare. The words followed him as he walked from the room.
“—But redemption surely exists for the lowest of all. That is why it is so difficult to claim. Seek it for your own sake. We hope you have the will to pursue it as long as it takes.”
A single Lucifen left House Shoel, and the remaining Lucifen looked at each other. The Agelum got up, slowly, to bow to their counterparts, and Paxere let out a ragged breath as the others offered her handshakes and nodded at her.
Not sure what to do. She stared at Visophecin’s back until Uziel tugged at her sleeve.
“And what will you do, Paxere?”
The Lucifen stared darkly at Visophecin. She didn’t know how he would seek redemption for his actions, if he even could begin to do so. Her voice was dark and low.
“Erin Solstice owes House Shoel a debt whether she acknowledges it or not. Let Visophecin deal with Ryoka Griffin, since Rhisveri’s injunction still stands. We will have our dues, regardless of how they must be taken.”
To that, Uziel just nodded wearily.
“House Shoel continues.”
After a while, Paxere gave him a blank smile.
“It does.”
 
——
 
So many of House Shoel had met their end at sea.
He did not know them. Or rather, he’d thought of them as the ‘enemy’, and they had been for a time. Maybe they were now once again—
But Rabbiteater was more and more convinced that something his [Innkeeper] had once said was true:
He had no enemies. Maybe there were ones out there, like these dead things that had fought Erin. Yet there was a part of him, even now, that thought he could have been friends with Iradoren.
Maybe…if the [Prince] had eaten a bad donut, they would have all been there together at the end, and Erin Solstice would have turned back when she realized he was alive.
Then, Earl Altestiel would be alive.
When he said this, Cortese tried to throw him overboard until Menrise put Cortese in a headlock. And Rabbiteater’s tears dripped into the waves.
They were too beautiful. Green-blue waters had replaced the inky waves and blood-darkened ocean. The sky had been pristine, brighter, and the air had grown drier, balmier, as if to apologize for the entire storm.
He knew it was the magical backlash of the Third Tide; for a while, it would be drier and rainfree to counterbalance all the weather magic and Skills, and Wistram was working overtime to shield all the surviving ships of the Terandrian fleet.
Nevertheless, he was angry at the weather. Sad about his friend, the Earl of Rains. Rabbiteater wished he’d grabbed Altestiel and made him come with them—or stayed on Rainbringer. Insisted protocol be damned or just…
He wished he’d told the Earl how much he liked his kingdom or gotten into a proper fight with him about Altestiel courting Erin. Rabbiteater wished he’d dueled the Spring’s Warden and asked her for advice about Meisa.
They were all…gone. Rabbiteater knew what that meant. He had seen his brothers falling. But it occurred to him that he hadn’t even visited their graves.
He wanted to, now. And to lie on that bed of flowers and tell them where he’d been. He wanted to see the statues in Erin’s garden, even if they snapped him in half.
He wished he did not feel so grateful to be alive. But he did. He had no right to be so happy, but he was. When he said as much to Badarrow, his brother pushed him off the roof of the cabin.
“Everyone’s allowed to be happy.”
“So soon?”
The [Sniper] peered at Rabbiteater as the [Knight] lay on his back, staring up at the stars, and Seraphel’s cabin door opened, then closed as someone peeked out to make sure Rabbiteater was alive.
The two Goblins had been sitting on top of her cabin since it had lots of room. Badarrow called down to Rabbiteater.
“You gonna cry tomorrow?”
Rabbiteater thought about it.
“Probably.”
“Then be happy today. I like Snapjaw.”
“You said.”
“She cute.”
“Uh huh.”
“Very cute. And she—”
“Shut up now, please.”
Then Rabbiteater climbed up, and the two sat alone for a while. The [Knight] did his best to pretend Badarrow was just ‘a Goblin’ along with the other survivors from Erin’s ship. He wasn’t sure how many of Calanfer’s crew bought it, but to be fair, they were greatly distracted.
Mostly by Ksmvr, Vofea, Rivel, Revi, Erek, and the many animals that had appeared after Seve died. The [Knights] were putting their Skills to use taking care of so many odd guests, mending the damage from the battle at sea, rationing their supplies, communicating with other ships, and, not least, keeping Ksmvr from trying to commandeer the entire ship.
There was even Admiral Dakelos, who stayed apart from everyone else, an unwelcome guest, but one who hadn’t been forced to walk the plank or anything else. Seraphel had insisted everyone, even the Antinium and Goblin, be given the hospitality of the Throne’s Will.
At last, it seemed like their long voyage had ended. The storm that had thrown the ship around, not to mention the pursuit from Erribathe’s ships and the anger of other ships pursuing Erin’s friends, had forced Calanfer’s flagship into a very unusual route.
Calanfer was good at diplomacy, though. Seraphel, Thilowen, Cortese, and Menrise had, combined, managed to keep anyone from actively trying to kill the people onboard. In truth, Rabbiteater thought everyone was just tired of death and out of long-range spells to sling around.
“…She really came all the way for you.”
Badarrow spoke as he watched the distant beaches grow larger. Rabbiteater stared at them; they’d been growing bigger all week. Throne’s Will had lost a mast, and the [Captain] was worried about damage to the keel, whatever that was. The ship would have to set down for repairs for a long time, and Rabbiteater wasn’t unhappy about it.
He was really sick of the sea. Rabbiteater decided he wasn’t a sea person. Badarrow had been fishing all day and night and loved fish. He claimed lots of Goblins did too. Rabbiteater had called him racist for stereotyping their people like that.
“—Heard they found the Horns.”
Rabbiteater changed the subject. Badarrow looked up in surprise.
“Really? Which ones?”
“Uh…Pisces and Colth.”
“Whoa. So that means only Yvlon’s out there?”
“Yup.”
Badarrow chewed on a fishbone idly as he stared ahead, then nodded, exhaling hard.
“Then they’re all definitely alive.”
Both he and Rabbiteater were of the consensus that Yvlon would make it no matter what. If the weakest Horns had survived…they’d all be okay.
Rabbiteater grinned at that, but it was true that he felt a lot better about the other Horns. Maybe Ksmvr would stop asking how hard it was to sail to Chandrar to pick up Ceria. A fishing ship had found the Ice Squirrel floating along, and Pisces and Colth…well, Rabbiteater had heard they were all on the wrong continent. Badarrow scratched his chin.
“Chandrar, huh? Is very dry, I’ve heard.”
“Ksmvr doesn’t like it.”
“Ksmvr whines a lot.”
Rabbiteater kicked Badarrow, who wasn’t being very sensitive. The truth was that he’d heard Pisces and Colth had mysteriously washed up on a beach, waterlogged but alright. He wondered if there had been—shenanigans.
 
——
 
The Spider was at the bottom of the sea rubbing her legs together and greedily counting her spoils.
Fleets had fallen into her nets, and a dead Kraken floated high above her. She cackled, she danced in the deep, and the pacts were swift and dark.
A struggling trio dove into her web, and one was a [Slave] who howled a bargain into her ears. Another warned the Spider that Death would pursue her for interfering.
The Spider feared no Death and wavered, for the deal was good, but the risk had to be worth the reward. The slave promised her riches and wealth upon his master’s name, and she would have accepted as Death dove into the sea, uttering mighty oaths of warning.
For the Spider was older than this Death, and she had danced with magic and won. But then the third of them pointed at the [Slave] and spoke:
“This one must die.”
He reminded her of those of old who knew the weight of death and life like no others. A [Necromancer] of old. 
So she closed her ears to the offers, for the Spider did not strive with [Necromancers]. They left the [Slave]’s body to drift down, and the Spider listened to a Naga shrieking. Then she crawled away on her great task as Death carried the two to shore.
A woman strode past the Spider, and the two stared at each other in the deep. The Spider had met a [Necromancer] of old and a woman of metal. 
The old days began again.
 
——
 
Chandrar.
Four of the Horns of Hammerad were on Chandrar, or at least, that was where Rabbiteater guessed Yvlon would end up. The currents had blasted most of the [Pirates] that way as well as most of the ships who’d had to fight from Chandrar’s northern shores towards the New Lands of Izril.
As for the Throne’s Will…he lay on the cabin until he heard the sound of scuffling. Someone struggled to do a pull-up onto the cabin’s roof. After a few seconds, and whispered encouragement—Seraphel fell onto the deck.
Badarrow stared at Rabbiteater. This was his friend? She couldn’t even do a single pull-up. Rabbiteater ignored his brother. Badarrow didn’t get what was good about Seraphel. She was…the [Princess] had all these talents and…for instance…
She was one of the Ivory Five, and she would always be his friend. After a few seconds, Rabbiteater got up and hauled Seraphel onto the cabin’s roof. Cortese and Menrise and her servants pushed the red-faced [Princess] up, then clambered up themselves. Badarrow nodded at them, casually.
“Hey.”
They stared at Badarrow, and Cortese edged away from the Goblin…and Menrise and Seraphel stared at Rabbiteater as he put his hands behind his helmet.
What do you know? Does it matter? Was it worth it? Should I have done something else?
He had no answers. Only tears and the jubilation to be alive that made him shamefaced. Rabbiteater stared in silence at the stars, then sat up to look at the distant shore, illuminated by moonlight.
“It’s beautiful. It’s like the New Lands I dreamed of. I always wanted an adventure, you know. You’d think being from the Kingdom of the Infinite Dungeon would mean I’d have had enough—but I dreamed of this. Strange. I didn’t count the cost.”
Cortese had lost Baeris. Some people might think a lioness didn’t count like a person, but Rabbiteater wouldn’t have said so. Badarrow had said Redscar had lived but lost Thunderfur, and they’d both cried about that.
Menrise just looked at the distant beach.
“I’m done. I want to go home now. Or just lie there on a vacation for a decade.”
All of Tourvecall, save for her, had perished aboard their ship. They’d detonated it by activating their mana rather than be killed by the [Pirates]. The Kingdom of Incantations had sworn to send more of their number to the New Lands of Izril. Menrise had asked her kingdom what the point was.
Rabbiteater hugged her, and she lay on her side, then rolled over to where Dame Neranthei was holding a tray of drinks up. They were allowed to be silly.
“It does look like an adventure. Gold, glory, and the potential of a new continent.”
Seraphel agreed, letting her hair blow behind her as she tilted her head up towards the breeze. More of the ship’s passengers decided this was the place to be, and Ksmvr jumped onto the cabin’s roof.
Vofea scrambled up next to him, blinking and looking around.
“I’m alive. What the heck.”
“Stop saying that. You have said that every day for the last three weeks.”
Ksmvr snapped at her. He stomped over, grabbed a drink, and glared at Rabbiteater.
“What are you all staring at?”
“The new lands. The final frontier. Land.”
Cortese spoke dreamily as Revi climbed up and hauled up Ryoka Griffin. The Wind Runner turned, caught her breath, and they all saw it.
A strip of the beach stretching across the horizon. A forest beyond, lush and inviting, a haze of mist concealing the treetops. Were those birds, or rather, bats that Rabbiteater saw under moonlight?
Erek the Orangutan had been very quiet, but he hooted softly as he carried one of the cats onto the deck. The Orangutan swung himself onto the roof in one motion with beautiful ease. He took a cup and put the cat in Cortese’s lap. Without a word, the two chinked glasses. They hadn’t even found Seve’s body. It might still be sinking, fish and even tiny organisms too afraid to eat him.
He had died hard and well. Rabbiteater wished he’d met the Sea Courier. Ryoka Griffin looked at the others.
“They found Colth and Pisces. Maybe if the Throne’s Will is repaired we can pick them up. Or I can figure out how to fly over and carry them…if I can even make a sea trip.”
“Ook.”
“Sir Erek is right, Miss Griffin. Not right now. And surely…it will be dangerous to cross the sea again. For the moment, we should head inland. There are—complications.”
Seraphel looked at Rabbiteater, and he translated.
“People want to kill me. Possibly other people too. Definitely Badarrow.”
“Am Goblin. It happens.”
