“We are cut off from the fleet and home. I have sent for reinforcements to rally on us, but—her Highness is right. Exploring it is. And forging alliances in this new continent.”
That, at least, made Cortese’s eyes glint with the challenge. He looked at Rabbiteater and spoke.
“The Earl of Rain’s last will shall not be dishonored. Kaaz will see to that.”
“Calanfer as well.”
Seraphel clenched a fist, and both of them looked at Menrise. The [Lady] stopped drinking through a straw and tilted her visor up.
“I’m not a Hundredlord or a [Princess]. You have all the might of Lady Menrise behind you. If the enemy comes at us in parfait-shapes, I’ll handle it.”
They looked at Rabbiteater, and he silently hugged them. He didn’t have the words to thank them properly, and he couldn’t join in the jesting. Badarrow looked faintly jealous. Revi stood there, tired, eyes flicking from face to face as Rivel shook his head. The Vampire’s voice was hoarse, but determined.
“No one’s found Erin Solstice yet. I promised to try and keep her safe.”
“We’ll find her. Mayhaps in this wild expanse. I don’t believe any of the passengers on the ship are dead. Sadly, that includes Greydath of Blades.”
Cortese spoke, and they all regarded their wild landing point. Ksmvr stared from face to face, then snapped, voice irate.
“You are all aware, please, that this is not the New Lands of Izril we are regarding? That is Baleros.”
He pointed, and Rabbiteater took a long drink from a straw in his cup of juice.
“Yeah, but it looks nice.”
The Throne’s Will had kept going past Wistram to avoid pursuit. There was a kind of logic to it; if a bunch of Terandrians wanted Rabbiteater dead, or a Goblin dead, why not go where they weren’t?
They’d been halfway between all the continents anyways. In hindsight, they might have gone to Chandrar, but Rabbiteater heard Chandrar had [Slaves] and sand. Not the nice kind of sand either.
Ksmvr was furious, but Rabbiteater stared at a new continent and thought…maybe this one would be nicer. Last time, he’d sailed into a war. This time—well, this was the continent of war, which wasn’t exactly promising.
…But now, he had some friends with him. Rabbiteater looked at them as Admiral Dakelos tried to join the group. Menrise turned the edge of the cabin slick, and he fell.
Rabbiteater wanted to keep them all alive. It sounded stupid, maybe impossible, and certainly not easy. There was a time when he’d been resigned to dying far from home and had not expected to survive.
That was last year. This coming year? The Goblin had heard lots of stories where a Goblin did something brave, stupid, or just existed—then someone killed it. A monster’s tale.
“…Strange.”
That was all Badarrow said as he looked at his brother sidelong. Rabbiteater turned a leaky visor to him as he wiped at his bowed head. He longed to tug the helmet off…but there were stupid Calanferians below. Yet when he looked across the roof, he wondered if any of them would have been surprised by it.
Probably Admiral Dakelos, but he didn’t count.
“What’s strange?”
“You look older. Brighter. I guess Greydath was stupid after all.”
Rabbiteater turned to the [Sniper], and Badarrow glanced at him, then ahead.
“Pretty lights.”
Everyone else stared ahead, and the sunlight gleamed off the beach and reflected across the dancing waves—but that wasn’t what the Goblin meant.
“Yeah. So many. I never knew there could be this many.”
Rabbiteater agreed softly, and he sensed the other Hobgoblin glance at him, then nod hesitantly. The [Knight]’s eyes roamed the distance, and his head swiveled slowly. His hunched shoulders relaxed, and he raised his hand, as if brushing cobwebs from his gaze.
“Badarrow. Seraphel. Anyone. Do you think days get better or sadder the longer you live? Or both?”
The other people sitting on the roof looked at Rabbiteater, and he had never felt more alive. He had seldom grieved more, and it seemed there was still a simple Redfang Goblin inside him who might never smile as hard, or deign to cry, but had no reason to do either.
He pitied and envied that Goblin of old. However—he was not alone, and he sensed Ksmvr hang his head and Revi close her eyes—it was Seraphel who answered, slowly, as Menrise rested her chin on her arms without a word.
“I don’t think you compare it, Rabbiteater. All I know is that if I had given up, I would never have met you all. I…it may be silly, but I look at things that way. It makes it easier, you know.”
Her voice broke.
“Because then I can’t regret having friends for the first time in my life. I’m sorry.”
They didn’t say anything for a second, but that was because the rest of the Ivory Four were lost for words. After a moment, Rabbiteater looked at Seraphel, who was red-faced, embarrassed, yet unashamed of what she’d said.
“You know, that’s the wisest thing you’ve ever said, Princess. I liked that. It must be because you’re the optimistic one.”
“I’m the optimistic—I thought I was the gloomy one.”
Badarrow stretched out with a grin, and Rabbiteater put his hands behind his head nonchalantly.
“I changed my mind. Did you hear that, Menrise, Cortese? Seraphel said the first smart and correct thing ever.”
“Ser Solstice!”
A hand slapped his shoulder, and Rabbiteater fended off the angry [Princess]. He was sad, despite his laughter. This new continent had danger and so many familiar lights of Goblins he could not believe his eyes.
Yet you know how Goblin stories went. Then again, Rabbiteater had heard a new story recently. Where the Goblin lived, even if he didn’t deserve it. This time—the Goblin would save all of them. He turned his face to the wind and started crying again. So he hugged them all tighter.
 
——
 
In point of fact, Pisces and Colth did not simply ‘wash up on shore’ as later reports would claim. For one thing, if the tides had been so damn miraculous as to carry the two adventurers all the way to Chandrar, you would think that at some point Pisces and Colth would wake up and decide to swim.
If, conceivably, they were on the last gasp of their energy, passed out, and the waves did indeed deposit them on the shore…they would probably be sucked back into the water by the next big wave or drown with the water lapping around their faces.
Pisces had never washed up on a deserted island before, so he was a justifiable amateur about all this. On the other hand, Colth had survived two shipwrecks and a marooning.
“That doesn’t even count how many ships I’ve run aground. The trick is floating on your back or having somewhere you can rest—when you get to shore, that’s where the action starts.”
“Exactly. Did you see your friend in the deep? That was style. She’ll walk straight out of the ocean onto shore—well, unless the pressure of the ocean pops her like a grape. She must have used the Ring of Barriers on the way down to prevent compression sickness. Now there’s a real adventurer. Colth, why can’t you be more like that?”
“H-hey.”
Pisces was currently—flying. He didn’t enjoy it. Well, he wasn’t the one flying. Imagine being a suitcase being carried through the air, dangling, dripping, staring at the water rushing past you. Pisces was that suitcase.
Colth was at least sitting upright, but the [Necromancer] felt sick; his lungs were still screaming, and he was being carried by the Death of Magic herself like a parcel.
“Silvenia, please. I’m a Named-rank adventurer. The world’s greatest [Supporter]. You yourself said you’ve never seen anyone my level in my class!”
Pisces looked up, and a half-Elf grinned down at him, her face half-magic, half ruin. He stared up at a glowing sun of magic itself, the damnation of islands. The Death of Magic herself. Silvenia Ettertree.
He decided to keep staring at the water. She was carrying them—secretly—towards shore. Silvenia yawned; she drifted, a dress of black and silver flowing behind her, as if the rushing wind were no more than a passing breeze. Pisces was glad no one could see them.
This was surreal.
“In your class, Colth? Of course not. It takes a rare personality to live always second-best, always ready to be the shadow to someone else. Let alone to figure out how to make that the impetus to levelling.”
“Thank you.”
The conversation was occurring in a safe space the half-Elf had created. It was more like a bubble of magic that asserted gravity and kept them from being blasted away that the three flew in. Silvenia shot forwards, holding the two by the collars and dangling behind her—until she got bored of that and sat cross-legged in the air, and she floated a piece of fish and some seaweed she’d found and processed it with magic.
She was making something she claimed was called ‘sushi’, a native food from Drath. It reminded Pisces of the inn. Home. Pisces was spread-eagled, as if falling, staring down at the rushing ocean below him.
It felt like a dream, a world lit by a rising sun, water streaming behind them as they blurred across the horizon, trailing magic and speaking at an ordinary tone. He supposed part of being the Death of Magic was making everything seem so—casual.
Colth alternated between copying Silvenia and sitting or standing to attention, like a [Student] giving a report. Silvenia conjured magical rice and hand-packed it into a roll that Colth cut for her. After she sampled her cuisine, she glanced back at Colth.
“…I wasn’t complimenting you about the [Supporter] thing. Do you have anything to say to Serinpotva? She’ll peck you if we meet.”
“I, uh—uh—uh—it was a justifiable use of the emergency spell?”
“I thought so. Although the amount of time you gave me—I fought my way across the entire damn ocean, and I barely made it. What a disaster. I would laugh, but those [Pirates]—what a sad fate they’ve stolen.”
At this, Pisces jerked his head up, and Colth frowned.
“Sad? They stole destiny from Terandria’s fleet. You mean they stole the same fate that led the nobles to their demise? I thought their Skills sounded cleverer than that.”
The Death of Magic’s eyes were old and resembled distant clouds. Her scars were half-visible, as if she had been torn apart and rebuilt herself with magic. Which…was exactly what had happened. They had sympathy, of a kind, for the [Pirates].
Pisces had none, but he listened as she spoke, her tone flat, knowing.
“Oh, they may have stolen destiny perfectly. Eaten luck without any bitterness to it or well and truly ripped classes, skills, and the legacy of Terandria’s finest away as treasure. Some may even escape the retribution that comes their way. Does it matter? They came for better days, these desperate murderers.”
“I understand why.”
Silvenia’s eyes flashed as she looked at Colth. He looked relaxed. Shriven.
Iert was dead. Dead, and there was no wriggling out of it. No doubt. Pisces had seen the life flee the Gnoll’s eyes and felt the Naga’s scream through the water.
They’d done it. Silvenia answered Colth, her voice cold.
“Oh, you may understand why, Colth. Don’t debate reason with me like Serinpotva loves to do—she is the one who has a plan to fix the world. But do you really think someone who slaughtered their way towards happier days knows how to keep on that path?”
…That made Pisces look up, and those eyes flicked down to him again. The [Necromancer] grimaced, and he was not happy to hear her forecasting the future. Yet there was a dark part of him that felt satisfaction.
The conversation around the [Pirates] lapsed into silence a second. Silvenia ate with a pair of chopsticks, and Colth tried gamely to eat at high-speed velocity. When he dropped one piece of sushi, it vanished behind him, and he gave up.
“Ah—how are things with the others, Silvenia? Anything interesting going on?”
He was doing his best, but even he couldn’t disguise his nervousness. Silvenia’s face turned, and for a second, Pisces saw the ruined visage behind the magic. Then the beautiful features of an Archmage of Magic. She could have made herself flawlessly beautiful; that she did not mattered.
“I have a new pet cat.”
“Ah. Well, we found the Crossroads of Izril. Want the passphrase?”
Silvenia’s eyes swung towards Pisces, and he swallowed hard. Then she winked.
“You’d better clear that with your Captain, Adventurer Colth. Besides. I’m in no position to spread the word. Tell me when you find something interesting.”
“Well, there was this maze—a training ground of the City of Shields—”
“Colth. Something. Interesting.”
Pisces started snickering. He couldn’t help it. Colth started trying to throw pieces of sushi at him, and Silvenia looked between the two.
“Your friend will take ages to get to shore. I’ll speed her way; I think your half-Elf friend might be found sooner. Tell me. Are you sure? I could engineer a return to Izril or Baleros.”
Pisces stopped laughing. He looked up, and for a third time, the Death of Magic regarded him. She could not do everything. She said she thought Erin was alive and that she had done her utmost to keep the [Innkeeper] safe given the circumstances.
But to ally with her was to invite the same destruction they had left behind. Even so, she could send him towards Baleros, to Wistram—Pisces looked back the way he’d come, towards Yvlon. He thought of Ceria. And he hoped they would not be too angry with him when he shook his head.
“No. We have unfinished business in Chandrar. I only wish Ksmvr and Vofea could be with us. But—but it’s best he doesn’t come with us. It might be dire. Nevertheless, we must go. I have left companions at the mercy of Roshal. And a brave friend of ours is in danger. Prince Zenol. Yvlon has people she knows in Nerrhavia’s Fallen; even Ceria has a score to settle.”
“Ksmvr has his sword—”
“We’ll get that too.”
Pisces assured Colth, and the [Supporter] grinned. They looked up, having forgotten for a moment they were in Silvenia’s presence, but the Death of Magic grinned down at them.
Then Pisces recalled she had once been an adventurer as well as an [Archmage]. Her voice was approving.
“Serinpotva may flap about, but Czautha won’t object. Your patron knows you too well, Colth. Don’t waste too much time; that so-called ‘Naga’ will see you dead for what you did. As for you, Pisces Jealnet—break every chain between you and your goal.”
The [Necromancer] ducked his head slowly. Then he found the words to say it.
“Thank you.”
She tilted her head, then looked ahead, smiling as the sun rose, and Pisces saw that look of infinite regret and sadness cross her face a moment.
“For what? You would have all made it. I’m just the Courier. Now, make it look good; you’ll have to drift for a few days.”
“A few days—”
