Ulva glanced pointedly at Cecille and Gorthes. For answer, more nobles of House Reinhart drifted over, and Cecille folded her hands together.
“My dear niece is a passionate woman. I would not dare to tell her the business of House Reinhart. But she is convalescing, and more power to her; as she’s not able to be here, we have a more pragmatic take on the situation. You may think of us not as House Reinhart, but as interested…Reinharts. And we do prefer to speak for ourselves in this very troublesome case.”
Ulva’s hair began to rise now. The Reinharts hadn’t insisted on that in nearly two decades. Normally, Cecille’d heed Magnolia’s will, but—Ulva saw Deilan El raising his brows and began counting how many Reinharts were here.
She had been worried, with some of her own house backing Xitegen, that she wouldn’t have a consensus to overturn Veltras and Reinhart. This changed things. The wary Wellfars, Terlands, Veltras, and Els looked at the Reinharts’ smiles.
Snakes had returned to Izril’s garden. Deilan El spoke softly.
“If Lady Bethal and her house are allowed to live, what happens then?”
“She will find no welcome in Celum or any land Lord Xitegen holds sway over.”
Controller Lectara spoke, despite Ulva’s warning glare. Lord Swey wiped his hand on his coat.
“Nor from the Vale Forest to the coast.”
Lady Cecille Reinhart clapped her hands together and smiled, and it never reached her eyes. She flicked her gaze across the room, then strode over and took someone’s arm.
“That leaves plenty of land. Assuming no one kills the poor woman. But it’s been so long—where are our refreshments? Let’s discuss the whole issue, shall we? Starting with the state of things, the New Lands or whatever they’re called, and the Drakes. I haven’t had a proper meal at one of these events in so long. Lord Etril, is that you? I haven’t seen you in so long or had a chance to express my sorrow over your mother’s passing. Give an old woman some company for a moment?”
“You are as youthful as ever, Lady Cecille.”
One of the Wellfars, the son of Gresaria, started uneasily and bowed, clearly wishing to back away as Cecille’s hands darted out and grabbed his arm.
There went Reinharts a hunting. And Ulva remembered an old saying of them which she’d been allowed to forget.
Reinharts go out for fun. Through the streets the blood will run.
She realized she was shivering.
 
——
 
They were not ready. Two decades was a long, long time. It might not have been much in the way of kingdoms or nations.
…But it was enough for a generation to forget. To be allowed to forget.
Maybe it was better they should have remembered, but Magnolia Reinhart hoped that the legacy of Reinharts would be lost.
Perhaps another ten years and they would have begun to die off, grown old enough that the snakes would have had their fangs fall out.
No longer.
She was not in First Landing. Nor did she have as many eyes or ears she could trust inside the gathering of nobility.
But she could still hear incidents. Small ones that told her everything she needed to know.
That morning, a noblewoman’s carriage had pulled up to a [Bakery] selling ‘dough-nuts’, other pastries, gelato, and more and put in a rather large request.
The nobility had sweet tooths, and Reinharts, like Magnolia herself, did love a good treat. The bakery, a lovely place with an open stall of samples, new frosted glass windows, and a full set of orders for the day, had told the noble that they would have to come back another day and send someone to line up and collect an order.
Even the Five Families queued for a treat. The [Shop Attendant] had trotted back into the building when they saw the carriage back up. Then it had burst into a gallop as horses screamed, people screamed, swerved at the last moment—and slammed into the bakery frontage.
Glass everywhere. People picking themselves up—cowering [Bakers] and rubble. Any noble had an enchanted carriage far stronger than a mundane shopfront. The owner of the bakery had watched as the carriage rolled out of the destroyed bakery—after someone had collected one of the trays of donuts for the road.
Doubtless, the Watch would find which noble it had been. Doubtless, the bakery would be compensated in full. Doubtless, whoever had done that would have to pay off the [Guards], the city, and incur the disapproval of all the bakery’s loving customers.
And doubtless still—they would get their order regardless of how busy that bakery was ever again.
Or the [Baker] might decide to hold a grudge and refuse service. In which case, they had better reinforce their store’s frontage and begin double-checking their ingredients and looking over their shoulder at night and making sure their staff were also protected.
The Guild of Assassins was gone, which was a small mercy, but anyone could hire a [Thug].
“My house is awake and unbound.”
That was all the Lady of House Reinhart said. She was sitting in bed, not wearing a pink dress. Her pajamas were maroon.
She quite objected to them, but they had some healing crystals sewn into them, and she was, at the moment, not seeing anyone.
Healing only worked so well these days, without potions. And yes, she had the Healer of Tenbault, but it turned out [Restoration] was old hat too.
At least, when you were shot with a cursed piece of lead. Magnolia lowered the report, which had a very vivid [Magic Picture] of the destruction. She waited for a response from Reynold, but the [Butler] kept his head bowed.
“…They’re not going to let you leash them twice.”
That comment came from a figure lying in another bed. Unlike Magnolia, Ressa didn’t sit upright. She was enmeshed in bandages, and Magnolia had sent to Drath for more help and specialists.
“If I even could. My servants have been approached…repeatedly…in my holdings across the north. With subtle warnings and unsubtle ones that it would be advisable for them to vacate their buildings or businesses.”
“What…is…unsubtle?”
Ressa inhaled slowly, and Magnolia Reinhart gently put the report down. Wincing, she tried to lift a cup of tea, and Reynold lifted it for her.
“—Snakes in a basket in front of their homes or their family’s homes. Would be the subtlety. I have few regrets, Ressa.”
The undead Giant was still, to her knowledge, bound on the Floodplains of Liscor. It had been half-destroyed, but the pink ribbons were still binding it. Just in case it came back to life.
You would think that would be unlikely after the Solstice, but Magnolia Reinhart had another report that Reynold propped up on a stand for her. It was about Liscor’s…situation. Magnolia turned her head, winced, and someone else took over for Reynold.
The new girl wasn’t as adept, but she was a quick learner and moved the report so Magnolia could read it, flipping the pages every time she noticed Magnolia’s eyes moving down the page.
“I regret my facetious comments about guns, you know, Ressa. They’re quite painful.”
“You don’t say.”
The [Maid] stared at the ceiling. Magnolia Reinhart went on, her voice determinedly cheerful.
“Roshal. My House. Terandria at war with the Iron Vanguard…I must ensure my overtures with the Drakes do not fall apart.”
“So you’re giving up on your holdings.”
“I can take them back. Over my family’s dead bodies. And they are angry enough to war with me. It isn’t like last time, Ressa. I shall never have them all in the same room again. More than that…more than that…”
Magnolia was having trouble focusing. She was lucky, she supposed, that the projectiles were just balls of lead that had been inscribed with curse runes.
Her understanding was that they were single-shot weapons that drew upon Skills for accuracy and anything else. Tyrion Veltras hadn’t even been harmed; the bullets hadn’t been aimed at him, and his armor had deflected everything.
There were no samples; the weapons and bodies of the ‘mysterious assailants’ had self-destructed. The Five Families of Izril had no direct proof of Roshal’s involvement; the battle at sea was completely different.
At least in that Magnolia had Ulva Terland’s full support as well as the other Five Families. Six ships of Roshal had run into House Wellfar’s patrols, and the mood of the north and south of Izril was not friendly towards Lailight Scintillation at this time.
…Well, as she understood it, the entire harbor was under reconstruction. As was Paranfer. The politics of the world—
“Argh.”
Magnolia tried to fetch another report, and Reynold spoke.
“Have another magical stand set up now, Ressga.”
A Goblin wearing a [Maid]’s outfit curtseyed and ran as Magnolia lay back on her pillows and watched the new girl moving.
“She’s rather spry. Objectionably so given my condition, Reynold.”
“I can request she break a leg, Lady Reinhart?”
The [Butler] made Magnolia chuckle. As for Ressa…she just stared at her namesake as two more servants ported in a new stand with a movable arm so Magnolia could read multiple things at once.
There was something fetching about a Goblin in a [Maid]’s uniform, Magnolia decided. It looked apt on them, and she hadn’t missed the fact that Ressga had seemed to be growing an inch a day all week. Perhaps the Goblin had decided she needed the height to look the part.
Of course, it was not a good time to be a Goblin, so she was mostly confined to the mansion in Invrisil, which was undergoing renovations. Magnolia eyed the other servants and decided Ressga fit.
…She still wasn’t sure an Antinium in a butler’s uniform looked good. A [Maid]’s outfit might be incongruous, but she couldn’t help thinking it would fit…Chesacre more.
Then again, the Antinium Soldier had apparently liked the [Butler]’s uniform and class more, and Magnolia wasn’t going to argue. The [Lady] sighed.
“I feel old.”
“You’re just in pain. I’m the one who can’t move.”
“Oh, hush, Ressa.”
Two older women looked at this mess that kept spreading and sighed as the new servants bustled around, and Magnolia breathed, in and out, steadily.
“—We have a lot of work to do, Ressa. Reynold, is Teriarch back to his old self or is he still moping in the wine cellar with Taletevirion?”
Reynold glanced out the window and cracked it open to let in some objectionable cold weather—but also the sounds of two even older fools shouting at each other.
“I believe the two have begun sword fighting in the yard, Lady Reinhart. Ah, no. The hedge maze is on fire, and I gather our [Gardener] has taken objection to both. They are in flight.”
“Wonderful. Do keep it up.”
Magnolia lay her head back on the pillow a second. She closed her eyes, but as weary as she was, she raised her head and kept reading after a moment.
It was hard work, even for the two’s powers combined, to pull cursed metal out of Magnolia’s and Ressa’s bodies. Frankly, Magnolia suspected Taletevirion was doing all the work, but even if she were inclined to rush them…it behooved her to let her foes think she was out of commission.
They’d all lost too much. Magnolia had to rebuild her staff, reconsolidate her holdings, and see what her family grabbed. She’d rather give way and let them fight over the spoils than unite them. Now the enemies popped up in arrogance and complacency, and she counted her foes.
Smited those she could—but again. The events of the Solstice had proven how difficult some of that was. A foolish woman closed her eyes; after a second, Ressa gripped her hand with a bandaged one, and they napped a moment. They deserved it, surely?
Cenidau. Those poor women. War, coming to Izril. Magnolia Reinhart treasured few victories after this day. But she had arranged the cards she’d received, whether or not they were genuine, from Drakes, Gnolls—even her nephew, Calidus Reinhart, had sent a letter that seemed almost genuine.
Magnolia could tell spite and sarcasm apart from genuine letters, even when Cecille sent a letter completely devoid of actual insults and wished her the best of health; the letter was the insult, coming from her.
Perhaps she had allies. Enough for a [Priest of Wrath and Sky] to offer the services of a few acolytes. A Goblin Chieftain had even sent her schematics for a giant crossbow. Given recent events, Magnolia was considering having it commissioned and put on top of her mansion.
Everyone needed a ballista, it turned out. Her mind drifted towards the price she’d paid to unbind her house. Her Skill could be reused, if never so well twice on the same target…but for now, she let it rest.
The giant had to continue to be bound until it was fully dismantled—and it was as large as Liscor itself. There might be help there; the villagers of Rheirgest, who had lived on the giant’s bones, were homeless. Magnolia Reinhart grimly noted the stipend she’d granted them had been claimed.
The village of Rheirgest was gone. The giant had come to Liscor and now joined countless undead on the Floodplains.
Death magic was, apparently, so rife that it had been likened to the Bloodfields in potency by Nalthaliarstrelous. Let alone the corpses…the land was fundamentally altered.
The city had just completed repairs of the gates. That was something. But…Magnolia Reinhart read a note about unusual geology, pale grass and stone mostly covered by the snow.
Footsteps—but her agents hadn’t been able to dig up samples of the earth. The spring rains would cover the Floodplains in two months and might wash away any…undesirable elements for a time, but afterwards?
“No one can predict what this new age holds. I have given up trying. Someone refill my tea with more sugar. No…make it half my usual portion. We won’t be having more from Baleros any time soon. Is Admiral Seagrass dead yet?”
Reynold checked his notes as Magnolia Reinhart closed her eyes and took a nap. He closed the window.
“Not yet, Lady Reinhart.”
“Oh well. Maybe tomorrow. His heart’s stopped again. I don’t know how he finds the strength to continue.”
 
——
 
There was no forgiveness for some. There were the living, who had made it out of the Solstice and the Night of Bloodtear, and the dead.
And those who had yet to die.
That pretty much encapsulated all of them. Like Rémi Canada, like many others, Magnolia Reinhart had tabulated lists of survivors and losses among her own people, like Bekia, as well as allies and enemies.
The Antinium complicated matters. It had been unclear how many Antinium could come back—if any given the powers of the Three-in-One, Kasigna.
Some Antinium souls had been entirely lost, and while at least one person had come back from the dead—if Magnolia Reinhart had her way, all of House Walchaís would be tallied among the deceased.
