Because when you thought of Vaunt, it was not the city itself. It was the people, or in her case, and in the case of many others, the man who had talked up his city again and again.
—Of course, he’d give you a wheel of cheese.
A damn wheel of cheese, even if it wasn’t as big as some, and you could bet your buttons that Gershal had one of those cheeses wide as your chest that he’d bring out and cut a chunk out of just to make your eyes pop.
A curious thing. Vaunt didn’t have a huge amount of [Soldiers], but theirs did leave an impact. Lieutenant Gershal had left an impact.
Salvia remembered when the two had first met. She’d been ready to argue over the last incident regarding grazing rights with some uppity [Lieutenant]—and he’d given her a snort at her city’s name, then handed her an entire wheel of goat’s cheese.
People knew Vaunt because of him. Doubtless, there had been some people who’d asked for cheese from Vaunt or given it a second look because they’d remembered that [Lieutenant] from Vaunt who’d handed out cheese like there was no tomorrow.
—There was no tomorrow for Lieutenant Gershal or over two-thirds of Vaunt’s soldiers who’d gone to Liscor. They were finally coming home, and it had taken nearly two weeks to effect the transfer, mostly due to the distance and…well. There was no point in rushing the dead.
What surprised the city folk, Salvia noticed as she finally lowered her arm with her [Riders], was the procession itself.
She noticed a [Grocer]’s mouth was still open, still watching Salazsar’s procession. Salvia checked the lines of passing [Soldiers] and heard, at last, someone begin a military song.
Manus was playing since Vaunt wouldn’t, and after them would come the honorary Centaurs, then she’d swing into line with her [Riders]. So she had at least a few minutes. The [Grocer] finally turned his head to her, and they linked eyes, so Salvia ducked her head.
“Miss—you’re from Nonelmar, right?”
A few people standing in the crowd looked over, patently relieved to see someone normal, even if Salvia herself was unexpected. She hesitated, then removed her helmet and half-bowed from the saddle as her horse pawed the ground.
“I am. Major Salvia. Do I know you, sir?”
He was vaguely familiar, and she wondered if he’d sold her some cheese. The man had a slightly balding head and an apron on—he looked to have come straight out from making cheese, and the milky odor clung to him still.
“I reckon I recall your lot riding down…you were that group that went out with him, right? Lieutenant Gershal? The one we’re all honoring?”
Salvia stared at him, surprised, and then ducked her head.
“I did have the honor of knowing him, sir. Were you acquainted well with Lieutenant Gershal? I mean—Captain Gershal?”
He’d been posthumously promoted. The [Grocer] hesitated.
“Know him? I, uh—he was around. Of course I knew him. He was a lad when I first became a [Cheesemaker]. I’m, ah, one of the heads of the Cheesemonger’s Guild. Brieman Tolset.”
Brieman…Salvia’s lips didn’t really twitch. She held out a hand, thinking that his position wasn’t as important as it used to be given the [Merchant] monopoly.
Even so, he was someone. But the way he talked about Gershal…and the other citizens.
“So you weren’t close with him.”
“Close…I knew him. But he was always off, you know? Patrolling, killing monsters, doing army things. He’d stop by, tell me about some other city, buy up all the cheese he could on a discount, and ride off, and I’d see him months later.”
That caught Salvia’s ear, and she stopped watching the procession to chat with the man. She saw one of the Gnolls from Liscor turn their head, clearly listening in, and begin whispering to the Drakes next to him. Everyone in Nonelmar’s group in earshot sort of turned, slightly incredulous.
“Wait, he bought the cheese? I always heard that Vaunt’s [Soldiers] got a stipend. They gave us cheese every time we met.”
At this point, Brieman Tolset seemed to realize that the Gershal he knew was not the man Salvia was speaking of and tried to choose his words carefully, but he didn’t even know what he was defending.
“Ah, well, he had a—I’m sure that sounds like something we’d do. Gave out a lot of cheese, did he?”
“Yes. He always talked about Vaunt. He was a brave man. I heard he was going to Liscor, but I didn’t receive authorization to go that far south. I…”
They’d fought together against [Bandits], monsters, and the Goblin Lord, and she’d thought he was crazy when he went to Liscor. He’d written her why…and then she’d heard what had happened there.
The world was upside down. Terandria’s fleet was still regrouping, and the ships that had landed in the New Lands of Izril were trying to stake a claim. What ships hadn’t just turned around and gone home.
Two weeks and Salvia heard that Terandria’s forces were still clashing with the Iron Vanguard. They’d stopped finding bodies, but they were still hanging [Pirates].
There were bounties everywhere—even in Nonelmar, which was far from the coast—for the biggest ones.
Admiral Maxy, Shipbreaker Ereiyne, Captain Aldrail—
Posters advising all adventurers to be on the lookout for Greydath of Blades. A Goblin Lord who everyone had said was dead.
Archmage Verdan Blackwood was dead. The Spring’s Warden, Prince Iradoren, Xol of Ingrilt—she’d watched funeral after funeral on television, sometimes accompanied by fiery rhetoric or promises of vengeance.
Salvia knew Liscor had seen more casualties—all of the [Soldiers] who’d hailed from there hadn’t talked about what they’d seen, only given her grim-eyed looks and told her that the city was safe. Sort of.
“Excuse me, Brieman. Major. We are part of Liscor’s 2nd Army. 3rd Battalion. I had the honor of serving with Captain Gershal at the end, yes. We too wished to honor his passing, as did the Walled Families.”
A Gnoll saluted Salvia and Brieman Tolset, and the man stared at the Gnoll with a mouth slightly open as Salvia turned her attention to the procession.
Oh yes. The Walled Families themselves had decided to honor a random [Lieutenant]. The Golems were a gift from Lord Xitegen; the word Salvia had gotten was they’d be in service to Vaunt for thirty days and nights doing whatever tasks the city deemed fit.
Her eyes were fixed on the street ahead where they’d be gathering in the city square—if it could even hold them all—and they’d lay him to rest in the catacombs. It was Brieman Tolset’s voice that made her head turn back.
“You know, around here, he was always a silly sort of fellow. Clumsy. He broke my windows twice by tripping into them, and I heard his superiors weren’t keen on him, which was why he was never about. Not good at taking orders, maybe, or thickheaded. That was what I thought of him.”
Gershal. Thickheaded. Salvia bristled, and she saw the Liscorians exchange long glances before turning back to Vaunt’s folk. The not-quite-glares made Tolset fall silent uneasily.
Now, Salvia saw that everyone in earshot was listening in, ignoring the faint strains of horns and drums ahead of them. An entire street of hundreds was turning to the too-loud conversation, and Salvia hesitated, because this was for Vaunt’s own.
But they didn’t even get it. The woman stared at the line of coffins, each one paid for by House Reinhart, [Soldiers] from the Walled Cities and even Baleros, Centaurs raising lances to the sky. The woman hesitated and stuttered.
“I know he was—but I mean—Major. About Lieutenant Gershal…was he really a hero?”
They had no idea how he’d died. Or if they’d heard of it, Vaunt’s soldiers holding off thousands of Draugr, who could believe it?
The [Soldiers] of Liscor saw Nonelmar’s [Riders] look at them, and the Gnoll who’d been there raised his voice in a soft growl.
“At the end, I saw Lieutenant Gershal facing down dozens of Draugr alone. He had to have killed at least six.”
“Six…Draugr?”
Another Drake added details.
“Each one eight feet tall. I saw the Cheeseeaters—sorry, that’s what they called themselves—they were right there. They didn’t run.”
Salvia wondered if the Liscorians were exaggerating. They probably were, but the citizens of Vaunt just stared at them wide-eyed, some half-smiling like they thought these were just tall tales.
Only, it wasn’t a story. And if you thought it was…heads turned, and the conversation fell silent as Salvia realized it was Nonelmar’s turn.
“With me—”
Then five thousand [Riders] slowly broke from formation and came riding four-abreast in a column down the street. Hooves clattered like distant thunder, and Salvia raised her sword again and looked past the cityfolk and citizens of Vaunt.
It wasn’t about them. It was about a foolish man who’d loved his city more than they deserved. Who’d put their name into people’s ears across Izril.
No one knew about Nonelmar. But Vaunt was now one of those cities. They said it was a city of cheeses, but what some of them really meant was—
Lieutenant Gershal had been from here.
 
——
 
Major Salvia still didn’t quite believe he was dead. By the time he’d gotten here, there hadn’t been a face for her to…not that she’d want to…
It was in the stories. At first, when she’d ridden the short distance to Vaunt, Salvia herself had more been grieving the man, and only when she’d gotten strange looks at the officer parties had she realized the same thing Vaunt’s citizens were catching onto.
He’d been a hero. Fighting Draugr? She heard more of it as, slightly lightheaded, she stood to attention.
The flustered [Mayor] had spoken, flustered and stumbling over his words. His address had trotted out tired, useless phrases about the ‘brave soldiers’ and ‘honoring Vaunt’.
The other speakers were far better. The Centaurs of the Forgotten Wing company were the most impressive in a sense.
A grim-faced Centaur trotted forwards after the Salazsarian address and barked into a [Loud Voice] spell with such authority that Salvia stood upright instinctively.
“I am Captain Basal of the Forgotten Wing Company, 2nd in command to Commander Perorn Fleethoof of Izril’s forces. Commander Fleethoof expresses her regrets she cannot personally attend due to her continuing injuries.”
So Fleethoof was alive? The half-Lizard Centaur had a reptilian tail and scales—and everyone expected him to say something grandiose. Instead, he half-bowed at the waist.
“It is my duty and honor to verify Captain Gershal’s bravery at his end. I have with me [Vanguard Rider] Letien and [Arbalist] Justens, who both stood witness to Lieutenant Gershal’s finest moments in battle. I, personally, witnessed his beheading of a Draugr and single combat against an undead beast twice his size! We have preserved the head of this monster that it might be witnessed.”
The crowd gasped and screamed as a gigantic bat’s head was raised by two of the Centaurs, and Salvia’s stomach roiled. It had been well-preserved, and its snarling face was riddled by at least one death-wound—then Basal stamped his hooves and stepped back, and another Centaur trotted forwards and spoke.
—Gershal had not died peacefully. The Centaur did not focus on Gershal’s death, but he didn’t pretend it had been entirely heroic either. Salvia imagined it. Lines crumbling as a single [Lieutenant] vanished, still swinging his sword until the undead surrounded him. The [Arbalist], the last to see Gershal, half-roared at a terrified child in the crowd, eyes sweeping the silent figures.
“I have seen dead men fight—and your [Lieutenant] kept fighting even with half his head gone. I say it not lightly—he died like a warrior like few I’ve seen. If he had lived, he would have led your city to further glory. Vaunt’s soldiers should have never held their ground, but they did—and the enemy stopped there. We’ll never know what would have happened if they had crumbled.”
Seeing the head of one of the undead that Gershal had fought against brought it home like nothing else would for the people of Vaunt. The Centaur’s address, the way they spoke so matter-of-factly of Gershal’s death and the way he’d fought…
It was emotional damage all the way down from the Forgotten Wing company. Salvia had only known Gershal in passing, and she felt wounded by their words.
—And, she realized, that was how it should be. She wanted someone like that to tell people that was how she’d gone out.
She didn’t want dry eyes and platitudes about the battle. She wanted them to wail. That man and his people deserved no less. But what Major Salvia did not comprehend was that it wasn’t over.
Not for her.
 
——
 
The tradition was to get stinking drunk after a funeral, and regardless of nation or species, the [Soldiers] honored that. Salvia told her people to report back tomorrow morning, not to cause a fight with other groups, and left it at that.
All of Vaunt needed a drink, and the first thing Salvia saw after taking down a shot of what the Liscorians called Rxlvn by mistake was the floor.
The second thing she saw, thirty minutes later, dead drunk, was a cow drinking from a mug some Drakes were offering it. She laughed until she puked.
That was how one of the Centaurs found her. Captain Basal grabbed Salvia’s neck and angled it so she didn’t choke—she gasped, threw up again, and he offered her a water flask.
“Dead gods, I’m sorry.”
“Not at all, Major. [Soldiers] have to honor their friends. Holding a puking comrade’s standard training in the Forgotten Wing company.”
“…Is that a joke?”
The Lizaur offered her a faint smile. He seemed tired, and she knew the Forgotten Wing company had also lost a lot of people at Liscor. It shamed her, especially when she saw he had a fresh scar—huge bite marks—on one shoulder he’d bared to the winter air.
Though, the third month of winter had passed, and now it would be spring after this month. How time flew when it crawled. Basal chuckled softly at her blank look.
“No, Major. It doesn’t occur to other species, but Centaurs are half-horse. We have quite a lot of stomach. A puking Centaur goes for minutes if it’s bad.”
“Ergh.”
It made Salvia feel better as she wiped her mouth. Then she blurted out a question as she drank and spat.
“The, uh—did I hear Commander Fleethoof’s alive? I thought a lot of people didn’t make it…”
Basal’s face grew grave, but only for a second, until he offered her a breath of a smile.
“She was wounded very badly near the final moments of the battle. I daresay she would have perished, but Captain Yamath, one of my fellow officers, healed her with his final potion. At the cost of his own life.”
Salvia looked up, and Basal’s face stretched into a bitter smile.
