Antinium though…some of them had survived. The Free Queen of Liscor, Xevccha, had held the souls of the fallen Antinium back. Some of them had survived.
Tersk of the Armored Antinium—had not. However, among the few Antinium granted the costly Rite of Anastases were Bird, Antherr, and as many [Crusaders] as could be called back. Their bodies had not been formulated yet, and three Hives were working overtime to restore the souls of the Antinium to vessels.
The Silent Hive, the Free Hive, and the Armored Hive were doing this. That was notable because there were three Hives of the Antinium not engaging in the Rites of Anastases.
The Grand Hive of the Antinium was too busy, apparently, sorting the new Sha-Antinium into categories and getting used to them.
That was the Grand Queen’s name for…the [Slaves] of Roshal. She had designated them as part of her Hive and a resource to be used by the other Hives.
At this moment, only one Hive had taken them. The other Hives had not exactly refused the offer, but rather been more focused on a pressing argument that had enveloped the Hives: the censure of the Flying Queen and her Hive.
The ‘discussions’, as the Grand Queen had termed them, had dominated weeks of internecine strife. Both in words and deceased Antinium, the first infighting among the Antinium the Hivelands had ever seen.
It had taken the Grand Queen making her fourth ultimatum before the Armored Queen finally pulled her forces back, and the Flying Queen had collapsed every single tunnel linking her Hive to the Armored and Silent Antinium and evacuated her entire Hive forty miles away.
At this moment…the Grand Queen had not fully given voice to the alliance of wills between the Free Queen, Armored Queen, and Silent Queen, but she had observed the schism in the Hives and declared herself a neutral party and, obviously, the ruling party over all the Hives. She had forbidden further conflict, especially until the Silent Queen finished constructing a new body for Xrn.
It would not be as powerful as her old shell by far, and the Antinium had to be united more than ever given the myriad threats against them—and the fact that the New Lands of Izril were waiting to be claimed.
Thus spoke the Grand Queen, and the other Queens had not objected to her verbally, so she had considered the matter resolved.
Frankly, the only thing that had stopped the three Hives from attacking the Flying Antinium further was the senseless cost to Workers and Soldiers—and the fact that the situation had undeniably changed.
Even the Twisted Queen acknowledged that the Flying Queen’s actions, however unprecedented, had resulted in a scenario no Queen understood how to address. The Twisted Hive had refused to support the three Queens, Flying Queen, or acknowledge the Grand Queen’s authority and had gone silent, perhaps waiting for a victor or consensus to emerge.
—Nevertheless, the Flying Queen, despite the relocation of her Hive and censure from all other Queens, had still celebrated her grand victory. She refused claims of treachery from the Free Queen or that she had been tricked like a ‘half-shaped fool’ by the Armored Queen. She maintained her assertion that all she had done, she had done for the Antinium.
The Grand Queen herself had acknowledged that, although the Grand Queen was—papably unhappy about not receiving full authority over the Flying Hive. The Grand Queen maintained that a gift to the Flying Queen was a gift to all Antinium, and therefore her, but the Flying Queen had ignored all suggestions that she ratify this point.
The Walled Cities and Five Families did not know what the Antinium had received from Kasigna, if they even understood that a pact had been struck. Magnolia Reinhart had queried numerous Antinium, but only the Free Queen knew anything, and she refused to speak. Even now—the Free Queen wasn’t sure if it was a trick.
 
——
 
Kasigna was gone.
She had been routed, betrayed, defeated, and her very source of power, her very nature, torn from her. A retribution so devastating from mortals, from ghosts, from the wily Faerie King himself that even the other dead gods might crouch to avoid such a deathblow.
She had been in such a position of power, too. In Kasigna’s grasp had been the power of the divine that lesser gods might struggle to match, and for a moment, she had been the arbiter of death and life, however limited.
She had brought back a soul for Lady Bethal Walchaís, but two sides had become turncoats on the Solstice.
House Walchaís. And…
The Flying Antinium.
The question was what had the Flying Antinium received? To answer that, one had to understand Kasigna’s dilemma in that moment as she had received supplications from the Flying Queen and attempted to offer the Antinium a gift.
It was a gift. Kasigna, of all the dead gods, was magnanimous in victory, spiteful in defeat and vengeance. She did not put conditions on those she revived. The problem was—she had not been able to revive an Antinium soul.
They were not part of her Kasignel. Or rather, the Antinium had been birthed as a species after the races of this world. Some species, like Sephids, Fraerlings, and Stitch-folk, had eventually found Kasignel, but the Antinium of Rhir had different rules. They had lived and died on Rhir for most of their existence.
Hence, they hadn’t been there.
Not in Kasignel. Of course, when Kasigna realized this, she had begun taking their souls, like Tersk’s, but even then, the Antinium had another place waiting for them, and the dead goddess had tried to claim Hellste that she might not lose any soul of any species. Even Goblins.
Consider, then, in that moment what a dead goddess could do. She could not manufacture a specific soul if she did not have it. Yet she was determined to give the Antinium a gift to win their supplication.
Kasigna had thought, looked upon the world, and done the only thing she could think to do. In the end, the Flying Queen had been happy.
 
——
 
Awaken.
That was the voice that came to you at the end of a Rite of Anastases. In this case, it was not the singing collective of a Hive as he had been told it used to be.
In Rhir, an entire Hive would pull you back, a linked mind of every Antinium, newborn and old, singing Shaper Queens melding your body—you might be slain an hour ago and given flesh in the next hour.
It was not painless. It hurt more than anything he had ever felt in the entire world. And Pivr…
Pivr did not want it.
It was a single voice that called him back. He had felt, for a moment, a light upon his chitin that had no luminosity he knew. A brilliant calling of a place that was so small…and so beautiful and filled with his kind.
He had been unworthy of it, but they had called to him, and he had begun to fly towards it, begging forgiveness—
Until he was caught, like a fly in a web, by a will that was determined to hold him and keep even death from taking him. Though Death let him go.
He did not want it. The soul of Pivr, the Revalantor of the Flying Antiniun, had wailed, but he had no voice. He had not struggled, for there was nothing to struggle against. An eternity of being held in the void of a world. And then—
He was falling, falling towards something that called to him. A body—but Pivr did not want it. He heard the voice, the excited will, the overly-inquisitive, racing mind he loved who had bid him betray his friend and break all promises and bonds.
For her, he had done it.
The Flying Queen spoke, and Pivr awoke in a gasp, limbs moving, body foreign, and a scream burst from his mandibles in the first moment of his existence, echoed by his mind.
“Pivr! Pivr! Cease wailing! You are alive! The Rite of Anastases works! It was the first time I needed to do it. I knew I could. Rejoice, my Hive! Rejoice!”
The Flying Queen’s voice was a mix of mental tone and her actual voice, though she did not say his name out loud.
Pivr kept screaming. His shriek had far more depth to it than he remembered, a roaring crash of noise that deafened the beating wings of countless Flying Antinium. Pivr’s eyes…his eyes reflected the world oddly, as if he had more vision than before.
He was in a Hive. That much he knew. But it was not the Flying Antinium’s Hive. It was new, crudely hacked out of the ground, and the Flying Queen looked weary. Pivr sensed far fewer Flying Antinium around him.
His mind raced, but with an odd tranquility to it. It was as if Pivr’s head had always been stuffed with cotton and someone had finally taken it out, expanded his mind. He was the same Pivr, but his thoughts were clear water where once they had flowed through dirt and sand.
We are not in the same location as the Flying Hive was. Where am I? 
My body is changed. What has occurred on the Solstice?
Alcaz is dead. I murdered him.
Why am I alive?
I did not wish for this.
That last thought dominated all others, and it was the root of his despair and his shriek, which knew no end, which sent other Flying Antinium cowering. Pivr’s lungs seemed to be inexhaustible.
“Pivr! Enough!”
The Flying Queen’s own tone was startled, alarmed, yet delight coursed through each tone. Pivr tried to raise his limbs; he was used to the fly-like body, huge wings, movable limbs with razor’s edges, and a scuttling, horizontal frame.
This…was not his old body, and he pivoted clumsily. He finally had to draw breath, and it hissed into his body; he realized his mouth was—he flailed multiple limbs and came over onto what he thought were all fours—
Many, many legs struck the ground, and Pivr’s body undulated. He felt liquid sloshing around inside of him and felt its burn and the sheer power animating him and froze.
What is this? What am I?
He still wanted to shriek in agony, but one other thing stopped him. Not the Flying Queen trying to tell him things. Not his body.
No…it was the sight of three other presences, three other…Queens, in miniature, that made Pivr freeze.
They were cowering back from him like all the other Antinium, feelers waving, clumsily moving around. The gigantic form of the Flying Queen he knew…made tiny!
Well, they were still ten feet tall, but these were Queens! Shaper Queens, which all the Queens of Izril had been at one point, but not bloated by repeated manual birthing of eggs.
“Queenz?”
Pivr’s voice rasped from his body in a buzz, and he saw all three stop recoiling and bow at him, awkwardly, as if they were strangers in their bodies.
“Yes, oh great one! The Queens of Izril have been reborn! The Flying Antinium—nay, the True Antinium, have reclaimed their own! Behold now your leader, my Antinium! Everything I have done is correct! Celebrate!”
And they did. Flying Antinium buzzed around wildly, their faint minds a blur of excitement, joy, and—awe?
Pivr sensed them as he had never been able to before, and the Flying Queen’s own mind touched his, urgent, excited—and nervous—and it was no longer as ‘large’ as before.
“Pivr, Pivr. Say nothing. Just pretend you are he.”
“Who?”
Pivr thought back. He did not understand, but he saw the new Queens bowing towards him. The Flying Queen’s mind touched his—and he finally understood.
Kasigna, the Goddess of Death, had no power to bring back Antinium souls. She had admitted this to the Flying Queen and offered the second-best thing.
If she had no mastery of these souls—she was still Kasigna, who could shape flesh as well as any other. The dead bodies of old she could copy, and so she had created not one, but three vessels for the Flying Queen as a token of their pact.
Queens. The Queens of Izril that had died in the first and second Antinium Wars—restored to their original forms. Not just them. She had added one more body—but the soul was gone.
The Flying Queen showed Pivr what she saw. What she saw—he had only ever glimpsed in memories, in the Armored Queen’s statues, and they were a poor reflection of reality, for how could anyone capture the forms of old?
Centenium had been made to be perfect by the First Queen of all. Her genius had created Wrymvr, Xrn—and Klbkch’s original body, but she had not stopped there.
His form was long, rotund, and his back-chitin glowed, revealing luminous liquids that filled countless compartments on his back. He was closer to a pillbug with a centipede’s long legs, but he felt infinitely more flexible and adaptive.
His breathing holes let air in and out, and he did not understand his own body—but sensed he could expel more than mere air out the tubes in his form. His ‘face’ had tiny mandibles compared to his size, but he had many ways to intake liquids or sustenance. His legs could draw in liquid—and anything inside of him would enter a laboratory of the flesh.
Pivr’s body was beyond the dreams of Saliss of Lights, Alchemist Irurx, or any other pretender to alchemy or creation. It could adjust and manipulate acid and bases, create gas or expel reactions in ways his mind could barely process.
This…was the form of the ultimate experimenter, a Centenium capable of creation and destruction—and it had never set foot on Izril.
The being who this body belonged to had made it to Izril, but diminished. He had been hampered by his new forms, rendered weaker than even Klbkch, and gave up his final life against the Brass Dragon.
Yet his will remained. And his body…the Flying Queen raised her feelers skywards.
“Hail the Queens of old! Rejoice, Antinium, for we are led by Centenium once more! Devrkr the Glowing has returned to us!”
Then—Pivr understood. Then he looked at the ‘Queens’ and realized they were not the Queens of old, but Antinium, perhaps Soldiers or Workers, given new bodies. Then he screamed, and the Flying Antinium rejoiced, thinking it was a warcry, not a wail.
The sound grew and grew, and even the Flying Queen flinched and tried to shield herself from the sound.
“Pivr! What are you doing? Pivr, enough!”
He thought back at her without the love and mindless adoration he had always had. Had she always been so small? Had she always—why was she lying?
“I betRAyeD Alcaz. I BEtraYed tHEm ALl.”
“Yes. It was worth the losses. The other Queens do not understand. Pivr, why are you upset?”
She did not understand. Pivr howled, and she flinched away from the pain in his mind. He had done it all for her. He had not wanted to live.
Now, he was Devrkr the Glowing. Pivr the Antinium heard Bird’s words in his mind and finally understood.
This…this was what the opposite of Heaven was.
This was surely hell.
 
——
 
That was the Solstice. It had left despair, horrors, and suffering in so many thereafter. The hope of the Flying Queen…was a false light to the Armored Queen, who knew in a moment it was not Devrkr the Glowing nor the Queens of old. The Grand Queen might be fooled, even the Silent Queen tricked by the trueness of the body and possibilities.
