[Skill – …]
 
It hesitated. It was afraid.
There were no second chances. She was proof of that. There were no second chances, except there were, but you’d never get them the same way again.
A bit of courage. Wonder. Hope. Determination, and a joy in everything she had done.
It drew from Erin Solstice—and delivered the words at once. Bringing them into this world, into her inn, waiting for her. The most difficult thing it had made yet. Something that perhaps even it didn’t understand.
An answer.
A mystery.
The definition of Erin Solstice in this moment.
 
[Skill – The Transient, Ephemeral, Fleeting Vault of the Mortal World. The Evanescent Safe of Passing Moments, the Faded Chest of Then and Them. The Box of Incontinuity…created!]
 
Her eyes opened wide. The [Innkeeper] sat up—and she had no idea what it meant. She stared up at the sky, and the voice whispered in her ears.
 
[Skill – Aspect of The Wandering Inn obtained!]
 
Something for the road. A way to bring who she was around. After all, it wanted to see what she did too. Then—she threw back her head and began to laugh.
It was a joyous sound. Erin Solstice laughed and laughed until she giggled and was hoarse, for hours. Maybe it was hysteria or relief or gratitude.
Only the Grand Design could have said. Then Erin lay on her back and fell asleep. She had a long way to go before she reached land, after all.
In her inn, a little box appeared. An unmarked container that no one saw, at first. And it held nothing. But what it could hold? What it did?
When she was ready, she would find out. There would be a part of her inn that walked with her. Erin Solstice whispered as she raised her head, eyes searching the continent she was slowly drifting towards.
“I won’t be back for a while. This time—I’m going on my own adventure. When I return, I will be different. Wait for me. I’ll come back and show you all everything I’ve found. I promise.”
The owner of The Wandering Inn closed her eyes. And slept awhile.
Until her next adventure.
