You see, she had never really been good at staying on any one side. Taking sides? Oh, she did that well.
Cauwine, the Goddess of Last Stands, had once fought on a battlefield, changing sides time and again such that she turned defeat into victory and then walked across the field to take on her former allies.
She was a traitor, a turncoat, a rebel, and her mother had forgotten that. This did not mean Cauwine had no principles. She had searched, both before her defeat and death and now, afterwards, for a battle worth fighting.
It may have seemed petty to so many, but the Goddess of War had beheld her mother’s schemes and the others’ games and questioned—why?
Why play the same hand the same way? Why compromise what they believed in to live? It should be a glorious life, not a petty one.
One could argue she had been the truest victor this Solstice. She had attained little power as Kasigna had, but she had not lost any.
Emerrhain was trapped. Laedonius Deviy had fallen off the edge of the world. Tamaroth and Norechl…had fled this very world, and their fates and hold on this plane were lost for the moment.
They would never live unless they returned, and in their absence, the last great force among the six, Kasigna, had been routed.
Now was the moment when Cauwine could rise. The mortals were in a frenzy, the age was changing, and she knew that soon, there would come challenges, even for her.
The will of old foes, the wrath of the children of Earth—and the very nature of this world that allowed the smallest to rise to heights to challenge gods—she loved it all.
“However, it is meaningless if it is just for me!”
Cauwine spread her arms as she walked the world, an invisible spirit, her power waning with the Solstice’s ending. It would be long before another Solstice began—and she thought none of the other dead gods would try something as grand as Kasigna soon.
If this were all I have achieved—slaying my mother’s shade, remembering the joy of combat—I, too, have failed and should fall upon my sword.
She had tried, but pacts and alliances were so hard for a goddess who had never had worshippers like the others. She had not been Tamaroth, who had been supplicated by nations and lent his wisdom to the rulers as whispers in dreams.
She had no steady people like Emerrhain, who called to all those of magic and secrets; by her very nature, Cauwine had attracted pleas from rogues and the desperate and had been as fair-weather as those who loved her.
Antinium. Immortals. Demons. Wearily, Cauwine raised her hand as the sun rose, and the very rays of light pierced her being with wounds greater than anyone else had inflicted upon her.
“Ah. Life, thou’rt a difficult foe.”
The goddess sat down and looked across the world. She had foes to kill and battles to win—but there was a hollowness to that. Her sword had never been as sharp as when it was wielded in service to a reason. But she had found those reasons and not believed in them.
In her way, Cauwine envied Erin Solstice’s surety. She desired the same principles and morality that drove each and every mortal to dedicate their life to a cause. Only, her cause was to champion someone.
Anyone.
The Goddess of Battles planted the memory of a sword in the ground and began to vanish. The last dregs of power hoarded that allowed her even the illusion of a presence fading. Without worship, a single voice to call her name—even her mother had more than she.
The wind blew apart the fabric of a goddess who had slain legions of foes. Her blade, which had cut stars in foreign galaxies, collapsed under a falling flake of snow.
Cauwine closed her eyes—and the light pierced her back. It began to tear her apart—and then she felt it dapple upon her back.
A cold ray of winter. Cauwine stopped—and her hand rose—and the flake of snow was heavier than any weapon she had ever lifted. Her arm trembled—her body strained—
And for one second, the flake of snow stopped—then passed through her.
“What is this?”
That should not have been possible. She had moved the mortal world! Cauwine was still a memory of a ghost—but she turned, suddenly, and realized that someone had whispered her name.
Not with words, but with faith. She stood—and felt the faintest fragments of power in her being. The nature of the divine was faith. Belief.
Cauwine breathed in air and strode forwards, suddenly urgent. Who?
Where?
It was not the Hives of Rhir. Nor the Demons. No Wyrm supplicated her. Who might worship Cauwine, now? Eldavin had sought to speak her name, but so few beings had met her.
She had only appeared in a few places during the Winter Solstice. Therefore: who? Cauwine was fearful. Fearful, because she did not wish to be disappointed.
If mortals could choose a god, the reverse was true. She did not acknowledge petty prayers or worthless causes.
“Be thou worthy of it. I am Sprigaena. I am Elucina. I am made up of countless beings who were both monstrous and glorious. I am Zeladona. Who art thou, and are you worthy of me? Am I of you?”
As she travelled towards the heart of the believers, Cauwine realized that it was not one mind, one heart, but multiple. They were few, and their faith was tremulous.
Yet they called for her. 
At last, Cauwine passed by the prayers of a [Lady] of Izril, a spreading trail of prayers not to her, but to death. For there would always be those who feared Cauwine’s mother.
But Cauwine? Who called for glory in their last hours?
Who begged for meaning in battle?
There were…only two groups. The first made Cauwine hesitate. She cast her eyes down—and sat down on the railing of a ship.
“Ah, you.”
It was a simple altar, and perhaps it was just superstition. Or intuition—but the [Pirates] had placed plunder there. Trinkets. Gold coins. Cauwine looked down as Admiral Maxy laid an amulet cleaned of blood on a piece of cloth.
They had seen her slowing the Terandrian fleet. She had disguised herself as a ghost, that she might offer them a chance, these people who had no hope. Cauwine had witnessed what they did with it.
Her eyes were slits, and irritation leaked through them. Admiral Maxy, the half-Elf strutting around with her plundered luck and time, shivered.
As if she had never realized that to supplicate was also to be judged. She rubbed her arms, hurrying inside for a jacket, and Cauwine wondered if this notion would spread. It made her tired.
Weary. She stood up and strode away. Then Cauwine bent down and whispered in Maxy’s ear.
“I do not judge the path you took, but you may never live so brightly and fight so hard as before. My favor shall not fall upon you until you find a worthier path to believe in.”
Then she rose and was gone.
 
——
 
If the [Pirates] wished for victory, if they called on her to win pettier battles or give them miracles in their desperate hours—she would not grant it.
She was no more the fickle goddess who would deliver triumph for triumph’s sake. It must matter.
The Demons of Rhir had, at least, a better cause to pray to her. If they had begged for Cauwine’s aid against insurmountable odds, the sheer adversity might have called to her, even if she would have been disappointed in the Deaths.
—It was not them. Cauwine walked across the world, following the trail of faith flowing into her, head bowed, fearful of no foe but disappointment.
When she found them, the few worshippers, she didn’t realize what she beheld at first. Cauwine stood there, looking down.
Surprised.
Mouth open. Shocked.
Then angry. Feeling as though she were mocked. Wrathful, with the rage that had killed her kin.
She raised her blade, even if she had no presence to make a mark in the world—
—And realized they meant it. That they believed with every shred of their being. Not a conviction of solid belief, for that was strongest in those who saw miracles performed and could lay their eyes on gods.
Rather, this was the desperate edge of faith that came from having nothing else. The grasping for straws on the edge of a cliff.
They meant it. They had beheld her—and for salvation?
Cauwine sat down as the first few altars were set up. Gifts were placed clumsily. Pieces of colorful stone. Bits of food. Coins.
Anything they had—and they had almost nothing. She bent over and looked at a people who worshipped her.
Sariant Lambs. Levelless. Meek of body. Ignored by the will of this world—yet she felt it.
Then the Goddess of Battles threw back her head and began to laugh, and she sat, legs out of strength, lying there as they begged without words any other species could understand. Cauwine rested there, and then she clenched her sword and saw a battle worth fighting for.
When she smiled?
It was with genuine relief.
 
——
 
Then she woke up. Just like every other day of her life.
The first day after the end of it all, after the wall of water had come rushing up to meet her and Erin had seen the Death of Magic diving towards her with a final spell on her lips, Erin Solstice had heard the voice.
Announcing her level up and deferred Skill. She’d passed out moments after waking, but that was fine.
The presence behind the voice that spoke her level-ups, and she had both realized she wasn’t going to die. At least—not right away.
Erin woke up sporadically after that. Waking. Feeling the waves rocking. Realizing she was alive. Realizing Anand was dead.
Passing out.
Pain was…well, she was beyond pain. It was only when she came back over the edge of oblivion that it really started kicking in.
Pain was not a pleasant thing. Nor was hunger. It woke her up, and Erin had the opportunity to realize she was alive, that she hadn’t drowned, and observe what had been done to her.
“Ulvama? Nerry? Greydath?”
The three of them weren’t anywhere around her. Erin had to trust each was alive. She couldn’t really move; not that the piece of wood she had miraculously landed on was much room, anyways.
Erin suspected the Death of Magic had something to do with that, because the bobbing piece of wood didn’t capsize or tilt much, and it seemed to move fast with the wind.
Where she was going, she had no idea, only that she was grateful the storms had ceased. Even so…shipwrecked at sea. Not a good way to die.
Exposure would get her, or sharks, or just lack of food or water. By the time Erin was lucid enough to move her hands and legs, she was suffering from all three. She prepared herself for the worst—then realized she had her bag of holding.
“Oh.”
There wasn’t a handy blanket and living supplies in there. But there was a spare change of clothes, an unwashed apron—sanitary pads—that were enough to cover herself with. Erin reckoned she could eat her pants and was preparing to starve or try and catch a fish when she realized there was something else.
A jar of glowing, multi-colored gel that looked as dubiously safe for consumption as, well, radioactive playdough. Erin hesitated and wondered if it was, like, really bad jam until she remembered.
“Apista’s honey!”
Of all the things…it took her ages to get the cork from the damn jar. But when she grabbed her first handful of the honey, it filled her up. It was so chock-full of sweet energy she just ate two handfuls, then passed out.
Over the next day, Erin would wake up, lick some water drops from her water flask, several good mouthfuls at least, then eat some honey and wrap herself under the blanket of her clothing and pass out.
—It occurred to her after the fifth time she woke up that her clothing really was a damn big bed. Erin opened her eyes, snuggled deeper into the pocket of her apron, and passed out. The honey of Apista’s jar was only big enough for an inkwell’s amount. She reckoned, at the pace she was eating it, she could ration it out for at least a month or two.
This was because, naturally…
Erin was half a foot tall.
Fraerling-sized.
She could only assume Silvenia had done it to save her life. Something about smaller people being harder to kill? It probably meant they were harder to scry too. That wasn’t size-ist. It was just…logic. The Death of Magic must have had her reasons.
At any rate, it didn’t seem like anyone knew where she was because no one came to rescue her or kill her. Erin slept. She woke.
She counted the dead. Now was the time for regrets. Now was the time to blame herself for everything and weep, or hope Rabbiteater had made it.
Erin Solstice would have done that—but in truth, she was so tired she just slept.
Slept…and dreamed of them. Of Halrac drinking the Faerie Flower beer for the first time. Of sitting with Anand after Skinner’s death. Of people she had never met. Watching as Ceria fell into the sea.
Dreams.
She was grateful that the voice came for her on the fourth night. It had kept Erin waiting a long time, but there must have been lots to do. Much to consider.
Besides—it must know, then, that they had time. Everything was over. Now came the consequences or rewards.
The voice of the Grand Design of Isthekenous spoke and said this:
 
[The Wandering Innkeeper Level 55!]
 
It had kept her waiting. The [Innkeeper] patiently let the seconds pass. She had heard the other level ups already, but this…she had been expecting this.
Not as a reward, but as a kind of—closure to it all. Like it or not, this was how the world worked. The voice paused, then spoke with a kind of solemnity or…grandness she had seldom heard before?
 
[Skill – Inn: Pavilion of Secrets obtained!]
[Legacy: Pavilion of Secrets, authority recognized. Key of Insight granted.]
 
That was almost expected. Almost…but the [Innkeeper] lifted one hand, and a new key gleamed in her grasp. This one wasn’t pale, though it had a feather’s shape, but it was angular, and the key glinted like the inverse of light. The key waited for a door…she really had no way to access.
“Great.”
The [Innkeeper] lay there, not reacting to the Skill. She was—tired. She knew she was one step closer to the truth and had reached a point only two others, besides Empress Sheta, had been granted access to.
If it was anything like the [Garden of Sanctuary], it might offer her wonders and heartache. Mysteries, she had no doubt. Perhaps truths—
But she could not bear it. So the [Innkeeper] just put her head down and waited.
She heard the slightest pause, as if the reward was not commensurate with the reaction. But they both knew that Skill would be given.
For someone else, you might assume that was her Level 50 capstone, and it might be powerful enough to qualify. But they knew it wasn’t that. So…the voice spoke louder.
 
[Skill – The Traveller’s Eternal Home obtained!]
[Skill – Bound Ship: The Wandering Ship obtained!]
[Skill – Ship: An Inn by Any Other Name obtained!]
[Skill – Ship: Hoist the C—]
 
“No.”
