The Twisted Queen studied one of the scrying mirrors she’d set up. Wonderful things, these mirrors. They weren’t as good as a Unitasis Network in many respects, but magic bridged distance with ease. As for how she’d done it, she smiled to herself with her one good mandible.
Wrymvr was a good liar. He had indeed been too far to reach even a combined Unitasis Network. But he was a Centenium. Since their defeat at sea, he had long considered the possibility he could ‘hold’ a soul in his mind, like a Queen did.
Thusly, he had brought Anand to the Twisted Queen. She shared this insight with Anand without bothering to articulate it, and the [Strategist] grew more confused.
He was weak. He had lost levels. His soul was filled with mourning and grief, but that was all acceptable. He had time.
“The scrolls. You bid for…where are we?”
The Twisted Queen made no answer, but a gleeful bubble escaped her in a fluttering, broken laugh. She rocked back and forth as, around her, Antinium dug. Dug and dug through sandstone, exploring this new place they had come to inhabit. Not higher; downwards and out.
Great holes must we dig into the pores of the earth, and we must learn to walk before we greet the sky.
The Twisted Queen settled onto her back and began to wait.
 
——
 
The world was changing. Even if the people weren’t living or dying…sometimes they were leaving or becoming different, and that hurt almost as much as death.
But to Az’kerash, Peril Chandler, whichever one he was, he realized he had finally done it. He had created life within death. His Chosen were unto people; now they could die.
Somehow, he hadn’t realized it, but as he placed Ijvani’s skull in his study, in his silent, broken castle, he knew he could never bring her back. Oom was not the same Acid Slime he had sent to kill Zel Shivertail; it was another being he’d made and given the same name.
“Strange. Somehow it never occurred to me that I could lose my children.”
He waited for mocking laughter to remind him of all his foibles, but Az’kerash realized he wouldn’t hear it again. Strange that he could miss that haughty look and the words that cut so deep. Perhaps it was because Nerrhavia never missed with criticism or coercion; what she said mattered regardless of how much it hurt.
She was, of course, gone.
Vanished.
Packed up with the other ghosts he’d granted bodies and gone in the middle of the night. She had written him a letter. It was rather straightforward. He glanced down at it after…how long he couldn’t have said.
He wasn’t sure how long he’d stood there looking at Ijvani’s skull. His Chosen were quiet, mourning. Az’kerash turned his head, and a spiderweb shivered. A spider, greatly alarmed, fled as he batted it away.
“‘—can no longer trust your allegiances. If, in the fullness of time, our interests shall coincide, we shall deliver further words, oh Speaker of the Dead.’ Oddly formal.”
It was indeed a letter without insults or her usual run of the mill sarcasm. It was almost disconcertingly polite. She had even used an address he presumed was native to her time.
She was gone. He supposed she might get in contact with him if she needed magic—or an army. He had to think.
There were ghosts with her, but none of her level, and they had all lost ten levels. He probably had an edge on her should they come to strife at this point in time. However, he wasn’t convinced she was a foe.
Which was what she wanted him to…by the time Az’kerash looked up again, the spider had added fifteen more webs to him. He sighed and walked out of the cobwebs.
“Master?”
The castle was empty, and Bea had been weeping when she sensed him moving. The hallways of undead, the passages of black stone…Az’kerash realized he was leaving a trail as he walked.
“Dusty.”
Then he remembered a certain someone wasn’t here to clean the place up. That was right…
Toren had also fled. It had been during the Solstice; his undead recalled seeing the skeleton just…march out the door. With Maviola, the Healing Slime, and a rucksack full of artifacts.
Az’kerash should have been angry, especially because Toren had liberally looted his armory. Instead, he just hoped the odd skeleton found whatever he wanted out there. Belavierr would seek her daughter, but Maviola should not be raised by that Witch.
A skeleton and a sentient Healing Potion Slime might not be better parents…no, they would be. And Az’kerash had little doubt where Toren was going.
The skeleton wasn’t exactly a genius at escape plans. He’d been pouring over maps and cut south out of the enchanted forest. He’d doubtless skirt the Hivelands and head west.
Towards the New Lands of Izril, where it was easier to hide or find a purpose. It left Az’kerash alone, and he was grateful.
“Now, I may only be the Necromancer. Not an aide to the Immortal Tyrant. Not Peril Chandler. Nor a father. I am the Bane of Silvaria, the Archmage of Death. Bea, summon the others. We will bury Ijvani. Then—it will be time to begin my journey.”
The Plague Zombie shaped like the love of his life bowed her head, but looked at Az’kerash. Nerrhavia had left her with advice—Bea hesitated.
“Where are we going, Master? Where are you going?”
He turned his head, and his eyes were black and empty.
“Down the road, Bea. All the way to the end.”
 
——
 
It seemed, now, that all things that were set in stone and taken for granted were shifting. The Kingdoms of Terandria could, perhaps, all have been said to be like the Restful Three of the north. Each and every nation had been complacent.
When they were content, they waned and squabbled. When roused, they began to crusade.
Well, the Terandrian kingdoms were well and truly roused to wrath and ruin. The first fleet they had sent out across the ocean had met with calamitous destruction. A [Prince] of Erribathe was dead.
Faced with all that, what did Terandria do? Wait for it—this was the joke—
They sent a second, bigger fleet, of course! 
Cue laughter. He really would have laughed, you know.
Viscount Visophecin didn’t go for huge, maniacal laughter or cackling. He just chuckled like dark, velvet crackling, which in its own way was pathetic, that of someone afraid to laugh with his full chest.
Many things the Lucifen had thought were urbanely stylish about himself he now regarded as pathetic. Including his conviction that his people, and therefore he himself, did not obey the laws of Terandria.
Prince Iradoren was dead. He was not the only heir to Erribathe. But he was the sole living descendant of the current, old King Nuvityn. If the [King] were to die tomorrow, the Kingdom of Myths would doubtless persist; the bloodline was sprawling.
However, the wrath of Erribathe would not end. Nor, indeed, would Golaen, Kaaz, or any other nation’s animosity towards the Iron Vanguard or the [Pirates]. Or defeat itself.
“The third colony fleet has already launched from the harbors.”
It was amazing how many ships you could charter, build, or just commandeer when you were angry enough. Visophecin listened to the report, kneeling, his head not raised. The voice giving the report was…young.
Altogether too young. Barely sixty years old, and the rest of the Infernal Gathering—the name for the meeting of all the Lucifen—were likewise young.
Paxere’s voice was clipped and, Visophecin knew, trying to be as impartial as possible. Emulating the dry tones of her elders.
The Infernal Gathering had twenty-one members. When Visophecin had been young, he recalled forty-two members, and he had been told there might be over a hundred depending on the faction of Lucifen and each house’s strength.
Of course, the Infernal Gathering was just the Lucifen assembling in a room of their mansion; they were all of House Shoel.
There was no longer a spread-out species who needed to organize meetings. Nor had the Infernal Gatherings of the past ever had the white-haired, pale-skinned Agelum present, sitting in their wheelchairs as witnesses, except as prisoners to be tormented or avenging enemies bursting into the gathering to continue their endless war.
How things changed. Visophecin had lived through two major changes in the lives of Lucifen: first their defeat against the Goblin King, Curulac, then their entry into Ailendamus.
He shouldn’t have been so surprised the era was changing again, but he was. That was, Visophecin supposed, age.
“Ailendamus has participated well after our—divestment of goodwill in the last war.”
That report, and slight pause of uncertainty, came from another Lucifen who had clearly tried to find the most elegant way of saying Ailendamus’ position had faltered diplomatically. But their warmongering had been forgotten, or at least overshadowed by the Terandrian fleet’s failure.
It would doubtless come up again once the colonies were established, but Visophecin did not point this out or raise his head. He longed to tell the younger Lucifen that their forebears had been more retiring and blunt.
So this is how they thought of us. The deliberating fourteen were putting on a show, both for his benefit and the Agelum they had invited to witness the judgment of the Infernal Gathering.
If Visophecin looked up, he would be able to see Uziel and the older Agelum looking down at him. He was afraid to.
The wrath of the Agelum was a terrible thing. Their kindness or pity harder still. When a voice did speak his name, he looked up. He realized they’d repeated his name a few times.
“—Visophecin of House Shoel.”
“Forgive me. I was lost in thought. What was the question?”
Children. They were all so young. But the older Lucifen had retreated, many so badly hurt from the conflict that they hadn’t objected when their descendants had taken power from them.
—Those that even survived.
Out of the forty Lucifen, the majority of the elder Lucifen that had been summoned by the pact, twenty-four were dead, the rest wounded to lesser or greater degrees, including Visophecin.
There had not been an incident of such death since Curulac of a Hundred Days. Igolze and Azemith, the sires of Paxere, were among the deceased.
Visophecin saw Paxere standing there, chin raised, dressed in finery. She had been elevated to their old posts, and Ailendamus had mourned the many dead of House Shoel very publically. Visophecin didn’t recall what story Rhisveri had spun to justify their involvement in the battle.
Probably something about them having hidden their presence in an attempt to join Terandria’s colonization. Fighting against the [Pirates]—as for how you justified the fact that they’d helped a Goblin Lord—well.
They’d left before the end.
“Viscount Visophecin. You have given the Infernal Gathering and our fair cousins ample testimony of the events leading to the debacle of the Night of Bloodtear. Do you have anything further to add regarding your failures before everyone—before the Infernal Gathering?”
They were trying so…very hard to be serious. And they were. He had always thought the young ones were highly unserious, frivolous individuals pampered by life in Ailendamus. Visophecin had had many conversations with their elders about that.
Look at them now. His voice rasped from disuse. He raised his hands, and they were not shackled, but they felt heavy as he spoke.
“—With the quality of hindsight, I would have withdrawn from the pact before placing House Shoel’s own in danger. Failing that, I would have requested far more reinforcements, regardless of the cost.”
Paxere nodded, gripping her hands together tightly. She was missing digits as well, he recalled. She spoke for the other Lucifen as they nodded or fidgeted slightly.
“Visophecin, by unanimous consensus of the Infernal Gathering, you are stripped of your title as First of the Lucifen. Your official status in Ailendamus itself will not change, but you are barred from making use of your authority among both the immortals and Ailendamus’ mortals without approval from another member of House Shoel. Furthermore, your position as liaison to the Wyrm, Rhisveri, will be replaced by Lord Uziel of the Agelum.”
Visophecin didn’t react as he kept his head bowed. He was waiting for one to draw a sword. Or perhaps they’d ask the Agelum to do it. They had steadier hands.
He was surprised, then, when Paxere paused a second to swallow audibly, then went on.
“As punishment for your incalculable failure regarding the [Innkeeper] and the deaths of twenty-four Lucifen at sea, we have chosen, unanimously again, to charge you with a task. Until it is complete, you are to be banned from House Shoel’s lands. Should you fail, you will be forgotten and disavowed, and your name struck from our records.”
The word slipped from his mouth before he could stop it.
“What?”
He’d thought they were going to execute him. He had been prepared for it, though he could have slipped away or tried to escape even now. For the first time, he met their eyes and saw them looking down at him from the semi-circle around the room, raised seats over the black marble floor he knelt on.
Chins raised, some of their red eyes too bright, hair neatly combed, postures perfect—it was the Agelum who had tears in their eyes, for they had no posture nor dignity that could be tarnished by such things.
Paxere met Visophecin’s eyes and flinched—but she mastered herself. Her tone was quivering, but he saw them looking down at him.
Such fragile strength. Proud, painful words delivered with all the care in the world from lost children trying to do what they thought was right.
It was an eerie sight. The pause. The way she swallowed, and her eyes grew bright and she stood taller, and Paxere’s glittering stare?
This was grief. It could not be anything else. Visophecin saw a reflection of it—the Agelum embodied these emotions.
Paxere was the reflection and why it was so uncanny to him. Because she and the other Lucifen who had grown up in House Shoel were mourning like…people.
Like Humans, like the other species. They were simultaneously fighting to remain composed and copying the grief they had learned from their fairer halfs.
There was a part of Paxere, even now, that was not sad. Not—as Visophecin had heard—the part of humanity that could remain calm and collected in crisis. But rather, a truer lack of emotion. It was that Paxere was fighting in front of him. Straining to copy emotion and make it her own, even if she didn’t know it.
Like a desperate Devil reaching skywards, trying to understand the light. A group of young people taking the mantle from their elders and trying to figure out how it should weigh on them, feeling their way forwards blindly and pretending they could see the answer, let alone the question.
