It was water to his vague disappointment. The boy was about to introduce himself to the [Princess]—he reckoned she might need someone to wash dishes or whatnot, and he could just see it. This inn would be the place where he made his mark. First, he’d repay her trust. Then—
The boy was getting up the courage to offer the [Princess] his hard work and repay the meal when there was a flash of light. A Gnoll appeared behind the counter and shouted the same moment the door flew open.
A Drake, huge and burlier than three of the boy from Vaunt combined, charged into the room. He knocked the boy over, and Relc paused and tried to pick up the lad.
“Oh shit, sorry—”
He shook the boy, then dropped him into his chair. Ishkr shouted.
“Lyonette! They found Erin!”
The [Princess] had whirled, drawing a sword at the clamor, but she relaxed and Relc stopped shaking the half-conscious boy and opened his mouth to say the same thing. The Senior Guardsman was smiling. Ishkr looked—relieved?
The two girls stared at him, then at Lyonette, waiting for the [Princess] to whoop or shout—but Lyonette just sat down slowly.
“Of course they did. It took Niers long enough. Where?”
“Er…you’re not gonna believe this, Lyonette—”
Relc began as Ishkr hesitated, and Lyonette looked from face to face.
“Which continent? No…don’t tell me. Baleros. I should have known Ryoka would follow her. And Tyrion’s following her. Or will be soon enough.”
The Drake and Gnoll exchanged glances, and Relc threw up his claws.
“Well, if you’re so confident, what’s the point of us saying anything? Gah! I’m gonna go back and see if they found out anything else. When’s Ryoka bringing her back, for instance?”
He ran back the way he’d come, knocked over the traveller again, and stopped, cursing. The young man tried to get up and say something—but more guests pounded down the stairs, and a bee blasted past his face, the biggest bee he’d seen in his life. Then a Hobgoblin practically slammed into the table—and the boy was utterly forgotten.
“They found Erin? When is she coming back?”
Lyonette said nothing as Numbtongue and other guests appeared, and Relc began to explain all over again. The [Princess] was just busy staring at the ceiling. She sat there for a while as more people woke up. A bleary Stitch-girl, an [Aegiscaster], a sleepy Vampire—
“I think it would be best if she didn’t return right away.”
That was all Lyonette murmured such that only her daughter and the little witch heard her. Well, Ishkr as well, and the [Head Server] hesitated a second.
The Wandering Inn hadn’t burned down. Nor had it been destroyed by Crelers or war or an angry skeleton with a vendetta. Undead had assailed it—and it had stood.
But it was not the same. Lyonette didn’t know what the future held. Nor did she know if Erin should come back.
Not yet. Liscor had just finished burying the dead and honoring the citizens, like Jeiss and Tekshia. They’d renamed a street after her and put her statue up in front of the Adventurer’s Guild.
—But Selys?
Would the inn be ready for Erin when she came back? What shape was she in? What…form was she in?
She had a bounty in multiple nations. She was well and truly the Goblinfriend of Izril. Lyonette sat there, and with all the love for Erin in the world, with all the relief…she could not demand the [Innkeeper]’s return.
Not like Relc. The [Princess] whispered a message to Erin.
“Don’t come back yet, Erin.”
Solemnly, her daughter took her mother’s hand, and Lyonette looked at Mrsha. Then around the inn.
Bird was still dead. But he’d sent a message to them saying he’d get better. The inn needed repairs, but Hexel had promised to start work on a new foundation as soon as he finished waterproofing Liscor for the rains.
Frankly, Lyonette didn’t even know if this was the final place The Wandering Inn should be. But what she did know was that all eyes were turned to Izril.
Not just the New Lands, but the north, where Magnolia Reinhart’s influence was being redrawn, and the south, where Pallass had been reduced in stature—
Lyonette was not ready for Erin’s return.
No one was. It was better if she stayed away. There was so much changed—and Lyonette knew that only one person would be too impatient to wait for Erin’s return. Or rather, Ryoka’s.
Lord Tyrion Veltras.
They were both carrying new classes. Well, anyone who had fought at the Solstice in any major way had a new class. But it was not always…easy…
Lyonette du Marquin had not seen Seborn since the Solstice. And Jelaqua? She’d gone to Pallass and never come back. A married Selphid without a team.
This inn. Liscor may never forgive her. If Erin forgives herself.
The Goblins had vanished, aside from the staff. The Antinium were dead, being revived, or marching to their new duties. The 7th Hive, Liscor’s army—
Nothing was the same.
Including her class. The [Princess] got up slowly.
She would never know this, but fate was a strange thing. An [Innkeeper] had spoken to the will of the world and chosen a class that might suit Lyonette. What had it been? [Princess of the Changing World]?
No one could predict what came next.
Lyonette du Marquin looked around, and she was indeed still a [Princess]. But her full class was not what she had expected. It fit her, but she was still getting used to it.
She was a [Princess of the Inn]. It was hers, at least until Erin came back.
As for Lord Tyrion? Well, his sons kept bothering the inn, and Lyonette had been told he was still intent on bringing Ryoka Griffin back. His family had argued…but his class really did say a lot.
[Lord of the Pursuit].
Changing days. The [Princess] began to remind everyone that they needed more information. And there was that young man she had to make sure got to Liscor—and soon it would be spring.
Lyonette realized she felt older, and when she looked into a mirror, a nineteen year-old woman stared back, not a [Princess] any longer. Years were a long time. There was a reason in this world, at least, sixteen years was considered to be the start of adulthood.
—Well, this year had aged her more than the last decade. After a moment, Lyonette realized the young man who’d arrived in the inn before all the craziness occurred was in danger of being trampled to death.
So she clapped her hands.
“Alright, away from our new guest, please! As for you, Relc, aren’t you supposed to be on the night-shift?”
“Aw. I mean—sorry, fellow. I had permission from Zevara to tell you, Lyonette! I thought you’d be happy. Stupid Ishkr.”
Relc growled, looking hurt. Lyonette faced him with her hands on her hips, and two girls backed her up.
Yeah! You can’t just run in here like old Relc! How many times have you barged into the inn without all the facts?
Mrsha waved her card in his face, and the Drake protested.
“If Ishkr weren’t here, you’d all be praising me! What’s with the bullying?”
It was Nanette who took pity on him and whispered in Relc’s earhole.
“Mister Relc—maybe Miss Lyonette and Mrsha are more hinting that your hours of work are inappropriate, more than your delivering the news?”
“Hah? Why would that be…”
Relc scratched at his neck-spines until Lyonette rolled her eyes. She edged over and whispered as Mrsha punched Relc on the arm. And somehow, the little girl was tall enough to do it. She stood on two legs, wearing a kilt and…Lyonette had two, not one, rather silly and growing daughters. Nanette was the responsible one, and Mrsha was the reckless, feckless imp. But a big imp, somehow.
Mrsha had grown two inches in a month, Lyonette swore. She was entering into her changing years, and Nanette might be growing too; it was hard to tell. Lyonette glanced at them, then whispered to Relc while the other guests asked the boy from Vaunt where he was from.
“Relc. Don’t you think it’s rather difficult to be a Senior Guardsman who only does the night shift?”
“For who? The lads love me—the [Thugs] don’t, but they never see the Relc Fist coming. All these new people and the rookies need a [Sergeant] like me.”
Lyonette sighed as Mrsha rubbed at her face and Nanette rolled her eyes. She nodded to a sleepy, tangle-haired woman half-sliding down the bannister.
“I meant that it might put a strain on someone who wanted to see you. Who, I might add, would be only too happy to cast [Message] whenever you want.”
Relc opened his mouth, frowning.
“Who’s th—oh. Ooooh.”
He caught sight of Archmage Valeterisa, and the bleary Archmage poked her apprentice for tea until she spotted Relc. Then she tried to de-hex her hair and began asking Montressa why she was in her pajamas. And Relc? He scratched at his neck-spines.
“But I’m good at night-shift. I…I suppose I could take day-shift, huh? Sometimes Valeterisa works all night, though.”
“Well, I am sure someone could put a bird in her ear as well.”
Lyonette glanced at Nanette, and the little [Sariantfriend] beamed. Mrsha rolled her eyes, but then Lyonette was striding over to the young man.
“In the morning, I will introduce you to someone who can help you find work, Mister…”
“Lacrese, er, your High—Miss.”
The boy bowed several times at the waist, and Ser Dalimont rolled his eyes in resignation. But Lyonette just gave the boy a patient smile.
“You may call me Innkeeper Lyonette, Mister Lacrese. And when you have the time, I should like to hear more of Vaunt.”
“Vaunt, Miss? There’s nothing much to Vaunt.”
The boy exclaimed, surprised. Lyonette’s brow arched.
“Really? I do intend to visit. I shall be heading north, soon, if only to visit some of my dear friends.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss and Lady Pryde Ulta both had sent invitations to Lyonette. The boy blinked at the idea of travelling across the continent so fast, but he had forgotten Lyonette travelled via magic door for free. Besides—the [Princess]’ eyes twinkled.
“I’m something of a traveller myself. And I have friends and obligations the continent across. There is always something wonderful about a new place. Believe me. Besides—”
She gave Mrsha and Nanette a huge wink, and her two daughters smiled gleefully as Lyonette sighed. She gestured to a new building just off to the side of the inn.
“—Liscor gets so wet in the spring. As soon as the roads clear, I think we’ll tour House Ulta. Then? We’ll see.”
The world really did change quickly. It might not be fair. It might not be right—Kevin was gone, Joseph had moved out, and Palt refused to visit the inn, though Imani was on her feet the last three weeks.
But Lyonette had to honor their legacies. Kevin’s first bicycle-propelled carriage had been delivered by Hedault, and it was no pink monstrosity that could mow down [Bandits] like his designs for a lawnmower—why anyone needed one of those, Lyonette had no idea.
Maybe the sight of the endless Floodplains had inspired some of those schematics. But the carriage moved, and Lyonette had, to Ser Dalimont and Dame Ushar’s horror, insisted on learning how to pull it. Even Mrsha had begun learning to ride with training wheels.
The Wandering Inn might be a pariah in Liscor, but the city needed it. The villagers of Rheirghest were homeless, and the Order of Solstice should be arriving with them any day now; they had nowhere else to go.
Someone had to help the Gnoll tribes heading north and make sure Wall Lord Ilvriss didn’t end up with a dagger in his back. Xesci seemed all very well and good, but—Lyonette gazed towards the third floor of the inn.
She was getting used to some of her new Skills, not all of which were like Erin’s, but she was certain her guest was still asleep up there. Tessa was having troubles—but Lyonette had forbidden her from hiding or working.
They were Lyonette’s priorities, this time, and that included making sure Senior Guardsman Relc understood he needed to take some things seriously—or they’d run off like last time. A good start was Relc having a cup of tea before he left.
Oh, and Lyonette admitted to herself she had to watch the two young Veltrases. Hethon was one year older than Nanette, and a lad his age of fourteen, soon fifteen, was…
Well—you had to keep two eyes on him. Or Nanette would absolutely destroy the poor boy. As for Lyonette? She inhaled, exhaled, and decided Drevish’s last plans needed alterations. As soon as she had the coin together, she’d tell Hexel to make a few adjustments.
Was an outdoor patio out of the question? There wasn’t a single buttress in the entire plan—
Like that, Lyonette kept herself busy. Busy enough not to worry about Erin. If anything, she felt like she was trying to keep up with the [Innkeeper]. Get things in order before Erin came back.
“Mrsha, go make sure we have a room for our guest. And that Bird’s new room is ready. I imagine it will be noisy, soon. Ishkr, do we need new staff now that we’re rotating some out for trips?”
“Maybe. But I’m not hiring him.”
Ishkr looked up from consulting with Peggy about tomorrow’s rush of people asking about Erin. Lacrese’s face fell, and Lyonette gave Ishkr a peeved look, which he casually let bounce off him. The moment he began seeing a Drake he got an ego. Come to that, Lyonette had to hire a bartender and set up a new room—and she knew just the Drake. She hoped they’d get along.
The [Princess] stared around the inn, full of promise and things to do, even now. Then turned. Before she did any of this, she rested her weight on one of the cleaned tables. Relaxed ever so slightly. Lyonette whispered so quietly no one was supposed to hear it.
“The inn was still benefiting from her Skills, and the garden was here. Obviously, she was alive. Obviously.”
She was sure she’d said it so quietly that not even Mrsha or Ishkr would hear, but they hugged her, and the [Princess] sniffed. She ordered them off her and got about getting the inn in order. It would take a long time. But Lyonette was sure whenever Erin got back—
It would be ready for her return.
 
——
 
The unworthy had triumphed. Or, if you looked at things from their perspective, they’d paid a heavy price and were counting their rewards.
In the same vein, the Goddess of the Dead, the Three-in-One, one of the greatest masters of death to ever exist, the bane of the divine who had broken pantheons and Titans in combat—Kasigna—had fallen.
A goddess was cast low and the world safeguarded from her at the heaviest of prices.
Alternatively—the weary arbiter, the stern mother, and the maiden searching for justice for the dead had been slaughtered as she grasped for life after a purgatory of endless years.
It depended on how you looked at it. Whether it mattered at all, or whether the last scream of Kasigna, still echoing, was just the whisper of dust.
