“I left the two most senior officers, Yamath and Ixeth, behind on Liscor’s Floodplains. Yamath saved Fleethoof. They’re toasting his name across the Plains of Baleros, even two weeks on.”
“Dead gods, I’m sorry. I—we—I didn’t get orders to go. And I thought it wouldn’t be that bad.”
“Most shared your opinion. We knew what we were getting into. It was worth fighting for, even if the tally was too high. It always is.”
The other Centaur made Major Salvia feel like a rookie for all she technically outranked him. She bowed her head, and then Basal cleared his throat.
“I sought you out as a matter of…it seems Vaunt was wholly unprepared, so I have taken over some of the proceedings to avoid more delays, Major. This includes the disposition of Vaunt’s wills.”
“Oh.”
She gave him a stupid look, because she didn’t understand—until Basal lifted something covered by cloth. He said nothing—until he revealed the sword, and she stared at a beautiful magical artifact she recognized.
“That’s—Gershal’s sword. The one he got from the <Heroic Quest>. Isn’t it?”
It didn’t look right. It seemed like the sword she remembered him showing off and bragging about and being green with envy over, but the colors were more…vivid. Green and steel-grey that shone brighter than regular steel.
“It is. This blade was enchanted by the [Innkeeper] of Liscor. I understand it was given the colors of the Tidebreaker of Izril. Zel Shivertail’s legacy.”
Basal held the blade upright as he unsheathed it slightly, and Salvia’s mouth went dry. She remembered the Drake, the only legend she’d ever met that had made her go weak at the knees, and suddenly—she saw Basal offering the hilt to her.
“Wait, wait, wait. What are you doing?”
Not unkindly, but with a directness as if he had kicked her, Basal spoke down to Salvia.
“Major Salvia, you were named in Gershal of Vaunt’s will as the inheritor of the sword. His previous recipient…this was an amended note to his will a day before the Solstice began. He wished you to receive this blade in the event of his passing. I believe it was because you two served together under the Tidebreaker of Izril.”
“Me?”
They’d served together only a handful of times! Yes, after Zel Shivertail and the Goblin Lord, they’d begun talking more frequently, but—Salvia’s hand rose and snatched away from the hilt. She looked up, face a mess with vomit and water.
“Me?”
A [Mercenary] from one of the Four Great Companies of Baleros offered a sword infused with the Tidebreaker’s will and magic to some [Major] from nowhere.
“If you decline it, it will be offered to Olesm Swifttail, then to Zel Shivertail’s city, Major. Think carefully; we will be remaining for two days, upon which time I will carry the blade back south.”
Salvia had almost reached for the handle, but his tone and her own hesitation made her stop. She looked at the sword.
It was beautiful. An artifact, and if it was twice-enchanted somehow…it was the kind of weapon that a [General] might wear.
It was a weapon a [General] should have. Everything greedy in her told her to take it and never want for a weapon again. However, suddenly, the hilt of that longsword looked heavy and terrifying.
It had the will of Vaunt’s [Lieutenant] in it. The Tidebreaker’s legacy. They were both dead.
Now…it was just her. Salvia hesitated, touched the hilt of the sword, and her hands leapt away as if shocked.
“I can’t take it.”
“Why not?”
He knew the answer, and the angry women glared at Basal.
“What am I—what am I supposed to do with it?”
“The will is just for the sword, Major.”
“Bee shit. He had to have said something else. What did he write to me?”
“Nothing. The address was simply to gift it to you, Major. It may be Lieutenant Gershal had no time to further amend the will. Or he believed the sword was message enough.”
She felt like Gershal had risen from his grave and hit her with the largest wheel of cheese in the world. Salvia didn’t need a message.
“I didn’t go to Liscor. I don’t know Drakes. I—we just met the Tidebreaker because Magnolia Reinhart called for our cities. Liscor’s hundreds of miles away. Gershal’s the one people liked with his stupid cheese. What am I supposed to do? Ride around with a jar of honey and fight across Izril? I can’t fight Draugr.”
Basal said nothing. His eyes were astonishingly pitiless, for all the compassion they held. The [Mercenary] waited as Salvia closed her eyes.
Yet Gershal had. His shoulders weren’t even as wide as hers with armor on. She remembered him, and he hadn’t looked like Zel Shivertail, who could have wrestled a Draugr.
Major Salvia turned away, now wondering, urgently, if the Liscorians would sell her the entire bottle of Rxlvn. She heard no hoofs, and when she turned back, the Centaur was watching her.
“Two days, Major.”
He called out after her back, and she fled, running away from that sword like a groundpounder. But it kept shining in her vision.
 
——
 
Vaunt, the City of Rinds, might never understand what they had lost. And they had already lost the man before they realized part of who he had been. By the time they had begun to mourn, two weeks had passed, and it was too late.
It had been too late before the Solstice ever began. Gershal of Vaunt was dead.
His legacy continued.
It was in a wheel of cheese that Salvia had packed onto the back of her horse, wrapped up in wax paper, in the [Soldiers] marching back the way they’d come in the distance, in trade deals with the Cheesemonger’s Guild from interested parties.
In the heft of a tankard, stories about the bravest [Lieutenant] you’d ever seen. And if you scoffed at that—you could walk to the Adventurer’s Guild in Vaunt and look up at a real monster.
They might put up a statue of him. They might tell stories or commission a song of Vaunt and the Cheeseeaters holding the line, embellish the tale or tell it half as well as it had actually happened.
—They would never know what came afterwards if Gershal had fallen back, run, or just survived. He was dead, and Major Salvia had not seen his end.
It would haunt her for the rest of her life despite her not even having known him as well as some. The sword she kept touching at her hip seemed to weigh her down. It felt like the wide-eyed [Riders] under her command sneaking glances at it could see some brilliant light.
Salvia of Nonelmar was a woman from a city with no great name. She did not define Izril. But she carried a sword that would drag her into the earth or change her. Gershal’s Blade was a curse. A promise she had to live up to or flee.
Her destiny was awhirl. The future the woman thought she’d seen, mundane and unpredictable, suddenly felt like someone had yanked the cloth of fate and it was carrying her on a journey she wasn’t ready for, hadn’t asked for—but she had taken the sword.
That was how they marked it, the Solstice of Liscor.
The living and the dead.
 
——
 
The Solstice had been a terrible killing field, but fewer nobles and officers had died than could be hoped for given the full scale of that calamity.
Well…Manus and Pallass had paid for that debacle badly. But that was the Drakes, so it was actually more of a net boon in the end.
The Night of Bloodtear had been the real bloodbath for nobility and [Knights], the people that mattered.
At least, as the Flowers of Izril saw it.
The nobility rarely gathered in such numbers, but when they did, it was at First Landing. The auspices of such meetings were usually banquets and dances, ballroom politics and veiled threats over veal.
—There was no such pretense right now.
Ulva Terland found the entire Conclave of Ships, the ruling body of House Wellfar, present and already arguing by the time she arrived. First Landing was the seat of power in the north, which meant that most nobles stayed close to it.
It presented a problem for, say, nobles further south like Tyrion Veltras or Lord Xitegen to arrive. It meant he was represented by one of his cousins.
A slight…normally. Given the circumstances, no one was going to hold him directly to account for his absence.
“Lady Ulva. Greetings.”
Someone swanned up to the head of House Terland in a moment, and Ulva’s Golem bodyguards instantly barred the way. She was notoriously not pleasant company, so Ulva was mildly surprised to be accosted.
Then, when she saw Lady Cecille Reinhart, a little warning bell rang in Ulva’s mind, and Cecille lifted a hand and flicked it a few times.
“Kisses. How are you, Ulva? It’s been decades since we last saw each other properly.”
The [Lady] pursed her lips at the air rather than try to get close to Ulva. She looked…well. Ulva recalled seeing Cecille two years ago at a ball, but for some reason…her spine prickled all the way up and down this time when she saw Cecille smile.
The vacuous, petty, and yes, cruel and self-centered woman that Ulva Terland remembered…was not the Cecille Reinhart of this moment. Oh, she had all that. But Ulva now saw, in the woman’s gaunt cheeks, her illusion spells that gave her a fuller bosom, her ringed fingers, and of course, the viper-green dress, something else behind that smile.
She was reminded, suddenly, of Cecille Reinhart’s youth. Ulva’s cousin, Ramone Terland, had once turned her down for a dance. Two months later, he’d fallen sick and nearly died of an insect sting or something; the swelling and scars had never left him.
Ulva Terland did not extend her own kisses of friendship. She glanced past Cecille as she murmured greetings and realized—there were more Reinharts present.
Nearly forty, each one accosting groups of surprised nobility of the other Five Families. They looked—different. Ulva murmured.
“My word. Is that Gorthes Reinhart over there? He looks—spritely.”
An overbearing man was crushing one of the younger Wellfar’s hands in a grip. He had the same quality as Cecille.
Sharpness. As if someone had taken a blade covered in rust and revealed metal underneath. Then Cecille smiled, and Ulva saw the blade had been coated in poison.
“We’ve been feeling…well, we have missed these gatherings, dear Ulva. The entire family is out for a night upon the city. Have you noticed my daughter and son, Damia and Wernel? They’re somewhere about.”
She waved a hand airly, and Ulva saw nervous servants of House Reinhart following a number of younger nobles around. The younger [Lords] and [Ladies] of House Reinhart seemed—pained. One was holding her head, and one of the [Lords] was frowning in what looked like novel cogitation over a chessboard. Ulva turned to Cecille, trying to suss out what was going on.
“Is all well, Lady Cecille?”
“Oh, well enough. We’re all lighting candles for dear Magnolia—don’t mind Damia and Wernel. They’re both learning to think—and neither one’s exactly happy. I banned them from sharing rooms, and I’ve practically had to open the door of a brothel to Damia. The things she thinks she can’t do—well, they’re adjusting.”
One of the Terlands had their mouth halfway open as they realized what Cecille was saying. Ulva just felt that prickling down her back intensify. You heard rumors about the Reinharts, but they had always been like that.
This reminded Ulva of her youth, and she nodded to Cecille once.
“Have the Five Families begun voting about House Walchaís yet? Has the news changed?”
That glittering smile of Cecille Reinhart drew in Gorthes as well as Controller Lectora, who was representing Xitegen, and two Wellfars and Lord Swey, who had a prosthetic, wooden hand.
“Vote? Why, most of us don’t even know what’s gone on, properly, Lady Terland. Lady Bethal is alive and in hiding…I understand she’s in your care, Ulva? Rather a lot of Golems stymying Magnolia’s servants. But for them, all Bethal’s precious [Knights] would be dead. How many has Magnolia killed?”
Enough. Ulva saw Controller Lectara bow, but her eyes were flashing hatred, and a voice spoke up, dry, pedantic, and the only one of the lot that Ulva even liked.
“I believe Lady Ulva would prefer to keep those details private given Magnolia Reinhart’s animosity. Greetings, all. I regret any lateness.”
Lord Deilan El, Maviola’s successor, was the only other head of the Five Families present and a reliable, if young, pick. He seemed—uneasy. Not used to so many Reinharts or the moment. Ulva should have taken him aside for a conversation, but she wasn’t used to dealing with Cecille.
Magnolia—yes. The head of House Terland spoke abruptly.
“I have placed Lady Walchaís under my protection until the events can be sorted out. Too many have died of late. Too many Flowers of Izril. One, just one of us, has come back, and an entire noble house should be put to the pike? Not until a decision is reached.”
Deilan hesitated, but Lord Swey, Controller Lectara, and even one of Wellfar’s [Ladies] twisted their mouths in clear dissent.
“Resurrection. If that even is little Thricia…I can’t tell, even with a Mage Picture. Are we all in bed with the likes of…the Temptress? It seems cut and dried like salt and surf to me.”
Cecille rolled her eyes at the barefoot [Lady] of House Wellfar.
“I love your cute aphorisms, Lady Cellenesa. Isn’t that what we’ve come to discuss?”
“On behalf of Lord Xitegen and, if I may add, House Veltras—”
Controller Lectara bowed to Lord Swey and got a nod.
“—we must insist on a forceful resolution to this debate. There can be no other consensus. One of the Flowers of Liscor has committed treachery against numerous members of the Five Families.”
“Yes, well. I’m more interested if that really is Thricia Walchaís or a very clever imposter.”
Cecille mused, and Ulva snapped back as Controller Lectara tried to speak.
“Lord Xitegen—”
“Xitegen is not the head of House Terland, Controller Lectara. I have met Thricia Walchaís, and I believe it is her. One of our own had been reclaimed from the Sacrifice of Roses. You were not there. Fall silent.”
The Controller stood to attention, and Ulva was conscious of multiple eyes on her. She clasped her hands together.
“Lady Bethal has thrown herself upon our mercy and begs for clemency. I am not desirous to see more blood spilt.”
“Tell that to the Oswens.”
Cecille remarked, and Lord Gorthes chuckled. There was a faint cracking sound—everyone jumped back as Lord Swey crushed his wineglass in his free hand. Red wine ran down his gloved hands as he dropped the glass and turned to Lady Ulva.
“House Veltras is of one mind, Lady Ulva. Some things cannot be forgiven.”
“And House Reinhart? I am aware of Magnolia Reinhart’s will. It is clear, without negotiation. I am surprised to see so many of her house here when her position is beyond debate.”
