Gods are circumstantially either the single most difficult type of adversary you will ever face or a trifling problem that can be resolved in little more than a few minutes. Circumstantially, meaning this is dependent on your Skills, your Path, and the amount of influence you wield in the world. Gods work differently from most Pathbearers. Yes, they're suffused with mana, but their mana is divine. It is an empowerment via faith.

They are effectively a higher form of attuned mana. A concept made manifest, noted by their governance of a Domain. Without getting into the greater complexities of Divinity, just think of faith as a temple. A temple that builds a perfect plane where new rules of reality and different modalities from a common framework of existence can manifest. If that's too complicated for you, just think of Gods as administrators. They make laws for the System, enforce new structures in reality, and give their faithful limited capability to perform miracles on their behalf.

Why do gods exist? That's a greater question that I haven't fully uncovered yet. But I suspect they are poles to the System's power. Their Domains and godly realms feed the System with more strife. For two warring gods can struggle for eons against each other, neither truly vanquishing the other, while their rivalry burns hot. The same can't be said about Pathbearers. Even Legends tend to resolve one another if there is a true grievance within the span of 500 years or so at the maximum.

However, I also have a second and more interesting theory: There is a possibility that gods are an antibody for the meek against the strong.

Even meager Pathbearers can serve as incredibly potent divine Avatars, assuming they fulfil whatever conditions the deity in question demands of an Avatar. When actively empowered by the might of their god, these Avatars can match the greatest of Pathbearers in their world and even strike them low.

Gods are not bound by the same limitations as a person is. But on top of that, a god can spread their influence to a great many people, and can reach out to countless little souls in a vast and uncaring world. Gods are, in a way, security blankets for us mortals, too small to comprehend the System in its eternity.

And because we are too meager to comprehend the System, it sends demiurges, angels.

Beings still immensely powerful, but far easier to comprehend. And since we can comprehend them to some extent, we can worship them.

We might just be feeding the System this faith while it ensures a sort of preservation for even the weakest of us, but that's just another theory.

You're here to find out how to kill a god. To start, you do not face a god as you would a rival Pathbearer. Most gods do not have a physical form you can kill once and be done with. That would make things too easy. Some of them have Divine Vessels, epitomized Avatars of sorts, but even those can be replaced.

No, the way to kill a god is through starvation. The most direct method is to kill all their worshipers, but there are other means as well. If a god is simply completely forgotten and no one worships them anymore, they suffer the same fate: they starve, their Divinity burns away, and they go out like a candle left alone in a long night.

But there is another way to shake a god as well. If you can get them to compromise their own Domain, to betray their own faith, then the damage you will deal to their soul will be sublime and catastrophic. For what right god will betray the tenets of its own scripture? For what right god will shatter the foundations of its altar to strike at a foe?

To those of you who are skilled and cunning enough to discover the answer to this question, let me offer you further incentive: It is a sweet and rarely achieved thing to make a god break themselves.

Always remember this: Hypocrisy is the way of mortals, but for gods, it is an unforgivable poison to ingest, and an act of suicide to perform, one that can be pushed onto them against their own volition.

—Practicing Atheism — Second Edition, By Udraal Thann (Number One Best-Seller among the Godhunters of Chorus, the City of the Twelve Worlds)

339

Backstage

Skill Evolution: Non-Sequitur (Unique) > Jump-Cut (Unique)

Skill Evolution: Phase Frame (Adept) > Walker of the Phantom Path (Master)

Skill Fusion: Walker of the Phantom Path (Master) - Jump-Cut (Unique) > Continuity Error (Unique)

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 174 > 178

Inertial Overdrive 301 > 304

Strider of the Unbending Path 190 > 193

Psychomancy 39 > 43

Pyromancy 37 > 40

Hydromancy 15 > 19

Portomancy 6 > 11

Aegis of Assimilation 145 > 149

Shiv's spiritual architecture was evolving again. Phase Frame, once a pillar unto itself, was assimilated, merged into the greater tower of his being. But Longinus didn't know that, and Shiv didn't know how this skill worked.

No time like the present to figure out some new tricks.

“I'm going to give you a counteroffer.” Despite Shiv's best attempts, he couldn't keep the hateful growl out of his voice. “You're going to release Georges. You're going to let all the slaves here go, and then you're going to let me kill you. Because alternatively? I'm going to drag this out. I'm going to make this hurt. I'm going to do things to you that I'll regret. I'm going to do things to you that will give me nightmares down the line. I’ll take it too far.”

And though Shiv barely knew Longinus's character, the god proved himself as predictable as he was powerful. “You're… going to take it too far?” An amused twitch pulled at his immaculate, almost statue-like features. “You know, it's almost precious. I can hear it in your voice. You're on the verge of tears. Everything I did to your beloved mentor… Well, mentor-to-be, this one here's not exactly the same guy, as I keep telling you. But what I did to my other, let's call them subjects... That bothered you, didn't it? I saw it in your eyes, how that boy's cries affected you. Why are you so bothered by how I treat my toys?”

There was a note of genuine curiosity in Longinus’ voice as he asked the question, and that made a shiver crawl up Shiv's spine. “Toys,” he breathed. His gaze was cold, but his heart was a roaring inferno of anger. “They're people. You've been treating people like they're things.”

Longinus cocked his head. “So?”

Shiv snorted in derision. His fingers flexed. “You’re just a piece of shit to the bone, aren’t you? Were you always a piece of shit, or did the degeneration do this to you?”

“Don't know. Don't really care. Frankly, it's kind of funny that you do. How did a brittle-hearted boy like you ever make it to Legend?”

“Mostly by fighting and killing things I had no business facing. It tends to make your skills level faster than forcing yourself on children.”

Longinus' imperious expression took on an ugly quality. Despite this little trade of barbs, he was taking it far more personally than Shiv was. That was saying something. The Deathless hated the god, but he was also far less fragile emotionally compared to Longinus. Every insult, every barb, every hurled curse Shiv sent Longinus' way made his incandescent form glisten like glass.

Sticks and Stones 96 > 98

“You know what, Deathless? I'm tired of this little recess. I'm tired of you spitting and yapping at me like the little angry dog you are.” Though another sneer spread across his face, the depth of his anger was blatantly obvious. “Since you seem to be turning down my gracious offer, I'll make clear to you what'll happen next: I'm going to break you down, and then I'm going to do whatever I want to you, the same way I do whatever I want to everyone else. Because that's the way of the world.”

But with every word Longinus spoke, he betrayed himself more and more to Shiv.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: We understand him enough to hurt him. He's left himself open. He's not a good rhetorician, nor does he think deeply about what he says or how he acts. He likes to imagine himself the god of this domain, but what he actually is here is a meager chef serving a Fae Princess. Worse yet, he is trapped in this realm and dances at the whims of a greater god—Evanescia. Here, he is no god at all. Perhaps he is a prisoner god of the kitchen, but he is in truth a slave, no more free than anyone else who is part of the Usurper-Narrator’s Narrative. Remind him. Scatter his focus. Grind his heart down and blind his mind.

“You know, of all the Ascendants, I think I know the least about you,” Shiv began. “Remind me what your Domains are again. One of them Traveling? What's the other one? Being a chicken-shit liar?”

Longinus’ face was sculpted and handsome, unnaturally so. His chin was pointed and his jaw strong. His cheekbones were practically blades. His eyes blazed with the by now familiar incandescence shared by the Ascendants, yet they were like harsh beacons that speared one to behold, unlike the Starhawk's welcoming glow. Said divinely handsome face now contorted into a look of absolute offense. “Alright, enough talking.”

Shiv ignored him. “You might have a bad memory, Longinus, but I don't. Let's do a little dementia check: How long have you been here? How long has Evanescia kept you flapping in this golden cage? How long have you worn Georges, pretending to be him? How long have you been slaving away in this kitchen, working for a Fae Princess, whom you keep having to refer to as ‘Her Hungriness’?”

Guided by his Psychology Skill, Shiv struck at the most vulnerable aspect of Longinus directly. “I'm honestly impressed that you can put up with that last part. You don't want to acknowledge anyone greater than you, but you have to, because you just can't break out of here. You're no less a slave than all the people you abused. Wait, is slavery one of your Domains? Is that what you are? Longinus, God of Slaves? The slave to enslave all other slaves?”

A wave of pure outrage detonated within Longinus’ emotional core. For all his bravado and arrogance and general cruelty, he himself was an open book. His skin so thin, his spirit so easily wounded. “I think I'm going to pierce you now.”

The God of Travelers thrust forth. His main lance surged forward, driving a column of absence through Shiv's chest. Every other lance he possessed surged in, and it was a crisscrossing rain of spearing missiles. A nexus of threads formed, painting veins of incandescence in the air, wrapping the space where Shiv once existed in a dense weave of divine mana. The few hundred dimensionals Longinus had summoned unleashed their spells as well, saturating the air with more attacks. Beams of Chronomancy were woven with coiling dragons formed from Cryo and Pyromancy. Detonations of Dimensionality boxed him inside a cage that made teleportation impossible and unleashed waves of falling stone, pulling millions of tons of matter from another place. Entire mountains formed from magical alloys formed and promptly exploded outwards, filling the air with shrapnel that served as anchors for bolts of lashing lightning.

Not even a Legendary skill like Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides would have allowed Shiv to survive this onslaught. Every single one of those attacks struck—just as Shiv triggered his Phase Frame.

Weirdness ensued.

One moment, Shiv was being shredded and scattered, his body destroyed and skewered from all sides. Then his Vitae flared, and the damage dealt to him—along with everything that struck him—detonated in a burst of vitality.

He promptly vanished without any hint of ever existing.

It should have been impossible. There was nowhere to evade in reality. So Shiv descended into somewhere that didn’t exist at all.

When Shiv tried to Phase Frame, he passed entirely through the threshold between worlds. Faster than he could properly perceive, he found himself tumbling through Integrated reality, through its farthest reaches, through the Outside—and then further. The attacks that were supposed to break him were rendered non-canon. The mana suffusing his being, wrapping him in a dense net of Divination, burst apart. A spray of violet essence filled the air, lingering as an afterimage, leaving a pseudo-decoy in his wake. That was what Longinus punched through.

It faded like a mirage a moment after, leaving a very confused god staring at nothing in particular within his torture dungeon of a kitchen.

Somehow, Shiv could still sense the veil of Integration. He was on the other side, cast beyond the grip of the System. The world here was a vague, geometric, featureless replica of the environment he'd been in. It was a shadowed place—a reflection of the space he just fled. And there was a slowness to how things moved out here as well, like Shiv had been disconnected from an overarching timeline. He made out vague forms around him. They were like clay figures. Longinus remained there; so did Georges within his body. Both lacked any distinguishing features or marks. They were merely models of who they used to be, models that glowed faintly with the mana that suffused them.

And that was another difference in this place. He could see mana. It shone brighter, clearer than ever before. He could distinguish all the spectrums. With reality's ambience banished from his senses, the nature of magic sang its melody to him in clear and crisp notes. And it wasn't just Longinus or Georges. All the dimensionals broadcast their wavelengths as well. Each one of their fields gave off a pinging sound rippling with their mana, and every single one was slightly different. Every single one cast a varied ripple across the shadowy sea that was Integration.

Shiv looked around, his brow creasing. “Where in the Broken Moon am I? What is this?”

“You're in the place that doesn't exist,” a tired, feminine voice sounded from behind him.

