Shiv turned hard—and saw no one. But mid-spin, he caught sight of something impaled through his arm. Several somethings. The lesser lances that had pierced him through remained inside him. The spells that burst against him continued to bloom and flare. They were still here, but they had been fused with his Vitae, wrapped in a crimson coat of vital essence.

Had he absorbed the attacks? They were burning in his stead. He wasn't expending any of his own life force yet, and he watched as a few of Longinus's rods faded. They were melting away at the far ends, like candles spent of wax, and they were melting oh so slowly. There was a lot of mana in the lances. Enough to serve as fuel on Shiv's behalf for quite some time.

“Yeah, so you might have noticed this skill is kinda weird.” Once more, the voice came. This time, it was directly in front of him. Shiv looked ahead and saw no one. “Sage, is that you?”

“No, I'm over here,” another voice answered by Shiv’s left. Spinning, he found himself faced by a spitting image of himself, except that this Shiv was clad in scholarly robes, sported a pair of spectacles that glinted a little too brightly—casting a reflection of Shiv back at himself—and had a brain so large it was pushing its way out from his cracking skull.

“Oh, okay—wait, what the hells?” Shiv began to nod before he did a hard double-take. Sage of the Enkindled Heart stared back at him.

“What?” the Psychology Skill given flesh asked.

“Why… why do you exist? Here, I mean?” Shiv had gone through a few weird skill evolutions before, but this one was really taking him for a loop. He wasn't even sure if he was still sane. Maybe Longinus had killed him. Maybe this was Shiv's final dying dream or something.

“No, this is absolutely not your dying dream. I would have told you otherwise. As you might have noticed, I'm very good at facing the things you like to avoid.” Sage adjusted his glasses while his brain mass jiggled tantalizingly.

Shiv tore his eyes away from the top of his copy's head and shook his head. “Wait, no, this makes no sense. You don't have a body.”

“Correct. I don't have a body in reality. But we're no longer in reality. This is somewhere else.” Sage looked around. “Well, I wouldn't call it an unreality, since it still exists in relation to reality. Consider all these shadowy shapes around you. It's exactly the same in terms of layout and look as the place you just left—only slightly obscured by the System. I think we are behind the curtain, so to speak. Considering the narrative and theatrical quality this new skill name has, I would call this place..."

"The Backstage,” the disembodied, girlish voice from earlier chimed in.

“Backstage,” a new voice breathed to Shiv's left. “Indeed! What a splendid suggestion!”

Shiv slowly turned to behold another another Shiv. This variation was dressed in a theater actor's ensemble. A long, flowing cape billowed behind him, and he wore a nice leather doublet paired with long black slacks and Twin Griffin brand leather boots. His most distinguishing feature, however, was the mask covering his upper face. It was a simple face painted in a smile, yet also presenting a teardrop in the corner of his left eye. Remembering various newspaper images he'd seen in his life, Shiv recognized it to be a generic Yellowstone Republic Thespian's mask.

“Let me guess, you're my Acting Skill,” Shiv said.

“What? No, you utter buffoon! I'm a Glimpse of Perspective! Your Philosophy skill!” The mask-wearing Shiv turned away in disgust. “Even here, even now, your stupidity endures. I'm trapped! I'm cursed! Even Backstage, there is no liberation from the ignoramus.”

The entire thing was getting hard to process. “Sage, are you sure I haven't gone insane?” Shiv asked, nudging the big-brained version of himself with an elbow.

Sage rolled his eyes and readjusted his spectacles once again. “Absolutely sure. You know what going insane feels like. The Jealousy broke your mind. The Recollector too. You're just dealing with a tremendously powerful Skill Evolution right now, but you'll get used to and master it, just as you have mastered all your other skills.”

“But maybe this one might be too much for him,” a voice declared behind Shiv.

He looked over his shoulder to behold another another another Shiv, this one cloaked in black robes. He wore a wide-brimmed hat of the same color, and the long, flowing fabric that shrouded his body had tall, winged collars that hid the under portion of his face. He also stood with his arms crossed and was squinting at Shiv. “I'll save you a guess. I am not what you think I am. I am not Stealth. I am a Gardener of Doubt. And if this place was untrue, I would hope it vibrated. I would hope the seeds in the soil shook and told me what is right from what is false.”

And just like that, three of Shiv's personality-infused skills were gathered around him. The moment he looked to one, the others stopped existing, but when he thought of them again, they just reappeared.

“Kind of how it seems to work out here,” the first, tired-sounding voice mumbled. But there was a difference between this voice and the three others. It was feminine and young, but also very flat in terms of tone. It was nothing like Shiv, so it couldn't be one of his skills—

“Well, I kind of am. I used to be Non-Sequitur. Who do you think kept offering you visions after you ended up shitting mom out?”

“Wait, what?”

“Yeah, you literally brought her back into the world and left me here in the dark. Well, kind of. I technically don't exist at all. So. Hooray!” The speaker appeared before Shiv without any warning. One moment, the only thing in front of him was the vague shape that represented Longinus—who seemed to be as confused as Shiv was right now. The next second, a young woman of Shiv's age stood before him. Her face was aquiline, borderline hawk-like if he had to give it a description. Her cheeks were hard and high. Her features were noble but also… awfully familiar. Actually, besides the golden hair, she looked like a female version of—

“Adam,” Shiv muttered. “No, wait, you can't be—”

“Yeah, I can't be,” the girl deadpanned as she rolled her eyes. "Adam's dead and sacrificed baby sister technically isn't real. That's kind of the problem. I don't exist. I can't. Despite Udraal’s best attempts, I remain pretty dead.”

Shiv gawked as the girl that didn't technically exist pouted. “Wait, but if you don't technically exist, then how are you here right now?”

“Because you subconsciously thought about me before. You keep expecting me to pop out with one of your skill evolutions, just like mom. This one hit the metric, or technically, it allowed me to become a tulpa.”

Shiv frowned. “A what-now?”

“The ignorance,” A Glimpse of Perspective moaned. “The dullness.”

“Ignore the drama queen over here. Daddy Dearest really did everything he could to fuck up your basic education, huh?” Adam’s nonexistent sister smacked her lips together. “A tulpa is a mental construct or being that is made manifest by someone believing in it hard enough. Think of it as an imaginary friend you bring into reality by thinking about them super hard. Except this isn't reality. This place technically doesn't exist. Nothing exists here. Only you do. Well, sort of. You are the only thing that gives this place definition. And because there are no governing laws or rules or things to give this place structure, whatever you think kind of leaks over. That's my guess anyway.”

“You guess,” Shiv whispered. "You don't know?"

“No shit, I don't know. I didn't technically exist up until a few seconds ago, when you evolved the skill. The only reason I said I gave you those visions is that you ended up getting part of my essence after Udraal sacrificed me. I was kind of all tangled up with Mom in flesh and mana.” She shuddered. “Kinda gross, having to recall your own murder. Also kinda gnarly that your dad was the one who stabbed me, huh?”

Shiv struggled to find the words. “You… seem to be taking it pretty well.”

“Yeah, that's basically because you want me to take it well. Again, not technically real. I guess you can call me your ‘Continuity Error Skill’ or your ‘Vision Girl’ since I exist behind the curtain and can peek over other people’s shoulders for you—"

“And that's why I still kept getting premonitions after Rose left?” he asked for clarification.

The girl that didn't technically exist shot him an annoyed look and ignored his question. “Anyway, you have to understand that everything here is mostly a facet of your mind bleeding over into material reality. What's mental and what's material doesn't really hold many rules here. There's not a lot of weight. Your magic also doesn't make too much sense here, because, well, what's there to reference? There are no lores or people in this place. You're the only one here. Frankly, I would call you a god in his domain here, except there's nothing to rule over and there's nothing to shape, and we're only existing in a sort of penumbral, backroom of reality given structure by the place you just escaped from.”

Shiv stared on. The Sage coughed on his behalf. “Go easier. This is a lot to take in, and he is still processing a tremendous amount of emotional shock from what happened to Georges and what Longinus did to those people.”

The mention of the Wanderer’s name was what snapped Shiv back to focus. “Longinus. He's still there. He still has Georges. We need to get back—”

Shiv found himself cut off as a colossal, world-swallowing tidal wave of incandescent mana passed through him without ever brushing his body or soul. He could still sense the oscillating frequency, the color of magic. Then, before the tsunami of divine mana could even cease, there came a fluttering of pages washing over him. Back in the material world, Evanescia was reverting the Fairwoods. One page was flipped; two more followed, but then the pages flipped forward again, and the reset was undone.

Shiv scowled in confusion. “Evanescia is doing something.”

“More like she's trying to figure out what or who went missing,” the girl who didn't exist guessed. “Think about it. You left context, and unlike all the other times, you didn't pop back up after a few seconds. You stayed gone. There's an entire special storyline that's running in the Summer Court, one that's probably made just for you. A few minutes ago, the lead character of that arc fled Backstage and isn't coming back out. Now, the audience, because they suffer from object permanence, don't remember you exist. And by audience, I mean Evanescia.”

***

The Usurper-Narrator shifted the scenes back and forth.

Time advanced. Time regressed.

She regarded Longinus and the Summer Court. Judging by all the damage and evidence left within The Boiling Toad and on Plum Blossom’s table, it was certain someone had been here.

But there were lines missing from the story. It was like reading a nonsensical series of events that just happened without a clear chain of cause and effect.

Kelp soup had been made for the Princess of the Harvest, but who had made it? Why had they made it? How had they made it?

All these details were missing. Someone had attacked Longinus, but that was all she knew. Longinus had been attacked. His kitchen realm had been damaged and intruded upon, but everything was without description. There was something missing, something that was altogether absent from the world. Something that had been there before and was now gone.

A chill glided up Evanescia's spine. A breath escaped her. She'd missed that sensation. Was someone trying to steal her dimension from her? Did she actually have a competitor? A fellow Reader? Perhaps another construct like her sent by her creator? Or, more likely, by Udraal?

And she wasn't the only one who was confused. Longinus was looking around, utterly lost. Princess Plum Blossom wasn't sure why she was so mad, and a few of the Bread-Knights that Evanescia had inserted herself into during the last loop were lost as well. They had deviated from their routine, had been tasked with accompanying someone into the keep.

But that someone was missing from their memories. So were eight full hours of time.

With a thought, the Usurper-Narrator inserted herself into her strongest Mythic character as a safety precaution. She wasn't sure what was wrong, but until she could figure things out again, she wanted to stay extra safe so that she could actually get to the suspenseful part of the story and uncover just who had managed to escape from the pages of her book.

***

“Wait a minute. Who was I trying to stab?” Longinus scratched the back of his head. He looked around, surveying the expanse of the Boiling Toad. His many slaves were still in position, yet they had gathered at the windows of their shanties, staring out from atop rooftops while some huddled and hid between the narrow crevices of their shacks as they often did when a purge was set to follow.

His grill district was utterly destroyed. There was a series of deep punctures, all made by his own lances. Longinus didn't break his own things on a whim. He must have been trying to strike at someone, but whom? He couldn't recall anything.

***

Uva noted the world flipping back and forth just as she piloted Mara toward the slave collector. The others in the Bell-Hold were assembling, preparing to board the Deepdiver’s tentacle for their descent into the Gnomish Underkingdom. But then, time halted, and the narrative was reversed.

For a moment, Uva wondered if the loop was about to reset. Then, the pages were suddenly flipped back forward, and time was allowed to resume as normal.

