The Seeker hesitated. Something was very wrong. More worryingly, there was a missing spot in her own mind as well.

Did you take something from me, Evanescia? A portion of my memories? A bit of my mind? No answer came. But Uva didn’t let it go. Whatever was lost, I will take back. And I will make you understand the shame of our shared sin before this trial is done. So I swear to the Composer—and to myself.

***

Adam's eyes snapped open. His ever-blossoming senses still hammered against his skull from the inside, threatening to crack his consciousness like an egg. Across from him, the Culturist shook. Beads of sweat rolled down the orc's large gray face like a waterfall. “What happened?” Adam groaned. “Did the loop just get reverted?”

“No,” the Culturist replied. His eyes were closed. His brow was furrowed in deep concentration. His focus refused to break, but he was under immense strain, and on Adam's behalf, no less. “Only a few seconds were reverted, and then those seconds were spun back forward. The Usurper-Narrator is looking for something.”

“For what?”

“I am not certain. And with the way she was flipping back and forth, I don't think she is either.”

***

“Anyway,” the girl who didn't exist continued, “I think you have about two hours until you burn through all that assimilated mana and start spending your own vitality to keep yourself existent out here.”

“Two hours,” Shiv gasped. That was far more time than he'd expected. But also, two hours gave him options. In those two hours, he might be able to fix his damaged skills. He could also stalk and study Longinus. It wouldn't be clear or easy. He couldn't hear anything from the real world, but he could still observe the god to a limited degree and ambush him when the opportunity presented itself.

Like right now, Shiv realized. He can't remember me. Doesn't know I'm here. There's nothing stopping me from tearing into him.

“There really isn't,” the girl who didn't exist agreed, “but as Sage might say, it'd be foolish just to rush in. However…” A smirk grew on her face. "…you don't need to rush in. You can cut at him from the other side, and you don't even need to fully surface. It'll just cost you."

"Cost me?" Shiv replied. Cost me what?"

"Oh, you know, a hit of vitality. It'll probably burn through most of your stores. It's a pretty intensive operation, reaching over through the veil to affect Integration from the other side. Who knows how much of your assimilated mana it'll burn through? I don't. But aren't you curious to find out? After all, you got quite a bit of mana to spend. So how about it, Shiv? Let’s see you take this new skill for a spin, and add a few Continuity Errors to Longinus’s body.”

Despite how off-putting the Backstage was, and the aberrant nature of a girl who didn't exist, that was all it took to convince Shiv.

Without waiting, the Deathless glided over to the vague form of Longinus. His cutting aura radiated with new intensity, but the cleaving crescents passed through Longinus without harming him.

“Remember, you're on the other side of Integration,” the girl who didn't exist explained. “You can't just take a swing and hit something. You're not that close. You gotta dip across, and that means passing through the veil a little bit, reaching an arm over, sending an attack or a spell, and breaching the borders. That'll cost you something, so let's see what the vitality tax is.”

“How do I do that?” Shiv asked.

“The same way you came over,” the girl explained. She had her chin resting on a hand now, floating sideways in the air in front of him as if lounging on a nonexistent couch. “Try evading again… but maybe only with a part of yourself.”

Shiv looked at his crimson claws, trembling with edges that sought to rip the bedrock of a soul, and stared up at Longinus, who was still manifested above his unwilling Avatar in the form of a towering centaur. “Right. Dodge with a part of myself. Time to figure out how that works.”

He concentrated and tried to Phase Frame a specific part of his body. The Vitae that comprised him flickered. His arm combusted, and he felt a rush of cold hammer against his sides. It was like he tore down a set of walls he didn't know existed, and the non-existence that waited beyond came rushing in to fill the now unoccupied space. The divine lances stuck in his body evaporated en masse—spent to facilitate Shiv's action. But another miracle followed: his hand crossed over from the Backstage into Integration, and he felt a sudden jarring impact travel up his arms as his fingers raked across a godly face.

Even from the Backstage, Shiv could see the scratches he left on Longinus, could see how the god flinched. He quickly drew his arm back before he spent too much of himself.

“Well, that burned enough vitality to cut you down to maybe an hour.” The girl who didn’t exist whistled. “Expensive skill. But hey, you’re still here. You didn’t get dragged back over into reality like with Outside Context Problem—and there’s no obvious decoy like with Non-Sequitur, is there?”

“Yeah,” Shiv said, opening and closing his hand as he watched Longinus clutch his face in a pantomime display of vivid agony. “I think I can get used to being back here.”

Continuity Error 201 > 203
