“I. I am. But it is wrong. All is wrong. When the many become one, it is Aberration. I am Aberration.”
“Why? What’s wrong?”
The Worker just looked at her blankly, as if trying to explain reality to her.
“I cannot be individual. I cannot have names. I cannot choose my own actions. It is wrong. I am no longer one of the Workers. I am…me. This is wrong.”
“Klbkch did it.”
The Worker shook his head. He opened and closed his four hands restlessly.
“He is Prognugator. I am—was Worker. I should not be.”
Erin turned her head.
“You’re fine. You should be. It’s fine to be a person and not a thing.”
“I cannot understand. I am Aberration. All is Aberration. This Hive—I cannot accept it. Why am I sad? Why am I sad? What have you done to me?”
“…I’m sorry. But I wanted you to feel something.”
“I feel. I feel all.”
“Good.”
Erin kept walking, but the Worker stopped. He started twitching again, and then his gaze snapped to the back of her head. Slowly, the Worker increased his pace until he was right behind Erin. She didn’t notice, lost in her thoughts.
In the silence, the Worker reached out for Erin as he walked behind her. The other Workers watched as they followed. They said not a word.
“I don’t know what it means to be me.”
Erin said it as she walked along. She didn’t know how to explain it to the Worker. She had to say—something. To tell him what it was like.
“I don’t even know what it means to be Human. All I know is that there’s a big hole in my heart. Because Klbkch and the Worker died. I don’t know who I am or what I’m doing. I’m just—sad.”
The Worker paused. His hands hesitated at the back of Erin’s neck.
“Why?”
Erin smiled. Tears rolled down her cheeks as she walked through the grass.
“I just am. That’s how it works. You don’t get to choose to be someone. You just are. Even if you’re not special. Even if you don’t want to be. You just are.”
He paused. Slowly, the Worker lowered his hands.
“I do not understand. But—I am. And I too am sad.”
“Good. That’s—that’s good.”
Erin sniffed and wiped at her eyes and nose. The Worker slowly walked faster until he was next to her.
“Innkeeper—Erin Solstice. I am sorry for the death of Klbkch and the Worker. I regret their death and your suffering.”
“Thank you.”
They walked on in silence. Eventually, the Worker spoke again.
“I am no longer a Worker. I am an individual. I would like a name.”
She looked at him.
“I can’t help you. I’m not—I can’t give you one. Couldn’t you ask your Queen?”
He shook his head.
“I—do not wish to. I must have a name. Where may I find one?”
“I don’t know. Can’t you choose one for yourself?”
The Worker paused. He turned his head to Erin and hesitated before nodding.
“I will do so.”
She waited. After a minute of walking, the Worker spoke again.
“I would like to be known as ‘Pawn.’ It is a fitting name for this individual.”
Erin nodded. She gave him a weak smile.
“Hi, Pawn.”
“Hello. Erin Solstice.”
“…Will your friends be like you?”
Pawn looked over his shoulder. The other Workers looked away. He bowed his head.
“They are afraid. They will not be like me.”
“That’s fine.”
“But I have told them what it means to regret the passing of individuals. They understand.”
“Really? Good.”
Pawn nodded.
“They—we. We are all sad.”
“…I’m glad.”
They came to the inn on the hill and the bodies. Erin stared down at the blood and collapsed. She’d forgotten they were still there.
Pawn caught her before she hit the ground. He helped her up, and Erin sat down while the other Workers surrounded the area. They paused as they surveyed the wreckage of the inn and corpses and then seemed to come to a decision. As one, the Workers began hauling the corpses away while others of their number began digging several hundred feet away from the inn. More still entered the inn and began dragging out broken wood.
Erin sat in the grass and looked away. She glanced up as one of the Workers dragged out the body of their comrade. Then she threw up.
Eventually, Erin felt someone tap her on the shoulder. She looked up and saw it was Krshia.
“Erin Solstice. I was looking for you, yes? The Workers, they have finished their cleaning.”
She looked and saw it was true. The area around the inn was clean. Even the grass had been cleaned with water, and the Workers stood silently around the inn. They were all staring at her.
“Thanks.”
She said it to Pawn and then to the other Workers. They nodded as one.
“We assist to maintain order and preserve peace.”
“Thank you.”
Krshia stared at the sign above the Wandering Inn. She looked around and then followed Erin as the Human stepped inside.
“So, this is your inn, yes? It looks better than I had thought. Worth defending.”
Erin nodded. She looked around the empty room. The Workers had cleaned it almost to perfection. All the broken chairs and tables were gone. But they hadn’t touched one thing.
A splintered chess piece lay on the floor. Erin slowly walked over to it. It stared up at her, a Drake caught in mid-strike, a spear in his hands.
She looked down at the broken knight piece on the floor and picked up the base. Carefully, Erin put it in her pocket and looked around. Silent Workers filled the room. More stared through the windows.
Erin looked around. She saw the chess board and picked it up. It was heavy in her hands. She remembered sitting at a table and staring at a brown ant across the board.
Her eyes stung, but there weren’t any tears left. Erin brushed at her eyes and then turned with the chess board.
Slowly, Erin brought the board out and set it down in the grass outside the inn. The Antinium formed a huge circle around her, and Pawn stood in the center next to Erin. She sat down and placed the board in front of her. She gestured, and Pawn hesitated, then sat opposite her.
Erin looked at him. He was a bit shorter than Klbkch, thinner, and his features were somehow less sharp than Kblkch’s had been. He looked nothing like Klbkch at all, in fact. But her heart still hurt to look at him.
Slowly, Erin put the broken knight on her side of the chess board. Pawn rearranged the pieces on his side. She stared at him. She stared up at the sky. It was too blue, too pristine for a day like this. It wasn’t even night yet.
The sky should be raining blood. The world should be filled with darkness, and the earth should have opened up and swallowed her whole. She should have been paralyzed by sadness, but Erin just felt hollow. She understood nothing. It wasn’t fair. It wasn’t right.
And there was nothing she could do about it. So Erin moved a piece on the board. The broken knight moved up to C3. She looked at Pawn. He stared back, and the rest of the Workers stared with him at the Human who wept for Antinium.
Erin bowed her head.
“Let’s play chess.”
