Selys found Erin sitting next to Krshia’s stall in the marketplace. The Human had curled up into a ball and was hiding her head in her arms. A Gnoll, Krshia Silverfang, was standing at her stall as if waiting for another customer. 
At first, it seemed like she was ignoring Erin, but then Selys saw how Krshia was staring. Staring—and not even Lism said a word, nor the hostile Drakes and Gnolls standing at a distance. She let Erin weep as Selys hesitantly approached.
“Hi? Erin? Are you—are you okay?”
“Go away.”
Erin didn’t look up. Selys hesitated and then came to stand by the stall.
“Hi, Krshia. Um, how’re you?”
The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] sniffed and nodded without smiling to Selys.
“Miss Selys. I am well, but Erin is not. She is resting here, away from unkind words. If you have any, you will leave, yes?”
Selys raised one hand as her tail twitched.
“No, not me. I just wanted to see how Erin was doing. I, uh, heard what happened.”
“Everyone in the city has heard.”
Krshia nodded. She finished arranging a display of onions.
“It is a dark time. Others mourn, but many are simply upset. The death of Klbkch, it is a bad sign for the city. He was our link to the Antinium. Without him, there will be trouble, perhaps terrible events. But it is wrong to blame it all on a single Human. So think I and other Gnolls.”
“Really. Really? That’s surprising. I, uh, thought you lot would think differently.”
Krshia shrugged. She crushed a rotten onion and tossed it in a bin of refuse behind her with more force than necessary.
“Blood and death. It is not Erin Solstice’s fault where Klbkch chose to fight and die. It is not her fault the Goblins attacked, yes? We do not blame those who are not guilty.”
“That’s good.”
Selys looked at Erin. She wasn’t moving. Tears trickled down her cheeks.
“Look, Erin, I wanted to talk to you. I know this isn’t a good time, but I don’t think you should go back to your inn. You should stay here, at least for tonight.”
Erin didn’t move. Selys glanced at Krshia. The Gnoll shrugged impassively. Selys tried again.
“I know you felt safe in the inn, but after this, things will be different. It isn’t just about Goblins. If the Watch doesn’t patrol the plains, more monsters will start appearing. Without protection or high levels, you won’t survive.”
Again, no response. But then Erin wiped her eyes on her sleeve before she buried her head back down.
“Look—I could get you a job in the Adventurer’s Guild as a receptionist. Some of the others might not like it, but you’d be safe there, and you’ll earn enough to eat and live in the city.”
This time Erin moved. She shook her head slightly.
“No.”
Selys opened her mouth, but Krshia placed a huge furry hand on her shoulder and shook her head. She squatted down next to Erin.
“Erin. I regret the loss of Klbkch. He was a strange one, one of the Antinium, the Black Tide which came from Rhir, but a good one, yes? Many in the city mourn his death. But he would not want you to die. Without the Watch suppressing the monsters—there will be worse at your door in the wilderness. Even so close to a Drake city. You must know this.”
“And it’s not like you have to stay here forever. We could look into finding you a place in a Human city if you really didn’t like it. It’s just that it’s a bad time to be here. I know it’s not your fault, but the others—”
“I’m not going.”
“Look, Erin, I know how you’re feeling but—”
“I’m not going.”
Erin stood up. Her eyes were swollen and red with tears. Her nose was dripping, and she wiped her face on her sleeve. She glared at Selys.
“I’m going back.”
“Not a good idea. Those Goblins might still be out there.”
“They’re all dead.”
“But—there’s monsters. Just stay here. I have an apartment. You can stay the night, okay?”
“No.”
“Erin, please.”
Selys wanted to say something more, but she looked over Erin’s shoulder and gasped.
“Oh my—”
Erin turned. The street had gone deathly quiet. Every shopper and shopkeeper in the marketplace was looking in the same direction. They slowly backed away as a procession of dark insects slowly walked through the market.
They weren’t Soldier Antinium. They were just Workers, but there were nearly a hundred of them as they slowly walked towards Erin. The group stopped a few feet from her as Selys stepped behind the counter and Krshia sneezed.
Erin looked around. Black-bodied Worker Antinium filled the street. They stood in front of her. Suddenly, they all bowed their heads, and the Worker in front spoke.
“These ones offer condolences to the Innkeeper Solstice.”
Selys whispered in a panicked voice to Krshia and Erin.
“What are they doing? They shouldn’t be here! Someone should call the Watch!”
Krshia nudged Selys hard.
“Silence. Listen.”
The Worker continued.
“These ones wish for the Innkeeper Solstice to heal from wounds received. These ones express their regret for her suffering.”
Erin stared at him stupidly.
“Why?”
The leading Worker appeared confused.
“It is part of custom. These ones are taught to express regret/sadness/loss for death in appropriate mourning moments. To cease work during funerals to not disturb Liscor’s citizens.”
He said this all so abstractly, as if they were rules he had to obey without knowing why. Erin just stared at him.
“But I didn’t die. What about Klbkch? What about your—friend? The other Worker? He died protecting me.”
The Worker paused and then shook his head.
“The Prognugator carried out his duties. The Worker died carrying out his duties. No mourning is necessary for broken shells and dead individuals. These ones merely express regret of individual Klbkch’s failure to protect.”
Erin stared at him.
“So you’re saying you’re sorry I got hurt?”
“These ones express regret for the failure of the Prognugator to protect the Innkeeper Solstice.”
The Worker said it so blankly, almost accusatory, that Erin’s head rose. Her hand tightened on the stall as she pulled herself up.
“It wasn’t failure. Don’t—don’t say that.”
The Worker froze—then bowed his head again. All the other Workers did likewise, and its antennae trembled.
“This one offers apologies for its mistake.”
She waited, but that was all. It glanced up at her like a child. It didn’t understand why she was mad, but it was afraid of her.
“Can’t you feel sorry? For Klbkch? And your friend?”
“This one apologizes. But this one cannot. These ones offer regret to the Innkeeper Solstice.”
Erin waited. But the Worker just kept its head bowed.
“Is that it?”
“Yes. These ones will disperse to assigned duties. Forgive these ones for disturbing the Innkeeper Solstice and others.”
As one, the Workers turned. Erin hesitated.
“Wait.”
They stopped and turned back to her. She paused and closed her eyes. Erin took a deep breath and then looked at the Worker.
“…Come to my inn. I’ll feed you, and you can play chess with me.”
“What? Erin!”
Selys grabbed for her, but Erin was moving. She reached out and touched the lead Worker on the shoulder. He went very still.
“You said you’re sorry? I’m sorry. It was my fault Klbkch and the other Worker died. And that’s a bad thing. Even if you can’t understand it, I want to do something. Let me help you. Somehow.”
The Worker hesitated.
“These ones are not permitted to leave the city or move about without permission.”
“Why not?”
“These ones are not suitable for independent action. These ones must not be unaccompanied.”
“I’ll accompany you. Just—come with me. Please? It doesn’t have to be all of you. What about just you? What’s your name?”
The Worker went deathly still. All the Workers did. Erin looked at them curiously. Selys gasped and ran forward.
“Erin!”
She grabbed the Human’s shoulder urgently. Selys whispered loudly in Erin’s ear.
“You never ask them what their names are! They don’t have any!”
“Why not?”
The Worker shuddered and looked at Erin. Selys raised one hand as her tail thrashed wildly.
“They just don’t!”
“This one has no name. This one is not important. This one is not an individual.”
“You could be.”
“Erin!”
This time, Selys tried to grab Erin and drag her away. Erin fought her hands off.
“Why? What’s wrong?”
She poked the Worker in the chest.
“You’re an individual. You’re you. And the Worker who died? He was someone. Klbkch was someone. You’re all important, and that means when one of you dies, it’s a bad thing.”
The Worker shook his head as the other Workers around him backed away. He began trembling and shaking. Erin thought she knew him. Wasn’t he part of the twelve who had come to the inn? Now—his hands shook, all four of them, a tremor as if he were suddenly freezing. It was in his voice too.
“This one is not an individual. This one cannot be.”
“You are. Can’t you understand? You’re all special.”
“Stop saying thAt.” 
The [Innkeeper] froze. She heard a strange sound in the Worker’s voice. It was trembling, and Selys turned dead white under her scales.
“Tribes—Erin, back away.”
Krshia reached below the counter of her stall as the people in the street suddenly backed away. The Workers closed around the one who Erin was talking to. He was clutching at his head.
“stOp talkinG. Stop askING me—”
“Hey. Hey…don’t be upset. I’m just asking you…are you okay?”
She reached out, and he grabbed her arm. So hard her skin bruised. Cold chitin dug into her skin, and Selys made a sound as Krshia slowly pulled something up and pulled a bowstring back. But Erin just stared into the Worker’s gaze.
She was crying. Tears ran down her cheeks. They had stopped, and now they returned. The Worker gazed at her.
“Stop tHaT. Stop weeping for hiM. Stop aSKING mE—”
His fingers hurt. But Erin didn’t draw away or move as Krshia hissed at her. She just reached out and gently took hold of one of his arms. 
“I’m sorry. But he was kind to me. Don’t hate him. Don’t say bad things about him. He saved me.”
“You don’t know what he was.”
The Worker whispered. He was shaking so badly now that she saw his mandibles opening and closing. Opening and closing, and a razor mouth behind them. His fingers began to dig into her skin.
“Don’t ask—this one is not Klbkch. Not individual. We are worthless. Just like the one who died there. No names. Not like him.” 
It was almost pleading with her. Erin looked at the Worker, and she whispered back.
“You could be. I wish I knew that Worker’s name. I wish I’d known him. I wish I could do it all again. You don’t have to have a name. But do you want to?”
A sound like a keening scream came from the Worker’s mouth. A third hand rose from her arms and grabbed Erin’s throat. It began to tighten, and Krshia whispered a word as she swung up her bow.
Then the Worker looked into Erin’s eyes, at the blurred hazel depths filled with tears. It shook and shook until it seemed like it could shake no more and the world was falling to pieces. Its world. It let go of her suddenly and stumbled backwards.
Eight Workers had been dragging it back, but the single Worker had been locked in place so fiercely that their fingers and arms had been cracking its shell without moving the Worker. Now, they tumbled back. An arrow passed straight over the Worker’s head and thunked into Lism’s stall. The Drake stared at it. Then—at the Worker.
He lay on his shell, staring up at the sky. Erin stared down at him—and appeared in his line of sight. Someone was shouting for the Watch—but the Worker didn’t move. He didn’t scream or shriek. He just lay there.
“Are you alright?”
She stared down at him. Slowly, the Worker got up, and the other Workers pulled Erin back, making a shield between her and—
This one. The citizens of Liscor, Krshia—some had drawn blades and others were calling for the Watch, but the Worker did not shout. His trembling had ceased.
He felt at his shell and looked around. For a long time, no one said a word. He stared at Erin, and then at last, spoke. Wonderingly, confused.
“This one—I understand. This one has become I.”
Selys gasped in horror. The Worker stared down at his hands and then looked up.
“I understand sorrow. I understand regret for the death of individual Klbkch and Worker. I was wrong. It was a sad thing. For Klbkch. For the Worker. Then death is sad. Then it is all…sad.”
He looked around, and the Worker’s antennae waved. His hands shook, but without the wildness of before. He stared around as if a great weight suddenly rested on him. He looked at his kin, and they were frozen. But Erin just nodded.
“Good.”
Erin didn’t notice the other Workers backing away. The Worker that she’d addressed quivered. His hands opened and closed restlessly. Selys and the other Drakes instantly backed up. Krshia slowly reached below her counter for another arrow. But the Worker was just prodding at his head, feeling at his body as if it had changed suddenly and he was no longer sure if he had the right one.
“I. I am. I have become I. I do not understand.”
He looked around, up at the sky, at Erin. He shook like a leaf.
“If this one—is not—how are the many one? An individual cannot exist—the many are—how am I?”
He shook. Erin grabbed him.
“I don’t know. I try not to think about it. Come on. Let’s play a game of chess.”
He stared at her. Selys was trembling, and the air in the marketplace was tense. But then the Worker nodded.
Erin turned.
“I’m going.”
She began walking out of the marketplace. The Worker followed her, and the rest of the Antinium followed in a silent, winding procession. Selys stared at Erin’s back, eyes wide. She looked at Krshia.
“She’s insane. They’re going to kill her. It’s going to kill her. That was an Aberration—”
Krshia nodded. Her teeth were bared, and her fur was standing on end, but she had a quiver of arrows now.
“Yes. It was an Aberration but it wasn’t. At least—not yet. Is that how it happens? I do not know. Let us follow quickly, yes? Silverfangs, to me! Get every [Warrior] you can find.”
“What?”
Selys yelped, but Krshia was already gone from behind her counter. She barked something at another Gnoll and strode in the direction the Antinium had gone. Selys stared around at the other wide-eyed Drakes and then ran after Krshia.
 
——
 
The Worker walked behind Erin, and his fellows followed the two in a silent mass. She left the city gates behind, ignoring the Drake shouting at her. She walked as fast as she could, trying not to think, to feel.
Behind her, the Worker shuddered and twitched as he walked. Erin ignored that, but she heard him begin to mutter as he walked along.
