“What were you going to do to him!?” Stuart demanded, pressing the stick closer to Ro-den, almost touching his chest. “There is NO GOOD REASON for you to say secret words to him or prevent him from talking to me!”

Alden eyed the professor warily. He targeted Stuart, thinking he’d feel better if he had a nearby entruster at least.

“I entrust you with the nearest chair and ask you to protect yourself with it from any and all harm! Worli Ro-den as the lord who has fed and sheltered you I will exact—”

“Wait, wait, wait now, Stu-art’h! I was just trying to give Alden the choices that you aren’t willing to present to him. You boys both need to open your thoughts to reason before something—”

“I should skewer you! Did you use magic on him? Alden, did he?”

“I’m fine.” Alden was backing toward the nearest chair, trying to keep an eye on the threat and his friend and figure out what they were both talking about. He’d just dropped the grapes onto the table and put his right hand on the chair when the threat suddenly threatened. Alden caught a twitch of motion near Ro-den’s right hand and saw the sheen of a string slinking out of his sleeve to wrap around his thumb.

“Auriad!” he shouted.

And since he couldn’t get between Ro-den and Stuart with his chair shield in time, he flung the only other thing he had. A cantaloupe shot across the room and slammed into Ro-den’s face.

Or into something that sprang into reality around Ro-den’s face. Maybe. Alden barely caught a glimpse of it, but instead of howling in pain from a broken nose, Ro-den was blinking in apparent confusion as melon shards spattered the wall behind him and the suitcase at his knees.

Alden ran at him with the chair, its legs pointed forward to join Stuart’s stick. “Is that thing like a giant wand?” he asked. “He was moving his auriad! Don’t we need to get out of here? Should I—”

Both Artonans were glancing at him in between watching each other.

“You threw fruit at his head.”

“Why did you throw fruit at me?”

“I’ve never had that fruit before,” Stuart said. “This is your fault, Ro-den!”

“I thought he was going to attack you with his auriad!” Alden exclaimed.

“No, it was just moving a little because he’s scared of me.”

“I’m not scared of you.”

“Sit down at my table and say those words!”

Ro-den straightened himself and flicked a piece of melon off his shoulder onto the floor. He turned both eyes on Alden. “I see now,” he said slowly. “If a simple motion of my auriad makes you think I’m trying to attack Stu-art’h, you really have no trust in me at all.”

He looked sad. He sounded a little sad.

Alden’s emotions stirred. Was it wrong of me to throw the cantaloupe? That might have been wrong. I don’t want to hurt anybody.

The hot air in this room smelled sweet and melony.

“Alden…I release you from all the limitations placed on you by the contract we have together, symbolized by the mark we called the Triangle of Absolute Secrecy,” Ro-den said in English.

Alden stilled, then gasped as the words finally made it through his confusion.

Ro-den gave him a familiar, Joeish smile. “I see you’re relieved. But I hope, if there is even the smallest amount of forgiveness in you, that you will hear me out in private before you reveal what was hidden. Telling these secrets is something you may not want to do. I would like to explain why to you.”

Stuart looked at Alden, his whole face lighting up with excitement. Ro-den swept past them both and took a seat in one of the chairs at the table. “Stu-art’h, Alden Thorn now has no contract with me. As you requested.”

Stu waited like he was expecting something to happen for a few seconds. Then he beamed even more. “It’s true! Alden, I did it. I hope it was all right! I hope you’re all right!”

“Alden, I’d like to talk to you alone,” Ro-den said a bit more insistently.

“Do you mean him any harm at all?” Stuart demanded.

“Of course not.”

“Do you intend to lie to him?”

“No.”

“Do you intend to mislead him?”

“I won’t try to.”

Alden thought there was a pause before Ro-den said that. A very slight one. But maybe it was only his imagination.

Stuart caught his eye. “He’s telling the truth,” he said uncomfortably. “I’ve made it so that he has to when he sits at that table.”

Is that why this place looks different than it used to? Stuart did something to it?

“But,” said Stuart, “if…Alden, part of the secret is about your skill, isn’t it? I wish you’d tell me before having a private talk with him. If you don’t want to, I’ll understand. But…I wish it.”

He did this for me, Alden realized. He figured out what was wrong all by himself. I’m not going to have to act like a dick to him and hide the truth for months and months.

That chest in the corner was familiar. What was it doing here? And, somehow, Stuart had gotten Ro-den here, too. And he’d gotten a magic truth table and some kind of epic magic staff involved. There was clearly a story here Alden didn’t know the half of.

But he did all of this just so I could talk to him.

Alden looked at Ro-den. The professor seemed to be trying to convey something serious with his eyes. He glanced at the door.

“If you want to say something, say it now at the truth table,” said Alden. “This is your only chance to convince me a private chat is that important.”

Ro-den took a deep breath. He looked down at the table then back at Alden. “Very well. I believe that if you reveal what was hidden by our agreement, if you reveal what you learned during our final lesson, you’ll most likely be dead before you double your age. You’ll probably die a a more useful death than most people. But you’ll still die.”

“No he won’t!” Stuart said, his voice piercing.

“Is he lying?” Alden asked. He didn’t think Ro-den was. It feels bad to hear it. It’s scary.

“He’s not,” said Stuart, “but he doesn’t know what he’s talking about. He—”

“I’m much more experienced than either of you,” said Ro-den. “So now would be a good time to hear me. And believe me.”

Alden thought. It wasn’t the kind of warning you could ignore without any thought.

“I believe you’ve told the truth,” he said finally. “I believe there’s more than a small chance you’re right.”

Stuart made a noise.

Ro-den nodded and rose from his seat, already turning toward the door like he’d lead the way outside for their talk.

“It’s just that it doesn’t change my mind about anything,” Alden continued. “I already made my choice. I’m reaching for something important to me, so if I die trying to grab onto it…. I want to live, but I’m still going to reach.”

Ro-den opened his mouth, but Alden was already turning away from him to smile at Stuart.

“Stuart, thank you so much for this. My skill is an old one called The Bearer of All Burdens.” He felt his grin widening as the words came without any resistance. “I’ve really, really wanted to tell you about it. Thank you for figuring out I needed help. Let’s go kill demons with it. You and me.”

******
