He had no idea what the boy would ask for, but reminding him of his oaths seemed like one way of leading him toward the conclusion that giving Ro the demon’s skin was at least a little beneficial to the Triplanets. It had obviously been sitting in storage. The art’hs hadn’t hatched it, so Ro might as well take it out of their nest.

He stopped looking at his monocle and placed all his thoughts on the young wizard in front of him. “How can I help you?”

Stu-art’h leaned forward, as if he might whisper, but instead, he suddenly spoke like he was trying to hammer Ro over the head with the words.

“Samuel Alden Thorn.”

Ro didn’t flinch with shock, but that was only because he was focused on presenting himself a certain way.

“He will be here soon,” Stu-art’h said, still hammering. “My family has been arranging for him to come to this House of Healing for treatment, and he has an appointment this evening. He has a contract tattoo that I believe is yours. Release him from that contract before the last of the sunlight fades from the sky. I will watch you do it. After it is done, you may have the hide. And the chest that contains it.”

Ro needed all of his attention on Stu-art’h right now, but a mote of it drifted off to touch those repetitive phone calls he’d been ignoring.

A warning? I might have made a mistake. How did this happen? What’s happened exactly?

“I wasn’t aware your family was taking care of Alden in that way,” he said. He sounded calm. He wasn’t. “I’m glad you are.”

The secrecy agreement should hold up to anything normal a mind healer might want to do, but how normal would the mind healing of a human be? And in an addled state, he might not avoid probing questions well. He might not even realize what questions are probing.

Has it been fine up until now? Or is something the healer uncovered why we’re here?

Why is it just Stu-art’h here and not one of his parents?

“Why do you think Alden wants the contract ended? We built a close understanding in the brief time we knew each other, and even after what’s happened, I’m completely confident he wouldn’t want it gone.”

What he wants is irrelevant. This can’t happen. I have to crush it.

In the future, certain people realizing that he’d told Alden how to abuse a weak spot in the Earth Contract and take full advantage of an ancient skill might be fine. The crime could be overlooked. Or it could be overshadowed. And the Primary, upon his eventual discovery of the nature of Alden’s skill, would hear that Ro had made sure it arrived in his hands earlier and in a more useful state of development than it would have if the human had remained ignorant. That addendum to their secrecy agreement was supposed to be a bit of a gibe, a bit of a gift—Ro getting the final word in a conversation that Jeneth-art’h thought had ended long ago.

Right now, though? Anyone finding out Ro had threatened, even in a tiny way, the stability of the Earth contract would be impossible to manage. It didn’t matter whether it had caused harm or not; it was the kind of thing that could and would be used as evidence that he should never be allowed to summon any Avowed ever again. And it was best if Alden wasn’t able to describe in detail what he had taken from the lab. And then there was what would happen if the executioners used this as an excuse for an interview with the Ryeh-b’t.

Never mind nuance. Every infraction, even infractions that were barely infractions on an average day, would be placed on Ro and given nine times the proper weight.

There might be enough infractions there to bury me forever.

“I realize you’re young,” he said, just a little too hastily. Careful. I must be careful now. “But a secrecy agreement between wizards and Avowed is a common thing, and it’s something that shouldn’t be ended at the insistence of another wizard. That’s improper. And unfair to Alden Ryeh-b’t.”

“Are you thinking more about what’s good for Alden right now? Or more about what’s good for yourself?” Stu-art’h’s expression had darkened.

Why? Is this him trying to make up for that day with the mishnen? Trying to bring honor to his aunt’s commendation? What does he know?

I need to know what he knows.

“I realize it may sound unbelievable, but I’m thinking of Alden’s wellbeing every bit as much as my own. I regret that he was lost on Thegund. I don’t wish him harm.”

The boy paused for long enough to give Ro a sliver of hope that he might simply accept it. With a personality like his, some degree of naivety—

“Be glad then,” said Stu-art’h, sitting straight as a reachertree trunk. “After you remove the secrecy agreement from Alden, he can tell me if he wishes I hadn’t done this. I’ll apologize to you both, and I’ll leave you alone so that you can form your agreement again. If that happens, I’ll give you the chest anyway, even if I don’t learn what the contract tattoo covers. So if you’re right, there will be no harm done at all.”

Ro needed to think of a reason why that couldn’t happen.

A reason that someone who suffered from an egregious ignorance about how life worked would understand.

“Is there something wrong with my solution, Master Ro-den?” Stu-art’h asked.

“Wizards do not usually ask other wizards about their private contracts with Avowed,” he said. “It’s unprofessional.”

“I think professionalism is less important than this matter.”

“I think you and I should at least delay this discussion until another day and not confuse an Avowed with something like this. Especially an Avowed who’s undergoing mind healing. The stress—”

Stu-art’h reached for the stick.

Why in the name of the Mother is he reaching for that thing? I need to make an opportunity for myself here somehow.

“I hate to accuse you of anything, but I don’t think your parents gave you permission to give away that demon hide.”

“They didn’t,” said Stu-art’h, fingers closing around wood. “But they’re going to be less upset about that than other things. And I think one demon hide that nobody’s using is worth Alden being able to talk freely about his skill.”

Ro’s heart stopped.

May the unclimbing beasts feed on me slowly. No, may they feed on this boy slowly. The only good thing is that his parents must not know anything about any of this. Yet.

“His skill? I don’t know what you mean.”

Do I have to do something to him?

He didn’t want to. There was something wrong with Stu-art’h’s mind. It was never said loudly, but it was said. Modifying a fragile mind wasn’t a realistic thing for Ro to do. Maybe with potions…

What am I thinking? I might drop dead if I actually try to harm the Primary’s son.

“You know exactly what I mean,” said Stu-art’h. “I know because I can tell when you lie.”

“What?”

“Traveler, you sit at this lord’s own table, under the shadow of his protection,” Stu-art’h said in a resonant voice. “You have accepted my invitation to come in truth and be answered in truth. You have eaten of my food and drunk of my wine. You have warmed yourself by my fire. You have lied thrice—more than thrice actually—and now I command you as the lord of this land to speak no more lies at my table.”

The little greeting house, so comforting and welcoming, suddenly felt colder than a Thegundese night. Ro’s stomach roiled, and his mouth soured as though the candy he’d eaten and the wine he’d drunk were poison. He tried to push back against whatever ancient rule he’d fallen afoul of, but having never been attacked by a lunatic invoking the powers of their ancestors in the form of a ritual courtesy trap…he didn’t know where to start.

“I haven’t lied about—”

The table tried to kill him for those foolish, panicked words. That was what it felt like. It pulled at him like it planned to lay claim to him forever.

“No, don’t hurt him for that one,” Stu-art’h said gently, tapping his stick against the table. “It’s not necessary yet.”

Ro leaped out of his chair and started ordering a teleport out. Traps were rather hard to pull off in modern times if you didn’t immediately incapacitate the wizard you’d trapped. And he wasn’t incapacitated.

“I don’t think you should leave,” Stu-art’h said quickly but calmly. “I won’t stop you, but if you leave, I will immediately call Hn’tyon Esh-erdi and tell him there has been an emergency that necessitates the breaking of Alden’s contract with you. He won’t question it. I think he wants to do it anyway, but obviously you would have made sure Alden couldn’t ask for something like that himself when you established the agreement with him.

“If you find some way to kill me even here in this place and under the Mother’s eye, then my final will has already been recorded. It includes that same message for Esh-erdi plus a message for every single member of my family blaming you for my death. The renowned Healer Yenu-pezth has promised to test my mind for unusual influences tonight. She knows my mind better than I do myself, and given the nature of the request, nothing I can say will stop her from conducting that test now. She will also be here swiftly if I miss my appointment time.

“I’d rather not die or be hurt of course, but I think I’m fairly safe at this point. I’m very glad you came and ate and lied. I had other plans in case you didn’t do all of those things, but this was my favorite one.”

“This…” Ro felt the cold, dark walls looming over him. He was afraid the table could still attack if it was given an order. “We’re outside Vethedya. This isn’t your family’s land. Not in the memory of any living person’s deadest grandmother! Even if your family can do a thing like this…even…you shouldn’t be able to do something like this here!”

It was the roar of a cornered animal. He knew it and couldn’t even feel embarrassed about it.

“This house is mine,” Stu-art’h said in an informative tone. “It’s freshly built of art’h wood, and it’s art’h land until dawn tomorrow, when I will formally gift it to the House of Healing. It’s part of a ritual I had custom designed to go with my walking stick. The stick is more powerful here, too, now. I was worried everyone would question me about the excess of all of this, but because I’ve been coming here since I was a child and I’m soon to go to first binding, it seems like the kind of extravagant magic I might do to mark my adulthood and thank the healers. Only Master Leeter-zis was suspicious, given my urgency and some of my more specific instructions. He received a portion of the materials as payment in exchange for helping me to arrange everything and doing excellent work. There were hundreds of volunteers he gathered here earlier today, calling me their wizard and blessing me as part of the ritual. I was so worried you or someone else inconvenient would hear about it before you arrived.”

The boy looked around the house like he was proud of it. “I’m glad this will be here to welcome others who need mind healing in the future. You can sit down and eat more if you’re not too scared of the table. It’ll only punish you if you lie again while you sit at it. And the quantity consumed doesn’t affect the strength of the magic, so you might as well have a meal if you’re hungry.”

Ro sat down entirely because he didn’t want to look like he was scared of sitting down. It was as much of a victory as he could claim.

“Nobody else would do something like this.” His words sounded pitiful, but they weren’t lies.

“That’s probably because most people can’t,” Stu-art’h said.

“That’s not why!”

“It’s also probably because most people aren’t dealing with you. I know you’re smarter and more experienced than me, so you can’t be allowed to have any room to wriggle at all.”

Ro did not feel smart at the moment.

“Father cut and prepared most of this timber himself,” Stu-art’h said, touching the table and gesturing at the floor. “With his natural strength instead of his magic. It’s something he does when he needs to think.”

“I hope he is enraged until the day he dies at how you’ve used it.”

Stu-art’h had the audacity to let out a little laugh. He ate a roasted nut from one of his accursed bowls of welcome.

“I think I know what Alden’s skill may be,” he said. “But I will not ask you to tell me. It would be too easy now to find out based on how you lie. And unlike some people, I respect his right to do and say what he wants about his own self.”

There it was. Ro’s only hope.

This intractable creature intended to save Alden Thorn. Therefore, Ro needed Alden to say, as quickly and loudly as possible, that he didn’t require saving.

He forced himself to eat another piece of candy while he kept an eye on the teleportation alcove.

I will convince him. He will trust me. I just need to be his friendly old instructor, Joe.

******

******

now

******

******

Alden wasn’t sure if his existence could ring, like ears that had just suffered from a loud sound, but that was how he thought of the feeling as he jumped out of the alcove, gripping his cantaloupe and his grapes. Despite Stuart’s murder face and the staff he’d just swung, being beside him was much better than being trapped in a closet-sized space by Ro-den’s magic.

“What’s happening?” he said. “Someone tell me what—”

“Stay behind me, Alden!” Stuart said, pointing the stick at Ro-den, who was looking at Alden with one eye and the end of the stick with the other. “I’ll protect you.”

Do I need protecting? Ro-den did lunge at me and try to wall me in. That’s bad.

“Alden, please explain to Stu-art’h that—”

