Not quite a public location or a private one, this was a building that had its own purpose. And that purpose didn’t usually include students trying to offer moral correction to their professors.

One of Ro’s eyes took in the details while the other focused on his host.

Stu-art’h sat at a table set with the promised bowls of welcome. Diamonds of dark, darker, and darkest wood patterned the floor beneath him, and the rafters overhead were amber yellow. There was a door that must lead to a ritual cleansing room. A hearth burned behind the boy’s chair. It was designed to let just a thread of scented smoke touch a guest’s nose, and Ro was sure there was a patch of herbs somewhere outside to be collected for burning and bathing. The windows at eye level were shuttered, but the room was being caressed by the last glow of the sun through an angled skylight.

The physical space was very nice, but not too much beyond what might be expected…if one ignored Declared Stu-art’h and the things he’d obviously brought here himself. The boy stood and greeted Ro like he was inviting him into the Primary’s own home, mixing normal expressions of welcome with lines of formal excess almost identical to the contents of his letter. As if he suspected Ro might not have read it all the way through.

The shade of his protection, cleansing and honesty, so on and so forth…

Ro was more attentive to his items than his words. There was a large, expensive-looking chest on the floor to the right of Stu-art’h’s chair. And an impressive stick was propped against the table.

A noisy impressive stick.

It was practically forcing Ro to know it was powerful, ancient, and meaningful. He wasn’t going to approach its territory and try to figure out exactly what it was, since defiling an art’h family heirloom—or being injured by one—wasn’t on his list of things to do during this unfortunate period of his life.

And it wasn’t such an irresistible mystery. There were a few possible reasons for its presence here.

The only other thing he made note of before accepting the welcome and heading toward the table was that the wizard who’d laid the pervading  magic on this building hadn’t been a slouch. It was fairly common for places to have a carefully managed aura that helped visitors to feel what they should. This spot exuding welcome, safety, and comfort was appropriate. But those things being so potent that Ro almost lost his alertness and his urge to be spiteful was an achievement.

Which the wizard responsible clearly knew since they’d left their name written on the floor in front of the alcove as part of a dedication that welcomed all travelers who came in search of healing.

Either the healers saved this Master’s life, or it’s someone trying to show off how helpful they can be in preparation for a service evaluation.

Clever idea if it’s the second.

Powerful people would have to step over that wizard’s name on their way to receive mind healing. Mind healing tended to be a profound positive experience, so the name got a favorable polish due to the healers’ efforts.

Even the art’h family and other knights came through here, and Stu-art’h apparently found this building so comfortable that he thought it would help him fix Ro.

I might be sorry I hadn’t thought of contributing to a place like this myself if this kind of work was my specialty.

Maybe it was actually smart of Stu-art’h to hold the meeting here in familiar territory that would help him stay calm.

Ro decided to unsettle him right away.

He began instructing his student the very moment he sat down.

The boy had brought a recording page, which Ro disabled with the touch of a ring. And he’d provided very good wine, which Ro made a show of sniffing suspiciously before he began testing it for potions. Stu-art’h had also brought snacks that were simple but purposeful. Ro considered the best looking  one—a kind of seed candy that the boy said was traditional in the region around his home—before picking up the bowl and dumping the whole thing into one of his own pockets.

“You’re…taking all of it?” Stu-art’h stared like he’d just seen Ro take a bite out of the table itself.

“You said I was welcome to it.”

“Of course you are,” he said, collecting himself much too quickly for Ro’s liking. “I hope you will enjoy it.”

“Perhaps I shall, now that I’ve made it safe to eat. Did you think you were clever using enchanted dishes on a guest?” He injected scorn into his tone as he whipped a collapsible cup out of another pocket and transferred some of the wine to it. “Nobody does that except in children’s stories.”

“They are well-maintained antiques,” Stu-art’h said mildly. “If you eat and drink from them with another person, you may hide secrets but not speak lies. ”

“Or I may drink out of this and say what I want to,” Ro informed him, taking a gulp of the wine and setting the cup back on the table.

“As you wish.” Stu-art’h shifted in his seat, but he really didn’t look that uncomfortable. “I was going to warn you.”

Irritatingly, that was probably true. The recording page had been openly displayed on the table, as if they were going to make a paper contract together. And the dishes weren’t enchanted in a way designed for subtlety. Ro was embarrassed that he’d almost failed to notice. Ignoring the stick and rejecting the influence of the building took a little concentration. He might have drunk straight out of the bottle if he hadn’t decided to insult his young host with the potion check instead.

“Did you rob a parent’s closet?”

Stu-art’h blinked and touched the silky gray tunic he wore. “This is Father’s, but he doesn’t mind sharing clothes for special occasions.”

“I meant for that.” Ro looked at the stick.

The most charitable assumption was that Stu-art’h was trying to be as formal as possible to show respect. A moderately charitable one was that he was afraid he wouldn’t be taken seriously, so he’d brought along something that he thought made him look more like an adult. And the uncharitable one was that he was doing what some wizards with remarkable lineages were prone to do—flaunting an ancestor’s accomplishments in hopes that they would be mistaken for his own.

Ro suspected it wasn’t the last one. But he had loathed enough people of that sort over the course of his life that venom came more easily than sugar to his tone when he added, “Carrying something like that to a meeting with your instructor is an interesting choice.”

Stu-art’h took a sip of his own wine, then ate a piece of dried fruit before he answered.

“If you’re implying that it’s not really mine, you’re wrong. But if you sincerely mean that it’s of interest to you, and you want to examine it more closely, I will consider making the study of it a part of our agreement. The brief, non-damaging study of it.”

It’s really his? I guess they must have given it to him as a present when he declared or something like that. Assigning an heirloom to a scion of their house…

Ro ate some seed candy from his pocket.

Stu-art’h smiled. “Do you like it?”

“It’s tolerable.”

Stu-art’h smiled more.

What’s wrong with him? He’s not complaining enough.

Too hard to irritate even considering the atmosphere in this place.

Something about the boy’s behavior was definitely off compared to class. He wouldn’t always say an impropriety bothered him, but he did tend to visibly bristle at the mildest provocation. And taking all of the candy from the bowl right away was so rude that even young children would have known not to do it.

Maybe it was actually ingenious of him to meet in this place. It’s grounding him more than I thought.

Fine. We’re just getting started.

“I take it that the contents of that chest is my ‘generous payment’ for doing whatever it is that you want? Bribing an evil person! Who would have suspected it of you?”

Stu-art’h’s eyes fixed on the large chest in the corner before returning to Ro’s face. He placed his hands flat on the table in front of him. “I would first like to suggest an opportunity to you instead of a bribe.”

“Ahhhh. An opportunity.”

“If you show your willingness to correct a serious mistake you’ve made, I will ask for a meeting with your team of executioners as soon as I become a knight. I’ll request that your service be transferred to the Rapports. Our council of votaries will decide where to use your talents. You won’t be honored as a votary, of course, since you are a criminal being punished. But you will restore yourself to your former prominence more quickly working for us than you will working for LeafSong.”

“That sounds like impossible perfection,” Ro said brightly.

“Does it? The Instructor of Instructors at LeafSong agreed to yield you to us with no complaint. I have her promise. So there would be no delay.”

“Yes. What a lucky person I am! I’ve always longed to be bossed around by a bunch of votaries who see me as a particularly juicy wizardberry to dangle in front of whatever nightmares now haunt the forsaken worlds of the Ilket. I’m so smart that I can probably still do a little research with whatever remains of my intelligence after I’ve been masticated and shat out by whatever they order me to handle.”

Stu-art’h glared at him.

“Did you really think I would say yes?” Ro snorted.

“I thought it was right to give you the opportunity. I felt sure you hadn’t been afforded one like it in many years, since you are untrustworthy.”

Ro covered his eyes with his hands. “I’m blinded by your insight.”

“I hoped you would accept that, but I did not expect you to,” Stu-art’h said a little stiffly. “So. I’ve also brought payment. If you do what I ask of your own free will, I will give you that chest.”

Ro looked over at it.

Stu-art’h took a deep breath. “It contains what remains of the hide of a demon killed by my grandfather Hn’tyon Renjen-art’h, late in his life. There are a few claws in there, too.”

“Oh…is that all?” Ro asked. As if he didn’t want to dive for the chest and open it up to inspect the contents immediately. “Late in his life” was not an irrelevant detail. It would almost certainly have been a fascinating demon.

The Primary’s son gazed at him steadily. “Do you want it?”

Now was the time to be at his most careful. Ro hadn’t expected something like this to be on offer, and he did intend to leave here with that chest if it was at all possible. “Yes, I want it. But not enough to do anything particularly inconvenient for it. You may have noticed my research at LeafSong is somewhat different than what I used to do. And I’m busy teaching.”

Stu-art’h didn’t seem flustered.

I hoped to fluster him a little. What he wants might be more trouble than I want to deal with if he’s trying to pay with this.

“The hide was modified to remove the taint, of course,” said Stu-art’h. “The goal was to preserve some of the demon’s abilities in the final material. That process was successful to an unusual degree, possibly because the demon was so stable…for a demon. Compared to its assumed origin species, it exhibited smaller size, a synergistic relationship with wind, a remarkable camouflaging ability—”

Ro shot a regretful look at the chest. “That does sound fascinating.”

No doubt Stu-art’h knew it was valuable. But at his age, raised in his circumstances, he might not realize quite how valuable. It wasn’t only chaos researchers who wanted such things. Crafter wizards and anyone who studied anything remotely related to the properties the demon had exhibited in life would also be after it. Ro’s brain was still scrawling the list of things he could do with it.

He’d probably only allow himself to truly experiment with a tiny bit of the hide. Everything else would need to be carefully planned and executed to maximize his chances of success. He needed a sure victory or three in the coming years, and this was the kind of opportunity that couldn’t be wasted on anything too risky.

Even if he doesn’t completely grasp what he’s giving me, the boy’s not that stupid. Downplaying the offer too much would be a mistake.

“It’s very fascinating, actually. If it were a few years ago…” Ro shook his head. “But now I’m not sure when I might have a real chance to work with something like this. It might even be confiscated by my executioners and given to someone else. As recompense, you know. So I doubt it’s worth quite as much to me as you must be hoping.”

It would never be confiscated. They hadn’t even managed to confiscate the artificial demon. But the hide being confiscated did sound like a thing that might happen to a less competent criminal.

“I will send you the information on it now,” Stu-art’h said stubbornly.

That’s nice of you. Don’t give up on our negotiation! I’ll help you tidy whatever dark corner of your house you found that lovely chest in.

Ro read through the information that appeared in his monocle hungrily. This  was good. Better than he’d hoped it would be in several ways, worse in only a couple. Its properties hadn’t been completely understood by the last people who’d been allowed to play with it, back when Ro-den was closer to his own boyhood than where he was now. That was excellent news. It meant they hadn’t been bold enough to risk damaging it.

Probably scared of Renjen-art’h.

Which is understandable, to be fair.

“I see,” he said politely. “Yes…yes, I would like to have this. But that will depend on what you’re expecting in return, Declared Stu-art’h.”

