After greeting a few more guests, Fu Zhu Li informs me that greeting time is over and the banquet about to begin. Stifling a sigh, I clear my throat, accept that Yan and Huu aren’t coming, and silently curse the idiot servant who never returned with my honeyed tea. With Ping-Ping hot on my heels, I follow the winding path to the other end of the courtyard where my stage awaits. A literal stage mind you, built so my guests can watch me and my family eat while they dine at their own tables, all facing forward for their viewing pleasure. Super creepy, but I suppose it’s standard wedding behaviour.

Distracted by a pyramid of fruits, vegetable, and fish, Ping-Ping ambles over to dig into the offerings, abandoning me without a second thought. Dad, Charok, and the twins are waiting on stage, dressed in their Sunday best. The twins look more adorable than ever in their red and white silk outfits, clinging to their Papa’s leg as they stare at our guests with a mixture of curiosity and worry. Following their gazes out into the crowd, I sympathize with their trepidation as my throat closes and heartbeat races in response to the sea of eyes staring back at me. Sweet Mother in Heaven that’s a lot of people. Should I wave? Why aren’t they clapping? No, that’s stupid, why would they clap? Ugh, I don’t feel so good. Stomach’s queasy, bladder’s full, and I’m lightheaded to boot. Considering my sore throat, I might really be coming down with something. It shouldn’t be too surprising, the bay is pretty cold and I’ve been swimming every day for a week now. Or maybe it’s just the lack of sleep and the many startling revelations taking their toll on my body. What’s the word for that? Psychosomatic, yea that’s it. It’s just nerves and anxiety, it’ll pass.

Sensing my discomfort, Dad pats my shoulder in a rare show of affection. It’s still weird thinking of him as dad, but he’s always been a stern but loving father figure in my life. “You should smile more,” he Sends, face deadpan as ever. “Marshal Yuzhen says it makes us more approachable.”

“But why do we need to be approachable?” Turning to face him, I add, “I don’t mean to sound ungrateful because I appreciate your efforts but it’s just... We’re throwing a party with money I don’t have, in honour of a concubine I don’t trust, so people we don’t know can get to know her. It’s so asinine, and besides, doesn’t everyone have more important things to do? Like figuring out how we’re supposed to deal with the millions of Defiled rampaging through the Western Province?”

Dad’s shrug is so imperceptible I almost miss it. “Such is life. Appearances must be kept. The expense is inconsequential, there is no cause for worry. As for your other concerns, few people of true importance are in attendance, mostly privileged sons and daughters here to socialize.”

“Isn’t Central’s Marshal here? And I greeted more than one Major General at the metaphorical door.”

“Yo Jeong-Hun is here as a show of solidarity between North and Central and will likely depart the moment decorum allows it. As for the Major Generals and other high ranking officers...” This time the shrug is more pronounced, with an eye roll for added effect. “I would not trust them to defend their plates from Jimu much less a city from the Defiled. Believe me, in keeping those fools distracted, we are rendering a great service for the Empire.”

Wow, emoting and cracking jokes. Dad really seems happy, which makes me feel pretty shitty about Rain-ing on his parade. Oof. I needed that. A pun-ishment to take my mind off my constant whining. Okay no more, I don’t think I could survive another. Faking yet another smile, I swallow the rest of my complaints and turn to face the crowd, wondering if I should try and convince Dad, Nian Zu, and Yuzhen to pull everyone out of Central and go back home. We don’t need the Emperor’s armies to hold the North, and even if we did, it’s not like they’re here to help defend Central either. The Defiled are coming and I’d rather not have to watch innocent civilians die in droves because the Empire failed to protect them.

No, I did more than watch.

A memory I tried my best to forget springs to mind, and there’s nothing I can do to stop it. The smell of wood smoke permeates the air as I gaze upon a young girl no older than Tali, a native of the lands surrounding Sanshu. Cradled in her mama’s arms, the sweet child’s eyes are red and swollen as she shivers with fright, terrified by the distant flames and nearby strangers. The mother shifts uneasily and soothes her daughter but anger smoulders beneath the surface as Spectres whisper in her ears. I can see them, sense them, hear them coaxing and cajoling her, advising she surrender and accept their strength. ‘It’s the only way’, they whisper, a thousand voices speaking as one, and the mother considers it, but she’s too afraid. She’s alone and outnumbered, lacking weapons and martial training, so how is she supposed to fight us off? She thinks she knows what we want and tells herself she’s been through worse. I see it in her eyes and the set of her jaw, grim resignation and willingness to endure as she prays we leave her daughter alone and let them go free once we’re done.

But that’s not why I’m here. No, I’m going to do far worse.

I convince myself this isn’t me, that Baledagh’s the one making the decisions here. I can’t blame him either, there’s no other choice. The woman and child are Defiled, or so I thought. I didn’t know they were just Tainted and still able to resist temptation. I didn’t know I could Devour their Spectres and would soon find Blobby again and cleanse myself. Maybe if I were smarter or stronger, I wouldn’t have rejected Blobby in the first place and could have spared those people, but at the time, I had no other options. I couldn’t let them go free and I couldn’t bring them with me, so I did what had to be done.

No, not even. I gave the order to do what I couldn’t bring myself to do. My fingers flash and two Sentinels move to obey. I can see the hesitation in their eyes and gait, wondering if they’re doing the right thing. They’ve killed before, but never like this, executing defenceless villagers without trial or cause. I say these people are Defiled, but where’s the proof? All they see is a scared woman and a terrified child, but despite their reservations, they obey their orders. They march the woman and child out of sight, and after a moment, return without them, their eyes lowered and shoulders slumped, broken and burdened by what they were ordered to do.

Those men are dead now, fallen in the battle to retake Sanshu. I envy them, because at least they now know peace, freed from the sins I forced upon them.

I chose weakness and stupidity over facing the harsh truth, clinging to fantasy and pretending I was someone else while ordering the deaths of dozens of innocent people, all because I was worried about what crimes they might commit. Sure I could blame the Spectres or claim mental instability, but neither argument makes me feel any better about myself. I let my fear control me and nothing will ever bring back those poor people. Beggaring myself to provide charity is just me trying to drown my guilt with goodwill, but I don’t think this shame will ever wash away. When it comes right down to it, Martial might isn’t enough. I need to get my head screwed on right, and to do that, I need to... I need to find out how to do that and do it. Yes. Good goal. Much progress.

What a fun trip down memory lane. I suck, today sucks, life sucks, and positive mental attitude sucks.

Honestly, could this day get any worse?

...

Ah fuck me. That was not a challenge. You hear me universe? Please leave me alone.

Oh, but first, please guide that idiot servant back here with my honeyed tea. My throat is killing me. K thanks, bye.

Chapter Meme
