“What is this thing?” Steeve said, staring at the orb in his hands. “I have never in my life seen an item do... I had to use the bathroom, and now I don’t. And the apple core is just...gone. That was Janitors’ Guild magic. But it was so strong.”

“The spell is called Purify,” Mlem said, returning to the counter. “It removes filth, inside and out, and is strong because its original caster is strong. That is really all I can say. The orb is not something we mean to sell, but transactional services such as cleaning are—up to and including Tel extraction. Now, the rooms, if you please. The magic is not set to penetrate walls.”

“But how do I trigger it?”

“It should trigger itself,” Mlem said. “Simply place the orb in the center of the space to be cleaned. Go on now. Earn your pay.”

“...Fine,” Steeve said, gingerly carrying the glass orb out in front of him like it was both unspeakably fragile and devastatingly venomous.

Mlem smiled, returning to rummage in the cart. He removed his Ascension jacket and folded it across the counter before removing the bulky radio it had been covering. This he set on the counter with considerable care as the two Entente Defenders moved closer to watch with interest. Again, he was careful to control his every move. This show was not to be repeated.

Rain wanted the Entente to know they had long-distance communication capability, but not how it worked. The radio was to be used in front of them once, then tucked away, and the stone board was not to be displayed at all. The true working of Rain’s anchors would come out eventually—they were too potent a tool to hide away completely—but there was no need to hasten the process.

“This is not for sale either,” Mlem said, working hard to suppress his inner showman as he extended the telescoping antenna. “It is a communication device similar to a speaking stone, but fragile and bulky. We use them because the range is considerably greater. Again, that is all I can say.”

The faintest electrical whine filled the air as Mlem flipped the power toggle, then subsided as the indicator lamp glowed to life from the charge stored in the heavy internal battery. Depressing the transmit button, he cleared his throat, then spoke into the microphone in common. “This is Mlem, one-two-five. I have taken custody of the property. Communication is not private. Beside me, listening, are Estez and Henton of the Entente. They are known to the captain, and they say hello. Also in earshot is my newly hired helper, Steeve. Confirm receipt of message.”

“I receive, one-five-four,” crackled Lyn’s voice from the speaker almost immediately, making everyone except Mlem jump. “Pause for relay.”

“What was that crackling?” Henton asked. “And how much greater is the range over a speaking stone, exactly?”

“I cannot reveal that,” Mlem said, rummaging again in the cart, this time for potions. He began lining them up on the counter.

The radio buzzed back to life. “Mlem, I have the captain. He says to say hello back and wants you to repeat that last name. Did you say it was ‘Steeve’?”

“Yes,” Mlem said, pausing to adjust the antenna, which was already quite hot. Even with atantum and valis worked into the radio’s circuits and rykir in place of lead in the battery, they were really testing the limits of the design. “Is your connection as poor as mine?”

“It’s not great,” Lyn said. “Please confirm for me one last time. ’Steeve’ as in ‘Dysteeve’?”

“Why is that thing saying my name?” Steeve called from the hallway, staring back into the main room. “What else is it saying? I don’t speak common.”

“The captain seems to have taken an interest in you,” Mlem replied. “Is ‘Steeve’ your full name, or is it short for something?” He glanced aside at Estez and Henton. “Rain says hello.”

“Dysteevian,” Steeve said, walking back into the main room. “Nobody calls me that. Who are you talking to?”

“Indirectly, the captain of Ascension, who I—and by extension, now you—work for,” Mlem said. “I have a pamphlet here somewhere that you can read. Did you finish with the rooms?”

“No, and I won’t until you tell me what’s going on. What is that thing? Who are you?”

“This is a radio, and I am Mlemlek Ko-Latti. I believe I said that before. Ah, here is the pamphlet.”

“Sorry, Mlem, the captain’s really hung up on this,” Lyn’s voice crackled. “He wants to know if the words ‘Irwin’, ‘Buscemi’, or ‘Jobs’ mean anything to your new friend. They sure don’t mean anything to me.”

Mlem turned to Steeve, offering him the pamphlet. “Do ‘Irwin’, ‘Buscemi’, or ‘Jobs’ mean anything to you?”

“What?” Steeve demanded, though he accepted the paper. “I said I don’t speak that.”

Mlem pressed the button. “He says he doesn’t speak that, and yes, ‘Steeve’, I said, short for ‘Dysteevian’. Second name, O—”

“What the hells is going on in here?” said a new voice, and Mlem looked up to see Halgrave duck through the doorway. He wore his heavy armor, shining resplendent blue beneath his Ascension jacket. His golden Guild plate was also in full view, resting against his chest. Much more mundane was the steaming mug of something he held in one gauntleted hand.

“You took your time,” Mlem said. “Stopped for tea, did you?”

“Yeah, yeah,” Halgrave said. “Building is secure. The hooligans we saw next door cleared out the moment they saw me coming.”

“Oh, come on!” Steeve shouted, having taken that long to get over his shock. He pointed at Halgrave. “A goldplate? You work with a goldplate!?”

Noticing his new hire was in grave danger of toppling over, Mlem snapped his fingers and pointed toward the ceiling. “Chairs. I need to buy chairs.”
