Emotional as always, tears ran down chubby Mapan’s cheeks as he implored, “Why must this be the only option? Master, this one fears your decision was made in haste, your judgment compromised by grief and anger. We all loved sister BoLao for she brought joy and beauty into our otherwise gloomy lives. Brief as our time together might have been, we all mourn her loss with you, but I’d rather you ordered us to storm the Bekhai camp and bring her killer to justice than for you to commit yourself to this folly.”

Affected by Mapan’s heartfelt plea, Goujian allowed himself to cry for the first time in memory, a luxury he never allowed himself, not even after BoLao’s death. Gesturing for his Disciples to lower their weapons, he urged them close for a hug. “Though not the blood of my blood,” he began, looking at each one in turn and memorizing their smiling faces, “I see you all as my sons and love you more than any father ever could.” Taking a deep breath, he wiped his eyes and continued, “But even so, four lives are a small price to pay to save countless more.”

Striking as the shock registered on their faces, Goujian killed the sentimental Mapan first with a blow to the throat, sparing the poor boy the sorrow of seeing his brothers die before him. Sun-Sin died next, too slow to react as a hooked sword burst through his chest and into Goujian’s hand, summoned there through Chi. Though inferior to the Energy of the Heavens, he had a mere nine days to study its use, but he’d spent a lifetime mastering Chi. To make matters more difficult, he had not raised his sons as defenceless lambs to be slaughtered. The instinct to live overriding their determination to die, Wen Zhong and Sochun struck out in self-defence, one aiming high while the other low, their movements meshing together in flawless perfection to take his life, exactly as he’d taught them.

Strange as it might sound, this was the proudest moment in Goujian’s life. He’d trained them to believe in their intuition no matter what others might say and always come to an answer through logic and reasoning. Even though he, their Master and father figure, gave them a direct order, they still had the presence of mind to ask, ‘Why?’ and reached their own conclusion. A splendid bunch who would have served the Empire well after his Death.

A shame it was that same Empire Goujian now sought to destroy. In a way, this was his fault for having raised his sons too well, so the least he could do was give them a warrior's death.

Pressed back by their relentless assault, he retreated step by precious step, knowing full well the ship’s confines were ill-suited for his fight. Worse, he’d spent nine days immersed in cultivation and was sorely lacking in sustenance, ironically surviving only because his Disciples had cared for him. Perhaps earlier today, one of them had spoon-fed him gruel and water, yet here they were, fighting desperately to kill the man who raised them.

Trials and tribulations indeed.

Catching Sochun’s blade with his hooked sword, Goujian moved his second disciple to block the path of his eldest. Never one to hesitate, Wen Zhong stabbed through his Junior Brother’s arm in a desperate attempt to take his Master’s life, knowing the odds no longer lay in their favour. Sadly, brilliant as Wen Zhong was, no one understood him more than his Master. Cleanly dodging the thrust, Goujian released Sochun’s blade with a flick of his wrist, and with a single, horizontal slash, took the lives of both his Disciples. Panting with exertion, he checked them both and saw that he’d been mistaken. Wen Zhong still clung to life, having avoided instant death by the barest of margins. Taking a seat beside his eldest disciple’s fallen body, he cradled the boy’s head and held him close, watching as the blood flowed out of Wen Zhong’s neck and the light faded from his eyes. His chest swelling with pride and heart heavy with grief, Goujian noted all his conflicting emotions, believing it would serve him well to study them. He would need strength to face his Imperial foes, and his greatest allies now lay dead at his feet.

Well, not all of them. Once Wen Zhong was dead and gone, Goujian glanced and nodded at his sole surviving disciple. “Come. We’ve kept our guests waiting long enough.”

“What of the bodies?” Yuanyin asked, though he still followed closely on Goujian’s heels.

“Leave them for the ship’s captain. He’ll know what to do.” As much as he’d like to leave their corpses intact, he couldn’t afford to leave a trail for the Monk to follow.

Cloaking his presence to escape notice from the dock guards, Goujian brought Yuanyin off the ship and out into the wilderness, travelling a short distance west before he finally found his bearings. By the time they reached the meeting area, he was what most nobles would call fashionably late. “I apologize for the delay,” he said, greeting his guests with a clasped fist, only then noticing his sleeves were soaked in blood. Well, no matter. Not like these particular guests would mind. “You must be Mao Jianghong. Your infamy precedes you.”

His guest grinned lazily in reply, a handsome man who looked no different from any other noble of the Empire. “That means much coming from the Confessor. I must admit, I’m curious why a man with your reputation wanted a meeting with a known traitor of the Empire, or how you even knew I was here.” Goujian glanced at the young man beside Jianghong, but the former Guard Captain of Sanshu waved his hand dismissively. “Don’t worry. Gen here is trustworthy, you may speak freely.”

“Very well.” Clearing his throat, Goujian found his next sentence more difficult to utter than he'd expected. “I seek an alliance with your faction to overthrow the Emperor.”

As Sun-Sin would say, the arrow had been loosed.

Laughing in derision, Jianghong shook his head and asked, “Surprising, and not at all what I expected. Your motivations aside, I must ask, what makes you think we even need you? Our strength is greater than you could ever imagine.”

“Let him help,” Gen said, nodding in approval. “He’s like us. He’s seen the Truth.”

Thank the Heavens. Goujian had guessed correctly. These two weren’t Defiled.

They were Chosen, just like him.

Chapter Meme
