Mana flowed into him, but so too did impurities. His body instantly grew heavy. They clumped in his mana passages and slowed the flow of his mana. His organs ached, barely continuing to function. Rhys began to burn the impurities just to keep his body from shutting down, and still they poured in, an unending stream of them. He filled up his core, patched up his body, and energized his muscles and organs, and they still came.

Luckily, he had a fresh set of compost and a few nice plots of land just waiting for mana. Rhys turned all the organic waste to compost and encouraged two plots of herbs to grow, and that managed to spill off just enough mana that he could absorb all the impurities as the last of the trash burned away. Since it was only one day’s trash, it didn’t burn long. If it hadn’t been for the splash of goo, it wouldn’t have done much for him at all. He still couldn’t kill the burning impurities before they burned off, so the second the fire burned out, he sprinted off, back to Ev.

She stood just inside the valley, leaning casually against the wall. At the sight of him, she raised her brows. “I saw that black smoke coming… so it really was you.”

Rhys hurtled at her and punched with all his might. She dodged to the side, and his fist hit the wall instead. His knuckles bruised, but now he was sturdy enough that nothing broke. Nothing except the wall. Bits of rock flew away, and a small dent appeared where his fist had landed.

“Oh? You’re raring and ready to go. Damn. Well then! Come at me, kid.” Ev swept a kick at his legs from behind even as she spoke. Rhys hit the ground hard and immediately rolled away from the wall, toward Ev. She’d closed in to leap on him, but now he slammed into her ankles and forced her to hop instead. Rhys used the bare seconds he’d bought himself to climb back to his feet and immediately charge at her back.

She spun around, grinning wide, and swung to meet him. The two of them clashed once more. Blows echoed through the valley. The trees shook, and dust flew. Neither one held back as they both gave it their all.

Rhys grinned. He wiped the blood from his face and charged at Ev again. Until he could absorb infinite impurities, until he was stronger than Ev, he would fight! Anything for his precious trash. Anything!
