"After this, we'll go through the government site and get the standard going rates. But don't be too surprised if you don't make more than minimum wage off D-grade crystals. Maybe twenty dollars?" He couldn't remember the chart off the top of his head.

That didn't deter Ashton at all. "Twenty? That's great!"

Oh, to be young and stupid and think that 20 bucks was a lot of money.

"That means I can buy a McDonalds meal for a crystal's worth," Ashton added, to really twist the knife.

Thomas set his pain of inflation aside aside and quizzed Ashton once again on where the next monster would be. He continued to do so after every monster kill, even making Ashton double-check through the printed guide... mostly because Thomas couldn't remember himself. There were a lot of demon chickens.

"This is low-key mid," Ashton complained as he pulled out the guide again.

"Losing a hand is low-key mid," Thomas said pointedly, cringing at having to repeat Gen-A slang. Judging by Ashton's look of derision, he'd probably just done it wrong, too. "This is how I survived. It's not exciting, but remember, in a dungeon, there are no cameras, no cell phone service to call for help, and no one to hear you scream."

Ashton rolled his eyes, but he didn't argue.

To Thomas's mild annoyance and growing alarm, Ashton was actually really good in a dungeon. There were only a couple of hairy moments where he clipped the onrushing chicken with the sword instead of killing it in one hit, but he recovered on the next swing. He hadn't gotten so much as a scratch.

He wouldn't actually unlock his Gift until he turned 15, but Thomas privately wouldn't be surprised if it was a sword Gift or some kind of monster-slaying Gift. Ugh, he'd be insufferable.

Thomas did insist on killing the boss, however. She was a nasty chicken. He made Ashton stand about twenty feet away, and he felt a little gratified to see him take another step back when she charged, hissing out of her nest and looking for blood.

Thomas wasn't surprised, and he kept his self-assigned label of "Cool Uncle" when he managed to cleave through the chicken in one hit. Damn, the sword was sharp.

As a reward, he got a nice B-grade healing crystal. Then he took Ashton to the delights of searching the boss's room, where they smashed eggs and found a crystal in each one. That was likely due to Thomas's Gift, but he dropped the line that this was actually a bit of a surprise for him, as if it were unusual.

The exit chest reward was a C-grade fire crystal, an air crystal, and a water crystal, in that order. Very patriotic.

"Congratulations," Thomas said, turning to the kid. "You've just gone through your first successful dungeon."

"Let's do another," Ashton said.

The chicken dungeon had only taken 45 minutes. They had blasted through it compared to his first time. Thomas hemmed and hawed, but honestly, he was feeling pretty good about this. Once they got out and registered their modest loot—Ashton's non-Gift loot haul was excellent cover--, Thomas scrolled through his phone, looking at dungeons he had checked out about a week prior and then discarded for one reason or another.

He settled on a vegetable dungeon in a "greenhouse" where the veggies attacked you. The rewards reportedly sucked, which fit neatly into his plan of discouraging his nephew, even though he had a feeling that was a lost cause.

It wasn't too far away, actually, located behind a supermarket. There was no line and a single bored guard who barely asked for their information on the way in.

Wow, talk about security theater.

Once again, he had Ashton read through the guide the whole way there. And, once again, he double-checked his knowledge in the entrance room.

"First monster is a cabbage monster," Ashton repeated verbatim from the guide. "It bites at ankles and it's about five feet in, just to the right of the path."

Welp. No point in making him go through the packs again.

"Get at it, killer," Thomas said, handing him the sword. "Don't make me regret this."

Ashton smiled and entered the dungeon. The first monster was pretty pathetic. The "cabbage monster" was only a danger if you actually stepped right on it, since it couldn't move. This was the quintessential level one of all level one dungeons, though there were a few ambush predators sneaking around.

Just to make sure, Thomas activated his healing sight and took a surprised step back when he felt all the monsters. There had to be over thirty of them, and at least five that were mobile and creeping around, though he swore the guide had only mentioned three.

Focused on his healing sight, he sensed the exact moment the dungeon door opened and four people strode into their instance.

Thomas snatched the sword from Ashton and whirled around, putting himself between the dungeon crashers and his nephew.

He recognized these people. This was the dude-bro group. The same one that had been responsible for the ugly confrontation at the Reno auction. They weren't surprised to see him, and they had their weapons out too: two of the guys had short swords, one had a spiky mace, and the girl clutched a pair of daggers.

Oh shit. Oh shit. Oh shit.

Maybe it was the fact that his nephew was now in serious danger, but despite his inner panic, Thomas had no problem making his voice hard. "Whatever you're here for," he said, "walk away."

"Sorry for interrupting," the tall guy said, smiling insincerely. "We'll make it quick. We're looking for a friend of ours. Preston." He paused. "You do know where he is, right?"

They were in trouble. As he'd told Ashton: In a dungeon, there were no cameras, no way to call for help, and no one could hear you scream.
