And though the Songbringer was a social god, a god of mystique and charisma, even she couldn't mask her overwhelming surprise. “That cannot be. I was speaking to him just…” She trailed off as she sensed something. “He is in pain. He is in so much pain. There's something wrong with him. Wrong with his… Divinity. There's something inside of him.”

"Inside of his Avatar? Which one?"

“No, girl. Inside of HIM, inside of his Domain, there's something there that's not… divine.”

The Songbringer also wasn't a god to reveal when she was frightened, even in the direst of circumstances, but Veronica tasted her grandmother's fear at that moment regardless. "Then what is it, Grandmother? If it's not divine, what are we dealing with?"

But Kathereine had nothing to offer her. The Songbringer herself didn't know. Instead, she descended upon the body of her granddaughter and attuned her to Divinity. Suddenly, Veronica could hear Longinus, and his screams were so loud they seemed to shake all existence.

The Ascendants had undergone apotheosis together. As a pantheon, their godhoods were interlinked, or at the very least, neighboring one another, and their Domains were closer than most.

That proximity proved its use today as Veronica heard Longinus cry out in two voices: one begging for death, euphoric at his final release; the other praying, bargaining, cajoling, and threatening to do anything and everything to be granted another microsecond of life.

Most disturbing of all, Veronica recognized that first voice. It was the voice of Longinus the man, before he became a god, before the divine reverberation entered his every syllable.

“He's fracturing,” the Songbringer gasped. “The skill he is entombed in is breaking and changing. The person he was has spilled over into the Divinity constructed around—”

Kathereine's explanations were silenced as a rumbling noise beyond anything Veronica could describe smashed into them and briefly unlatched both soul and consciousness from Veronica’s flesh.

For a moment, Veronica was… nowhere. Not within Integration. Not outside of it.

Then she was wrenched back into her body, and a cold sweat broke out on her face.

She was a Legend of Rhetoric. Her words could be apocalyptic if she willed them to be. But the voice that struck her made her feel like something less than an insect.

What hit her was enough to rend universes clean of life. What hit her was a will above wills, even a broken part of what it used to be.

A reality-shaking cry of discord was issued forth in the slumbering throes of a corpse, a Higher Being, slumbering, dead, deep in the Abyss.

It ended as soon as it began, but in its wake, Veronica was left trembling as much as her grandmother.

“This cannot be happening!” Kathereine screamed. “This is not possible! This cannot be. This can't… This cannot be, Veronica! The Starhawk, he has not reached the Deep Abyss! He has not brought the other Phylacteries there. This cannot be him! It's impossible!”

But while the Songbringer had her breakdown, Veronica subdued the dread inside and began thinking. "This is not the Starhawk, nor Roland. It's not their way to see so many people across the Republic condemned to suffering. This is something else entirely. Someone utterly reckless and with no regard or respect for our nation."

And suddenly she had a suspect. But even that suspicion came with its own doubts. She had spoken with the boy mere days ago. If this was him, then how did he manage to do it? He was powerful, yes, but the kind of raw, unrefined, stupid, bullish power possessed by an over-favored child.

She could theorize about that later. For now, she had a task at hand and a problem to resolve. “Attention, all citizens of the Yellowstone Republic!” Her voice exploded out from her, detonating like one of those old City Cracker bombs from before the System's time. Her cleaners were swept off their feet. The Assistant-Interrogator was flung against the wall as his ears and eyes ruptured, but he would live. This was her restraining herself while also broadcasting her words to every living soul in the capital and then some. “This is Councilwoman Veronica Chandler. I declare a state of emergency. Curfew is in effect right now.”

With a thought, she narrowed down the targets of her command to a fraction of before. “Prismatic Guard, attend to your duties. Enforce my order. Council, we are to convene this moment. Whatever else you are doing, it comes second. I repeat: CONVENE NOW! I will see you promptly at Flamecrown Castle.”

And with that, she reached out with her Dimensionality and teleported the entire Springbrick Estate with her—along with its eight-square-kilometer meadow.

With the arrival of this new crisis, the smokescreen of a virus was no longer necessary, and now the collateral damage could be waived since she had a new and potentially unrelated matter to blame this on.

A critical skill every Councilmember learned was making use of one crisis to solve another.

But that line of thinking led her to connect the Tarrasque with her wayward Deathless, and the stress inside Veronica grew three sizes that day. How did that fucking child even do this?

***

Attention: The Dreamtaker has found a host.

(Eldritch Evolution Reached)

Uva stared blankly at the alarming notification for a half-second before she regained control over herself. Her geometric shortsword was still buried inside Longinus' body, along with half a hundred other Aberrant Fractals. The Ascendant’s centaur-like form was beyond mutilated. His limbs had been sheared down to nubs. His incandescence was spilling out in a broadening pool of mana. His skull had come apart halfway through his thrashing. Already cracked from earlier, the final bit of damage she inflicted had caused him to go over the edge. The flesh of his face hung loose at a furled angle, like the petal of a flower bending away from its foundation. Only a scant few sinews connected it to the bone of his skull, and they were on the verge of snapping as well.

But Longinus was still alive. Utterly broken, incapable of fighting, but still alive. His whimpers continued. His screams were deafening, and there was another voice in the undertow whose relief became the sweetest thing Uva had ever known.

Someone had been trapped inside Longinus, or perhaps a portion of the man before the god had been freed, and he loved her. He loved Uva, Shiv, Adam, and everyone who'd fought to end his misery like they were kin, more than kin, like they were his saviors.

And they were. They delivered him from a nightmare that lasted countless eons within the Fairwoods.

But there was another presence within Longinus, one Uva had deposited using her Dreamtaker's Gaze skill in an attempt to quicken his demise. A swirl of colors beyond this reality hardened and formed an egg, a feathered egg that had eyes blinking out from its sides, little hands grasping, fingers curled as if beckoning Uva to join what waited within. A series of white, plumage-coated tongues slithered over the egg, creating a glistening outer layer that smelled like pears or that sweet fruit Shiv had once found in the depths. But the egg was also translucent, allowing her to see what lay within. Instead of beholding a monster, she saw the shape of a man. A man crawled in on himself, a man so suffused with divine mana and now eldritch energies that he was beginning to shiver and change.

“Georges,” Uva breathed. Her eyes widened. This wasn't good. She'd been trying to finish off Longinus, not contaminate his Avatar as well. Reaching out using her Psychomancy, she tried to attach her mind to Georges', but when her mana greeted the egg, it couldn't pass through. There was a layer of magical resistance so dense it was like trying to drive a strand of silk through a wall made from steel.

“Blood-cursed Outsider!” Uva snarled at her first eldritch patron. “You come back to me now, after months of silence, just to make problems?” Her hissed words provoked no reactions. The Dreamtaker was still there. Uva could sense the Eldritch God, but the Dreamtaker was also changing and had gone dormant once more. She wasn't slumbering so much anymore. She could hear everything Uva said, and her mind was active, but utterly occupied with a single event: her upcoming metamorphosis.

Something Uva had inadvertently caused when delivering her final blow.

And it wasn't just the Dreamtaker that was evolving. Uva saw two separate Skill Evolutions and one Skill Fusion notification appear before her eyes. She dismissed them for now, even as she felt her body twist and writhe, even as a rush of changes passed through her. Her Aberrant Fractals began to vibrate and expand. They turned winged in strange shapes, becoming more than just a series of interconnected pieces that distorted space and split through matter. She ignored that for now too.

There were other, more pressing matters she needed to handle before she could take stock of her gains.

The first thing she did was call upon a few of Longinus' Dimensionals. Three wind elementals arrived, their humanoid forms shaped from tumbling vortexes and pale whirlwinds. She sent them a mental command to carry Longinus using their Aeromantic powers. A cradle of air was formed around the downed god, and when they tried to pull him up, the egg over-formed when mixing outsider essence with divine mana, came free of Longinus's carcass. At once, the god stopped whimpering, stopped screaming, stopped making any noise at all.

Instead, the remains of his body slumped off, sliding to the ground in suppurated chunks of gore.

Uva looked away before the disgust could overtake her. She'd seen some deaths and drunk in more horror than she would have liked, but the Wanderer’s remains bothered her in a way she couldn't fully elaborate.

She left the remains of a god's body abandoned in the ruins of his kingdom and went to retrieve the rest of her companions.

Shiv should have been dead. Anyone else would have been dead. But her Dear Brute had more than a passing relationship with death and thus clung to life with a grip few could match. Despite all his wounds, despite the horrific condition of his soul, he was still trying to get up and was on his arms and knees by the time she got to him.

There was a massive hole in his chest, and his Harbinger flickered intermittently around him, its golden shell fracturing, on the verge of coming apart, yet still holding together—somehow, some way, defying the end.

Uva said nothing at first. Instead, she stretched her arms wide, expanding them into a massive spade-like form, and she picked Shiv up before bundling him into her torso. The action was uncanny. He was far larger than she, but her body elongated in ways that defied physical norms. She stretched herself wide and carried his weight with little more than a grunt.

“You know, you don't just look as big as a small building. You weigh as much as one too.” She directed a psionic quip to lighten his burden; he let out a brief, pained laugh as his hands clutched her tight.

“Did you… Did you get him?” Shiv wheezed through a haze of suffering.

“I did. At least I think I did.” She grimaced at the egg. “It’s complicated. Longinus is in no condition to fight back. We have won, but the…” She cut herself off. There was far too much to explain, and Shiv was not in any kind of mental condition to process her words. “We're leaving.”

“Georges…” Shiv slurred.

“I have him,” Uva answered, unsure if it was truth or lie. And she took hold of the Culturist and Adam as well. The orc was in a meditative trance. Despite all the carnage happening around him, he looked so tranquil it felt somehow wrong to disturb him. Uva bundled him up as well, stretching herself even wider. She hadn't had the time to truly experiment with her Non-Euclidean Morphology Skill, and now she got some in-field experience. It felt like she could bend and distort her body a great deal more than she'd thought. Her person expanded into a far larger blanket with two huge knots protruding from her coiled body.

She was like an ever-growing snake wrapping itself around prey after prey, yet instead of trying to feed on them, this simply made it easier for her to carry them away, as keeping them bound to her body made it possible to walk without difficulty.

Adam was the lightest of her burdens, but she barely got to him in time. He was already on the verge of a fatal seizure. His eyes were rolling into the back of his head. His body was spasming, his legs kicking out and tensing. The pre-Legendary skill he possessed was driving him to the brink. Her thread pierced through his mind, drove itself deep, and wrenched him toward unconsciousness. She didn't bother trying to handle his Awareness. Even with her stacked consciousnesses, the burden his Legendary skill inflicted was substantial. She would endure it far better than he could, but she doubted that she could handle his Haunting Omniscience nearly as well as the Culturist.

She picked the Paragon up into her arms as if a mother lifting an infant from its crib. Adam let out a pained moan, and Uva shushed him. “You were a marvel, Adam. A marvel. Sleep now. Sleep now. I have you.”

Her words were further laced by her Psychomancy, and she pushed him even deeper into his unconsciousness. How she was going to protect him from his Legendary Skill down the line, Uva had no idea, but that was a problem for later.

Escape came first.

“Halt! Halt! Stop running!” a shrill voice cried out from above. Uva ignored the speaker. Telepathically tapped into Longinus' dimensionals, she directed them in a frenzied attack on Princess Plum Blossom’s personal guard, and the resulting chaos gave her a smokescreen.

