The project has failed.

Totally, irrevocably, indisputably, it has failed. It has failed in every way it could possibly fail and has given me nothing of value for the time and resources invested in it, but heartache, trouble, and misery, as well a potentially undying, eternal foe who will stop at nothing to devour my soul, spit it out, stomp on it, and torture me for an indeterminate amount of time before its mind finally frays into nothingness and then afterward collapses into a ball of grief that wails its misery and lamentations across all Integration.

What an unfortunate, wretched outcome for so much labor. There must be something about the gods I don't fully grasp. What is it? What eludes me? I understand their divine nature, or at least I assume I do. The foundations of their power are shaped by faith. Divinity is a magical attunement, but decided upon the structures of conceptual lore channeled into a specialized soul that the System has designated as an authority over a concept—a sort of demiurge that modifies and alters our relationship to a romanticized idea.

I managed to change the god's Domain several times by targeting his faithful and altering the way they saw him. I managed to evolve his Domains and even turn his alignment from a well-meaning God of Nature to a hateful God of Fire and Industry. My control over him was almost ontological.

So why didn't this transformation work? Why was I unable to convert its power over into the Outside, thereby separating the System's influence but letting it retain its source of matter? Why could I not create an altered zone of control all my own, a sort of sub-Integration severed from the System's power but bearing all its characteristics and further imbued with the ability to defy natural law?

Was it the Eldritch Entity? No, I had even more control over that. I was its progenitor, after all. I decided how it grew, how it expressed itself. It was, literally, the embodiment of a faith-infesting parasite that defied paracausal rules.

If there is a more perfect being for the task of infesting the flesh of a god, I don't know what it would be. I cannot even begin to imagine.

Why, then, did what evolved from that union break free of my will and bind itself fully to its Avatar? Why did an act of System-forced parasymbiosis on the divine mortal it chose as High Priestess and anchor follow?

Why?

I don’t understand.

Why!?

—Udraal Thann’s recovered notes

355

Cocoon [I]

Longinus was screaming.

His Avatars were screaming.

Every single one of his faithful was screaming.

They had all collapsed and started to wail in synchronized agony at once. And Veronica Chandler had no clue as to why.

***

5 minutes prior…

She was personally overseeing the eradication of House Springbrick when they came searching for her. The boy they sent was frantic but initiated—he barely batted an eye at what Veronica's cleaners were doing. Instead, he sought her out directly, his heart and mind consumed by fear, but not toward her. Well, not entirely. And what little terror he reserved for her was overwhelmed by another happening: something he was tasked with letting her know.

“Councilwoman!” the boy wheezed. He licked his lips as he struggled to assemble his words. Nearby, a loud, muffled scream came from the patriarch of House Springbrick, who howled for the unfamiliar boy to come to his aid. The boy, an Assistant-Interrogator of the Inquisition, ignored the last surviving member of the House like he wasn’t even there.

Inside the patriarch's personal study, they had the man magically restrained to his aged oak chair. He was wrapped by pitch-black mana, a gravity spell holding him in place, preventing him from breaking free or exhibiting any kind of defensive moves. There was only a small gap in the mana, just wide enough for someone to deliver an injection, and that was what one of the cleaners did. The masked woman of the Path of the Alchemist jammed an adamantium needle into the patriarch's flesh and pressed, emptying the substances within her vial. Soon, the man would suffer a sudden embolism in the heart and the mind, and his organs would undergo spontaneous necrosis right after.

Veronica did not eradicate noble Houses lightly. Springbrick was not a great House, but they were known, and their absence would be regarded. As such, proper precautions needed to be taken and excuses put in place to prevent any unwanted interlopers from sniffing about.

This made an engineered plague the ideal solution.

With a single injection, they could make it seem like House Springbrick was consumed by an unanticipated virus. That would give Veronica authority to quarantine the house as well. The virus only had a half-life of a few days, but it was extremely lethal. The collateral damage would be within acceptable limitations. A few would perish, but that would sell the illusion that this was a proper virus.

But again, she took no pleasure in this. She didn't truly possess Anthony's natural coldness. She had to dedicate part of her will to hardening her heart, and the patriarch's pitiful screams made her stomach turn despite her age.

But it had to be done. All forty members of House Springbrick needed to die, for some of their number had made a pact with something from the south during one of their expeditions, a creature Veronica didn't fully understand. It traveled through blood and bodily contact. She'd managed to intercept those House Springbrick had infected, and she had actually captured a sample of the creature before it could recede. It was intelligent, almost vampire-like in its haemokinesis, but rather than being a thing that could wield its own biology, it seemed to dwell within the blood like a living haemophagic network.

If the Inquisition's inner ministry had been lacking at all, then the Republic would have likely undergone one of the most catastrophic calamities in the past twenty years. At the very least, the entirety of the nobility would have been infected, considering how often the nobles ate at the same soirees and exchanged bodily fluids in all their sordid manners within and outside of marriage. The only way she could contain that would be through fire.

And if there was one thing Veronica hated more than purging an entire household of people down to the infants, it was burning a large portion of her Republic to atone for the mistakes of her inattentiveness and the cowardice of a single fool.

House Springbrick thought their betrayal hidden, that their new master was unknown to Veronica. Idiotic more than naive. Though the Stolen Throne's birds were the foremost spies and intelligence brokers on integrated Earth, that didn't make her own network any lesser, especially with all the favors the Dragon Brokers owed her.

She directed a final glare at Simon Springbrick, for it was his actions that condemned the rest of his house to share such a fatal end. “You should have accepted the inevitable as a Pathbearer and enjoyed the time you had and let yourself pass on, Simon. Instead, you signed yourself over to a hostile god as a slave, and then you went and promised him your wife, your children, your children's children, and your brothers' and sisters' children, and the children of those, as well as four separate automata pattern assemblies connected to your house. Now your House is dead. All you hold dear is ash because of you. Damn you for this. I was looking forward to an easy day of arguing with idiots about economic policy.”

Simon Springbrick let out a final gasping moan as the magical virus began taking effect in his cells. Even though his words were incoherent, she understood him perfectly. He was begging, even now, down to the last breath.

Veronica had come close to death before. Had known its chill. That frightful unknown that waited in the nebulous eternity beyond life. But as much as conceptual oblivion shook her, she still had her pride, so long as she was alive. She was a Pathbearer, no matter what fate might fall. She held her composure. It was the last choice she would make.

Perhaps nothing mattered in the grand scheme, but she was not the grand scheme. She was Councilwoman Veronica Chandler. She would die doing all she could, until there was no time left. Until she had no words left to speak.

The last surviving member of House Springbrick foamed at the mouth and relieved himself a final time. Veronica waited until she heard his death rattle before she addressed the young Assistant-Interrogator. “What is it? The Inquisition sent you. I know this; you don't need to explain yourself. I can read that fear on your face. The Head-Inquisitors of the interior ministry wouldn't have told you where I was, otherwise. So, what is it? Tell me.”

Despite her reassurance, the young man still stammered and swallowed. He struggled to compose himself and properly deliver the message, and she stared at him blankly, trying to keep the weary anger off her face and lessen his burden. “It's Longinus, Legend-Councilwoman,” he finally choked out.

As soon as he said that, her composure crumbled. Her pitch-black anger bled out from her eyes, and a growl escaped her, one that made the building tremble. Her rage was made palpable through a single utterance: “Of course it's him.”

Her sheer frustration became material as the surrounding wood, glass, and stones began to groan, crack, and shriek. Her words carried the weight of her will, and her will wanted something to break. Yet, so fine was her control over the skill that she avoided hurting the Assistant-Interrogator or either of her two cleaners in any way. The boy, however, was still shaken, taking a step back as if the Councilwoman had shed her skin and turned into a monster.

And perhaps she had. She showed him a taste of her true capabilities. When fully unleashed, Veronica Chandler could give a small apocalypse a run for its money. That didn't make her more powerful than a god, but words and intentions traveled far—and hers went further than most.

She ended her rage-filled outburst before it could fully begin and let out a resigned sigh. “Okay. Out with it. Tell me what that philandering, depraved fool did this time. And before that, spoil me about the victim. Tell me if the one he hurt was noble or common blood.”

“I-it’s not that. I… He’s screaming, Councilwoman! He’s hurt! Hero-Avatar Cassius collapsed earlier. As did Councilman Hornhowl. It seems that Longinus tried to manifest in both of them at the same time. They were enwreathed by his glorious glow, but they screamed in tandem the same words, the same phrases, as if Longinus was speaking through them, and that has spread since then, to even his ordinary followers! It's still spreading across the entire Republic! Everyone who has devoted themselves to the Wanderer has been affected by his… his state!”

A yawning chasm opened in Veronica's stomach, and she felt her organs plunge far, far down in a lasting descent with no bottom. The cold dread that followed was heavy and painful. She was used to cleaning up after Longinus—had taken special measures to ensure he kept his tastes satisfied to keep the people of her Republic guarded from him when one of his more ravenous moods took hold. Despite the luxuries, experiences, and consorts she provided him, however, there would be times when he slipped his gilded cage and went forth to adventure. In times like that, there were protocols to be followed.

Longinus was a dangerous creature, but also a predictable one. Knowing his habits and tastes made him easy to track, and even easier to anticipate. But cleaning up after him was always a nightmare.

Longinus didn't understand what "no" meant. Most of the Ascendants shared that flaw in some ways, but where Kathereine would sing to you until your emotions and thoughts betrayed you and your soul wailed for her to take and enslave and keep you as a pet or even a toy, Longinus liked the chase with every bit of darkness that entailed.

More than once, Veronica had to dispatch substantial bribes to noble families after one of Longinus' episodes. One time, the entire household gained prominent government positions from these episodes. On the surface, it seemed like they struck gold. But those who were touched by Longinus usually fared poorly, mostly because Longinus liked to break what he couldn't keep, and if he kept you, he would grow bored with you, usually after he broke you, regardless.

But Longinus had certainly never broken down screaming before, and most certainly hadn't tried to inhabit his Avatars all at the same time. He didn't even like spreading his divine mana across countless bodies, usually choosing a singular form, because that was how he enjoyed experiencing the world. His Avatars also mattered little to him because he regarded them as little more than skin suits he could swap in and out of, based on novelty and mood.

But with his suffering sweeping across entire sections of the world, that meant something else was at hand. Something terrible.

She addressed the Assistant-Interrogator no longer. Instead, she reached out to her own Ascendant. One that was bound to her by more than divine connection. "Grandmother! What is this? What is happening? What is the meaning of this? What have you done?" Veronica didn't bother with greeting or tact. She just wanted to know what was happening. Yet the response she got both confused and unnerved her.

“Hm? What are you speaking of, girl?” Kathereine sounded distant and absent-minded, and Veronica didn't need to indulge in any further dialogue to know that her grandmother didn't know anything.

"Longinus. He's suffering from something. He is screaming out through his Avatars, all of them, and his faithful as well. Have you felt anything? Have you done anything?"

