Now that he’d created an opening, all there was left to do was hack away. The creature tried to shake him, to throw him off, but try as the trimander might, he was too firmly perched, his grip too strong, and the creature couldn’t angle its necks in a proper means to strike back. It started to smash itself against a wall, desperate to dislodge him, but the only thing that was dislodged was the middle head from the creature’s body as finally after about twenty consecutive strikes, Markus managed to cut through enough muscle and bone that he was able to kick the remainder of the head from the monster entirely.

He jumped off of the creature as the head fell, sticking the landing and staring at it.

You know how in video games, when a boss is at half hp or whatever, sometimes they enter a second phase where they become much stronger, tougher, and meaner?

Turns out that wasn’t the case with this one. Turns out when you lose two of your three heads, you just become a useless worm-brained monster that can’t even move its body properly.

Markus almost felt bad as he walked up to execute it, sticking his blade straight in the centre of the last remaining head, drooping so far already that it was almost touching the floor.

The last of the creature’s blood crested the blade’s tip.

[E Grade Blood absorbed.]

[Malichor blade 5 << 9. 45 points available.]

[Blood Required for Evolution: 102/100.]

[Evolve weapon? Mana Core Required.]

[Devour the core of the slain creature?]

It took everything Markus still had in him to press yes. He could feel his eyes closing.

Did whoever won the bid have to buy this dead thing now? They’d all gone quiet.

Or maybe his ears had stopped working.

He couldn’t taste anything. Was that normal? Could he usually taste something?

He couldn’t see. He couldn’t open his eyes.

He couldn’t move…

He couldn’t move!

He couldn’t.

He.

…

…

…

A gasp, sudden and incredible. Air was forced into his lungs. A pulse was firmly established.

Markus opened his eyes, the core of the creature flowing into his body as he consumed it.

That hefty dose of energy might’ve postponed the inevitable for him. He’d been so close to the brink that he’d almost shut down entirely.

He couldn’t. Not yet. He still had so much more to do.

He couldn’t let himself get that close again. He’d barely made it this time.

Markus forced himself upright, all the while being swarmed by the rich, the other prisoners, and Elasar’s workers alike.

Apparently, at some point during the fight, they’d stopped bidding on the trimander, and started bidding on him.
