Edna reached for her stack of papers again and flipped to the next page. “During registration, you claimed to be a level 7 [Warrior], but your performance during the physical tests would seem to contradict this.”

Thankfully, this was a question she’d prepared for. “My profession level is higher,” she said simply. “I’m a mercenary.” According to Callan, it was actually pretty common for humans to focus more on leveling their profession than their class since the former was what usually got the bills paid. It was an excuse that wouldn’t work if she looked younger, since humans didn’t choose professions until they became adults, but a thirty-something year old with a high profession level and a comparatively low class level wouldn’t raise any eyebrows.

Edna nodded and scribbled something down. “Thank you. Returning to your ichor-poisoning, quite a few people were hesitant to admit you on account of the potential health concerns. Evidently you suffer from the physical warping effects, but what other symptoms have you noticed? How much has your lifespan been shortened?”

The woman’s voice remained professional and business-like. Pyre was starting to like her no-nonsense attitude.

“I left the Shards pretty soon after the physical effects started,” she said. She shrugged. “I haven’t noticed anything else. As for the lifespan bit, well, I wouldn’t know. I feel pretty great, though. Besides the drooping flesh.”

Edna scribbled something else down. When she was done, she nodded to herself and slid the papers to the edge of the table. Pyre raised an eyebrow. Were they finally done? She was starting to get bored of this room.

Apparently she’d spoken too soon, because just when she thought Edna might be getting up to leave, the sergeant instead reached under the table and pulled something out from a drawer. Pyre squinted at it.

In the soldier’s palm sat a round, perfectly smooth glass orb. It was a little larger than a baseball, and it reminded her a bit of those glass spheres she’d seen outside the Bellhein manor. There were telltale silver lights floating inside the sphere, so it was safe to say that this was some kind of magic device.

“Before we finish here, I’d like you to place this crystal on your palm.”

“What’s it do?”

Edna’s lips thinned. “It’s a standard precaution. This crystal will register nonhuman entities who may have slipped inside the garrison.”

Pyre studied the object closely. “I thought you had wards around the whole place.”

“We do. They are not impervious, however, and sacrifice strength for range. This contains a far more powerful, concentrated spell.”

Edna’s sharp blue eyes were fixed on her, and the demon knew she couldn’t delay this any longer without looking suspicious. She’d just have to hope Pax’s charm was good enough to handle this.

And so, Pyre carefully reached a hand out and grabbed the crystal. It was icy cold atop her open palm. She stared at the silver lights inside, watching as they began to swirl and spin around like a mini-tornado. She kept her muscles relaxed and loose even as those lights continued to whirl, all too aware of Edna’s hawk-like gaze on her.

Finally, all at once, the lights stopped spinning. They broke apart from that fixed circle, scattering and returning to aimlessly drifting around the interior of the orb just like they had been before. The glass remained cold and perfectly clear.

Across from the table, Edna smiled—the first real, genuine smile that Pyre had seen from the human so far.

“Congratulations,” she said. “The garrison welcomes you.”
