Elise chuckled for a moment, and then moaned as Ren's hands reached her special place and he rubbed it through her jeans.

“The whole time I was there, I kept thinking she was a cheap knock-off of the real thing.” He said and moved his hands up to her waist, then to her breasts. “She was nice, but she was definitely not you.” He said and lightly touched the bra he could clearly see through her top. “You even wore a slightly see-through t-shirt for me.” He said and massaged her breasts through the cloth and her bra. “You're always doing things to make me happy, Elise.” He said and laid down on top of her. “I love you so much.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elise said. Her face was red as she wrapped her arms around him, and he snuggled down into her chest. “I love you, too.”

They stayed like that for several minutes, and then Denise and Barbara came back into the room.

“Did you kick Lisa out for some private snuggle time?” Denise asked with a smile.

“He tricked me!” Elise said with mock horror. “He said he just wanted to talk!”

“No, I didn't.” Ren laughed. “I just wanted to see what your body felt like in painted-on jeans.”

Barbara laughed, and Denise shook her head.

“You were really telling the truth when you said you were going to be completely honest with us.” Denise said.

“Why should I lie?” Ren said as Elise let him go. “If I'm always honest, I don't have to keep track of any lies or try to keep my story straight.” He chuckled. “Can you imagine the mess I'd be in right now, if I had tried to hide something from some, or even all of you?” He laughed. “At least one of you would have killed me a long time ago.”

“Yes, namely me.” Barbara said, and everyone laughed.

“I really should get changed.” Elise said and eased Ren off of her and down onto the bed. “These jeans are okay to sit and walk in.” She said and sat up, then got off the bed. “They are not meant to be slept in.”

Ren watched as Elise wiggled her hips and gripped the denim on her thighs to pull them down and away from between her legs.

“Geez. Even doing that, you looked sexy.” Ren said, and Elise laughed.

“You are completely biased.” Elise said and picked up her bag, then went into the bathroom to change.

“Denise?” Ren asked.

“Do we have to be honest, too?” Denise asked and he nodded. “Then, yes.” She sighed. “She looked sexy.”

“Good girl!” Barbara said and pat the top of her head.

“Stop that!” Denise laughed and pushed her hand away, and Ren and Barbara laughed, too.

Elise came out of the bathroom with just a long t-shirt on, and Ren watched her walk over to the bed.

“I'd say that's a sight for sore eyes, but the sight itself gives me sore eyes.” Ren said, and Elise laughed.

“You don't have to keep flattering me, I'm already completely yours.” Elise said and put her bag down and out of the way, set the alarm for the morning, then climbed onto the bed and laid down beside him.

“Denise, if you do something nice for me and I don't pay you a compliment, you'd get mad, right?”

“Hell yes.” Denise said with a huge smile. “It's happened once or twice.”

“You see, Elise?” Ren said. “I've learned to give women their due, and to be honest, you are due a lot.”

Elise ran her hand through his hair. “You let me do pretty much anything that I want.” She said. “I can come and go as I please, I can cuddle you and you never complain, and I can spoil you with kisses.” She said and gave him a series of quick kisses all over his face.

“Ahaha!” Ren laughed as she kissed his cheeks, his eyes, his forehead, and even his nose. When she was done, she gave him one big kiss on the lips.

“See? You're completely spoiled and you didn't complain once.” Elise said and laughed.

“Who would complain?” Ren asked. “That felt wonderful!”

“We'll leave you two alone so you can get some sleep.” Denise said and started to walk to the bedroom door.

“You don't have to leave.” Elise said, then looked at Ren. “We are just going to sleep, right?”

“Yeah, I need to sleep.” Ren said. “I've gotten too used to having someone else in the bed that I can't rest well without it.”

“Then you're really lucky to have so many of us around to help you sleep.” Elise said, and looked back at Denise. “There's lots of room.”

“I... well, I...”

“I could keep my hands to myself.” Ren said, then smiled. “I'm not going to, though.”

Denise snorted a laugh. “Stella did warn us about sleep groping.”

Elise pat the other side of the bed, and after a moment, Denise walked over to it and climbed up onto it. She wore grey jogging pants and a loose t-shirt, which seemed to be a woman's normal outfit for lounging around comfortably, and laid down on Ren's other side.

“Blanket.” Ren said, and the two women reached down towards the end of the bed and unfurled the comforter there to cover themselves and him up. “What a life.” He said and turned his head to look at Elise. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight, sweetheart.” Elise said and kissed him.

Ren turned his head to look at Denise. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Denise said, and didn't lean close. Ren puckered his lips and opened and closed his mouth like a fish. She rolled her eyes and chuckled, then gave him a kiss, too.

“Goodnight, Barbara.” Ren said.

“Goodnight.” She said and turned the lights down, then left and closed the door.
