He hadn’t considered how it must feel to another person to entrust themselves. It had to be a little scary to let a stranger have total control over what happened to you in that way. Like being anesthetized before surgery. Only Alden wasn’t a doctor surrounded by a bunch of other professionals; he was just some alien teenager with a creepy outfit.

“Wait. If that’s how it judges food…how did you eat the fly? Did it give itself to you?”

“Asking the critical questions in our last few seconds together, are we?” Gorgon said dryly. “If I hold them in my mouth long enough, they eventually fly or crawl far enough down my throat on their own for my digestive juices to dissolve them.”

“…okay.”

“It was bothering me.”

“You could have swatted it instead of having a religious experience with it.”

His four nostrils flared. “I just said, didn’t I? The Rite won’t trigger for a fly. Maybe for some Earth animals. Not sure. To be honest, I have some concerns about octopuses. But most of your wildlife should be comestible. I’m trying to teach them that. One stolen bite at a time. My restrictions are making it a slow process.”

Alden took another bite of his pizza. “I’ve taught it that wordchains aren’t evil. Mostly. Well, it works for the minor ones now.”

“Oh dear,” Gorgon sounded amused. “What I gave you is quite limited. Wordchain debt would resemble a trigger for one aspect of the ancient duties, but not that closely. They should be able to tell that chain users aren't…”

He blinked. The semi-transparent eyelids looked just as strange as they always had.

“I can’t hold the connection. Alden, your friends are fine.”

“Boe and Jeremy?” His stomach clenched. It had been so, so long. He tried not to think much about what everyone at home must assume.

“They’re both fine,” Gorgon said hastily, his eyes were fixed on the city like he was trying to drink in the sight of it. “Remember not to do this to me again. I hope you make it. The inheritance will help you with the chaos at least. Even though I didn’t intend for it to be like this, I am glad you—”

Alden was back in the kitchen. One of his hands was resting on the table, and the painted logogram beneath it was still wet.

It took a second for him to collect himself, and when he did, he looked down at Kibby. She was blinking up at him expectantly. “Is it working?” she asked.

“It isn’t,” he said, peeling his palm away from the paint. “I’m sorry. We’ll just have to go on to Plan 2.”

She sighed and stood.

“You don’t look as disappointed as I expected.”

“I feel nice,” she replied. “Like I had a good dream.”
