Pacore leans over my motionless body, smiling at me like a child looking at an interesting insect. When I don't say anything, he pouts. "Come on now; I'm your Master, you have to tell me." Unlike Master Del, it doesn't look like Pacore wants me to keep my skills a secret from him.

"It's a skill," I remark, purposely being as vague as possible.

Pacore just snorts at my comment. "If you don't want to tell me, that's fine. Just make sure you and that Stone kin keep the information about my armor to yourselves. Even I can't protect you if the information gets out." For just a moment, Pacore sounds serious.

"I can't believe you tried blowing me up!" And the moment is gone.

I hear footsteps approaching, but I don't want to raise my head. "You finally decided to join us, General," Pacore quips when I see General Pitz make it into my view. "I was sure you'd try to escape after I had Jason run off."

“You know I can’t do that,” General Pitz frowns at Pacore.

I don’t know how much those bands seal her, but they have to be strong if they limit someone like General Pitz enough where she can’t survive in the woods.

"No reason to be mean," Pacore continues to egg General Pitz on. "I know you're jealous about my newest student, so I suppose it can't be helped."

The look General Pitz gives Pacore reminds me of my mom right before she snaps. We can all hear the General grind her teeth in frustration.

“If you want to borrow my sword, you can try stabbing him,” I offer the angry woman.

“Hey, you’re supposed to be on my side,” Pacore looks like I just slapped him.

“Not by choice,” I grumble.

“That doesn’t matter. You’ll see, Scholl is a beautiful place.”

“If you like miles of rocky hellscape,” General Pitz cuts off Pacore.

While the two of them argue, it sinks in that I lost. I'll have to leave the village. I can only hope Pacore doesn't make me leave right away.

“Ma, Mast, Master Pacore?” I swallow a lump in my throat after calling him Master.

"Yes, my apprentice?" Pacore looks at me with a goofy smile, happy to hear me call him Master. Seeing his smile makes me never want to address Pacore as Master again.

"Do I have to leave with you right away? If possible, can I wait until the new year's festival before I leave?" I hesitantly ask; I don't even bother trying to use my skills on him. There's still so much I need to do, and I can't forget about spending time with my family.

Pacore chuckles, “you don’t need to leave immediately. You can stay in the village until I finish my campaign and auction off the General here. But why is a new year's festival that important to you?" Pacore curiously asks me.

I'm so relieved I don't immediately have to leave the village; I answer Pacore's question without thinking. "I've been looking forward to the festival for years now. This year is the first time I'll be allowed to participate with all the adults."

Pacore and General Pitz freeze in place. “This is the first time you’re participating in the festival?” Pacore reiterates.

“How old are you?” General Pitz’s fevered eyes burrow into my soul.

Crap, I said something I shouldn’t have!

Pacore and the general’s gazes become more overwhelming the longer I remain silent. “I turned 15 this year,” I finally tell them.

General Pitz and Pacore, two respected leaders of their nations that have reached unimaginable heights, look at me like I’m the monster.

“By the gods!” General Pitz swears.

Pacore’s eyes widen impossibly large. “You will be my greatest student,” the fanaticism behind his voice sends a shiver down my spine. Everything is only made worse by the fact I'm so tired I can barely move. He makes me wish I did pass out after my spell failed to defeat the old man.

Maybe I should just pretend to pass out; that could work, right?

I slowly start to close my eyes, but Pacore is having none of that. "You can't sleep on me yet," Pacore gently slaps my right cheek. Opening my eyes, I scowl at the man. I've made up my mind; as soon as I'm strong enough, I'm killing him!

“What do you want,” I snap at Pacore.

“I wanted to talk about getting some weapons made. That arrow you made for General Pitz was incredible.”

I ignore Pacore’s flattery and look at General Pitz. “Did the arrow really turn out that good?”

General Pitz smiles at me. "It was; I almost killed him with it."

“Well shit,” I curse. “Now I’m going to kick myself for not making it stronger.”

“You’re starting to hurt my feelings,” Pacore forces himself into our conversation. “I saw the spears you had back in the clearing. I’d like to buy those and order more.”

Great, now I have another person demanding an order.

Wait a minute!

I smell a great opportunity.

I put on a shit-eating grin for my new Master. “Sorry to tell you this, but I can’t sell you anything.”

“What, why not!?” He yells.

"I have a contract with someone already. I'm only allowed to sell my wares to him," I continue to grin at the old man.

"So, break it. I'll cover you for whatever the conditions are and pay you more."

“Sorry, no can do,” I take great pride in Pacore’s frustration. “You can’t cover my cancellation cost.”

“Oh, yeah?!” Pacore bellows. “What is it?”

If Pacore wants to be my master, he should help me take care of my problems. "If I break my contract, I lose 20 levels.”

"That's!?" Pacore is dumbfounded for a moment before I see anger start to rise in his eyes. "And who made you sign such a ludicrous contract?" Pacore asks me in a cold voice.

Bingo! That’s the reaction I was hoping for.

“Well, who was it!?” Pacore demands.

“I signed a contract with Lennard Grey shortly before you took Drey. You’ll have to talk to him if you want to buy anything from me.” It’s hard to keep myself from laughing like a villain. “He’s the…”

"Head of the Silver Herd branch in Drey. I know," Pacore hisses in displeasure. "I've met him."

“That's good; you can send all requests through him," I flatly tell Pacore.

“I’ll get right on that.” Pacore looks pissed. He remains steaming until the healer he sent for arrives with Jason.

Pacore tries to order the man to heal me first, but I demand that he treat Master Del first, knowing his injuries are worse than mine. The healer Pacore brought with him is much more talented than Anastasia, so much so, master is standing on both legs again after only thirty minutes of treatment. He even manages to remove some of the fatigue I'm feeling from mana exhaustion to the point I can also stand on my own.

"Are you okay?" I rush over to hug Del as soon as I’m on my feet.

“I’m fine,” he grunts. “Just some phantom pain.”

“That should fade in a few hours,” the healer tells us.

“Thank you,” I offer the man a small bow.

“I was merely following Master Pacore’s orders. Is there anything else you need, Sir?” The healer salutes Pacore.

"No, you can return to camp," Pacore dismisses the man in an almost comically dry voice. Where did the annoying old man go?

The medical soldier salutes Pacore one last time before leaving the quarry.

“What happens now?” I find myself asking the same question as yesterday.

Pacore starts stroking his beard again. "For now, you will remain in this village. I'm not sure how long it will take to finish my campaign, but in the meantime, I'll send one of my best students to start your training and to make sure nothing happens to you while I'm gone."

You mean to make sure I don't run away, I think to myself.

“We should head back now,” Pacore says, glancing up at the sky. “I have much to prepare before I return to Drey. Do you need any help walking back?” He asks me.

"I got her," Del protectingly moves next to me.

"So, you do," Pacore remarks. He smiles at me one last time, "I'll have the contracts ready for you to sign before we set out tomorrow."

"Okay," I respond, hanging my head. It's the only thing I can do to hide my grin. One-sided contracts are a girl's best friend after all.

“Okay, what?” Pacore presses me, not leaving until he hears me say it.

“Okay…. Master Pacore,” I grit through my teeth.

“Needs some work, but all in good time,” Pacore laughs. Master Del and I watch as Pacore walks out of the quarry, followed closely by Jason and General Pitz who secretly steals a glance back at me.

We stand there in silence for a good minute.

“We lost,” Master breaks the silence. “But at least you got the teacher you always needed.”

I’m in no mood for master’s pessimism, so I elbow him in his side where Pacore had cut him earlier. Master groans and folds over, holding the spot where his wound once was. "You're my first master, and that hasn't changed. Pacore can be my second master if I don't kill him first," I growl in frustration. Does Del really think I'm happy about being dragged out of the village?

I move next to Del and help back up onto his feet. "Don't say nonsense like that again, okay?"

“Alright,” he agrees.

"I can't believe you thought I would be happy having that man as a teacher," I complain as we walk towards Master's house.

Master softly chuckles to himself, and I consider hitting him again.

“What’s so funny?” I ask him.

“I just find it funny how much you hate him, considering how much the two of you are alike.”

“We’re nothing alike!” I yell.

"The resemblance is uncanny," master continues to make fun of me. "It will be interesting to see which of you annoys the other to death first."

"Go home and rest because you obviously suffered some head trauma," I tell master as I help him into his clearing.

“You don’t have to tell me twice,” Master stumbles over to his hut. He opens the door but turns to me before he goes in. “Will you be fine heading back by yourself?”

“I’ll be fine,” I reassure him. “My mana may be low, but I still have some stamina left after dragging your fat butt home.”

“Be safe,” master tells me one more time before walking into his house. I envy Master for living alone. He doesn't have a house full of worried people waiting for him.

That's not true; I want nothing more than to be smothered by Mom and Dad right now.

I might not be dragged out of the village tomorrow, but my time here just became much more precious. My only saving grace is that I know my family will support me no matter what happens.

So, I need to get home and show them that I'm all right.

Thinking about my family waiting for me helps me make it home faster despite my aches and pains.

I reach out to open our squeaky front door, and it occurs to me I might not be able to call this home for much longer.
