Once the stone kin is in front of me, his massive arms bring his hammer down. My skills scream in my head to dodge rather than try blocking the strike. With Dancing, I gracefully retreat out of his range.

The hammer strikes the quarry floor causing the surrounding stone to shatter like it was made of glass. With that kind of Strength, I can't risk parrying any of the Stone kin's attacks. I would survive if he hit me, but the force would send me flying, and that would be more than enough of an opening for them to pin me down.

While the Stone kin pulls back on his hammer to ready himself for another attack, I step back with my left foot and face Aaliyah, who's trying to keep up the pressure on me. This is an excellent opportunity to see how she moves in battle. She obviously favors movement-related skills, but she hasn't faced enough people like me who are used to such attacks.

With one step, I dodge the first strike she makes. Then, I parry her second swing with my sword. There's considerable weight behind her weapon, and I'm curious how she's able to swing it like she is without falling over.

Aaliyah's master tries hitting me from my right, but I dodge by stepping into Aaliyah's striking range. She grins, thinking they've got me, but I dance around her strike and thrust my sword at her right shoulder. Her eyes widen as she jumps backward to dodge my thrust.

It’s then that I notice Aaliyah’s first flaw. When she has free room to run, she’s incredibly fast, but she’s not used to minute movements in the heat of battle. I can predict how she’ll move just as easy as I can her master.

I was hoping the stone kin would be more of a challenge, but I can tell his level wasn't gained from combat. The two of them have practiced with their weapons, but neither are used to fighting other people.

I twirl and thrust my sword at the stone kin's gut to keep him on his toes. He blocks with his hammer as I expected him to, I wasn't trying to hurt him in the first place.

This battle is heavily skewed in their favor, but that just makes this more enjoyable for me. I'll show them I can't be harmed until they collapse from exhaustion. I might throw in a few shallow cuts for good measure, but dancing around these two is a no-brainer.

Their teamwork is quite good, at least I admit. The Stone kin forces me back, while Aaliyah is the one to try and hit me. I wonder if they'll even manage to touch my armor?

I dodge back from another one of the Stone kin's strikes while simultaneously turning to parry Aaliyah's axe. Brandishing my sword, I calculate precisely where I'll need to hit her weapon, so it misses me.

I swing to deflect Aaliyah’s strike, only for my skills to warn me of danger. Aaliyah grins at me and vanishes from my sight.

“Flash Step!” I curse aloud.

My skills tell me she ended up behind me. I expect for her to aim at my head, which wouldn’t be that big of a problem, but my blood runs cold when, from the corner of my eye, I see her swing her axe at my lower back, the spot my armor’s magic gem is hidden!

I twist in place, so she hits the front of my armor. Was she aiming for that spot, or was it a lucky strike? I don't have long to ponder because my skills keep screaming for me to move. Without looking behind me, I know the Stone kin is about to hit me from behind.

I activate one of my defensive treasures just in time to block his hammer. A magic barrier covers my back for a split second before shattering under the Stone kin's Strength. The magic tool did its job by dispersing most of the force behind his strike. I'm still knocked a few feet forward, but at least I'm not sent flying.

After that close call, I retreat for a moment and put some distance between us. That Stone kin's strike was dangerously close to the magic gem as well, too close.

“A little lower next time,” I hear Aaliyah tell her master.

“Got it.”

My eyes threaten to pop out of their sockets; I'm floored. They were aiming for the magic gem! That means they not only know about my armor, but they know its weak spot too!

I stare at Aaliyah, she’s the only one who could possibly see my armor, but that shouldn’t be possible!

My armor is enchanted to repel magic, meaning it repels all searching type spells as well as Sense Mana. Only the best mages can tell I'm wearing armor at all, and not one has ever figured out where the magic gem is located!

I take a deep breath to calm myself. I don’t know how she did it, but I’ll take great pleasure in figuring it out.

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

"We were close," I grin, seeing the old man's shocked expression. We scared him enough he felt the need to retreat.

"Don't get overconfident; we haven't won yet," Master reminds me.

“I know, I know,” I say, taking a moment to catch my breath.

I'm just happy things are working out as we planned. It was a longshot that Pacore would accept my terms, but in the end, he did. Master and I needed a reason to fight Pacore, and we figured if he agreed, we could make the fight more even with a few added conditions. We're free to try and kill him while Pacore needs to have us surrender.

Yesterday we discussed how our meeting with Pacore would play out, and it was my idea that Master and I cut ties with the village beforehand. Camden and Mom were against the idea, but we need the village to be safe in case we fail.

If we lose, I become Pacore’s disciple. But if we win…!

We actually don’t have a plan if we win. We only had so much time to plan things out, and figuring out a way to get him to duel us was hard enough, let alone what we should do should we manage to win the fight. Killing Pacore would be a death sentence for the village, and I'm not sure if I can free General Pitz. If we're lucky, Pacore will acknowledge his defeat and leave us alone. But no matter what happens, word will get out that I'm here.

I shake my head, setting those thoughts away for later. First, we have to bring this old man down!

Together, master and I start taking steady steps forward. We're both ready to rush in; our target is the spot on his lower back that hides the magic gem. If we can damage that area enough, all of the armor’s enchantments should fail. It hurts having to destroy such a beautiful piece of work, but we have no other choice.

When we’re twenty feet away from Pacore, we're ready to make our move. Both of us tense our muscles but Master and I pause when we hear Pacore start to laugh.

"I'll admit, I underestimated the two of you. I don't know how you figured it out, but that can wait until later," Pacore sneers at me. "No more nice Pacore. Prepare yourselves because you face Master Pacore the Deathless now!"

The air around Pacore practically vibrates, and it becomes heavy. I don't know if it's a skill, but he's somehow affecting the surrounding mana without doing anything through sheer force of will. He briefly did the same thing yesterday, but this time the effect lasts longer than a few seconds.

I swear I can hear Mom's voice in the back of my head telling me to run, but I brush it aside. There's no use running.

Instead of Pacore waiting for us to attack, he's the one to rush us this time.

He slashes at master with such precision; his previous attacks could only be called half-assed in comparison. Master stumbles backward as Pacore starts cutting him in between his armor. The cuts aren't deep, but almost every swing of Pacore's sword draws more of Master's blood.

I use Flash Step to get in close and help, but Pacore easily swats my axe away before I can properly swing it.

Pacore attacks in such a way, I'm forced to dodge in a single direction. He herds me next to Master and continues his assault, so neither of us can break away!

It's like we're fighting a totally different person. Pacore hasn't gotten faster or stronger, and yet he's pushing both of us back. Each step he takes is perfect; with each swing of his sword, he chips away at Mana Skin or opens a new wound on master. I can no longer tell where his sword and hand meet.

This is beyond fighting someone with a higher level. How long has he spent practicing his swordplay? How many battles has this monster been in?

When Pacore told us he was one of Scholl’s pillars, I knew he would be strong, but I could’ve never imagined this! If something doesn’t change soon, we’re going to lose!

And the only way we're going to win is if we get creative!

Instead of pushing backwards, I push off the ground. Pacore doesn't miss the opening and aims to stab my shoulder while I'm in the air. If he gets a clean hit, his sword will slice through Mana Skin like it isn't even there.

But this was what I was hoping for.

I push off the air with Air Walk, dodging what would’ve been a nasty blow. I hear shouting from outside the quarry, but my eyes are focused solely on Pacore. His eyes follow my every movement as I soar through the air. Besides Pacore's smile, he doesn't look surprised by my skill in the slightest. In fact, if Master wasn't taking this chance to keep him busy, I'm sure Pacore would still be trying to stab me in the air.

I move to swing my axe from up above, but Pacore is ready for me. He activates another magic item, and another barrier forms around Pacore, but this one expands rapidly before vanishing, pushing me higher into the sky while forcing master back.

Oh no, you don't!

My axe is still raised over my head, so I throw it with everything I have.

Pacore sidesteps my axe, unfazed even though it skims past his fancy armor. I draw my Scimitar and push off the air again, charging him once again.

Pacore isn't foolish enough to let me get behind him again; he continually shifts his position to keep Master and me in front of him. Even with aerial superiority, I can't get him!

Pacore dodges another one of my slashes; in doing so, he twists in place and drops to one knee. With his change in position, he stabs Master's right knee. I know it's terrible when I hear Master howl in pain.

"Del!" I scream. Rushing Pacore, I swing my sword, wanting to get Pacore to move away from Master, who's trying to crawl backwards with his good leg.

"You shouldn't let your emotions get the better of you." I don't have time to register what Pacore just told me before he swings his sword directly underneath my foot. Just as I'm about to push off the air, Pacore's sword tears through the mana barrier I built to push off of, and I tumble hard to the ground.

I move to get up, but Pacore is already standing over me with his sword pointed at my face. "That’s quite an interesting technique you’re using there. You're quite talented, but you lack experience. It will be fun teaching you," he grins down at me.

“It’s not over yet,” I hiss.

"I think it is," Pacore talks down to me. "It's commendable to want to keep fighting, but you have to know your limits."

I glance to my side and see master has managed to crawl a good twenty feet away from us. Time for plan Z.

"There's always a way to win," I laugh at Pacore.

I raise my hand and recite my spell.

“Llaif gamfr ol e nnamse!”

Either Pacore recognizes the spell, or he's that sure I can't hurt him; either way, he waits for me to cast my magic. When the small flame appears in my outstretched palm, he can't help but laugh.

“You shouldn’t underestimate fire,” I tell him as I gather most of my mana into my hand.

The last thing I see before the world fills with fire is Pacore's smile faltering for a split second. The overpowered flame spell isn't as powerful as the last time I used it because of all the mana I used against Pacore, but only by a little. My skills have leveled a lot since the last time I tried to blow myself up, and the resulting explosion is still deafening. Mana Skin holds back most of the blast's force along with most of the heat, but I can feel a burning sensation on the arm I used to cast the spell. I'm glad I invested that extra twenty points into my Endurance, or the damage might have been a lot worse.

Thanks to the mana threads I have anchoring me to the ground, I wasn't thrown by the explosion, and I can forcefully absorb a small amount of ambient earth mana underneath me to keep myself from passing out.

This time I’m conscious as my spell starts to fizzle out.

The first thing I see is the tip of Pacore's sword, still pointed at my face. The flames become thinner, and my heart sinks when I see Pacore's smiling face still looking down on me.

Pacore is entirely unharmed.

Even the bastard's clothing underneath his armor isn't damaged!

I want to curse the old man, but I'm too busy trying to catch my breath. My mana levels are hovering around 10%, making me feel extremely exhausted. My outstretched hand that cast the spell falls limply to my side, with a few minor burns.

Pacore whistles, "I was not expecting that! However, I was expecting your last move not to be something unexpected, so it doesn't count," he gloats. "Now surrender so I can send Jason to get the two of you a healer." Pacore refuses to lower his sword until I admit our defeat.

I look over at Master, who's standing on one leg. He looks like he's willing to keep going, but the blood dripping from his leg is increasing the more he moves around. I won't let Master kill himself for me.

“I surrender,” I wheeze out.

Master Del looks at me, wondering if I'm serious. After I slowly nod my head, master falls backwards onto his ass, hanging his head in disappointment.

“Jason!” Pacore shouts up to the boy who's staring slack-jawed at us. "Go get a healer!"

“Yes, Master Pacore,” the young man stutters before taking off.

Pacore watches him leave before looking back at me. "That was a good fight," he grunts as he sheaths his sword and sits down next to my sprawled-out form. "Before General Pitz walks down here, tell me, how did you know about my armors weakness?" He asks in a whisper.

