He glanced around too-casually, and Halrac frowned, but Erin beamed at him.
“Yeah! It’ll take me a second to figure out how to do it, anyways. Mavika, do you know how to summon elementals? It wasn’t part of my training. I only know theory.”
The Crow Witch hesitated and shook her head.
“You know more than I of this part of deep craft. If you think it is wise, do what you wilt, and I will watch with the others.”
More [Witches] were learning from Erin. And lambs. The young woman gulped, but her eyes were aflame, and this, perhaps more than any moment, was truly what she had learned from the lands of the dead. So she began speaking out loud, explaining to her audience.
“Okay. Okay. If I recall right—summoning an Elemental is like any other spirit. There are two basic parts of a spirit staying in the world. The ritual can be simple or hard, and since he’s…here, that’s not as much of an issue. And he wants to come out. So we need to make a body for him and an anchor.”
“How’s that, then?”
Typhenous was scribbling frantically. Erin ticked the two off on her fingers.
“Body. Body is like—what he uses. A vessel like Khoteizetrough had. It can be small or big, and an Elemental grows over time as it puts more of itself in there. We need something suitably…water-like.”
“A bucket of water?”
“Special water, Revi! Almost like a slime’s body, maybe. The second thing it needs is an anchor. Some part of it that connects to what it is. A sapling or…well, a riverstone.”
“I could get that. It’s a cold day, but if you want someone to take a dip—I’m your woman! This sounds exciting!”
Briganda laughed and shucked off her outer layer of clothing. She put a toe in the river and shuddered.
“Oh, that’s cold! I’ll dive down and grab a stone?”
Erin hesitated.
“Uh—yeah! Get one with a hole in it, if you can! A natural hole in the center.”
Briganda’s face fell. She stared down into the riverbed at hundreds of stones.
“Wait, what?”
Then a chortling Cade ran up and pushed Briganda into the water. She fell in with a yelp and began bobbing in the fast-moving current, diving down and coming up with muddy stones.
Erin was trying to figure out the water bit. Mavika perched next to her.
“Perhaps only a bit of water will do for a small one? In the tales I know, they started small and grew without limit over time.”
“Yeah, yeah. It’s just—a basic Elemental is sorta stupid. If we give him water, he’ll splash and destroy his body. So it needs to be slightly…gelatinous?”
“Hm. A thick water?”
“Ew, but yes.”
Mavika frowned at Erin, but then she turned her head.
“Perhaps Eloise could help. She is a [Witch] of tea, and she could mix an agent into some water. I have horse’s bone and marrow, and I know Agratha can make a jelly broth of beef.”
Erin clapped her hands in delight.
“What, like a tea Elemental? That’s hilarious! Yeah, let’s do that! All we need is a cauldron, a stone…”
And a great occasion for the magic. Erin felt it in the air, a humming in her bones. Her eyes lit up, and she beamed, and the other [Witches] felt it as she began to kneel by the riverbed and whispered to the water.
A prickle in their thumbs. A great act of witching this way comes. Even the girl sitting on the hill looked down as she felt Erin speaking to the river.
But the one [Witch] who heard the old man and ignored his pleas day by day raised her head and turned from supervising a new trebuchet being constructed in the engineering corps’ home.
“Oh no, that fool.”
She went striding back, away from Tessia, and tried to gauge how far she was from wherever it was happening. The [Engineers] had been given a site six miles away from Riverfarm proper. They had moved when people complained of the loud thwacking sound of trebuchets misfiring and the occasional projectiles launched in every direction.
Wiskeria had walked the distance. She ran about, cursing and calling for a horse, then just charged down the road. Of all the times not to have her mother’s boots! She hoped she’d make it in time.
 
——
 
She was halfway through setting up a cauldron and Erin was inspecting a stone with a bit of quartz running through it, a geode that had tumbled into the river long ago, perhaps, when she noticed Halrac’s look of reserve.
“What?”
“This seems like a larger event than just summoning a slime or Water Golem, Erin.”
He glanced to the side, and Erin saw dozens of girls in hats sitting on the banks. Older [Witches] were arriving, bringing their apprentices. Most watched, standing or sitting, but Agratha had brought a picnic blanket and was offering a canteen of soup around.
Erin bit her lip. She saw Halrac glance at her and then at his team. Unfortunately, Halrac Everam didn’t have much support—Revi had entered her gothic-rebel phase, Typhenous was greedily watching the goings-on, and Briganda was busy drying herself, and she was a happy-go-lucky sort anyways. Cade was probably Halrac’s backup that this wasn’t a good idea, and that was just because the boy wanted to go to the bathroom.
“What? Oh, come on, Halrac. It’s just a little—Laken’s cool. Mm. Maybe he’s not cool.”
Halrac didn’t say anything. He just kept watching Erin. The [Innkeeper] blew out her cheeks.
“I’m not—”
She stared at the ground, then peered around. Erin seemed to demarcate part of the sky and grumbled.
“It’s all his. Land, people, air—who just claims everything? Isn’t that arrogant? Whatddya think about this [Emperor], Halrac? Is he arrogant or a jerk or…?”
The [Marksman] shifted slightly and lowered his voice.
“Maybe. He’s certainly self-assured.”
“Exactly!”
“…But he’s also an [Emperor]. Tens of thousands of people look up to him. He is far more restrained than some. I’ve met Gold-rank adventurers with more grating egos. I think you could name at least one.”
“Todi? Yeah. I…”
Erin looked down at the spot of the ritual and then up as a few [Witches] brought over some gelatin and materials. She stared at the sky and groaned.
“…Damnit. I’ve got to do this.”
Glumly, Erin got up and turned. She walked towards Riverfarm, but as it turned out, Laken was already heading her way. He had his entourage, and he clearly knew something was going on.
“Ah, Erin. Is something…eventful taking place? Something suitably witchy?”
The worst part was that he even sounded polite, like he was sure it was okay, but he was just coming to inquire.
“Sorta.”
Erin mumbled and scuffed at the ground with one foot. She glanced back at Halrac and then looked at Laken.
“I, uh—I’m doing something with your river, Laken. I’m trying to summon the spirit of a Water Elemental.”
“You what?”
The strangled voice came from Nesor, the nervous [Mage] in the back. He was the only person who could appreciate that statement. Laken’s brows rose.
“Indeed?”
Erin nodded glumly.
“But I realized I have to ask you. Because it’s your land and sort of your river. Also, I was hoping he’d come with me. I don’t think an elemental listens to an [Emperor], but he’s been crying since I got here. Anyways. Can I summon an Elemental? It’ll only take like ten minutes to try. I’ll probably fail, anyways.”
As requests went, it was terrible. But that was because Erin really didn’t want to ask. She felt like she knew the answer already, and she was about to sulk off when the [Emperor] replied.
“Yes.”
Erin’s bowed head came up suspiciously.
“Wh—really?”
Laken raised his brows.
“You want to summon an elemental of a river? As long as you think it’s safe and my subjects can stay back, absolutely, try. In what scenario would I not want to meet one?”
“Maybe a blood elemental or something like that. Uh—wow! Thanks, Laken! You’re cooler than I thought! I mean…that’s exactly what I meant.”
Erin gave him a thumbs-up, and the [Emperor] hesitated. He strolled after Erin as she ran back to Halrac, shouting.
“Halrac! I got permission! Let’s do this thing!”
“Was that a good idea, Rie? Thoughts?”
Laken whispered to the others. He felt rather like the ‘cool principal’ who okayed the students skateboarding down the hallways. And he had never even thought of himself as a principal. In some generic American school. With lots of lockers, allegedly, for shoving people into. That was how he pictured it.
“It seems incredible she could do that off-handed. From Nesor’s babbling, it seems impossible, Your Majesty. But it would be a useful lesson to learn even if it fails. Whether it is dangerous? I remind you of our Solstice party.”
Laken hesitated. It did seem impossible that the cheerful young woman could do that. But then…her aura was only middling, weaker than Rie’s had been when they first met. Perhaps because this wasn’t her inn?
Yet the stories about her—Laken murmured to Prost.
“Maybe move Riverfarm’s people back if they want to watch. The [Witches] are all over the riverbank.”
He decided to watch at a remove as Griffon Hunt, a few older [Witches], and Erin fussed around the riverbank. Erin didn’t seem to need much time for a ‘first try’. Laken told himself he wasn’t going to find the proverbial high-schooler with a broken neck in five minutes. There was no way she was as bad as Ryoka, right?
And when he thought that, the [Emperor] got really worried.
 
——
 
For a grand meeting, it was like…preparing for a guest. If you did it right, for someone like Khoteizetrough, or who he would be, you needed to honor them in a suitable way.
Set the table and prepare a feast. Sweep the floor, set a crackling fire ablaze. Clean the guest room, replace the sheets, and throw open the windows. Welcome them, these distant guests, with open arms and hope they would choose to live with you awhile. Some might stay and put their lives with yours or stay with your children’s children. Great protectors, beings of magic and wisdom.
Erin had no banquet adorned for this old man. She barely had a can of soup, and she was improvising a can opener with a stick and two rocks. Her ‘guest room’ was a pallet of straw, and she knew it.
Yet she was still inviting him. Not just because she wanted to meet him or desired his power, but because he was crying.
Weeping and begging to be let in. She had never heard of someone doing that. He knew she was there, and he wanted to meet her as much as she did him. So, though it was poor, Erin Solstice mixed up tea and gelatin powder and water and grimaced at the mess in the cauldrons. She lifted the ladle, and someone actually tried to taste it.
“Witch Oliyaya!”
Agratha was shocked, but Oliyaya cackled.
“It tastes as foul as tea and riverwater and mud might. But it’s closer to jelly than naught. Add some spit in for substance?”
“I think not. Although this is, ah, improvised? Will this do?”
The [Witches] turned to Erin. She eyed the mess and then the stone with the geode in it. Slowly, she lowered the stone into the cauldron of vaguely-green jelly.
“It’s terrible. If it was anyone else, I’d expect them to be really upset. But I can hear…he’s practically reaching for the cauldron. Can you hear him?”
She turned expectantly, and Mavika shook her head. She was as deaf to the voice of water as most birds. If she had been the [Witch of Penguins]…maybe that kind of witch-bird would have heard.
However, more than one [Witch] was craning their necks and peering into the river. It was lapping hard at the banks, now. Interestingly, against the natural laws of physics, the water seemed to surge against the side of the river Erin was on.
“I can hear something.”
Oliyaya whispered, and Eloise adjusted her hat, eying the river.
“Yes. He wants to meet us. This is uncanny. I have walked the Vail Forest and listened long. I have some gift with herbs and water myself, but no voice was even half as loud. I wonder why.”
Hedag stood furthest back. Her eyes were locked on the river, and she had not joined the ritual. Erin turned to her.
“Um, Witch Hedag? Is something wrong?”
“I do not know. But best summon him, eh, Witch Erin? If he is this loud, better to swing clean than stop halfway.”
So Erin had Halrac and Briganda help carry the cauldron to the edge of the river, where the water lapped around the cauldron. Cade sucked his thumb as Gothica copied him, and Riverfarm’s folk stood far back. Then the adventurers took a step back, and it was Erin alone.
The [Witch of Second Chances] felt uncertain with so many eyes upon her. She felt—off. This was no proper invitation, no rich meal. Yet the guest was pounding at the door and weeping.
How long had he waited? Her heart went out to him. He sounded so old. He had lain here, sleeping, as ages passed. Waking and calling out and weeping in silence.
It was the [Witches] who had first woken him up. The great coven coming across this land. No, the [Emperor] himself. But the only ones to hear him had ignored his voice. Now—
Erin Solstice had no drawn ritual. No sacrifice of magic. She waded into the banks of the river and felt the current pulling at her shoes. She shivered, for it was a strong river and pulled her, but called out.
“Hello? It’s me. I can hear you. I have nothing to offer you, but will you meet with me?”
The [Witches] watched. Riverfarm’s folk eyed the [Innkeeper] standing in the water, as silly and odd as she’d come. A [Princess] hurried forth, exasperated, as a little Gnoll girl stopped racing about with her new friends and halted.
Mrsha, the [Druid], felt Erin reaching down. She scampered forwards and joined the crowd, observing as Erin tried to make contact.
Now, how did it go? It was just a matter of perspective. If you set the table right, if they were willing to listen and you had a place for them to stay—you had to get their attention.
You had to open the door and see them. Erin bent over the river, looking down into the waters. But it was not the riverbed she was trying to see. She looked down, and down, until her eyes began to play tricks on her.
Like anything, if you stared at it too long, if you focused on a word, the less sense it made. But Erin kept staring, blinking when she needed to, but holding her gaze in one spot. Until the little tricks her mind played began…morphing together. Until the murmurs of people behind her were overtaken by the rushing of waters. The coldness in her feet spread—and then numbed her flesh—
And then Erin fell. Not physically, but fell into a world of rushing blue. Where the muddy banks became the floor of a world where water was everything. She almost gasped, almost jerked back, but held herself as she fell deeper.
“There you are.”
