It was a vast world of water. An ocean—but an ocean of so many parts. If the water had been colored, Erin thought she would have seen a hundred myriad streams, each unique, blending and mixing and warring and joining together.
The will of water. Perhaps the ocean itself had a will. Perhaps the oceans could be elementals, like ponds and lakes and rivers.
But now—she looked around as she sank, following this stream, and Erin’s heart clenched. Because this ocean was still.
The water was dead. The land was cold where it met this ocean in the distance, and the last glorious singers had fled this continent, into the sea. Long ago, and so he wept.
An old man. He looked nothing like a person as Erin sank down. If he had hair, if she had to make sense of that face that gazed upwards and the tears that fell, his hair was like old water, twisting around a face made of a ripple, a passing reflection of the things that passed above him.
Yet she knew he was old. Old and lonely. He wept because someone had died. No—two someones. The last of a forest and a great protector.
Salty tears ran from Erin’s eyes, mixing with the sea around her. She reached down—the water was all around her, in her lungs, but she whispered without breath.
“Hello. Do you want to come with me?”
The old man looked up at her and raised his head where he sat, alone. She saw that head of currents, a face made of waters, rise, and then swam upwards. Reaching for her, looking up at her pitiful offering. But a smile of delight spread across his face, and he shot up, faster and faster, and Erin gulped as she realized how large he was. Even if he wasn’t as old or powerful, he was a river. He carried her up in his wake, and she—
 
——
 
Erin had gone completely still. The [Witches] were not fooled, but Riverfarm’s folk were greatly perplexed by what they saw. They had seen her call out once, then just stand there as her trousers were soaked by the lapping waters. There was something off about the river, and the longer they watched, the more the hair prickled down their necks and a shiver ran up their spines.
Yet she didn’t do anything interesting. Not at first. She gazed down, immobile, as the cauldron slowly threatened to tip over and the water’s lashing grew stronger.
Then…the river turned as flat as glass. It still ran, but gasps of shock and awe rose and then fell to silence as the rushing waters stopped pushing. Erin Solstice’s lips moved, but no words came out. She reached down as Wiskeria reached the edge of Riverfarm, clutching at a stitch in her side.
“No, stop!”
Too late. She saw Erin bending down. She saw the old man rising, and Wiskeria ran, lungs bursting with pain.
What they all saw, [Witches], people, was Erin Solstice completing the simple gesture. She reached down with one hand into the water and grabbed something there. Someone else’s hand. Erin began to pull up—but the old man was rising.
The river convulsed, and a geyser of water blew upwards. A stream of liquid, enough to douse a house twice over in a single jet. It could have hammered Erin flat in a moment—the [Witches] stepped back warily. Briganda shielded Cade, but the jet of water was a perfect arc, a parabola which had only one target.
The cauldron. Down the water came, and it struck the little iron cauldron so hard that it cracked and burst apart in a second. The metal tore as if someone had taken an equivalent of paper and ripped it asunder.
Yet the water and metal didn’t spray everywhere. The river water poured down as Erin staggered back, eyes wide with shock and then delight. The jet of water surged down and down, and surely the cauldron could not have held it all. But like a bag of holding, it filled without end. Then—something rocked within the metal prison. It rotated awkwardly and then spilled out onto the muddy grass of the riverbank. Amidst the reeds and a frog hopping around wondering what the hell had happened, a being poured out of the cauldron.
 
——
 
“Rie. What do you see?”
Laken Godart stood, uncertain amongst all the people gasping and pointing. For he saw nothing, obviously, but his senses as an [Emperor] told him something else. His palms were sweaty.
For it felt as though the river had suddenly left the riverbed, and a portion of it, a representative, was rolling about less than a hundred feet from him. A mass of water, a force of nature grounded in some object.
He didn’t like it. He wished Durene were here, yet it was also inspiring. Laken had often wondered what it was like to stand before a waterfall and see it, rather than hear the all-encompassing roar, and feel the spray upon his face of so much water falling. This—this was his experience.
Lady Rie took a moment to swallow. When she replied, her voice was slightly unsteady, and he thought she too was reconsidering all the stories she’d heard about Erin. But what she said wasn’t what he expected.
“It’s…as though I’m seeing a wave breaking upon the land, Your Majesty. It never runs out. A wave…or a hand?”
“A hand? A wave?”
“A hand of water? No, now it’s become a—a cube of water! It’s bobbing, like a dewdrop, now a whirlpool—”
“Not a slime?”
The [Emperor] was confused. From everything he’d heard, he expected it to be like a tea-slime thing. Some round orb of water. But Rie was shaking her head, knowing he could sense it.
“Not at all. It has a greenish tinge, but it moves too fast for anyone to call it a slime. It has—color.”
“Color?”
“Green in the body, mud—almost like eyes. But white as well, streaks of it. Prost, what would you call water that does that?”
The [Steward] broke out of his fascinated observation and spoke.
“Whitewater, Rie, Your Majesty. Rippling whitewater as if I was a lad and rafting down this very river among the rapids.”
Laken Godart exhaled. He sensed the river whirling around Erin, who was raising her hands and calling out to it. But it flowed so fast past her—surging towards the [Witches] watching, whirling around.
Like a dog, perhaps. One of Gralton’s otter-dogs, exploring a new home. Yet there was too much sentience there. Laken felt the water ripple backwards towards the [Innkeeper] and heard a shout of alarm.
“Erin!”
That was Lyonette. The Water Elemental engulfed Erin up to her neck and lifted her up. Erin was laughing, trying to shout.
“It’s cold! Wait, wait! You’re so happy! Hello!”
She was laughing as Laken’s head turned, and he sensed Wiskeria running through the fields. He heard her a few seconds later, a shouting, distant voice amidst it all. Then Laken’s heart sank. For what Wiskeria said was this:
“Don’t do it! Don’t get near him! He’s a bastard! He’s an Elemental. He’s a river, and he understands nothing about what we call right and wrong!”
The [Emperor]’s head swung back just as Erin’s laughter turned into a note of alarm. Then the Elemental of the River swallowed her head, and she began to drown.
 
——
 
He was so happy. He really had been lonely, and now he whirled around, changing forms, rejoicing in being able to leave his pre-set path. There was no malice in him.
Not even when he engulfed her head. Erin inhaled water and began drowning on dry land as the Water Elemental seized her up.
Stop! Stop, stop, stopstopstop—
Her instant panic confused the elemental. It was young, now, part river, part the form she had given it. Far weaker than a river in all its majesty, but able to grow. It cast around, looking for a foe. Then it abandoned Erin as she tried to tell it to let her go.
“Erin!”
The [Innkeeper] landed, spewing out water, and it felt like a bucket’s worth, before she coughed and inhaled. She looked up as the Water Elemental whirled around her.
What had gone wrong? It didn’t know why Erin was suffering—but it was concerned for her. Yet suddenly, Erin was no longer as confident as she had been a moment ago. She coughed as Halrac ran over. And he had his invisible bow drawn.
“No, he’s still friendly to me. I—”
Erin was hacking out more water, coughing, as the Water Elemental began to flow around. Now, Witch Agratha was backing up in alarm, and Eloise and Mavika were whispering quickly. They sensed it too.
An infinite curiosity, a rejoicing to be alive! And a complete disregard and understanding of what this ‘land’ was about. The Water Elemental cast left, cast right. Then Erin realized what Wiskeria had known from the start.
For the river and the Water Elemental surged around, past the nervous mortals, and it recognized something. Oh! I know this! The elemental reached out, and with all the strength of thousands of pounds of water, as quick as a tidal wave, and as cheerfully as could be—
It plucked Cade out from behind Briganda and tossed him into the center of the river. The boy’s eyes went wide as he flew up, and Briganda was knocked sprawling. He flew and was almost smiling, his face wide with shock and alarm. Then the water reached up and swallowed him. Then it began dragging him down into the deeps.
“Cade!”
Briganda was on her feet in a second, screaming. She ran towards the riverbank, and the boy was struggling as the water dragged him down, down to the riverbed. The Water Elemental reached out cheerfully, and a little Gnoll girl ran, screaming.
I’ve done this before. Erin was frozen in shock and horror. She got a flash from the river. It recognized people. People and children. Some stole parts of it, but others swam about. And when it rained, or sometimes, they sank low and never came back out.
It was trying to drown Cade. The Water Elemental reached for Mrsha, inviting the [Druid] to join it forever, and Mrsha ran, screaming, but it flowed like a racing current—until Halrac’s arrow blew the top half of it into a gout of steam.
“Halrac!”
“Get Cade! Erin, stop it!”
The [Marksman] reached for a second arrow as Briganda dove into the waters. Erin shouted, running at the water elemental as it pivoted wildly, confused.
That hurt. It had no pain receptors, but its body was it. The elemental cast around, spotted its attacker, and launched a ball of water at Halrac.
He tried to dodge, but they were too close. So what hit him was a ball of water. Just water…heavy and fast, like a catapult throwing a stone. It knocked him flat, and Erin was shouting at it.
“Stop, stop! Let him go!”
She pointed at the water, and the river noticed Briganda trying to free the boy. So it lifted Cade up and tossed her out of the water. Now, the boy was hovering in the air, and the river was marveling that it could do this.
It had magic. And a body. And this was its heart. Cade was struggling fainter now. Erin looked at the water elemental, gathering more of itself back.
“Stop this. Stop this!”
It turned to her, wondering why she was so upset. The [Innkeeper] was blazing, blazing with fury and fear.
“Put him down.”
The river hesitated. What if I don’t want to? It waved the dying boy around, and then Erin punched it.
[Minotaur Punch]. Her fist splattered part of its ‘face’ and then sank into the water. Curiously, the river felt at her hand. Then it ignored her.
Everyone was trying to get to Cade, now, but most of the people were just standing at the river’s edge, looking at the mass of water holding the boy. It was tossing anyone trying to leap into it out, and Typhenous was trying to ‘cut’ the water holding Cade up. But he might as well have been trying to cut sand. Even if he severed part of the river, it was water. There was a seemingly endless amount of it.
Then the old [Mage] tried to block the river with a [Forcewall]. His spell lasted a tenth of a second, and the water rippled. The river did not like that. Typhenous was already reeling when another jet of water struck him and sent him sprawling.
The Water Elemental was getting confused by the sudden animosity it was feeling from its savior. She was making demands of it, and it didn’t like them. The boy was almost part of it, now. It lifted him higher—and then Wiskeria was there.
“River, let go and run elsewhere or I’ll break your heart! Leave be and hold fast or this moment will be your last!”
She ran past Erin and plunged both hands into the Water Elemental’s body. It jerked—but it hadn’t learned to hide its heart. She had hold of the geode riverstone in her hands, and she was pulling it. The Water Elemental heaved as Erin looked at Wiskeria—then it swatted them both.
Erin landed on her back, dazed, head ringing, and got up amidst the shouting. Wiskeria staggered up next to her, cursing and spitting blood.
“You damned thing. We have to kill its body!”
“Kill it?”
Erin gasped. She looked at the elemental, and Wiskeria seized her arm.
“It won’t kill the river! They’re not separate yet. Just break that damn stone!”
“No, Cade—”
The [Innkeeper] whirled for the boy. He was about to drown! Then she saw a [Princess] lift a finger. Lyonette du Marquin looked around at the [Emperor] shouting for his soldiers and at the boy, reaching for his mother helplessly trying to swim up at him.
Lyonette shouted one thing, in desperation and certainty.
“SHRIEKBLADE.”
A screaming blur launched itself out of the shadows of a house. Erin didn’t even see the Drake she was moving so fast. The Named Adventurer leapt, blades drawn, and raced across the ground. The river barely noticed her, one individual amongst all the others. But then Shriekblade leapt and hit the body of water holding Cade.
A part of the river exploded. The mass of water jerked, and the Water Elemental convulsed in fright and outrage. It cast around, and Tessa landed in a roll, the boy in her arms. She stared at him, held him upside down, and he began puking out water. Then she saw Briganda charging at her and handed him to his mother. Tessa looked up and cartwheeled out of the way of a blast of water.
“Enough!”
Erin strode over the muddy ground with Wiskeria. She pointed at the Water Elemental and shouted at it.
“Stop attacking people! Listen to me!”
“Back down, old man. Quiet, river, and listen to her voice!”
Wiskeria shouted, but the river never stopped moving. And it was getting pissed. It launched a blob of water at the [Marksman] who shot an arrow into it that burned and sizzled and turned it to steam.
“River!”
Who said it? Erin? Wiskeria? They caught sight of each other, standing side-by-side, and both realized what they had to do. Erin clenched her fist, but she was wet, and she had no flame for this. Nor the regret and anger, not yet.
Wiskeria looked at Erin and saw her honest mistake, and she drew her wand. She aimed her wand at the Water Elemental’s heart.
“[Ice Spike]!”
