“I like Laken. He’s definitely fated, like you and Inkar. Or if not fated, something’s on his side. He’s an [Emperor] in Izril. He doesn’t fit. I like Riverfarm because it’s no old power like the Five Families. I like it because it welcomes me, as odd as I am. I’m fine with being a poor [Witch]. As I said, it would be too easy to become a grand, bland one.”
Erin gave Wiskeria the side-eye, and then a smile spread across her face.
“You know what, Wiskeria? I just had a brilliant idea. I don’t really want to have a teacher, but while I’m here—you should teach me!”
“Me?”
Wiskeria blinked. She had not an ounce of power under her hat, but Erin nodded excitedly.
“Yes! You’ve seen how my style of witchcraft goes bad. You know more than most witches, and you’re nice, unlike the others. Teach me witchcraft for a bit? Please? And help me get to Nanette.”
Thoughtfully, Wiskeria took off her hat and studied it. She glanced at Erin and saw the [Innkeeper]’s pleading expression.
“You and I are not alike at all. I think our crafts might end up opposed. I don’t like you that much, and you seem like you’d be a poor student. Are you sure?”
Erin sucked in her breath.
“You could, uh, use more tact.”
“Again, I learned tact, but I don’t need to employ it. We’re [Witches]. If you want me to teach you a bit, I will. But only if you learn.”
The [Innkeeper] chewed on her lip, but then she nodded slowly.
“I have to. I must. Even if the other [Witches] are right about that, though—I am not like them. I am an [Innkeeper] and a [Witch], and I’ll be a weird one no matter what happens. I want to choose my teacher, so I choose you, Wiskeria!”
She laughed and smiled, and Wiskeria considered the offer. She looked up at the ceiling, tried to divine the future with commonsense and foresight, and then thought of her own regrets and her mother’s lessons. At last, she nodded.
“Very well. In that case, I will teach you as long as you stay. But you’ll follow my orders and do as I say. No arguments. Questions, but you have to try to learn, agreed?”
“Agreed! What’s my first step?”
Erin shot up as if she had gotten her second wind. Wiskeria thoughtfully looked out the window.
“To begin with, we’ll go back and apologize to Briganda fully once more. Then you and I will help repair the bridge or clean up. After that, we’ll tell Laken to watch the old man and tell the [Witches] I’m teaching you and that you’ll enter the hat competition. Then, I have to walk back to Tessia’s, so we’ll do that and talk.”
Erin’s face fell. She raised a hand, and Wiskeria stared at it until Erin spoke.
“This isn’t an objection! But, uh, that all doesn’t sound very witchy.”
And to that, Wiskeria sighed and put her hat on her head.
“Your first lesson, Erin, is that a [Witch] is always a [Witch]. Once you see the magic in everything, you can do something properly. Let’s go.”
She stood up, and Erin trailed after Wiskeria, wondering if this would be fun or a good idea, but feeling better because she’d found a teacher even more unique than she was. And, well, Wiskeria walked with a curious feeling. It was no pricking in her thumbs, just the odd sensation of responsibility, of trying to teach a younger Wiskeria how not to be quite so badly her.
 
——
 
“So it seems Erin Solstice is going to be staying here a while longer. Well…as first day events go, no one is dead. I cannot quite believe that is where we are setting the bar, but at least we have that.”
Laken Godart swilled some liquid around in a cup and felt it moving. It was fairly odorless, and so he indulged himself in sensation before he took a sip and felt the sting. He coughed.
“Damn me. This is fiery. Do Drakes really enjoy this?”
He heard a surprised laugh, and then the other person sitting in one of the grand chairs next to the fire in Laken’s mansion-home in Riverfarm spoke.
“All the time. Pain is how they enjoy anything. How do you know our language?”
Numbtongue saw the [Emperor]’s face wrinkle up. Laken spoke after a few seconds.
“I got something like ‘pain’, and I’m sure there was a question in that. What did you ask?”
“How do you know our language?”
The Hobgoblin sat with Laken Godart late at night after all the fuss had died down. They were both aware Gamel was sitting in another room; Durene hadn’t come back yet, but the [Knight] was not-eavesdropping, but there for Laken’s safety.
Nevertheless, the [Emperor] had insisted upon meeting Numbtongue, and the [Bard] had shown up as if he’d read Laken’s mind.
After all, they had a history. They had only met once, but Laken felt such a strong connection, he wished he could see Numbtongue. This was the Goblin he had found after the Siege of Liscor. Per his request, Numbtongue had let Laken feel at his face. In return, the Hob had anything he’d asked for, but he’d brought his own drinks.
The [Emperor] kept coughing into one hand politely, then rattled off a bit of French.
“I’m multilingual, you know. I don’t have a gift, but as you must surely know—my world has more than one language. I thought that I could learn your people’s language, and Pebblesnatch has taught me.”
“Hm. Weird. You are a weird [Emperor].”
Laken raised his brows.
“How many have you met?”
The [Bard] just laughed heartily. He took a long drink from his cup, then tried Riverfarm’s new grape wine. It evidently pleased him, and there was a bevy of snacks. After a while, Laken broke the silence.
“How do you enjoy Riverfarm, Numbtongue?”
The [Bard] responded quietly.
“Lots of little lambs. They have cunning eyes.”
“You noticed that?”
“Hrm. They remind me of Mrsha.”
“Egh. I’m just imagining if the Sariants could talk. But the Goblinlands is what I meant.”
“I know.”
Numbtongue didn’t reply for a while, and Laken waited, feeling more nervous of the Hobgoblin’s judgment than Erin or Ryoka’s. When Numbtongue replied, it was simply.
“There is a Watch Captain in Liscor named Zevara. She does not like me. I think she understands I am me, and because of her, I can enter Liscor and am not killed. But she always puts [Guards] on me, for my protection, and if there were many Goblins, I think she would be wary of me. I do not hate her. Erin gets mad, but if I were her, and I knew Redfangs, I would try to wipe out my tribe.”
“Why?”
Numbtongue’s grin was on his teeth, in his voice, even unseen.
“Because we were raiders. We attacked Humans and Drakes, even Gnolls if we found them. I have never met Tremborag, but I have…friends…who knew him. And he was someone I would kill. If his tribe came to you, and I were you, I would kill him. But I wouldn’t have killed the Goblins who came to Erin’s inn. They were my people, and some were even innocent of everything.”
The [Emperor]’s head bowed. Numbtongue went on in the silence.
“But we attacked you, and you thought all of us were one Goblin. Now you know better, and I see Goblins walking around. I was dying and you helped kill me and bring me back. Erin is always Erin. She would cry for one Goblin. We are not rats. We are Goblins, and someday, you will have to suffer if you want to protect us.”
“I know.”
Laken thought of the bearded man’s distaste. He thought of the other nobility and the rumblings of his people. Numbtongue put down his cup with a clink.
“When that day comes, have an escape tunnel for them. And you.”
Laken waited.
“What about the rest?”
The [Bard] stretched his legs out and quietly farted into his chair. He waved it in the direction of a sheep spying on the two of them from a bookshelf where it had hollowed out a spot behind the books.
“I don’t like you, Laken Godart. You killed a lot of my friends. I don’t hate you, Laken Godart. You’re better than most Humans. That’s pretty good, eh?”
He looked over, and the blind [Emperor] smiled.
“That’s a high compliment. And a good place to start. Do you think we can be friends?”
Numbtongue shrugged, although he knew Laken couldn’t see it.
“Friends. Allies. Sure. What did you have in mind?”
Laken tilted his head, and the Sariant ran, squeaking, as he focused on it. Gamel had to get up and take it outside, and Laken looked at Numbtongue in that moment of silence.
“Let’s trade secrets. A few interesting ones. We are on a side, and I would like you to know some things I’ve been told. Maybe you can do more than I can, even with an empire.”
The Hobgoblin’s eyes gleamed with interest.
“We are on good sides. Erin talks too much.”
“That she does. And frankly, I feel like I’d call on her if I needed a battering ram. Sometimes, I suspect, you need to protect her from herself. Today might be an example, but I don’t know her well.”
The Hob chuckled.
“She gets good things instead of bad two thirds of the time. Two other days, you would have a cute Water Elemental rolling around.”
Laken’s smile was rueful.
“Well, I can respect that kind of gambling. But there are reasons to keep things from her. For instance—this. I told the Mage’s Guild to lock down the news, and the lambs stole all the [Message] scrolls from your company. Just so Erin doesn’t make this—worse? Lady Rie will report that she is definitely here, and if anyone scries her, she was here and had nothing to do with anything.”
“With what? Did something happen with—the monsters?”
Numbtongue sat up instantly, and Laken produced a [Message].
“It’s happening. Take a look.”
Numbtongue began to read, and Laken appreciated the multicultural level of swearing that began as Numbtongue realized they had really missed great events taking place. But what that was, Erin would find out later.
For now, a [Bard] sat with an [Emperor], and they enjoyed a quiet conversation in the night.
 
——
 
One last thing.
Wiskeria had a long chat with Erin as they mended what bridges they could, metaphorically and literally. She talked, for a while, about what it was like to be Belavierr’s daughter and listened to Erin’s tales.
It sounded like she had a lot to teach Erin. Least of all because, of all the coven that had taught Erin—Califor was probably the only good mother and teacher of the lot.
They had all been the greatest monsters of their ages. Somillune? Erin hadn’t known the tales that made the [Witch of Ash] as feared as she was respected. They had put her on a road to becoming something like them.
Wiskeria would be the other voice in Erin’s ear for a little bit. She’d been up for a while, thinking about lessons, but she’d drifted off in the night. As always, she listened, even if she didn’t want to act on the things she heard, omens and fate.
Tonight, she heard an old man shouting his fury, and he would be a problem. Wiskeria muttered as she turned over and hoped Erin got some sleep.
“Sleep for another thousand years, old man. By the twitching in my toes—fuck off.”
He went silent, and Wiskeria began snoring softly as she began to dream. Then—her eyes snapped open, and she stared up in pure alarm and surprise. Wiskeria sat bolt upright and whirled, looking right and looking left.
“Hello? Who’s there?”
She got up, drew a dagger, and crept around her house for a good thirty minutes, even going outside. But then she went back to her bed and crawled into it. She put her wand, dagger, and hat all close by on her bed and tried to sleep, rattled.
She had never heard anything like that before. It was no watery voice from the deep. It was close—and it sounded like a wail, an eerie sound with no vocal cords. It spoke to her, and Wiskeria listened.
