The girl did another cartwheel, and only now did the [Prince] realize—she had a pointed hat on her head, blue as could be, but it never moved. There was no strap, but even when she rotated in a cartwheel and it brushed the ground, it never came off her head.
“Mm. No. I don’t think so. No one can find my mother. And nothing can harm me. My mother sewed a good-luck charm into this amulet, see?”
She showed him a cloth bag, and the Griffin Prince didn’t recognize it as an amulet. He grew angrier and spoke.
“I bet I could do you harm if I wanted to. Or Coalwing, here.”
He indicated his Griffin, and the young Coalwing cawed uneasily, a warning the Griffin Prince didn’t heed. Wiskeria’s head rose, and she looked at the boy.
“No, you couldn’t. At least, you couldn’t kill me.”
“I bet I could.”
“You couldn’t. Would you like me to prove it to you?”
“If you like.”
The entire conversation was getting away from the young [Prince]. It felt silly and childish like an argument with someone else, but also…he didn’t realize she was serious until Wiskeria was striding towards him. Then he put up his hands jokingly.
“I don’t want to punch you.”
“Okay. Then draw your sword. But I have your eye.”
The boy sat down, and Coalwing shrieked. Only after he felt the searing pain and began to scream and clawed at his sword did he realize she had poked out his eye.
He was afraid to cut her, despite that, but she drew a knife, and he realized his sword kept turning. Even his Griffin was screaming as she drew a wand and set fire to his feathers. He cut Wiskeria twice, and she cried out as blood ran down, but she kept fighting.
“Do you admit it? Do you admit it?”
He didn’t understand what she wanted him to admit. She was getting exasperated, and his eye was gone, and he was bleeding from two stabs. Wiskeria seized his head.
“Don’t make me kill you! Admit you can’t kill me!”
She stared into one eye running with tears, the other with blood, and looked confused.
“Why are you so sad? It’s not even that I’ve hurt you. You’re…sad. Don’t be.”
She dropped her knife and fished out a handkerchief. The boy was dying of blood loss, but she pulled out a potion and healed him. Then she sat, asking him why he was crying and why he wouldn’t just admit the obvious.
“My eye. My eye!”
He screamed at her, and she looked more and more puzzled until her mother appeared. She came striding up the mountain, up a cliff face, and the boy froze when he saw that ringed stare, that hat.
“Wiskeria. What are you doing with a [Prince]? You’ve taken his eye. Did he attack you? If so, he dies.”
She drew a sewing needle, and his heart stopped, but Wiskeria leapt up.
“No, Mother! I poked out his eye because we argued, but he’s crying and he’s sad.”
“People are sad when they lose their eyes, my daughter. Hm. This will not do. He is the son of a [Queen]. It should not be as much a fuss if he vanishes. Or I can remove you from his mind.”
Wiskeria looked back at the terrified boy and scuffed a foot on the ground.
“Don’t do that. I like him. Can you heal him, Mother?”
Belavierr tilted her head.
“As you wish, my daughter.”
So, she took the terrified [Prince] and found where his eye had run onto the ground and made him scoop up the dirt and press it into the bloody socket. Then, when the dirt fell away and he blinked with two eyes, she stitched up his torn clothing and listened as he exclaimed and talked with Wiskeria.
The young girl was powerfully interested in this crying boy and begged her mother to let him introduce her to his mother. So—Belavierr walked higher, and she walked into Kaliv’s courts and met Novakya, the Griffin Queen, and introduced herself and her daughter.
To say they caused a stir was an understatement. Every great warrior stormed into the court as the Griffin Queen swept her son behind her, but Belavierr tipped her hat and—because her daughter had no friends and liked the young [Prince]—offered the Griffin Queen a deal.
Thereafter, the Stitch Witch would visit, sometimes every day, sometimes once every few months, and bring her daughter to meet the [Prince]. Upon request, she would sew—for a discounted price—what was asked of her.
Some armor for a warrior. Sew an arm back onto a body. Sew a little charm into a tunic. And Wiskeria and the [Prince] would play, and she would slowly—slowly—realize why he had cried when she took out his eye. He, in turn, would speak with the Stitch Witch and her daughter and develop a friendship, or infatuation, that only grew the older they got.
When he was fifteen, she was fourteen, and two years had passed, Wiskeria was more like a person. But still, she loved her mother and sometimes asked the [Prince] if he wanted anything.
“Anything? Your mother makes my mother worried, Wiskeria.”
“I know. And sometimes she says we might become enemies or she might eat me. But she hasn’t, and she gives me what I ask for. I have asked for Wyvern meat, to fly and touch clouds. I almost asked to pet a Unicorn, but she does too much, you know. But you’re the Griffin Prince. Isn’t Ailendamus worrying to your mother?”
He nodded, thinking back to the meetings he sometimes eavesdropped on or the [Advisors] and [Strategists] would tell him about, or his mother and his siblings.
“It is. I have to learn a lot. I hope…your mother will stay friends with Kaliv, even if some people call her a monster.”
Wiskeria smiled brightly.
“So long as I’m here, she will! But don’t you want something else? She’s so miserly, but if I ask her, she’ll do something for free.”
“But the cost…”
Wiskeria waved that away eagerly. She had never convinced the [Prince] of this much before.
“She’ll pay it for me because of love and complain about the cost of being a mother. Or I’ll help you pay it! What do you want? A sword? She’s no good with swords, but she can sew almost anything.”
So the young man thought and thought and then had a brilliant idea as he read stories of old. He was shy, but Wiskeria got it out of him, and nearly a month later, she bade her mother listen to his request. For Kaliv, for the future, the [Prince] asked if the Stitch Witch could make him a warrior who would never die.
What happened then, as Belavierr’s daughter watched and realized what it was to see a friend in pain, when she looked at her mother’s blank face and saw her, in the days after, when Kaliv expelled the Stitch Witch and the disgraced [Prince] lost his name and future—all of that came from a simple tragedy.
The Griffin Prince asked if the Stitch Witch could make him into a warrior who would not die. The horror, the tragedy of it was—she did.
 
——
 
Wiskeria’s past, her guilts, the failures of youth, of growing up and her mistakes that had driven her away from her mother until now, were old stories.
She had told Nanette some of them, but possibly only the Griffin Prince and Wiskeria knew them all. Even Mavika did not know Wiskeria’s childhood.
Yet, when Wiskeria met the Witch of Liscor, the [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice, they came back to her. A bland, normal [Witch] fiddled with her glasses as Erin Solstice turned with a white Gnoll who touched luck in her arms. With a [Princess] by her side, a Hobgoblin possessed by ghosts, a traveller with a dress woven by someone who knew thread in this day and age, and so many more.
Wiskeria looked at Erin Solstice and felt nostalgia as Nanette stopped and felt her hat shake slightly. But Wiskeria, ignored by Erin, and even most of the room, looked at the [Witch] with no hat. She nodded to herself. She was right.
She did not like Erin at all.
 
——
 
Before they entered, the voices coming from within were audible through a window opened for ventilation. Laken’s ‘throne room’ was, after all, a converted storage warehouse, and plans were being made for a far grander installation.
However, there were benefits to being able to listen in on conversations within, and Laken had done that more than once. This might have been coincidental, but even so—the two [Witches] listened to the young woman’s voice from within.
“…I owe you so much, and Ryoka does too. But you were part of the army that attacked Liscor. Goblins died there. I was there.”
“I know. So was I. It was not my choice, nor did I know what Tyrion Veltras had planned. That is not an excuse. Had I known he intended to siege a Drake city, I would have refused to go with him. But I will tell you this, Erin. The Goblin Chieftain, Tremborag, raided Riverfarm and destroyed many villages like Windrest. They murdered my people. I would not have stood in Tyrion’s way when he destroyed the mountain of Goblins or when he saved my people when they fought your Chieftain, Rags.”
“She’s not my—Goblins are people!”
“Yes. And some of them are terrible. Some of them are not. That is the lesson I learned—later. Which is why the Goblinlands exist. I am guilty of my mistakes, Erin. But I did make them with the best of intentions.”
Silence, then. Nanette fidgeted, one of her rare movements, and she adjusted her hat. She was staring at the walls as if looking for something. The acrimonious discussion was petering out, and the [Emperor] seemed tired. It was not the first time he had argued this, and he had done it both ways, apologizing to the Wind Runner, defending the Goblins to others.
But the [Innkeeper] continued, and there was a tone in her voice unlike how she had met the [Witches] of Riverfarm. She didn’t raise her voice or speak faster, but it slid into the conversation like a pair of brass knuckles being gripped in a pocket.
“—Then. If the Goblins want to go, will you let them?”
The [Emperor] paused a moment.
“…They are my subjects. A Goblin can walk around Riverfarm without being murdered in cold blood. I don’t believe Liscor is that safe.”
“There are other places for Goblins. If they want to leave—Ulvama told me they might not be able to. If they want to leave with me, when I go…”
“You’ll take them, it sounds like. Are you telling me what you intend or asking?”
“I’m just asking.”
A low chuckle, but not a pleased one. Wiskeria tilted her head and whispered to Nanette.
“He sounds—irritated.”
It was rare for Laken to lose his patience after months of doing this. But there was definitely a hostile note in his voice, and just as clearly, he was holding onto his temper. The [Emperor] snapped back.
“You ask like a proper [Witch], at least, Erin. No, nevermind. That’s unkind, and I apologize. But if you won’t discuss anything that matters, ghosts, your quests? We’ll have dinner, later. Perhaps then. I understand Nanette and Wiskeria are waiting outside. I shall tour Riverfarm. Do let me know what you decide.”
Shuffling, then the [Emperor] came striding out the door with Prost and Rie behind him. No one looked happy, but Laken caught himself, turned to Wiskeria and Nanette, and smiled apologetically.
“Did you hear that?”
“I’m sorry I was absent, Your Majesty.”
Wiskeria tipped her hat, and Laken waved that off.
“I leave this as a matter of [Witches]. I am—a bit piqued at the moment. It’s affecting my mood. Just know that I will support your decisions, regardless, Nanette.”
“Thank you, Emperor Laken.”
The girl murmured without looking up. Laken smiled at her and turned his head back.
“—I hold Erin Solstice in the utmost of respect. The woman herself is somewhat difficult. No wonder Magnolia Reinhart herself had trouble.”
Then he was gone. Wiskeria adjusted her hat again, but she only waited a bit as Nanette stood there.
“Are you alright, Nanette?”
“No.”
A fair answer, so Wiskeria took her hand again, pushed the door open, and there stood Erin Solstice.
She was not alone, but when she saw Nanette, the rest of the world stopped existing for the two of them. She fixed her eyes on Nanette’s face, and the girl looked up and felt her hat trembling. Wiskeria was ignored, so she stood there, taking in the [Princess], the Hobgoblin, the [Knights], and the uneasy feeling on the back of her neck.
Wiskeria looked right, left, up, and then around, but she never saw Tessa. Yet she calmly put her back to the wall as Erin began to speak.
“You. You’re Nanette, aren’t you? I’m Erin. Erin Solstice, an [Innkeeper] from Liscor. I—I’m a [Witch] as well, a new one.”
She stumbled over her words slightly, and the tone that had rung throughout her voice when speaking to the [Emperor] was gone. She should have kept it, but the speech the [Innkeeper] had rehearsed had fled her mind. Wiskeria thought she saw it go, like vapor leaving the light brown hair, the uncertain, earnest face.
Erin licked her lips nervously and fidgeted as Nanette took her time responding. She looked nothing like the aura she had or the feeling in the air. Just a plain [Innkeeper] who would fit an apron, maybe making eggs in a frying pan or chatting with her guests.
Until those hazel eyes shone, until she stood in the center of an event like a stone with the waters rushing around her, influencing it all. Wiskeria did not like Erin. But she listened for the same reason Nanette looked up and made her dry throat, unused to speech, work.
“I’m Nanette. You have no hat.”
Erin put a hand to her head and tried to chuckle.
“I…haven’t found one I like yet. Sorry. I know it’s a witchy thing to do. But I’m new. I was just taught, when I was dead. I had—the greatest of teachers.”
“You were dead?”
Erin waved it off with one hand. Her eyes never left Nanette’s face.
“Someone shot me with crossbows. I got better. It’s a long story, but—Nanette. Nanette Weishart, I don’t know quite how to say this. Please, believe me. I was dead for a while, and I walked the lands of the dead. I had an adventure. A terrible, grand…sad adventure.”
Erin’s eyes became distant, and some of the people behind her shivered or looked at her, half-believing. But the [Witches] just stared at Erin in wonder.
Not even Belavierr walked with ghosts in this era. Yet Nanette’s hand had suddenly tightened on the brim of her hat. Erin breathed the next words.
“I only survived because I had a guide. I met a great [Witch] who saved my life—my soul—and taught me many things. She convened the last, greatest coven of dead [Witches]. And she made me promise that if I lived, I would find her daughter. Her name was Califor, and I have come to Riverfarm to make good on my promise. She asked me to find you, Nanette. And—and if you wanted, make sure you grew up safely, grew up as well as I could. I know this is a lot to take in—”
Erin was speaking faster and faster, like someone who was spinning the most incredible of tales and trying to reach the end before it all fell apart, a fantasy. And she was trying very hard not to tear up.
