Inkarr the Traveller was what Gnolls called her. She was, to ask the Longstalker’s Fang Tribe, a sociable, kind Human. Someone who got exasperated by their rolling ‘r’s in her name, a wonderful emissary for her people. Brave, fond of a silly [Guardsman]—and Lehra Ruinstrider’s paramour, among about a hundred others.
She didn’t…act like that since coming to Liscor. Tkrn had wondered if she was sick in their brief, private moments. Only then had Inkar told him she was fine.
“I am just being quiet. Because I am a guest of Liscor and this is new. And because of Erin.”
“Why? She likes you. She even puts up with me—and after what I did with Calruz and Mrsha…”
Tkrn looked guilty, confused, and he didn’t see. Inkar just looked thoughtfully into a hand-mirror as they readied themselves for the last day of travel to Riverfarm.
“She may like me. I like her, a bit. She’s very kind, and she cares for Goblins. And Gnolls. She promised she would give me something to help Eska.”
“And…?”
The [Worldly Traveller] looked up.
“I think she might. She scares me.”
“Who, Erin? She does weird things, and she’s chaotic, and Zevara hates her, but Erin? She’s so nice.”
Inkar looked at Tkrn seriously enough that he stopped eating cold jerky and glanced at her.
“She reminds me of Chieftain Xherw. But backwards. She broke a building by hammering a nail into it. She is friends with the Antinium who nearly conquered Liscor. Now, she is coming to meet an [Emperor] and maybe—maybe ‘set all his Goblins free.’”
Tkrn swallowed hard and wished he’d brought Relc along.
“S-she said that?”
The worst part was that neither one thought it was impossible, or at the very least, impossible for Erin to try. Inkar shook her head.
“Erin Solstice came back from the dead. She scares me.”
“She does like you.”
Tkrn pointed out. Inkar turned to Tkrn and patted him on the head, which became more affectionate as he craned his head left and right so she could scratch it.
“Yes. She does like me. Imagine…imagine a hill speaking one day and saying it liked you.”
“Ah.”
 
——
 
Today, no mountains trembled where Erin walked. People did cheer, but Inkar had seen the Meeting of Tribes, so it ‘only’ put Erin on the level of a famous adventurer or figure among Gnolls.
An [Emperor] greeted Erin, and Inkar smiled, touched, as Erin met Griffon Hunt and a little Goblin with a chef’s hat clung to her, sobbing, and the entire event turned into melancholic happiness. No, happiness colored by loss and regret and triumph, greater for it.
Like a beautiful flame, the likes of which Erin could conjure. A different kind of storm, passing over Riverfarm.
Not like the Wind Runner, who came in like a hurricane, building until she left amidst destruction and loss and great deeds.
Erin? She came in already burning, and it only grew hotter from there as more people met the flame. The [Emperor] was first.
Then came the Goblins, the [Witches]. Inkar saw it all and thought she was not wrong to try to get on Erin’s side, but stay away.
“Your Majesty, the Goblins have left the Goblinlands!”
Inkar’s head turned, and she saw Numbtongue straighten, eyes widening. Ulvama just counted, and Gothica spun around with a look of delight and relief.
For there came Goblins. Across Riverfarm’s tamed grounds, marching out of the wide forest and the mountain in the backdrop, past the double-layered walls, one slightly higher than the other.
Green folk. Some short like children, racing next to tall Hobs, round or lithe. But what struck Inkar was how they looked.
Goblins had always been described to her by Eska and Deskie as monstrous savages at worst, barely clothed and cannibalistic, to opportunistic raiders at best, predatory and cunning but uncivilized.
These Goblins put a hole in that idea, if Erin and the others had not already. Like Numbtongue, like Gothica—Ulvama played into the stereotype with how she talked and dressed—they looked like people.
They wore clothing, most of it simply spun cotton or wool, but Inkar realized, thanks to her acquaintanceship with Honored Deskie, that it came from the same [Weavers] as Riverfarm’s folk.
The colors and make were exactly the same. Some of the Goblins had forgone the Unseen Empire’s motif or added curious red stripes or other symbols of the tribes they had been part of, but a few looked identically clothed to the Humans.
More than that—they had a different air to them than even Numbtongue. Numbtongue was polite, well-spoken—but as cautious as Inkar was to Erin. He behaved like he expected someone to produce a mob out for his blood at any moment. Ditto for Ulvama.
But these Goblins strolled along, some scratching at their bellies or pointing. Many had weapons, but that was personality, rather than their fear of Riverfarm’s people.
And indeed, the Humans were drawing back, but not fleeing for weapons. Many glared, but Inkar noticed how many looked resigned or watched the [Emperor]. If the Goblins were disliked, it was as a bad neighbor was, rather than monsters.
Fascinating. How much did Erin realize? She turned, her eyes wide, and made a choking sound. Then she began to walk forwards as Pebblesnatch clung to her like an anchor, still sobbing.
In response, the Goblins pointed at her. Some waved. Others looked…well, they just observed Erin, much like Inkar. A few waved at Gothica or recognized Numbtongue and roared in delight.
Leafarmor and Raidpear raced along the ground ahead of the others as Numbtongue’s eyes widened. They met in an explosion, tackling each other, slamming hands on each other’s backs, chatting in their language of gestures and oddly fluid sounds to Inkar’s ear. She wondered what language it might be like—it wasn’t like Kazakh or Russian in many ways, the only two she knew besides English.
Ulvama got the least amount of reception. Some of the Goblins peered at her and shrugged. Oh, she’s back again.
But they had one thing that made Inkar do a double-take. She saw a Goblin raise a rectangular device in its hands, and a flash made Erin pause, mid-run. A Goblin held up the smartphone, cackled, and showed the others.
“Video, video, stupid. Me hugging her!”
One scolded the other, and the Goblin sighed and held the phone up in landscape-mode like a proper person did. Erin pointed at it.
“Wh—that’s—what the—”
Then a Goblin snuck up behind her and gave Erin a huge hug, beaming for the camera. The other Goblins clustered around, patting at Erin’s head, prying off Pebblesnatch, and pointing out Mrsha.
Hey, I knew that Gnoll! The Cave Goblins were especially nostalgic. And once they realized Gothica was one of them, they surrounded her, trying to take her parasol, asking questions—and getting kicks until they backed up to let the [Goth] assert her isolated rebelliousness.
For once, Erin was overwhelmed. She kept having Goblins pat her on the head or pose, grinning, and she was lost for words.
“That is a smartphone! How the—you’re alive! You’re walking about? No one’s beating you with sticks?”
“No sticks. Unless for fun? Ulvama back. Probably more of that.”
One Goblin assured Erin in cheerful, if slightly stilted, English. Erin pointed at Riverfarm. Griffon Hunt.
Halrac was still overwhelmed, but Revi was pushing back Goblins trying to pat her head with a growl, and Briganda had backed up. Yet…Riverfarm’s people mostly watched. One, a huge man with a [Blacksmith]’s apron, called out to one of the Goblins.
“Hey, you lot got any of that iron ore? We could use more…”
“Yeah, yeah. Later. I’m busy.”
A Hob snapped back. It was such a strange reaction as he posed with Erin for the next camera shot that Erin was lost for words.
Here was something that not even Liscor had. And then she turned her head and saw a blind man smiling as he leaned on a scowling half-Troll girl’s arm. Erin stared at him and thought the smile looked slightly smug.
Then—Erin’s head turned as the last group made themselves known. The final power of Riverfarm came strutting across the ground, heads held high. Like a group headed to a ball, they strode past the Humans, who moved aside respectfully. They approached Erin, haughtily sizing her up. The Sariant Lambs plodded towards Erin—until a boot nearly kicked one into a building.
“Oops, sorry about that.”
The lambs scattered, and people booed and made sounds of outrage, but Hedag strode forwards, aiming another kick at a lamb who fled, mewling. Erin looked up, and here came [Witches].
Agratha, Oliyaya, Hedag, Eloise, apprentices and adults. Even Alevica, side-by-side. They parted the streets like the Sariant Lambs, but the hats…
Hats of every color! Friendly and stern, some black as midnight, others brown, one even as red as an apple. [Witches] all.
Erin’s eyes grew wider, because she had noticed the [Witches], of course, but she had never seen any. Not since coming back from the dead. And here they were. Her eyes searched the crowd for a girl—but there were many girls, and none looked like…like…
A flapping sound in the air broke the slow advance of the [Witches]. A gigantic crow landed on a rooftop, perching, staring down at Erin—and then it was a woman. Mavika peered down at Erin, and she gasped in recognition. Lightly, the Crow Witch leapt to the ground, and she joined the line of hatted women.
They stopped, as Goblins turned, and regarded Erin. She felt dozens of keen eyes on hers. Dozens of…what?
It wasn’t like Laken, who was still a presence that defined this land, an aura like a vast eye watching her, although not as unfriendly as Sauron, but there. The [Witches] were more like…ideas.
Not even ideas, scenes. Erin could look at them, and it was like a movie began playing in her head, but replete with sound and smell. One look at the short woman with the pressed tea leaves and flowers sewn into her hat and the gentle, if inquisitive smile, and Erin felt like sitting outside and having a cup of tea and talking the older [Witch]’s ear off. Sniffing the tea, tasting it with the tip of her tongue until it wasn’t too hot and the gentle taste of sour green tea filled her mouth, sip by sip…
By contrast, the woman who had an axe on her shoulder and a build to match the [Blacksmith] put Erin in mind of striding through the forest on grim business. Going to…fell a tree? Not quite right. Something about that smile made Erin fear the axe’s downswing, yet it was necessary, like a [Woodcutter] removing trees plagued by blight.
The [Witch] with the cardigan sweater? Erin felt like she’d be in class, dozing a bit, and sitting up and answering a question, and you had to raise your hand or you’d get a scolding, but she was the kind of [Teacher] who wanted to be cool and was thus uncool—but she had candies on her desk that she passed out after class.
All of this passed in a moment for Erin, like a wonderful banquet where the smells alone drew you into a seat. But she could have savored it far longer, seen far more…
Yet what did they see of her? The [Witches] looked at the [Innkeeper]. And they saw a woman with no hat.
A woman, no longer a girl. To the woman who was as much crow as person in Erin’s eyes, Mavika, Erin still smelled of the battlefields. Blood and death clung to her, but she also was the scent of baking, ashwheat, rich and warm on the breeze. Tears baked into the dough.
To Alevica, Erin seemed like many of the clients she’d met; not the ones who shouted loud, but the ones for whom the Witch Runner did actual, quality deliveries. Power unseen, just out of sight, that didn’t need to brag…but only halfway. The other half was like Charlay, a loud, brash donkey who kicked up a fuss, the loudest person in the room.
However, what all of them saw was fire. It was so closely part of the young [Witch] that it defined her. A great passion, burning a myriad of colors, each one glorious and wonderful.
But mostly, she had no hat. So all these potentialities were strong in her, but untamed. Unfocused, like a gem that could be a prism, refracting light, but only showed strong, fuzzy colors.
The [Witches] and Erin were silent for a long moment. Even the Goblins watched, and Mrsha sneezed and coughed as she stared at the strange women, and Pebblesnatch looked around for Garry. Then, as one—the [Witches] did the quintessential greeting between their kind.
As one, young and old, dozens, possibly as many as seventy in this street alone—
They tipped their hats. Erin hesitated, looked from face to face, and started.
Her hand rose, but she had no hat, even an invisible one, so she waved weakly, a little waggle of the hand.
“Um. H-hi.”
She paused, glanced at her hand, and made a face.
“Okay, I get it. That’s why you have a hat.”
Giggling. Some of the apprentices covered their mouths, and Erin’s head snapped up. She saw the Tea Witch cover her mouth politely, but the woman with the axe threw her head back and laughed almost as loudly as Briganda. And then—the Crow Witch glanced around, irritated, and spoke into the second hush she caused.
“Witch of Liscor. Witch of the Wandering Inn. Innkeeper Witch. Witch Erin Solstice. We have been expecting you.”
“You h—I mean, greetings. Witch…?”
Mavika’s eyes fixed Erin with a disapproving look. She tilted her head unnaturally to one side.
“…Mavika. With me stand the [Witches] of the Unseen Empire, though we are no coven formal. A great pact has been forged across this land, and we gather. All save the Stitch Witch are offered sanctuary here. Yet the crows know your name. The wind whispers it. An [Emperor] welcomes you, as do we. Will you speak with us, Witch of Liscor?”
She was so formal. There was a ritual to this, and Erin felt it, she had been taught it. Yet she hesitated. She tried to smile.
“Me? I mean, sure. I was hoping to find a Nanette. I…I sent word. I have something to tell her. But I’d like to speak to all of you! Hello!”
Again, Erin smiled, but this time, it didn’t go over as well. There was no chuckle. There were some smiles, but Mavika was staring a hole into Erin’s face.
“You speak with none of the old ways, Witch Solstice. Though I feel them in my bones. I smell the grave on you, yet you speak like a child to our craft.”
Erin bit her tongue. She felt like Somillune or one of the other [Witches] was upbraiding her. Erin hesitated and spoke more carefully.
“I have been taught some of the old ways, Witch Mavika. But I am no [Witch] of years. I don’t even—I do not even have a hat. If I am informal, I apologize. But I have come here as a friend to all, and a friend to all I hope to be! I have come upon Witch Califor’s will to meet Nanette, and I have more to speak of—”
