He felt bad for her, a bit. She wasn’t evil, just Ulvama. The very qualities that made her dislikable at times were put in the service of Goblins. In fact…Numbtongue began to strum on his guitar, and Leafarmor’s ears perked up.
“She isn’t that bad. Ulvama came to The Wandering Inn, but did you know what she did next? Hey, Goblins. Come over here!”
He waved some over, and a [Rotter], Holdnose, dragged his pot over and was instantly shooed away at the noxious smell. But more Goblins listened or drifted over, and Numbtongue relocated so his voice could reach the mines. Thoughtfully, he began to play and felt an approving smile on his back.
Pyrite sat and watched his tribe working. Numbtongue swore he would introduce Pyrite for a minute, but first, the [Bard] did what a [Bard] should.
He told them stories. With a laugh, Numbtongue found the first one to tell.
“Ulvama fought the Witch of Webs, did you know? She went all the way to the Gnoll Plains for a silly little girl and joined a Fellowship of the Inn! Have you ever heard of the legendary, the unforgettable [Goblinfriend Bug-Captain]? Sit around, I will tell you her name!”
So the Goblins sat and laughed, and Pebblesnatch raced over to sit and listen—until her bread began to burn. And Ulvama watched as the Cave Goblin raced around, shrieking, and looked at peaceful Riverfarm.
“Is good. Is happy.”
She muttered to herself as Numbtongue strummed. Ulvama searched for the…the unease she had felt when she left. She didn’t sense it as strongly. But that just made her more worried.
If it was gone…why? She hobbled around, sniffing the air, and knew she would not stay. But for a little bit—she leaned over Pebblesnatch’s outdoor kitchen and patted the little Cave Goblin on the head until Pebblesnatch leaned against her. Then Ulvama stole half of Pebblesnatch’s bread because she was hungry.
It turned out Pebblesnatch had levelled up. It was halfway decent damn bread.
 
——
 
It was amazing how many connections there were between Riverfarm and Liscor. Then again, Ryoka had been to both.
Garia Strongheart did not go with Numbtongue to the Goblinlands. She’d thought about it, but she had to admit, she wasn’t that at home with so many Goblins. Numbtongue? Obviously, but Riverfarm interested her enough as a [Farmer]’s daughter.
“So you’re growing cotton, now? I hear it’s a pain to pick.”
“His Majesty’s got us to work on a way to pick it fast. Miss Griffin had some kind of tool—but it’s important to have cotton. Everything needs it, but yes, we’ll spin off a huge area for farming the stuff.”
“Are you irrigating or just relying on Skills?”
Mister Prost had introduced Garia to Farmer Ram when he’d heard Garia came from the semi-famous Strongheart farm. Now, the man was showing her around.
There was a bit of, oh, competitiveness. A kind of friendly rivalry between mundane and magical farmers. Ram laughed as he pointed out the many [Farmers] working the fields.
“Don’t need no fancy magic, Runner Garia! We’ve got nigh on at least thirty farmers pushing up around Level 30, and we can combine our Skills. Frankly, we’ve got more farmers than farmland at the moment, but we’re sowing new fields every day. How much, er, Sage’s Grass does your farm produce?”
Garia grinned as he shot her a competitive glance.
“More than all of Riverfarm will. If you want to see a plague of gnats eating your Sage’s Grass, be my guest. Or a hundred moles going after a single field of thirty plants?”
“Dead gods.”
The man shuddered, and Garia laughed.
“My dad’s careful about how much magic we have. He has nullifiers so animals can’t detect it, and he harvests them before they get big. But he has other plants! I heard you have pumpkins for the fall? Ever seen an invisible pumpkin?”
“No, I’ve never seen—hah!”
Ram laughed and elbowed her, and Garia giggled.
“I’ll get you some seeds. My dad’s also got some sour fruits that spit liquid.”
“Well, in that case, we’ll get him some of our seeds, how about that? We’re buying some of the best plants, but we’ve got some lovely carrot seeds—let me get you a packet.”
It was all quite fun, and Garia did like touring Riverfarm. It would have been even more fun if it weren’t for the loud, slightly braying harumph from the side. Garia turned her head, and Ram looked sideways.
“…Something wrong, Miss Charlay?”
“Oh, nothing. I was just thinking back to when me and Ryoka were here. That’s how I met her, did I ever say? Riverfarm. Charlay and Ryoka. I’m amazed it’s not part of her story. I mean, it’s practically how she mastered wind magic and became the Wind Runner. Have you, er, heard from her recently, Garia?”
Garia, the [Martial Artist] City Runner, eyed Charlay. The Centauress was a somewhat familiar face in Riverfarm. Not only was she an esteemed guest, she often ran the region for work.
“I…haven’t.”
“Really? She disembarked from First Landing, you know.”
“I know. It was on the scrying orb.”
“Yes, well, I know because I’m her friend. And I got a letter from her. She writes, now and then. How…many letters do you get?”
The Centauress was getting on Garia’s nerves. But Garia smiled politely. She knew what Charlay was doing. It wasn’t a competition. Mostly because Garia had known Ryoka far longer than Charlay.
“I don’t get many letters.”
“Oh, too bad!”
“I’ll catch up with Ryoka when she visits Celum or Invrisil or Liscor. We always meet, so I don’t need to stay in touch that way.”
Mister Ram saw Charlay nearly miss a step and decided to move to the other side, out of range of a flying hoof or a punch, per se. Charlay harrumphed as the Witch Runner, Alevica, rolled her eyes. All Alevica wanted to do was size up the competition. Garia…Alevica nodded to herself.
Seems like someone not to hex. Charlay snapped back, coming out with it directly.
“Well, I’m Ryoka’s best friend, just so you know! She and I are both foreigners. We have a connection.”
“I’m not saying you two aren’t friends! What’s wrong with you?”
“I’m her best friend. Best. Friend.”
“You’ve only known her for a few months! I knew her when she first came to Celum!”
“Yeah, and she left Celum. She told me all about how bad your Runner’s Guild was. Persua. I bet you’re one of her people.”
“Persua? You take that back.”
Garia’s fists balled up, but Charlay just danced around her, kicking up some dirt.
“Prove you know Ryoka better than I do. Tell me her favorite food! Or—how many adventures have you been on with her? Or—”
“What’s her middle name?”
Charlay paused, mid-taunt, and Garia turned. Mister Ram eyed Alevica, and the Witch Runner smiled nastily.
“Er, what, Alevica?”
Charlay coughed, and Alevica grinned.
“What’s her middle name? Surely her best friends would know it.”
Ryoka Dawning Griffin’s best friends exchanged a look. Charlay harrumphed, but her tail swished uncertainly.
“I—of course I know it. I have it written down. In my diary. But who remembers middle names? Just give me one second—”
“Me too. I’ll just—”
They both began to walk, then run, then sprint back to Riverfarm. Then they began shoving each other—right until Charlay kicked dust into Garia’s face. An outraged [Martial Artist] launched a flying kick at the screaming Centauress, but they split up. Charlay wrote frantically as Garia found her [Message] scroll.
 
Fierre! It’s me, Charlay! I need you to tell me Ryoka’s middle name!
Hey Fierre, it’s Garia. Just checking in. Do you know what Ryoka’s middle name is…?
 
Meanwhile, Alevica smugly watched them race into the distance, then race back. She licked one finger, held it up, then began gathering all the animosity up into her hat.
Mister Ram watched the Witch Runner and shook his head. That Alevica was a piece of work.
 
——
 
Other meetings were far less…unpleasant. For instance, while Charlay and Garia were entering into a real feud, egged on by Alevica, someone else was meeting another famous [Witch] of Riverfarm.
Namely, Lyonette and Witch Eloise. They had tea in Eloise’s home, which was already being transformed from the generic house into, well…
A sanctum of tea. Eloise had tea leaves hanging up, at least eight different styles of tea kettle, and she made bags of tea leaves as well as grew small pots of exotic varieties.
For all that, her sitting room had no such clutter, and it was so elegant, a table sitting just so between two comfortable chairs as a custom-fit window gave them a splendid view of the quiet forest and breeze blowing across the leaves changing color, that Lyonette had to press a hand over her heart.
This was elegance. This was the talent of someone who could change a room to a theme. Ser Lormel himself looked respectful and amazed by the short, elderly woman sitting with a simple hat on her head.
She looked humble, and her clothes were not washed every day; they were for work, not carefully tailored gowns that required an entire person to maintain them regularly.
Yet, Lyonette felt, no, she knew, that if Eloise were called upon to walk into a ballroom or attend a royal court, she would not have been out of place. Lyonette inhaled a Calanferian tea blend she hadn’t smelled for over a year. Dawn’s Leaf, pale gold if you held it up, and very mild, with the faintest taste of perhaps maple.
She looked at Eloise over her cup and had to ask.
“Are you…her? Witch Eloise, I do beg your pardon. But I am simply, utterly in awe.”
There was only one person who could have this much of Terandria and yet be…a [Witch]. Lyonette had heard of a [Lady] who had left her life to become a primitive [Witch]. In her youth, she had known the name as a cautionary tale, someone to deride or mock or pity.
Now? She looked into the twinkling eyes of Eloise, and the [Witch of Tea] put down her cup.
“As one ages, they develop a reputation, Princess Marquin. I don’t believe I deserve awe for simply having lived a full life. Anyone who reaches my age generally has done one thing of note, at least. Or have you not met the lady of fire? Now there was someone who leaves the world poorer and colder.”
“Even so. Even so, I am delighted to make your acquaintance.”
Lyonette murmured. Eloise chuckled.
“And I, you! This may be poor fare, but will you take some snacks? I made them out of walnuts I gathered.”
“Oh, allow me to share some cookies from Liscor. I have the recipe…Ser Lormel?”
Eloise watched as Lyonette fumbled with her bag of holding and then had Lormel present them. A mix of [Barmaid] and [Princess]. Her eyes were knowing, because Lyonette was walking down a road Eloise had travelled long ago. So the [Witch] delicately accepted the recipe and nibbled at a cookie, smiling.
“Shall we then talk of home, Miss Lyonette? Let us be women from home, not our classes. And speak frankly. If you would like, I have some poor advice to share.”
Lyonette leaned forwards, then caught herself and smiled. She raised her cup, and it chimed as Eloise touched hers to it. Both smiled in delight, like dignified girls playing at being [Ladies]. It made Eloise look so very young.
 
——
 
Unlike Lyonette, Inkar visited Witch Oliyaya, and that was an experience. The [Witch] peered at Inkar as the [Worldly Traveller] inspected the charms Oliyaya had made.
“You want to buy my craft, eh? I don’t care for gold like some. What have you, girl who smells of Gnolls?”
Inkar had already given Oliyaya the cheese gift, but the [Witch] was unmoved. She recognized the product of a Skill, and Inkar gestured around.
“I would like to trade for many things, Witch Oliyaya. I am from Longstalker’s Fang, and I have a few things—”
She delved into her bag of holding and came out with a bolt of fabric that Oliyaya’s hands hovered over.
“Oh. Oh, is this Shockwoolie wool? A fine bolt of cloth. Silver from Silverfangs? Naturally mined. For a few charms, I could trade.”
Inkar bowed her head politely.
“I would love to see what you have—but I would also like to trade with many [Witches]. They have many crafts, don’t they?”
Oliyaya laughed.
“They do! But if you think even that cloth will buy much—a [Witch] is no [Craftsman] to churn out goods. Nor do I think that bag of holding has enough treasures.”
It did not, and Inkar knew that well enough. She had bought some Shield Spider venom from Liscor, and she had other trade goods from the Meeting of Tribes, but she took a breath and looked Oliyaya in the eyes.
Which was not easy, because they seemed to pop out of the [Witch]’s head, and they were a disconcertingly lurid green that stared like, well, a scary [Witch]. But it was an experienced [Traveler] who held her own.
“May I purchase some charms and your craft to take back to Longstalker’s Fang and any tribes who wish it, Witch Oliyaya? And from the other [Witches]?”
The cackle from Oliyaya was loud, but not outraged. She stared down at Inkar, leaning forwards until her breath—oddly minty, not foul—blew across Inkar’s face.
“You want to buy my goods on credit?”
Only then did Inkar see the twinkle in the old [Witch]’s gaze. Oliyaya turned her head innocently, but it was too late. Inkar’s smile grew, and the [Witch] cackled and cursed, but good-naturedly.
“I promise on my name and Longstalker’s Fang’s honor it will come to Riverfarm, Witch Oliyaya. There is a door in Invrisil, and it can cut a journey short from Invrisil to Pallass.”
“Eight hundred miles and the Bloodfields gone. True, true. And what would you offer?”
Oliyaya squatted over a mortar and pestle that a girl with burn scars was working over, sifting through fennel with her fingers. Inkar responded, her eyes on Oliyaya’s dark clothing—fine and magical, but old like the [Witch].
“I know a great [Spinner], Honored Deskie, Witch Oliyaya. There are other goods as well.”
“Deskie the Magic Spinner. I know that name. Ah, and her clothing you wear. Well then, well then. I will trade you my craft. If you ensure that any trade of cloth she makes comes to me, before any other. Then I shall introduce you to the others.”
The [Witch] laughed again, and then she was spreading her work before Inkar, and the [Traveler] was writing down charms and what Oliyaya wanted to send to Eska. After all—if you travelled so far to distant lands, only a fool would not trade.
 
——
 
There were, in fact, a few meetings which would have larger consequences. Although the ramifications might not be apparent immediately, they bore instant fruit.
Such as Laken Godart. He was relaxing and trying not to focus on the point of distant irritation that was Erin. The foreign hostility was really affecting him, but he enjoyed hearing of the antics of the others, and he’d decided just to get back to work.
