“Hm. Bandits have come over the border.”
“Poor souls, Your Majesty. I will alert General Wiskeria and Beniar at once.”
Mister Prost stepped out as Lady Rie took Prost’s place. She still unsettled him. She was changed, markedly, from her being called by the Circle of Thorns. Oh, it was hard to tell what had changed her very body at first.
If you knew her, she would have seemed unnaturally more vital, as if someone had injected her with energy. The faint, faint tinge to her skin, her teeth? Well, the proof in the pudding, to use an expression, was in her talents.
Namely, the ability to wrestle her bodyguard in terms of strength, a boundless energy—and a nature that unsettled the [Witches], though even Mavika had warned Laken it might not have been obvious had they not known.
For now, Rie was the perfect administrator of Riverfarm’s diplomatic arm. And to her employers, she was the plant in the Unseen Empire, a useful tool.
Unbeknownst to them, Rie could ignore their orders, but she played along. A weapon to combat the Circle from the inside.
Not that Laken wanted to go up against what was apparently an entirely shadowy cabal, so Rie just delivered her report quietly.
“They are asking me to look into House Veltras via any means possible, Your Majesty. I told them I have few avenues, but they asked me to copy any correspondence between you and Lord Tyrion.”
“I see. Ryoka must truly worry them. Well, anything about Erin?”
“Only demand for anything about her <Quests> or plans.”
“I see. Well, keep scrying orbs away from Erin. In case she has—what did that Lyonette call them? ‘Solstice events’? How amazing. If something becomes public knowledge, you’ll have to inform them, but otherwise, she is a pleasant guest only interested in Goblins.”
“Absolutely, sire.”
He could tell Rie was smiling. The benefit of having someone altered in that—ritual—was that her new bosses believed she was incapable of being a traitor. Which, to be fair, without Tamaroth’s help, would have been the case.
She had never spoken of it, except to say it was the most unpleasant experience of her life, and also altering. Laken had begun letting Durene go on her self-imposed challenges when Rie had come back.
He needed warriors on par with Griffon Hunt. Spies, capable agents as well. That was his next goal. But the [Emperor] was taking his leisure as Rie departed, and he sat in his home, resting in a wonderful reclining chair that had just been engineered by Gamel’s fiancée, Tessia. Forget trebuchets…this was the real achievement of engineering.
Then Laken sat up slightly.
“What the—”
An intruder had entered his home. Gamel had spotted the assailant, but Laken held up a hand. Someone had come to meet the [Emperor] in private. After all, it was only appropriate they should meet.
Your Majesty. I am a correspondent of [Kings]. They know me from Chandrar to Baleros. Forsooth, it is I! Let us talk as equals!
Mrsha the Great and Terrible held up a card. Laken Godart sat up slightly as the little Gnoll girl, who he had been told had white fur which made her a Doombearer, stood in front of him.
He thought she was holding something up.
“Er…is it Mrsha? Do you have something you want to say to me, Miss Mrsha?”
The little Gnoll girl faltered. She stared at her note—then Laken’s closed eyes. Then she realized he was blind.
She’d known that—but he’d moved around so easily she had forgotten blind meant you couldn’t read. Unless it was braille. And she couldn’t speak.
Oh no. Mrsha tapped her speaking stone, and a bright voice chirped.
“Hi, I’m Mrsha!”
“Uh. Hello?”
“Hi! Read my note, stupid!”
Laken Godart felt Gamel shifting as Mrsha realized that Gire’s pre-recorded lines could be more…tactful. He turned his head.
“Ah, Gamel? Please read the note?”
He sat there as Mrsha’s eloquent speech was read out loud by Gamel. The girl was fidgeting, and when Gamel read her statements, Laken…twitched.
What an annoying kid. He smiled politely at Mrsha.
“I’m afraid I am resting, Miss Mrsha. It was lovely to meet you, but I am an [Emperor].”
Mrsha scribbled, and he had to wait for her to pass a note to Gamel.
But I’m Mrsha! I know Fetohep of Khelt! And the Titan of Baleros! Let’s talk about important things! I’m a Doombearer, you know. Plus, I’m cute.
Laken Godart sat there. He considered her words and actually wondered if they might be true for a second. Then he caught himself, shook his head, and spoke.
“Gamel, please take Miss Mrsha out and find her mother or some children her age.”
What? You can’t do this! You stupid fool! No one ignores Mrsha the Great and—
Gamel picked up Mrsha and, ignoring her squirming, carried her outside. Laken Godart sat in his recliner, then he lay back.
“Children. Was I that bad? Eugh.”
She reminded him of a giant Sariant Lamb.
 
——
 
Mrsha the Indignant Parcel squirmed, but she didn’t quite dare punch or bite Gamel. Even so, when he put her down with a bunch of Riverfarm’s children who got to play outdoors, she listened to him tell her off.
“His Majesty is not to be disturbed. Hey, you lot! This girl would like to play. Keep an eye on her?”
Oh, he’d pay. So would that [Emperor]. Mrsha was going to get right back in and assert dominance! She was just about to slink off as Gamel marched away when someone ran up.
“You’re a Gnoll!”
Mrsha turned and stared at a girl with pigtails who grinned in delight at her. Mrsha pointed at her face.
Who, me? Well observed, dummy. But she didn’t say that. The girl peered at Mrsha.
“Can’t you speak?”
“No, she can’t, remember? But she’s fast! Did you see her crawling through the [Emperor]’s window? You oughtn’t to do that, Miss. Let’s play instead! We’ve got a soccer ball, and we’re going to the new fields. There’s a game!”
Another boy around eleven urged Mrsha. She turned her head. Plebians! She was Mrsha the Great and—
“Your fur’s so nice! It’s white. Is it hard to keep clean? I love it!”
The girl touched Mrsha’s fur! The Gnoll child slapped the hand and was about to growl. Yeah, she was a Doombearer. Doombearer! So don’t think she was—
Then she saw the curious children around her, mostly Humans, and hesitated. Mrsha looked around, and they crowded over, asking what Gnolls ate, if she ran around on all fours, and what she was wearing—a kilt.
And she realized not one, not even Drake children, knew what the heck a Doombringer or Doombearer was. They barely knew what a Gnoll was. She couldn’t speak, but most of them could read, and they oohed as she produced her bag of holding.
Mrsha the Amazingly Interesting stood amidst the children. And then the notions of bothering an [Emperor] vanished. She produced her special magical ball and threw it and then began to race around with the children who barely knew her name or cared why her fur was white. Within five minutes, she was laughing, her slight cold forgotten.
Then she realized this lot had never seen a Liscorian playground. And they had never thrown a proper riot. Mrsha the Troublemaker decided she had to show these yokels how a real Liscorian kid did things. And she had the most fun she had ever had in the last year in the first hour of play.
 
——
 
There was something for everyone in Riverfarm. Whether it was just seeing something new, being found valuable, or making an opportunity. For everyone.
Even…him.
Tkrn.
He was depressed, because Inkar had wanted to negotiate with the [Witches], and she had forbidden him from joining in. Tkrn had no head for trade, and he caved before Inkar in deals. He was walking about, smelling this town, and admiring the roads.
“Brick. Look at it. So smooth. And they’re working on sewers?”
The Gnoll felt embarrassed when people stared at him, but even Liscor didn’t have roads this obsessively well-built in every spot. Of course, he couldn’t have known how Laken’s brick roads were among his most unpopular decisions.
Tkrn was a [Guardsman]. He just knew how many times an uneven cobblestone could snap a wagon wheel and cause a headache. Speaking of which, he was admiring how Riverfarm was laid out. It had neat intersections and was built such that you didn’t have to go far from the main thoroughfare to reach any one spot. Again, far better than a windy side road.
However—Riverfarm was still a former village, and it wasn’t used to the levels of traffic it was getting. [Merchants] had started coming in to trade with Riverfarm, and the other parts of the Unseen Empires sent their own wagons and Runners, and so Tkrn found himself walking on the sidewalk as more and more carts fought for the center of the road, mixing with villagers who often crossed the street anywhere they chose, forcing a [Driver] to stop.
In short, they had a bad traffic system, unlike Liscor, where anyone not crossing the street at crosswalks would get cursed out. Tkrn was just thinking it might cause problems when he heard a tremendous bang.
He had a hand on his sword in a moment, but it wasn’t a fight—the cursing up ahead made Tkrn break into a run. Then he saw it.
The busiest road in Riverfarm was the main one, and where it had a four-way stop, someone who wasn’t looking with their wagon had collided with another wagon. Thankfully, the horses were fine, but they’d halted to assess the damage.
Unfortunately, someone else was trying to turn and had to stop. They tried to reverse—only to find four huge, loaded wagons behind them. Suddenly, the horses were boxed in, a pair of ponies reared—and no less than two dozen wagons were in the intersection, unable to turn around as more came to a stop and created more of a blockage.
“Dead gods.”
Tkrn saw the pileup of vehicles and heard the cursing. [Drivers] stood up and began shouting at the people in the center, who looked ready to fight over the damages as more called for others to stop, and horses began to complain about the claustrophobic space. The people of Riverfarm didn’t help; they had walked into the street, but they were just adding to the blockage.
“Drakes’ ancestors! It’s the famous—no. Is it?”
Tkrn passed by a horrified Mister Prost and a few men and women wearing Riverfarm’s livery. The local Watch saw Tkrn trotting left and right, and the [Guardsman] shook his head.
“It is! It’s the legendary five-way cart fullbody pileup!”
“The what?”
Mister Prost was in a mortal horror. Today of all days! With the guests! This was the third major traffic jam this week, and this was the worst yet. But the excited Gnoll from Liscor, that distant city, was gesturing and commentating to the others.
“I’ve never seen a traffic jam this bad. See how each cart is stuck? They all have to reverse or go forwards, but there are five directions each one has to go because that idiot was in the middle of a turn, and she’s facing a wall. It’s the most glorious disaster. It could take hours to sort out. Days, if the traffic gets stuck in multiple streets. I heard a horse once died of starvation before they unstuck the jam.”
Prost groaned. He turned to the other members of Riverfarm’s new Watch.
“Well—get the carts backed up! Pull ‘em back, and someone feed the horses if they’re going to die. Stop those idiots from fighting!”
“Where—where should we go, Mister Prost? There’s only four of us!”
A young [Guardswoman] protested. The completely and utterly blank look on her face offended Tkrn. He waited as Prost turned left and right.
“Go—go down that street. You two.”
“And do what, sir?”
“Back up the carts.”
“Where should they go?”
Tkrn’s mouth actually opened. He waited for Prost to kick the young woman out of the Watch, but the [Steward] seemed as lost as she was.
Because they had never been in a big city. Before Prost could figure something else out, Tkrn snapped.
“Wait a second. You don’t leave—blow your whistle! What’s your traffic alarm and backup call?”
The Humans looked at Tkrn. The young [Guardswoman] gave Tkrn a blank stare.
“My what?”
“Where’s your whistle?”
She hesitated and looked at the other three Watch members, who shrugged.
“I don’t have one.”
Tkrn’s jaw dropped.
“You don’t have—? Then how do you call for help?”
“Well, if there’s a problem, His Majesty knows, or we shout for help.”
“You shout for—wait a second. Are you actually [Guards] or are you just wearing the gear? This is a traffic stop! You whistle for help, get a [Sergeant] in the center, and begin blocking streets off! You don’t reverse carts—you make sure more aren’t coming to add to the problem! And someone has to stop those idiots before they brawl!”
Indeed, a furious Human was shouting at a half-Elf, and they looked ready to punch each other out. But the Humans were just giving Tkrn a huge look.
“What’s all that about? We’re [Militia], not [Guards]! Most Watch don’t have [Guards] classes. You get that after a few months if you’re good. I was a Watch member in a town before this.”
A strident man jerked a thumb at his chest. Tkrn looked him up and down.
“Well, with training like that, no wonder! How long did you spend in training, Watchman? Where’s your gear?”
The man looked perplexed.
“Training? I spent three days following an older fellow around, and then I got given a club and a shield. You’re from those fancy Drake cities, aren’t you?”
Tkrn’s blank stare was morphing into one of slow, dawning horror. He’d heard jokes about the north’s Watches, but he hadn’t really understood the truth behind the jokes.
The north often conflated their militias or standing armies with the Watch. Moreover, adventurers often did the job of [Guards]. Tkrn had spent four months as a trainee, and then he’d spent two years in probation as a junior guardsman before becoming a full-time one.
Zevara’s new influx to the Watch had left the [Watch Captain] stressed out that she was reducing their performance rushing them into the job. If she’d seen Riverfarm, she would have probably been breathing magma.
He spoke, taking charge without realizing he was doing it.
“Alright. You—find the Watch. You have a headquarters? Get me—twenty-three. There will be four at each intersection, blocking off the road and navigating the horses back. You, post them to each street.”
“How do I—?”
“Four per street is sixteen. Count how many go where. Send the rest to me. You two, with me. Hey!”
Tkrn put his whistle in his mouth and blew it. The beginnings of a brawl in the center of the street broke up as people put their hands over their ears and turned. They saw a Gnoll stomping down the street, bawling in a familiar, practiced manner.
