“Liscor’s—I mean, Riverfarm Watch coming through! Please, go about your business! Clear the streets! Sir, I don’t have time for—sir, wait over there. Now, shut up—let’s get everyone out of this jam, first. If your cart’s damaged or your horses are hurt, wait unless someone’s bleeding. Quiet—”
Mister Prost watched as Tkrn began giving out orders. The Gnoll only realized he had taken command from the actual [Steward] of Riverfarm when Prost began adding his voice to the mix.
“Oh—I didn’t mean to take charge, sir!”
Tkrn saluted, feeling a sinking feeling in his stomach. How important was a [Steward]? But Prost just shook Tkrn’s paw.
“That was fantastic, Guardsman! Do they really train [Guards] to do all that?”
“What, traffic control? It’s part of the job. Do you not have anything like that?”
Prost shook his head.
“No, but we will, and His Majesty himself will want to speak to you! Do you have time to talk with His Majesty?”
“Me?”
Tkrn squeaked, but Prost was already steering him towards a blind man who was witnessing the horrific traffic jam being dispersed with actual competency for once. Laken Godart spoke without turning his head.
“Mister Prost, I heard some of that. I believe we need to import some of the Watch practices from the Drakes posthaste. And fix our street problems.”
“Absolutely, Your Majesty. Guardsman, how does Liscor solve this?”
Tkrn scratched his head, but he blurted out what he knew.
“Traffic problems? If it’s a bad street, a [Guardsman] will direct traffic, or we’ll tell people to go another route. But if it’s just a bad jam, we have to sometimes just organize the carts or everyone tries to go at the same time. There’s always some Creler-for-brains who tries to go ahead of everyone else and causes this. Er—sorry for the language, Your Majesty.”
Laken was listening intently. He smiled reassuringly at Tkrn.
“Not at all. Mister Prost, someone to direct traffic would be welcome. But it rather sounds to me like what we need is…a traffic light.”
Tkrn’s ears perked up. Prost looked at Laken with a familiar curiosity.
“A what, sire?”
Laken tapped a finger to his lips.
“Get me Nesor and a few [Mages]. A [Witch] too, perhaps. And…Jelov. Actually, I just put on fresh clothes, and I don’t want to get wet again, even if it seems like rain later today. Make it Master Helm. I suppose we can make it out of metal. Guardsman Tkrn, are you free to consult with us for, oh, an hour?”
“I—of course, Your Majesty?”
Tkrn was sweating, and Prost noticed.
“Someone get Guardsman Tkrn a refreshing drink. And anything to eat? This way, Your Majesty…”
And that was how Tkrn found himself walking with Emperor Laken Godart as the [Emperor] asked some curious magic-users if they could enchant a piece of metal to show different-colored lights. Then Tkrn’s eyes widened, and he looked at Laken.
Of course! Earth folk! He was Inkar’s partner, of course, and she had told him of her world. But she’d never mentioned traffic lights! When he told Zevara about this, she’d be so happy for all the [Guards] who didn’t have to direct traffic, why, she might actually smile at him.
Tkrn was also a bit unhappy, because it explained why, when he’d gone to the simulation of Earth, he’d cut his adventures short twice shortly after seeing a red light and hearing a honking horn coming down the street. Cars were a horrible thing.
 
——
 
Traffic lights. [Bards]. Friendships and tea. A day in Riverfarm was already a bustling thing, but it always was. Nanette sat under a tree again, and not even the news that she might leave with Erin Solstice changed her blank face. Yet there were good meetings for the bad.
As her friends went about their various days, Erin Solstice walked through Riverfarm with Griffon Hunt. She was going to find Nanette, but her friends also deserved their moment, so she watched Cade walk in front of Briganda, who was ready to catch him if he fell or walked in front of a wagon.
Typhenous was eating the newest cookies from Liscor, while Halrac kept pausing to introduce Erin awkwardly to someone he knew. Mostly from Windrest, and the grumpy [Marksman]’s face kept turning remarkably red as someone would make a passing comment.
“Miss Erin, ain’t it? What a lovely lady. Are you thinking of courting young Halrac? The lad could use someone in his life to keep him occupied. As shy as could be growing up.”
Erin kept giggling as Master Helm patted Halrac on the shoulder and showed Erin around his smithy or a woman who’d changed Halrac’s diapers remarked on how a burbling baby was so serious now, but a hero, a Gold-rank adventurer.
The rest of Halrac’s team was enjoying this to no end, but it had to be said—in between Erin visiting people, she was talking.
“So there I was, and I met the most amazing [Archer] with a shining bow. And then a bunch of ‘em, all [Kings] and [Princesses], shooting arrows! They were an entire kingdom of bow-people!”
“Avel.”
Erin’s face fell. Halrac gave her a disbelieving look, but he had listened to her tales of the deadlands in silence.
“Yeah. They were brave until the end. I never saw…I wondered if Ulrien might have been there, but I never saw him. How—how was it when I died?”
They were talking, as they walked in the sunlit day, of the things they had both seen when she was dead. Halrac shrugged.
“The Horns went to the Village of the Dead. We went with them. It was damned and foolish, but no one could have stopped them.”
All for you. Erin looked up at Halrac, and her smile turned sad.
“How many people died?”
“Less than most death-raids, Miss Solstice. Less than most. Have you met our resident Mossbear, Bismarck? Halrac, let’s introduce Miss Solstice, but, ah, hide your food, Miss Erin. The fellow is not above bowling someone over for a snack.”
Typhenous interrupted the moment, and Halrac nodded. He straightened—and Erin linked arms with him, much to his discomfort and the delight of his former village. She looked up at him, and he began to pull away.
Were they the closest guest and [Innkeeper]? No. But he had been there for so long—Erin just sighed as she looked around Riverfarm.
“Promise to visit more, Halrac. I’m gonna miss you. But this is a nice place, it seems like. And Pebblesnatch really likes you.”
“It is. Laken Godart saved my village, and I am grateful to him for that.”
He agreed quietly. Erin nodded, and on they walked. Behind them, as Briganda teased Cade with a cookie, Revi and the last member of Erin’s party strolled along.
Revi Cotton and…Gothica. They didn’t say much. Revi strolled along in her [Summoner]’s clothing, glancing at Gothica now and then as the Goblin walked like a shadow under the sun. After about forty minutes of listening to Erin and the others talk, Revi nodded.
“Your outfit has some style. Good to see someone’s classing up the inn.”
Gothica grinned toothily.
“You too.”
“[Goth], is it? What kind of a class is [Goth]?”
Typhenous’ ears perked up. All his bribes and begging had availed him not. But Revi? Gothica considered the question.
“Is a class about style. Blackness. Being alone. Stick it up the bum of people in charge. Style.”
“Ooh. That would be a hit in Nerrhavia’s Fallen among a certain group of people. Do you think I could pick up the class? Just for fun.”
Gothica eyed Revi.
“Yah. You have clothing?”
“Mhm.”
“Let’s go.”
They vanished as Erin began to tour the fields of Riverfarm. She heard lots of shouting behind her, and Master Helm walked off, groaning.
“Oh dead gods, it’s another pileup. I’ll never get my shipments…”
Erin almost wanted to turn back, but she didn’t know if traffic jams were that interesting. So they began to cross the bridge to the fields as she spoke to Halrac.
“I need to talk to Nanette. And the [Witches] about…witch-y stuff. But, um, do the Goblins seem happy here, Halrac?”
“As happy as I’ve seen them. It was worse at first, but when we said we knew Pebblesnatch, it helped.”
Erin looked at Halrac and bit her tongue. She glanced around, frowning, then nodded.
“That’s good. I was worried that—well. If they’re—if they’re happy—I guess that’s that. But I just—do you hear that?”
She stopped, midway across the bridge, and did a slow rotation. Halrac halted as well, frowning, and Briganda cautioned Cade not to peer out over the bridge, although there was a railing. Erin’s head craned about, and she spoke.
“I hear someone crying. I hear…I’ve been hearing it off and on for a while.”
“Crying?”
Halrac had excellent ears, but he could hear nothing of the sort. Typhenous glanced at Erin sharply.
“I have heard nothing, Miss Solstice. Is it someone in danger?”
The [Witch] bit her lip.
“No. Nothing like that. It’s not pain…I think they’re just sad. He? It might be a he. But where…”
A raven, Mavika’s familiar, perched on a tree and watched Erin. The [Witches] of Riverfarm were interested in her, the girl who had been taught by a great coven yet had no hat or craft.
More than they were, and less. Yet she heard something, and so Erin turned her head to the forest and mountain beyond. To the Goblinlands, back to Riverfarm. She looked around and saw the raven and waved, then looked up to where a cloud, like a second unseen castle in the sky, floated above her. She frowned behind her and ahead.
And then she figured out where the old man was. Erin’s eyes went round.
“No way…”
She looked down at the bridge newly built below her feet. Or rather…what lay beneath it. The old man wept and ran across Riverfarm. He whispered to her as people took bits of his skin. Erin looked down and heard the river weeping. Her lips moved, and Halrac felt goosebumps ripple up his arms. A raven took wing, cawing as Erin whispered.
“An Elemental.”
 
——
 
In this day and age, there was only one Elemental that had a name.
Khoteizetrough of Gaarh Marsh. And it was dead. Even Khoteizetrough had not been a true Earth Elemental of the Swamps. The body of that great protector had already perished, and the Khoteizetrough of the modern day had been more, well, Swamp Elemental than Earth, a decomposed being who was still so mighty it made Gaarh Marsh a tribe beyond tribes.
Yet the age of Elementals was bygone. Like Truestone, they had faded from the earth. But unlike Treants or Dryads, they were not an entirely dead race.
It was just that any version around in the world today was different from their true nature.
Consider Maviola. Or Ceria Springwalker, or even the Warmage Thresk. Each one was capable of summoning an elemental. But that was much like conjuring the idea of something rather than the genuine article.
They could create beings of fire to fight their opponents temporarily, but there was no soul there. No consciousness. Real Elementals did not ‘run out of time’, and they had their own magic.
Real elementals were the foundation of great [Shamans] and magics. You could strike a pact with them. They were akin to Plain’s Eye’s manufactured Daemon. But there was one more thing.
“You have to summon an Elemental. You can’t just, like, make them appear. Not the real ones.”
“But what is an Elemental, then? I’ve fought Earth Golems. What’s the difference?”
Erin bit her lip. Briganda was bouncing Cade on her knee as he played with the Box of Wonders. Erin was pacing back and forth in front of the riverbank, trying to explain what had her so excited.
“Think of it like this. Earth Golems are like…magical pieces of mud. Like how Snow Golems form. But they are the material. If you get rid of the magic mud, the Earth Golem dies, right?”
“Right.”
It was standard-practice to aim for a Golem’s Heart. Whether that was an artificial one or a natural one, like how Snow Golems had magical ice in their heads. Earth Golems had a ‘stomach’ of potent, smelly mud. Or sometimes a magical gemstone. They were like slimes, really.
However—Erin lifted a finger.
“Elementals aren’t that. They’re an idea. This guy’s a river. The way it works is that you have to bind his essence to a mortal vessel. Like how Khoteizetrough was the Elemental of the swamp; he was the swamp. Because it was so old and powerful it developed a personality.”
The Gold-rank adventurers exchanged a look. This seemed more like stories than reality.
“How do you beat one, then?”
Erin shrugged.
“It’s hard. Air Elementals are all air. They’re like the top-level version of their kind. You can kill them like poor Khoteizetrough…but this old guy hasn’t been summoned. I don’t think even the other [Witches] could hear him. He wants someone to talk to him!”
She glanced at the river, and Revi, who’d come back with Gothica, frowned at Erin.
“How can you hear him, then? What makes you so special?”
Erin shrugged. She rubbed at her ear and winced.
“I had a good teacher. Anyone can learn to listen. Or see. It’s just a matter of perspective. But, uh, it’s like having a moment of inspiration or grace. You have to flip a switch, and then you can do it whenever, but it took me ages to figure it out. And I had the best teachers in ever.”
By now, she had an audience larger than even Griffon Hunt. Mavika perched on a branch, listening to Erin speak. She gave Erin an appraising look.
“That is more of a [Witch] than you were before. Even I heard this ‘old man’ not. But then, I am of the air and sky.”
Erin nodded rapidly.
“Yeah, you’re specialized, Mavika. It might actually be hardest for you to hear water even if you wanted to.”
“Indeed.”
Mavika dipped her head to Erin, although whether it was for Erin helping her to save face or simple acknowledgement, it was hard to tell. Yet Erin was glancing around.
“Darn! Where is Inkar? I just had an amazing idea. What if…what if I summoned this guy? Maybe he won’t want to, but I think he does if he’s talking to me. And then—”
“You cannot just take an elemental from Riverfarm! Isn’t that stealing, Erin?”
Revi was horrified, but Erin waved her hands.
“No, no, no! It wouldn’t be stealing!”
“Oh, good. For a second there, I thought you wanted to conjure an Elemental and bring it to the Gnoll Plains. Because Laken is not gonna like that.”
Revi sighed in relief. Erin hesitated.
“W-well, it’s not stealing because the Elemental would have his own will. I’d just ask if he wanted to protect a tribe. They love stuff like that, you know.”
Griffon Hunt exchanged worried glances. They were aware of their position as hired help for Riverfarm, and they had a pretty good idea of how Laken would treat them losing a magical being. On the other hand…Typhenous shot a quick [Message] to Nesor.
“It wouldn’t hurt to see if this Elemental exists either way, would it?”
