Califor’s name provoked a response within the coven, who turned their heads and murmured, but the sound was doused as the older [Witches] turned their heads. Erin went on, speaking into the silence.
“—But I am an [Innkeeper] too. A guest of Riverfarm and Emperor Godart, and I would like to be a friend. So I am sorry, and I hope to get to know you. After all—a [Witch] is a [Witch]!”
Erin beamed and winked at Mavika. The Crow Witch’s face never changed, but her beady eyes lingered on Erin’s face.
“Yes. Some are ruder than others. Some less a [Witch]. But you breathe like the oldest thunder still rolling from ages past. You smell of corpseblood of kingdoms, and I hear the horn in your voice like the greatest war. So I take my hat off to you and will listen to your words.”
With that, she removed her hat, revealing strands of grey hair, and bowed her head ever-so-slightly. Then she put it on her head. Erin saw Mavika turn away. The [Innkeeper] saw the other [Witches] break up and turned around. Goblins, [Emperor], her friends, and Riverfarm’s folk saw Erin smile uncertainly.
“Um…did I make her mad?”
And that was how Erin Solstice came to Riverfarm. But the two [Witches] who mattered most to her, in some ways—she had yet to meet.
Once again, Laken Godart approached, and the introductions began again, explanations and unpacking and more. But Erin, perplexed by the [Witches], slightly off-put by Mavika, still waiting to meet Nanette, and anxious and relieved by the Goblins, rubbed at her ears. It was faint, but still—she supposed it was a trick of her mind.
Because no one else had mentioned, behind the greetings and speeches, the talk and silence, the faint sound of someone…crying.
 
——
 
Wiskeria knew the old ways. She had been taught by the greatest [Witch] living. Erin had been taught by the greatest coven in existence.
Yet neither had been the perfect student. Erin had not been a [Witch]. And Wiskeria…
Wiskeria had been a girl. How did you teach either the old craft, the deepest ways?
The answer was that you didn’t. Nevertheless, when Wiskeria saw Nanette and her hat full of sadness, which threatened to crush her, she offered the younger [Witch] her knowledge.
“I could…teach you how to sacrifice it.”
“Sacrifice what?”
Nanette dreamily clung to Wiskeria’s hand. She had not met the [Innkeeper], but she was going to. Erin had asked to meet with her, and so Wiskeria was taking her into Laken’s throne room. It was the first time they would meet her up close.
“Your sadness.”
Wiskeria said it like it was obvious. Nanette looked up at Wiskeria’s bespectacled face as the [Witch] nodded to people, smiled and greeted them. Wiskeria. Belavierr’s daughter. The ordinary [Witch].
“What would happen?”
The younger [Witch] was curious. She knew her answer, but Wiskeria replied absently.
“You’d never feel sad again. Possibly only about your mother, but generally too. I don’t recommend it, necessarily, but the option is there. You might get something good for it. It’s just an option; stop me if you don’t want to.”
There it was. Like offering to cut Nanette’s hair. The girl pondered what kind of person she might be without sadness. Much less for her mother. It sounded like a joke.
But imagine it. Someone who was never sad. That was a frightening thing. Yet more than that, Nanette was curious, so she tilted her head up to stare at Wiskeria. Her hat hurt her head. To be rid of it…would be nice. But not like that.
“Could you really do that? Do you know how to sacrifice sadness, Wiskeria?”
“Mm. Yes. Sort of. Enough to get us started. I don’t know how to do a lot of the deep craft. It’s more like…my mother taught me the first steps. That’s the tricky bit, she claims. Anyone can keep walking, but finding the path? I have all the options, but I’d learn the rest.”
“I see. Califor never taught me that.”
Wiskeria nodded amiably.
“She was one of the great teachers, though. I don’t think she was wrong to hold it back from you. My mother was a poor teacher. A poor mother. I think even she’d admit that. She did her best, though. But she made a lot of mistakes.”
“How?”
The [Witch of Law] smiled brightly, like a white lie. A pleasant nothing on her face, disguising whatever she might feel. That was the thing—Nanette couldn’t read Wiskeria. A [Witch] could pull emotion out of a moment or person, even if it wasn’t their craft. Even Nanette could do that. She had sensed Ryoka’s sadness and guilt, just like her relief.
Yet Wiskeria was blank. Only rarely did some emotions seep through. Mavika, Eloise, Hedag, they were all guarded, but it was the difference between something being there but out of sight, behind an opaque glass wall.
Versus not being there at all. Still, Wiskeria had feelings. She had a past. So—the trick was this. Wiskeria tilted her hat up as she took Nanette through Riverfarm. And she said it all, plain as you like, for Nanette to hear.
“How was Belavierr a bad mother? I suppose…she spoiled me.”
 
——
 
Spoiled? The older Wiskeria had come to that conclusion long after being a girl. When she dreamed, it was almost always lucid dreaming.
She couldn’t help it. She slipped into consciousness and interacted with her dream, rather than being a passenger on the ride. Wiskeria always knew she was dreaming, so she was unfortunately never truly surprised.
It had some benefits, but like much of her life, it was a consequence of having been Belavierr’s daughter.
It was a famous story. An unprecedented thing. To hear Belavierr tell it, the moment was chance. She had found Wiskeria, a victim of some accident, dying alone. And unlike any other babe the Stitch Witch had sacrificed or abandoned, bartered or ignored…she had scooped Wiskeria up and made her a daughter.
The first in an immortal lifespan.
Why? The girl had wondered if it were fate, but Belavierr had always denied it, and she rarely lied outright. It was just…a decision.
Perhaps it was Belavierr sensing a need to change herself. But whatever the case, she had still been the immortal Witch of Webs. Then—Ser Raim had not yet burned her layers of immortality away. She had been more secure, more entrenched in her power than most points in her life.
So when the older Wiskeria looked at a dream of herself, she could see a girl with blue hair hurrying to keep up with a striding woman who had never truly changed. Only—the Belavierr of her childhood had a blank face. Even compared to the one of now, she was—distant. Sometimes, she forgot to speak or breathe, but whenever the girl spoke, Belavierr would stop and listen.
That was the first way in which Wiskeria was spoiled. Never, ever, had Wiskeria met someone else like Belavierr. Even the most loving parents had moments when a child’s questions became nattering or when a good friend lost focus of a conversation.
But Belavierr? Every time Wiskeria spoke, the Stitch Witch focused utterly and absolutely on her daughter.
“Mother, I am hungry. I have not eaten in a day.”
The little Wiskeria didn’t look thin, but she certainly did not have the fed look of some children in Terandria. She walked with experience, even six years old, and she seemed older, used to doing things.
Not that her mother hadn’t fed her or taken care of her with great fastidiousness. It was just that when she realized Wiskeria could feed herself or ask for food, she had abandoned the notion entirely.
Look at her. The older Wiskeria observed how, even as a child, she’d realized how off her mother was and how she needed to speak differently. Belavierr tilted her head left and right, then replied slowly.
“Eating is good for a child. You should eat more, Wiskeria. Why did you not ask?”
A flat question for a flat face, but not uncaring. Young-Wiskeria shrugged.
“I had snacks. May I have something to eat, Mother?”
“Yes, of course. What do you desire?”
And there it was. The older Wiskeria saw the young one’s face light up, and she closed her eyes, for this was bad parenting. She remembered it clearly—the young Wiskeria beamed with delight.
“I dreamed of eating a great fish from the sea, Mother! The [Sailors] said there are fearsome sharks as big as boats! May I have a fish like that?”
Now—to anyone else, that question would have resulted in a different answer. A kindly way to say no, or a version of that request. A fish with teeth, or a bit of one, or maybe a clever bit of cooking to put husks of cornmeal in a fish’s mouth, or cut up a bit of meat or…
But the child knew she could ask, and worse—the mother straightened at once.
“A fish with teeth as large as a ship? Do you care which it is?”
“No…but may I see you catch it?”
The Stitch Witch nodded. So, she let Wiskeria hold her hand as the child and mother walked differently and sped up, crossing the land like a blur, like a stroll. Until they reached the sea. Then her mother produced a fishhook as large as an anchor and tied it to a piece of hair that had come from a unicorn.
A fishing hamlet watched in silence and terror as the Stitch Witch took a tiny hook out and let Wiskeria whirl the little hook and toss it into the sea. The girl tried three times before she got it into the water.
Only on the third time did the great anchor-hook fly into the distance and sink in a tremendous splash. Belavierr whispered as Wiskeria hummed and laughed and waved at the village. Then—something began tugging, and the young Wiskeria pulled, and the water began to writhe and tear as something tremendous thrashed in the distance.
“Hold on tight, my daughter.”
The child wrestled with the little line as Belavierr carefully pointed at the great beast coming closer. Then a needle like a harpoon speared down, and five more—and Wiskeria was laughing and clapping her hands as the bloody side of a whale shark rose from the waters.
The older Wiskeria watched all this sadly. She had been a sailor on a ship when she left home and her mother. She had crewed vessels, eaten the day’s catch and the fine work of a [Cook] most nights.
She had never quite enjoyed it as when she had been a girl upon a beach, eating a whale’s heart as it still tried to beat. Belavierr had made some classic parenting mistakes.
A child should not have everything. If she ever had another child, she probably wouldn’t have made the same error.
But what a thought. Belavierr with a second child? She had never been…evil. No, she had been evil, but she had taught her daughter without lies.
 
——
 
One day, as Wiskeria was playing with an artifact Belavierr had bought which let Wiskeria hover and fly about, the Stitch Witch was watching her.
The girl was getting older now: she was eight. Eight…and Belavierr had begun teaching her the old ways. Bits and pieces, although the girl had no craft yet. She was already an [Apprentice Witch], but no full [Witch]. Not yet.
“Wiskeria. Come here.”
Wiskeria stopped floating about and landed. It was rare Belavierr told her to do anything, so Wiskeria stood with hands folded.
“Yes, Mother?”
Belavierr’s ringed eyes blinked slowly, and she regarded Wiskeria, touching her head, feeling at her cheeks, making sure she was well with a spell to check her health.
“Wiskeria. Are you happy?”
“Yes, Mother. I’m very happy right now.”
Belavierr nodded slowly. She gazed at Wiskeria and then spoke.
“Good. Then hold still, Wiskeria. I am going to slap you.”
The little girl’s face wrinkled with puzzlement. She opened her mouth and then held still, curious.
She did not expect the slap to be hard. Or if she did…Wiskeria opened her eyes and stared at the sky. She felt at her cheek and found it was swelling so fast that it puffed up under her fingers. She realized her mouth was bloody, but it didn’t hurt. Not yet.
When she got up, Belavierr was sitting there. The same face. She just watched Wiskeria as the girl began to feel the pain. Wiskeria gulped for air, and her eyes glistened, but she made no sound until Belavierr spoke.
“If you wish to cry, cry. Tears befit anyone when they are needed. I have a potion to heal your wounds, and I will give it to you after you learn the lesson.”
“I won’t cry, Mother. What lesson was that? There was no reason in it. No…”
Wiskeria held her cheek. The old ways had many horrible things, but they were all for a reason. That? Belavierr spoke calmly.
“That was no lesson in witchcraft, my daughter. I slapped you for a simple reason: you will never fully trust me again. I have betrayed every pact. Broken oaths sworn in blood. I have known mothers who devour their daughters for life, for power, for jealousy and greed. If I one day change, you must be able to slay me.”
“H-how could I slay you, Mother?”
The girl whispered, looking up at an omen as tall as a mountain. Layers of immortality. She was beginning to see, and a hundred mouths whispered back to her, safe from time and mortal blades.
“That, I must teach you. Enough to give you even a chance. Or what sort of a mother would I be?”
 
——
 
By the time the girl met the boy, she was twelve. Not that she met him on her birthday or any auspicious hour. She was doing perfect cartwheels along the side of a mountain when he swooped down on a young Griffin.
He was the boy who would be called the Griffin Prince of Kaliv, in time, and thirteen. Kaliv let their [Prince] fly with only a speaking stone because the Royal Griffin he had been raised with was better than any dog or bodyguard. As long as he stayed in sight of their capital city, he was allowed to roam.
So, the sight of a young girl, alone, doing cartwheels where monsters could appear had him curious. Even a feral Griffin could kill someone, and she was no Kaliv citizen.
“Health above, so below! What are you doing, Miss? It’s not safe out here.”
The young Griffin Prince swooped down, keeping his voice low in case of avalanches. The girl looked up.
“Oh, health below and so above to you too. Hello, there. I’m cartwheeling and waiting for my mother to come back. I’m fine, thanks. Nothing will harm me.”
She was so confident that the [Prince] was taken aback. He was young, and she had the look already of someone who had a secret on the tip of her tongue. A too-old look of someone who had seen her mother bring down the moon and had listened to all the whispers of the ages.
At that time, Wiskeria was not old, and she still did not know her mother entirely. So she was arrogant. And it came off wrong on a [Prince] of Kaliv, so the boy spoke up, putting a hand on his sword.
“Even I’m not safe here. Even a full [Griffin Rider] would be wary, Miss. Let me take you home. My mother, the [Queen], can find your mother.”
