The Tier 2 spell barely got in a foot before it sank into the water, and the Water Elemental was growing by the second. Wiskeria checked her wand; she was no battle-caster. Typhenous threw a comet into the Water Elemental, and it shielded its core, swiveling towards him.
“He’s right next to his body. We have to cut him from his vessel! By craft or with mortal blade!”
Wiskeria shouted in Erin’s ear. Both [Witches] whirled, and Erin stared at her fist, felt the pan, kitchen knife, and jar of acid—none of which were good against a mass of water.
They needed something more. So both [Witches] reached for their craft. Erin tried to conjure a spell, anything—and realized she didn’t even know what her craft was. She had no hat.
And Wiskeria’s hat was empty. The [Witch of Law] clutched at her hat and cursed. Then, the other [Witches] nodded to each other. Erin saw someone tip her hat up, and Mavika’s voice crowed in her ears, despite the shouting and sounds.
“A [Witch] without a craft is a [Mage] without a single spell.”
She raised her hand, and a howling gale blew into the Water Elemental, a vortex of wind that sent water raining up and down. The river turned, outraged and alarmed, and a second [Witch] drew something as it launched a blast of water to pound Mavika’s bones into dust.
“A [Witch] with no hat is a flame with no fuel.”
Agratha unfolded the parasol and held it like a [Pikeman] before a charge. A torrent of water struck it and filled the air with mist and thunder, but the light fabric didn’t so much as waver. Then the last [Witch] raised her head. Hedag focused on Cade, choking and clinging to his mother, and she raised her axe and strode across the ground.
“A [Witch] is a [Witch], but you two have much to learn.”
The Water Elemental recoiled as the Hedag brought up that rusted headsman’s axe. She swung it down, through a grasping hand. Through the body of water.
Through the river stone. Erin and Wiskeria heard the old man shriek and try to hold on, but his connection was gone and he was too newly-formed. The river slumped back and began to run according to nature once more. The gelatinous body quivered—then sagged and oozed amidst the mud and flowed into the waters.
It was done. Erin looked around as Laken came striding forwards, as Briganda turned with a mother’s wrath. She looked at Wiskeria, and the other [Witch] caught her eyes.
They looked at each other in silence, and Erin hung her head. Wiskeria just breathed and spoke into that moment.
“I hate it when they try to teach us a lesson.”
 
——
 
It had been a long time since Wiskeria felt something like this. She felt things, of course.
She felt the water on her robes, the sodden, unpleasant feeling of it clinging to her skin. That wasn’t fun, nor the adrenaline in her veins or fear that had been in her heart.
A [Witch] felt emotions. She felt emotions. It wasn’t as if her mother had taken them away. When she was stabbed, she screamed. When she stubbed a toe, she cursed and wept. She was hardly immortal or even tough.
It was just that these were natural things, and sometimes she could let them pass over her or think amidst blinding agony if she had to. But that was just a trick of concentration; any [Warrior] could do that.
Strong feelings, though, especially the good ones, were rare. She had once been a girl, and her mother had shown her every wonder and horror; it had made her numb until her first friend taught her how to be close to a normal person. However, even now, Wiskeria remembered her great emotions.
Her betrayal when Odveig revealed herself as Sacra. Her rage against her mother’s deeds. Her sense of righteousness when she found her craft. Her sadness for Nanette.
Now, she savored a different kind of feeling. Which was sympathy for Erin Solstice.
The young woman sat there, a blanket on her shoulders, staring at the fire in her guest-house. Wiskeria had lit it for her. Erin didn’t seem keen on moving.
She still had a bruise, a bad one, from where Briganda had punched her. Which was a fair and honest blow, and there hadn’t been two or four. No one was dead, but there was a lot of cleaning up to do. The old man was howling his fury, and Riverfarm’s folk were understandably upset by what they’d seen.
However, Wiskeria was slightly peeved. Indignant, and she ventured some words into the silence.
“They knew it would probably go bad. They let you summon the Water Elemental and make that mistake. I hate it when they do that.”
Erin hadn’t stirred until now, but her head began to rise. Her voice croaked.
“They knew he’d…?”
Wiskeria sensed her rising outrage and corrected herself.
“They probably didn’t know he’d try to kill Cade. Hedag would have stopped you herself. But…let’s say they let it happen. Say, rather, they allowed you to make a mistake because they thought they could control it if they were there. Which was true. And they probably wanted to learn how to do what you did. Many purposes to a deed. That’s witchcraft.”
“How could they let me do that?”
Erin’s voice was hushed, angry, and hurt. Wiskeria smiled.
“Because you came to them without a hat and no craft but told them you were the student of the greatest coven, and it made them mad. [Witches] can be petty. They don’t like me much, either, because I’m a [Witch of Law] and Belavierr’s daughter and I won’t tell them any secrets. Some of them don’t care, but they push us to be what they think is best. That’s a [Witch]-y thing to do.”
“That’s outrageous. I n—I d—I don’t appreciate people doing it to me.”
Erin was at least conscientious enough not to be hypocritical. Then she looked at Wiskeria again.
“I didn’t mean to be rude. Well—sorta. I just didn’t want to go in with thees and thous, you know?”
The other [Witch] considered this and shrugged.
“You should have. Mavika especially wants that.”
“But why? Why can’t I be casual?”
For answer, Wiskeria nodded out the window at the angry river.
“Because witchcraft has rules. It’s like…wiping your feet at the door. It’s courtesy, and sometimes, the rules about where to walk or how to talk save your life. Didn’t the ghosts teach you that?”
She said it so matter-of-factly, as if she believed Erin’s stories implicitly. Even the people who knew Erin best didn’t quite…believe. They tried, but Wiskeria just tilted her head, and Erin hesitated.
“I—they taught me how to be a [Witch]. How to be one, not secrets. Not like the other ghosts.”
“Oh, how to be one. Then they probably expected you to make a bunch of mistakes. My mother was the other way. She taught me all the secrets and none of how to be. A [Witch] is a [Witch]. She coined that expression, you know.”
“Did she? Your mother’s really Belavierr? The Stitch Witch? The one that…?”
“Murdered Califor? Nearly killed that girl, Mrsha? Slaughtered Gnolls at the Meeting of Tribes? The Threadbreaker of Stitchfolk? The Witch of Webs, the Immortal Spider? The woman who’s stolen lives and sewn faces onto a thousand puppets and victims? Yes.”
Wiskeria’s face never changed. Erin’s mouth opened, and she gave Wiskeria much the same look others gave her.
“You’re so casual about it.”
Wiskeria shrugged.
“I’ve been used to it all my days. It was stranger for me to find out other people had a mother and father, or that they wept when they bled. I’m aware I’m not—normal. But please don’t tell anyone. I’ve done a good job of late, and I think they think I’m somewhat normal. For a [Witch].”
A surprisingly anxious look crossed her face, and Erin’s odd stare intensified. She had never met someone who wanted to be normal. Except maybe Ishkr.
“I promise. You do a good job. I barely noticed you until after I talked to Nanette. Oh no, she’ll never want to come with me now. I’ve screwed things up. Briganda hates me, and I messed up Laken’s village and…”
“And the Witches are going to try to apprentice you off, now. Just you wait.”
Wiskeria patted Erin on the head. When the [Innkeeper] gave her a strange look, Wiskeria tried the shoulder and then the back. Erin laughed.
“You’re like Bird.”
“Who? Do you mean a bird, in general, or is that a name?”
“A name. Don’t worry! You pat me on the shoulder, I think. Back is if I’m crying.”
“Really? When do I pat you on the head? If you’re a child?”
Erin frowned.
“Yeah—or if we were, like, super close or something. Or if you want to treat me like a kid. Um. You can stop patting me, now.”
Wiskeria stopped. Erin looked at her, and Wiskeria felt a shiver of delight. Because if Erin had failed with the old man, once she saw Wiskeria, the [Witch of Law] understood how an [Innkeeper] could be a [Witch].
“You have good eyes for people. No wonder Califor made you her apprentice. She had good eyes, too.”
Erin ducked her head.
“I dunno, I think I was the only one she got. Um. Wiskeria, right? What did you mean when you said they’d make me their apprentice? That’s not the plan, at all.”
Wiskeria snorted.
“I know, but that’s what you think. What they think is that now you’ve been humbled, they can get one of them to teach you. And learn from you. A good [Witch] learns from their apprentice. How likely is that?”
Erin made a face, and Wiskeria studied it.
“Is that a no?”
“No! I don’t want to—I like them, sort of, but I don’t think I want to be an apprentice. How many good ones are there?”
“Er, the ones who you saw? Eloise, Hedag, Mavika, Oliyaya, Agratha. There are a few others, but those are the ones who were here the longest.”
Erin’s expression of sucking sour lemons intensified.
“I don’t want any of them to teach me. Eloise is the coolest of the lot, but she’s like Lyonette. Is Oliyaya the one with the…cackle?”
“Mhm. Agratha is the one who tries to make people smile even if they don’t want to.”
“Tries to…oh! That’s a wonderful description! I don’t want any of them to teach me, thanks. No sir. No way.”
Erin shook her head adamantly, and Wiskeria nodded.
“I suppose, then, that you’ll have to teach yourself. Just don’t try to summon anyone else you meet. Not without doing your research.”
The [Innkeeper]’s face fell. She hung her head.
“He was so sad. I thought I was doing a good deed. It was a small vessel.”
Wiskeria patted Erin’s knee and got a nod of approval. She explained, as patiently as she could. It was amazing Erin didn’t see it.
“I know he was sad, but he didn’t understand why drowning children was bad. Even my mother knows right and wrong, but he’s water. He’s killed more children over his life than most monsters who walk on two legs. He weeps—but most spirits lie, even if it’s also to themselves. You have to do your research, first. Be very sure before you act. When I heard him weeping, I checked with some of the locals, and they told me how he overflows his banks and how many he’s killed. If it was a Dryad? She might be nice to that [Druid] girl, Mrsha, but she’d strangle Cade in a heartbeat for plucking a single flower.”
Erin shuddered. Then she looked sideways at Wiskeria.
“How d’you know all that? Did Belavierr teach you?”
Wiskeria nodded absently.
“Some. The rest is just stories. Reading books and so on. I met countless [Witches] of Terandria, and I’ve met a lot of the ones in Izril. Not that I’m an expert. As you can see, my hat is empty. I am a [Witch] with no great deeds, but that’s fine. It annoys my mother, and there’s nothing grand about me. I was simply Belavierr’s daughter. If I went around summoning elementals, it would be so boring of me, wouldn’t it?”
Wiskeria stopped talking abruptly and almost jumped. Erin had sucked the words out of her like a sponge did water! She turned, abashed, but Erin had a look of delight and chagrin on her face. The [Innkeeper] vibrated and then almost burst out.
“You’re fascinating! You’re nothing like what I thought you’d be—if I even knew Belavierr had a daughter! Wiskeria, I like you!”
“Really? I hated you from the moment I saw you.”
Her brows were faintly blue now the dye had washed out a bit. Erin’s face fell.
“Wh—you did? Why?”
“Because you remind me of my mother. She would have summoned that old man in a heartbeat if she thought he was worth it. Even if he drowned everyone in Riverfarm. She never asks whether something is right or wrong, or even smart. She just does it. You’re all grand deeds like the people in your company. You do what you think you have to, even if you break every rule. Am I wrong?”
The [Innkeeper] looked terribly offended by the comparison and then tentatively outraged.
“I don’t always do that. It’s just how things shake up. You can’t always follow the rules. You don’t get anything done that way.”
“Spoken like Belavierr.”
“Hey! Take that back. I’ve never met her, but every story I’ve heard makes her super bad!”
Wiskeria nodded reasonably.
“She’s worse than the stories. And you are like her. I can see the connection, and my words are fair. I swear it, upon my hat and hair.”
She added a bit of magic, a bit of solemness so Erin could see she was serious. But that only outraged Erin more.
“Take it back! Take it back! I’ll—”
She began to poke Wiskeria and then punch her gently. In response, Wiskeria raised a fist.
“No, no punching!”
Erin saw the future in an instant and put up her hands. She spoke quickly as Wiskeria lowered her fist.
“You don’t punch people when they play-fight! Important lesson, especially with kids!”
Wiskeria smiled politely.
“I know. But I wanted you to stop.”
Erin gave her a bug-eyed look, and then she burst out laughing. It turned into something like a sob or a moan, and she hugged the towel around her tighter and edged closer to her fire.
“This sucks. I’ve fallen into my old ways. I should have listened. I should have been polite, but it’s hard. I should have a stupid…hat. But I don’t like being bullied, and I don’t wanna apprentice myself to them.”
“Mm. And the old man’s gotten a taste for power. He’ll be back.”
Erin gave Wiskeria such a woebegone look that Wiskeria felt more sympathy for her. She patted Erin on the head, and the [Innkeeper] sniffled into her towel.
“What’s so bad about being a [Witch of Law], Wiskeria? You sound like you’re not a proper witch. Are you happy, working with Laken? What happened between you and your mother?”
That was a long story, so Wiskeria told some of it to Erin. But as for the rest—she shrugged.
