Ranthia watched as the dwarven [Battlemaster] tore through the final group of shimagu: four ogres that had pressed their backs together and tried to keep fighting. The bells woven throughout her beard and the large, scale-like plates of her armor provided all the Sound she needed for her strange cut-out swords to direct it through the ogres. They fell—in pieces—and the final eight kill notifications filtered through.

Cheers filled the air, but Ranthia felt more than a little bitter. The shimagu always either fled or fought to their last; she had never actually seen a single one of their kind yield. Sure, odds were the parasite would ultimately get expunged, but… were they truly so desperate to ensure the victims they body jacked died with them?

Legionaries were already being directed to prepare funeral pyres for the fallen allies and enemies. The 4th Legion established a second medical area for the wounded, while others were carted into Remera, once the gates were lifted. But Ranthia’s desperate itch to check on Avyna wouldn’t let her linger in the aftermath of the battle for too long.

“<Die, Sentinel!>”

The shimagu-infested human had hidden amongst the bodies of the ogres and played dead until she was alone and had her back turned. That would have been clever, had he not shouted before he even cleared the corpses of his fellows. Sure, [Combat Awareness] would have warned her either way, but it took a special breed of stupid to pull off a successful ambush and immediately sacrifice any advantage it might have provided.

Ranthia spun and delivered a kick to the man’s chest. His sword fell from his fingers as he crashed back into the bodies of the bulkier ogres. She had no idea what the parasite’s level was, but the level 378 [Laborer – Earth] (with a level 126 [Artisan – Wood]) body wasn’t able to recover before Ranthia snatched up his own poorly maintained, stolen blade and pressed it against his neck.

“<Fight no.>” Ranthia didn’t have any word or phrase for ‘surrender’ in the shimagu’s language, so she threw together the first approximation that came to mind.

The man sneered at her, then willfully lunged forward—impaling himself through the throat on the blade.

[*ding!* You have slain a human [Sturdy Laborer] (Earth, level 378), [Senior Apprentice Furniture Fixer] (Wood, level 126)//a shimagu [Hateful Harmony] (Ooze, level 416), [Murderous Venom] (Poison, level 403)!]

“…Right.” Ranthia grumbled. All she could do was release the blade and walk away.

Ranthia had no idea where to look for Avyna, so she started at the most logical place—their home. Not that the journey was easy, Remera’s narrow paths were more densely packed than any Ariminum street with how many people were at the base and the impromptu celebrations that had sprawled out into walkways. Still, she kept her traversal polite, no matter how tempted she was to start shoving and dancing over obstacles.

“My love!” Avyna’s voice cut through the crowd just as Ranthia finally laid her hand on the entrance of their home.

The elf was covered in dust and smelled of smoke, but she was hale and hearty! Ranthia immediately went for the hug, but Avyna effortlessly ducked past Ranthia’s arms—managing to land a quick peck on Ranthia’s cheek—before she opened their home and entered.

“It is good to see you, but I am eager for a shower. We can enjoy ourselves once I am clean!” Avyna called back, peeling layers off as she went.

Ranthia swallowed her grumble—it was a valid reason to delay, no matter her impatience—and entered as well. She needed to get her armor maintained anyhow. It hadn’t suffered much damage, but it was better to do the work immediately, before problems arose.

Ranthia’s armor was cleaned and Ranthia was, once again, comparing its straps and connectors against those of her damaged prior suit—she swore it still felt ‘off,’ somehow. Her impatience with Avyna’s never-ending shower—she was absolutely going to need to refill their water reservoir, even with the purifying enchantment—was muted by her focus on the incredibly mundane mystery. No matter how she compared them everything looked like it should be exactly the same, so—

“It was surprisingly distracting to watch you in battle, you know.”

Ranthia looked up, blinking uncomprehendingly at the interruption, to the sight of her very naked lover. Her flawless skin was still slightly flushed from the heat of the shower and her hair was still wrapped with one of the soft towels they owned.

“What? Oh! Um, sorry, you must have been worried…” Ranthia guessed, once she finished respectfully admiring her partner.

She would never tire of the view; she was certain of that.

“No, no. You were clearly safe enough and Sir Night was nearby—I was not worried, my love. What I meant was… watching you battle was surprisingly beautiful. You were not like the dwarves or Sir Night; you were no coarse butcher or focused killer. You were elegant and beautiful; I got so wrapped up in watching you cull the filth from Pallos that I actually missed a shot! Oh, but do not worry, it did not hit anyone.” Avyna all but purred, while she favored Ranthia with an alluring smile.

And Ranthia’s mind promptly broke—and not in the addled way it usually did when Avyna gave her a smile so full of promises.

Yes, she had accepted that her combat style was an art in and of itself. That was one thing. But to speak of brutal butchery of inferior opponents as beautiful? That…

That felt wrong.

Very wrong.

Horrendously wrong.

A piece of Ranthia’s mind swiftly wandered back to Avyna’s comments about being easily corrupted with power and becoming a tyrant. If slaughter could turn her on, then suddenly the comments seemed to be less humorous and more—

Ranthia cut the line of thought off and willfully discarded the entire concern. Avyna was the best thing that had ever happened in her current lifetime. She absolutely refused to second guess that, not over something as inane as a compliment. Even if the compliment was… icky.

Honestly, even she could understand that competency could be attractive, and—to be fair to Avyna—Ranthia was especially sensitive to the context after her earlier ruminations about the slaughter the battle became.

“Love, I appreciate the sentiment, but…” Ranthia struggled to find the words.

“I mean it. Your movements were beauty made flesh. Rather [Sexy] flesh, at that. Where others hacked like brutes, you just… danced and the vile parasites were erased before you. Had I not already been in love with you, I just might have fallen for you.” Avyna answered in a sultry voice.

Ranthia loved the woman more than anything, except—arguably—Xaoc. And her lust for Avyna was second to none.

But she was absolutely not going to be seduced by talk of carnage. Not after that battle.

“What about their hosts?” Ranthia tried.

Avyna shrugged. For a single terrifying moment Ranthia feared that her beloved would say something dismissive about mortal lives.

“They were lost long ago. It is better to give them a beautiful, swift end without suffering. Like you did.” Avyna was clearly starting to sulk a bit that Ranthia wasn’t abandoning the armor to pounce on her.

Honestly, she should have trusted Avyna more than that—she was getting into her own head.

The obnoxious thing was that Ranthia really didn’t disagree. Even back when she first joined the war efforts, she barely had to think about it to come to grips with the need for the shimagu to be defeated and driven out. She had easily accepted that killing the hosts was the best she could do for them. The idea of some badass combat-forged [Healer] freeing their hosts by the thousands was a ridiculous fantasy—especially with some sort of heal-resistance Skill being on the rise among the parasites. Freedom from their torment was the only succor that Ranthia could offer and she offered it with gusto. There were no regrets in her heart.

But there was a gulf in her mind between accepting it as a necessity and getting aroused over it!

“Sorry, love… Let me finish the last of the adjustments for my armor and I’ll give you a horn massage? I’m just… kind of tired. Something intimate, but low energy sounds great.” Ranthia offered.

It wasn’t a total lie, at least.

“Aw, my love. I am sorry, I should have realized… It was a long night, and you did insist on being silly and worrying so much about me. Finish your armor, I will make us a snack that we can eat in bed before we rest.” Avyna promised.

Ranthia’s genuine smile was all that was needed to accept the offer. Avyna returned it, but Ranthia missed the frown that crossed her lover’s face an instant later, as she turned away. There was disappointment to it, but the frown was mostly colored by a different emotion—concern.

Ranthia’s nightmares felt more fragmented than usual. Glimpses of horror absent any trace of context. An instant of pain. A primordial fear with no source. A desperate hunger. An eternity of regret.

Then a grand roar that scattered all traces of sleep from her mind and grasp.

She was soaked with sweat and trapped within the great darkness. It actually took some time before she realized she was even awake—she had lost track of the cycle of the moons with the unrelenting cloud cover. Remembrance slowed her heart and settled her mind, especially with the actual nightmares removed from her ability to recall them by the passage of time.

Her curse. In the dark of the night, without the comfort of light or her own damned night vision, Ranthia couldn’t help but to feel that the word ‘curse’ was more apt than usual. Her nightmares might have escaped her ability to recall them, but the fear and worry they left on her hadn’t entirely faded.

Remera was safe—there were no horns blaring and the siege was done. Other Sentinels were still in the base. She was fine. Gods, she could still feel the reassuring weight of Avyna’s head on her shoulder—along with the slightly less comforting tip of the horn pressed into her arm—and the softness of their bed beneath her back. She was being ridiculous.

Ranthia drew strength from the familiar, before she considered her options. Sleep wasn’t going to come back to her; she was entirely too awake. She had made the mistake of leaving Avyna cuddled up to an image while she got up only once before—and her beloved had been quite explicit about what would happen to her if she ever repeated it. Something about traumatizing the love of her life when she woke up in the arms of a completely unresponsive Ranthia that just breathed while staring blankly ahead—okay, yes, it had been a terrible idea!

But without her sight, she wasn’t even slightly confident that she could sneak out of bed without waking Avyna. The woman she loved had endured a difficult day as well, and she wanted at least one of them to get the sleep they both needed.

Her mind felt too muddled for prayer, and she had zero interest in working on her image training. Instead, she carefully turned until she could get her leg to reach away from the bed to her armor stand and fumbled around with her toes until she managed to—at last—seize the belt that hung from it. A kick delivered the belt to her, and she was forced to bite her lip to keep from grunting when the heavily laden thing landed on her stomach.

Avyna shifted a bit, but, thankfully, she remained asleep. Ranthia was feeling rather graceless after that series of clumsy mishaps, so she indulged in a momentary silent grumble while she got herself comfortable again. But at least she had the diminishing adamantium bar in hand, which meant she could while away her night with [Adamantium Symbiosis].

Ranthia arrived at the meeting late. When Avyna finally woke up, Ranthia ended up distracted enough that she failed to even notice when her vision returned—as one does. Not that she was looking forward to yet another meeting.

“Ah, Sentinel Grace, I appreciate you taking the time to join us.” Night gently chastised her when she entered Mirage’s tent.

“Apologies, rough night.” Ranthia lied easily.

She was in a fresh image; she was confident that even Night’s nose wouldn’t detect the true reason.

For a half a moment, she almost swore she heard Night snort, but the man began the meeting and no one else seemed to notice anything.

“Let us begin the meeting. I believe it is prudent to lead with the largest item we have to discuss. A possibility that we have long feared has been, somewhat definitively, confirmed. Sentinel Mirage is presumably aware of this, given that he reacted before I could reach the target, but I believe that it largely went unnoticed.

“A short time before I had to depart the battle, an ogre amongst the shimagu displayed a fourth element. Until that moment, the shimagu had clearly been in charge of the body; it fought with the expected Ooze and a ranged attack that I believe to have been Gale, while the host used a crude staff to defend herself. The ogre shouted something and threw the staff to the side, at which point she attacked a legionary with fists that ignited with Fire. After Sentinel Mirage eliminated her, I confirmed the presence of conjured Metal spikes covering her fists.

“We have long been concerned that the pressure of conflict could give rise to new twins. We have had rumors, but I believe this provides clear confirmation.”

Night fell silent there, to allow them to absorb and process the news. Even Ranthia indulged in his customary pause. She was a bit frustrated that she had never noticed the situation, but she was glad to know the newly minted twin was already expunged. If the pressure of active warfare could force more hosts into full cooperation with their parasites, the war risked a sudden point of escalation.

The large offensive the Legions were enacting suddenly felt far more ominous.

“Mirage, you got the kill confirmation, right? What were the levels and elements?” Ranthia asked.

“436 Fire and 299 Mantle for the ogre, 493 Ooze and 408 Gale for the snotball.” Mirage rattled it off immediately.

Had the nascent twin escaped the battle, she would have received her third classes in short order—she could have been a major threat.

“Why are you all acting like this means something significant?” Sentinel Aurora asked irritably.

She was almost more of a night owl than Night himself.

“If the shimagu can create more twins—” Ranthia started to explain.

