"A mage's choices and actions reveal much about who they are," Akkau said. He landed them next to Sneaks-In-Darkness, examining her injuries with a small furrow in his brow. "And what they choose to do with power when they have it, I believe, reveals most of all."

He glanced up at Cale. "Even in your anger, you hold yourself back," he said. "Many mages would have killed her, and far more would have lost to her entirely in their anger. Your actions were calculated to neutralize the threat she posed."

Cale shrugged. "If the Red Hunters are willing to use bloodrot, they'd be willing to use lifelink magic. It's a reasonable precaution to take."

"But not one easily made in anger, nonetheless," Akkau said, observing him. "I believe I understand you far more now than I did before. Am I wrong?"

"I still know almost nothing about you," Cale remarked, not quite answering the question. Instead, he folded his arms across his chest and quirked a brow at the dragon, who chuckled softly.

"All in good time," he said. "I do not trust easily, Cale. I will admit to having had concerns, enrolling a mage of such power into my academy. But I believe I can say now that I am pleased to have met you, and I look forward very much to seeing the mage you will become when you have mastered the Gift."

"You're a sentimental old dragon, aren't you?" Cale said, his lips twitching. Akkau rolled his eyes.

"Do not make me regret my words."

"I won't." He meant it, too. Cale's gaze flickered to Sneaks-In-Darkness, and he paused for a moment. "What are you going to do with her?"

Akkau sighed. "We must keep her alive, at least for now," the dragon said. "When we find a way to unbind her soul from the bloodrot, we can let nature take its course. But such an unbinding is not trivial. It will take time. And so in the meantime..."

The dragon reached out and up, whispering an incantation, and Cale witnessed what might have been the most beautiful execution of combined spellwork he had ever seen.

It was a series of six eighth-tier spells, but with their constructs interwoven in such dizzying complexity that it took his breath away. He caught elements of a spell of stasis and a spell of binding, a series of wards meant to prevent her from being located and recaptured, and a spatial spell to tuck her away into a dimensional gap.

All that executed in a fraction of a second. A major divinity could have cast such a spell, but it would have been a twelfth-tier miracle. For Akkau to do it this casually and replicate the effect with six eighth-tier, layered spells? It was preposterous. It was... it was almost better than a baking spell.

Almost. He wasn't about to get heretical there. Still, was this how people felt when he did things?

"You are drooling, Cale." Akkau sounded amused.

Cale snapped his mouth shut and did his best to look offended instead of awed. "I am not."

"One might consider it inappropriate to drool in the aftermath of such an event," Akkau said.

"I have an excuse!"

"And what might that be?"

Cale gestured between the two of them in the now-empty crater. "Unbridled trauma," he emphasized.

"Indeed. I suppose I can excuse it, if only because there are no others here to witness your impropriety." Akkau smirked at him. Cale grumbled under his breath, though not with any real heat.

Then his schedule scroll started to vibrate, and he groaned.

"Seriously? Now?" he complained. Then, realizing this was his chance, he directed his best pleading expression to the Headmaster. "Can't you excuse me from classes for the rest of the day or something? I mean, with everything Damien and the others just had to deal with, I could just join one of their classes and make sure they're okay."

It wasn't that he didn't want to attend classes, really. It was that he didn't want to attend Magical Geography in particular.

"Well, in that case, you will be pleased to know that two of them share the same next class as you do," Akkau said dryly. Cale grumbled to himself. There went that idea. "I am well aware you do not need the training they do, but I suspect if I allowed you to miss your classes simply due to unusual circumstances, it will take four times as long for you to complete your education. I am sure you will be fine—the trauma will help."

"You know you're not supposed to make fun of my trauma, right?"

"Hm. Somehow, I do not believe you mind." Akkau raised an eyebrow at him, and Cale huffed. He wasn't wrong... Though speaking of classes, there was some crucial information he was missing.

"Oh, right," Cale said. "My next class is Magical Geography, but I haven't had a class that explains the basics of the Gift yet. I'm pretty sure I understand the gist of it, but I got a new message earlier—something about a spell reaching First Consolidation?"

"Ah, yes," Akkau said. He gave Cale a considering look. "I am surprised you have achieved First Consolidation with one of your passives already; I would have scheduled your classes differently if I had known you would take to it so easily. Do you have a particular affinity with the spell that budded?"

Cale twitched. "You could say that."

Akkau seemed to sense there was something Cale wasn't saying. He narrowed his eyes slightly, but before he could say anything, the scroll in Cale's pocket started screaming.

Softly. But still.

Akkau sighed and seemed to mentally brace himself, then asked, "I can give you a quick overview on the details, but before that, would you like a lift back to the academy?"

Cale perked up immediately. "Do I get to ride you?"

Akkau stared at him. "...I will fly us back with a spell."

"That's what I meant."

"Hm." Akkau's magic lifted them out of the crater and back into the sky, at which point the scroll immediately quieted; at the same time, the Headmaster apparently decided not to argue the point, because he dove immediately into the overview he'd promised. "Auric spells—the passive ones, granted by the Gift—are a form of... proto-spell construct, for lack of a better term. You may have noticed that the purpose of the Gift is both to train new mages and to expand the possibilities granted by magic; aurics are one way in which it accomplishes this."

Cale nodded attentively, expertly concealing his disappointment at not being able to ride back to the academy on the back of a massive, fully unleashed dragon. Akkau, for some reason, kept giving him suspicious looks anyway.

"At certain levels—typically multiples of ten, although it may differ for more unusual aurics—the Gift will acquire enough information to 'bud' a new spell off the auric. This is known as Consolidation, and achieving a sufficient number of them usually earns a mage a reward from the Gift."

"Huh. Neat." Cale thought about this for a moment. "So what you're saying is that it would benefit both me and the Gift if I leveled [Blabbermouth] as much as possible."

"...I find myself unsurprised that it is that particular auric that you have an affinity with." Akkau grimaced. Cale just coughed and made it a point to avoid direct eye contact. He hadn't kept that particular secret for very long, had he? "The official line is that the Gift works in mysterious ways, but in this case, I would like to ask that you avoid leveling that intentionally."

"You say that like I'm going to keep doing it accidentally," Cale protested indignantly.

Akkau just gave him a look. Cale, who didn't really have a response to one of the Headmaster's devastating stares, promptly distracted himself by checking the descriptions for his shiny new spells. New spells were always exciting.

[Create Impulse, Level 1] [First Tier, Active] [30 Mana]

Apply an impulse directly to a target using mana.

[Taunt, Level 1] [First Tier (Unique), Active] [50 Mana]

Speak words or perform an action that would draw the ire of an opponent. Note that the effects of this spell may vary. A certain Cale Cadwell Cobbs should probably be wary of casting this spell.

"Wha—" Cale glared. "Why is it calling me out specifically?"

"Most mages would be ecstatic to be so acknowledged by the Gift," Akkau commented.

Cale squinted at him. "You don't even know what it said."

"The fact that you budded [Blabbermouth] tells me all I need to know." There was that faint hint of amusement again. If Cale didn't know any better, he would've guessed the dragon liked picking on him.

He grumbled under his breath. At least with Akkau flying them back, the schedule scroll wasn't likely to start screaming anytime soon. He'd make it to his class with plenty of time to spare—maybe enough to start sorting through all the information he'd acquired from Sneaks-In-Darkness.

There was a lot of work to do.

"So," Cale said, more to fill in the silence than anything else. Anything they could talk about was best done in Akkau's office tonight, with dedicated privacy wards and maybe a couple of drinks. "What's Magical Geography like?"

Akkau hummed to himself. There was that amusement again! What, was the professor for Magical Geography someone like Imrys?

...Cale wouldn't have minded that, actually. That might make the class interesting.

"Professor Sternkessel is rather a fan of hands-on, practical lessons," Akkau said vaguely, that thin undercurrent of amusement still in his voice. "I believe he is also particularly interested in testing your capabilities when it comes to, say, unfamiliar environments. He believes you have been cheating using your experiences from the Great Realms, you see, and wishes you to prove yourself against Utelia's more unique dangers."

Cale paused. "That sounds like a challenge," he said suspiciously. "Is this a challenge?"

"I would never intentionally goad my own apprentice into proving himself by entering a challenge against a member of my faculty," Akkau said. "But you may be interested in knowing that Sternkessel has a particular distaste for Leo and Damien, who share this class with you."

That sounded like a lie. Cale squinted at the old dragon. "You placed some kind of bet on this class, didn't you?"

"A true Headmaster is above such petty things," Akkau said. "Kazix Brightscale would certainly never do that, and I follow in his footsteps."

Cale flicked some of the sand on his coat at Akkau and was disappointed when the wind immediately whisked it away. "You've really perfected the whole 'mysterious immortal never answering questions directly' thing," he said.

"I have no idea what you mean," Akkau said. "But I suspect if I did, I would thank you."

Cale rolled his eyes and grinned.

Well, it wasn't like he was above letting people he considered his friends win a few rigged bets.
