You have learned [Create Impulse]!

[Blabbermouth] has reached level 10!

The auric spell [Blabbermouth] has achieved First Consolidation and budded the spell [Taunt].

You have learned [Taunt]!

Cale stared for a long moment at the motionless form of Sneaks-In-Darkness. Remnants of rebirth magic still swirled around her body, sparking occasionally into violent bursts of vital lightning as it tried to heal away her injuries. It didn't have much success—healing magic rarely worked on someone with a cracked mana core, and even high-tier rebirth magic like this had difficulty.

As far as he knew, in fact, he was the only person that could recover from that kind of damage.

She wasn't dead yet, though. The dragon's body lay broken and bloodied at the bottom of a crater nearly twenty meters deep, but even from where he stood, Cale could make out her shallow, pained breaths. Dragons were incredibly durable creatures, so it was no real surprise; if he wanted to end her now, he would have to shape a barrier meant for the task.

He reached out—

"Don't!"

A voice screamed in the distance, and Cale frowned slightly. He looked up to find the catgirl desperately running across the desert toward him. From the looks of things, she'd been running for a while; there were scrapes on her elbows and knees from where she'd undoubtedly fallen.

Come to think of it, when had he moved this far away from the academy? The Headmaster and the other students were little more than a speck in the distance. He supposed he had hit Sneaks-In-Darkness rather hard in his initial burst; he'd needed to use a trick with his barriers to launch himself and close the distance, but he'd done all that without really thinking.

Now that he looked, though, there was a rather telling section of melted glass burned into the sand.

"Please," she said. She'd finally managed to catch up to him enough to be within earshot and promptly collapsed into the sand; it mixed into the mess of tears and snot on her face, clumping into her fur in a way that couldn't have been comfortable. "She's—she said she's linked to the—you know. We can't kill her, it'll... it'll..."

She swallowed and bowed her head. "I don't know who you are," she said. "I don't know what you are. Maybe I don't have the right to ask you for anything after what I did. But please, if you do this, our families..."

Cale sighed. "What's your name?" he asked.

She swallowed. "Aila. Aila Quickpaw."

Cale suppressed the urge to ask if her last name really was Quickpaw, of all things. Instead, he glanced back down into the crater and gestured for Aila to come and take a look; after a moment, he heard her struggling to her feet and limping slowly to the edge.

As soon as the dragon came within view, Aila's breath caught, and she fell backward, her eyes wide. "I-Is... is she already...?"

"No," Cale said mildly. "Though I was planning to finish things when you showed up. You realize the risks of keeping her alive, don't you?"

"I..." Aila swallowed and looked away, giving him a tight nod. "Please," she whispered softly. "I don't want my family to pay for my mistakes, and Izzik's already lost most of his clan. I don't know much about Geraal's situation, but no one deserves this."

"Just like no one deserves to die because they happen to have a slightly abnormal core," Cale said casually, and Aila flinched, her ears drooping. He shook his head. "Don't worry. I'm not going to kill her. Frankly, I'd rather not deal with her any more than I have to."

As if he was going to risk setting off a bloodrot bomb, of all things. It wasn't like he hadn't been aware—he'd learned quite a lot when those fragments of Sneaks-In-Darkness's mind had bled into his own, and he knew the limits of her body besides. Honestly, with all the things he'd learned...

Cale shot the dragon in the crater a look of mild disgust, then dug around in his pockets and handed Aila a handkerchief. "Come on, clean yourself up and let's head back. You don't want your friends to see you like this, do you?"

Aila stared at him for a moment, then at the handkerchief. "Really?" she asked, as if in disbelief. Cale cocked a brow at her. Had she assumed he wouldn't listen? Why had she bothered pleading with him, then? "But I thought..."

Cale snorted. "What, that I'm going to do whatever I want because I'm one of those wild mages?"

Aila sniffed and took the handkerchief. "I don't know," she said, wiping at her face to clean off the dirt and tears. "I'm not... used to anyone listening to me, I guess."

"Well, don't get used to it," Cale said dryly. He was only being nice because she was crying. "Come on, we better get going."

With that, he covered the crater in a barrier and started walking off toward Akkau and the others. Judging by the magic he could feel in the distance, the only reason the Headmaster hadn't joined him already was because he was using his magic to keep Izzik alive. He could sense elements of vitality and preservation mana swirling like a thick fog, far ahead.

That was a relief, at least. Cale had been worried about being too late, but it seemed like he'd immobilized the lizardfolk's neck just in time. He was going to need to talk to him later—trying to heal Sneaks-In-Darkness had been beyond suicidal, and he wanted to know exactly what went behind that decision.

"Who are you, really?" Aila broke the silence with a tentative question as she followed behind him.

Cale glanced at her and shrugged. "I'm Cale," he told her. "And that's all you need to know."

Cale didn't quite allow himself to relax until he watched the academy's healers take Izzik's prone body into their custody. He'd have to find some time to visit later. The lizardfolk was taking small, shallow breaths, even with Akkau's help to stabilize him. A big part of that, he knew, was because there were very few functional healing spells in the aftermath of the Collapse. The majority of them carried... side effects, like the one Sneaks-In-Darkness suffered.

What he found concerning was the fact that the side effects were less severe than they should have been. He frowned slightly. Was the seal weakening? It didn't feel like it was, and there would be many other signs if that were the case. More likely this was—

He caught himself before he thought of it as an "isolated incident." There were never really isolated incidents where magic was involved. Someone had managed to find a partial workaround, perhaps. It would explain the bloodrot and the use of Myzonir's ritual.

The only problem was that even partial workarounds should have been impossible. Not without at least one of the seal's anchors being alerted to it, anyway, and he'd sensed nothing of the sort. So... what was all this?

He shook his head. There was no point speculating. He was glad, for once, that the Thread of Fate was in effect—it meant that no matter what the Red Hunters were trying to pull or how they were working around the seal, they would be inexorably drawn into his orbit, and he'd be able to find out what they were doing.

All he needed to do was be patient.

For now, he had something more important to take care of. The blood obsidian box that carried Cyte was half-buried in the sand, and the voidcyte within was oozing dizzily, having not quite managed to recover from the auric collapse it had suffered just moments ago.

Cale knelt beside it and pulled the box out of the sand to hold it steady. "Hey, Cyte," he said, his voice uncharacteristically gentle. "You okay?"

"Star?" the voidcyte sounded a little out of it. "You are alive! Oh, we thought we might have hurt our star, but we were wrong! Oh, joyous day!"

Cale sighed. "Sometimes I wonder why I even bother," he muttered. "You know you can just call me Cale, right?"

"Our star would give us this honor?" The voidcyte was staring at him with... were those puppydog eyes? How did that even work?

"If anything, I insist," Cale said. He held a hand out to the voidcyte. "Come on, eat up. You can have some of my mana to recover. I'm going to need you to absorb all three of the emblems we recovered from those kids—the 'folded hearts'. You think you can do that?"

"If our star—" The voidcyte cut itself off. "If Cale feeds us, we can do anything!"

Cale couldn't decide if that was any better. It was... an improvement, probably?

Akkau had been holding on to the emblems, at least. The Headmaster handed them to him without comment, though he could see the old dragon had a lot he wanted to say; no doubt he was waiting until they weren't surrounded by other students, though. Geraal was pale and shaken, Aila was still trying to calm herself down, and the others...

Well, they were clearly bursting with questions but doing their best to hold back.

Slowly, Cale allowed the voidcyte to feed, alternating between giving it his mana and the emblem to chew on. It didn't take that long, in the grand scheme of things—without other mages there to interfere, it only took a few minutes for it to consume each emblem. In that time, the others whispered quietly to one another.

Akkau, on the other hand, grew visibly impatient. He shot repeated glances back to where Cale's barrier shone over Sneaks-In-Darkness's crumpled body, then eventually let out a sigh and contacted some of the other faculty professors to look after Aila and Geraal.

Then he turned to Leo, Damien, Flia, and Syphus. "You four should get back to your classes," Akkau said. They stared at him, incredulous.

"After what just happened?" Flia burst out. "You can't just—"

"I understand that there is a lot to process," Akkau said gravely, if perhaps a little distractedly. Cale could see the dragon doing his best to stay focused. "But events such as these are rare opportunities to prepare for a danger you will undoubtedly encounter as a mage. There will be times where things simply continue to escalate and one disaster occurs after the next, and if you are not ready when those times come..."

He trailed off and shook his head. "Your next classes are safe—relatively speaking—and if you are able to attend them without distraction, it may yet save your lives in the future. You may have tomorrow off from your classes, if you so wish. I will inform your professors of this. But for now, I ask that you try. It may yet save your lives in the future."

"Cale?" Damien shot him a pleading look, and he wasn't the only one. Cale shrugged helplessly. The thing was, Akkau wasn't wrong; sometimes, it just wasn't possible to get all the time and answers you needed. It was a little harsh to impose it on Academy students, but if their next classes were relatively safe and not led by Imrys, the Headmaster might very well have had the right of it.

"I'll explain what I can later," Cale promised. The four of them shot him doubtful looks, but eventually seemed to accept that answer and turned to slowly trudge back into the academy.

Just from the look of them, they were clearly going to find a quiet corner to discuss what to do about all this. Cale smiled slightly at that—it was, in and of itself, a mark of a mage's potential. He'd felt that potential from them to start with, but now he was sure.

All four of them could become incredible mages indeed.

That done, Cale took a surreptitious peek at his schedule scroll, wondering what the next class on his list was. Magical Geography, it said.

Cale wrinkled his nose. Surely there were more important things to do than Magical Geography? Though if he tried to get out of it now, he would probably look like a hypocrite...

As he ruminated on this, Cyte continued to consume the emblems, moving from one to the next in quick succession. It took only a few minutes, all in all, and Cyte seemed quite full when it was done; it didn't even protest when he closed it back within its box. It was going to need time to digest before either of them could get their answers.

Though Cale had a fair portion of them already, just from what he'd glimpsed from Sneaks.

After that, it was just him and Akkau left. The two of them exchanged a wordless glance before making their way back to the edge of the crater, and Cale dismissed the barrier he'd left over Sneaks-In-Darkness.

For a long moment, Akkau just stared at the limp body of the dragon lying at the bottom. The sight must have been difficult for him—Sneaks-In-Darkness may not exactly have been a true dragon, but she still looked like one, and Akkau had mentioned being nearly the last of his kind.

"Sorry," Cale said. "I mean, not for doing this to her, but..."

"I would have done this myself, if you had not," Akkau said. Cale looked up in surprise—there was a tightly controlled thread of anger in the dragon's voice. "This magic makes a mockery of our species. It makes a mockery of all that we were and everything we stood for. To think they were even able to use such magic..."

His fists clenched, and Cale felt some of Akkau's magic lash out, as if wanting to destroy what was left of Sneaks-In-Darkness. Cale couldn't blame him.

Even now, he was holding himself back.

"You lied to Aila," Akkau said after a minute had passed. "You have already killed this mage."

"It wasn't a lie," Cale said. "She's alive. If there's a lifelink between her and the bloodrot bomb, it won't activate."

"But you shattered her core." Akkau took a step forward, and his magic caught him as he did, allowing him to descend carefully down the crater toward the dragon's body; that same spell quested carefully around him, seeking permission, and he allowed it to carry him down alongside the Headmaster. "Her magic leaks out of her even now. She will not survive the night."

"She could, given medical assistance," Cale said with a shrug. His eyes darkened slightly. "But she'll never cast again."

"There are those that would call that a punishment worse than death. To be without a working core in a world of mages, in a world with the Gift..."

"She tried to kill a child, Akkau."

"She did. I do not say this to reprimand you, only to be certain that you act with full knowledge of what you are doing. And it seems I have underestimated you, even knowing all you were capable of." Akkau hesitated, then, something vulnerable in the set of his shoulders. "It is rare that I encounter another that has lived as long as I have. Even among those that have, not all have faced the same degree of..."

Akkau trailed off as he struggled to find the word, and Cale snorted, a small grin tugging at the corner of his mouth. "Unbridled trauma?" he suggested.

"Difficulty," Akkau compromised, shooting him a look that didn't quite manage to hide a faint, reluctant amusement. "Though yes, I suppose that would not be an inaccurate descriptor."

"You got all that from how I chose to deal with this?"

