Rice mixed with carrots, onions, and a brown broth. Food. Even a bit of sausage. His stomach heaved—before he took a bite.
Don’t throw up. Don’t gag. Don’t spit it out—his tongue made an appraisal of the soup, and his mind and taste buds warred.
It tastes good. 
It’s got bugs in it.
Swallow?
Spit it out.
The soup—really didn’t taste of bugs. But he barely swallowed it, reached for a canteen, coughed, and took a long drink of water. Then he took another spoonful. And another.
It was wrong to say Ylawes ate the bowl of soup. It was safer to say he consumed it, a very deliberate action that took a long time. And it helped that he took some of the dried bread and used it to sop up the soup.
No one else wanted the soup, but Larr and Pekona did argue, then take a small portion. It was worth it to see Infinitypear brighten up and Rasktooth grin.
“Is good captain-guy.”
Ylawes was almost done with the soup, and his stomach was held in check by a will of iron. He took a last mouthful of soup, felt a long, spindly something in his mouth—and crunched down on antennae.
Whatever his face revealed, Dawil, who’d been watching his friend with a puzzled, but gratified look, took cover behind Dasha. Ylawes tilted his head, spat to the side, and had a brief thought as he swallowed the rest.
Dead gods damn it, it is sugary. But the contact almost made him feel better. The worst was over. Ylawes stared down at his bowl, sighed, then locked eyes with a roach head swimming in the dregs. He stopped—sat there as Dasha’s cheeks bulged, and she ran off behind a wagon to vomit.
But when he looked up and saw Infinitypear staring at him anxiously, Ylawes Byres found a smile.
“We’re a team. No more bugs, Infinitypear?”
“Yes, Captain Ylawes.”
The relief in the Antinium’s tone made Ylawes feel stronger the rest of the day. Even if his stomach complained all night long. He didn’t have the soup the next day; he strained out all the edible meat and vegetables and put them into a sandwich. When Dawil saw that, he just sighed.
“Lad, give me one of those sandwiches too. Pointy, get in on this. Don’t run. Pointy—”
And they continued on.
 
 
Day 9 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
By the time Ylawes saw the first new animals, he definitely sensed the air growing warmer. They’d run into other animals before. Mostly Corusdeer, actually.
When you offered deer entirely new pastures, it turned out the grass was yellower on the other side. They would scuff the ground with their paws, finding nice snow, then dip their glowing antlers to the ground and melt the snow and lap the water and eat the grass.
They were very efficient animals—and highly dangerous if they charged you.
“My [Chef] could use some fresh venison, Captain Ylawes.”
Yorrned hinted, and Ylawes refused.
“Not possible unless we were in dire straits, Merchant Yorrned.”
The rest of the Consortium protested.
“Surely, Captain Ylawes, you won’t refuse! These are hardly Silver-rank threats. And we could use the food for salting or trade later. Or skinning for their hides.”
Ylawes sighed. He hated it when people told him what a monster was ranked.
“Merchants, I do know Corusdeer are ranked as Silver-rank…alone. Herds? Herds are Gold-rank, and I knew a Gold-rank [Hunter] who’d rather kill a Griffin than anger a herd. If we hunt the Corusdeer incautiously, they will all charge us, and they could light the entire caravan aflame.”
That sobered the [Merchants]’ interest, but then Ylawes caught an idiot trying to shoot one of the deer. First a [Guard], then a colonist.
The second time, he had Anith go up and down all six caravans telling people not to try and ‘bag a deer’ for the antlers unless they wanted to find out what a pair of burning antlers in their midsection felt like.
He’d seen a few large bucks eying the caravan, and they could get aggressive. Thankfully, the caravan was moving past the deer without incident.
That was when he saw the new animal.
“—slushy footing. Reckon the mud will make us faster or slower, lads?”
Dawil was overseeing the younger adventurers’ practice as the caravan slowed. Part of the commitment of the Silver Swords to taking on new teams was training them, and but for Pekona, everyone needed supervision.
Insill knew how to fight, for instance, but he needed experience landing blows. Larr was a great shot—but he had to watch out for his team. There was an edge the Silver Swords had that everyone lacked. Ylawes was deflecting Infinitypear’s repeated stabs with the butt of his spear.
The Antinium Worker fought rather well, and Rasktooth was sitting on the wagon practicing his archery with the two crossbows he carried. The one person Ylawes wasn’t sure he or Dawil was better than was…Pekona.
But her problem was that she had lost a hand and was retraining herself. Which she did obsessively. Ever since the Village of the Dead, but especially Blademistress Zeladona, Pekona had been practicing forms and styles that looked flowing, if sometimes impractical, to Ylawes.
He wanted to see how the team held up against regular monsters, not Facestealer, and had been trying to get to know them. But it really was a routine of ‘move-rest-move-sleep’ most days.
Ylawes was just checking on the Corusdeer herd when he saw the new animal.
It was…well, grey, and at first, he thought a Corusdeer was giving birth. Then he realized it wasn’t. Rather, something dark and squat was reaching up as the Corusdeer suckled one of its young.
The deer pawed at the ground, but didn’t notice the strange, four-legged thing with a huge mouth attach itself to an udder.
It—looked like a lamprey, if you gave one four legs to shuffle around on and a weirdly flexible head. It couldn’t have been more than four feet tall, and it shoved a faun away and began to drink.
It was so strange Ylawes wasn’t sure his eyes were working—until the mother deer noticed the bleating of her offspring and saw the lamprey-thing. Then the deer panicked and tried to get away.
The sucker-shuffler followed her, refusing to stop. A second was creeping around the other deer and tried to knock another baby deer away.
At this point, the herd noticed the unwanted guests and reacted as you might expect. Several bucks lowered their horns and called out, and the first one detached itself from the mother, leaving behind a trail of ooze, some blood, and milk, and tried to shuffle off.
It did not make it far. The mother Corusdeer’s horns ignited, and it charged the sucker-shuffler. Ylawes winced as he saw the thing ‘duck’ its head into its body and try to hide.
The sizzle and smoke from the thing igniting burst upwards, and it keened a weirdly low, groaning sound as it was trampled, then more blazing horns impaled it. The other one turned to flee and quickly met the same fate.
Pekona spoke for the first time in days to make an astute observation.
“Gross.”
The adventurers had seen the entire thing. Ylawes shuddered.
“What—was that? Falene? Dawil? Has anyone seen a monster like that?”
Falene frowned at the monster, opening a diary to take quick notes as she took [Magic Pictures].
“It was definitely aquatic. Did you see the fins on its legs? It must be a sea-monster, Ylawes. Probably trapped when the New Lands rose.”
Anith actually identified the thing. He sent a [Message] off with the description and came back.
“It’s a Lamprey Shuffler. A variant of the fish; new to the New Lands. Drowned Folk stated they’d run into them at Nombernaught and gave them the name.”
Ylawes sighed.
“Wonderful. That’s our first new monster? How dangerous is it?”
“Eh…lower than Bronze-rank. They apparently try to latch onto beasts of burden.”
“Let’s check the camp at night, then.”
As it so happened, three did try to go after the animals at night. It was quick; Ylawes heard Falene’s ward go off, and by the time they’d gotten there, two had been driven off by the [Guards], and Falene incinerated the last after shocking it to death.
“Not very appealing. I don’t think I want that as provisions, Captain Ylawes!”
Merchant Yorrned laughed uneasily when he saw the corpses. Ylawes hesitated.
Aren’t lampreys edible? He refrained from suggesting they eat the disgusting things, but he noticed Rasktooth trying to cut one with a dagger. Ylawes nudged Infinitypear, who nudged Rasktooth, and the Cave Goblin sulkily refrained from taking a bite.
“It bite us, we bite it. So many things cannot eat.”
Ylawes was going to leave it at that, but to his surprise, the Consortium approached him. Merchant Tivete had a thought.
“The corpses of those monsters are often sought after by Adventurer’s Guilds and collectors, Captain Ylawes. Would you hunt down one and salt it or preserve it for us? We’ll put it in a good Chest of Holding, and we could send it and any other specimens with a Courier.”
It wasn’t the worst idea, but Ylawes grimaced at having to kill one of those sucker-things then messily bleed and preserve it.
“That’s a lot of salt and effort for something we won’t be able to get rid of for days, Merchant Tivete.”
“Oh, but we have the space, Captain Ylawes.”
“I think we should get moving.”
He demurred, and Tivete hesitated.
“I have to press the matter, Captain Ylawes. It is in your contract to render services as they pertain to monsters. I’d hate to insist.”
The Silver Swords’ captain blinked at her. He wavered—then with less grace than he’d have liked, nodded.
“One, then. And if you could have someone help with preparing it—”
Murdering one of the sucker-things wasn’t hard. But when he was watching Insill and Larr try to prepare the thing for the Chest of Holding, Dawil drew Ylawes aside.
“Ah, there’s the extra bits we get when we sign up for guarding. I’m surprised she talked you into that so easily, lad. Think it was a Skill?”
Ylawes hadn’t—until he considered it and made a face.
“Maybe a bit of one. If so, I’ll try to resist it next time. Think it was actually in the contract?”
The Dwarf gave Ylawes an odd look.
“Wouldn’t you know, lad? You spent ages on it!”
Ylawes wished he’d read it more finely and coughed.
“I spent ages on the bottom line, Dawil. How it’s paid out to House Byres, the advance and recurring payments—the rest was boilerplate from the Adventurer’s Guild. The [Receptionist] said it wasn’t different from what she sees on most contracts.”
“Huh. Fair enough. Gross sucker, isn’t it?”
That, at least, they could agree on.
 
 
Day 12 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
Over the next few days, Ylawes cataloged a number of sea-only animals or ones hither-to unknown. Far more amenable than the Lamprey Shufflers.
One was a Kelpie. The water-breathing horse was roaming around, and when it saw the caravan, it immediately made tracks, but Ylawes saw it had a mane like, well, kelp, fins along its legs and back, and a tail. For all that, it was speedy enough on land.
Another was a series of birds, who obviously liked the New Lands as potential grazing sites. Some were extraordinarily feathery and looked like puffballs of feathers. Anith waved at a flock ‘flying’ through the air.
“They’re being nicknamed ‘Featherballs’, Ylawes. Look at how they fly! Or rather, don’t!”
The breezes that carried the clouds of blue seedlings had grown more and more frequent; the wind was a lot stronger here for whatever reason. Accordingly, the rather rotund birds didn’t so much fly as spin through the air, their feathers contriving to let them have some kind of drag in the air no matter which direction they faced.
When standing, they were round, staring birds with big beaks and huge eyes—they’d hop until they were airborne, and they seemed to enjoy rooting around for bugs wherever they landed.
They tasted like most birds—this was the first animal the caravans hunted, and a dozen went into a pot for dinner after Anith confirmed they’d been deemed edible.
The last new animals of the friendly sort were what Ylawes decided were like endemic sheep—only, they were plants?
Shuffling ‘bushes’ covered with prickly leaves ambled past the caravans, and Yorrned insisted one be captured. Then, when it was proven they didn’t put up a fuss, it was partially, well…dissected.
The leaves and ‘branches’ of the creature were actually an odd camouflage; it was more like a bony pig of some kind? Some kind of mammal that actually grew ‘branches’ of bone that real plants seemed to sprout from.
The berries were not edible, and the first of these odd bushes expired when the colonists broke too many of the bone-limbs and it began bleeding where the bone met flesh. Ylawes put it out of its misery, but to his annoyance, their [Chef] declined to cook it.
“It’s, ah, more plant than animal, as far as I can see. Unless I hear it’s edible, I don’t think I’d want to season my pans with the meat, Captain Ylawes. But do get more of those birds! We’re running low on our meat provisions.”
Bags of holding kept food from decaying at normal rates, but they could slow the rate of decay by as little as ten percent or let something last twice as long, depending on their efficacy. Ylawes squatted over the dead member of the species, which had been eating grass, and decided to at least test it.
“Is taste like meat, Captain!”
Rasktooth was actually the self-proclaimed expert of what could and could not be eaten. Falene was highly offended because she fancied herself something of an expert, but Rasktooth had eaten everything from evil caterpillars to other Goblins, and as he pointed out, he ‘knew if it was going to come out fast the other way’.
He actually fried up a mean slice of what was essentially some kind of gamey…pork? Not really pork, but not venison.
“It’s not bad!”
Dasha said in shock. The part-Dwarf [Warrior] saw Rasktooth grin and poke himself in the stomach.
“Am [Cook]. Is better than stupid chicken braised in wine. With dates.”
He psshed. Ylawes had to own, Rasktooth had a point. Chef Votto had struggled a bit to fulfill Falene’s request for a proper salad; she wasn’t eating any of the meat, and the chicken from the Featherball birds was decent, but the taste was off, probably due to the wine the man had used giving a too bitter taste. As for the dates—Ylawes pushed one around on his plate a few times.
Strange. Where are all these animals coming from?
He realized he’d wondered it aloud when Anith replied. The Jackal Beastkin’s voice was soft.
“Some are doubtless from the sea, but people suspect the magic that animated the New Lands and grew so much also affected the wildlife. It can do that.”
“So we might run into legitimately new species out there?”
Dawil stroked his beard, smiling after seeing all the new animals.
