The Drake, Dulc, and Ylawes watched him go as they chatted, moving at a more sedate trot. Dulc didn’t mind the enterprising [Merchants] seeking a profit.
“He’s welcome to it. Ancestors know we need most of everything these days.”
“Yorrned’s got steel.”
That made Dulc actually brighten up a bit.
“Really? We need steel. Pallassian steel?”
“Er—his own.”
They had laughed him out of Pallass’ markets when he tried to offload his ore. Nevertheless, he’d sold a lot of ingots he’d ported south and proven he did have the right to his class. Dulc rubbed at his neck-spines.
“We might buy all we can get. Not much chance for trade overland these days; everything’s got to go south, so steel…other metals?”
“Bronze. Tin. Iron…not much magical.”
Dulc nodded.
“We can’t buy anything magical anyways. City’s gone to seed. Literally. If your fellow passes back north, I hope he’ll buy as much fimie-cloth as he can. Or else we’ll all starve.”
He laughed too hard at that. Ylawes didn’t and glanced at the city ahead. Especially the port.
“If you don’t mind me asking—”
“Oh, no, go ahead. We’ve heard it all, now. How’s it feel to be landlocked? What was it like? If you have any good jokes, tell them before you get to the old harbor district. Anyone who had a fishing-type class will throw a punch.”
Dawil rumbled as he stroked his beard, extracting more of the blue seeds.
“Seems like a poor joke to tell. You’ve had it rough, eh, lads?”
The Drakes glanced at him, but didn’t take offense to the term as they might if Ylawes said it. There was something personable about Dawil that Ylawes had long known to trust, so Dulc and several Drakes opened up, not that they had been unwilling to talk.
“You know, before we realized it was permanent, it was actually sort of hopeful. When the waters began spilling everywhere, of course it was chaos, and we thought it was some kind of attack—then we noticed all the fish.”
“Oh.”
“Thousands of ‘em. Everyone in the city was rushing out. Rare fish, even giant ones. A whale was beached south of here. Huge. We were in a rush to preserve as much as we could—then we realized the waters were gone.”
Dulc gestured at the harbor, and Ylawes saw, as the caravans moved past the city—they wouldn’t stay overnight—that the ships lying on their sides had been arranged oddly.
“Look at that.”
The ships had been carved up, and smoke was exiting some of them. They’d been remodeled, Ylawes realized, into buildings.
“You used your ships as buildings?”
“We had to. There’s no way we could haul them to a sea. That big one’s our warship, A Hunting. Well, now she’s our watchtower. We just angled her hull, and she’s got attack spells—but there goes our fishing. At least we have our catches, but it’ll be planting, the Council says, unless there’s a lot of wildlife from the New Lands. And fimie-cloth. That’s what we’re working on.”
Dawil waved one of the blue tufts.
“Is that what you call this? Who named it?”
The Drake scratched at his neck, yawning.
“Someone. It caught on—it’s light, and we got the first shower, oh, two weeks back. Something out there decided it’s already spring. All the nets and such are to harvest it.”
“To make cloth?”
“It’s not impossible. And it’s blue. The Council reckons it’ll sell, and what else are we supposed to do? The only other thing might be trade overland; all you lot heading for the ‘New Lands’ have been making a decent profit. Though the Watch had to investigate each caravan until we just gave up.”
Ylawes nodded, and Dawil muttered his condolences. They traded a look. An entire city’s industry ruined. That they’d pivoted so quickly to trying to make…fimie-cloth proved how resourceful these Drakes were.
Or how desperate. No wonder Dulc looked so exhausted.
“It must have been one hell of these last few months, Leader Dulc.”
The Drake gave Ylawes a smile that didn’t even have the energy for bitterness.
“Well. At least we’re alive. The way I hear it, the Gnolls could have snapped one of the Walled Cities in two. If those idiots want to invade the Great Plains again, they can count us out. Manus keeps sending us notes about the battle at the Bloodfields or ‘hostile nations’. We told them we’d commit our fleet wherever they wanted, and it took them a week to get the joke.”
Thus, Goisedall. The last city before the New Lands of Izril. Ylawes spent a bit more time with the Drake, enough for Falene to interject with surprising tact.
“If you’re that tired, may I offer you a drink of coffee, sir? I’ve brought a lot of roasted beans south.”
“Coffee? What’s this?”
The Drake took a drink of the dark brown stuff as Dawil and Ylawes rolled their eyes. Dulc hesitated and grimaced.
“Dead gods, that’s bitter.”
“Milk? Sugar?”
Falene energetically talked up the beverage that Ylawes had decided he didn’t need in his life. It was a rare quarrel with Falene; she had made it her life’s duty to addict every single person she encountered. It seems coffee had its appeal in Goisedall.
Ylawes made his way back to his greater team as Falene talked.
“Vuliel Drae, Infinitypear, Rasktooth, quick meeting.”
“That not our team name!”
Rasktooth hollered as the other adventurers came out of the two wagons they’d been allotted. Ylawes sighed louder as Dulc caught sight of Rasktooth and nearly spat his coffee out. Thankfully, Dawil and Falene talked him down.
“Fine. Vuliel Drae and…Poke Duo. Quick meeting.”
Rasktooth and Infinitypear cheered and hurried towards him, the Cave Goblin sitting on Infinitypear’s shoulders. Rasktooth was paralyzed from the waist down, but he was very animated, and they were a registered Bronze-rank team. The first Goblin-Antinium team ever.
Just—the name. They were all part of the Silver Swords, nominally, but as they were wildly underleveled, Ylawes sometimes performed social roles without them.
“Looks like Goisedall, this city, has been hit by hard times. I don’t think it’s a concern; we’re not staying more than a few hours, Merchant Yorrned says. But watch the caravans.”
“Can do, boss. I’ll watch out for any sneak-thieves with Larr.”
Insill nodded. The Drake [Rogue] had a past with theft, and Larr, the one Gnoll, nodded too. Anith raised a paw.
“Captain Ylawes. May I request permission to enter the city and ask around for news and information?”
“…Go ahead. Falene and I might enter. Anyone else?”
“Me—”
Infinitypear lowered Rasktooth’s hand for him. Ylawes shook his head.
“It’s a Drake city, Rasktooth.”
“Damn.”
Anith raised a paw after a moment’s thought.
“Could we take…Pekona? She’s more familiar with the sea than we are. It could help.”
The silent, one-handed woman from Drath bowed her head and kept her hand on the curved sword at her side. Ylawes shrugged.
“That’s the plan. Dawil’s in charge until I get back. Oh, and the fimie-seeds, the blue stuff, are apparently fine according to Dulc. Just don’t eat them.”
Rasktooth and Infinitypear hesitated, and Ylawes was reminded, again, that he’d asked for them to join his team. But dead gods, telling someone not to eat the obviously strange blue stuff was a first for him.
They were brave, honorable, and had faced down Facestealer. You asked for them and they appeared.
In fact, the younger adventurers had made this trip easier. Otherwise, Ylawes would have been brooding about the war at sea, the Horns’ mysterious appearance in the sky, and the fate of House Byres far more this entire time. He gave them all a wan smile, then turned his attention west.
“Just a bit further and we’re in the New Lands. Technically, we already are, but it doesn’t start until the coastline fully vanishes, apparently. We’ll find a large ridgeline; that’s where the New Lands rose over the seabed. Once we climb that, we’re there.”
The adventurers sat up in excitement, and Rasktooth shaded his eyes and pointed.
“I see it! Huh. Doesn’t look that different.”
“That’s because it’s snowy.”
Infinitypear observed, and it was true; aside from the speckled blue, the New Lands were frozen with the rest of the world. Yet…Ylawes felt the wind blowing again and raised one hand.
Yonder comes a wind from a land that’s never been before. We’re not the first—but we’re far from the last.
They’d set a hard pace, and Ylawes reckoned they were a bit before the entire rush; their caravan had passed a lot of slower-moving ones, but everyone was within days, a week at most, of arriving.
Soon, the roads would be packed without end behind him. And there were ships landing all along the coast and moving inland.
Inland would be the least explored. I wonder where Merchant Yorrned wants to settle? He’s not said. Perhaps he doesn’t know. 
The sooner they were encamped, the sooner the Silver Swords’ two-week guarding period began. Then, the sooner Ylawes could go back to adventuring work or find more guard-duty work.
Now comes the hard part, though. Blue seeds are only the start. I wonder what monsters await? 
They were ready. Yorrned’s Caravans and the ‘Consortium of Enterprise’ weren’t the biggest players. Not by far. The Walled Cities and the Five Families had sent their own caravans. There were nations sending colonies, and not all had met with disaster at sea like the Terandrians.
However, Yorrned’s Caravans did have six [Merchants], each with their own field, who’d brought samples of their goods to trade, ample supplies to travel with—or so Ylawes was assured—and [Guards]. The Silver Swords were technically the ‘specialty’ of this caravan, being a higher grade of escort than most. Ylawes’ team wasn’t the most well-versed with exploration. Griffon Hunt was far better…
Dead gods. Halrac’s dead. Ylawes paused a second and closed his eyes. Then he opened them.
“We’ll see how we do.”
He meant that for the future. Then he went to find Merchant Yorrned. If Ylawes had one reservation about all this, well, it was just that he didn’t know what he’d find. Adventurers hated that, but everyone else seemed so enthusiastic. Ylawes had often been told ‘a monster’ was terrorizing a village or farm and had gone off to fight it. That was fine. It was just that he had never applied that logic to an entire region.
That, he supposed, was called exploration. Or true adventure.
 
 
Day 1 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
The first day proper, Ylawes reckoned, was crossing the line dividing the New Lands and Izril.
And it was a line. You could see it from above, apparently, and he certainly saw it on the ride there.
It was as if a wall of dirt had suddenly risen a good fifteen feet above the sand and gravel of the seabed the caravan had been descending into past Goisedall. It was probably equivalent to other parts of Izril, which were higher above sea level, but the change was—dramatic.
The New Lands looked different. Even the soil, what Ylawes could see of it, packed and barely eroded yet, was substantially paler than Ylawes had expected.
It had come from the seafloor, and he supposed a lot of it was sand or some such. Of course, everyone had cheered upon seeing it, and Ylawes hadn’t seen much underneath the snow.
Spring would reveal more, but he felt, strongly, the sense of excitement that had helped him get this far. Though the crossing of the New Lands did take more work than he imagined.
For one thing, the caravans, with their wooden wheels, were excellent for crossing roads. The Consortium of Enterprise had bought classic, covered wagons with that rounded hump to shelter the normally-open design. Prairie wagons, they were called.
Ylawes didn’t know about wagons or expedition planning, so he’d thought it was a fair choice. They had horses to pull, but as it turned out, those wheels did not do well in sand.
The seafloor that led up to the New Lands was obviously all sand from where the water had retreated, and so the caravan had to stop and push the wagons over particularly bad spots. Or rely on Falene to cast [Stabilized Ground] or [Stone Floor] to let the wagons roll smoothly on.
Yorrned asked her to do the entire two-mile stretch to the New Lands and was put out when Ylawes told him that was completely unreasonable both in scope and to ask Falene to exhaust herself when it wasn’t her job. Another [Merchant], Miss Tivete, was more reasonable. She was in her forties, a magic specialist, and her wagons were enchanted and rolled over the sands.
“Let’s just push on through! Come on, if all the riders get out and push, we’ll get through this. My lot will help the unenchanted wagons.”
Six [Merchants], all of good standing and reputation, as well as countless volunteers and people head-hunted for the job. Ylawes didn’t push himself; he was on lookout, but he saw Infinitypear and Rasktooth pushing their wagon along with Vuliel Drae.
People avoided the Antinium and Cave Goblin. It was a sort of balance; Ylawes was well-thought of by the Humans, and they knew enough about Liscor to accept this was like the Halfseekers. Even so, their wagon was last to roll towards the New Lands.
Problem two: the New Lands were fifteen feet above the sea floor.
…How did you get up there?
A ramp, as it turned out. There was a benefit to not being first; a crude ramp of dirt had been built, but the effort it took to hitch multiple horses to a wagon and pull it up the ramp was exhausting.
Also, it ruined the Consortium’s plans; Yorrned advocated loudly for them to do this in the morning so they could have an impactful crossing to the New Lands.
His counterparts sensibly pointed out that they weren’t the only caravan on the way; camping in the sand was no fun, and if another group bottlenecked behind them, there would be trouble.
Thus, Ylawes had to watch for three hours as the caravan’s wagons slowly came up the ramp. By the time all was said and done, it was dusk and they were in the New Lands…he barely noticed as he set up camp.
Most people had elected to sleep in the wagons, a big saving in effort, rather than tents. Ylawes’ team had tents; Vuliel Drae and the Silver Swords already had them, and he’d bought a tent for Poke Duo.
It was cold, and everyone was tired, but a [Chef] of all things came around with a full platter of braised sausage links, a creamy soup, and fresh bread.
“You have a—a [Chef], Merchant Yorrned?”
Ylawes hadn’t paid attention to food, but now he realized it hadn’t really lost quality despite them leaving the cities where they had fresh, good food available for meals. The proud [Merchant] was coming around with wine glasses to toast, and he explained as he brought over a friend and introduced him around.
“Captain Ylawes, I do intend to make this an enterprise. Chef Votto here is an old friend.”
