“The Featherballs are new. Apparently. Taste good. I feel bad for the suckers, but hey—we’ve finally stopped seeing as many tracks, so we’re in the New Lands for real, eh, lad?”
It was true. Despite the best efforts of the Consortium, they’d kept running into signs other people had been here. But they were finally all heading different ways, and Ylawes reckoned…twelve days in the New Lands of Izril?
“How much further until the Consortium wants to stop and find a place?”
Dawil shrugged.
“They’ve got to find some decent ore, at least in Yorrned’s case. The fellow asked me if I’d like to join in. Never fear; he’s got at least one [Prospector] with him, so there’s that. W—”
A moaning wail split the night, and all the adventurers froze—then followed Ylawes onto their feet. He whirled around and heard a loud sound in the distance. Ylawes looked around.
“Someone get me eyes on it. Falene? Larr, on top of the wagon.”
Silence as they looked around, then Falene called out.
“There!”
She’d been checking the area with [Detect Life] and pointed. In the distance, a Corusdeer herd was lighting up their horns. Ylawes strode over and, ignoring the shouts from the caravan, called out.
“I need to see it—”
Falene lifted a hand and pointed at Ylawes.
“[Eagle Eyes].”
His eyes stung, but Ylawes narrowed his gaze and saw them. Corusdeer, whirling and charging…something that drove down on one, bit, or did something, and then dragged it back. Ylawes swore as he checked its size.
“Eight—nine feet?”
“Not the largest, but it’s got to be at least six feet across. Mouth is huge! What is that?”
Dawil frowned, and Ylawes’ lips moved.
“…That’s a shark. Walking on two feet. It’s bitten one of the Corusdeer in two, and it’s dragging another off.”
“A what?”
Dasha shouted, but the Gold-rank team was looking around. Dawil muttered.
“No, that’s three of ‘em. They’re hunting together. I don’t see those horns doing much damage to them.”
“Thick hides. They look wet. Maybe they produce water?”
The attack was fast, and the Corusdeer herd broke in the night, galloping away. Ylawes counted seven being consumed by the first land…what, landsharks? They dragged their prey away, lumbering with a strange fluidity, and Ylawes glanced at Dawil.
“Gold-rank threat?”
“I don’t see Silver-ranks beating that thing easy. Think they’re hungry?”
“Not tonight.”
 
 
Day 15 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
Ylawes was extra vigilant the next few days, but the Landsharks—that was what he was calling them—were clearly more interested in Corusdeer than the caravan.
That was good; they had mouths big enough to bite a person in two, and their skin looked tough.
Besides. The caravan had other problems.
“Adventurer Ylawes! We’ve finally begun our hunt for a good site to launch our new camp, at least, temporarily. Do let us know if your team scouts out anything profitable. Just, ah, one small matter?”
The Silver Swords weren’t contracted to scout or provide any magical assistance; his team was just there to protect, but obviously he kept a good relationship with the people he was working with.
“What can we do, Master Yorrned? Bear in mind we’re watching for those Landsharks—we won’t have time to scout.”
The [Merchant] nodded a few times.
“Of course, of course. But if you were to see another Corusdeer herd—do you think it’s out of the question to hunt them?”
“…As I said, Master Yorrned, if you hunt one, you hunt them all—”
Ylawes was a bit impatient, but Yorrned interrupted anxiously.
“That would suffice. Not that we need an entire herd’s worth of meat, but some wouldn’t go amiss.”
Ylawes hesitated.
“If it’s just fresh meat—surely we have plenty of rations?”
It was a testing comment, and he did not like how Yorrned tried to assure him they did, but no one wanted to live on rations, and besides, they could keep the horns of the deer. He didn’t like the evasiveness at all.
 
——
 
In hindsight, which was always twenty-twenty, Ylawes realized he should have taken more concern with the expedition itself rather than just security. But he had been hired for security. He assumed the merchants knew what they were doing.
But predictably, when problems arose, it was not on the road where it could be easily remedied with coin, if not convenience, but when things ran out—two weeks into the New Lands.
“Something’s up. Yorrned asked me about using my magic for hunting, then two more [Merchants] just so happened to bring it up. I told them it was a matter for the [Hunters].”
Falene complained afterwards, and Ylawes sat with the Silver Swords in the wagon—he was trading off riding lookout—and glanced at Dawil.
“They’re hiding something, but Yorrned wouldn’t tell me what.”
“I think we have a problem, lad. And I think we should find out.”
“Let me ask one of the others, then.”
Ylawes was about to get up and do that when Dawil grabbed his arm.
“I did that, and they’re not talking. Lad, in a moment like this, you know what you need?”
“More tact?”
“No. What about a nice…[Rogue]?”
Ylawes stared at the Dwarf [Axe Champion], and his lips twisted.
“Dawil, that’s underhanded.”
Dawil held up his hands.
“If you’ve got a [Rogue], you might as well use him! Like swinging a hammer without a proper apron on, my dad always said. Listen, lad. I know you’re upright, but, uh—let’s not cause a fuss, shall we?”
It was a conversation the Silver Swords often had when the right thing to do, as Ylawes saw it, sometimes conflicted with what might be…pragmatic. Normally, Ylawes would ignore any comments like this—but they did have a [Rogue]. And…
 
——
 
…After two [Merchants] refused to give Ylawes a straight answer, he caved. A quick word to Insill was all it took. The Drake with onyx scales was too eager to please.
“I can see what’s happening; no problem, Captain Ylawes.”
“No lockpicking. Or pickpocketing. Or stealing. If you break into somewhere, please close the door afterwards and put everything back where you found it.”
Ylawes was highly anxious about the entire thing, and Insill gave him a strange look. He hesitated, slipped off, and came back after less than thirty minutes looking a lot less happy.
“I didn’t break in anywhere, Captain! But I have an idea of some things about the caravan the, uh, [Merchants] haven’t said to you, and it’s no good.”
“How’d you find out what was going on?”
Insill shrugged.
“I bribed one of the [Cook Helpers] with a silver coin.”
Ylawes stared at him, and Insill grinned. It turned out a [Rogue] only resorted to breaking into places if charm and money in the right spot didn’t work. But his news wiped the smiles off everyone’s faces.
“I think we’re out of a lot of food.”
“Out as in, ‘no more braised chicken’, or out as in, ‘we’re out of food’? I can still smell cooking with all kinds of stuff, and it’s not like they’ve been skimping on the quality, Insill.”
Larr wanted to know. The Gnoll raised his head to the sky and sniffed. Insill raised a finger.
“Out as in…out as in, ‘the food we have is great’. But it’s too great, if you catch my drift. Do you, uh, think the sausages are getting a bit stale? Well, they’ve been in the cold, so they’re pretty good, right?”
Right. Ylawes had been dining with everyone, and he’d had nothing to really complain about aside from the [Chef] trying to serve restaurant-quality food for a campfire. He nodded. But he felt his stomach beginning to tighten, and Insill’s next comment was where it got bad.
“We’ve got Runes of Preservation that stop most of the food from perishing.”
Dawil waved a hand in front of his face.
“Oh, thank the grandfathers. I thought you were going to say it was all rotten. We’re just out of fresh meat. Fine. Let them eat cake.”
Ylawes exhaled too. Runes of Preservation—of course Merchant Yorrned wasn’t stupid. He could bring as much meat as he wanted with that! Raw meat! Well, maybe not raw—it could attract bugs—but there you were! Everyone smiled until Insill licked his lips.
“Yeah. Lots of fresh food. What if I told you, um—the Runes of Preservation aren’t working?”
Falene Skystrall slowly lifted her head, and Ylawes Byres sat there a second.
“—How much food did you say was only fresh, again? Falene. Go and see about those runes.”
Insill gave Ylawes a wretched look.
“Aside from some beans and flour and such? A lot of it is really fresh, Captain. Only, the cooks didn’t realize it’s all begun to spoil.”
 
——
 
“The runes are dead. I recharged them, but we have a problem. The magic itself was flaking away; we lost sixty percent of them to damage. They were scuffed out, and the kitchen staff never noticed.”
“How does that happen, Falene?”
The [Battlemage] shook her head, but she had a theory.
“I think…the air here is mana-negative, Ylawes. I didn’t say anything because I didn’t sense it—not at first. It’s not affecting me badly. What about you, Anith?”
The Jackal Beastkin hesitated.
“I haven’t been casting many spells, Falene. But now that you mention it, I’m not at the top of my mana capacity. I thought it was something else, but—you?”
Falene nodded. To Ylawes, she explained.
“If I normally wake up at 100%, Ylawes, I’m more at…93%? Not that much for me, but I’m a [Mage]. A living being. If, say, the mana was draining, a spell that’s not an artifact-quality item is the first to go. Then you can recharge them, but if the staff didn’t notice, the runes were then fragile. So they scuffed the runes up. And it means they were dead for over two weeks if it happened right at the start of the trip.”
Ylawes covered his eyes. How could that happen?
“Is mana-negative normal, Falene?”
“No. Not at all. It’s not severe, but I can’t tell when it began. At any rate, the food shortage is the worst part of it. At least we have Larr.”
As it so happened, when the problem became clear, the Plains Gnoll insisted on seeing how much they had left. Right now, he was ruthlessly discarding some food into the snow and having the rest packed in crates filled with snow.
“Mister Larr! This is a waste of food! And why are you packing snow with hay?”
“Keeps it cold. This is spoiled. This is spoiled…don’t put those eggs in that basket. They’re all bad.”
Larr snapped at a [Cook] trying to rescue some of the food. The [Merchants] protested, but Ylawes strode over.
“I’ve heard too many stories about bad eggs while adventuring. Merchants, if you’d told us there was an issue when it was noticed, Falene could have saved more food. As it is—she will be monitoring the runes daily, and it’s clear we need supplies. Therefore, I will be instructing my team to look out for any Corusdeer, and I suggest we deploy all the [Hunters], [Gatherers], [Rangers], and so forth to scavenge for food.”
In this frozen place. Ylawes didn’t add that last part, but the [Merchants] looked a bit relieved to hear this. Yorrned clasped Ylawes’ hand, speaking quickly.
“I suppose it was too embarrassing to say. Of course, if the food’s spoiled, we can’t have any of that. We brought a tremendous amount, and I’m sure—”
He glanced sideways as Larr grimly discarded another crate. Yorrned swallowed.
“—We will have a busy spring. The [Farmers] have been told we’ll want a head start on tilling that soil, and I’ll be sending out our [Scouts] to search. We have over forty of them, you know.”
“Forty [Scouts]?”
“Well, people willing to ride and search. I’ll have them look for said edibles too.”
Ylawes exhaled.
“I suppose that will do. How many can I count on if we do find a herd of Corusdeer?”
“Oh, for butchering and hauling, the entire caravan is at your disposal, Captain Ylawes!”
The answer was too quick. Ylawes was almost about to smile and turn away when he realized something. He turned back.
“Ah, pardon me, Merchant Yorrned. I meant—how many can I count on as [Hunters]? [Trackers]? A [Ranger] or other expert there might do.”
There was a moment when he just waited. Waited, saw the smaller man smile at him, and thought all was well. But the words didn’t come out of Yorrned’s mouth, and Ylawes stood there. When he finally cleared his throat, Yorrned was smiling and speaking fast.
“Well, we didn’t wish to waste resources on a variable enterprise. You don’t get ahead in business by gambling on such things, Captain Ylawes. Rest assured, we have a full harvest for the spring and enough [Farmers] to guarantee full crop yields.”
Larr had been continuing to sort food while arguing with Chef Votto, who had, surprisingly, gone into the snow to rescue as much food as possible, even the bad eggs, and sort it into a bin rather than dispose of it wholesale. But perhaps—that was because he knew what Larr had just heard. The Gnoll’s ears perked up, and Ylawes met that smiling man’s face and spoke slowly.
“We don’t have any [Hunters]? Gatherers? Are there any woodland experts at all? Master Yorrned?”
“We have excellent prospectors, Captain Ylawes. Let’s find a camp and set up, shall we?”
There were two weeks till spring. How many [Fast Growers] did they have? Then Ylawes wondered—how many bags of seed did they have?
Then he began to feel it. A Gold-rank adventurer was still a Gold-rank adventurer, and Ylawes hadn’t liked the Landsharks’ look. But he had a confidence—not overconfidence—but confidence he could fight them or do something, even if a pack emerged.
When he heard about their supply situation? He began to feel what Gold-rank adventurers might refer to as…pressure. From a monster too big for them to fight.
The first monster of the New Lands was called ‘hunger’. The next day, it got worse.
 
 
Day 16 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
When Falene checked on the Runes of Preservation, all but three had drained in the night. Then she reported her mana reserves weren’t recharging adequately. The Consortium of Enterprise agreed it was time to search for a place to camp posthaste.
Ylawes calculated they were halfway through the last month of winter. In theory, you could sow the ground already, so he elected to have Vuliel Drae and Poke Duo join the scouting effort. He himself decided it was time to earn his pay. They did have [Fast Growth] among their [Farmers]. They were approaching rocky highlands and smaller mountains in the distance. Ore and farming awaited.
 
——
 
