“Worse. They ran into Sword Crabs. Thousands of them. Nombernaught ran into them and wisely kept from expanding, but it’ll make the southern coast hell to settle. I’ve heard a lot of Chandrarian nations and Drakes thought to just skip around the south coast. I wish them the best of it.”
Sword Crabs. For some reason, Zedalien vaguely remembered those.
“Nasty, are they?”
“Gold-rank threats, each one. Better than a Level 20 [Duelist], big, and they fight in packs. Fearless and smart.”
“Dead gods. And here I thought Crelers were the worst menace at sea. If—”
They were nearing another section of the wall being worked on by the Claiven Earth when they heard that familiar, wailing moan, and Warden Jespeire swore.
“It’s another pack!”
They were running before they knew it. Zedalien got to the wall and saw one of the new species of sadly common threats to the New Lands running across the ground.
Landsharks. Sixteen of them, and they’d gotten close surprisingly fast. They loved to burrow in the snow and approach like, well, sharks, fins poking out of the snow. They could dig and would ambush you—
And they were big and dangerous.
“To arms! Call the [Voice of the Earth]!”
The Claiven Earth were in the way, and for all they were a famous nation who had fought the King of Destruction and Khelt, they were not all high-level. Several produced bows and began to loose arrows, but they just stuck in the Landsharks’ hides or bounced off.
“Behind the wall! Guard the entrances! [Area: Fleet of Foot]. I’ll hold them here with a sword dance!”
Warden Jespeire leapt onto a patch of ground where the wall had yet to rise. Behind them, they heard more half-Elves blowing horns, and Zedalien knew help was coming. One Landshark went down, and then he saw the earth turn muddy and two of them splashed into it. The land turned back to soil once more, and the monsters struggled out of it.
Time for me to do something.
Zedalien took two steps onto the wall, pointed, and spoke.
“Warden! Can you jump over the wall?”
“Huh? Sure!”
Zedalien stared down the fifteen feet of wall and then nodded. He called out to the half-Elves retreating.
“Don’t stop working! Give me everything you have until the Skill runs out! [Meet the Deadline: Rush Work]!”
The half-Elves looked up at him, down at their tools, then sped up. Earth began to rise, and the stones waiting to be inserted were jammed into place as growth spells caused the roots to grow in seconds. The wall began rising around Jespeire, and he laughed incredulously as it closed off, giving him a real choke-point.
When Zedalien judged the Landsharks were too close, he shouted.
“Now! Inside!”
The half-Elves rushed behind Jespeire, and the half-Elf [Warden] whirled a greatsword as the first Landshark came at him. The others clawed at the wall, and Zedalien retreated, for they had two ways besides through the half-Elf.
Up. Or down.
Digging was slower, and the roots extended deep to prevent just that thing. They began to climb up the wall, snarling, with weird fin-arms that still gave them limited purchase. Zedalien felt bad about this next part, he did, but he had been Maviola El’s servant far too long.
“[Ignite Creation].”
The wall was, in part, his. So the moment he spoke—the entire section of the wall burst into vivid, red flames.
Half-Elves cried out in horror, and Zedalien leapt down the steps, feeling the searing heat behind him. Newly-grown roots twisted in agony, but the Landsharks did not like the heat and backed away.
—By the time the [Voice of the Earth] reached them, the battle was largely over. Jespeire had killed two Landsharks; the Voice of the Earth spoke, and a word reverberated in the earth until a hand dragged two more down into the ground, too deep to survive, Zedalien felt. The rest just fled as more of the Claiven Earth took the walls.
Then, of course, everyone was talking, and Zedalien was faced with the mild wrath of the Claiven Earth, who regarded the burnt plantlife.
“I regret to say that I was Maviola El’s servant. Fire is my specialty.”
Zedalien apologized to the man who had spoken. Voice Ikeiret was a tall half-Elf who whispered unless it came to war, and he had silvering hair, proof of his age.
A number of half-Elves were pointing at the burnt roots, aghast at the damage despite the loss of lives, but the [Voice of the Earth] silenced them as he raised his voice.
“Fire burns and regrows, Steward Zedalien. You doubtless saved lives. Your Skill may not create the best wall, but it is a lesson that I would rather have speed and a wall than none with these monsters or other enemies. Would we were all so dedicated, we would be finished by now.”
He was no more a fan of Gaiil-Drome than most others, which was why Zedalien introduced Jespeire—tactfully, of course.
“I admit all our feelings have been overripe of late. Would you…take a break with us to discuss matters, Voice of the Earth?”
“Naturally.”
They all sat and were treated to oranges, of all things, from the Claiven Earth.
“Grown from home. We hope to grow many more. A delight in dry Chandrar, you know. The King of Jecrass, the King of Duels, is said to eat one a day.”
“Very delightful.”
They were, despite the cool weather, and they all partook of them. Jespeire wasn’t sure how to broach the topic of plants, so Zedalien led, as he had often done with touchy Wellfars or Terlands or Veltras or…they were all touchy. Or smug, in the case of Reinharts. He’d heard they were back. At least he didn’t have to dodge a carriage running over his foot again. Magnolia Reinhart had done well to keep them locked up so long.
Thirty years was short to some half-Elves, but it was a generation of respite as Zedalien saw it. A great deed that would not go unpunished. They seldom did.
“—We all have our share of troubles. I’ve heard Gaiil-Drome out overlong, and I thought that, as a kind of—mediator, I should ask if the other groups need some division of our shared efforts. If you’ll allow me the role.”
He self-appointed himself as head of the ‘communal efforts’ project that had not existed a moment ago. But in Zedalien’s experience, if you were willing and capable of managing it, a project like this could appear.
It certainly made Voice Ikeiret hesitate.
“We have not been willing to complain, in the Claiven Earth, of our small issues given the reaction to our…noble cousins from Terandria. We wished to be better thought of, petty as that may seem.”
Ironically, the Claiven Earth were seen as part and parcel to that snootiness regardless, but Jespeire lied and assured the Voice everyone was grateful.
“If you have anything we can assist with, please, communication is the key to this entire endeavor.”
What could they have problems with? Zedalien was startled to learn that the Claiven Earth were struggling. The Voice of the Earth looked around, then lowered his voice even more.
“…gic…see…”
“Er, I believe that’s too quiet, Ikeiret.”
“Ah. Forgive me. It is embarrassing to say, especially since Gaiil-Drome has apparently been demanding more rooms of their own, but we were considering—building a retreat for our magic-users. To meditate in, you see.”
Zedalien blinked, and Jespeire almost snorted—until he got a kick under the table.
“For peace of mind?”
“What? No. Our—I thought it was just my lack of connection to a forest, but all our [Mages] are reporting the air is slightly mana-deficient. To be remedied with the right trees and plants, but we are exerting more effort than we should.”
Wait a second. That was exactly what the [Court Mage] had said to Zedalien, except not in so many words. Not being a [Mage] himself, Zedalien had thought—
“Are you saying you’re all losing mana?”
“It is not that egregious. Just—taxing.”
The Claiven Earth did not want to appear weak, but Zedalien could [Read Between the Lines], and he realized this was a larger concern than he’d thought.
We could share the rooms. Wait a second. Had he misread the request for beds completely from Gaiil-Drome? To be fair, it had been made atrociously, but Zedalien drummed his fingers on the table.
“If that’s the concern, I think it would behoove you to talk with our good [Lady of the Woods] and put in a joint request, Ikeiret. Or raise it yourself at our next gathering.”
“We wouldn’t want to be cast with the same brush—”
“Far from it. From them, it’s laziness. From you—it becomes a serious concern. If we do have a magic problem, it’s quite fine to establish a zone where [Mages] can recover. And as I said, we have other issues that we can surely join hands on. Warden Jespeire?”
They turned to him, and the Warden explained, embarrassed.
“It’s—our tree. You see, we have not had much success planting it here, Voice of the Earth. If your people could inspect it—”
“You planted it? Here?”
The Voice looked incredulous, then alarmed. Warden Jespeire hesitated.
“Yes. Why? What’s wrong?”
This entire conversation was taking on an alarming air to Zedalien, and the Voice hesitated, clearly trying not to be insulting. And who should arrive but the [Lady of the Woods] herself, Ruveden, with an escort of several half-Elves and an actual pair of birds singing behind her.
They stopped and fled into her hair when the Voice of the Earth glared at them, and Ruveden nodded to the other half-Elves.
“Steward Zedalien, Voice Ikeiret, Warden Jespeire. Forgive me my intrusion—may I join your conclave, brothers? It seems the time has come to make amends.”
She spoke in a way that put up at least Jespeire’s back, but Zedalien’s bow was sincere.
“I believe amends are to be made on all sides. Sit, Lady Ruveden.”
He caught her up to the premise of his point, and even the [Lady of the Woods] seemed gratified by the acknowledgement that, yes, there was a mana issue.
“It may be local—that we did not notice it is concerning. If we must move our entire base…”
“Better to scout around and see how widespread the issue is before bringing the concept up. I can have my best [Scouts] on it.”
The Warden reassured the two, but the [Lady of the Woods] tossed her hair back and fidgeted. Only part of her hair moved; the lower half was flowing and brown, gleaming and hanging free, but the rest was secured by what Zedalien had taken to be a crown at first, made of twigs.
It turned out, as Lady Rudeven reached up with a sigh, that it was a nest. Two birds flew out, and Zedalien, Jespeire, and Ikeiret stared as Lady Rudeven picked up an egg and handed it to an attendant.
“They do believe they have every right to my hair. I confess, that is one of two problems we have faced. The second—and we have not mentioned this out of the slight embarrassment—is that aside from the soil we have brought, many of our trees and plants resist germinating in the soil here. They are vocally unhappy, but our [Treespeakers] cannot understand it. They have been carefully settled in, songs of growth sung—multiple times—and fertilizer added.”
She looked deeply vexed, and Jespeire was relieved.
“Yours as well? We saw the ones you planted in soil doing so well—we have had the same issue. What can it be?”
The Voice of the Earth had been looking between the two half-Elves so incredulously that Zedalien knew he was about to say something rude. Zedalien spoke quickly.
“Speaking for Izril, I regret we have no great trees to plant—many of us do remember the forests our ancestors lived in, but we have lost that green touch—if we ever had one.”
“True. I commune with nature, not plant it.”
Lady Ruveden agreed, and Zedalien gave Voice Ikeiret a cautious look. The oldest of the half-Elves swallowed what he’d been about to say and spoke as mildly as possible.
“In respect to this final, ah—ah—conundrum, we of the Claiven Earth may be able to shed some light. I would advise you both to quickly return your plants to native soil for now as we hunt for more suitable spots. None have been found yet by my people, but there are rituals to convert the earth, and clearly, the grass and other plants of the New Lands grow.”
All the half-Elves peered at Ikeiret, and Jespeire frowned.
“That implies something is wrong with the land, Ikeiret?”
Zedalien had been wondering what other challenges the New Lands might face. Not just for the half-Elves with him, but for the settlers. Yet now he sensed it.
Mana problems were one thing. But what the Voice of the Earth said slowly, with the knowledge any [Farmer] or [Gardener] worth their salt would know, suddenly rang a bell in Zedalien’s head.
And it was…salt that mattered.
“This is land drawn from the very seabed. With respect to the Archmage of Grasses who covered this land in greenery—the topsoil is far, far too enriched with minerals to bear any non-native plants. We must import soil or, as I said, use a ritual to grow our city.”
He looked from face to face, and Zedalien sat back slowly. He recalled this issue cropping up before with salty soil—but the other half-Elves were protesting. Warden Jespeire shook his head.
“Voice Ikeiret, we are not fools. We knew the saltwater had likely sunk into the topsoil when the New Lands rose. We dug down—nearly fifty feet—and collected soil from there. Are you saying—we counted on some fertile land.”
His look of dismay sent chills down Zedalien’s spine. The [Voice of the Earth] was the foremost [Geomancer] present; he looked around with a troubled expression that said everything Zedalien needed to know. The New Lands did have plantlife, but it was deceptive. And if it really was that saline…
How many people had come to the New Lands trying to plant in the spring? He would have to send a message to Deilan El as fast as possible. For the rest? His fingers drummed on the table.
“Mana problems. Growing issues. The New Lands should have more treasure besides the space itself, or I fear it will become a double-edged sword for most would-be colonists, brothers and sisters.”
They all glanced at him and nodded seriously. Though Lady Ruveden slowly offered one of the two birds in her hair a piece of orange and smiled faintly.
“At least no one has yet found the Crossroads of Izril besides the Horns of Hammerad. As far as I have been told, the <Quest> is still extant. Finding the Crossroads may have been done. Establishing a link or base? That shall be a triumph of the first to set foot here.”
She clenched a fist in solidarity of their success, and Jespeire smiled with genuine camaraderie, and Ikeiret nodded firmly. Zedalien bit his lip. The other three half-Elves turned to him with smiles and hesitated.
“Steward Zedalien?”
