“Why do you think I’ve been asking for different lunch rations and saving bits of them, Pointy? See here. We’ve got a bunch of carrots and onions; I told you not to eat those the last few days. I bought a bunch of pepper and salt at Goisedell just for this—if we add in the sausages instead of making a sandwich, then we have the bread for dipping.”
“Thin soup.”
Dawil waggled a finger at Falene.
“That’s what scavenging is for. Hey, you lot! Bring out what you’ve grabbed!”
Vuliel Drae had apparently been under orders to find something for the pot. Indeed, Dawil began chopping the carrots with a belt-knife.
“Everyone puts one thing in. Go beg another caravan for something if you can’t find something. Butter. Milk I wouldn’t say no to. Cabbage, potato—meat’s quite good, but it’s harder to barter for. No Yellats. I hate Yellats.”
Even Ylawes had to go find something to add. Amused, but willing to play along, Ylawes hunted in his packs for anything that would go into the pot. Pekona was still asking questions.
“I don’t understand. What goes in the stew?”
“Almost anything. For instance…Dawil! How’s this?”
Ylawes came back with a bag of snacking walnuts he’d bought a while back. Dawil eyed them critically.
“Could work…but that’s only a handful, lad. You need more unless you want no lunch.”
“Dead gods, Dawil—fine! Pekona, let’s see if we can trade a few coppers for something.”
Mildly exasperated, but mostly amused, Ylawes helped Pekona secure some cabbage from a neighboring wagon, who expressed interest in the idea of a stew for lunch. He promised to offer them a bowl if it was good and noticed more people in the caravans drifting over to ask Dawil what the rules for entry were.
One item per person! Pekona actually happened to have an excellent ingredient herself; she turned over a bag of dried rice.
“From home.”
Dawil sprinkled it liberally into the pot, and Pekona brightened up as the contents resembled something she could get behind.
The New Lands might be frozen, but there were at least plants and animals from old Izril that people could scavenge, even if it wasn’t much.
“Heard you talking about the entire grass thing, Captain Ylawes. I think this is thyme. Tastes like it. Smells like it. I noticed a patch under the snow.”
“Really?”
Larr had a double-handful of the stuff. Dawil tasted a bit, and after some thought, he let Larr put it on the condition the Gnoll add something else. He and Insill produced a broth of bones they’d made last night.
“Nice. That’s a good smell. You two were prepping, weren’t you?”
Dawil was approving. Anith was upset.
“My snacking bones! I kept asking, and you two said there were none to be had!”
One of the peculiarities of the Beastkin was that he liked to gnaw on bones, something Larr didn’t do but found highly amusing. It clearly embarrassed Anith.
“It’s a trait from my Beastkin heritage, Captain Ylawes. Don’t pay it any mind. I can stop—we’re a bit closer to our roots than other species.”
“I’ve had bone marrow before. It’s nothing, Captain Anith.”
Relieved, Anith contributed a lot of jerky he snacked on, and the soup began to look pretty appetizing.
Of course, the freshest kill was Rasktooth’s. He handed over a skinned rabbit—and, to Ylawes’ mild shock, a cup of blood.
“You want put blood in now?”
Dawil hesitated.
“We don’t cook with blood. Not bad—got the guts out of the rabbit? In the pot it goes!”
“Oh. Can I eat?”
Rasktooth put the blood in a cup by the fire, and when it had begun to steam, he began to sip it. Falene’s expression was mildly horrified, but Larr grunted.
“Reminds me of horse blood when one died. You drink that in the cold, and it warms you up.”
“Yep. You want cup?”
Larr declined, but Ylawes decided it was just another peculiarity of the Cave Goblin. He was rather odd—but he spoke fairly fluently, he was affable, a good shot—
Ylawes stared at Rasktooth and the image of a snarling Goblin aiming a spear at him appeared in his mind. A memory. Then the empty eyes of one who’d jumped at him in a cave, staring at the bloody hole in her chest.
He’d killed Goblins before. Numerous times. Hunting down Goblin tribes was…it was something any adventurer did. They could be cunning threats, and Ylawes hadn’t thought much of it until Esthelm.
Perhaps he’d stared too long, because Rasktooth saw him and waved the cup.
“You want sip, Captain-guy?”
Ylawes started and looked away, guilty. Dawil stopped tasting the soup and glanced up, eyes knowing.
“Ah—no. Thank you, Rasktooth. Just hungry for the soup. Dawil, where are we at?”
“Almost done. Dasha and Infinitypear’re the only two to not contribute something. Wait, Pointy, where’s your contribution?”
“Aside from the flames? I added more spices for a proper taste.”
“…Hmph. You’re lucky I approve or you’d have ruined the damn pot. Hey, we have to move in fifteen minutes! If you don’t want to be eating on horseback, move it!”
Some of the other caravaners were wavering on tossing in last-minute additions to the pot, and Dasha ran over, puffing.
“I’m almost there! Hold your beard—it’s hard to get something nice! Here!”
Ylawes had seen her and Infinitypear running about; apparently, the Worker didn’t feel like Rasktooth’s rabbit was his contribution. Ylawes went to look for Infinitypear as Dasha held up three huge, bountiful apples. Dawil stared at them for a long time, then sighed.
“In the pot it goes.”
 
——
 
“Captain Ylawes, I do not wish to be hungry. But I cannot find any good food.”
Infinitypear was scuffing the ground with one foot, having searched about for a good foodstuff and found none. Ylawes scratched his head.
“No one would barter with you?”
“No, Captain Ylawes.”
Ylawes wondered why. He was sure he could get some…perhaps it was the Antinium’s look. But Infinitypear was cheerful, friendly, and Ylawes had often heard him humming and singing.
“Maybe there’s something in our packs? Did you bring a snack from home?”
“Snack…maybe? Are snacks acceptable entries into the forever pot of Dawil?”
Ah, he had Pekona’s problem. Ylawes assured him that was the entire point, and Infinitypear ran off excitedly towards his shared wagon. Ylawes strode back to the gathering as Infinitypear emerged from his wagon, holding something in his hands.
“Let’s not overboil the grains! We’re almost ready. Get those bowls lined up, and—not you, Pointy. Why are you first in line? Let the younger ones go first. Get, get. Got your food, Infinitypear? Put it in there. Good lad!”
The Antinium ran over, and Ylawes saw him energetically toss his contribution into the pot. The [Captain] licked his lips and then saw Dawil staring down into the soup pot.
Rasktooth grinned—but Dasha, who’d gotten to the front of the line, sprang back with an oath. There was a dead silence—then a cry of disgust and outrage rose from the group standing around the forever pot.
What—oh no. Ylawes’ mind connected in a way it really should have a minute ago.
Snacks from home? Infinitypear was an Antinium. Ylawes jogged forwards as Dawil closed his eyes, Insill gagged, and Larr shouted.
“Roaches?”
Infinitypear had gone to Garry’s kitchen before he’d left Liscor and loaded up on all kinds of food from home. Real Garry food, meant for Antinium. Among it—
Travelling, dried snack roaches. They were floating in the pot—Ylawes stared at one sinking with a dried feeler spinning around in the hither-to delicious liquid. Infinitypear looked around uncertainly, then heard all the shouting.
Then he ran away.
 
——
 
“Infinitypear? Where are you?”
The caravan halted for a good twenty minutes due to the stew incident. Ylawes only found Infinitypear after all that time when Rasktooth pointed him out.
The Worker was squatting down behind a wagon, hiding his head with all his arms, trembling like a leaf. He was definitely aware he’d messed up the soup—the shouting and disgust from his teammates had sent the Worker into flight.
“I am sorry, Captain Ylawes. I am sorry—I will pay for the soup.”
The Worker flinched as Ylawes raised a hand, and the [Knight] stopped.
He’d been intending to find Infinitypear and lecture him on adding the bugs to the soup, then have the Worker apologize to everyone and move on. But the terror of the Worker cringing away from him made Ylawes feel like the villain.
He hesitated, then walked over, and when the Antinium cringed away, he squatted down.
“—It’s just soup, Infinitypear. Dawil’s not happy, but he didn’t mean the cursing.”
The normally-affable Dwarf had let loose in an alarming way, but that didn’t explain Infinitypear’s response.
“I have ruined the soup. I am a failure. Please do not send me back. Or kill me.”
Infinitypear curled up and began rocking. Ylawes was shocked.
“Kill you? We’d never—at most, I’d ask you to pay for the soup, but Chef Votto said he’d just send us something to eat.”
The Worker scrabbled at his belt pouch, then turned over all the coins he had. Gold, silver, copper—Infinitypear handed them with all four hands to him.
“Please do not make me leave, Captain Ylawes.”
“Infinitypear—stop this. I’m not angry. It was my fault for suggesting you add a snack and not—kill you?”
Ylawes had seldom been more uncomfortable than he was at this moment. The Worker’s trembling didn’t stop, but abated slightly.
“You will not kill me for being a failure and messing up the important soup?”
“I would never kill a man over soup. Kill anyone over soup.”
This was surreal. Then Ylawes remembered a story from Yvlon about Pawn and…
“It’s just soup, Infinitypear. Truly. If we go back and apologize to Dawil, he’d forgive you. Would—they have killed you in the Free Hive for messing up food?”
“Yes.”
“No. Dead gods. Truly?”
“If I sabotaged the food for a shift, I am a failure. I did not mean it, but I have ruined the soup. I am bad. I tried my best, Captain Ylawes, I did. Please pay for new soup with my money.”
Ylawes heard a call and saw Vuliel Drae—at least, Larr and Pekona—had tracked them down. When they saw the shivering Worker flinching from them, they stared at Ylawes—with much the same expression as he thought he had.
“I’m not angry, Infinitypear. Please stand up.”
Or it will look like I’m beating you or something horrendous. Ylawes helped pull the Worker up, and Larr scratched at one ear.
“They kill Workers for messing up food? Even back in my tribe, that’s crazy. Even if it were the dead of winter and someone kicked over a cook pot, we’d just hit them.”
“It’s not as if he even ruined the soup. Really.”
Pekona’s comment drew Ylawes up short. She was scratching at her side.
“If it was crickets, it’d be fine.”
Larr pointed at Pekona.
“Gross. She eats crickets.”
Ylawes tried not to make a face of disgust. What…raw? Well, fried apparently, and Pekona had a point. The roaches were long dead—and Ylawes briskly patted Infinitypear on the shoulder. He brushed snow off the Antinium and wished he’d carried Rasktooth over.
“No one’s going to harm you for making a mistake like that, Infinitypear. My word and honor on it. It wasn’t a good mistake, but—”
The Captain of the Silver Swords hesitated. He’d never had a junior, not really. Dawil, Falene, and himself had all fallen in together at the same level, and while they’d journeyed with other people and even tried other members, they were just a solid team who really balanced each other.
What to say? He defaulted to what he knew.
“No member of my team will be punished for doing their best. If anyone comes after you, be it Dawil or anyone, come find me. Just don’t put roaches in the pot and we’re fine, alright?”
He patted Infinitypear on the shoulder again, and the Worker looked at him.
“You are a very nice person, Captain Ylawes. You do not want me to pay for the soup?”
“No. We have plenty of food.”
Ylawes smiled, and Infinitypear stared at him. He stared at the ground.
“I am still very sad I ruined the soup. I will apologize. Thank you, Captain Ylawes.”
He began to head back to the pot—then turned.
“You are the nicest captain I have ever had. Rasktooth says so too. No one is nicer to us, not even Niers.”
He trundled off, then turned back.
“He was scary.”
Ylawes Byres stood there a second as Larr blinked and asked Pekona if that meant the Niers…and the [Knight] felt unaccountably guilty.
The nicest captain…? He’d barely done anything for the duo besides bring them on and pay them. He barely knew anything about them. Killed for messing up a soup pot.
Was that what Yvlon had learned from Ksmvr? Ylawes stood there a second. For the first time, he realized he truly felt bad for an Antinium. And wondered how he could make Infinitypear less terrified and upset. Then he had a bad idea.
 
——
 
When they got back to the stew pot, a grumpy Dawil accepted Infinitypear’s apology, moreso when he saw how guilty the Antinium was. Falene was exasperated, the rest of the team disappointed, but Rasktooth patted Infinitypear on the back.
“You ruin soup, brother. Is okay. You and I can eat, eh?”
They’d tossed the roaches out of the soup, but no one wanted any, even Pekona. The Cave Goblin didn’t care; he took a bowl as everyone else took some sandwiches Votto had made up. He took a few bites, crunched into something, and chewed.
“Is good roaches, too. What, they sugar-coated?”
Infinitypear stared at a bowl of soup, and Dawil sighed to Ylawes.
“Thanks for finding him, lad. Now I feel like the ogre in the room seeing how afraid the poor lad was of me. At least we’ve got food for them for a few days, huh?”
He glumly took a sandwich, and Ylawes eyed the pot. This was a bad idea. But Ylawes wasn’t an imaginative person, and he felt like there was only one way to salvage some of the situation.
“It looked like a good stew. It probably still is—you got the roaches out, and they weren’t alive, were they? G-give me a bowl.”
Rasktooth and Infinitypear looked up. Dawil blinked, and Falene’s mouth opened, full of food, in a look of pure horror. The rest of Vuliel Drae stared at Ylawes, but the [Knight] walked over, eyed the soup, and very gingerly ladled himself a bowl.
He sat down, knowing all eyes were on him, and tried to smile at Infinitypear. His stomach was not having it, though.
There aren’t any roaches in here—they were barely in for a second. Dead gods, he’d picked weevils out of bad bread and seen nastiness in food before.
—That was different from this. Ylawes, with the will that had allowed him to face down Facestealer, slowly inserted a spoon into the bowl and inspected the spoonful.
