The man had a huge belly and laugh, and he clasped Yorrned’s shoulder; the two were clearly old friends. He was even wearing one of those white hats and aprons—Ylawes couldn’t imagine how hard it was to keep clean—and he bowed to the Gold-rank team, clearly wanting to leave an impact.
“I closed my restaurant just for this! I’ll be serving you, Captain Ylawes, when we set up a town!”
“A town?”
Ylawes had reviewed the Consortium of Enterprise’s plans, and he blinked at this.
“I thought you were setting up an ore mining operation, Master Yorrned.”
The [Merchant] waved an airy hand.
“And what does any mine need but a town? Think of it, Captain Ylawes. What is missing from a new colony but good cooking? Culture? I’ve brought a number of things—in my own Chests of Holding, mind you—that will add to the comfort of our enterprise greatly. The Consortium will encamp, but in style! Now, to New Lands and new ventures!”
He toasted everyone, but Ylawes drank sparsely and then gave his glass to Rasktooth and Infinitypear, who’d somehow not been given a drink. The food was quite good, though he wondered, briefly, how [Chef] Votto would handle new food they’d surely have to acquire in the New Lands.
In the middle of the night, Ylawes woke up and wondered to himself—
If they had a [Chef], he’d surely brought lots of long-lasting food, hadn’t he? A restaurant was not like a long-term trip.
He was sure someone with that class wouldn’t make that mistake. Or Merchant Yorrned.
 
 
Day 4 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
After three days, Ylawes began to be convinced there wasn’t much new to the geography of the New Lands.
“It’s just too snowy to tell, lad.”
Dawil was of the opinion most of the changes wouldn’t be hugely geographical but in plant life, and the cold snow did turn everything blank. But then, maybe it was that they hadn’t gotten that far.
Problem one: after they’d passed Goisedall, the road had vanished.
Oh, there were signs of travel—tracks, trash, campfires, and even, once, a broken wheel—but the point of the New Lands was to go somewhere new.
The moment the Consortium had seen the tracks, Merchant Yorrned had held a vote, and 4-2, they’d agreed to go away from any other tracks. They angled northwards—most tracks seemed to be headed straight west—and encountered problem two:
Without a road, those wagon wheels got a lot less traction.
Snow was slick. Grass, which Ylawes could see poking up from the snow, oddly yellowish green, was slick. The wagon wheels had problems.
Three [Merchants] had solutions. One had [Caravan Unslowed (Mild Terrain)]. Another was Merchant Tivete with her wheels, and the third had enough Chests of Holding that his wagons were relatively unslowed.
The others slogged on for a day until Dawil, who’d been puzzling over the problem, raised a solution.
“Aren’t there offroad wheels or the like? Surely we’ve got some. Else, we could notch the wheels so they’ve got more traction.”
A quick consultation with the [Merchants] proved that they had such wheels, in fact—but Yorrned had not bought enough to outfit his entire caravan with both on-road and off-road wheels.
“I was assured these wheels would do fine on most surfaces!”
He complained as they stopped to alter the wheels he had, protesting at the possibility of breakage. Dawil grunted to Ylawes.
“Off-road a regular road, maybe. For a few hours, or on overgrown trails. But not for days on end. If we get into any highlands, they’ll move a bit better. So long as we’ve got not many rocks. Speaking of which, you seen any monsters yet? Or animals at all?”
“Not many. But then—since we’ve been following the first few waves, I imagine they’ve scared or hunted anything close to the border.”
“True enough. Say, you think that [Chef] is going to make demoned eggs again tonight? How many eggs does the fellow have?”
Ylawes shrugged.
“As many as you have chickens to lay per day, I’ll wager.”
Dawil scratched at his head.
“…We don’t have chickens.”
The two blinked at each other. Dead gods, how many eggs had that man brought?
 
 
Day 7 of the Consortium of Enterprise Expeditions
 
You’d think that the hardest part of acting as security on a trip like this would be the threats. But in Ylawes’ experience, adventurers hated guard-jobs because they were always people and politics.
If you couldn’t smooth things over with the people you were protecting when incidents occurred, or navigate things like jostling with another caravan over a broken wagon wheel, you ran into trouble. And the more you fought, the bigger problems got.
He liked to think he had a decent personality for smoothing things over. Well, the [Merchants] kept to themselves.
The caravaners were largely decent folks excited to strike a fortune. Ylawes had gotten to know most by name, if vaguely, but if there was a problem group, it was, well, who you thought it would be.
Vuliel Drae and Poke Duo were just—new. Both to adventuring and to working together. Including a Cave Goblin and Antinium in his team had been a rash decision. But you could argue they were the solid picks.
Vuliel Drae had once, inadvertently, nearly destroyed Liscor by destroying a bunch of Face-Eater Moth eggs. Even now, though they were chastened by the experience, they were just unseasoned as adventurers went.
Dasha was a great example of that.
Dawil didn’t like Dasha, and the Dwarf got along with almost everyone. But Dasha got on his nerves, probably because she tended to copy his beard-stroking and talked about Dwarves and smithing, but in a way that felt…inauthentic.
Worse, she seemed to have picked up on this and kept trying to get on Dawil’s good side. On the other hand, you had Larr, who was standoffish to the point of being rude.
“Need anyone to stand lookout with you, Larr? It’s a long night shift.”
“I’m fine. I did it for the team all the time. Pekona will trade off midway through the night. You can sleep.”
Ylawes had tried to offer to help take watches, but Larr seemed to think the Gold-rank team members were too good for night duty. And Pekona? Pekona had lost one hand, but barely spoke to anyone.
At least Insill and Anith were decent, though Anith was more timid as a leader than Ylawes liked. At least, with Ylawes, the Jackal Beastkin deferred to him constantly. Insill was fine, though he seemed to be a kind of easygoing glue; he’d jolly everyone along.
Frankly, if you put Vuliel Drae on a plate and dissected them, Ylawes bet they would have dissolved by the time they reached Gold-rank. But they were brave.
They were brave. So he kept at it, trying to build team cohesion as he saw it. Vuliel Drae was still malleable enough for Ylawes to surprise Larr by taking over Pekona’s night shift, offer to practice with her in the morning, and for Falene to befriend Anith by teaching him spells. Dawil went and talked with Dasha about the home she’d never been to, and so Vuliel Drae did improve.
But Poke Duo?
…Problems arose the first week of the New Lands expedition.
 
——
 
“Hey, Chieftain-boss. You want I eat grass?”
Rasktooth found Ylawes as the caravan was almost a week past the border of the New Lands. He normally rode Infinitypear’s shoulders or sat in the wagon. He’d waved at Ylawes as the man rode past.
“Excuse me?”
“Eat grass. I should eat?”
Rasktooth had a lot of the yellowish grass on the ground. It looked like, well, grass. Long and lush, despite the snow that had been covering it. Ylawes had multiple questions.
“I, er—why? And why are you calling me Chieftain, Rasktooth?”
“Is you not Chieftain? How about Captain-boss?”
“What about just ‘Captain’?”
“Eh. Sounds bad. How about Human-Hob?”
“…No.”
Rasktooth seemed disappointed at this. He and Infinitypear had been decent companions this ride south. They’d mostly been like children. Running about, chasing racoons, digging for treasure and often finding some—so energetic and eager sometimes Ylawes worried he’d made a mistake.
Children shouldn’t be adventurers. But when he’d told Erin his intent to take them with him, she’d smiled. Antinium and Goblins didn’t get to be children, and for all they were young, Infinitypear had fought in a war, and he had [Spearmaster] Lulv’s spear, which might actually make him high Silver-rank if he used it well.
And Rasktooth? The Goblin was sitting cross-legged, unable to move, but he and Infinitypear had put anything he might need around him. He had a crossbow at his side, and it was loaded. Ready to fire. Something about him reminded Ylawes a bit of Crossbow Stan.
Ready to fire. The Cave Goblin would take a potshot at anything he saw move. Rabbits, birds—and he often winged them. In a sense, he might be the most veteran fighter aside from the Silver Swords.
He was also, intriguingly, a [Cook] as well as an actual [Adventurer], and his time living in Liscor’s dungeons had honed Goblin’s natural survival knowledge. Like in this case.
“Why would you eat grass, Rasktooth?”
“See if edible. Like good moss or mushrooms. This probably not edible, but maybe? You say word, and I eat grass.”
Rasktooth smiled, and Ylawes blinked at him.
“I don’t think we’re in need of that, Rasktooth. Mind you, if it was edible, that would be good to know. Wait. Is any grass edible?”
He didn’t believe it was so, but Rasktooth grinned as Falene rode over. The half-Elf glanced at Rasktooth awkwardly, and Ylawes saw Rasktooth beaming at her. Falene was less—welcoming with him around, but she smiled politely behind Ylawes.
“What’s this about grass?”
When they explained, Falene fiddled with her glasses.
“Oh, some grass is. Crabgrass, for instance. But only the seeds. Can you identify this grass by that, Rasktooth? It’s not spring.”
“I can try. Just say word.”
“If you want to nibble, go ahead.”
Ylawes gave up, but Rasktooth shook his head energetically.
“No. I mean…I eat grass and drink water all day. Two days. If I poop bad and get hungry, grass can’t be eat. See?”
A two-day, all-grass diet? Ylawes shuddered at the prospect. He shook his head vehemently.
“I sincerely doubt the grass is edible, don’t you, Rasktooth?”
“Yah. Probably not. But could check.”
Ylawes hesitated, then patted the little Goblin on the shoulder.
“I appreciate your enthusiasm. But if you want to hunt anything for the cook pots, that would be more useful.”
“Sure, sure.”
The Cave Goblin sighed, scratched at his back, and pulled himself over to one side of the moving wagon to lean over. But he never let the loaded crossbow stray out of arm’s reach or let his view of the landscape be obstructed.
Ylawes turned to look for Infinitypear and saw the Worker awkwardly riding a pony. Both he and Rasktooth were bundled up for the cold, but they had interesting clothing. Rasktooth had a sharp red hat enchanted to apparently give him better sight, and they’d elected to buy thick coats that could hang over both. Infinitypear had had to add space for his extra arms, but he actually had the first Antinium coat Ylawes had ever seen.
It was huge and bulky to sit over his backshell, but he had four sleeves for his arms. Normally, if it was cold, Antinium just wore a cloak at most.
“Who made that for him?”
Ylawes thought to ask about the coat. He doubted many [Tailors] in Liscor would make that coat, even if they were accepting new coin.
“Oh, that was me.”
Insill waved a hand, and Ylawes blinked at him.
“You can sew?”
“Sure! I just bought another coat, hacked off the sleeves, and sewed them on with a proper cross-stitch. It’s not fancy, but Infinitypear was really happy about—twang.”
That was the sound of Rasktooth firing a crossbow just past the [Rogue]. Insill dove off his horse, and Ylawes jerked; the Cave Goblin’s laughter from his wagon was loud.
“I got it! Stupid teleport-rabbit! Infinitypear, victory!”
Rasktooth had nailed a Waisrabbit. Teleportation only worked if the rabbit saw a threat coming. Infinitypear rode over to it, picked up the rabbit, and the two celebrated. Ylawes opened his mouth to ask Rasktooth not to take potshots when people might get hit, and he hesitated.
It was a good shot. He scratched his head, not sure how to talk to these two adventurers.
 
——
 
—The [Chef], Master Votto, didn’t have responsibility for every meal. Lunch was largely your own affair with the supplies brought over, just some hard, unleavened bread and fresh, soft cheese, or some good sausage and olives to go along with everything.
Sometimes, the caravan decided to stop for a lunch break, and then you were on your own. Everyone had a cooking pot allotted to their wagon, and one of the things the Silver Swords had learned was it was nice to have a hot meal for lunch. You could live on a cold sandwich you gnawed on as you rode, but how much fun was that?
“Alright, lads. What’ve we got for a stew? Come on, let’s make a proper forever-stew. I reckon we’ve got the basis for a good one.”
Dawil decided he’d had enough of said cold lunches one break and had Falene start a fire on the ground. The half-Elf rolled her eyes, but she produced a magical flame, and Dawil lugged out a pot.
“Forever stew? Do we have a magical item?”
Pekona hesitated. She was one of two people in their group who spoke another language, like Rasktooth, and she looked puzzled until Larr explained.
“No, that’s what the north calls it. We call it Traveller’s Stew. Or Rock Soup. Master Dawil, want me to find a rock?”
“Good idea, lad. Make sure it’s nice and washed! Let’s have some good snow. Dasha, Insill, snow. What’ve we scavenged?”
Pekona grew more confused—and alarmed—by the inclusion of a big, round stone that Larr found. Ylawes strode over with a smile.
“Is this another joke?”
She seemed wary of being pranked, but Ylawes explained.
“It’s no prank, Pekona. Rather—I haven’t had forever stew in a while. It’s something adventurers and travellers make. You put in food, leftovers, and new food. Everyone contributes something. Then you save it for the next day. The rock is heated and helps keep the soup warm.”
“Also, adds flavor.”
Larr was helping pack a cauldron with snow that was melting as the iron pot heated over Falene’s flame. Dawil rubbed his hands.
“Ah, fire magic. I knew you were good for something, Pointy.”
The arch look she gave him was followed by a spark that landed in his beard. Dawil swore as Falene got laughter from Dasha and Rasktooth. Then the half-Elf eyed the pot critically.
“Forever stew isn’t something you can just make, Dawil. Unless we’re going to ask Votto for more supplies, do we have enough to make it…palatable?”
The Dwarf gave her an arch look.
