At roughly the same time as some of the expeditions were first reaching the New Lands proper, a half-Elf began to seriously look into the issue of farming. Along with other concerns he hadn’t anticipated. Of course, he had been set for hardship. He just wondered if everyone else had been.
His name was Zedalien, and he had once served a [Lady] who’d burned like fire and blazed one final time before going out.
A fine death.
A death of deaths. The kind that they’d remember of her long after her deeds and failures vanished. At least, he would.
Zedalien was formerly Zedalien, a Steward of the House of El in service to Maviola El, and had served one of the Five Families for generations of Human lives.
With the death of Maviola El, he’d quit. He thought Deilan El was a fine successor, and the man had learned quite well and might have had the head for business his late aunt did not.
But it would not be the same. Therefore, Zedalien had quit with that vague intention all half-Elves did of going ‘home’ to one of the traditional villages, settling down, and passing centuries in those timeless places.
He’d gone to Gaiil-Drome, sat in one of those eternal traditional villages, and gotten so sick of it that he’d left after two weeks. Then he’d tried to retire and enjoy the wealth he’d built up over the decades—until he’d heard the call.
It had come from the New Lands of Izril as they rose. It had been of adventure, danger, yes, but opportunity. Here was a new land free of prejudice and kingdoms. So half-Elves had come to plant new forests on the shores, and Zedalien had gone back to Izril and marshaled every single half-Elf he thought could make the journey.
It had not been easy to be first. Half-Elves across the world had contributed wealth—sometimes extraordinary amounts—and ancient colony ships, and nations like the Claiven Earth had sent high-level half-Elves, but they were their own worst enemy.
You had traditionalists from the villages, more worldly half-Elves from Gaiil-Drome’s cities, ‘outsiders’ who had left long ago and become their own people like the Claiven Earth or Baleros’ roaming nomads, and even ones from Rhir, and they all had to get along and compromise on a vision.
The arguments on board ships, the petty factional disputes, and the Alchemist Irurx haunting them had all been one great ordeal. Now that they were finally here?
Well, Zedalien had served a [Lady] who had once brawled with Gresaria Wellfar in the surf at dawn, charged an army with a burning flag, and stolen more horses than most [Horsethieves]. He was infamous for his ability to manage both her and the House of El’s admittedly poor finances and organize everything.
So when Zedalien tossed a [Court Mage] off a balcony, he meant it.
Over a month had passed since they’d begun construction of Inserelad’reanum. Which was a name he hadn’t chosen to represent the new city of half-Elves.
It was going up tolerably well, but frankly, he was getting sick of the infighting. You had a lot of Gaiil-Drome’s…privileged half-Elves working on the ‘inner city’ and thus their houses, which they wanted to be more like mansions, while most of the others were still building a wall and harbor.
Many were still living on the colony ships, which were thankfully large and well-appointed, but the strife was real.
The Izrilian half-Elves were nominally under Zedalien’s authority. He hadn’t asked for it, but there weren’t that many half-Elves from Izril, and they’d taken one look at the other leaders and appointed the highest-level half-Elf among them with experience in leadership.
Hence, he had a voice, but a small one. The worst kind to have. But Zedalien had played the game.
Endear yourselves to the other factions. Claiven Earth were standoffish, but they quite respected his level. The Balerosian half-Elves were wild and restless, but he’d managed to get on their good side by not being as uptight and frankly pretentious as Gaiil-Drome’s lot.
The Terandrian contingent was the worst, mostly because he was affiliated with the House of El, thus they pulled rank on him for being a half-Elf who’d left home and also one with inferior royal blood. But perhaps the worst were the [Mages].
“The manaweave bedding should be first on our priority-list, Zedalien.”
“We don’t have roofs to put over a tenth of the people here, and you want [Mage]-beds, Court Mage Hareithion?”
The [Court Mage] came from one of the Terandrian nations, and he was Level 28. He brushed at his hair.
“Zedalien—brother.”
He tried for the traditional ‘brother’ of half-Elves, which Zedalien had always found pretentious. Hareithion smiled blithely.
“You must acknowledge that we [Mages] are sinking quite a lot of mana into the daily work.”
Zedalien folded his arms.
“I readily acknowledge that, Magus Hareithion. Your spells help lift wood into place. It’s helped alter earth for foundations, even grown trees in the soil we’ve imported.”
Importing soil so some of the plants took root. Not his idea, but it could result in a great first harvest—if they’d stop planting trees that would take centuries to grow. Not even fruit-bearing trees. Zedalien went on.
“—But our [Warriors] and every other class works as hard. I don’t want to be rude…”
“Perish the thought, brother.”
“…But I will, because if I may be blunt, our non-Terandrian cousins don’t feel as though the construction of the ‘inner city’ is a good use of time. To be more blunt, they’re annoyed your people are wasting time building the interior when we have to finish defences. None of them want to build special, mage-centric enclosures for your people.”
Magus Hareithion’s smile faltered.
“We would, of course, share, but it would help us replenish our magic without relying on mana potions or meditation, Zedalien.”
“Steward Zedalien.”
“I do beg your pardon?”
Zedalien’s voice was level.
“If we are being polite, your title is Magus or Court Mage, Hareithion. I was Steward Zedalien. You may refer to me as Speaker for Izril, if you wish.”
He was being impolite, but frankly, he had had it up to here with Hareithion’s requests. So when the Court Mage hesitated and looked upset, well—
Some of the younger half-Elves in the ‘inner city’ looked rather offended by Zedalien’s frank talk, but he had no doubt others were hiding smiles at seeing the [Court Mage] being taken down a peg. Zedalien outleveled him and, in a very real sense, probably outranked the kingdom that Hareithion had abandoned. The House of El was one of the Five Families of Izril.
“—Brother. I do apologize if I’ve seemed rude. Perish the thought! We are all working to the same cause, and as half-Elves, it behooves us to have some decency. Your contingent is one of the most reasonable, and if I may say so, the other factions would listen to your request more than ours.”
Zedalien ignored the comment as he strode along a walkway being built over an open plaza. A mansion complete with pale marble and wood brought at great cost to create the sweeping, open canopy style that some half-Elves loved so much. Reminiscent of tree-housing, but combined with the richness of nobility.
I wonder why your side is seen to be less reasonable? Hareithion leaned over.
“Frankly, we will well admit the request for rooms dedicated to [Mages] seems excessive, even from our side. But if it is? Our brothers and sisters from Chandrar, Baleros, and so on are hardier stock. If they could endure a bit longer for this crucial—”
That was where the balcony came in. Zedalien stopped, grabbed Hareithion by the shoulders, and tossed him.
The [Mage] shouted and did not fall to his death—he floated at the last second, flailing, then landed on his back and stared up at Zedalien. Calmly, the half-Elf dusted his hands off and walked away.
 
——
 
“Zedalien! A word?”
To his relief, he wasn’t going to be attacked by Gaiil-Drome for the insult of mage-tossing, but rather, Zedalien saw two half-Elves striding towards him and smiled.
Warden Jespeire and one of his people, Iturtexi, were both half-Elves of the forest. Not ‘connections with the forest’. The actual forest, which meant they wore armor that blended in with both tree trunks and branches, were not shy about bushwacking or stomping on anything that looked like a bug or snake, and had combat experience in Baleros.
“Warden, how does word circulate that fast?”
Jespeire clasped a hand with Zedalien, almost as if checking how strong the other half-Elf was, and chuckled.
“Even a lot of the younger Terandrians are sick of hearing their elders and betters talk. When they saw you lose your temper—what was it about?”
“Building beds for the Terandrian faction before everything else.”
“Selphid’s tits, really?”
Both half-Elves reacted with plain disgust. They came from practical half-Elven communities and had patently felt like they’d been relegated to lesser roles. As Zedalien saw it, there were a few standout groups.
Gaiil-Drome was a half-Elven nation, and a lot Terandrians had rallied around the [Lady of the Woods], Ruveden, who was one of the highest-level half-Elves present. There had been a Treespeaker—whom Alchemist Irurx had killed.
Short of a Treespeaker, the Claiven Earth, led by their [Voice of the Earth], was also next—both highly traditional factions with completely different cultures.
Jespeire was part of one of the ‘lesser’ settlements both in terms of fame and prestige, but there were a lot of half-Elves like his group who had banded together to have a proper say in things. Right now, he was grimacing.
“Makes you want to pick up and sail right back home, doesn’t it?”
“I think it will be better when we have things constructed and we can all rest—and be away from one another. Then we can rely solely upon results rather than trust we’re all working at the same pace and with the same intention.”
It was hard founding a new nation, which is what this was. Later, they could create an economy, but when you were all working without pay, in a sense, it was difficult when one group seemed self-interested.
Jespeire nodded. He took Zedalien on a walk away from the inner city, then along the huge wall going up at the city’s boundaries, stretching far into the distance in a huge circle. It was an ambitious project, which was part of why it was taking so long; the half-Elves weren’t just building with [Earth Wall] spells or terraforming the land. They intended to create a huge barrier as a first line of defense to their forest. In fact, the wall was a good indication of claimed land. They intended to claim far more, but this is what they could hold, and only a few groups were scouting further.
Groups like Jespeire’s, actually. He was travel-worn, and Zedalien strode towards the camp where they’d set up. Another thing that all the traditionalists objected to: they didn’t like the cookfires, the trash, the commotion, and would eat on their ships, meditating then complaining about the rapid noise of the waves.
Well, here at least, Zedalien felt comfortable, like in the workshops of the House of El.
[Detect Flaw: Extended Range]. Zedalien looked around, then pointed.
“Someone’s about to poison everyone with food coming out of that pot. Bad mushroom, it looks like. That section of the wall’s got foundational problems.”
“Damn. Really? Iturtexi, get on it!”
The younger half-Elf took off at a dead run. Zedalien saw them intercept the first half-Elf about to receive a pot of food, and Jespeire sighed.
“Another idiot who thinks we’re all in touch with nature so they can pluck a mushroom and stick it in a pot. Or maybe they didn’t wash their hands. I hear that’s ‘natural’ too.”
“Some are working as hard as others.”
Zedalien felt compelled to not stomp on their nobler cousins. He felt bad about the toss, but Warden Jespeire rolled his neck.
“They are…but faces of Elves, how will we work together and become one nation after this?”
“The Claiven Earth did it.”
“Well, you think they’d damn well be better at it! Sorry—I suppose we’re upset because we’ve been failing a bit, too. It makes being harped on easier to know you’re as annoyed as we are.”
Jespeire snapped, then looked embarrassed. Because that was fascinating, Zedalien motioned, and they went for a walk around the walls. All the half-Elves were there, including Terandrians, and they were working roots into the earth walls, letting them grow with magic to create a unique foundation before layering earth and stone through the wall.
The idea was also to plant seeds so, in time, this wall would become natural—something to draw on if you had a [Druid] handy.
Half-Elves and nature. Name a more stereotypical combo. Zedalien really felt out of place here. Even more than Jespeire.
“Trouble with the Balerosian contingent?”
“I can’t speak for all of us. We’re not one people, not at all. I saw other groups my own side’s warred with, and yet they come to us because we’re now ‘on the same side’. Argh. I suppose there’s no way that’s not embarrassing to say it—we’ve failed to plant our own sapling. Not a Great Tree, but a nice, magical one. It won’t root well.”
That was surprising. Zedalien’s brows rose.
“Truly?”
Warden Jespeire looked miserable.
“Here we are while Gaiil-Drome’s already got saplings up and transplanted an entire tree into their fancy soil. We’ve got two [Earth Mages]—but we might have to, uh, ask for one of their [Treetenders] to take a look. It’s just not happy.”
Strange. Now, the Izrilian half-Elves didn’t have a magical tree to plant, not having that kind of long presence. But as Jespeire confided in Zedalien, the Izrilian half-Elf did what came naturally.
“If that’s the problem, I know a [Treetender] who might not be the first to castigate. Let’s visit the Claiven Earth.”
“You think that wouldn’t embarrass us?”
“Not if I ask. Besides, who else has that kind of class?”
It was indeed a rare one, and the two set out as the relieved Warden told Zedalien about the scouting.
“It’s bare coastal soil all the way from here to Nombernaught. Mostly because of the winter, but inland? You can see a lot of plant life under the snow. The grass is healthy; it’s already growing in the cleared land.”
It was true. The grass, overly yellow, but still essentially grass, had begun to grow in the areas the half-Elves had cleared of snow and warmed with magic. And there was more flora inland?
“What have you seen?”
“Ruins. Huge valleys—this was all seafloor, so we’re still finding lots of fish bones, but weird monsters. It’s not just us; Nombernaught is trying to expand fast too. But I think they have a problem. Heard about the south?”
“No. Are they fighting with Drakes already?”
