Quilatalap’s Death Domain was simply the still, inevitable end that awaited all forces aimed his way. In that sort of understanding, Quilatalap’s Death Domain was both adaptation and evasion, but an adaptation of the exterior force into one that could be evaded and lived-within by Quilatalap.

Of course, that was Quilatalap’s and most other people’s idea of what ‘Elemental Death’ meant, which, in turn, is how Elemental Death protected them from outside forces. Most people had different ideas of what Elements did what, and that either contributed to or hindered how one could use those various Elements in various ways.

The Elements still had certain inalienable and non-connotative ways they functioned, though.

Some Elements had a very hard time existing down here just because of what they were, like Light and Air, and all of those comparable Elements, and especially Lightning. This fact made the Ritual of Breaking rather potent when used down here, in the Abyss, against the Lightning Shield.

That artifact sat on a central kendrithyst pillar in the middle of the Abyssal Lake, about 3 meters from the surface of the lake, and surrounded by a bubble of translucent Abyss. The Lightning Shield was a shield of pure white metal, simple in construction, with four small spikes around the edge and one slightly larger spike in the center of the shield, pointing outward. Lightning lingered upon those spikes, jumping from point to point, occasionally striking against the abyssal bubble-cage and yet failing completely to free itself.

It called to the Storm high above, so far beyond the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst, and the Storm tried, and failed to answer.

The shield was guarded by Shades, after all. It was also guarded by a leviathan that curled around the black crystal base, lounging around like a seal half on shore, half in the waves. That leviathan gazed at Erick and Caretaker with half-lidded red eyes before it turned away, to look at the Shades splashing in the ‘water’ in front of it.

From all across the small, impromptu gathering of boats and nude swimming in the depths, Shades were already looking their way, but most went back to their groups to talk about this or that when a war didn’t instantly break out. Only the ones nearest to the welcoming zone kept their eyes on Erick, and Caretaker.

One of those people stepped away from his group of ‘friends’, a smile full of fangs as he said, “Welcome to the party, Caretaker and guest. What might your name—”

And something shifted.

Erick saw that shift primarily in the souls of all the Shades all around, and in the power in the air. Like when people woke up beyond the Black Gate, the souls of the people here began to stabilize, to thicken with density that swirled into their cores and then went blank, for they were now beyond the scope of normal sensing magics, like all Shades tended to be unless they specifically made themselves otherwise.

But Erick’s All-Seeing Eye around his neck still made them and their actions visible.

He saw the one approaching them trying to sneak power through his bare feet, into the crystal underfoot, to strike up at Erick with some sort of Abyssal spellwork.

Erick pointed at the spellwork, interrupting the Shade’s words with his own. “If you fire that at me, I will annihilate you as I did those leviathans up above.” The Shade’s grin turned even more deadly and his spell mutated, falling deeper into the crystal, throwing up some sort of Illusion work to pretend to simply be stilled, while in actuality the spellwork went wide, into the Abyssal Lake, to prepare a well of power just beyond the welcoming platform. Erick adjusted his finger to point at the new source of power. “One last chance to not make this mistake.”

Caretaker spoke, “Kill him and be done with it, Erick.”

Erick did so, Benevolent Lightning flickering out to annihilate the Shade, piercing through a sudden protective spellwork blossoming around the Shade, made of Shadow, Abyss, and one final layer of what felt like a Water Domain, which had been the Shade’s strongest defense. It did not save him. Benevolence traversed all barriers. That Benevolence coruscated from the Shade’s dead flesh, sparking here and there as it ground itself upon the crystal underfoot, and upon the spellwork the Shade had been charging up.

Illumination soaked into the Abyssal Lake and ended there as the Shade fell to the ground and began sprouting glowing mushrooms. The light of those shrooms was comparable to the light of the lanterns and party lights hanging all around, and like those other lights the shrooms only served to make the shadows that much deeper.

As the Benevolence finished flickering and the shrooms finished growing, the gentle drift of spores and mushroom-infested leviathan gore began to strike the Abyssal Lake like sparks falling onto solid stone. Mostly, those sparks died. But here and there some shrooms began to grow upon the surface of the Abyssal Lake itself, like floating lilies.

Erick smiled over the corpse of the former Shade, saying to the man’s former group, “Hope you all don’t mind the lights! It’s not actually Lightning, as you’ve probably guessed, so it shouldn’t interfere with the Ritual of Breaking at all.”

Every nearby Shade was watching him, but many were watching each other more; Erick had made a splash, but he was not the target of focus yet. The Shades, as ever, fought each other more than they fought outsiders, for they were the power in this world and all outsiders were fair-game playthings.

Caretaker gave Erick an easy side-glare which was easy enough to read. Erick had stepped too far out of line, but it wasn’t a disaster yet.

Erick shrugged at Caretaker, saying, “There’s no way that my invitation here was going to go unnoticed. Might as well say hello properly.”

Caretaker gave a tiny nod.

Erick stepped forward and flicked the mushroom corpse into the Abyssal waters. Some of it sank under the surface, where tiny, near-invisible abyssal fish began to rip into it like a whole lot of carnivorous minnows, but most of the body stayed on the surface, the mushrooms growing from it shrinking under the pressure and glowing brighter, like stars upon an inverted sky. They looked sort of like puffballs.

So a multi-form sort of shroom. Beautiful.

Erick turned most of his attentions to the dead Shade’s small group, saying, “Hello there. I’m here for the show and maybe to steal something if an opportunity should arise.”

Slowly, surely, like a sun dawning, Erick watched as two of the three Shades from the dead Shade’s group went from ‘Do I need to kill him?’ to ‘Is this guy serious?’ to ‘Oh Melemizargo, he is! How hilarious! Let’s let someone else kill him’. The hard lines of thin lips turned upward at the edges and eyes full of light crinkled in the corners, and these Shades allowed Erick to believe that he was safe. A guy two barges over —who looked very ready to throw down— laughed first, and loud, and his reaction was probably more genuine. The girls and guy in the dead Shade’s group waved Erick off and then went back to talking amongst themselves, pretending not to look at Erick as they continued to openly plot against any others, discussing who they could murder to make themselves look stronger. The music of tortured souls once again rose into the thick air, and the party, which had never really stopped, resumed.

Erick took the dismissal from the first Shade group with aplomb, walking forward down the central pier of the gathered boat party, saying, “First thing to steal is some pastries. Caretaker!” Erick called out, as he turned— And Caretaker was already there right behind him. Erick pretended to be surprised. “Oy! You sure can sneak up on a guy’s backside when you want to!”

Shades chuckled, some of them still watching Erick for weakness. At his casual joke they mostly decided not to try shit, but some of them looked at Caretaker for weakness, because no matter what, Erick was being way too friendly with Caretaker, which meant this was a deep relationship. They looked to exploit that.

The Caretaker of the Armory put a hand on Erick’s empty shoulder, his voice rumbling, “I had forgotten how charming you can be sometimes.” Quilatalap was playing up the deep relationship, which was not that hard. “Want to strip and join the swimming?”

“Ahhh! You tempt me… Later. I should go say hello to that guy you mentioned, right?”

“Sure.” Caretaker lifted his head toward the barge next to the Shield. “Verrod is over there.”

Verrod of Vast Skies was a demi of grey skin and white hair who sat on a comfortable beach chair on a taller barge than most. He wore a loincloth of black and his white eyes were focused on the sky, on falling mushrooms that fell like slow comets to the lake. He was not the only one watching the show still falling from above. Aside from the other mostly-nude people on his barge, Purodhalia was there.

Melemizargo’s [Familiar] was a 10 meter tall black-spiked sea urchin. He clung to the back of Verrod’s barge like a settled spider.

“Oh!” Erick said, as he started walking that way. “Purodhalia is here, too?”

Meaning: ‘Is that really Purodhalia?’

Quilatalap said, “I’m as surprised as you are.”

Ah. That was the real Purodhalia.

Erick had no idea how they were ‘beyond the Black Gate’ without the ‘disintegration from incompatibility with Particles and this world’ issue. How, exactly, had Quilatalap done all this? Where, exactly, had the Wizardry started to transform this world into something real? Maybe Sininindi was to blame, but really, Erick was probably to blame—

Or Melemizargo!

This might be Melemizargo’s fault. Yes. Let’s go with that.

Erick led the way down the pier and now they were there, at the gangplank leading up to the Champion of Melemizargo’s vessel. A few Shades lounging on the lower decks looked at Erick and Caretaker, swishing their drinks in hand, but none of them made to stop Erick as he led the way onto the ship itself.

Up a small staircase, up onto the upper sun deck, Erick strode, saying, “I have to say, I feel kinda overdressed.”

No one acknowledged Erick. All of them continued to stare at the slow starfall, seeming to enjoy it a lot.

Caretaker came up to Erick’s side. “The formal ceremony won’t be for a while so we can change if you want. Although, we are still waiting for Sininindi’s forces to make some sort of move.”

Without looking at Erick, Verrod said, “And you might be that move, Erick.” He tore his gaze from the sky, and that act seemed to pain him. With blazing white eyes he regarded Caretaker, and said, “Caretaker. Your new boyfriend sure can put on a show. What Element is that? Something new, and yet it appears like something old. Like Primal Lightning with a Growth flavoring.”

That was a dangerous accusation, but it had been said with all the depth of someone talking about the weather.

Caretaker nodded to Erick.

And Erick said, “It’s probably not Primal Lightning, as far as I know. Probably.”

“… ‘Probably not’, he says.” Verrod sighed. “Either way you’re touched by Melemizargo, that’s for sure. Purodhalia told me to simply let you take the Shield, in honor of our shared loyalties to the Dark—”

The nearby Shades did not like that.

By their reactions, none of the other Shades had known this until Verrod had said it. Instantly, two Shades launched out of their chairs, saying variations of ‘No!’. Others were more devious and angry. Erick saw battle lines draw and alliances spread throughout the entire gathering of around 120 Shades. Some of them were ready to fight. Others would allow themselves to be dominoes that would join the fight as soon as someone else started it.

And then Verrod rose from his beach chair, taking command. He was slightly taller than Erick. “Show us proof that you are as much a Champion of Melemizargo as I am, and I will let you take the Shield without a fight. Fail in this task and be executed.”

Caretaker stepped forward, saying, “Do not do this, Verrod. You do not know what you are asking.”

“I’ve made my decree, Caretaker. Your man is free to choose his Path.”

Caretaker… stepped aside.

Quilatalap was concerned, but not overly. This was all a play, until it wasn’t.

Erick asked, “What kind of proof do you want?”

“The Ritual of Shade. Do it now.”

“Absolutely not,” Erick said, instantly deciding not to play around anymore. “I am walking too many fine lines and I refuse to fall off this knife edge that is my life. Pick another qualification.”

Tension coiled in the air like a dragon waiting to strike. Shades watched from the sidelines. The band was forced to silence. Laughter and conversation stopped. The Abyss filled the air all around, crushing and stifling, and Verrod of Vast Skies glared, sparks flickering across his features.

And then Verrod backed off. He raised his voice. “Our God has given me an order! I have been told to let this man take the Lightning Shield from this place! But we would not be Shades of Greatness if we did not Test those who come forth, walking their fine-edged Paths through Darkness, to see if they are worthy. And so! Three duels. If Erick survives those three fights to the death he walks with his prize. Who will fight him? Who will give him a proper Welcoming into the Dark?”

Three sanctioned duels? As Shades shouted out threats against each other and aired their grievances and Verrod named some initial names, Erick realized he was perfectly fine with this. Quilatalap was perfectly fine with this, too. Even Verrod and a few of the closest Shades could already see how this was going to go, which is why Verrod had chosen this path. Erick would kill some hot head Shades and silence those most opposed to Verrod and thus solidify his rule and prevent a larger bloodbath—

Something Red drifted through the air.

Erick felt his eyes focus on a threat he did not think was a threat.

The red-eyed leviathan which had been wrapped around the base of the bubble protecting the Lightning Shield. It was a threat. It raised its head and looked at Erick, red sparks flickering out of those unnatural eyes as some deep intelligence within also recognized that Erick was going to take the Lightning Shield home unless it did something—

- - - -

Verrod rose from his beach chair, and he was slightly taller than Erick. “Show us proof that you are as much a Champion of Melemizargo as I am, and I will let you take the Shield without a fight. Fail in this task and be executed.”

Erick flinched for some unknown reason, which was absolutely a mistake. Why had he flinched? Why did this… This feel so familiar? That was why he had flinched. All of this seemed familiar. Very… The same. Except not…

And. Ah.

