Shit.

It had been a bad time to get a sudden bout of deja vu.

Verrod and every other Shade around were emboldened by Erick’s social fuck up. Erick had lost a lot of social currency in the matter of one crucial moment. Showing any sort of weakness at all in front of the Champion of Melemizargo? That’s an execution.

Caretaker glared at Erick’s back. Outwardly, Quilatalap had to play the part of a Shade, and Erick had just shown weakness, so he could not step in on Erick’s behalf. But inwardly, Erick knew Quilatalap was planning death. Subterfuge and a whole bunch of social reasoning demanded he start with, “What sort of proof do you desire, Verrod?”

A bad answer would lead to war. A good answer would lead to Erick getting the Shield without a massive and potentially deadly fight.

Verrod easily said, “The Ritual of Shade. When your boyfriend is one of us that should be good enough proof of his allegiances. Once that is done he can have the Shield, as ordered by Our Dark God.”

Well that wasn’t fucking happening.

Erick began, “I’m going to say two things, and you’re going to truly consider my words, Verrod, and all the rest of you.” Erick let his voice fill with the severity of the moment, as he said, “The first of my words is this: I absolutely refuse to become a Shade. I am walking too many fine lines and I refuse to fall down this knife edge that is my life. Pick another qualification. The second is this: Someone has [Return]ed us. Or maybe just me; I am not sure. That is what my flinch earlier was. I’m not sure who, or how, but someone [Return]ed in this space… Or something. This moment has happened at least once before.”

Verrod had been about to cut Erick off the very moment Erick ‘pretended to speak like an equal’, or whatever other phrase was passing through the Champion of Melemizargo’s mind. Someone else tried to interrupt when they saw that Verrod decided to let Erick speak, but the Shade of Vast Skies raised his hand at his side, not lifting his hand above his own waist, as he dismissed the interrupter. The interrupter went silent with his objections.

And Erick’s voice rang out across the gathering.

At the mention of [Return], things got complicated. Battle lines redrew as confusion passed through the group. Would they fight each other? Or some Time Mage? Was Erick lying, trying to save his skin? Some donned clothes and armor made of shadows or other powers anyway, preparing for the worst. The people playing in the black waters stepped onto the surface, their eyes going outward. Silence was the primary noise in the air—

“Huh,” Caretaker said. “He’s right.”

Verrod stared at Erick. And then he broke sightlines and looked outward, toward Erick’s falling mushrooms, and then beyond. “… We’re not under attack. It’s a small threat, whatever it is.” He turned and looked at Erick. “Our God has gifted you a Viewpoint beyond mortal ken.”

It was a question, and yet not.

It was enough of a decrease in tension over Erick that the battlelines of the Shades turned outward, instead of inward. Someone was attacking? Well then! Time to close ranks against the outside threat! It was very normal Shade behavior.

Meanwhile, the play between Erick, Verrod, and Caretaker continued.

Erick said, “I have not accepted power from him beyond that which is political.”

“Not surprising. The easiest way for a Cultist to rise to power is to never be an empowered Cultist at all.” Verrod looked to Caretaker. “What are his allegiances, Caretaker?”

“This entire world and all that lay beyond,” Quilatalap said, without reservation. “Peace and Truth.”

Some Shades were absolutely disgusted at that, and if Erick was reading them correctly, they were disappointed that someone with power would choose any path of Peace at all. Truth was more understandable for them.

Erick watched as a few Shades tried to slot Erick into existing Shade society, for this was obviously his debut, and he would be back for more later. Obviously.

Verrod looked at Erick, doing some judging of his own over Erick’s future in this world. And then he looked to Ophiel. “That [Familiar]. Is it Angelic, or merely Exalted?”

“Neither. His form is an affectation for the event.” Erick said, “Let’s see your real form, Ophiel.”

Ophiel glanced at Erick with his two black bird eyes, wondering if he meant what he was saying. Erick nodded. And then Ophiel’s eyes cleared to white, and ten more eyes appeared all across his wing-laden body. He was once again a bundle of mostly-fluffy white feathers, bright, inquisitive eyes, and a few hard-edged wingtip feathers at the end of his mess of limbs.

He chirped, “I’m here, dad!”

“Yes you are, Ophiel.” Erick turned to Verrod. “I’m rather against the Forever War in all ways. Fighting can be good for developing strength, but any real war upon this world would erase too much capability for growth.”

Verrod, the grey-skinned demi on a boat filled with other demis, cracked a real smile. “Yet another good answer—”

Suddenly, the Shield-guarding leviathan smashed into the side of the boat, spilling out a gout of Red Sparks from its eyes and its open maw—

- - - -

Erick fell through the air, high above the Abyssal Lake. Starfall fell around him—

I’ve been here before.

As Erick fell, following Quilatalap to the welcoming platform of the black kendrithyst pier below, Erick knew he had done this before. And yet, he also knew, for a fact, that he had never been here before, ever.

It was the strangest, worst feeling of deja vu that he could recall.

And then he saw the Path.

It was a worldline. His worldline. It went forward from where he was right then at that moment, and trailed behind him where he had been before. Erick had seen worldlines long before today, for mana sensing allowed one to see through time, to see the worldlines of all moving objects within the range and power of one’s mana sense.

But this was a different sort of worldline. Normally, it was incredibly difficult to see into the future at all. Teressa and Goldie could wipe the floor with anyone due to their own prognostication abilities, but they were like sighted people in a world full of the blind. Benevolence could see twists in distant futures, but even those twists didn’t always come to pass because those twists could be unwound if one saw them coming, and people did not always do as [Future Sight] said they would do.

Erick’s white path was different.

There were tiny branches here and there, like lightning striking out and yet not fully hitting somewhere. Erick could step off the path, but he did not want to. He stayed the main course.

Stepping onto the platform and annihilating that first Shade was simply following the path laid before him, which was easy. As he talked the sassy talk, he watched Shades become disinterested in him. He walked down the pier toward Verrod’s ship, like he was acting the part in a play that stretched out before him. If anyone else was capable of seeing his white path worldline then they would have said something because this path was a major imprint in the manasphere and every single real Shade in the area certainly had real power and real experience with magic and mana sense—

Oh.

This was like that time that Erick played with Benevolence prognostication and that plinko machine where if the ball landed in the red zone, he would kill a thousand people. But then Teressa and Aisha had shown up all on their own, telling him not to do that, and thus Erick did not. And then the three of them spoke through a ‘scripted event’, each of them speaking the best possible words to speak at that moment...

Or maybe that’s what happened? Erick was suddenly wondering if that really was what happened back then, because he certainly didn’t remember seeing a white path through the world back then, with all his cues and words picked out for him in the best possible way, but that is what had happened there, and that is what was happening here. Erick knew. Right before his eyes, Erick saw the best possible path forward.

This, then, was what Benevolence could really do.

Erick once again stood before Verrod, and that is where paths diverged. Some were better than others, but Erick had been looking at all of them long before he stood here, so he chose—

Something interrupted the proper path.

Verrod was talking.

And a hot headed Shade to the side saw red and stabbed forward with a pillar of Destruction aimed directly at Erick, while they also tried to wrap a Domain around him to prevent escape. They succeeded in wrapping him in that Domain… Mostly.

If this situation had occurred in the real world Erick would have opened a [Gate] and shunted the Destruction at another target. He didn’t like the way that red-eyed leviathan was staring at him, so Erick would have shoved this Destruction beam at that leviathan; it’d make a better mushroom farm than a guard.

Oddly enough, the Path of Benevolence adjusted itself even as Erick was coming up with ideas of how to escape. As Erick saw the way he wanted out, he also saw the Path that would take him there.

Erick picked the path that killed that leviathan.

… And all the rest, because apparently that’s also an option this new Path was giving him.

It was really quite odd how this new Path was adjusting in real time, as Erick experienced it, but he’d have to take all of that apart later.

Elemental Destruction was unmatched in its ability to annihilate, and this Shade, whoever he was, had cast his meters-thick Beam spell well. But Destruction was also destructive; it was hard to use on its own, and so everyone cheated to be able to use that Element. Most people cheated with a protective layer of some other Element between the caster and the Destruction. This Shade cheated in that exact same way, so nothing special there. Primarily he used Illusion, as evident by both Erick’s All-Seeing Eye, and that the guy’s Domain had flashed outward and fully enveloped Erick. Only Illusion and Light moved that fast, though that was a debate. Anyway. The Shade had layered a thin fog of Destruction inside the tube of his Illusion Domain, ensuring that Erick couldn’t just break the Domain without expending too much time. There was only one way out, and that was directly away.

The Shade had essentially placed Erick at the bottom of a test tube that was filling with annihilation from the bottom toward the top. Going nearer to the Shade would simply make Erick’s death happen faster.

So, in a way that was almost like Erick was on train tracks, and the train was coming right at him, Erick did what he would never do in a normal situation. He ran down the tracks, directly away from the train.

Well. Actually, he turned to Benevolence and outran the Destruction, staying within the tube of the Shade’s Destruction-lined Illusion Domain until he got far enough away to be able to take half a moment and punch through the Destruction and the Shade’s Domain.

Shade Domains were rather damned tough, you know. Erick didn’t want to test himself against the nearest parts of this Shade’s Domain, and it was a good thing he did not. Even with his power, it was still a close call to evade that Destruction Beam.

And now, freed of the assassination attempt, Erick had to prove himself.

So Erick turned to Benevolent Lightning and raced upward, slamming right into every single red-eyed leviathan in the entire sky of the Abyssal Lake before coming back down to land right where he had been, on Verrod’s boat. And then he zapped toward the Shade who had attacked him, making sure his own attack was very telegraphed. Lighting launched from Erick’s hand, toward the Illusion Shade, and that Shade easily stepped to the side, only moving a handspan out of the way.

Erick’s soft white lightning continued on to the red-eyed leviathan around the Lightning Shield, touching black scales and causing the creature distress—

The Illusion Shade watched Erick, while Erick’s lightning continued to course through the air, striking the leviathan, who snarled and raged and launched—

Erick pumped up the power quite a lot. An enraged beast became a very dead beast. The leviathan fell to the water’s surface like so much mushroom-growing meat.

Erick just smiled, and said, “Now! Whoever is turning time back again and again to try and make this meeting of the minds turn out poorly, I would like to announce that I can do a lot worse than that.” Erick turned toward Verrod. “You were saying something about proving myself, or something. Apologies. I was trying to figure out who was fucking with me through Time. If you could, please repeat the question.”

Verrod smirked a little, and it wasn’t meant to be menacing at all. “I was asking you to prove yourself as powerful and worthy of My God’s Eye. I suppose I will accept that nice little display and the physical Eye you wear around your neck as proof enough.” Verrod added, “But I must ask. Is He giving the Shield back to that false goddess?”

“That is the plan. It’s a gesture of goodwill.”

Many of the Shades at the party were disheartened by that, but only a few were furious. The one who tried to Destroy Erick was rather miffed. But he said nothing.

Verrod frowned a little. “I suppose… I suppose we must abide, for we are but instruments of His workings. And yet…” He Looked at Erick, and Erick felt like he was gazing at the Sky Itself for a vast moment. Verrod spoke with authority, “All the gods are false, Wizard of Not-Lightning, especially that Lightning Ghost. For you to give that one power over lightning is odd to me. You would be better served with taking this Shield for yourself. The world would be better served without her grip on Lightning Magic, strangling all Those Who Aspire.”

Erick felt a strange sort of kinship in that moment. He smiled softly, and said, “I fully understand what you are saying, Verrod. Believe me; I know what you mean.”

“… Strangely enough, I feel that you do. And yet...” Verrod’s voice shrunk as his persona and person once again became the size of his physical body, instead of the size of the sky. “And yet, you would still give her back her Shield?”

“I will give her back her Shield,” Erick said, not lying at all.

For a long moment, Verrod said nothing.

By then, the first of the new dead leviathans struck the waters of the lake, like meat striking the ground in wet thumps, splattering out mushrooms and spores all across the surface of the Abyssal Lake. The sky was filled with falling drops of light, and with spreading nebulae.

Verrod lifted his hand and the Lightning Shield broke through its Abyssal Bubble shield and shot to his grip. He handed it to Erick.

Erick took the shield—

