“Is that what she’s doing,” Erick said, as an answer slid into place regarding a question he didn’t even think to ask. “I wasn’t sure what she was doing… But I wouldn’t have guessed that. Elemental Purity is Banned, so that’s never gonna happen like that— Ah. Sorry. Silenced and Banned.”

The air had flexed when Erick mentioned Elemental Purity, in such a clear manner. ‘Pure’ was fine. But ‘Purity’ was not.

Quilatalap shrugged off the minor inconvenience of the Script’s interference, looking concerned as he said, “I’m surprised you know about that. Yes; she can’t make it Pure as in Purity, but she can make it Pure as in Pure Water. That is the meaning I was going for.”

Erick chuckled as he realized Quilatalap had heard him say ‘Elemental Purity’. “I guess you put up a few anti-Script measures in here?”

Quilatalap looked even more uncomfortable, and Erick realized that he had misinterpreted Quilatalap’s earlier emotions. “Actually, I have not put any anti-Script measures into this place at all. Sininindi wants the Script here, and I have obeyed. But… But the real Abyssal Lake breaks down everything… And I think that is what we are experiencing. I believe I told you that I had to [Stop] this area to keep it from becoming real, and—” Quilatalap stopped suddenly.

For echoing laughter and joyful hatred flowed up and out of the Abyssal Lake ahead, filling the sky with taunts.

“Okaaaay,” Erick said, “That sounds ominous.”

“I set up the place to be rather real and I think your presence or my presence or something has triggered something deeper. This is go-time, Erick. I had hoped to have some time explaining what was going to happen—”

A meter-thick line of gold-white lightning chased through the skies all around at the speed of light and gathered into a crackling whirlpool above, to strike straight down into the center of the Abyss ahead. Divine lightning hit a sea of Shadow and Gloom and broke off in a hundred different layers of varying density down in the canyon ahead, to spark left and right, to get gobbled up by leviathan shadows with ruby-red eyes. The wyrm-sized monsters seemed to like eating lightning, and especially the divine kind, which… Was not that surprising, considering what was happening here. The Shade would have prepared something like this to combat the Lightning, for sure.

“… That should not have happened yet,” Quilatalap said, walking forward to stand directly above the abyss below. Erick was right there with him as they both looked down into the black depths. Tiny lights held in the black down below, maybe 25 kilometers away. Hard to say. Quilatalap said, “Looks like the party has started. It’s rather straightforward, Erick. We get down there, you take the Lightning Shield, and we escape. But. They are prepared for a full assault and they will take the Shield and hide it if we kill any of them outside of throwing our weight around. We have to approach the gathering as a part of the gathering; meant to be there.”

“Okay.” Erick took Quilatalap’s free hand into his own and the big guy flinched a moment, before holding tight. He was nervous for some reason. Erick spoke calmly, and a little happily, as he seductively asked, “Can I be your plus-1 for this event?”

Quilatalap gripped Erick’s hand tight. “That sounds like a great way to play this.” He breathed out, and became the Archlich of Necromancy Itself, the Immortal Scourge of the Rage, and a good twenty other names given to him by people and even a few gods ever since Veird fell into the New Cosmology. Mostly, he was the false Shade Caretaker. In an even voice, Caretaker stated, “Kill two or three of them when they challenge you; but don’t endanger the whole group. The current Champion of Melemizargo is a man named Verrod of Vast Skies. Defer to him and to me, but to no one else. This event today is a triumph over the Pantheon. All of the Clergy will approach it as thus until events conspire otherwise.”

Erick squeezed Quilatalap’s hand once more, then let go and adjusted the collar of his suit. “Ready.”

Quilatalap nodded once, and then he stepped off the edge of the road.

He fell like a black meteor, straight into the maw of a shadow leviathan that was the size of a large dragon. Caretaker punched straight through the beast’s throat, the archlich’s touch ripping away gloom and churning the meat of the very-dead leviathan into a splash of gore. Amidst a red rain, Caretaker descended into the abyss, his trajectory and speed barely affected by the leviathan’s ‘attack’.

Erick followed, feeling Darkness all around like he was passing through a very, very large Black Gate. And maybe he was. Quilatalap had wanted to talk about what he had done to make this place, but he hadn’t gotten the chance, and exact reasonings were hard to suss out when Wizardry got involved. This particular jaunt seemed filled with Wizardry.

The red-eyed leviathans of shadow all around seemed rather real enough; more so than conjured monsters, anyway. Perhaps in Quilatalap’s original script for this part of this dungeon, the person going first would meet the leviathans first, which held with most established dungeon ‘tropes’, as the Delver’s Guild outlined as ‘best practices’ for first encounters. But the red-eyed beasts were eyeing Erick rather hard from the distant edges of the abyss, and they seemed to be thinking of a course of attack. Or at least some of them were. ‘All monsters left behind will attack you eventually’ was another trope of best practices…

Eh.

If they attacked, Erick would kill them. For now, he followed—

Ophiel caught the wind a little and ripped off of Erick’s shoulder, giving a sudden squeak as he went. He came back to Erick’s shoulder fast enough, but Ophiel’s lost propriety seemed to be enough of a signal of weakness that the leviathans attacked.

Erick casually twisted Benevolence into kilometers-long ribbons of soft white lightning that went straight into Lightning-sucking maws and flashed deep into gloomy bodies. Organs and bones and previous meals briefly lit up those insides, like lightning passing behind clouds, and then erupted from every possible solidness inside, like the branching of trees. These particular red-eyed beasts could easily devour elemental Lightning, but Benevolence was not Lightning; it just looked like it.

In the flash of Erick’s power, seven of the nearest leviathans died in midair, their Elemental Gloom bodies losing their magical power, becoming dragon-sized corpses filled with charred holes and a bit of green growing here and there. As those bodies joined the fall of Erick and Quilatalap they began to grow even more life—

Bioluminescent mushrooms, all bright white and purple and green, sprouted out of the bodies. As those shrooms grew big enough they broke away from the leviathans like parasols catching wind. Spores spread, like glowing dust.

“Huh!” Erick called to Quilatalap. “That time they made mushrooms!”

Quilatalap burst through a leviathan that was larger than the first one, spreading more red rain around his fall. He looked up, then called out, “Looks great, honey!”

Erick smiled and laughed, and as he laughed, the sounds of laughing Shades rose through the abyss, their party down either going strong, or all of them were pretending at joy while they waited for Erick and Quilatalap to get closer before they tried some shit. They were probably going to try some shit as Shades were wont to do, but Erick had scared off the leviathans in the air, which made the fall into darkness a bit more bearable.

And yet the leviathans continued to gaze at Erick, their bodies poking out between the spaces between the kendrithyst spires, like the maw-filled fingers of an eldritch god peeking around the frame of a door, each of them with bright red eyes shining hard in the gloom.

Erick appreciated the white lights of the shroom’d corpses better than the eye lights of the leviathans. Since when did leviathans have eye lights that were different from white, anyway? How strange.

The shrooms made more sense, but only barely.

Erick hadn’t intended for his Benevolence to make life, but sometimes that happened. He never quite knew what life would sprout from the odder applications of Benevolence, either. Most of the time that life could grow well in the environment in which it originated, though, which was kinda neat.

Those fast-growing glowing shrooms with their wide parasols weren’t stable enough to stop or slow the falling leviathans, but those windcatchers did manage to withstand the wind pressure until they were full grown. Soon, many glowing mushroom caps trailed clouds of glowing spores, before they broke off from the falling corpse like falling stars and trailing nebulae. Soon, Erick had adorned the sky of Abyssal Lake with something akin to Elemental Starlight. Elemental Abyss destroyed a lot by its basic presence, but certain things flourished in the deep; Void and Star were two such Elements.

It wasn’t long till the leviathan bodies were mostly disintegrated, half-eaten by the spreading shrooms and half ripped apart by the wind, as they fell. That gore wouldn’t last long as soon as it hit the waters below, for something down there would surely eat it, but if not, then the mycelium colony Erick had birthed in this dangerous location would eventually finish the job.

Caretaker led the way, still falling in the dark, while Erick followed, starlight and glowing spores spreading far and wide. Looking up, the world was a point of light high above, like a sun. Everything else was black with red glints and soft starlight.

Down below, the Shades waited, cackling and laughing on what appeared to be… Well Erick wasn’t quite sure.

- - - -

The party took place on a whole bunch of black kendrithyst boats floating atop the Abyssal Lake, around a black crystal pier, all of the crystal chased with lights, while the sounds of the damned filled the air with ‘music’. It was a party of sorts, but it was, of course, a Shade party. This meant horrors, but the largest horror was the lake itself.

The whole lake was about 7-ish kilometers wide with the entire coast ending in sheer purple-black kendrithyst crystal cliffs and black ‘waters’ of Elemental Abyssal that were near-completely still. There was probably a layer of actual water atop the elemental manifestation of the depths, but it was as thin as a razor’s edge. What lay beneath that was the physical and magical sensation of crushing, and that crushing sensation extended into the air above the waters. Erick hadn’t experienced much air or water pressure on Veird because the whole world was Scripted to be mostly uniform in ‘depth’. There were, of course, places where ‘the depths’ survived, and this Abyssal Lake was one of those places. Erick and Quilatalap and all the Shades were easily surviving this crushing reality. Some adventurous Shades were even showing off by swimming in the Elemental Abyss and splashing each other with droplets of the stuff…

Which actually was impressive. Erick could do that, too, but it was just so… Extra.

Elemental Abyss, kilogram for drop, was ‘denser’ than even the densest of metals. A single splashed drop thrown at a person was like hitting them with a [Force Bolt]; it did damage. Erick watched as one Shade woman splashed a minor wave at that other Shade, and though it looked like some adults playing in the water, it was more like one person throwing 10,000 [Force Bolts] at another. The man protected himself and twisted the Abyss around him as he laughed, pretending not to feel the drops, but he did. There was no way around that. The pressure at the surface of the Abyssal Lake was already akin to being [Telekinetic Squeeze]d on all sides by an archmage, so to actually swim in that water was like experiencing, well, a Shade casting [Telekinetic Squeeze].

Because of this omnipresent pressure, it was little surprise that every single Shade had on a Domain of some sort. Normally, having a Domain or an active power at a Shade party was a grave form of disrespect, but these people were very ready for both the Ritual to come, and for someone to try and interrupt it all. This ‘boat gathering on the pier’ looked like ‘fun’ and ‘games’ and people drinking alcohol on a Fourth of July boat party, but that was a very thin veneer, and beneath it all lay horrors.

Erick watched one of those obvious horrors as he descended to the welcoming zone of the party with Caretaker.

Over there, atop a kendrithyst platform floating atop the Abyss, was a small orchestra made from twisted metals and twisted bodies. What was left of several people breathed through flutes and through tubes, making something akin to ‘music’ with their basic bodily functions, but which was really just them trying to breathe. A nearby Shade ‘motivated’ the band with raising or lowering their platform closer to the waters. When one person broke down crying and they went way out of tune, the Shade telekinetically ripped them away from their cohort and threw them in the waters where they instantly compressed into thin lines of gore and more twisted metal.

Erick sighed as he softly landed with Caretaker atop a circle of black kendrithyst that was the welcoming zone, floating atop the lake by a mere decimeter. The pressure standing on that welcoming platform wasn’t too bad because Erick had his sunform active, held tight against his skin and on his soul. Caretaker was doing fine, too, enveloped in Elemental Death. Most of the Shades were using Elemental Shadow to protect themselves, but some were using more alternative means.

Erick distracted himself from the horrors of the Shades by thinking about all of that for a moment.

His own Elemental Benevolence was probably the simplest way to protect oneself against an antagonistic force; simply pushing back on the enemy and clearing out a space of power for oneself. Such a defense was among the more expensive ways to protect oneself, but it was also average. In a lot of cases, it was better for a person to use an Element they were familiar with than one that did the job ‘better’, or cheaper.

Using Elemental Shadow against Abyss was cheaper, for Abyss was Shadow-aligned, and Shadow could either adapt to the depths with minimal effort, or simply choose to not be affected by the depths. A shadow cast from a person was not affected by pressure at all, after all. Either avenue of approach had its benefits and drawbacks. Adaptation led to one being able to act normally in such a situation, and was Jane’s preferred choice, with her Prismatic adaptive power. Acting like a cast-shadow divorced the user from the situation, though, making them ephemeral and non-interactive, protecting them from Abyss rather well.

