Erick lay in bed with Quilatalap, staring at the ceiling, saying, “I know there’s this anti-meme in the air, Quilatalap, and everyone has been exposed to it and that’s hampering our investigations… But from what Zolan and Burhendurur and Poi have told me, memes should not be this powerful. There are always ways around them. They’re basically just very, very advanced Book Magic… And it really seems like we should have figured out something solid about it by now… Solomon’s memories are shot, though. He knows something just like Debby knew something, and Solomon is fixated on the idea that if he gains more power he can do something, and I’m kinda worried about that.”

Erick had opened up about a lot with Quilatalap in the last several hours they had both spent inside their [Hasted Shelter]-surrounded cottage in the Storm’s Edge dungeon. Both of them were free to be themselves in this space, for no one else could ever find them or know about them in here. This place was secure.

Quilatalap had allowed Erick to talk about everything, without giving much back except to question motivations and desired outcomes. But now, with one arm around Erick and both of them warm together, he began, “If the anti-meme is insidious enough to cause Melemizargo to do any sort of Wizardry at all, then… I’m not sure how to help you with that, Erick, except to be here for you, and with you, and to say that no matter how dangerous the effect is, ultimately you have survived this long and so has Veird, so we must be doing something right.” He continued, “As far as Solomon goes, I can say that you at your worst is still better for this world than a lot of people at their best, and I highly doubt that Solomon is anything close to ‘dangerous for the world’… But soul shifting or whatever it is that was done to him can be truly life altering. I would have to see Solomon myself to make a judgment call, but since you and everyone else has survived and Solomon was at a wake and not killing people, he’s probably fine.” Quilatalap looked at Erick, and said, “I’d trust you or any shade of you with power, and even if I don’t understand the exact nature of whatever happened with Solomon and Debby, I trust Solomon with power, too…” He looked away. “But at the same time I trust Melemizargo with power, even if he was insane for a very long time, so maybe I’m not the best one to go to for making judgments of that nature.”

Erick smiled, holding onto Quilatalap a bit stronger, saying, “I love you.”

“I love you, too.” And then Quilatalap put it all out there, asking, “Now… Do you want to talk about how to get Debby back? What steps Solomon might consider taking? I’m rather sure that’s a near-impossible task, but I might be able to provide a perspective that is rather uniquely qualified at bringing very, very dead people back to life, as compared to Guile, who probably gets through life with fae trickery…” Quilatalap said that last word with heavy disdain, holding back a tide of dislike. He moved on. “Or do you want to help me with the dungeon? And the Lightning Shield?”

“Let’s just lay here for a little bit longer and then…” Quilatalap hadn’t wanted to visit the slime dungeon yet, because this dungeon here was taking up all of his interest and time, but things had changed recently. So Erick offered, “Do you want to come visit the Black Gate Dungeon? Or the ‘slime dungeon’. Not sure about the name yet. And yes; we should get the Lightning Shield before we go. I can make that final step happen, or be there for it, or however you’ve set it up.” Erick asked, “Have you finally figured out something you wanted from the Old Cosmology? To rescue from beyond the Black Gate?”

Quilatalap shook his head a little. “The copies of myself that are Vanya and Soltic are both great dungeon masters, but I won’t leave this assignment especially when Prophecy looks to be headed in this direction. I’m the director of the main defensive structure in the area, after all. If I stepped away I would never be able to erase that dereliction of duty in the eyes of the Pantheon, and especially in Sininindi’s eyes.” He patted Erick where he held him, then got up off the bed. “I still don’t have a target for you beyond the Black Gate, but besides that—” With a big smile and his lower tusks jutting far, he said, “Let’s go see if I managed a ‘Black Gate’ of my own.”

Erick got out of bed and was dressed in a flash, smiling as he said, “You’re really happy about this.”

“Taking things out of the Dark is a legend, Erick. So yes, I am excited.”

“Did you recreate the whole Ritual of Destruction? How many ‘Shades’ are we talking?”

Quilatalap smiled as he flickered with shadow and armor appeared atop his body. It was black and angular and he had two great big curved horns on his head, like he was some sort of demon-dragon-orcol hybrid. He looked quite dashing, actually, and very similar to how he looked the first time Erick met the man, back when he was called ‘Caretaker’ and he pretended to be the Shade of the Armory.

“The ‘Ritual of Breaking’, though ‘Destruction’ works a little bit, but it’s more complicated than that. It’s about using opposing magic to fully break something. Elemental Destruction is in there, of course, but the main element to use against something made of Lightning is Elemental Abyss,” Quilatalap said. “The whole thing is already almost too real to be comfortable, so I’ve kept the entire thing in a [Stop] until I’m ready to go inside. We’ll have to fully purge the scenario after we make it all fully real and take the Shield, for I will not be someone who brings forth over a hundred ‘normal’ Shades to Veird.” Quilatalap forced some of his mirth away and looked Erick right in the eyes as he clearly stated, “We’re not saving these Shades, Erick. None of that, you hear?”

Erick raised an eyebrow. “… That’s concerning.” After a moment, Erick decided to trust Quilatalap’s judgment— Which reminded Erick— “I thought you weren’t letting people delve the place until it was fully ready? Until the Storm passed? I heard delvers were in the dungeon already.”

“Eh!” Quilatalap shrugged, his black fullplate making Erick feel some interesting ways as the archlich continued to move with grace even under all that black metal. “Plans changed, and the Regency and Everbless and the Priests want money and assurances. They’ve been sneaking in all the time, too, using the monster entrances, and when they found 2 of the 6 main dungeons fully realized they decided to push the issue. Water and Stone have been ready for a month, but Fire, Light, and Air are only another month away. And now the Storm is almost here. All those facts sort of combined last month, and so I had to approve some people, if only to let them inspect the dungeon in their backyard… And then they took advantage and started delving, which is normal, I suppose.”

“Have they gotten into the Shadow side yet?”

“That place is locked up tight, so I don’t think so.” The Caretaker held up a hand to the side and a brilliantly dark spear flashed into his gauntleted grip, the heavy butt of the thing hovering just a centimeter above the ground while the head flickered with reflected starlight. A void spear; one of the strongest types of weapon there were. Quilatalap was going all out, it seemed. “I aim to keep the Shadow Dungeon that way. After we partake of the ritual and extract the Shield, I’m ending that scenario.” He said, “You should know that I hadn’t really forgotten how terrible some of my coworkers used to be, but the reminder is why I requested you don’t extend a [Blessing of Empathy] to any of them at all. They’re from another era and I cannot trust them with anything; they would break that Empathy and just turn into a malignant force, Erick”

“I understand. Message received.” And then Erick pointed at the spear. “I thought that was your Void Spear, but it’s more than that, isn’t it. It's a major artifact.”

Quilatalap grinned. “It is more than my normal Void Spear, this is correct. Your offer of rescues of artifacts from the Dark is appreciated, but I can make my own just fine.”

“I knew you could, but it would have been rude and unkind not to offer.”

Quilatalap leaned in and gave Erick a quick kiss. “You ready to get going?” He gave a nice turned side-profile and smiled. “Or do you want to ogle me some more?”

“Ogling is great.” And yet, Erick could see that Quilatalap was really interested in getting the show on, so Erick added, “But we can do that later.”

“Excellent!” Quilatalap flipped his visor down. His eyes glowed white as soon as the visor locked in place, solidifying his persona as ‘The Caretaker’. “You’re probably good in what you’re wearing, but something more dangerous might be appropriate.”

Erick looked down at himself. It was all highly professional white with black trim and silver accents. “This is standard ‘fancy attire’— Oh. Wait. I see.”

“Go darker, please.” Quilatalap said, “And be prepared to be the strongest version of yourself, because anything less is asking to be assassinated at this ritual.”

Erick put on a smile, and put on his black outfit. “I would expect nothing less from Shades.”

Quilatalap rapidly added, “And also Purodhalia decided to show up; he’s been here for a week now, and he’ll likely be at the ritual because he likes the Shadow Dungeon. The [Stop] doesn’t work on him, like usual.”

Erick had a lot of mixed feelings about that.

“… Well… It will be nice... To see Purodhalia again, I suppose— Is he actually cognizant this time?”

Purodhalia was the black spiker ‘monster’ that chased Erick and Jane across the desert when they first fell to Veird all those years ago. He was Melemizargo’s very, very old [Familiar], and he was barely able to hold a thought in his large spiky body for much longer than a day. He only really communicated with the Shades, preferring only to speak to Champions based on what Erick had learned about him in the previous years, but mostly Purodhalia hid. He was very good at hiding. The largest interaction Erick had ever had with the [Familiar] was there at the very beginning of his life on Veird, when he matched Erick and Jane’s running speed until Erick [Cleanse]d them, removing Melemizargo’s scent marker.

Other than that, Purodhalia had popped up a few times in very random places, like near the Wake Up House years ago, and then another time over by Olooraptoor in Nelboor, before he raced away once he had been seen. Erick wasn’t sure of what connection Purodhalia had with the whole hierarchy of the Cult, the Clergy, and Melemizargo and the Dark, but he was somewhere at the level of a ‘special Shade’.

Mostly, the bundle of long spikes, like a thick black urchin, hid until Melemizargo gave him very small, easily executed commands, like ‘protect these people that smell like me’. Other than that, Purodhalia was easily spooked and prone to wandering off from whatever task he had been given.

“Purodhalia is the same as he’s always been,” Quilatalap said. “But he has stuck around here for a while. Not sure why. Your guess is as good as mine.”

“Ahh…” Erick picked up what he was putting down. It was time to properly get to work. Erick took a moment and tried to fully divorce himself from his anger at Melemizargo for what happened to Debby. It helped that Debby had chosen… Had chosen to go out on her own terms. Erick breathed, and then he asked the Dark in the corners of the room, “Why is Purodhalia here, Melemizargo?”

“He has to be somewhere.”

Quilatalap was ready for the response. Even so, the Archlich of Necromancy Itself froze as Melemizargo’s voice filled the room. He thawed after a moment.

“Good enough of an answer as any,” Erick said. Then he took Quilatalap’s hand into his own. “You’re gonna be able to be yourself for this, right? Are we in danger of people spying on this?”

“I will be there, which is why I put on the armor. No one should be capable of seeing us or interacting with that space.”

“Good.” Erick felt better. “I was hoping I had read you right.”

- - - -

Erick felt rather well-dressed in his absolute-black suit. He even had a black half-mask, so that was kinda fun. Ophiel was trying out a full-black coloring of his own with some heavy sharpness to his feathers, like he was a cross between a black crow and an angel-knives [Familiar]. The little guy looked great. Erick was ready.

The Ritual of Breaking took place, of course, in Ar’Kendrithyst.

The sky was bright and all of the purple-red spires of Ar’Kendrithyst were filled with dancing shadows, but thunderclouds roiled in the distance. Wind flowed through the upper levels of the Dead City and sparks gathered on the corners of crystal, like glinting white and gold hatred. But shadows roiled harder than clouds, and darkness drowned the lightning. Thunderheads got no closer than the walls of the Dead City. The ritual site was well protected from Sininindi.

They were in a well known location; the Abyssal Lake. Or at least high above it, near the skyline of the Dead City.

The land to the southwest was crowded with bulbous, black crystals, each of the largest ones easily kilometers wide. That was the Armory, as it had been for the last 900 years, until Erick came along.

Ahead of Erick and Quilatalap, beyond a crystal bridge that ended in nothing, lay a grand hole in the skyline. That absence continued down 30 kilometers, the red-purple crystal of Ar’Kendrithyst turning firmly purple and darker when it got deep enough, with the waters at the bottom of this area all firmly black. This was the Abyssal Lake. The only thing Erick truly knew about this place was that this is where things went to die in the depths, drowned by Abyssal Magic that was deeper here than in most other places on Veird. This is where Fallopolis murdered the Shades she had decided to Cull from the Clergy, for things died easily down there, but that was only one small slice of what happened in this place, and Fallopolis wouldn’t be here in Ar’Kendrithyst for another… 400 years?

Erick asked, “When did this happen, exactly?”

Quilatalap stood at Erick’s side, looking like a proper Shade, his helmet making his eyes glow white. “Roughly 650-ish post Sundering. About 100 years after the theft of Kendrithyst from the wrought. This Abyssal Lake used to be their Pure Lake; a source of great healing. But then we desecrated it and so it was used to kill the unkillable for a very long time; until you came along and changed everything.” He asked, “I think Anhelia is still trying to make it Pure?”

