Purodhalia spiked his way toward Erick, slowly and securely. In a moment the very large black spiker stood almost over Erick. In the smallest, cutest voice, he asked, “Up! Up! Take me.”

Erick secured the shield on his left wrist with an easy flicker of power —Erick shivered as the Shield seemed to harmonize with him— as he let out his Benevolence to wrap Purodhalia up, along with Quilatalap. With a bunch of Shades looking their way, and with Verrod giving one final nod, Erick benevolencestepped into the air, zapping his small group up and away.

High in the sky above the Abyssal Lake, Erick cast his gaze wide across the city of Ar’Kendrithyst.

The Dead City had always looked rather beautiful, in a dangerous sort of way. Today was no different. The crystals of the city were red and purple and filled with shadows, but they were also bright pink on some edges here and there, and deep blue in some shadowed parts, and the sky bridges always had a certain charm to them.

He liked it better under Anhelia’s reconstruction.

Thunder rolled across the world, almost triumphant in its sound—

- - - -

— And Erick stepped down onto solid stone…

Eh?

For a surreal moment, Erick wasn’t sure where he was. But then he remembered. He looked back behind him. There was the portal to the Shadow Dungeon. Ahead lay the uninhabited city that Quilatalap was building with its many apartment buildings and enough infrastructure to support millions of people, when those millions of people showed up. That city was built up and down, with sky bridges of its own, almost like a building district in a wrought Geode city, like Ar’Kendrithyst…

And Darkness lay beyond everything. There was no sky; there was only Black. They were in the heart of the dungeon, and Erick wasn’t sure how they had gotten here. Where did the line lay between the Shield Breaking, and this place?

Purodhalia had no such concerns for ordered reality. The Black Spiker just rolled away, across the dirt and through a field of golden wheat, straight into the Darkness surrounding the dungeon. He crashed into the Black, and vanished.

“I would normally be worried that Purodhalia had killed himself rushing into the Dark like that, but if anyone can survive the Dark, it is him.” Erick turned toward Quilatalap. “So. Something tells me we weren’t supposed to exit here?”

“No. We were not. Something got switched somewhere…” Quilatalap gazed across the field, at the city. Some people were walking out of the city. Quilatalap frowned deeply, and Erick felt the same way. “What are they doing here?” Quilatalap stepped forward and Erick was right there with him as the big man said, “If they have done something to Vanya and Soltic, then I will be rather angry. I ask for your backup on this, Erick.”

Erick said, “You have it. If you do not mind, though, I would ask to lead this charge.”

“Granted,” Quilatalap said, his anger barely contained. “They should not be here and the fact that they are… If they have done something untoward I will rip them apart and put them back together. Hear me, Erick: There is absolutely no way that they are here through any means but violent ones.”

“… Are you sure?” Erick asked, wanting Quilatalap to be exaggerating.

“I am sure… Though if all they have harmed are my guardians that I can put back together, then I… I can control this anger.”

Erick nodded, relief flowing a little.

Erick strode forward a little faster, to take the lead. The two of them walked down a beaten road between fields of golden wheat, toward one of the few people whom Erick was not sure how to deal with right now.

Tiza Nindi, the owl shifter Head Priestess of Sininindi, walked down the road toward them, looking triumphant in the white raiment of a Storm Priestess. The ‘plan’ had been to hand the Lightning Shield off to her outside the dungeon, in a small ceremony under the cloudy sky. Erick expected Sininindi to appear and for Tiza to be publicly pleasant, but inwardly storming. This, right here, was the opposite of what Erick wanted.

If she wanted the Shield right now then she could go fuck herself.

Tiza wasn’t alone. Two others walked with her.

The one on the left was Sailor Asmus, of the Blue Temple, which was located directly on Everbless’ cove. He was a human man with some demi in him for sure, with those red eyes of his. He looked kinda reserved and official, in those blue robes. The man had tried to set himself up to be helpful when Erick was Soltic, and Quilatalap was Vanya, but Erick and Quilatalap had never seen the need to speak to the man for any assistance at all. He was the leader of the ‘mortal’ counterpoint to Sininindi’s Church; the one who people went to for what Erick would consider more logistical problems upon the seas; the problems of sailors, not the problems of priests.

Tiza’s priesthood was the ‘real’ Church of Sininindi. Asmus led ‘boat tours’, according to his detractors.

The third person was Oozy Stormcaller, which was really fucking odd.

Erick hadn’t seen the gangly red-haired man in a while, and here he was, wearing the pale blue robes of a Blue Temple initiate. What was he doing with Sininindi’s logistics church? What was he doing here—

White lightning flickered around Oozy’s neck.

It was a ring of Benevolence.
