The last level came quietly.

Callum was running a routine check on the compound loop's throughput metrics -- pen in hand, field notebook open, the scratch of graphite on paper the only sound in the warehouse besides the eternal hum of his constructs -- when the notification unfolded in his vision like a door opening onto a cliff.

```stat-screen
══════════════════════════════════════
  LEVEL UP! 24 --> 25

  +5 Stat Points available.
  +3 Skill Points available.

  New threshold reached.
══════════════════════════════════════
```

He stared at it.

Twenty-five. The number he had circled in his notebook forty-seven times. The number he had built every construct, every loop, every compound feedback cycle toward reaching. The number that meant everything he had accumulated over four months of quiet, obsessive work could be compressed into a permanent multiplier and then erased.

Pip flickered on his shoulder. A single chime -- high, clear, questioning.

"Yeah," Callum said. His voice was steady. His hand was not. The pen had stopped moving mid-stroke, leaving a dark graphite mark like a period at the end of a sentence. "Yeah, that's the one."

He dismissed the level-up notification and allocated his stat points on autopilot -- three to INT, two to WIS, the same distribution he'd been running for twenty-four levels, the allocation so habitual it was practically a construct of its own. The numbers ticked upward in his peripheral vision. INT 76. WIS 78. They were the highest stats he would ever have at this tier. In a few hours, they would be single digits.

Then the second notification appeared, and the warehouse went very quiet.

```stat-screen
╔════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
║  CONDENSE AVAILABLE                           ║
║                                               ║
║  Current Level: 25                            ║
║  Estimated Prestige Shards: 42               ║
║  Permanent Multiplier: 1.5x all gain rates    ║
║                                               ║
║  WARNING: Condensing will reset your level,   ║
║  stats, and skill progress. This cannot be    ║
║  reversed.                                    ║
║                                               ║
║  [CONDENSE]           [DISMISS]               ║
╚════════════════════════════════════════════════╝
```

There it was. The word WARNING in a System that never warned. The Substrate, which tracked everything and editorialized nothing, had chosen to use that word here and nowhere else. As if it understood that this decision was different from all the others. As if it wanted to make sure he knew what he was giving up.

Callum read the prompt three times. He had memorized it weeks ago from Vera's description, but seeing it rendered in his own vision, addressed to his own pattern, attached to his own stats -- that was different. That was real. The [CONDENSE] button hovered in his visual field like a trapdoor in the floor of his life.

He pressed [DISMISS].

Not refusing. Deferring. He had preparations to make, and the part of him that measured everything in efficiency deltas refused to let the most important moment of his progression happen without a checklist.

---

The next six hours were the most methodical of Callum's life, and that was saying something for a man who had once optimized a factory's hydraulic press schedule down to eleven-second intervals.

He started with the Flux Capacitors. Twenty-three of them, pre-charged, each one containing enough stored energy to run a construct for roughly fifteen hours. He stacked them in a reinforced crate beside the Enhancement Construct's anchor point, then stacked a second crate beside the first. Forty-six Flux Capacitors total. Enough to keep all four constructs running for two weeks without his maintenance, assuming no surges, no relay failures, and no Vanguard inspections.

*Assumption-heavy,* he noted in his field notebook. *Acceptable. The alternative is not Condensing.*

He moved to the construct array. Each construct needed contingency scripts -- instructions for what to do if their operator dropped to a level where his System link could no longer sustain active management. Script Engine Level 5 made this possible. Script Engine Level 5 at INT 76 made it elegant.

He wrote the scripts by hand first, in his notebook, the way he always did. Pseudocode in neat block letters, each line numbered, conditional branches marked with arrows:

```
IF owner.HP < threshold (100)
  THEN shift mode: DEFENSIVE PERIMETER
  CENTER ON: owner.position
  RADIUS: 15m
  PRIORITY: interception (threats to owner)
  SECONDARY: self-preservation

IF owner.level < 5
  THEN reduce engagement range to 10m
  THEN avoid targets above Level 8
  THEN prioritize: flee over fight
```

Simple instructions. The kind of thing a factory floor manager would recognize -- exception handling for when the system operator goes offline. Callum had written hundreds of exception-handling protocols in his previous life. He had never written one for the event of his own near-death.

He compiled the scripts into each construct core, testing the conditional triggers against simulated inputs. The Mk.V Sentinel accepted the new directives with a low hum of recalibration. The Scrap Collector paused its gathering cycle for three seconds, integrated, resumed. The Refinery didn't pause at all -- it simply absorbed the script into its processing queue as if it had been expecting it.

The Enhancement Construct was the hardest. Its feedback function was the most complex piece of automation Callum had ever built, and adding a defensive contingency to a system designed for perpetual self-improvement required careful logic gating. He spent forty-five minutes on it, rewrote the priority queue twice, and finally settled on a solution that compartmentalized the defensive script in a separate thread -- keeping the feedback function running even while the construct shifted to protection mode.

"Elegant enough," he murmured, and moved on.

Jin was sitting cross-legged beside the construct array when Callum turned around, a tablet covered in handwritten notes balanced on his knee and Chunk squatting beside him like a concrete toadstool.

"I made a monitoring protocol," Jin said, before Callum could speak. His hands were already moving, gestures tracing invisible diagrams in the air. "Okay, so -- your Refinery's conversion queue has a thirteen-step priority chain, right? I mapped the whole thing. If any step drops below eighty percent throughput, I get an alert through Pixel. If two steps drop, I manually intervene. If three steps drop, I shut down the Enhancement feedback and switch to maintenance-only mode until you're back online." He paused for breath. "Also, I taught Chunk to stand in front of a door. Not well, but, you know. He's a rock. Rocks are good at blocking things."

Something loosened in Callum's chest. Not quite relief -- he was too wound up for relief -- but something adjacent to it. The feeling of a variable resolving from unknown to known.

"Show me the alert thresholds," he said.

They spent an hour going through Jin's monitoring protocol, adjusting parameters, arguing about acceptable Flux decay rates. Jin talked too fast and skipped steps. Callum made him slow down and explain each assumption. By the end, they had a system that would keep the compound loop running at eighty percent efficiency even without Callum's active management. Not optimal. Functional. Right now, functional was enough.

Callum pulled the emergency teleport scroll from his inventory and set it on the workbench in front of Mira. She had been leaning against the warehouse door for the last hour, arms crossed, saber resting against her hip, watching him prepare with an expression he couldn't quite read.

"Barrier Zone recall," he said. "One use. If something goes catastrophically wrong -- if the Vanguard comes, if a Fracture surge hits, if anything happens that you can't handle -- use it. It'll pull you, Jin, and anyone within three meters back to the Exchange."

Mira looked at the scroll. Then she looked at him.

"You're giving away your escape route."

"I won't be able to use it. At Level 1, my System link won't have the throughput to activate a recall scroll for at least twelve hours." He paused. "And you'll need it more than I will. You're the one standing between me and everything else."

She picked up the scroll and tucked it into her belt without ceremony. "What else?"

He showed her the emergency exits. The loading door on the east wall, the fire escape ladder to the roof, the gap in the corrugated siding behind the Refinery that led to the alley and, from there, to three different routes deeper into the Foundry District. He walked her through each one. She memorized them the way she memorized everything physical -- once, completely, with the attention of someone who had been mapping escape routes since the day the world ended.

Then he opened his field notebook to a spread of pages near the back. Dense handwriting. Diagrams. Flow charts. Every system he ran, documented in enough detail that a stranger could maintain them.

"If I'm incapacitated," he said, "these are the instructions for every construct, every loop, every script. Jin knows the theory. You know the threats. Between the two of you --"

"Callum."

He stopped.

Mira's voice was quiet. Not clipped, not sharp. Just quiet, the way she got when something mattered enough to strip the noise away.

"You're not going to be incapacitated. You're going to be Level 1 for a few hours. I've kept people alive through worse." She met his eyes. "Stop planning for disaster and go do the thing."

Pip chimed softly on his shoulder. A low, steady tone, like a tuning fork finding its note.

Callum looked at the familiar. The flickering cursor pulsed with a warm, amber light -- brighter than he'd ever seen it, as if Pip were running at maximum throughput, pushing every bit of its limited processing power into this single moment of communication.

"You'll still be here after, right?" he asked.

Pip chimed once. Clear. Definite.

Callum nodded. He closed the notebook. He stood in the center of his warehouse, surrounded by the quiet hum of four constructs and two people who had chosen to stand in this room with him, and he opened the Condense prompt.

---

The [CONDENSE] button filled his vision.

Mira had positioned herself at the warehouse loading door, saber drawn, weight forward in the low stance she used when she expected trouble. Her eyes tracked the alley outside and the dimming evening light beyond it. She did not look at Callum. She did not need to. Her awareness of his position was a constant -- the way a compass knows north.

Jin sat beside the construct array, his modified graphing calculator in one hand and his tablet in the other, monitoring readouts with the focused intensity of a pilot at a control panel. Chunk stood behind him like a miniature fortification. Zephyr circled near the ceiling in a lazy patrol. Pixel, the scout fox, had been deployed to the warehouse perimeter, its blue-light form flickering between shadow and structure.

Callum stood in the center of the warehouse floor. Around him, three threads of luminous data wove between his constructs -- gold, green, blue -- the cat's cradle of his compound loop, humming with the accumulated output of four months of work. His Loop Sight showed him everything: the Essence flowing, the Flux cycling, the feedback function running its endless self-improvement circuit. Beautiful. Intricate. His.

About to be compressed into something smaller and denser and, if the math was right, infinitely more powerful.

*The math is right,* he told himself.

*The math does not account for the hollow feeling in your stomach,* he replied.

He pulled up his status one last time. A final look at the person he had built, number by number, over twenty-five levels of careful allocation.

```stat-screen
╔══════════════════════════════════════════╗
║  CALLUM VOSS                             ║
║  Class: Loopweaver    | Level: 25        ║
║  Prestige: 0 (Awakened)                  ║
║  Automation Tier: 3                      ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════════╣
║  STR:  15          AGI:  16              ║
║  VIT:  20          INT:  76  (+2/lvl)    ║
║  WIS:  78  (+2/lvl)  PER:  17           ║
║  WIL:  40          LCK:  14             ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════════╣
║  HP:  415/415      MP: 1,028/1,028      ║
║  Stamina: 197/197                        ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════════╣
║  Idle Yield Mult: 2.56x                 ║
║  Script Complexity: 43 instructions      ║
║  Thread Count: 3                         ║
║  Construct Slots: 4                      ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════════╣
║  Recursion: 15 (hidden)                  ║
╚══════════════════════════════════════════╝
```

INT 76. WIS 78. He had nursed those numbers like a gardener tending two prize specimens, pouring every spare stat point into the twin pillars of his build. They were the reason his Script Complexity was 43, the reason his Idle Yield Multiplier had broken 2.5, the reason his constructs ran with an efficiency that made veteran operators stare. They were the best thing about him, mechanically speaking.

In approximately five seconds, they would be 10.

He looked at the [CONDENSE] button.

Vera had told him what it would feel like. "Information compression," she'd said, her voice carrying the careful neutrality of someone describing a car accident they had survived. "The Substrate doesn't just reset your numbers. It takes everything you are -- every stat point, every skill rank, every iteration of every loop you've ever run -- and folds it. Compresses it. Makes it *denser*. The numbers go away, but the pattern doesn't. The pattern becomes the foundation for everything that comes after." She had paused. "It feels like dying. And then it feels like something else."

