The giant, coal-black Timber Wolf stalked across the littered ground, oozing lithe power and malevolence from every pore. It bared yellowed, razor-sharp fangs longer than Ali’s handspan from behind a snarling lip, and the gleaming green eyes roamed the battlefield; a predator sizing up their prey.

Thick, reinforced sheets of scuffed sturdy-looking leather armor protected the wolf’s flanks. Mounted upon its back was the fearsome Hobgoblin.

Ali shivered as its gaze brushed past her, dismissing her with contemptuous indifference. The books she had read had not prepared her for his sheer presence. He sat tall, larger and heavier than a man. Lean and muscular, with battle-scarred skin of deep crimson, his long black hair worn up in a topknot streamed out behind him as he rode across the battlefield like he owned it, down to every last blade of muddy grass. Heavy chainmail gleamed in the sunlight, and he wielded a stout steel shield and a longsword while deftly controlling his mount entirely with his legs.

He snarled something guttural in the harsh language of the Goblins, and the scrambling and fleeing remnants of the previous Warbands froze in place as if the mere sound of his voice had the power to glue them to the ground.

A chunk of Ali’s mana slipped away, stolen by her Sage skill, as the routed Goblins rallied.

Warrior – Hobgoblin – level ??

Oh no, a Hobgoblin! What do we do? It was even higher level than she could properly Identify, and it was riding right for Malika.

Vivian Ross had insisted they run if they saw a Hobgoblin, but before Ali could even breathe, the steel longsword flashed in a sweeping strike so fast she could barely even see it. Suddenly, Malika was airborne, leaving bright red streamers of blood spraying from her chest as she flew through the air.

Malika!

Mana coursed through Ali’s fingers, manifesting in a snap of golden barrier magic right in the path of Malika’s flight. In the sudden eruption of melee chaos, the Timber Wolf snapped its jaws, biting down on the arm of one of Ali’s Kobold warriors with a sickening crunch. Shaking its head violently from side to side, it tore the arm clean off, tossing the maimed Kobold screaming to the side.

Mid-air, Malika tucked her body into a ball, colliding feet first with Ali’s barrier. She flashed with a pulse of healing magic and then leapt back toward the Hobgoblin.

“Everyone, attack the Hobgoblin,” she commanded, and all her Kobolds whirled about and mobbed the wolf-rider.

With a casual-looking swipe of his sword, the Hobgoblin almost bisected one of Ali’s attacking rogues while he expertly deflected Calen’s arrows with his shield. The wolf snapped viciously, this time crushing a Kobold warrior’s leg in its powerful jaws. The Fire Mage’s Firebolts were swatted away just as easily as the arrows, while the Hobgoblin systematically decimated her Kobolds. Ali thrust hastily summoned barriers in the way to block the sword or the jaws, but every time she did, her barrier was easily shattered with no more than a single attack.

We need to run! But Ali couldn’t say anything. Without a doubt, if they ran, Malika and Mato would be the first to die. But if we stay, we’re all going to die …

I won’t leave my friends!

Ali gritted her teeth and unleashed her Arcane Bolts at the Hobgoblin, arcing them up and over to avoid his shield. The magic shone brilliantly as it slammed into the crimson-skinned Goblin commander with a series of sizzling pops, earning her a hateful stare as the monster guided his wolf in her direction. Ali summoned a barrier, knowing in the depths of her shaking bones that it would barely slow the powerful Hobgoblin down.

Without warning, a silver blur streaked across Ali’s vision, crossing the battlefield in an instant. A loud crash rang out as an unimaginably heavy shield smashed into the Hobgoblin’s chainmail, knocking him clean off his wolf mount and sprawling across the ground. Ali blinked. The Goblin spat several vile curses in Common as it skidded to a stop and made to return, but the lean form of Commander Brand stood in his way, his once-shining plate armor covered from head to toe in splattered blood and dirt.

“Stand down. This foe is beyond you,” the commander bellowed, but his eyes never left the Hobgoblin even for an instant. He lashed out with his sword and the Hobgoblin blocked the strike, the force of their clash ringing out across the battlefield.

Malika and Mato immediately switched their focus to the Timber Wolf. Several brightly shining arrows shot by and buried themselves in the wolf’s flank as all her allies pivoted to the new target.

“Switch to the wolf,” Ali instructed, and her few remaining Kobolds scrambled to readjust. If only I could summon some more, she thought, but her Grimoire’s magic took several minutes per Kobold. That could be a problem in a tight battle. Hmm.

The wolf bit down hard, ripping brutally through the flesh of Mato’s shoulder, spraying blood across the approaching Kobolds, but Malika was right there with her counter. Healing magic pulsed in rapid flashes – brighter than Ali had ever seen – and Mato’s wounds closed before her eyes. Struggling in vain to get a grip on her shallow breathing, Ali immediately added her Arcane Bolts to the onslaught, filling the air with wisps of smoke and the sharp stench of burning fur.

At the crest of a rise in the distance, a tall, lithe scale-armored figure appeared. She took one step forward, and then, with a flicker of mana, Vivian Ross appeared right behind the Hobgoblin with the crash of her blazing sword striking the monster’s hastily raised shield. Her black hair had come unbound and flew behind her as she danced gracefully, wielding two flame-wreathed, curved swords in a blur of mesmerizing arcs.

That was a teleport!

What followed was a high-speed chaotic exchange of blocking and counterattacking that Ali could barely follow, if at all. Commander Brand executed a stunning shield slam that rang painfully in Ali’s ears, knocking the Hobgoblin stumbling backward while Vivian Ross weaved her burning attacks into her dance. Ali studied the dizzying back-and-forth for a few moments searching for an opportunity. Into a gap, a slight pause in the Hobgoblin’s rhythm, Ali thrust a barrier, blocking the inside of his right arm for a fraction of an instant before he shattered it by sheer force of strength. But the momentary delay was enough – in that tiny window of time, Vivian landed three slashing strikes, sundering the chainmail beneath his armpit, and lacing the air with trails of wine-red blood. As the Hobgoblin staggered backward, a spike of blue-white ice suddenly appeared protruding right through his chest, piercing armor and body with equal ease. Ali shuddered at the gruesome sounds of bones crunching and flesh tearing.

“Got him.” The sneering voice matched the face of the Human Ice Mage suddenly appearing from behind the slain Hobgoblin with incredibly dense white mana radiating from his body as if he contained a blizzard within his chest. He was dressed in white robes embroidered with spell-thread bearing the eye symbol of the Town Watch. Ali had never seen him before, but his demeanor filled her with a chilling unease.

Commander Brand spun on his heel and stamped against the ground, causing it to crack beneath his feet. His shield slammed into the wolf’s left flank, knocking it tumbling across the muddy ground and freeing a rather mangled-looking Mato. As soon as the Timber Wolf landed, a devastating bolt of lightning shot down from the sky, leaving it twitching and smoldering on the ground. Ali looked up in awe, finding a flying Gnomish mage dripping sparks of lightning from her eyes and her outstretched fingers.

Vivian Ross extinguished her swords and then wiped the blood from them before sheathing them. “Good work, you guys, it would have been a real pain to track down this hob later.”

Ali sighed, tension flowing out of her like a wave receding after breaking on the shore. She was a hundred percent convinced she and her friends would all have been paste by now without the intervention of the Guildmaster and her group.

“The battle is over,” Commander Brand put in. “Orders. The Goblin center broke twenty minutes ago. Most of the remaining Goblins are routed and fleeing. If any of you can heal, report to the field hospital and offer your magic to help the priests of Lunaré. Likely they’re running low on mana by now. The rest of you; search the battlefield for the injured and help bring them in.”

As he doled out quickfire orders with a no-nonsense snap to his voice, Ali breathed a huge sigh of relief. Her head throbbed from hours of focus, and magic, battling Goblins without a single moment’s rest. Dimly, in the distance, she heard cheering from the battlements, but she was far too numb and tired to join in. Ali stared blankly at the surrounding devastation, and the corpse of the unimaginably powerful Hobgoblin, just glad for it to all be over.

To think that this was her life, now.

Malika entered town via the open south gate, nodding respectfully to the garrison guards who were still on duty protecting the town from any stray Goblins. To her surprise, several of them returned the gesture. They even look sincere…

“Why am I coming again?” Mato asked. He didn’t sound belligerent, simply weary.

She was growing comfortable fighting alongside the bear, and much more used to their adjusted roles. He had seemed so reckless – even careless – when she had first met him, but her opinion of Mato had changed.

Steady. He’s reliable; big-hearted in the best possible way.

Whatever he had experienced down in that dark ruin had changed him much more than he had let on. Mato acted more even-tempered and resilient, and he seemed to care much more for those around him. Perhaps he always had, but it had grown much more noticeable to Malika in the last several days. Even if he tries to hide it behind that gruff exterior, it’s so clear in the way he fights.

“Healing costs a lot of mana,” she explained. “The Priests of Lunaré might appreciate your aura.”

“Fair enough,” Mato nodded, as she led the way to the field hospital that had been set up in the temporary warehouse headquarters right next to the gate.

As she walked, she pulled her shoulders back, stretching her chest. It still felt uncomfortable – the spot where the Hobgoblin’s sword had cleaved right through her ribs and sternum. She had healed it completely in midair while doing a flip and kick off of Ali’s barrier – which just went to show how much better she was getting with her powerful Divine Step skill. But her mind refused to give up the afterimage of the injury, insisting that something was still wrong. It seemed to be a rather common side-effect of instantly healing severe injuries and one which would fade pretty rapidly. Hopefully. She had already experienced it several times but, other than her body feeling like something must be wrong, she would be fine.

Malika grinned wryly at the sound of her inner voice trying to convince her she should be fine. But, as she well knew, it was calm and tranquility that was the foundation of a strong body and mind. She breathed deeply and stilled the voice and all the left-over buzzing from a day of battle, before stepping through the busy doorway and into the area set aside for the priests to tend the injured. The sounds of assistants rushing about frantically mingled discordantly with the background moaning of the injured, while Malika’s nose was assaulted by the stench of blood and antiseptic tinctures.

“What are your injuries?” It was the voice of an Elf, pushed far beyond exhaustion, but still trying to hold onto the remaining shreds of propriety and dignity, denying themselves rest in the face of so many injured.

Lamyndra Duskwind, Malika easily recognized the prominent priestess of the temple. She had been out in the thick of battle all day, and now she was here healing the injured. She hadn’t even had time to change or wipe the blood from her dark skin.

“We’re not injured, we’re here to help if you need us.”

“A Druid and a Monk? What are your abilities?” She stared at Mato with what looked like desperation and the dying embers of hope.

She’s probably hoping for the vaunted efficiency of Druidic healing. Malika glanced around the field hospital taking in the scene. On one side, two robed Night Elf priests were sitting slumped on a bench, and next to them, another was laid out breathing heavily, all showing signs of the profound exhaustion that came from persistently running yourself empty without a chance to recover. Malika had personal experience with that after having been forced to wear the Cuffs of Suppression.

Across the floor were dozens of makeshift pallets with guards and adventurers, and even a few of the townsfolk laid out on them, many still bleeding or groaning in pain.

They’re out of mana and people are still dying, no wonder they’re exhausted.

“I’m Malika, I have an instant touch heal, I can use mana and stamina, and I have Meditation,” Malika summarized quickly.

“Mato. I cannot heal, but I have a passive regeneration aura,” Mato added.

“Health regen?” Lamyndra asked, clarifying, a flicker of disappointment crossing her tired eyes.

“Health, stamina, and mana,” Mato answered. “And advanced regeneration which can eventually heal severe injuries.”

The Night Elf raised an eyebrow. “That’s… more than welcome.” She turned back to Malika. “Very well, Malika, was it? Can you heal this patient?”

Malika looked at the woman Lamyndra pointed to. She was clearly in bad shape, unconscious, and bleeding through some hastily applied bandages. Quickly, Malika bent over and touched her shoulder, charging her Healing Mantra with stamina. Her magic flashed brightly as her energy surged out through her fingertips and into the dying woman. Instantly, the bleeding ceased, and the wounds began to close up with indecent haste. Bone cracked loudly as her shattered arm realigned itself, and several fingers abruptly regrew on her right hand.

“Good. Can I have you on triage and stabilization? You don’t need to fully heal them; just ensure they don’t die when they come in. The most critical patients are these here.”

She turned briefly. “Mato, can I have you sit right here? That way your aura can replenish the priests, and you can help regenerate any stabilized patients we put on these pallets.” She immediately began calling out crisp orders for the assistants to rearrange the patients.

