Grove Warden has reached level 20 (+5).+50 attribute points.

Twenty looked like such a big milestone – a nice round number. And that’s a lot of attribute points, too. Ali rubbed her hands together. Progress. Let’s see…

Arcane Insight has reached level 10 (+3).Arcane Bolt has reached level 13 (+2).Barrier has reached level 16 (+3).Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 13.Imprint: Goblinoid completed.Variant: Chain Shirt added to Imprint: Armor.Imprint: Starving Wolf updated to Imprint: Wolf.Variant: Timber Wolf added to Imprint: Wolf.

The skill notifications spoke to her growth throughout the long battle. Even her Grimoire of Summoning had grown from the aggressive use of deconstruction during combat. She typically used it to recover after fights, but today it had been the primary fuel that kept her magic running continuously. The steady stream of gear and Goblin corpses had simply been turned into mana, fuel for her barriers and Arcane Bolts.

Her eyes dropped to the imprint.

Goblinoid. Ugh, I guess I should have expected this.

Her Grimoire seemed to have categorized at least some of the Goblins into a single imprint, providing her one for the entire family of races. She knew exactly when she had learned it too – it had happened when she had deconstructed a particularly large Bugbear in the middle of the fight and her Grimoire had appeared, so she knew it at least included them.

Do I want Goblins?

She very much disliked the smelly and vicious creatures they had been fighting all day, and she wouldn’t have minded discarding the imprint due to space. But she had just earned a new blank chapter for the day-long battle.

Some of the elites are powerful, she thought. She already had a Fire Mage, but there had been several Goblin shamans, and their lightning magic was potent and rather terrifying. Not to mention she might be able to make Bugbears.

I guess I have Kobolds and slimes, and those worked out so far. She finally decided she could simply take the Goblinoid imprint and if something better came along, she wouldn’t have a problem switching it out. If the imprint came with a useful elite, it might prove worth it in the end.

She opened her Grimoire and committed the new imprint.

“You get something new?” Mato asked curiously.

“Goblins,” Ali answered, twisting her mouth.

Vivian Ross glanced at her and arched an eyebrow but returned to her work without comment.

“Maybe don’t summon them yet, people might freak out,” Mato said with a chuckle. “Although, if you dressed like one…”

“Mato,” Ali warned with a smile.

“What?” he asked, shrugging, and raising both palms.

“Being called out for my smelly Kobold robes by Lydia was more than enough, I don’t need to smell like a Bugbear, thank you very much.”

He just chuckled and she returned to the long stream of notifications.

Class skill slot unlocked.New skills are available for Grove Warden.New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 20.Intelligence has surpassed 45.Defeated more than 200 enemies with arcane magic.Arcane RayMana: Channel your mana in a beam of arcane energy doing damage to all it touches. Range: 20 meters.Arcane, Ranged, Channeled, IntelligenceNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 20.Intelligence has surpassed 50.Fought more than 10 enemies at once.Poison CloudMana: Emit a cloud of poison in a cone in front of your hand. Duration: 3 minutes. Range: 10 meters.Nature, Area, IntelligenceNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 20.Intelligence has surpassed 50.Summoned an army of more than 25 minions.Killed more than 100 enemies with your minions in less than one day.Empowered SummonerMana: Your minions gain added nature damage on hit. Choose a Minion. You gain + [40 + skill + base intelligence x 0.15] % of their highest base attribute. Range: 15 meters. Reserve: 10%0: Replace a minion target for your attribute enhancement. Recharge: 1 hour. Nature, Minion, Buff, Intelligence

So, twenty does unlock the second skill! Interesting.

With a quick look, Ali confirmed that her discarded options from earlier were still available, meaning she could pick Grasping Roots or Berserk Summoner in addition to the three new skills offered.

A ray, a cloud of poison, and a minion buff. Ali carefully read each of the skill descriptions.

“What do you guys think of these skill options,” she asked. Malika was still sound asleep, but Mato and Calen looked over with interest as she shared her three new choices with them.

“Some nice damage skills,” Mato observed. “Poison Cloud might have been good today on the battlefield.”

“True, but I would have to be careful of my allies – and my minions.” Ali glanced over at her Kobold Fire Mage standing behind the couch. She had had to keep a close eye on him during the battle because his eagerness to Fireball everything in sight might have hurt some of her friends.

“That ray thingy looks nice, too,” Mato said. “I wonder if you can just turn it on and wave it around?”

“Oh, interesting. It says it’s channeled, so that might work. What do you think Calen?” Ali had noticed Calen was showing interest in the conversation, but he hadn’t said anything so far.

“It probably does work like that, but if it were me, I would take the Empowered Summoner skill,” he said, poking his lip with the back of his pencil.

“It seems very expensive, though. It reserves ten percent of my entire mana.” Ali had thought the skill looked nice, but the others seemed a little more attractive because they didn’t lock away so much mana. She was already reserving so much just to have minions.

“Your minions are your most powerful skill,” Calen retorted, offering a quirky smile to soften his words. “Anything that makes them all stronger is multiplied by the number of minions you summon. I think this skill is worth way more than a ten percent reservation – you get an attribute bonus, and all your minions gain nature magic damage whenever they hit something. Most of your minions are physical damage only – with this skill, they can all have a source of magical damage, too.”

“I didn’t think of it that way. That seems very powerful.”

Ali was about to make the choice when she noticed Vivian Ross still sitting in the chair across from them, clearly having overheard the entire conversation, but she still hadn’t commented. Perhaps she was being polite, but she had demonstrated an extraordinary level of experience during their first interview.

“Guildmaster, what do you think?” Ali inquired.

Vivian Ross looked surprised for a moment before she schooled her expression. “I think it’s excellent that you discuss your choices with your friends, Aliandra. Too few people have that level of trust and it’s a great way to get multiple perspectives. And yes, the minion buff skill is by far the strongest of your choices, given what I saw on the battlefield today. One additional point to the excellent analysis Calen gave – you probably can’t channel your missiles and that ray simultaneously. So, you’d always be effectively fighting with one fewer skill if you picked that one.”

“If that’s the case, I would be better off replacing the bolts with the ray, right?”

“Yes.”

“I think I like the bolts better, they’re guided, and I can focus my attention on my minions and my barriers.”

“That seems like a smart choice. And you can always change your mind later if you have to.”

“Thank you.” It was nice to confirm that her unselected skills would remain available – albeit at the cost of losing any earned skill levels. Happy with the decision, Ali selected Empowered Summoner for her newly unlocked skill slot. Immediately the familiar golden text appeared on the parchment in her mind’s eye:

You have learned the class skill Empowered Summoner.Empowered Summoner has reached level 1.Empowered Summoner – level 1Mana: Your minions gain added nature damage on hit. Choose a Minion. You gain +51.2% [40 + skill + base intelligence x 0.15] of their highest base attribute. Range: 15.45 meters. Reserve: 10%0: Replace a minion target for your attribute enhancement. Recharge: 1 hour. Nature, Minion, Buff, Intelligence

To test it out, she turned it on, reserving ten percent of her entire mana pool. Immediately, her Kobolds glance at her with cunning smiles curving their lips upward to reveal entirely too many wicked fangs. Even the mage? Does that mean he gets the nature damage on hit benefit also? With his Fireball?

Ali wriggled uncomfortably in her seat, unsure whether a decent person really should be so delighted by the prospect of frying enemies more effectively with nature magic enhanced Fireballs.

“Thank you, Ancient Mistress.”

Ali acknowledged them with a nod and then selected her Fire Mage as the target for the skill. The activation for choosing her Fire Mage was written as a rather obscure ‘0’ in the skill description, but it turned out to be much simpler than she had feared; she simply chose, and there was no mana or stamina cost. According to the skill, whichever of his base attributes was the highest would be the one she would benefit from.

And he’s a mage, so…

Sure enough, her intelligence attribute suddenly jumped by a whopping twenty-nine points. The jump was so significant that it was instantly noticeable. Her mind’s focus immediately sharpened, and she felt a heightened awareness. Most of her skills benefited from intelligence, which meant her barrier and her bolts would both be stronger in turn.

“Wow, this is nice!” And all I have to do is keep my mage within fifteen meters. I buff him, and I get a buff in return. Sweet.

She now had two potent minion buffs, and her attributes had improved. Ali finally turned her attention to her attribute points. Recalling the crazy stunt with her hanging from her barrier above the cavern floor, she put ten of the points into dexterity without hesitation. The rest she split among wisdom, intelligence, and perception. She had not forgotten that she had three skills that scaled with perception.

While she was assigning her points, Vivian Ross broke the silence.

“What are you guys doing tomorrow?”

“No plans,” Mato answered quickly, and Ali looked up curiously.

“I’m worried about that Goblin dungeon. I know you said Kieran Mori’s mercenaries killed it to provoke the dungeon-break, but I simply cannot trust their word. If there’s any chance that dungeon is still alive, we could be facing a far worse disaster in a few weeks or months – you know the drill. We absolutely must ensure that it is destroyed. I’m tied up here for the next few weeks, so I was hoping that a couple of you guys could go on a scouting job for me. I can’t pay, but I can cancel your guild membership debt as a reward.”

“You want us to kill a dungeon that spawns Hobgoblins?” Mato asked warily, clearly considering how many body parts that might cost him.

Drumming her fingers on the armrest of her chair, Vivian replied, “No, you’re wise to be cautious – just find out if it’s really destroyed. If it’s alive, report back and I think that will be enough for me to motivate Commander Brand to get involved.”

Oh. Ali hadn’t even been thinking beyond today’s battle, and already the Guildmaster was several steps ahead. The idea that the dungeon was still out there preparing another, perhaps even bigger horde, was terrifying.

“I’m not sure I’m that useful for a scouting mission,” Ali said. She did have some wolves, but it wasn’t really a tracking mission, and she still had to worry about her domain withdrawal.

“I was thinking of Calen and Mato for this particular job,” Vivian answered. “Buddy system – and both of you have good scouting skills.”

Oh, that makes sense, Ali thought seeing both Calen and Mato agreeing to the scouting mission.

I guess Malika and I will have a few days to ourselves then.

***

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: AncientActive Buffs: Empowered SummonerClass: Grove Warden – level 20- Arcane Insight – level 10- Arcane Bolt – level 13- Barrier – level 16- Grimoire of Summoning – level 13- Runic Script – level 9- Sage of Learning – level 9- Martial Insight – level 7- Empowered Summoner – level 1- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Reading – level 7- Identify – level 8- Sculpting – level 2Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal'mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common, Draconic- Mana (Affinities): Nature, Arcane- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Domain (Class): Your maximum mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%- Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawal. You have Domain SenseAttributes- Vitality: 50- Strength: 4- Endurance: 15- Dexterity: 20- Perception: 41- Intelligence: 97 (+29)- Wisdom: 72Equipment- Body: Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 15- Hands: Wooden Bracelet – level 11- Ring: Bronze Guild Ring – level 10Resistance: 216Magical Damage Reduction: 27.83%+21% to mana regeneration.Health: 250/250Stamina: 150/150Mana: 1526/2160 (634 Reserved)Grimoire Imprints1- Moss 2- Arrow 3- Armor (Body)4- Dagger 5- Wolf 6- Mushroom 7- Stone 8- Kobold 9- Sword 10- Tree 11- Ivy 12- Toxic Slime 13- Goblinoid
