Malika immediately set to her work, pulsing her magic into the most severely injured people, trying to stabilize them as best as she could while conserving her resources so that she could have enough to save everyone. She worked non-stop as more and more injured people began trickling in, recovered by the teams working out on the battlefield, or pulled off the battlements with burn injuries, or lightning damage.

After about half an hour, when she was beginning to run low, one of the other Elven priests took over, giving her a few minutes to Meditate in Mato’s aura, before she jumped right back into it.

It was hard work, and of course, draining. Too often the assistants covered those who had not made it with sheets and carried them off to the far wall to join the ever-increasing line of the dead. Malika gritted her teeth and continued healing.

“Hi, I’m Teagan. Lamyndra asked me to help you.”

Malika looked up in surprise, recognizing the red-haired and bare-footed shaman girl from the sewers. She hadn’t even seen her come in.

“I’m only level four, but I can heal.”

“Here, you start with these three. Try and heal just the critical injuries if you can. Mato’s aura will take care of the rest over time.”

She nodded in earnest, shooting a shy glance at Mato, and Malika smiled at her obvious commitment to help.

An hour later, things began to ease up. The rest of the priests had regenerated enough mana to resume their work, and Lamyndra had too, activating a broad healing aura that enveloped the entire hospital with the warmth and glow of her advanced magic.

Malika finally sat, sprawled on a box, not caring one bit for the hard edges of her uncomfortable seat. She was bone-weary in a way that could only come from constantly draining her stamina and mana. She looked happily at the mostly empty pallets on the ground, only a few remaining patients recovering slowly under the combination of Lamyndra’s potent healing aura and Mato’s regeneration. She hadn’t been able to save everyone, but she knew many people would be going home to their families tonight because she had been here.

Teagan lay passed out on the ground beside the box, and Mato had moved a little closer so that she was within his regeneration aura. She’s a trooper. The shaman had literally worked herself till she dropped.

“I think we’re done,” Lamyndra said, walking up to Malika. “You guys can head out if you like, I’ll finish up. I’ll let Vivian know how grateful I am that you three could help out.” The Night Elf bowed her head, touched her right hand to her heart and finished with a benediction, “May Lunaré guide you on your path.”

Malika stood and offered a respectful bow in return.

“Back to the guild?” Mato asked.

“Yup,” Malika answered tiredly. “Even my bones hurt.”

Mato bent down and scooped up the passed-out form of Teagan, cradling the surprisingly light Human shaman in his arms. He glanced at Malika, swaying beside him as if struck by an unexpected breeze, with a newfound respect. It had been a battle in here, one in which he had been powerless to fight. It mattered not that it had been fought by elegantly robed Elven priests picking their way carefully among the wounded and dying with kind words and the gentle touch of healing. It had been a war against death itself, and all he had been able to do was watch from the sidelines while Malika darted around saving the lives of endless people.

I’m not sure she can even stand anymore, he thought, prodding Malika to move, before she fell asleep on her feet.

“Thank you, both,” Lamyndra said, a weary smile gracing her delicate face.

“I’m not sure I was able to do much,” Mato admitted.

“You needn’t worry, young Druid,” Lamyndra offered with a kindly crinkle forming around her eyes. “Your aura kept my Priests and Priestesses revitalized far beyond our normal limits. Perhaps you don’t feel it, but your contribution was essential to saving many of the injured today.”

“I… thank you,” he said, moved beyond his expectations at her words.

“Look after those two,” she said, gesturing toward Malika and Teagan.

“I will,” he said, nodding. It was the least he could do.

With a small smile curving his lips, he guided Malika and carried Teagan out of the field hospital. As he made his way slowly back toward the Adventurers Guild, he looked inward, visiting the giant tree within his mind.

I did good today… I think, he told it, wondering, not for the first time, if it could hear him. Perhaps I’m just talking to myself.

As if in response to his words, the tree revealed his notifications.

Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 19 (+5).+50 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 11 (+3).Swipe has reached level 13 (+4).Brutal Restoration has reached level 12 (+2).Bear Form has reached level 11 (+2).Bestial Combat has reached level 12 (+7).Natural Prowess has reached level 8 (+4).Cooking has reached level 5.

Mato’s eyes widened at the green glowing words and numbers rapidly appearing before him. That’s… a lot… Five levels? His class was far stronger than it had been when he started out this morning. But then, he had been fighting for most of the day. Even Arboreal Sanctuary had leaped ahead, lending weight to the Night Elf Priestess’s assessment of his aura’s worth.

Finally, the last of the tension from the long day faded as the muscles in his neck and shoulders relaxed. By the time he reached the guild hall, his steps were light – lighter – and his mood began to settle back to normal. We won!

As soon as they entered the guild hall, Malika collapsed on a couch and passed out.

Carefully, Mato laid Teagan down on a nearby chair and wandered off to see if Mieriel had any blankets.

Calen crouched in the middle of the battlefield, gently holding Ali while she threw up. The first adventurer they had found was very clearly dead, hacked to pieces by Goblin axes and daggers. It looked like the work of Bugbears, judging by the bloody tracks and the unnecessary mutilation of the corpse.

In the throes of battle, such sensibilities hadn’t affected him much, but seeing the corpse in the aftermath turned his stomach also.

As Ali struggled to get her nausea under control, Calen reflected on the battle, mostly as a way of distracting his mind from the gore and the stench of death. He had fought hard, and for hours, but a large amount of his time had to be spent regenerating his mana. He had used every single mana potion he had bought, but he still hadn’t brought enough. He had even tried fighting closer to take advantage of Mato’s aura, but it put him perilously close to the Bugbears. And he had little desire to face a huge leaping monstrous Goblin with a two-handed mace in melee. Or the whirling axe-blenders.

Even Malika and Mato, with their powerful regeneration skills, were still forced to take breathers whenever they could, but Ali had fought non-stop for hours. Her strange deconstruction skill allowed her to continuously replenish her mana supply while her minion army took care of the bulk of the fighting. The Kobolds had capitalized on Mato’s aura for stamina regeneration, which made them even more effective in the hours-long battle.

Does she even know how powerful she is? He glanced down at the forlorn and pitiful Fae crouching in the dirt, now reduced to dry heaving.

“Better?” he asked.

“No.”

“We can go back.”

“No, I won’t let anyone die because I’m squeamish.”

He helped Ali to her feet, and together, they began to search the battlefield for any survivors. Between his eyes and her remaining Kobolds, they should be able to cover an enormous amount of ground quickly.

Idly he picked up a Hobgoblin sword, half buried in the mud, and stored it in his ring. It seemed to be a decent quality and he was certain Ali would like it, perhaps for one of her warriors. Or maybe she could even learn to make it. Her creation skill was astonishing – she had manufactured several gold worth of high-quality arrows using only mana and time. Without her, he would have been forced to spend large amounts of time scavenging for ammunition on the battlefield.

He looked at the three arrows he had collected automatically as he walked by Goblin corpses. Habit, he thought, but he stored them anyway, they were still usable. Wish I could make my own arrows – now that would be a skill!

“Hey Ali, maybe have your Kobolds keep an eye out for decent armor or weapons while you go. You might find something useful to learn before the looters and scavengers clear the battlefield.”

Ali nodded, looking somewhat better already. At least her face was no longer the same green as her hair.

***

Calen sat outside the field hospital with Ali, resting. Once they had gotten going, their combination of skills had proved excellent for locating the unconscious and wounded. Between the two of them, they had found and rescued about a dozen people across the broad expanse of the entire eastern flank, and about half of the center.

“I guess we’re free to go,” Ali said.

Malika and Mato would probably be busy for a while still, so he got up and the two of them headed back to the guild.

There were way too many kill notifications in his list, so Calen skipped to the end, stunned by the number of levels he had earned in just one day.

Archer of Light has reached level 15 (+5).+50 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 10.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 11 (+3).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 10 (+3).Eclipse has reached level 8.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 6 (+5).

Granted it had taken almost an entire day of continuous battle against dangerous foes, but this amount of progress meant he was becoming substantially stronger.

Arrows of Brilliance has gained a new enhancement.Blinding FlashMana: Cause an extremely bright flash when your arrow hits, blinding nearby targets. Range: 20 feet.Light, Area, Ranged, IntelligenceIncreased RangeStamina: Your range is increased by + [skill x 10] %Physical, Ranged, DexterityArmor PiercingStamina: Your arrows will pierce armor, ignoring a percentage of the target’s armor value.Physical, Ranged, DexterityMote of LightMana: Attach a Mote of Light to your arrow, fixing it at the destination.Light, Ranged, IntelligenceChoose one enhancement.

My first skill advancement!

He read through all four options, weighing them up, immediately discarding Mote of Light. I already have a skill for that without needing to shoot. Blinding Flash looked like a straightforward flashbang skill. Probably sometimes useful.

The two remaining enhancements were both amazing – increased range that would grow with his skill level, and armor piercing. I wish I could choose them both. He spent most of the walk back to the guild debating the choices, but by the time he reached the guild hall he had made up his mind. He selected Increased Range, simply because most of the opponents he had fought up till now hadn’t been wearing too much in the way of armor. Or in the case of the Bugbears, he could compensate for their partial plate armor with accuracy. Increased Range, however, would have been useful in almost every fight he had, especially now that he could see so much further with Eyes of the Archon.

It's going to be fantastic to have extra range if I can unlock an Ambush skill. And with Ali’s ingenious solution to his stealth and light skill issues, he was at least hopeful he might be able to achieve it.

Arrows of Brilliance – level 11You may enhance your next shot with up to 2 [1 + skill tier] enhancements.Granted Enhancements: Light Damage, Increased Range.Light, Physical, Ranged, Dexterity, Intelligence

Oh, I can use both simultaneously! It would of course require both the mana and the stamina costs to power it, but he could choose how he spent his resources. Calen sat down at a small table in the guild hall, pulled out his notebook, and chewed thoughtfully on the back of his pencil. What does skill tier mean? Is that the change that supposedly happens at level one hundred? He made a note to ask the Guildmaster the next time he saw her. If anyone knew it would be her.

All in all, a fine day’s work and I’m alive to enjoy the fruits.

***

Name: Calen AveryRace: Half-ElfActive Buffs: Blessing of the DawnClass: Archer of Light – level 15- Radiant Archery – level 10- Arrows of Brilliance – level 11- Motes of Light – level 5- Explorer – level 9- Blessing of the Dawn – level 10- Eclipse – level 8- Eyes of the Archon – level 6- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Bowcraft – level 6- Wood Carving – level 3- Cartography – level 4Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Mana (Affinity): Light- Perceptive (Racial): +11 to Perception- Quick (Racial): +5 to Dexterity- Timing (Class): You have an innate sense of timingAttributes- Vitality: 22- Strength: 9- Endurance: 15- Dexterity: 108 (+38)- Perception: 81 (+28)- Intelligence: 72 (+25)- Wisdom: 20Equipment- Weapon: Hunter's Bow – level 10- Body: Leather Vest – level 10- Ring: Bronze Guild Ring – level 10Evasion: 120Dodge: 22.22%Health: 220/220Stamina: 150/150Mana: 160/200 (40 Reserved)

Ali clambered up onto the couch in the guild hall and simply spaced out for a while. It had been a grueling day, fighting the monsters of the Goblin horde. As if that hadn’t been enough, she had found several mutilated corpses on the battlefield that were far past saving, and while she hadn’t thrown up again after the first, none of the bodies had been easy to see. She had felt relief that she hadn’t been turned into a corpse by the Bugbear meatgrinders, and then instantly felt guilty that she had survived when so many had not.

It was all overwhelming, and she simply sat and stared at the comings and goings of the guild, allowing it all to wash over her for a while. Calen was busy scribbling in his notebook, and adventurers walked in and out. Most looked very much the worse for wear. At some point, the Guildmaster must have returned because she was sitting across from Ali doing some paperwork.

Someone came in and collapsed on the couch beside her and instantly passed out.

Malika? Ah, with Mato. Yes.

Ali glanced up as Mato wordlessly handed her a sandwich and found himself a seat. She stared uncomprehendingly at the sandwich for a moment before her stomach decided it was suddenly starving. She hadn’t eaten anything since the morning, and she had emptied her stomach a while ago.

The sandwich vanished, and in minutes, Ali began feeling better, more alert, and having a little more energy.

“Thanks, Mato,” she said, popping the last crumbs into her mouth.

“Congrats,” he said.

“What?”

“You’re level twenty. Did you unlock anything good? You should take a look.”

Oh! Suddenly eager, she viewed her notifications.

