Past and present. Pisces wondered if there was a soul in those glowing eyes and the blade drawing his blood. Would he disgrace himself in the eyes of the past for victory?
He wasn’t a good enough [Fencer]. Pisces took a sword thrust through his other arm, and his hand went limp. He couldn’t raise it easily. Pisces cursed. He was a [Necromancer] in the end—so be what they had always been.
Cheats who refused to die. Summon a horror.
Say the word that defined them:
‘Arise.’
Pisces’ eyes flickered, and his pupils expanded as the Drake backed up and lowered its stance. Ceria was shouting something, and he looked at her, around at the walls hemming him in, and the Drake.
The reflection of that great duelist from another time came in low to the ground, virtually kissing the blood-stained floor, sword held in both claws, angling upwards. A thrust that would pierce any guard and would follow Pisces and impale him into the sky.
The [Necromancer] sighed—and stepped backwards.
 
——
 
The overseer’s eyes glowed. It had a clawed hand raised, and Ceria saw it was watching Pisces. The pride of the City of Shields and the honor of the duel might provoke more than just disqualification.
The jewel overhead had stopped pulsing. Ceria had stopped breathing. She was watching Pisces as the Drake swung upwards in that piercing uppercut.
The [Necromancer]’s back was to one of the walls he’d made. But even if he dissolved it—the blow would follow him. She heard him sigh and step back.
The overseer’s claw glowed red—Ceria threw herself forwards, arms raised, body covered in [Frost Armor] as the circlet screamed at her and fell off her head.
—She stumbled, fell, and nothing hit her. Ceria rolled and heard a crack of…she looked up.
That wasn’t the sound of a blade piercing flesh. The overseer’s claw lowered. It smiled. Ceria’s head rose—and for a second, Pisces met her eyes.
He was standing in the air. On…a staircase of bone. The [Duelist]-Drake had missed and cut the base of the staircase apart.
A spiral staircase, like the one he had once made in the Ruins of Albez, but more complete. This one had smooth, ivory railings and a helix design. The bones were smooth, like a marble made of stars, and it looked sort of like…ice.
Like Ceria’s own magic.
He had had nowhere to go, so he’d made his own footing. The light-Drake actually looked at the overseer, but the overseer said nothing. Ceria, lying on her side, began to laugh.
So this was dueling as well. The magical duelist, the [Necromancer], flicked his rapier up at the Drake, who slowly stared up at him and—grudgingly—saluted him. Then it leapt up the stairs, but Pisces had the high ground, and Ceria presumed that mattered. He leapt, and his feet touched another platform in the air as his [Bone Walls] morphed.
Not to help him directly, but melting. Changing…to objects Pisces knew. The [Duelist] charged, outraged, Ceria was certain—and Pisces leapt off the table that he and she knew so well.
Round, worn a bit, and the Drake’s tail tangled with the chairs of Erin’s inn. Chairs and tables? What kind of a duel was this?
Pisces kicked a chair up, and the Drake pierced through it. The [Necromancer] swung wide, slashed one arm, and reached a [Bone Wall].
The light-Drake’s blade flickered, and it seemed to decide that if Pisces was using magic like this—it could use a Skill.
Three blades appeared and angled themselves at Pisces. He closed his eyes as he rested his back against the wall. The [Duelist] lunged, blades slamming into the ivory—and looked up.
Pisces had kicked off a ledge of bone. [Flash Step].
He was in the air, white robes fluttering like a great bird—and his sword angled down. The Drake was smoothly turning, aiming for where he’d land—a perfect calculation from a piece of ancient magic.
Then Ceria saw Pisces’ foot catch the lip of his staircase of bone. He was rotating, angling downwards—and he kicked off diagonally, aiming down at the Drake.
[Flash Step].
Pisces’ sword pierced through the Drake’s chest, and he tumbled, landing in a somersault, staring around, then leaping to his feet and conjuring the [Flame Rapier]. Whirling around—
The light-Drake knelt there, sword in its chest, staring up at the sky as it bled motes of light. It gazed up at Pisces—and then disintegrated into a glowing mist.
Panting, incredulous, Pisces’ head turned to the place the Drake had been, his rapier embedded in the floor—and then up as the overseer spoke.
“Challenger.”
Eleven—no, twelve of those duelist Drakes stood behind it. Ceria got up, groaning, but the overseer didn’t order them to attack. They pointed their swords at Pisces—and the overseer smiled.
“I confer upon you a mark of the City of Shields. Congratulations. Thou art a [Duelist] of the Walled Cities. You may challenge any master of blades.”
“Huh?”
Pisces just gaped blankly at the Drake—and then he realized he’d won. He’d won. His rapier trembled in his grip, and he recoiled as the light-projection reached up. The jewel overhead flashed—and Pisces thought he saw the clawed hand pulling something out of the air.
His skin froze and his heart trembled as the Drake cupped its hands and produced something that it held gently, reverently—then held out to him.
It caught the light, no magic, but real metal. Though Pisces had never seen it shine so. Ceria Springwalker got to her feet slowly, staring, standing on her tiptoes as Pisces reached for it—drew back…
“Are you sure?”
“It is yours, fairly earned, Duelist of Graves. Take it proudly.”
Pisces stared into those ancient glowing eyes, searching for…what he couldn’t have said. Then he reached out and gently took what it offered him.
It was, of course, a bell.
A silver bell. Only…Pisces wasn’t sure it was silver. The metal seemed to glow, and it was tiny, the size of his thumb’s nail. It was in the shape of those old teardrop bells. He stared at it as Ceria bent forwards. She saw the [Necromancer] turn it over, inspecting the bottom, and laughed.
“Oh no. Pisces…it’s got no bell!”
She meant the inside clapper. There was nothing there; no object to ring against the insides when shook.
Wait a second. Ceria remembered that tale about [Duelists] and something pretentious about how the best of them didn’t let their bells ring in combat. She slapped her forehead.
Wait, was this the truth behind the legend? The [Prankster] began to chuckle. Then she saw Pisces’ expression. He looked up at her, eyes shimmering as the bell reflected light onto his face.
“What? You think you got a dud?”
“What are you talking about, Ceria? I…can hear it ringing.”
The half-Elf stopped. She blinked, then focused on the bell. Wait, did she see something moving as Pisces shook it? He tilted his head, closed his eyes…and she wondered what he heard.
“Only the worthy may hear the Bell of Challenge.”
The overseer Drake spoke softly, and Ceria looked at it. Then she grabbed Pisces and hugged him with all her strength.
“Argh. My injuries—”
“Shut up. We’ll patch you up. You did it, you crazy [Necromancer]. You beat a [Duelist] from the City of Shields.”
“It was only a replica—”
“Shut. It. You have a silver—no, you have a bell. I knew you were worthy.”
He sniffed, and for once, it seemed entirely accidental. Pisces averted his head, but Ceria’s own eyes were overfull. Slowly, Pisces lifted the rapier in one hand.
“It was everyone’s abilities. I wish I could have…no. Look. I made something besides a horror.”
The staircase of bone looked like it was unfinished. The real thing might stretch upwards. It made Ceria imagine a palace. It had sprung from Pisces’ imagination, and she saw him breathing in and out.
Calm, despite his wounds and the battle for life-and-death. Perhaps it was the blood loss, but he looked at Ceria as if he’d realized something.
“I…think we should find Bograms.”
“In a second. You’re hurt.”
“Yes. Ah…yes.”
Absently, Pisces sat down. The overseer Drake was still standing there. Ceria saw the other light-Drakes standing at attention. They must have been reset. But Pisces just lay on the floor.
“I, ah…”
“Hold on, I’ll bandage your wounds and get you a healing potion. Where’s the damn circlet—Pisces! Stay with me!”
Ceria saw it lying there and snatched it up. So it had tried to run when it thought she was a goner, eh? She was alarmed—if Pisces was bleeding out—she needed to find Ksmvr. He probably had the last potion—
Pisces protested as Ceria bent over him urgently.
“No, no. I’m going to just…sleep a second. Okay?”
She was about to slap him hard as she could when she realized what he meant. Ceria checked his pulse, and it was strong enough; the wound on his side had mostly clotted, but she found some linen for a bandage. Pisces’ breathing remained steady as he closed his eyes. Ceria Springwalker stared at him, and her eyes glowed.
She stepped back…and wondered who he would be when he woke up. Her circlet whispered to her as she absently chewed on it. It was telling her that his class was—
Changing.
 
——
 
Pisces slept for eight minutes. Eight minutes was a long time. When he woke up—he stared at the sky and exhaled.
It felt like a breath he’d been keeping in ever since he’d begun dreading Level 40.
Now…he let it out.
And smiled. For the first time since he’d been born, Pisces wondered what kind of force assigned levels. Everyone took it for granted.
But surely it knew them. It knew him, for the words he’d heard spoken had been waiting for him to sleep. Almost spoken in a rush, tripping over each other, as if that precise voice were ready to tell him what part of him already knew.
Who he was.
When he’d heard it, he’d known it fit. Something that reconciled his grief, his uncertainty, and even the events of today perfectly.
Thank you.
The [Necromancer] realized Ceria had bandaged his side. He hurt all over, but barely felt the pain as he got to his feet. Excitement and determination were in his veins. His team…
Bograms was in the maze.
Pisces hoped Colth, Yvlon, and Ksmvr had found each other, but Bograms knew this landscape perfectly, and they might—might be able to run, but he and Ceria were probably at the maze’s very heart.
Something had to be done. He thought his new class would be perfect for the job. But before that—
“Ceria? Where are y—”
Pisces looked around and found his friend. While Pisces was out, the half-Elf, his team captain, his old friend, the [Arctic Cryomancer] and [Prankster], the Ice Squirrel, had done her own experimenting and found a reward of sorts.
Eight minutes was a long time. Pisces stopped and rubbed at his eyes. Nope.
Ceria Springwalker was definitely naked.
The overseer Drake was speaking to her.
“Applicant. Your attire is insufficient. Please restore your apparel.”
“I lost my clothes. They burnt up in the fire.”
There was a brief flicker…and the overseer dipped its head.
“Acknowledged. Please take this, applicant.”
Pisces saw a flicker in the air—and ancient clothing, ancient in style, adorned with the City of Shield’s symbols and colors, appeared in the overseer’s hands.
Pisces’ eyes bulged. Ceria scratched at one buttcheek as she accepted what seemed to be a kind of long-sleeved tunic and leggings.
“Hey, it doesn’t even have a tailhole. Was this made for me?”
“Applicant, please clothe yourself before continuing the Trial of Shields.”
“Sure thing.”
Ceria put the clothing into her bag of holding. Then she spread her arms.
“Oh, darn. I lost my clothing.”
This time, the overseer paused…longer, Pisces thought…and spoke.
“Applicant. Your attire is insufficient. Please restore your apparel.”
“My friend ate them. Can I get some robes?”
A longer pause. The overseer slowly produced a set of robes. Ceria inspected her feet. She caught Pisces’ eye and winked.
“And shoes. I’ve got to have shoes. Enchanted?”
A pair of shoes grudgingly appeared. Ceria tucked them into her bag of holding.
“You’re never going to believe what just happened—”
She repeated the trick four more times, and Pisces wasn’t sure how many times she’d been doing this already. Each time, the overseer Drake seemed to take a little longer to respond. After the fourth time, as Ceria indicated her bare body and bemoaned her lack of apparel, it changed tactics.
“Applicant, your distress has been logged. The [Mazekeeper] has been alerted. Please wait where you are for assistance.”
“No, if you could just get me some pants…hello? Darn.”
The overseer Drake vanished, and Ceria sighed. She pulled her robes back out of her bag of holding. Then gave Pisces a thumbs-up.
“Guess who just got sixteen sets of clothing? Some of it’s definitely enchanted. How likely do you think the [Mazekeeper] is alive and going to kill us right now? I sort of think no one’s in charge, but maybe we’ll have a magical guardian on us?”
He waited until she put her robes on and hugged her. She laughed, and Pisces saw the circlet was back on Ceria’s head. But visible. And she winked at him.
“Anything new to report, Comrade Pisces? I saw a smoke signal over to one end of the maze…I think we should head there next. We might have to risk teleporting—the overseer Drake says it’ll let us quit. But dead gods, we might get destroyed if the spell’s broken. Either that or we get out. Either way, Bograms awaits. Got any good news for me?”
They were silly people, because Pisces actually gave her a salute and stood to mock attention.
“I have received a new class, Captain Ceria. I beg leave to report I have reached Level 40.”
“Before me? Oho. Did your class change?”
The half-Elf was beaming at him so hard her face had to hurt. Pisces inhaled and exhaled as his eyes traced this crumbling maze, unto a dungeon. The jewel in the air pulsed slowly, and he felt it filling him with magic.
Death…all the dead corpses in this dungeon. Ceria had to also be closer to her regular mana pool. What would Pisces have done if he hadn’t levelled? Probably raised a horde of undead to fight Bograms, regardless of the risk of them running rogue.
He was a [Necromancer].
Az’kerash had long lectured him about quick-summoning undead rather than making more custom ones. Colth had done the same—dead gods, even Yvlon had notes on how he could be better.
He could make the Frostmarrow Behemoth, his greatest achievement, but the [Ritual of the Lord of Bones] had only created one Skeleton Lord—Ivery.
Arguably, Pisces had already achieved a milestone of a Level 40 [Necromancer] with that…but what would he be? Someone able to raise an army of a thousand regular skeletons and fight with them at legion strength?
