Crush their heads. Grind their bones like flour. Kill them.
Bograms was hurt, but they had made Bograms to be dangerous. He didn’t like pain. His kind, altered like this, could still die. Drakes had killed so, so many of them.
And the Horns of Hammerad had let down their guards. That was how everything died. They were sitting around a fire that they’d set up to signal each other. Bograms saw the bug-thing curled up in a ball near the fire, watching a pan frying the last of their eggs.
Bograms was hungry. He’d kill them now. One blow to their heads and rip them apart no matter how much they stabbed—Bograms was beyond caution. He approached slowly, listening.
“So Shaestrel sent you, and Erin’s where?”
“West.”
“And we’re supposed to go west?”
Ceria was speaking to the new…thing. Bograms felt like she was familiar. Had he ever heard a story of goat people? Maybe. It was so long…
He raised his arms as he stole towards Ceria. Colth was checking Pisces’ side. Yvlon got to her feet with a sigh.
“People, we have to get moving. Bograms might be alive. Give me one second to, er, pee, and let’s go. Ksmvr, douse the fire.”
The Antinium didn’t move as Ceria groused at Yvlon.
“Yv, really? Language. Also—I think we got that bastard. The maze is amazing. Don’t glare at me, Colth. You probably have [Punner] Skills.”
“That’s not a class, Ceria. I need to use the faculties too.”
Colth hopped to his feet. Bograms saw Yvlon walking right, past him, and Colth heading the other way. He hesitated. Best pick off the woman with metal arms first. Colth was too quick and might sense him.
Bograms trailed after Yvlon and raised one hand as she halted. Yvlon turned her head back, and Bograms snarled.
Time to die. He waited for her to move and lower her guard. Once she grew complacent—
That was how you died. 
Bograms only realized something was wrong when something fell over behind him. He glanced back and realized Ksmvr was dead.
His head had fallen off his body. No…Bograms stared at the travel pack with two ‘antennae’ sticking out of it propped up on a stuffed sleeping bag. That wasn’t Ksmvr.
The Antinium could vanish, and not even Bograms could find him. Then wh—
Then Bograms saw Yvlon was staring through him…or rather, right where he was standing. While her eyes weren’t focused and she was squinting—she was looking right at him.
Then Bograms saw the one called Vofea staring at him. That bright-eyed—
She could see him.
Terror welled up in Bograms, and he began to run, cast an illusion—all too late. Colth spun as Ksmvr appeared, shedding his cloak, and threw the bucket of water mixed with dust straight at Bograms.
His aim was almost dead on with Vofea’s guidance. Water covered Bograms, and his outline appeared. Ceria Springwalker leapt to her feet as Pisces scrambled up.
“Get him!”
“Damn you! DAMN—”
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres got to Bograms first. She used no Skills. She just raised a fist and punched Bograms as hard as she could. Finally, she had eyes on her opponent—and Colth was right behind her.
“Let’s go, boss. [Combined Skill: Merciless Beatdown]. [Spiked Gauntlets].”
He had Bograms’ back. Yvlon threw a punch that connected hard—she felt a huge mass of flesh, heard a scream, and Colth began wailing on Bograms’ back.
He was a huge, squat monster! Humanoid—she saw a mouth opening and heard his shriek.
“Die. Die! DIE—”
A massive fist larger than her face struck her, but the [Armsmistress] was made of metal, and her arms exploded into spikes. Bograms recoiled with a shriek, and she jumped forwards. Her next punch made him recoil—and Colth’s punches were drawing blood. He drew his shortswords, slashed across Bograms’ back—
The giant thing was all muscle and lumpen flesh. No wonder all their attacks hadn’t killed him; he was so big he was hard to seriously injure. Bograms raised an arm—and Ksmvr dropped on him.
“[Whirlwind of Blades].”
Silver swords slashed Bograms from above, and he shrieked, staggering again. Yvlon felt red blood raining down as she kept punching the same spot. Harder—she reached for her sword, and Bograms vanished.
Something knocked her flat, and Yvlon cursed as Colth snapped.
“He’s invisible again!”
Bograms had turned the water outlining him invisible. He began to run—but Vofea pointed.
“There!”
She could see through all his spells! Bograms smashed into a wall of ice, and Ceria Springwalker pointed her wand ahead.
“[Ice Lance].”
The impact and shower of ice didn’t result in a scream but a choked howl. Bograms recoiled and ran into Pisces.
And six Skeleton Champions. The [Necromancer] slashed twice, his repaired rapier aflame, then pointed.
“[Deathbolt]. [Deathbolt].”
Two rays of darkness hit Bograms as his skeletons swarmed the invisible figure, slashing madly. One of the skeletons went flying, and Pisces ducked. He backed up as Bograms swiped and knocked three more off their feet. He was huge—a threat in his own right—
Yvlon Byres, the Silver Killer, ran straight into him, and her arms exploded. The shriek grew higher. The [Armsmistress] ate a punch and came back. Her eyes were open wide, and she was grinning—
She hadn’t lost her calm—yet. Colth backed up as Bograms tried to get away again.
“[Boost Kick]—”
He kicked Ksmvr from behind, and the Antinium’s lunge buried one blade over halfway into Bograms. The shriek grew higher—and Ceria shouted.
“He’s visible. Get him!”
Bograms appeared at last. His magic faded as he lost concentration, and Pisces saw…
A huge, bloated figure, half as squat as he was tall. His flesh was oddly lumpy; it wasn’t just fat. His face looked overgrown, as if he had a permanent allergic reaction. He was covered with filth, Humanoid—he was shielding himself as Colth instantly put two arrows into his side.
“Mercy! MERCY! Have pity on Bograms!”
He wailed even as he swung at Ksmvr, who jumped over the hand. Colth glanced at his bow.
“Poison’s not working. Everyone in—now!”
The Horns jumped Bograms. He was large enough that Pisces and his skeletons were on one side, slashing, as Ceria fired [Ice Spikes] into his thick flesh, past Ksmvr and Colth hacked at Bograms in tandem. Yvlon was punching at the face, and Bograms was screaming. He bit at her, and Vofea kicked him in the face.
“Take that, you bugger! Halfling or not, yer killing no one on my team!”
Pisces hesitated. Did she just say—
Halfling?
He backed up a second and stared at Bograms. The thing was eight feet tall! He wasn’t…
Wait a second. Bograms looked distinctly unwell. It reminded Pisces of stories of [Enlargement] spells or potions gone wrong. Halfling. Weren’t Halflings some dead species? Or just interbred with Humans to the point they’d vanished.
A…Halfling turned into a giant? Bograms was huge and dangerous, and he could be invisible. And he was stealthy as—
The Horns of Hammerad came to the same realization, at least some of them, and stopped for one moment, glancing at each other. Ceria checked herself, met Pisces’ eyes, and nodded at Yvlon, whose arms had become blades.
“Go for the eyes. Take him out.”
Lost species or not—Bograms died. The horror of the Crossroads of Izril was crawling away as they lacerated his flesh. Pisces was just about to cast [Deathbolt] again—Bograms must be resisting spells and the blades because Pisces’ rapier barely went through Bograms’ skin—when he heard a new voice.
“BOGRAAAAAAAAAMS.”
Pisces froze. Colth twisted and snarled.
“Illusion! Don’t let up—”
Bograms shrieked as he raised his head towards the mouth of the cave.
“Mahadak! Asgrel!”
That new voice was—female. Booming. Pisces felt sweat suddenly run down his back. He saw Ceria’s head twist, and she looked at him.
There was no movement that Pisces could see. Of course not. If there were more of Bograms’ people, they’d have his powers. But Pisces didn’t know.
It could be a cunning ploy. Bograms was pointing at Yvlon, who was still pounding into his side, and Colth was stabbing deeper.
“To me! To me! Kill the Terandrians! Help!”
It could be a trick. Pisces twisted around and stared at Vofea for confirm—the Satyr was running. Ceria shouted.
“Pisces! Horses! I’ll do the chariot! Yvlon, Colth, Ksmvr, withdraw! Now!”
The other three Horns looked up, and Ksmvr sprang over Bograms as he vanished again. Colth, swearing, tossed two jars as he backed up.
“This isn’t over. I’m coming for you, Bograms.”
“Curse—aiieeeee!”
Bograms began wailing again as a jar of flammable oil ignited. Colth backed up, still firing his bow at the air, now trying to keep the enraged two voices from him. Yvlon flinched as something landed next to her with a tremendous crack.
She raced back and saw the Horns’ iconic vehicle, their chariot, as Pisces tied the reins to the horses. Ceria was screaming.
“Get us out of here! Out of the cave!”
That was where the other two apparently were. Vofea was pointing, and Ksmvr sheathed his swords as Yvlon swung Colth into the chariot. Pisces had the reins—Ksmvr waited and spoke.
“[Weapon Art: Aggregate Volley].”
He flipped his crossbows up as Colth slapped his shoulder.
“[Basic Enchantment: Quarrels].”
The explosion was even louder than normal. A voice shrieked, and Yvlon saw two figures outlined a second. One was bigger than Bograms, the other his size.
It didn’t look like Ksmvr had killed them. Vofea was still tracking the nearest one with a finger, and she looked at Ceria. The half-Elf saw one of the figures moving to cut them off. She pointed her wand as her eyes glowed.
“Steer us straight at them, Pisces. Horns of Hammerad! Death or glory! Charge! Kill them all!”
One of the figures flinched away and backed up as Pisces charged the chariot ahead. Yvlon shouted as she prepared to hop out of the chariot—Colth, Ksmvr, and Vofea dragged her back in.
“Huh?”
The chariot went straight past both invisible foes as Pisces altered his course at the last moment. The flinching war Halflings realized they’d been—tricked! They roared and gave chase as Bograms wailed behind them.
“[Ice Floor].”
Ceria froze the ground, and one of them slipped with a crash. She blew a kiss and raised the middle finger of her skeletal hand. The Horns burst from the mouth of the cave as Ceria sealed it with an [Ice Wall]—and crashed halfway down the slope, and the chariot turned over. Ceria was cursing in a panic.
“Oh shit. It’s all rocks! Out! Out! We’ll remake it! Run!”
The Horns had completely forgotten that the terrain around the City of Shields was impossible to just ride down. Vofea was pinned by one wall of the chariot.
“Run! I’ll—”
“Hup! Let’s go!”
Yvlon tossed the chariot off her, and Ksmvr grabbed Vofea. They ran as Ceria’s [Ice Walls] began cracking at the mouth of the cave. Ice splintered outwards despite Ceria’s attempts to slow the two, no, three angry, invisible monsters before the Horns were on the ground.
“Faster, Pisces! Get us out of here!”
Ceria and Pisces threw together the chariot a second time, burning through the last of their mana they’d taken from the Trial of Shields. Roaring voices were all around them, and the landscape began to distort; this time, Vofea took the reins.
“I see the path! Faster, faster! They’re almost on us, and one has a—”
Wham.
Something hit the ground
“—giant ball and chain!”
The chariot took off as furious blows tore the air, and the Horns fired in every direction, trying to keep the two Halflings off them.
Ceria was out of mana. She saw massive footfalls appearing on the ground and realized that the other two were damn fast. Or they were mad enough to…
Pisces was down to his rapier, slashing at the air. Ceria?
The [Cryomancer] calmly reached up and pulled the circlet off her head. She slapped it on one side.
“Hey. I know you’re holding back on me. Do something or I’ll toss you off the chariot, and they’ll wear you.”
She tilted her head as something hit the chariot and cracked the ice and bones. The half-Elf grinned.
“I’ll do it. I’m stupid and crazy.”
So saying, she raised the circlet overhead and began to toss it—and the circlet flashed. The two skeleton horses racing ahead of the chariot suddenly blurred.
[Haste].
Ceria cackled as the chariot sped up, and Vofea sent them curving across the Crossroads. The illusion spells began tearing, and for a second, the Horns saw two screaming figures, like Bograms, wearing rags and chasing them—
Then the Horns were shooting ahead, the world blurring around them, and Ceria laughed as she smacked the circlet against the side of the chariot again.
“I knew it.”
She slapped the circlet back on her head as the other Horns looked at her. Yvlon opened her mouth, and Ceria winked.
“Guess who learned she can threaten her headwear?”
Then they were riding the chariot, shouting, laughing in relief, swearing at Bograms—and Vofea looked around.
“I’m not dead?”
“Would you stop that? Captain Ceria, can you believe this one? I think she has a problem.”
Ksmvr rubbed his fist into her head as he put Vofea in a headlock. And there they were.
The Horns of Hammerad.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad didn’t slow down after they left Bograms and the Maze of Shields behind. They just…kept going. Ceria kept glancing over her shoulder, even though she knew she’d never spot them.
“I don’t know how fast those guys move, but we’re not giving them a chance to jump us. Odds are Bograms won’t try tricks. So we’re running. Too bad we didn’t get him. I’m hungry. Please tell me someone recovered our bag of provisions.”
The first thing they did was eat. It had been some ordeal in the Maze of Shields, and they were all starving. Then they caught up on what each person had gone through.
Yvlon tried to spare them the details of Colth’s suffering, but he insisted on telling them—though she grew red when he described her coming to his rescue.
Pisces patted Yvlon on the shoulder, and when Ksmvr explained how he’d met Vofea and her objectionable attitude towards her own survival, everyone patted Ksmvr on the head and laughed themselves silly, much to his indignation.
The challenges of the Crossroads of Izril weren’t over. In fact, the Horns were unwittingly about to face another test—but Ceria stopped chomping down on the eggs she’d been making to fool Bograms and made a face.
“Yuck. They’re bad. So Erin is west?”
Vofea nodded rapidly as everyone turned to her.
“If Shaestrel wins at the Solstice, ‘tis likeliest.”
“What if she loses?”
The Satyr hesitated.
