A specialist who could create…the bone-version of a Draugr? Someone who learned how to raise spectral undead for this new age?
Ceria Springwalker wouldn’t judge. She was waiting, trusting him, but Pisces had not trusted his own class. What he had sought was redemption for necromancy, a vision of a [Necromancer] not lost to madness or greed.
He wished he had been able to talk to Fetohep and ask about Khelta. Pisces wished he had asked Erin about his worries on the off-chance she could tell him.
But he had needed to be here to figure it all out. Blade and bone. The Bell of Challenges. Pride and necromancy and…
He was smiling. Ceria bounced on her toes.
“Pisces. Come on. Don’t tease me. Seriously, Bograms is going to come after us, and the circlet thinks he has buddies.”
He had to do it to her. Pisces sniffed and sneezed. Then he cast his eyes upwards.
“I believe I have the solution to our problems, Ceria. Give me one moment to alter this new spell—well, rather, a Skill that enables spellcasting—”
She looked ready to hug him again or stab him. Pisces lifted his hands and closed his eyes as he called all the mana to him. It might be impossible at this scale. But he stared up at that floating jewel overhead.
He was still a [Necromancer]. That part of him had not changed.
 
——
 
Bograms had not seen leaves—true leaves, not illusions of his own making nor the plants here—in an age.
They had distracted him, and he had realized they were completely real, not the makings of a Skill or spell. Therefore, he decided the one called Ksmvr would live. Bograms would murder the others, leave Ksmvr alive, perhaps legless, and have him make more leaves.
More and more…until someone opened the gates and he returned home.
Home…to his people, if any remained. Or to hurt them. Damn them.
Terandria.
Bograms had hidden the leaves and was prowling the dungeon urgently. The smiling Colth and Yvlon had met up with the strange goat-woman and Ksmvr, and they were too dangerous—and outside the maze.
He had to lure them in and kill the spellcasters. Either that or wait for help. No matter what, Bograms lost if they left the maze, so Ceria and Pisces must die.
They were fragile, even with the spells. That thing the half-Elf wore couldn’t spot him, as powerful as he was, and so Bograms tip-toed around corners, peeking around, searching for them.
He was quiet, for all his size. His people were famously quiet, which is why Terandria had made him. Taken him and…Bograms ground his teeth together.
Hurt him so. And then sent him here to kill Drakes. Long, long, long, long ago.
Bograms had survived it all. Even this City of Shields dying. The specter of the Crossroads. The one who’d hunted down the survivors who hadn’t locked themselves inside Lesegoth. Driven them mad.
BOGRAMS.
His hands clenched and unclenched as he sensed death magic and began to hurry towards the source. What would it be? Undead? Bograms could trick even the dead. Foolish [Necromancer].
Bograms was distant yet, wondering how the two had survived the light sentries who should have chased them down, yet he heard a ringing voice.
Ever and always.
Even in the old days.
Their class always had to speak. He heard the [Necromancer], Pisces, raise his voice. Bograms waited for that word, weaving his own spells to beguile, waiting to break their heads in and eat them. He missed the days of good food and home.
Then Pisces spoke, and Bograms was confused.
 
——
 
Pisces had never attempted a spell this powerful before in his entire life. For the first time, he saw death magic coalescing around him.
It was not black. He had expected it to be, but it was more like the color of a shadow. Everything he saw through the swirling path of the mana took on an eerie, different tone.
Perhaps this was the world only the dead saw.
His hand stretched up to the sky. It was not a new spell Pisces called upon. Rather, it was a new Skill enabling…the simplest spell of [Necromancers].
Animation. Their class truly was one idea. Undeath.
Ceria was watching, shielding her face, as the air whipped dust and debris up into a vortex around Pisces, a swirl of wind and power he knew his team and Bograms would see.
It didn’t matter. He didn’t think Bograms was expecting this. If it worked…Pisces closed his eyes and felt the power building.
It was the word. He had to speak. It only fit. It was traditional. So his head rose as the Maze of Shields itself began to tremble.
The overseer Drake appeared. The sentinel Drakes stepped out of their alcoves and aimed their swords at him. A red glow filled the pointing overseer Drake’s hand, and the crystal above flashed warningly. But it was too late. Pisces called out, forcing the magic through a pattern he only half understood.
It was just…death magic. All the death magic in the maze he could muster, forced into a conduit—crude—but he had to believe it would work.
Thence the [Necromancer] raised his hand, and his eyes flashed. Green, lighting up until they were the brightest thing in a world of deathly shade. He said:
“Return.”
Ceria Springwalker stared at Pisces. What had he said? Return? Not…arise? Then she saw where his death magic was going and gasped.
It was flowing into the walls of the maze. The overseer pointed at Pisces, but its words were lost as the [Necromancer] poured his mana into something he had only considered just now.
When he had repaired his rapier, Pisces had asked himself a strange question.
What was necromancy? Was it just the dead? Was it just ghosts or souls? Or could you reanimate…in some form or other…
Anything?
The Maze of Shields was shaking. Inside of it, Bograms panicked as he felt magic flowing around him. The Horns of Hammerad outside the maze took cover, and the broken stones…began to move.
A great chunk of debris had been smashed into a wall Pisces could see from here, likely from high above. It had broken the wall, exposing the magicore, which had run out, then left a gap for power to flow through.
Now…stones floated into place, reassembling, and Pisces’ brow filled with sweat. His mind was bursting—but he understood this.
Like a body—the maze had a form. It was long…dead? Yes, dead. A corpse powered by a still-beating heart, but it had once lived in a different form.
He could not bring it back. Not completely.
But he could reanimate it.
New stone did not fill the break in the walls. It did not fuse seamlessly into place. But like a rotting zombie or a skeleton—the stones fused into the wall, hovering, bound and animated to how it should be.
The magic was changing. The overseer was flickering like that crystal power source overhead. Pisces felt it. He had not a chance of tapping into it; the wards would ash him in a second—but the heart of the maze was powering this spell.
Even the designers of the maze had never imagined someone would try to reanimate it. So the spell Pisces began took the power of the maze.
The traps began resetting.
Bones attached to sawblades snapped off. Bograms’ illusions shredded as walls shifted, restoring their positions long damaged by seismic activity.
Ceria even saw the magical spells reforming. Ghostly lines completed broken circuits, the logic of the spells restoring themselves.
It was not perfect—but the power in this place was such that the animation was almost complete.
The shaking grew worse, and the overseer flickered.
“Applicant—Human—”
That blank gaze seemed to focus on Pisces. The Overseer of the Maze of Shields vanished—then reappeared.
When it spoke, there was no distortion. A clear, calm voice, almost like the voice of the system of levels itself, for the Overseer had likely been based on it, spoke.
“Welcome to the Trials of Shields, newcomers! Applicants who would seek the approval of the City of Shields, please speak your names and choose a trial to overcome. ‘Fortitude shall overcome all obstacles’.”
Pisces fell to his knees, gasping. The magic was still burning through him. Ceria looked at her friend and saw his eyes glowing.
“Your class?”
A new kind of [Necromancer]—no. An old kind of [Necromancer] lifted his head. Someone who would not stop at mere bodies. A wretched lover of history who would raise ruins in undeath.
The [Necromancer] levered himself onto one knee, and Ceria swore she saw the Overseer nod at Pisces. As if perhaps the intelligence recognized what he had done.
Pisces was breathless. He had done…well, the impossible. Now it was Ceria’s turn. For once, she didn’t need the circlet’s help.
 
—-
 
Bograms was frozen in terror, no longer recognizing ‘his’ dungeon. All the traps had reset—the invisible foe reminded itself they weren’t dangerous.
The Trial of Shields was safe…until he heard Ceria calling out.
 
——
 
“Help! Help! I’ve been attacked! My friends and I—there’s an invisible enemy here! He tried to kill us! And stole my clothes!”
The Overseer instantly grew alert.
“No one may be assaulted in the Trial of Shields. The [Mazekeeper] is…unavailable. Please confirm the identity of the intruder.”
Ceria’s mind raced. She spoke rapidly, drawing on her knowledge of this place—and just Drakes.
“It’s…he’s called Bograms, but we can’t find him. But help us! Bograms is an agent of…Manus! The City of War is attacking!”
The Overseer’s eyes grew brighter as Ceria rapidly manipulated her bag of holding. The Overseer was restored to much of its functions.
But it was still dumb as shit. And if she was right…
“Applicant—”
“I’m not an applicant. I’m a citizen of the City of Shields, and Pisces is a [Duelist] recognized by the Walled Cities. See? He has a Bell of Challenge.”
“Ceria! Are you mad—”
Pisces had overheard that. He raised his head; he’d nearly puked with the energy coursing through him, then he blinked. His mouth opened so wide he heard his jaw click.
Ceria Springwalker innocently flipped the hood of the robes of…The City of Shields at the Overseer. The very same robes it had given her! And she pointed at Pisces’ bell hanging from his rapier.
The Overseer reacted instantly. Its eyes focused on Ceria’s robes, and a thin layer of light flashed up and down. It…scanned her clothing, then the bell.
“Acknowledged. The Bell of Challenges marks ‘Pisces’ as a Duelist of Shields. The half-Elf—”
“Ceria.”
“—Bears clothing of the City of Shields. The [Mazekeeper] has been summoned. The Trial of Shields is now in lockdown. Activating maximum trap levels and all defensive measures. All intruders—flee or surrender. You have been warned.”
Its voice was growing louder and louder. Pisces opened his mouth. What did it mean by ‘maximum’ trap lev—
 
——
 
Bograms was running to kill the half-Elf, murder on his mind. He knew the traps of the maze. He ignored a harmless room that only shot light flame spells at you and extinguished the fire aft—
The first flame boiled over his body and hit the other wall with such force that a pillar of flames licked up into the air. Bograms shrieked and recoiled, burning, as that calm—loud—voice spoke.
“Intruder detected. Intruder detected. Defend the City of Shields.”
Light-Drakes appeared ahead of and behind Bograms. He wailed, still burning, tearing at his skin, and they charged. They could not see him—but they could see the flames and struck at the air. Shrieking, Bograms began to run, and one buried a halberd in his back—
 
——
 
“…My [Dangersense] is telling me not to go in the maze.”
“Mine too.”
There were four Horns of Hammerad outside the Trial of Shields.
Ksmvr.
Vofea.
Colth.
Yvlon.
Horns of Hammerad. The Satyr was getting weird looks from Colth, but Yvlon had linked arms with Colth and Ksmvr, and Ksmvr had Vofea’s arm in his grip. They had seen the maze shaking and heard the warning.
“That has to be Pisces and Ceria. Maybe they reactivated a repair function?”
Yvlon was speculating. Colth stared at the broken walls.
“Some repair function. It’s not fully fixed. See the mana still leaking out of those cracks? That’s not [Repair]—if you could even repair magic like that. It sort of looks like…”
Reanimation.
Ksmvr saw another explosion in the maze and hesitated. Ceria and Pisces were in there! He looked at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] squared her shoulders.
“I’ll use [Aspect of Silver]. If Colth can extend my Skills…Ksmvr, use your cloak, but be careful. Find them, and I’ll run in and—”
They were about to do something incredibly stupid and potentially brave when they heard a voice. Ksmvr froze. Colth began smiling even as he began chucking pebbles—just in case this was an illusion—and Vofea hopped up and down.
She pointed, and Ksmvr saw a duo—no, a trio exiting the dungeon. One was that annoying glowing Drake…and following it were Ceria and Pisces.
“We are at the entrance.”
“Thank you. But I’m, uh—out of underclothes. Also, as a Citizen of Shields who was just attacked, I need healing! Potions! A wand! I’m highly mentally distressed, you know.”
“The [Mazekeeper] has been alerted. Please remain in the Trial of Shields if you believe you are unsafe until—”
“Ksmvr! Yvlon! Colth—”
Pisces shouted and ran towards them. He looked hurt! But he pulled up when he saw Vofea. Ceria blinked.
“Illusion? I think Bograms is getting roasted—no—”
“This is Vofea. We are real! I think—”
Ksmvr saw Pisces run at him and grab him in a hug. Yvlon felt at his hair, and Colth patted Pisces’ chest. The [Supporter] winced as he touched raised flesh.
“Scar’s real. Sorry, Pisces.”
Yvlon nodded.
“I think it’s him. Pisces, what happened to—”
“He reached Level 40! He animated the damn maze!”
Everyone was shouting. Vofea was looking around, shifting from hoof to hoof and giving Ceria’s circlet a very dubious look. Ksmvr was busy hugging Pisces, and Yvlon just exhaled. She clapped Pisces on the shoulder, and he nearly fell on his face as Colth blinked, then smiled.
“Welcome to our world, Pisces. The Haven owes you a drink.”
Then they were together again. Ceria grabbed Vofea’s arm, and Ksmvr spoke.
“This is Vofea. She is a very silly fae, but I have inducted her into the Horns of Hammerad. I hope that is alright.”
They looked at him, and he was worried…but not really. They laughed, and then Ksmvr knew it was going to be alright.
 
——
 
Bograms was hurt.
Bograms was angry.
Bograms was…afraid.
He survived the reactivated maze—barely. It was on high alert, and only fortune had meant Bograms was near enough to slip out an exit. The maze had four sides, and from the sounds of it, other creatures within were fleeing the traps.
How had the wretched [Mages] done it? Bograms had to know. Was it the circlet—well, whatever it really was instead of what it pretended to be?
