“—Then death herself has marked us as her enemies, and we will die—and it’d be dire war again. But if it isn’t…Shaestrel saw the likeliest future as one where some right bastards grab Erin and vanish. In the best case, it’s just her. Worst case is they have six Djinni explode and blow half the Floodplains to bits.”
Yvlon’s head snapped up, and Ceria stared. But Colth and Pisces suddenly sat up in terrible alarm. Colth grabbed Vofea urgently.
“Who? Who’s grabbing her?”
“Eh—ah—I don’t know names—”
The Satyr was unnerved by Colth’s stare. He shook her so hard her head bounced.
“Roshal? Is it Roshal!?”
“Yes! She’ll be on a ship! If—”
Pisces made a sound that Ksmvr had never heard before. He shot to his feet and nearly went over the chariot’s side. Colth just began swearing.
Ceria had lost her smile. She looked at Vofea, then yanked Colth down.
“Okay, everyone shut up. Vofea, start from the beginning. And tell us everything. No. First—which way is west?”
 
——
 
The Horns had one advantage with Bograms gone: they could see the road.
Wer had described the road he used, and it did span the Crossroads of Izril. They found it leading south and took it south—then, at the City of Crossroads, spun west. The chariot was being pulled by undead horses; they moved at a ridiculous speed.
The Crossroads of Izril had that effect that accelerated movement, so Colth estimated they were moving at speeds that made even Magnolia Reinhart’s chariot look like a slug. Colth was excited.
“We’re already just north of the Great Plains? It’s not even been half a day! We can make it there within two days.”
That was the good news. The bad news was that the Horns had just realized something. Or rather, Ceria had.
The Ice Squirrel was not shy about eating at the best of times, and everyone had stuffed themselves on anything they had. Stale cheese, bread—Yvlon had actually just chugged the remainder of the maple syrup.
[Warriors] after an adrenaline rush were like that. However…she’d gone back for two helpings of a stale soup and then stopped.
Ceria did not stop. She was a [Mage] and—generally—could burn more energy even if she ate a lot. True, she’d gotten pudgy at times, and she’d eaten well among the Gnolls.
Either she’d burned all of that fighting Bograms or…Ceria pinched her stomach. She felt like she was looking close to her normal weight. Or even thinner.
And she was still hungry. She’d chewed down all the snacks they had. She was hunting around.
“Anyone got more to eat?”
“We’ve got some flour, and—it’s not time for food. We stuffed ourselves, Ceria.”
Yvlon’s stomach growled, belying that statement. Ceria eyed Yvlon.
“You look hungry. No one’s been eating well with Bograms around.”
“I’ll make some bread. If you’re hungry, eat the eggs.”
Colth offered and tried to find room on the bumping chariot—it was a largely smooth ride—to make bread in one of their pots.
“They were nasty.”
Ceria grumped as she looked around for the plate they’d rescued from the fire. Colth rolled his eyes.
“They can’t be. I made them, even for a show.”
Everyone was silent, though Pisces was smacking his lips and about to suggest Colth make a lot of bread—he had certainly earned it. They were…starving, actually. But they really had eaten a ton—
Then Ceria spoke.
“Uh. Guys? Problem. Colth? Your eggs aren’t just bad.”
He looked up, about to get mildly upset, when Ceria lifted something. Colth saw a huge, fungus-covered mound of—Ceria tossed it as Yvlon flinched.
“What was that?”
“The eggs.”
“Those weren’t eggs. That was rotted to Rhir’s hells and back! What’s—”
“Er. I think I just figured out what’s going on.”
Colth stared at Ceria, then at the dough he was making. They didn’t have any yeast, but basic bread was literally flour and water. He’d had butter, but most of their perishables were long gone.
In fact, they’d begun spoiling rather fast. Everyone had blamed it on their [Supplier], but Master Torgrass had been a well-respected Gnoll, and Gnolls knew how good things were by smelling them.
However, the truth became more obvious as Colth lifted up the dough and everyone saw it drying out and…growing stale before their very eyes. Pisces’ mouth opened, and even Vofea looked impressed.
“What’s this? Does food age in seconds, or are we all cursed?”
Ceria had a hunch. She grabbed the reins and looked at Pisces.
“Slow the horses a second, would you? I think it’s not a curse—how did Wer not notice it? Do we have anything else that’s edible?”
“…This potato is overgrown.”
Ksmvr found a potato literally sprouting roots. He nibbled at one, then held it up. Ceria performed a basic test.
With water, the roots grew slowly as the chariot decelerated. Then—when she picked the chariot back up to normal speed, it grew faster. Yvlon spoke with a slow voice.
“…The Crossroads of Izril is aging all our food.”
“Not just that. I don’t think we’re just hungrier than normal, guys. Yvlon. You’re, uh…looking really thin there.”
Everyone looked at Yvlon and realized Ceria was right. Yvlon wasn’t just looking hungry, she was looking sort of gaunt. Ceria snapped.
“Stop the chariot!”
Despite their urgency, the Horns halted the chariot and ran an inspection. Colth was muttering.
“Hair’s not growing abnormally fast. You’d expect our fingernails to be long—but everyone’s lost weight.”
“I have not…maybe. I feel faint.”
Ksmvr staggered. Even Vofea felt at herself and exclaimed. Pisces checked his very thin stomach and nodded.
“I have a hypothesis. Wer must not notice because he can provision himself and doesn’t stay in here long. But if I am correct—the Crossroads of Izril does have a cost.”
“Time is distance.”
Ceria swore under her breath. Now she looked around, and there was more bad news.
Everything that wasn’t enchanted and just mundane that could age—was aging. One of Ksmvr’s water pouches looked cracked, as if it had been months out instead of newly made. Pisces waved one of his bones.
“This has noticeably aged as well.”
Everyone stared blankly at the bone, then Yvlon licked her lips.
“That, uh…that bone, Pisces. Does it have any marrow in it?”
“It’s, er—a [Bandit]’s bone I believe, Yvlon.”
“Oh.”
She looked really hungry now that she realized it wasn’t just in her head. Colth was searching their supplies.
“Bad news, people. We’ll have to stop and hope Wer’s at the Great Plains and looking for us—or we need food, and we need it now.”
“You can eat me.”
Vofea lifted her hand, and Ksmvr raised the hand of wrath—the faerie began laughing.
“Gotcha! Yer faces!”
Ceria chuckled; she liked that kind of joke. But even Vofea was rubbing at her stomach. Clearly, the law of this place wasn’t exempting her.
“We have to get to Erin. Maybe some of us could remain here and the others take the majority of what food we have? We still have nonperishables like flour, water…”
Pisces squared his shoulders. Ceria was rubbing at her head.
“Leather’s not good to eat. We might be in trouble. Damn. Ksmvr, can you plant that potato in some soil? We don’t have the water…and I’m mana-locked again.”
“I shall try, Captain Ceria! Vofea, grow the potatoes, please.”
“I, ah, don’t think ye know what Satyrs do, Ksmvr.”
The two jumped down and dug at the ground as the Antinium looked outraged.
“I thought you said Satyrs were in tune with nature.”
“…I said we danced around and drank and shit in meadows. Those were my ancestors. We party. Listen, what if we hunted for something?”
They could try. Ceria was grimly anticipating how the members of her team would take her suggestion to move to a bug diet. She wasn’t looking forward to this. She remembered starving in the forests of Erribathe as she tried to sneak out of the Kingdom of Myths.
She hated starving.
As luck might have it, the Horns didn’t have to resort to the most dire of options right away. Colth’s head rose with triumph, and he spoke.
“I have a solution. Hold on while I calculate out my best Skills. Damn. I don’t have many nutrition-adding Skills, and I never managed to learn a cornucopia one. Well, I can do something about taste, and I’ll throw on any preserving spells I can. We need to put everything we can on ice.”
Ceria rubbed her hands together, relieved.
“Good idea, Colth. What have you got?”
Colth raised a huge bag out of his bag of holding, and the Horns cheered—then groaned. Because the [Supporter] had planned for a long haul. Just in case. And he had a metric ton of one of the most imperishable…one of the most filling…
“I mean—it’s fatty. It’s supposed to keep years. Give me some.”
Ceria took a handful first, and Yvlon was so hungry she ate hers. It was semi-solid, like a sort of wet dough—the wetness was the grease. It tasted like…meat…
Well, sort of. Ksmvr took one bite and stopped. He sighed, recognizing the familiar texture. Home. He hated nostalgia.
“Pemmican.”
Colth held up the Gnolls’ travel rations that could last forever, was cheap and filling—and had the flavor of old jerky. The texture…something like grease pattied up that mushed in your mouth and gave you nothing to really chew.
Perhaps like if you poured wild game bacon minced into pieces into a lot of butter and ate it—but without any of the good taste of butter. The Horns looked at each other. Even Ceria swallowed hard.
 
——
 
The good thing was that they were so hungry the pemmican tasted good.
The bad thing was that they were eating nonstop.
Four hours later, Yvlon asked a salient question after she realized she had eaten about five pounds of pemmican by the handful. She was feeling exceptionally queasy, but there was nothing to throw up; her stomach was digesting everything almost instantly.
At least she’d stopped losing weight. But Yvlon had a greater fear.
“I hate to ask this—but what happens when we, er—have to excrete?”
Ceria was halfway through one of the bags and stopped. Colth looked up, and Pisces closed his eyes as Vofea began laughing then stopped in horror.
“Wait a second. I’m mortal now, and I’ll feel it. H-how bad would that be?”
The [Supporter] gave them a grim smile.
“Drink more water. If we’re lucky, we’re so hungry there won’t be much waste. If we’re unlucky—a healing potion fixes torn skin and ruptured intestines if we use it right. Ksmvr has one bottle left.”
The other Horns blanched as they kept eating. They had to. Yvlon’s jaw actually hurt from wolfing down pemmican.
But they were moving so fast—Ceria tried to throw up, and nothing came out.
“Okay. The Crossroads of Izril is going to be hell when anyone else finds it. I will never eat pemmican or jerky again.”
If their dauntless [Captain] felt that way—that spoke to how the other Horns were doing. They were so fast—
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad reached what Pisces and Colth estimated to be near Manus by the end of the first day. And the chariot kept going into the night.
The Horns woke each other up not for sentry duty—they followed the road and could see few monsters at all—but for eating breaks. They would wake up, eat pemmican until Colth complained he felt like it was coming out of his ears—then pass out.
There was one good moment when they realized there was a jar of jam that hadn’t rotted away—the Horns had dipped pemmican in jam and eaten the entire jar out in an hour. Then they just went back to eating pemmican.
Faster.
Erin was in danger. Vofea had best-cases and worst-cases based on what she saw. Best case? Erin needed them to get back if a flying Djinni didn’t carry her into the sunset.
Worst case…they were taking on one of Roshal’s slave-ships. Maybe even a fleet, and Erin was a captive. Colth spoke grimly.
“If the Naga got her, he sent Iert. I know him. He’s a—no one has much choice, but he’s a willing [Slave]. He’s dangerous. Think of him as a Named-rank with topline gear. I heard there were new players in Roshal.”
Yvlon held up a hesitant hand like a student asking a question.
“Isn’t the Naga the worst of the lot?”
Colth nodded.
“But somehow they have more [Slavers] just as bad as him. They might have been lurking around. Or…”
He lapsed into silence. Pisces’ face was pale, but he was staring west. He hadn’t said a word, but Ceria spoke for all of them.
“We’ll get her back. Even if we have to fight a fleet. Right, Pisces?”
He blinked, looked at her, and his features firmed.
“Yes.”
But first they had to get to the coast. Ceria feared that it would be a problem once they reached the end of Izril. After all—the Crossroads of Izril only covered Izril, right? The New Lands—
 
——
 
“I see more land! It’s blank—no, wait, I see a few things. Purple grass? Dead gods! The New Lands are part of the Crossroads!”
Colth shouted, and Pisces poked his head up as he gagged more pemmican down.
“How!?”
Ceria was on hands and knees, begging Ksmvr for mercy. He had found in his belt pouch, in desperation, the oldest and stalest cookie from Garry imaginable. The Horns were gambling over it—Ceria had been knocked out first.
Colth was standing up, balanced on top of the chariot, and Vofea was making sure he didn’t fall off. The [Supporter] let Pisces stare through his spyglass.
“See where the land ends south of us? That’s Izril’s former coast.”
Oh, yes. Izril had been a longer peninsula to the south—before the New Lands—but where it should have ended…Pisces saw more earth. Unnaturally flat and, he felt—new.
“Even the Crossroads of Izril has expanded. Perhaps it’s part of the spell?”
Already, the local flora and fauna were trying to expand into the new real estate, and Pisces did see a few landmarks, easily notable in the unnatural flatness they were approaching. He sat back, longing to explore it.
But Erin came first. Yvlon Byres lay on her back, trying to sleep, as Ceria tried to grab the Garry-cookie.
 
——
 
Yvlon had one final dream in the Crossroads of Izril.
The wind was blowing on her face, and she was flying high over this foreign land. The part of her that was conscious supposed it was a representation of how fast she was moving.
Individual dreams flickered around her, and she wondered, if they had stopped, whether she could find the dreams of those in the ‘real’ world and communicate. As it was, it was like…
Flying over a sea of shimmering stars.
The Crossroads of Izril was so empty, Yvlon realized. Compared to the real world, it had only a fraction of the species, like insects or animals, that she took for granted.
Yet it was not devoid of life. Somewhere out there was Bograms, and perhaps the other ruined Walled Cities had people or…or anything, really.
