“I’m meant to die, you know.”
“Shush.”
Ksmvr and Vofea were circumnavigating the entire maze from the outside, looking for a clue on how to find the other Horns—or just a less visibly trapped way in. He was moving deliberately, alert for traps.
Vofea was more relaxed. Her hooves made a soft clicking sound on the stone, and she was still nervous—he could see her trembling, but her voice was relaxed.
“Shaestrel is one of the members of the Court of the Fae. She saw your fates and where you needed to be if you wanted to help Erin Solstice. Your friends will probably survive.”
“You said that is no guarantee.”
The Satyr hesitated as Ksmvr peeked around one corner of the collapsed maze.
“…Well, it’s likely. They will survive.”
“In one piece?”
Her silence said everything Ksmvr needed to hear. He climbed over the collapsed wall on the hunch that a broken piece of the maze meant the magic was either dead—or unpredictable.
This place was clearly overgrown with vegetation for once. A purple carpet of moss or something had grown over stone, and since this place was gel-less…Ksmvr supposed the local flora had emerged.
He hoped it wasn’t poisonous. Magic and plants created dangerous subtypes. Vofea’s voice was overly casual.
“I know I’m intruding. We don’t belong in your…world of levels. ‘Classes’. But we promised to return, and I upheld it. So when this Bograms appears—”
“I am not sacrificing you to Bograms.”
Ksmvr snapped at her. Vofea folded her arms, wincing as she climbed over the rocks. Her bleeding had stopped, but the cuts looked nasty.
“You can’t stop it. I’m fated.”
Ksmvr did halt in his tracks. He swiveled around to face Vofea and held up a finger; he still had his swords, and one hand held his trusty trap-detection stick. But four arms beat two.
“Firstly. You are not a Horn of Hammerad despite Tekshia Shivertail’s contract because Captain Ceria has not approved your membership. Secondly. I find your presence highly inappropriate. If Yvlon called for aid, I would expect more help. Like Halrac’s team. Or Jelaqua’s team. Or both. Thirdly. You do not know the future or destiny. If it is not certain, stop saying you are going to die. If it is certain, all our choices are meaningless, and I was destined to say this, in which case I am very displeased to have been wasting my time stating the obvious.”
Vofea stared at the three fingers as he waved them in front of her face. She offered him a smile that had a lot of teeth.
“Shouldn’t we be finding your team?”
Ksmvr made a fist and gently bonked her on the head. Vofea rubbed the spot.
“Ow.”
They continued onwards. As far as Ksmvr was concerned, lichen or whatever was on the ground proved the traps were largely inactive, but he gave things a damn good poke anyways. Vofea peeked over his shoulder as Ksmvr had a sudden, worrying thought.
“Tell me you can fight.”
“I can kick things. I kicked one of those big shambling things chasing me.”
“Bloodfield Shamblers?”
“Is that their title? Pshaw, you mortals have shite names.”
Ksmvr grumbled under his breath.
“I did not name it. Did the kick—work?”
“…I think I pissed it off.”
“Wonderful. In that case, stay behind me, and tell me if you spot anything.”
“Er…like that magic thing you’re about to step on?”
The Satyr pointed, and Ksmvr recoiled with an oath.
“Tree rot!”
She snorted with laughter as Ksmvr spotted the faintest glow under the lichen. He poked away the moss and sighed when he saw the spell.
“It must only activate when something heavy enough steps on it. Are there more spells?”
“Ooh, aye. There, there, there—”
“Mention that!”
Vofea skipped over the spells as Ksmvr followed.
“You won’t die. There’s itty bits of magic in them, even by this world’s standards. This fungi, now…that’s more the thing to stare at. Reminds me of some of the stuff back home.”
“In the land of the faeries? Is it poisonous?”
“Nooooo…”
The faerie drew the word out carefully, and Ksmvr picked up his pace. They cleared the corridor and came to a broken wall and, of all things, some dribbling water. A crack in the ceiling was letting some brackish liquid down, and Vofea pointed at it.
“Water! I am thirsty as—”
Ksmvr kicked her, and she screamed as he accidentally hit her cuts. He pointed.
“Monster.”
Both of them stared as something flinched at the sound of his voice. A strange…creature two feet long and on all fours was lapping at the brackish, dark water. When it heard Ksmvr, it curled up, and Vofea exclaimed.
“What is that—it moves!”
“It rolls! Back in case it explodes!”
The thing looked like a version of an armadillo, a creature Ksmvr had seen in Tiqr with Nsiia. Only, it was more compact, and instead of a shell on its back, the inverse was true. When it ‘curled up’, it turned into a weird…orb on its front where its belly was.
A semi-transparent ball of blue liquid sloshed around, and Ksmvr saw the thing zoom away from them down the corridor. He stared after it.
“Did that thing just…wheel away? Like a wagon?”
It had! The rat-roller thing hadn’t run or spun—but its insides had. The liquid had revolved around, and its pouch-belly spun like the wheel of a wagon.
It was the most nonsensical movement style Ksmvr had ever seen, but it was fast. The Antinium heard the thing chirping in alarm.
Aik aik aik aik!
It was high-pitched, faded away, and Vofea doubled-over laughing.
“Is that your monster?”
“Shut. Up.”
Ksmvr lowered his swords, highly embarrassed. He wished he didn’t feel quite so…well, he advanced slowly, and they resumed their conversation.
“Don’t drink that. I have water.”
“Really? Give it to me. How do you have any? You said you were near out of good food.”
“Captain Ceria is a [Cryomancer]. She can make ice out of moisture. I hope she has enough mana to survive on.”
“Psh. There’s lots in the air. Do yeh have food? I am starving.”
“We do not have time to—”
Ksmvr’s body gurgled slightly as he turned to snap at Vofea. He stopped, and she snickered at him. He had forgotten to eat all the while he’d been searching, and they grew hungry in the Crossroads of Izril at a faster rate.
“We should keep moving. Bograms is attacking my team. We—”
The gurgling from Ksmvr’s body grew louder, and he stopped. He glared down at his digestive tract.
“If you want to sneak up on this Bogle-whatever, you might as well not sound like a roaring Wyrm, eh?”
Ksmvr glared at Vofea, sat down, and upended his bag of provisions.
“Five minutes. Eat!”
Good provisioning would be to make a nice soup out of whatever they had left. Cheese, bread—Ksmvr just crammed anything he could find into his mouth and chewed furiously. Vofea ate delicately, but he saw her wince as she tried to cross her legs. Ksmvr got madder.
“You are injured. I have no healing potions. Therefore. Extend your legs. I can at least wash the blood off. I have a potion here for such things.”
He’d heard Geneva Scala recommending it to [Healers]—it wasn’t soap, but he pulled out a ball of lye soap just in case since they’d forgotten to wash their hands. Vofea yelped as he poured it over her ankles.
“Pain! ‘Tisn’t like the land of the fae at all. So this is how it feels. It’s all…distant there. And real. His Majesty’s subjects don’t die anymore. The older fae told me stories of the times before, when they died and warred, and it was all more dangerous.”
“—No one dies in the land of the fae?”
Ksmvr looked up sharply, and Vofea inhaled as he rinsed her legs with the cleansing potion and some water.
“His Majesty wills it. You know him, eh?”
“The Faerie King, you said? No.”
Had there been a reference to him in one of the plays by the Players of Liscor? Ksmvr hadn’t always watched the silly ones. Vofea looked incredibly disappointed.
“Not one legend? Ah—well—they wouldn’t know here. This place became enemies against him. But any other land they’d have stories of him, even if they knew not his name. The Eternal Trickster? The King of Faeries? Lord of the Beasts. Ruler of the Seelie Court…the Green Lord?”
They sounded like very grand titles. Though Ksmvr had to add.
“I happen to know the Empress of Beasts.”
Vofea laughed at him. She threw her head back and guffawed.
“No mortal ruler is anything like him! You cannot even say his name without invoking him.”
“Oh yes? What is it?”
Ksmvr did not like Vofea. For many reasons. First of all was her presumptuous nature. She strode up, gave him instructions he considered highly dubious, then told him to let her die. She was so…so…uncaring of her life.
He had never met anyone so silly. Ksmvr stared at his reflection in the brackish water a second and then went back to gently patting at Vofea’s legs with a towel. Vofea kept speaking, probably to distract herself from the pain.
“You cannot say his name lightly. I mean it. It all must be strange to you—ow! Can you press less painfully? I may die, but my final hours being scraped at with yon cloth is not what I want, you cunt!”
“I object to the insult. Also, are all faeries so fatalistic as you?”
Ksmvr snapped back. He raised a fist to bonk her on the head again, and Vofea covered her head.
“Of course not. I just—I am fated to die. I am from this world, you know. My parents fled to the lands of the fae. The last Satyrs. They were faerie-kin who came to this world when we were friends and gave up their immortality to be a people here. Then…they endured everything before begging to return to Avalon. I was born, one of a very few to be named faerie. Even if I am nothing like Shaestrel or the others. Faeries cannot be born anymore, so I am more of an imposter, for all I know their tricks. That’s why I’m no help.”
Ksmvr stared at Vofea. His mandibles opened and closed, and after a moment, he made a sound.
“You came from this world?”
“Aye. Yes. And so you know, when I die, I’ll die. But it’s for a good cause. It’s for vengeance. For Her Majesty, Titania, who lies dead. You don’t know the story. Ask Shaestrel, and she’ll tell you. Or Ryoka Griffin. She’s one of the few mortals to befriend a true fae.”
Vofea glanced away as Ksmvr switched legs. He had wrapped a cloth around her cuts and wondered if she could catch an infection. If she was mortal…Ksmvr had another question.
“Why did you choose to come?”
The faerie averted her gaze.
“It was a mistake.”
“Oh. Thank you.”
“Not that. It—oh, take your hospitality. Every denizen of Avalon’s laughed at me, so one Antiniwhat’sit won’t be worse.”
Vofea sighed, then closed her eyes. She spoke, and Ksmvr swore the hair on his carapace would rise if he had hair. His antennae gave a damn good shake.
“Once…a girl was born to the few Satyrs that remained. She wasn’t a true faerie of blood or nature, but she learned the rules of the faerie’s lands and the Court of the Seelie and Unseelie—”
“What is the difference?”
“Winter and spring. Shut up!”
“Sorry.”
“—The Courts of the Faerie King argued. Many did not want an outsider to join this realm even in name. Guests were one thing, they said. One like us? The Faerie King himself, Oberon, came to visit the girl, and when he smiled, even the loudest, most obnoxious loudmouths like Melidore fell silent.”
Ksmvr thought he’d heard of Melidore. He listened as Vofea stared ahead, resigned and sad—and amused at her own folly.
“That was well. But then the girl said something mightily stupid. So stupid every faerie who heard it laughed and wept, for she was a girl and bloody stupid and knew naught the nature of the Faerie King. You see, words have meaning around him. She swore an oath there and then she’d honor her parents, and if ever the time came, she would go back to the home she had heard they’d lost and strike a mighty blow against their foes. No matter how long or when. And when the Faerie King heard that—he grew terribly sad and rose and left. Which is why he rarely goes anywhere in his full seeming. And the girl was bound by her own words.”
“…That girl was you.”
Vofea kicked him. Ksmvr took that as a ‘yes’. He didn’t understand all this stuff about the Faerie King and destiny, which sounded suspicious, but he got the nature of it. It was like an adventurer making a cursed vow or a Djinni’s wish.
“How long ago was that?”
“Eh…a few thousand years? Maybe ten?”
“Ten th—”
Ksmvr jerked. Vofea laughed at him.
“Time passes differently there. You can blink a thousand years. I’m still young and new and inexperienced, but His Majesty was sad because a promise is a promise.”
“So if you say something wrong around him you die? Couldn’t you…not have come?”
The faerie shrugged.
“Oh, aye. I could have.”
Ksmvr got mad.
“Then why didn’t you? And why did you pretend this was all set in stone? What is destiny if—”
She shushed him with a finger on his face. The Satyr gave Ksmvr a serious look.
“I could have refused my destiny and fled. His Majesty would probably have allowed it. But then I wouldn’t be the me that promised. And I am. I proudly am. I came here because it mattered and because you, the Horns of Hammerad, matter enough for a Satyr to die and nine faeries to never return home. Alright? Don’t be less.”
Ksmvr sat back on his haunches, not sure what to say. Vofea’s gaze was serious, pleading—and he had the same odd feeling in his chest.
This Satyr-person is crazy. She was ready to die. Afraid of it—but ready. Part of him wanted to admire that, but the rest insisted on one fact.
I can’t allow it. Ksmvr stood up quickly and tried to think of something to say.
“You have to tell Captain Ceria everything. She can—”
“Ait!”
His sudden movement scared something to his right. Ksmvr heard the familiar sound, twisted—and that little roller-rodent was nibbling on his food. No, wait, not his food—
“My soap!”
It had half-eaten the ball of soap while he and Vofea talked, sneaking up like a…a rodent! It tried to roll away, but Ksmvr snatched it. Instantly, the little thing flailed four short legs as its belly whirled, trying to roll in the air. Then it made a wailing ait sound—and peed on him.
Or something close. The blue liquid in its stomach hit Ksmvr on the chest and dribbled down his armor. It smelled like…soap. Ksmvr held it away from him as Vofea recoiled.
“Eugh!”
Enough. Ksmvr held the thing delicately in two hands and patted it gently on the head. The wailing…ceased, and the roller-rodent trembled. But Ksmvr of many talents, the [Animal Friend], patted it and felt a soft, slightly rubbery skin. It stopped rolling away.
Disgusting. He knew it wasn’t the right emotion, but it welled up in him, and he couldn’t push it away.
