The characteristic of the City of Shield’s dueling style was a wrist-flick normally reserved for foils or epees. There was enough flex in the dueling sword to let it bend if flicked right and slip underneath a guard or become unpredictable to the eye.
—The third strike cut Pisces across the arm as he failed to bring the rapier back in time. The force of those casual wrist-flicks was akin to the Maestro’s strength! Only, this Drake was doing it with such a casual flick—
How? Pisces backpedaled, using [Flash Step] until his back hit a wall, and he realized the dueling circle was fenced in by a [Light Wall]. He caught an oath from Ceria and realized…her interference would be difficult.
[Flash Parry]! [Manacharged Reflexes]!
He was a Level 15 [Duelist of Wistram]. Pisces had one advantage: his mana supply and, in theory, spellblade spells. He sped up, desperately avoiding being skewered—stepped left, circling the outside of the dueling circle as his opponent relentlessly pursued. The light-Drake stepped forwards in that classic lunge, so fast Pisces thought it was emulating a Skill—
[Impaling Lunge]!
The Drake stepped back smoothly, and Pisces felt his best [Fencer] Skill whiff the air uselessly. [Quick Reset]—
He kept circling, panting until he realized he needed to control his breathing. At last, Pisces noticed the way the Drake was moving. Or rather, not just the wrist, which was performing those casual, powerful wrist-flicks that were both a parrying move and pressing attack—
The tail!
The next time the Drake riposted off a parry, Pisces saw the tail moving oddly. It…waggled. Like a snake mid-strike. He saw the motion translate across the Drake’s body, ending in the wrist. All the momentum from the tail created a whip-like strike from the sword.
So their tail could be used like that? Pisces’ feint saved him from another cut, and he performed a running flèche despite having the wrong weapon—bought himself more distance.
He had never known, never heard of tail-augmented fencing, and his father had known [Duelists] of every species.
Pisces was learning every second of the duel—but mostly that he was in deep trouble. The other Drake had a distinctive style that favored a slow, yet indomitable, advance. He would ‘beat’ at Pisces’ rapier, using the whip-like strikes to throw Pisces’ own blade wide and create an opening.
An engagement where the two blades met favored the aggressive style of the City of Shields. Worse, the same offense became a defense just as dangerous; a weak thrust from Pisces would be deflected into the ground or to the side.
The Drake even tried to stomp on Pisces’ sword, and the only thing saving Pisces was the fact that he was used to fighting monsters like Crelers or armored foes and hadn’t committed to a decisive strike. He was used to the blade jarring or the difficulty of finding a weak spot; the Drake was throwing off his tempo badly, and Pisces guessed the breathless feeling he had was how it would feel for any [Fencer] meeting this style for the first time.
This wasn’t a more formal [Fencer]’s duel on a strip where they could only move back and forth—the ability to circle should have given Pisces’ [Flash Steps] an advantage, and he tried to get around the Drake, thinking, naïvely, that if he could strike the tail, he might cut down on the flick-strikes.
The long tail was a weak spot, surely. Drakes got tails tangled up, needed armor on them—Relc had someone step on his tail in The Wandering Inn every other week with all the tables and chairs around.
However, Pisces realized as he tried to outmaneuver the Drake via sheer speed…it wasn’t working.
The [Flash Steps] could carry him thirty feet in a single moment—but what did that matter in this duel? If he was a [Runner] or needed to avoid arrows or get somewhere, it mattered. The light-Drake, though…had perfect control of the five feet around it. If Pisces tried to rotate, the Drake would just turn, and the nature of angles meant that it would invariably turn faster than Pisces circling it.
Even his control was weaker than the Drake’s sphere of aggression. Pisces did feel like he was dueling a ‘shield’—a zone of complete danger that the Drake kept ramming into him, refusing to give him a second to breathe.
“Use a spell, Pisces! A spell!”
Ceria shouted after what had to be a minute or two of desperate survival. Pisces thought she was right. He had adopted a highly aggressive style from Pheislant that favored close engagements and had tried to shove the other Drake off-balance.
Completely risky, and he paid for it. The Drake’s off-hand came up, and Pisces had thought it was empty—it was.
But the Drakes had damn claws.
One slashed down his wrist so fast Pisces felt it tear open his skin. Sharpened claws—it had barely missed an artery.
Most [Duelists] had an offhand weapon, be it buckler or parrying dagger. Pisces had expected a shield for this Drake. Idiot!
He nearly lost an eye as the Drake pivoted, trapping Pisces’ rapier with the sword, and went for a gouge with his offhand. Pisces’ arms trembled, and he realized the sword was sliding—
Even if his rapier’s guard caught the blow, the Drake would take him in a leg or the stomach! Pisces raised his hand desperately, pointed with two fingers—
The bolt of light missed as the Drake recoiled, but the light arrow forced it sideways, and Pisces broke away, gasping. He fired another arrow, and the Drake deflected it.
 
——
 
Ceria looked sideways at the overseer Drake, fearing it would object—but [Light Arrow] was a common spell, right? And…she saw Pisces smile grimly.
The arrow had come from the Unicorns of the Vale Forest. 
Dueling masters.
 
——
 
His opponent could deflect the arrows with his sword unless Pisces mixed the attack into his swordplay.
Nothing was ever easy—Pisces’ empty hand fired an arrow horizontally at the Drake’s side as they engaged again—the light-Drake recoiled, parried a thrust, and the second arrow came low at their stomach.
Pisces’ opponent angled their sword and reflected the arrow straight into Pisces’ head.
Burnt hair. The spell was more like a punch to the head than burning pain. Pisces reeled, and the sword ran him through.
“Pisces!”
He [Flash Stepped] back, straight back, before the sword could tear into his stomach and checked his side.
Straight through the right side of his abdomen. Pisces felt blood running down his skin.
Not…good. He had been lucky—it must have missed his stomach or any organs, but the pain was distracting, and he had not a second to even try to stem the bleeding.
Now, red was staining the sigil of shields on the tiles below as Pisces and the Drake trailed a pattern across the floor. Sticky red blood made whorls, circular, captured their footprints in a back-and-forth.
Someone should do that with some high-level [Duelists]. Put their boots in ink. Sell it as art.
Pisces was lightheaded. Ironically—his blood loss seemed to make his swordplay better.
That or he was adapting to the wrist-flicks, learning to absorb the point of impact or deflect it back rather than try to keep his blade steady. It surely looked like he was losing, backpedaling, his rapier going side-to-side, but Pisces’ [Light Arrow] spell was mixing into his attacks with more frequency, and he had begun parlaying the aggressive parries into counter-slashes.
He nicked the other Drake twice, once across the shoulder, then across the offhand, leaving particles of light trailing in the air. If this were any other kind of duel, he was sure his injuries would have probably already stopped the match.
But this was a duel for the honor of the City of Shields. He saw that, now. He should have worded his request any other way.
This was no mere light-sentry programmed to fight well. This…was the style of a dead Drake duelist, captured in this magnificent swordplay.
What a mistake.
How glorious.
Part of him had wanted this—Pisces performed a wrist-flick, and the Drake swayed out of the way. Pisces’ [Light Arrow] was deflected by the handle of the dueling sword—he brought his rapier down hard, hoping to score a blow on the Drake’s head—
Pang.
The sound went straight through his rapier, and he felt it snap. A piece clattered to the floor as Ceria leapt to her feet. The old rapier had given in.
 
——
 
“Stop! Stop! He’s lost his weapon!”
The overseer Drake refused to acknowledge her. It kept watching the duel as Pisces leapt back, the rapier in one hand severed a third of the way down.
The light-Drake actually paused a second—and raised its sword to a guard position and halted. But it was watching Pisces, clearly ready to strike.
Ceria was aghast. Did the City of Shields not have a rule for broken blades?
“Challenger. Your weapon is broken. Will you forfeit?”
At last, the overseer asked calmly, and Ceria’s eyes swung to the waiting sentries corrupted by Bograms. Pisces hesitated—then spoke.
“No. I can continue…[Flame Rapier].”
He transferred the broken rapier to his side and flicked his hand. A flaming rapier, the spell he had used before buying his current rapier, appeared in one hand. Ceria relaxed.
The opponent began to attack again, and Ceria realized there was a new problem. Pisces had recovered his weapon—but the spell was not the same as a real blade.
The flames…were just flames. They could wound, but now the two, Pisces and the Drake, would no longer be able to lock blades. There was probably some fascinating interplay for a [Fencer] who would have to adapt to this new style—but Ceria saw this disadvantaged Pisces in a moment.
He wasn’t used to a duel where he couldn’t parry and had to dodge. The replica of this old Drake—was.
Pisces began to purely evade and retreat, but he took three wounds in quick succession, the worst being a stab just above his knee. Ceria looked at the overseer.
“He’s wounded. Is this going to go to the death?”
“The challenge of the City of Shields is ongoing. The challenger may forfeit at his discretion.”
“Fuck you.”
“Bad language is discouraged, applicant.”
Ceria looked for anything she could use in case she needed to intervene. She’d have to break the walls between her and Pisces or just interrupt the duel. She checked how fast her circlet was charging…not fast enough.
And now, Pisces was getting desperate.
 
——
 
His blade! Pisces couldn’t adapt fast enough. He was backing up, pressed against a wall, when he saw the Drake alter tactics. It came at him fast and low and surged upwards in a devastating uppercut.
It nearly cut him apart vertically. Pisces ungainly threw himself right, and the Drake swiveled and planted his sword down in a stab—swept the blade across the floor as Pisces kicked off and slammed into the far wall.
“Pisces!”
Ceria was lifting her hands, but Pisces rose as the Drake charged at him. He had to—
A piece of metal clattered as Pisces slipped on it. He saw his broken rapier blade—looked up—the sword was chopping down, and the claw was wide. Two attacks.
Pisces’ hands moved, and the Drake spun out of the way of the light arrow spell—that never came. It chopped—and its blade rang against Pisces’ rapier. The claw jerked, but the flaming rapier slashed down the projection’s arm. The enemy [Duelist] looked down and saw Pisces’ shaking arm holding his real rapier…repaired.
Or rather—the artificial Drake’s eyes locked onto the place where the metal was fused back together. With…bone?
“Halt. Unknown spellcasting detected. An inspection is required.”
The overseer spoke suddenly, and Pisces saw the other Drake back off. He hadn’t cast a spell it recognized…the overseer regarded his blade as Pisces panted.
“It’s just—it’s my sword.”
He’d repaired his sword. Pisces had been about to make a rapier out of bones, but he’d been all but certain his opponent would shear through it in moments. But the hairline fracture that had broken the stressed steel…what if he just repaired that?
“It’s an, uh—an undead rapier. Come on, judge. Let him have it!”
Ceria’s cajoling didn’t make the overseer Drake react, but Pisces smiled. Why not? He was reminded of how he’d fixed Yvlon’s arms. The delicate ivory that fused the plain steel together looked…beautiful…
When his eyes rose, the overseer Drake was looking at him. Pisces swore there was something like intelligence in that smile. The lips moved, and Pisces’ heart leapt.
He might never forget this moment as the image of a long-dead Drake looked at him and spoke.
“Continue, Challenger of Graves.”
Slowly, Pisces saluted the Drake, and it stalked forwards, now favoring long-ranged, piercing thrusts. It was getting faster. Perhaps it wanted to end this.
Challenger of Graves. Once, Drakes from the City of Graves had been [Necromancers] and used swords.
Pisces smiled. Then he spoke a spell. Whether or not his father would have accepted it—so what?
Pisces was a [Duelist of Wistram].
A [Necromancer].
And an adventurer. You know how they loved to cheat.
“[Wall of Bones].”
Ivory spilled from his bag of holding, assembling into a wall of bones that fit together like a jigsaw puzzle. The [Duelist] reacted, aborting his strike and leaping back—
The Drake slammed into the wall of bones behind it, and Pisces’ rapier missed its head by a hair. He hadn’t used the wall like a shield! The Drake backpedaled, sliding away, and Pisces raised another wall of bones.
He was blocking off the dueling ring. The [Wall of Bones] spell was a bad shield—and part of Pisces saw the overseer’s glowing eyes on him. A [Duelist] didn’t run and hide.
But the walls of ivory were suddenly taking up his opponent’s half of the ring. Pisces raised another, and the Drake’s right flank was suddenly constricted.
Controlling space. Pisces kicked off a wall, vanished through the air, landed, and clashed again with the Drake. It went for another eye-gouge. He whirled away, and his elbow hit it in the face.
Ceria’s voice was delighted.
“Foul!”
The overseer? Said nothing. 
Was there disapproval in his opponent’s movements as it came at him hard, aggressively? Pisces didn’t care.
This was the way an adventurer fought. Yvlon could fight—and win—against a [Duelist] who’d never fought in a cramped space or had someone sucker-punch them from behind.
Pisces’ sword whirled and deflected another strike. Faster now—like Ksmvr’s [Silver Illusion] school. But he wasn’t there yet.
The bone walls were hampering him as well as the Drake. They were closing in a narrowing field as more bone walls rose, and Pisces knew they were reaching an inflection point.
It would be so easy to cheat and use the [Bone Walls] to impale his foe. To summon a skeleton.
Death magic.
Fencing.
