“It is too delightfully cute.”
“It pissed on yeh!”
Vofea recoiled as Ksmvr petted the animal. They were wasting time—but this animal delighted him. Ksmvr put it down gently, and it rolled down the corridor and swiveled to him.
“Ait?”
“It feels like soap. It smells like soap. It lathers like…soap.”
The weird liquid in its stomach was like some kind of liquid soap. As far as Ksmvr could tell, the body portion of the roller-rat was more like a really chubby squirrel or armadillo. If it didn’t want to roll, it would awkwardly waddle around on fat legs before ‘inflating’ the rotating ball it used by moving the liquid around it inside.
It moved extremely fast as it zipped right and left—and Ksmvr saw another rodent sneaking up from the other side.
He rescued his soap and put it and the food in his bag of holding as Vofea got to her feet, bandaged up. This, of every moment in the Crossroads of Izril, made Ksmvr smile.
“That was a proper adventuring moment.”
“That was?”
Vofea stared blankly at Ksmvr, but he nodded and waved at the roller-rodent. It sped away as the Antinium settled back into his focused mode. Yvlon. The Horns…Bograms.
“If only all adventures were more like this. My team may die, no matter what your prophecy says. But I forbid it. And you!”
He jabbed Vofea in the chest, and she opened her mouth.
“But I just said—didn’t you hear me, you blind, deaf—”
He bonked her on the head with his sword hilt, gently, and she glared at him. But then Ksmvr patted her on the shoulder. He’d come to a decision.
“You may not realize this, Vofea. But in your naïveté—I shall consider you, a—how old are you?”
“Ten thousand some years?”
“…Ten thousand year old faerie Satyr as a probationary rookie of the Horns of Hammerad. Colth was the rookie before you, but he was also a Named-rank adventurer, so I did not haze him or teach him my ways much because he probably knew the job. But you are now a Horn of Hammerad. There is no badge. But there are lessons I must impart to you.”
Ksmvr hoped Ceria would not be too mad at him, but he felt it was right. Vofea blinked at him, then grinned toothily as she trotted after him.
Bograms was peeking at the two, fuming and wondering where the stranger had come from. They were the weakest two, so he’d kill them first.
Ksmvr’s voice echoed down the hallway as he pointed, and the two advanced. Vofea’s voice was raised.
“What’s the first lesson, Ksmvr?”
“Horns of Hammerad have a motto: get the treasure. Don’t die. Come on.”
Ksmvr led Vofea into the maze after the rolling rat, determined now to safeguard both of them. He turned down the hallway, crunching over little debris he thought were excrement…bones…Ksmvr stared down and then turned a hallway again.
Then he saw a bunch of hanging roller-rats in the air, suspended, seemingly, from nothing, many torn to bits, the only thing remaining of them being the split roller-sacs filled with blue liquid. The rat he’d just met was struggling, enmeshed in something, and squealing frantically.
Ksmvr heard a faint clicking sound as Vofea stopped grinning. The Antinium slowly turned, feeling his sense of danger kick in.
Monsters.
Bograms flexed his fingers as he tip-toed up from behind, waiting for his moment to strike.
 
——
 
Ksmvr didn’t immediately step forwards to rescue the roller-rat. He stared at the weird threads in the air and hmmed.
“Webs.”
That was his instinct. Vofea narrowed her eyes.
“Yup. Hundreds. Sticky enough to rip hair off Ratatoskr’s balls.”
“I assume this is some reference. Wait. You see them?”
Ksmvr saw nothing. And he had different eyesight from most beings. Vofea narrowed her eyes and glanced sideways.
“Yep. What’s your plan about the monsters and that Bograms thing?”
“Death or avoidance if they are dangerous. Hmm.”
The clicking was getting louder. Ksmvr expected spiders. Nasty, nasty, horrible spiders, probably variants of Shield Spiders. Unless they were invisible too. He thought they were; he saw a trembling of the other dead roller-rats indicating something moving. Fairly big.
“Can you see them?”
“Yep. Can you…not?”
Vofea was staring back the way they’d come, but eyed the corridor ahead. Ksmvr whispered as he tucked one hand into his belt.
“No. Describe them.”
“Well…the ones coming at us have eight…legs. They’re the size of, uh…one of the golden winged rams—very big pincer things—”
“Less references, more measurements!”
“Uh—uh—five score of various sizes, and one’s at least sixteen stones in weight! They’re eying us! And that one’s on us too!”
Ksmvr had regrets. One of them being not establishing a proper system of measurement like feet, inches, and pounds with a being from another world. They were definitely invisible, and the clicking was getting louder.
Ksmvr made a split-second decision as he threw something. He could shoot with a number of Skills, but he needed to see first. There was only one power he needed now, and a part of him was incredibly satisfied.
Take this, you doubting…team members.
“[Summon Leaves]!”
He had done hard work on his ride south to the Great Plains. Many trees had been acquired. Ksmvr had the deeds to them all, and so a flurry of leaves filled the air. Eighty-one leaves blew across the air and landed on the invisible, hanging webs—and glanced off whatever was crawling towards him.
The invisible spiders recoiled and some snapped at the leaves, but Ksmvr moved faster. The spray of leaves had stuck to webs, and he slashed at the targets. His blade adhered to the sticky webs—but then he used a Skill.
[Silver Illusion: Whirlwind of Blades]!
He slashed in flurry, and the roller-rat fell, still covered in web or whatever it was, and several bodies crashed down. They sounded really heavy for spiders, but Ksmvr sensed them drawing back, pulling the webs with them.
“Hah! They’re all tangled up, the stupid things! Say, Ksmvr—what do we do about Bograms?”
Vofea whispered, pivoting Ksmvr slightly. He shook his arms—she was facing him right for some reason. Ksmvr had his guard up; he sensed the clicking growing agitated.
“Grab the cute little rat, Vofea. Bograms? When we see him—well, he is invisible, but I intend to attack if possible. A sneak-attack. If you were able to see him, I would ask you to point him out to me and I would attack.”
“Sure. Sure…”
She started tapping his arm urgently. Ksmvr paused. His head slowly turned to Vofea, and she stared at the hallway of invisible webs and tilted her head slightly to the right.
Uh oh. 
Wait, she could see—Ksmvr tensed. He was going to jump and take Vofea with him. Then he’d engage somehow—he activated his cloak and vanished.
The clicking grew more agitated. The shuffling forwards stopped, and Ksmvr pulled Vofea and the rat she was holding back. Where is he? Where is—
Bograms had lost track of them and might not know they could see him. Ksmvr and Vofea could see each other, and she was muffling the agitated squeaking of the rat. She pointed, and Ksmvr hesitated.
They were hemmed into a corner. Vofea was gesturing…big…eight feet tall? Half as wide across—she looked startled, surprised, and Ksmvr longed to know if there was a weak spot or anything.
Bograms should have attacked. However, something strange had happened. Vofea was pressed against the wall, and Ksmvr was poised to lunge…but Bograms passed them by. He—apparently—knelt, and Ksmvr heard a strange sound.
It sounded like a sob.
Bograms picked something up, scrabbling on the floor—then suddenly his footfalls were pounding away. Ksmvr stared at Vofea, and she pointed. He hesitated—
“He’s gone! He ran off sobbing! What a big…is that what I think it is? That’s yer foe? He’s got old magic on him!”
“What does he look like? Did he just take what I thought he did?”
Vofea nodded.
“Yep! He grabbed a handful and fled.”
Ksmvr stared down at what had distracted Bograms so. The invisible monster had snatched a handful of…his leaves. The [Tree Collector] stood there until he remembered the other threat.
Invisible spider-things. Invisible Ksmvr. Invisible Bograms. All the [Skirmisher] knew was that his class was very useful after all.
As for the spider-things—Vofea tried to pull the sticky, tacky stuff off the roller-rat, cursing, as Ksmvr prepared a trick while his invisibility cloak remained. He picked up some dust and hurled it across the nets in the air.
Clearly, these were some predators who used their incredible powers of stealth to hunt the fat roller-rats, who seemed to eat the lichen and had adapted to this unique place. There was doubtless more fauna…but Ksmvr was not keen on engaging an entire nest of his foes.
Especially after he got a look at them. The Antinium shuddered and slowly backed up the way he’d come.
“Next time, tell me when you see things.”
“I thought you could see things! Yeh truly can’t see them?”
“Well, now I can. I suppose you are useful after all.”
“Twat. Roll away, you stupid rat.”
Vofea released their little friend as Ksmvr backed away from the very angry beings making their nests here. They were not spiders after all.
Oh, many things were the same. They had eight limbs, and yes, they made a clicking sound…but that was more like clacking of their beaks. And they were indeed big. Shield Spiders got bigger, but…Ksmvr thought this group must have mutated.
What hung in the air wasn’t webbing, but a tacky, viscous fluid that was just as bad. As for the outlines his dust revealed as they tried to clean themselves off…Ksmvr shuddered. Their long, twining limbs, their wet, bulbous heads and huge eyes and…sucker-things on each tendril were extremely upsetting to the Antinium.
“I believe that is an octopus. Gross.”
One was large as a cow. Ksmvr would rather not tangle with those things. He backed up with Vofea. Only now—
Ksmvr had a plan.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres came to a conclusion after twenty minutes had passed since the last Bograms illusion. She spat, and a loose tooth came out with a string of blood.
The [Armsmistress] wiped her mouth. Then she spat a fragment of the arrow that had gone through one cheek. Her Ring of Barriers had activated a hair too late; the first arrow had hit her hard.
But she was alive. Now she could finally see again, Colth’s face was looking pretty bad too. Someone had punched him repeatedly in the face. Not hard enough to break his bones…well, probably not.
She’d knocked out two teeth. However—his smile felt much like hers. A rictus, that was a better word for how they smiled.
Trap after trap lay smoldering in their wake. Bograms had, apparently, given up on them after the two Horns had run through a dozen traps so fast he couldn’t keep up.
It turned out Bograms wasn’t a good runner. That wasn’t the revelation, by the way. Yvlon squirmed as Colth produced a needle.
“Let me sew that up. Then I can only add a drop of potion.”
“Thought you were out.”
“I lied.”
He applied literal drops to all their injuries. Yvlon had a purple mass of bruises on her side. She grunted when he checked it.
“It’ll keep.”
Colth nodded and grimaced as he felt at his missing teeth.
“Damn. We lost teeth, though. We’ll have to find an [Enamel Maker]. Or someone who does gold teeth. Maybe silver for you.”
“It’s fine. Pisces can make teeth.”
The [Supporter] stopped, then smiled. His eyes lit up.
“Can he make mine hollow and fill one with poison powder? No…I’ll figure something out. Foldable lockpick? Spell?”
He was back to himself. No, that wasn’t right. The two kept moving. If they sensed a trick from Bograms, they’d deal with it. Yet they had survived. The thing that Yvlon had realized was—
“I think I’m not good with traps.”
To that, the [Supporter] smiled wider.
“We just ran through at least four death-traps. What do you mean?”
She grinned at the compliment. They were still close enough to touch. Yvlon’s elbow was linked with Colth’s as they kept walking, and he didn’t resist or pull away. When they moved forward, she advanced a step in front of him.
I’ve got you. 
That part they didn’t need to say out loud. Colth kept breathing slower, as if finally coming out of his fugue state. He was glancing at her. Yvlon resisted asking if he thought she’d scar. It sounded trite, like some generic female adventurer stereotype.
Then she decided there had been too much unsaid in the Horns of Hammerad of late.
“I was thinking about asking if I was going to get a nasty scar. But that’s the kind of thing you hear jokes about with female adventurers. Also, when we get out of here, we’ll make sure Bograms doesn’t get you alone.”
I’m going to kill him. It. Colth blinked at Yvlon, then smiled with that crooked, half-mocking expression.
“Female adventurers? You mean Deniusth. I’ve heard him tell that exact joke and then scream about a nick on his nose. Your cheek will be fine. There’s a scar-removing cream Larracel used to have a supplier for.”
“…Is that why Named-ranks still look good?”
“The ones who aren’t missing limbs? Sure. Illusion spells and potions do the rest. Or having a dedicated [Chef]. Even Eld fell for it; he used to have a bit of a paunch. At his age? He could supplex a Mothbear, and he paid for a [Chef] who put him on a weight-loss diet with Skills. When she was still an active adventurer, Larracel nearly spent a fortune on pills for her height. Worse, they would have worked.”
That made Yvlon feel…better, actually. Named-ranks really did sound normal when Colth spoke. Then again—she glanced at him, and he met her gaze.
“He’s called the Naga. The one who bought my contract. I ran afoul of Chandrarian law when I went to the continent. I killed someone in what I thought was self-defense; turns out they were a [Slaver], and the rules are different if Roshal’s mad enough to buy the kingdom’s partiality.”
Yvlon’s stomach twisted. She nudged Colth.
“You don’t have to tell me.”
He ignored that, so she listened. Colth took a deep breath.
“The Naga…has his own way of making you obey. You think you’ll play his game then rebel. You serve for years, passing up chances, then you finally make your escape—only to realize it was all a dream. I can’t remember how many times or how many false memories I have of waking up. Decades. Until you’re afraid of waking up and having to start again.”
“The Wishing Well?”
Colth’s arm tensed, then he relaxed.
“He won. I gained…a lot of levels from him. He was the one bastard in the world who understood how powerful my class was if I met other people with unique Skills and learned from them. Roshal has too many. I was one of his best servants. Six years he took—I would have been twenty…eight?”
“How did you get free?”
