Of course, the question that Colth had asked—still probably asked—was whether he had gotten free. However, he managed a smile that was grim and touched the shortswords at his side.
“The Naga doesn’t make many mistakes, but he made one. He sent me to Rhir on a mission: infiltrate or scout out both the Demons and the Blighted Kingdom, especially to see whether the Deaths were really dead. He’d also heard the Blighted Kingdom had found something big and was digging it up.”
“Whose side is he on?”
“The Blighted Kingdom’s. But the Naga doesn’t want them to win. He’d rather both sides struggle without gaining dominance. I infiltrated the Blighted Kingdom, but the Demons were harder. I still worked my way into their society, but guess who I met?”
Yvlon’s arm tensed, and Colth glanced at her sidelong.
“Demons are supposed to be the world’s enemies.”
She said carefully. The [Supporter]’s smile wasn’t wary; he just looked at her.
“Pisces owes one a debt. Goblins are supposed to be bastards too.”
Yvlon hmmed.
“Who did you meet?”
She thought she knew the answer, but Colth just sighed and glanced up a second. As if looking up at something bright and vast. A light shining down even now in the Wishing Well.
“I knew they were alive long before the Death of Magic destroyed Rhir’s 5th Wall. I’m not sure how they healed so fast; they were, all three of them, barely alive when I met them. Suspended in magic. The Death of Magic undid the Naga’s spells. The Death of Chains set me free. And the Death of Wings took away my [Slave] class.”
Yvlon Byres exhaled slightly as Colth looked at her for any sign or reaction. She spoke her thoughts out loud.
“Oh boy.”
“…That’s it?”
He prompted her. Yvlon glanced at Colth.
“We’ve got a third troublemaker. Ceria’s cursed. Pisces is a [Necromancer]. Colth likes Demons. Ksmvr’s fine.”
She squeezed his arm gently, and Colth of the Demonic Smile, Colthei—his name that the Demons of Rhir liked—the Ultimate Supporter waited for anything else. Questions. Explanations.
He wondered…how his friends at the Haven would react when he told them.
And it occurred to him that Yvlon might care less which side he was on than his friends. He wasn’t sure if that was insulting or gratifying. No…the latter.
After a while, Yvlon spoke as they rounded another corridor. A Drake sentry chased after them, waving a spear, and she punched it and shattered the construct.
“I lost my entire team in Liscor’s dungeon. I think I’m a mess about that. And I have an anger problem. I think that’s all of my secrets. I don’t like my arms…but I’m getting better about that.”
She glanced down at the silversteel metal and then at Colth.
“The Horns need someone who can deal with traps and knows adventuring. I don’t know if you are going to stay with us. Why…did you? Colth the Supporter is famous for bouncing from team to team. If you leave, I’ll keep your secret. I promise.”
The [Supporter] blinked at Yvlon. He ruffled a hand through his bloody hair and then replied softly.
“…The truth is I liked your team, and I was curious about Ksmvr, but I was mostly here for Pisces. I heard what happened to him, and I got orders to make sure Roshal didn’t get him back. It was for spite. I am…I have, ever since I returned to Izril…Magnolia Reinhart isn’t one of the Demons, but she employed me…”
His voice trailed off slightly, grew husky, and Colth looked at Yvlon. She saw that bleak stare in the depths of his eyes.
“I am revenge. I can’t be anything else.”
She nodded, putting the last pieces into place.
“We all have problems.”
He punched her in the side gently. Yvlon glanced around, wondering if he had an opinion on mazes.
“Think we can find Ksmvr and Pisces and Ceria? Bograms is after them. We’re a mess, but we have to counterattack.”
“…I see a fire. I’m betting that’s Ksmvr.”
Yvlon’s head snapped up, and she saw a telltale string of smoke in the gloom over the maze. She instantly picked up the pace.
“Let’s do that trick where you only take the right-most path. That’s how you find a maze’s exit, right?”
Colth shook his head.
“That only works if the maze walls are all connected to the outside walls. Let’s just navigate towards the fire. If we’re close enough, we can shout at him. Mind you—it could be Bograms.”
Yvlon sighed. She was getting really tired of second-guessing everything. But she reasoned that if it was a trap, they’d just have to punch their way out of it. What were they supposed to do?
“Come on, let’s jog.”
She dragged Colth along faster, and he fell into lockstep with her. They were good at that, Yvlon realized. Colth was even matching her breathing.
“You got it, boss.”
“Don’t call me that.”
“Hey, I call people ‘boss’ if I like them. I did that before I was a [Slave]. Yazdil hates being called that. I do like having teammates and having someone telling me what to do.”
They jogged faster, and Yvlon stared at some kind of delicate trap involving urns and a pedestal. The barrier blocking them—she punched through with Colth after eighteen hits.
“[Buffed Up Muscles]. Let’s go, boss.”
“Stop calling me that. Why didn’t you join your old friends, then? Don’t you trust them?”
Colth smiled.
“Them? They’re all mostly retired, and I’m always the kid. Plus—half of them are assholes. I love them, but Larra was the only selfless one. And she’s still petty, greedy, and a control freak. [Advanced Trapsense] says something nasty is coming up.”
“Let’s see how deadly it is. Is that acid? Spilled magicore? I can probably run through it with my [Aspect of Iron].”
They ran faster as Colth jumped onto her shoulders. He panted as he tossed a bunch of pebbles around, and Yvlon shook glowing magicore off her legs.
I hope I don’t get mana poisoned or something. 
“Just so you know—not all the rumors about me are fair.”
“What about the one that says you were divorced three times?”
He glared ahead.
“…Not even once.”
“Excuse me?”
“I never slept with any of them. Let alone married them. I was hanging around First Landing while Larracel was getting famous. Twice before I went to Chandrar, once afterwards. Each time, I met someone lovely. Low-confidence, down on themselves. [Merchant], two [Ladies]—”
“Uh.”
“—Trap on your left. And then I helped them out. They helped themselves, but I did a bit. Suddenly they’re getting famous, rising in levels, and I tell myself they won’t let fame go to their heads. The next thing I know, they’ve found a fiancé or end up cheating on me. Because it wasn’t ever serious with Colth—it’s not about sex. I met each one and thought they had something to them. The same potential to be…by the time we parted ways, I wanted nothing to do with them. They could reach Level 40 and it wouldn’t matter. Their personalities were as vapid as sea slugs baking in saltwater. Give them a bucket of gold and a drop of fame and they’ll kick you out like yesterday’s trash—”
“I can see this is a sore subject.”
Colth glared at Yvlon until he started laughing. A rueful, wild laugh of a crazed Named-rank adventurer. Yvlon Byres grinned until her face hurt. What a foolish fellow who pretended to be normal and had a mountain of problems and jumped into trouble.
He’d be a fine Horn of Hammerad. 
 
——
 
He breathed in and out, a stale, dusty air that made him cough but still…exhilarated him. A strange contradiction.
The worn tiles of this room traced the crest of the City of Shields, and he longed to look down and study it. Be it so silly…[Necromancers] were tied to the past.
However, the half-Elf stood there as he wrapped some cloth around his hand for better grip. And the two of them took each other’s focus as he watched the Drake standing across from him.
“My [Dangersense] is going off. Say the word and I’ll cheat.”
Pisces Jealnet shook his head. He had chills. His mind felt clear and distant at the same time.
Bograms was out there. He could not stall forever, but the [Necromancer] still indulged himself for a moment.
“I’ve…been fearing my class of late, Ceria. In Chandrar, I almost gave in.”
“You didn’t. Come on, Pisces. Head in the game.”
She slapped his cheeks, which he didn’t appreciate. Freedom from morality or not, she looked so concerned. She was still just Ceria.
“Listen to me, Ceria. There are so few good [Necromancers]. Az’kerash…the Putrid One…I know a few who were decent. I have never met any who was—who I was proud of. My idol was a monster.”
“Pisces—this really isn’t the time to bring up Wistram.”
Ceria’s face was concerned, but Pisces had to say it.
“Maybe they were right. I have been feeling guilty, Ceria. Guilty—because I do use the dead. The undead are murderous. You saw me steal corpses.”
“Ethical use of corpses isn’t—just use [Bandits]. Okay?”
He was sort of enjoying how mad she was getting. Her alarmed look…Pisces sniffed and tilted his head up, indulging himself.
“Well, I shan’t pontificate long about the ramifications of necromancy as it’s applied. There’s no need for it in this duel. It’s only—”
He stared at her skeletal hand, then at Ceria, then gestured at his white robes. Skeletons…and he had not made zombies or Crypt Lords, but he could. Pisces confessed the truth everyone might know but he was afraid to say, to ask of them.
“Ceria. I find death beautiful at times. I admire undead. Not all of them. Not what they do. Am I the fool, the wrong one?”
He was hoping she had some sage wisdom, circlet or not, that would give him confidence. His rapier felt heavy as he felt at that notch a third up from the hilt of the sword. If only the loot from Facestealer’s horde had contained a rapier. His opponent held a long dueling sword, slightly less flexible and heavier, but…Pisces sensed the light construct’s alertness, saw how it was standing.
Silver-bell at least. 
Ceria exhaled. She stared up at the ceiling, took off her circlet, played with it, and looked at him.
“I don’t see it. Beauty or whatever.”
His breath came out slowly. Ceria continued, the words filling the silent maze, louder than the beating of his heart.
“But…I don’t doubt you find it beautiful. I just wish I could see what my friend sees. Pisces is a [Necromancer]. I wouldn’t want you to drop your class or change.”
The overseer was watching, a glowing smile on its face. Features nondescript; he saw nothing beautiful in that, only a certain refinement of light magic. Yet perhaps someone might love the glowing apparitions as much as he admired an undead or a Golem…he thought of Cognita.
Pisces whispered as Ceria looked at him and his waiting opponent.
“Thank you, Ceria. I cannot be a [Necromancer] of the kind I despise.”
He loved it. He hated it. He feared what it might make him.
He supposed that was his relationship with necromancy. Just like fencing. The one thing he could truly love without regrets was moments like these.
What did Ceria Springwalker see in the moments before she stepped out of the ring? A young man with white robes holding a rapier?
His brown hair was covered in dust and messy, like a marmoset or some creature from a far-off forest. His eyes were as focused as she remembered, not lost in study, but the student taking a final test, and he was deceptively relaxed as he faced the Drake side-long, rapier extended, giving his opponent as little a target as possible.
A [Fencer].
A [Necromancer] faced a glowing Drake, who performed the Salute of Fortitude, an ancient gesture from ages past. She swore she saw it smile.
Pisces’ feet slowly moved left on the tiles as the overseer lifted a clawed hand. Above him, a crystal of magic flashed, and the dungeon hummed softly.
His opponent bowed as the clawed hand came down, then lifted their sword. A tail swished through the dust, and her hair stood on end as Ceria saw the sword angle, the claw close to the other duelist’s chest, tip of its blade pointed at Pisces.
The other clawed hand rose in an open, grasping motion. A pose that no artificial construct should have known.
The light grew more defined, and now she thought she saw scales. Features. The face of a [Duelist] long dead to the world. A bell made of light hung from the artificial Drake’s wrist. It made nary a sound.
She would have bet her life’s fortunes it would not have been silver if the construct were true to life. Or gold. The Drake and Human regarded each other calmly as Pisces walked left. Then he sighed.
The first sounds of swords clashing in a lifetime rang through the ruins of the Walled City of Shields. The [Necromancer] smiled as he fought with sword in hand in the shadows of a Walled City.
A story.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet had long claimed aptitude with a rapier, and he had won his silver bell in the oldest way. He had defeated his father and taken the bell. But he had been a boy, and his father may have refused to cut down his son.
Pisces had cast a [Slumber] spell, but his father had woken up mid-theft and come after him, bleary and disoriented. His father had had years of experience, levels, and strength on Pisces. Even so, the bell had never been earned beyond the shadow of a doubt.
The style of Ailendamus was new, so Pisces had learned many techniques of fencing schools of Terandria. Had them beaten into him unkindly until he resented it and only took the sword up for survival later.
The principle characteristic of Ailendamus’ fencing was the emphasis on repositioning via footwork and the [Flash Step]—a style derived from Az’kerash himself, who had used the spell and made it famous.
A [Fencer] could touch someone thirty feet away in a single incisive lunge. Or back safely out of a pressing engagement. The subtlety of quick-stepping with [Flash Step] or an equivalent Skill was difficult and took years of practice to master.
The dueling ring hampered Pisces’ ability to flee. It was wide enough, sixty feet in diameter, an entire world to move about in—yet he could not retreat and recover. The moment Pisces stepped into a lunge, he knew his opponent was deadly.
Depth perception issue or not—had Bograms’ magic faded when it accepted his challenge?—the other Drake knocked his strike down and countered so fast Pisces felt the sting on his cheek and realized he had barely survived the counter.
Fast. The precision of the counter reminded Pisces of Padurn’s fastest movements. There was no wasted room—and the Drake stalked left on the balls of his clawed feet, and his first three strikes sent Pisces’ rapier ringing away.
