…Well, a shivering Yvlon suspected the Drowned Folk would do it just for the story. Apparently they’d seen the Horns of Hammerad, but Ceria was shouting at the image of Shadeward Doroumata in the scrying orb.
“—Straight to sea! I asked for a navy! Point us west, and we’ll figure out where Erin Solstice is—no, you tell us!”
To say the Drowned Folk in the orb and on deck were unhappy at Ceria shouting at the Shadeward herself was an understatement, but the half-Elf was almost literally insane by this point. The old half-Starfish woman replied slowly.
“We do not war lightly with Roshal. This alone will be noticed. This alone—”
She broke off as someone pushed at Ceria, and Pisces jabbed a finger at the scrying orb. The Horns were all swaying on their feet. They looked starved, battered, and yet the [Necromancer] had the lungs to scream in Doroumata’s face.
“Honored Shadeward, we have just crossed the entire Crossroads of Izril, fought a Bograms, survived the City of Shields’ trial, and we will find Erin Solstice and bring her back if we have to kill every [Slaver] between us and Chandrar! I humbly suggest you order the [Captain] to get this cutter moving.”
The Shadeward blinked at Pisces, and even he blinked as if he hadn’t heard what had come out of his mouth. But that was nothing to Colth’s follow up.
“If you don’t, we’ll capture the ship and take our chances. Or just find one of Roshal’s other ships. I reckon we can take it—even if they try to scuttle it.”
“Are you threatening Nombernaught?”
The acting City Captain of Nombernaught spoke ominously. Yvlon looked around for one of the Horns to say something reasonable like ‘of course not’.
Ksmvr was rocking back and forth, staring at the waves, as Vofea patted him on the shoulder. Yvlon cleared her throat.
“Not if we don’t have to, sir. We’re desperate. We’ll pay you for this favor and then some. Never let it be said the Horns of Hammerad don’t repay their debts.”
“How?”
The Shadeward stopped the furious reply. A ship to put them against Roshal. A favor to put Nombernaught itself in their debt? Yvlon Byres looked at Ceria for confirmation, and the half-Elf winked.
“Just for you, Shadeward—just for you and no one else save the Gnolls. Lean in, please. Everyone else, back.”
Colth and Ceria jabbed the [Captain] and his officers back. The Shadeward, frowning darkly to suggest this had better not be stupid, leaned in. Yvlon whispered softly, hoping only the Shadeward could hear.
Well. She saw the proof of it. The Silver Killer’s lips moved—and one of Doroumata’s daughters cried out as she saw something glowing move from Yvlon’s lips.
“Watch out, Mother—”
They threw up barriers, but it was too late. The glowing trail left Yvlon’s lips, entered the scrying orb—and passed through to Doroumata.
The great spellcaster might be mighty as an Archmage, but she was too slow to jerk back. Something swirled through the air, ignoring a slash, the dark magic trying to stop it—and twined around her head. She froze—and the Human side of her face—her ear—twitched.
Then the magical string stopped, and Doroumata’s eyes, both of them, opened. Her eyes glowed as her mouth opened—and she swallowed something.
“What did you do? [Captain], slay the—”
The acting City Captain roared, but Doroumata stopped him with a gesture. She turned, and the Luminary of Nombernaught, a bright figure, looked down. He bent over as she whispered in his ear, and that glowing thread passed from her to him.
No…not thread. If you looked very closely, you might catch the outline of a letter. Or perhaps a string of letters. Even—
A passphrase, maybe. Written in magic. Passed from person to person. Ceria grinned like a loon. Yvlon stepped back and brushed the sword at her throat out of the way. The Luminary froze, then whispered.
“The Passphrase of Imlerith.”
The Drowned Folk stopped shouting. They turned, and Ceria gave them a thumbs-up.
“You can’t get anywhere without that. Be careful. Once you speak it to too many people, it spreads. But we won’t say a word, on our honor. The only people who know are you, Chieftain Feshi, and Shaman Theikha. I’m sure you’d share it with everyone who needs it, though. So long as they ask nicely.”
Only the Drowned Folk and Gnolls knew it? Wait—the <Heroic Quest> had been completed?
Already!?
Then the slow ones realized what that meant. The Horns had sped through the Crossroads. Found a gate…if someone else wanted to access the Crossroads, they’d have to enter and exit. Or…be a friend of the Drowned Folk or Gnolls.
But no one, no one even knew that the passphrase had already been found. Colth was speaking quicker.
“The <Heroic Quest> didn’t end, so you have until someone else does what we did. It’s definitely possible. In fact, there’s even a gate nearby.”
The City Captain of Nombernaught growled with sudden excitement.
“Where?”
For answer, Ceria Springwalker checked her belt.
“My goodness. I think I’m out of healing potions, and I’m hungry as shit. Hey, this boat isn’t moving. Maybe we should have gone to my people after all. But I would have gotten sick of them calling me ‘sister’. Can we do anything about that?”
The Shadeward was faster now. She looked up.
“Captain. Take Worldrider out at top speed. We will give you directions and updates shortly. Luminary, mark a heading for a resupply ship.”
The Luminary strode off-screen, and minutes later, a light flashed across the sea. Like Pheislant’s lighthouses. Ceria leaned forwards, smiling, as Pisces made a show of leaning over.
“You might wish to tell the Shadeward about the hazards of the Crossroads, Ceria. It wouldn’t do to let Drowned Folk suffer as egregiously as we did.”
The Shadeward’s face never moved as Ceria glanced at Pisces seriously.
“That’s a good point, Pisces. But—eckh—ackh—my throat’s dry. Let’s see what we have to eat, then talk, okay? How fast does this boat go?”
The Horns of Hammerad. Someone was calling for a diplomat, and many [Captains] doubled as their own diplomats, so they were reviewing the files.
There were four Horns of…
No, wait. Five.
Six?
Ksmvr of Chandrar, Antinium [Skirmisher], lovable dancer, the first Antinium to become an adventurer, master of the two swords at his sides. Petter extraordinaire.
Pisces Jealnet, [Necromancer], graduate of Wistram, bountied, a former [Slave], known as the Bane of Roshal by many Chandrarian caravans he’d liberated. Silver-bell duelist.
Ceria Springwalker. [Cryomancer] and half-Elf from Erribathe. The Ice Squirrel. Known associate of Revine Zecrew. Graduate of Wistram. Hell’s Warden along with the original four including…
Yvlon Byres, the Silver Killer of the Coliseum of Monarchs in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Metal arms and foot. One of House Byres’ own. Former Silver-rank Captain. Used her own arms as weapons.
Colth the Ultimate Supporter, associate of The Adventurer’s Haven. Divorced three times. The Demonic Smiler, accomplished blademaster, spellcaster, scout, all-around-expert. Possibly a virgin.
‘Vofea’. Species unknown. Possibly Goat Beastkin? Origin unknown. Has ‘special eyes’, quote unquote. Never seen before exiting the Crossroads of Izril.
Horns of Hammerad.
 
——
 
He didn’t sleep despite the possibility of more level ups. It didn’t matter.
Pisces stared across the dark sea until Yvlon put a hand on his shoulder. Rainwater doused them, and the wind made it impossible to hear her voice—until the Drowned Folk reactivated their shield.
The storm was so intense the waves had knocked it down. Pisces didn’t care.
The weather lashing his face should hurt. Erin was out there, a captive of someone worse than even Riqre, and he wondered what was happening to her. Not just her—Ulvama.
He was thinking of Eloque. Or Cawe. Or anyone else.
“Pisces. Ceria just got in touch with someone. She can’t tell who it is. A [Message] about Erin. She’s confirming it.”
“Where—”
Pisces stirred, but Yvlon tightened her grip.
“Let her talk. You looked—different, you know.”
That second part came out of nowhere. Pisces wanted to go and ask questions, but his voice was hoarse from shouting at the [Captain] for speed, from hearing of the Solstice, and—
“What?”
Yvlon hesitated, then faced the sea.
“I never would have thought, when we first met, that a [Necromancer] had any integrity. Just now, you looked ready to storm Roshal’s harbor.”
That sounded like bravado. Adventurer talk. Yvlon had never given into that part of them that Pisces despised. He turned, too upset to speak a second.
“—We have to get her.”
“We will. I’m trying to say…silver and steel, I’m sorry, Pisces. I’m bungling what I meant to say. Even if my brother, my father, and everyone else would never see or admit it—there’s no one I’d be prouder to face down all of Roshal with. No one more honorable or with better intentions.”
Pisces looked at Yvlon and didn’t know what to say. He’d remember that another day. Forever, probably. Right now…
“Pisces. Yvlon.”
Colth emerged onto the deck with Ksmvr. The two Horns turned, and Colth’s face was pale. But his eyes—Pisces’ head rose, and the two exchanged an unsaid look.
“Where’s Erin?”
“I think she’s free.”
“How?”
Pisces’ heart leapt, and Yvlon punched a railing, exhaling. Colth was grinning—he jerked a thumb behind him.
“Ceria and Vofea are confirming—the Satyr knows something about lies. Some ‘friend’ just gave us coordinates. The ship’s heading north.”
They had been sailing blind in the wake of The Naga’s Den. Yvlon almost laughed.
“She did it? I should have known no one can predict Erin…does this mean we weren’t needed? It was right to come—”
“No. They’ll never stop chasing her. She unchained herself.”
Pisces’ hands began shaking. Colth grabbed one and clasped it, his hand grinding at Pisces’ fingers, and the pain snapped the [Necromancer]’s head back up. The [Supporter]’s smile was back, but not the demon’s smile. A desperate baring of teeth, genuine and raw.
“This is when we’re needed. Every ship Roshal’s got has to be bearing down on her, and she’s not heading back to us. Every single one of them burns. The real fight begins right now.”
Pisces’ hand tightened as Ksmvr nodded coldly.
“No quarter.”
He took Pisces’ other arm, and the [Necromancer] spoke those burning words, as if he could still see her. A rainbow, reflected in Colth’s eyes.
“We’ll never let her be chained again. No one.”
“Spoken like a free man.”
Colth let go of Pisces, and the two nodded at each other. Yvlon saw Pisces turn to her, and wordlessly, she made room as a half-Elf and Satyr walked onto the deck. Pisces faced his friends and teammates.
“We’ll get Erin. But I left them behind. I’ve been guilty about it. They helped me free myself, but so long as the others are on Chandrar—Merr, Eloque, Bearig, Qshom, and Rophir. I shouldn’t have gotten on that carpet.”
Ceria Springwalker wiped water out of her face. Her circlet glowed, and he saw, when he looked at her, she didn’t feel the emotions in his chest. Not all of them.
But she looked at Pisces, exhaled, and clasped one shoulder with her flesh-and-blood hand.
“Then after we get Erin back, we’ll go to Chandrar and rescue them.”
She said it like it was easy. The entire continent? Roshal’s own homeland? The half-Elf looked at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] nodded. Ksmvr solemnly placed a hand on Pisces’ and Ceria’s shoulders.
“Any friend of Pisces is a friend of mine. No one will be chained. Captain Ceria, are we now bound to defend Erin from Roshal?”
“Roshal, [Pirates]—and more.”
They looked at her uncomprehendingly, and Ceria glanced at Pisces, and he knew, suddenly, where Erin was going. He closed his eyes, but then opened them as even Colth seemed puzzled.
“If she’s aboard that ship with help after all, Izril is behind us. Is an enemy ship why she’s turning north, Ceria?”
“No.”
Pisces told him, feeling relaxed. He understood, now, and he would have Erin no other way. That was how he knew it was her. Pisces stared northwards.
“She’s going to save a friend, even now.”
“That’s our [Innkeeper].”
Ceria agreed. The two of them looked at each other. That hadn’t changed. Then Pisces breathed out and knew—
It was still Erin Solstice. They would find her. Pisces stared into the dark sea as Ksmvr shaded his brows. Yvlon looked around as Vofea licked her lips.
“Not even the gods know what comes next. It’s all upon us.”
The [Armsmistress] smiled down at the fae like an older sister.
“That’s how it always is. Horns? Time to go hunting.”
 
——
 
Six adventurers were staring into a storm. Erin’s friends, her only allies that would have a hope of reaching her.
There were so few ships willing to even risk the sea, let alone anyone ready to sail into a maelstrom and face both [Pirates] and one of the world’s powers.
Every faction was already at sea save two—
One was the Archmage of Izril. She had set forth the night Erin Solstice had been kidnapped.
She was running numbers with the only other person qualified to count them and add them, calculating the cost of magic with distance and weight.
Yelroan. Valeterisa looked up from her calculations and spoke briefly.
“I will be able to reach one of the ports and perhaps—move a ship out to sea with enchantments within one hour. It will require every mana potion I can imbibe, and I will then collapse. I cannot reach Wistram directly; Archmage Eldavin is not responding, and the teleportation network I have is being disrupted by the magical maelstrom, even had I the mana to carry four people all that way in one night. My passengers are likewise limited.”
“How many?”
Yelroan looked up as someone spoke.
“Four, five if the Archmage wants to risk it. Who will go?”
A young woman stepped forward, barefoot, shaking. Ryoka Griffin’s Faeblade was in hand, and she looked at the only person faster than her, pleading.
“Me.”
“Then I will go as well.”
“No.”
A dozen people overrode Tyrion Veltras. He began to argue as Valeterisa looked around for people she was sure of.
“I will go.”
Normen was clutching at his side. He tried to limp forwards; a Draugr had hit him hard enough to break ribs. Someone put their arm out.
“I am the least harmed. I will go.”
Embraim looked around. That made two. Who’d be third? Dozens of voices began to argue. Many were wounded—the Archmage pointed, and a thunderclap struck the shouting voices deaf.
“Who will go?”
She spoke, and a hand rose. A single figure pushed past the others and joined the small group.
“Take me. I can catch her. I swear I’ll bring her back.”
