From her vantage point, she could not tell how the Solstice was going. There were no dreams during the Solstice, only eternal midnight and courage, and Yvlon Byres knew she’d wake and weep when it was done.
There was only the Crossroads of Izril, and she saw a truth in it.
There were…
Colors.
The higher she flew, the more she saw them. Colors, yes. But not the endless grey of the Crossroads. There was, if she had to state it, purple…and red.
No, there were a number of colors, but two predominated. They were like—stains? Some kind of strange painting? Once more, no, Yvlon realized.
It looked more like a map. Or battle. 
The colors were everywhere, though the New Lands had not yet acquired more than splotches of either, but they clustered together. What she saw was that purple…
Well, it was more like a mauve? Maybe a rich mauve or an amethyst with a hint of rose, though that was the [Lady] part of Yvlon, which could identify colors, speaking.
Purple fought red. The red was definitely closer to imperial red, bright, mixed with vermillion orange and hints of fire.
This was how Yvlon would describe it when she woke and told her friends, though not even Colth could use his [Diviner] lessons to interpret the dream—yet.
It was as if a vast carpet of purple had been overtaken by the red. And in some places, purple pushed back, but it had become more like islands of purple surrounded by red in many places. 
There was a huge core of purple, but red had overtaken half the Crossroads already. 
Smaller colors vanished or appeared rapidly, but they didn’t…matter? Red mattered. Red was a sea, an engulfing force. Purple was different.
Purple rose in what Yvlon thought of as ‘spires’, towers, like sentinels, that red could not devour. They stood stronger together, but each tower of purple kept red at bay. A war…that one side would win.
She drew closer to one of the purple spires, curious, and one actually noticed her. It pulsed curiously, and Yvlon’s dream-self rippled. Alarmed, she tried to swim away from the dream, but something pulled her towards the nearest purple tower.
They all began to pulse, that mauve glow inspecting her. A strange intelligence—Yvlon felt an overwhelming pressure pulling at her being. She cried out, but it was relentless. Before she could be drawn into the purple, something grew hot against her cheek—
The pillow was so hot it was smoking when Yvlon woke up. The delicate stitching and little Goblin on the front glowed—and Yvlon woke up shakily and described what she’d seen to the others.
A strange dream.
Perhaps many beings saw the Horns of Hammerad as they raced down the main roads, westwards, nearing the edge of Izril. If so—it was too bad for them.
The Horns were going at ludicrous speed, fueled by pemmican and the power of undead horses who could not go hungry. Nothing could risk pursuit, even if they had the inclination to fight six crazy adventurers. Not with the look in the eyes of the Horns of Hammerad.
 
——
 
One last thing of note happened on the Horn’s long ride west. They skipped past a war, treasures, ruins, monsters, and adventure.
They did not stop, nor slow, except to use the restroom. They had only one goal: to reach the coast.
In fact, they didn’t even stop when they reached the ruins of a very suspicious road that interrupted the bare earth.
“Oh tree rot, it looks trapped! Anyone’s [Dangersense] going off? Vofea, use your special eyes!”
Ceria shouted as the Horns slowed and saw a bright, shining road of glossy bricks, a literal yellow-brick road, polished and beautiful.
It was crumbled to pieces where the dirt road they’d been following met it, but the section that remained was almost entirely intact.
“It looks magic.”
“Really. Magic? You don’t say.”
Colth was sarcastic. Vofea sniffed.
“I can’t tell magic apart! Ksmvr, he’s bullying me!”
“Rookie Colth, you do not bother Rookie Vofea. Rookie Vofea, you take responsibility for your failings…though you are also a rookie so these things happen. Do not beat yourself up about it.”
Ksmvr scolded the two junior members of the Horns. Colth gave Ksmvr a sinister look; he was not in the mood for jokes. Worse, Ksmvr was not joking. Ceria was busy trying to make a decision.
“…It’s go off-road or take it. I say we risk it. The land’s bumpy, and we might throw a wheel again, and I don’t have the mana for that or a fight. Pisces, what are you running at?”
“There’s enough death magic for me to cast a spell or two. Why?”
Pisces rubbed his hands together. Ceria narrowed her eyes as she stared ahead.
“Pisces—reanimate the road.”
Ksmvr spat water out of his mandibles. Vofea looked around in delight as the [Necromancer] stared at Ceria, and Colth gave them all a crazy grin.
“I think I like this team.”
The remaining stones moved, shuffling into place, and magic flashed and reknit as the [Necromancer] reanimated the road. Ceria pointed, and the Horns of Hammerad screamed as she shouted.
“Charge! Get ready to jump—”
The chariot raced onto the new section of road, and the rocking and bumping stopped. The bricks were glowing, and Pisces gulped as he wondered if he’d dispelled a trap of some kind…by activating whatever original magic was here.
“Vofea, tell me what you see.”
Colth was determined to train up the faerie, and Vofea leaned over the chariot, staring down. The bricks were glowing the moment a wheel ran over them. When Ksmvr tossed a piece of pemmican over the side, a brick glowed where it landed for a bit as they zoomed onwards.
“What does it mean?”
None of the Horns knew, not even Vofea, but she peered around sharply, then pointed.
“Everyone, look that way!”
The Horns of Hammerad turned, and they saw the magic activating. It had to race to keep up with the chariot, but race it did—and Ceria sat back, lowering her wand. Pisces began to really smile. Ceria exhaled.
“That’s so stupid.”
“No. This was a different time. A better one, perhaps.”
Pisces corrected her softly. The [Necromancer] stared at the words writing themselves in the air for the Horns to see.
 
Welcome, travellers, to the Crossroads of Izril. The City of Imlerith invites you to come and visit!
 
The Horns of Hammerad laughed, or rolled their eyes, and relaxed. Then looked ahead. And what they didn’t know was…Vofea lifted a hand and waved.
On a hunch.
 
——
 
The Solstice was long and dark. Liscor was under siege, and every eye there was captured by the undead.
Kasigna, Goddess of Death.
An inn, alight with glory and sorrow and the faeries’ tricks.
Everywhere else in Izril, some people paid attention to Liscor, stared at the Archmage of Memory’s failed broadcast, or just looked into that dark night with fear, wondering when it would end.
Then…as Dragonspeaker Luciva paced around Manus’ inner keep, asking how many forces could get to Liscor on time and receiving no answers she liked, as Drakes of the Walled Cities turned to their leaders for support, as Gnolls fought undead—
—As Ylawes Byres and the Silver Swords rode westwards, skirting the Hivelands, grim-faced, counting coins and looking towards the New Lands—
—As half-Elves and Drowned Folk stayed vigilant on the walls they had built in their colonies, staring at the storm at sea and wondering if any Terandrians would make it—
The sky brightened. Heads rose as something flashed across those dark clouds. Dragonspeaker Luciva heard a strange siren going off in Manus’ inner keep.
No, not an alarm of danger for once…some kind of alert rigged up by her predecessors? It sounded joyous. Her officers panicked as she stared up at the sky. Something was up there.
…What was moving across the clouds? It had to be the size of a Giant—no. Wait.
It wasn’t coming out of the clouds. It was being reflected onto the night sky. Luciva looked up, called off the alarms beginning to ring through Manus, and grabbed her speaking stone.
“Get me through to Erin Solstice—now.”
She demanded answers, but Erin Solstice had none to give. The Horns of Hammerad? She had no idea where they were.
How did Luciva know they were in the Crossroads of Izril?
The Dragonspeaker had no time to explain. Only that if you passed the Bloodfields to the north and looked up, from Pallass’ walls to the Hivelands, where some Antinium looked up amongst the milling Hives, to Zeres in the south…
You could look straight up and see an image being shone across the skies. It was very simple, a projection of another place. One of those silly things a Drake city would think up to welcome new visitors.
The Horns of Hammerad were riding a chariot, Ksmvr tossing pieces of pemmican off the side and staring at where they landed. Ceria Springwalker was leaning off the side of the chariot and laughing, and Colth was holding onto her while he rolled his eyes.
Pisces was half-standing, staring ahead with an urgent look on his face. A bell shone on his side, attached to the handle of his rapier, ringing silently in another world.
Last of all was a strange woman who looked part goat. Peeking over Ksmvr’s backshell, staring around in wonder and delight. Then she looked straight at you—and waved hesitantly.
The Horns of Hammerad raced across the skies of Izril for a long minute, and Ylawes Byres looked up, and his heart leapt in relief. And envy. And wonder.
“There you are.”
He focused on Yvlon Byres, his sister, who was patting Ksmvr on the head, pointing at something they were both staring at with a huge smile on their faces. Her metal arms shining.
Then they vanished, but the dream and memory of them didn’t. And a hundred adventurers across Izril shook their fists at the sky, and Deniusth nearly snapped his violin.
They’d gone first.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad found the exit to the Crossroads of Izril where the world ended. The flat grasslands were untouched, and they could see forever. They passed a ruined tower half-poking into the Crossroads from reality. They avoided a cloud of dark mists and weird weather that had a presence even here.
“That’s it!”
It was an archway of stone that Vofea thought was disturbingly familiar. It had appeared—no one had built it. The Crossroads of Izril hadn’t existed in the New Lands before now.
…Had it? Had it once stretched further? The Horns of Hammerad saw the entrance gleam as they sped towards it, like a mirror that reflected a dark night beyond, and grass-and-sand mixed together.
They sped straight through the door and ploughed into a huge coastline. The moment they crossed through, Pisces gasped as he felt salt air, felt himself snap through reality like he had when Wer teleported them—
Vofea threw up. Ksmvr patted her on the shoulder as she retched, but nothing came up. The Horns were thin; the pemmican had run out, literal months of food eaten away, exhausted and bewildered.
“Keep the horses moving! We’re still miles from the sea!”
Ceria shouted at Pisces as the chariot wallowed in the sand. He cursed, fighting them as he snapped back.
“Then what? Do we—do we drive into the sea?”
“We find a boat, genius!”
Colth was fumbling with something as Ceria looked around. Where were they? She didn’t know, only that on the horizon was a vast stormfront. She looked up and groaned.
“Magical hurricane.”
 
——
 
The Bloodtear Pirates’ Skill had created a tempest so vast that the edges of Izril’s New Lands began to get hit by the wind and rain after five hours. Ceria finally got her bearing and the time.
Three AM. It wasn’t going to get light any time soon; the place they wanted to head to was a milling tempest, and according to Vofea, Erin was out there.
“We need to either catch her ship or get to her! We have a day; the Solstice just ended!”
Pisces unnecessarily repeated himself for the umpteenth time. Ksmvr stared at the water in horror.
“I am going to drown.”
Yvlon shook his shoulder, trying to be kind.
“Ksmvr, you have a Ring of Waterbreathing. Ship, Ceria. We have to find one!”
They were rolling down the beach on the chariot, miles upon miles of terrain; the spiked wheels ran through the surf as Ceria nodded.
“I’ve been sending [Message] spells. Colth. Are you ready with whatever you’re doing? Tell me you have some kind of…Demon…contacts that have a ship.”
Colthei glanced up and raised a finger to his lips.
“You lot have no subtlety. Shut up, Captain. Also—wrong spot.”
Pisces blinked and opened his mouth. But Colth just finished writing on the thin roll of parchment he’d pulled out of a hollow spot in the handle of his sword. He grimly lifted it between two fingers.
“Everyone, out of the chariot. You don’t want to be in the way of this thing.”
Everyone piled out. Colth stood up, aimed the bit of parchment straight up and ahead, and whispered a word. It began to glow. He held it steady—then let go fast.
Pisces saw the bit of paper glow brighter. It hovered in the air rather than fall as the [Supporter] leapt off the chariot. Colth threw himself down, and the Horns stared at him—the d—
Ceria saw a burning comet blast upwards through the night. It kicked her off her feet, and her circlet told her that was definitely not a mere Tier 5 spell.
But it also said it wasn’t an attack spell. It was just…
A kind of message.
“…Is that our boat?”
Pisces groaned as he sat up. Colth pulled his head out of the sand and grinned wildly.
“I don’t think so. I just sent my biggest emergency request I had. Don’t count on help—but if help comes, we won’t need a damn boat.”
Ceria liked that. It smelled like trouble, chaos, and bad news—for someone else. The comet streaked through the air as she shaded her eyes. The storm was blowing water into her face, and she remembered how Illphres had once skated across the sea to fight [Pirates].
“…Well, even she wouldn’t skate all the way to Wistram. It’s far. And my knees hurt.”
No one got the reference but Pisces. However, Vofea leapt up and down and began waving her arms.
“I see it! I see it! It is a ship!”
Everyone looked around, and Colth blinked. This time, it was Ceria’s turn to give everyone a thumbs-up. She winked as they turned to her.
“Guess who I called?”
 
——
 
It was the fastest ship they had, an enchanted cutter with a skeleton crew. The [Captain] pulled Ceria aboard and gestured at something being pounded by the rain.
“We set sail the moment the Shadeward gives the word and not a moment before!”
Drowned Folk. The moment Ceria had seen where they’d pop out, she’d thought of the two powers who could help her.
Between the two—Drowned Folk knew the sea. But how had she gotten Nombernaught to pick up the Horns?
