der legs moved to the bottom of the creature, giving it more mobility; a second later, the creature began to make it... snow?No, it was raining down web-balls covered in fluffy spores. This would normally mean nothing to her magic of soul-burn, but this was Dungeon-Made. The mana inside the material began to conflict with the necromantic magic.If Mharia was there in person, casting? It would be a lot harder to simply snuff out the fire, but as it was, the beast had not only turned its soft burnable flesh into harder spider-carapace, but also devised an anti-fire measure on the fly.Mharia couldn’t help the respect she felt surge through her.So, when she cast her next spell, she hoped Delta would appreciate the masterwork of Mharia was about to do.Her Heart Throne was now beating so hard it was in constant hum.It would be just like what Mharia’s heart would feel like if she still had it.---Delta saw her hands flickering. Her fingers were more a distorted blur than the detailed shape from before. Despite her claims, the critter colossus she had made was not without a cost. She stood with a wobble as notifications fired off all around her in a chaotic manner.‘Critter limit reached... doubling production from first and second floor... Critter Limit reached... doubling production from Secret Garden… Critter Limit reached...’‘Critter and Boss monster fusion requires upkeep of... error. Incompatible. Creature under current rules cannot... does... exist. Scanning...’‘Mana income... -20 an hour. -21 an hour. Continuous mana sent to ‘Symphony of Nightmares’ for supply.’Delta wiped her mouth where she imagined she had been drooling. She felt dumb, as if her mind had turned to cotton. She had never expanded this much of a Mana sink before other than creating new floors.Her creature not only needed Mana to keep using its abilities and remain in her control, it also needed pure mana to remain ‘stable’. Even in Dungeon space, there were some things that just didn’t work without some of her ‘reality-blurring’ mana and DP.This was made even worse since she was making it work outside her Dungeon to wage war. Hero was easier cause the System had a nice little space for his type to function- long recharge, big payoff.“We did have 24 hours. We could have planned more strategically to prevent you literally bleeding yourself dry,” Nu said, his boyish form back into his screen form, but he had learned to project his voice now.“That sounds sane and reasonable, Nu,” she pointed out, managing to stand to her full height without wobbling.“Of course. Not your style,” Nu replied dryly.A moment later, Jack returned, throwing what stuff he could loot from behind Symphony’s trial of destruction into her Dungeon. Every little piece helped get her some Mana back. All, if not most, were things she already had, material wise.No, what was interesting was the contents of said items. Some paintings, some banners, and then Jack started bringing her other things.A semi-large picture of a regal man with a tamed gray beard, a woman with a poised and elegant face; demure, but with eyes of steel. Below them, lined in order like royal ducklings were three children. A boy with his father’s nose, a girl with a bored expression, and the youngest of them all...Marrow.Marrow’s face was pale, whole, and slightly younger than the one Delta had met. In Marrow’s eyes, the painter had captured a palpable sadness.The painting had a simple plaque.‘The royal family of Turtog’“Got more where that’s concerned,” Jack announced, holding up books and paintings he held in his clawed hands. “Your big beastie knocked down a sealed wall and this was all inside,” he explained, throwing more down.“Thank’s Jack... how are you doing?” Delta asked, hiding the fact that one of her hands now had its fingers on backwards as her Core struggled to keep this whole operation going. Jack thought about it, his bottles clinking as he crossed his arms.“I feel... good. Revenge and all that. I think afterwards I’ll have a crisis of purpose and identity, but until then, I’m going to have a jolly good time with some arson,” he declared firmly. Delta could understand that somewhat.Jack had been down here for years trying to do what Delta was finally getting done.Delta just hoped he didn’t throw himself into any more cauldrons in the meantime.She paused as the items began to become absorbed, mostly old trinkets and dresses long turned to aged tatters... but among them was things Delta didn’t know what to make of.She focused on something she absorbed and it came up.“The history of Turtog: The Kingdom that was invaded by death.” Nu murmured as he read over her shoulder. All, if not most, pages had been scrawled furiously in red ink by a trembling hand, repeating the words ‘lies’ over and over.Delta grimaced as she looked up from the book as she sensed Mharia do something.If it was more death, Delta could just repair the damage or if it was a big enemy, she trusted Maestro to use his various ability to win-A white light screamed down the hall impacting her Symphony hard in the chest. Delta stared in confusion as nothing happened at first, in fact, Delta even thought she got a nice little influx of mana from the attack.Then her creature began to bubble as the Piggles in the pile began to grow in panic. The spider legs crunched as the bent to make room for more joints, Maestro’s left arm grew large, causing him to become lopsided as his neck and head followed suit.Mharia had just cast some sort of life spell. How could she do that?! Her creature started to bloat as the spell encouraged rapid and almost uncontrollable ‘beneficial’ mana growths. Delta clenched her hands and focused.She was already bleeding Mana, but she had no choice but to spend precious DP on turning the spell into something she could manipulate. The growths turned into acid spitter bulges, brimming with acid as the grow turned into lively acid.Delta just managed that when Mharia began to weave complex life spells again, causing the spider legs to spasm, their armoured limbs exploding in green lush vegetation that vines into the walls, pinning her beast for a moment.Right, if Mharia was so good at death... no reason she wouldn’t be a hand at its partner, life.“I’m usually all for fans, but being clingy isn’t attractive,” she felt Maestro declared before mushrooms formed at the base of the vines, sucking moisture from them, decaying them as fast as they grew into brittle yellow things that snapped when her Symphony moved on.Delta grinned, knowing her monsters were capable of beating Marrow into next Tuesday. She inhaled, trying to make sure she kept everything stable until they could rescue Alpha and Hero. To distract herself, she looked at the books as Mharia seemed to go quiet for a moment as well, letting her monsters do the fighting for now.“Turtog... kingdom of death by J.Japes,” she read, trying to use the words as a means to center herself.‘Introduction. I write this book in dedication to the simple art of knowledge and wisdom. This book will show why, if not outright demand that, we cannot simply have faith and tradition. Death by inaction or destruction by stagnation is a sad way to go and none show this more than the Kingdom of Turtog. A kingdom who prayed for a bright future, but was delivered ruin.Only by the action of the last of the Royal Family was the end of the world contained.I will explore the ruins of this doomed kingdom and see if I can piece together what happened. Why did this kingdom fall? How did Princess Mharia escape the fate of her kingdom and purge it?The questions are many and the answers are few.Let us begin.’
