Sarya was eying him speculatively. “We wrote off antimagic as a Path five endings ago. Occasionally, a new Questor attempts it, but they usually abandon it the first time they lose to somebody with wizardly empowerment. I doubt we’ll have many Insights to offer you on your Path.”

If they’re going to offer us Insights freely, then it seems like a pretty big handicap not to put my cards on the table.

“Probably not on my antimagic,” Nathan acknowledged. “But there’s some amount of brute hand-to-hand, and my second class is as an assassin.”

“You do have two classes,” Sarya said, not nearly as surprised as when he’d revealed the depths of his antimagic. “Difficult to obtain, and often considered a handicap in the long run because of the split of Paths. Davrar rewards focus.”

Nathan met her eyes. “Davrar rewards risk. And I get the sense that we’ve taken on more risks in the last year than you have in the last thousand.”

She laughed, the sound loud and throaty. “True enough! Davrar rewards risk, and mortals do level and Develop their abilities faster than Questors. Now, let us gather everybody and discuss what Insights we can teach you.”

“I’m going to need to convince my team that all of this is a good idea first,” Nathan said wryly. “We came here to learn how to stop the Endings, and now I’m going to tell them that we need to jump through a bunch of hoops first."

Sarya gave him an unimpressed look. “Do you expect it to be difficult? They followed you here on the barest hint of a plan.”

He lifted his hands in defeat. “Probably not.” Then he stood. “Thanks. It’s good to know where we stand.”

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 84400/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 564

Regenerative Focus: 5740/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 3

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 2

Arcane Insight 4

Evasion 1

Mental Vault 5

Tutoring 9

Parkour 9

Visibility Control 5

High-tier Disguise 5

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
