It would have sounded like a poor excuse for not handing in homework if Calen hadn’t been there to witness the terror of that Death Knight personally. He had even helped chase it down and faced it – fortunately with Lyeneru Silverleaf to back him up. I can’t believe I agreed to that.

“Can we pull the secondary bosses out of the aura?” Vivian asked.

“No, I don’t believe so,” Calen said. The aura had been much larger than the typical area Ali’s bosses projected, meaning they wouldn’t be able to lead them past the edge of the death and blight influence before they gave up and were forced to return to the spot at which they were anchored. And that was assuming that merely entering the aura didn’t aggro everything. It all smacked of an underlying intelligence, and Alexander Gray had been quite devious in life.

They had come so far, and yet, with the end in sight, he was presented with a puzzle for which he had no solution. It was so frustrating. There was no way to pull the bosses out of the aura, and they wouldn’t be able to kill them within it. “I don’t think we can pull this off.”

“Yes. This is impossible,” Vivian said. “We would need a full raid of platinum ranks.”

“Just fight them all at once,” Mato said.

“What?” Calen asked. Mato was often headstrong and too direct, but this was unexpectedly reckless even for him. “Those raid bosses are all above eighty, and Alexander Gray is level one hundred and thirty-two.” His assessment of Alexander Gray’s challenge level earned him a startled round of anxious looks from at least half of their raid members, all sitting around listening intently to the strategy discussion – if it could even be called that. But they needed to know what they were facing.

“The problem is the aura of blight and death, right?” Mato said, not backing down.

“Yes, but it comes from Alexander Gray.” The final boss was preventing them from getting through his minions.

“So, fight them all at once,” Mato said. “We have four full raid groups and five platinum-ranked adventurers. Tank all the bosses and kill Alexander Gray first. Once the aura is down, the rest should be easy.”

“That’s insane!” Calen exclaimed.

“Is it?” Mato asked. “We have the numbers.”

“I…” Calen’s words trailed off as he considered the proposal.

“That might just work,” Vivian muttered, obviously not pleased by that admission.

Certainly, it had a better chance than anything Calen had come up with so far. He took a deep breath and gave the crazy plan the proper amount of attention. “So, you tank Alexander. We put Basir, Sabri, and Havok on the other three with healers to keep them alive. Then the combined raid kills Alexander first?”

“Yep, something like that,” Mato said. “But we might need to use Malika to tank Alexander. I remember needing Tree Form for him last time. I assume he still has that ridiculous blight aura. That Plague Ghoul probably also has some corruption or diseases or something. Without a proper plan for healing, those groups won’t survive.”

“Cleansing, too,” Vivian added. “Disease management is critical to avoid it getting out of control. Weldin has a large stock of elixirs we should take advantage of.”

“I’m not sure I can beat him by stealing his mana this time,” Malika said. “He will have at least ten times more mana because he’s a raid boss. Right, Ali?”

“Yup, at least,” Ali said. “Probably more. He’s a lot higher level, and his skills have probably advanced a few times.”

“How do we set up?” Basir asked. “What are the tanking assignments?”

“You on the wyvern, I think,” Calen said, sorting the parameters in his head. I can’t believe we’re considering this. “You are the only tank with a ranged attack. Coria and I will keep it grounded as much as possible, and you should probably face it away from the group so the raid doesn’t get breathed on. I think it might be fire.”

“I have a fire resistance armor set,” Basir said, nodding solemnly.

“Good. Sabri, you get the four-armed Wight because you have the best blocking skills. If it’s anything like the Wight we fought in Dal’mohra, it will have high dexterity and hit extremely hard and fast. You’ll want to avoid critical damage as much as possible.”

“Ok,” Sabri said. “I’ll use my heavy shield.”

“Havok, you get the Ghoul because you can still do damage with Consecration whenever the Paralytic Touch hits.”

“No problem! Havok smite!” Havok said, with his typical enthusiasm.

“The kill order should probably be the Ghoul after Alexander,” Vivian said. “It seems the most disruptive. Then the wyvern – but we’ll have to remain flexible if we discover some dangerous abilities.”

“Yes. Ok,” Calen said, and with that, and against his better judgment, Mato’s ridiculous idea somehow became their plan.

“Can you give me an hour or so?” Ali asked, her Grimoire already surging to life.

“What do you have in mind?” Calen asked, raising his eyebrows at her.

“I don’t like how little we know about the bosses. I was going to throw some berserkers at them and see if I can provoke them to cough up the secrets of one or two domain magic spells.”

“Oh, now that’s a fantastic idea,” he said. Any intelligence would be worth more than its weight in gold. He flared his wings – he knew how to observe while staying out of range.

“Of course,” Ali said. “Come, Seth. You can help me with this.”

“Uh, ok,” the necromancer said, his eyes wide as saucers.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
