A kilometer away from the shore, the lake churned to white water and exploded upward, like someone had detonated ordnance under the waves. Only this detonation did not fall back down to the lake. White waters reached for the sky. A few major branches split from the main trunk. Water crashed back down to the lake, churning up even more foam that seemed to transform into even more branches. The trunk of Yggdrasil expanded steadily upward in the center of it all, dragging up even more bare white branches as he grew.

And then the upward explosion stopped, and the outward explosion began.

White branches expanded from the central trunk, like snakes, winding out in every direction, the leading tips as thin as fingers, while where they joined the trunk they became thicker and thicker, but not nearly wide enough to support their own kilometer-long weight. Yggdrasil expanded without care for physics or weight or anything else, except for growth.

It wasn’t anything approaching organized, natural growth, either. There were a few leaves here and there, but the tree remained mostly bare.

And then the white branches stopped expanding outward. They filled out, some branches splitting into two, others joining. Disorganization became something more recognizable. The kilometers large tree became more solid, more secure, more regardful of the natural and supernatural forces that sustained him, but his branches were still as bare as white bones.

And then daylight and the blue sky shifted into something more ethereal. More colorful.

Like the flicking of a switch, a kaleidoscope of rainbow light anointed the world, transforming the heavens into fantasy. Leaves began to appear on the white branches, each one as large as a person, each shaped like green fire, and glowing. Those leaves were like sparks. Suddenly, a green fire caught hold of Yggdrasil, and swept his branches, leaving radiant leaves in its wake.

With his form finally filled out, the kaleidoscopic light in the sky condensed, becoming a kilometers wide ring of bound rainbows that circled all of Yggdrasil’s brilliant green canopy; a prismatic crown.

Erick watched this happen while he was seated on the ground, propped up and worried over by Poi, while Ophiel hit him with [Greater Treat Wounds] and whined in flute sounds. Hangzi had glanced toward Erick when the man collapsed, but Hangzi was too entranced by Yggdrasil’s summoning to spare Erick much concern. The guard at Hangzi’s side was properly nervous, though; Erick almost laughed at that.

In fact, everything was quite hilarious.

Ah. He was a bit giddy, wasn’t he?

Oh. That was probably a symptom of something severe, wasn’t it.

His hearing returned in a click, but all he could hear was the cascading water, still falling down from the higher branches of Yggdrasil like the tree was his own major rainstorm. Suddenly, Erick’s tongue didn’t feel so thick, and his arms and legs felt lighter. He breathed out thick air— Oh. Poi was [Cleanse]ing him, to keep his lungs full of good air. Oh.

“Yes,” Poi said, speaking a bit loud so he could be heard over the falling waters. “You stopped breathing there for a bit. Your heart failed, too. It’s better now.”

Hangzi came back to the moment, his eyes going wide as he turned to see Erick on the ground. “What happened?”

Erick knew what had happened: he had run out of mana, for Yggdrasil had taken everything. Even with the multiplier of Intelligence! It had taken Yggdrasil five minutes to get to his current size, but if Erick had had more mana, Yggdrasil would have likely grown a lot faster.

Erick checked his Status. Yup. Near-zero Mana.

… And near-zero Health, too. Looks like Yggdrasil wanted some of his Blood Mana, too.

Well this was dumb.

Erick still had 143 extra points, just waiting to be spent, too. He was going to wait till he could see what his soul looked like when he spent those points on his Willpower and Focus, but damn, if they weren’t needed right now. So he started funneling points into Willpower and Focus; more Mana, and more Mana Regeneration.

Erick was already up from zero, though, so he began turning on his usual spellwork that had gone out, when his mana bottomed out. [Greater Lightwalk] first, then [Lodestar]. Erick got to his feet, and said, “Yggdrasil happened. He needed more mana than I was able to give.”

Which was fine. Yggdrasil had helped Erick survive that soul spear. Erick could help Yggdrasil grow up properly. A bit of warning would have been nice, though.

Yggdrasil was done draining Erick’s resources, though he wasn’t done growing. He could grow under his own power, now. As Erick glanced out into the nascent World Tree, he saw branches extend into holes in the crown then fill in with leaves. The lower branches, the ones about a hundred meters off of the lake’s surface, were still thickening with growth. Yggdrasil was probably growing out his roots, too.

Even the rainbow ring around the crown was becoming denser, more radiant, more colorful.

Just how much mana did Yggdrasil have? Millions?

Hangzi had turned away from Erick to watch Yggdrasil again. He stared in wonder, saying, “I’ve never seen an Arbor before. This must be what they’re like.”

Erick smiled. “Yup. Yggdrasil is still only months old, though. He’s going to get a lot bigger than that—”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye appeared atop the waters, in front of Erick, as large as an orcol and only ten meters away. Erick laughed a bit at the sudden, large intrusion. Hangzi, Hangzi’s guard, and Poi, all went super serious. Erick almost laughed at that, too. Okay. Yeah. He was giddy.

And Yggdrasil’s eye was different. Instead of being pure white, it was iridescent white.

Erick waved. “Hello, Yggdrasil. How are you feeling?”

The voice of a child vibrated the world,

“Better. Easier see you. I sleep now.”

And then the eye blinked away.

Erick stood stunned. He was not the only one. Poi’s eyes were wide. Hangzi was frozen to the spot. Hangzi’s guard shuddered.

Hangzi was the first to speak, “So he can talk, then? I was under the impression that he was silent.”

Erick gave a nervous chuckle. “I was under the impression that he was silent, too.”

“… Oh.” Hangzi said, “Well. That’s a good development?”

Hangzi’s guard whispered, “We should move away from here; I feel many eyes upon us.”

Hangzi readily nodded, more than prepared to get the hell out of here, saying to Erick, “It was good to see you, and to meet Yggdrasil. Good day. Come back to Songli whenever you wish.” And then he took his guard’s hand and the guard blipped them away.

Erick laughed a bit at that. He smiled, as he spoke to the air, “It was good to see you too, Hangzi. Farewell.” He turned to Poi, “I guess it was a bit scary, was it?”

Poi instantly said, “Seeing massive things move so quickly is always disturbing. It’s like being a bug hunting for food in a kitchen, and then someone walks in and turns on the wardlights.”

“Oh. Well. Yes. I can agree with tha—”

A pain lightly stabbed inside Erick’s chest. He winced.

Poi demanded, “What! What’s going on now!”

Ophiel responded with a tap of [Greater Treat Wounds].

Erick said, “Something is happening.” He looked himself over with [Soul Sight]—

A golden flame was strung throughout Erick’s body like a divine spider web. Another pain struck him in his heart, and the golden threads solidified, trying to… Hold something in place? Yes. Probably. It wasn’t a large pain, but the golden threads were concerning.

Unbidden, Yggdrasil’s blue box appeared.

Oh.

There was a change.

Where it used to say ‘Current Maximum: 2’ the box now read ‘Current Maximum: 3’. The World Tree still had yet to be planted, though.

The divine fire inside Erick spread, and then solidified, looking almost as though it was reestablishing itself… Yes. That’s probably exactly what it was doing, for the pain in Erick’s heart went away. In three more heartbeats, the divine web began to vanish; the seal on Yggdrasil’s power remained intact, though it had certainly been adjusted.

Poi sighed out, relieved.

Erick giggled a bit, again.

And then he got a wild thought.

What if he planted Yggdrasil everywhere he went? What if each time he planted one, the seal got a bit more undone? What if…

What if, like Erick suspected, the actual secret to [Gate] was the creation of a being that could [Teleport] other people—

The Worldly Path demanded that one first learn how to manually [Blink], then manually [Teleport], then manually [Teleport Other]. What if a mage created a being that was in multiple parts of the world at the same time, that had the capability of [Teleport Other]…

All of the [Teleport] spells had a range of 1000 kilometers; this was their limit. So, with this created being, existing in two locations, could they [Teleport Other] someone far, far past that thousand kilometer limit? Was this sort of like how Erick was able to [Telepathy] across a much larger distance than normal, by stringing his Ophiel across the intervening distance and bouncing that signal between his summons?

What if that was the secret to World Trees?

How long had Erick been at this Worldly Path? Since before he actually gained that Quest?

He had boasted of making [Gate] to Caradogh Pogi, long before he gained the Quest. Was that the actual start of this Path? Or… Was something else happening there? Phagar had spoken to Erick once about how his creation of a World Tree was always a possibility, ever since he arrived on Veird, but it was a very, very small possibility, until Erick worked toward making it a near-fact.

Was all of this, with Yggdrasil (with the creation of Ophiel), and Undertow, and [Mysticalshape], and [Physical Domain], and [Harmonize], and everything else that he had done before then, and even now…

Was he creating [Gate]?

Or was [Gate] creating itself?

A blue box appeared.

Special Quest!

The Worldly Path.

Steps taken: 2 of ???

Reward: The ability to cast Gate

Erick laughed and showed Poi the changed blue box. “Isn’t that neat!”

Poi looked resigned, as he said, “That’s Fate Magic, for you.”
