After a half-day of arduous travel, she finally gave the order to rest, bringing the horses to the river to drink. Bringing Laughing Dragon with her, she went to check on Rain. To her surprise, she found him awake and standing on two feet, covered in filth with his arms bound, but clear-eyed and conscious. “Hmph,” she sneered, filled with confidence. “Your hardiness betrays yourself. You were knocked unconscious this morning, yet already able to heal your injuries. How else if not with your corrupted gifts?”

Rain spit in response, his grin dark and bloody. “Haven't you heard? I’m the Undying Falling Rain, bitch.” Curling his lip, he gestured at Laughing Dragon. “Guess you’ve shown your true colours, working with this Defiled coward. How clever, hiding your murderous urges in plain sight, claiming to do the work of the Mother.”

One of her Aspirants, Gunan, slugged Rain in the stomach, the savage doubling over with a gasp. “You show the Priestess proper respect, else I’ll cut out your blasphemous tongue.” Bowing to her, Gunan smiled. “You have our trust and loyalty Priestess Han. Please guide us through this trial.”

Gunan and his partner straightened Rain up, the savage defiant to the last, confident in his subterfuge. Rage burning inside her, she slapped him across the face out of sheer spite, resisting the urge to gouge out his eyes. “You think to twist my actions against me, but I know my path is just, as you know your own sins, Defiled.”

Confusion flashed across his face, then amusement. “Laughable. I am not Defiled, and have proven it. You think the world will take the word of Laughing Dragon over Falling Rain’s?”

“Ye are, ye just don’t know it.” Laughing Dragon chimed in, his voice desperate. “I seen it before, those who come to the power in ignorance.”

“The Taint,” she corrected.

“Er... yes, the Taint. You see them don’t ye? The Spirits? They give you strength, mend your wounds, guide your actions. Don’t bother lying boy, I knew the moment I laid eyes on you, hear their whispers even now as ye stand before me. Yer every bit Defiled as I am.”

BoLao watched carefully, reading Rain’s emotions like words on a page as they flashed across his face. First shock, then fear as the words sank in, quickly turning to anger and denial. “No,” he said, shaking his head, his breath coming in pants. “No, I’m not Defiled. You’re lying, you’re a liar. I am not Defiled, the Spectres are... no, no, brother help me, it’s not true right? I can’t be please...”

This was all the proof she needed, though the world would need more. Vindicated, she smiled for the first time in days, a burden lifted off her shoulders. “Hmph, as I said, you know your own sins, and soon, the world will know them too. Put him back on the horse, we must continue our journey.”

The Aspirants saluted her and she noted the confidence returning, their faith in her renewed after seeing Rain’s reaction. As she returned their salute, her smile turned to a gasp of alarm as Rain lunged at Gunan, his face twisted in rage. Before she could cry out in warning, Rain was upon him, his teeth tearing through the Aspirant’s neck, ripping a fist-sized chunk of flesh out and spitting it to the ground. Blood dripping down his chin, the shy, smiling teen who’d sapped away her confidence was no more, replaced by a raging monstrosity clothed in human flesh, roaring as he fought back. “I. AM NOT. DEFILED!”

A cold wave of terror washed over her as his Demonic Aura erupted from him, crushing her resolve and stealing away her courage. So wrong, so feral, she could sense the taint within him, horrifying her in ways unimaginable, his glowing amber eyes drawing her into them and granting her visions of unspeakable horrors. Beside her, Laughing Dragon squealed in glee, shrieking, “I told ye, I told ye. See? I weren’t lying.”

Multiple Aura’s emanated from her Aspirants, soothing and calming her nerves as those closest clubbed Rain into submission. Even as he lay in the dirt, bloodied and broken, she continued to stand and stare, breathless and elated from the brief exchange. Soon, everyone would know Han BoLoa was right, that Falling Rain was Defiled, and that Purity was no longer enough to prove innocence. Overcome with joy, she clasped her hands together, basking in the euphoria of a job well done.

Falling Rain is Defiled, and all is right in the world.

Chapter Meme
