The others on the platform were a mix of powerful dignitaries with a close connection to the Empire, including Xiphos’ Dao Guardian. Zac also spotted an unfamiliar Judge of the Imperial Magistrate and quickly looked away. He moved onto the person at the edge of the stage, only to receive an even greater shock.

It took Zac a moment to realize he wasn’t actually looking at Leyara Lioress. They shared enough features to be mistaken for sisters, but the woman before him possessed a completely different quality. While the nun’s aura was hidden, she exuded the air of someone who’d lived through countless seasons and seen the rise and fall of dynasties. That wasn’t something a Hegemon could emulate even if they tried.

While different, the woman was clearly a member of the Vigil, the mysterious parent organization to Zecia’s Void Gate. The fake Leyara wore an almost identical dress to the nun who’d appeared by the Everfast Monarch’s side. Like most on the stage, the nun inspected the platform of sealbearers.

Did she just stop upon spotting him?

Zac suddenly prayed it was Leyara, and not only because he’d like to thank her for her assistance with Terea’s lantern. If this nun wasn’t his old friend, the pause might have meant she noticed something else. The nun by the Everfast Monarch’s side had effortlessly seen through his secrets, referring to him as a ‘Young Void Emperor.’ The Vigil had also proven their stated stance of neutrality was one of convenience.

“Today is a day of celebration,” a resounding voice spread through the square. The chaotic stir of energy immediately calmed.

“We celebrate the completion of the Imperial Road, which will help bring our citizens closer. We celebrate the sacrifice of generations of heroes who worked tirelessly to advance the Empire’s holy mission. Today, the Mercurial Court is opening the Gate of Transformation. Those chosen by Destiny shall be given an opportunity to see through the illusion and seize an opportunity from the shores of enlightenment.”

Grand Dream’s face remained an everchanging blur, but there was no doubt the words came from him. Every syllable was imbued with so much meaning they may as well have been an edict of the Heavens, and they infiltrated every corner of the city. Any one of their countless truths was enough to keep a Hegemon occupied for years, and they weren’t limited to the major Daos of the Mercurial Court.

Zac had no choice but to let the sea of perfected Dao wash over him, for once thankful for his lack of affinity. It meant he was left out of the induced enlightenment taking place across the square as people unconsciously absorbed the concoction of Faith, War, and transformative power.

That was for the best. Zac knew his Void Road wasn’t powerful enough to filter out the Dao without being influenced. Janos still didn’t need his assistance. His treasure was happily gobbling up the energies meant for him.

“However, today’s glory is not their own,” Grand Dream continued. “The Era is turning, and the Empire is the fulcrum of destiny. This glory cannot be carried by the few. A rising tide lifts all boats, and the flame has never burned brighter. Do not grow complacent under its comforting light, and do not forget the price paid to keep it burning. Use the flames to ignite your passion and transcend your limits. A new dawn is approaching.

A ruminating silence lingered until the old Theomore Dao Guardian coughed and stepped forward.

“There should be no lingering uncertainty before we begin. The trajectories need to be confirmed for history to proceed. As such, we invite candidates to challenge Destiny.”

‘Challenges?’ Zac mused with vague recollection.

‘Uh, remember what that old templar on the podium said when we met? Don’t tell me—’ Esmeralda didn’t have time to finish her sentence before the aura of a Late Hegemon erupted.

While powerful in its own right, it felt laughable after having just witnessed the true majesty of the Left Imperial Palace. The challenger’s words further clashed against the solemn atmosphere. Zac had no time to worry about that.

“Everit Draom! I refuse to believe you seized your slot through upright means. If the Lords are amenable, I shall test your qualifications myself.”

The challenge broke the spell of silence that had held the whole city in its grasp. Excited clamors soon filled the square, adding some levity to the day. Some were asking about details about Everit Draom and the challenger, wondering if there was a sordid history behind the harsh words. Others were straightforwardly taking bets on the outcome.

‘I guess it’s our fault for deluding ourselves you could stay low-key,’ Esmeralda sighed with resignation.
