Liam dumped the folder onto the desk, and bric-a-brac tumbled out. He grabbed a pair of black cardstock rectangles and passed one of them to Alden, who held an arm over the chair back to take both it and the small, pointy wooden stick the man offered along with it.

Alden examined the card. The word “testing” was visible on the corner in rainbow letters.

“This is one of those scratch art things where you scrape the black layer off, and the colors are underneath?” he asked.

“Yep!” said Liam, holding the other card.“Don’t scratch it right away. They’ve already been paired, but Tina has to cast a spell on a least one half to make them start mimicking each other. I’ll take this one to her, she’ll spell it, and she’ll write you a little note to let you know it’s active. Then you can message us back.”

“Thank you.”

Alden did mean it. Even a limited ability to communicate with a single Adjuster felt like a lifeline under the circumstances. He could tell them where he was if he ran into trouble. They could tell him where danger was.

Since they’re going to be chasing it.

He shifted, adjusting Zeridee’s weight again, and the chair creaked.

“You look worried, Alden! Don’t be. We know what we’re doing.”

“Even the System doesn’t know what it’s doing tonight,” Alden said tiredly.

“Huh. Well, that might be true.” Liam shut the folder back in the drawer. “We did think we’d get a later teleport out when we rejected the first ones. It said it advised against it, so I suppose it’s fair…. But we were going to use that to plan our trials for the night. Go hard, get tired, teleport out. It hasn’t offered another time slot. Guess it was a ‘take your one shot or take care of yourself’ kind of deal.”

He looked at Alden curiously.

“I took mine,” Alden said. “It just didn’t work out. Obviously.”

He wasn’t sure if Liam’s willingness to not ask questions and take a preserved, horribly injured alien in stride was a sign of practicality or a symptom of his slaphappy approach to the events of the night in general.

“I wish you’d consider staying here in our boom room,” said Liam, smiling at him. “You could have a seat. Get some rest. The snake is friendly. We’re all coming back here after we’re done testing ourselves against the water and anything else we might find, so you won’t be alone for long.”

Alden tucked his scratchart card into his messenger bag, trying to come up with one last argument that might inject some reasonable fear into this sort of person.

“I appreciate the offer. A lot. I’ll come back here if I need to.” If everything absolutely goes to shit and I have no other option. “But the System is suggesting you leave.”

“Don’t you think if it was really safe, it would have just said ‘stay where you are?’” Alden asked. “Even if it’s just too busy and it overlooked this place, nobody else came to shelter here. Not even the other people who rent boom rooms. Maybe they’re not as safe as you think. I really…”

Maybe if I compliment him. I haven’t tried that one yet.

“I think the way you guys are training yourselves is already impressive. You don’t have to push it even farther and risk your lives. You’ve got a great thing going, right?”

“Thanks. You’re a good kid. But don’t worry so much,” said Liam. “We’ll have each other’s backs, and the thing is…this is real. We try to push our limits, but you always know it’s fake on some level when your little bro is the one threatening you with Chester.”

He jerked a thumb toward the griveck.

“We’ve never had a chance to test ourselves versus actual danger. Magical danger! And we need it. Avowed come out of real disasters changed,” said Liam.

“Do they?” Alden spoke flatly.

That dreamy tone in the Brute’s voice…

Alden’s patience and willingness to cajole Liam Long died there. All that was left was a little gratitude for the kindness and the offer of help, limited though it was. And a shadow of despondence about the fact that sometimes friendly people were hopelessly stupid.

I can’t save him and myself and Zeridee. I can’t drag him with me. Maybe with his siblings he’ll be strong enough and lucky enough to stay safe.

He stood up from the chair.

Liam still hadn’t noticed his mood shift. He was waxing enthusiastic about his goals. “Almost everyone who’s ever learned to double-on their stats has managed it the first time in a crisis. I know it’s a longshot, but we are the Longs! Tonight could be our night for that kind of rare breakthrough. If something like that happened for me—”

“Good luck,” said Alden, slapping a stimulant injector and a small roll of bandaging onto the desk. He’d taken them from his bag while Liam was rummaging through the drawers. He thought it was all right to give them away since he had two of each. “Read the instructions before you use that. Try to stay alive.”

He headed for the door so quickly that Liam didn’t react to his abrupt departure until he was turning the handle.

“You too! See you around sometime. I still hang around campus a lot because of my bro and sis. Maybe we’ll…”

He kept talking. Alden stopped listening.

He’d just stepped outside the Longs’ boom room, and the building was vibrating around him.

A low whomp, so deep that he felt it, sounded.

He froze, looking down the hall. The puzzle door was only a few meters away.

There was no noise down here earlier. Thick walls.

“Liam,” he said, “something’s not right. The floor—”

A crash from behind him made him turn. When he did, he saw the large bottle from the top of the water cooler sliding down the hall toward him. Having been knocked free of its base, the mouth of the bottle was open, but none of the water was escaping from it. Alden jumped out of the way.

It hit the wall beside the puzzle door and stopped.

None of the water’s pouring out. Alden watched it. Is it all pulling in that direction, just dragging the bottle along for the ride?

He couldn’t think of what else it could be.

“Tina? Hey! You’re not coming through clear.”

Liam exited the room to stand in the hall beside Alden. He was tugging his messaging earring free of his lobe. It was a golden ball stud, and it was emitting a faint, metallic voice.

“Runnnnnununun,” it said. “—iammmm, gooooo.”

“This might not have been a good night for her to experiment with a mismatched pair,” Liam said apologetically. “But we didn’t know something was about to happen when she used her skill on the earrings. Normally she sounds way bett—”

Alden was ignoring him in favor of staring at the stud on his palm.

“What’s happening?” Alden demanded, gripping his Zeridee braid strap and addressing the earring. “Where’s the water?”

“—tsss gonnne. Sinnnnngggng paaaace.”

“Sing pace?”

“She means Dr. Singh’s place. We were going to meet up there, but…”

For the first time, Liam looked worried. “Hey…do you think…? Tina! Tina, are you saying Dr. Singh’s place is gone? What about all that shielding they had installed?”

“Runnunnunnnn—”

Alden didn’t wait to hear the rest of it. He needed to see for himself. Running out into the street, in the direction the water in the bottle seemed to be heading, felt wrong. And he thought Liam’s assurances about the safety of the ground floor were based on too much wishful thinking to trust. So he went with his own instinct, which was shouting the same thing it had been the last time he’d heard the sound of approaching danger.

Up. We go up.

His earlier wonderings about power outages and his knowledge that the elevator was a slow one sent him scrambling for the stairwell. When he reached it, he yanked open the door so hard it smashed into the wall.

He heard Liam shouting something.

No time to figure out if it’s at me or his sister. Get to the sixth floor. Go.

He couldn’t feel the vibration anymore because he was moving his own body as hard as he could.

Floor 2.

The stairwell had the number painted on the wall in bright blue. It was almost the same size, typeface, and color as Alden’s old high school had used. A momentary flash of déjà vu.

He left it behind him as he passed the landing and headed for the third floor.

His breath was loud in his ears. His thoughts raced ahead to what he would do if the street down below looked like this or like that when he got a look at it. His feet were pounding solidly against the steps.

And then the world around him changed all at once. There was an explosion of sound. Breaking glass. One of the perfectly spaced steps not being where he expected as the building shook.

Alden caught himself painfully on hands and knees, halfway up a flight of stairs. He bit his tongue. He tried to jump right back up, but the stairs were still moving.

He held himself there, panting.

He heard…a river. As loud as if it were pouring on top of his head.

He heard screaming.

What? What’s happening exactly?

His brain didn’t have enough information or experience. It couldn’t answer him.

Still on his knees, he reached for the stair railing and clung to it.

Shaking.

It was shaking or he was. Everything was suddenly so unstable.

He looked through the bars.

There was the river, filling the stairwell and the landing below him. The water was so filthy it was almost black. A thousand pieces of unnameable debris were smashing against the walls. The door to the second floor was ripped from its hinges, floating.

And there was Liam—wet, bellowing something, pulling himself out of the water and up the staircase behind Alden.

He must have followed me.

Alden stared. He clung.

Liam kept yelling, and Alden kept not registering the actual words.

Taking in whatever Liam was doing and thinking and wanting from him was just so much less important than understanding everything else.

Then a hand landed on Zeridee-und’h. He felt it with his authority.

“Don’t touch her!”

Alden’s shout echoed up the stairwell, but it sounded like nothing compared to everything else. The back of his hand stung, and he realized he’d slapped Liam Long’s arm away. Hard.

“We’ve gotta go! We’ve gotta go, man!” Liam was screaming. “The water! The water!”

Alden stood.

He could stand.

Liam was already running upstairs.

“The water’s not rising.” Alden didn’t realize he’d observed it until he said it. He looked over the railing again to make sure he’d understood correctly. “I don’t think the magic is pulling it right now.”

It was like on the bridge, when the magic of the Sinker Sender had suddenly broken or exhausted itself, and everything had gone back to normal. The water below him looked like water. Turbulent water that had just crashed through the second story of a building, but…

The way all of that debris was swirling in it—that was normal water behavior. It didn’t look like it was on a mission to climb the walls or go somewhere.

“All right,” said Alden, gazing down at it. “I’m okay. We’re both okay. I still need to get upstairs.”

He could hear Liam swearing as the man fled upwards.

Alden started to climb, fast but not at a run this time. He still wasn’t sure about the steadiness of the floor beneath him.

He saw Liam’s wet footprints on the next landing. One of them was tinged pink with blood.

He made it up a few more steps before the power went out.

Alden entered the sixth-floor gallery, and the door closed behind him, cutting off the stairwell’s emergency backup lighting.

He stood still, waiting for his eyes to adjust to the darkness, listening to his one conscious companion.

“No. Ho no. Oh man. Ohshit. No no no.”

Liam was only a shape for now, running through the forest of statues. His speed was out of place in this setting, making him look more like a specter from a horror film than a goofy guy without much clothing on.

The litany of “no’s” wasn’t for Alden. It was just a ramble, volume rising and falling, as he raced from one side of the gallery to the other to stare out windows in every direction.

Alden took a few seconds to consider himself and his burden.

His body was all right. Miraculously, the fall on the staircase hadn’t really hurt him. His broken toes were back to throbbing fiercely. An elbow felt bruised.

Zeridee was all right, too. At least, she wasn’t any worse than she had been. He hadn’t let her go for even a second.

When he could finally see well enough to weave between the statues, he did so, heading for the acrylic bench where he’d rested for such a short while.

He looked down onto a world that was much blacker, wetter, and emptier than it had been minutes before. There were still lights—battery powered things, magical things, a functional power grid in the distance, one…no two…small fires burning in this neighborhood. One of them was flaring and sputtering on top of a raft of debris that floated near the intersection just beneath him.

The pedestrian crossing lights still work.

How eerie to see the water flashing yellow, lit from below.

Alden walked slowly along the perimeter of the gallery, trying to see everything and understand all of it.

He thought the water had mostly come from the dark place he’d spotted earlier. The area where the Long siblings had planned to engage in their own personal man vs. nature trial. Almost everything between where he stood and that place was dark now, and what he could make out didn’t look right.

Structures were standing here and there. But it wasn’t as it had been. Too flat. Some of the rooflines that he’d thought were noteworthy earlier were nowhere to be seen. Even with the terrible visibility, he knew things were missing.

Whether they were underwater or razed…

