Next, he stared in the direction he’d planned to travel, examining what was left of the townhouses with the gothic-style facades he’d noticed earlier. There wasn’t much. Roofs gone. Walls gone. A couple of corners still standing tall.

He watched as the burning debris started to slide down the street, slow at first and then faster, half of it peeling away from the raft as it encountered the pole of a streetlight, the rest of it continuing to pick up speed as the water went strange once more, developing an organized current where none should be.

And it was heading in the very direction Alden himself wished to go.

What caused the wave that hit our building? How big must it have been to take out the townhouses and shake this place?

His imagination gave him guesses, but he had no idea if they were right. The scale of it was hard to handle.

Alden pictured a particularly large patch or particularly strong particle of the contamination latching onto something huge—a house instead of a high heel. Or something even bigger than that. It could have pulled more and more water toward the thing to cover it, blobbing up and up, trying to drag it.

Hell, maybe it had dragged it. Maybe a whole submerged house could move like the truck that had caused the pile-up Marks had been caught in, blasting forward, borne inside its own juggernaut of a wave.

It would destroy things as it went.

And it would destroy them when it gave up, too.

A giant water blob or column or whatever just collapsing when the magic runs out…

How much water did it actually take to tear down houses?

Alden had a sketchy memory from just before he’d left home—some morning news personality warning the good people of Chicago to steer clear of the area where Skiff was fighting that man who’d tried to make a lair under Lake Michigan.

“Our hunky fan favorite beach bum may not look dangerous, but remember folks, Skiff’s not all fun and games. Just a few inches of swiftly moving water can knock you right off your feet!”

It was something like that anyway

He did remember the line right after that verbatim: “Or maybe we should call it Skiffly moving water!”

That was so tasteless. Why do morning shows try to turn things that shouldn’t be jokes into jokes?

He focused on the building that had been his next “goal” stop—the one that looked like it was about the same size as this one. It was still there. The main power seemed to be out, but there was a dull blue glow throughout it now instead. Some kind of emergency feature probably.

Would I have made it in time, or would I have died in the street with Zeridee?

A useless question he couldn’t help asking.

“Tina? Tina? Royce! Are you guys there?”

Alden turned to watch Liam. He stood nearby. Alden could see well enough now to make out the statue of a woman behind him, reaching out as if asking a child that didn’t exist to leap into her arms.

Liam had managed to keep hold of his earring. He was holding it so close to his lips it looked like he was about to eat it.

He even managed to keep the scratchboard and the bandages I gave him. They were in his other fist.

“You guys? Answer me. Answer me!”

Maybe I should say something to him.

He didn’t. What was there to say really? Any comfort he could offer would be a cheap nothing from a stranger. Maybe Liam’s brother and sister were all right. Maybe they weren’t.

People die so fast.

Alden realized he was getting a little odd. One too many shocks per hour or something. But he didn’t feel like he was about to panic again, so he’d take this.

For a couple more minutes, he watched everything. Just to be sure.

Liam kept trying to call his siblings through the earring.

“The water’s moving somewhere else. It looks like it might be pulling out of this area, but who knows how long that will last? I’m leaving if I can,” Alden said finally. “There are still lights toward the inner curve of the crescent. I’ll head that way, then toward people. As fast as possible. No stopping.”

Liam stared at him like he’d started speaking another language. “What?”

“If the water’s already this far inland, we’re going to be completely cut off sooner or later. This whole point of the crescent could be gone by morning,” said Alden. “And unless they’ve got way more people working rescue than they need, why would anyone come here to help us?”

There was at least one big, highly populated family neighborhood down in F being hit hard.

“Rescuers are going to be prioritizing other places. They won’t be looking for stragglers here, in these few abandoned neighborhoods, where everyone already had their chance to get out.”

He turned back to watch the receding water.

It’s moving so fast. The larger debris was starting to drag on pavement instead of floating.

A couple of minutes later, when Alden headed for the stairs, Liam stopped him with a hand on his shoulder.

“I have to go find my brother and sister,” he said in an urgent voice. “I can’t leave them.”

“I hope you do find them,” said Alden. “I hope they’re safe.”

“I don’t…haha…I don’t even know where my shoes are.” Liam suddenly looked down at Alden’s sandals.

Alden looked down at Liam’s bare feet. “Did you leave a pair downstairs in your torture chamber?”

Liam nodded.

“They’re probably still there, then. Don’t worry. The building hasn’t collapsed, so the ground floor is just wet, right? Not gone. They’ll be near where you left them.”

Alden didn’t know if it was true or not.

He said it like he believed it was true.

“Ha! Right. Right.” Liam was still staring at the sandals. “Don’t go just yet. Do you have…let me think…do you have any more medicine? And bandages? You know Tina and Royce might need stuff like that. They’re out there in it. They might need things. I might need things to help them.”

Alden’s hesitation was swift, and in the dark, he hoped it couldn’t even be seen on his face.

There were a few things in the medical kit he could probably afford to share. But if he said yes, he’d have to open his bag and pull them out right here. And he wasn’t comfortable letting Liam Long know he had a full medical kit.

He wasn’t comfortable enough to stick around, sorting through the supplies and dividing them up.

Not now. Not with the man eyeing the hiking sandals as if he was just now realizing what a fool he was for planning to go fight tsunamis naked.

Every time you stick your own neck out to save a stranger’s, pretend I’m there with you. Pretend we’re getting into it together and we’re facing the exact same amount of struggle and the exact same consequences for failure.

“Man, I’m sorry,” said Alden. “I wish I had more. As far as useful stuff goes, I’ve only got one more pain killer. And a disgusting protein bar. You can have the meds, though.”

He reached into his shorts and pulled out one of the injectors he’d pocketed earlier. It was the only thing he could give up without revealing everything else.

“And thanks for the communication device. When you find your sister, get her to message me, all right? I’ll report back on where I am and what the situation is. Think of me as your forward scout. I’m not moving fast, so you guys might even meet up with me before we leave the evac zone.”

He forced the injector into Liam’s cold hand.

“Yeah. Yeah, that’s a good idea,” Liam muttered, turning his eyes to the injector.

“And if we don’t meet up, I’ll see y’all around campus next week,” said Alden, making his first ever deliberate attempt to sound like he was a manly badass who should not have his footwear stolen. “We’ve got this, Liam. Glad I met you tonight.”

He refused to wonder why his attempt to convey manly badassery was trending both Southern and severe, like some terrible Big Snake/Klein hybrid.

He left right away, keeping his back straight and his walk steady.

As he crossed the gallery, refusing to turn back to look at Liam, there was a place at the top of his spine, between his shoulder blades, that he was all too aware of.

No more shield poncho, he thought. If someone tries to stab me again tonight, the blade will go right through.

************
