A few minutes and he reached the top, climbing over the railing and joining the others. They looked tense and ready for a fight.

“What did you see?” Ailis asked.

“A hooded figure. They broke through the rock and rushed out, then left when they saw me.”

“Too high up already?” Isaac suggested. “Or your armor deterred them.”

“How come this happened on the day we actually find something potentially valuable?” Veron asked. He looked around, feeling suspicious of the adventurers around.

“I’m not the only tracker around, Veron,” Isaac said. “Come on, we should get some distance to the pit, go to the shops, and find out what we have.”

Veron glanced behind them once more as they started on their way. “So, what happens in the dungeon stays in the dungeon? Is that how things are?”

“Yeah,” Isaac said. “The Guild doesn’t have an official guard or military to enforce their rules. So it’s up to us to protect each other. Once in the city, people aren’t openly attacking others, but down in the dungeon, I’m sure it happens frequently.”

Ailis cleared her throat. “That’s not quite right, Isaac.”

“You don’t think people would attack others?”

“No, they do, obviously. Especially when someone has valuable loot with them. And I agree with your assumption too, that there likely was a tracker that followed us.”

“What do you disagree with then?”

Ailis glanced around. “I’ll tell you when there are fewer people around.”

They walked on in silence, Veron feeling somewhat tense still. They were in the city, the late afternoon sun burning down onto Anvakar. It was busy as ever, and he was very aware of any people that walked close to them.

They soon went past the Adevian Fort, into the Shops, and then they reached Sonny’s place. They trusted the man by now, and assumed he could point them in the right direction.

“Oh, you lot look tense. But nobody’s dead. You found something good then?” he asked.

Veron glanced at the others, then gave Sonny a nod. “Can we show it to you in the back?”

“Sure, come on in,” Sonny said and went past the workbenches, into the building and then down a flight of stairs. He fiddled with some keys, then unlocked a metal door and went inside. “The vault, so to say, come on in,” he said.

Veron followed down the narrow stairwell, and past the reinforced steel door. Inside was a windowless room with shelves, some tables, and several massive safes. Steel with large opening mechanisms. “This really is a damn vault.”

Sonny gave him a smirk. “Sure is. Good money in the business of safes too, they’re expensive. Shut the door when you’re in, Elke.”

A magical light hanging from the ceiling illuminated the cellar quite well. It was small and cramped with the whole team down there, and Sonny.

“So. I’m no Runic, but I’ve seen my fair share of interesting things. From the Crypts and deeper down. I knew it was just a matter of time with you lot. Didn’t run into trouble I hope?”

“We think a tracker followed us out, but we were climbing already when they reached us,” Veron said.

Sonny shook his head and huffed. “It’s always the worst after spring.”

“What did you mean earlier?” Isaac asked, looking over at Ailis.

Elke held the lockbox while Veron removed the stone that kept it on his back.

“I grew up in Anvakar, and I’ve been around for a while. I’ve treated hundreds of people at the Healer Station, and I’ve heard far more stories. Yes, there are people taking advantage of others, and it’s true that the Guild doesn’t have a guard, not officially at least. But let’s say they don’t care what happens in the dungeon, how come there aren’t any big gangs in the city?”

“There are gangs,” Isaac retorted.

“Any that last for more than a month?” Ailis asked.

Isaac considered, he made to speak, then didn’t.

“Not just that. You know, the big families from Leiveen. The Ancire for example, how come their influence isn’t higher here? How come they don’t own more shops and buildings. As far as I understand, they’re even more present in Yora than they are in Anvakar, and Sor isn’t exactly accommodating to outsiders.”

“You’re right,” Isaac said. “Care to enlighten us then?”

Ailis shrugged. “I don’t really know what to tell you. I do know that the Guild very much encourages hints and reports. And I know that whenever a gang is mentioned, it’s always a name I hadn’t heard before.”

“So, there must be someone enforcing the rules,” Veron said. “But wouldn’t people know about that?”

“You would think that,” Sonny said and smiled, looking at the lockbox. “That is a good find that.” He paused and breathed in, giving Ailis a questioning glance.

“Feel free to add your thoughts,” Ailis said. “I don’t know much more than what I shared.”

“Right. You lot are new to this,” Sonny said and considered. “The dungeon of Anvakar is one of the most profitable landmarks in the known world. Every year, thousands flock to this city with dreams of making a killing. People with debts, people with some personal power, mercenaries, deserters, hunters, and adventurers from all over. The Hunter’s Guild only has a few rules, the main one being don’t take what belongs to another. Be that loot, their freedom, or their life.

“Maintaining a guard or standing army is expensive. And the opportunists that come here are not the usual criminals. Many are willing to kill. Many have killed before. The lack of actual threat here encourages them, entices them, the stupid ones at least. The smart ones usually figure it out and either play by the rules or try to set up some organization. I once thought that the lack of a guard was just about efficiency, or a budgetary concern, but I think it’s a lot simpler. The higher ranks in the Guild, they’re adventurers too, people who’ve explored the dungeon, who’ve faced all kinds of threats and horrors. I don’t think they want to be bothered to constantly keep order. They want people here to be free. But if you take from others, or limit their freedom, well, they might just pay a visit.

“And you’re right on the money too, Ailis, why would the Mera, or even Sor itself not come and take over? If there’s so much gold to be made here.”

“Because Anvakar can hold its own,” Veron said.

“Bingo,” Sonny said. “So, show me what you found?”
