“Awful lot of soldiers around,” Pyre observed as they walked. She saw something red in her back eye and casually yanked Callan out of the way just before a dog bounded past. She was getting a lot of use out of her thermal vision. Vibration sense, too, or she would be if she was better at distinguishing vibration frequencies. There was so much stuff going on in the city that everything just felt like one big mess of tremors right now.

Callan mumbled a thanks and began walking-floating even more carefully. “There’s a military base in Magrath,” he explained. “A lot of soldiers get trained here, then sent to the front. I think the guards also train there.”

That made sense. It was also another reason to avoid discovery. Having an entire base of soldiers on their ass might not end well.

Pyre turned down another road, and the street widened into what looked like the city square. Smooth stones lined the area, and she could see a number of stalls and street vendors along the edges of the square. A few people sat on benches, chatting or watching passersby, bushes and flowers adding pops of color to the area. In the very center of the space stood a large marble fountain that shone in the sunlight, and a number of people sat at tables near it. Below, etched into the ground, thin streams of ichor formed curling patterns under them. The demon whistled.

“Damn, this place really is packed.” She glanced to the side.

One of the streets branching off from the square led to the manor, and by now she was close enough to really see its size. While this part of the city was dense, the buildings abruptly stopped there, giving way to a lush lawn leading up to the manor itself. It looked quite picturesque, bordered by mountains and forest. And, of course, there were the distinctive silhouettes of guards all around the property.

The demon moved closer, but she didn’t actually step onto the street leading to the manor. Mostly because there were a fuck ton of guards there, too.

In fact, if she peered between the buildings around the square, she thought she could see the military base Callan had been referring to just west of the Bellhein property. At least, that’s what she assumed it was. The giant stone gates, flapping flags, and huge interior complete with its own separate sections of buildings would look a little excessive if it was anything else. Which meant the military base was right next to the manor they were trying to break into.

“Yeah, I’m starting to see the problem.”

Callan grunted in agreement. “It’s not just that. See those ichor lines in the street?”

Pyre’s eyes moved downwards. Sure enough, the little ichor streams in the square continued down the road to the manor in deliberate patterns. If she squinted, she thought she could see some of that glowing silver lining the walls of the manor itself. There were even spheres placed around the building that she’d thought were decorations at first, but on a second glance, they also looked like they held ichor.

“Those the wards you were talking about?”

“Sort of? The ichor powers them,” Callan explained, frowning. His voice had dropped to a mutter. Thankfully, there were enough people in the square and enough noise that no one was paying them attention. “There’s magic flowing all around the manor. If you try to break one ward, it triggers another one. I’ve never seen this many alarm and barrier spells stacked together like this before. Some of them’re even connected directly to the garrison!”

“Basically there’s no way to break in without having every guard in the city after you.”

The ghost nodded solemnly. “Pretty much, yeah.” His brows furrowed. “I know the horn is in there somewhere. Maybe if it was moved out of the manor, but I don’t know how we’d get the family to do that,” he muttered, rapidly running through various plans in his head.

Pyre’s attention, however, had shifted to the wooden notice board standing right by the fountain. There were a fuck ton of papers pinned to it, ranging from local news to missing pets to advertisements to bounties and random job offers. She stepped closer, Callan still mumbling behind her.

“—maybe we could convince them to sell the horn, and then we could get it while it’s being transported. I could mess with the sale records, maybe make it look like the horn is fake so they want to get rid of it, but it’d be hard to make it look authentic—”

“I know how we’re getting in.”

Callan blinked, abruptly cut off from his rambling. He glanced up.

In front of him, Pyre had ripped a page off from the notice board, which she now held up to the ghost with a grin.

JOIN THE FIGHT!

Generously sponsored by the Bellhein family, the garrison is offering free training and housing for prospective cadets who pass our qualification exam. We welcome all who have the courage and will to stand up to the Tavrell Empire. Together, we will defend our nation.

Please view the back of this page for more information.
