Before Erick knew it, a goldscale server had guided Erick and Ulrick to a table beside a large window, the farms of Spur stretching out to the west; vivid green and golden wheat under a blue sky, surrounded by the browns of the Crystal Forest. Erick had vivid flashbacks of his first time talking to Anhelia, until—

“I’m paying, so order whatever you want. They can make anything.” Ulrick spoke to the server, “I’d like the lunch platter, as usual.” He said to Erick, “It’s a little bit of everything on their menu; they had fried potatoes the last time I was here two days ago.”

“I’ll have the same.” Erick added, “With some fried chicken?”

Goldscale said, “As you wish, sir. And to drink?

Ulrick said, “A bottle of Crim’s Son’s Red.”

The server bowed and walked away.

Ulrick smiled, sighing, looking out to the west. “It’s so nice to see the farms so green. And huge! I hope its going well out there. I saw that checkerboard stunt at the beginning and I have a bet going; Class Ability change, right?”

Erick chuckled. “Yeah. Sculpt Spell.”

Ulrick smacked one hand into the other. “I knew it!”

“They’re going to expand the pasture land for now, so it should get even greener in a few days.”

“It’s really beautiful to see this change, Erick—”

The server arrived with a bottle of red wine. He uncorked it, and began pouring into two cut-crystal glasses. Ulrick took his; Erick took his, and remembered his first trials with light wards. He loved that green cut crystal one he made; he needed to make a few more and scatter them across the house. In fact, he could redo all the lights in his house. They were all kinda plain.

Ulrick held up his glass. “To a wonderful, green Spur.”

Erick smiled, holding up his glass. “To a green Spur.”

The wine tasted nice; a bit bitter, but it was a good red, and Ulrick seemed to like it.

“So! Enchant me with your questions.”

Erick smiled, and began, “Why the focus on gems? Why not use colored glass? I see it in the church’s stained glass windows. It can’t be that hard to make.”

Ulrick smiled. “You’re talking about enhancement enchantments. I thought we were going to discuss spell enchantments. Maybe even getting one of your new spells into a staff. Eh. Eh?”

“Not today.” Erick shook his head a little, then quickly changed the subject; he was not about to let his magic out into the world until he had a better idea of what it would do. "So why not colored glass?"

Ulrick sipped his wine, asking, “Have you tried enchanting something yet?”

Erick grinned. “Besides entirely new spells?”

“Yes.” Ulrick chuckled. “Besides that.”

“Just got the books today. I’d like to really know about the gems thing, though. It seemed as though you only use gems because of the color and pearls, specifically, because they’re semi-magical, and almost like a rad.”

“Today?” Ulrick laughed. He smiled, saying, “You don’t use glass— Eh. You can use glass, but the enhancements you get out of it are weak; glass cannot handle the magical resonance needed to produce something past a single stat point increase. You want a strong, pure gem that is able to handle the resonance you’re putting in. Conversely, with a spell enchantment, you want pure metal; something that you can imprint with a spell, and then someone can activate later.”

“About that: What’s the difference? Can’t you put a spell into a gem?”

“Enhancements are drawn upon all the time; you need something that can take the constant stress of being linked to someone’s personal resonance. Thus, a gem, with a contained enhancement. But you don’t use a spell all the time— Ah. Correction: If you’re making an aura-wand, you want to use both a high, high grade pearl, and a metal rod. You can’t get away with a wand for those types of enchantments. You’d probably be better off using a staff, anyway.” Ulrick added, “Anyway. For the all-the-time-drains of an enhancement, you need a resonant gem. For the sometimes-drain, you need metal.” He added, “And glass can’t do any of that.”

Erick sipped his wine while Ulrick talked. He asked, “How strong is your glass?”

“It’s not about strength.” Ulrick tapped the glass window. “They thread this stuff with metal—”

“They do?” Erick looked at the window again.

“— They do. And it’s damn strong, physically. But it resonates, physically, when exposed to enchanting magics. Glass can’t handle the stress of multivariable magical resonance. So. We use gems. Red for physical stats, blue for mental, because those colors automatically resist non-related resonances. Along the array of Red and Blue, there are specific colors that are better for certain enhancements. Crimson is great for Strength, while Cinnabar is great for Vitality, for example.”

“What about for non-Stat enchants? Like, for cost reduction? Can you do that?”

“Yes, but like all enchantments, you have to have that ability already within yourself to be able to reproduce it into an enchantment.” Ulrick waved his hand, saying, “And all of those types of enchantments burn out after one, maybe two, uses. Expensive to make for little gain. Maybe 3 percent? 5 at the max, and that’s with grade XX pearls. Though cost reduction is one of the most powerful uses of an XX pearl; no one would fault you for trying to produce such an item.”

“How much are those worth?”

“A basic 5 pearl will take a 5 of a Stat, or 100 of HP, MP, or a Regen, and run you a 100 gold, and last anywhere from 10 to 50 drains, depending on how strenuously it’s used and if you’ve enchanted it yourself. An X pearl will take 10 Stats, 200 secondary Stat, and is worth maybe 1000g.”

“I mean… how much do those pearls cost me? Not if I wanted to sell something like that.”

“100g for a 5, 1000g for an X. Double-X pearls are 5000 to 6000 gold. You don’t see many of those XX pearls, though, the price isn’t very stable. You can use those for 20 base, or 400 secondary stat, but people only use those for stuff like cost reduction. You can also put Cost Reduction in a rod, but that'll still run you—" Ulrick frowned. He said, "The pricing for certain items is very difficult to gauge. A 50% Cost Reduction rod could be 500 gold, because it only works as Clarity, while another 5% reduction rod is worth 10,000 gold, because it works after Clarity and Favored Spell. But that's a deep topic and we don't need to get lost in the forest, just yet. Let's get back to the pearls.”

Erick waited, listening, drinking his wine.

“You can sell enchanted pearls for double that buying price, but if you’re good, and your stuff lasts a long time, and you’re known for making quality products, you can sell for 3 to 5 times the material costs, and no one would think poorly of you.”

“I know enhancement enchantments get ‘used up’, like rads, but how does it happen? Can you recharge them like spell-wands?”

Ulrick scrunched his face. “That’s a complicated topic. If you take care of an enhancement enchantment and don’t stress them too much, too fast, you can salvage the parts for another enchantment, after the original enchantment drops below its emergence value. If you have a little bit of enchantment ability, you can even use rads to tap-in to the enhancement enchantment in your item and spin it up, back past its emergence value and up to full strength.” He said, “I don’t recommend that while you’re out in the field, though; you risk breaking the item prematurely.” He added, "And you can't just leave your old plus-20 rings in a bowl with your grand-rads and expect them to charge; it takes finesse to get them back up to full power."

“How much are diamonds? For enchanting.”

“1g? 5g? Cheap. Maybe 10g for a diamond already cut for enchantment?” Ulrick said, “I haven’t done those in a while. The metal I use is— I saw the wrought bars you had at your party. You know how expensive that stuff is. We use the same grades of metal for enchanting.”

Erick winced. “Ouch.”

Ulrick smiled. “Yup.” He added, “But people are inventing these [Iron Grab] spells all over the place; I foresee metal prices dropping by a lot.”

The server arrived with two Lunch Platters. Both of them had a wide variety of finger foods; flat breads, sauces both savory and creamy, pan-fried vegetables, slice meats, fried potatoes, tiny salads. Erick’s even had some fried chicken strips. And the smell? Divine! Erick’s mouth salivated.

Erick stared at his food, grinning. “This looks great.”

Ulrick smiled. “It tastes better than it looks.”

Erick started with the bread and a creamy-looking violet-tinted sauce. He tasted it, and yup, it was purple, not-tomato based. He asked, “How many enchantments can a person wear at a time? Is there a limit?”

Ulrick was already dipping his flat breads in his orange sauce and adding meat to it, like Indian cuisine. He said, “Not really. The more you wear the faster they all burn out, so people stick to one or two pieces—” He shook his head, frowning. “And then they die, when those fail them at the wrong time.” He held his orange bread in one hand, saying, “Like I told you that one time: enhancement enchantments kill people. Stick to spell-rod enchanting if you want a clear conscience.”

Erick nodded, eating his lunch.

After a bit, Ulrick said, “Those 500 gold belts and diadems you see in the shops around here? The ones that give you 30 of a base stat? They do that by stringing together multiple inferior gems, producing a product that lasts only 2 to 4 pools, at most. Those enchanters are a menace.”

Erick countered, “But if you don’t use those stats, those items can be a lifesaver.”

Ulrick frowned, then he nodded, saying, “Reluctantly, I agree. For most mages, a cheap 30 Strength belt can last many adventures.”

Erick chuckled. And then he had a thought.

Oh.

Damn.

He should get one of those belts, shouldn’t he?

- - - -

Lunch was great; the discussion was almost as good as the food.

Ulrick refused to give Erick an idea of where to go to buy one of those 30 Strength belts. The tealscale enchanter hated all of the ‘charlatan con-artist’ Stat enchanters in Spur. He hated the whole profession, and could not, in good conscience, direct Erick toward any of them.

If Erick ever wanted to make a [Domain of the Withering Slime] staff, though, Ulrick was the man for the job. Erick would have to think about that before he made such a thing.

… He would have to think about that, quite a lot.

Poi knew where to go to buy a 30 Strength belt.

- - - -

‘Ruby’s Reds’ was a landmark of Spur, and a franchise that was popular in all the neutral cities of the Crystal Forest, from Portal, to Spur, to Outpost, to Vindin, in the far, far north. The outside of the store was covered in lightwards that looked like huge red dragon scales, or they might have been normal-sized dragon scales; Erick had never officially met a dragon. A dragon's scales could be a foot wide; Erick didn't know.

Erick passed under an archway of ruby scales, into a store lined with all sorts of magical-looking paraphernalia and shimmering doodads. Swords hung on walls, glimmering with fire and light. Gently glowing red potions were stacked seven deep and twenty wide, next to a similar display of blue potions, and then smaller displays of orange, then teal. Ornate robes hung on plain mannequins, next to staffs topped with huge spherical gems. A hundred rings of all kinds were under glass, next to crowns both ornate and plain, with necklaces and belts much the same; a lot of them holding at least one visible gem, or pearl, while some of them had no visible enchantment anchor at all. Erick would have mistaken some of them for boring pieces of leather, if not for their positions under glass, and under the watchful eyes of guards and salespeople.

One of those salespeople walked toward Erick from the other side of the glass counter. She was a beautiful incani woman, with bright violet eyes and skin, with wavy white hair and wearing a nice, pale pink dress. Her backswept horns were decorated with simple gold rings.

“Hello, Archmage Flatt,” said the woman. “Welcome to Ruby’s Reds. I’m Carnelia. How may I assist you, today?”

Erick smiled, pointing to a belt in the display. “Are these Strength belts?”

“Yes they are. Would you like to see one?”

“How high do they go, Stat-wise?”

Carnelia reached into the glass case from her side and pulled out two belts, one of them ornate, with several or a dozen red gems encased in metal rivets around the length, the other plain. Erick couldn’t tell where the gems were on that one until Carnelia flipped the belt inside out; the gems were on rivets on the inside. In both cases, the red gems were under a layer of glass. Each gem had to be under half a centimeter, and spherical.

She said, “It’s just a matter of preference, really. Both of these provide 20 Strength, though we have some that go as high as 50, and others as low as 5. We guarantee that all of these basic belts will last at least 2 pools before their resonance drops below emergence. If you find fault with one, you can bring it in and testify to any of our salespeople under truthstone and get a replacement, for free.”

Erick touched the belts. He liked the plain one. 2 iterations was more than enough. “How much for this one?”

“200 gold.”

“And a similar one in 30, and 50?”

“500, and 5000.”

“Oh. That goes up pretty fast.”

Carnelia smiled, saying, “We have a duty toward quality, sir.”

“I’m not complaining.” Erick pointed to the plain belt. “Can I see this in 30 Strength?”

