When Erick woke up, he Favored [Ward] for 75% less cost, which turned his 870 mana daily [Personal Ward] into a 1740 point generalized damage shield. Jane was right; he should have done this a while ago. It didn’t feel or look different than normal; he could still feel the air on his skin, his touch was not dulled. The subtle white glint on his fingernails and in the crook of his elbows had not changed, even though the [Ward] had doubled in power.

He almost spent 10 more points on Willpower so he could have put 1170 mana into his daily [Personal Ward], but his Class Ability Quest to double his mana said:

Class Ability Quest!

Enchant an item, or items, that give you twice as much Mana, then wear those items, consuming them in the process. 0/1

Reward: Double your Base Mana

Something told him that increasing his mana by 1200 points would be harder than increasing his mana by 900 points. He did buy [Metalshape], though, which was right past [Stoneshape], since he would need to enchant his gear himself.

Metalshape, medium range

Move medium amounts of metal around you for 5 minutes. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move medium amounts of metal around you for 1 minute. Fine control. 50 MP

[Metalshape] was practically a carbon copy of [Stoneshape], but much smaller.

Stoneshape X, medium range

Move large amounts of stone and sand around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large amounts of stone and sand around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

There was no [Jewelshape]. [Stoneshape] could work on jewels and glass, if the mage was skilled enough. Erick could already do glass to a certain extent; well enough to fix a window without [Mend] anyway. He would need to learn how to work with gems, but he needed the gems, first.

Hmm! Now that Erick was looking at [Metalshape] and [Stoneshape]...

Were there comparable skills for all of the Shaping spells? What was above [Airshape]? Anything? Erick searched the Script for [Plasmashape], then [Skyshape], then [Windshape], but got nothing; no results. Maybe there wasn’t a comparable skill—

[Soundshape]!?

… Nope. No [Soundshape]. That was the problem with searching the Script; unless you knew the exact name of what you were looking for, Search always returned zero results. Whatever! There was too much to do today to be worrying about the secrets of [Airshape], if there were any secrets in the first place.

Erick was ready for the day. Soon, he was outside of the house, Poi following, just as the sun was cresting over the eastern walls of the city. The sky was blue and cloudless, but there was hardly any noise. Sure, there were the distant sounds of a city waking up, but Erick missed the sounds of birds…

He missed the sounds of birds a lot, actually. Welp! No time like the present to pop out an attempt at [Familiar].

[Telepathy].

[Scry].

[Conjure Force Elemental].

A blue box appeared.

Summon Birds, close range, 270 MP per bird + Variable

Conjure a semi-permanent, random bird, that might, someday, not be a terror. Max of 9 birds available.

See through their eyes, Variable

Imbue them with spells, Variable

That text was disturbing, but the ‘bird’ that appeared on the ground in front of Erick did not look that dangerous. It was a cousin to a kiwi bird, if anything. Flightless and cute, like a fuzzy white coconut on chopstick legs, it looked at Erick and clicked its chopstick-like beak at him, before trilling out a melody of birdsong.

Erick laughed loud.

Erick’s laugh startled the poor little thing, but only for a second. It went right back to birdsong; chirping and singing some random sing-song trills and squeaks, extending its neck and body-length beak out ahead as it hopped and strutted over to the garden. Erick turned to Poi, to see that Teressa had come out of the house, following the noise. She stood behind Poi, smiling at the bird, then walked back inside, humming some tune.

“No songbirds in Spur, eh?” Erick asked. “No migratory birds, either?”

“None, sir.” Poi said, “Rats tend to flourish well enough, especially now that the shadowolves are dead, but the farm cats hunt everything that isn’t a chicken.”

“I’ve seen cats kill chickens before?”

“Everyone has to eat, sir.”

“True enough.” Erick nodded, then turned back to his kiwi bird. The white coconut was gently stepping through the potatoes. Erick put some mana into his thoughts, and pressed at the bird.

‘Hello, little guy.’

The coconut bird instantly crouched down, then looked around. He turned and saw Erick.

‘Yup. It’s me talking to you.’

The bird went abso-fucking-lutely insane, screaming a shrill cry into the sky as it leapt up and raced at Erick, its beak snapping in rage, its claws tearing across the dirt, its tiny, tiny wings flapping as hard as they could flap. Erick, startled, pulled the plug. The bird vanished in a poof and swirl of white mana, its corporeal form nothing more than a memory.

“Okay. So. That was a failure. I didn’t mean to get waylaid with this, but...” Erick looked up at the lemon tree. “Let’s start off in the air, perhaps.”

[Summon Birds].

A parrot appeared on a branch, then squawked loud enough to raise the dead. That one turned to white mist, too. So did the next seven birds, each of them posing their own problem. A rooster crowed at the sunrise, louder than the parrot. A hummingbird instantly starting attacking Erick the second he touched the bird’s mind. An ostrich the size of an orcol was not given the opportunity to do harm; that was was an instant banish. He tried to summon two birds at once, but only got a single quail that did nothing but run away. He tried to summon two birds, again, but got a single eagle that he quickly banished; its eyes were full of hunger, and it was looking at him. Then came another parrot, then a pigeon, neither of which were good for anything at all.

Then came a starling, summoned atop the stone table by the garden.

Erick touched its mind, and it did not recoil, or attack; it just stayed there, gently looking at Erick with pure white eyes.

‘Hello, little starling. How are you this morning?’

The bird cocked its head, but did nothing.

‘My name is Erick Flatt. Would you like to join me to walk around town today? I’ve got some errands to run. Or, you could just stick around here.’ Erick gestured to his house, then the garden. ‘Any place you want.'

The starling turned toward the house, then silently flitted up to the second story veranda to latch onto the railing and look out across the city.

Erick pushed a different bit of mana at the bird, trying to [Scry].

His viewpoint switched, just like with the normal spell, but the starling’s eyesight was much better than Erick’s. He could count the veins on a leaf, a hundred feet away. The starling moved its eyes as though Erick was controlling a [Scry]; the animal was under his control. Erick released the [Scry]. After his sight returned to his own eyes, Erick tried to cast a spell through the bird. He started with [Cleanse Aura], but the aura popped up around him; not the bird. Thick air flowed around Erick for a second before he canceled the spell and tried again.

His aura did not pop up out of the white starling. Erick had encountered this problem with the normal [Conjure Force Elemental]; he needed a matched pair of birds to cast an aura at range. And since he couldn’t seem to summon a pair of birds at a time with this spell…

Just to be sure. He summoned another bird, aiming for something small. A parakeet appeared on his open palm. Before the bird freaked out, Erick began releasing mana into the air. The parakeet fluffed in anger, but quickly relaxed and stayed on Erick’s palm, soaking up mana, flicking his tiny fluffy body like he was in a bird bath, splashing bits of white mana through the air.

The starling on the second floor veranda just stared.

Erick pushed [Cleanse Aura] into the smaller bird, aiming for the starling on the railing, but the starling did not get a [Cleanse Aura]; the parakeet did. The parakeet also instantly flew into a rage and was summarily banished. Erick frowned. Then he looked up at the starling.

Erick held out his arm like it was a bird stand; level and strong enough to support the starling’s weight, then mentally commanded the bird to land on his arm. The starling winged down to Erick, making no noise as it landed on his arm. The bird was a lot heavier than it appeared; it was under a foot tall, but it stared into Erick’s eyes, understanding what was about to happen.

“If I can’t imbue spells at range, then this is a failure.” Erick said, “Sorry, little guy.”

The starling spread its wings wide as it turned to mist.

Erick frowned at the dissipating cloud, then mentally grabbed the box for [Summon Birds] and crushed it, breaking something inside of himself at the same time. [Telepathy], [Scry], and [Conjure Force Elemental] all felt a tiny bit different; like old friends who had lost touch with one another. They couldn't reconnect right now, but they could heal, then rejoin in some other way, some other day.

Erick sighed.

- - - -

The lady at the bank had Erick’s account ready in ten minutes.

She slid Erick a slip of paper, “Here is your current balance, sir.”

Erick’s dispensation from cleaning out Frontier and Kal’Duresh had come in; 5200 gold in 10 mana rads, each worth 5g apiece, as well as 9 grand-rads, each worth 1000g. His account balance before this was only 2400g, but now it had ballooned to…

To something that was not enough, considering his talks of adventuring gear with his daughter. The sort of gear Erick wanted was too expensive. He had to make it himself, of course, and that cut the cost considerably, but then there were mistakes to account for, as well as learning, and probably a whole bunch of smaller costs that Erick had yet to even imagine.

He needed to drop by the Mage Guild. He wanted to talk to Sizzi, anyway. Maybe they had remedial enchanting classes he could take, or at least some books on the subject. Erick had read that one Ancient Script for enchanting book Ulrick Ulrick had let him borrow. Knowing the Ancient Script had given him a starting point, but he needed actual reference material.

Erick thanked the bank lady; he would be back later.

- - - -

Erick sat with Sizzi in a corner of the lobby of the Mage’s Guildhouse; she had already handed him a small journal detailing her personal journey of failed [Familiar] attempts for the last several years.

“Tier 3 is as high as a responsible summoner will go, so it’s not a big deal to take a decade to get a [Familiar]. Some of us even consider [Familiar] —not the one in the Script, mind you— to be the pinnacle of the art.”

“You don’t want to create a living creature; I understand.”

“Exactly. I can already do practically everything I want with the base spell, so a [Familiar] is technically a luxury, and as a luxury, there’s a list of requirements.” Sizzi said, “It’s all in that journal; I recorded the results of each day.” She explained, “I need the ability to imbue the [Familiar] at range through either a paired summon or as a basic ability. To summon the same [Familiar] with the same false-mind each time. To have it be under five kilos and an acceptable shape; I’ve aimed for everything from rabbits to cats to birds, but almost anything is acceptable. To have it not decay too quickly. And finally, for it to have all the normal abilities of a [Familiar] with [Scry] and [Telepathy]. As a bonus, speaking through it would be good, but not necessary.” She said, “It’s a very basic list, but it’s very, very hard to hit all of those buttons.”

“How would you rank those in terms of importance?”

“The only one that’s unimportant is the shape, but that’s also the easiest to hit.” She said, “If you can’t hit them all, then you’re creating something that will never last; the point is to have a [Familiar], not something that needs a year to figure out what it is, every time you summon it.”

“Have you considered letting the creature choose its own form?”

Sizzi winced. “Yes. That does not turn out well. I do it that way every tenth day, anyway, just to try out something new. Most of the time you just get a collection of horrors, like tentacles or spikes or mouths. I actually hit almost all my goals once, but the creature that came out was a three meter-tall collection of fangs.” She shivered. “I could not keep that one. If it was smaller, I might have, but just— no. Not happening.” She added, “Go ahead and try to combine the spells any way you want, but if you don’t get all those aspects I listed, you’re better off breaking the spell and trying again. And by the way, I’m glad to see you’re doing okay.”

Erick smiled. “I’m feeling a lot better, but I’m taking a step back from SLR Particle spells, for now. Going to try for some large-sized stuff, though.”

Sizzi frowned. “Are you… sure?”

“Yes. I switched out a Class ability.” Erick said, “What happened out there should not happen again.”

“Oh?” Sizzi paused in surprise, then said, “Good? Good! Mother will be glad to hear that.”

“How did it look for you guys?”

Sizzi paled, saying, “Mother says that blood just started pouring out of you, flowing red for only the briefest moments before coming out as clear water. She’d never seen such a thing before; everyone was panicking. Poi jabbed you with that rod of [Treat Wounds] as fast as he could; the red would return only to be washed away again.”

Erick shivered. “Can you tell her that I’m sorry for giving her such a fright?”

“Of course.”

