A bell rang. The lights on the other half of the course lit up. The invisible barrier that separated the two sides gave a warning flare then dropped. The other team was now allowed to cross over for the purpose of making a single attack or messing around with one of the obstacles using either their powers or an obstacle modification tablet that lay at the entrance to each of the pipes.


Resetting the weights could screw a team over big time if their strongest members were over the finish line. Resetting the wall so that the handholds teams had created were removed was also an option.


“Worskhop is protecting the tablet and Everly!” Maricel called.


“I’m on Alden,” Lexi reported.


“I’ll go with Astrid to protect her!” Jeffy said.


“No!” Reinhard and Njeri spoke over each other.


“You’re staying in the water, remember?” Reinhard said as Alden carried him toward the wall at a fast walk.


“You stay there unless we need you to run back!” Njeri agreed.


“Oh, that’s right.” Jeffy sounded mournful.


Reinhard made it onto the top of the wall. He crouched low and used the vantage point to scan the course.


Relieved he’d gotten some critical teammates into position in time, Alden dropped preservation, and let his cord fall in a scrambled heap at his feet. Hastily toeing the mess into a slightly more cohesive shape, he picked it all up together. It made a small, handheld shield with lots of holes in it. But it only took seconds.


“What are you going to do with that?” Lexi asked without looking back over his shoulder.


“They might not send their S’s. I should be able to take a hit from the others. You never know.”


It was inconvenient to have any member of their team sent back to the track or heavily injured and movement restricted. But some of them were particularly juicy targets.


Incapacitating Maricel, Lucille, or Jeffy would be a real triumph for their enemies; but Febri/Shrike probably wouldn’t try it. Maricel was over by the pipe and the frozen box, which would provide her with a lot of shelter. The giant sandbags she had on hand also served her as both weapons and shields.


Jeffy was, hopefully, underwater. Getting into the tank and successfully attacking him there would be nearly impossible for anyone on the Febri/Shrike team. Lucille was more vulnerable, but she didn’t come across that way while she was trotting back and forth with metric ton weights.


We’re lucky they don’t know she doesn’t want to lethally hit people. It really limits her options for responding.


The other teams didn’t seem to realize it yet anyway. For now, the risk of not taking Lucille down in a single hit and getting backhanded to the moon by a retaliatory strike was probably going to keep attackers from getting within an easy arm’s reach of her.


If enemies didn’t go for the S’s, Alden and Everly were the next most appealing victims. Everly was protected by Maricel. So the most likely place for them to attack was here.


Here I am, both breakable and useful to the team.


And Alden’s body wasn’t the only thing that was breakable. The way his skill worked gave him an additional exploitable weakness for this kind of game.


“Don’t shield against a hit if you’re not sure how strong it is,” Lexi said, keeping himself between Alden and any possible incoming threats.


“I know.”


“The next run—”


“I know. I’m the one who pointed out that my own death would technically be more helpful than me trying to protect myself sometimes.”


Alden’s skill was stronger than anyone here knew, and if he was right with his theorizing, it was more versatile and potent than it might have been in a normal B-rank Rabbit’s hands. But some of his classmates could still magically overwhelm him in one strike and put him out of commission for the rest of class.


It just depended on which classmates they were and what the strike was.


And beyond that, there was compounding fatigue to consider.


Their current strategy called for Alden doing as many of these high lifts as were necessary to get people over the wall. Depending on how many deaths and re-runs they suffered, it could be quite a few. If he fatigued his skill, Maricel would take over or they’d start climbing the much more tiring and slow way; but it was best if Alden stayed available for the length of this run and the next.


Which meant he should only use his messy little shield here to soak attacks if doing so wouldn’t be too costly or render him useless later.


If it’s Febri, should I try? He could, like, blink at just the wrong moment and a miracle could happen. But how hard does he hit compared to someone like Heloísa. If it’s—


“Febri’s over the line! Febri’s over the line! Heading for The Workshop!” Reinhard’s call was excited. “Lucille, stop—!”


“Olive’s out of the pipe!” Haoyu announced at the same time. “And another Olive’s out of the pipe! And a third!”


“I’m almost to the finish line!” Astrid said. “Hang in there!”


“Haoyu, Reinhard, try to determine which one is the real Olive. Lucille, run toward Febri. Grab him! Maricel, guard.” Njeri’s instructions were delivered so rapidly that it would have been hard to interpret them if it wasn’t fairly well planned in advance.


Alden and Lexi both ran over to an opening in the wall—about two-bodies wide—that connected this part of their team’s course to the previous one so that people who’d completed the bars and gone down the beam could run back to the old obstacles to help teammates with them. It was a one-way situation. You could use this shortcut to rapidly backtrack, but once you’d backtracked, you were required to return the hard way.


This was also a spot where people waiting to go up the wall could see what was happening, and where attackers—who didn’t have to obey obstacle order rules on the enemy course—could come through.


Now that they knew Febri was the attacker and he was going in the other direction, it was safe to take a peek.


Lucille and Febri were facing off in front of the final, cube-shaped weight.


She crouched. Her arms were wide, and she was poised to spring and grab Febri. But the Agility Brute bounced once on the balls of his feet, feinted down and to the right, then leaped up and to the left so fast that by the time Lucille had started to move to intercept him in the fakeout direction, he was already airborne, turning an unnecessary but very cool-looking flip as he sailed toward the frozen Workshop area.


Lexi was standing at the edge of the line they weren’t allowed to cross without it being deemed an official backtrack, but Writher was stretching out over it toward Febri, twitching angrily.


Alden chose not to comment on that. They were way too far away for Lexi to reach the S-rank with the whip.


“I bet he’s smiling,” Lexi hissed. “You can tell by how he bounces around that he’s smiling.”


“Not for long,” Maricel said quietly over coms.


It was really nice of them to go for Everly first, thought Alden. Kind of impractical considering she had two companions to Alden’s one. I guess they thought they could get away with taking a closer look at what we were doing over there.


He felt a little smug about what was going to happen, and then two bells rang and both sides of the course flashed again.


“I’m over the finish line!” Astrid shouted. “And another one of theirs is, too.”


Lexi and Alden stared at each other.


“Shrike,” they both said.


A moment later, they spotted him. Ignacio was running toward them fast, shouting instructions to his own teammates in Spanish, and wearing a chef’s knife roll bag on each shoulder in addition to his System-gifted Meister daggers—one in each hand, pointed straight ahead of him.


A pair of arrows zinged through the air one after the other. Reinhard was allowed to shoot as much as he wanted at interlopers on their half of the course. But judging by the swearing, he’d missed Febri.


He wouldn’t be aiming for Shrike. The S-rank had taken an unusual skill, and in addition to its offensive uses, it neatly countered Reinhard’s arrows.


It was up to Lexi to deal with him.


“Haoyu,” said Reinhard, keeping his voice low. “Which Olive is real?”


“Don’t know yet. Sorry. She’s improved her realism now that she knows what the course is like. Best guess is the middle one.”


A lot of things happened all at once. It was a familiar chaos after Wednesday’s runs, but Alden still couldn’t quite believe how fast it all moved when the attacks started.


He let the mini shield, too small to be useful versus Ignacio’s favorite attack, unravel. He started re-coiling the end of it to make his teammate-lifting shape as he got out of the Knife Meister’s sight and pressed himself to the barrier. Lexi was standing boldly in the opening, ready to intercept, Writher curling through the air in front of him threateningly.


“Taking our attack shot,” Reinhard was saying. “Aiming for one of their wall climbers since we don’t know where Olive is.”


Alden listened.


Running footsteps paused as Ignacio considered his options.


<<Lexi wants me to attack him instead of Alden!>> he shouted to his teammates.


An arrow flew toward its target.


“Got the climber!” Reinhard sounded gleeful.


A shattering, popping noise came from the workshop. Followed by a yelp.


<<Febri?!>>


Writher lashed out. There was swearing in Spanish.


Alden poked his head out from behind the wall for just long enough to see that the whip had grabbed Ignacio by the leg and yanked him off balance. His knife rolls were open on the floor beside him. He was struggling against the whip for now, but if he just stopped and turned around…


Alden dropped the coil of paracord he’d just made behind Lexi and ran backwards, putting the partition between him and Shrike again and unspooling his rope just like he had to put Jeffy up the wall.


“Shrike tried to turn toward The Workshop!” Lexi was calling for the team’s benefit. “Writher’s got him, but he hasn’t attacked, and he still has his arms free to—”


“Step backward, Lexi!” Alden shouted, sending a mental text to enforce the message simultaneously. “One step backward!” [Step backward!]


It was just a crazy, last second scheme. Something he attempted because the idea popped into his head, and in the haze of the fight he couldn’t see any immediate drawbacks.


Getting the timing right was at least ninety percent luck. Lexi taking a step backward was probably more a response to what was happening with the enemy in front of him than to Alden’s command.


But he did step backward. Right into the center of the prepared loop behind him.


“GRAB THE ROPE!” Alden yelled, preserving and pushing the cord straight up over his head. It caught Lexi under his extended arm, and an instant after his feet had left the ground, his other was hooked over it.


Alden lifted his roommate much too fast for safety and just fast enough that the bulk of Ignacio’s attack missed him.


One of the Knife Meister’s blades, glowing a dark, burning orange, shot below Lexi’s feet and every sharp object in Shrike’s vicinity followed it.


The Leading Knife skill.


Alden hadn’t been familiar with it until he’d seen his classmate use it. Most knife-throwing Avowed seemed to pride themselves on pinpoint accuracy, power, and weapon spell effects more similar to Tuyet’s darts. But The Leading Knife made any sufficiently knifelike object within the user’s range orient to point in the same direction as Shrike’s lead blade. Reinhard was particularly miffed about the existence of a skill that made even his strongest arrows rotate in the wrong direction as they approached their target.


And once the lead blade left Shrike’s hand, all of those servant blades chased it like a flock of birds.


The mundane blades were confined to quite a large spherical area behind the thrown Meister weapon, though it was hard to make out the shape unless there were a lot of weapons in the air at once. It was a great skill for turning a person or whole groups of people into pincushions.


A large knife at the top of the flock smashed into Lexi’s shins before Alden had him fully out of range, then kept going. But they missed the worst of it, and Ignacio was dangling off the floor now, leg still caught by Writher. Lexi was staring down at him with dignity and focus befitting a person who wasn’t barely hanging onto his uncomfortable perch by his armpits.


“I think his leg is probably missing.” He was murmuring to himself so quietly that it only came through coms. “That’s good. A little fall now. No more attacking.”


Writher phased out and returned to its normal size. As Shrike stood up with the stiff motions of someone enduring a serious movement penalty, Lexi called, “Shrike’s seriously injured, but I don’t think he’ll die! Let’s let him go! He’ll slow them down.”


Shrike looked back over his shoulder and grimaced. Then he sighed and started hopping away from them on one foot.


“Wait! Why am I up in the air?!”


Alden stared up as Lexi expression turned shocked and he scrambled to throw a leg over the hoop to make himself more secure.


“You didn’t know?” Alden asked, baffled.


“My weapon requires concentration.”


“You did amazing, then!” Alden said. “I was going really fast and you held on great!”


“What’s wrong with my leg?!”


“You got stabbed on the way up. It shouldn’t be too bad.”


“He’s stabbed? Good!” Njeri called.


“Why is that good!?”


“Because we need someone over the line right now, and he’s close enough to make it to the finish if he’s only slightly injured! Alden, get him over the wall. Jeffy, get him through the water. Haoyu—”


