“It’s literally history. So let’s make new history together…” He trailed off then looked around at them all uncertainly. “I’ve never done a pep talk before? But I thought I should do one as co-captain.”


Several people had wanted to try their hand at leading the team. Rather than having a big argument about it, they’d decided to have four captains. Two per run. The captaincy wasn’t about directing overall strategy or approaches to obstacles, since that was already agreed on. What they needed was someone who could keep track of the state of the game and rearrange team members to make sure their plans stayed viable after attacks from the other team had injured or killed people.


Reinhard and Njeri were in charge of this run.


Haoyu and Astrid were in charge of the next.


Alden had been a little surprised that Astrid wanted to try giving orders, but she seemed worried that she couldn’t contribute enough in other ways.


Njeri suddenly cleared her throat and put her hands on her hips. “All right, Avowed!” she bellowed.


Their whole team took a step back from her in surprise. Olive—the Adjuster on Team Febri/Shrike—yelped and whirled around to stare at her. Instructor Ivanova, standing by the track doing final hurdle checks on her tablet, looked startled too.


“Today I want you to think about one thing and one thing only—do you know what that is?” Njeri demanded


“Better teamwork,” Haoyu said.


“Aiming well?” suggested Reinhard.


“Sportsmanship?” Astrid asked.


“Impressing the principal!” Jeffy exclaimed.


“None of that!” shouted Njeri. “Victory dines at the tables of those who have prepared the greatest feasts. She can only grow fat on our preparation, our love for the game, and the flesh of our enemies.”


Alden exchanged a look with Haoyu. On the other side of him, Everly was nodding along with the speech.


“I won’t lie to you,” said Njeri, shaking her head. “We are not truly prepared. We have not sweated enough yet to fill Victory’s cup. And our love for this game is just beginning to blossom.”


“Wow,” Jeffy said in an awestruck voice.


“So what do we have left to offer Victory to tempt her toward our table?”


“Not sportsmanship?” Astrid whispered.


There was an extended pause. Then, Reinhard looked over at the other team.


“That’s right! Look at your enemy. They are our offerings to Victory. When they pass you by on the course, when they come at you with their weapons, when you feel the stirrings of intimidation, remember—they are Victory’s sustenance. And we are her hunters. We will not let her starve!”


Njeri took a deep breath, then smiled. “I’ve always wanted to give a pep talk! I thought you guys might need some extra vigor, since Febri/Shrike has beaten us before. I modeled it after a speech my hockey coach gave! How was it?”


“Energetic.”


“Motivational in a slightly threatening way.”


“Is the hockey team all right?”


“Victory!”


“But didn’t we agree that victory wasn’t our only goal?”


“A speech about maybe being okay with losing doesn’t sound as good!” Njeri protested. “How am I supposed to inspire you all with that?”


“I totally loved it!” Heloísa shouted.


“Thank you!” Njeri shouted back. “But you’re on the wrong team!”


I don’t know if it made me feel inspired, thought Alden. But I definitely feel more awake now.


Beside him, Maricel was looking guiltily at the pile of dirt bags.


“It’s fine,” said Alden. “We all decided on it.”


“But I could just pour out the sand from the bags in the gym. Or forget practicing and focus on vict—”


“You did that last time.” Lexi was staring at the track ahead of them. “If you want specific dirt, we’ll carry specific dirt.”


“It might not even slow us down,” Haoyu added. “Having it might make things run more smoothly later. We just won’t know until we try it.”


Alden thought obstacle course rules for Shapers were arbitrary to begin with. Jupiter wanted fresh-cut wood. Maricel wanted soil. There were a set number of life matter bags and sand bags on the course for them to use instead. Njeri could draw from the water obstacle if they were close enough to it or she could carry water if she wanted it earlier in the course…which they were doing this time. The water jugs were heavy.


But if this were some kind of real-world scenario, Maricel could dig up the earth right outside the building and carry it into the gym with her. Or Jupiter could knock down one of the bottlebrush-shaped trees out front and do the same. Making their teams haul their special requests around seemed a little harsh.


In the uni team competitions Alden had viewed over the past couple of days, Shapers usually had designated offside areas and weight allowances for their materials; but they were allowed to put anything in there they wanted.


I guess this is still class and the idea is limitations. Vandy’s always going to have air around for Sky Shaping. Maricel and Jupiter will usually have something available but not necessarily the type of thing they prefer.


The countdown for the race appeared, and they all took their positions.


Just follow the plan, Alden told himself. See how it goes.


******


The race began, and with it, the team’s first major strategy shift.


“Slowpokes first!” Reinhard shouted.


Not how Alden would’ve put it…but yes. Everly, with her Glaze Object spell, was the best answer for the fire box. Three casts of it would coat the box in solid ice for several minutes, allowing the rest of the team to break through with zero movement impairment.


That should more than make up for them all getting a slower start.


Everly, Njeri, Maricel, and Astrid took off. Jeffy was running with them a second later, carrying a large water jug in each hand.


Lucille bent over and allowed Lexi and Haoyu to strap bags of dirt to her back with one of Alden’s lengths of cord.


“Is that really uncomfortable?” Alden asked, prepping his own dirt for transport with Reinhard’s help. “I can take more.”


Lucille shook her head.


He was glad she had it under control. Alden would be carrying four bags himself, wrapped in paracord. They wouldn’t weigh much thanks to his authority bearing the load, but at a certain point the size became awkward for clearing the hurdles. As it was, if he screwed up he was going to have three hundred pounds of dirt instantly smashing him forward into the ground or pulling him backwards off his feet depending on his luck.


Honestly, I’m just grateful none of the faculty are saying it’s too dangerous for us to run with this much outside of the gym.


Lucille bounded off right as the slowpokes were finishing their first lap.


“I hope I tied the knots right,” Haoyu said, watching Lucille spring over a hurdle. “I feel like this is asking a lot of them.”


“It’s fine. Let’s go,” said Lexi, taking off.


The frontrunners of the other team were finished with their second lap. It was enough to send a jolt of anxiety through anyone after last class.


The first team with a person over the finish line got to take the first shot.


We’ll catch up indoors, Alden reminded himself. This is the plan.


He set off and let himself enjoy the surefootedness his new wordchain provided. It was the same as the first time Lute had given it to him; his body was always moving exactly how he told it to move.


It was, he thought, a little like running in a dream. In real life, you often pictured yourself leaping a certain way and landing a certain way only to have to adjust your expectations or recover from an imbalance. With the wordchain in effect, the leaps and the landings became an almost eerie match for Alden’s mental vision of them. The first few hurdles made him feel like he was on a roll; with the next dozen, he started to have a sense of surreality.


He came to the end of his first lap as Febri was finishing his final one, and he had a view of the Agility Brute clearing the largest hurdle with movements so fluid they would’ve put a cat to shame.


I wonder if he feels like this all the time.


Febri had launched himself far enough to land on the other side of the safety mat. No need for cushioning, not a wasted step as he sprinted for the gym.


First the track, thought Alden. Then the tube. Then the fire.


“It’s all going according to plan, everyone!” Njeri said. The bellow that Alden had decided must be her coaching voice came through on the team call and echoed toward him from the other side of the windy track at the same time. “Let’s put this boring running behind us, and go play with the fun stuff!”


A breathless cheer went up from Everly, and something like a yodel came from Astrid. Haoyu shouted an enthusiastic “Yep!” as he vaulted over a hurdle.


Alden had been pacing himself deliberately so that he’d arrive at the gym behind the obstacle freezing group as planned, but it was hard not to run a little faster with everyone yelling encouragements in each other’s ears.


******


******


“Let’s try to determine what the teams’ strategies are based on what we’ve seen at this early stage,” Instructor Marion said to the half of the class that was on the bleachers waiting their turn to run the course. “Talk with your groups. I’ll come by to hear your ideas.”


“Obviously dirt is involved for my brother’s team,” Kon said to his teammates, staring at the live progress of the race through his interface. “Lots and lots of dirt.”


“Maricel went to buy all of it in the middle of the night,” said Tuyet. “She said she couldn’t sleep.”


“Lexi’s flinging that one bag around like it insulted his mum,” Finlay observed. “It’s going to burst.”


“Look at how much weight they’re carrying for her. Dirt’s heavy. I don’t see any complaining on Maricel’s team.”


They all turned to Jupiter.


“The holly hedge you brought isn’t happening,” said Kon. “It’s massive and pointy. You’ve got scratches all over you, and it’s obviously stolen. It’s still got roots on it.”


“The fact that is has roots on it makes it borrowed!” said Jupiter. “I can put it back after class.”


They turned away.


“You guys! I promise I can put it back! I already bought it special fertilizer!”


******


“Maricel’s team has decided to arrange themselves so that the slower members are at the front of the group,” Vandy said, folding her hands in her lap and staring avidly at the drone footage. “On Wednesday, they were letting the people who could race ahead do it. Today, they’ve obviously prioritized Everly’s abilities for the first indoor obstacles, and possibly they’re thinking of her synergy with Njeri. It’s likely those two will stick together for the entire course. We’ll need to watch what they do and decide if we might want to target one of them and separate them.


“Maricel may or may not have a specific plan for the clay soil they’re carrying. She was disappointed on Wednesday that she was only able to use her simpler shaping abilities. She greatly admires Instructor Fragment because of their similar backgrounds and wants to impress her. The compression point skill she’s been practicing allows her to draw ground together and pack it very tightly but the shapes of her compression points are limited. She uses her left hand for the gestures usually and assigns her right to moving her creations through the air. She’s planning to incorporate breath gestures one day. Her range of control is impressive for a new Ground Shaper already, and—”


“Alden’s running faster,” Winston said suddenly. “Maybe he took something.”


Vandy blinked at the interruption. “What do you mean?”


“I mean like drugs.”


“Why would he need to take drugs to run at the back of their group?” Mehdi said in annoyance. “He was the third fastest last time. Weren’t you paying attention?”


“He’s running different now!” Winston insisted. “Look at him. He’s running like…more like you!”


“Excuse me, but I don’t clear hurdles like a Rabbit.”


Marsha rolled her eyes and spoke to Vandy. “Why are those two so obsessed with the B-rank?”


“Alden’s a diligent person,” Vandy said. “He also has experience in a high stress environment, so in some ways he’s the most proven member of our class. For example, during Søren’s accident last night, I’ve heard he used his powers very calm—”


“Power,” Winston interrupted. “Singular. Alden has one useful skill. Not multiple. And he’s really arrogant. He was talking like he was definitely going to get into the program before the bus even made it here. And you know…they don’t accept a lot of people like him.”


He glanced over at Max, who hadn’t spoken yet, and the rest of the team followed his gaze.


“Confidence isn’t a flaw as long as it’s earned,” Vandy said seriously. “And Max is also a very diligent student.”


Max took a sip from his water bottle and said nothing.


“Well…” Vandy hesitated. “Maybe you would all like to talk about Shrike’s team strategy instead? We could learn something from them.”


“They’ve trimmed everything holding them back,” said Marsha. “Our class has too many System experiments and wishful thinkers. It’s irritating that we won’t get another fight with their team. They’re going to be up against Tuyet’s group next. If I had one more chance at Febri…him dodging last time was a fluke. I can hit someone with the Instant Corners skill. I just need to get the angle of my strike—”


“I really think our team should’ve attacked them when they were on the bars last time,” Vandy said. “Focusing on Febri was—”


“I could’ve handled Shrike on my own, too,” said Marsha.


