She looked over at Max. “Don’t save any zones for my assaults today. I want to do them on my own. I don’t need you trying to help again. I don’t need an underling.”


Max took another swig from his bottle. He spoke for the first time since leaving the locker room. “You can all have exactly what you want. No more complaints from me.”


******


******


Alden reached the gym just ahead of Haoyu, moving at a pace that felt too leisurely even if it was all going according to plan so far. Haoyu helped him free himself from his bags of dirt, and almost as soon as the bags hit the floor they lifted up into the air and headed for their master. Now that the dirt was in the gym, any re-runs of the track would be unencumbered.


“You first,” Alden said, gesturing at the entrance to the pipe.


Haoyu grinned at him. “Are you afraid of the tube?”


“You would be too if you were me!”


Haoyu hit his knees and started to crawl, and Alden followed.


“Welcome to The Workshop!” Njeri shouted as they emerged. She was forming a water ball about the size of a grapefruit and holding it out toward Everly. “Go through. Go through.”


Alden almost wanted to linger and examine The Workshop, but he couldn’t afford to. I know what’s going on anyway, he consoled himself as he and Haoyu hurried through the frozen fire obstacle.


During the first several minutes of the race, Everly, Njeri, and Maricel would be making things instead of running the course with the rest of them. It had sounded like an odd idea when Everly had presented it. But she wanted to use her spells a lot more, and Njeri felt like her Water Shaping had gone underutilized as well. So they’d come up with this.


If it went like they hoped it would, then they were establishing a secure area in front of the pipe and making resources that would be useful when combat started.


“Olive’s in the gym!” said Reinhard. “Eyes on Olive! She just went in the pipe. Lexi—”


“I’m heading toward the gym now. She’s not out here,” Lexi said.


“Confirmed. Olive’s really in the pipe! I’ll watch for her until you guys reach the top of the rope climb, then Haoyu and I will swap.”


Alden and Haoyu ran past the weight obstacle—already conveniently moved by Lucille and the others and not yet reset.


Our timing’s just right. Now where is everyone?


Alden scanned the parts of the gym he could see from here. Lucille was standing at the bottom of the climbing rope up ahead; that would be her position for a little while. Jeffy had crossed the high bar swings up near the ceiling. Astrid was right behind him. Reinhard was standing on the first bar, staring down at the other team’s pipe with a focused expression.


On the other side of the course, Ignacio was rapidly carving handholds into the fifteen-meter wall for his teammates to climb, and Sanjay was climbing them in his wake. Rebecca wasn’t visible, but if they were doing it like last time, she was probably already over and in the water. The Brute was very boingy when she used her spell impression and her full jumping power.


So boingy she sometimes overshot her target or landed wrong.


“Looks like they’re putting Sanjay over the line first,” Alden predicted as he pulled himself hand over hand up the rope. “It could be Rebecca, but I bet they let her stay in play.”


This wordchain is amazing, he thought again as he reached the top and stretched out to grab the bars.


When he’d gotten up the rope for the first time on Wednesday, his arms had already been burning a little. Now they weren’t. Does having less wasted motion make that much of a difference?


He swung past Reinhard, who was still watching the other team’s pipe like a hawk. Olive wasn’t coming out. She was definitely waiting for the moment when her using her spells would create as much confusion as possible.


“We’re still putting Astrid over the line first, Alden,” Reinhard said.


Not a necessary reminder, but it was fine. “Got it.”


Astrid was the obvious choice. She contributed to the team, but in terms of her magic and skillset she didn’t contribute anything irreplaceable to the team. So sending her over the finish line and taking her out of play was the option that would cost them the least.


I hope she doesn’t feel too bad about it. She’s always so upbeat, but still…


The bar swings were easy enough, like monkey bars if the playground wanted the monkeys to fall to their deaths. The psychological impact of the height was actually worse than the physical effort required.


Alden swung his body and flew a short distance. Thanks to the wordchain, he was abnormally aware of the flow of air across his skin even as his hands wrapped around the final bar.


Lute had told him it was a chain that you learned to use better with practice, and he could see that it was true. There was a mental shift he would need to get used to. His body on the wordchain moved differently, so he’d have to learn to make decisions that utilized it appropriately.


And then know how to switch expectations for myself when I’m not using it.


He pulled himself up onto the narrow metal perch at the end of the bars, then looked down. A semi-opaque barrier separated this obstacle from the next at ground level, and the only way you were allowed to move through it according to the rules was to enter through a specific gap in the barrier you accessed by traveling down a narrow metal beam. It stabbed toward the floor at a steep angle, so walking down it wasn’t an option unless you had a good spell for it. Sliding wouldn’t kill you if you could manage it without falling, but they’d gotten some sprains and a broken tailbone experimenting with it on their previous runs, which slowed them down.


Alden dropped a length of cord on the perch for whoever might need it then lowered himself carefully onto the beam, stomach pressed to the metal and butt pointed toward the floor like a sane person. Not like Jeffy, who refused to be persuaded that rocketing groundward headfirst was harder even if you could see where you were going.


“Slide, stop, slide, stop!” Reinhard called, passing his pipe-watching task off to Haoyu and swinging across the bars toward Alden.


Again. Unnecessary. But I guess it’s kind of nice to have the call-outs to remind everyone what’s going on.


Alden relaxed his arms and legs to loosen his grip on the beam, slid rapidly downward, re-gripped before he could pick up too much momentum, and repeated the process all the way through the gap in the barrier and to the floor.


He rolled backward and sprang to his feet, untying the next section of cord as he ran to join Astrid and Jeffy at the base of the white, fifteen-meter wall. The gym-created obstacle was smooth as glass, and to Alden it felt hard as a rock, though the Meisters could pierce it, and Lucille could gouge chunks out of it barehanded if she didn’t care about the damage she’d take in the process.


“Alden! I’m ready!” Jeffy waved at him.


“Boost us up! This man’s ready to swim!” Astrid was still trying to highlight the joys of aquatic work at every opportunity.


“You remember how we do this?” Alden asked, hanging on to one end of the cord as he dropped the rest of the coil onto the floor. This length was still entrusted to him, and it would stay that way as long as he didn’t take his hands off the end of it. He hurried backwards, grateful that the wall had a run-up zone in front of it that he could use this way.


“I hold onto Astrid, not the magic rope!” Jeffy announced.


“Right!” Alden stopped backing away when there were five coils of cord left in the pile beside Jeffy. This piece had been pre-measured for the task, so it should be long enough.


He bent, preserved, and lifted. The cord stiffened, and the coiled end rose from the floor fifty feet away. As usual, the strain on his authority was surprisingly high when he was preserving at a distance. There was now a hoop of coiled cord on the end of a straight length.


“Reinhard, should we wait on you?” he asked.


“Don’t!” the archer said over coms. “I’ll go up separately. Everyone, check in!”


“Workshop is good!” Njeri called. “Maricel has a really great idea. For second attack if we time it right.”


“Olive’s still in the pipe!” Haoyu announced.


“The weights have reset,” Lucille said.


“Remember we’re moving those again as soon as Sanjay hits the final obstacle!” Njeri called. “Lexi, you’re up on bars with a view of everything. What’s the state of the rest of their team?”


“Shrike’s on the wall monitoring our progress. Febri, Sanjay, and Rebecca are finishing up the water obstacle. Heloísa’s started shifting their weights again, and they’ve got a couple of people climbing the wall.”


“Okay, let’s move, everybody! We’ll catch up to them in the water.”


“Thanks to Jeffy!” shouted Astrid.


“Thanks to Jeffy,” Alden agreed. “Ready to lift.”


He felt a jolt of excitement and nerves. The obstacle course itself was easily doable as a team. When the attacks started…that was when things got a lot more complicated.


“Tell me if you start to have some kind of a problem on the way up,” Alden ordered as he lowered his hoop over Jeffy’s head.


The Aqua Brute stuck out his arms toward Astrid, and as Alden lifted, the paracord caught Jeffy under the armpits and picked his feet up off the ground. Astrid hopped up and grabbed him in a full body bearhug, her arms going over the cord and around his back, her legs wrapping around his waist. The paracord was stuck between them now.


That’s actually more thorough than what we discussed, Alden thought, lifting them slowly higher and watching them closely to make sure they weren’t about to change positions and slip. As long as Astrid didn’t lose her grip, there should be no way for them to fall. He approved. Jeffy seemed alarmed, but not in a bad way. His feet kicked wildly and his eyes were wide, but he wrapped his arms around Astrid as they rose.


“All right!” Alden said. “Shout if you need anything.”


“Higher! Faster!” yelled Astrid. “Let’s win!”


“Yeah!!” Jeffy said.


Alden resisted the urge to oblige them. For one thing, their bodyweight was being entirely supported by a fairly narrow hoop instead of a proper harness, and even if Jeffy was a tough dude, it was probably uncomfortable. For another, speed at the end of the line wasn’t the easiest thing to judge if he rushed. As Fragment had warned Alden when he was practicing rescues in a similar fashion, small wrist movements at his end of the preserved cord resulted in much larger swings on the far end.


Catapulting them across the gym wouldn’t be very friendly of me.


“That looks just as neat as the first time I saw it,” Everly said from her spot at The Workshop as Astrid and Jeffy reached the top of their arc. “Like he’s got a strange balloon.”


“I am the strange balloon!” Astrid crowed. “Sanjay just hit the final obstacle! Move those weights, Lucille! Wow! People are getting excited in the bleachers. I see them pointing.”


There was a noise barrier up between the runners and the audience. Alden was grateful for that. Once his excited passengers were fifty feet up in the air and more or less vertically oriented, he just walked over to the base of the wall with them.


“Jeffy, let go of her, but keep the cord under your arms! Astrid, you should be able to drop onto the top of the wall easily.” He paused, then added. “Don’t miss!”


Astrid was on her feet on top of the wall a second later, and Jeffy was right behind her. He whooped then dove off the back. A splash announced his landing in the water tank, and Astrid followed him.


“Good job!” Reinhard shouted, running up toward Alden with Lexi right behind him. “Get me up there, too, so I can get ready to snipe.”


Alden kept his cord preserved, ran back to where he’d started from last time, and dropped the hoop for Reinhard.


The archer opted to wrap his arms and legs around it and dangle upside down like a tree sloth.


“Let’s go, let’s go!” Njeri was shouting. “It’s almost time!”


“Thanks for being my bodyguard,” Alden said to Lexi while he lifted the sloth into the air, pausing briefly when it looked like Reinhard needed to adjust his position.


Lexi had his back turned to Alden, and Writher was long and at-the-ready as he watch the other team’s half of the course. “They’ve put Rebecca back on top of their wall. She’s on watch replacing Shrike. I can’t see him from here, so he’s got to be back on the floor, getting ready for attack. Febri’s heading for the ground again, too. ”


Febri/Shrike used their S-ranks for attack, though they’d let Heloísa and Rebecca have a turn last time when it became obvious that they were pulling ahead of Alden’s team.


All the other teams used their S-ranks as primary attackers. For good reason.


“I think if it’s Shrike I might be able to stop him from doing too much damage to you,” said Lexi. “If it’s Febri…”


“It’s fine. Shit happens.”


Alden forced himself not to fling Reinhard toward the ceiling faster out of nerves.


“Everly, get to freezing,” Reinhard said from overhead. “They might go for you instead of Alden. Lucille, you’re probably their third choice.”


“Olive’s in the pipe,” Haoyu said.


“If she stays in there, let me take first attack!” Maricel called.


“Jeffy’s got me through the water!” Astrid shouted. “I’m heading for the finish.”


An Aqua Brute really does make that obstacle fast.


