************ 
125
************ 
 
Somewhere, in a different part of the universe, an Artonan child who’d been born at the same time as Alden Thorn was excited.


Maybe too excited.


“Stop.” Alden shook his head as he watched the Opposite stone on his desk glow a soft white for the fourth time in the past fifteen minutes. “You have to pay for those.”


He finished making note of his very first successful casting of the wordchain in his ledger, using the Palace of Unbreaking’s official name for it—My Body Becomes My Assistant—and admiring how awesome he was at drawing logograms when he had the chain on top of his enhanced dexterity. Then he placed his brush bristles-down in the cleaning divot on the cap of the ink bottle. The foggy crystal checker was still glowing.


Alden shut the ledger and picked up the stone.


I hope you’re surrounded by a bunch of other kids right now, he thought. And they saw your stone light up, and they’re all wildly impressed.


He also hoped the little enthusiast had been saving up the pleasant halves of these wordchains as a celebratory reply to Alden’s first message, or that they were baby wordchains of some kind. Otherwise they were piling up the debt fast.


Alden had muted his team’s conference call while he worked. They’d had it going all day, with people vanishing from it when needed and reappearing during their breaks to offer ideas or ask questions.


After tucking his ledger into his desk and his blinky checker into a pocket, he joined back in.


“All right,” he said, “last chance to decide if you want me to pick up anything for you. I’m heading to Wrightwares.”


“I want beef jerky.”


“He means do you need anything for gym, Jeffy!”


“But I do want it for gym. I always eat protein during our break.”


“If I see beef jerky at the Wright shop, I’ll get some,” said Alden. “I’ll check in once I get there.”


He muted them again so that they wouldn’t make him nervous. They’d been doing a lot of worrying and rehashing all afternoon. Some of them seemed to enjoy fretting, but he didn’t find it helpful.


When Alden emerged from his room, he found Lute sitting on the floor by the fireplace, working on some kind of craft project.


“I got the chain,” Alden said, gesturing to himself. “My shirt tag has been removed—with scissors this time—and my body has become my assistant.”


“Congratulations! As your tutor, I expect a World’s Greatest Teacher mug. By the way, I don’t think you can make a shirt fast enough for it to be useful on the course. Maybe with some practice…”


“A shirt?”


Lute held up a net tank top made out of purple yarn. “Isn’t it beautiful? This is just a test piece. You could do this same kind of thing with your cord, though. Give me ten more minutes, and it’ll be a floor-length dress. Even your ankles would be safe. From things larger than the holes in the net anyway.”


Alden stepped over to check it out. “It’s cool. I found a guy online who crochets paracord backpacks for people. But why are you in here designing theoretical armor for me?”


“Because it’s much more interesting than my homework. And I couldn’t think of anything else fun to do to help the team. Although I’m sure if I could get my hands on the whip…”


“Kon hasn’t even gotten his hands on it.”


“I’m sneakier than Kon.” Lute threw the tank top on over his shirt. “How do I look?”


Alden took in the hastily made purple net. “Mmmm…do you want to come to the Wright shop with me?”


Lute looked down at himself. “It’s so bad you won’t even answer, huh?”


******


The list of supplies wasn’t long, but it was easy to get distracted in the island’s largest Wright shop.


“Alden, you need a grappling hook!”


“Those are neat.”


“A handheld line launcher!”


“I’m buying one as a present for myself after I make it through first quarter probably.”


“Levitating pulleys! A portable autoloom! Self-knotting rope!”


“All exciting things,” Alden agreed, examining the spools of cordage in front of him.


“Whyyyy are you not buying the exciting things, then?” Lute had the loom in his arms.


“Because gym time is training time. And during training time, I operate under the assumption that when shit goes really wrong I’m not going to have access to ginormous hardware stores full of magical doodads. What’s more likely—me getting stranded on another planet and finding the perfect Wrightmade tool? Or me getting stranded on another planet and finding some kind of rope?”


You couldn’t rely on a mad scientist’s fully stocked laboratory being within running distance all the time.


Lute didn’t answer. The silence was conspicuous considering how much talking he’d been doing since they arrived.


“What?” Alden asked, looking around at him.


“Nothing!” Lute hastily put the loom back on the shelf.


“You don’t have to pretend it’s reasonable. I know it isn’t.” Alden went back to studying the cord. “Even if I do end up in a crisis, the chances of that crisis involving me being stuck on a planet without a System and nothing but one companion and a rope we wove out of natural fibers are astronomical.”


“Hey, a man needs to be prepared for all eventualities,” Lute said lightly. “Sometimes Systems break. Sometimes drone propellers destroy eyeballs.…are you planning to learn to make ropes out of natural fibers, too?”


“Celena North needs wilderness survival classes. The fact that we don’t have them is criminal. But I’m joking about learning rope making. Mostly. And I came here to buy something like this.”


He reached for a spool of paracord in a painful shade of fluorescent yellow. “I’m not completely into making gym harder for myself. Especially not with the team aspect this time. This is an ultra strong survival cord—about as fancy as something this simple gets. And I’ll be carrying a ton of it.”


There was no rule about how much rope Alden could bring to class.


The outer sheath of this particular paracord was fire resistant, the inner strands provided him with some interesting opportunities, and it was strong enough that Lucille could haul every member of the team up the wall with it at once if for some reason that became a good idea.


“Now we need temper spheres even though they’re probably not going to be useful at all, a bottle of that powder Everly has to have to cast her ice trap, and beef jerky.”


“They’re not going to have that.”


“I know.”


******


I can’t believe they had eight different kinds of beef jerky.


As he headed through the locker room, Alden tossed a shopping bag toward Jeffy, temporarily distracting the Aqua Brute from whatever he’d been telling Reinhard.


“So many flavors!”


His delighted tone was a contrast to the conversation going on nearby. The boys on Søren’s team looked like they were discussing something serious.


“Is Søren doing all right?” Alden asked.


The Light Shaper had been a lot more rational by the time Alden had left the healing hospital last night. Rational enough that when he’d phoned his mother to tell her where he was and what had happened, he’d managed to make it sound like he’d used emergency teleportation the second the fire started instead of arguing with everyone about whether or not he could hide his injuries from the faculty.


“They’ve been growing him new skin for the past few hours,” said Febri. “He feels fine, and he’ll be back at school first thing next week. But he’s upset they told him no gym until Wednesday.”


<<Did the instructors talk to you?>> Ignacio asked. He was searching through a heavy bag that Alden knew from previous glimpses contained an alarming number of blades. According to Reinhard, Ignacio bought bulk lots of old knives off auction websites and used a spell to sharpen each one before he added it to his collection.


“You mean about what happened?” Alden shrugged. “I got a check-in call from…somebody. And Instructor Marion pulled me aside before Engaging with the Unexpected to see if I needed anything. Other than that, not really.”


The check-in had come from the trauma specialist he’d been assigned when he’d first arrived on the island. He was still having regularly scheduled video calls with her. It wasn’t required, but it was so strongly recommended by everyone—security people at the TC, the public health and safety office, intake counselors—that going along was better for now. And she was really good about not insisting on details he couldn’t or didn’t want to share. He thought it was overkill that the school had called her for this, though, even if she was listed as one of his medical providers. He hadn’t gotten so stressed out that he took a risk with his powers.


Ignacio was opening his mouth to say something else when Max walked in.


Winston, who was replacing the white laces on his shoes with red ones, burst out, “There you are! Where have you been, you jerk? We’ve been sending you messages all day telling you our plans for the runs!”


“The plans that involve you all demanding I drop zones exactly where you want, when you want?” Max tossed his backpack onto a bench and yanked his shirt off over his head. “It’s such a deeply considered stratagem, and my role is so terribly complicated. However will I prepare myself to assist you if I don’t answer your messages?”


Everyone was suddenly very busy changing their clothes. Alden scooted toward the nearest shower to get busy with it himself.


“It’s not our fault you couldn’t keep up last time,” Winston said as Alden latched the door behind himself. “Marsha says you shouldn’t be such a dick about running out of casts. High-ranks always carry low-ranks in this kind of competition anyway. If you just cast what we tell you to, you can sit around, and one of us will get you to the finish line.”


Alden grimaced.


Max raised his voice. “I promise to cast exactly what you all tell me to. I won’t offer a single word of advice to the team. Vandy can try to hold you all together while Marsha chases down worthy opponents and the rest of you pose for the camera. I will say not a word. So let it be known.”


They’re getting along even worse than I expected. Alden was awfully relieved he hadn’t been assigned to that team.


Oddly, Mehdi wasn’t commenting on the spat. He’d been quiet ever since their team’s double loss, and Haoyu had called him “sulky” when they were discussing him as a possible target for Reinhard.


I know they say highly competitive environments help Avowed make faster progress. But we’ve only had one day of team competition, and someone’s already caught on fire.


Alden couldn’t imagine that smaller scale duels would lead to less hard feelings.


The third years must have gone through this together, and they seem sane. At least the B’s do. The second years are abnormal, but Rahul says they’re a special case.


Alden would most likely be in class with these same people next quarter and the one after. At some point it was common for high achievers to end up with higher level gym groups and low achievers to repeat a course. But until then, he was rooting for his class to be very normal. Bland. The vanilla pudding of CNH classes.


He walked out wearing his unitard a minute later to find Jeffy trying to soothe Max with a strip of beef jerky.


“It’s pepper flavored,” he said, waving it under Max’s nose.


“I don’t want it.”


“How do you know if you don’t bite it?”


“Jeffy, let’s go meet up with our group. They’re already waiting in the gym. Anyway, Max might be saving room for the dinner tonight. There’s going to be pork so many ways. Haoyu can tell you all about it. He’s memorized the menu.”


******


Their group would be facing Team Febri/Shrike for the first run. As they walked out to the track, the sky was overcast, and the wind was blowing so hard there was grit flying through the air.


Maricel and Lucille led the way, hauling bags of clayey soil with them. Njeri and Everly were right behind them, discussing their roles quietly so that the other team couldn’t hear. Reinhard was giving Lexi unsolicited tips about who to attack with Writher if the archer wasn’t available and the need was urgent. And Haoyu and Alden were bringing up the rear with Jeffy and Astrid.


The other half of the class would be watching from the bleachers while Principal Saleh, Instructor Klein, and Instructor Marion took turns highlighting team tactics and breaking down the ways individual students had chosen to use their powers. Alden was looking forward to having his turn in the audience even as he dreaded having his decision-making critiqued.


As his shoes hit the pavement, he checked himself over for the third time since setting foot outside.


Yep. All still here.


Two thousand feet of paracord sounded like a ton, but it was a very portable amount. Alden had it wrapped around him in two cross-body loops to make an X over his chest, and he was wearing a pouch full of his temper spheres. He would be allowed to carry a small knife or scissors to cut the cord if he wanted, but he did not want.


Having unnecessary sharp objects on your person versus the team with the S-rank Knife Meister was a bad idea. Instead, he’d precut the cord into long sections that were tied together with loose knots. That way he could dole out lengths of it to teammates or sacrifice pieces without wasting much time.


“We should think of this rematch as an opportunity,” said Reinhard as they took their place at the starting line on the track. “The day before yesterday is history.”


“Literally!” Astrid said.


