Abby looks below her and sees a massive Cyan City rising out of the clouds.

The strange place she's been teleported into has intense gravity, and the density of the Celestial energy and Cyan threads in the air is thousands of times higher than the Green Zone.

If she were standing in her base form right now, she might have been extremely injured by the pressure. However, in the manifestation of the Immortal Healer, all of this physical damage flows right through her.

Abby exerts a massive amount of pressure on the environment around her, but when reality attempts to push back, it's as if she is just a hologram.

Seraphel flaps his wings slowly to stay afloat beside her in a completely different situation.

His Celestial Body does not work the same way and is exposed to the raw power of this higher zone. He may have trained his mind and body to the peak of what is possible in the Green Zone for millennia, but the immense pressure on his body and mind has made every flap of his massive wings strenuous.

There are hints of green sparkling energy tethered into his greater form, constantly healing him because he is soul-bound to Abby, and these effects are multiplied by the fact that they are right beside each other.

However, the raw environment is not the only thing they have to worry about. Thousands of High Noble Vibrations hit their senses from below, and millions of Noble Vibrations are weaker but still sensible beneath them.

This Cyan City is full of Demons, and a large amount of them sense their presence.

Seraphel reflexively triggers the rank-up notification in his consciousness, as he feels trying to defend against any matured Cyan core in his current form would be dangerous.

The enormous Blue Wyvern glows white in the sky, attracting even more stares from those that live in this city.

Within a second of Seraphel's decision to Rank Up, Abby decides to do the same.

None of the auras below are intimidating to her; she feels confident that even in a frozen state of ranking up, they could not hurt her. It would be best to do it now rather than later if a real threat shows up.

She glows bright white as well.

The massive wings of Seraphel's Celestial Body are over a hundred times larger than Abby's energy form, making his outline the sight most Cyan Zone Citazens see in the sky.

All of the defensive systems and ether arrays that are supposed to predict intruders' time of arrival, or even shoot them out of the sky before approaching the city, are sending emergency signals all throughout the surveillance towers.

Massive armies of Demons that have not had to deploy in over a million years all come marching out from over a dozen towers. There are over a hundred thousand peak-strength Noble Demons and thousands of High Nobles. Many of which are fresh breakthroughs; however, each squad is led by more matured High Noble Demons that are of a similar strength to those that work in the palace as personal guards.

They all swarm out into their practiced formations and surround the threats in the sky with their backs facing the city they must protect.

Soul Weapons point up at them, and once all in formation, many even fire off shots.

The sky lights up with a bright display of black, purple, cyan, and white light as over a hundred thousand beams of Noble Grade and above attacks are sent toward two targets in the sky from every direction.

Inside the blinding white lights of two new Royals ranking up, the two minds are still not recovered from the massive amounts of memories and inherited power from the White Wyvern in the Green Zone they claimed.

So, in this transcendent state of ranking up, they stay half in the trance of their inheritance. It makes the barrage of attacks slamming into their bodies now part of the process.

Every single Demon attacking them has sworn their allegiance to Lucian Morvale. Over the last 1,000 years in the Cyan Zone, as they waited out the Realm wave, they have received their orders and prepared for the sealing. A majority of them have ascended to the position they're in now because within their lifetime, they contributed to the extermination of the Wyvern race in the Lower Realm.

The resentment and hatred for this old overseer race is potent in their vibrations, and its intent is multiplied within Abby and Seraphel's minds many times over as they feel these Vibrations during such a big change in their systems.

The Demons don't only stop at one round of attacks; they send more in ruthless succession.

In less than a minute, millions of full-powered attacks come flying in from all sides to eliminate these pests from their paradise.

The white light of their rank-ups only gets brighter, and the sky lights up with massive amounts of demonic residue from the explosions.

–

On the far side of the Cyan Zone, Lucian uses a highly fortified elevator from the bunker at the bottom of the zone up to his palace with a terrified yet angered expression on his face.

The terror comes from the threat the Imperial Family head made, telling him that if this problem isn't fixed, he would even seal the Cyan Zone off. Despite his position as the Cyan Zone's Family Head, he was not alive in the original eras of Demons. This mention of a Legacy of the Creator makes no sense to him... but apparently, that pillar he saw inside their old prison was more meaningful than just another desperate attempt at escaping from that insane ancient demon he locked in there.

His anger pours out at Miriel...

Even though he's dead, and his killer escaped, he thought at least he would have taken out the Green Zone's other problems with him.

"How could a Wyvern have possibly lived?" He mutters to himself as the elevator stops at a floor right below his throne room.

"Even if there were stragglers... Some Nobles, or even a High Noble... They should have all died out after we took Kelfar. It was their last Origin World," Lucian thinks out loud while walking forward into a room with an enormous sleeping dragon at the back of it, trying to piece together how a Wyvern possibly got here without triggering the automatic zone shift arrays that allow him to accept or deny new members into the Cyan Zone.

The Dragon does not bother to wake up, and Lucian doesn't look its way.

He just activates a few ether commands and opens up storage systems to pull two soul weapons in his direction. One of them wraps around his left arm like a chain, and the other is a long-handled axe he holds over his shoulder with his right.

The Demon walks out and back into the elevator. "But how could there be a Royal...? It feels kind of like that White Eyed Nuisance... but it isn't him. He must have something to do with this."

Lucian grinds his teeth while taking deep breaths and is elevated upward right in front of his throne in the palace room.

His Royal Vibrations are leaking out to an immense degree. Even some of the palace protection protocols are failing, and the closest High Noble Guards' eyes are turning white from being knocked out cold in a standing position.

Lucian just slowly walks forward through the center of all of them, staring off into the Cyan Clouds of the Zone toward his City.

He stops at the edge of the palace hall with only clouds below. His widened eyes take in the absurd sight at the far edge of the Cyan Zone. The intruders glow bright white and are easily withstanding a brutal barrage of attacks from all of the City's guards.
