For convenience, she altered the front of her outfit to prominently display her House affiliation and rank. There was no need to leave herself open for misunderstanding after all.

She bypassed the line of people waiting to gain entrance into the House of Blood’s hold with ease. The flow was steady, just below the pace of a walk, but both the in and out of that group was tucked to one side, allowing regular traffic to pass through the majority of the large gate.

No one tried to call out to her, let alone demand that she ‘get to the back of the line’ or any other such nonsense.

Even if she were the only entrant not from the line, her prominent sigil made it clear who she was.

The guards snapped to attention at her passing, bowing their heads while keeping their eyes sharp. “Eskau of War!”

Their call was loud enough that those inside could hear it, and mutters went through the surrounding crowds.

Tala quirked a smile, nodding to the guards in turn. “Blood of my House.”

They lifted their heads, standing a bit taller than before.

She was barely a half-dozen paces inside the gate—just taking in a refreshing breath of world fragment air—when a senior servant came up to her and bowed low. “Eskau of War, we are honored by your visit. My apologies, but we did not expect you, despite your presence in the city. You have not entered House of Blood holds in other locations on your travels. Please forgive our oversight.”

Tala smiled and motioned for the servant to rise. “Think nothing of it. I did not come for fanfare or ceremony. Is Eskau De-arg in the same rooms?”

“Eskau De-arg has not changed his residence in more than three decades, Eskau.”

“Good, good. Please go ahead of me and inform him that I am on my way for a short visit.”

The servant’s eyes widened. “I… yes, Eskau of War. He will be informed.” There was a hesitance. “Can… May I convey the nature of your visit, and ask for a slight delay so that he may prepare himself for your auspicious arrival?”

She shook her head. “I want no preparations. I already said I want no ceremony. I simply wish to visit a friend before I depart for the war-front… wherever that is at the moment.”

The man gave another hesitant bow. “It will be done. When should I tell him to expect you?”

She hesitated a moment, then sighed. She had the time to be polite. “Within half an hour. I will stop by the outer parapet before heading his way.”

He visibly relaxed, giving a grateful nod. “I will convey your message. Do you wish a repast either before, during, or after your visit with him?”

She shrugged. “If he has not eaten, I would enjoy joining him for a meal, otherwise no thank you.”

“It will be done.”

Without further delay, the man turned and departed at a quick walk.

Tala, for her part, headed toward the nearest exit to the central complex. She, apparently, had a bit of time to kill.
