Above the purple zone, there is a strange curved pocket of space filled with a dark black advanced primordial aura.

It does not suppress those that exist in it, nor does it empower them.

It makes anyone floating through it very disoriented, unless they have dealt with aura like this before. Without a consciousness, or a strong will to guide one in a direction they desire, it will only lead to more of an empty black void.

Ember emerges from the cracks in the ceiling of the upper realm, shedding the energy that he sacrificed in order to use power that was not yet granted to him by the system on his bonded partner's evolution track.

It was done by tethering his soul to an artifact with enough energy to trigger his Advanced Primordial Aura breakthrough early, and hold off Marcellus until Jay and Maria were able to fend for themselves.

The consequences of doing so are that the silver threads in his immortal core have all been shed, and large amounts of ether and primordial aura that were tethered to that temporary form he used were all lost and broken off from his soul.

Though, after ranking up again, and unlocking his [Primordial Dragon's Origin Body] form, finally he can truly stretch his wings and fill out his true Draconic form without any restrictions.

His entire body stretches over 500 quadrillion kilometers from nose to tail, and it does not show any color at all. In this black void, he either looks completely invisible, or shining bright white, depending on the perceiver's angle.

There is intricate texture all over his scales, claws, and pointed tail, but the red hue that used to saturate his scales is gone in this strange place.

The only definite color remaining is an extremely dense golden orb of threads in the dragon's chest, and the flicker of these threads in his eyes as he glides through the abyss of black aura.

Waves of a purple-tinted silver primordial aura flow down, from the direction he's headed, and the moment they pass through his body, the sound of a Demon's voice echoes in Ember's mind.

"So you have made it back? I didn't think Marcellus would ever lose, especially not in this era. Too bad you will never be able to reach me. I will have to watch the end of time alone, it seems."

Ember's expression doesn't change, but there is a very subtle fluctuation in his serene aura for a fraction of a second. Feeling this presence brings many memories back with it, but his composure is completely settled back to its natural state by the time he sends a wave back upward into the void.

"It is as I told you the day you broke your vow. I will return, and I will re-set the cycle once again, as I always do."

The waves of silver and purple aura that stream back fluctuate with surprise, as this time the presence in the void has felt more of what is coming.

"Oh, don't call that a vow. You deceived me from the start. How could I fulfill my end of the promise with the knowledge I have now?"

Ember's aura expands, preparing for the worst as he sees a faint glow of light appearing in the direction he moves.

"Even after watching life dwindle in the Origin Plane, witnessing many Empires still manage to thrive and fall... You are still just as short-sighted as the day I severed our seal."

The space around here, and even the ancient black primordial aura, bends in strange ways as Ember approaches. They appear like ripples of gravity, but are filled with a very dense energy, making the perception of time move in very strange ways while he tries to push through them.

The physical properties of these ripples are very reminiscent of Realm Waves that occurred in different zones of the Upper Realm. Yet, they appear to be frozen in place, not moving at all in relation to the caster behind them.

Only smaller pulses of aura pour out as the voice in the void communicates to Ember again.

"That form... it is not one of my demon's system-linked forms... it is the one the Originator's Legacy speaks of. You really managed to find a suitable candidate, even in the lost eras of a galaxy like this?"

Only silence fills the tension between them. Ember just grins, and flaps his wings to fly forward with even more force.

—

[Primordial Emperor's Soul Sword has Reached Lvl. 9!]

Another notification pops up in my mind, as every last silver thread falls inward and is devoured by my soul sword.

It breaks through one of the protective layers in the inner core of my blade, making it feel even less restricted. Where a dark black barrier covering golden glyphs from my sight that would repel my mind every time I tried to look at it once was, now holds a sea of silver threads.

It acts in almost the same way, as I cannot see through them, but for some reason it is not as limiting. They are not latched to any glyphs, and do not hold an aura of their own. It just looks like a silver sea, flowing in one direction slowly at the core of my blade.

The Crimson Advanced Primordial Aura of bloodlust in my sword flows through this sea, and it guides the flow without me having to manipulate it at all. I am the wielder of my blade, so I'm able to move these threads by proxy, but with one degree of separation.

I try to look into this phenomenon, but it solidifies just as the last of the serene Advanced Primordial Aura also flows through Maria and I, and the initial rush of perception starts to fade.

My own soul sword begins to make less and less sense to me the deeper I look into it.

Every single intricate glyph in my system is no longer visible. They fall back into more abstract arrays, but after seeing them and documenting all of the feelings and information, my instincts have grown far more acute.

I can feel what these systems do without having to see every moving gear inside them.

Even though the rush has made its way through, we still benefited greatly. Our Advanced Primordial Aura is strong enough to seep outward, and fill out all of physical existence in the lower and upper realm below us.

It also pours into our glyphs, and makes the absurd excess of refined high-quality ether form a whirlpool and begin pouring into our ether stores thousands of times faster than before.

What felt like an untouchable amount of energy flooding out of all of the zone barriers, now feels like it could all be absorbed in a matter of seconds.
