Her challenge prompted a flurry of motion, but not from the unknown intruder. Half the contestants around her charged out into the fields, shouting their names and echoing her challenge in hopes the Royal Guardian took note. Idiots one and all, with most not even heading in the right direction, but one silent, quin-mounted figure stood out among them. Riding into the tall grasses, Huu returned shortly after carrying a breathless, panting figure, a nondescript man who looked strangely familiar. “Thank the Mother,” he gasped, his voice tinged with panic. “Captain Sumila, call your protectors and send word to your mother. The Defiled are here!”

Elated this contest was finally going some where, Mila faltered as she finally recognized the breathless messenger as a member of Rain’s retinue. Sither maybe, or Siyar. Her enthusiasm drained away to be replaced by horror, and she dragged the man away to report to the Royal Guardian.

She’d been praying all day for excitement, but not like this.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Body trembling in sheer terror, Jorani clutched his sleeves and watched as the crone manhandled Eccentric Gam like a child’s toy.

Eccentric Gam who killed Defiled like chickens.

Eccentric Gam who hunted Demons with glee.

Eccentric Gam who had strength enough to shake the earth and crumble buildings, beaten bloody by a single slap to the face from a wizened granny.

Well... there were three more Experts around, right? Three against one, those were odds he’d take any day.

Blood draining from his face, Old Du seemed to age fifty years right before Jorani’s eyes as he gulped and whispered, “So... A Defiled Ancestral Beast. I did not think they existed.”

Oh.

Well...

Fuck.

And Jorani thought meeting the old bastard who sired him was bad enough. This was so much worse.

“Bah. Defiled. Another ugly word.” The Crone’s face wrinkled in displeasure as she turned her attentions to Old Du, still holding the unconscious Eccentric Gam up by his ruined chin, their surroundings so silent Jorani could hear the old half-fox’s blood dripping onto the cobblestones between pauses. “Power is power, regardless of how it is derived. Balanced, Defiled, mere words which barely scratch the surface of the Truth.” Reaching a bloody finger to tap Old Du’s chest, the old crone smiled and said, “Well, that’s nothing you need to worry about anymore.”

Appearing out of thin air, Broken Blade Pichai’s scimitar flashed in the starlight. Faster than Jorani could blink, the Crone effortlessly blocked the weapon with her bare hand. “How rude,” she said, fingers clamped around the scimitar in a steely grip. "So silly to resist with this piddling amount of strength, better to just wait your turn and die peacefully.” With a hiss of wind, a Chakram crashed into the old crone’s torso and sent her staggering back, freeing her hold on Pichai’s scimitar. Unfortunately, Eccentric Gam was still caught in her grasp and his legs dragged over stone and dirt as the Ancestral Beast skidded to a halt. Eyes widening in minor surprise, she licked her lips and sucked her teeth while staring at Old Du with a smile. “Better, but not by much. One ant and one fly, neither able to harm me.”

Taking to the skies, Du Min Gyu waved his battle-fan back and forth, firing Blades of Wind as Pichai moved to cover him. An army of Defiled backed by multiple Demons wasn’t enough to force Old Du to draw his Spiritual Weapon, but against an Ancestral Beast, he held nothing back. “Perhaps,” the old man said, a grim smile stretching across his face, “but we won’t know for sure until we give it our all.”

There was no more time to think as the two Peak Experts engaged the Crone in combat. Wind howled and metal screeched, but try as they might, the two were no match for the Crone, unable to even free Eccentric Gam from her grasp. Even from what little he could make out, Jorani could see the crone was toying with them, using Eccentric Gam’s body as a shield not because she needed the protection, but because it amused her to see them injure the person they sought to protect. “Careful,” she taunted, her dry, raspy chuckle grating on Jorani’s nerves. “Almost took your friend’s head off there. Oops, there goes his hand, but don’t worry, if you escape, he can always grow a new one.”

Despair gripped Jorani in its icy grasp as he watched two living legends stumble and falter, with his most esteemed hero Solitary Sword Zhang nowhere in sight. The old Seneschal had abandoned them to their fate, and for the rest of his short life, Jorani would never forgive his childhood hero. Forget the Solitary Sword, the Broken Blade and Sanguine Tempest were the true heroes, fighting against all odds to take on a Defiled Ancestral Beast. If word of this got out, their names would go down in history as the greatest warriors in the history of the Empire, true patriots and champions of the Empire.

A damn shame no one Imperial would make it out of here alive.

Unless...

In his panic to draw it from his sleeve, Jorani fumbled the runic rod and cringed as it fell from his feeble grasp. Chasing it down as it rolled away, he caught it after what felt like forever but couldn’t have been more than three steps. Clutching it tight, he went over the instructions the old bastard gave him. “You run into something too tough to kill,” the deadbeat had said, “then point this at it and channel your Chi. Take care of it anything right and proper, I guarantee it. Only one use though, and expensive as sin to make, so best used as a last resort. Cheaper to raise a new son than give you another, true as true.”

A Defiled Ancestral Beast certainly fit the bill, but back then, Jorani had been too scared and angry to think properly, but for months afterwards, he regretted not asking a single, vitally important question.

Which end was he supposed to point with?

The cylindrical rod had nothing to indicate which end was which, but with Eccentric Gam slowly being chopped to pieces by his would-be saviours, Jorani had to make a decision quickly. Throwing caution to the wind, he tried to appear innocuous as he moved to the Crone’s flank, only belatedly realizing he stuck out like a wart on a nose, since no one else was moving aside from him. The Death Corps seemed frozen in fear, but sometime along the way, Jorani had shaken off the Crone’s Aura and was moving freely once more.

Was this his Talent? Did he Condense his Aura?

Throwing aside the speculation, Jorani pointed the rod at the Crone and poured his Chi into it. The rod grew hot in his grasp as it drained his Core, and Jorani prayed it was aimed correctly and had enough power to kill an Ancestral Beast. A single second was all it was supposed to take, but to Jorani, it was the longest second of his life, ready to turn the damned thing around at the slightest hint of a problem. It’d be much easier if his arm wasn’t shaking so much, but even as he thought about it, he realized it wasn't his nerves, but the rod itself shaking in his grasp. Ripping itself out of his fingers, the rod shot through the air and slammed into the Crone’s side. With a hair-raising shriek, the hunched Ancestral Beast straightened up and arched her back, losing her grip on Eccentric Gam for the first time as she convulsed in pain. There were no flashes of light of flickers of flame, just the Crone shaking in place as she wailed at the high heavens, a sound Jorani would never forget until his dying days.

It felt like an eternity before the Crone stopped screaming, but the moment she did, she collapsed to the floor and the rod fell with her, clattering against the stone cobbles while she lay there with eyes closed and gap-toothed mouth open. Unable to believe his good fortune, Jorani fell to his knees and laughed out loud in a brief, concise moment of sheer joy, one which came to an abrupt end as the Crone stirred and came to her feet. With a throaty growl, she turned her sightless eyes upon Jorani and croaked, “That. Hurt.”

Closing his eyes with a sigh, Jorani regretted ever placing any trust in the rotten deadbeat bastard who sired him.

Chapter Meme
