“Because pressure.” While it all seemed obvious and apparent, Min Gyu could see where Rain was going with this, as could Yan, who continued, “The pressure inside the filled water skin is higher than the pressure outside, so the air flows out of the container. Those are the two opposing forces, the difference in pressure.”

“Exactly. Air will always move from a high pressure system to a low pressure system. This is a statement of fact.” Pointing at the bamboo stalks, he continued, “But it will not do so in a uniform manner. It will go in whatever direction it can, so long as it is always moving from high to low. That’s why the wind will twist and turn about the bamboo grove, because as the air moves along one side of a bamboo stalk, it creates a pressure differential on the other side, which then pulls some of that air away in a different direction.” Pointing at her battle-fan, Rain asked, “Sound familiar?”

“The Forest Clearing Gale.” Eyes widening in comprehension, Yan stood up and deposited a displeased quin pup into Rain’s arms, disturbing the sweet creature from its afternoon nap. Already lost in the throes of Insight, the girl strode out of the garden and took a seat along the grove’s path to ruminate upon this new information. What Rain described was a rudimentary explanation of how Yan’s Forest Clearing Gale worked, with a dominant gale splitting off into countless weaker, but still deadly Wind Blades. Now that she could put it into words, her familiarity with the skill should improve, though it was difficult to say if she was still on the correct Path. Only time would tell, for no one could say whether one’s Path was correct except the Martial Warrior in question, which was why open discussion could prove so dangerous.

That being said, Rain’s ability to arrive at the heart of the matter was impressive to say the least, quite similar to Jeong Hyo-Lynn’s insightful thoughts helped Ryo Dae Jung reach such staggering heights, so perhaps Yan would benefit in the same way. As for the boy himself, he was still smiling as he eyed Min Gyu in curious question. “I had another thought I wanted to bring up, but I’m not sure if you want to hear it.”

Cheeky brat, implying Min Gyu was afraid to continue listening, but curiosity won over in the end. “Speak, boy,” he said, rolling his eyes in exaggerated chagrin. “I’ve said it before, but I am old and set in my ways, so you need not worry about shaking my conviction.”

“Great.” Sitting upright in excitement, Rain rubbed his hands with glee. “See, I always thought it strange that you focused so much on cutting with wind, because well... it seems inefficient.” Before Min Gyu could interrupt, Rain brought out a handkerchief and tied the four corners together before blowing into it and puffing it up like a ball. “You form a Wind Blade by creating an area of pressure so high the air itself moves quickly enough to do damage, but wouldn’t it be easier to take that pressure and just... condense it into a confined space instead? When the time is right, you unleash all that pressure in a single glorious explosion of power, one far more damaging than a single blade of equivalent effort. Like blowing into a water skin until the air itself makes it explode, though I’m not sure that’s physically possible. You can probably give it a try, but...”

The boy’s words faded off into nothingness as Min Gyu’s mind focused elsewhere, envisioning what the boy had just described. The power of a howling gale contained in the palm of his hand, that would indeed be far more destructive than a single Wind Blade, but the power would not be so easily condensed, nor would the resulting power be as focused. How to fix that? Or perhaps, there was no need to fix it, and instead find a way to better direct the inevitable explosion...

Retreating into his Natal Palace, Min Gyu lay atop the peak of Wutai Mountain and stared up at the starry sky, ruminating on the mysteries of the Blessing of Air while deep in the throes of Insight, all thanks to a simple statement from Falling Rain.

A child blessed by Heaven indeed, and Min Gyu was grateful to have met him.

Chapter Meme
