“If you can’t explain something simply, then you don’t understand it well enough.”

This earnest and direct declaration spoke volumes to Min Gyu, a profound statement that resonated with his years of experience as a teacher. Even now, as he neared the Peak of Martial strength in the twilight of his life, he learned more about the Dao with each passing day, but still he had no words to describe it. The Dao was a complex and ineffable affair, or at least that was how he saw it until recently, because he had never met someone who could explain it to young Rain’s satisfaction. Were this even a single year ago, Min Gyu would have shook his head at the boy’s ambitious statement and said he demanded too much, for the Dao was not something so easily taught. Instead, he saw the Dao as a personal journey, something to be navigated without instruction and experienced firsthand with as few preconceived notions as possible, for only then could one truly sense the Dao in its natural form. To put it plainly, a Teacher or Mentor could help prepare someone to tread the Martial Path, but the student or Disciple must tread their Path alone. For decades, his teaching methods focused on enabling a student to do just that, by putting them through trials and training exercises that forced them to rely on Chi skills to progress. Young Rain’s obstacle courses were a perfect example of Min Gyu’s line of thinking, as most Martial Warriors were unable to complete the course without relying on Chi to Lighten, Reinforce, Stabilize, and more. With enough practice and repetition, knowledge and understanding would eventually follow, or so Min Gyu believed, but now he knew better.

Practice makes perfect was the popular adage, but this was undoubtedly untrue. Perfect practice makes perfect, but how was one to practice something perfectly before achieving perfection? During his wedding with Yan, Young Rain was able to complete an obstacle course with a shattered Core, but how many of the young Martial Warriors who tried it afterwards could do the same? Not many, for even with the advantage of Chi and a Martial Warrior’s physiques, most of those average Warriors couldn’t even complete the course every time they ran it, and many of his peers were unable to flawlessly complete the course like Rain had, yet even Min Gyu himself failed to grasp the significance of this accomplishment until now. Why was Rain able to complete the course flawlessly every time? Because he valued knowledge and understanding first, so even though it was his first time running through it, he stopped to study the course, measure the timings, and put together a plan before running through it, and thus was better prepared than someone wholly reliant upon instinct and reflex to navigate through the various obstacles in their path.

A lesson every Martial Warrior would eventually need to learn, to think ten moves in advance when fighting a foe of similar speed and strength, a lesson which applied to more than just chess, battle, and obstacle courses. Because young Rain valued knowledge and understanding so highly, he was able to progress by leaps and bounds as he went beyond the known limits of his Chi skills, and there was no better example than his development of Panacea. This was a secret guarded so carefully even Min Gyu had been unaware of its existence until now, but after recovering from his strenuous battle against Huanhuzi’s pirate fleet and rejoining the waking world once more, young Rain revealed the origins of this newfangled Healing method to Min Gyu and personally taught Kyung and his students how to utilize it. The cat was out of the bag, as young Rain so confusingly put it, and while he prioritized teaching his own people first, he shared his teaching methods and sent Healers far and wide to spread knowledge of Panacea to as many soldiers of the Empire as he could.

Seeing young Rain at work put Min Gyu’s pride as a teacher to shame, for though his process was similar to Min Gyu’s own methods, the results were staggering to behold. Starting with instinct before pursuing understanding by removing a healthy tooth and observing the Healing process was so simple and brilliant, but going through with it was daunting even to Min Gyu. Many of the once-eager students were less than enthused after seeing fiery young Mila forcibly wrench a tooth out of poor Kyung’s mouth with a devilish grin, as even Min Gyu’s stoic grandson couldn’t help but cry out from the pain. His students fared far worse, but even pulling a hundred teeth would be worth the reward, though most were well-motivated enough to master the skill after less than ten tries. This startling rate of success was not because his students were talented, but because young Rain’s understanding of the skill was in-depth and comprehensive enough for him to explain Panacea in simple terms. From bone marrow to blood production to Panacea creation, he outlined and explained every step of the process beforehand and demanded his students be able to do the same, holding them to a higher standard of understanding than Min Gyu ever cared for, and the results spoke for themselves.

Having been present for the lessons, Min Gyu’s pride was spared the shame of being publicly taught by the younger generation, and Kyung later helped him remove a tooth to observe the process himself. One tooth was all it took for him to learn the skill and apply it with ease, and he marvelled at the wonders of this newfangled Chi skill. Small wonder young Rain was able to earn himself the title of ‘Undying Savage’, though much like the business with the obstacle course, his mastery was beyond what most could compare to. Simply stimulating the production of Panacea was enough to Heal most injuries if given enough time, but to replicate young Rain’s feats of reattaching limbs or rapidly recovering from life-threatening injuries required a finer touch and comprehensive understanding of the human body. From the way young Rain described it, he had a method of categorizing his own injuries and Healed them in the most efficient and effective manner possible in order to keep himself in fighting form. Flesh wounds and bruises would go untreated as he prioritized life-threatening injuries such as severed arteries or broken bones, taking his adage of ‘give flesh, break bone’ to the extreme.

Triage for the human body, categorized by a colour system to indicate the severity of injuries, a system young Rain developed at the tender age of seventeen. A feat only possible because he valued knowledge so highly, and Min Gyu was quickly coming around to the boy’s line of thinking. How else to explain why the Medical Saint could Cloud-Step so much faster than Min Gyu? Or why Bai Qi was able to push the limits of Reinforcement and Amplification further than even the Earth-Blessed Eccentric Gam could match? Or why young Rain’s imitation of the Mountain Collapsing Stomp fell vastly short when compared to Mitsue Juichi’s signature skill? Because the Medical Saint, Bai Qi, and Mitsue Juichi all possessed a deeper understanding of those respective Chi skills. In contrast, Min Gyu’s understanding was sorely lacking in these fundamental skills, while his mastery of Lightening had been achieved through dire need and desperation. That was what he’d been lacking all this time, that inner motivation to push ever onwards towards the Peak of Martial Strength. Hard work, innate talent, and the blessings of Insight brought him this far along his Path, but after being crippled by the Butcher of Kunlun all those years ago, Min Gyu never recovered the compulsive impulse to improve he possessed in his youth, the thirst for challenge which drove him to become the Sanguine Tempest in the first place.

Except now he discovered that incentive once again, at a hundred and twelve years young, all thanks to his daily discussions with young Rain and the knowledgeable monks of the Brotherhood.

Sheltered from the glaring sun overhead by a silken parasol, the youthful Legate lounged in Yan’s embrace as if they were in a private room rather than sitting in plain sight by the Medical Saint’s herb garden with company around. The married couple had grown bold of late, as young Rain cared not for matters of face and propriety when it came to friends and family, and Yan was so smitten with her husband that she followed suit without question. Then again, the girl was no stranger to scandal herself, given the tight, hip-hugging leggings she favoured which inspired many a Warrior woman to follow suit, and even dutiful Mila was wont to lay beside her husband when together here in the garden. Still, brazen and immoral though their antics might be, it was heartwarming to see just how in love this shameless husband, wife, and wife trio could be as Rain and Yan quietly contested for the ‘burden’ of holding the parasol in a saccharine display of silly affection. With Banjo acting as a back rest for Yan and Aurie lying in young Rain’s arms similar to how he lay in Yan’s, they made for a charming family portrait as they snuggled in broad daylight, with the quin pups, rabbits, and Guardian Turtle ambling about them in demand for attention. Li Song sat nearby with Princess, Baloo, and the other two wildcats between them, while the Spiritual Panda Tai Shan sat and ate on the other side, cradling Guai-Guai while keeping a watchful eye on lazy Rakshasa across the garden. This had become their daily routine now, idling their afternoons away in this bamboo grove to hide the fact that they were all taking medicinal baths to temper their bodies and reinforce their physiques, with Rain accompanying them to reward Mei Lin for all her hard work.

Great effort for marginal gains, that was how Rain described the efficacy of the Medical Saint’s Body Tempering baths, giving no face to his teacher or to Taiyi Zhushen’s life’s work. That being said, the boy wasn’t exactly wrong, not because it wasn’t worth tempering one’s body, but because the sheer cost of ingredients was unthinkable to anyone besides the Medical Saint, who’d devised a method to cultivate an entire garden full of priceless Spiritual Plants. Thirty days of tempering was required to complete the process, meaning thirty sets of identical ingredients, the cost of which could beggar even the most prosperous of Clans and Factions before the Medical Saint’s breakthrough discovery. Many would kill and die to learn the Medical Saint’s process, but according to the esteemed Divinity, whose lofty status was still a tightly guarded secret, even if others knew his methods, they would not be able to replicate his success, a claim Min Gyu was reluctant to believe given how quickly and effortlessly the Medical Saint’s garden grew. Though only having been privy to this secret for a short time, Min Gyu had witnessed the garden flourishing before his eyes as he visited each day for his Body Tempering bath, their growth so quick it belied belief. Six weeks from seed to fully matured Spiritual Plant, that was the time frame it took to grow the precious ingredients necessary to refine a Martial Warrior’s physique, with enough each harvest for five full treatments.

For Yan and Mila to benefit from these Body Tempering baths was only right, because not only were they young Rain’s wives, but they were also both supremely talented young Warriors. Akanai, Husolt, Sarnai, Alsantset, and Charok had already completed their tempering during Rain’s convalescence following the withdrawal from the second line, with Baatar ceding his place so his family could benefit, but rather than partake in the second round of baths, it was Kyung, Min Gyu, and Li Song taking up the remaining three spots after Yan and Mila. The half-wolf claimed he was too busy to slip away for several hours each day, and though there might be some truth to the statement, Min Gyu was still grateful to receive this blessed opportunity, and doubly grateful it had been provided to his grandson as well. The Bekhai were a coarse and unrefined bunch, but they truly treated Kyung and Min Gyu like family, which was more than Min Gyu’s blood relatives had ever cared to do. More importantly, the Behkai did not discriminate against Kyung which meant he might have a happy future in store for him, even though he stubbornly refused the offer to remove his slave Oaths once and for all.

The silly boy was currently in the midst of his bath, with his health being monitored by the Medical Saint while sweet Mei Lin did the same for Mila. Even though they’d learned that shattering a Martial Warrior’s Core would remove their Oaths and that Body Tempering could help restore it, Kyung adamantly refused to go through with the process because he didn’t want to be weakened in this time of war. A noble sentiment, if foolish, considering his Martial skills would not decline after going through Core Creation a second time, though he would lose the benefits of his Aura, Natal Palace, and Domain until he was able to replicate his previous attainments, but seeing how Li Song was able to reclaim her place as an Expert of the Empire within a matter of days with help from the Body Tempering baths, Kyung might well have been back to full strength by now, save for the loss of his sabre. The Bekhai even generously offered to replace his weapon without being asked to, but still the stubborn boy refused, and though Min Gyu could have commanded him to go through with it, that would be a betrayal of his grandson’s trust. Kyung so rarely exerted his free will, it seemed wrong to go against his decision even if it was for his own good.

