No matter. Min Gyu’s debt to the Bekhai was so great, adding another set of Body Tempering ingredients would make little difference at this point, so Kyung would always have the means to regain his freedom in the future. Warmed and relaxed after his hot, Body Tempering bath, he sank into his wicker chair with a cup of river-cooled barley tea in hand, a light, refreshing beverage after a soothing, relaxing experience. Some years ago, the Medical Saint treated Min Gyu’s crippled leg and resolved the source of constant pain he’d endured for so many decades, but age had left him with a bevy of minor aches and pains that were so negligible he barely even noticed them, but now they were so conspicuous in their absence. For the first time in recent memory, his body was entirely without pain or discomfort, a novel sensation that left him feeling fifty years younger. Better perhaps, as a lifetime of battle and warfare left him with scars and injuries aplenty, but those too had been healed in the process of Tempering his body. His ankles no longer swelled after a few hours of standing, his joints no longer ached when the air grew humid, and his fingers were slender and uniform again, instead of gnarled and arthritic from age and countless sprains and breakages. He was stronger too, though not to the extent of accidentally breaking things by exerting too much strength like young Mila once experienced, but enough to notice a difference when opening heavy doors or moving training equipment.

All minor benefits in the grand scheme of things, and even when the process was complete, he wouldn’t be able to hurl fully-laden wagons or block blades with raw strength and bare flesh alone, as was Taiyi Zhushen’s dream, but the Medical Saint and young Rain both believed it was not the process which was lacking, but rather the human body itself. In order to Temper one’s physique to such extreme measures, one could not simply rely on Heavenly Energy to work without guidance, as it could only improve upon the baseline of what was already there. Any specific, unnatural or supernatural changes needed to be guided by Intent, meaning in order to truly Temper one’s physique to ward off blades and arrows both, one would have to take control of the Energy of the Heavens and bend it to their will.

Or, put more simply, in order to truly Temper one’s physique, one would have to at least touch upon the barrier to True Divinity. Ancestral Beasts were one such example, which explained their innate physical strength and durability, and powerful Spiritual Beasts another. This explained why so many half-beast Martial Warriors possessed superior innate strength, because they inherited a powerful physique from their Ancestral Beast parent which the Energy of the Heavens could improve upon. That being said, even young Rain wasn’t sure how to properly Temper his physique to the standards set by Taiyi Zhushen, and he’d successfully Refined his body into a Spiritual Heart, a contradiction which tormented the poor boy to no end.

Regardless of the ‘lacklustre’ benefits of Body Tempering, Min Gyu was grateful for the opportunity, as it left him feeling younger and spryer than he could remember. When was the last time he stood up without his knees cracking? Or he straightened his back without a twinge of pain? His shoulders were loose and light, his steps sure and steady, and his mind and memory now razor sharp instead of muddled and jumbled like usual. The Body Tempering baths had rejuvenated his body and mind, but it also revitalized him in a way he never would have thought possible, filling him with the energy of a man half his age and a lust for life like never before. The Fox Divinity had stirred up long forgotten feelings of lust in him of late, but now, the fires of desire burned hot once more, galvanizing him to do more than just admire her from afar. Thankfully, the wisdom of age prevailed over the libido of youth and Min Gyu managed to rein in his desires and refrain from making a fool out of himself, though others had caught onto his roving eye more often than he would like.

Especially Eun, who teased him mercilessly about it in private, a fine woman he would have made a proper wife of were he thirty years younger. Even though he felt like he could live for another fifty years without fail, who knew if these Body Tempering baths or even the daily use of Panacea could extend his life like young Rain theorized. The boy was a treasure trove of half-baked ideas, ones that sounded so close to logical it made it difficult to refute his ‘theories’. Mostly because no one knew enough to dispute him, not even himself, with his talk of aging organs deteriorating due to declining replication, which made no sense given how organs didn’t replicate. The boy tried to explain it by likening it to blood and panacea and claiming that even a wholly healthy body was in a constant state of repair and renewal, which caused degradation over time due to minor mistakes in the restoration process. A novel idea, but one difficult to prove or disprove, so Min Gyu could only take it on faith that taking an hour each day to create Panacea without reason would bear fruit in the long run.

Perfunctory as most of young Rain’s ideas might be, Min Gyu made full use of these afternoon outings to pick the boy’s mind in private, away from the watchful eyes of Bekhai Khishigs, Death Corps Guards, Royal Guardians, and the ilk, which was where the aforementioned quote of simple explanations had come from, during a discussion of Elemental Blessings.

“I believe the key,” young Rain began, smirking in the face of Yan’s playful glower as he wiggled the parasol in a victorious flourish, “Is to treat an Elemental Blessing like any other natural force.” This was in answer to Min Gyu’s question of how to better understand the Blessing of Air, for it was clear young Rain’s had reached an unparalleled level of mastery in the Blessing of Water. Brother Baatar described it as breath-taking to behold, his plain and simple re-telling of events so riveting his audience had no time to even breathe. The boy rose out of the sea atop a swirling pillar of water to stare down at his Demonic foes with contempt and disdain. The Energy of the Heavens seethed, the currents churned, and the boy waved his hand as the ship came apart under Baatar’s feet, and when he surfaced amidst his water-logged comrades, the Demons were no more and the surviving pirates fast fleeing for the depths of the Azure sea.

A tale which made young Rain’s lacklustre answer all that more frustrating, as it said little and meant much, while amounting to nothing of note in the end. Seeing Min Gyu’s displeasure, the boy’s Aura and expression flashed with amusement before he reined it back in, even sitting up with a wince to show he was taking this discussion more seriously. A touch of remorse coursed through Min Gyu as he remembered the boy was still in recovery, suffering not only from recovering injuries and overwhelming exhaustion, but also a massive overuse of Chi which left him with a throbbing, pounding headache that still persisted even though he’d been awake for an entire ten days now. Leaning over to help the boy up, Min Gyu pulled Aurie’s foot and slid the wildcat down so he was resting on the boy’s belly rather than chest. Slack and trusting as ever, the beast allowed Min Gyu to move him about without protest, even wiggling his hindquarters against the grass in a blatant enticement for a belly rub. Unable to resist, Min Gyu got out of his chair and knelt down to sink his fingers into Aurie’s flabby belly, a move which he would have considered twice before his Body Tempering baths.

Small blessings indeed. Oh how he smiled as the beast rumbled in delight, his feline eyes turning moon shaped in a display of relaxed contentment, a sight which warmed the heart and reminded Min Gyu just how much he had to be grateful for.

Massaging the spoiled wildcat’s cheeks, young Rain flashed an impertinent grin that Min Gyu mirrored on reflex, neither one able to contain their delight in the face of Aurie’s adorable antics. Clearing his throat, the boy got back onto the topic at hand and explained his thought process on Elemental Blessings as Min Gyu returned to his seat. “Back when I was still recovering from my shattered Core,” Rain began, once again intending to explain himself with a long and convoluted personal anecdote, “But well enough to spar and fight, I was, for all intents and purposes, a commoner without access to Chi. As such, I focused heavily on improving my physical fitness and perfecting the Forms, since there wasn’t much else I could train in. One night, I asked Dad to spar, and he was happy to oblige, even though I must have been moving slower than a snail to his perspective.”

Min Gyu remembered the night well, a private, family feast to celebrate young Mila’s admittance to the Empire’s Roll of Experts after forming her Natal Palace that same afternoon. The boy had moved slowly yes, but with a focused efficiency that few could match, an advantage which paid off in spades now that he was wholly recovered. The boy himself didn’t see the improvements, but it was clear to anyone who watched him spar with the greatest talents of his generation. Gerel, Kyung, Da’in, Zian, and Ishin Ken-Shibu were still able to defeat him in a match of pure swordsmanship, but young Rain still had his Mountain Collapsing Stomp, Spiritual Rifle, Blessing of Water, and several other superlative skills held in reserve, all of which placed him firmly at the forefront of anyone under forty, if not older. There was no point saying as much though, as the boy was never one to bask in his successes. A mixed blessing considering it left him teetering on the edge of imbalance, yet kept him from getting overconfident from his admittedly peerless talent. Of course, Min Gyu still meant to try and boost the boy’s spirits, saying, “I remember the night in question, as I watched the spar from my bedroom window. You fought well and demonstrated an advanced understanding of the Forms, and while you were physically weak enough to struggle against even the lowliest Martial Warrior, I believe that at the time, there was not a single common human alive that was capable of defeating you in single combat.”

“Thanks,” Rain replied, smiling as he squirmed away from Yan’s unseen pinch, one meant to punish him for emanating an Aura so self-deprecating about a point of pride, “But it’s hardly impressive considering commoners only recently started training in the ways of war. Being stronger than every farmer, tradesman, and labourer in the world is like taking pride in being the fattest sheep in the herd, since you’re still destined for the cooking pot when the shepherd gets hungry.” The boy wasn’t wrong, but there was no need to put himself down so much anymore, especially in light of his record of achievements, but Falling Rain held himself to impossibly strict standards for reasons known only to himself. Not even little Mei Lin could wheedle that secret out of him, to say nothing of Mila or Yan, but Rain’s thirst for power clearly stemmed from more than just fear and trauma, that much was certain. “Anyway,” he continued, still massaging the supine wildcat’s cheeks, “The important part is what Dad told me afterwards. He said I demonstrated ‘a passable grasp of opposing forces’, which is something that really stuck with me since then. A push-pull interaction, he said, the sort that exists in almost every action we take, or as someone wiser than me once said, ‘for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction’.”

Succinctly put, and Min Gyu saw the effect it had on both Yan and Li Song as they considered the truth behind Rain’s statement, his simple words once again concealing a profound truth. Yan herself had been struggling for some time with a concept of her own devising, of making wind heavy, but light, or fast and slow at the same time, so she paid close attention to this topic of discussion. Though Min Gyu knew she was on the right track, he lacked the ability to guide her to the truth as she perceived it without unduly affecting her perspective. Thus, he could only sit back and watch as she fumbled along the Path in search of comprehension towards a concept she touched upon briefly with her creation of the Forest Clearing Gale, a fact she herself had yet to realize. Time and time again, he tried to remind her that her Blessing was of Air, not Wind, but the words had yet to wholly sink in. She understood what he meant, but was a hair’s breadth short of true comprehension. A minor difference on the surface, but the Heavens were fickle and not so easily tamed.

“During the battle with Huanhuzi’s pirates,” Rain continued, his eyes taking on a distant gaze as he immersed himself in the memory, still searching for answers to questions he wasn’t entirely sure how to ask, “I had something of an epiphany when I realized the concept of opposing forces fits perfectly in line with Elemental Blessings.”

“...How so?”

Yan’s question came a beat later, once it became clear young Rain was waiting to continue, but Min Gyu was already lost in thought. “Of course, of course,” he muttered, stroking his beard before remembering it had still yet to dry. “Little Mila said that the Primal Blessings represent a myriad of unique forces broken down into four, broad categories relating to the Elements themselves, and thus the secret to utilizing those Blessings is to understand the interaction between those forces themselves.” Absently frowning as he came across a problem, he vocalized it before he thought better of it. “But a Primal Blessing only offers us control of one of those fundamental forces, so how are we to utilize its opposing force?”

