“Easily,” Rain replied, without pride or pretension, giving no face with his words yet also meaning no offence. “You are thinking of opposing forces as two separate entities, like push and pull, but if you need to oppose a force pushing left and cannot pull, you can always just push right instead.”

A jolt of comprehension sent Min Gyu reeling in excitement, the sheer simplicity of the statement unravelling the Dao before his very eyes. None of this knowledge was exactly new to him, as he’d known and used the same concepts before. Understanding how to utilize opposing forces was a fundamental skill in Martial combat, enabling one to strike harder, move faster, jump higher, and more, but he’d never thought to apply this to the Blessing of Air, not consciously of course. His battle-fan made full use of this very concept though, a fact he’d overlooked until now, as the rotating blades created a pressure differential which drew in air and set it to moving in a certain direction. That was the fundamental force of the Blessing of Air, pressure, for it was this differing pressure which created the movement of Wind. Again, something he’d known all along, yet never really consciously acknowledged and took advantage of.

Though he himself stood upon the cusp of Insight, Min Gyu held back to observe his granddaughter and possibly help her along as well, because now that he knew which direction to take, he could easily find his way back there again. As for Yan, she was still lost in the discussion, understanding every word being said but lacking the vital comprehension to put together what it all meant. Once she put it all together, she would progress by leaps and bounds, but only if she could find the right direction to take her next step. He couldn’t come right out and tell her that pressure was the defining force, because that might lead her to an erroneous conclusion, for there were many different types of pressure, and the Blessing of Air utilized a very specific variety. It wasn’t pressure in the sense of pushing down on an object, or even pressure from pushing in on all sides, but rather the pressure of filling a void and righting an imbalance in the world around them. Air was everywhere, invisible and largely intangible as well, but that could change under the right conditions. It could be something as simple as waving a hand or changing in elevation, but it could also become vastly more complex. In the same vein, wind was merely the movement of air, but one could not push or pull air to move it, yet still it moved all the same.

All things Yan knew, but how could he explain all of this and more to her in a way she would understand?

While Min Gyu mentally grappled with this difficult dilemma, young Rain ran headlong into the fray. “Think about your Insights Yan,” he said, gesturing at the bamboo grove around them. “The ones you had meditating out there. Tell me about them again, just so you can hear them out loud in your own words.”

Not the worst suggestion he could have made, so Min Gyu sat and watched as Yan gathered her thoughts and gave voice to her Insights. “I remember hearing whispers,” she began, leaning into her husband’s embrace while wistfully glancing at the grove around her, which had since denied her any further Insights to help her along her Path. “There were no words, but there was a message there, one hidden within the twists and turns of the bamboo grove.” Were Min Gyu to close his eyes and focus intently, he could hear the same message, one he’d heard since Awakening to the Blessing of Air and had yet to wholly decipher. A whistle here, a hum there, and a howl every now and then that whispered secrets of the Dao to anyone who would listen, but alas, he lacked the ability to comprehend its message.

“What did it say?”

“...I’m not sure,” Yan replied, but there was an unmistakable hesitance to her answer.

“Tell us anyways.” Squeezing her hand in a show of support, Rain added, “Don’t worry about being right or wrong, just repeat what you heard and perceived. Maybe the answer will become clear then, or maybe not, but there’s no harm in trying.”

Not entirely true, but Rain was either ignorant of or cared not for the risks. The same could be said of Yan, it seemed, wholly trusting her husband even as Min Gyu struggled with the decision of whether or not to allow this discussion to continue, but the girl’s next words took his breath away. “One cannot tame the wind,” she whispered, a statement which once again resonated deeply with Min Gyu’s personal experience, another truth he’d known, but never put into words. “One can only shape the setting so the wind chooses to follow your will. The wind is capricious and untamed, wild and unrestrained, yet even the wind has rules it must abide by, the rules of Heaven put down by the Mother Above. There is a logic to the wind, a pattern one can unravel with enough time, knowledge, and study, but I still can’t make heads or tails of it, not really.” Lifting a particularly adorable and affectionate quin pup that was hopping about for attention, Yan kissed the sweet beast and held it close as she drew her battle fan and set it to twirling about. After a few spins, she fanned it left and right instead, catching the wind in different ways before cutting clean through it with the blade. “Light as a feather,” she said, before putting her weapon away with a sigh, “And yet also heavy as a mountain at the same time. That’s the answer I arrived at, but one I cannot make heads or tails of just yet.”

Nor could Min Gyu, as he had no idea what the girl was going on about, her perspective too wildly different from his own.

Rain however, attacked the problem without even considering the implications, saying, “Let’s focus on the logic part, about the rules the wind must follow. You say you cannot make heads or tails of it, so why don’t we start small. You mentioned the wind moving through the twists and turns of the bamboo grove. Why?”

“...What do you mean why?” Yan asked, echoing Min Gyu’s unspoken thoughts.

“Why does the wind loop in and around the bamboo stalks through varying different paths?” Smiling as if he already knew the answer, Rain continued, “Why does it not simply take the single path of least resistance, like water would? Or billow out to affect everything within reach like fire? Or settle down and come to a halt like earth? What makes wind behave the way it does?”

With a frown that mirrored Min Gyu’s, Yan pursed her lips and scowled at her too-smug husband. “How should I know?”

“Guess.” Gesturing broadly at the air around them, Rain said, “I believe you already know the answer, or at least part of it, you just haven’t figured out that you know it. Let’s simplify the question: wind is simply the movment of air, so why does air move?”

Too direct and on the nose, literally placing the answer before Yan’s eyes and forcing her to accept his truth, but Min Gyu could only suppress his sigh as she answered, “A difference in pressure.”

“Exactly.”

“Stop.” Stepping in before Rain could say anything else, Min Gyu shook his head and said, “This discussion cannot continue. You are too bold and too direct, unaware of the pitfalls that lay before you. One wrong word could send Yan down a dead-end path, one that could set her progress back by decades when she finally realizes the error of her ways. You must tread lightly when guiding others along the Dao, because even if you believe your view is correct, it may or may not align with her perspective of the Dao, which is of the utmost importance when it comes to the Martial Path. The laws set down by the Mother Above are absolute, but Martial Warriors are her Chosen children and thus granted the authority to skirt them when necessary, with suitable training, Insight, and hard work of course.”

“Huh.” Tilting his head in thought, Rain repeated Min Gyu’s words regarding the laws of the world before furrowing his brow in disagreement. “No, we can’t skirt the laws of the world. Martial Warriors are beholden to them the same as any other, it’s just that we are more capable than commoners. It’s like saying a tree cannot be uprooted because it is too heavy, but then along comes someone who puts together a lever and pulley system, then topples the tree in an afternoon’s work. It wasn’t that it was impossible to uproot the tree, but rather the original group lacked the proper knowledge to do so.”

Opening his mouth to argue the statement, Min Gyu’s jaw immediately clicked shut as he realized the boy was right. In his eyes, Chi was not magic, but rather a tool to be used, one unavailable to commoners without a Core. It was this mindset with which he approached the Dao, because as he stated earlier in a roundabout manner, his goal was to understand the Dao well enough to explain it so anyone could understand. A lofty pursuit indeed, one he shared with the Brotherhood, and given his staggering progress, one could hardly argue against his success. “But what if you lead her wrong?” Min Gyu asked, and even he felt his concern sounded hollow and defeated.

“I’m of the opinion that we cannot be afraid to make mistakes.” A controversial statement coming from a man who behaved so mercilessly towards himself for even the slightest of errors, but the irony of Rain’s statement escaped him. “We learn more from mistakes and failures than from success and victory, because at least then we can figure out what we did wrong. You can win and succeed while still being wrong, but if you never realize the error of your ways, then you will be wrong for the rest of your life. Better to make mistakes early and correct them before they become ingrained into habit, so now is the time to take risks, while we still have a chance to recover. Much like the Brotherhood’s views on the Right View, if we can prove our view wrong, then we simply need to adjust what we define as the Right View accordingly, and the same goes for the Dao. Trial and error is how we learn, so mistakes are inevitable, but such is the price of success.” Glancing at Yan with love and remorse in his eyes, Rain added, “Of course, the decision is yours, as this affects you most of all. If you agree with Grandpa Du, then I’ll stop talking and move on to another topic, no hard feelings.”

And the strangest thing was, he meant it. The boy thought he was right, believed it with all his heart, but if Yan disagreed, then he would accept it and continue to help her in whatever way he could. A simple thing to say, but difficult to do, and it showed the depths of his love for her, for he weighed her opinion in matters as equal or perhaps even higher than his own.

“I think,” Yan began, after pondering the matter for long seconds, “That Rain’s questions were leading me towards the right answers, but I’m not sure if they’re right, or if I just wanted it to be right.” Shrugging, she looked to Min Gyu and said, “I know you’re worried about me and only want me to succeed, but I think Rain makes some good points about the Dao and the Empire’s approach to the Martial Path. It’s not that the Dao is impossible to explain simply, only that no one has succeeded to date. If anyone can do it, I think it would be Rain, and I would like to continue with this discussion. However, as your terminal Disciple, I also respect your wisdom and teachings, so if you believe otherwise, then I will abide by your decision.” Smiling, she added, “It’s fine either way. I already have plenty to think on as is, so its up to you, Grandpa.”

What she left unspoken was that even if Rain led her wrong, she would not blame him, the same if Min Gyu himself were to make a mistake and choose wrongly here. How strange for her to treat her Dao in so lackadaisical a manner, utterly unconcerned with whether she would reach the Peak in good time. No, not unconcerned, but confident she would arrive there no matter the Path she took, because she did not intend to stop until she succeeded. That was the drive of youth Min Gyu had long since lost, the zeal and ambition that would carry her far, and he could not help but swell with pride at his dutiful and dauntless grand-daughter. “If you feel you are on the correct Path, then you should see this through to the end.” Smiling as he shook his head, he added, “And even if you are both wrong, with your talents and hard work, it should only take a little more effort to correct your errors. Go ahead then.”

“Okay then. Where were we? Oh right, pressure.” Lighting up in excitement, Rain turned to Yan and cupped his hands. “Water is a liquid that conforms to the shape of its container,” he said, cupping his hands summoning Water Chi into them for her to see. “It settles to the lowest possible point into all the nooks and crannies, where it will remain without interference from outside forces. Not so with Air.” Spreading his hands apart and letting the Water Chi dissipate into nothingness, he gestured all around and said, “Air, on the other hand, will disperse to fill every space in a container. Take an empty water skin that’s flattened, and you can say it’s full of air, but the same can be said if you blow into it until it’s bursting at the seams. In the latter scenario, there’s more air, but there is still air in the flattened water skin, just less. Yet when you stop blowing into the water skin, it deflates back to its original state unless you physically block the air from escaping. Why?”

