Sitting down with his legs crossed, Jake felt his entire body and the blood flowing within it. He felt himself connect with the flow as he took hold of the blood. Controlled it. Raising a hand, Jake pricked a small hole in his finger as he focused on Blood of the Malefic Viper.

A droplet fell onto the floor and instantly began sizzling due to its acidic properties. Jake had consumed plenty of acids, after all, making his blood quite good at corroding all things, living or inanimate.

Moving his hand slightly to the side, another droplet fell down beside the first one, sizzling just the same for a while before expending its energy. Jake kept sitting there, letting drops of blood fall for another half an hour, until suddenly, a drop fell that felt slightly different from all those prior.

It hit the floor and splattered just like all the others... but there was no sizzling sound. No corrosion at all. Jake opened his eyes and looked at the drop of blood, a small smile forming on his lips as a notification appeared before his eyes.

[Blood of the Malefic Viper (Legendary --> Legendary)] – The blood of the Malefic Viper is a toxin more deadly than most poisons and the lifeblood of an immortal being. Allows the Alchemist to infuse their blood with energy to stimulate its inherent toxicity, imitating their Patron and even carrying traces of the True Blood of the Malefic One within. The nature of the poison can be determined by the alchemist, limited only by your Records. Allows your blood to carry more energy than usual, including vital energy, passively speeding up regeneration. This effect is further amplified when consuming a health potion or other sources of beneficial vital energy. The blood’s toxicity level is based primarily on Vitality and Wisdom but receives an increase from all physical stats. Increase in natural regeneration based on total health pool. Passively provides 9 Vitality per level in Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper (C-grade variant). May your blood be forever the bane of all that wishes you harm, the catalyst of your creations, and that which brings you eternal life.

Jake briefly skimmed the notification and noticed a few changes here and there, many of which only appeared cosmetic in nature. The only genuine change was exactly what Jake had been aiming for... the ability to control what toxins he transformed his blood into. The skill also acknowledged his understanding that Jake didn’t infuse his mana to turn it toxic, but merely stimulated the toxicity already dormant within his blood.

It appeared like a small change, but Jake knew it was a big qualitative leap. It had progressed his ability to control his blood by a fair deal, and he also subtly felt like a direction for the mythical upgrade had been set. However, those were all considerations for later.

For now, Jake had three important things to do. The first one was to be happy about his gains, which even included two nice levels – him getting two likely because he was already close to one before this upgrade.

’DING!’ Profession: [Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper] has reached level 314 - Stat points allocated, +35 Free Points

’DING!’ Race: [Human (C)] has reached level 317 - Stat points allocated, +45 Free Points

’DING!’ Profession: [Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper] has reached level 315 - Stat points allocated, +35 Free Points

The second thing Jake really had to do was stop himself from nodding off, as he was absolutely exhausted and out of energy. That’s to say, he really needed a good nap to recover in order to do the third important thing properly.

This upgrade to Blood of the Malefic Viper, as well as his recent hunting trip, had inspired Jake a bit... and seeing he’d just upgraded one Malefic Viper Legacy skill and even his melee fighting skill.

Well, let’s just say Jake planned on getting his second skill upgrade containing the word Fangs soon.
