A table and chairs appeared in what was left of the bisected room. “Take a seat and let me explain the offer. My husband and I can offer you a place in a guild on the next world over. They have several places on several worlds. Gavle’s Good Guilders recently promoted itself to a Tier 15 guild and is quite respectable. You also don’t need to have an answer immediately. We are willing to let you come over to Lily and see more of the Empire, and we’ll even pay for your return to Soerilia if you want. I’m also happy to answer any questions you have.”

“Why me?” Yosef felt it was an obvious but important question.

“Your inspiration and creation of a Concept without help is fairly impressive. Impressive enough that neither me nor my husband are willing to just let you linger on a world too small to contain you without at least making the offer. While Soerilia should be more aware of the greater Empire in about five years, it’s well behind schedule, and is more likely to be twenty to thirty years before it’s properly integrated, with full access to proper resources. Waiting that long for a mortal like yourself would be inopportune, for reasons I’m sure you don’t need explained to you.”

“So I’m rare?”

“That depends on your scale. Creating your Concept at Tier 4 is impressive, but not particularly rare. Developing one through an inspiration, practically blind? Substantially more impressive, though there are undoubtedly hundreds more throughout the Empire who have done much the same this very year. That still puts you as quite the rare talent, and leaving you to languish on Soerilia would be doing you a disservice.”

Yosef was sure there were dozens of things he didn’t understand, but the comment about languishing clicked with him. If he lost his momentum, it would be hard to get started again.

If he truly wanted immortality, he needed to grasp this opportunity with both hands.

“And I can come back?”

Liz nodded. “There is a teleporter between worlds that you can take. Think of it like a monthly train.”

Yosef let his mind race before focusing on a question that had been bugging him. “I can’t feel you in my spiritual sense, or… any other way. Why is that?”

Liz smiled, and the bird laughed at him, its wings fluttering. “Or with your Talent, perhaps? I’m Tier 26, Mr. Yosef. I’m certainly capable of concealing my spirit from casual onlookers, and it’s a skill you would do well to learn yourself.”

Yosef understood that he had been one of the forerunners of the world, and he hadn’t encountered too many people stronger than himself. He also understood the temptation dangled in front of him.

“So long as I can return, I’m willing to take a look.”

The woman stood. “Good. Let's get going then.”

“The other guy is already done talking?”

The woman laughed. “Not even close, but he’s ready to see another world.”

It was the fastest fifteen minutes of his life, but Yosef had a bag of his belongings and a few boxes of ammunition tucked under an arm as he stood on a swirling plate.

One bout of dizziness later, he was standing on a new world, and he could, from his first breath, feel that this world was stronger than Soerilia but weaker than his current self.

They set him up in a hotel and gave him a phone that was able to translate for him, which let him explore the city around him.

Magic. Magic was everywhere and everyone had it to greater or lesser degrees. He tried not to gawk too hard at the flying cars or levitating trains or soaring architecture and flying lights, but he got the distinct sense that he failed.

Yosef wondered if Soerilia would be like this in another decade, and he couldn’t help but be excited to see what his people could do with such power and resources.

The next morning, just after his breakfast of new and interesting foods, he met with the guild representatives. They had to talk using the phone thing as a translator, but they managed to talk about the guild and what it could offer him.

The contract was surprisingly easy to read for what it was, though he quickly learned that there were lots of layers of nuance he would never have the chance to understand. Part of it was the language barrier, as it had been translated into his native language from ‘Empire Common,’ but he could fairly easily select individual words, sentences, or clauses to get additional context and definitions which helped. Thankfully it didn’t seem too bad? He was being sponsored, which meant there was fairly little in the way of personal demands. He was expected to help the guild ‘in a suitable manner’ as a Tier 5, but in return, he would be provided ‘adequate opportunity’ to reach Tier 15, including ‘regular and reasonable’ access to rifts.

The contract was clearly meant for fresh recruits, but the recruiter said it didn’t really change things, as he would be getting the beginner package either way, as there was so much he didn’t know.

Which is really what made his choice for him. There was a wider new world and there were too many things he didn’t know. Having a guild that could back him up and explain things to him was exactly what he needed.

The rest of the day was spent going over various offers from other guilds, but Yosef was pretty sure he would take up the original offer. They had been the straightest with him, and he got a good feeling from the recruiter.

When he met up with the representative from Gavle’s Good Guilders, the man shook his hand and said, “Welcome to both the Empire and the Guild Yosef. You won’t regret this.”
