Despite the results, Yosef just couldn’t shake the feeling that something was… wrong.

It was getting worse, too. These days, he could hardly even let his mind wander without losing some time, whether just a few minutes or full hours.

As a former professional soldier and now professional monster fighter, his mind was his greatest asset, which was he had started taking a more reserved approach to this magic stuff. The last thing he wanted was to be in battle with a group of monsters and have one of those memory fluctuations. Even weaker monsters could still kill you if you weren’t careful.

Yosef instead had taken up meditating. It wasn’t perfect, and he’d sometimes lose all memory of the meditation itself, but he tried to cling to what tiny scraps of control he could muster.

It also helped with the other odd mental thing. The one that felt more benign. The strange feeling of connection to…something.

He had had those feelings since he first got the magic powers, and had assumed they were just a part of the larger package of magic. But when he talked to his men and others awakened, he had found none of them felt that.

Erring on the side of caution, he decided to keep that oddity to himself going forward, and made sure to keep an ear out for anyone feeling anything similar. But he had never heard even a rumor of it.

Armed with a glass of whisky, he sat on his balcony and watched the stars start to appear in the night sky.

It was beautiful. Stunning really.

The night sky seemed full of possibilities if one could just reach out and grasp it.

When had his life become so chaotic? It seemed like he was bouncing around from place to place, swirling and crashing unexpectedly on monsters, on politicians, on magic.

What the hell had happened to his home? What was he supposed to do? Was there anything he could do? He felt like the entire planet was just a speck of dust, caught in the immense turbulence of something so much larger, and he was nothing but dust compared to that.

What was there to do, beyond putting one foot in front of the next, always moving with the currents and hoping it all turned out alright?

Yosef swirled his drink, feeling the liquid inside sloshing around. What did it think of all this?

Well, the answer was nothing. Fluids didn’t feel anything. They just acted. He of all people knew that. Yet here he was, his life practically fluid itself as it flowed from one place to another.

Maybe if he thought that hard enough, he’d figure out what was up with his own life. Maybe then he’d understand. Maybe then he could see his own future, the way he could sort-of-kinda see the future of fluids near him.

A deep part of himself swirled to the surface, some half-forgotten feeling arising as he stared at the stars.

None of this made sense. He didn’t know what would happen next, and he never could. He’d never be ready for anything ever again, but maybe that was alright.

So what, if his memory was getting worse? So what, if godlike people were taking over the planet? So what? He could adapt, he could survive.

What did his opinions matter, compared to the overwhelming momentum and turbulence of life? Most of his life had been in the military, and even at the best of times, there were always orders to be followed, missions to complete, tasks to be done. This wasn’t really that different to parachuting blind into enemy territory, when it came down to it.

An image of himself being swept along on currents beyond all comprehension, being pushed along pipes that other people made for him and crashing through rapids came to mind, more vivid than anything he’d ever imagined before, and he couldn’t help but chuckle.

Life may have been chaos, flying blind into the unknown, no way of knowing what was next or even what came before… But hey, what did that matter?

He just needed to go with the flow.

Yosef’s entire body shuddered as his spirit contracted, like someone had just thrown a bucket of ice water on it. Around him, his sight and senses sharpened, connecting him to everything around him more.

Within his spirit, Yosef felt essence pour in, revitalizing him and energizing him in a way he’d never experienced before. It was like the world itself agreed with him and was rewarding him for the insight.

He fell backwards, overwhelmed by the sensation, but when he finally became of anything beyond his own existence again, he felt profoundly more.

He’d gone up another Tier, that much was certain. But he also felt more whole in some way he didn’t have the right words to express. His essence cores had merged into a unified whole, a perfectly polished spiritual mass that put his prior cultivation to shame. He hadn’t even realized how poorly he had been doing it, until he saw what it had become.

He stood up, his body responding so quickly and fluidly that he knocked his whiskey glass careening off the balcony and down to the ground below. Yosef moved to the balcony, and while he could predict and intuitively feel exactly the way his former drink would splash out of its cup and shower onto the dozen or so gawkers on the ground, there was nothing he could do to stop it.

Except, suddenly, there was.

Something drained out of him, and the glass of whiskey un-fell. The misty drops pulled themselves out of the air, refilled the glass, and then pulled the glass alongside it back up, in defiance of gravity and back to the balcony Yosef was on.

Before they reached the spot where his hand had been but was no longer, Yosef snatched it out of the air and took a large swig of the liquor.

He felt light headed and rubbed his temple, even as people called out for explanations of what skill he had been using and how they hadn’t felt any mana being used, or how he had caused so much essence to flow into him. And most importantly, how they could do the same.

Before he could even contemplate how to explain to them what he himself didn’t fully understand, a woman appeared next to him.

She was a little young but very attractive, which set Yosef’s internal warning bells ringing.

He also noticed that her sudden appearance didn’t set off any fluctuations in the air. The air around her flowed as if she wasn’t even there, completely invisible to his Talent.

It took another moment, but he also picked on the fact that none of the dozen people still asking him questions seemed to notice her.

“Congratulations, Captain Yilik. My name is Administrator Al’ta, and I’m sure you have many, many questions regarding what just happened. The simple explanation is that you had an inspiration, enabling you to develop a Concept. I must request that you do not explain too much about what you’ve experienced, as such knowledge can be detrimental to the development of power. Your recent memory issues, for example, were directly caused by your nascent Concept.”

Yosef mulled over those words for a moment before agreeing.

Not entirely sure what to say, he turned to the crowd and said. “It was nothing. Don’t worry about it.”

They didn’t take that alone as an answer- apparently there had been something of a lightshow while he was out- but he eventually managed to persuade people that it was just a breakthrough of his powers. Which, if he understood the mysterious lady correctly, had the benefit of being basically true?

Once he got free, he went inside alongside the Administrator to learn more about… everything. She was very accommodating for what he felt like were very basic questions, telling that getting an inspiration at ‘such a young age’ - a phrase that deeply shook him - was very impressive, and that his Concept was the first step on a lifelong pursuit of excellence, but that with one, he had the potential to become an immortal.

Like her.

Administrator Al’ta was an immortal liaison for an entire Empire of what were basically omnipotent and immortal cultivators, that they had been the ones responsible for the new influx of magic, the ones who had been responsible for giving him his Talent, and general political upheaval going on.

It was, Yosef supposed, nice to finally get an answer to who the mysterious ‘they’ were. He knew that magic had come from somewhere, sure, but he’d never given it that much thought.

He just went with the flow.

More interesting still was that one of the leaders of this world was going to be coming to the world in the next few weeks and was interested in sponsoring people to leave the planet, and with his Inspiration and Concept formation, he was an ideal candidate.

He wasn’t too interested until the woman said they had worlds stronger than this one where he could advance further.

Advance until he reached immortality.

It had only been an idle dream before, but the woman said it was possible for him to make it that far with the aptitude he had shown.

Yosef was no idealistic teen ready to sign on the dotted line any more, but he was willing to hear this woman's boss out.

He spent the next few weeks fending off questions about what he had done, but it wasn’t too bad, all things told. Mostly, it was others who were trying to get an edge of their own. There had been a video of him reversing the glass of whisky and it had spread like wildfire, but there was nothing he could do about that.

He didn’t entirely trust the woman, but he instantly understood that pushing through those mental barriers could have been risky, so he kept his mouth mostly shut.

One thought kept whispering through his mind. As a Tier 5, his lifespan had reached around 180 years, but if he could reach Tier 7, just two higher, that outright doubled. 360 years.

Tier 15 for true immortality.

It didn’t seem easy, but it seemed possible. From the first four Tiers he had fought through, he understood the escalating amount of essence one needed to advance. But if it had taken him ten years to go from Tier 1 to Tier 4, he figured he could manage the rest.

Before too long, he had a message delivered to his personal phone from a number he didn’t know that told him to get ready if he wanted to leave, and where to meet the person who could take him off Soerilia.

Yosef had expected a lot of things, but he hadn’t expected an academic to be waiting with him.

Together, they ended up cooling their heels until the man started talking about aliens and Yosef tuned him out. If this was the type of people they were recruiting, his interest was dwindling. Rapidly.

Thankfully before too long, half an hour at most, a woman like he had never seen walked in.

She was… stunning, and much like the Administrator, far too young for the confidence she carried herself with. But what really took him aback was the golden hawk-monster on her shoulder.

That took Yosef aback even more than her pale, almost golden skin or the flame red hair.

Who the fuck walked around with a monster on their shoulder?

For that was all it could be. Yosef had fought enough monsters in the wilderness or in rifts in the decade to know a monster when he saw one.

He pulled out a pistol he always kept with him and kept it trained on the bird, ready to unload before he turned and ran.

The woman’s only response was a quirk of her lips in amusement. “You must be Yosef. My name is Elizabeth Moore, but you can call me Liz. I—”

She was interrupted by the academic. “You are the aliens! I have wanted to meet you for so long. I—”

When the man took a breath, the woman spoke. “Professor Demarcus, I will be more than happy to address your concerns in a few moments. Yosef here however is a little stressed it seems.”

It was only then that the professor noticed the gun and stumbled back to get clear of the line of sight. Not that Yosef would miss, but it was a good move.

Yosef didn’t let his weapon waver. “That's a monster.”

“Not quite, but I can dismiss it if you would like.”

That implied a level of control Yosef wasn’t sure believed. There had been a dozen attempts to tame the monsters, but they seemed completely immune to domestication.

He must have taken too long considering things, because the bird simply burst into golden flames with a low rumble of thunder, immolating it utterly. The fire then pulled itself into the woman’s shoulder, vanishing in the blink of an eye.

Yosef pulled the trigger.

The quirk of the woman’s lips became a full smile, and the bullet stopped in the air an inch from her face, still spinning from the rifling

“I—”

Yosef pulled the trigger eleven more times, but instead of the bullet just stopping mid air, they just vanished, and the woman casually tossed the perfectly intact bullets onto a nearby table.

“Mr. Yilik. While I appreciate the enthusiasm, this will be much faster if we can speak like civilized people. I am Tier 26, and I can assure you that nothing you can do could ever harm me.”

Yosef wasn’t entirely sure of the scaling of Tiers, but extrapolating the difference between himself and a Tier 1 all the way to Tier 26, he nodded slowly.

“What about the monster?”

The woman gave the impression of a chuckle, “To simplify things, we’ll call it a summoned creature. They’re something of a speciality of mine. In fact, I may as well do something similar to speed this up even further.”

The woman stepped in two directions at once, and suddenly there were two of her, identical in every way. Even the bird was back on each of their shoulders, and Yosef got the impression it was being smug at him.

The woman further from Yosef and closer to the crazy professor waved her hand, and a wall appeared, cutting off half of the room and leaving Yosef alone with Liz and her bird.

“Now we can continue at twice the speed.”

