“Mhm. Well, they’re a good player. Beat me yesterday.”
It had been a good game. Erin was just frustrated she lost. She was competitive where chess was concerned. Altestiel smiled, thinking over his next piece.
“I cannot think of many who could beat you in a game of chess. That narrows it down quite a bit. But again, it would be speculation. An educated speculation, but…I have to say—it was worth travelling this far to meet you, Miss Solstice. My only regret is that I will have to return to Desonis soon.”
“Really? Aw. Your vacation is ending?”
Kiish, who’d refused to go too far, coughed. Altestiel hesitated and his genial, rather smoothly-calm expression flickered.
“I—may have extended my stay.”
Another pointed cough.
“Her Majesty—”
“Kiish? Why don’t you stand over there?”
Altestiel pointed. Kiish hesitated, then slunk off. She peeked at them as Erin eyed Altestiel.
“Marching orders?”
He actually laughed at that.
“My [Queen] is capable of giving them to me. But we’re not at war—it’s just this Ailendamus business. She would rather have me closer to home, rather than separated by a sea if the worst came to it.”
“Oh, the war. Right. Um…how much trouble are you in?”
A loud cough. The Earl’s smile really twitched.
“Kiish? I will make you wait by the outhouses. Nothing to worry about, Miss Solstice. A bit of royal displeasure fades.”
Erin raised her eyebrows. The [Knight Marshal] looked at her, and then sighed.
“—The royal decree may have come yesterday. You see, we’d been nearly a month over our projected time already, travelling, touring before reaching Invrisil. But one day won’t trouble her Majesty. No matter what kind of…threats…she may make in anger.”
“Uh oh. Why are you staying, then?”
The Earl paused. It was a rare moment when he was being routed in words—thanks to Kiish—as well as on the chessboard. Refreshing, really. If it was another opponent who wasn’t so enjoyable? He might have been rather annoyed, or at least, competitive.
But he wasn’t just playing chess. The Earl Altestiel of Desonis was, if you asked Olesm or his adjutants, or many of his enemies, a rather clever man.
A [Knight Marshal]. Not low-level. He solved problems, and those problems were sometimes entire armies. He was clever enough to read the signs placed all over the inn. To ask questions about the history.
—Still, his opponent was nearly impossible to read. The outer layer? Of course. The challenge was one no one had managed yet, to his knowledge.
Another man might tread carefully. But the Earl had a royal order threatening to drag him back—and the [Knights] would do it if it came to it, despite being in his service. Moreover—Altestiel was Altestiel. Unlike Lord Bel, he didn’t dance.
When it came to it, he played his hand and let the rain fall. The [Knight Marshal] sighed and mustered his best cards.
“You know, Miss Solstice. The answer is…you. Desonis is far from Liscor, or even Izril. I would hate to be out of touch with such a fine chess opponent. And an interesting person and place like this!”
Erin’s fingers slipped on a pawn. But then she looked up and smiled.
“Thanks, Altestiel! I wish you could stay a bit—but maybe we can play chess via [Message]? You know chess notation, right?”
“Strategist’s Olesm’s magazine has educated me as to it. Such a complex system. I wonder where he got it from?”
“…Mhm…”
Erin avoided the gaze. Altestiel waited; he could handle the awkward silence. But so could she.
“Your move.”
The [Knight Marshal] checked the board.
“It is indeed. Miss Erin Solstice. Do you know much about Desonis?”
“…It’s got a [Knight Marshal]?”
He laughed. Erin clarified.
“And it’s on the coast. But um—no.”
“That is quite fair. Desonis is rather waterlogged, in fact. Many tributaries—if you have a map, it looks like fingers, bits of land instead of a solid coastline. Marshy would be an uncharitable way of describing it. I’m told some Lizardfolk feel right at home, and we actually have a small population.”
Hexel nodded as he passed by the table. Altestiel made a small gesture towards him and the Lamia grinned and bowed slightly. The Earl went on.
“We specialize in fishing, as many coastal nations do, but we also have some rather fine sky-buildings—that is to say, highly elevated architecture, to deal with the flooding that often occurs during monsoon seasons. And if I might say so—Desonis pottery is rather well-sought across the world. Excellent clay and other deposits in the marshes, you see.”
“Ooh. That does sound nice. I’d like to visit someday.”
“I should like that quite a bit. A shame your door has not nearly the reach. And teleportation on that level is…impossible for all but an Archmage. It would tax even my finances.”
The Earl sighed. Yes indeed. Then he looked at Erin.
“But I would be delighted if that ‘someday’ were sooner, Miss Solstice. Have you ever considered travelling?”
Erin hesitated. Olesm’s head rotated slightly at his table.
“Well—to the other Walled Cities? But it’s far for even that. It sounds very far to Terandria.”
“Could I offer you an escort? Passage, lodging?”
“That’s tempting! Maybe when I have time…someday. Sorry.”
Altestiel smiled as Erin looked up guiltily.
“That is the problem, isn’t it? You’d have to have a sufficient reason to travel about. Well, Erin…it may be indelicate of me to put it just so, considering we have only met, but I hope you might consider it seriously. I would be delighted to entertain you. And I think you might find Desonis to your liking. I cannot transport your inn across the world—but I would arrange any number of other alternatives. Lodging for however many guests? A second inn?”
Erin Solstice hesitated as she reached for a knight in trouble.
“That’s—super generous, Altestiel. But we’d be an inconvenience.”
“I assure you, it would be my delight.”
Kiish was edging closer slowly, a frown on her face. Belgrade poked Olesm; the Drake was just listening. Palt hesitated in rolling up a cigar.
Wait a moment here.
Altestiel looked at Erin. She smiled faintly.
“…That’s really nice of you, Altestiel.”
What a perfect, airtight defense. Deliberate or not, no wonder they’d fallen. Better than a wall of pawns. Altestiel just smiled.
“You are a remarkable player, Erin Solstice. And it seems I must say it outright. Would you consent to me courting your affections, Miss Erin? However briefly I have—I’ve been rather taken with you.”
Erin placed the knight. She sat back, smiled at Altestiel. Then she rubbed at one ear.
“…Huh?”
Crash. Olesm had fallen out of his seat. Altestiel’s smile was like the moment he’d ordered the halberdiers into the flank and committed his entire line to holding off the enemy’s front, eight years ago.
“I would like to court you, Erin. With your permission.”
She froze in the act of tugging at an earlobe. The ambient conversation in the inn…slowly went silent.
What had he just said? Casual eavesdroppers, other people sensing the moment, looked up. Someone edged past the curtain and [Silence] spell and interrupted a play.
“Hey! Get over here and listen—”
Erin’s mind was blank. She opened and closed her mouth like a goldfish. Altestiel himself was somewhat taken aback.
Asking to court a [Lady] was common enough. Asking her directly? He’d thought it was a masterful act. But Erin’s stupefaction was either a Level 30 [Actor]’s Skill or genuine.
“Earl!”
Kiish broke the silence. Erin and Altestiel realized everyone was staring.
Numbtongue, Palt, Olesm, Belgrade, Lyonette, Ekirra and Mrsha on the stairs, Hexel by the door, Menolit, Kevin, Hedault, Selys—Pelt was drinking and laughing his butt off—looking.
Erin immediately turned crimson. Altestiel? He coolly raised a finger.
“Privacy, please? This is rather rude.”
Everyone immediately turned away. Then realized they’d turned away.
Erin started. The Earl’s aura felt like cool water, touching everyone but her. In this inn—it was the second-most powerful aura. She hesitated. But the question was…she stared at Altestiel.
“Are you serious?”
“I am indeed. I wouldn’t lie about something like this, Erin.”
She hesitated. He was in his early forties! He was—she stared at him.
“You’re really serious? But why?”
“Because I find you fascinating. I’m only asking to court you, Miss Solstice. And I believe I did have to ask. Nothing more. Would you consent to let me tender you my affections, however poorly?”
“N—why?”
The Earl didn’t look away, at Kiish, his other companions, all of whom really wanted to get a word in edgewise.
“Erin. You are one of the most unique people I’ve ever met, and in a positive way at that. You could charm a Creler, I believe.”
“No I can’t.”
He smiled, ignoring the comment. The Earl looked Erin up and down. He saw her, perhaps more clearly than most people.
“I could go on. But I would like you to believe, Erin Solstice, that there is something you possess that is deeply attractive. Would you at least let me explain why?”
She turned bright red. He’d said that with a straight face. In front of people! Numbtongue stared at Altestiel. The man was cool as—rainwater. As slick as a puddle. Or some rain-analogy.
Erin Solstice had no idea what to say. ‘No’ was her first instinct. But why? It was just…sudden.
Olesm expected Erin to say no. He waited with sheer confidence, willing to applaud Altestiel, but convinced it would be a no. He waited for it to come in a second.
Then five seconds.
Then twenty…
After a full minute, Erin looked at Altestiel.
“Me? But wh—”
“Are you unwilling to even consider it a moment? If that is your answer, I will accept it, Erin Solstice.”
The [Knight Marshal]’s face fell. He hesitated, then stood slowly. Looking…
“You clever bastard.”
Palt murmured. That was what was missing. Erin looked at Altestiel. Then she stood, flustered.
“No! I mean—”
Everyone waited on her response. Erin looked around, and then, beet-red, muttered.
“Okay?”
And Altestiel took The Wandering Inn by storm.
 
—-
 
“I feel as though I’ve failed you, Ser Solstice.”
Talia Kallinad was flushed with embarrassment. It made Rabbiteater feel embarrassed for her. Also—dead.
He was going to die. But the Hobgoblin had thought that many times. It was almost a friend’s thought.
“Why?”
“I…we should have continued to fight. As it is, we will be ransomed. At cost. I think my family will pay your ransom, but it is a [Knight]’s shame. This is not how I hoped you would see the Order of Seasons, at our lowest.”
The other [Knights] murmured agreement. They were all sitting, cuffed, in a tent. Not in full chains, and not treated too harshly; they’d been tended to with rough military medicine and even given food, albeit gross food for the [Knights].
Good for Rabbiteater. And most crucially—they’d let the ‘Goblin Slayer’ keep his armor. The other [Knights] were partially disarmed, all helmets off…
It wouldn’t last. Talia indicated the [Soldiers] on guard in front of the tent.
“If we had fought…”
If, if, if. Rabbiteater thought back to the moment it had all gone wrong.
Ailendamus ships at sea. They’d told the [Captain] to pull over and surrender the [Knights], even though his was a neutral vessel. Talia had ordered him to lose the pursuit.
They’d fled. A fight had broken out. A fireball had burned the sails, and three ships had drawn alongside. It would be a fight three-to-one, perhaps in the water.
Not exactly ideal for the [Knights], with their horses belowdecks and most not at home with naval combat. Talia had conferred with her Order and elected to surrender.
Rabbiteater could have opposed it. But the odds of survival…
“What will happen?”
“You will be ransomed, Ser Solstice. No improprieties will be taken. The Order of Seasons would not stand for that and Ailendamus is not entirely morally corrupt.”
A Spring Knight raised her voice to address the [Soldiers] outside. They ignored her. The others explained.
The thing was…they needed to know who Rabbiteater was. They would ransom him, expecting a [Knight] to be able to pay something or be imprisoned.
But who would pay Rabbiteater’s ransom? And even if they did—
“I regret your vow may be broken.”
Talia finished. Rabbiteater nodded. He should have just jumped ship and abandoned them.
But he’d been playing [Knight].
Playing [Knight]. A good way to put it. Rabbiteater was a Level 5 [Knight]. Not a high-level one. Not…a [Champion].
It was time to be honest. The Hobgoblin turned his helmeted head to look at Talia.
She had a huge black eye from where she’d been hit. No healing potions until they were ransomed.
“Talia. I have to tell you something.”
“Yes, Ser Solstice?”
“I…lied. I am not…a [Knight].”
The Order of Seasons stirred. They all looked at Ser Solstice, who they had embraced as their own. Talia’s eyes flickered.
She did not seem very surprised, but a bit.
“You mean, you have not our class, Solstice?”
That was her name for him. Solstice. Knight Solstice, Ser Solstice. Even that would become a lie. Rabbiteater shrugged. A Goblin’s answer.
“I have the class. Level 5. But I am not…a knight.”
He tried to explain to her what he meant. It was hard; he was no Numbtongue.
He just didn’t feel his class. And that was probably why he’d stopped leveling. The more he understood about their culture, the harder it was to be one of them.
They embraced such different things than the Redfangs, than Goblins. Knightly virtues. A code of conduct. A way of fighting—ideals that Rabbiteater loved.
But he was not them. He was a Goblin, in disguise. He had no [Lord]. No [King]. No Order. He’d abandoned his Chieftain.
He’d lost his tribe, his people.
His brothers were dead, but for Badarrow.
He said these things, in ways that Talia could understand, or so he hoped. She nodded, slightly.
“…I see. You are not a [Knight]. But you gained our class. Thus…it is a strange thing. A [Knight]’s class should not be so easily bestowed. My friends?”
She looked at the other knights. One of the Summer Knights frowned, trying to scratch an itch on a knee with his elbow.
“I’ve heard something of the like, Dame Talia. But perhaps Ser Solstice fulfilled most of the requirements. So long as a man is of good character, has armor, and a cause, is he not a [Knight]? That is a question for an Autumn Knight to ask.”
The others nodded. Rabbiteater just shrugged. Perhaps Goblins had no [Lords]—at least not in the same way, so he didn’t need such things. Perhaps he was close as it got.
