The [First Mate] had a hand on the shortsword he carried, ignoring the risk and his nervous company. He ducked as Yerzhen hurled his entire bottle of wine at him. The [Sailors] saw the [General] whirl and backed up, leaving their officer to face the man’s wrath as he strode across the tent, bellowing.
“Lance-arrows take your damned fleet! You’re the bastards who caused trouble for me! His Majesty’s so wroth with me, he has us guarding prisoners and toadying about! All because one of your salt-for-brains [Admirals] went and attacked Nadel and gave away our war plan!”
He prodded the [First Mate] so hard the man staggered. Suddenly, the pieces fit and the officer paled.
This was General Yerzhen, who’d been implicated and then cleared in the disastrous attack on the Lord of the Dance. Foreign saboteurs had orchestrated the entire thing, but the [Admiral] had been relieved of command.
And the man who’d been impersonated, who had in fact been in the right spot. Ready to attack Calanfer until the plan had been leaked?
Yerzhen of Ailendamus. Or, as some called him, Yerzhen, the Bear. The Bear-General of Ailendamus, who could bend steel with his hands.
“What’s his name? Admiral Deckless? I’ll rip his head off if I ever meet him…he on your ship?”
“N-no, General. I apologize for—”
“We’ll ransom your prisoners. They want to escape? They can get past me, a [General] of Ailendamus. Think that’s likely? No? Then get out.”
Yerzhen was in a terrible mood. He saw the naval crew make a swift retreat. The [General] went back to his drink, pulling out a bottle of gin this time. But no amount of alcohol could cover the disgrace he was in. And it wasn’t his fault! He’d done everything perfectly. If he ever found out who’d impersonated him…
His hands clenched and unclenched as he strode around his war tent. The mood in his camp was equally despondent. The rough and ready ‘Bear Brawlers’ as they were affectionately known were a seasoned group, not as professional as some groups, but experienced. Sidelined because their [General] was in disgrace.
[Illusionists] could be terribly cruel.
 
—-
 
At the same time, in Liscor, a group of children were playing a war game of their own. Children played games, across every species.
And they tended to take from real life. So in this case, instead of being [Soldiers], they were the Watch.
‘Guards’ would have to fight bad guys, who used to be just ‘Humans’, but were now more nuanced. Sometimes they were monsters, other times, evil [Necromancers].
The game was very complex. If a [Necromancer] killed a [Guard], for instance, the [Guard] became a Zombie. Or a Draug—but that was often cheating.
[Mages] got to cast spells, and adventurers got to play too. There were about thirty children, running about the inn.
Customers were complaining, but the kids were also playing in the garden for the wonderful variety it offered. They hit each other, tossed each other into lakes, or pantomimed the hitting in lieu of actual striking. There was a gender imbalance in who actually hit each other, and several young boys of every species had gotten into a brawl twice. Ekirra was nursing a scratch on one cheek that Limi, a Drake boy, had given him.
Now, a group of guards were fighting off evil Humans coming to besiege the city. Mrsha, who’d lugged a ‘trebuchet’ towards the ‘city’, which were two overturned tables, was under fire. The defenders were pelting them with wads of cloth, towels—
“No dirt! No dirt!”
Ekirra yelped angrily. He scrubbed at his eyes and the dirt throwing stopped.
“This is getting out of hand. They’re making a mess!”
“Aw, let them. They’re having fun.”
Erin was more blasé than Lyonette, who disproved of all this ‘roughhousing’ which was not how Mrsha should behave! Also—Erin wasn’t going to clean this up.
“The guests are paying for a relaxing experience, Erin.”
“No they’re not. They’re paying for weird shenanigans. This is part of the deal, right, Menolit?”
“Absolutely. Five gold says the kids take the city.”
The Drake was betting with Wilovan and Ratici. Erin wanted to know how he’d gotten that much gold. But the adult’s concerns were not that of the city under siege!
Indeed, the defenders were outnumbered five-to-one, and their rain of projectiles had nearly run out. Now, the attackers were about to break into the walls. That was when a little Drake emerged from the side.
Visma! She was neither guard nor evil Human soldier. She had…Erin paused in working on her new menu, where she was writing in a new dish—the Oteslian Trench—for vegetarians.
What was Visma supposed to be? The kids had codifying items, like a ‘helmet mug’ or a ‘wand’—Mrsha had a real one—but Visma just had an apron…and a small frying pan…
The Drake child raised it over her head as both sides stopped fighting.
“I am the consequences! Raaaah!”
“Run!”
Ekirra yelped and both sides fled into a screaming anarchy. Menolit hammered the table in fury, but the ‘Erin’ was running about, dispensing justice and organizing a mob to beat up all non-Goblins.
“Is that—is that supposed to be me?”
The seasoned guests were laughing their tails off. Erin didn’t know if she was supposed to be offended.
“That’s not fair! You can’t use the Erin in a siege!”
“You used the Erin in the last battle! We get to use ours!”
The defenders of the city shot back. Mrsha glumly nodded. That was fair. She fled as Visma chased her.
“I’m spitting blood! I’m spitting blood!”
She had gotten her hands on some ketchup. She was flinging it around. This prompted Lyonette to raise her voice.
“That’s it! That’s too much! Visma! Enough! Vis—”
Too late. The Drake girl joyfully hurled a clawful of ‘blood’. It splattered, half hitting Mrsha…
The other half hit the table behind Mrsha. A gentle rain of condiment splattered all over [Knight Marshal of the Rains], Earl Altestiel of Desonis, his two [Knight] bodyguards, and half of the table. And their food.
Visma stopped with the sudden guilt of someone who knew that something terribly wrong had occurred. Mrsha as well. They stared up at the adults as a Human man rose, flushing with fury.
“Earl! You children—”
They fled behind Lyonette as the [Princess] practically ran forwards.
“Towels! Liska! And water! I am so sorry, Earl—”
Altestiel wiped at a smear of ketchup on his chin. His aides were already using cleansing spells and enchanted handkerchiefs. He waved the outraged [Knight] down as the man was bellowing.
“Do be quiet, man. They’re children. I believe you’ve been struck. Play dead. We’re all casualties. Or—what, does the blood boil ours in our veins?”
He smiled as the [Knight] wavered. A terrified Visma peeked out as the Earl laughed. She relaxed slightly and volunteered the answer.
“You have to join the Erin-army! You’re only free if you do something crazy!”
“There, you see?”
The Earl chuckled. Strategist Kiish looked horribly offended at…everything.
“Milord, we could arrange a private room if you wish to dine here—”
By here, she clearly meant ‘in this cesspool of wanton disrespect and filth’. But the Earl just fixed her with a stern look.
“Kiish, that would completely defeat the point.”
The Earl sighed. They just didn’t seem to understand. Sometimes he despaired of his loyal, competent, yet…narrow-minded aides. Ask them to destroy the enemy’s fortifications and they would give you a hundred solutions. Ask them to find the value in this inn? They would rather sip tea in a fancy Invrisil café.
This was The Wandering Inn. And today…it was chaotically calm. The kids, somewhat subdued, moved their playing to the higher floors and the garden. Now that the battle for Liscor was over, they’d probably play ‘dungeon death’ with Facestealer.
“I’m Facestealer! Me! Me!”
Ekirra howled as the others tried to get the position. Meanwhile, Mrsha had gone over to Palt and was tugging on his leg.
“What? Mrsha, I’m busy—”
He was making more of his products, rolling powder up, inserting magical plant bits between tobacco, and so on. He also had a few mushrooms from the Wailant farm. But he obligingly bent over.
“Palt, can you cast [Darkness] on the second floor for us? Pwease?”
Mrsha’s handwriting was accompanied by a cute little heart. Palt chuckled at the bare manipulation in the writing.
“Don’t you have the Shadow Loaf?”
Mrsha shook her head rapidly. She didn’t know where Erin had put it! And besides, they wanted darkness! Then they could creep about, hiding from the ‘Facestealer’.
“Oh, alright then.”
Palt heaved himself to his hooves with a sigh. He passed by Numbtongue, who was practicing on the guitar. The Hobgoblin demurred when Mrsha asked him to help play.
A fun, grand time. Erin Solstice was a bit miffed about her role in the games, but she let it slide. She wandered over to a blue Drake playing chess against an Antinium in a corner of the inn.
“Olesm! Any news from Maviola?”
The Drake and Belgrade looked up. Olesm shook his head.
“Not yet. She’s still on her way. Saliss too?”
“Yep. A lot slower since they’re not like, running all the way back, right? With [Haste] potions and stuff…”
“Miss Erin, hello.”
“Hello, Belgrade. What’s up?
The [Trapsetter Tactician] stopped waving one hand.
“Has Miss Ryoka sent word?”
For a moment Erin’s smile faltered.
“…She’s still recovering, I think, Belgrade. No word from her. I’m sure she’ll be sending [Messages] by the time Saliss and Maviola arrive. Like, tomorrow. Right, Olesm?”
He nodded.
“That’s when Maviola thinks she’ll arrive. Tomorrow or the next day. Ryoka will be awake by then.”
Surely. Erin sighed, but Ryoka was fine. Being tended to…Maviola and Saliss were coming back, and the Circle and Guild of Assassins was being taken to pieces.
The worst was over.
 
—-
 
The reason why Wilovan and Ratici were here was because their job had yet to end. And they were watching the door. Because they didn’t think the Guild of Assassins were going to take this lying down.
In fact, they had rooms, and some good fellows were keeping an eye on Invrisil’s side. Similarly—they were reassured by the presence of a [Strategist], the Earl…even off-duty [Guards] and people like Menolit, who was a [Veteran].
What was very interesting though was…The Wandering Inn had no lack of notable guests. Normally, the cycle went in ebbs and flows. Something weird or astonishing happened, like the advent of pizza and the inn filled. Then…after all the excitement, it emptied for a while.
Breathing room. But after the battle for Invrisil, the ebb had never occurred. The inn was crowded. The [Innkeeper]—no, the entire building, the place, the landmark—was becoming a place where you went, rain or shine.
And speaking of rain…Earl Altestiel himself was a face that put even the Faces to shame. A name far larger than Lord Alman of House Whatever.
Chaldion had made an appearance only yesterday, Grimalkin was re-invited although he had only come to check on the weights room lists…
It was not only the Titan of Baleros who took note. Although certainly, Wilovan and Ratici represented his will and eyes in the inn. But he had let the moment pass him by. His visit was beyond due. Yet if you didn’t strike while the iron was hot…
“Pelt! Come on in! Come on in! What’s the occasion?”
Erin was greeting the Dwarf. He stumped into the inn.
“Don’t make a fuss. I’m just here to consult with Kevin. What’s the first order? Also—ale. Make it three mugs. What do you want, Kevin?”
Look at the bustle! Kevin spread out his designs and the list of orders. After much deliberation and infighting—Khelt was still on top.
“We need six bikes. Not all the same model…take a look at my off-road designs. Can you make…?”
“Do I look like an amateur? I have steel! I have stockpiles of good metal! Give me the numbers. Where’s my ale?”
Fierre was running over numbers in her head. Liscor or Invrisil? Or Pallass? …No. But how much was a lease on a small place if she—?
Palt was trotting back downstairs, carefully, as a cloud of darkness enveloped the second floor. Hexel had cause to complain about it—he was on his day off!
It seemed like one of those days. Erin was telling Silveran to check for Hedault if Pelt was here. She really should have been checking the metaphorical windows.
A storm was coming.
“Save me a game, Belgrade!”
The [Innkeeper] called out to the Antinium. She saw more people waving for her, but noticed Altestiel first. The Earl had waited for her to be free.
“Oh—hey, Altestiel.”
“Earl!”
Kiish whisper-howled. Erin ignored that since Altestiel never seemed bothered, even pleased by the title.
“Thanks for being so cool about the ketchup. Are you here for anything? Can I get…someone else to get you something?”
She saw him smile at that. Altestiel’s hair—purple and silver, his yellow eyes—not to mention his ghost green-white cloth armor mixed with the light cherry pink of the sigil of Desonis were a striking combination. He seemed at ease in the inn’s humble chairs as he might be in royal comfort.
And he was an Earl. She knew Ilvriss had been the same, but his…rank was more apparent to her now. She had more of a sense of his level, and power.
And here he sat. The Earl looked around the inn and nodded.
“I’d be delighted to play a game of chess if you had time, Miss Solstice. As ever.”
“Of course! I’m always up for chess!”
Erin was happy, especially because Altestiel was an opponent she had to concentrate against. She could and had smoked some players while not even looking at the board, cooking and cleaning. But Altestiel was one of the few who could challenge her and beat her with anything like regularity, especially if he used a Skill.
They went over to a board that was already waiting. Half of the retinue wanted to follow, but the Earl made them sit, much to Erin’s relief. They weren’t bored, for all they seemed to think the inn was beneath them.
When they saw their liege lord would be occupied, some went to the weights room, another went to play cards, and some more to watch the play in the other half of the inn. The [Silence] spell and a curtain really did do wonders to make the actor’s setup feel like a different place entirely.
“It’s great to have an opponent who’s free. Um—I mean, I have the chessboard…a different opponent, then.”
“Yes. The magic chessboard. Quite an interesting thing, isn’t it?”
Despite her canny chess opening, Erin had walked into that conversation. She hesitated as she placed a piece.
“…Yeah. Any ideas who might own it?”
“A few. But I would not like to guess. Anyone can commission a magical chessboard with the means, of course.”
