Liscorian style. Lyonette wanted something more formal, but that, to Selys and the others, was suggestive. The Earl hadn’t asked for anything and he’d rather sprung it on her. Just something nice.
As Erin descended the stairs, it began in earnest. The doors blew open—
And Garry came striding into the inn.
“I am told that someone is trying to take Erin away to another continent to marry her! I wish to court you, Erin! Do not go!”
He had a cake. Selys stared at it.
“And so it begins. The courtship gifts. At least someone came prepared.”
Bezale’s comment zinged over the suitors once more. Erin hesitated.
“Garry…there are so many things that—is that cake insect-free?”
“Maybe.”
The [Innkeeper] had expected nothing less. She bit her lip, but the [Calm] spell really was helping. How silly! And yet—she looked over her shoulder. There they were. She supposed she’d always known. Okay—she’d sort of been deliberate about not knowing. But—
Numbtongue? The [Bard] met her eyes, and then looked past her. Erin hesitated.
Really?
But there he was. What had Jelaqua said? Imagine…Erin turned back to Garry, her mind going elsewhere for a moment.
“Look, Garry. It’s just—I’m letting someone court me. I’m not even dating! Wait, is this a date?”
She turned back to look at the others and got a mixed response. Erin threw up her arms.
“The Earl’s not even here! It’s not like I need a cake! What flavor is it?”
“A cherry-cheesecake blend.”
“Oh, really? I’d actually love a slice if it’s bug-free…”
Then came the sound. At first, it was low. It had been building, but as Erin stepped forwards to investigate the dubious cake, she heard a murmur. A rushing sound.
The rain began to fall on the roof of The Wandering Inn. Everyone looked up.
“The [Weather Mage] didn’t predict rain today.”
“That’s Invrisil, Wilovan.”
“Ah, quite so, Ratici. Yet I recall Liscor’s skies were right clear a moment ago.”
It was just rain. But…everyone slowly looked towards the windows. Erin hesitated. Garry looked around with the cake in his hands. And it occurred to Selys, belatedly, that she had made one mistake in prepping Erin.
She’d forgotten to ask how an Earl might court someone, tactful or intelligent as he might be. Slowly, every guest went to the windows or the doors. The [Innkeeper] just walked outside, past Hexel, who was measuring the new portal-room out with his apprentices. The [Architect] saw Erin pass and he winked.
“An exciting day.”
“Is it?”
She looked at him, with trepidation, one hand on the door. The Lamia regarded Erin thoughtfully.
“I should imagine you’d like this more than most, Miss Solstice.”
The rain fell harder. Erin heard it drumming. Like her heart, despite the spell.
“But I—don’t know if I can answer them. Why would I like this?”
“Because it’s them showing you how much you matter to them. Well, young men do it poorly. We’ll see about Earls. But if their hearts are in the right place—friendship isn’t a bad place to start. Or do you dislike them?”
Erin looked around. A faint smile crossed her face.
“I suppose they’re okay.”
She winked at a Hobgoblin and got an embarrassed grin. Two, really, but Snapjaw elbowed Badarrow so hard it went away.
That made more sense. Then she opened the doors and saw.
 
—-
 
The morning’s clear weather was being replaced by rain. Rain, despite the clear skies of the morning.
…And the clear skies of now. Watch Captain Zevara stared. Just ahead of the inn was a localized weather front.
Rain, falling from the clear skies. It had turned grey, but not cloudy. Not dark. And there was light. Oh yes. And one more thing.
“Is the rain…purple?”
She saw the tint in the weather. But no one answered her. Jeiss whistled slowly.
“Now that is an entrance, Watch Captain.”
He pointed down.
 
—-
 
The Marshal of the Rains stood in a ray of light, as the wind and rains blew around him. His company had spread out and were lifting wands or artifacts towards the sky. Directing the weather—
But the rains were his. They fell around Erin as she looked up, mouth open slightly. A gentle rain, flurrying. And then—caught by the mist and droplets, the sun touched the prisms.
And there were rainbows. They cascaded from the beams of light emitted from Kiish’s wand. Arcs of every color, hanging in the air.
Double rainbow? More than Erin could count. And as she stepped outside—the curtains of rain parted. The grass was wet underfoot, but Erin’s only touch of the rain was as she put out a hand and felt it at the tips of her finger.
An invisible umbrella surrounded her. No one else. Rain got in Olesm’s eye as he leaned out the window and he cursed.
“Um…Altestiel?”
He hadn’t changed his clothes. But he had added to them. A mantle sat on his shoulders. So familiar yet subtly different that Numbtongue and Badarrow started. A cloak—or perhaps a veil, so thin it was—of water.
Colored water too, looking misty and the palest ice blue imaginable while still being transparent. Luminous on its own.
“Whoa.”
Erin halted. But the Earl walked towards her. He had been standing on a hill just opposite The Wandering Inn. Yet—instead of walking down the valley and up the hill, which would have been less dignified and taken longer, he walked out.
Into the air. Onto a path of water. A road, like the light-bridges of Embria’s 4th Company. Erin rubbed at her eyes. Then she turned to Montressa, who was standing stock-still behind her.
“…That’s impressive, right?”
The [Aegiscaster] nodded slowly. The [Water Bridge] carried Altestiel forwards. He stood in front of Erin as it built itself out of the rain.
“Miss Erin Solstice.”
He swept her a courtly bow. Faintly, Erin looked up at him.
“I thought you weren’t going to make a big deal about this.”
“Did I say that? Besides—I often do this.”
His eyes twinkled. He held an arm out, bowing again.
“Miss Solstice. I’m told it’s safer these days. Pray—would you care to walk with me?”
In the rain? But it didn’t touch him. Erin looked at the colors and softly falling rain. The wind blew around her. And she felt—
That sensation you got when you stood, in the center, or watching a fabulous storm. Admiring the way the wind blew over a million blades of grass, moved the trees. Watching the rain fall a trillion drops each second.
Nature, all-encompassing. Unsurpassable. And awe inspiring. Erin might have been intimidated. But then she remembered what the others had told her. Hexel’s words.
And she looked at Altestiel. Really looked at him. He looked around, with the same youthful excitement in his eyes. He was dressed like royalty. He walked on water.
…But for a moment, Erin saw a boy who loved to stand in rainstorms. Maybe that’s where his class had started.
“Walk? And do what?”
“Talk. Tell me more about your favorite games of chess. Or I’ll talk about rain. Did you know it rains ice from the skies in the far north?”
“Hail?”
“You know it?”
Erin laughed. She stepped out, and then bounced on the bridge of water. It was buoyant, a bit slippery, but not as much as you’d expect!
“Whoa! This is so cool!”
“I know, isn’t it? I walk around like this all the time when I have a chance. Her Majesty calls it showing off, but she’s just jealous.”
“Wh—wh—”
Montressa watched Erin hesitantly take a few more steps, asking if she could fall. The [Knight Marshal of the Rains] gestured and the bridge moved with them. And they began to walk. Across the Floodplains, escorted at a distance by Kiish and the others.
“Dude.”
Kevin looked at Joseph, who was open-mouthed. Well—almost everyone’s mouth was so wide open Apista could have flown in and out. Palt stared after Erin. She was actually…?
Someone put a heavy hand on his shoulder. The Centaur jumped. Bezale looked down at Palt and shook her head at the [Illusionist]. She gestured out of the window as the rains and rainbows followed Altestiel and Erin.
“You had better work on your gift, Palt. I would tell you I’m rooting for you, but that Human has class.”
She walked off as Mrsha happily ran about in the rain.
 
—-
 
Ser Markus and Dame Talia were being interrogated when Ser Solstice was brought in. Not dragged, not shoved into the chair, although he was bound and watched. By more [Soldiers] than either [Knight], the two noticed with some dismay.
But then, the Bear Brawlers had seen Ser Solstice fight. And they respected someone who fought with his all-or-nothing improvisation. It was painful to say, but the Order of Seasons with their discipline and expertise with their chosen weapons had not done as well in the mad chaos of the escape attempt.
Ser Markus was a bit dizzy; he’d been thrown like a bowling pin from one of the northern kingdom’s games by that [General]. But they’d given him some water and time to mutter his name and persons to contact.
“Sit here. No sudden moves. Hey, where’s the third [Mage]? Get him in here!”
“He ate something bad. One sec.”
The [Soldiers] were rough, crude, and still—they had well-maintained weapons and a casual confidence about them. That [General] hadn’t been the only one to take down the [Knights]. They were good [Brawlers] as well as [Soldiers].
“Why is Ser Solstice here? I told you that House Kallinad would pay his ransom and mine—”
Talia was outraged. The officer, a [Captain], who’d been taking down her details shook his head.
“House Kallinad’ll pay more than the Order of Seasons, but why do we have to go to one? You. Get money from both if you can, that’s the smart way. We’ll just see if this ‘Solstice’ fellow has anyone who wants to pay to keep him safe. That’s all.”
“Disgraceful. The Order will not forget this, nor Pheislant!”
Talia fumed. It was a considerable threat given the fact that the Order did crusade to right grievances. It was not wise to offend a [Lady] of a powerful family, either. Yet the [Captain]’s reply was a snort.
“And? There’s a lot of stuff they ‘haven’t forgotten’. I didn’t hear Pheislant declaring war.”
He smirked. Talia turned red with fury. The table she’d been sitting at began to smolder—and the [Soldiers] checked themselves.
“Stop that!”
The Summer Knight subsided and her aura faded. Ser Markus only wished he had command of his aura like hers. But both were more concerned about…
 
—-
 
Rabbiteater. The Goblin sat there, still in his armor. He could hear the Humans murmuring. That was a good way to look at it.
Humans. And he was a Goblin. They were all—
The [Captain] turned and Rabbiteater stirred. Wait a second. That was a half-Elf. He’d just been speaking so casually that the Hobgoblin had missed his pointed ears. He didn’t look as…fancy…as Falene. On the Elven Dignity Scale, he was really close to a Ceria. Unwashed face, stubble…
Half-immortal beauty. He gestured at Ser Solstice with a frown.
“Hey. Why’s his helmet on? Get it off and get his name.”
“His oath—”
Someone shut up Talia with a prod from the butt of a spear. It was the [Lieutenant] who replied.
“This one’s some famous ‘Goblin Slayer’ from Izril, [Captain]. Unusual situation. Wiped out dozens of tribes by himself, so I hear. Swore an oath never to take off his helmet.”
“Really?”
And so it began again. Rabbiteater closed his eyes. The Order of Seasons was not shy about lauding him—or their fellow [Knights]. They’d told variations of his cover story all the way across Izril. The [Captain] listened with interest.
“What’s he done? You—Slayer. Got a tongue?”
Silence. Rabbiteater sat there. The [Captain] frowned.
“Don’t make this hard. When the [Mage] comes, we just want your name…Ser. We’re not savages. You tell us who to send a [Message] to—we’ll get your ransom, you’ll go free. We’ll feed you, make sure you don’t drop dead. Can’t say fairer than that. If you were a common [Footsoldier] we’d not be as nice.”
Rabbiteater folded his arms. The [Captain] exhaled.
“We’ll make you talk one way or the other.”
“Go ahead and torture. Have ten fingers. Start with them.”
The Goblin [Champion]-[Knight] put his hands on the table. He stared at the gauntlets. Even taking them off would reveal him. But the worst would come…
The [Captain] stared at the Goblin Slayer. He looked over his shoulder. One of the [Soldiers] whistled.
“They give ‘em steel balls in Izril, huh?”
“Or fat tongues.”
“Ser Solstice, I know you’ve sworn your vow. Don’t be unreasonable!”
Talia hissed. Markus joined her.
“He has sworn an oath, sirs. If you respect [Knight]’s vows at all, let him keep his helm! Ser Solstice would rather perish or be tortured than remove it!”
“Tree rot. This is stupid.”
Exasperated, the [Captain] swept his hand through his hair. Rabbiteater didn’t expect him to acquiesce. They were captives. But…he did.
Because Rabbiteater was a [Knight].
“Fine! It stays on! We don’t need to lop off a finger. Dead gods. Just get that [Mage] in here!”
The other Ailendamus [Soldiers] murmured as the [Lieutenant] took over. Rabbiteater heard them whispering.
“Heard he’s killed more Goblins than a Named Adventurer. Over a thousand Hobgoblins slain by his hand.”
“Who told you that?”
“One of the [Knights]. Swore she saw him kill an Ogre in battle with a single blow. Threw his weapon. Fights with anything he’s got. Sets traps—a Goblin’s worst nightmare.”
“Huh. Do you think he takes requests? My home had a Goblin tribe problem…”
See how they looked at him. Respect? Pity? Curiosity?
They were wrong about him. Both his captors and his friends.
He was no [Knight].
He was not the Goblin Slayer.
He wasn’t even Human.
He was a Hobgoblin, a Redfang, far from home. He had lost his tribe, lost his brothers in arms. Lost…
What…what was he supposed to be doing again? Rabbiteater wished it had not come to this.
Then the [Mage] arrived. The [Lieutenant] conferred, and the [Mage] just shrugged.
“I don’t need much. Let me just set up the [Truth] spell.”
It was a glowing light. Even Rabbiteater knew truth spells. The color binary was yellow and purple for whatever reason. But it was always the same.
Yellow was truth. Purple was falsehood. Any mix was a half-truth. The [Mage] sat back as he conducted the interview with the [Lieutenant]’s help.
“All we need to know is who to contact. And…a name to give them.”
“His oath—”
“Would you two shut up? We’ll use whatever he wants! Goblin Slayer! Ser Solstice!”
The [Lieutenant] barked. Rabbiteater saw Talia was writing a [Message] on a scroll, corresponding with the Order of Seasons or House Kallinad. He supposed he’d have to do the same.
But the first step was harder than it looked.
“Who do we contact, [Knight]?”
“No one. No one to ransom.”
