“It’s just that you’re playing the entire board while fighting the small encounters. You can’t let your opponent build up on any one side—”
“Splitting your attention. I hate it, thank you. This is why I have [Strategists]—to fight the areas I can’t devote my attention to.”
“It’s just like chess. Stop being so hesitant. Let’s play!”
Erin elbowed the Earl as he sat next to her. Altestiel sighed.
“You only say that because you’ll beat me the first twenty games. I insist on using my Skills.”
“If I beat you—promise you won’t make it rain?”
“I promise nothing. If I beat you, what do I get?”
“Stop it.”
Erin elbowed again. She turned to look at him—
 
—-
 
“Um. Miss Erin?”
Garry waved a hand in front of her face. The [Innkeeper] started. It was just…
A daydream. She looked around. And saw Altestiel beaming over his crepe—which he’d accidentally folded in two.
She nearly shot out of the kitchen. What was that? Erin had—well, she’d done what was suggested! Could she see herself and Altestiel…?
“Erin, this is the silliest thing I’ve ever seen.”
Lyonette had been watching from the kitchen’s entrance. She saw the [Innkeeper] rushing at her and Erin dragged her into the Garden.
“Lyonette. I need your help.”
“I’m not making your suitors go away. Reject them if you don’t like—”
“Tell me about Earl Altestiel. Please.”
Lyonette hesitated.
“What?”
“You know the Earl, right?”
“Of course. He’s a famous figure in Terandria. Do you know how much?”
“No. Tell me about him.”
The [Princess] stared at Erin. She did a double-take, looking back at the kitchen. Oh. Oh. Then she took a deep breath.
“Okay. Well then. I don’t know as much as his people, but his reputation is plain. He’s…”
She stopped, searching for the right word. Erin waited.
“…Moody. He might be influenced by his class, or his personality influenced the class. It’s hard to tell, often. But he’s like…water. Slow to anger, rather genial. Very liberal—you can tell by how he just adapts to the inn. Still, there’s stories of his temper. He doesn’t calm down fast. He’ll rage for weeks if court rumors are anything to go by. And he holds grudges.”
“How so?”
Lyonette grimaced.
“Well, he once kept invading a nation and started a war after six battles without the crown’s permission. All because he was feuding with this other [Lord]—”
“A war? How did it turn out?”
Erin didn’t know. She didn’t know about him. Her jaw dropped. Lyonette nodded.
“It ended when he killed the [Lord] and won the entire war. I know you’re from Earth. But it’s amazing you don’t know…”
Lyonette looked at Erin. And that was the thing. Erin shook her head. She stood there for a moment.
“Tell me about him, please? I don’t know anything about…not his history. Was he married? Does he have family?”
She listened. Trying to make sense of the man who found her so intriguing.
 
—-
 
It was ill-planned. Perhaps overconfidence on the part of his opponent. Or simply—the knowledge that if they didn’t take this spot, their reinforcements, the heavier [Knights] stalled in the storm, would never advance further.
Either way, the first ships from Pheislant had left Desonis’ fleet in the waters, or fleeing into the distance. The Earl Altestiel stood, watching them advance.
“Loose! Target that [Mage]!”
Kiish was shouting, the command of the archers at her disposal. They had the high ground; it was a steep hill and the six thousand [Soldiers] under his command were entrenched.
Yet the enemy was still disembarking from their ships. The first wave had already begun to climb, warded by spells, shields up.
But the rains fell, making the ground muddy. And the Earl?
“Forwards at a walk.”
He whispered. The line of spears advanced. They had to—they had to fling the enemy down the hill. But there were ten of Pheislant for every one of Desonis’ forces.
“Hold for fifteen hours.”
He repeated it to himself. Kiish turned to him.
“Lord Altestiel—we should secure your retreat.”
He ignored her. Behind her, his banner was planted in the ground. His words had been spoken for all to hear.
“I will die here before I retreat past this spot.”
Heavy infantry were struggling upwards. Idiots. Desonis’ line was moving down the hill. Spells exploded in the air as his [Mages] gave them cover. The [Marshal of Rains] spoke again.
“The line will advance at a trot!”
Faster now. And the Earl’s legs moved too. Kiish reached for him, but he was bounding down the muddy terrain. Ignoring the slippery ground as his enchanted boots carried him through the ranks of his forces.
“Force them down! Charge!”
He leapt past them, surging down the hill at the startled first wave. His sword plunged through the first faceguard, and the hill ran red with blood.
 
—-
 
Erin listened to Lyonette’s tale. She had not been there. Nor—perhaps—had Altestiel really charged the first rank by himself as the stories Lyonette had heard in court made out.
But he had fought.
“He held out for fourteen hours.”
“Wait. Not fifteen?”
The [Princess] of Calanfer shook her head.
“…Actually, they carried him half-dead off the field. Full retreat. His forces were nearly routed. But they held for fourteen hours. By the time Pheislant had marshaled the full invasion, Desonis had brought all they needed to bear. He was called a hero. I think we burned pictures of him.”
“Wait, what?”
“Oh, Calanfer was on Pheislant’s side for that war. But we thought it was a brave victory, even so.”
Erin rubbed at her head. Lyonette made everything so complex. But that was Altestiel?
“And he’s here, making bad crepes in my kitchen?”
“They looked okay to me. But…yes.”
“Why? He’s way too famous to be here!”
“So was Zel Shivertail. And besides—I remember someone else who went charging across the mud with an army. And you did fight from the front.”
Erin’s mouth did the goldfish thing again. But that wasn’t heroic. That had been desperate. Despairing…
Yet they tell stories about that and get everything wrong.
She wondered what Kiish or Altestiel would say about that battle. Maybe they’d tell it like she would tell…
That was the [Knight Marshal of the Rains], though. A powerful man. A war hero. Certainly one of the more influential people in his kingdom.
He’d asked to court her. Erin paced in the garden for a moment. And he was making crepes. He’d walked with her on the Floodplains and was still here, even after Garry had practically shoved him aside to talk to Erin. Willing to do the dance and not order everyone to move aside. And he surely could unless Erin stopped him, with his aura.
Why?
Perhaps because he wanted to see more of her. And perhaps because he likes what he’s seen.
That thought was practically Lasica in tone and nature. Yet, Erin had to agree with it. That was so—so—
Mrsha wandered into the Garden, to wash her paws in the pond. She’d tried making crepes too, but with limited success. She paused and then padded over to Erin. She produced her notepad, scribbled for a moment, and then handed Erin a note. She could have signed and often struck a balance between the two, but she had no word for this in her lexicon, yet.
Erin looked at the brief word in cursive.
“Tomato.”
Erin put her hands to her cheeks. They were hot! She glanced into the inn, into the big kitchen where the cooking was going on.
Oh no. She was taking this seriously. Selys or whomever it was had put the idea into her head. Altestiel—she half liked him. She didn’t know him as well, but…
She looked at him, at the Antinium furtively inserting flies into his crepe.
 
—-
 
“Erin. It is morning. What will we make to eat today?”
A voice woke the [Innkeeper]. She groaned and rolled over in her bed.
“Garry! I’m sleepy. Do I have to cook today?”
The [Chef] shook his head.
“If you are tired, I will make you breakfast in bed.”
He walked towards the kitchen. Erin hugged him.
“Garry! You silly Antinium! You’re too nice. Come here.”
She threw her arms around him. The Worker started. Even now, he looked surprised and pleased by the hug. He patted her arms.
“You must let go, though, Erin. I have to make you sustenance.”
“Well, then, I’ll make you sustenance. And we’ll both make Bird his chicken-and-eggs.”
“Very well.”
They walked into the kitchen, and Erin slapped his hand down as he reached for the dried flies. That was the one downside of Garry’s cooking…
 
—-
 
It was easy to imagine. Garry and Erin were so natural. They’d done stuff like that. It was easy to imagine that in the future. But even as Erin could visualize a fun moment with him—not a relationship.
Because that would be more than what they were. And what they were was perfect. He was her dear friend. Her chess companion.
More than that?
 
—-
 
Garry leaned on the doorframe. He was nibbling on a rose. Actually eating it. He had everything right. And everything wrong.
“Let’s have the sex, Erin. I have studied a book.”
Erin—
 
—-
 
Her mind actually shut down at this point.
“No. Never in a million years!”
Mrsha’s face fell. She lowered the plate and the crepe with the smiley drawn in ketchup. Erin caught herself.
“Not you, Mrsha! I was talking about—I’ll have your crepe! So yummy! Ketchup and…crepe…great. Really.”
She coughed. This was getting out of hand. But now someone had opened Pandora’s box, it couldn’t be stopped. She looked past Garry. Sorry, Garry. But it was an impossibility. Like Bird—or Pawn, or Belgrade or Anand or anyone else.
But was he serious? Because…she could picture that. At least—some of it.
 
—-
 
It was a cold winter. The kind where even The Wandering Inn’s floorboards would freeze without a fire running. Erin hopped from foot to foot.
“Aah! Aah!”
The fire was just starting, but she hadn’t slippers! The pain! She’d rather be stabbed—oh no, wait. She’d rather not.
But it really sucked. Where were her slippers?
“Mrsha! Mrsha, where are my slip—”
Erin saw him sitting in the cold common room in the dawn. Somehow, that damned Hobgoblin had the nerve to be only in boxers, not even a shirt!
But the giant blanket he’d taken from upstairs more than made up for it. And the growing fire—Erin hopped over.
“Numbtongue! Have you seen my slippers?”
“Nope.”
The Hobgoblin was munching on something. Erin looked around. Then realized this was foolish.
“Hey, budge over.”
He obligingly scooted over on the chair. Erin sat right next to him, shivering.
“So…morning.”
“Mhm.”
She leaned against his chest, as he obligingly wrapped the blanket around her. Erin looked around for Mrsha the Slipper Thief and…
 
—-
 
“No.”
But it was softer. Erin shook her head. That was weird. This was getting out of hand. But she had to ask herself.
Did she like Numbtongue?
Oh yes. But did she like him as more than…Numbtongue? There was the question. And once again, Erin ran into the same roadblock. A telling one.
Altestiel—Garry—well, Garry was different. But Numbtongue?
 
—-
 
Goblins had a direct way of hinting at intimacy. He’d offered her a complimentary backrub. Which Redfangs knew how to do surprisingly well given that they often trained until they were sore. And as Erin was relaxing, he sidled over to her.
“Mm?”
The monosyllabic word conveyed a lot. As did his posture. Erin blinked.
He poked her in the side. And she…
 
—-
 
Nope. She had nothing more to go with. Well…she could extrapolate. But beyond that spot was uncharted territory. Mostly.
She…was afraid to imagine more. And yet, look around. Were there people she admired? Loved?
A part of them—yes. Absolutely. She could see it even in the ones who weren’t ‘suitors’. Like—
 
—-
 
The tobacco smoke was heavy in the air, the drinks giving a flush to the cheeks. The inn was full of laughter, raucous, arguments, the rolling of dice.
But they went quiet as she took the stage. The woman, in her late twenties, nearing thirty, winked as she took the magical microphone.
“This one’s out to my favorite Hatmen of Invrisil!”
Erin Solstice winked. And a pair sitting at a table at the center of the room looked up and tipped their hats. They were surrounded by other hatted men, and indeed, most of the guests in the crowded inn had a hat. It was all the style in Invrisil.
The band struck up a fast beat as the woman began to sing.
She was performing on the stage with a hat and bright suit ensemble. And yes, she had a fedora with a ribbon tied around the base; she was performing with a band in a jazzy club that The Wandering Inn had turned into.
Erin twirled a cane as she tipped a hat to Rat—Wilovan, and blew a kiss that had half the audience reaching for the little heart. Because that was a Skill?
[Kiss of Love]. Yeah, yeah…
 
—-
 
…That one was a stretch. But could she imagine it?
 
—-
 
“Okay. How do we prank them?”
Erin peeked around the corner. Dawil chortled as he stroked his beard. Falene was reading a book as Ylawes polished his helmet. The Dwarf whispered as she leaned down and the two laughed so hard they nearly gave themselves away—
 
—-
 
And Erin realized. These were all daydreams of things that were all too easy to imagine. Because they could happen. Prank Falene and Ylawes? Each one—except for the vaudeville dancing on stage thing—was realistic.
But if you wanted to be realistic…
 
—-
 
“Erin, my dear, the [Queen] is expecting our presence.”
“I don’t wanna.”
Erin was wrapped up like a caterpillar in blankets. She was playing chess with an opponent from afar. The Earl strode back and forth, nearly tearing his hair out as the [Tailor] fussed with his clothing.
“Erin—it’s the most important event of the year!”
“But I want to play chess. You know I don’t like social affairs.”
“My love, my rainbow-in-the-rain. We do this every time. And please, please don’t make a scene. Can I ask you to at least address them with proper titles? We don’t want a repeat of the last war, do we?”
“Aw. But I was playing chess—”
Erin rolled out of her blankets with a scowl. Her hair was messy, she hadn’t chosen her clothing—the Earl knew they were going to be very unfashionably late.
 
—-
 
Yeah. She could be a jerk. Erin strode around the garden. She had bad sides. They had bad sides. She could just picture it. Take the same stretch-example, for instance—
 
—-
 
It was four in the morning. And it wasn’t the inn’s table.
It was a comfy table. A small one. Meant for a family. Or just a couple. You could be family with only two. Couldn’t you?
The others were like family. They’d come by. Friends, companions. Hats hung at the door in this safe place.
Laughing and smiling in the good times.
