Now—she sat there. As she always did. Waiting.
The door opened. A figure walked in. She rose.
“Wilov…?”
He stopped. He must have forgotten this always happened. Erin walked over towards him, but he halted her.
It was just in the way he stood. He didn’t meet her eyes.
His hat was missing.
“What happened?”
“A spot of…bother.”
He exhaled. Erin wanted him to sit down. But he stopped her. Something dripped to the ground.
“Not there. Not—there. I can’t.”
He did not want to sit in that happy place. Not with blood on his hands.
Who was it? Did they…deserve it? She was too afraid to ask. Was it a [Guard]? An accident?
A child?
The silence between them stretched until it could break. In the silence, blood dripped to the floorboards. Leaving a stain by morning.
 
—-
 
“Enough.”
That was all Erin Solstice said. The last imagination ended. Too much. Too real.
Maybe not the family. Not the romance. But that lay at the heart of her relationship with Wilovan and Ratici.
It hurt. The what-ifs. Because they weren’t just ‘ifs’. You—could you look at the person the same way again? If you imagined trying to build your life around with them?
She had not considered Olesm. Nor did she now. Erin stood in the garden. And her breathing was hard.
This was why she hated it. Because it wasn’t light. She looked at Altestiel and wondered what ten years might be. Not tomorrow. If she could forget the future, she could enjoy now.
Erin walked back into the inn. Five minutes had passed since her talk with Lyonette. Seventeen since she’d gone off—everyone was having lunch. And her convivial, go-with-it attitude was gone.
This was how she felt in the past as well. This was…
Not fun. Erin dreaded going back and talking to Altestiel. It was almost a relief to see the Street Runner panting and calling for her.
“Miss Solstice?”
“That’s me, yup. Me.”
The Drake pointed towards the door she’d run through.
“Urgent [Message] waiting for you in Liscor.”
“What is it? Ryoka?”
Erin began to stride from the door. The Street Runner didn’t know.
By the time Altestiel came out, followed by the suitors with crepes of dubious quality—Erin Solstice was gone.
 
—-
 
It took only twenty minutes to connect. Rabbiteater had expected to be led away, but he just sat there. Ser Markus was led away after his correspondence was done. Talia remained—perhaps delaying her correspondence to watch him.
He had been given a quill. The [Lieutenant] in charge of the ‘negotiations’ had written a brisk [Message]. Rabbiteater could read it—although it took him a little bit to figure it all out.
 
To Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper], The Wandering Inn, Liscor, Izril:
A [Knight] going by the alias of Ser Solstice, or the Goblin Slayer of Izril has been captured in battle with Ailendamus. Per the rules of engagement, his safety and possessions will be assured provided a ransom of no less than 100 gold pieces. Failure to deliver the sum will lead to his internment as a prisoner of war. Please respond within the hour; failure to do so may lead to complications.
 
“Don’t worry, Ser. It’s just to motivate them.”
The [Lieutenant] reassured Rabbiteater. The Goblin was silent. A hundred gold? It might not be much for a [Knight]’s family.
But it was too much for Erin. He debated using his manacles to try choking the officer to death. But he’d never get out of the tent with so many soldiers.
“Lieutenant. Are we giving away the cloak and axe? That’s good gear.”
“Depends on the ransom. Shut up.”
They’d taken his cloak and axe. Rabbiteater shifted.
“My brothers gave them to me.”
An uncomfortable silence. The [Lieutenant] didn’t look at him.
“I’m sure House Kallinad will pay the equipment fees.”
“They will. This is unnecessary extortion.”
“Every piece of gold goes towards our forces, milady. A hundred gold may be trivial to you, but it would pay the wages of every man in this tent for a year. More.”
The [Lieutenant]’s retort meant he missed the first inky letter appearing on the page. Somewhere, across the world, an [Innkeeper] was writing on an expensive scroll. Rabbiteater’s eye widened.
He did not want this.
He wanted this.
He missed her.
The [Innkeeper]’s fingers trembled on the quill. The [Scribe] was overseeing the writing. But he had let her write. She hesitated as she wrote.
 
This is Erin Solstice. I might know a Ser Solstice. I’d think of him like my family. But how do I know it’s him?
 
Rabbiteater jerked. He had thought—the [Lieutenant] turned and stared at the page.
“Ah! A response. Hm—do you have proof?”
He looked at Ser Solstice. The Goblin’s fingers trembled as he tried to write. A clumsy scrawl, but Talia had helped him, and Numbtongue.
 
I am Ser Solstice. I do not know how to prove I am me.
 
The [Lieutenant]’s mouth worked as he read.
“Er—I think a personal name or details would be—”
The reply was quick. Almost gentle. He could see her writing each word.
 
Hello, Ser Solstice. Do you like to eat rabbits?
 
His eyes widened. The [Lieutenant] looked purely confused. The Goblin’s fingers trembled.
 
Only as food.
 
“…Is this confirmation?”
“Yes.”
The Ailendamus officer relaxed.
“Ah, well, then.”
He scribbled industriously.
 
Miss Solstice, the fee is a hundred gold pieces, with additional fees for the artifacts under Ser Solstice’s purview at his time of capture. If you are unable to pay the full price, please state so and negotiations may begin.
 
Erin Solstice sat there. Rabbiteater.
Rabbiteater was alive. Far north? He was off the continent! Badarrow had been mistaken. And captured? She looked at the [Mage].
“Do you know where he is?”
“Terandria, Miss Erin. I’m sorry, but it’s too far even if we wanted to tell. And Mage’s Guild policy…”
“Got it. How would I send gold?”
“Um—if you brought it to the Mage’s Guild. Or if the Merchant’s Guild gave us a guarantee—”
The ransoming was new to the Drake [Scribe] as well. Erin nodded slowly. Her pulse raced.
“Understood. Thanks.”
She looked at the scroll again.
“My friend.”
 
—-
 
This was no imagination, but a true story. A moment in time.
“Hufflepuff is—it’s this thing in a story. It just means you’re a hard worker. Y’see, I call you that because you’re not like Badarrow or Numbtongue or…”
“Mm.”
Rabbiteater sat in the kitchen as Erin peeled potatoes. Pebblesnatch was frying them up. The [Innkeeper] was trying to explain to the sad Goblin. Before he was a [Champion]. When the Cave Goblins had been freed. There were a lot of mouths to feed. Erin reached for some salt for the cheesy potato dish.
“Not too much there, Pebblesnatch. We’ll still bake it…look, Rabbiteater. It’s just…”
“I am worst.”
The Goblin nodded. He was no wordsmith like the [Bard]. No brave and emotional fighter like the [Berserker]. Not as skilled as the [Weapon Expert]. Nor a [Sniper].
He was just Rabbiteater. He did not excel. Rather, he could do a lot of what the others could do. A better shot than anyone but Badarrow. Better at hand-to-hand fighting than anyone except Headscratcher.
The reason they were talking was because he’d heard Erin calling him the strange word. Now it made sense. Erin glanced sideways at him.
“It’s not an insult—well, in this story, see, people make fun of them because their talent is ‘hard work’. They’re like…the common crowd. They’re not the smart ones, or the brave ones. Or the jerks.”
“Mhm. Good ordinary Goblin.”
“No.”
Erin tossed a potato peel at him. Rabbiteater caught it, and munched on it. She shook her head.
“It’s not an insult to me. Because…I’m a Hufflepuff, Rabbiteater. Me too.”
He looked at her.
“But you smart. You…are…smart.”
He corrected himself. Erin smiled.
“Not according to the online test. I’m 40% Hufflepuff, 60% Gryffindor. But everyone gets Gryffindor. And really—I’m good at chess. I was talented. But you don’t just ‘win at chess’ because you’re smart. Even the smartest people in the world would lose to someone who played chess and knew the patterns. That’s why I like it. It’s not a game for geniuses. You probably do have an edge if you’re really smart…but it’s like you.”
“Chess?”
“Hard work. And you’re good at so much! That’s why…don’t tell anyone else, but I’m rooting for you more than the others.”
She winked at him. Rabbiteater wondered if she said that to the other Redfangs. Maybe. But she smiled at him and he believed her. He went back to peeling potatoes. And that was all. Erin hummed as the only Redfang who had time to learn to cook helped her make dinner.
Her great, brave friend.
 
—-
 
They all were. Erin’s eyes were overfull. The [Scribe] looked at her.
“Sorry—can I get some room?”
“Of course, Miss. I’ll just…call me if you need me.”
She nodded. Her brave Goblin protector. Headscratcher. Shorthilt.
He was alive. In danger. More than anything—more than being courted, given gems? She pulled out the emerald and wondered how much it would go for. She could pay. She would pay.
But she wished she could see him. Her fingers were tight on the quill.
 
Okay. 
 
The response was hesitant. Erin could see there was someone else writing another response; the Goblin’s response was slower, clumsier. It was him writing. They were talking. If only…
 
Is that an affirmation that the ransom can be paid? For both artifacts, the addition in gold will be—
 
Erin scribbled over the writing and it stopped. She dipped her quill in ink.
 
Ser Solstice, have you been eating well?
Yes. Good food.
Two hundred gold pieces per artifact, at two coming to a full total of—
Shut up. Ask Ser Solstice if he remembers the guy who keeps playing the guitar.
I remember.
—500 gold pieces! 500 gold, due within two days.
He’s getting fat. I think he misses you.
 
Silence. Rabbiteater hunted for his quill. He’d dropped it. His hands were trembling.
 
He is fat?
Getting fatter. Also, needs deodorant. That’s…smelling stuff for sweat.
Miss Solstice, can you pay the fee?
He is well? Is there…anyone else?
I met a guy who likes to shoot arrows. But no. I miss you.
I’m sorry.
Ailendamus will accept the payment to any Merchant’s Guild—shut up shut up!
Are you okay? Why did you go, Ser Solstice?
 
What did he say to that? The Goblin hesitated.
 
Okay. No need to pay. 
Ignore that. We’re willing to accept 400 pieces contingent on immediate payment for both [Knight] and equipment.
Cross out his words again and you’ll regret it, buddy.
 
The [Lieutenant] stared at the line and at the [Knight].
“Who is this?”
The Goblin didn’t answer.
 
Sorry. Had to go.
I think I understand. I’ll pay. Can I help you?
You gave me too much already. I left. Is okay.
No. We miss you. Are you with [Knights]?
300 GOLD PIECES. RELEASE UPON DELIVERY GUARANTEED. PAY VIA MERCHANT’S GUILD AND SEND CONFIRMATION TO GENERAL YERZHEN ARMY. END OF COMMUNICATIONS.
 
Erin stared as the paper stopped glowing. She tried writing, but the scroll had deactivated. She looked around and huffed.
“How rude!”
For a moment. Then—she looked at the paper and took it in. Ransom? Hostage? He was in disguise, then. She shuddered. Then she shot out of her chair.
“Rabbiteater!”
 
—-
 
“Ridiculous. The Earl shouldn’t be competing for her hand. She should either accept with incredible gratitude or decline!”
Kiish was still furious. People were looking for Erin—she’d vanished. You had to watch her. Take your eye off her for one second—the Earl was doing well. But the cracks were showing in his strategy.
To be fair, he’d gotten far. But she couldn’t even understand why it was an issue. One of Desonis’ [Knights] was of the same opinion.
“No disrespect to the [Innkeeper]. But Miss Erin Solstice is…an [Innkeeper]. Her Majesty won’t allow this even if his lordship petitions her.”
“Exactly. What does this offer Desonis? She has a reputation, I will own, but her actual value? If you compare her abilities to one of Lord Altestiel’s Skills…”
The small group of grousers really should have watched their flanks. The Earl waited at the table behind Kiish. Like some bad play, she didn’t notice he was standing behind her until their silence and stares made her turn.
“Strategist Kiish. I must say I understand your complaints. I certainly expected them. But I’m disappointed in you. You, of all people.”
“Milord—”
The [Strategist] stood up. The Earl’s yellow eyes were clouded with disapproval. Her tongue halted in her mouth.
“Be silent. And I will explain since it is not clear. Did I hear you call Miss Erin Solstice…insufficient? Weak? Useless to Desonis?”
“My lord—I was only referring to the fact that you command armies. And she is…”
“An [Innkeeper].”
Altestiel finished the sentence. Kiish nodded, nervously. The Earl sighed.
“…What is her level?”
“Earl?”
“Her level, Kiish. Estimate it. She’s blocked from [Appraisal]. But what is her level? Estimate it.”
The woman’s lips moved. She had to guess…
“At least 30. And if I would guess? Over 40. Kiish. My loyal [Knights]. My company. Who here is over Level 40? That exalted barrier few in their lifetimes may breach. Show of hands.”
The Earl raised his. He looked around pointedly.
“If she were a [Lady], would anyone complain? What kind of Skills would she have if she were a [Princess]?”
Lyonette froze in front of him, with a tray of drinks. Altestiel’s smile was directed all at Kiish. He accepted a glass and took a sip.
“Her level speaks for itself.”
“But her Skills, sire?”
One of the [Knights] ventured dubiously. He gestured outside. The Earl could call storms, create bridges of water. Altestiel nodded.
“I’ll grant you that one, Merwood. And my answer is: her Skills are weaker than mine. Her class is not [Marshal], [Lord], [High Mage]—that does change things. But consider this—that Garden. She took the Skill that royalty have had. That is hers.”
The others looked at the [Garden of Sanctuary], which was being used to play tag with children. Silence. The Earl nodded.
“A weak class? Perhaps [Innkeeper] is. But—Kiish. Have you ever met a Level 70 [Farmer]? Level 60?”
“I’ve heard tell of ones over Level 50—but no, Earl.”
“Then how do we know if it is a weak class? It seems to me that Miss Erin Solstice has the right abilities for her nature. Or could you—or even I have unified the Black Tide to fight for me? Created a place where Goblins, Antinium, Drakes, and Humans walk about in peace?”
The [Knight Marshal of the Rains] smiled. And that was why. Kiish hung her head. Her dislike had blinded her. Whereas Altestiel had admired from the start.
“Her Skills.”
Altestiel murmured. He shook his head.
