“Someone who could protect them all. All the people who’ll tear out pieces of my heart if they die. How am I supposed to love someone and be selfish for me while they’re out there?”
She’d taken the copy of the conversation with Rabbiteater. It crumpled in her pocket as she gripped it. That was what she wanted.
“You can’t protect them with gold alone. You’re too weak. We all are. If there was someone who could capture my heart with who they were alone—it would be someone who could promise me they will not die. Or if they do—it will not be in vain. Who could give meaning to this world and what happens. Does that make sense?”
“It does. Strangely, it does.”
Altestiel was looking at her. Erin realized what she’d said and blushed. But the Earl just shook his head. A bit mystified.
“It—does make sense, Miss Erin. However, I don’t believe what you’re describing is love at all. Perhaps—inspiration. Someone you could follow. A…[King]. Or [Queen]. But I could never love a vision like that. It is a dream, a beautiful one, but without…”
He gestured. The [Innkeeper] ducked her head.
“Yes. I suppose I don’t know what love is, do I?”
“Have you felt it?”
“I don’t know. What—what is it supposed to be?”
The Earl sighed. And he seemed smaller then. If there was a final blow—it was that. He raised his head, looking at the board that was suddenly out of his control. He met the [Innkeeper]’s eyes.
“To me, Erin Solstice? Love is wanting to hold someone. To know how they think. Love—is listening to them breathe. It is wanting to know them. Lust is part of it too, I suppose. Burning infatuation, as much as long held respect and admiration. I have not loved well, so I confess I am a poor one to answer it. How it starts—is a desire to talk to someone.”
He looked at her. Erin became a tomato to Mrsha and ducked her head.
Oh. So that was how it was. Garry snapped his fingers in understanding. The Earl went on.
“Love to me…love is wanting to split who you are and combine it with them and be better for it. That is what it seems to me in older couples. When it sparks, it is childish, romantic. Heated. An obsession of wanting to know, even if that will not turn out for the best. Does that make…sense to you?”
He looked at her. Erin smiled briefly. That was good enough.
“Yeah, Altestiel. But then, I don’t think I love you, then. And I don’t feel that spark.”
The [Knight Marshal] nodded silently. Erin was glad he didn’t look…exploded…by the admission. He and she hadn’t known each other too long. He just looked greatly disappointed. She went on.
“I’m willing to try. As friends. But I’m afraid you might never find what you’re looking for. If that’s okay…I’m fine with it. But I don’t want to hurt you by what I am.”
Palt nodded with a sigh. Imani passed the cigar up to him and he took a puff. Olesm hesitated, and Numbtongue nodded.
“I should be delighted to be your friend, Miss Erin.”
The Earl smiled. But then he sighed again.
“…I see. I don’t have enough time. I did not have enough time.”
“Probably.”
The [Innkeeper] smiled, regretting it just as much as he. Altestiel lowered his chin—then slapped his knee.
“Damn. I should have come here straight away! I shouldn’t have waited. Why did damned Ailendamus have to make war? My [Queen]—I should just extend my visitation another month.”
“Um…I don’t know if that’s right.”
Altestiel folded his arms, ignoring his suddenly-worried company.
“I don’t answer solely to the crown. If she hadn’t forced my hand—one month of actual conversation? I could play chess! Level! It’s ridiculous.”
“I’m sorry, Altestiel.”
“It’s not your fault. This entire event—damn Desonis’ marshy palace. I’ll go tour Chandrar.”
He snapped.
“Earl—”
“Your Lordship—”
“I’ve had it with the crown’s damned orders! You can tell her Majesty that just because she’s been divorced twice, she needn’t interfere with my delights! Get me a [Message] scroll!”
Erin’s jaw opened slightly. The Earl glowered about. She’d thought he’d handled the conversation really well. But was—
Was he sulking? Erin could almost see the raincloud over his head! Wait a moment—
A bit of water hit her on the head. Altestiel sat there, muttering.
“Just one month—I’ve never met anyone as talented as you, Miss Solstice.”
“But just in chess—”
“It’s simply unfair. Damn this day.”
He slapped his knee. Erin thought it was the most childish thing she’d ever seen.
She liked Altestiel even more. He sulked like Mrsha would if she could speak! Erin started laughing. The Earl looked affronted and the rain began to spread, pattering off his enchanted clothing.
“I don’t appreciate mockery after being let down, Erin. You wound me.”
“Sorry—”
And so it was done. Olesm looked relieved.
“Told you so.”
Selys smacked his arm. Hard.
“You idiot.”
She felt bad for Altestiel. Not least because—it wasn’t even half a date and Erin laid that on him? Ancestors! No wonder she was alone!
And yet, the Earl’s depression did not last long. The rain stopped. He was soon laughing with Erin and badmouthing his [Queen] only a bit.
The truth was it was a failed venture from the start. A romance in a day? That was one of the movies on Kevin’s laptop and even Selys knew that was fake.
Altestiel had probably known it from the start. But he was the kind of person to go down swinging, even against hopeless odds.
The others knew it too. The smart bookies were collecting the money from the day’s bets. And paying out to the odd winner who’d predicted just this outcome.
Drassi scowled as she counted out coins for Hedault and Dawil. She glared at the Dwarf.
“You bet against yourself!”
“Yes I did. And I had a lot of fun and made money.”
The Dwarf smugly sipped from his mug. Then he looked at Erin and sighed. He nudged a green shin.
“Take a note for next time, lads. Do it right. The door’s open.”
A Hobgoblin looked down at him. Dawil squinted up—then edged over and elbowed Numbtongue. And the Dwarf made one mistake.
 
—-
 
It was never that simple. The [Knights] were in the tent when the group of [Soldiers] entered.
“There he is. Come on—”
“What are you doing?”
“We’re seeing what’s behind the helmet. We’ve got a bet on it. Don’t worry, we won’t show you [Knights]. Not a word! Just me—and it’s a truth spell, right?”
One of the [Soldiers] turned. And Rabbiteater recognized the [Mage] with a jolt in his chest.
Telich with the truth spells. The [Mage] was rubbing his hands.
“Get him to the interrogation tent. You two—stand watch.”
“This is an outrage! He is a prisoner of war and a [Knight]! Hey! I demand—”
[Silence]. The spell enveloped the [Knights]. They surged to their feet—but the other [Soldiers] knocked them down, subduing the shackled [Knights]. Talia shouted wordlessly as four grabbed Rabbiteater.
Ah. Behind his helmet, the Goblin smiled.
He felt better this way. This felt right.
“We won’t harm you. It’s just a single look. Inquiring minds are willing to pay to know…apparently you know someone important, Ser.”
The [Mage] assured the silent [Knight]. He hustled Rabbiteater into the tent. The Hobgoblin was tensed.
One [Mage]. Four [Soldiers]. They were flanking him and had a grip on him—and he had manacles on arms and legs. But…they had made a mistake. He let them escort him, shuffling. He tensed as the flap opened—
And saw ten more [Soldiers], all co-conspirators, waiting to see the truth behind the helmet. Rabbiteater untensed. He looked around then laughed and sighed.
“Ah.”
The [Mage] ordered them to put him in the chair. Four held him down—the Goblin was just waiting. Open the helmet. He at least had his teeth.
“Someone help me get the helmet off! Damn! It’s locked! Even the visor! Someone’s got a secret. You, you—”
 
—-
 
Something was wrong. Erin Solstice listened to Altestiel’s complaints. She was smiling. Laughing. But she felt it.
Rabbiteater. She stopped smiling.
Yes, Rabbiteater. That was the thing that had hung over her. In this day of weird failed courtships, something had become plain to Erin.
Why—was she spending her time looking for something she didn’t need? That she might want now and then—when something mattered more?
“Altestiel. Thanks for your help. I’m sorry I…well, sorry it didn’t work out.”
“It was doomed from the start.”
The Earl looked up and the [Innkeeper] nodded. She looked around the inn.
“If there’s anyone else who wants to court me—you can try. But I’m not really interested. If I was—wouldn’t I court you?”
Her audience looked at each other. Lasica rolled her eyes. Erin went on.
“I’m just busy. That’s all. I have friends. Great friends.”
“Oh boy, she’s going to do the glory speech.”
A voice from the back. It sounded like Menolit. Erin laughed. But the tingling in her head…it felt like a ringing bell.
[Dangersense]? But she instinctively sensed…it wasn’t her in danger. Altestiel glanced up, frowning. Erin inhaled.
“Yeah. Something like that. But—it’s so hard to keep them safe. I can while it’s my inn. But it’s so hard out of it. And I’m not cool with that. I’d like to protect them everywhere. Even if it’s impossible, I want to.”
She clenched a fist. Palt stopped smoking. Mrsha’s leg began to jitter on the table as Lyonette held her. The Gnoll’s ears perked up.
“I won’t remain the same forever. Nor will I ever let them die. If I have to struggle—and beg every favor in the world, I won’t let them go. No matter how far you go.”
Lyonette hesitated. She glanced at Mrsha.
“Dear, stop that.”
The plate of fries was jittering slightly. Lyonette saw the glass of water trembling. She looked at Mrsha. Wait a moment. The Gnoll wasn’t even touching the…
“Erin?”
Altestiel rose. The [Innkeeper] was breathing in and out. Numbtongue, frowning, felt the wall.
“What in the name of Nagas—”
Hexel shot out of the hallway in alarm. He looked around.
“The entire inn is vibrating! Is it an earthquake?”
Then he saw Erin Solstice. Her brows were creased. She was concentrating. So hard she nearly burst a blood vessel. She was straining—
“What are you doing, Erin?”
Selys murmured from the side. The [Innkeeper] closed her eyes.
“I saw them all doing it. It’s a clever trick. If they can do it, why can’t I? I just didn’t know how it worked.”
Worked? Numbtongue glanced at Badarrow.
“This might be dangerous. Trying to force a Skill is—”
Altestiel was knocked over by the two Hobgoblins. They surged forwards, Snapjaw behind them. Hovering around Erin. She reached out and grabbed their wrists.
“I don’t need to see anything. Distance is just…”
 
—-
 
They were prying at the helmet. The bear-[General] had dented it such that it was hard to open. But they were slowly prising it off him.
Rabbiteater was distracted. He was waiting. But he felt it. A pressure in his head. Painful.
“What—what—”
“Don’t hurt him. The General will have our heads!”
“We’re not! He’s just complaining to trick us. Hurry up!”
Perhaps they felt it. The three men strained. And the Goblin tensed. The others were holding him fast. But he felt like—a familiar hand was reaching for him. It felt like—
“Erin?”
 
—-
 
Her nose began bleeding. Not a cool nosebleed either. Both nostrils. Altestiel made a sound.
“You’re pushing too hard! Stop!”
She ignored him. It felt like—a barrier that was deforming in her head. Like it was made of plastic. She pushed harder.
Why? She looked at the two Goblins. Around the inn. She pointed at the sign.
“They were here. They stood in this place. And I will never forget it! This inn will not forget they were here. My silly friends. My heroes. My protectors.” 
The words of Ser Solstice were clenched in one fist, the paper crumpling. Erin shouted at him.
“You were right here. I asked you to die for me! Okay? Enough? It’s never enough! You will always be here. Even when you leave!”
The statues in the garden. Numbtongue’s claws dug into her shoulder. The ghost of the Goblin Lord watched. Slowly, he reached out and touched her shoulder.
Then there was light. Selys was wavering, wondering why Erin was so upset. She threw up her claws as she rushed towards Erin along with the others.
Flame. It burned around her, a flash so brilliant the others put up their hands to shield their eyes. Erin did not reach for it.
It was not a color they knew. For a moment—then Selys stumbled. The floorboards, the walls!
The inn was shaking.
“What is happening?”
Bird shouted from his tower. Below, Erin Solstice raised her hand. She broke past distance. Reaching out.
She was no [King]. But he had sat in this inn! He was her guest!
And she would never forget that. She shouted the words into the sky.
“[Boon of the Guest: Zel Shivertail]!”
Altestiel’s eyes widened. Lyonette gasped.
 
—–
 
The visor popped up. The [Soldiers] stared—and then recoiled.
“G—”
The Goblin sat there. Eyes wide. Blinking into the light. Had he heard that right? The [Soldier] reached for his sword as the [Mage] jerked, his fingers to his temple.
“Impossible.”
“It’s a fucking—kill it! Kill—”
The other [Soldiers] didn’t know what the three had seen. They moved, to stop the disgrace to Ailendamus’ name. Seeing the crimson eyes and green skin, recoiling. The ones holding Rabbiteater tightened their grip.
Too late. Too slow. The four [Soldiers] went flying.
The [Mage], Telich, stared blankly as a figure rose. He saw the visor close. Then a crimson flash from between the visor’s slits. He looked blankly at the [Soldiers] on the ground.
“What are you doing? Wh—”
Rabbiteater grabbed him. Telich cried out.
“[Flame J—]”
A claw like a razor severed his throat. It had gone through the steel gauntlets! The Hobgoblin stared at his hands.
“Kill it! Kill the Go—”
He lowered the dying mage. He saw a [Soldier] jump at him, snarling, a spiked brass knuckle aiming for his head. He was so—
Rabbiteater punched and stepped back. He saw the man’s head snap back—back—
The dead Human dropped like a sack onto the ground. The other [Soldiers] stared in horror.
“But he was a [Brawler]—”
They looked at the [Knight] as he regarded the claw sticking out of his gauntlets. A razor’s edge. Yet—his armor was gleaming. Reinforced.
An arrow bounced off the chest plate. The figure had already been dodging. He leapt forwards. The [Archer] put up his arms to block.
The second blow broke both arms and the man’s face. The [Knight] whirled. The [Soldiers] stared in horror at the crimson light shining from his visor. One of them whispered.
“Ailendamus save us.”
 
—-
 
“Prisoner escape!”
“Again?”
