Did it matter? It did to Talia. It did to Rabbiteater, really. He looked into her earnest eyes as she scooted around to face him. Even bound, sitting cross-legged, there was something in her that drew him to her.
Righteousness, perhaps. Not just…arrogance. But a belief there was right and wrong. And that you could do the right thing. That was why he’d followed her across the sea. Also, because she smiled at him.
“I think, Ser Solstice, that you split hairs too easily. You may not feel yourself a knight. But if you have the class, then, Ser, you are a [Knight]. And one worthy of respect, for all we are different in many ways!”
The others murmured agreement. Rabbiteater? He laughed.
“If I take my helmet off—you will not say that.”
And then there was silence. Rabbiteater’s nerves vibrated. His heart beat. But he was tired of the lie.
Talia looked at Rabbiteater. Did she see a crimson flash of light between the visor? Perhaps not. She looked at him.
“…If, Ser Solstice, I were to judge you only by what I see, not the content of your character, I would be a poor [Knight] myself.”
So she said. He yearned to believe her. Rabbiteater just shook his head.
“Remember that. Please.”
“I have already sworn it.”
Then came the officer, and the group of [Soldiers] accompanying a [Mage]. They pointed.
“You. Come with us. Let’s get this over with.”
The first Spring Knight was hauled to their feet and marched, with some civility, to have their words and name taken and confirmed. To be ransomed. Rabbiteater closed his eyes.
“Ser Solstice. House Kallinad might ransom you along with me. I will tell the officer to do so—it is hardly an imposition.”
His eyes cracked open and hope blossomed. But only for a bit. Talia looked at Rabbiteater.
“However, Ser Solstice. Should it come to it, they will ask—is there anyone who might ransom you?”
Rabbiteater thought of a smiling young woman. A place to be safe, until it wasn’t. He closed his eyes.
“…I don’t think so. I left it behind. Can’t ask.”
He had no right to ask. He’d left them all behind to do what?
Play at being a [Knight]. Talia nodded.
“I see.”
 
—-
 
Crisis. Crisis in The Wandering Inn.
What was new? But no—seriously.
This was different.
Earl Altestiel, the cunning [Knight Marshal of the Rains] had made his move and cemented himself in the annals of guests to the inn. At the very least, he’d managed to render Erin Solstice speechless.
And yet, Selys couldn’t help but feel that this was all hilarious. At last! At last—she looked at Drassi, who’d rushed over at the news.
At last, here was some earth-shaking drama that demanded all their attention…that wasn’t actual death or monsters.
Because it was a big deal! Even if it wasn’t an Earl, that had been a dramatic scene. And as a consequence, Erin’s allies had flooded out of the woodwork.
Ah—to be more specific, it was Drassi, Selys, Montressa, Bezale—it would have been Krshia if she were still here—Visma, Mrsha…Lasica, Lyonette, and even Viceria!
Reinforcements for the wayward [Innkeeper]. Okay—some of the reinforcements might not be as helpful, but the female gender had come to Erin’s defense.
If only to buy time from the Earl’s dramatic statement. He seemed content to give Erin a few minutes—it had been twenty—and word was spreading.
Selys wondered what his next move would be. He had been, in her opinion, exceptionally clever in how he’d gotten Erin to agree to even let him court her. Just getting past that hurdle had stopped…
She glanced past Erin, who was talking with the others, and saw a bunch of heads immediately turn.
There they were. The usual suspects. The people who’d taken the news the most seriously. All the ‘might-have-beens’, the ‘not-yets’, or the maybes.
Palt. Olesm. Numbtongue? Yes, Numbtongue! And for some reason, Dawil.
“Dawil?”
Selys frowned. The Dwarf had come with the Silver Swords and arrived at Invrisil after their dramatic fight with the [Assassins]. The Dwarf was stroking his beard.
“Why are you here?”
Olesm hissed at the Dwarf. Dawil eyed him.
“Why are you here? I thought you were hooked up with Maviola El?”
“I’m not! I mean—I am! I’m just here to—to watch the Earl fail. And see how it happens.”
Olesm huffed. Similarly, you could argue that Palt was out of place. He kept looking towards the kitchen. But there he was. Dawil just shrugged.
“I’m five minutes back in Invrisil, and not only did Miss Solstice lead the Black Tide into the city, she’s got Master Pelt and Master Hedault working on that bicycle thing. And this! I’m throwing my beard into the competition. Think I’ve got a chance?”
Ylawes rubbed at his face. Selys shook her head, although…she gave the Dwarf like, four times the odds of the Drake standing next to him.
“Is that Culyss?”
Drassi whispered. Selys grimaced.
“Yes.”
Word had spread. Most were here for entertainment, but it seemed like people had decided that the courtship of Erin Solstice was now a competition—put your hats in or be silent! Wait—
…No, Wilovan and Ratici were standing outside of the ring of bachelors. Ah, good. Meanwhile, some people were just confused.
Erin was one of them.
“But why me?”
She asked for the umpteenth time. At this point, even Mrsha and Visma punched her lightly on the butt. Erin jumped.
“Erin, you are amazing. You’ve never had anyone court you?”
“No one’s ever asked, Lasica. Not like that!”
“Well, they should. Rather than hovering around like acid flies over a rotting corpse.”
The [Chef]’s words made half the bachelors standing around flinch. Numbtongue just folded his arms. He didn’t seem sure if he fit in.
And frankly—two species were confused about the proceedings here. Pawn walked over.
“Lyonette, can you expl—”
The [Wall of Femininity] blocked him from interfering with Erin as she tried to rally. Lyonette broke off and tried to explain—Belgrade was hovering as well.
“It’s courtship, Pawn.”
“Ah, you mean, like—”
“I’m here! Am I late? Dead gods, I can’t have missed it!”
The door slammed open. Everyone flinched—and Jelaqua Ivirith strode into the inn. She inserted herself into the group. Ulinde—did not follow. The Selphid walked over with Seborn and Moore, shaking his head; he was a male Human today.
“Why is everyone making a huge deal about this?”
Erin looked around, trying to breathe. Mrsha handed up a card, solemnly.
“Because it’s funny.”
Lasica read. She swatted at the little Gnoll and Mrsha bounded away. Lasica would have chased after her, but that would have given Rufelt an apoplexy, for all she wasn’t even showing her pregnancy yet.
“Children. But you’re right, Erin. This is ridiculous.”
“Exactly. They should just walk over to you, announce their intentions, and present gifts or ask you to join them in activities! The Earl was half-right—he just shouldn’t have left you hanging!”
Lasica gave Bezale the side-eye. The Minotauress clearly had a different perspective on this than the Drake.
“My point is that this is too much. Erin, if you don’t like it, tell this Earl to stop. Otherwise—enjoy the attention.”
The [Innkeeper] looked at the [Cook]. Viceria half-nodded and smiled.
“Do you want to not be courted?”
“Yes! No! I don’t want to make him upset. I just said yes—”
“That’s not the point, Erin. Is this so unfamiliar?”
Montressa put in. The others nodded. Erin hesitated.
“…What am I supposed to do?”
“Enjoy it?”
“Listen to what he’s saying?”
“Stop asking ‘why’?”
“Reciprocate?”
The group turned towards Drassi. The [Reporter] held her claws up.
“Only if she wants to!”
From the looks of it, that was the last thing on Erin’s mind. Which was…in itself curious. Selys had long observed that Erin seemed to lack even a single romantic bone in her body. Heck—Selys might have had the ill-fated relationship with Hawk she felt very bad about now—but she had wanted, well, romance.
Wasn’t that a natural thing? From Jelaqua to Bezale to Lasica to…well, the kids were kids. But even they pretended to play ‘inn’, and such.
Each in their own style. It was definitely wrong to say it was all one thing. For instance, Rufelt was not Wailant was not…Maughin. But the commonality was there. Short-term, like Drassi’s flings. Long-term marriages…
“Erin, do you want to…fall in love?”
Selys put it into a simple question as direct as the Earl’s. Erin stared at her friend.
“What kind of question is that?”
“A pertinent one? If you’re going to be all Dullahan about it—”
“Hey, that’s speciesist!”
“—you should let people know. I guess the first question—the only question is, Erin—do you want to be in a relationship?”
Erin opened her mouth. Selys went on.
“Someday. Ever?”
Fierre offered a blood sausage to Mrsha as she sidled up. The Gnoll sniffed it, and declined. Apista buzzed about—she wanted in on this too! Fierre ducked.
Everyone else waited. This was the question. Heck, Krshia Silverfang might have turned around right there and then to join in. Maviola would have ridden in and Ryoka would have probably crawled out of her coma if only she knew this was what was at stake.
As it turned out, the answer was easy. Erin Solstice’s gaze cleared. She looked at Galina, Rose, Imani, around at the others, and then at Selys. It was a whisper, but it was certain.
“Yes.”
Selys exhaled.
“Then I guess that’s one problem solved. Now we just have to figure out everything else.”
The Drake was a bit relieved. She hadn’t been sure, entirely sure what the answer would be. She looked around as the others debated.
“Well, Erin should hear the Earl out. Poor man’s got to go. It’s flattering, really.”
“I’d be intimidated. An Earl?”
“That’s like Goblin Lord, right? Very important?”
Drassi shrugged.
“I don’t kn—”
She jumped. Snapjaw was there. She stared pointedly as Badarrow talked to Numbtongue. He looked around and waved at her. Snapjaw folded her arms.
…Yes. Look at that. Then why hadn’t Erin…? Some were obvious. Olesm had been obvious like the sun. Palt? Ditto. Now, it might be preference. But while Selys could have believed that about another Human, Erin?
Let’s see. Goblins’, and there had been as many as five, but you could understand that. Olesm…Palt…and Culyss?
No, he didn’t count. Selys sighed. She was curious to wonder how the Earl would approach this. He was clearly smart enough to get past Erin’s first defense: obfuscating obliviousness. But could he go the distance?
For that matter—whose side was this group on? The answer, it appeared, was obvious.
They were on the side of the most interesting thing that had dragged them away from their jobs and everything else. The possibility of the L-word. Or possibly the R-word. Not so much the sex word.
But the possibility there was love. Or romance. Or…at least watching the wagon-pileup that might occur. All these things were valid reasons.
“Okay. If he wants to…I don’t know. Lasic—Montressa, Drassi, Selys. What am I supposed to do?”
“What do you mean, ‘do’, Erin?”
Drassi bent down. Lasica folded her arms.
“And why did you ask them?”
“I thought you’d forgotten how dates work—ow!”
Lasica smacked the back of Erin’s head. The others chuckled. But it became clear to almost everyone that the issue was now more than Erin’s objections to being romanced herself.
She was clearly nervous. Afraid. Erin, who had done so much. And why?
Why not? Had not each and every one there not felt the same trepidation? A countless number of fears.
What if I embarrass myself? What if I ruin things? What if I’m hated? What if—
A commonality they all could understand. Well, perhaps not Mrsha or Visma. They looked at each other. And Montressa had it. She glanced at the shuffling Centaur, at Kiish, who’d returned to stare at Erin as if all this was her fault.
“Erin. I think what you should do is just…relax. Can I give you a hand with that?”
“If I could, I would, Montressa. I just don’t know—”
“Don’t do anything. Just be…[Calm].”
It wasn’t any other kind of spell. But the glowing hand made Erin jump—then relax.
“…Hey. That’s better.”
Erin exhaled. Selys saw Drassi give Montressa a thumb-claw up. The [Aegiscaster] nodded.
Next came Jelaqua. The Selphid actually had some good advice as Erin breathed and Mrsha and Visma ran off to find Lyonette. Belgrade had vanished upon hearing a condensed version of what was happening.
“Erin, just relax. Have fun! No one’s expecting anything of you so you don’t have to promise anything. But…take it seriously.”
Erin nearly needed another [Calm] spell.
“H-how, Jelaqua?”
“Well…imagine if you think it’ll work. Look around.”
Erin did. Jelaqua pointed.
“Think it’d work out with that Drake?”
“Culyss? No.”
“Well, there you go. Hey! You! Out! You’re not needed!”
Jelaqua shouted at Culyss. Erin tried to stop her. But the point, however made, worked.
“That’s right. Just—Erin. Just see how it goes. Do you think there’s even a chance? Haven’t you daydreamed about stuff like that before? Like…”
Selys closed her jaws before she could give anything away. Erin looked at her friend.
“Okay. I’ll try.”
That was all they wanted to hear. Lyonette strode over.
“Erin. Out of your clothes.”
“Oh wow.”
Menolit’s head snapped around. Erin grabbed her apron and stood up.
“Lyonette—”
“I mean, in your room. What are you, children? If Earl Altestiel is going to court you, you owe it to him to at least not wear…”
She gestured at the floury apron and clothing speckled with Erin-blood from the game and some dirt from gardening. Erin sighed.
“This is where it gets complex!”
“Putting on clothes?”
“Yes! I mean—what’s appropriate. Do I super-dress up? It makes me nervous.”
“I could cast [Calm] again.”
“Maybe [Mind Blank], Montressa—”
Bezale nearly got kicked down the stairs by Selys, who hadn’t forgotten their first encounter. Chastened, the Minotauress joined the group going up to Erin’s room. The [Innkeeper] was protesting.
“I just don’t know—”
“That’s why you have us. And you need us, Erin. Especially if your taste in clothes is as bad as your cooking variety. What do you have? If we need to, we can get someone to buy a decent…”
Lasica chivvied the others into the room.
 
—-
 
It took only ten minutes to get Erin into decent clothing. Which—after she’d kicked out most of her ‘helpful friends’, was a more stylish take on jeans and a t-shirt. Well, that was too casual. It was more reminiscent of the loose garments favored by City Gnolls of both genders combined with an open, short-sleeved (yet high necked) blouse. Fierre had suggested that one for various reasons.
