He had hope he’d live if House Kallinad would pay for him. That his [Knight]’s vow would keep his helmet on because of the Human’s silly rules. The [Mage] sighed, exasperated.
“Tricky one, huh? You get one in every ransom group. Everyone thinks they’re all alone. But they always have someone who’ll shell out gold for them. You have someone like that, Ser Knight.”
“No. I don’t.”
The truth spell was yellow. Only a hint of purple. The [Lieutenant] hesitated.
“Pretty clear to me…”
“Nonsense! He just thinks that. Truth spells aren’t infallible. Let me jog his memory.”
The [Mage] seemed to be taking his job seriously or it was a point of personal pride. Maybe he was a [Ransomer]?
The [Mage] leaned forwards and Rabbiteater saw he had a hawkish nose and a rather weak chin. Olive skin…distressingly attractive pink irises that didn’t fit his rough-and-ready appearance.
“Family. Everyone’s got family. Where’s yours?”
“Dead.”
Talia stirred. So did Markus. The Goblin Slayer had never talked about his past. The [Mage] glanced at the spell.
Half-truth. He sighed dramatically.
“Fine. Let’s take it one by one. First…Mother?”
“Dead.”
“…Father?”
“Don’t know. Probably dead.”
“Siblings?”
“Dead.”
The [Mage] checked himself. They were all complete truths.
“Er…were they accidents? Disease? Natural causes?”
“Oh come on, Telich—”
The [Lieutenant] hissed at him. Rabbiteater looked at the [Mage]. The truth spell tempted him.
“Murdered.”
Yellow truth shone through. The [Mage] hesitated. Someone muttered a word.
“Goblins.”
The story was being pieced together by the audience to the legend of the Goblin Slayer. The [Mage] cleared his throat awkwardly.
“Right. Well…no ransoms there. How about…your people? Your city? Your sworn [Lord]?”
Rabbiteater had pledged to help Rags. But his Chieftain? He thought of that glorious Goblin and closed his eyes.
“All dead. Everyone I had is dead. Murdered.”
“Lancearrows bugger me, this is depressing.”
Someone murmured in the background. The [Mage] himself looked distressed. But he noticed the telltale mix of colors in the truth spell.
“But there are some alive, aren’t there?”
Rags, Badarrow, Snapjaw, Calescent…
Erin?
It was true. Rabbiteater was silent. The [Mage] tapped a finger on the table.
“One of them would pay for you, wouldn’t they?”
The Hobgoblin doubted Rags was accepting [Message] spells. He thought of Erin and shook his head slowly.
“I left them. I will die here. Do not—deserve—to bother them.”
His truth shone from the spell. The [Lieutenant] looked at the [Knight] and turned.
“I need a moment.”
The [Mage] shook his head. He’d seen ‘loner knights’ before and such, but this was a new one, even on him. He looked around.
“Hey—you. Toss me that flask, right? Ale? Someone pour this bugger a drink. Then…let’s figure out who’s out there. If any.”
A flask and dirty cup was produced. Rabbiteater found a drink in his hands—and a straw. But the questioning continued, to find a name. The [Mage] wanted to know who remained. Purely out of professional curiosity this time. And in time…he sent a [Message] to Liscor.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn was a flurry of activity. Many people were just discussing the grandiose gesture. The Earl and Erin were still walking the Floodplains.
Even so—opinions were divided.
“Showoff. Who likes grand gestures like that? It’s not how I’d want to be courted.”
Menolit looked annoyed. One of the female Gnolls snorted.
“And you’re an expert? Oh—also, you’ve had so much success yourself.”
The [Veteran] looked incredibly hurt.
“I’m just saying…and I have had success! But who likes that kind of fancy thing?”
“Some people do. It seemed to work on Miss Erin now, didn’t it?”
“Certainly makes it harder for the competition.”
Every head turned towards a flustered Drake looking around in his bag of holding, for something…anything. Olesm sensed the eyes and looked up. Menolit and the gossip circle turned their heads.
“He’s not got a chance. No prep, nothing. Missed his chance. Disgraceful for a [Strategist], really. But I have seven silver on my guy.”
“…Which guy?”
Menolit gestured. And Numbtongue was there. Intently listening to his advisor.
“You have to give her something pretty.”
“Mm. This?”
“That’s good. What about two?”
The Hobgoblin eyed the cut emerald. That was a good point. He was glad Visma was advising him on this kind of thing. He fumbled around in his mining sack and produced a sapphire.
“This?”
“Do you have anything shinier?”
In the Antinium corner, Lyonette was shaking her head playing her ‘advisor’ role mainly by trying to talk Garry out of baking another cake.
“Just…just tell Erin you like her, Garry.”
“Should I not make a grand gesture? Romeo says many kind words.”
“That’s a play. And that might work. But not on Erin.”
Lyonette was wavering. Half of her wanted to say that Garry didn’t understand courtship and that the issue wasn’t the same and that Erin wouldn’t abandon him. The other half? Well—she and Pawn? So why not?
She was more amazed that Erin had gone along with Altestiel, [Calm] spell or not. Lyonette would have assumed it would take a Tier 6 spell to have Erin let her hair down. Speaking of spells as well…
If Olesm was not courting Erin and purely here to watch Altestiel fail because he had Maviola and he was completely over Erin…and Numbtongue was making an effort, and Garry was looking for flowers with Bird—Palt was talking with Imani.
The two had not joined the rush. Or the fun in watching and speculating whom Erin might choose. There were more prospective suitors. Dawil had produced a rather fine bouquet of brandy in a crystal decanter. Ylawes was giving him grief.
“What are you doing, Dawil?”
“Having lots of fun, lad. Having lots of fun. And who are you to say I don’t have a shot? Because I’m a Dwarf? That’s heightist.”
The [Knight] threw his hands up. Imani half-smiled.
“Looks like a lot of people want to court Erin all of a sudden.”
“The Earl’s opened the floodgates. They don’t really have a chance. I’d say…there are only a few who might.”
“I think you’re right.”
The [Cook] did not look at the [Illusionist]. She spoke, in a very calm, deliberate tone.
“I think—I think a lot of people are more worried that Erin would fall in love. Even if she’s not loved…a lot of people like her.”
“Us included, right?”
“Of course. She’s a terrible restaurant manager. But she’s kind and generous and…brave. That’s why you like her.”
Dead silence. The Centaur stared past Imani. He took a long inhale on the cigar.
“Yes.”
Imani nodded. Her face was composed.
“You never said anything.”
“Erin’s tricky.”
“Mhm.”
The Centaur shuffled his hooves.
“…It’s not as if there were other reasons.”
“Right. But you liked her. You…you should give her something from Baleros. I know you have trinkets. Something fun. A little mage-gift.”
Palt started. He looked at Imani.
“You think I should give a gift?”
“And confess. The Earl proved you have to or she’ll just ignore you. Go on.”
“And you’re…”
Okay with that? Palt didn’t say it. If he had, Beza and Montressa might have broken all four of his legs. Imani stared past Palt.
“I don’t think it matters, does it?”
“Of course it does.”
She looked up at him. Palt flinched.
“Then what am I supposed to do? Wait here? I’m not a second-best prize.”
She turned and walked away. Not into the kitchen, but upstairs.
“You damn donkey. I thought you were tactful. Or at least, intelligent!”
“Mule’s ass. You’d better watch your tail at night.”
Montressa and Beza shoved past Palt, going after Imani. The Centaur opened and closed his mouth.
He bowed his head. Then looked up.
The rain had returned. Palt…waited. He just wanted to see. So did Olesm. Numbtongue glanced up. Dawil produced some beard oil.
Erin Solstice was laughing when she returned to the inn. Just—laughing. Giggling at a joke Altestiel had made. She did not look swept off her feet. But what was better and worse depending on how you looked at it—
She looked at ease.
“Water bridges are so cool. Mrsha, you have to try them! You can slide down them like…a slide!”
She waved her arms. The Earl smiled.
“What about that game of Go, then?”
The proverbial ball was in his court and he was going for a second point. Erin looked around as the Earl pointed to a waiting chess table—
“Erin! I am courting you!”
Garry and the Antinium. The [Chef] pushed past Altestiel. He had a dandelion plucked from the Garden in one hand. Altestiel stared at the Antinium. Kiish’s jaw dropped in horror.
This was the competitive field? But before Erin could so much as blink—or laugh—Numbtongue had appeared.
“Here. For you.”
He offered her an emerald orb. So exquisitely clear and perfectly shaped by Pyrite’s techniques that it made even Altestiel do a double-take. A marble of emerald, in which were caught only two imperfections; a tiny bit of amber and a gap of air.
It glittered in the sunlight speckled with rain, a prism of its own. Erin oohed.
“That’s so nice, Numbtongue. But it’s too much. Really—”
“Do you like it?”
Erin hesitated. Badarrow and Snapjaw, the cheering squad, were silently nodding their heads. Be honest.
“Yes, but—”
“Take it.”
The Hobgoblin put it into her hands and closed her hand on it. Erin looked at the gem. It really was a Hobgoblin’s gift. Both worth something—and useless. A shiny trinket. Good for adventurer bait.
Then she looked up at him and realized what it meant. She looked at Garry. At Olesm, inching over. Dawil coughed.
“A token of my affection, Miss Solstice?”
He offered her the alcohol. Erin stared at it. Then at the Dwarf. Falene had her head in her hands.
“Dawil! When did you get here?”
“Just an hour ago. May I offer you my sincerest compliments, Miss Solstice?”
Altestiel looked like he was unsure of whether to laugh or take this seriously. Erin too. But then she looked around and realized—
But for Dawil, they were serious. Her smile faded. Her blood pressure went up.
And she noticed Palt wasn’t joining in. Montressa listened to the swearing and clattering on the stairs and smiled.
“Well done, donkey.”
 
—-
 
What did they see in her? Why had the Centaur stopped pressing his suit? Perhaps…because he saw something. Sensed he might fail? Or realized there was something better?
You would have to ask him why. It could be, simply, that when the chips were down, the stakes raised, he realized he liked the idea of Erin more than the person. Especially since the [Innkeeper] had a standing policy against cigars and smoke. And she cooked garbage food.
Or something else entirely. Yet if he was one—why the Earl? What did he see? He could have courted any [Lady] or even royalty across the world. Beautiful women. Intelligent geniuses.
Why her?
It was like some kind of comedy. Or—alternatively—a standard event in The Wandering Inn. But Strategist Kiish couldn’t believe her reality.
She…had her history with the Earl Altestiel, her sovereign [Lord]. That was not unrelated, but Kiish had made her peace with it. Even so—
“Mm. Nice crepe mixture. You um—you—you sure you don’t need a hand? Guys?”
Erin smelled the sizzling crepes she was making for lunch. She saw Garry insert a spatula and flip the nearly-done one over. The delightful sizzle was accompanied by a plop as Olesm dropped his.
Numbtongue peered at his batter suspiciously. The Earl was determinedly ladling a portion onto his pan.
“I’m quite engaged. But could you show me how you’re supposed to cook this, Miss Solstice?”
“S-sure?”
They were making food. Garry had, by a reasonable argument involving food, gotten Erin into the kitchen. She had accepted, if only to escape the rush of suitors and buy time.
…They had followed her in and were ‘helping’ make lunch. Erin’s skin was prickling. This wasn’t like normal. They were serious.
“Bacon crepes.”
Dawil happily adjusted his pan as he stood on the stool. His crepes had tiny bits of bacon in them. Erin eyed him.
“Yeah. Good for you, Dawil.”
She looked at Altestiel. The Earl seemed to be having fun. That was the weird thing. He winked at her as he saw her expression.
“This is quite fun. Kiish and my people won’t let me so much as touch a pan. I’ve never actually learned how to cook. Am I doing it right?”
“Yeah. What, you’ve never touched a frying pan?”
“…I actually think this is the first time in my life. That’s regrettable, isn’t it?”
Erin just stared at Altestiel. He looked like he was having genuine fun. And perhaps—
Were they still on the date? Was that walk in the Floodplains a date?
It had been fun. Erin had been unsure of herself for the first six minutes, nervous, awkward—right up until the Earl demonstrated the slip-and-slide nature of the water bridges and slid down a hill like a kid. Then Erin had joined him.
And they’d talked! Mostly about chess. He did love the game and had quizzed Erin intensely on the game of Go, which he’d been hesitant to pick up because there wasn’t as much documented strategy. Erin owed him a game of Go.
All that was fun. Was that…?
Erin supposed, the question was, could she see herself doing more than that? And the answer was…
 
—-
 
“Okay, so Go allows you to place a piece wherever. But the same strategies apply in the small area. That’s actually sort of easy—you’ve seen capturing pieces.”
“In a sense, simpler than chess since each go piece is static. You simply surround and conquer.”
Altestiel nodded. Erin grinned.
Numbtongue, Garry, Dawil…no one else was there. Well, that wasn’t quite right. Two [Servants] were waiting just out of sight. And Kiish was probably still lurking about. Like a ghost.
But the dining room was quite splendidly lit. The fireplace was second fiddle to the mage lights hanging in the air. Erin kept glancing around the furnished room. It was so…rich. Yet comfy! What really impressed her was the grand dining table. It could fit all of Altestiel’s guests who came to his home.
They were sitting by the glass window instead. A magnificent glass frontage that looked out onto Desonis’ swamps. And it was more beautiful than Erin had imagined, even with Altestiel telling her all that.
His mansion, like most of the architecture, was high off the ground. So the style was to have these open windows or terraces that gave you a long look across the scenery. In the sun and spring, the marshes bloomed with color. When it rained, it was an awesome sight.
Erin sat next to Altestiel, placing stones and showing him a standard move.
