“I think—it’s because she can’t display them well.”
“Milord?”
“I’ve heard of her fire. Not seen it myself except with that delightful Minotaur Punch drink. But…a Level 40 Skill, wielded by an [Innkeeper]? She has few active Skills. And in that…she reminds me of the King of Destruction. I wonder what the true power behind Erin Solstice’s Skills looks like. I should like to see that.”
The company from Desonis was silent. One of them spoke at last.
“Then you are intending to pursue your courtship?”
“To the end, Merwood. Now, are you here to help me or get in my way?”
They looked at each other. Then stood. Kiish sighed.
 
—-
 
“You’ve all failed. You know that, you um…Antinium. Right?”
Lasica was sitting at the bar as Rufelt did some side-bartending just to keep his paw in. They’d been watching the courtship of Erin and the [Chef] was talking to Garry.
“Was the cake not enough?”
The [Chef] was consulting Lasica and the Drake had to own—she was not at home with Antinium, but a fellow [Chef] was a fellow [Chef]. And she respected both Imani and Garry’s efforts and creativity. Not Erin’s.
“I’m sorry, but you never had a chance. Maybe in the future…but the Earl’s lost.”
“How so? He appears to be ahead.”
“Ahead. What is this, a game?”
Lasica snorted. She shook her head.
“He had one chance. He did well. But he had to sweep her away. He managed to impress Erin. But he didn’t manage it. Now everything with a pulse is after her.”
She gestured at Dawil, Numbtongue, Olesm…Garry looked at Altestiel, other Drakes, Gnolls, Humans who wanted to try their hand.
He didn’t get it. Lasica clarified.
“They’re like damn ants swarming ov—er…bees around honey. And Erin’s the honey. Does that make sense?”
Apista flipped up her stinger, offended. Rufelt chased the bee away from his drinks and his wife. Garry’s mandibles opened.
“Oh, I see. We are getting in each other’s way?”
Belgrade and Pawn, his wing-ants, nodded, taking notes. Lasica sighed long and loud.
“Not just that. How do you think the honey feels? Er…Erin? Making a grand show, giving her gifts—Dawil had better not sing that song. Or that Gnoll.”
She glowered, pointing two serenades out. Garry tilted his head.
“Why?”
“Do you think it’s always pleasant to be fought over? For that matter—there are too many people watching and trying to get her to choose.”
“Why is that bad? Erin should make her choice, should she not? That will relieve the pressure.”
Belgrade raised a hand. He flinched as Lasica glowered at him. The Drake adjusted the intensity of her glower.
“Why does she have to choose because you all want her to? Boys!”
She sighed. That was only one argument though. The truth was…Lasica cast about. And pointed once more towards something in the inn.
“The truth is though…not all of you are a good match. I can see him with Erin more than most of you.”
Garry deflated as he saw who Lasica meant.
Kevin. He paused, a Mrsha-crepe in his mouth as everyone stared at him. The worst part was—it did make sense. Kevin had a bit of Erin-energy.
“I must withdraw my suit, then. Do I leave the cake?”
Lasica looked at Garry and shook her head.
“Why do you want to court Erin anyways? Do you think she’d leave you for the Earl? Really? He’d have to drag an entire Antinium Hive over the water and I’d love to see that. He never really had a chance.”
“I was afraid.”
Garry mumbled. Lasica shook her head.
“Do you think Erin Solstice is petty enough to just leave you?”
“Now, now, dear. You’re being too harsh.”
Rufelt admonished Lasica. But it made Garry feel better. He decided he would stop courting Erin. Besides—he’d heard about sex from Pawn and it seemed so inconvenient.
Then the door opened and Erin Solstice stormed into the inn. Dawil whirled.
“Ylawes! Falene, enchant my voice! Erin Solstice, by beard’s oil and combed curl—”
Half a dozen suitors rushed forwards, with hastily-assembled gifts. The [Innkeeper] saw the mob. She blinked.
“Enough.”
She walked through them. Garry saw the people slow as they tried to crowd in front of them. As if suddenly weighed down.
The jovial, carnival-air of the inn faded. Altestiel’s head snapped around. Olesm stopped fidgeting and reached for a [Message] scroll on his side.
Lyonette felt it too.
“Erin? Is something wrong?”
“Rabbiteater’s been captured on Terandria. I have to pay a three hundred gold ransom. I’m too busy for dates. Lyonette—we need to pay it now.”
Erin strode for the [Garden of Sanctuary]. There was a crash as Numbtongue fell out of his chair. Badarrow rose from his seat as Snapjaw cursed.
“What?”
“Miss Solstice—”
Altestiel rose. He made for Erin. Again, he was smart enough not to charge after her through the door. Rather—he put a hand out and touched the invisible barrier at the door as Lyonette, Mrsha, and the others raced through after Erin, shouting questions. The Earl called out.
“Erin. Allow me to send the fee from Desonis at once. Kiish—contact the Merchant’s Guild and have it sent posthaste. It will also allow us to confirm your friend is safe. You cannot simply trust every force at its word. But I can ensure there will be honesty if there were any doubt.”
His hand suddenly passed through air. The Earl stepped through the doorway as Erin turned.
“You’d do that, Altestiel?”
“Your friend must be a [Knight].”
The Earl remarked slowly. But he hadn’t missed that it was the two Goblins who’d gone after Erin fastest. The [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“He’s…”
“A Goblin. Wearing armor.”
A second of hesitation. The Earl ignored Numbtongue and Badarrow’s looks.
“It is not exactly a hard conclusion to come to. I have seen the disguise that Numbtongue employed.”
“He’s smart.”
Mrsha signed up to Lyonette. The [Princess] eyed Altestiel. He was. Worryingly so. And what was more—
“The confirmation should arrive in five minutes, Earl. Apologies—the Merchant’s Guild is on the job.”
Kiish smushed her face into the Garden’s door before speaking. She clutched at her nose and glared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“Wait, you paid them?”
“I have a line of credit. Pray, would you tell me more about the situation? It is entirely possible they might be close to Desonis—or that we could at least communicate if they were to reach a major city.”
The Earl gestured towards a table. Erin hesitated. She looked at him again. Numbtongue touched her arm. He was nodding and looking at her pleadingly.
“Of course. Thank you, Altestiel.”
He smiled. And Erin realized he was still courting her. She couldn’t help but feel that if there was a way to make her like him—
It probably was through the Goblins.
 
—-
 
And like that, it was done. Rabbiteater blinked.
“Say again?”
“They…just paid the ransom. Guaranteed by Desonis. Wait, is that right?”
The [Lieutenant] was shocked. Not to mention discomforted. Not even the Order of Seasons had that fast a line through the Merchant’s Guild, but the money was good. He regretted lowering the price at once.
But there was no renegotiating. The ransom had been confirmed through Ailendamus’ diplomatic lines. Which meant it was now a matter of the kingdom’s integrity to make sure the Goblin Slayer was repatriated with armor and dignity intact.
Done, done, done. And no one had taken off his helmet. Talia Kallinad relaxed.
Rabbiteater was just miffed. He immediately put it down to an Erin Solstice thing. Which needed no explanation. He believed.
But he wasn’t happy. He wanted to pick up that quill. Talk to her.
He wanted to say sorry.
He wanted to know what to do next. As they led him back to the tent and he sat with the Order of Seasons, who treated him like a friend, one of them—the Goblin was miserable.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice sat across a Go board, playing with the Earl.
“So…he’s okay?”
“I have confirmation via Ailendamus. It would be a diplomatic incident if a [Knight] were to be disgraced. Regarding the helmet…”
The Earl drummed his fingers on the table.
“If your friend has kept his secret, I doubt they will do anything at this point if he does nothing untoward. I can insist, and arrange communications. Kiish, put pressure on them through one of our [Diplomats].”
“I have sent word to the palace. Her Majesty would like a word, and Master Erimith will attend to the matter himself. But he is ah, being summoned.”
“Ah. He’s in his seventies. Old. Probably napping.”
The Earl nodded to Erin. He was so—decisive. It was like…Lyonette? Or maybe herself. Terandria wasn’t Erin’s area of expertise. It was Altestiel’s. He knew ransoms and…politics. So he was helping solve her problems.
The thing was? Erin was super-grateful. There were just two things and she’d finished with one.
The first was trying to figure out if the Earl was doing this to butter her up. But as far as she could tell, he was genuinely trying to help, courtship aside. And he seemed to like her without pretense.
She felt like she would be able to tell. That was her job. She was in her inn. She had the measure of Altestiel. And he was…cool.
And second? She didn’t feel like it was resolved.
It was too neat. Rabbiteater got freed? Ransom paid, he was on his way, doing whatever he was with strange [Knights] abroad. Hurrah!
But…she wanted to talk to him. More than play Go—she made another mistake and Altestiel capitalized on it. Unlike her imagination, he actually liked this game, possibly more than chess! And he was pressing her hard in her preoccupied state.
Caution: Imagination might not match reality.
“We’ll organize it and have a result within the hour, Erin. I hope this is helpful, not intrusive.”
And there it was. The day crystallized like this, as Erin reached for a piece. She looked up. And met Altestiel’s gaze.
Layers. First layer? He had to know she was grateful for his help. Perhaps it was calculated. She thought it was genuine.
Second layer. He liked her because of her deeds. Because of her level. He was dreadfully smart.
Third layer? She thought he did have affection for her. Frightening as it was to think that. Because…they had similar interests. Because he was a kid who liked to dance in the rain as much as he was an Earl.
None of the parts disqualified the whole. On the whole? Erin liked Earl Altestiel a lot. She thought she would in any circumstance, even if he had not come to Invrisil when he did. Even if she had not had his help in the siege. She could even see how they fit together, for all their differences.
So she took a breath. A long, painful breath. Then another for good measure. Then she remembered to exhale.
Altestiel looked at her oddly. But they were sitting together, in a small area of space; both auras keeping the others back. Erin felt it was unconscious on their parts. A desire for space. Perhaps because she’d known this moment was coming.
She placed a piece. Altestiel reached for his black stone.
“Love is a weird thing, Altestiel, huh?”
His fingers slipped on the stone. The clatter was loud. The Earl caught himself.
“What was that, Erin?”
“Love. Liking someone romantically. Weird stuff, huh?”
“…Indeed?”
Sudden squall in the middle of a battle. Unexpected breeze. The [Knight Marshal] looked at Erin. She regarded his stone.
“You’ve been great today. I mean…courting and all. I just have a question. Because—helping Rabbiteater, all this stuff? Chess? Am I in love with you?”
Olesm was choking on his fries. The Earl’s fingers simply curled around the smooth, polished stone. He waited. Erin looked up at him, meeting his yellow eyes with her hazel ones.
“I don’t know. Am I supposed to feel…something else? Because if I am, I love everyone like I love Mrsha, or no one at all. And that means you as well.”
“Ah. I see.”
She nodded. The Earl’s face clouded. Erin looked at the pieces.
“I don’t know how to explain it. Sorry, Altestiel.”
“Go on.”
He waited, gently. Kiish pumped her fist in the air, then looked around and collected herself. Erin ignored the onlookers, pushing them back in her mind. This was just for her and him. He’d earned that.
“I…here’s how I can say it. Chess. It’s like chess. You know, there was this guy who fancied me who once said that if he beat me, we should date. I mean…I kicked his butt, but come on.”
“Not exactly appropriate.”
The Earl coughed, almost hiding a smile. Erin glowered.
“My soul isn’t in the chessboard or anything. The chessboard is only a piece of wood. Even enchanted wood. I didn’t marry it. I hated it, when I was younger.”
“Younger?”
His eyes flickered. Erin missed that.
“Yes. I loved it, and then hated it because it was all I was. Just someone to play and win or lose. So I quit. Then I came back because I did enjoy it. But it’s something I really…really…like. I don’t know if it’s love.”
She regarded the stone as she put it down. Altestiel placed his.
“There are more important things to love than a game. I’d trade playing chess for the rest of my existence to bring just one of them back.”
“So would I.”
He murmured. Erin didn’t know who he was talking about. But she did. As she thought of her next move, she spoke. It helped to play. She had to be honest since she was concentrating on the game as much as her words.
“What I’m trying to say…is that you couldn’t win me over with chess. Not even if that guy was the best chess player in the world. A Grandmaster’s Grandmaster. That wouldn’t ever work. Because it’s chess. I’d be like, ‘he’s good at chess. Okay’. And I’m sorry. But I really liked walking with you. You helping—I think we’re friends. But I don’t think it changed how I felt. I just know you like me.”
She looked up at him. He exhaled, slowly.
“As rejections go…I have had far worse. Many delivered in ruder ways.”
She ducked her head, embarrassed.
“I’m sorry. I just don’t feel—”
“So you said.”
He sighed. Erin tried to clarify.
“If—if it were possible? For someone to like, be someone I’d want to fall in love with right away?”
Half the population in The Wandering Inn listened from afar. Erin put it into words, piece by piece as she cornered one of Altestiel’s formations.
“If there was someone to fall in love with—I guess they’d have to be grander than anyone I’ve met before. Sorry, Altestiel.”
“Grander?”
He sounded hurt for the first time since she’d talked to him. Erin glanced up. Oh yes, a kid with a storm. She shrugged.
“I meant…even grander than an Earl. I couldn’t—see myself falling in love anyways. Not if I was worried about…”
Rabbiteater. Erin gulped.
