Luckily, it had been overlooked by the authorities, and she had petitioned for the authorization to promote her own people to fix such an oversight. She had received a paltry response. 5,000 Sentinels, and she was given two Senior Captain positions, enough to only command 2,000. Maddening. She had immediately promoted Tokta, and would give the other to Alsantset. That would irritate Gerel, to be matched by his chief rival so quickly. It did the young ones good to have competition, something she feared the next few generations would lack if the People were to go into hiding once again.

Sadly, without reinforcements, Shen Mu had fallen. She had visited Shen Mu once before, seen the beautiful forests and unique architecture, with their vibrant fields of flowers and orchards. To read the reports of ruined fields filled with tortured bodies ate away at her, with not a single reported survivor yet to be found. This was their enemy, ruthless and unforgiving, slaughtering the millions sheltered within the city for sport. Her part was not to avenge them, but she would ensure that another city of innocents would not join them. She ached to be a part of the Shen Mu subjugation force, retaking the lands from the Defiled armies, but her request had been denied. She felt responsible for their downfall, having chosen to aid Shen Huo not for tactical reasons, but personal ones. Guilt ate away at her, even though there was nothing she could have done to save both cities.

“Old wife, you'll give yourself wrinkles frowning like that. Come, the days ahead will be long, we should be off to bed.” Her husband came to her door, a smile upon his handsome face.

“Ai, there is too much to deal with, too much to worry about. You should petition the Marshal for a rank, I need a second-in-command with the authority to actually command. Come, share your wife's burdens.” The words burst out of her in exasperation, the need for his aid making her irritable. A good man, but too lazy and uncaring of glory. If not for the love of his people and family, he would sit at home all day, drinking and playing chess.

He only chuckled in reply, a deep rumbling sound as he walked off, unconcerned by all their problems. Were she to ask him, he would only say that they should return home. 'Leave the problems of the Empire for the Emperor to deal with'. The Defiled, the Brigadier Kai, the Society, so many problems piling up, with no immediate action for her to take, nor anyone for her to kill. Most vexing.

Another area of contention. The Society was a dangerous enemy to have, especially since she could not act from the shadows. If it were to come to killing one another in secret, she had the confidence to hurt them so badly it would be decades before they recovered. With a trial by combat, she was forced into the open, and it was foolish to believe the Society had no champions who were her equal. The heavens were large, and who knew how many crouching tigers and hidden dragons their ranks held, skilled warriors hidden from the public eye for just such a situation. This was without mentioning the warriors they commanded that strode about openly, like Colonel General Situ Nian Zu, commander at the Bridge, or even the Marshal, Shing Du Yi. Perhaps before the recent fame of Baatar, Gerel, and herself, the Society would have underestimated them, but now there was almost no chance of that occurring. There was even a risk that the Marshal would send her upon a suicidal mission, and she would have no recourse to refuse.

Sighing in regret, Akanai packed up the remainder of her things, preparing to leave early in the morning. Those problems were distant, to be met when appropriate. For now, they moved towards Shen Huo, then she would retake the fortress, and once they were safe she would appeal to personally hunt down every last Defiled still within the Empire's borders.

She owed the citizens of the Empire no less, until such a time she believed the Empire to have truly failed her people.
