Ren woke up on the bed and propped himself on his elbows. He looked around, but all he saw was an empty room. The comfy chair was missing. “Nathalia?”

“Ren!” She said from the room that should be the bathroom. “Close your eyes!”

“They're closed.” Ren said and closed his eyes. He heard soft footsteps enter the bedroom and he waited.

“O-okay.” Nathalia said, shyly. “You can open them.”

Ren opened his eyes and they kept opening until they were as wide as they could possibly be.

“By the gods.” Ren said as he stared at her. “By the gods, Nathalia... you're beautiful.”

She stood in the doorway of the bathroom, wearing a completely see-through negligee, and a small pair of underwear. Her hair was undone from the braid, and the curly mass flowed out and around her like a curtain. Nathalia's face was completely red as she tried to not cover herself, since he could see she was trying her best to keep her arms at her side. Ren hopped out of bed and quickly went over to her.

“This is what you were making last night?” He asked, and took her into a hug.

Nathalia nodded slightly. “You know I'm terrible at sewing.” She said. “I worked on it for so long, that I fell asleep.”

“Darling, you didn't have to do that.” Ren said and gave her a kiss. “I'm very happy that you did, though.”

Nathalia's blush stayed in full force as he hugged her closely, and she felt how happy he really was. Her breath caught and Ren smiled at her.

“Do you like it?” She asked.

“I love it.” Ren said. “Not because of what I can see, but because of what you went through to make it for me.”

Nathalia reached a hand up and stroked his face. “I wanted our first time together to be memorable.”

Ren chuckled. “I had the same thought; but, I didn't make a see-through outfit to wear for you.”

She grinned. “I wouldn't mind seeing that.”

“If you have any of that fabric left...” Ren suggested.

Nathalia shook her head. “I used up almost all of it, trying to make this.”

Ren gave her a quick kiss. “I hope you'll be happy with just nudity.”

“That depends on if you mean it, or if it's just sex.” She asked.

“If all I wanted from you was sex, you'd already be on the bed and I'd be inside you.”

Nathalia shivered at the truth in Ren's words, and she smiled. “You don't know how much that means to me.”

“You're wrong.” Ren said and picked her up. Nathalia grabbed him around the neck, and he carried her to the bed. “I know exactly how much it means to you.” He laid her down on the comfy mattress and smiled. “Because it means just as much to me.” Ren stored his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak into inventory, and followed it with his Travelling Clothes. He stood there above her with only a pair of Spider Silk underwear on, and Nathalia could clearly see how happy he was.

“Ren...”

“Yes, Nathalia?”

“Don't make me wait anymore.”

Ren grinned. “I'm sorry, but you have to.”

“W-w-what?” She said, surprised.

Ren laid down beside her and gave her a kiss. “I am going to take my time with you.” He ran a finger down her neck and along the frills across the opening above her chest. Nathalia arched her back and pushed her breasts out for him, but he didn't grab them like he wanted to. He used a single finger to trace the edge of her breast and then up to the middle, where a very prominent nipple awaited his touch. Instead of pinching it or rubbing it, he still used a single finger to trace the areola's edge and then the nipple itself. Nathalia's breath sped up when he touched her there and he moved his hand over to her other breast and repeated the same movements.

“By the gods, Ren... please...” She whispered. “I've been so good for so long.”

Ren smiled and slipped a hand under the end of the negligee and slid it up and over the soft mounds of flesh, and Nathalia took in a deep breath. He gave her a passionate kiss, then kissed her neck, and she giggled. He worked his way down the middle of her chest, paused for a moment, then dove for her right nipple.

“Ohhhhh....” Nathalia moaned as Ren sucked and licked her there. He used a hand to massage her and work a good amount of flesh up and into his mouth. He moved his hand away, and the flesh slowly pulled it's way out of his mouth. When it came to only her nipple left between his lips, he sucked hard for a second, there was a popping sound, and the breast popped free.

“By the gods...” Nathalia whispered. Ren repeated this with her other breast and it nearly drove her wild.

“Please, Ren... please...” She begged.

Ren smiled and moved down to her waist.

“Yes... oh, yes...”

Ren hooked the edge of her underwear with his fingers, and slipped the thin fabric down her legs and off completely. He handed the underwear to Nathalia so she could put them into inventory, and she tossed them onto the floor.

“You're going to need those later.” Ren said.

“I don't care!” She said, nearly mad with desire. “Hurry!”

“Your wish is my command, My Lady.” Ren said and moved away and down to her waist. He eased her legs apart. Only a small tuft of hair was above her opening, and Ren smiled.

“W-what... what are you...”

He dove his face into the space between her legs, and Nathalia gasped. She writhed around as Ren kissed her there as passionately as he had kissed her mouth earlier.

“Some... something... Ren... there's something...”

She started to buck and twitch and Ren kept going. It didn't take long before Nathalia's legs clamped down on his head and she screamed.

“AHHHHHHHH!!!!”

Ren kept licking her and she kept going, over and over. Her screams settled down eventually into a constant moan. He gave her one last kiss there, and she tensed up for a moment and then her legs fell away from his head. Ren moved back up the bed, and lay by her side.

“Nathalia, are you okay?”

“W-w-w-w-what?” She said, and tried to focus on Ren's face. Her eyes didn't quite work yet, though.

“I'm going to give you a few minutes to recover before I keep going.”

Nathalia blinked several times and turned her head to look at him. “You... want to... keep... going?”

Ren smiled. “I do, but I think you've had enough for a few minutes.”

She nodded vigorously and then closed her eyes. “I never knew... Ren, that was... by the gods...”

Ren lay there and waited for several minutes until Nathalia's breathing evened out and she could see him properly.

“Ready for Round 2?” Ren asked.

Nathalia's eyes widened as she looked down at herself. “Are you going to... kiss me there... again?” She asked, and licked her lips. Ren smiled and shook his head.

“I had something else in mind.” He got up and knelt on the bed, and stored his underwear. Nathalia's breath stopped as she saw Ren's throbbing member in it's entirety, for the first time.

“By the gods!” She gasped and started breathing again. “It's...”

“Yeah, I know...” Ren said. “It's quite bi-”

“...beautiful.” Nathalia whispered, and Ren looked at her in surprise. She looked at him with desire. “Can I touch it?”

“You can do anything you want to it.” He said and grinned.

Nathalia sat up, then reached out a hand to caress the silky skin. Both Ren and Nathalia shivered at the gentle touch. She moved her hand over the tip and around the edge, then used her other hand to grasp it firmly.

“If I'd known...” Nathalia said and moved her hands slowly along the shaft. “...I wouldn't have held myself back for so long.” She leaned in and put her face right next to the tip, and looked up at him. “I've never done this before, Ren.” She stuck out her tongue and licked the front of the tip. “If I do something wrong...”

Ren chuckled, and Nathalia felt it through his member. “Darling, you can't do anything wrong.”

Nathalia nodded and put the tip into her mouth. She sucked it like Ren had sucked on her nipples, and she tried her best to get as much of it into her mouth as she could. He couldn't hear her breathe, so he tugged on her hair a little, and pulled her away from him.

“You need to breathe through your nose.” Ren said. “Or you might pass out.”

She nodded and tried again. He could feel her breath through her nose and she got about half of it in, then she had to stop and backed off again.

“How... how is it?” She asked and looked at him.

“Honey, I don't know if I can last much longer if you keep going.”

Nathalia smiled and slipped his member back into her mouth and kept sucking. Ren closed his eyes as she moved in and out, and got faster with each movement. He began moving his hips in time with her, then opened his eyes.

“Almost...” Ren said, and she looked up at him. He nodded and she stopped moving and let him go in her mouth. Ren spasmed over and over, and Nathalia's eyes widened. It was a bit too much for her to hold, so she slid her mouth off of his member, and everything spilled out and onto the bed. Ren kept going for another few seconds, and then the spasms eased off.

“Nathalia, are you okay?” Ren asked, concerned. He took out a scrap piece of cloth and knelt in front of her, avoiding the mess he'd made. “There was a lot more than I thought there was going to be.” He wiped her mouth and chin off, then a bit on her leg and put the cloth over the mess. “You made me go so much.”

Nathalia blushed a little and Ren kissed her. She was surprised for a moment, and then she closed her eyes and kissed him back. A minute later, he broke the kiss and looked at her.

“I hope you're ready.” Ren said, and eased Nathalia back down onto the bed.

“I've been ready for weeks, Ren.” She said and blushed. “Are you?”

His eyes glanced down, and Nathalia followed it. Her eyes widened at his throbbing member.

“Did... did it get bigger?”

“You did a great job.” Ren said as he positioned himself near her opening. He rubbed the tip of his member over her, and Nathalia caught her breath. He did this several times, and she started to writhe on the bed.

“Please...” Nathalia whispered. “...I've waited so long...”

Ren slid the tip inside of her and she stopped breathing. He slid it back out and she started breathing again. He slid the tip back in and her breath sped up, and he slid it back out. Nathalia moaned and looked at Ren with longing. He gave her a kiss, and slid himself about half-way in.

“Oh... oh... by the gods...”

Ren pulled almost all the way back out, then jammed himself all the way in.

“Agh!” Nathalia winced, and Ren just held her close and didn't move.

“Are you okay?” He asked.

Nathalia didn't say anything; but she nodded slightly.

“I love you, Nathalia.”

“I love you, too.” She said, and Ren kissed her.

She kissed him back, and he pulled out most of the way. He had to fight against her body to get himself all the way back in, because she was gripping him so tightly. Ren started to move slowly in and out, and Nathalia moaned as his movements rubbed her just the right way. He took his time and kept moving slowly, and Nathalia's breath kept getting faster and faster. Ren didn't go any faster, though. He wanted this to last as long as possible. It took about 15 minutes for him to get her to the point where he thought she was ready, and she looked at him with wild eyes.

“Ren... I'm close... so close... please, please go faster....” Nathalia pleaded. He smiled at her, but didn't go any faster. “By the gods! P...please... uh... uh....uh..uh.uh.uh...”

It only took another 2 strokes and she clamped her legs around him, grabbed his hair with both hands and kissed him. She screamed into his mouth through the kiss and Ren kept moving slowly. She broke the kiss about 15 seconds later, but didn't let his hair go.

“St-stop.” She whispered.

Ren stopped moving, she relaxed, and her legs let him out of their death grip; but she kept a hold of his hair. She took several deep breaths and looked at him.

“Is it always like that?” She asked.

“No idea.” Ren said. “This is my first time doing it as an Adventurer.”

Nathalia's eyes bulged out of her head as she stared at him. “Your... your first time...”

“I told you I wanted to be with you first.” Ren said, and Nathalia pulled him into another passionate kiss. Ren moved slightly and Nathalia froze. He broke the kiss. “Are you all right?”

She nodded. “Don't... don't move yet.”

“Is it sore?” Ren asked concerned.

Nathalia shook her head. “I just... I could go again... and I want us to go together.”

“I could pull out...” Ren suggested, and he felt her body hold him tighter.

“Don't you dare!” Nathalia said, let his hair go, and ran her fingers through it to straighten it. “I'm sorry, I needed something to hold on to.”

“I wasn't complaining.” Ren said and kissed her.

“That didn't hurt?” Nathalia asked.

“It did, but I ignored it.” Ren said to her surprised expression. “If you need something to hold on to, go ahead.”

She took several deep breaths. “Okay, I think I'm ready.”

Ren slid himself out of her and she caught her breath again.

“By the gods, Ren...” Nathalia stared at him. “...don't go slow.”

“Then you better get a good grip, my love.”

Nathalia reached up and laced her hands in his hair. Ren grinned and then pushed himself hard into her. She gripped his hair as he pounded her over and over, non-stop.

“By the... by the.... by the GODS!” Nathalia yelled as she came again, and Ren kept going. “Oh... oh... oh... Ren... oh...”

He kept driving himself into her again and again, and Nathalia came twice more. He felt himself getting close, and his rhythm started to falter.

“Darling... I'm... I'm close...” Ren said, and his breath sped up.

“M-m-me... t-t-too......” Nathalia grunted.

Their eyes widened at the same time. “Now!” They said together, and Nathalia clamped her legs around Ren to hold him inside, and Ren grabbed her shoulders to hold her close. They kissed each other as they both spasmed. Ren let himself go completely; Nathalia felt his release deep inside of her and came again. Her body gripped Ren's member harder than it had before, and Ren came again himself. They repeated this cycle for nearly a full minute, before Nathalia lost all feeling in her limbs and she let Ren go. He pulled himself out of her, and she wiggled a little from the loss of contact. Ren rolled off of her and took several deep breaths.

“Wow.” They said at the same time, and turned their heads to look at each other. Since they both had surprised expressions on their faces, they both saw each others surprise, and then they started to laugh.

“Ha hahaha!” They laughed together and Nathalia put a hand on her belly from laughing so hard, and she winced. Ren stopped laughing and rolled over to look at her abdomen.

“Are you all right?” He asked, and touched her gently. Nathalia didn't wince this time, but he thought she might be hiding it. “Nathalia, I'm sorry I hurt you.”

Nathalia laughed and Ren looked at her. “Ren, I'm not hurt.” She said and caressed his face. “Yes, I'm sore, and I'm going to be really sore tomorrow.” She grinned. “If I thought you could keep going, I'd do it again.”

“You shouldn't have said that.” Ren said and got up on his knees, and his member was still rock hard.

“By the gods, Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed. “How?”

Ren smiled crookedly. “I can keep going, no matter how many times I finish.”

She looked at him. “I... I can't take it like this right now...”

Ren grinned. “My love, don't worry. I'll be gentle.” He said and picked her up. She gave a little yip of surprise and he took her into a hug. He kissed her gently for several moments, then asked her to get on her knees and turn around. Nathalia did as he asked, and Ren eased her head down onto the bed.

“Ren... this is... really embarrassing.” She said and blushed as she looked back at him over her shoulder. Her hair cascaded across her back and onto the bed.

“Nathalia, you shouldn't be embarrassed.” Ren said and looked at the paradise presented to him. “You're absolutely beautiful.” He stroked her opening with his fingers and she started to moan. Ren was surprised to find that Nathalia was tight again when he slipped 2 fingers inside of her. He searched around and when he found the right spot, he waddled forward enough to easily enter her. Ren brushed his tip against her opening, and she pushed herself back onto him, and she gasped.

“By the gods, it feels bigger this way!” Nathalia said, then stopped talking as Ren eased backwards and then forwards again. He went agonizingly slow at first, and rather than pound her like he did before, he set a good rhythm and kept it. Not too fast that it might hurt her, but not too slow that she'd get angry. Ren kept going like that and Nathalia's breath became faster and faster. She didn't tell him to slow down, or to go faster, so he knew he had the best pace for her. He remembered that spot he had found earlier and moved himself slightly to change the angle, then hit that spot for her.

“Oh, Ren!” Nathalia said. *hits spot* “I love you!” *hits spot* “I love you!” *hits spot* “I LOVE YOU!” *hits spot* “AhhhhhhHHHHHH!!!!” She screamed and reached back for his hands, and Ren grabbed them. She pulled hard on his arms, and her body clenched tightly onto his member. He stopped moving and came inside of her again.

“By the GODS!” Ren exclaimed, and spasmed several times more. Nathalia let his hands go, slid off of him, and down onto the bed. She rested on her side, and he could see that she was breathing hard. Ren took several deep breaths himself and then lay down beside her. He kissed the tip of her nose, and Nathalia smiled.

“That was...” She started to say.

“So much better than bacon.” Ren said and grinned. Nathalia started laughing and he joined her. They lay there for a little while, and Ren ran his hand through the huge curtain of her hair.

“Thank you for taking your hair out of the braid.” Ren said as he played with it. “It's really nice seeing your hair like that.” He smiled. “I've been wanting to see it unleashed since I met you.”

“I hope you don't expect it every time.” Nathalia said. “It takes forever to braid it again.”

Ren tossed the part he was playing with over her shoulder. “I think seeing it once is enough.” He said and smiled. “I don't know if my heart could survive seeing you like this all the time.”

Nathalia smiled herself. “I was going to say the same thing about you.” She said and cupped the side of his face and gave him a kiss. “You're everything a woman could ever ask for.”

Notice!

You have earned a new title: Prince Charming!

You personify the vision of a woman's ideal man, both romantically and physically. You will automatically draw the attention of impressionable women within your Aura's radius.

Aura (Personal) Bonus: +5 levels

Stat Change!

Aura (Personal) Level 2 (Intermediate 0%) - Current distance: 15 feet

Ren's eyes widened at the popups. “Nathalia...”

“You're rich, you're handsome, and...” Nathalia looked down at his still throbbing member. “...you can satisfy any desire.” She reached down, stroked him lightly, and Ren caught his breath. She looked back at his face and smiled crookedly. “I knew you weren't lying when you said you could keep going.” She moved her hand faster and Ren stared at her. “I didn't really need proof, but here it is.” Nathalia said and picked up the scrap piece of cloth from the bed to hold over the tip.

“N-Nathalia!” Ren stammered, as he ejaculated into the cloth. They stared at each other as she kept stroking him and he kept ejaculating. She stopped stroking and leaned in to kiss him. Ren cupped the side of her face, and she broke the kiss to lean back.

“You're too much man for only me to hold, Ren.”

Ren blinked a few times. “Nathalia...”

“You've satisfied me more than I thought I could ever be, my love.” Nathalia said, balled up the cloth and set it aside. “My body feels weak and I'm exhausted, but you... you could keep going, on and on.” She sighed and closed her eyes. “I'm sorry that I'm not enough woman for you.”

Ren moved the hand from her face to her shoulder, and shook her a little. “Nathalia, you're more woman than I deserve.” He took her hand from his face and put it over his heart. “If I do end up sleeping with someone else, please... please understand...” Ren pleaded. “...that it's just sex. You're the one that I love.”

Nathalia opened her eyes at the truth in his words, and saw his sincerity. “Ren, what we just-”

“No, Nathalia.” He shook his head. “What we just did... sharing ourselves like this... we were making love, and proving to each other how we felt.”

“But...”

Ren gave her a light and gentle kiss on the lips. “I told you before. If all I wanted was sex from you, I'd have used you and probably tossed you aside long ago.”

Nathalia snorted a laugh. “I wouldn't have been that easy to conquer.”

Ren grinned. “I seem to recall a smitten young maiden who wanted to 'pet' my dire wolf cloak.”

Nathalia grinned, too. “I couldn't help it if your prowess impressed me way back then, before I got to know you.”

He gently massaged one of her breasts and she sighed. “I was impressed by you as well.” Ren said. “So confident and sure of yourself, cooking for a ship full of men.” He smiled. “I honestly don't know why they weren't all begging for your attention, or fighting each other to get to you.”

Nathalia chuckled, and her breast jiggled in Ren's hand. “Probably because I was confident and sure of myself.”

Ren let her breast go and raised both of his eyebrows. “What do you mean?”

“You're the only person to ever come up and talk to me like you did.” Nathalia said. “You treated me like a person, and not something to be won or ignored.”

Ren smirked. “Then that's the first time I've ever ridden in a ship full of fools.”

Nathalia laughed, and Ren ran a hand down her arm and took her hand in his. Her eyes widened as he got a serious look on his face.

“Thankfully, I'm not one of the fools.” Ren said. “My Lady, both I and this body are yours, to do with as you wish.” He said, and kissed the inside of her wrist. “My lands, my wealth, and my subjects, are yours to command.”

Nathalia gasped as Ren performed part of the wedding ceremony. “Ren... you can't...”

“I want to prove to you that all I'll do with anyone else, is just sex; no matter what other feelings might develop.” Ren said. “When I'm with you, though; you will always have all of me.”

Nathalia cooed a little, and then smiled. “My Lord, both I and this body are yours, to do with as you wish.” She lifted his hand and kissed the inside of his wrist. “Your lands, your wealth, and your subjects, are mine to command.”

Notice!

You have agreed to share your Superb Spider Silk Coin Vault with Nathalia Neram.

Confirm: Yes / No

“Yes.” Ren said. “Everything I have is yours.”

Nathalia gasped as a new key appeared around her neck next to the House Neram key; then she saw the amount of money Ren had, and that she now had access to.

“By the gods, Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed. “You... you could have bought... everything.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm sure I'd be limited to a certain amount.” He said. “I haven't hit that limit yet, though.”

Nathalia shook her head in disbelief. “You really are too nice for your own good.”

“Yeah, that's a popular opinion.” Ren smirked and took her hand again. “If there's anything you need, anything at all...”

Nathalia sat up and her see-through negligee slid down to cover her breasts again and she looked at it. “It doesn't hide anything at all.” She said and chuckled. Ren sat up next to her and took her into a one armed hug.

“It's not supposed to.” He said, and gave her a kiss on the cheek. “You wanted to turn me on, and it worked like a charm.”

Nathalia looked down at him. “Even after all this talking, you're still ready to go.”

“I'm right beside someone I love very much, and she's practically naked.” Ren said and grinned. “I'm trying really hard to not go all over you while I sit here.”

Her eyes widened at him and Ren chuckled.

“You're pretty damn sexy, you know.”

Nathalia blushed slightly and smiled. “I think you're late for a date with a certain dark-skinned emotion drinker.”

“What?” He said, surprised.

Nathalia laughed. “You forgot that you need to go and feed Elerlyth again?”

“Oh, right.” Ren said. “I guess I better go.” He took his arm away from Nathalia and stood up beside the bed. He reached out a hand to her, she took it, and he helped her stand. He cupped the sides of her face with both of his hands and gave her a gentle kiss.

“Try and get some sleep.” Ren said, and stepped back. “We'll should be able to head back to the city in the morning.”

“Are you sure?” Nathalia said. “You're not going to stay here and keep feeding her?”

Ren shook his head. “I'm hoping that I can feed her so much tonight that she can go for a while without it.”

“Good luck.” Nathalia said. “I'll see you in the morning.”

“I love you, Nathalia.”

“I love you, too.” She said, then gave him a kiss. Ren equipped his Travelling Clothes and his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, then turned towards the doorway.

“Ren.” Nathalia said, and he turned back. “You have my permission to have sex with her.”

Ren's eyes widened at her words. “Nathalia...”

“If you come back here in the morning and tell me you love her, though...” Nathalia scowled at him. “...I'll kill you.”

Ren concentrated on his personal Aura and took her into a hug. “My Love, I'd kill myself before I'd hurt you like that.” He said and kissed her passionately for a moment. He broke the kiss and stepped back. “Goodnight, My Love.” He bowed to Nathalia deeply, heard her gasp, then he walked into the living room. He opened the cabinet, stepped inside, and nailed it shut. He turned to the portal and stepped through it. He took the nails out far enough to open the door, then stepped out to shut it. Ren walked out of the apartment and then down the stairs to the landing.

“You're back.” Elerlyth said, and Ren smiled. She was still sitting in the same spot, but her head was resting on the back of the couch so she could look up the stairs.

“I said I would be.” Ren came down the rest of the way and stepped over in front of the couch. “How are you feeling?”

“Terrible.” Elerlyth said, then smiled. “You, on the other hand, are positively glowing.”

Ren grinned and Elerlyth chuckled.

“Was she really that good?”

“Better.” He said and sat down on the couch by her feet. “It was my first time in the game.”

Elerlyth grinned. “You busted a nut, didn't you?”

Ren nodded.

“How many times?” She asked curious.

“I lost count.” He said, and grinned at Elerlyth's shocked expression. “I was there for an hour and a half. It was a lot.”

“An... an hour... and a half...” Elerlyth stammered.

“We didn't do it for the whole time. Nathalia was sore after a while, so we had to take breaks and change positions.” Ren explained. “Plus, I wanted to take my time.”

“Good god.” Elerlyth shook her head. “You must have wrecked her.”

“I was careful.” Ren said. “Actually, now that I think about it, I better go and take care of something. I'll be right back.”

“Logout.”

********

Ren took off the VR headset and set it down on the rollaway table.

“Hi, Ren.” Barbara said, but didn't comment on anything she had seen.

“Hey, Barbara.” Ren said, and carefully slid out of the bed. “Bathroom break.”

She nodded and looked away as Ren kind of waddled to the bathroom. He shut the door and eased his pajamas out and down to reveal a very full condom.

I'm glad I left all that extra room. Ren thought and gently eased the condom off and did what Stella had shown him to do. He emptied it and flushed the contents, wrapped the used condom in toilet paper, and put it back in his pocket. He cleaned himself off, used the bathroom, then opened another foil packet and slipped the condom on. He left a little more room at the end, just in case, and washed his hands. He left the bathroom and climbed back into bed. Barbara helped him put the VR headset back on and Ren settled down on the bed.

“Thanks, Barbara.”

“You're welcome.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********

“That was fast.” Elerlyth said.

“I just needed to use the bathroom.” Ren said and looked at her. “Your skin lost some of it's color already.”

She nodded. “What you gave me lasted a while, though.”

Ren reached a hand out to her and she took it, gratefully. Elerlyth sighed as Ren's emotions flooded into her.

“Oh... oh my...” Elerlyth said, as Ren thought about the things he did, and the feelings he experienced while doing them. He sent everything to her, and she licked her lips. “Good god, Ren.”

“Are you getting enough?” Ren asked. “I know memories aren't as powerful as experiencing it first hand.”

Elerlyth laughed. “I sincerely doubt she'd want me standing there holding your hand, while you plow into her, Ren.”

Ren chuckled. “Oh, I can guarantee that.” He said and looked at her. “Nathalia's pretty possessive.”

Elerlyth grinned. “I can feel that.”

Ren closed his eyes and pictured Nathalia's hair as it cascaded across the bed and how he felt when he saw it. Ren opened his eyes to look at Elerlyth when she caught her breath.

“Are you okay?” Ren asked, and he sent concern to her.

Elerlyth nodded after a moment. “What did you do?”

“I just remembered the single best moment I experienced.”

Elerlyth's eyes narrowed. “It doesn't feel like that.”

Ren grinned as he understood what she meant. “It wasn't having an orgasm, Elerlyth. I remembered Nathalia's hair as it rolled across the bed.”

She looked at him with surprise on her face, and he blushed a little. “I knew you loved her, but you really love her.”

Ren nodded. “She's been the best thing that's happened to me in here.”

Elerlyth smiled. “So far.” She took his hand and pulled it towards herself. Ren didn't stop her this time, though. She could feel is trepidation, his guilt, his admiration of her, his love for Nathalia, and he was horny. So very, very horny.

“It seems your little adventure with Nathalia has let a monster loose.” Elerlyth said and placed Ren's hand onto her breast, and held it there with her hand. Her nipple popped out immediately at Ren's touch, and she caught her breath. It's never done that before! Elerlyth thought, as she moved her legs out of Ren's way. He slid close to her and used his free hand to rub along her thigh, hip, abdomen, and cupped her other breast. That nipple popped out too, and Elerlyth's eyes widened.

“This isn't a romantic relationship, Elerlyth.” Ren said as he eased her back into the corner of the couch. “I want to feed you so well that you won't have to worry about it for a while.”

Elerlyth could feel his determination to do just that, and Ren's concern over her well-being. She also knew he was telling the truth.

“I'm just using you for sex, Elerlyth.” Ren said and massaged her breasts. “Nathalia was right. I wanted to keep going with her for as long as I could, but I didn't want to hurt her.”

Elerlyth could feel everything Ren felt, and she drank it all in. His regret that Nathalia was right, his sorrow that he has to turn to someone else to satisfy himself, disappointment in himself, wanting to let himself do it, and reckless abandon.

“You're going to be my Nathalia surrogate.” Ren leaned in and gave her a kiss. “I'm going to do you until you beg me to stop...” He said and grinned. “...and then I'm going to keep going.”

Elerlyth's skin flushed a darker color, and she shivered from the intense feelings coming from Ren. She felt her ability open up, wider than it had ever been before. Ren stood up and pinched the webbed bodysuit.

“Off, please.”

“Now, just a minute...”

Ren switched to his Command Aura and Elerlyth stared at him. “I've only got 10 hours left before morning, and I intend to use them all.”

“T-t-ten HOURS?!?” Elerlyth looked at him like he was crazy, and Ren laughed.

“I know that look.” He said. “Don't worry. I'm going to hate myself so much by morning that you won't be able to eat it all.”

Elerlyth frowned at him as she could already feel the self-hatred starting. “Don't you dare hate yourself!” She said vehemently. Ren was so shocked that his concentration slipped and the Command Aura faded. She pushed him off and she stood up. “You're offering yourself up as food, goddammit!” Elerlyth fumed at him. “You're giving me everything you have! I can feel it all, Ren!” She said, grabbed him by his shirt, and moved him around to sit on the couch, and pushed him into the corner.

“You're trying so hard to convince yourself that you're doing something bad, and that Nathalia won't want to spend time with you afterwards!” Elerlyth closed her eyes and let her anger subside. She took a deep breath and continued. “Ren, you've just figured out that sex unlocks the most intense feelings that anyone can have, and you want to give that to me!” She paced back and forth in front of him, and he stared at her.

“Now I can feel your admiration.” Elerlyth said as she kept walking. “If anyone should be mad, it's me!” She turned to him and tears came to her eyes. “I'm the one using you, Ren.” She knelt and put her hands on his knees. “I want to suck every single emotion out of you!”

Ren put a hand on her face and she felt his acceptance, and willingness to let her do it.

“You're actually happy to do it.” Elerlyth said as the tears ran down her cheeks. “Ren, how can you let me do that?”

Ren slid forward and spread his legs to either side of Elerlyth's body. With him sitting and her kneeling, their faces were at the same height. He put his other hand on her face.

“I was trying to take the blame for this, you idiot.” Ren said, and she felt his admonishment and amusement. Elerlyth laughed through her tears and Ren wiped them off of her face. “I thought if I took control and used you to satisfy myself, you wouldn't feel so guilty about all of this.”

“You are such a stupidly sweet fool.” Elerlyth said.

“I've been hearing that a lot.” Ren grinned.

She chuckled and shook her head. “Now what do we do?”

“I think we should agree to share the blame.”

“Agreed.” Elerlyth nodded.

“We should also hate ourselves a little bit...” Ren said. “...and then fuck like bunnies.”

Elerlyth snorted a laugh. “That sounds really odd coming from you.”

“Okay then.” Ren smiled. “You should say it.”

She leaned in close to his face. “Ren...” Elerlyth whispered in a sultry voice. “...I want to fuck like bunnies.”

Ren shivered a little as she said it, and Elerlyth smiled as she felt how she made him feel.

“You're so delicious!” She purred and gave him a kiss. Ren let her feel everything that he felt, and she opened her mouth to let their tongues intertwine. She felt his excitement, and need, a little bit of self-hate, longing, regret, enjoyment, and pleasure. There were tons of other emotions mixed in, but she was a bit too busy to care and drank them all in. They stayed that way for several minutes, until Ren remembered he only had 10 hours left. He broke the kiss and looked at Elerlyth. Her eyes were closed and she licked her lips. Ren let satisfaction flow into her, and she opened her eyes.

“It's not going to be that easy to feed me.” Elerlyth said and stood. She moved in close to him and spread her legs a little. It gave Ren a great up close view of her bodysuit's crotch, and he looked up at her. She stored the bodysuit and stood in front of him completely naked. Ren looked at her from her head to her toes. Elerlyth felt his admiration and appreciation of her muscular form, and then Ren looked up to her face.

“What are you waiting for?” Elerlyth said and grinned. “It's not going to lick itself.”

Ren chuckled, leaned forward, and kissed her opening. Elerlyth took in a sharp breath and Ren reached his hands around her and cupped the cheeks of her firm ass. He used his tongue to tease and lick her, sucked her a little and he looked up at her. Elerlyth was staring at him with wide eyes, because she could feel how much he was enjoying tasting her this way. Ren let her feel how much pleasing her was pleasing him, and Elerlyth put her hands on his head. She ground herself into his face, thrusting slightly, and moaned as he continued to work her with his mouth and tongue. Ren let his teeth graze her sensitive spot, all of her muscles tensed up, and she came.

“Oooohhh god!” Elerlyth said and Ren kept licking her. Her whole body shook several times and she started to collapse. Ren stopped sucking on her and caught her as she tried to slump to the floor. He picked her up easily and turned around to lay her down on the couch.

“Ren... god, that was... you enjoyed it more than I did!” Elerlyth said, shocked. “I felt it all. I fed on it all.” She shook her head and reached a hand out to him. “Thank you. Thank you so much.”

“Don't thank me yet, Elerlyth.” Ren said. “I've only just begun.”

“What are you... ooohhhhh!” She said as Ren flipped her leg over his shoulder and he dove back into her with his mouth. “Ren... god...”

He kept working her with his mouth for a few minutes, then got a finger involved. Elerlyth felt his joy in pleasing her, and his pleasure from feeding her freely. She drank it all down and her eyes widened as her ability leveled up.

“Ren! My ability! It... OH GOD!” Elerlyth yelled as Ren found her spot and used it relentlessly. She closed her eyes and grabbed onto the couch to stop herself from writhing around. Ren sucked on her and flicked her special spot, and Elerlyth came again, and again, and again. “Guuhhhhhhod!” All her muscles tensed up again and again and she started to convulse from how much pleasure Ren was getting from giving her pleasure. Elerlyth drank his emotions, and drank, and drank. She stopped moving and let the couch go, and lay there motionless. Ren stopped touching her and slid out from under her leg.

“Elerlyth, are you still with me?” Ren asked, and grinned as she gave him the middle finger.

“Give me a minute.” She said and took several deep breaths, then she shook her head. “How...how are you doing that?”

“Doing what? Having fun?” Ren asked.

Elerlyth nodded.

“Seeing you trying so hard to not writhe around, trying to not let yourself go, is really fun.”

“You bastard.” She said and glared at him. “I'm in pain here, and you think it's fun?”

Elerlyth stopped breathing and was almost overwhelmed with the flood of concern coming from Ren, but she drank it down and then caught her breath.

“I'm sorry!” Ren said. “I thought you'd really like it if I kept going.”

Elerlyth sat up and kissed him. “I'm okay.” She said, and drank the huge deluge of relief flowing from him. Oh my god! He... he can produce so much... and it's all just him! No boosts or venom! She thought and then smiled. “I think it's time I returned the favor.”

“Are you sure?” Ren asked. “Do you need time to rest?”

Elerlyth shook her head. “Switch places with me.”

Ren stood up and Elerlyth slid off the couch and knelt on the floor. Ren stored his clothing and Elerlyth stared at him for a moment, then pat the couch.

“Sit.”

Ren sat on the edge of the couch, and Elerlyth spread his legs. She took several deep breaths and looked at his throbbing member.

I can do this. Elerlyth thought. It just looks big. She leaned forward and took the tip into her mouth and moaned at the silky feeling of him in her mouth. She flicked her tongue and slowly started to move up and down on the shaft. She breathed through her nose and kept going. She looked up at him, and saw he was watching her intently. Elerlyth felt him pouring the feelings into her and she worked harder to get him all in. She almost got there and her gag reflex kicked in. She pulled out fast and swallowed, trying to not throw up. She felt appreciation flood into her as Ren smiled at her.

“I'd ask you to keep trying, but I want you to have fun.” Ren said and grinned. “Choking is not fun.”

“I can do it!” Elerlyth said, and tried to take him back into her mouth.

“No.” Ren said, and she felt his determination and concern. “I won't let you choke, just so I can feel your lips against my body.”

“But, you really want that!” Elerlyth said.

Ren chuckled. “I don't care what I want.” He said and stood up. “Right now I care about what you want.”

Ren picked her up easily and she gave a little yip of surprise.

“How strong are you?” Elerlyth asked.

Ren held her close, slid her down slowly, then positioned himself in front of her opening. “Strong enough.” He pulled her down quickly and jammed himself inside of her.

“Holy FUCK!” Elerlyth yelled as Ren caught her and pounded her up and down as hard and as fast as he thought she could take it. She put her hands on his shoulders to hold on, and Ren kept standing up and pounded her hard.

“Oh...oh...oh...oh....ohh.....ohhhHHHH!” Elerlyth gripped his shoulders tightly and came. Ren felt her go, and Elerlyth felt his resolve to make her come as much as he could. Her eyes widened as he fulfilled that resolve, and she came over and over again. She drank it all down, more and more pleasure from the both of them, and then his rhythm started to change.

“I'm.... close...”

Elerlyth licked her lips. This is it! She thought. The only moment that someone really lets all their feelings sh- Her thoughts were interrupted as an orgasm caught her unawares, and her body clamped down on Ren, and it made him orgasm, too. He stopped moving, and Elerlyth opened her ability all the way and drank everything down. They held each other close, as Ren continued to stand there and hold her up. Elerlyth took several breaths and looked him in the eyes, as he stared at her.

“I'm sorry, Ren.” She whispered and leaned down to kiss him. “I was so hungry that I took it all.”

“I know.” He said. “I felt it.”

“W-w-what?!?” Elerlyth said, shocked. “How? How can you still talk? When I use my ability... my full ability... there's... there's usually nothing left.”

Ren grinned. “You gave me the clue earlier when you said that I figured out the full power of emotions when in situations like this.”

“What do you mean?”

“Think back, Elerlyth. Did my emotions become stronger when we came together, than they are normally?”

She thought about it, and then her eyes widened. “No! It's the same!”

Ren smiled. “I've been completely open with you, Elerlyth. I haven't held anything back at all.”

“I know... I could feel that... but there's still always a reserve hidden for when people let everything go.”

“Most times, yes.” Ren said. “Not me, though.”

“Why?”

“Because, my sweet little devil... I don't have to stop.”

“What...OHHhhhHHH!”

Ren picked her up and started pounding her again. He kept going, for over an hour, standing there and pounding Elerlyth until she begged him to stop feeding her, that she couldn't take any more. Ren stopped and moved over to the couch.

“Do you remember what I told you earlier?” Ren asked as he laid her on her back, still inside of her. “I told you I'd do you, until you begged me to stop.”

“Yes, I remember.” She said.

“And what did I tell you I'd do after that?”

Elerlyth's eyes widened as Ren pulled out most of the way. “When I begged... you... you'd keep goinnNNGGGGG!” She gripped the couch as Ren kept going and made her feed, over and over again. He switched positions, angles, which way she faced, but he never stopped having sex with her until the morning. When sunlight shone in through the window, Ren made Elerlyth orgasm again.

“Elerlyth, it's morning.” Ren said, and pulled out of her.

She writhed at the removal of something she had come to think was a part of her. She stared at Ren as he stood up.

“How do you feel?” Ren asked.

Elerlyth took a deep breath, stood up herself, and winced. “I'm fucking sore, you asshole!” She said and punched him in the mouth as hard as she could. Ren's head whipped to the side, but he didn't move otherwise. Elerlyth's eyes widened as Ren turned his head back to look at her. Relief flooded into her from him, and then happiness.

“I'm really glad you're feeling better.” Ren said and equipped his clothing.

Elerlyth's mouth dropped open in surprise. “I just punched you in the mouth! Aren't you going to fight back?”

Ren chuckled. “Of course not. I deserved it.”

Elerlyth made another fist and punched him as hard as she could again, with the same result. More relief and happiness flooded into her.

“Fight me, you little shit!” She punched him with her other fist, and Ren's head whipped the other way. Amusement and happiness came back at her, and she started to shake.

“I'm not going to fight someone I worked so hard to make better, Elerlyth.” Ren said, and she felt his consternation. She went to punch him again and he held a hand up to catch it, swung her around and pulled her down into a dip, as if they had been dancing.

“Your ability should be at a high enough level now that you can choose when you want to feed, and not suffer like you have been.” Ren said, and she looked back at him in shock. “You can message me at any time, and I'll meet you here to feed you.”

“But... but... our fight...”

Ren stood her up. “I accept.” He got the notification of PVP mode, and dismissed it.

She put up her fists to fight and Ren smiled.

“I concede.”

Elerlyth got a popup and she dismissed it. “I didn't get any XP!”

Ren laughed. “Level 6, remember?” He said and took both of her hands and cupped them together. “Keep them like that.” He said and took out a handful of platinum coins and piled them in her hands. “Consolation prize.”

Elerlyth looked at Ren, then at the pile of coins.

“I'll expect a message from you in a few days.” Ren said and walked up the stairs. “Bye, Elerlyth.”

She stood there in shock, and completely naked.

Ren came back down and walked over to her. “You might want to get dressed.” He said and took her hand. “I know you're gorgeous and everything; but, I don't think flashing everyone is a good idea.”

She knew he was telling the truth about her being gorgeous, and her mouth dropped open. He let her hand go and started to laugh as he went up the stairs. He waved to her and she still stood there in shock. Ren went into the apartment and to the portal in the living room.

“I better take care of business first.” Ren said, logged out, and cleaned himself up. He donned another condom and logged back in.
