A very Shiv-like grunt left Uva; the sound tickled him. “I'd say it's more than chaotic. Do you see how his memories are bending toward the center and plunging? It's not something impacting him; it's something being drawn down. There are more and more of his surface thoughts that are being impacted deep into his subconsciousness. This brings us to another issue: You have empathetic-psionic awareness. I do not. In fact, I dare say that it might take years of searching, or more likely, deliberately training, for someone to develop something that can compare to the Harbinger. I can sense the flow of his mind somewhat, but I know nothing of his emotions. Without you here and your memories to consult, I would have missed most of these details—for they don’t even exist before my gaze.”

She sighed. “I suspect your earlier guess wasn't entirely correct. Whatever is affecting him isn't just memory-based but probably connected from memory to emotion to Pyromancy. As for the why and how? I cannot give you an answer. I can scarcely fathom the complexity of such a mental maiming, or why it was necessary to begin with.”

“Yeah, that sounds like Maiden. Or Enoch the Builder.” As Shiv recalled the Ascendants, he thought about Rebis and some of the other escapees. Then he regarded the Educator, who was so deep into her artwork she barely noticed his attention. When she turned to meet his stare, he used his Harbinger to cast a telepathic thought to her. “I might want to talk about some of the people you still have inside your tome later. It's got to do with Candles. I’m thinking about how to fix him, but I might want to take a look at the others to get a better understanding.”

Her expression didn't change. In the end, she said nothing as she returned to her work.

“Right, great talk,” Shiv grumbled internally.

“And what's going on between you and her?” Uva asked.

“Let's just say I think I'm pulling her away from Udraal. Wouldn't exactly call her a friend yet, but maybe she's not as much of a potential enemy as before. Can't claim for certain, but I think I get her a little more.” Shiv went back to frowning at Candles. “Which is more than I can say for this one here. I guess I really, really overestimated how easy people are to fix when breaking them is just a simple thing.” And that drew more memories to the fore. He remembered the time he spent as an assisting medic at the Academy hospital, how many lurking dangers could assail a body, how much effort it took to save someone.

“Such is how it goes, such is how it will always be,” Uva declared. Something ground inside her; she was struggling against herself to make a decision. “I don’t want to speak to Tulveg.”

“Yeah, that’s understandable—”

“But I’m going to.”

“…you don’t have to.”

“It’s not just Candles. Hymn. Hawgrave. The Dreamtaker’s evolution. My changes. They’re uncomfortable, but avoiding them doesn’t make my problems go away. It might eventually make me more like Roland, though.” She winced. “Don’t tell him I said that. I do not think lowly of him, but what happened between him and you was as much a sin of neglect as it was a thing born of trauma and hate. The System doesn’t care, so we have to. Or it gets worse. It always does. We do not ask for our wounds, but we are responsible for ourselves and our emotions after.”

Shiv looked at Uva, and his earlier smirk returned, but this time it was more pride than pleasure. He wrapped an arm around the narrow crevice that was her head. “And that’s why I love you.”

A faint blush developed on her face, and it bled out from two spots in a flicker of anomalous colors. The flicker was then swallowed by a wave of blinding brightness as Candles flung himself hip-first into Shiv and Uva. He wrapped himself around them as if they were a pole he desired to climb, and he giggled with maniacal glee. “You two are real hard to burn. Like that. Like you. Thank you.”

The Deathless and the Seeker stiffened at once.

“I can feel something hot and sagging pressed against my forehead.”

“It’s probably his flaming balls,” Shiv stated casually.

Uva shuddered. “Are you—”

“I’m pretty sure, since his dick is melting through my side. It really fucking hurts.”
