Alright, listen up. Today is going to be fucking hell. By the time we clock out, you're going to hate me, I'm going to hate you, I'm going to hate myself, and when we make it home, we're all going to be closer to dead than alive. Now, with our spirits raised good and proper, let's dig into the meat and potatoes that are about to make up our extremely shitty day.

Tonight, we're going to be hosting the Slayers Guild, the Merchants Guild, the local Brewers Guild, the Artisans Collective, the visiting Poly-Magi, and that fat fuck Master Otis—with special mention going to that picky cunt. Now, I know a few of you are planning to ask me for leave. I'm going to ask you first to hold back on that for tonight in exchange for paid time off.

I'm not going to give you some bullshit about how it's a pleasure to serve these people. Some of them are so fucking stupid, you're not sure how they manage to breathe. They're going to boss us around. They're all going to be competitively racing against each other's stupidity to drive us insane, and we're going to have to take it. We're going to have to process their orders, their desires, their nonsense, and we're still going to give them the best experience possible because that's the meaning of hospitality. That's part of cooking the experience. We're giving other people the experience.

Life is fucking hard. Life is ugly, cruel, and often short. In this time, during our lives, we have this one opportunity to have people eat our art. The Swan-Eating Toad offers more than just taste. Here they'll find something that they can't anywhere else. Here, it's a different world. For a few moments, they can let it all go, and as they’re sticking nice and hot and delicious food down their stupid fucking mouths, they’ll be feeding their minds too.

They might not think it now, but someday, somewhere down the line, they'll look back. Maybe they'll be somewhere else entirely, and they'll think to themselves, "Godsdamned, I miss the Swan-Eating Toad. Godsdamned, could those bastards cook. Godsdamned, at least I got to find out what real hospitality and culinary pleasure tastes like before I die."

And that's why I expect all of you to give everything you have. It's not about liking them; it's not about their stupidity. It's about giving them a moment, just one moment in time, where they can think back and experience actual bliss. That's the goal. Will we meet it? Fuck if I know, but we're going to try because why else do we do this shitty fucking job?

Now, all of you keep your chins up and your eyes bright. We might not be soldiers, but we're still fighters. This is our war, our war and their pleasure.

Alright, I'm done talking. We're all getting one smoke break. I'm going out back. You're welcome to join me. When my cigarette’s burned to the butt, we're coming back in, and we're not going out. If you have to take a shit, now's the time to do it.

Our war, their pleasure, our pain.

Alright. See you outside. Except for you, Shiv, you felling smoke-hating creature. You can start with the potatoes right now.

—Georges Archambault to the staff of the Swan-Eating Toad

373

Hospitality [I]

“Be honest, Sister Mettabon, what would you have had me do? Because what you claim to be cowardice seems like basic sensibility to me. If I tried to fight the Challenger like the rest of you, I would have ended up just as mad as the rest of you—and what purpose would that have served? None. None whatsoever. This grudge you're holding against me is nonsensical.”

And that was where Hymn was incorrect: Uva was not holding a grudge against him. Frankly, she wasn't even thinking about him. She had a million other things she had to handle right now with the constant traffic of newcomers spilling into Piety. Since Adam's incapacitation, Still Water and her had split Gate Lord duties, with Uva's priorities falling under administration and immigration. Though she couldn't claim great skill at being a bureaucrat, her Multi-Tasking was so potent that it saw her churn through workloads that would have shattered a thousand lesser Sisters working together without fatigue.

“Truly, the Outside is an unparalleled place of training for office work,” she muttered to herself.

“Ah, yes. Quite. But you are just skimming the surface. I have grown a den of administrative homunculi based on my own flesh and intellect. They’re the ones handling all my paperwork for me. And this skill isn't unique to me. If you wish to increase your efficiency—”

“I would ask that you be silent,” Uva finally responded. “Legend Hymn, are you deliberately obtuse, or do you truly have trouble reading the most basic of social cues?”

“Likely the former,” Harkness’ mind-clone chimed from Uva’s inner consciousness. “He strikes me as a man who practices stupidity when someone tells him no, so that he can eventually force them to comply with his desires; if he were not a Legend, I would have simply told you to void his mind and leave him a vegetable.”

Uva didn't agree with the copy of the former Aviary agent on much, but when it came to Hymn, they were on the same page.

“Well, that wouldn't work either,” Hymn said. “I have a chain of backup minds I have hidden across the Stranger's Garden. If my current consciousness collapses, I will simply transplant a replacement ego hidden across a few thousand Fingerlings. I can show you how to do that too. In fact, that might be one of the simplest things I can show you how to do.”

Uva’s frustration climbed. It was hard to perform a chain of thought scans on all the people arriving at the Gate while someone was blabbing in the back of her head. “If you wish to bribe me, my price is not knowledge, but silence. I'm trying to do actual work right now.”

“Oh, for the System’s sake, if I help you process all these people and dispatch some of my homunculi to take over your bureaucratic duties, will you develop the maturity to speak with me then?”

“No,” Uva replied. “Because I'm not the type of fool to let someone I don't trust take over and potentially compromise the infrastructure of this gate.”

An amused scoff left the Headmaster. In retrospect, he likely could have compromised the Gate with ease, considering his Legendary Psychomancy-Divination Skill Fusion and the sheer quantity of eldritch powers he possessed. “I'll let your puppeteer strings reach into the minds of my homunculi. How about that? I'll let you be a micromanager. Would that alleviate any paranoia or misgivings you have about my good intentions?”

Uva really wanted to say no, but despite how aggravating Hymn was, she did have two things to consider. Firstly, she wasn’t a proper bureaucrat. Secondly, having someone else do the busy work would free up her time and allow her to devote herself to more pressing—

“He's using a Social Skill on you, fool girl,” Harkness hissed. “He's been doing that this entire time. It's the reason why your irritation isn't as enormous as it should be. He's been nibbling away at your willpower so that you can finally give him a yes. It's called 'Weaponized Irritant,' and more than a few of my fellows had it. Pay attention to what people are doing to you.”

Uva's stomach filled with a dense fog of dull anger. Try as she might, though, she didn't have the energy to commit any true hate toward Hymn. He was a scheming, manipulative, cowardly, perverse, and irresponsible creature, but compared to all the monsters she'd faced and all the horrors she'd overcome, he seemed practically harmless. Seemed, because she felt his Psychomancy—he was powerful, tremendously so, yet he seemed too scared or unwilling to use his magic for anything worthwhile.

And so, as Hymn prattled on, offering her more and more conveniences if she would just give all her time to him, she contemplated how to respond. For a moment, she considered slapping him over the head, but she doubted that would do anything; even a beheading was a little less than an inconvenience for those who possessed the Non-Euclidean Physiology Skill—or an evolution of it. On top of that, Uva was never one to apply direct violence when there were better choices available. A rain of lesser inspiration visited her as she considered introducing two of her least-liked people. She had a copy of Harkness' consciousness, and she could make her speak with Hymn on her behalf.

Harkness sputtered. “Is there no end to how vile you are, you little Abyssal sow? Not only do you shred and copy my mind, but now you force me to endure endless hell on your behalf?”

“Yes. It is the only other reason I bother with you at all aside from your vast experiences.” Uva paused. “And to drink pleasure from your frustration.”

“I’m glad your mother died,” Harkness seethed.

Uva just scoffed. “Be mindful of what you say to me, Owl. We both remember what happened to your mother as well, what the other nobles did to punish her for her radical ideas. Let’s not have the dead mother contest—I need you less traumatized so that you remain effective when you are forced on Hymn.”

“I can hear your scheming thoughts, by the way,” Hymn called.

She continued ignoring him as Harkness sprang forth with another intriguing reply. “But what makes you think I would be such a burden on him anyway? He's the type to shrug me off. He cares nothing for my machinations, and even less for my scorn. He is a slab of slothful, loathsome indecency—a very insult to the concept of being a Legend. Whatever conversation we have will be more torture for me than punishment for him. To bother him, we need someone who can break through his facade and overwhelm him with questions and no regard for propriety themselves—someone to hound him incessantly without any effort on our part.”

A greater epiphany slammed down upon Uva like a comet from the heavens. Annoying problems required annoying solutions, and she just so happened to know one of the most annoying Pathbearers in existence.

And thus Uva stretched herself out. Her body became as if a spreading fracture, coiling across the skies of Gate Piety. She crossed over the surface gateway where a group of Sisters was dragging comatose bodies off the bridge—a group of vampire shapeshifters whose minds Uva had crushed a few minutes prior. The crack caused by her presence continued over the concrete slabs that now housed most of the former residents and freed slaves, and then kept going as she passed over the local Arachnae Order garrison in the direction of the shining spire that was Starhawk’s Perch. She stretched and stretched, and no strain came with it. It felt like she could go on forever, like she could spread her body into ever-extending twine that split the gap between the realm of Integration and that which the System coveted beyond.

From there, her body bent in the most anomalous of ways, curving and twisting beyond the breaking point for practically any other in existence and possibly beyond. Her hands and fingers lengthened like fissuring vines, and they slipped past a trio of Sisters, who let out a surprised yell as Uva slithered beside them. “Apologies, Sisters. I need to retrieve a weapon of great potency.”

She ignored their disturbed expressions and removed any ill feelings that inspired within her. It was perfectly understandable; her skill evolutions were disturbing, to say the least, and if another Sister was so touched by Outsider energies, she would hold them in high suspicion as well. However, she didn't come to the cafeteria to lament her current state. Instead, she speared through a set of doors, reached across the room, ignored even more looks, and finally wrapped her limbs around that which she came to retrieve.

A lavender-haired Sister four years Uva's junior just blinked as Uva plucked her off the floor like a newborn kitten. “Uh, Sister Uva? You’ve… What’s got you so… long? No, you're more like a rip in a dress. Urgh. I missed you being stretchy more. Can you change back?”

“I'm afraid that's not a question I can answer, Sister Ikki,” Uva muttered. “But there is someone who can. In fact, I need you to speak with that man at length. In great detail. With nothing held back. As much as you like, whatever topics you like.”

And in response to the sadistic grin spreading across Uva's face, Ikki's mind began to sink with fear. “Sister Uva, are you alright?” She reached up to cup Uva's forehead to feel her temperature, but found her hand slipping into the gaps that now composed Uva’s physiology. She nearly lost her entire arm to the Dreamtaker's dimension as feathered snakes and centaurs tried to pull her across. With a casual flex of her power, however, Uva cast the impudent creatures back and solidified her form until she was effectively a crack rather than a wide-open fissure. To Ikki's credit, she simply waved her hand about, whipping off the eldritch colors that stained her gauntlet like she'd accidentally touched some mud. “Well, it's not a fever, but I don't know what it is. Maybe you should go see a Biomancer—a real one who knows what they're doing, not your boyfriend!”

“There's no need, Sister Ikki. I am well.”

Ikki wiggled her limbs like a captured spider as she was dragged through the air at the speed of a flying transport demon in Weave. “You're trying to get me to talk to someone, so no, I'd say you're pretty far from okay.”

“Well, you see, this person is deeply interested in us. He wants to know everything about our culture and our ways. In fact, he came here specifically to talk to the most interesting Umbral I know.” At that, Ikki’s back straightened as she rolled her shoulders. “Well, I wouldn't say I'm the most interesting. Actually, Sister Uva, aren't you the one who's transforming into a messed-up—”

“Your personality puts mine to shame. This is beyond dispute.”

