Ikki pressed her lips together and accepted Uva’s declaration with reluctance. “Are you sure you're okay?”

“I will be better than okay in just a moment.”

Scant seconds later, Uva dropped Ikki right in front of the Headmaster, who was standing next to a fountain on a smaller plaza. His shoulder-length white locks were as greasy as Shiv's hair after a week of training in the wilderness, and the short, square beard of the same color around his chin was probably the only well-maintained thing about his entire appearance.

Hymn smirked at Uva's arrival, but then cocked an eyebrow as he gazed upon Ikki. “Who is this?”

“Remember, Sister Ikki, you can talk to him about anything and everything, for as long as you want, even when he says to stop.” And with that, Uva patted Ikki on the head as she prepared to return, but then something nearby caught her eye. A few hundred meters away, on a far larger plaza, were mounds of mithril, gleaming bright and crystalline beneath the azure light of the Gate. Atop those mounds were the four Dragon-Brokers, loudly laughing and conversing with each other, trading jabs and boasts alike. Between them was a colossal tea set, and upon that tea set were Shiv and the Educator for some reason. Candles was there too, and he let out bursts of psychotic laughter every time he projected his flames to heat the tea.

And what exactly is happening here? She delayed her return for a moment as she extended her neck in the direction of Shiv while her body remained in place.

***

Meanwhile, Ikki and the lanky man looked on, neither talking to each other, as they watched Uva's skull elongate further and further until she was a narrow crevice that split the sky.

After three seconds, however, Ikki's attention span perished, and she looked the elf in front of her up and down. “Do all surfacers dress like you and Shiv?”

“Huh?” Hymn frowned. “What do you mean?”

“You know, like you're too poor to afford proper clothes. He keeps getting the stuff his girlfriend gets him shredded, and you wear those wine-stained rags.”

Hymn looked on at her with a blank expression. “These aren’t rags—they’re a coat I made from a curtain I stole. The stains are not from wine either.”

“Oh. Why a stolen curtain?”

“It’s free, I’m cheap, and it bothers the Matriarch of House Purler when she has to replace a curtain every month.”

“Oh, I get it.” Ikki snickered. “But why don’t you just clean the piss stains or whatever? You’re a Legend, right? Even if you don’t smell like one. You can get a self-cleaning enchantment pretty cheaply.”

“The curtains of House Purler did have self-cleaning enchantments,” Hymn declared. “I simply wore them out. Besides, I will get myself a new coat in a few weeks when they've replaced the curtain and I can steal it again.”

A beat followed, and then Ikki nodded. “You know, that makes sense. Things are expensive, so you've got to be economical. Like my dad used to say, 'Even the littlest bit counts.'”

“He sounds like a frugal man.”

“Maybe, but he only said that behind closed doors when he was with my mom.”

Another silence followed. The two stared each other down. Hymn struggled, but the right side of his cheek was tense with effort. He refused to break before she did. Ikki, meanwhile, was blank-faced and utterly indifferent.

“If she thinks you will be enough to distract me, she is terribly wrong, and she has sent you unto a cruel fate,” Hymn warned.

“I mean, you don’t smell that bad.”

The right side of his lip curved against his will. “Stranger fill my ass with eyes, I’m being challenged by an Adept. You will regret this.”

“Hm. Nah.” Ikki finally smirked and stepped right up to Hymn, smelling a challenge—and unclean curtain-robes. “I don’t really do the regret thing.”

***

The teacups the Dragon-Brokers drank out of were closer to being cauldrons the size of family houses. Each one was made of an alloy so thick it took an unabated stream of fire from Candles to give them a dull red glow. Coiling serpents of golden make curved around the length of each teacup. As the temperature climbed, the serpents came alive, slithering to and fro along the outside like leviathans swimming in a sea of fire. The very air was aglow with embers. Any Pathbearer beneath Heroic-Tier in terms of Toughness and Magical Resistance would have simply vaporized outright within a hundred meters of the space. To the Dragon-Brokers, however, the temperature was nothing worth noting. In fact, they drank on, laughing to each other as they sipped liquid so hot and steaming that it would have melted through cement.

The only two other Pathbearers in the vicinity were equally nonplussed. The Educator was humming and hawing to herself, focused on composing an illustrative draft she dubbed The Four Gluttons and the Broken Flame. Shiv, meanwhile, found his attention utterly captured by said broken flame, as, for the first time, he realized he'd returned from the Fairwoods with changed eyes.

With his Harbinger, he could see the fragments of Candles’ heart shifting about. He saw the fissures and fractures that outlined the different pieces of the Pyromancer's mind. To make matters more interesting, the broken fragments of his mind snapped back together one by one, the more fire he channeled. It was like the outputting of magic drew his aspects closer to their original totality, and with each lull between his casts, his consciousness splattered, like a pond disturbed by stones that refused to stop plunging in. It seemed that his short-term and long-term memories were constantly being churned and riven apart.

Which tells us a few things, Shiv thought to himself. His emotions and his thoughts are connected to his Pyromancy, meaning he likely has a Social-Psychological Skill Fusion with his Pyromancy. On top of that, though, whatever is disrupting his mind is being burned out or at least held at bay by his Pyromancy. And seeing how his memory is the thing that keeps getting scattered, I think what’s affecting him is deep inside his thoughts.

Before, Shiv regarded Candles as an eccentric enigma, a man that was volatile, unstable, but ultimately reliable, so long as he had something to burn. Now the Harbinger revealed certain truths and deepened Shiv's suspicions. Whatever the Ascendants had done to Candles, it disrupted his mind, but it didn't go far enough. With his Memorization skill or some kind of mental processing skill attached to his Pyromancy, the more he channeled his prodigious magic, the more the psychological neutering wore off. But it never stayed stable. It never stayed fixed. It just scattered again the next time he stopped using his Pyromancy.

“And what does that tell us?” The Harbinger didn't state anything outright. Shiv's subconscious already knew, but he wanted to make the logical connections to confirm his intuition.

Probably that there's still something buried inside his mind. Whatever is affecting him is still stuck inside his memories, is my guess, and if it's there, then I might be able to find it and remove it or break it.

Deductive Reasoning 31 > 33

But Shiv found himself reluctant to leap straight into Candles’ mind. For one, the Harbinger was still fragile and underpowered. Shiv was insulated from his own emotional state via Uva, and so he couldn't draw on his rage as a source of near-endless mana. And Shiv also recalled his experiences diving into the slaver's memories back in the Fairwoods. That had been a mostly stable mind with clear alignments between thoughts and emotions. Emotions he used to find the originating thoughts as a North Star while he was lost. He wouldn't be granted the same convenience inside Candles.

Making a mistake might just be fatal, and it wasn't just his own destruction on the line. If he damaged something essential, then he might cripple Candles—on a level that would make his current personality look downright sage-like. As funny as it is for my less-than-untrained ass to be a technical Legendary Psychomancer, I’m gonna need someone who actually knows how to navigate a mind to help me before I—

“Drinking tea is usually a calm ceremony, unassociated with volcanic eruptions. I see you're determined to bind cataclysms to the most peaceful of events.”

Shiv smirked as Uva’s head poked into view in his periphery. Her face was extended for hundreds of meters, no, even longer than that. It was uncanny looking at her this way. It's like she was a thin strip of herself—a slip between worlds. But aside from being weird, Shiv found her new morphology kind of cool. “Uva, it's like fate itself delivered just when I needed you to come.”

A low snort escaped her mind. “That is ridiculous exaggeration, even for you. But I will not reject the flattery.”

“Yeah, that aside, come take a look at this.” His words drew her in closer, and as their minds connected on a deeper level, he found her rifling through his memories and reviewing what he'd discovered regarding Candles.

A burst of jealousy went off inside her. It was a muted thing, but still there. She regarded him with a hint of mock scorn. “You are right. It is one of the System's finer jokes that you were made a Legend of Psychomancy while not even fully grasping the most basic mechanics of the lore.”

“In my defense, it's more like the Psychomancy got bolted onto my Chronomancy and all my other skills put together. It's there, allowing me to affect minds and break it like it's a physical object, or sacrifice my own memories to break a physical object. My mind magic basically turned into a hammer, a hammer with a very, very targeted pick on its end. But I don't think that's what Candles needs right now. I can't exactly navigate a mind as you can, and I wouldn't describe myself as precise in any way other than when I'm in the kitchen. But with you here, maybe I might be willing to take a leap into his mind.”

She went quiet as she studied the maladies assailing Candles’ mind. A reluctance took hold inside her almost immediately. “No, at least not yet. We have a few problems at hand. Firstly, therapeutic Psychomancy is something that cannot be done in haste, and it's also something I'm terribly unqualified for. If you are willfully impotent, then I am at best a bumbling layman when it comes to fixing a mind. The art is vast, and both of us have gained more power than we have expertise. Your suspicions that you might do more harm than good to his mind are likely correct. In fact, I would dare say that both of us together would simply cause his mind to break apart even faster.”

That took Shiv by surprise. “His problem is that bad?”

Not a few steps away, standing at the center of the colossal tea set, Candles laughed aloud. His voice took on a psychotic shriek as he shouted: “Heat the cups, burn the cups, melt the cups, burn the tea!” There was a lyrical quality to his voice, almost like he was singing a lullaby to himself.

Making the moment more surreal was how all four of the Dragon-Brokers began clapping along, each of their scaled hands slamming together in explosive thunderclaps that, too, would have vaporized anyone beneath Heroic-Tier toughness.

“Burn the tea, little fire!” Know-Nothing cheered on, adjusting the monocle he wore for this special occasion. “Burn the tea!”

“A Legendary artifact to you if you manage to melt these cups!” Yellowbelly bellowed in challenge. “We had these forged in a specially made dimension of fire and brimstone. If you can surpass the heat it took to craft these cups, then we’ll take you on as a special administrator for a municipality! A small one.”

But Candles cared not one whit about being the ruler of anything. He found joy in the small things—the small things being rampant pyromania. “So bright…”

Uva cringed. “As absurd as it sounds, he's still stable. At least he has some concept of what he's doing, even if that concept is burning specific things. He knows what specific things are, and he can respond coherently to orders or suggestions. But if we exacerbate his instability, he might just become a bomb. A bomb that wouldn't stop outputting Pyromancy until everything around him is less than cinders or someone has to resolve the problem of his existence.”

The thought of needing to put Candles down didn't sit well with Shiv at all.

“It doesn't appeal to me either,” Uva continued. “So the rules here are that we cannot rush. We need to find someone with significant mastery over Psychomancy. Someone who knows how to—”

“Tulveg?” Shiv suggested. The vampire’s name made Uva flinch. “Yeah, I know, I know. But he is a Legendary Psychomancer, so maybe we can ask him. Maybe he's done something like this before.”

“I… I’m not certain.”

“It won’t hurt to ask.” But it did bother Uva; the very thought of involving her mother’s supposed paramour filled her with so much existential revulsion Shiv regretted ever bringing the idea up. “Okay, it might hurt to ask. Sorry, but… Does Weave have any Legendary Psychomancers specialized in mind healing? Because I don’t think a well-trained Master is going to cut it here with how chaotic his mind is.”

