"We should help," Vas said as they stood far back in the shadows of an alley.

 

"We will help but this is a symptom, not the cause of the problem," Japes said softly. His boy had gotten attached to the people. Japes could have prevented it but there was no problem with it in his eyes. Every healthy boy needed friends and such.

 

Japes never had any, and that might have caused him to be the way he was now!

 

Or was it the intense trauma and dark dealings he did in his teens?

 

It was hard to guess.

 

"I don't get it," Vas admitted. Japes bent down as Quiss went flying through a cart of green vegetables, making the owner weep at the loss of profits.

 

"Vas, Echoes are monstrous things," he said gently.

 

"How do you know?" Vas asked curiously.

 

"I was one for a time, until I got bored," he said kindly and then pointed back to Tommy Dullblade.

 

"Echoes focus. They become little drains and settle. Thomas was settled and now he's not. I could blame that dashing woman, Yattina. Her mind was sharp as a scalpel and just as fun to dance with," he admitted then looked back at Vas who looked more confused.

 

"A little worm is wriggling in his ear, but I suspect I know who this pest is, and if it is 'her'... things are on the move. I just need to make sure this is all Thomas Darkblade and not 'Thomas Darkblade and more to come'," he told Vas who looked doubtful.

 

"Thomas can be handled by mortals. Most weak Echoes can be. Once they understand his limited worldview, they'll drown him out, but Eral...she's different. She's a threat," Japes warned while standing back up in time to see robotic-acting men surging forward to ambush Quiss and Ruli.

 

Vas still looked upset and Japes sighed.

 

He stretched a leg out and tripped one up.

 

"See, your papa is helping," he said brightly.

 

Vas' response was less than he hoped for.

 

---

 

"Spiders, this seems simple enough," Serma decided as she eyed the mass room of webs with only some narrow passages open to move about in.

 

Serma didn't mind bugs and related small critters.

 

"I can cut us a way through?" Mas said before screens opened before them saying challenges had been disabled for a first time 'proper' run in the Dungeon and to come back another day to do fun challenges in each room for fun rewards.

 

The Dungeon was luring them back with special events? How devious.

 

"No need, this room is a response sort. The more violence you dish out, the greater the response. We should move through carefully unless your 'princess challenge' insists you beat every secret boss and such?" Grim spoke up. Serma didn't think it was fair to Grim, but for a moment his words sounded like something her father might have said far too casually.

 

'Bare minimal effort. As the youngest it's all I will expect from you. It is a gift your sisters would envy,' he said to her once while her sisters performed musical shows or dined with important foreign guests. Serma was to simply exist.

 

"I want the challenge," she insisted. As she spoke the words, the door on the side of the room leading deeper closed as the curtains of webbing began to ripple.

 

"Oh fun. I hope you say that in every room," Grim bit out with a grimace.

 

Serma managed a small smile to herself.

 

Grim..ace.

 

The room rippled as a massive white ghostly spider descended from nowhere, touching down with elegance that made Serma feel like a sentient potato.

 

The back of the spider glowed along a jagged line before a humanoid form rose up with the head of a spider, making some sort of horrific yet beautiful centaur-like form in a long gown of glimmering web.

 

"Actually this is good, I can make notes to sell at outrageous prices," Grim said.Deo waved at the spider as if it was a dear friend.

 

"Serma, this is weird and scary and awesome," Mas whispered as the spider-thing turned once to the ceiling where a dozen smaller spiders carried a curving blade to the spider-woman's hands. Serma saw it come through a tiny hole in the ceiling.

 

The blade itself felt different as if it weren't part of this room, this event... not yet.

 

On the blade's otherwise shiny surface was a dirty stamp of sorts, like a soot mark by the maker.

 

"This is really going to do wonders for arachnology and culture customs alike," Yattina decided. The spider... queen, for there was no other real word for it, pointed at Serma with her curved blade as if to invite her forward.

 

"A one on one?" Grim asked with a frown to his face. Behind the queen, the smaller spiders did a series of elegant waves with their legs.

 

"Wonder what they're saying?" Deo mused.

 

"It's the 'you invited her to the dancefloor, now dance or begone' dance," Yattina said, looking at them with her odd eyeball.

 

Feeling something in her stomach like growing fire, she pulled out her rapier, and in her mind, repeated her cloth hardening spell.

 

The rest would come down to experience, luck, and whatever else came her way,
