"My sister was to be a Dungeon Maiden; a caretaker of one of the Dungeons on our Island. To be its voice and communicate with us when it was sleeping or wanting a challenge. We could not chase these boats, we had but fishing vessels… so I waited until they came back and allowed them to take me to my sister," she explained, and Durence swallowed once, but he refused to feel guilty.

He simply didn't know.

"Who took her?" he asked suddenly. If it was a nobleman or someone of standing, he could perhaps allow them to curry favor with the future king in exchange for Mila's sister.

It was good to be the king, or something like that.

Without a word, she drew a strangely complex symbol from memory on the ground using a finger.

The symbol made his eyes water due to the long hours spent in its proximity and wanting to stab himself to escape extreme tedium.

"Your sister was sold to the Wizard's Tower?" he asked, trying not to sound grave in his terror.

"You know of it?" Mila asked sharply, her calm eyes suddenly intense and yellowing.

Durence stood up and dusted goodness to honest dirt off his butt. How novel!

"Better, I can get us into it without a fuss," he said, and Mila crossed her arms, her face flat.

"I won't sleep with you," she said, and Durence blinked once.

"That was an option?" he blurted out. Mila's smile was a little predatory.

"I don't lay with little boys who would flush at the sight of my knees," she said easily. Durence looked down and huffed.

"I can't even see your knees, just rabbit skulls you're using as shin guards," he pointed to the bone white things on her leg.

"They're actually Mana-Enriched Squirrels that wandered too close to my cage one day," she explained, sounding pleased he noticed.

This girl was weird.

He was almost sad to know that he'd help her out, and then they'd part ways.

---

"Smells like lonely people in here," Mila muttered as Durence led her to the front receptionist of the Wizard's tower.

"We don't say that aloud. Wizards are fragile people that can cry and cast fireball," Durence said back quietly.

The receptionist was a sour-faced boy with the perfect appearance of a wizard's apprentice that was stuck serving a very surly master.

"Deliveries down the hall and second on the left. New students up the stairs and to the back. Complaints of enchanted broomstick assault or 'accidental' insertions of broomsticks into any orifice, please take a seat, and a wizard will be with you shortly," the boy intoned.

Durence noticed they had little ringed donut cushions on the chairs for said incidents.

"I need to inquire about a person purchased from Sword Island," Durence said, and the boy handed him a ticket that said '1288' on it.

"Please take a seat, and a wizard will be with you shortly," he intoned again. The little ticket glowed, then changed itself to '1287.'

It took thirty seconds for it to change down to 1286.

Mila lasted until 1280.

To be fair, she only lasted so long because of the sheer chaos of the Wizard Tower's coming and goings.

Wizards came and went in all shapes and sizes.

A bloated man seemed to glide along the floor with a massive coat tail trailing behind him that slithered out of the people's paths. Another was an old man, whose beard doubled as a coat. One woman was seemingly living out of her travel case. Another bright woman dragged two apprentices off by the ear for tea, one speaking in Shattered Left curses at the treatment. Another wizard seemed to be eating never ending garlic bread out of a box.

Mila stomped up to the desk.

"Please take a seat, a wizard will be with you shor-urk!" the boy gagged as Mila dragged him over the desk.

"What's your name, stale one?" she asked dangerously.

"H-Haldi," he whimpered. Ah, he was so small. Durence towered over him, which meant Mila was massive!

"No wizard name?" Durence asked pleasantly. Haldi looked ashamed as his feet dangled off the ground by a foot.

"I have not yet earned enough Magic Tokens to pay my way into the ceremony. Working the desk for 15 hours earns me 10 tokens. I need 5000 tokens to access the basic ceremony," he said sadly.

"What is a token?" Mila asked seriously, still not putting him down.

"A magic token is a Mana-Fabricated-Talisman. It's just a unique creation here in the tower with no practical uses in the outside world. It governs everything we do here in the tower," Haldi said quickly.

His stomach gurgled, and he looked down.

"A basic meal is 25 tokens. I skipped breakfast," he explained. Durence eyeballed the tower and did some basic math.

"Here," he said and gave Haldi his spare piece of cheese. If Durence squinted, Haldi had the confidence of a mouse!

"Why not hunt outside?" Mila sighed, dropping Haldi onto the desk with a thump.

"There's no money in being an apprentice. Your master governs what classes you have, whom you room with, what jobs you can and can't do, how much Money you get," he listed, and he blinked at their confusion.

"Mundane Money," he said, blushing.

Durence opened his mouth, but a bunch of students walked past, eating rich meats and looking like they had all the time in the world. One of the boys, who looked like Haldi, paused.

"Hally, you failed Levitation again? That's an easy 100 MFTs," he said, shaking his head.

"Sorry Oppy," the young boy said, looking like he might cry as the others laughed. Oof

"Horrible Haldi, the horrendous Mage," a girl giggled. Mila turned and actually barked at them with her teeth bared.

They screamed and scattered.

"They suck," Durence said, and Haldi looked confused.

"Who are you?" he asked, and Durence didn't want to be identified, so he shoved more cheese at the boy, who ate it gratefully, if a little confused.

"Please, we need to see a girl brought in from Sword Island," he said, and Mila's face turned into a hard set.

Haldi bit his lip then, making sure no one was looking, waved his hand.

The ticket in Durence's hand leapt all the way to number '0004.'

"You're really nice, and it's mostly broomstick-related issues all day… and not the accidental kind," he grimaced. He turned to Mila.

"I like your northern mana-enriched squirrel shin guards, looks like two males and big ones," he complimented her awkwardly.

Mila's face lit up as the number counted down to '0002.'

Durence was sure they were joking now.

They were clearly rabbit skulls.

He hoped…
