What do we do to cross? Assign one member of the team to monitor every adult?

But the whole team had to respond when under attack if they wanted to have any chance of repelling the trouble without injury.

He’d thought maybe the volunteers and the instructors would deliver punishing injuries that would slow progress without halting it. But broken legs and stolen teammates was a little more potent than a slowing.

Every attack could result in a situation where you needed a teammate to return here to have their suit undamaged. With those attacks coming so quickly…

No wonder it might take two days of class for someone to reach the end.

This situation actually looked impossible to defeat right now, at least with a whole team. Maybe three or four people could get taken down like sacrificial lambs along the way, while the remainder of their group ran for victory. But if it was a team challenge was that even valid?

Heloísa’s faithless teammates were basically demolished, so running and crawling ahead without her hadn’t gotten them anywhere.

We really are lucky they didn’t just kill us all on our way back, or our whole team would be lying on the floor in a pile of petrified bodies.

Lucille and Finlay were looking insanely lucky, too, just crouching out there together with heavy weights keeping their feet on the ground. Jeffy, trying to get back to join them, had just become a target for Klein.

“Jeffy!” bellowed Max from where he stood on Alden’s right. “Jeffy, you—READ YOUR TEXT MESSAGES!”

Alden could practically hear the unspoken “you dumbass!” in Max’s voice. When he glanced over, he saw his fellow B-rank was doing more or less the same thing as him. Standing at the starting line, staring really hard at the massacre taking place on the floor.

It made Alden feel a little competitive.

I can notice stuff, too.

He resolved himself to being over-challenged by information quantity and just getting on with it. After all, he’d already volunteered to be the member of their team who focused on the game’s rules.

Jeffy was now down to one leg. Mehdi’s team was in the process of being wrecked like Heloísa’s.

Lucille and Finlay…were still standing there.

That seems unfair. Max’s teammates had been out there longer than anyone else. Why are two S’s going un-attacked?

“Oh.”

He texted his team.

[Alden: I think Big Snake, Klein, and Haoyu’s parents only attack people who are moving toward the finish line. We can head back to start or stand still out there, and those three should leave us alone.]

Just the realization that moving forward was a prerequisite for being attacked made the battle out there significantly less complicated. The Instructors and volunteers weren’t randomly picking victims. There must be a rotation of some kind they were each adhering to, and the thing making it look completely random right now was the fact that every time it was Lucille and Finlay’s “turn” they were being skipped over, meaning there were more attackers focused on fewer moving targets.

[Alden: So we never want to be the only team moving forward. And we should wait for some of these others to get their shit together and get out there. We’ll use a run-stop-run strategy to avoid some attacks.]

One rule at a time. Figure out what kind of chaos you’re facing, Alden.

That’s how you survive.

******

******

It was so embarrassing to lie on the floor with a pair of huge sausage-shaped sandbags beside you, just waiting for your four S-rank teammates to fight their way back to you. Figuring out that people were safer if they didn’t move forward or try to attack someone had taken Søren’s team about fifteen minutes. Vandy, Tuyet, Febri, and Ignacio were all so good at attacking and so dedicated to moving toward the finish that they hadn’t noticed the pattern happening until they’d gotten wiped out a few times.

Ever since, when it was time to go back to the starting line to collect lost teammates, Søren’s only job was to lie where they’d left him, between the bags so that he was protected from wind and largely protected from the shrapnel that was becoming more of a problem. He couldn’t even practice glowing anymore, since technically that was the beginning of an attack for him. A way to generate light in pitch dark so that he could still shape. It might make him a valid target.

I’m the class joke. My most valuable ability is holding onto bags and not getting blow away.

I don’t want to cause problems for the team, but this is torture.

At least not going back to the start anymore meant he didn’t have to hear Winston making comments about how someone being babysat by a bunch of S’s didn’t need two sandbags. He wanted heavy bags for a couple of his own teammates, and he was just trying to guilt Søren into giving them to him.

Last time Søren had argued with him, Winston had made things especially weird by trying a new tactic and insisting that Olive was a girl. Like Søren was incapable of noticing her very nice girlish qualities on his own. And like it meant something that obligated them all to something archaic.

If Olive wanted to ask for a bag, she could ask for a bag. And Søren would tell her no because sharing resources with competitors was not a normal part of this class. The elemental weights had been limited in number for a reason. Getting off the floor when the wind hit and getting to them first had been part of the game, and if Søren was going to give them back, he’d give them back to Tuyet and Ignacio who’d gotten them for their team in the first place.

And they wouldn’t give them to Olive either because they could use them themselves in various ways. Ignacio was already talking about knifing one open before class ended in about half an hour and throwing the sand in Klein’s eyes for a surprise.

At least Olive has illusions she can actually work with. She’s even got them looking all right in the wind, and she surprised Omega Scorpii Demir with one. These bags are the only thing keeping me from being even more helpless.

Søren had put a lot of his points into Strength, so he could carry them. He could block Instructor Waker’s throws with them if Febri ever failed to yank him out of the way in time. If he got separated from the team when they needed to move forward, he could get back to them with the bags’ help.

The thing I can’t do is shape.

He tried for the billionth time to wrap his head around his element. The gym was full of light from the transparent ceiling high overhead. Light was everywhere. But he was supposed to be able to shape it like it wasn’t radiation…like it was this solid thing like water or ground, and that was…

He did have the ability. He had caught himself on fire with it. Twice actually. Both times he’d been desperate and angry. He’d managed to hide it the first time. The second…

“Are you all right, Søren?”

Febri’s voice. A thump as a foot landed on the bag to Søren’s left. They were back.

He sat up and looked at his teammate. Febri’s short black hair was all blowing toward him in the heavy wind. He had one hand wrapped around the bag handle, and the other was giving Tuyet a point of solidity to cling to.

“I’m fine. I’m just the class joke.”

“What?”

Søren didn’t get a chance to brush it off. Before he could, there was a series of unfamiliar, sharp cracking sounds from ahead of them and off to the left. The same direction the wind was currently blowing from. The direction the two lead teams were in. Lucille’s team. Kon and Haoyu’s.

A second later, Ignacio shouted a warning. Vandy lifted her hands. And then they were all in the middle of a hailstorm.

“What?!” Febri asked again, this time looking around to see the team that was the source of the flying ice. Søren tried to move into a squat just so he’d be ready for whatever fresh disaster this was after a class full of that kind of thing, but when he tried to push off the floor with a hand, his palm landed on a small ice chip that burned with cold. And the hand shot out from under him like he’d set it in a puddle of oil.

Ignacio had taken a step at the wrong moment, too. He fell into Vandy before righting himself.

“It’s not normal ice!” Tuyet said. “This is Everly’s patch sp—<<Hey!>>”

She and Febri both ducked as a piece the size of a cafeteria tray flipped through the air toward them.

“What are they doing?” Vandy asked.

“I just want to know why they’re always in front of us no matter how fast we move! Are Haoyu’s parents going easy on him or something?” Febri said.

“I don’t think so since they’ve taken him back to the start more than any other member of that team,” Vandy said seriously.

“I know that, Vandy, I just don’t understand why they’re always out in front with Lucille’s team.”

******

******

“I don’t know what kind of falling-out you’re having with your weapon, but it had better do some more of that super fast whipping around that killed me earlier. Right now!” Everly said, standing barefoot in the center of the big ice patch they’d just managed to make together by keeping her spell impression powder protected from the wind with Alden’s shield.

“I’m doing my best!” Lexi said. He was sitting on the ice between Everly’s ankles and the shield, along with Kon and Alden. Writher was slapping the ice, carving out chunks and shards and sending them flying.

Haoyu wasn’t with them. He was trying to make a solo return trip after his father, laughing, had hauled him back to the starting line for the eleventh time since class had started.

“Faster!” yelled Everly.

“Yeah, faster!” shouted Kon. “What is this weak whippery?!”

I know you two are trying to fix him, but you’re just going to give him anxiety, Alden thought.

Writher was moving better than it had been. For most of the class, Lexi had had such a tight rein on it whenever it was long that it had been acting more like a lance or a sword than a whip. At least he was letting it be flexible again.

All of this was part of a desperate plan to hit Instructor Klein with some ice. Or just make him slip on some ice. The Agility monster was currently downwind near the starting line, going after Winston’s team. It would be their team’s turn next, according to the rotation that Alden had figured out for Klein, and the only way to prevent a leg-breaking was to hit the instructor with something he would consider a successful attack.

Hitting him up close was nearly impossible with Writher being less writhy than usual. Maybe, distracted with another team, a single ice chip would find its way beneath the son of an eel’s feet. And he’d slip a millimeter and decide to count it.

Rewarding attacks he considered successful enough was Klein’s only “weakness” as an opponent.

He and Instructor Waker were still teaching the same lessons they had on the first week of class. Klein wanted to see good offense. Big Snake wanted to see defense. Show you’d learned the lesson by hitting Klein with something, or protect yourself or a teammate from one of Big Snake’s pitches, and you’d be skipped for a rotation even if you were moving forward.

Big Snake was easy. Klein was a menace.

A flicker of light between them and their enemy made Alden pull up the aerial shot of the gym floor he’d borrowed from drone footage. With a thought, he added another X to it in approximately the spot where he’d seen the flicker. This was his homemade map of electrocution traps. Those things would kill you. X’s got added whenever he saw a flicker and subtracted whenever he saw someone die in a trap. His little map here wasn’t perfect, but it was preventing a lot of accidents for their team.

They were approaching the three-quarter mark. It was the most forward progress they’d made since class started, and they really wanted to be off Klein’s hit list for just one round so that they could make a break for the finish when Haoyu reached them.

By now, every team had realized that standing in place was a trick to avoid attacks, but their team and Max’s seemed to be the only ones actively aware of and trying to manipulate the situation with Klein and Big Snake. Marsha regularly got Klein to leave her team alone, but that was because Marsha attacked every single time she thought she had the slightest chance. Judging by a comment she’d made the last time they’d ended up back at the starting line with her, she was upset that she wasn’t getting as many turns to face Klein head-on as everyone else seemed to be, instead of proud that she was being acknowledged as a good threat.

Max had had to clap a had over Jeffy’s mouth before the Aqua Brute could tell her how it worked.

[Alden: I finally figured out the Zhang-Demir tactics. When they start to approach us, whoever makes a move to attack or get in between them and a teammate first is the one who gets stolen and taken back to the start. That’s why it’s always Haoyu for our team. He’s the one who watches them the most, so he sees them coming and responds first.]

The team had gotten used to him texting in the heat of whatever was going on. There was just no point in waiting. Everyone could read when they got a chance and stopped being ice machines.

<<HIT IT HARD!>> Kon bellowed in Russian.

Suddenly the ice was making a sizzling noise as Lexi whipped it.

Kon brightened. <<More! The battle against the ice and cold is in our blood.>>

[Alden: I think the Mr. and Mrs. Zhang-Demir approach is about improving our teamwork. Teams ought to be putting people who can run back from the start on their own in front of the danger anyway. It’s like they’re giving us a way to pick who gets separated from the rest.]

