Ren had examined the boat as much as he could, without taking it apart. He couldn't get the plans for it, though. He was tempted to use his tools to open it right here, but if he dropped anything, or made a mess, Lara would get angry at him. He stored the box of knick-knacks, and then the toy boat. He sat there, and remembered the farm equipment book. He smiled as he thought about adding the plow and harvest mechanisms to a wind up toy.

*

Oh my GOD! Elerlyth thought as she skimmed through the book and Ren's encounter with Rubella. Ren! You crazy idiot!

She flipped the pages through his encounter at the giant land border next, and started to skim over the details of him at the Garrison, and how he dealt with the crazy giants.

Oh, my GOD! She thought when she got to the part about the pit trap, and kept reading.

********

Detective Ramirez was in charge of the whole operation in the hidden room Officer Stonewall had discovered. The techs were working on removing the backup hard drive from the crumpled mess it was in, and tried their best to not damage it any further. The forensics team was in the middle of dusting every single photograph for prints. So far, they had nothing.

Come on, come on! The Detective thought as he watched them work. Give me something!

“Everything's been photographed and videotaped.” The photographer said.

Officer Stonewall looked at him sternly. “It's digital.” She said. “They haven't made actual videotape in years.”

The photographer chuckled. “It's just an expression.”

“Then say 'recorded' instead.” She corrected him. “If someone heard you call it videotape, when none actually exists, we could be accused of concealing or destroying evidence.”

“Sorry, officer.”

Officer Stonewall sighed. “No, it's okay.” She said. “Staring at all these pictures is making me antsy.”

“Tell me about it.” One of the other officers said. “To think they had someone this close to him.” The officer said, and pointed to a series of pictures of Ren, asleep in his hospital bed.

“They wouldn't have to be close to him.” Officer Stonewall said. “Just have access to his room.”

“That's a pretty big list, though.”

“We've eliminated the nurses, at least.” Detective Ramirez said. “The only one that was even questionable, we already have in protective custody.”

“Do you think it was the doctor?” Officer Stonewall asked.

Detective Ramirez shook his head. “No. I think he's either a red herring, or so deep in this that he wouldn't need the pictures anyways.”

“No luck finding him, then?” The other officer asked.

“Not a trace.” Officer Stonewall said. “His car is gone and his bank accounts were emptied.” She said. “He even left his house unlocked.” She shook her head. “There were already two parties thrown there, and half a dozen squatters when we got there.”

The other officer laughed. “Who does that?” He asked. “I mean, that's like something out of a movie or something.”

“His house is in a swanky neighborhood.” Detective Ramirez said. “Some people actually showed up to have a party, while we were there trying to gather evidence.” He shook his head. “Whoever set it up made sure there was too many other people in the house for us to find anything.”

“I couldn't even look in the bathroom.” Officer Stonewall said. “Good god, the smell!”

The other officer laughed again. “Been there, done that.” He said. “When it's not your bathroom, and you don't care what happens...” He looked at the detective. “How many needles did you find?”

“They filled two containers just from what was in the bathroom.” Detective Ramirez said. “They haven't finished with the rest of the house yet, and it's been three days.”

The officer shook his head. “We should leave the place open after the investigation.” He said. “We could have half of the druggies off the streets by the end of the month.”

“I got one!” One of the forensics members exclaimed. There were several cheers and high fives, and Detective Ramirez and Officer Stonewall rushed over to see.

“Tell me it's a full print!” He demanded, and the tech grinned.

“One full index print, right here.” She said, and held up one of the polaroids. “Someone wiped off the front of every picture... but this little guy, he wasn't completely glued down like the others.” She said and turned it over to show him a clearly-defined dusted fingerprint.

“I could kiss you!” Detective Ramirez said, and the tech blushed slightly. “That's excellent work.”

“T-thank you, sir.”

“Get it to the lab, asap.” He said. “I want it run on any database that we have access to.”

“Y-yes, sir!” The tech said, bagged the photo, and the other officer volunteered to escort her out.

“This could blow this whole case wide open.” Detective Ramirez said.

“Yes, it could.” A bland male voice said from the doorway. “Thank you.”

Detective Ramirez turned towards the voice, and saw who it was. “Ah, dammit.”

It was Agent Smith, with his partner Agent Smith. “I think we can take it from here.”

“Goddammit!” Detective Ramirez shouted, and Officer Stonewall sighed.
