All the bindings vanished. Venitra fell about fifty feet and hit the ground so hard she cracked the ground. Her body held. It was solid bone.
“Master, I—”
“You have lost, Venitra.”
The Necromancer’s white pupils and black eyes found Venitra. The bone woman slowly sank to one knee. And her carven face was ashamed.
“I—I did, Master.”
“Again. You charged Belavierr. With your enchantments active.”
“Yes, Master. I thought—she would attack me.”
Az’kerash rubbed at his temples. The other watchers, all three of them, stirred. Belavierr was just continuing whatever she was doing with the strings, ignoring Venitra.
“Venitra. Belavierr is a [Witch]. She would never allow you to close with her so easily. You had time to prepare.”
“Yes, Master.”
The bone woman’s head lowered. She heard a sound from the side.
Laughter. It came from two watchers. Ijvani and Bea. They were watching her, reveling in her defeat. Kerash just appraised Belavierr. It was his turn next.
“Venitra, only a fool charges in. You are no fool. You trust in your construction too much. I have instructed you as to how Cognita fought. And you are modeled after her—”
The Necromancer was having a new challenge in his existence. And that was teaching. He had been a fabulous teacher in the academy. But he had never taught children.
And the Chosen were his children. His creations. Now, four of them waited, learning how to fight. They were all below Level 10.
But they were leveling. The Necromancer had found the key to granting creations the ability to level. True sapience as the world understood it.
That he owed that revelation to an apprentice less than half his levels was one of those embarrassing secrets of history. But now—his existing Chosen had been granted the ability to level and they were learning from Az’kerash as his true children.
It…wasn’t going well. Venitra sulked as she sat with the others in the bleachers. She watched as Kerash went at Belavierr.
He lost, of course. The [Witch] didn’t even move. She used the binding spells to tear the Gnoll’s arm off, despite his attempts to flank her, confuse her spell among the pillars.
If Klbkchhezeim of the Antinium had been in the same room as Az’kerash the Necromancer, and the two didn’t instantly try to kill each other, they would have found a bit of common ground to stand on. And that was because the error in the Chosen’s mentalities were similar to the Prognugators not of the Free Antinium.
“Venitra. Kerash. Both of you have attempted to defeat Belavierr with your weapons and the abilities I have granted you. But you have ample time to prepare. Fifteen minutes before Belavierr attacks. You both attack within less than a minute of studying her. Do you…have any improvements you would like to make on your strategies?”
The Necromancer looked around the empty ballroom where the training session was being conducted. Kerash and Venitra looked at each other. After a moment, Venitra raised her hand.
“I could throw a rock at Belavierr, Master.”
Peril Chandler stared at his creation. Venitra hesitated.
“A large one?”
“Ijvani.”
“I—could attempt to use a teleportation spell to get close with her, Master, like Venitra was attempting and then—”
A slash of the hand and the skeleton mage stopped talking. Az’kerash turned.
“Bea?”
“…Plague spores, master?”
The [Necromancer] put his head in his hands. He realized, too late, that his Chosen were single-minded. Of course—he had made them that way. He looked up, eyes glittering.
“What about…the artifacts?”
The Chosen glanced at the table piled with magical items. Just a sample of the rings, wands, pieces of armor, even scrolls and other expendables taken from the Necromancer’s collection.
“But you have given us weapons, Master. They are the most suited to us. Why would we use lesser objects?”
Ijvani raised her staff and the other three Chosen nodded. The Necromancer looked at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch glanced up. And she said only one thing to Az’kerash.
“You gave them arrogance.”
The [Necromancer] met the orange, ringed glow of Belavierr’s eyes. He stiffened, and then nodded slowly.
“I did. That was an error. My Chosen were not made with the capacity for—independence—in mind. They would always be monitored.”
“Make the others better. And dispose of these ones?”
The Chosen shuddered as Belavierr’s gaze swept across them. They had learned to fear her. Az’kerash spoke curtly.
“No. Belavierr, have you anything to add? Some insight?”
He waited. Belavierr tapped at her lips. And that mortal insight she had gained since losing her immortality made her smile.
“The skeleton is smarter than all of the others.”
That made the Chosen’s eyes flash. And the Stitch Witch smiled. Az’kerash shook his head.
“Perhaps seeing him fight you would be instructive, Belavierr. Ijvani, where is Toren?”
“I do not know, master. Sweeping?”
“Sweeping?”
Ijvani nodded.
“Sweeping the hallways.”
“Hm. Find him and—”
“Creator?”
A whisper ran through the ruined ballroom. Belavierr’s head turned. The Chosen went silent. And Az’kerash’s head turned. The Necromancer smiled.
“Devail. Have you completed your exercises?”
“Yes, Creator. Am I to learn to fight?”
And there it was. Something stepped out of the corridors. Not one of the old Chosen. Not Toren. The four undead stared with…hatred…at the new figure.
A new Chosen. A new undead.
Devail was unlike the others. An experimental undead. But made with his potential in mind.
Az’kerash had taken only flesh to make Devail. Flesh and scale, and no bone. It should have meant that the tall figure holding the rapier had no structure whatsoever. It did mean he was far lighter. But magic meant that all he had was muscle and skin.
He was so light he could leap across the ballroom and touch the ceiling. He was fast—
And he carried the rapier. The Necromancer smiled.
“Devail.”
“Creator, I have studied the books. The style of Albezian war mages. Am I to learn to fight?”
“Yes. I will duel you in that fashion. My Chosen—Devail will practice with me. Reflect on your failures. Think of—”
Az’kerash, distracted, turned to his Chosen and they did not miss his exasperation.
“Think of what you currently lack. Emulate Toren. Devail, to me.”
And the Necromancer drew his rapier, the one he had begun to carry. The new Chosen moved forwards, gliding to practice with his creator. He was a [Fencer] already. Still low-level, barely created.
The first of many. Belavierr watched with interest. Her head turned to follow the four Chosen as they left. Az’kerash dueled Devail as the undead attacked with a speed and ferocity other species could never match. An agility too—he could reconfigure his body in any number of ways.
He would become the ultimate fencer. But right now he had to learn the styles—and then adapt. He was simple—for now.
The Necromancer was no expert in creating minds. Just bodies. That was his weakness for now. But he was experimenting, trying to teach.
And he had brought an expert here. Offered her lodging. So far, Belavierr had been content to watch. But she had come because for her assistance with his Chosen, with his projects—
Az’kerash had promised to give her one of his new undead. So the Stitch Witch waited. Her plans were inscrutable for now. But she smiled.
She had said one thing. And the effects bore themselves out in the angry Chosen.
 
—-
 
Toren the Skeleton heard the angry tromp of Venitra’s body echoing. He dropped the broom he’d made and ran. He ran fast, arms and legs pumping.
It didn’t matter. They caught him in moments.
“Worthless skeleton!”
Venitra grabbed Toren and smashed the smaller skeleton into a wall. His bones went flying. Ijvani conjured fire. Bea hit him with her fists. There was less the Plague Zombie could do to Toren, but she kicked his skull.
Kerash slashed the skeleton’s bones. The Chosen watched as the skeleton slowly—slowly reformed himself. Without the magical Archmage’s bones, it was slow. Difficult. The first time he had been broken, Toren had nearly died in truth.
But he had lived. Now—the skeleton reformed himself and Venitra raised a foot.
“We are more than you.”
She stomped and the ribcage broke. The Chosen attacked again, viciously venting frustration. Only when Toren was close to losing all the mana he’d gathered did they leave him.
If he ‘died’, their master would be furious. Indeed, Ijvani made sure Az’kerash was fully occupied. He would have been wrathful—if he knew what they did. Or if Toren told him.
But the skeleton was too afraid to. The Chosen left him to pull himself together, mend his powdered bones. Toren couldn’t with a number of bones. So he dragged himself down the corridor until he found one of the storage rooms.
Femur, femur—Toren grabbed a femur and replaced it. Now he had a working leg. Then two. The skeleton clumsily reassembled himself.
Then he went to hide before they found him again. The Chosen were always in a bad mood after their failures. And oh boy did they fail. The only thing that would make them angrier was if Az’kerash asked Toren to demonstrate how to fight Belavierr. Like, for instance, trying to blow her up with bags of flour. Toren had done that once. Shortly after that, the Chosen’s bullying had begun.
Things had changed for Toren again. Now—he no longer wished to be heard. He wished to be invisible. To never be found.
But no longer to die, for all he was tormented. Nor could he; Az’kerash had altered his spell matrices.
“This should allow you to live, although I have need of those bones.”
He had told Toren before imbuing him with [Limited Regeneration]. The skeleton had learned it as a Skill. He had gained several things from Az’kerash’s tinkering when he wasn’t teaching or creating new Chosen.
Among them, the ability to do this. A metatarsal that Toren needed was on a high shelf. So he tossed his arm up and grabbed it. His arm returned to his body. Like a Dullahan’s.
Improvements. But with it, with impressing the Necromancer with his intelligence, tenacity—Toren had kept trying to kill Az’kerash that first week—had come the Chosen’s ire. And they expressed it in simple ways.
They were like him. Toren understood that now. What Az’kerash was learning was what Toren had lived through. The Chosen were children and the [Skeleton Knight] saw that they had the same flaw he did.
The Chosen could think. They could feel. But they had to learn these things.
Love, caring—those were harder things to comprehend than anger, hatred. And originality? The capacity to innovate?
Far, far harder. Toren had learned that over months of being the skeleton that just took orders at Erin’s inn. No wonder the Chosen, who had been even more strictly-controlled than he, were unable to even think about using different weapons. They had learned malice far more easily; undead knew malice.
But love? Az’kerash had read them stories. Hoping to instill the capacity for kindness in them, he had encouraged they try raising pets. He treated them like children.
They had killed the pets. What had he expected? They were undead. The desire to kill was in their natures. Az’kerash had a long way to go. He knew that, and knew them. Ijvani’s pets, for instance, had always died.
So the Necromancer split his time between working on new Chosen, training the old ones, and managing his affairs in the world. He was exasperated—but content in the knowledge that he had time. This was a long-term project and when he was done, he’d have his undead generals.
In time. And so far, Toren had been miserable.
 
—-
 
Once his body was remade, the skeleton slunk around the corners. He was hiding from them. They all hated him. Ijvani and Venitra the most because he was made of bone. Fortunately, Az’kerash’s castle was big. The skeleton hurried back to his broom and found—
“What is this?”
Toren froze. Devail stood there, rapier in hand. The…fencing Chosen looked at Toren. Devail was mystified by the broom.
A broom, for sweeping. Devail’s head twisted left and right; it had no bone so it could move however Devail pleased. He could even fit into incredibly narrow spots because his ‘body’ was just enchanted flesh. He could collapse to be as thin as a hand. It was gross.
“Cleaning makes no sense. I will ask the Creator. Skeleton, do you wish to fight?”
Toren shook his head. Devail turned away.
Fighting maniac. Toren made a rude gesture at Devail’s back, conveniently forgetting he had once been like that. Devail was better than the old Chosen because he was just an idiot. But Toren wasn’t here to fight.
He investigated what he’d been sweeping up. Dust. Some dirt. A bunch of detritus. Toren swept because he missed being in the inn. But also…
There. The skeleton bent down. After a few seconds, he tossed the dirt and other dust out the window. He opened his mouth, and tossed the bit of Sage’s Grass, some of the other alchemical supplies and scraps from what Belavierr had been using into his ‘mouth’. Toren had altered his jaw to make it hold whatever he put in there.
The skeleton’s purples eyes burned. He looked around, then ran off with his broom before the other Chosen could come back to bully him.
 
—-
 
Toren was so sad. So…sad. He had done wrong things. He had hated. And look where he was now?
His ‘life’ was miserable. Being beaten into bone dust didn’t hurt, but the Chosen’s wrath was unpleasant. And he was stuck in the castle; Az’kerash wouldn’t let him leave. He…Toren should have longed for death.
But he didn’t. As the skeleton hurried back to his room—which was secret, and not, in fact, his room since the undead didn’t need rooms or to sleep—the skeleton gathered a few more scraps.
A bit of Sage’s Grass. Some oil from the kitchens. Some actual grass from outside. Other alchemical pieces, powdered gemstone. All of it went in his mouth. They weren’t for him.
Ijvani was the one Az’kerash had possessed the most hopes for since the Chosen had actually owned pets before becoming fully sapient. However—they died. She had collected slimes like Oom, other ‘pets’.
She always forgot they needed sustenance. Az’kerash had not been pleased when he recalled the Healing Slime and found it had expired like the rest. But he had put it down to a learning experience, if Ijvani learned anything.
As Toren crept to the little room, which might have been a broom closet, he regurgitated all the ingredients he’d gathered. It had taken him all day. But it was worth it.
Inside the dark room, something hid as he opened the door. Toren found a little nest of salvaged fabrics, a spare enchanted lantern for light—even a few books. He doubted his friend could read, but it was a person thing.
