Numbtongue wasn’t channeling Pyrite. The hobgoblin experimentally swung the pickaxe. It dug into the ground. It was as good as a regular pickaxe. And it lasted…
Three minutes. Then it blinked out. Numbtongue sighed.
“Can’t replace normal pickaxe. Good for fighting, though.”
He was experimenting with his new Skills. He could also call Pyrite’s battleaxe into life—but it had no enchantment.
Mundane armaments. Even so, Numbtongue wasn’t about to look down at a free battleaxe. He liked the free Skills. And his other new Skill was quite fun.
[Directional Sound]. The Hobgoblin took out his enchanted guitar. Hedault had enchanted it so it could go loud. The Hobgoblin wailed on it, and the guitar solo screamed. Kevin covered his ears.
“Oh god I can’t hear anything.”
“I can’t hear a thing. Awesome. Hey Lyonette! Now Numbtongue won’t wake anyone up!”
Erin gave Numbtongue a thumbs-up. She was standing to Kevin’s left; the only people who could hear Numbtongue were in a narrow cone. Kevin hurried out of the way—Mrsha poked her head in and out, excited.
“Directional sound. Bird, grab Mrsha.”
The Goblin had already found a utility for it. He spoke normally, but only Bird heard. He obligingly walked over and sneak-grabbed Mrsha. Numbtongue grinned. Now that was how you used it in combat! Imagine shouting orders only a few people could hear?
Well, that was the excitement for the day. Numbtongue shouldered his guitar. The crew dispersed.
“I’m going to Pallass. Everyone wants to check out the skateboard and I’m going to see if we can make some without needing Hedault and Pelt. See you guys!”
Kevin left, rubbing his ears. Lyonette sighed.
“And I have to talk to Ferris about the possibility of a deal—but he really wants you as an ambassador, Erin.”
“Pass! I’m gonna make billiards. I think the table I ordered is almost done.”
Everyone looked at Erin. She waved her hands.
“No one’s gonna die! It’s just a game! I’ll show you later if I can find felt! Maybe I can grow a moss? Nah, nah…but maybe.”
That left Mrsha, Numbtongue, and Bird. Mrsha sighed through her nose. No Ekirra or Visma today. Ekirra had football practice with Joseph and Visma was sick with a summer cold. Well, it wasn’t as bad as before. She had two big minders who liked to play games!
 
Let’s play tag!
 
She held up a card. Numbtongue took it, thought about it, and held up a claw. He glanced around in a way the other two had gotten to know. And the third co-conspirator of the Bee Rescue Team buzzed down. Bird was the new recruit.
Numbtongue glanced around.
“I have a better idea. Found a good spot. Outside. Let’s go fishing.”
Mrsha looked up excitedly. She ran for the fishing poles. Bird tilted his head.
“Fishing?”
 
—-
 
The garden had a pond, but the Fortress Beavers made fishing harder since they tended to eat the fish or get tangled in your hooks. Numbtongue had enjoyed fishing for a little while before the Beavers had been added. Now, he’d found another spot.
The Hobgoblin prepared for the trip by first finding Ishkr. The Gnoll was showing a new hire the ropes. The Drake jumped when he saw Numbtongue, but the Gnoll just looked up.
“Numbtongue. What is it?”
“Ishkr. Going on trip. Have the door set to my stone by default, please.”
“It will be done.”
The Gnoll [Head Waiter] nodded. Numbtongue walked off. Mrsha stealthily padded towards the hallway with Apista on her head and Bird followed with his bow and fishing rods.
Good thing Ishkr had been there. Drassi or Erin or Lyonette asked questions. Ishkr raised his voice as the B-Team headed for Numbtongue’s door.
“Numbtongue.”
They froze. The Hobgoblin turned back. Ishkr gestured around the inn.
“We need to hire a few new people. If you see Lyonette or Erin, can you let them know to talk to me? Erin ran out looking for something and Lyonette is negotiating.”
The Hobgoblin gave the Gnoll a thumbs-up.
“Will do.”
The plan wasn’t compromised. The team strolled for the doors, as calm as could be. Numbtongue cracked the door open and they filed through.
They found themselves high, high above Liscor. In the lower reaches of the High Passes. Numbtongue’s explorations had led him ever-higher as he spelunked in caves and mined. And he had found, quite coincidentally, a pond at higher altitudes.
The water actually led downwards, but this pond had a small population of fish. Fish with huge teeth and a curious body type. Erin had dubbed them ‘flatfish’ and they had nearly eaten her way back when she’d first come to Liscor.
“Saw this when hiking. Here. Mrsha and Apista, stay back.”
Numbtongue passed out rods and Bird helped bait the hooks with a dead bird and some worms—maggots—he’d cultivated. Mrsha cast her line into the pond from afar.
They were fishing. Mrsha got the first bite and the Hobgoblin and Antinium had to help her reel the fish in before it dragged her into the pond. But it was fishing.
Not all adventures had to be disastrous tales of adventure and woe. Sometimes you just went fishing. Mrsha energetically helped Bird beat the flatfish to death as it flopped around, trying to bite or get back into the water. It would make a great lunch. Apista kept watch for Eater Goats, giant centipedes, Stone Starers, Gargoyles, or anything else. Numbtongue played some music while they fished.
And in that way, the B-Team completely missed the drama with Maviola El.
 
—-
 
They found her right before she got to The Wandering Inn. Maviola El and Olesm had elected to walk rather than wait the customary five minutes for the door to be checked. Of course, progress being what it was, some people now complained about having to wait five minutes to visit Celum, or Pallass, or Invrisil.
Inside the inn, Erin was trying to explain the billiards table to the people in the rec room. It had just been dragged in by Antinium after being made by a [Carpenter]. Of course, the Antinium had decided the best way was just to remove the outside wall of the rec room, carry in the pool table, and rebuild the wall. Now, guests were clustered around, sensing something interesting. Among them, Wilovan and Ratici.
“Have we met? Well, this is a billiards table. See—it’s the right shape. I’m just missing felt.”
“Felt?”
The Gnoll and Drake glanced at each other, then at the sticks, balls, and the table with carved sockets. Erin nodded.
“Okay, the felt slows the balls and makes it—I dunno—atmospheric. I also put chalk on the tips—I’m going to try other stuff. But how you play the game is like this. You ‘rack’ the balls like this…”
There was an ale in Menolit’s claw. And he watched as Erin played a game with the two Gentlemen Callers. The [Veteran] watched as she showed them the point—to get the balls into the corners while the opponent tried to do the same while avoiding the eight-ball.
“That looks like fun.”
Something about the game called to the day-drinking, relaxed guests. And Erin just needed felt? Wilovan glanced at Ratici.
“We know someone who could get you felt, Miss Solstice.”
“Really? Wow! I was gonna go into Liscor and ask Krshia or someone. That’d be great. You know a felt-guy?”
“That’s right, Miss Solstice. We’d be happy to reach out to them. What, do you need it just layered on top? That’s a quick job.”
“Ooh. Can you make it…either green, or blue. Really fine stuff, too. Thanks! What’s your name?”
The Drake with the cap and odd way of speaking offered a claw and Erin shook it. He grinned at her.
“Ratici, Miss. And this is my companion, Wilovan, as he is. We’re exceptionally pleased to make your acquaintance. We’ve met before.”
“Oh, really? Actually…I’m so sorry I forgot! Wow! Nice to meet you again, Ratici. So you like this game?”
“It has a charm, Miss Solstice.”
“Call me Erin. And I was going to do a ping pong table too, even though I suck at it—”
“A what now?”
Olesm was walking up the hill with Maviola. Erin was talking to the two Gentlemen Callers, getting to know them and reflecting that she might need multiple tables. Multiple game rooms; ping pong was a travelling game, especially when you hit the ball, after all. She’d been holding back on ping pong since the balls were plastic, but that was why Hedault existed, right?
And that was when the carriage screeched to a halt. It was an expensive one, and it had turned to follow the Drake and [Lady]. A woman, dressed in fine clothes and accompanied by the bodyguards surrounding the carriage leapt out.
“Grandmother!”
Lady Desinee wasn’t Maviola El’s actual granddaughter. She was, in fact, a niece. But ‘Grandmother’ applied to the House of El’s former matriarch as well as anything else. Maviola El turned her head.
“Desinee?”
“We found you at last! Grandmother! You didn’t even tell us! And you went to Liscor? You can’t die!”
“Uh…”
Olesm looked at Maviola. He stared at the [Lady] trying to climb up the grassy hill in her expensive shoes and dress, flanked by bodyguards wearing the colors of the House of El. Yellow, red, and silver.
The Drake’s brow wrinkled as his mind struggled to present the logical conclusion through his redefining reality. Maviola was scowling.
“Desinee, I made my choice. You were there! Get back in your carriage and go home. That is an order.”
But her niece refused to budge. Maviola wasn’t the matriarch of House El anymore. Desinee shook her head.
“Made your choice? Without telling anyone but Deilan? Or me? You—you just rode off! Everyone’s been searching for you! Zedalien is going to quit and—grandmother, you have to come back! Even if it’s just for a few days. You can rest with your family!”
“Grandmother?”
Olesm looked at Maviola. He looked at Desinee. The [Lady] was staring at him as her guards helped her up the hill. Maviola groaned.
“This is why I never had children. Olesm—”
She turned to him. And whatever Maviola might have been able to say before Olesm fainted was forestalled by the second vehicle abandoning the road. Only, this one wasn’t a carriage.
It was a chariot. A proper, Chandrarian chariot. And it shot up the hill as the two warhorses surged up the slope. The driver had a Skill that let the horses drag the chariot uphill at speed.
Oh, and the driver also had a long spear. She swung it as Maviola’s head whirled.
“Maviola El, I have you now!”
The [Lady Firestarter] saw the swing as everyone on the hill dove out of the way. The chariot thundered past them as Maviola hit the ground hard. The spear barely missed her and the white-haired grandmother pulled on the reins, cursing.
“What’s happening? What’s happening?”
Lady Desinee shrieked as the [Riders] following the chariot-driving spear-wielder surged up the hill. They halted as House El’s [Guards] drew their blades.
 
—-
 
“Hey, did you hear anything?”
Erin Solstice was trying to show Wilovan what a paddle looked like as she drew on a piece of parchment. The Gnoll glanced up.
“Sounds like shouting. Ratici—”
The [Innkeeper] heard the scream and then the cries. Her eyes went round.
“Uh oh. Mrsha! Numbtongue! Bird!”
She ran, Ratici cursed. The two Gentlemen Callers surged down the hallway after Erin. They were prepared to drag her back—
 
—-
 
Bird reeled in his fish. Numbtongue and Mrsha applauded.
 
—-
 
“It’s the damn inn again! Sound the alarm!”
A scream from the walls of Liscor. Someone blew the inn-alarm.
 
—-
 
The chariot turned and Maviola leapt, avoiding the old woman’s second slash. For someone that old, she was spry! Olesm had taken cover with Lady Desinee and her bodyguards by the carriage. House El and the woman’s own guards were in a standoff as Maviola dodged the circling chariot and horses.
Erin Solstice was at the door to the inn, being held back by both Gentlemen Callers, looking around for Bird. Liscor’s walls were sounding an alarm, but the core of the action was Maviola and the mysterious old woman. Now, Maviola conjured a ball of fire and threw it.
The chariot swerved, dodging the fire. Olesm stared. Maviola hadn’t used [Fast Fireball], which would have killed the horses. He fumbled for his sword.
“Who is that?”
Lady Desinee was the only person he could ask. The [Lady] of House El was staring, her mouth agape. She jumped as she stared at a Drake, but replied fearfully.
“That’s—the [Harbormistress] of First Landing! Lady Gresaria of House Wellfar!”
Her statement was confirmed a second later as Maviola screamed a curse.
“Gresaria, you salty bitch! I’ll burn your face off! You had to have one last shot at me, did you? You couldn’t just die in peace?!”
“Maviola! You cowardly little fire salamander! I’ll kill you!”
Gresaria was old. But she had to have at least half a dozen combat Skills, because the war chariot was maneuvering with commendable agility. Now, she stabbed at Maviola.
The flame-haired younger woman raised a hand.
“You made a mistake, Gresaria! [Fast Fireball]!”
“You little—”
The flash of fire made everyone duck. But Olesm saw the old woman shift her grip, until she held the very end of the spear. She swung it in a wide arc—
“[Spellstrike Arms]!”
She hit the fireball with the spear and it bounced. Everyone threw themselves down as the first fireball fastball blasted past Rose and the baseball team in training. It blew up in the air and the baseball players ran screaming.
The two [Ladies] were panting. Maviola stared at Gresaria and raised her hand.
“I forgot you could do that.”
“I have—artifacts—anyways—Maviola. Now, I’ll cut that stupid head off your shoulders…”
The old woman was gasping for air. She lifted the spear as the warhorses turned. Maviola braced—
And Lady Gresaria collapsed. The old woman’s eyes went wide and she fell back into her chariot.
“Lady Gresaria!”
Her retainers thundered up the hill. The old woman was white under her tanned skin. Olesm, Lady Desinee, Erin—all stared. Then they rushed forwards.
Maviola El was fastest of all. She vaulted into the chariot. Lady Gresaria was breathing faintly.
“Your heart—”
Maviola bent down. She was fumbling for something. A glowing vial. But a wrinkled hand shot up and grabbed her arm in a grip that was still steel after a century.
“Just—lost—my breath. Don’t you dare.”
Lady Gresaria looked up at Maviola El. The two women stared at each other. One, Maviola El, young, in her prime of life. The other, Gresaria Wellfar.
Their shared look went back a hundred years, ten thousand meetings. Maviola El felt the grip relax. Gresaria smiled.
“You’re looking well, Maviola.”
“And you look terrible, Gresaria.”
The two looked at each other. Then Gresaria began laughing. She waved away the anxious bodyguards, swearing like a [Sailor] as she dragged herself upright.
