“Enough of this. I’m tired. Get me a chair. In that…inn. And a drink! Maviola, run off and I’ll ride you down and put this spear through your back.”
She waved the spear weakly. Maviola smiled. She turned to the audience. Erin scratched her head. She looked around at Zevara, who’d come running with a squad.
“…What is going on?”
The Watch Captain gave Erin a long look. The madness was spreading.
 
—-
 
A while later, with explanations, or at least, a few, Maviola El sat with Lady Gresaria. The [Harbormistress] watched as one of her retainers paid a very steep fine. She didn’t even blink.
She did grin as she downed half the stiff drink. People were watching the old woman with awed looks. After all, here was the [Harbormistress] of First Landing.
It was a prestigious role and you had to have influence to get such a position. Of course, it paid well in money and influence.
She was here. Lady Gresaria, who was known for riding that war chariot around rather than a horse. Who had once sworn to die in her role rather than retire. She’d fought battles defending First Landing and the northern coast from sea raids.
And she’d come here, pursuing the same person as Lady Desinee.
Maviola El.
“Is that her? Dead gods. I’ve seen her a handful of times. Tough as the tar, that woman. Horrible. Always found smuggled goods.”
Wailant Strongheart had come from his farm the instant he’d heard. He’d joined a group of people staring at her. Uncaring, Gresaria downed a second drink and belched. She wiped her mouth and looked up.
“Gresaria.”
Maviola El stood there. She’d explained—to Erin, Zevara, and the others as much as she could. Really…Olesm had covered for her. He knew, now. And that was a conversation for later.
But Gresaria wouldn’t wait. The old woman was still panting. She looked—worn—from the short encounter. Maviola recalled a time when Gresaria had ridden eight days and nights in the saddle just to show up at a ball and burn Maviola’s dress.
Good times. Old times. A world apart from the Izril of now. Maviola slowly sat down.
“Gresaria, why did you come here? To finish things?”
The old woman laughed. She hadn’t really been aiming for Maviola or she would have taken Maviola’s head off with that first pass, age or not. In the same way—Maviola wouldn’t have killed her, even with a [Fireball] to the chest.
“Maviola El. You look beautiful. Like a vision of our past.”
The [Harbormistress] coughed. She took a little healing potion and sipped at it with trembling fingers.
“Damned age. You know, it took me ages to travel here? Had to ride in a carriage like some invalid. My guards wouldn’t even let me use the chariot. Then again—it’s harder to ride through rain and mud. Not that you’d know about that anymore.”
The two were speaking in silence. Maviola had activated a privacy charm. She grimaced as she took a mug, sipped from it.
“Watch it. But for the potion and I’d be using my wheelchair.”
“Right. Hard to imagine seeing you now. Well, I made a four hundred mile trip from Invrisil rather than use that new door just so I could see your face when I rode at you in the chariot.”
“Was it worth it?”
Lady Gresaria bared her teeth, showing Maviola the gaps and places where she’d replaced enamel with gold.
“Are you joking with me, Maviola? It was worth every miserable mile! The look on your face made me three decades younger, I’ll swear. It reminded me of the time we attacked that little pissant, Adeis. Remember?”
“When we joined forces? Of course.”
Maviola laughed. She remembered that moment too. Gresaria laughed too, until she coughed. She thumped on her chest.
“Figures you’d need a potion before I did, Maviola. You were always soft.”
“Here we go again. A [Sea Lady] can outrun a soft land-lady—I recall I won a footrace against you.”
“On land. Look who needed a Potion of Youth just to walk about.”
That was true. Maviola raised a fist, but decided not to punch Gresaria. Even now—the old lady could probably beat her.
 
—-
 
“Who are they?”
“Lady Gresaria of the House of Wellfar, and Maviola El of the House of El. Two members of the Five Families. Maviola El was the matriarch of the House of El before she retired. Both of them are over a century old.”
Lyonette du Marquin rubbed at one ear. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. She, Numbtongue, Bird, and Apista had come back with a bag of fish. Lyonette turned to Lady Desinee.
“Could you repeat that? I think I’ve gone deaf and stupid.”
Erin Solstice said nothing. She had known. But seeing Lady Gresaria there…she just watched. One young woman, one old. In body. But in spirit…
The fire burned. An [Immortal Moment] showed Erin two young women. One, with green hair mixed with a brown like Erin’s. Definitely more muscular than Maviola. The two were arguing, at each other’s throats—until the one with green hair grabbed her spear and Maviola ran for it, throwing fire…
 
—-
 
The secret was out. Maviola El looked at Gresaria and felt her age in full. It was easy to forget when she was away from Invrisil, Liscor. But Gresaria—
“You’ve lost all your green, Gresaria.”
“Eh. I had a few hairs last I checked.”
The woman’s skin was still tanned, but lines had changed her. She was thinner, had lost most of the muscle of her youth. In her prime—at the same age as Maviola, she had been a force.
Now—Gresaria took another sip of the healing potion and grimaced.
“They just don’t make them like they used to. Or…I’ve grown too resistant. Scars hurt. Including a few burns you gave me.”
She looked at Maviola, but there was no real rancor in Gresaria’s gaze. The delight and nostalgia that had swept through the two of them for a little while had turned into something else.
“I suppose you heard about my stunt.”
The [Harbormistress] nodded.
“Of course I did. I started looking for you the moment I did. You just off and leaving—well, you were always headstrong like that. A hundred years hasn’t changed you, Maviola.”
“Thank you.”
The old woman snorted. She glanced at Maviola.
“You always knew how to piss me off. All this time and you can just up and leave your family. Never mind your replacement—well. I’ll give you credit for one thing. You do look beautiful.”
Maviola didn’t know what to say to that. Gresaria looked her up and down and shook her head.
“When I die—I would like to do it like that. Sometime within the decade. Perhaps sooner.”
The two [Ladies] sat together. Suddenly, Maviola felt a weight on her shoulders. The shoulders of her soul. She looked at Gresaria.
“Soon? But you look…”
The white-haired [Lady] slapped one shoulder, scratching at an itch and winced.
“That’s just combat Skills. I’ll drop dead in public sometime. That’s how my father went. Just—at random. Probably some ceremony. Now wouldn’t that be funny.”
She laughed. Maviola tried to, but it was too hard. Gresaria eyed Maviola.
“Then again, I could do what you’re doing. Before I turn senile, like my aunt. Remember how she went? Forgot everything? I—I’ve been doing that now and then. Even with the intellect-potions. Forget a ship’s coming in. Or go for a walk and forget why I’m standing outside.”
“Gresaria…”
“So this is how you’re going to die, is it? How long do you have?”
Maviola’s old enemy looked at her, searchingly. Maviola didn’t hedge.
“About twelve days. Unless something happens.”
Gresaria’s eyes flickered.
“You have a connection to Pallass. What, got another fortune tucked away to hire Saliss of Lights?”
“I don’t. But it might happen.”
The cracked lips parted. They were in good shape for two old women. Magic slowed age a lot compared to someone without the money to pay for spells. Even so—
“Huh. If you get a spare potion, give one to me. I’d like to end things like you do. It’s so elegant. I applauded you when I heard about it, Maviola.”
“Thank you.”
The [Harbormistress] took another sip, then pushed her drink away. Maviola blinked. That was only a mug and three quarters. Even the weakest ale? Gresaria, who had once out-drunk a Minotaur?
“I don’t know if I will, though. I have children and grandchildren and the thought of them surrounding me is appealing in itself. Some proper mourning? Maybe a few tears. I could abide by that kind of ending. But you…that didn’t appeal?”
Maviola El sat there for a while. She smiled.
“Not particularly. Fulviolo had children. I didn’t. I’m sure the family would mourn me—but it’s not as appealing.”
“How depressing. You should have married someone good.”
The younger [Lady] laughed and then slapped the table in outrage. She pointed at Gresaria.
“You stole Regein’s heart from me. Don’t complain about the consequences. There’s still time to give him back.”
“Bah, you’d kill him. He’s not long for it either. Not the right Skills, Maviola. He’s too weak to leave bed and he’s forgotten his children.”
“Oh. Your letters said that. Gresaria…”
The two trailed off. Gresaria sighed. And then smiled.
“Enough about us. What have you done with yourself, Maviola El? I thought you’d go further than Liscor. That’s farther than either of us ever went, I’ll grant you. But—was that a fine young Drake I saw?”
She grinned again. Maviola laughed.
“Let me tell you, then, Gresaria…and what I plan to do before I go.”
They sat there for a while. Talking. Gresaria laughed, snorted out her drink, scowled, and asked questions. She glanced at Erin Solstice once. But after the sun had moved across the skies, she stood up.
It had been hours. But it felt too short. Like bare minutes. Yet—that was it. The old [Harbormistress] stood.
“Good. Good. If you have a chance—take it. That’s what I say. Anything but the Temptress. I tried to throw her overboard when she came for me. I’ll wait to hear of you. Don’t you dare die quietly, Maviola. But that’s it for me.”
“You’re…going home?”
Maviola looked at Gresaria. The old woman nodded.
“I’m exhausted. I’m going to First Landing. I just wanted to see you one last time as you were. An old woman’s nostalgia. Not that you would know anything about that, you fire-addled brat.”
She turned away, shouting for her retainers with a voice that could quell a harbor front. Maviola sat there, lost. Until Gresaria turned. The two women looked at each other. Maviola wished she could give Gresaria just a sip of the Potion of Youth, to see her friend again.
But then—Gresaria reached out and drew Maviola into a long hug.
“Go well, Maviola El.”
Tears stood out in her eyes as she let go. The old woman walked out of the inn, towards the chariot. She looked back once, raised her spear.
“Back home! Maviola El—we’ll consider that my victory, shall we?”
She rode off before Maviola could shout after her. The [Lady] managed something anyways and heard a distant laugh.
Here, gone—just like her. Maviola had to go back into the inn and sit down. The strength in her legs had gone out. She felt—
Everyone was looking at her. It was Erin Solstice who came over.
“Was that your friend, Maviola? She came all the way here to see you?”
“Friend?”
Maviola blinked. She looked back towards the door and half-shook her head.
“Gresaria? We hated each other all our lives.. She was a [Sea Lady]—the Wellfar family is known for their ships. I tried to kill her in earnest at least…twice.”
She hesitated. Looked at the spot Gresaria had been. Shook her head.
“We hated each other all our lives. She attended Fulviolo—my brother’s funeral. I couldn’t attend her father’s. Aside from that, we fought across Izril. I think I have a scar from where she stabbed me once. Here.”
She pointed at her shoulder, moving cloth to show Erin. The [Innkeeper] winced.
“When did you two stop hating each other?”
“Just now. And a long time ago, I think.”
The [Lady Firestarter] sat there for a while. Then she felt the eyes on her and looked up.
“Desinee.”
She hadn’t really said goodbye, had she? She wasn’t going back. But—her niece looked at her with tears in her eyes. Maviola El felt old. She had run from that feeling. But Gresaria—damn her—had aged so well.
Would it have been so poor, to die beloved and surrounded? Maviola didn’t know anymore. She…rose. And walked over to the girl she had known from the moment she had appeared in this world as a squalling baby.
To say goodbye properly.
 
—-
 
Their rivalry, their friendship was the stuff of stories. The [Sea Lady] of the ocean, nicknamed the Duchess of Waves—or the Duchess of Salt—versus Lady Firestarter.
They had been enemies, allies, in love, politics—all so long ago that only they and a few others remembered it. There were still stories. But they were just…
Stories. Maviola and Gresaria had lived those times. To be the last two, when all the other friends and enemies had fallen away—they understood that kind of pain the young couldn’t dream of.
And what it was like to sense an ending. Not a sudden, quick thrust of the knife, the feeling of slipping, falling—or a sudden pain in the chest. But something you could see approaching. Something you could even put a number on.
They had not fled that knowledge. And if there was one thing the two old [Ladies], the pair that disagreed so strongly would have agreed on, it was that they would have called the kind of creature that fled their ending at any cost cowards.
It was right to search for another day, another week, to fight and cry and struggle for another second. But there were some costs that were too much.
Of course—those that remembered the turn of more than one century would beg to disagree. One of them was young. ‘Barely’ twice as old as Maviola and Gresaria.
Still old enough to recall his beating heart. The other was so old—she had once forgotten how to smile. But she was a bit more mortal now.
It did not make her kinder. She watched as the woman made out of bone advanced on her. The [Witch] was playing with a bit of string.
The undead woman charged across the stone floor with a roar. Her body was ivory. Her burning eyes filled with malice. Her sword, her shield, also made of bone, enchanted.
The [Stitch Witch], the Spider, twisted her fingers.
A loop of rope as black as midnight, a noose, slithered out of the shadows and wrapped around  Venitra’s foot. The mad charge of the Chosen stopped as the dark rope dragged her back.
And then up. Venitra flailed, slashing, her magic sword trying to slash at the rope that rose upwards. She hung from the ceiling, helpless. More tendrils moved as Belavierr’s fingers twitched, reaching for Venitra, trying to pull her apart as she fought…
“Enough.”
Az’kerash voice was displeased. The former Archmage of Wistram saw Belavierr move a finger.
