“Er—Miss Solstice, let me refresh your memory. An all-expenses paid tour to the Walled Cities for some promotion! Maybe a deal with your door? We can hammer the agreement down—and the Walled Cities are lovely to tour in the summer!”
“That’s right! You know, Ferris, I did think about it. Before I forgot…and it’s a great idea. But it’s like, a lot. You know?”
Erin patted the Gnoll on the shoulder. He stared at her.
“But the…deal? It’s good money, Miss Solstice. See here, we’d be willing to offer you gold for…”
He saw her eyes glaze over slightly as he tried to get her interest in the very generous deal. But numbers and Erin Solstice and business contracts went together about as well as Shield Spiders and Beavers. You had to really get lucky.
“Why don’t you talk to Lyonette?”
Ferris hesitated. He had—but he needed Erin Solstice to go on a tour. He gave her a weak grin.
“I surely will, Miss Solstice. But as I said—we’d love to have you visit the other Walled Cities. In fact, the reason I came here is to offer you that tour? You mentioned how much you liked Pallass?”
“Hm? Oh yeah. Pallass is cool. But I can’t just go off for like, a week.”
“—We could get you to Manus in three days, Miss Solstice. One of our fastest rides?”
“That’s a lot of time. I mean, Manus is cool—it sounds cool, Ferris—but three days is a lot of time to just travel about. And I should stay with the inn! Really, I’m good.”
Erin gave him a thumbs-up and a smile. Ferris stared at her. Three days to visit one of the six Walled Cities of Izril? A free ride there and back, and luxury accommodations?
He hadn’t been prepared for Erin Solstice, who viewed the longest acceptable travel times as sixteen hours by plane. And who was a homebody. And…
Ferris slunk back to his seat and put his head down. He stared at the [Message] spells waiting for him on the two-way scroll with Rafaema. She was not happy.
“Just kill me.”
The Gnoll groaned. He saw another of the inn’s spies yawning, looking perfectly happy with her lot in life. Of course, Ferris had noted some of the other infiltrators here. Not all of them were grand agents. A few were hired by Liscor’s [Cooks] to see if Erin made anything new.
This was a weird inn.
 
—-
 
Inside the Garden of Sanctuary, Lyonette had decided who the lucky winner was.
“You’ve all made great cases. Just, great. But I have to make a decision. And I choose…”
The [Princess] walked past the contestants—her friends and family. They had all made good points. She passed by Octavia, who drooped—she had gotten the Skill already! If Octavia needed it for more Occillium—but she didn’t.
She passed by Erin, whose face fell.
“Aw. Lyonette…”
Erin was a great candidate, but just…couldn’t keep a secret. If she got two new Skills, everyone would be asking how. And Erin would probably tell them. A [Boon] Skill was the kind of thing people kidnapped [Princesses] over.
Then there was Kevin, who was here for some reason, having been playing games on his laptop. The new [Tinkerer]-[Boarder]. Two new classes! The star of Pallass, already arrested once!
Lyonette passed him by. She didn’t know why he’d thought it was an option. He didn’t even know she was a [Princess].
Mrsha, Bird, and Numbtongue waited expectantly. Lyonette looked at them. She passed by Mrsha, who glared. Mrsha had already gotten the Skill and she became arrogant. Last time she had it, she had refused to go to bed, put on a cape, and become Super Mrsha until she was grounded.
That left Numbtongue and Bird. Lyonette looked between the two of them.
“Both of you might be really good recipients. And I like both of your potentials. But ultimately, I’m going to have to go with…”
Everyone leaned forwards. Lyonette waited a beat and then spoke.
“…Numbtongue.”
The [Goblin Soulbard] pumped a fist. Bird sighed.
“I shall never hunt the elusive water bird, then. Alas.”
“I’ll give you the boon tomorrow, Bird. I think that’s the minimum amount of time I have to wait. It might be a few days, actually. Mrsha had it for a while. It’s not a Skill you can just toss about.”
“Oh. Then I am happy.”
The Hobgoblin grinned as Lyonette turned to him. The Terandrian [Princess] took the Hobgoblin’s hands in hers. She smiled at him.
“Numbtongue…”
Her friend. Family. The [Princess] gave him her blessing.
 
[Temporary Skill – Directional Sound obtained!]
[Temporary Skill – Soul’s Armaments: Mundane obtained!]
 
—-
 
At the same time as the contest was happening, Maviola El was talking to Olesm.
“I can’t tell you where I’m going. Because you’d follow me.”
“You can’t just…leave. Are you in trouble? If you are, we can do something about it. Erin’s inn can’t be taken with an army and I can use my position—”
She halted him with a touch. The anxious younger Drake looked up at them as they sat together.
“Olesm. It’s not yet. But it will be soon. I’ve made arrangements. I…I might be able to stay. But I told you; I’m on a time limit.”
“You’re sick.”
He looked at her. It was the logical conclusion. Maviola El smiled gently.
“Something like that. Olesm Swifttail, I know you. If you truly wanted to know who I was, I know you would have found it by now.”
“I don’t want to know. Can’t you stay? This is the happiest I’ve ever been. Truly.”
The [Lady]’s smile flickered out. She sat there, her black-and-orange hair glimmering in the sun.
“I’m sorry. I’ve been happy too. I wish…well, if I had one wish I wouldn’t spend it on us. But if I had a few, I wish we could have more time. Perhaps we will. But…”
One vial left. Maviola El had made all the preparations necessary. Regardless of whether Saliss of Lights made good on his offer or not…she had done what had to be done.
Olesm was the hardest part. And the only thing she couldn’t arrange. The Drake looked at her, miserably.
“Is it me? You came when I was at my lowest. Is it because it was just to…help me?”
She kissed him, gently.
“Never that. And it’s not you. I’m just out of time, Olesm. And sometimes that’s okay. Everything has to end.”
He pulled away from her, suddenly.
“No. Don’t say that! You, of all people? Nothing has to end. Fight it! Even if it’s death, diseases—you taught me that, Maviola! Burn! Blaze! Don’t—don’t quietly go out.”
Her eyes widened. It sounded like something she would have said if she was as young as she looked. For a second—Maviola El touched her breast. And she felt her heart beating faster.
She wanted to live. But oh—Maviola’s desire was tempered by knowledge. The bright flame of life was beautiful and pure. Yet it could so easily be corrupted. She had seen that. She knew who waited down that twisted road.
“Belavierr.”
“Who?”
Maviola didn’t realize she’d spoken aloud. She jumped. Her eyes flicked to Olesm.
“A dark woman. If you ever meet someone by that name—give her nothing, Olesm. Believe me. There’s evil in this world that you can’t yet imagine.”
He slowly nodded. She had taught him many things. Not just about strategy or organizing on the level of one of the Five Families—she had knowledge of other places. Of artifacts, Skills—
She wished she could stay here. After a while, Maviola El smiled.
It took one week of riding fast to get to the Hivelands. If that was her destination. She didn’t know anymore.
A lot had changed, even now. Maviola El stood up.
“Let’s go for a walk, Olesm. I don’t know…maybe I can stay. Until the end.”
He stood up too. The blue-scaled Drake met Maviola’s eyes.
“You had better. Because I won’t let you ride off. I’ll follow you until…until.”
She was going to have to slip him a sleeping potion. Maviola smiled at Olesm. He was the kind of person she wished had existed decades ago. Maybe then.
“How did we ever come to hate each other? Humans, Drakes. I feel I’ve wasted so much time and energy fighting your people, Olesm.”
“I don’t know. It’s politics. And…deaths. I don’t hate Humans, Maviola. I owe almost everything to Humans.”
She nodded. They left Olesm’s apartment. And walked through the streets of Liscor.
It was another day. But how much changed in a day? Maviola El had been resolved, yesterday, to end her life by riding upon the Hives. To see the Antinium that had plagued her home for the last two decades and make an ending there, for better or worse.
To blaze brighter than the sun itself before she died.
It would have been a fine death. And it might have started a war depending on what she did. Now though…she wasn’t certain.
A lot could change in a day. As Maviola El walked the city of Liscor, she felt it in her bones. In the faces, the conversations. The Wandering Inn wasn’t rocked by it. But then—Erin Solstice was Human. She had no context for it.
But here—look at them. A word hung in the air. A name.
“Sserys.”
The greatest [General] of Liscor. The hero of the First Antinium War. A legend, an old hero, like a family’s heirloom. Just a story.
But an Antinium had dragged his name into the present. Made him more than just a name to rally around or quote.
Anand had built Sserys a memorial. Maviola El had been there.
“He may have been the enemy of the Antinium. However, he was also a hero of my home. Liscor. I would like to honor his memory, Olesm. That is why I built this. It is a small thing. But I believe it matters.”
That was what Anand had said. And he had shown them a cairn, a bit of metal.
It had changed everything. Even now—people were talking about it.
“They’re Antinium. How do we know there will be a statue? They killed General Sserys.”
“Yes, and our Antinium made the statue. There are Antinium…and that was our Antinium. Anand. I played chess with him one time, I think. Or was that the other one? The point is…”
Maviola wondered what effect the announcement was having in other places. Pallass, for instance. She and Olesm walked towards The Wandering Inn. And one of the spies ducked back. The Human, now not as rare in Liscor with the influx of Celum’s refugees, whispered into a speaking stone.
“It’s her. Maviola El confirmed. Tell her ladyship!”
He stepped back just in time to see the second spy whispering into the stone.
“Lady El is here! I’m sure of—”
She broke off. The two Human [Spies] stared at each other.
 
—-
 
It would not have surprised Maviola El to know that Pallass had suppressed the news of General Sserys’ memorial.
Grand Strategist Chaldion was speaking to General Edellein and General Duln, of 4th and 1st Armies respectively. The Assembly of Crafts had put a silence order on the news.
After all, an Antinium performing an act of…honor…went against the entire narrative about them. The Assembly was debating putting out some kind of announcement.
As Grand Strategist, Chaldion had the option of enforcing or vetoing that kind of command as a matter of security regardless of what the [Senators] decided. He had not, either way.
He too was conflicted.
“Grand Strategist, does this prove anything? Sserys’ legacy aside…one little gesture does not change our state of war.”
General Edellein hadn’t been moved by the gesture. The Drake’s arms were folded and his expression was annoyed at best. The Grand Strategist looked at him.
“General Edellein, your personal thoughts aside, an Antinium [Strategist] has decided to honor General Sserys. This is an act unprecedented to our understanding of Antinium. It matters.”
The [General] hesitated and ducked his head stiffly, flushing beneath his scales at the reprimand. General Dulm was concerned, but for different reasons.
“Liscor is under no gag order, Grand Strategist. Word is already spreading.”
“I know. The Assembly can’t keep this secret. The question is—do we frame this in a way that makes Liscor’s Antinium positive, or just leave it as it is?”
Chaldion drummed his claws on the table. The news that had been sent covertly to him by an unmarked message had annoyed him. Someone—and that someone was almost definitely Wistram—had intelligence they’d passed onto him, including details about the Antinium like Anand’s class.
What did they know? The Grand Strategist decided a visit to The Wandering Inn might help things. But Grimalkin was pursuing his own leads…and his news made even the memorial look like peas compared to pumpkins.
His head hurt. And it hurt more when the old Drake heard a crunching sound. Dulm and Edellein, looked sideways.
Saliss, completely nude, was snacking on popcorn. They were in Chaldion’s home, and the Drake had occupied a couch that Chaldion was now going to have cleaned.
“I mean, look, guys. Who cares? Sserys got a statue. Yay!”
A few popcorn kernels went flying. Saliss lowered his claws. He balanced the bowl on his stomach as he lay, front facing up. Edellein turned away instantly, as did Duln.
“So what? Sserys is dead. Yay, our old war hero got a memorial! So what?”
“Not everyone is as unpatriotic as you, brat.”
Chaldion glared at Saliss. The [Alchemist] had let himself in—probably knowing this secret conference was happening. Ironically, Chaldion trusted Saliss’ discretion. And that was about the only thing Chaldion trusted. He had been raised to defend the Walled Cities, including Pallass. If only…
“Generals, I propose we make the announcement crediting the memorial to Liscor’s Antinium. If nothing else, this proves there is a difference of opinion between Antinium.”
“You’re sure, Grand Strategist?”
Oh yes, the note had been very clear that the Hives competed with each other. Chaldion nodded, his eyes flicking to Saliss. That meant something. Even if the Slayer was back to strength…infighting was something Drakes knew more than any other species.
“Make the announcement. I’ll deal with the Assembly of Crafts. We’ll throw a day of celebrations in three days, even. All crediting the Free Antinium. Spin it on Liscor.”
 
—-
 
“[Soul’s Armament]!”
Numbtongue raised his arms and shouted. To Mrsha’s disappointment, there wasn’t any cool music or a flash of light like Erin had taught her to expect. Mrsha had decided she wasn’t going to be a [Wizard] and maybe not even a [Druid] when she grew up.
She was going to be a super-cool, transforming warrior like the ones from Erin’s world.
By the power of the tribes! She just needed a cool sword like Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin loved his crystal blade. He never let Mrsha touch it.
Now, instead of a transformation scene, Numbtongue created…
A pickaxe. It was half-transparent. The colors were like Pyrite’s favorite pickaxe—just transparent. A weapon from the soul’s past.
“Hm.”
