“It’s working. It’s…working.”
Geneva Scala closed her eyes as the first [Message] reached her. The [Doctor] sagged in her chair, as if someone had drained the energy from her. Relief meant that exhaustion took over.
It was actually Idis that got her up to deliver the news. And of course, they had to make sure they were delivering the full dose of the penicillin-substitute. Geneva went through a back-and-forth with the Zeres [Healer] who had given her the status update on the nearly two-dozen patients she’d been trialing the mold with.
There was so much to do. Finding success here wasn’t the end of the battle, merely the beginning. Now, growing the mold a thousand times over mattered even more. Apparently it germinated on some kinds of vegetables best.
“Pumpkins? And we need to name it.”
That was actually the trickiest part. Occillium was not a good name, as Geneva wrote back the Stitchgirl [Alchemist]. Or was it? Geneva wanted to name it according to the mold, which, in fact, had no Latin root name. Nor, as it turned out, did the [Alchemist] even know what mold she’d isolated.
But it was happening. And it was almost funny—reading the [Messages].
 
If Occillium—working name—is viable, how much of a market price should I sell it for? Have a few samples in the store…most still enroute. Now on ship, according to Courier.
            –O.
 
How funny. The [Alchemist] understood, but she didn’t know. Yellow Rivers had yet to even hit Liscor, let alone Pallass. The [Doctor] wrote her back.
 
Name the mold or identify if it’s been found before. Derived substance should be named after the mold. It will become famous.
            –G.
 
Soon, they would all know her name. Octavia Cotton, the [Alchemist] from Liscor. Once Geneva got the Occillium—damn, she was already using the name—they could announce that a cure existed. Then…she could relax for a day or two. The [Doctor] sighed.
 
—-
 
That morning, Lyonette du Marquin realized something important. It was as she was combing Mrsha’s fur. Mrsha of course had helped with Lyonette’s hair; the two helped prepare each other for the day.
“Mrsha, I forgot that my [Boon of the Princess] Skill is still in effect. I should change that.”
Mrsha glanced up and her eyes sharpened.
[Boon of the Princess]. Oho!
Lyonette’s new, Level 20 Skill was a powerful one. Hither to, Lyonette had used it on a grand total of two people. First Mrsha, then, on a whim—
Octavia.
The effects of her boon Skill were unprecedented to everyone but Lyonette. When she bestowed it, not only did a mark of her royal house appear—visible only to the recipient and Lyonette, and possibly other royals if it worked like her father’s Skill—it gave them two temporary Skills.
 
Madness! Egad! Can I have it? Pwease?
 
Lyonette read the little card Mrsha handed to her. The [Princess] frowned.
“Is Erin teaching you these expressions, Mrsha?”
The little Gnoll nodded. Lyonette rolled her eyes.
“Don’t say ‘egad’. What—what does that even mean? And spell properly, Mrsha. A young lady has good diction. And maybe you can have the boon. But I can’t just bestow it at random. Let’s go find Octavia.”
The two headed downstairs amid the bustle of another day. Guests were already in the inn, and Lyonette reflected that her [Boon of the Princess] Skill would have made her father flip. If he knew she had it.
It was unique—unprecedented—to the peons and common folk of the world. But monarchs had always had Skills like this. The King of Calanfer, for instance, Lyonette’s father, had [Favor of the King]. A more powerful version of her boon.
Lyonette had not known all the intricacies of one of Calanfer’s best, and secret, tools, but she knew their Kingdom’s champion benefitted from it. Hence his powerful aura. Also—the boon affected more than just Skills. Under it, Calanfer’s Champion of the Dawn was stronger, faster than normal…
Well, the Skill would upgrade with time. Lyonette couldn’t wait. She almost rubbed her hands together, imagining what it might become. Certainly, it had paid off in dividends already.
“Octavia? Are you decent? Is anything about to explode?”
“Come in! I’m decent! And nothing’s exploding yet!”
The [Princess] cautiously pushed open the door. She saw Octavia, hovering around a sample of fungi in jars. Lyonette wrinkled her nose.
“What is this? More of your cure, Octavia?”
The [Alchemist] jumped.
“Oh no. Mrsha, stay back. The uh, spores should be safe according to Master Saliss, but you don’t want more of this growing at random. Or in your fur. I’m working with more molds, see?”
She proudly pointed to a glowing jar she’d been ‘feeding’ with some Sage’s Grass water. Lyonette saw Mrsha peek at the red-yellow fungi, which had created small beams across the jar, like some natural architecture.
“What—what do they do?”
The [Princess] tried not to recoil at the sight. She regarded molds as an undesirable thing in any situation, and was still mystified by the idea that they could be helpful or cure disease. Octavia beamed.
“This stuff? It’s a good anti-toxin, according to Master Saliss. And this is Occillium. Name pending.”
She proudly showed the others the mold she’d cultivated to create the penicillin-equivalent. It was, well, indigo. Lyonette peered at the jar, keeping Mrsha back.
“I’m thinking of calling it Octavia’s Mold, to justify the name. Or—if we want to get fancy, maybe Octalius? What do you think?”
The [Princess] thought that she was double-banning Mrsha from Octavia’s shop. She sighed. The [Alchemist] had done a good job.
“It sounds lovely, Octavia. Look, I hope your shop is doing well—”
“Business is picking up. But I’m closed most of the time; I’m working with Master Saliss. But he’ll let me try out my new recipes and selling stuff soon. He’ll be going on adventures.”
Octavia emphasized ‘Master Saliss’. She was so proud of her apprenticeship with the insane Named Adventurer. The [Princess] nodded.
“Excellent. Well, Octavia, we have breakfast…”
“What? Is it morning? I thought it was midnight—”
The [Alchemist] jumped. She’d closed all the curtains in her shop so the sunlight peeking through the cracks hadn’t been obvious. Lyonette shook her head. She spoke slowly, used to Octavia’s befuddled states.
“If you want food…we have food. Okay? I’m just here to tell you I’m cancelling my [Boon] Skill.”
Lyonette hadn’t told Octavia she was a [Princess]. She had just asked if Octavia wanted to try her ‘new Skill’ she’d gotten as Erin’s [Manager].
The sleepy [Alchemist] was nodding along until that last bit. Then her eyes opened wide.
“What? Lyonette! No! Please! I need it!”
“You’ve had it for weeks, Octavia. Honestly, I forgot about it—if you ate with us more often, I’d have noticed—remove boon. There. Sorry, Octavia, but I want to test it out more. I’ll just be—”
“I need it! I can’t do my fungoid research without it! Lyonette, I’ll pay you!”
The [Alchemist] grabbed at Lyonette as the [Princess] tried to escape. Lyonette didn’t need to be close to Octavia to cancel the boon, or even bestow it, but she had told Octavia to be polite.
She regretted it now. Octavia tried to drag her back.
“Please, Lyonette? Listen—I got [Fungoid Harvester] and [Lesser Wisdom] with your boon! I can’t work without it! Do you know how useful those Skills are?”
Two new Skills. Lyonette hadn’t known [Fungoid Harvester] existed, but the use of the Skill wasn’t hard to figure out. It was how Octavia had finally managed to isolate different molds. [Lesser Wisdom] now—that was like [Lesser Strength], but rarer. Far more useful for an [Alchemist]’s need to comprehend and innovate, too.
“I’m sorry, Octavia—let go! I want to experiment—Mrsha!”
The little Gnoll punched her fist into her paw. Octavia wanted to play rough? The [Druid]’s eyes glowed as she drew her wand. [Fur of the Fortress]! 
Octavia yelped as a huge, hairy ball of fur tackled her from behind. She went down and Lyonette bounded away.
“Lyonette! Please! I’ll pay you per hour! No—per day? Wait—”
A triumphant Mrsha hurried after Lyonette, shedding mounds of white fur which vanished after a few seconds. Lyonette sighed.
Another day in The Wandering Inn. But now she had her [Boon] Skill—who would benefit from it now? She couldn’t use it on herself, but…Pawn? Mrsha? No, wait, not Mrsha. [Barkfur] and [Lesser Strength] just meant she caused more trouble.
Zevara?
…Erin?
 
—-
 
Breakfast in The Wandering Inn was a chaotic affair at the best of times. The inn now had permanent guests, like the Players of Celum.
“Just something light today, please. Some of those berries mixed in a small bowl of yogurt? We’re performing this morning. The Council’s having us do a larger performance.”
Temile and the [Actors] were excited, as was Galina, who’d joined their group. Across from them, Hexel was already on his way out. His three Lizardfolk apprentices had been delivered food in their room; they were still afraid of Drakes.
There were Drakes and Gnolls serving the tables. Ishkr wasn’t; he was in charge, leaving Lyonette and Erin to enjoy breakfast unmolested. Well, that didn’t stop Erin from calling out to other people.
“You don’t want breakfast, Hexel? Something to eat as you go?”
The Lamia grinned.
“I’m fine, Miss Solstice! Must slither off; lots of work to do as usual. I’m breakfasting with Councilman Elirr!”
“Oh, cool! See? I told you that some of Liscor’s people were cool with Lizardfolk, Numbtongue.”
“Mm. Not Drakes. Pass the sauce.”
“Here you go.”
“Lyonette, please?”
“Octavia, we’re having breakfast. Does anyone want more eggs?”
“Me.”
“I would like more unborn b—I mean, eggs.”
“Here you are, Bird. Octavia. Stop rubbing my shoulders.”
“Nice to see you, Octavia. You’re normally in your shop so much we have to send people to give you food before you starve to death. Uh…what’s this about?”
The merry conversation was taking place at one table where Bird, Mrsha, Numbtongue, Lyonette, Erin, and a rare addition, Octavia, sat. It was their customary group.
Sometimes there were additions, like Pawn, Belgrade, Yellow Splatters, or other friends like Moore, Selys, and so on. But the core group was this.
Around the inn were other regulars. A Gnoll and Drake with their hats on. They were sighing as they tucked into their food.
“I rather feel as though we’re being fattened up on feed, Ratici. Not that I mind free money, but one has to feel we’ve gotten rusty from all this sitting around. Check my midsection. Do I detect a bulge?”
“Not yet Wilovan. Still, you read my mind. But the Tallman’s paying…should we take rooms here?”
“I rather think that [Innkeeper] might sense us, Ratici. I’ve no desire to explain the accoutrements of various and somewhat illegal to very illegal natures on my person, do you?”
“I don’t think so, Wilovan. But if we fail our charge at night…”
“Guard duty?”
“What are we, [Bodyguards]? Good sleep is essential, Wilovan. I won’t be staking out this inn every night until we’re done. Even in shifts!”
“Ratici…”
An exclamation made Wilovan raise a furry finger. Octavia had just brought up the [Boon] Skill that Lyonette had used. The Gnoll’s ears twitched and Ratici went to eating a hard-boiled egg.
The conversation, to any interested Gnolls or those good of hearing, went like this.
“—two of them! Free! I have to use them! Maybe, maybe I get them if I level up, but both of them helped me with my breakthrough. I’m begging you, Lyonette. Use your [Boon] Skill on m—”
Lyonette kicked Octavia. The [Alchemist] collapsed onto the table, grabbing at her shin.
“I told you, keep it quiet. Let’s continue this in the garden, if we have to.”
The [Princess] was wary. She was about the only one. Well, all that told most idle listeners was that Lyonette had a [Boon] Skill. But those in the know…well, Wilovan was a member of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. Untoward actions did not befit him.
But it was something to note. The [Thug] relayed the knowledge to Ratici, whose brows shot up.
“A [Boon] Skill? I can count the number of classes that get Skills like that on one claw, Wilovan. Or is it two?”
“Something to look into, Ratici. Something to look into. Now, we may be fattened layabouts, but I’m rather interested in that weights room. And the darts board…”
The two Gentlemen Callers reflected that at least The Wandering Inn had amenities to occupy them day by day. They were rather taken with the new games Erin was introducing. They had already earned a reputation as two of the best dart-board champions.
Gnolls had good ears. And as the breakfast crowd cleared up, you could hear a lot of important stuff if you were listening. Some people were intelligent and always took precautions, like Palt giving Montressa and Bezale the plans for the skateboard as part of his sharing agreement. His conversation and even the objects he was holding were blurry if you tried to focus in on them.
However, there were snippets, like Octavia’s broken-off conversation with Lyonette that a spy could pick up on. If there were any in The Wandering Inn, of course.
Well, one of them was miserable. Ferris, one of Manus’ top agents, sat at his table and wondered if going back empty-pawed would be worth Rafaema incinerating him.
He was a Gnoll. Also, an expert in covert operations, infiltration, combat, and any number of activities that the City of War needed done. Ferris had come to The Wandering Inn under the guise of a member of Izril’s Wonders, a travelling company that actually did exist. He actually had a charter with them.
None of it had prepared him for this assignment. Or rather, Erin Solstice.
“Miss Solstice! Ferris here. Er—Ferris Seftpaw? You wouldn’t happen to have given the offer some thought, would you?”
The Gnoll intercepted Erin on the way to the [Garden]. The [Innkeeper] blinked at him and his nervous-but-amiable expression. It was a perfect guise that had fooled countless people into believing the inept but well-intentioned Gnoll was just ‘doing his best’. She hesitated, guileless, and then slapped her forehead.
“Oh no. Oh man. Ferris! I completely forgot!”
Ferris could detect truth in three different ways. He had a Skill, an artifact that helped him read people, and he had been trained in the detection of lies across multiple species. His heart sank because none of that helped with Erin Solstice.
Because she was telling the truth.
