Entranced, and not a little bit drunk, Ulinde leaned over her chair and waved at Mrsha. The Gnoll happily trotted over, giving them her ‘I am starving and you had better feed me’ look. She was immediately handed a bit of hamburger and chowed it down. Montressa and Ulinde bent over her, enraptured.
“I forgot how cute kids were! Least of all Gnoll kids! There’s only that baby Dullahan that Council Mage Redelia had and it’s ugly. And I’ve never seen a Gnoll baby!”
“No wonder, with how they get on at Wistram. Boycotting us because only one in ten thousand can cast magic at all. And she’s not a dog, Ulinde. Stop that!”
Beza scolded Ulinde. The Selphid watched as Mrsha leapt and snatched the hamburger bite from her dangling claws with both paws. The Minotauress hesitated.
“Hello little one. I—”
She was hesitating to touch Mrsha, wary of her huge size compared to the small Gnoll. Mrsha didn’t mind; she leapt and snagged a bit of Beza’s hamburger, winning the Minotauress’ instant respect for her audacity. The Gnoll was insatiably curious—about the copper floating orb and Montressa’s staff—and Ulinde’s two wands.
“Whoops! Don’t take those! You could hurt yourself!”
The Selphid batted away Mrsha. The Gnoll looked disappointed. She was sniffing around them, wagging her tail. Lyonette hurried over.
“I’m so sorry. Is Mrsha bothering you? Mrsha! Are you begging for scraps, young miss? That is no way for a lady to behave—”
“It’s fine, we like it! Can she not talk?”
Laughing, Montressa and the others assured Lyonette. Even Isceil waved a begrudging hand. Mrsha was signing something with her paws and pointing to Lyonette. Embarrassed, the [Princess] bent, watched carefully, and looked up. The [Mages], curious to a fault, watched.
“Mrsha can’t speak. But she can communicate with her paws. She’s asking—I apologize for her again, she’s not getting a full dinner tonight! She’s asking why you have two wands, Miss Ulinde?”
The Selphid’s eyes brightened. Or something in them brightened. She smiled at Mrsha.
“That’s because I’m a [Spellslinger]. See these wands? I can cast two spells at once! Pew, pew, pew! I can show you—”
“Not in the inn, Ulinde.”
Montressa tugged her friend down. She smiled at Mrsha and explained to both.
“Ulinde’s a [Spellslinger]. Isceil’s an [Oldblood Magus]—he uses the power of his bloodline. Beza’s our [Spellscribe]—completely different, she writes down magic on a scroll and uses it from there. Palt’s our [Illusionist]—he’s still busy—and I’m a [Aegiscaster]. That means I’m specialized in barrier spells.”
“Wow.”
Lyonette’s eyes widened. Mrsha was looking up with awe at the group. Isceil’s chest inflated and he smoothed his spines.
“Well, we are Wistram’s [Mages].”
“That’s so many specialized classes. You know, we have two graduates from Wistram here as well. They’re not back yet, but I’ll introduce them, shall I? And Mrsha loves magic. She…”
Lyonette looked at Mrsha and paused. The Wistram [Mages] all glanced at each other fast. Montressa’s face had clouded again. Beza broke into the silence with a smile.
“We’d love to meet them. We don’t know everyone, but when they arrive, send them over, by all means!”
She nodded at the others and mouthed a word as Lyonette smiled. Palt. Definitely Palt. He knew all kinds of spells. Distraction—even memory-altering ones. Montressa nodded back tightly.
Lyonette hadn’t noticed. She was wincing as Erin shouted from the kitchen.
“I need a taste tester! My tongue hurts! Do we have any yogurt?”
“I have to go. Sorry again about Mrsha—do you want anything else? Erin’s still working on the curry—Mrsha, come on!”
“I’m good for the moment. Some more drinks and I’ll be ready to eat.”
Isceil patted his stomach. Montressa nodded. Mrsha was reluctant to go. She dragged at the floor as Lyonette tried to lift her.
“You can leave Mrsha. She’s cute! Hello, little one.”
Montressa waved at Mrsha. The Gnoll smiled and sniffed again.
“And she’s not afraid of Selphids!”
Ulinde was delighted. Lyonette hesitated, but Erin was screaming about a burned tongue so she hurried off after a stern reminder that Mrsha was eating her dinner. The Gnoll let Beza, Montressa, and Ulinde pamper her. Isceil just looked disgusted. He folded his arms.
“Females. I should have gone with Palt.”
“Want me to switch to a male body, Isceil?”
Ulinde laughed at Isceil. Like many Selphids, she changed gender by her body. Isceil looked disgusted.
“That rotting corpse? You need to find another one.”
“I’m running out! Do you know how hard it is to find good bodies anywhere that’s not Baleros?”
“Don’t tell me.”
Mrsha bit at a fry Beza tentatively held out to her. She was circling around Montressa and surreptitiously eying the food. Her nose twitched and she sneezed as Isceil flicked some pepper over the edge of the table. She fled.
“You ass!”
Beza punched Isceil on the shoulder. She watched, heartbroken, as Mrsha scurried over to Lyonette, whining a complaint. The [Princess] bent, frowning.
“What’s that? What? Hm…wait—”
She glanced up at their table. Isceil hunched his shoulders as Ulinde and Montressa glared at him.
“It’s just pepper!”
“You don’t throw that at a child! Much less a Gnoll! If she comes over, apologize!”
“Ancestors damn it, quit being so sensitive! She’s fine, see?”
Isceil’s voice was distinctly relieved as Lyonette smiled and patted Mrsha’s head.
“Oh, fine. Tell Erin. Ishkr! Where are you? Did Drassi already leave to go look for…? Well, you’ll have to do. No—no arguments! Listen—”
Beza sighed as she watched Mrsha and Lyonette hurry off. She was feeling at her scroll pouch.
“I still need to scribe two more scrolls.”
“Do it later. You have multiple copies, don’t you?”
“Yes. But it’s the principle of the thing. I can’t cast magic without a scroll. You know my natural magic pool is too low for regular spellcasting.”
Her friends looked up. That was a touchy subject for Beza usually. She hadn’t been blessed with the natural talents her peers had, so she’d developed this class. By infusing a scroll with mana and laboriously writing the spell on it, she could activate a spell fast as—if not faster than other [Mages], but in return she had to provide effort and money to cast a single spell. Ulinde looked sympathetic.
“How much does it cost for proper blank scrolls?”
“Too much. Let alone liquid gemstone for writing or magicore?”
Beza grimaced. She turned hopefully as Mrsha came trotting out of the kitchen. Lyonette hurried over. She called out as they passed the mages’ table.
“Mrsha, come on! We’re going shopping! Erin’s out of—ground beef! Let’s go to the [Butchers] and I’ll buy you a snack!”
The Gnoll brightened up. Montressa glanced at Beza as she watched Lyonette adjust the door. Ishkr went after them—he set the door to yellow—a location they hadn’t seen before. Montressa raised her eyebrows—the label read ‘Pallass’. Then she looked at Beza.
“But don’t you earn a lot for scrolls, Beza? And you can make more! That’s your entire class!”
“There’s still the time cost, the cost of materials, finding the right buyers—especially if the market is oversaturated! People don’t use spell scrolls every day! I might be rich, but it’s work!”
Beza pounded the table, frustrated. Ulinde and Isceil didn’t look sympathetic.
“At least you can sell your spells. Ulinde and I are combat classes. And we’re not adventurers. Yet. My funding is a lot less than…”
“You think you’ll become an adventurer, Isceil?”
“For a bit? To earn some artifacts and gold? Gold-ranks do earn an enticing amount and I could see myself taking a sabbatical for a few years.”
The Drake looked thoughtful as he stroked his chin. Beza laughed.
“You? Gold-rank?”
“Why not? I’m not Silver. The only thing stopping me is having to put up with a bunch of idiots the entire time…”
“Well, we could be an adventuring team.”
Ulinde looked at the others as Montressa raised her brows.
“Why not? It would be fun! Tell you what, on the way back north, I’ll pop into the Adventurer’s Guilds. If I see something that looks fun or profitable—we take it!”
“It could be good training.”
Beza mused. Montressa shrugged.
“We’ll talk about it. Dead gods, is Palt not here yet?”
Half an hour—no, forty minutes had passed. Isceil waved a lazy claw.
“He’s probably just explaining everything. He’ll have to go through the ranks first—after finding the Watch Barracks—he’ll have stopped for a smoke—”
“Well, he’d better not wait too long or I’m not saving him any of this curry. Where is it?”
Erin had been out twenty minutes ago saying it was nearly done and that she was just waiting on the rice. Since then, the inn had grown more quiet. Beza glanced around—and then Ulinde grabbed her. Hard.
“Oh dead gods. Beza!”
“Ulinde, calm down. I’m trying to watch this ‘play’.”
Montressa complained as she stared at the stage. Beza growled agreement, but Ulinde’s eyes were wide. She was pointing past them, at a duo who’d just entered the inn.
“But Beza! That’s Seborn and Moore! Two of the Halfseekers! That must mean Jelaqua Ivirith is somewhere around here!”
All the [Mages] glanced around. Sure enough, a half-Giant and Drowned Man were walking into the inn. They glanced around impassively, then sat at a table close to the Wistram [Mage]’s. Ulinde started trembling.
“I—I have to talk to them. Come with me?”
She looked at her friends. Isceil was patting his stomach, trying to figure out how much more he could eat. Montressa and Beza were watching the [Actors]. They’d begun Macbeth, but a new cast was on stage. The lead, a [General] played by a Drake, was contemplating treason…
“Go yourself Ulinde, I want to watch this.”
“I can’t! I’ll freeze up! Please? Isceil!”
The Drake snorted. He was watching the play now, and glancing towards the kitchen.
“Go yourself, Ulinde. You’re a Wistram [Mage]! That half-Giant’s not even as good as you are. See his magical flow? They should be coming to you! Where’s the curry, already?”
Beza glanced up. She’d been saving room too and the alcohol was making her peckish. She looked around and to her surprise, realized the dinner rush had in fact been a vacuum.
The inn was surprisingly uncrowded. A pair of Gnolls got up and walked towards the door as the [Mages] glanced around.
“Still delayed. Erin’s in the kitchen, still.”
“Maybe dinner’s later around here.”
“Or the inn isn’t all it’s cracked up to be. I knew she wasn’t as successful as everyone said. Not for a guest. Late curry—”
“You just ate two meal’s worth. Give Erin time. I bet she has to simmer the curry or something. Now, shush. This is amazing.”
Montressa shook her head. She stared back towards the stage. The Drake there was giving the performance of his life. He held a claw out, staring at a spectral illusion one of the [Mages] behind stage was conjuring. Montressa knew it was an illusion, but the performance still had her watching, spellbound.
“Is this a dagger I see before me, the handle towards my claw? Come, let me touch thee. I have thee not, yet I see thee still. Art thou an illusion of magic sensible to feeling as to sight? Or art thou but a dagger of the mind, a false creation proceeding from heat-oppressed brain? I see thee are not magic but for—”
“He’s quite good. This is a fascinating performance! As good as any [Bards] or [Performers] I’ve ever seen!”
The [Aegiscaster] whispered to Beza. The Minotauress nodded silently. Isceil had to grudgingly agree as Ulinde got up, sat down, and got up again.
“Drake’s as ugly as sin, though.”
“Really? I can’t tell.”
“Take it from me. No wonder he’s betraying his [King]; no one’s going to make him an [Heir].”
Isceil pointed at the Drake’s face and tail. Montressa and Beza couldn’t see it. The Minotauress eyed the Drake appreciatively.
“At least he looks the part. I mean, in body shape. That’s a proper [General]’s build.”
She nodded to his bulging forearms. The Drake was indeed built far better than any other [Actor] on stage. The Wistram [Mages] watched, spellbound, until a growl made Beza look around.
“Excuse me? Excuse me!”
She signaled to Drassi, who’d returned to the inn. The Drake jumped and then came over with a big smile.
“Y-yes? Can I help you?”
“We’re still waiting on the ‘ca-ree’. Is Miss Erin still working on it?”
“What? I’ll ask.”
The Drake blinked. She hurried into the kitchen.
“Curry. Sorry, it’s new and we’re making up a fresh batch. Extra spicy. It should be out in just a moment!”
“We can wait.”
Beza nodded at Isceil. He sighed, loudly, but then Erin poked her head out of the kitchen. She waved at the Wistram [Mages] and they waved back.
“It must be nearly ready. I bet it’ll be too spicy, Isceil.”
“Hah! I’ll eat the entire plate as she serves it, without a drink or anything else. How much?”
“Two small secrets?”
“Done.”
The [Mages] nodded at each other. Erin was talking to Drassi. She was glancing towards the magical door. The Gnoll, Ishkr, was standing by it and waved at her and shook his head, holding up four of his fingers. After a moment, Erin hurried into the kitchen. The Wistram Mages went back to watching…until they realized ten minutes had come and gone.
“Come on, what’s the hold up? Everyone else is eating.”
Isceil’s tail was lashing the ground. Montressa sighed.
“I think she messed it up.”
“You think? What’s so hard about it? I’m going to complain!”
“You idiot, Isceil! She’s our guest!”
“I’m still hungry!”
He snapped back. Montressa sighed.
“Maybe we should get Palt first. He’ll be mad we started without him and maybe the Watch Captain needs more soothing. How about this? Isceil, you get Palt. Beza, you and Ulinde say hi to the Halfseekers—”
“Oh, yesyesyes, thank you!”
Ulinde jumped up, quivering with nerves. Montressa nodded as she reached for her staff.
“And I’ll ask Erin what’s wrong with the curry. We can always have the rest of her food. And I think she mentioned ice cream? That’s a Terandrian delicacy!”
Her friends nodded. Isceil was only grumbling a tiny bit as he got up and began navigating towards the door. But before they reached the door, Erin Solstice hurried out of the kitchen.
“Alright! Alright, sorry for the wait!”
She had a steaming pot full of curry, and Drassi was carrying one filled with rice. The Drake put the pot on the table and looked at Erin.
“Anything else, Erin?”
“Nope. Go find Lyonette, Drassi. Tell her I’m starting dinner!”
