Erin pointed at her, concentrating. Beza roared as she came at Erin. Pyrite tripped her. This time he leapt on her back and tried to twist her arm up, but Beza’s [Steel Body] made even that difficult. Annoyed, the Hobgoblin looked around. Beza swung at him as he danced back. He avoided her every swing as she came at him, keeping her just out of range, just out of range—
Then he flipped up the fallen pot Erin had used for curry and slammed it over Beza’s head. The horns pierced the bottom, and the pot stuck. Beza screamed, but Pyrite was hesitating. He grabbed a chair, smashed it across Beza’s head as she struggled to remove the pot—kicked her in the stomach—and then sighed. He looked at Erin.
“Can’t stop without killing. Acid?”
Beza tore the pot free. She looked down at Pyrite and charged. He jumped out of the way. He punched Beza in the back of the head, tackled her, sending her skidding across the slippery floor—
And his time ran out. One minute. Pyrite cursed—and Numbtongue stumbled. Beza swung and caught him across the ribs. The Hobgoblin stumbled back. Beza turned to Erin and lifted a scroll. The [Innkeeper] froze; her concentration wavered.
“Uh oh—”
“[Arrows of Light]!”
Erin dove as the arrows shredded the table she’d been hiding behind. Beza whirled. Numbtongue rose, looking for his guitar. It was at the bar. He squared himself, narrowing his eyes as he raised his fists. Beza roared, moving impossibly fast—
You? Do you need help?
The Hobgoblin’s head turned. Who had—
Numbtongue went crashing backwards as Beza struck him too quickly for Erin to see. The Hobgoblin struggled to get up—and met a second fist to the chest. He collapsed, and Beza reached for him, strangling him.
Erin screamed.
“Numbtongue!”
She stabbed Beza. The Minotaur felt the searing pain in her side and looked down. Her enchanted body had been pierced! The kitchen knife stuck out of her side, two inches in. She looked up, and her eyes were crimson. Like a Goblin’s eyes. Erin backed up as the Minotaur tore the knife free. The [Innkeeper] raised her fists.
“[Minotaur Punch]! [Minotaur Punch]!”
The first punch hit Beza in the ribs. The second in the stomach. The Minotauress let her have both hits. She stared down at Erin and spat. Saliva and rum from the bottle Pyrite had hit her with. She shook her head.
“That hurts a bit. But it’s just an imitation. Who taught you that?”
“I learned it from a real Minotaur.”
Erin saw Beza’s eyes narrow. She saw the punch and ducked—but too slow. Beza struck Erin across the face and Erin stumbled. Her mouth was bloody. She got back up. Aura? Could she do something other than weigh Beza down? Where was—
The Minotaur grabbed her head with one huge hand. Erin punched at her, but Beza was unmovable.
“[Numbing Touch].”
Erin sagged. She made a sound as Beza let go.
“Huh—”
She hit the ground, a sack of bones and flesh, unable to move. Beza turned. She hesitated, looking at the unconscious Numbtongue, and then saw Relc stabbing Ulinde. His spear went right through her stomach, but she kept moving, twisting off it and shooting spells.
“Why the hell won’t you stop moving?”
“Drake!”
Beza roared and Relc turned. He blocked another spell from Montressa and shouted.
“You suck too, Numbtongue!”
He whirled his spear and Beza hesitated. She eyed the spear and raised her fists, gesturing.
“Come on, Drake. Drop your spear and let’s see how good you are!”
Relc stared at her.
“That’s the dumbest thing I’ve ever heard. I’m holding back.”
He spun, pointing the spear at Montressa. She paused. Relc looked around. Ulinde, Beza, Montressa, and he was surrounded. Worse, Isceil was groaning and everyone was unconscious or ensorcelled. Relc sighed.
“Put down your weapons. Or I’ll start killing you instead of holding back.”
The Wistram [Mages] stared at him. Ulinde’s mouth moved incredulously. Beza lost her temper. She roared at Relc, spittle flying.
“Surrender? You have no idea who you’re fighting! I’m the best at hand-to-hand combat in all of Wistram! I’m—”
A presence behind her. The [Spellscribe] whirled. A huge Drake stared up at her. He was a bit shorter, but only a bit. And he was even more muscular than she was. He shook his head as Erin got up groggily, helped by a pale Raskghar, trembling with fury—
“Wistram’s standards must be even lower than I remember. Grimalkin. Strongest [Mage] in Pallass.”
“Grimalk—”
Beza jerked backwards. The Drake swung. She saw a huge, scaly fist and threw up her guard—
 
——
 
“I’m so glad to have your assistance, Watch Captain. If you’ll follow me?”
Palt trotted from Zevara’s office. She smiled.
“Certainly, Wistram’s representative!”
She followed him down the steps. She had something in her hand. A whistle, made of tin. Palt didn’t notice her as he trotted down the steps, using the handrails for guidance. Zevara put the whistle in her lips and blew it. It made no sound.
“I hope Miss Selys wasn’t too—upset. I trust we can amicably explain the situation. As I said, Wistram is willing to make a very generous donation—and recompense her for her trauma, of course!”
Palt murmured over his shoulder as he slowly reached the bottom of the steps. Zevara gave him a bright smile.
“Let’s go see, shall we?”
The Centaur trotted past the empty receptionist’s desk. He looked around the barracks, straightened his vest—
“Get him!”
The Watch hit him as he entered the barracks. Gnolls and Drakes yanked him off his hooves. Beilmark smashed a club across Palt’s face as he fell.
The Centaur didn’t even have time to utter a spell. The Gnolls and Drakes hit him with batons and clubs from both sides. He screamed once before they brought him down. Zevara shouted as the [Guards] made sure the [Mage] was unconscious.
“Enough!”
They stopped kicking him. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark growled, her fur standing on end.
“What was it, Watch Captain? He said he was a [Mage] from Wistram—”
“Maybe he was. He cast an enchantment on me. And he attacked—”
“He attacked Pisces!”
Selys pushed her way forwards. She was shouting and crying. Zevara turned to her.
“There were five of them! They—they said they were from Wistram. He wasn’t moving when—they put him in a box! And then they got the others! Ceria, Ksmvr, Yvlon—I saw it all! I was under a spell!”
“Guards!”
Zevara had heard enough. She bellowed and Liscor’s Watch looked at her. The Watch Captain turned. Palt’s spell had gone and all that was left was the kind of fury that was so overwhelming it was calm. Zevara turned.
“There are four [Mages] in the city that assaulted Miss Selys Shivertail and took a Silver-rank team hostage! I want the rest of them found now and arrested! Get an anti-mage team, Beilmark! Find Relc, Klbkch—get Jeiss and the other Senior Guards too! There’s no telling what levels they are, but they’re not leaving the city! I want this done quietly, without them getting a chance to loose any more spells—”
“Kill or take alive, Watch Captain?”
Beilmark growled. A Gnoll was growling as the [Guards] grabbed weapons. Another went for a bell.
“Alive unless they threaten you, Senior Guardsman. Belay that bell, guardsman! No alarms! Spread out! I want eyes on the walls—”
A thought hit Zevara. No, a certainty. She strode out of the Watch House. Selys and the Watch followed her. Zevara looked towards the east and cursed.
“Get that squad together, Beilmark. You five! Get to the eastern wall! Run! Check to see if there’s any activity around the inn!”
She ran. Selys stopped only to kick Palt in the face before she was hot on Zevara’s tail.
 
——
 
Beza the Minotauress was lying down. She realized it only when it turned out the wall was floorboards. She blinked.
“Huh? Why am I on the floor?”
That was what she tried to say. But it didn’t come out. Grimalkin squatted down and rolled her over. Beza stared up at him. He inspected her jaw and shrugged.
“Concussion. I didn’t break the jaw. I’m getting better at not doing that. Then again, Minotaur’s jaws are tough. Miss Solstice? [Dispel Magic].”
“Whuh—”
Erin jerked as the numbness left her. She stood, turning.
“Numbtongue!”
“Not hurt. Cracked bones. I’ll see to him. Are there any more?”
Grimalkin nodded at Beza. She was still staring at the ceiling, trying to say something. Erin looked around.
“There’s one in the city—they were going to leave—Seborn! Moore!”
“Alive. The half-Giant’s wounded.”
Grimalkin looked around the inn. His tone was conversational. Montressa was screaming something at Relc as he sliced closer. He was so casual. Erin tried to grab at him, but her arms were still hard to move.
“They were gonna—”
“I heard. You’re lucky I was coming to tutor Miss Springwalker. I got the message from your Gnoll at the same time as Miss Ivirith.”
“Miss—”
Ulinde was firing spells at Relc, screaming as she aimed two at Grimalkin. He blocked them with one claw. She whirled as something moved. A huge, Gnoll-like beast was bent over Moore. It raised its head. Ulinde froze.
No Gnoll looked like that. But what was it? Then she saw the dead eyes. And she knew.
Jelaqua leapt. She caught Ulinde, ignoring the spells that burned holes into her Raskghar body. She snarled. Ulinde screamed.
“I—I’m—I can explain! I’m—I’m a huge fan, Miss Ivirith. B-but—”
“Shut up.”
The Selphid [Mage] did. She stared at Jelaqua, trembling. The Raskghar’s mouth opened.
“Hey. You know what’s going to happen next?”
“Wh—”
“Pain.”
The two crashed across the inn. Montressa, spinning, screamed as she saw her friend.
“Ulinde!”
Jelaqua was ramming the younger Selphid’s head into a wall. Two blows and the skull caved in. But there was no brain. The broken face jerked backwards, trying to utter a spell around a shattered jaw. Jelaqua grabbed Ulinde by a leg and swung her into the wall.
Bones broke. The Selphid [Mage] made a sound like a bag of dirt hitting the ground. Again. And again—
A spear at Montressa’s chest. Relc cursed and backed up. Montressa uttered a spell and he cut it as the scythe swung at his chest.
“How many barriers do you have?”
“Stop! We are [Mages] from Wistram! We’re—”
Montressa looked around. Ulinde’s head was gone. She was lying on the ground. Her chest had been torn open and something orange was oozing into her. Another Selphid. Ulinde was screaming with her real body.
The [Aegiscaster] looked around. She saw Beza, struggling to sit up, throwing up. Isceil, bloody, down. And then Grimalkin. He stood up as Erin poured a healing potion on Numbtongue’s jaw.
“You. [Barrier Mage]. Drop the staff.”
Montressa looked around. Then she ran. Relc exclaimed as she fled out the doors. He looked at Erin.
“You alright?”
“Fine!”
The former [Sergeant] spotted her bloody mouth and his eyes narrowed. He nodded at the [Sinew Magus] as Grimalkin strode towards the door.
“Hey, Grimalkin.”
“Relc. What is this, a Wistram thief team? Did they try to steal the door?”
“Apparently they got the Horns. There’s blood. No sign of the Horns; Lyonette got me. She was trying to find Klb and more Gold-ranks, but they must’ve been away. I had a heck of a time not killing them. Watch the Human. She’s the best. Lightning spells from that orb-thing. The Drake was Oldblood with two breath attacks.”
Grimalkin nodded. The two walked outside. Montressa was fleeing down the hill. She’d gotten far, but she wasn’t fit. She was gasping as she tried to summit the second slope, running to Liscor.
“Hey! Stop or we’ll break your legs!”
Relc bellowed after Montressa. She whirled with a scream.
“Stay away!”
Magical arrows shot from her staff and lightning flashed at the inn. Relc spun his spear, but Grimalkin raised a claw, preempting Montressa’s spells.
“[Barrier of Wind].”
The lightning struck the barrier and it exploded. The [Sinew Magus] swatted away an arrow that was flying at his mouth; the rest he ignored. Relc punched one and growled.
“I really want to hit her.”
He leapt down the hill, rushing at Montressa. She went pale and planted her staff in the ground. This time the ruby gemstone flashed illuminating the dark landscape.
“[Five-Fold Arcane Barrier]. [Chain Lightning]!”
Relc’s eyes widened. He dodged, slicing, but this time he was too slow. The layered ward sprang around Montressa at the same time as the orb unleashed something like true lightning. It hit Relc—no, his spear had caught it—Grimalkin saw Relc blur backwards, and then leap backwards. Grimalkin surged down the hill and met him. Relc appeared, clutching at his arm. There was a crater marring his scales. He swore a blue streak.
“I got tagged. I hate Tier 4 spells! What the hell’s that?”
He pointed. Grimalkin eyed the magical wards surrounding Montressa. Grudgingly, Grimalkin uncrossed his arms.
“That’s a Tier 4 spell—layered. I could hit that pretty hard.”
“Stay back!”
Montressa screamed at the two Drakes, her face pale with exhaustion. She was fumbling for a mana potion and dropped it. Relc laughed, and then grimaced, clutching at a smoking black spot on one arm.
“Amateur! She didn’t even have that in her belt! Ow!”
“How’s your arm?”
Grimalkin looked at Relc. The [Guardsman] growled.
“I got most of it with my spear. Damn, damn—I hate lightning. Hey, I can’t break more than one of those stupid shields at a time. My spear doesn’t go through ‘em all. I could get three with [Triple Thrust], but that—”
Both of them looked up as Montressa pointed her staff. Grimalkin raised his arm.
“Hm. [Resistance to Lightning]. [Force Shield].”
This time the lightning bolts burst on the shield. Arcs of electricity hit Relc and Grimalkin, but the enchantment meant the bolts did little more than tickle. Relc sighed.
“Ooh, nice.”
“Thank you.”
“You want to go up there and hit her? I’m fed up with eating spells.”
Grimalkin paused. He was watching Montressa with narrowed eyes.
“That’s a good barrier spell. She must be a specialist.”
He shouted up at Montressa.
“Human. Put down that staff! Release your mana or I will come up there! I am Grimalkin of Pallass and this is the Gecko of Liscor!”
“Aw, don’t say—”
“Don’t come any closer! I’m a [Mage] of Wistram! I’ve done nothing wrong!”
Montressa’s voice was hoarse. Grimalkin raised his brows.
“I’d surrender, Miss [Mage]. I’d prefer not to kill any more [Mages] from Wistram right now. You’ve attacked innocent people in Liscor. Put down your staff now.”
“Yeah! You’re under arrest! You’d better pray the Horns are alright! Surrender and you won’t be harmed!”
He turned to Grimalkin and lowered his voice.
