“That’s what I heard. The Centaur mentioned apprehending them, but I don’t see them anywhere. We will find them, Miss Solstice. Now explain to me how you knew they’d attacked the Horns of Hammerad.”
Erin pointed back into the inn.
“Mrsha smelled blood on them. Blood from the Horns of Hammerad.”
“And you believed her?”
One of the Drake [Guards] was skeptical, but all the Gnolls—as well as Zevara and Grimalkin—didn’t seem bothered.
“Junior Guardsman Silt, the ability of Gnolls to detect blood is a recognized aspect of law enforcement. Your colleagues are allowed to make credible investigations into violence based on what they smell. Miss Solstice acted beyond her rights as a…citizen of Liscor, but we’ll discuss that later.”
It looked like it cost Zevara to say that last. Grimalkin raised his brows as she turned to her officers.
“Well, that settles it. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark? Take some Gnolls and track down the Horns with Relc—”
“There won’t be a need for that, Watch Captain. If I’m right, your search would only end up right back here.”
Grimalkin interrupted. He looked at the [Mages]; a [Healer] was seeing to them and cursing at Bird’s arrows. Bird stared at Bevussa and waved. Numbtongue stared at Bird. Bird waved at him too. Grimalkin strode over to Montressa and peered at her belt, then bent and came up with the black cube.
“Ah, I thought so. This team is very typical of the academy.”
He showed the object around. Erin stared at it.
“What is it?”
“A Silent Box. It’s a mage-prison developed by Wistram. A kind of contained space—very old artifacts, similar to Bags of Holding but much, much more advanced. I tried using the same methods myself. This team must have wanted their quarry badly to be sent with one of these.”
“They’re in there?”
Even Zevara looked shocked. Grimalkin nodded, grimacing.
“Simple enough. It’s like a Bag of Holding, not like an actual dimension you can walk into. I just have to release them. It’s fairly intuitive if…”
He touched the door and it shone. Grimalkin reached in—or perhaps the box expanded to fit his hands—and suddenly four figures were lying on the ground. Ceria sat up. Her eyes went wide, refocusing in the dimmer light.
“Stop! Montress—”
She raised her skeletal hand, ice crystallizing around her finger. Grimalkin jerked her hand up and the [Ice Spike] shot into the air. Zevara swore and recoiled. Yvlon swung muzzily, her arm still twisted. Ksmvr jerked.
“—war. If they are hurt, the Antinium—”
He stopped and stared around. Ceria blinked at Grimalkin and her eyes went wide. The [Sinew Magus] nodded at her and then instantly focused on Yvlon. She was staring around wildly.
“Where are we? What—”
“Pisces!”
Erin shouted. Everyone, Horns, adventurers, and [Guards] turned. A white mass of robes lay on the ground. But it was deceptive. Pisces’ enchanted robes were the only clean thing about him. The rest—Erin stared down. His face was swollen, and bloody.
He wasn’t moving.
“Pisces?”
She reached for him. Grimalkin grabbed her hand. He waved an arm and something pushed everyone back. Only the [Healer] and he were close. Grimalkin’s claw hovered over Pisces’ face.
“Still unconscious. He’s badly beaten. I detect bone chips—broken bones here—ruptured blood vessels—”
“Magus Grimalkin, I have localized tonics—”
“Good. You’re familiar with multiple fractures in bones? Right here. Here. There’s blood and swelling here—how localized are your tonics?”
The [Sinew Magus] was calm as could be as he knelt over Pisces. Erin pressed against the barrier, desperate to get closer. It trembled and she fell through. Grimalkin looked up, annoyed.
“Turn off your aura, Miss Solstice. Don’t interfere with my spells. This is a delicate process.”
“My—is he going to be alright?”
“Silent Boxes preserve those who are captured as they were. Time passes very slowly; these injuries are fresh. Stand back and let us work.”
Erin did as Grimalkin bent. Ceria was babbling to Zevara.
“I—we tried to talk! But if we started throwing deadly spells—”
“I’ll send a team to the bar. Was anyone else hurt?”
“No. Just Pisces. The rest of the adventurers were incapacitated. But someone check on Ksmvr.”
Yvlon grabbed Ksmvr. The Worker was still smoking from the electrical burns he’d taken. He shook his head as a second [Healer] looked at him.
“I am functional. Yvlon. Someone must see to you.”
“What?”
The woman looked at him. Slowly, Zevara pointed.
“Your arm’s dislocated.”
Yvlon looked down. Her armor had been twisted. Ceria gasped as she saw—Yvlon covered the gap as the [Healer] ran over.
“It’s fine. Just dislocated. Swollen. A bit of infection. It’s—”
Erin saw Yvlon being led away. Ksmvr followed her, leaving Ceria behind. She watched as the [Healer] reduced Pisces’ swelling and Grimalkin straightened. He nodded at Erin.
“He should be fine. They left him alive on purpose.”
Erin exhaled, but Ceria was shaking. She pointed at the unconscious four [Mages] and ice began forming around her hand. Grimalkin moved between her and the [Mages]. The half-Elf’s face was white.
“They jumped us. It was Montressa and some [Mages] from Wistram. How dare they? We didn’t do anything! They—”
“You know her?”
Ceria looked up. She nodded in response to Zevara’s question.
“That’s Montressa du Valeross. She was a classmate of ours in Wistram, years ago. She’s…she’s all grown up.”
Erin’s eyes widened. Ceria stared down at Montressa’s face. Zevara cursed.
“So they are official [Mages] from Wistram? Dead gods damn it. This just got a lot more complicated.”
“What are you going to do?”
Erin looked at Zevara. She wanted to—the fight in the inn still hadn’t left her. Her friends had gotten hurt! More of her friends! She wanted to kick the downed [Mages]. Even Bird’s arrows sticking out of them didn’t make her feel better. She was so angry—she could barely remember being this furious before. Zevara glanced at her and the Watch Captain’s tone softened.
“Let the [Healers] see to you. Magus Grimalkin, will you sign off on my report? I need to make an immediate statement and to query Wistram.”
“Of course.”
Grimalkin nodded. Ceria stared around as Zevara strode past them, shouting more orders. Now it was silent, Erin could see Seborn drinking from behind the bar. Moore was feeling at his chest as Jelaqua hugged him.
“I was shut down. My magic—”
“It wasn’t you, Moore. I wasn’t there.”
“I should have gone for the kill. You alright, Moore?”
Numbtongue was sitting down, being tended to by Mrsha and Lyonette. The Gnoll was licking him as Lyonette checked him over. Erin stared around her inn. It was trashed; tables and chairs obliterated by spells. Some of the [Actors] were peeking out from behind the backstage.
Like before. It was a familiar scene, but different. Erin shook with anger. This wasn’t right. She looked at Ceria and her mouth worked silently. At last, she pointed to Montressa.
“That’s your friend, Ceria?”
“She was.”
The half-Elf sat down on the floor, watching the [Healer] tend to Pisces. She shook her head and covered her face.
“She was a long time ago.”
 
——
 
Fury. Zevara expelled it in bursts of air. They might have been sentences. Or curses that only happened to sound like words. She was bellowing at a terrified [Scribe], standing in the Mage’s Guild, flanked by an entire squad of her [Guards]. The [Mage] on duty and Guildmistress Alonna were both present, communicating with Liscor. Councilmember or not—Zevara kept bellowing.
“—demand an immediate explanation for this!”
“Yes, Watch Captain, but Wistram—”
Zevara’s fist made the [Scribe] and everything on the counter jump.
“Directly to whomever’s in authority! I don’t care about Wistram’s protocols! This is an assault and a violation of Wistram’s neutrality.”
“Yes, Watch Captain. Wistram says—”
The Watch Captain was in direct communication with Wistram. Or rather, she was still shouting invectives as if they could pass via [Message].
“Wistram had no authority to make an arrest in Liscor! Moreover, they used mind-alteration spells on a citizen of the city—I am charging them with assault on a citizen, use of dangerous magics in a public area and against a member of the Watch, attempted abduction of adventurers—”
“Watch Captain!”
The [Scribe]’s voice was loud enough to match Zevara’s, perhaps from sheer self-survival. The Watch Captain paused and stared at the [Scribe]. The female Gnoll cringed, but she lifted a scroll where she’d been transcribing replies.
“Wistram has heard your complaint, Watch Captain. They are taking this very seriously. Archmage Naili has been informed, and one of their Council Mages is sending replies!”
“Oh—well, you may convey to them my extreme displeasure!”
Zevara was caught off-guard for a second. The [Scribe] winced, but she was reading from the [Messages].
“Of course, Watch Captain, but Wistram would like to know—are their [Mages] alive? They would like to communicate with Mage Montressa, or if she is incapacitated—”
“They do not get to set demands! This was an attack! All five [Mages] are under arrest!”
The [Scribe] watched Alonna and the Drake [Mage] sending that. Her quill blurred—she was autocopying a response somehow.
“Watch Captain, Wistram is deeply sorry for the incident. They want you to know that their team was pursuing a fugitive—”
“Pisces? He’s not a threat! He doesn’t have a record! He paid his bounty!”
“—an extremely dangerous individual! Convicted across multiple cities—”
“Petty offences! Where does it say he’s a murderer? I never received that report and believe me, we checked!”
“—Wistram’s own logs—”
“If there’s no bounty, it’s not a damn crime and he’s not a criminal! As far as I’m concerned, this was an adventurer and the Adventurer’s Guild will be informed! Not just Liscor’s—this is a group of Wistram’s [Mages] attacking an adventurer! For reasons they did not deign to inform me, in a city—and then going after his team!”
“Ceria Springwalker—”
Zevara hissed. The [Scribe] shut up. Zevara spoke very slowly.
“Tell Wistram this: they had no cause to attack Pisces without public record of crimes and a bounty worthy of this action! They had no right to take the law into their hands in my city without informing me. Their [Mages] are guilty of assault, illicit use of magics—they will be held and charged! Severely! And I will be lodging a formal notice with the Adventurer’s Guilds, as well as sending a copy of my complaints to the Walled Cities, Liscor’s High Command, Liscor’s Council and—”
She couldn’t think of anything else. Zevara finished, pounding the desk.
“Wistram’s [Mages] will be held until their full fine is paid, upon which they will be exiled from Liscor! Is that clear?”
The [Scribe] was cowed. Zevara relaxed, realizing she wasn’t really yelling at the young Gnoll. She was just doing her job. The Watch Captain paused, and cleared her throat.
“Apologies for yelling.”
“No problem, Watch Captain.”
The Gnoll should have won an award for the smile she gave Zevara. She glanced sideways; the two [Mages] were transmitting Zevara’s words. The Watch Captain stepped back. She wanted to pace, or curse.
Ancestors, she knew Pisces was trouble. She was even curious herself what he’d done to make Wistram so mad. But for all the trouble he’d caused, she distinctly remembered him fighting Face-Eater Moths and conjuring the rainstorm. And fighting the Raskghar! And Skinner.
She was angry at Wistram. Zevara had always considered the Academy, well, useful, if an occasional irritant. She didn’t think of them, really. They were just there, like the Mage’s Guild. Sometimes they had requests, but they were always simple enough and their [Mages] had been, until this moment, snooty, expensive, but effective.
Now this? Zevara waited for a response. She was hoping for something deeply apologetic, although nothing could soothe her temper. But that was where she made a mistake.
Because she didn’t know Wistram. She didn’t know it at all. And one of the things Zevara should have, might have needed to know, was this: Wistram Academy was many things. Insular, arrogant, magical, guarded, jealous—any number of things. But what it wasn’t good at was folding.
When Wistram wanted something and something turned out to be a problem, the Academy didn’t back away and beg forgiveness. It doubled down.
“Watch Captain, Wistram has a response.”
After a few minutes the [Scribe] looked up. She was biting one lip as she read. Zevara’s tail lashed the floor impatiently.
“Well?”
“They’ll pay the fine.”
“…What?”
The Gnoll looked up, cringing at Zevara’s expression.
“They’ll pay the fine for Mage Montressa’s team. All of it.”
“I haven’t set a fine!”
“No, Watch Captain. But the [Message] says…they’ll pay it. And they would like Mage Montressa released at your earliest convenience.”
“My earliest…you tell whoever’s sending the [Message] to take that request and ram it so far up their own—”
“There’s more.”
Like a [Captain] sailing into the heart of a maelstrom, the [Scribe] went on doggedly, determined to see the worst through. She was scribing faster, and she began reading as she wrote.
“Incoming alert! Bounty on Pisces Jealnet. Alive. Full list of crimes incoming. Estimated threat level: Level 26 [Necromancer]. Bounty price—two thousand gold pieces, claimable at any Wistram-directed Mage’s Guild. Bounty being forwarded to all cities across Izril. Description…”
Zevara stared at the [Scribe] in horror.
“Wait, what are you doing? You can’t do that! Countermand that [Message]!”
The Gnoll gave her a wretched look.
“It’s a mass-update to the Mage’s Guilds, Watch Captain. There’s more. A biography on Pisces Jealnet, son of Padurn Jealnet, [Fencer]. Common-born of Terandria; family in service to the House Dultel. Accused of [Necromancy]; fled. Accused of petty thievery and necrophilia. Became [Mage] of Wistram under false pretenses, expelled for grave robbing and related deaths of 46 [Mages]. Status as Wistram graduate not ratified by Wistram’s Council or Archmages…”
It came on and on. Zevara had to take a step back. She stared at the [Scribe]. The Gnoll’s face was pale and tight as she was speaking. Zevara looked around. And then someone tapped her on the shoulder. Zevara turned.
Wing Commander Embria looked unhappily at Zevara as she held up a glowing communication stone. She held it out.
“Watch Captain. High Command wishes to speak to you now.”
