Erin smiled at Drassi, and then she looked at the Wistram [Mages]. Isceil hurried back to the table, Palt forgotten. Montressa looked into the pot; she could smell the spices from here.
“Whoo! Hot! I can still see it bubbling! Miss Erin, give me a full plate. A good helping; it’s spicy, I take it?”
Isceil was impatient. Erin smiled at him, putting down rice first and then a big helping of curry on top. The Drake licked his lips, seeing meat among the thick sauce.
“Super spicy!”
“Can we cool it down? I’m not looking to breathe fire.”
Beza looked warily at the hot curry. Erin smiled.
“Sure! Just one thing before we start.”
She set down the pot before Isceil could dig into his plate. Montressa nearly objected; they hadn’t been served, but Erin was looking at her. She glanced around, but all she saw were a few [Actors] on stage, the two Halfseekers—barely anyone else. The Hobgoblin was lounging against the bar, tuning a guitar, but he was alone. The inn was—
“What is it, Miss Solstice?”
Isceil was practically panting with anticipation. He loved spices. Erin looked at him and then smiled.
“I was just thinking. I have some people from Wistram in my inn. I didn’t tell you because one of them’s a jerk and both of them have a past with the academy.”
“Oh.”
Montressa’s face froze. Beza carefully watched her friend, and then put a false smile on her face as she turned to Erin.
“Don’t worry, Miss Solstice, we’re completely fine with any…incidents that might have occurred between your friends. What are their names?”
“Oh, Todam and Shelia. One’s a Human, the other one’s a half-Elf.”
“Todam and—”
All the Wistram [Mages] looked surprised. Montressa’s eyes flicked up and Beza had the same thought. Aliases, of course. She shook her head, smiling.
“Never heard of them, but I’m sure we’d love to meet them.”
“Sounds great!”
Erin beamed. She moved back as Isceil dug a fork into his plate, too hungry to wait. She reached for the pot and then paused.
“Say, do you know someone named Ceria? Or Pisces, or Yvlon or Ksmvr?”
Beza blinked. She’d relaxed. Too soon, as it turned out, and the moment of surprise ran around the table. Erin watched them. Her bright, happy smile stopped on her face.
And then it vanished. She looked down at them.
“Thought so. Mrsha says you smell like their blood. What did you do with them?”
“I—”
The [Mages] froze. They looked at Montressa, and she stared at Erin. She took too long to answer. Isceil sneered.
“They got what they deserved. You didn’t know this, but one of them was a [Necromancer]—”
He got no further. Erin grabbed him by the head. She slammed his face into the plate full of curry.
The Drake screamed. He dragged himself back, clawing at his eyes. The curry was hot, physically and in taste. It burned his eyes. Calmly, Erin stepped back. She grabbed the pot and dumped it over him.
“Dead gods!”
Beza pushed herself back. She stood—and Erin hit her with the pot as hard as she could. The Minotaur sat back down.
“What are you doing!?”
“My eyes! That Human bitch—”
Montressa grabbed her staff as Ulinde went for her wands. Beza roared with fury as she stood. She got no further than that.
From the bar, the Hobgoblin abandoned his guitar. He launched himself across the inn. Numbtongue leapt over the table and kicked Beza out of her chair as she rose. The Minotaur crashed to the ground and Numbtongue followed, kicking, punching at her as she tried to rise.
The other three [Mages] shot to their feet. Isceil, howling, pointed a wand at Erin, barely able to see. He roared.
“[Lightning Orb]!”
The inn was almost empty. The guests had already left, as had most of the staff. At the back of the room, the [Actors] fled backstage. But the Drake seized a spear that had been lying among the props and leapt to the floor, bellowing.
“Erin! Get back!”
She dodged the spell as a crackling orb of lightning shot past her shoulder. Relc slashed at it and cut the orb in half as he charged.
“Senior Guardsman! Put down your weapons or I’ll put you through that table!”
Montressa pivoted. She called out desperately; Erin was watching Isceil as he tried to aim at her.
“Miss Solstice, we don’t want to fight! We had to apprehend—”
Montressa saw Erin swing at Isceil’s face. The Drake raised an arm to block, snarling. She hit him in the stomach with her other hand.
“Where are they?”
“The Horns are alive! Put down your weapons, now, or we’ll be forced to hurt you!”
Ulinde called out. She looked at the Halfseekers, and then at Relc. He was charging across the inn’s floor, knocking tables and chairs aside. She turned, aiming both wands at him.
“[Binding—]”
Seborn appeared at her back. Ulinde half-turned, but the [Rogue] was faster. He appeared out of a shadow and grabbed the Selphid, yanking them backwards. His blade glowed like fire. With one arm he choked Ulinde, keeping her steady. The other stabbed the dagger through her chest.
“Ulinde!”
Seborn’s dagger plunged in and out of the Selphid’s chest, so fast that his hand was a blur. When he let her go, her chest was perforated, seared by the flaming enchantment. Montressa turned white. Ulinde swayed, and one arm came up.
“—Burst].”
The explosion hurled Erin and Seborn backwards. She stumbled back and Relc caught her, pulling her away. Seborn flipped backwards, landing next to the half-Giant. Seborn cursed.
“Damn, I missed the real body. Moore!”
“I’m up. Jelaqua isn’t here. The plan?”
“Take the Human!”
“Get back, Erin!”
Relc yanked Erin backwards. Montressa raised her staff, seeing Beza swinging at Numbtongue. This was happening too fast! How had she known? Mrsha?
Isceil wiped curry out of his eyes. He roared as he inhaled.
“Everyone duck! I’m breathing!”
Fire and lightning shot from his maw. The [Oldblood Mage] turned, sweeping his magical breath across the room. The flames and lightning bounced off Montressa’s barrier as the other [Mages] leapt out of the way. Erin shouted as Relc pulled her back, shielding her as he slashed with his spear, cutting the magical fire and lightning.
The Halfseekers dove. Moore groaned and Seborn swore; a bolt of the electricity had hit his side.
“I’m hit! Moore—”
He was already moving. The Wistram [Mages] turned. No more time for words. Beza swung at Numbtongue and he lashed out, striking her across the chest. Seborn lunged at Ulinde and she jumped backwards, firing her spells.
“I’ve got the Drake!”
Relc roared as he leapt sideways, abandoning Erin behind cover. He dodged as Isceil’s spells came after him. Seborn slashed at Ulinde; the Selphid was babbling despite her destroyed chest.
“Oh, no, no, please! I’m a huge fan, we can explain—”
She fired from both wands and Seborn twisted, vanishing with a curse among the shadows. Ulinde sprayed spells, trying to keep him at bay. He lunged in—sliced through a quarter of her throat. It would have killed anyone but a Selphid.
Four versus four—Moore looked down at Montressa.
“Surrender. And tell us what you did with the Horns of Hammerad.”
Montressa du Valeross looked up. Her surprise turned to fury. She raised her staff, the enchanted jewel glowing, contrasting to the plain wooden quarterstaff Moore held.
“Surrender?”
The half-Giant sighed. He pointed his staff at Montressa.
“[Stone Spray—”
The spell failed to appear. The half-Giant tried again. Montressa raised her staff and struck the ground.
“[Mana Disruption].”
Moore’s spells failed. He stared at her. Then he swung his staff. It came at Montressa from the side, slower as the half-Giant pulled his blow. Montressa didn’t move.
The quarterstaff hit the air and the air moved, rippling with the impact. Moore stared as the glimmering barrier around Montressa appeared, violet, translucent light. Montressa pointed her staff, and Moore raised one hand.
“[Incendiary Darts]!”
The fiery needles struck the half-Giant. He howled. This time, he brought down the staff with all his might. The wood struck the barrier, and Montressa saw the magic ripple.
The staff broke. Montressa looked at Moore. He blinked, and she pointed her staff.
“[Reduced Lightning Bolt]”
The copper orb hovering around her staff discharged. Moore screamed and Seborn heard. He and Ulinde were dodging around the inn. The Selphid could push her body to move faster than all but Seborn, but she couldn’t lose him. She desperately tried to fire spells from both wands, but the [Rogue] was a shadow, leaping, dodging—
Cutting her. He had cut Ulinde across the face, arms, legs—deep blows some severing bones. But nothing to kill a Selphid. Montressa pointed at him.
“[Force Wall].”
The leaping shadow hit the shimmering barrier that appeared and Seborn stumbled back. Ulinde took that moment and pointed both wands.
“[Aerial Burst]!”
It caught him, but the [Rogue] was already tumbling, flipping sideways with the force of the blast. He began to leap backwards, but Ulinde leapt.
Anyone but a Selphid [Mage] would have been too slow. But Ulinde was Rampaging. The Selphid’s body moved as fast as Seborn, and her second dueling wand touched his chest.
“[Reduced Fireball]!”
Like Montressa’s spell, the fireball wasn’t as powerful as it could have been. But it still burst with a fiery bloom. Seborn went flying. His armor had soaked up most of the smaller explosion, but he was still thrown across the room. Ulinde pounced on him as he struggled to his feet. She pointed both wands at him.
“[Binding Ropes]!”
The magical ropes encircled Seborn. He kept moving, trying to break free. Ulinde shouted at him. He was cursing as the magical ropes tightened around his arms and legs.
“Just stop moving! I’ll have to hurt you otherwise—”
Across the room, Relc dove and Isceil’s breath blasted three tables and the chairs apart. The Drake was spitting lightning and frost now! Relc bellowed as he turned.
“Senior Guardsman! Surrender and lie on the ground with your hands over your head or I’ll—”
Isceil shot a ray of fire at Relc’s chest. The Drake spun his spear and cut the ray with the tip of his spear. It dissipated. Relc’s eyes narrowed. He turned and saw Seborn and Moore, down. His eyes widened as he spotted the half-Giant’s smoking chest. He whirled.
“Fine.”
Isceil was panting for breath. He raised his wand as Relc charged.
“[Stone Arm—”
The Gecko of Liscor slashed once. The thick stone appearing over Isceil’s scales vanished. The Drake stopped. He stared down at the spear and the spreading red slash across his stomach. Relc had pulled the blow, but it had still opened Isceil’s scales.
“Oh.”
He tried to raise his wand. Relc’s fist hit him in the face. The bigger Drake drew his head back as Isceil staggered, and then head-butted the [Mage]. Something in Isceil’s face went crack.
Relc waited as the Drake screamed. Isceil was still trying to raise his wand. Relc shrugged, then swung his fist with all of his weight behind it. The blow lifted Isceil as it hit him right across his cut stomach. The Drake turned white under his scales and passed out. Relc kicked him in the groin and turned.
“Anti-magic spear! He got Isceil!”
Ulinde screamed a warning. Montressa had already seen. The [Mage] raised her staff, retreating as she reinforced her barrier. Relc narrowed his eyes. He glanced at Moore and Seborn.
“You two suck.”
“[Flame Ray]! [Ice Spike]!”
Ulinde took advantage of the moment of distraction. Her spells shot at Relc. He leaned out of the way of the flaming beam and slashed. The [Ice Spike] didn’t even shatter; it just vanished as he cut it in half. Montressa gulped.
“We’re [Mages] of Wi—”
Relc kicked a chair at her face. It shattered against the barrier and she flinched. Relc leapt and his spear jabbed at her stomach. It slashed through the first ward and he cursed as it sank into the second.
“[Flame Swathe]!”
“[Ropes of Binding]!”
The Drake jumped backwards as flames roared from Montressa’s staff. He slashed down the four ropes Ulinde shot at him. She leapt to one side and he blurred and kicked her in midair.
“Whoop, nope.”
Something crunched around her pelvis. Ulinde made a sound and went crashing backwards, but then she was on her feet. Relc groaned.
“Damn. Selphids.”
He turned, raised his spear too late. The [Lightning Bolt] struck him and hurled him over the back of a table. Montressa lowered her staff. She saw the figure curse, leap to his feet, and roar.
“That hurt.”
“Spell resistance?”
Montressa turned pale. The [Guardsman] charged her and she shot another bolt of lightning from her staff. This time, somehow, he blocked the bolt of lightning! Relc ducked behind a table, then leapt, slashing a spell aimed at him as he maneuvered around Ulinde. Montressa backed up, desperately conjuring more protections.
“[Wall of Light]. [Steelcage]. Ulinde, back off! He’s too fast! Beza, get over here!”
The Minotauress was dueling Numbtongue next to the kitchens. She and Numbtongue swung; she had size and weight on him, but he was pressing her back! She stared as he caught a fist and kicked her in the kneecap. She felt something crunch.
“How—”
The Hobgoblin hit her again, through her raised hands. Beza’s head snapped back. She roared and grabbed two scrolls on her belt.
“[Steel Body]. [Haste]!”
The enchantments took hold as Numbtongue backed up. Beza charged him, head down. He pirouetted, letting her move past him. His eyes unfocused. Beza turned. She swung at him, her every moment enhanced. And he—
Dodged. The Hobgoblin leaned to one side as her fist passed by his ear. He stepped in and punched her in the stomach. Beza barely felt it. She kicked at him, enraged. He lifted his arm, catching her leg and heaving up.
Down she went. Beza hit the ground, surprised more than stunned, and then tried to get up. She met Numbtongue’s foot as the Hobgoblin kicked her as hard as he could. Beza’s head snapped back and she howled.
The Hobgoblin rubbed at one foot.
“Huh.”
Beza got to her feet and lunged. The Hobgoblin made a whuffing sound and swung. Beza’s head snapped back and she went crashing backwards.
[Power Strike]. The Hobgoblin watched her get up and walked around the bar. He came back with two bottles. He smashed one across Beza’s face, the burning liquid searing her eyes. He tried the other one and smacked his lips.
Pyrite.
Erin watched from the side, ducking back from the spells Relc was dodging. She pointed at Beza.
“I’ve got her, NumbPyrite! Get her!”
Beza roared. Her eyes were red with fury, but she felt a huge pressure weigh down on her as Pyrite in Numbtongue’s body smashed the second bottle across her face. His claw jabbed towards an eye and she recoiled. She felt sluggish! But she was [Hasted]! How—
