His opponent let it happen, watching carefully as Nathan reconsolidated his body as soon as it had been cut apart. Then he set himself and went to work, blending Nathan’s body into ever-smaller pieces. He tried cutting Nathan’s head off, grabbing it, and carrying it away. But Nathan managed to latch on with a tendril and pull his body after it. Then the Questor tried again, this time using his speed to block the seeking tendrils of flesh.

Nathan simply regrew his head on his already reassembled body. His new Talent meant he had full awareness of every piece of flesh, and so long as it still had some life to it he could use it to regrow himself. He gave his opponent a jaunty wave. Nathan was completely naked at this point, his clothes long since gone. At least he wasn’t covered with his own gore, since he could reabsorb his own organic matter to decrease the cost of healing.

The Questor stopped and studied Nathan, eyes flicking back and forth behind the helmet like he was looking for a clue. Then he harrumphed. “Your resources are not infinite.”

Indeed, they were not, though Nathan was still at over three-quarters on both Focus and Stamina. But Nathan wasn’t going to wait for them to deplete further, and he gave the man a sly grin. “Neither is your weapon!” He flicked a finger towards the man as his aura finally finished severing the connection between wizardry and metal. The blade of adamantium cracked loudly, then turned to grey dust in the Questor’s hands.

Nathan's opponent stared at the dissolving weapon in confusion for a moment, and Nathan used that opportunity to dive downwards and scoop up the adamantium dagger from the floor. He looked up in time to receive an adamantium-gauntleted fist to the face. It pulped his lips and shattered a cheekbone. In the very same moment, the man was driving a fist into Nathan’s ribs. It failed to even crack them.

“You haven't trained in unarmed combat much, have you?” Nathan asked with an already-healed mouth, easily weathering the hail of blows. He held onto the dagger tightly as the Questor tried to snatch it from him. The Questor had two hands on the weapon, but Nathan was stronger. The man grabbed at Nathan’s wrist in a hold that would have given him leverage, but Nathan seized his foe’s shoulder with his other arm and pulled him in for a brutal headbutt. It probably hurt Nathan more, but he felt the Questor’s head rattle off the inside of his helm, and the man lost his grip on the wrist holding the dagger.

Nathan recovered first, and he still had a grip on the other man. He was tempted to make a show of it, to get rid of the armor and take him apart piece by piece. But that kind of showboating was both cruel and risky. Instead, he yanked the Questor forward again, straight into the dagger. It punched through the armor over his neck, the unyielding sharpness of Nathan’s blade punching through its simpler cousin to sever arteries, trachea, and spine.

The Questor gurgled for a second, and Nathan withdrew the dagger, ready to stab again if he showed any sign of healing. But the Questor simply died. The body vanished, and Nathan raised his weapon to the sky in victory, a moment before it, too, flaked away to dust. He brushed his hands off and called out. "Next!"

[Immortal Body]

You have achieved precise control of your body at a minuscule level and the ability to reconstitute your body from near-total obliteration with Focus. This Talent will automatically spend Stamina to efficiently and immediately heal wounds. It can also bring you back from the smallest remaining speck of living tissue if you have Focus remaining. You can spend Stamina to make innate changes, which include banishing poison, countering aging, and restructuring your body on a minuscule level. Larger wounds and greater changes will cost more stamina. You can only die via total obliteration or running out of Stamina or Focus.

[Distributed Immortality]

Your physical form exists as a coordinated whole, and can be rebuilt from any speck of flesh as long as you have the resources to do so. You may restructure yourself at a minuscule scale, reunite severed parts, banish toxins, and resist aging at the cost of Stamina. Death requires total destruction and the depletion of both Stamina and Focus.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 9

Permanent Talent 2: Distributed Immortality 2

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1295

Bottomless Stamina: 91038/130500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 921

Limitless Focus: 6740/9310

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 6

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 7

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 7

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
