With a quick break for lunch, a delicious meal of roasted veggies and rice, I transition into practicing the forms, using Peace in my left hand, an awkward endeavor, but I don't really have an alternative. Besides, I've lost my right arm twice already, I really should learn how to fight with both hands. And use chopsticks too, although I kind of like being fed by Adujan and Sumila, a small, guilty pleasure. Throughout my practice, I search for enlightenment, that wondrous feeling of understanding, but it eludes me, a feeling as if I'm staring through dirty glass, and what I seek is on the other side, muddled and only barely visible, my body feeling awkward and foreign when I practice certain movements.

It's been like that for a few days now, banging my head against that dirty glass, trying to see what it is that I'm missing. In particular, there are two movement forms which I've been almost able to combine, Prancing Stride, which is like it sounds, stepping forward while lifting the knees up high, an elongated, overemphasized step, combined with Rising Steps, which contrary to the name, is a stomping motion. I guess I would be rising if the air were to solidify beneath my feet, but really, it's just like crushing grapes, ungainly and inelegant.

I can't figure out what I'm missing about the movement, it seems fine to me, but if feels wrong. My gut churns, and this time, I know it isn't constipation, so there must be something I'm not noticing. Unlike the other combinations I've learned, this feels more like two separate pieces smashed together, instead of the smooth, fluid melding that it should be. It's as if I'm going through separate steps, instead of one complete motion.

I'll figure it out eventually, or I can always move on to other pursuits. That's the beauty of the forms, a near endless combination of movements, each one both simple and infinitely complex. It's easy to throw a good punch, impossible to throw a perfect one, but it is in the pursuit of perfection that I continue to practice. There's something very zen about it, repeating the same series of movements day after day, and learning something new after hundreds or even thousands of repetitions, improving ever so slightly each day. Even if I don't learn anything, the physical exertion is calming, neither slow nor fast, only focusing on the movement, the moment, for hours without tiring.

My newfound appreciation for the forms leaves me relaxed and happy, my muscles a little sore, a refreshing sweat upon my brow, and I head towards the western edge of camp with Adujan, where Alsantset is hard at work taking reports from the returning patrols, Sumila and Li Song working as her aides, all of them too busy to greet me. The two lovely young women covered in ink stains as they work furiously to copy the reports, their brushes moving in elegant motions as they write in impossibly neat, tiny characters. Again, my mind compares the two of them to the women in my dreams, but they are different enough that it causes me little heartache.

Calligraphy is one of those things I haven't really learned well, my writing little better than most children's, but I do enjoy watching it in motion. Every written word has a proper sequence, a time to press down with the brush or to lightly flick, allowing a trailing off of the stroke. The finished product looks refined and elegant, yet somehow each style is unique. I can easily discern the writer of the reports, just by reading it. Sumila likes to add tiny flourishes that add style to the writing without compromising readability, while Alsantset is more dignified and proper, a curve where there should be a curve, a line where there should be a line, yet still with its own flair. Li Song writes in neat, almost stamped characters, her brush moving in short, mechanical strokes, but there are still a few personal touches in the writing, a melding of two squiggles into one, or an opening brush stroke slightly longer than it should be.

It's just like the forms and coming here to watch them at work as they write leaves me inspired to learn to write properly on my own. I realized this when I asked Sumila to write my bi-weekly letter to Mei Lin, and I've come here to watch them write ever since. The subtle variations in writing are similar to the variations in fighting, using the same basic structure to come up with different solutions to the same problem, and again, I feel as if I am looking through the dirty, stained window, close to understanding something, but not all the way there. I don't even know what it is that I'm trying to understand, but it can't hurt to try, even if all I do is unlock the profound mysteries of calligraphy or something stupid like that.

Akanai arrives with the last patrol unit, having a brief discussion with Alsantset about the sentries and their positioning, before riding off to take care of other business. Alsantset and Tokta are in charge when Akanai is out chasing down Defiled, but Tokta doesn't really take part in the military aspect of command, despite being a capable warrior himself. Then again, he is pretty busy keeping soldiers alive, but in the interim, Alsantset is the boss of the camp, hard at work every day. Her duties for the day done, she grins at me and drapes an arm over my shoulder, pulling me in for a hug. “I do so enjoy being greeted by you after work.” Throwing me a sly look, she whispers, “Although perhaps I am not the one you are here to greet.” Her eyes dart towards Sumila.

Terrifying. As cute as Sumila is, I don't really have any romantic intentions towards her, mostly because Akanai would make the worst mother-in-law ever. “I'm just here to pick you up for dinner, Sister. You work so hard, I feel like a wastrel just leisurely practicing all day.” I've asked to help but she just insists that I work on healing and training. Despite my objections, both internal and external, I still wonder if her lips would feel the same as I dreamed, sweet and soft.

We walk back towards the cooking fires chatting easily, the past few days almost relaxing for me, despite the still present threat of Defiled. If it was before, I would have been nervous about a possible attack, fretting and worrying, but I've come to trust the people around me, knowing that they are doing everything they can to keep the camp safe. If the Defiled do attack, I would be better off with two hands, so I've concentrated on that, with little else in mind.

Like Mom said, why bother worrying about what I can't control?

Chapter Meme
