All things considered, her uncle had followed through on his promises. He was still largely absent from the manor, always away observing the garrison or overseeing the construction on the sanctum or meeting Magrath officials. When he was around, though, he seemed to be making an active effort to treat her like an actual adult and less like a fragile piece of glass who would drop dead any second. He’d even asked for her opinion on the meeting after it was over.

Things were going too well, if you asked her. Maybe Daphne was paranoid, but she’d grown up with the man as her guardian. She found it difficult to believe that he’d managed to turn over a new leaf now, but not in the two decades before this. Something else had to be going on, and she was waiting for the other shoe to drop.

Because of this, she wasn’t surprised when her uncle cleared his throat near the end of dinner that day. If anything, it was almost a relief to have her suspicions confirmed. She set her fork down and braced herself for the worst.

“I’ve been observing the new cadets lately,” her uncle began.

“I know,” Daphne said flatly. “We have plenty of guards already. You should leave the garrison recruits alone.”

Lord Bellhein winced a little, but he continued like she hadn’t said anything. “There are many talented cadets this year.”

“Exactly. They’re great assets against the Tavrell Empire.”

“And,” her uncle emphasized more loudly this time, “considering your newly expanded presence at meetings and in public representing the Bellhein family, I thought it was high time you receive a personal guard.”

Daphne stared hard at him. She felt a disbelieving laugh rise in her throat.

“You pulled a cadet away from the garrison to be my chaperone?”

“Guard, not chaperone.” He frowned. “From what I’ve seen, she’s very capable. Harris has been showing her around the manor and orienting her to her new duties.”

Daphne rolled her eyes and picked her fork back up. She stabbed it into a chunk of meat that had already gone cold at this point. “What duties? Following me around all day and wasting everyone’s time?” She lit a small flame at the end of her fork to heat the meat back up, then shoved it into her mouth.

“Stop using magic for useless things,” Lord Bellhein snapped. It was practically an instinct at this point, and as usual, Daphne ignored him. One tiny spell wasn’t going to kill her.

“You’re wasting that cadet’s time. And this is way too fast. Haven’t they only been training for a week or so? That’s barely enough time to learn anything, much less decide to hire someone as a guard. She could be a serial killer for all you know.”

“The garrison instructors all assure me that she’s more than capable of fulfilling these duties.” Her uncle frowned. “I thought you’d be happy. You said you liked her during the exam.”

That got Daphne’s attention enough for her to glance over again. There was only one cadet he could be talking about.

Just as she opened her mouth to confirm it, a light knock sounded on the dining hall doors. Lord Bellhein called for the person on the other side to enter, and the heavy mahogany doors soon swung open.

On the other side, Harris bowed politely to the two nobles in greeting. Daphne’s attention, however, was focused on the person behind him.

Dressed in the standard manor guard uniform, a muscular, broad-shouldered woman with wavy black hair and steel grey eyes stepped into the room. She towered over Harris, even taller in person than she’d looked from the observation deck, and through the gaps in her uniform, Daphne could see the same white bandages from the exam wrapped all around her. A name floated to the front of her mind, the one she’d seen on those papers in her uncle’s study.

This was number 84, the ichor-poisoned mercenary from Drovna.

Pyre.
