Trying not to ogle as Song does the same wondrous things to her gown and bares her long, olive legs, I join my voice to Lin’s and we clap and cheer for the sisters on stage. Eyeing my sweet wifey’s gown, I notice she has the same knotted buttons holding it together and my imagination goes wild. I’ve never been much of a leg guy, but I think today has awakened something inside me and I like it. I would love to see Lin’s bare, slim legs, with her honeyed skin and dainty feet...

After Song makes her full introduction, the match between sisters kicks off without preamble. In their opening exchange, Song proves her skills by being the first opponent to force Mila to retreat, driving the previously-dominant red-head back and eliciting a surprised gasp from the audience. Before anyone can complain about rigging the match, Mila’s counterattack leaves everyone stunned as she charges forward and actively parries a powerful two-handed slash. Thrown back by the impact, Song narrowly avoids Mila’s lightning quick follow through and returns the favour with a thrust of her own, and then the match begins in earnest. Again, it’s hard to make out the specifics of their battle as they trade lightning fast blows, but even a pleb like myself can tell they aren’t holding back in this deadly dance of steel, silk and skin, a dazzling exhibition of Martial Skill and finesse which only two closely matched opponents can bring out.

Wow... They came ridiculously close to seriously injuring one another in that last exchange. Uh oh. Did I tell Song to ‘do her best’ and accidentally order her to go all out?

Before I can succumb to panic and shout for the match to stop, Mila gets a good shield slam in and sends Song sliding across the stage to end the match. Dazed and unsteady, Song slowly pushes herself back to her feet before breaking out into a rare and charming smile, and the two lovely sisters share a warm embrace on stage amidst the audience’s applause, a heartfelt moment which I can’t help but perve over. I can’t help it. Women fighting in sexy dresses is just too provocative, it really gets me going. Maybe afterwards, I’ll invite Mila to sneak off and convince her to bare her legs in private, so I can check if she really wore shorts under her gown...

I bet Lin didn’t think to wear shorts either, and I doubt Song would even care to...

As soon as Mila and Song step off the stage, Alsantset takes their place, looking formidable in her more utilitarian outfit, a short, tight tunic and hip-hugging trousers similar to what Yan wears. I suppose she picked up the fashion while they served in Sinuji together, and the outfit combined with her ripened allure and half-tiger heritage sets the crowd to mooning over her breathtaking beauty. After introducing herself in Behkai fashion as an Expert of the Empire, she repeats Mila’s challenge almost word for word, and even I can see there’s something going on here. A show of strength, I suppose, and though Alsantset’s smouldering glare is obviously goading the Society into action, they’re all too happy to swallow the bait and send one of their lambs up to be slaughtered.

As domineering and arrogant as Mila might be, most of the injuries she caused were to her opponents’ pride. In contrast, Alsantset likes to spread the damage equally between pride and physique, so she promptly mutilates her opponent in a single pass, a bloody demonstration which leaves a seasoned Martial Warrior screaming in agony while the crowd watches on in horrified silence.

After her initial bloody demonstration, the sparring heats up and my sister wins two more gruesome matches before battling to a draw against a Domain capable underling of the Situ Clan. Charok takes her place, but lacking an actual rank, a handful of matches pass before the crowd realizes he’s no less powerful than his wife, albeit more merciful. After nine victories, he’s finally pushed to the limits while matched against a Seven Star Sect Disciple and ekes out a minor victory by injuring his opponent with a concealed throwing spike, a twenty centimetre long weapon I convinced Mila to make a few months ago. Yet to be sated, the crowd cheers for more blood to be shed and both Bekhai and Society are happy to oblige, but rather than moving up in skill level, Mom makes the call to send Bulat out to fight, a nameless soldier with no rank or backing.

And if I’m being honest, despicable to boot. I almost understand shame after seeing him grab his opponent by the balls and throw the poor bastard off stage...

More and more challengers take the stage, including Rustram and Lang Yi, but after a dozen or so lower-level matches, Ulfsaar steps up and announces himself as an unranked, Domain-Capable Expert over fifty, which is news to me. Impressive as I think his achievement is, in the eyes of Peak Experts, the half-bear’s accomplishments aren’t noteworthy enough to stand out, and the results speak for themselves. Even against a random Domain-Capable Expert from the Society, Ulfsaar has a tough time and eventually loses in his first match, but at least he displayed his raw power. Neera goes up next and announces herself as the same, then secures a hard fought victory, followed by Wang Bao who is twenty years younger and has no age appropriate opponent, yet still wins his first match through sheer grit and tenacity, then gives a good show in his next match before admitting defeat.

Afterwards, Sahb takes the stage, and the crowd goes wild at his introduction as they cheer for a twenty-four year old Domain-capable Expert.

And again when Dastan takes the stage afterwards, and introduces himself the same way.

Neither of them win their matches, but considering they both faced opponents at least twice their age, it was to be expected. The crowd cheers louder for the two Oath-Bound soldiers from Sanshu than any others, because young talents are always treasured above all else. Clever of Mom to send the other Domain-capable warriors out first, emptying the Situ Clan’s roster of their younger Experts and leaving no one more age-appropriate to match Dastan and Sahb.

Expecting this was planned to end on a high note, Mom motions for me to sit and wait while a new challenger takes the stage.

By Cloud-stepping over the audience.

Leaping off the balcony of the level below us, Gerel’s footsteps impact against empty air and echo throughout the square to announce the arrival of a Peak Expert, or something close to it. Bald as always, the gleam of his scalp is eclipsed only by the shine of his silver armour as he lands on stage with his sword on his hip, glaive over his shoulder, and a scowl on his face. Without looking at anyone in particular, he infuses his voice with Chi and announces, “Captain of the Marshal’s Guards, Gerel of the Bekhai. Thirty-three years old and challenging any Peak Expert under forty.”

The crowd falls silent for long seconds before bursting into excitement, because a Peak Expert under forty is almost unheard of aside from a legendary few, an accomplishment shared by illustrious heroes such as Nian Zu, Lu An Jing, Shuai Jiao, and Ryo Dae Jung. Suffice it to say, there is no one in the crowd today who meets his criteria, so after a long pause, Gerel smirks and ups the age limit to sixty-three. An oddly specific choice until someone in the audience remarks that the Situ Patriarch just happens to be exactly sixty-three years old, and everyone falls silent once again to wait and see how the Society will react to this blatant challenge.

You know, if Gerel wasn’t such a massive jerk, he’d be a man after my own heart.

Chapter Meme
