Luo-Luo had much to be aggrieved about, but after so many months of near constant practice, she was well-versed in hiding disappointment.

Not an easy task when faced with Lord Husband’s flagrant displays of favouritism, but such was life. For weeks now, Luo-Luo had been toiling day and night to help fulfill the obligations of his office while also treading the Martial Path, but still their relationship was as tepid as ever. To date, his most intimate voluntary gesture towards her was a warm smile accompanied by a brief and gentle touch of her arm, which was no different from how he treated his horses. In contrast, Sister Mila spent the last three and a half months adrift in Insight, and not only did Lord Husband tend to her needs with gentle affection, their reunion just now revealed the depths of his love and devotion for his red-haired beloved. Luo-Luo could only imagine what a kiss might feel like, much less one as ravenous and passionate as the two Mila and Lord Husband just shared, but then he did something Luo-Luo never even imagined was possible: he dropped to one knee and asked his beloved Mila to marry him.

Even though they were already promised to one another, betrothed by their parents long ago. Giving her this chance to refuse was so romantic, like something plucked from the pages of a whimsical drama, and Luo-Luo could do naught but seethe in jealousy.

“Sorry for the interruption,” Lord Husband said once Sister Mila was gone and he’d returned from checking on the poor Death Corps guards. “We were supposed to be married this past spring, but then the banquet and other things happened, so... yea.”

“No need for apologies,” Liang Yin Hang said, fake smiling as he clasped his hands in a cursory salute, “But it appears congratulations are in order, Minister Rain. May you have a harmonious union that lasts one hundred years.”

“Thank you, Administrator Hang. As you just saw, we haven’t nailed down a date yet, but I’ll have to trouble you to raise a toast at my wedding.”

While the two of them traded smiles and courtesies, Luo-Luo marvelled at how far Lord Husband had come in such a short time, to the point where his tone even sounded believable. A stuffy, forty-something year old wastrel of an Imperial Scion, Administrator Hang was here at the Citadel to supervise Lord Husband, and thus far had proven more hindrance than help. A small-minded official working under the Master of Coin, he clearly resented his posting here in the Northern Citadel and rushed through this War Bond endeavour as quickly as he could so he could return home to the East. Unfortunately, the pinched-face minor Scion also controlled the purse-strings in this joint endeavour, which meant that in order to do anything, they first had to convince him it was worth the investment, and Administrator Hang was stubborn to a fault. More than once, Lord Husband had privately railed about the man’s tenacious stupidity and made empty threats to have him pulled apart by quins or worse, but Lord Husband still managed to keep their working relationship relatively cordial, or as cordial as possible given the antagonistic circumstances.

Truth be told, Luo-Luo would be happy to take up her Sceptre and give Administrator Hang a good thrashing, but as he was so quick to declare at every given opportunity, he was first-cousin once removed to the Grand Marshal, and second cousin to Shen Zhen Wu, and therefore far above Lord Husband’s unreliable status.

Given his family connections, it came as a surprise to learn Liang Yin Hang was merely a lowly Administrator, which was little more than a glorified clerk, but it all became clear the moment he opened his mouth to speak. With a poor grasp of economics, he cared for nothing besides cutting costs and couldn’t retain too much information, no matter how many times Luo-Luo repeated herself. Couple this with an aversion to reading anything she or Lord Husband sent him, their work was slow going, to say the least.

Three months of long days and sleepless nights, and all they had to show for it was a single mock-up of a paper War Bond, sitting on the table before them. It was a splendid War Bond of course, dyed green and depicting a large label denoting its value of ten-thousand gold coins, as well as a dignified portrait of the Divine Turtle outlined in black stamped in the lower left corner, courtesy of Brother-in-Law Charok’s beautiful handiwork. If things went well, the turtle stamp would soon be made an Official Seal by the Emperor Himself, one wielded by the Minister of Finance, no less, which was a great honour since not all Offices bore an official seal, and used personal ones instead.

“Now where were we?” Lord Husband asked, though Luo-Luo knew it was solely to remind Administrator Hang of the work at hand. “Right, I was asking about the ink. You’re sure it won’t run?”

“Why does it matter?” The petulant tone was answer enough, meaning the good Administrator either didn’t know or was sure the ink would run. “It’s paper. Water will ruin it regardless if the ink runs or not, and non-staining ink would raise costs significantly. Three-hundred and eighty seven percent per War Bond, as shown here, and that is without accounting for the investment required to produce the ink ourselves, which you insist must be done.”

Meaning it would cost thirty one coppers to produce this ten-thousand gold War Bond instead of eight. Ridiculous.

Seeing Lord Husband struggling to keep his temper, Luo-Luo stepped in to explain. “The paper is not as fragile as you believe, Administrator Hang,” she said, leaning over to touch the mock up and distract him with her body. “Rather than wood pulp, this is made from an amalgam of cotton and silk which gives it more strength and durability.”

“I know.” Curt and snippy as per usual whenever he thought himself being particularly clever, Administrator Hang curled his lip while ignoring her attempts to distract him with her womanly charms. This, along with Lord Husband’s indifference towards their marital life, had led Luo-Luo to suspect she was not as beautiful as she once believed, but thus far, she had yet to be convinced. “I intended to bring this matter up soon enough, as it is yet another egregious cost which we can do without. Minister Rain himself introduced a method to create cheap paper, so why must we use this amalgam which is so much more expensive than what we had before?” Turning to his favoured stack of documents, Administrator Hang riffled through it in search of one particular sheet which would no doubt be covered in lengthy calculations denoting the exact figures. Imperial characters of course, because he refused to learn Lord Husband’s system of numerals. “Production facilities, work force, security measures, and more, this would require considerable financing from the Master of Coin, financing which is simply not available due to the ongoing war efforts.”

Or so he would have them believe, but Luo-Luo suspected it was because the Master of Coin did not believe in Lord Husband’s vision of investment tools and paper money, and was only following orders. Regardless, Luo-Luo patiently laid out the same tired arguments once more. Aside from strength, durability, and resistance to water damage, making War Bonds and Treasure Notes from silk ensured the means of production remained within the Imperial Clan, since only a select few were privy to the secrets of silk. What’s more, a resilient War Bond would inspire more confidence in their use, as a ten-thousand gold was too significant to consign onto a flimsy piece of easily torn paper. Regarding water-resistant ink, this was a matter even more vital than Administrator Hang knew, but it was not something they could easily share because it would do nothing to sway the stubborn man’s mind.

In the future, once these ten-thousand gold War Bond were introduced, accepted, and circulated, Lord Husband planned to introduce paper currency, or Treasure Notes as he called them, in smaller denominations, from five thousand, one thousand, and possibly even a hundred or less, all without the need for auctions or fundraising. The goal was to reduce fiscal reliance on a handful of rare metals and give the Emperor even more control of the economy than He already enjoyed, but to do so, Lord Husband needed to think far in advance. As such, he already planned out how different Treasure Notes would be dyed in different coloured inks so they couldn’t be arbitrarily altered to represent a higher value, and a water-resistant ink made it all the more difficult to ‘wash’ the paper notes to be used in forgeries, so he was using War Bonds to pave the way for his future Treasure Notes.

Truly, Lord Husband was brilliant and forward thinking, but alas, the Master of Coin did not see the value in creating gold out of thin air. Or perhaps he did see the value and feared for the future of his Office, for what use was there for a Master of Coin if there were no longer any coins?

In truth, War Bonds were a compromise to Lord Husband’s dream of paper currency, since War Bonds were more familiar and easier for everyone involved to accept, especially given the nuanced circumstances. Although every merchant and noble in the Empire was well used to working with debt and credit, things were different when working with the Imperial Clan. The balance of power was skewed too far in the Imperial Clan’s favour, so any loan was essentially a gift in everything but name. It was standard practice for the Imperial Clan to pay upfront, otherwise the only option was to carry out their will and hope for the best. Who would dare present an Imperial Scion with a bill for services owed, or venture into the Eastern Province to splash red paint on their doors when the Scion failed to pay? Reneging on a debt was shameful, but the Imperial Clan did not go into debt, for they were only graciously accepting their due in the form of goods and services.

However, an issue had arisen when Shen Zhen Wu invoked the Imperial Sigil and publicly pledged to pay for the costs of building the new Western Wall, the Citadels, fortresses, and other defences involved. This was a massive undertaking involving thousands of millions of gold coins moving from East to Central, so it should come as no surprise to learn that the Eastern Province was running low on liquid funds. There were only so many gold coins, bars, and plates in circulation, and even though the Eastern Province was by far the wealthiest province of all, not all of their wealth could be measured in coin alone. From what Luo-Luo could tell, the Imperial Treasury was probably already running low on funds, else Administrator Hang would not be so tightfisted with his purse strings.

This meant it was only a matter of time before the Imperial Clan went into verifiable debt and the Emperor publicly lost face over failing to uphold His pledge. Heads would roll if matters progressed that far, starting with the Master of Coin and possibly even affecting Shen Zhen Wu and his Honoured Uncle, Grand Marshal of the Empire, Liang Bao Zheng.

Unfortunately, Lord Husband was still unaware that the ‘Honoured Uncle’ he met had such a lofty status, and Luo-Luo was unable to tell him because doing so would violate Shen Zhen Wu’s order that she keep his true identity a secret.

So, unbeknownst to him, Lord Husband’s idea for War Bonds presented a timely and ingenious solution to a looming financial problem. Debt by another name, only dressed in a prettier package, it was so beautifully simplistic Luo-Luo marvelled that no one else had ever thought to try it. It was all a matter of perception. Lord Husband framed it best himself, calling his War Bonds an investment tool rather than a form of debt, an investment into the physical and financial security of the Azure Empire itself. A guaranteed return on investment wasn’t even necessary, but it allowed the Emperor to retain face while selling these War Bonds, because this meant the Imperial Clan was entering a contract to reward their investors, even if those bonds were unlikely to ever be redeemed. Not for coin at least, because single-digit percentage return was nothing compared to a favour from the Emperor Himself, which was exactly what these War Bonds promised. They were a means for the outer-provinces to do a favour for the Imperial Emperor by ‘lending’ him coin, a favour which would not be forgotten when it came time for issuing contracts, permits, rewards, titles, and almost every other facet of Imperial agency in the Empire.

There was also the matter of face to be gained from purchasing more War Bonds than one’s associates, which was sure to be a topic of contention in public events for months to come.

Truth be told, Luo-Luo wasn’t certain if Lord Husband foresaw all these possibilities in advance, but it mattered little. The Grand Marshal saw the tremendous value of War Bonds, and were it not for Lord Husband’s insistence that the War Bonds remain transferable and Shen Zhen Wu’s support, this project would have long since been removed from Lord Husband’s control. At first, Luo-Luo believed it was because the Grand Marshal was worried Lord Husband’s office would come into question if Treasure Notes were his sole purview, but after three months of working on this endeavour, she now knew it was because Grand Marshal Liang Bao Zheng was right to have faith in Lord Husband’s talents.

