True to his word, Lord Husband was quick to return, though Luo-Luo had half expected him to be late from chatting with his beloved Mila as if no one else existed. No, that wasn’t fair, it’d been three months since they talked, and Sister Mila had so much to say regarding her time spent adrift in Insight. Sister Yan and Sister-in-Law Alsantset didn’t have much to share besides general Insights into the Martial Dao, but Sister Mila was given a glimpse into the inner workings of the world itself as she joined the ranks of Imperial Experts. It was all very fascinating, but far beyond Luo-Luo’s comprehension, so she simply put aside everything she heard for when she would need it in the future.

Regardless of her misgivings, Lord Husband only spent the bare minimum of time greeting his pets before turning to Luo-Luo with a strained smile. Moving to sit beside her, he awkwardly changed his mind and stood instead, all the while looking as if he didn’t want to be here. Was she really so unattractive and terrible to be around? Even Roc was bored of sitting in her lap, having slipped free to return to his roost. “The wedding with Mila is going to be soon,” Lord Husband began, unable to look her in the eyes. “A quiet ceremony with family only, followed by a big banquet for... everyone else.”

Oh of course, he wanted her help planning the guest list. “We will require a large venue, one befitting your status as well as Sister Mila’s. As Minister of Finance, it would serve you well to use this as an opportunity to reconcile with old rivals and encourage new friendships.”

“Uh...Right.”

“Without a full list, Lord Husband should prepare to accommodate at least one-thousand guests, perhaps even double that. At the wedding, it might benefit us if you quietly informed a select few friends about the imminent arrival of War Bonds. The Master of Coin seems eager to introduce them, and those forewarned will be better poised to purchase the first batch.”

“Ya, sure. A thousand guests. Wow.”

“Two thousand would be safest. One more thing to note: it is customary for all Imperial Scions to invite the Emperor to their wedding banquets. He does not often attend, but it’s possible the Legate will want to attend in His place, so it would be best to send out an invitation sooner rather than later, given the time constraints.”

“Got it, but uh... Luo-Luo? This wasn’t why I asked to talk to you.”

Mother in Heaven, was there something else he needed her to do? “Then how might this one serve, Lord Husband?”

“Well... see, neither of us were given a choice at the beginning of this relationship,” he said, flashing his sweet, insecure smile as he met her eyes, “But in the time we’ve spent together, you’ve shown yourself to be a smart, talented, and competent woman, and you’ve supported me through some of my most difficult times. Even when I was at my worst, you were there by my side, never once expressing anger, displeasure, or regret. You followed me to the front lines, and you guided me on the path to political victory, and I can honestly say I would not be here without you. You are an incredible woman, and I am thankful to have you by my side.” Luo-Luo’s heart surged with joy and her spirits lifted, only to be summarily smashed back into the dirt by Lord Husband’s next words. “I admire and respect you, but... well, I can’t lie and tell you I love you, no matter how much you might want it, but erm...”

Clearing his throat, Lord Husband scratched his neck and averted his gaze. Hesitantly dropping down to one knee, he brought out a velvet-encased box so similar to the one he presented to Mila, and opened it to reveal a ring adorned in white diamonds and purple amethysts. The platinum band was shaped like a phoenix, with its wings outstretched and head tilted towards the Heavens, and eyes set with twin, sparkling amethysts which almost brought the piece to life. “This is going to sound terrible,” he began, still unable to meet her eyes, “But I’ve already arranged to marry Yan on the Autumnal Solstice, and Lin-Lin in the new year. So... uh... That means the Winter Solstice is available, and... well if you want, we can get married then. Married married, like as a proper wife, rather than you being my concubine.”

Holding up a hand to forestall her immediate agreement, he cleared his throat and barrelled on. “I know you claim not to care if I love you, and that this is what you want, but you deserve better, even if you don’t believe it. So this is not a proposal, not exactly. This is a promise. If you want to be my wife, I would gladly give you the status you deserve. I promise to always treat you with care and respect, no matter what the future has in store for us. However, I also admit I have not been as... open to the idea of a relationship with you, no matter what I might have said before this. I’ve never really taken the effort to get to know you or spend time with you as... a man and a woman, I guess. Not in the... err... physical sense, but like... in a courtship? Sort of way? Fuck. I went off script.”

Taking a deep breath, Lord Husband finally raised his head to meet her eyes, and in his gaze she saw no love or passion, only fear and guilt intermingled with genuine warmth, respect, and possibly even affection. “What I’m trying to say is... I know you’re wholly committed to being my concubine and supporting me, but I don’t want a concubine or even an Imperial Servant. I want a wife who I love and loves me back, but even if that’s not in our future, I would cherish you as a friend. I can’t promise to fall head over heels for you and go to the ends of the world to see you smile, but this ring is my promise to be more open to the idea of falling in love with you.” Chuckling wryly beneath his breath, he shook his head and sighed. “This is a disaster. It all sounded so much better in my head...”

“No, it’s wonderful.” Smiling as her tears cut a trail down her cheeks, Luo-Luo reached out to take his hands, not caring about the ring or the false lies he thought it represented. “Back at the Academy, I always dreamt of being loved and adored by my Patron, but those were the silly dreams of a silly girl. You believe I deserve better, but you sell yourself short. Even if you never come to love me, I will not leave, for I have fallen madly in love with you, Lord Husband, and I will take whatever small affection you will give me.” Boldly acting on a whim, she pulled him gently into her embrace, or rather as gently as she could without letting him escape, since his natural instinct was to resist. Thankfully, Luo-Luo was much stronger now after so many months of practice, and Lord Husband was as weak as a kitten, so it was a simple matter to pull him in close. “However, I intend to win you over, Lord Husband,” she whispered, savouring the warmth of his cheek and the fresh scent of his hair as she held him tight against her bosom. “So keep your ring, and present it to me again when you truly mean to make me your beloved wife.”

It was gratifying to let go and see him reluctantly straighten up, his movements slow, cheeks flushed, and gaze hungry. If she pushed him just a little more, she might even drag him off to bed, but lust and love were not the same, and Luo-Luo had set her sights higher than ever before.

A thought which terrified her as she sauntered away, so much so that she almost ran back to snatch the ring out of his hands. Mother in Heaven, what had she done? She could have been his wife in name at least, but now she would not only have to wait until after his wedding with Yan, but probably Lin-Lin’s wedding as well, not to mention the very real possibility of Li-Li joining his harem. Then there was the fact that as Minister of Finance, there was a good chance other Imperial Nobles would look to connect with Lord Husband or even draw him over to their side, and what better way than through a proper, legitimate marriage into the Imperial Clan? Yes, Lord Husband was resistant to the idea of arranged marriages, but he was still a man of lusty appetites, so what would happen if he were presented with a prospective wife who, unlike Luo-Luo, suited his eclectic tastes?

Gently closing the door behind Jimjam, Luo-Luo collapsed into bed and hugged the wildcat tight, praying she hadn’t just made the biggest mistake of her life.

Chapter Meme
