While Luo-Luo, Administrator Hang, the Master of Coin, and everyone else thought to issue as many War Bonds as possible, Lord Husband insisted they limit them instead, and he was right to. At a measly half-percent of interest and a one year term, a ten-thousand gold War Bond was worth 9,950 gold and change, but by promising such a pitiful return, everyone involved would see through the ruse and know this for what it was: payment in exchange for a future favour. However, by limiting the total number of War Bonds sold, this allowed Lord Husband to offer a much more generous return, which they tentatively set at five percent on a one year term. While this meant the War Bond was technically worth marginally less (only 9,523 gold versus 9,950), limiting the number of War Bonds issued increased their perceived value. Instead of looking at the return on investment, the nobles of the Empire would instead be forced to place a value to what they felt a favour from the Imperial Clan was worth. So long as Shen Zhen Wu was quick to reward the first few nobles to purchase Lord Husband’s War Bonds, then a ten-thousand gold War Bond at a five percent return would easily sell for more than it was worth on paper, based on the perceived value of the favour alone. Add to this Lord Husband’s devious suggestion to issue War Bonds in scheduled batches sold to the highest bidder at blind, silent auction, and Luo-Luo foresaw them being purchased at two to three times their actual value, if not more, and all without the inevitable posturing and bloodshed which bidding wars generally invited. Best of all, even if some well-to-do family should find themselves strapped for coin and forced to sell their War Bonds, they would be worth more if sold to other nobles or merchants as opposed to redeeming them with the Imperial Treasury.

This was truly printing money, for now they could finally put a value on face. Have you purchased more War Bonds than me? No? Then clearly I have more face!

Lord Husband and Administrator Hang continued their heated discussion regarding expensive ink for some time, with neither side willing to back down until Lord Husband took up his brush and added a single stroke to the War Bond. Instead of ‘ten-thousand’, it now read ‘one-hundred thousand’, increasing its value ten-fold with no effort whatsoever. Only then did the stubborn bean-counter relent, but Lord Husband was not yet done. Prior to today, he argued that the means of production for Treasure Notes and War Bonds must solely remain with the Imperial Clan. Another clever move on his part, because this meant Lord Husband was insulated from blame. If an Imperial Scion should take advantage and create War Bonds or Treasure Notes without permission, then the fault lay with the Imperial Clan, because Lord Husband had no say in the means of production, only the distribution. Administrator Hang and the Master of Coin had leaped at this suggestion, no doubt because they intended to take advantage themselves, but now Lord Husband meant to deal those plans a death blow.

“This is outrageous!” Administrator Hang sputtered, feigning shock and indignity at Lord Husband’s suggestion. “I, Liang Yin Hang, am a loyal official of the Emperor, and I would never stoop so low as to commit fraud by selling fake War Bonds!”

“Of course not,” Lord Husband replied, and to Luo-Luo’s surprise, he actually sounded like he meant it. “However, not all officials are as moral and upright as you, Administrator Hang. Why, I bet you could name any number of your rivals who would leap at the chance to exploit our good work here for their own personal gain. Once word of this spreads, they will set their sights on your assignment here, which will be a tempting prize indeed. Why, I bet they’ll dig into everything you’ve ever done in hopes of uncovering something to blackmail you with, and when they inevitably fail to find anything, they’ll no doubt resort to fabricating false evidence.”

Seeing the pasty, gaunt Scion’s eyes go wide with alarm while tallying up his past indiscretions was almost too much for Luo-Luo to bear. “...Y-you’re right,” he stammered, mopping away at his sweaty brow. “I’ve many enemies who will stop at n-nothing t-to see me disgraced. Unscrupulous bastards the lot of them.”

“Such greed, such sin.” Patting the Administrator’s arm in sympathy, Lord Husband continued, “That is why good men like you and I must ensure there is no room for exploitation, so even if someone of low moral fibre takes our place, they will be kept in line by a system of checks and balances. Division of power is key here, because that will mean our work is beyond reproach. That’s why I suggest each Treasure Note and War Bond require three separate stamped seals before they are considered legal tender. One from the Master of Coin, one from The Grand Marshal, and one from the Chief Justicar of Fraud.”

Even though Lord Husband already discussed this with Luo-Luo beforehand, she couldn’t help but marvel at the sheer ingenuity of his plan. Administrator Hang didn’t see it yet, but he would have no choice but to eventually agree, because Shen Zhen Wu was the one who suggested the solution when Lord Husband brought up the issue during their last meeting. The distribution of power through the Grand Marshal, Prime Minister, and Royal General was already tenuous at best, and the introduction of Treasure Notes threatened to overturn it all. Given the ability to create gold out of thin air, the Grand Marshal’s office would hold too much power if left unchecked, so including the Head Justicar from the Department of Fraud in the creation process was the best solution available. This kept the Grand Marshal from printing an unlimited amount of War Bonds and Treasure Notes whenever he so pleased, and gave the creation process a much needed autonomous third party to handle quality control. Best of all, this move meant the Chief Justicar of Fraud and the Disciplinary Corps were responsible for ensuring the authenticity of War Bonds and Treasure Notes, which in turn meant the Prime Minister, whose responsibilities include managing the affairs of the Disciplinary Corps, would share equal, if not greater responsibility if a prolific counterfeiter should appear sometime in the future.

No, it was hardly a matter of if, but when...

A cunning move from Shen Zhen Wu, which reminded Luo-Luo to be wary of his schemes, but Lord Husband was not to be outdone either. Their meeting took place two weeks ago, but Lord Husband was only bringing this matter to Administrator Hang’s attention now, after he finished corresponding with the Chief Justicar of Fraud himself. It seemed strange for Lord Husband to personally see to this matter instead of telling Administrator Hang to notify the Minister of Coin and leave things to them. Why be so hands on after insisting he had no part in the production of War Bonds or Treasure Notes?

It didn’t make sense, unless Lord Husband specifically wanted to know about the anti-fraud measures, which was simply... ingenious. War Bonds would be almost impossible to fabricate without eventually getting caught, because the limited number and public sale meant it was a simple matter of numbering each War Bond and making all transactions a matter of public record. War Bonds could be traded and sold, so long as formal notice was given and a nominal fee paid to the Office of the Prime Minister and collected by the Magistrates of each Imperial City. This was a countermeasure Lord Husband himself insisted on for War Bonds, as they were a matter of Imperial Debt and therefore of grave concern, but he was much more lax regarding safety measures for Treasure Notes, and now Luo-Luo understood why.

As she noted earlier, War Bonds were a compromise, but Lord Husband had great faith in his Treasure Note scheme, and for good reason. Between bidding for War Bonds and paying for the war efforts, the outer province nobles would soon find themselves strapped for coin, and with no choice but to use their War Bonds as barter. Then, once the idea of transferable paper debt became common-place, the nobles would rail at the inconvenience of Lord Husband’s ‘nominal fee’, because one could hardly hide their dirty deals while reporting every War Bond trade to the Magistrate’s Office. Then, Lord Husband would be free to introduce Treasure Notes, which the mercantile world would be quick to snap up, allowing the Grand Marshal to print as much gold as they needed, so long as the Chief Justicar of Fraud’s approval was given.

Which they would have so long as the Emperor Himself approved and commanded it, because why wouldn’t He?

This was not the end of Lord Husband’s brilliance either, for now she saw he was planning for his inevitable displacement. Minister of Finance was a new Imperial Office created solely for the Legate’s purposes, but once word spread of how lucrative the position would be, Lord Husband fully expected to be replaced. Was planning on it, in fact, by giving Administrator Hang and the Master of Coin just enough rope to hang themselves with. Should they fail to take the proper precautions when introducing Treasure Notes, then Lord Husband intended to exploit the system to his own benefit, which would be much easier to do with Treasure Notes than War Bonds because he himself suggested they be made in smaller denominations to encourage more widespread daily use.

Thus, Luo-Luo had her answer to why he handled matters with the Disciplinary Corps himself. It was so he would be privy to their future countermeasures. With this information in hand, Lord Husband would turn to making counterfeits once his Office was taken away, thus ensuring his successor would be beset upon by calamity. Lord Husband’s plans were so insidiously deceitful, Luo-Luo couldn’t help but see him in a new light. Not only was he anticipating his foes moves, he was preparing countermeasures against them by introducing a problem he himself would later solve, thereby raising his status and dealing a blow to his enemies in one fell swoop. Lord Husband was sure his endeavours would be massively successful and he knew just how to take advantage of them, but the scariest part was, it seemed like he still had so many more ideas in store.

Falling Rain was truly a dragon among men, not only in battle, but in matters of business, finance, and politics as well.

It took the better part of an hour to convince Administrator Hang to bring Lord Husband’s triple-seal proposal to the Master of Coin, and with their work done for the day, Lord Husband brought his pets out to the pond where he immediately settled in for a nap with the Guardian Turtle. He napped quite often lately, going to bed early and woke late as well, but he still put in more work at the office than most, and even spent three days a week offering Martial advice to his soldiers and Khishigs on the training grounds. The last three months had been good to him, in more ways than one. His health was on the mend and his body was putting on weight, not to mention how his venture into sugar beets proved fruitful and he stood to make a vast fortune in processed sugar, on top of so many other of his endeavours which continued to rake in massive profits. All this on top of having his reputation cleared the moment he entered Imperial Office and received his title, proved that even crippled, Falling Rain’s accomplishments were worthy of respect.

A shame his discussions with Broken Blade Pichai had yet to show progresses. Though not privy to the details, it seemed Lord Husband’s Core was still a long ways from mending, but no matter. Martial Warriors liked to believe they held all the power, but Luo-Luo knew wealth was a power unto itself...

After his short nap, Lord Husband and Luo-Luo headed home for dinner, which turned out to be a joyous affair thanks to his earlier proposal. Amidst much cheer and many toasts, they decided midsummer was an auspicious date for the wedding, though it left precious little time to plan as it was just under a week away. Knowing time would be of the essence, Luo-Luo put on her best smile and offering to do anything she could to help with the festivities.

Even though she would much rather go back to her room to cry instead...

Once dinner was done, they gathered in the courtyard to relax, where Luo-Luo spent time teaching Tali, Anrhi, and Sorya how to play the pipa. They were all coming along well, even sweet, tone-deaf Tali, who could play a tune well enough once she memorized the notes, provided Luo-Luo tuned the instrument for her. The time passed quickly, and as everyone was heading off to bed, Lord Husband pulled Luo-Luo aside to talk. “I’m going to walk Mila home and say goodnight to Ping Ping,” he began, driving the dagger deeper into Luo-Luo’s heart. She herself slept two doors down from him, but not once did he ever walk her to her room. “It shouldn’t take too long, so could you wait up for me? I wanted to talk to you about something.”

“Of course, Lord Husband.” More work talk most likely, perhaps another idea of his to puzzle through, as if she didn’t already have enough to deal with, or maybe it was something to do with the wedding. Still, Luo-Luo put on a brave face and settled down in the living room with Jimjam at her feet and Roc in her lap to keep her company. The Laughing Bird had taken a shine to her after their time together at the Central Citadel, and she often went up to his roost to see the baby fledglings, who were already flying now that their feathers had finally come in, and they were an adorable, well-behaved bunch who were simply too darling not to love.

