The media lapped it up. And so did I. Watching aliens fade into being, confused and disoriented, was compelling in and of itself. Observing them then activate whatever magic and skills they had access to and use it to try and obliterate humanity? Better than a Game of Thrones/Stranger Things combo series!

The aliens got their asses handed to them. The US military had not been lax. They had snipers in place, drones with RPGs, tanks on the periphery. I, and the rest of the world, suspected they also had fighter jets on standby, probably even somebody with a finger hovering over the big ole nuclear button, if push came to shove.

That was not to say that the invaders were unable to fight back. While the tall, gilled aliens were, physically, relatively uniform in looks, their capabilities were anything but. The next week proved the versatility and range of their people. Whatever powered their capabilities, they were able to do things that no human ever could.

One alien burst into flames, rising a hundred meters into the air, spewing fiery death all around him, hot enough to even vaporize some of the bullets flying at him. The key word here was ‘some.’

Another one grew an ever-evolving layer of skin that kept building, making her look like a bad blend of the Hulk and the Thing from Fantastic Four. It also allowed her to shrug off every single bullet and explosion flying her way. Some napalm-like substance, meanwhile, proved bad news for her.

If the aliens had managed to enter Earth silently and create a foothold of sorts, things might have looked very different. As it stood? They were getting their asses kicked.

Some came alone. Others came in a group, showing impressive teamwork. Never more than ten at a time, though, and they never really stood a chance. One scrawny little fellow made it for a while, turning invisible and legging it away as fast as he could. Unfortunately, he wasn’t prepared for the existence of infrared motion detectors. Once they pinpointed him, hiding behind a half-scorched trailer, he went down easily. Yet another of the invaders got herself perforated by bullets, before activating an ability and diving straight back through the portal, proving that access wasn’t one-way for them. The portal just didn’t work for us.

It was the weirdest thing. I think the entirety of humanity was waiting for the other shoe to drop. What was coming? Was this just a prelude to an actual invasion? Would we wake up to see demigods popping through the portal? Slowly, softly, it felt like we were coming around to the fact that this might be it. We’d been introduced to aliens. To actual fucking magic. Only, we weren’t going to get access to it.

Then they found the second portal.
