“Hey, kiddo! I thought you’d be hitting those waves! They’re crazy! They threw me like a bug! Sorry, Klbkch. Is that racist?”
“Only if you imply bugs should be thrown, Relc. Did I hear you calling for the Watch, Mrsha?”
She turned, and Relc and Klbkch were there. Even that—hurt. Relc was grinning and bare-chested, sunscreen slathered on his scales. All he had were blue swim trunks with the Watch’s badge on them.
Klbkch had a pair of shorts on as well and sunscreen on his carapace. Relc had a crude surfboard under one arm and grinned at Mrsha.
“She looks like she’s seen a ghost. Who robbed you? I’ll beat ‘em up! Legally, of course.”
“I am prepared to take your statement, Mrsha.”
She was frozen until she managed a weak grin and wrote on a card.
Uh, false alarm, guys. You two have fun.
“False alarm? Aw. Hey, I hear we’re doing houses. Think I can get a villa?”
Relc chortled, and Mrsha realized Erin must have been doing her house thing; the Solstice was right around the corner if she was right. Mrsha hesitated.
Keep undercover. But she couldn’t help but write…
Maybe. You should ask Archmage Valeterisa for help.
“The Archmage of Izril? You think she’d help me?”
Relc was incredulous, and Klbkch stared at Mrsha as she nodded a few times. Relc hesitated, then grinned.
“I mean—it’d be awesome. What if we made a villa, Klbkch, old buddy?”
“This is a worthwhile expenditure of my valuable time. Let us inquire. Are you coming, Mrsha?”
She shook her head, and the two ambled into the beach. Mrsha caught her breath. Okay, that was fine.
—They were like their old selves. It wasn’t like they were that alternate. They were…them. It was an interaction she could have had with the real Relc and Klbkch. Of course, she knew that. That was the point.
Play. It. Cool. Mrsha glanced around. She had to—her goal was to find—
Headscratcher was right there. She hesitated, then walked over to the table. Mrsha was shaking as she pulled a notecard out of her pocket. She peered up as the Goblin Lord glanced down. Then she handed him a card and felt herself enter a dream.
In her dream, he was alive. He was big and scarred, but not scary, and he smiled gently down at her and pulled out a chair. She climbed into it, and his voice was deep and soft, even shy, as he spoke. And for a moment, Mrsha let herself dream…
 
——
 
Headscratcher blinked as Mrsha handed him a card.
Hey, can I sit here, Headscratcher?
“Mm? Sure.”
He broke out of his musings about the future and his tribe and the nature of Goblins. Headscratcher pulled out a chair, and Mrsha sat.
Staring at him.
He wondered if something was on his face. He’d vaguely noticed her throwing a fit and wondered where Sest had gone. Lyonette let Mrsha nowhere without a Thronebearer, but he supposed even they had to poop.
She…seemed different. Headscratcher tilted his head. He couldn’t have said why. No, he realized, she felt different.
This aura thing was weird, and Erin had taught him as much as she could from Maviola’s lessons, as had Lyonette, but Mrsha’s aura felt more…mature? More like a person. He was perplexed, but smiled at her.
“You want some fries?”
He had his french fries and expected her to snatch some. Mrsha reflexively almost took one, then pushed the plate back.
No thank you, Headscratcher. I was wondering if I could ask you some questions. If you’re not busy?
“I’m not. What kind of questions?”
She hesitated. She studied him up and down, and he really did check his reflection in his glass to make sure he didn’t have boogers or something on his face. Mrsha handed him a pre-written card. Headscratcher read it out loud.
“If I had to choose between an easy, happy life and one that hurts, but matters, which one would I choose? Eh, what do you mean by ‘matters’?”
What a weird question. But he sort of liked it; it was like the philosophical discussions he had with Crimshaw and Normen and the remaining Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. Most had gone to Oteslia with Wilovan and Ratici, but the rest had stayed here and been folded into the staff.
Mrsha handed him a second card. Also pre-written.
It’s a hypothetical question. In one world, you live like you are. Just like this. In another, you suffer. You’ll be in terrible pain. You could die. Regardless, it’ll hurt. But you might help save lives.
“Whose?”
It was a question Headscratcher didn’t like to ask, but if he was engaging with this premise—he was a Goblin Chieftain. He had to make difficult calls and hated it. If his tribe helped someone, he risked his warriors and people. Mrsha paused.
Hypothetically, Erin.
She waved a paw as his mouth opened instantly.
Hold on! In this scenario, imagine there are two Erins. One needs your help. One is the Erin that’s here. If the other one needed help, would you leave this Erin behind?
Okay, Headscratcher was going to ask Imani if Palt had dropped his dreamleaf into the food again, because Mrsha was acting like she’d eaten something. But he genuinely thought about it.
“Well, of course I’d help other Erin.”
Even if you might die? Even if the cost is never seeing this Erin again?
He grunted.
“Okay, that changes things. That sounds…bad. Why would I go help other Erin and never see this Erin again? You trying to make me sad, silly?”
He poked her in the stomach and tried to tickle her, but she jumped like he’d stabbed her and didn’t laugh. Mrsha caught Headscratcher’s finger with her paw as he drew his hand back, squeezing it so tight…
Her paw was shaking. He stared at her as Mrsha wrote, then let go.
Because the other Erin needs you. I guess my question isn’t whether you would. Who would do that? It’s how anyone could leave it all behind.
She gave him a look of such pain that he stood up, searching around to see if someone had hurt her. But Headscratcher saw nothing, and when he sat down, he looked her in the eyes and smiled.
“Yah, that weird. I wonder. Because to me, Mrsha…this Erin needs me too.”
He pointed towards the beach garden. Headscratcher thought of the future. People threatened him, but he also heard them threaten Erin. Goblinfriend, they called her. She had put so much on the line for him and Rags and his people. Well, Goblinfriend she would be. He would keep her safe.
He tried to say this to Mrsha, clumsily, flushing, to explain what it was. Not love in the sense of silly things like sex and such that Numbtongue seemed to sometimes get lost in. Something more. The kind of feeling that you died for, that redeemed you even if you were a monster.
The gift he wished he could have given a lost [Florist] in a city of chaos and rubble. Redemption for him. A better ending.
How could he even tell a child this and get her to understand? But Mrsha did understand. She listened and solemnly handed him another card.
I think you answered my question perfectly, Headscratcher. Thank you, and I’m sorry for bothering you.
She got up, took her cards back, and hugged him. She put her arms around him so gingerly it was as if she were him and afraid he’d break. Then she hugged him tighter, so hard he was shocked, and buried her head into his side, inhaling, exhaling, as if trying to memorize his scent, staring at him and then breaking away and running for the beach before he could say a word.
Headscratcher sat there as Mrsha dashed away. He was contemplating philosophical trolly problems—then stood up.
“Excuse me.”
He headed into the kitchen after knocking, and a laughing Imani, Palt, and Calescent glanced up.
“Oh, Headscratcher! Can I get you a smoothie? We’re almost done with another batch!”
Calescent nodded as he ground ice. Headscratcher shook his head and stepped over to the blender. He peered into it, then pointed.
“What’s in here?”
Everyone looked at Palt accusingly, and the Centaur held up his hands, trying to protest he’d done nothing. Him double-checking his belt pouches didn’t exactly help his case.
 
——
 
“Hey, Mrsha, there you are!”
A girl froze in peeking through the door to the beach. She tried to run—but Jelaqua grabbed her and held her up, laughing merrily and tossing the girl up and down, despite Mrsha’s size.
“I thought I just saw you! Weird. What’re you doing out here and what happened to poor Ser Sest? And why aren’t you enjoying yourself?”
Jelaqua Ivirith was a jovial sort, especially because she’d announced her upcoming wedding to Maughin just after Christmas. She swung Mrsha around, showing off her freshly-dead corpse body, complete with a chainmail bra and underwear.
Thankfully, the chainmail also had padding, and Mrsha blinked at the Selphid and the embarrassed Maughin.
“I swore I just saw you, right, Maughin?”
“Perhaps, dear. Don’t bother Mrsha, though. Greetings.”
The Dullahan nodded at Mrsha with that reserve, and Jelaqua scratched her head.
“How many white Gnoll girls are there? Agh, after the Meeting of Tribes—you know what? This is like how everyone can’t tell us Selphids apart. Lemme try again. Mrsha, there’s another white Gnoll in Liscor! Nailed it.”
She winked, then put Mrsha under one arm. The girl squirmed.
Hi, Jelaqua, I’m sort of busy today—
“Busy with what? Scheming for presents? C’mon, let’s have some fun. The gang’s all here, and I just got this new body. Like my chainmail swimsuit? A certain [Smith] made it for me.”
She leaned over and whispered in Mrsha’s ear.
“He really likes it.”
Maughin ahemed so loudly everyone looked at him, then he hurried them into the beach. Sunlight hit Mrsha’s fur, and the smell of salt water entered her nose. She blinked at a familiar memory.
A dream. So much better than any daydream. For a moment, she saw laughing faces, and somewhere, she heard Erin Solstice calling out.
“Where’s Niers? I think I saw him go under over there! No, don’t all run over—”
Chaos. Laughter.
Pyrite frying hot dogs on the beach with Pebblesnatch and Ulvama and Grev…
—Impossible. Mrsha rubbed her eyes, and Jelaqua stormed across the beach, shouting.
“Erin! Erin, I want a villa! Aw, darn it, she can’t hear me. Mrsha, can you put in a good word with Erin for me? Please? I have this romantic idea for a getaway, and it is my wedding…”
She gave Mrsha a beaming smile, and Mrsha wrote, distracted. She knew she shouldn’t, but there was this temptation. It was a dream, and if she wrote this…what happened?
Why don’t you share one with Rufelt and Lasica and Pelt and Imani? You could all have a great time. And get married there instead of in Pallass with a bunch of Dullahans who’re jerks.
Jelaqua tripped going down the beach. Maughin caught her by one arm, and she beamed up at him. Then hissed at Mrsha, eyes narrowed.
“Who told you about Maughin’s family—it’s going to be fine, Mrsha. Not that I haven’t thought of eloping. Ha. Haha. Hahahahahaha—but it’s very important to Dullahans.”
Her laughter was only slightly hysterical. Mrsha gazed up at her and wondered if there was a better future for her in this strange and silly dream. One where Erin Solstice attended the wedding and…
What was going on with the Jelaqua in the real world? Mrsha tried to get out of the Selphid’s arms, but the adventurer just shouted.
“And here everyone is! No one’s late for once!”
“Except you, Ivirith! Get over here.”
Mrsha went still as an echoing voice filled her ears. She turned, and the fake sunlight blinded her momentarily as it hit the waters. But she still saw the familiar silhouette of Seborn. A smiling Drowned Man waving a claw arm, wearing his [Rogue]’s outfit because he refused to walk around in a pair of swim shorts.
His outfit was waterproof anyways, and he stood next to a giant mound of sand with Visma and Ekirra playing around with shovels. Mrsha saw a leg…and Revi groused as someone kicked more sand over her leg. She was sewing it back on.
“Hey! Watch the sand! I’ve decided I hate the beach.”
“Oh, hush, Revi. Cade, don’t run near Revi. She’s a grouch. Go play with Typhenous.”
The boy running about was redirected by Briganda, who was fussing with some sunscreen. Revi shooed the toddler away, and someone else called out with a laugh.
“Don’t send him to Typhenous! He’s flirting with the [Witches] again! Hey, Cade, play with Uncle Pisces and me! Cool Aunt Ceria!”
“I am certainly no one’s uncle—”
Pisces protested with a hearty sniff as he lounged on the beach, shirtless, next to Ceria. Yvlon was in the surf, trying to swim as Ksmvr cheered her on, one lead weight to another.
The Horns of Hammerad. Mrsha’s eyes locked on Pisces’ chest, and she saw only bare skin. Marred by a sunburn because he thought he was too good for sunscreen…
Fate changed. She saw it in his casual grin, the way he leaned over with a bucket of sand as Ceria froze some to make a sandcastle. No hiding a scar. No—
Jelaqua ran forwards, laughing, and pointed.
“Look who I found! Moore, where’re you? And where’s Halrac? I thought it was adventurers together!”
“It is. Halrac’s just over there with Ylawes. Oi, lad!”
Dawil was wringing water out of his beard. Mrsha couldn’t move as Jelaqua put her down. She turned her head, but the bodies were blocking out—she took two steps back as Ceria waved at her.
“Hey, Mrsha, did you ever get that smoothie? Has Imani got more in stock?”
What did she say? Mrsha was torn between trying to lie and staring into the crowd. Jelaqua put her hands on her hips.
“And where’s Moore?”
Run. Mrsha turned to run, heart pounding. A voice stopped her.
His voice rumbled gently with that faintly aggrieved tone that said he was hurt. Like you’d hurt the feelings of a hill made of clouds. His brown beard was crusted with sand, and when he opened his eyes, and they were the color of soft soil. His smile was cautious, but wide when the eyes fixed on her, and when he shifted, the mountain of sand that Visma and Ekirra had been burying him under moved.
“No, Moore! We were almost done burying you alive!”
Visma shrieked. Mrsha said nothing as the giant mound shifted. Once again, as they had in ages past, a Giant snuck up on mere mortals and slew her dead with a smile.
Moore sipped on a huge fruit drink with one hand as the children ran about him, trying to re-bury the half-Giant, and Jelaqua laughed herself off her feet. She flopped down.
“I didn’t even—! There goes my adventurer instincts. Halrac! There you are! Here’s your favorite little Gnoll!”
She waved, and Mrsha’s head slowly turned. She saw a man with blonde hair and a perfect chin trooping forwards, awkward without his silver armor. But her gaze was truly on the shorter, plainer man next to Ylawes with grey-green eyes and flaxen hair and a scowl on his face.
