And the Goblins, Trolls, and undead Mortemdefieir Titan saw the window open in the air. The [Student] waited, sweating.
“Come on. Come on. One of you…please. This world has to be filled with some kind of hope.”
She whispered, and Chieftain Rags looked over.
One of you? 
 
——
 
Chieftain Perale of the Wild Wastes tribe was snoozing in a hammock he’d set up outside his yurt when a Skill hit him. He was used to Skills; most did not work on a [Chieftain] of his level. You often had little Gnolls or idiots who thought they could use a Level 10 Skill on him.
They bounced off or had a lesser effect. It was hard to explain, but most Skills never touched him unless they were friendly or he wanted it or his opponent was strong.
This one sent him tumbling out of his hammock. He landed, shouting.
“What? No!”
The feeling, that plea, receded, and he felt—guilty. Guilty, despite knowing for a certainty that he and his tribe had no connection with—an image appeared in his mind’s eye—
A trendy young Goblin? What?
He didn’t know her, hadn’t ever met her, and yet, he felt guilty as the Skill vanished. Perale pulled himself up, tensed, waiting—and then he cocked his head. He spoke.
“I…have nothing to send. But why, yes, I will look.”
A window opened in front of him. A scrying spell, but more perfect. A doorway into a dark place. Perale’s eyes narrowed, then he recoiled with an oath.
“Dragon’s teats!”
He saw a monster from his nightmares—definitely his nightmares now—and then heard laughter. Perale took one look into the mirror and saw the image split.
For a second, he locked eyes with an astonished Fraerling sitting at a war room table with a dozen Tallfolk, including Erin Solstice, the Wind Runner, Ryoka Griffin, a green little woman with insect wings, and a host of Fraerlings. Niers met Perale’s gaze, then his eyes swept the ground.
Chieftain Perale. Niers Astoragon. And—with her own window—Foliana, Three-Color Stalker herself. Then Perale saw another window open and two more figures appeared.
A grey-bearded Goblin sitting on a swaying ship, glowering, healing burns criss-crossing his front—a Goblin with a sword that Perale recognized.
—And a cross-legged Goblin sitting on a stone, a jungle forest behind her. Both Goblins peered ahead, noticed they were being watched, and then vanished. Perale stared, fur standing on end, and the young Goblin spoke.
“Hey, Professor. Little help here…? Where’s Earl Altestiel? I thought he’d at least check. My Skill didn’t even work on Erin. Weird.”
In silence, the others regarded each other. Perale felt like clarifying…what? He edged backwards and saw the window was following him. Then he ran as he watched the drama playing out.
“Berr. Berr!”
Perale shouted for an old Gnoll, who looked up from his own nap next to a fire. Perale slowed, panting, and barked orders at a young Gnoll.
“Get me a [Shaman] and—Chieftain Feshi and everyone you’ve got. Hey, Berr.”
“Hm? What’s up, Perale?”
Berr the Berserker opened one lazy eye, and Perale pointed.
“Want to see an Old One?”
The Gnoll thought about it and sat up.
“Sure.”
 
——
 
In the Titan of Baleros’ war room, everyone panicked except for Niers and Foliana. Well, Foliana just vanished. Ryoka Griffin drew her Faeblade, and promptly fumbled it, as the soldiers leapt to their feet.
“Hostile Skill! Countermeasures!”
One of the [Strategists] in the war room meeting exploded from his chair, drawing a wand and snapping a spell at the image so fast that the spell passed through the projection before the Goblin even finished speaking.
The rest of the room were on their feet. Iuncuta Eirnos had her crossbow aimed at the image, and the Fraerlings were as disconcerted as the rest of the Forgotten Wing company.
A hostile Skill in the headquarters of the Titan of Baleros? It had bypassed even the Fraerlings’ wards! The Titan himself had risen to his feet, a snarl on his face. Then he blinked, and his mouth fell open a bit. Commander Rozcal glanced around, dumbfounded.
“What the Gnome is going on—”
Erin Solstice had pulled a wand out of her belt, and the tip was glowing green. She lowered the wand slightly, hostile eyes widening.
“…Chieftain Rags?”
“Hey, Professor! Too busy to write an essay—look what I found!”
The Goblin in the center of the image waved at Niers as, behind her, the largest undead anyone had ever seen, a rotting head, a crawling arm, and a leg, moved in the darkness. The Forgotten Wing company was dumbfounded. There were other people in the image—like a scrying spell, or Erin’s [World’s Eye Theatre], they could make out a confused Gnoll.
The Professor was surprised in his way; not by the Skill activating; that had made him narrow his eyes. He had, in fact, been staring at Erin Solstice…until Greydath of Blades and Izikere the Guardian, the two Goblin Lords, had appeared.
Then his head had snapped around. The Fraerling visibly caught himself as the two vanished, narrowing his eyes.
“Astounding. That’s Chieftain Rags. And that’s…also Rags? And that—Old One Titan.”
His pronouncement had every person in the room drawing a weapon. All except for one. Foliana hadn’t drawn a dagger. She rematerialized and muttered.
“She’s calling you. Friendly Skill. You took a Goblin as a student.”
Every head snapped around to Niers. The Fraerling twitched and snapped back.
“I did not. I don’t even know what Skill—dead gods, she’s requesting [Fire Support]. Or something close to it. Who’s the Gnoll? I don’t know her, I swear.”
—He was far too calm. His voice had an edge of tension, but it was clear that whatever surprise this was, it was something he was at least aware had been coming. Eirnos narrowed her good eye at him, but the confusion was becoming focused amazingly fast. Ryoka was still panicking; but the [Strategists] had already sat down, even if they were swearing. One of them was running a finger down some kind of menu only visible to her.
“She wants wall spells, a full volley from every main company not engaged—sir, does this Goblin company have access to Forgotten Wing intelligence?”
Niers snapped back.
“No. Silence. Chieftain Rags, what is going on?”
The [Student] was, in fact, running fast as, behind them, warriors and Trolls were fleeing from the advancing Mortemdefieir Titan.
“Big Old One in the depths of the High Passes, sir! Thought you’d be interested! Do I get extra credit for this one? Mind, uh, helping? Diomedes’ beard and Tulm’s hemorrhoids, what are you waiting for?”
Several members of the war council twitched at that. It wasn’t the most elegant passphrase, but it was the kind of thing they taught students to signal if they were in trouble. Niers turned from the young Goblin claiming to be his student to Foliana to Erin—
“Did too take a student. Mm. That’s a big Old One.”
Foliana muttered. Niers drew breath to object, then his eyes swiveled to Erin Solstice. The [Innkeeper] was standing there, taking in the entire moment. Then she jumped and seemed to remember who she was. She turned to Niers.
“Well? What are you waiting for? Rags is in trouble! Help her!”
She snapped, and Iuncuta Eirnos broke in, the Fraerling’s voice taut.
“We have no idea what’s going on. This could be a ruse, a trick, and we have no context. Rozcal, get our [Mages] on this—whatever it is.”
Niers was addressing Erin, glancing around at his audience. He twisted a ring on his finger as the Mortemdefieir Titan spoke and death magic erupted in geysers behind the fleeing Goblins. His Ring of Greater Sight, analyzing the situation.
“With respect, Erin, this may be a ploy of some kind. Rags, retreat your forces. I’m willing to throw a Skill, but I need information.”
“Sort of hard, Professor! My Skill won’t work long! Come on!”
The [Student] was shouting. Niers nodded.
“Then we’ll have [Scrying] spells in place—”
“Not this far underground! Professor! Please!”
The Old One’s head was advancing up the tunnel, but it was as unnerved as the audience; it was staring warily at them and said a word.
“Fraerlings?”
The Professor’s eyes narrowed. Everyone was waiting for his reply, and Erin rested a hand on the table.
“Niers. Please—”
She met his gaze with a hopeful smile, and it—didn’t work. If anything, Niers’ gaze became more implacable. Foliana slid out of her chair and picked something off the table. She hopped out of the room as the Fraerling studied the situation.
Did he believe this was real? He had no evidence beyond the Skill, which was a kind of evidence in itself, but he had been tricked before. What he ‘sensed’ could be faked. He’d had a lesson in that quite recently.
Niers locked eyes with the desperately grinning Goblin with crimson eyes, as impudent as Marian at her worst, as reckless as Venaz, and with Wil’s moment of genius.
A student I never had. He glanced at Erin Solstice’s confused face, took a breath, and barked.
“I will be deploying Skills in aid of these Goblins. Get me our [Diviners] and tell them to link and punch through a [Scrying] spell on that position with our Fraerlings. [Expeditious Retreat]!”
He had to concentrate to throw the Skill across the world, but it accelerated the Goblins’ retreat. There was a cry of disappointment, of hurt, from the running [Student]. Niers Astoragon tried to ignore it.
Erin was reaching out for him, face taut, and Ryoka was quivering.
“You can’t let them die. You—”
She was looking around for something. Ryoka fumbled her Faeblade back into her belt, peering around the table, under an overturned cup—
“Hey, where’s Shaestrel?”
Everyone ignored her. Niers was arguing with the younger Rags’ pleas, trying to direct another Skill into the confusion. The Mortemdefieir Titan was advancing now, confident, and Niers was trying to calculate how many Goblins he could save.
He didn’t trust this. And perhaps it was the wrong call, but—Niers glanced at Erin.
He’d been tricked too many times.
 
——
 
The Goblins were in full flight. The gambit, the high-level Skill was failing with no one to answer it. It was flickering out.
Mentors. Legends. It was notable that Erin Solstice wasn’t among them, but she was definitely warded by magic against Skills like this. Or dead. A Goblin cried out for a vision of better days, a miracle, something to believe in, and no one answered.
Of them all, it was the Professor, Niers, the real Titan, who let his student down the most. But he wasn’t the one she knew. Even if it cut him with razors for his mistakes—he had enough scars.
He’d live.
At his best, Niers could be impulsive, rash, risk his life, and at his worst, he could be that cold-blooded [Strategist] who played chess without regard for the feelings of the pieces. He might have been the world’s greatest [Strategist], but he was still far from perfect.
—That was why he was second-in-command of the Forgotten Wing Company.
That was why she ruled, not him.
A Squirrel-woman stood on the walls of Elvallian, because she could move fast. She finished her conversation, and a green faerie sat on Foliana’s twitching ear.
“So…real? But you have no, mm, real proof?”
“None. But yeh ever see something so stupid it must be real?”
Foliana thought about that. Then a faint smile crossed her face.
“Good point.”
—One small detail. When Rags had called for her mentors, for the people who inspired her, whom she trusted, whom she’d learned from—she had opened a window to each one.
Chieftain Perale, the two Goblins Lords, Earl Altestiel, Erin Solstice, Niers Astoragon…
And Foliana.
Now, her face shone through the window as Niers glanced at her.
“Foliana? Where are you?”
“On the walls. I’ve made up my mind.”
Foliana had a breakfast muffin in her paws. She nibbled at it, then stood straighter. She stared ahead at the laughing head and nodded.
“I see an Old One. It dies.”
“Foliana? We don’t—”
She spoke over him. Her voice was quiet, but it grew, magnifying itself. [Soldiers] on the walls reacted to her command as Three-Color Stalker spoke, and her eyes gleamed.
“Fire every wall spell Elvallian has. Now. Strategist Niers—give that Goblin full fire support. Shut up. That’s an order.”
One breathless moment. One second where everyone hesitated. Then they remembered who she was. Niers peered at Foliana, and she winked one huge eye at the Goblin, at him, at Erin and Ryoka.
Sometimes, he just needed a push to be his best self. She tapped one foot—and then felt the wall rumble. The first spell activated with a rumble that set off alarms across the city, and Foliana saw a bolt of lightning flash from one of the towers. A massive one that turned the day bright—and it vanished into the air, criss-crossing the world.
She chuckled, and she could hear delighted laughter. Shaestrel and her kin swooped around Foliana, shaking tiny fists and cheering. Then—the Titan of Baleros was speaking.
“Coordinate those wall spells! Boost each one with a Skill! And tell every archer company to volley! Enchanted munitions! [Volley Fire]!”
Foliana took a seat on the battlements so her legs were dangling off the wall and watched the show. She could hear Gnolls cheering in the background and the whoop of that little [Student]. The Goblin was cute. Foliana was sure she’d have taken her in as a student if she felt like it.
 
——
 
The first bolt of [Grand Lightning] materialized and blew a chunk out of the Titan’s head. Then a hail of fiery arrows followed it, then a volley of gigantic light arrow spells. The Titan howled in surprise, and Niers grunted.
“Cancel the scrying spell. Every single [Diviner] will find me the location of Chieftain Rags. [Geomancers] to appraise the stones. Then run it to a [Historian]. I want identification on what the hell that is. Now, where are the wall spells?”
“Here, sir.”
Someone held up a glowing scroll, and the Professor pointed.
“[Volcanic Eruption].”
There was a glow beneath the head as it began to speak.
“Protect m—”
A flare of light, smog, and ash as burning light opened up from the ground. Niers grunted again.
“Works like a [Fire Support] Skill. Strategist Vler, get me in touch with Diomedes’ [Archers]. High-yield ammunition.”
“Professor, hit the leg! The other two parts regenerate indefinitely unless you break the cores!”
That came from the other side of the image. The student was scrambling to her feet, eyes wide, ducking as more spells passed through the Skill. Niers snapped at her as the war room burst into chaos.
“Report the situation, student!”
“Yes, sir! We have nineteen wounded, eight dead. You already have specifications on the enemy. Two limbs unaccounted for; one down. I met a lot of Trolls on the way down. I estimate their forces at—argh!”
