For a second, they thought she’d been hit, but another Goblin had just decided to kneecap her clone with a savage kick. She stood, panting, covered in dust, and rasped.
“When it links, everything dies. We broke the core in the leg. Tell 2nd Army we’re not the threat.”
Niers nodded at Chieftain Rags and pointed at one of his [Strategists] without looking.
“Get me an intelligence report on Pallass’ 2nd Army and a straight line to Chaldion—no, that idiot in Pallass. Recopy the message to every [Senator] in the Assembly of Crafts with over ten years of experience and send a [Magic Picture] of that.”
He pointed at the screaming face burning with fire as it began to regenerate in real time. Someone blanched and whispered.
“Dead gods.”
“Get me all our [Battlemages]. I want a volley of a hundred [Acid Orbs] from Teizlec’s Magic Corps—if they’re not in the middle of combat—in thirty seconds. Tell them it’s a [Fire Support] Skill. How many Tallfolk Vortex Arrows do we have?”
“Sixteen?”
“Damn. Then—there’s two ballistae on Chess Tower Five. Tell them to fire Tremor Bolts. [Mark Target]!”
The Titan of Baleros felt—easier. He’d already known what was going on, known what the smart decision was, and been resigned to the cost of his decisions. Now, he had orders.
They might be stupid orders from Foliana, but they were ones he had to obey. Despite the cost—he laughed softly as he saw the munitions flying and knew Foliana was enjoying the show too. What was the point of having ammunition stores and spells if you didn’t burn something to ash now and then?
“Barely a passing grade, though. Making me do all the work is not a gamble I’d take.”
He muttered, but Niers was smiling as he watched the Mortemdefieir Titan’s limbs begin to writhe, then retreat. The head was shouting curses. And the leg?
The leg was dying.
 
——
 
Chieftain Rags was still running, but she came back for Student Rags. The idiot was trying to act as eyes for Niers and call in where each shot was landing. She was crouched behind a piece of stone for cover, but it was not safe.
The backblast from some of the munitions and spells the Forgotten Wing company was hurling at the Titan sent shrapnel flying everywhere. Rags saw a dozen [Valmira’s Comets] hitting the leg, blowing its ankle off.
It was actually dying. Rags’ mouth was dry with awe. She’d heard the Forgotten Wing company was engaged in two wars—and it still had this much firepower to drop in a moment?
Or maybe it was the other Rags’ Skill. She could hear the Professor speaking.
“I think I just saw that seith core. [Highlight Target]. [Boost Spell]—hit the grand lightning.”
This time, the roaring bolt kicked both Rags’ off their feet, and Chieftain Rags raised her head in time to see the hand jerk as its bones illuminated for a moment, then collapse. Was the seith core destroyed? It began moving again, and Rags waited for a follow up.
None came. The Titan was already out of sight; it was running for the hills, abandoning its dead limb as fast as it could.
The Skill ended, and everyone collapsed in the silence before getting up and continuing the retreat. They had to help the younger Rags to move; the [Student] was lying against one wall, gasping for air. A minute of devastation had passed on top of the four minutes since she’d activated her Skill; the image of Niers was gone. Student Rags looked mostly dead; Leapwolf was nudging her with a boot.
The head of the Titan fled, screaming, as a burning husk of flesh lay there. The arm jerked after it, and the younger Rags gazed up.
“Hey.”
She rasped, raising a shaking hand. Rags clasped it and helped the student up, but Leapwolf and Mousebite had to carry Student Rags in the end. The [Chieftain] strode with them as they headed upwards, following the markings they’d left. Another small victory for organization; without them, this Rags would have never found them in time. The…real Rags?…asked her copy the only question that she could think of as they marched.
“Why did you come here?”
The [Student] blinked at the question. She rasped back.
“You needed my help. Plus, there was this Goblin, Dyeda? She asked me for help. It’s what Erin would do, after all.”
She flashed an exhausted grin with all her teeth, and Chieftain Rags stood there blankly, swaying. The [Student] gave Rags a thumbs-up.
“This is amazing.”
The Goblin had a sparkle in her eyes, like better days and wondrous events. The older Goblin stared at her, resisted the urge to smack her on the head—then felt the hilarity well up. She began to chuckle too, despite herself. Chieftain Rags laughed as she realized Student Rags was right.
Suddenly—
She really had to have a conversation with Mrsha.
 
——
 
Two Rags emerged from the mountain where one had first entered. They exited with neither victory nor abject defeat.
The Old One was retreating, trying to regroup with its pieces, and one limb was dead, another wounded. It was afraid, battered by the Skill. The Trolls were calling it a victory, however disjointed.
Chieftain Rags had no idea what to make of it. The moment Snapjaw found her and hugged her, she gave a report full of terrible news.
“The Dragons are all hurt, Chieftain. All three! They beat up like if I chew on steak for five minutes! And Dyeda and Rianchi say weird things going on with the inn. Uh, aside from—”
She gestured at the shorter Rags, who was high-fiving other Goblins, showing off her skate-shoes to everyone, and handing out autographed cards. The other Goblins were caught between utter bewilderment, disbelief, or hilarious joy at the strange miracle.
The Chieftain considered her situation. The Titan was now fully on alert and forming up. Teriarch had just been taken out.
Disastrous. 
On the other hand, the Titan of Baleros now knew exactly what they were facing. Mixed? And—she glanced at the [Student] and resisted the urge to kick her over a cliff.
2nd Army also now knew exactly what they were facing. Plus? Minus?
She looked up, and Student Rags had the effrontery to give her a pair of finger-guns. Rags shook her head and realized the main change was what she had learned. Mrsha’s secret.
The [Palace of Fates]. The roots.
No wonder Mrsha had kept it secret. Rags flexed her claws and thought of…Pyrite. Garen Redfang. Her…parents.
She turned to Snapjaw.
“We’re going back to the inn. Now.”
Everything that mattered was there. It always had been.
 
——
 
General Shirka of 2nd Army was not a superstitious Drake. She didn’t believe in luck affecting battlefields—except that it was an actual thing some Skills could affect. But she didn’t believe in omens or ill-fated battles or campaigns. Just stupid decisions.
She stared for a long time at the image of a screaming, undead head that she put at the height of multiple Drakes tall and re-checked the notes.
The Titan of Baleros said there was an Old One Titan in the High Passes. He didn’t mention the Goblins at all, but her [Infiltrator] in the inn had just cited seeing two Chieftain Rags. He’d of course prefaced this by saying she could have gotten around him or used the [Garden], but he’d sworn he’d seen one take off via Wyvern only for the other to appear in the inn and leave.
Events in the inn…she paged through a long report.
Singing? Ailendamus? Child abuse?
—Her head hurt, but it reminded her of when she’d eavesdropped on Grimalkin trying to explain a ‘Solstice event’ at Scales and Tails or when Saliss had regaled her with stories.
Roll with the unexpected. Don’t stop moving.
“Any word from General Edellein?”
She barked at her [Strategist], Ulhouse. The Drake’s reply was sour.
“He’s ‘considering the situation’. But he doesn’t believe the Titan of Baleros. His [Strategists] suggest that we let this Mortemdefieir Titan attack the Goblins or see what it does first before moving in. Pallass is ready to send reinforcements via [Wyvern Riders], and you’ve been authorized to request bombardments. Orders unchanged. Take out Goblinhome?”
“…Esor said we should wait to see what it does? Esor thinks the situation’s unchanged?”
“No, Ma’am. I said General Edellein’s [Strategists].”
Shirka swore under her breath in a stream of invectives. But in truth—she hated to admit it, but 2nd Army was now in the right place at the right time. She gave orders as her officers glanced up from the cookpots.
“Ulhouse, pick a spot and dig us in. We’re advancing as ordered…slowly. Deploy scouts. I want to know where that Titan is, where it could emerge; there are countless exit points. Get me in touch with the Forgotten Wing company privately. And our [Infiltrator]?”
“Yes, General? Recall him?”
“No. Send as many as we can. Our people. Tell him to figure out what’s going on.”
General Shirka sat back, gnawing on some flatbread and meat as she stared into the distance. Old One Titan.
She shivered. And what had made the High Passes quake earlier today? She had no idea. She didn’t like that. She felt like she was being outflanked.
 
——
 
Madness at The Wandering Inn. Two Rags and two Mrshas met for a conference in the [Palace of Fates]. Lyonette was still missing from the events that morning.
Pallassian spies were everywhere. Niers was demanding answers, and no one had any idea what was going on.
Even Mrsha and Rags. Fate had turned from a series of probabilities to chaos; all the doors in the [Palace of Fates] were shivering.
The future was changing so rapidly no one could keep up. Was the Faerie King laughing? Had he predicted this?
What next?
What next?
The only certainty was that all the potential for tragedy and the impossibly wondrous was all in flux. The dead could come back.
For the [Student] from a happier time, she looked around, and her smile flickered and wavered.
For the two Mrshas, they exchanged glances and knew what they intended. But neither one knew if it was right or if the people they wanted, needed, could make the terrible journey.
Hope for the needy.
Suffering for the happy.
If you could change fate—what in the world would you sacrifice for it? What would you do? 
One of the two Mrsha flopped down into the grass with a groan and decided to pass out for a few seconds before she had to take on two Rags’ and all that would come next. The other went to play her role in the inn. But what would come next? What would their decisions lead to?
Each and every person asked themselves that question. From the youngest Gnoll girl to the ancient Harpy Queen of old empire.
In the [Palace of Fates], the doors sat there, waiting. Answers, secrets, alternate worlds, waiting for the doors to open and reveal the truth. The Goblin King’s door sat there, cracked and filled with a rage that even the [Palace of Fates] could not fully contain.
Death watched. Angry, confused, betrayed by this wrongness.
And in the silence, unnoticed by all, a door slightly ajar moved. A root trembled—then turned black, dying, all the fate, all the energy and the power it craved, the very essence that desperate divinities drank, the flowers of Avalon in fullness—withered away.
To give substance and life to a being who had been only a ‘what-if’ a moment ago. To give a chance to someone, whether or not she deserved it.
A pair of paws pulled the figure through the door slowly, and then she was through, shuddering, shaking her fur out, wand drawn. The young woman looked…nothing like her younger self. Her brown fur was sleek, and she glanced over her shoulder. Then Mrsha looked around. She holstered her wand and spoke, her magical voice gravelly.
“…Erin?”
 
——
 
A voice spoke in the moments between a child’s nap. With self-satisfaction, because, after all, it was the first time it had done this. It felt like this was appropriate, though. Given the circumstances.
 
[Emberbearer Level 7!]
[Last Survivor Level 14!]
[Druid Level 13!]
[Scribblequill Student Level 13!]
[Conditions Met: Emberbearer → Fatebreaker Child class created!]
[Class Consolidation: Last Survivor removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Druid removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Scribblequill Student removed.]
 
[Fatebreaker Child Level 15!]
[Skill – Lucky Moment obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Immunity: Fate obtained]
[Skill – Words of Conviction obtained!]
[Skill – Other Me’s Skill created!]
 
——
 
<Priority Query (Body 1) — Immediate status update.>
<Response (Body 2) — All nominal.>
<Priority Query (Body 1) — Clarification?>
<Response (Body 2) — Appending report log.>
<Priority Warning (Body 1) — Proceed pending review. Prepare for potential hostile action.>
<Response (Body 2) — Which individuals? Location?>
<Priority Warning (Body 1) — Entities unknown. Location: Kasignel. Targets: Us? Unknown. Intent: Unknown. Unknownunknownunknownunknownunknownunknownunknownunknown.>
<Priority Query (Body 2) — Clarification requested.>
<Response (Body 1) — Standby.>
<Priority Query (Body 2) — Clarification request?>
<Priority Query (Body 2) — Clarity?>
<Higher Priority Query (Body 2) — Response?>
<Response (Body 1) — whAt…aRE thEy?>
