Every warrior instantly turned and ran; they’d been briefed on this too. The cores pulsed, and then a zone of absolute midnight spread from both, a radius of instant death for anything it touched.
Only—this time, Rags knew it was coming, and not a single warrior was hit. The insects were; they dropped dead, then reanimated on the spot, and Rags saw the death-fields envelop a good twenty feet of space around both limbs…then recede.
It couldn’t pull that trick again. The cores were weaker now, visibly upset, though Rags could only judge by the flickering of magic across the seith. She bared her teeth.
“Break that one! [Mark Target]! Go, go, go!”
The hand began to swing like it was on a rotor, just sweeping around in a circle, trying to crush everything in its path. It almost managed to sweep the warriors away—until eight Trolls and Somo and all her Ogres met it with a crash of flesh on flesh that sent both limb and warriors to the ground.
Redscar jumped and brought Garen’s blade across the damaged seith core, and Rags heard a crack. The leg began jerking rhythmically, unable to move like it wanted, and she screamed, just as she had heard.
“Somo! Break that damn core to bits!”
The Ogre looked up, saw the second core descending as the first began to try to withdraw into the arm. But the Goblins were throwing ropes now, pulling it back, and Somo ran, club raised, a whooping bellow from her lips.
She stood head-and-shoulders taller than everyone here, even the Trolls, and the arm still loomed over her. Each finger longer than the Ogre’s arm; Somo visibly swallowed as she charged, a mouse against a hand. But a mouse packed with muscle.
When she hit the arm, Rags saw a finger snap and show blackened bones a second. Somo kept going as the hand overbalanced, fell onto one side, scrabbling to get away…
Rags’ teeth were bared. She saw victory playing out, perfect—
And then fate decided to show her why it was called fate. She felt the ground rumble. She felt a tremor run through the entire damn mountain, stumbled, saw Somo trip, stagger, reset herself—and Prixall screamed.
“What is that?”
She wasn’t gazing at Rags. She wasn’t looking at the Titan’s limbs. In fact, even the arm and leg froze; they seemed to jerk around in the same direction as Prixall’s head. Rags sensed it too. Her head rose to the side and up, and she swore she felt something come down with enough magic and force to shake the High Passes.
The world shook. Somo swung her club, and it rebounded from the damaged core in a spray of magic and seith pieces, but not a deadly blow. She backed up, trying to reset herself for a charge, and Rags felt the mountains still shaking.
“Break the cores! Break the—”
“Stone moving. The mountain collapsing!”
A Troll roared. Rags was on her feet. She drew her own shortsword and ran, cursing. She saw Somo raise her club again—take a blow from the leg and go off her feet. Rags shouted, desperate, and saw someone appear behind the core, dancing into position.
Shineshield swung her favorite, enchanted shield up and smashed it sidelong against the core. The [Shield Maid] laughed as the core pulsed, flickered—and detonated.
The explosion blew Shineshield off her feet. Rags slowed, and a cheer rose from the Goblins; the leg convulsed, no longer immortal, and the arm began to try to crawl away. They were doing it! They were—
“Chieftain. Chieftain, come in! Something is attacking the High Passes! Are you okay?”
That was Snapjaw’s voice. Rags’ second-in-command was reporting from above. Rags snapped as she backpedalled, and everyone focused on the arm. The leg was twitching; she pointed at it.
“Kill the leg forever! We’re winning! Snapjaw, what’s in the High Passes? We’re w—”
Then she heard drums. Drums, high and fast, booming in the tunnels throughout the mountain.
Boom-boom-boom-boom-boom-boom—
Dulat? She should have been keeping the other limbs far away. She was playing a warning. Rags saw Trolls glance up, and one listened to the beat. He ran over to a speaking vent, began shouting into it—Rags didn’t care.
“The other core!”
Everyone was attacking it. Taganchiel produced a glowing [Valmira’s Comet] which pierced the magical haze and struck the core. Redscar managed a slash; another Hob threw himself forward in a screaming charge. A tendon of flesh took him through the chest, but he nicked the core before he fell.
Death. Rags saw the hand jerk, spasm as it tried to pull the core back into its walls of flesh. Snapjaw was shouting.
“Chieftain! Queen Dulat say—the head is coming! The head is coming fast! It senses something magic-death-bad above!”
The head is coming? It never moved that fast unless it sensed Teriarch. What was going on? Rags shouted.
“It’s miles away. We’ll be gone before it comes. The core!”
Trolls pounded forwards. The leg was dying; Thunderbows were peppering it, blowing it to pieces. The mountain shook again; an aftershock. Rags heard the beating of drums, her thundering heart. The leg kicked one wall, and she felt a rumble and glanced up.
The ceiling collapsed in a shower of debris, the first Troll vanishing as blackness and dust enveloped everything.
Everything.
 
——
 
“—Chieftain?”
They pulled Rags out of the dust and dirt eighteen minutes later. Snapjaw was still speaking. Rags gasped for air, coughed up dust, and spoke.
“Cave in. Where—?”
Darkness was everywhere. [Light] spells were warring with billowing dust, and Rags couldn’t breathe. Someone slapped a mask over her face, and the air spells let her cough and choke.
“Four Trolls dead. Nine Goblins. Tunnel caved in.”
Prixall reported. Rags’ head spun; she realized she was bleeding from the head.
“Where’s Redscar?”
“Hunting the arm. It hasn’t gotten away.”
The Goblin looked around wildly. She spoke.
“Then go, go!”
They ran in a jumble of bodies, wounded and living, past the caved-in rocks and past, Rags realized, the leg. It was lying under the rubble, buried or dead, she didn’t care.
We got one core. All the seith’s there. We can grab it later.
They had to kill the arm. Or else the Titan would be too strong. The other parts shouldn’t have been on high alert; the head shouldn’t be coming here yet! Not until the arm died! What had happened above?
This never happened in any of the doors! Rags’ mind whirled as she ran, and she came to a simple conclusion.
This never happened because it couldn’t except in the real world…
Fate was laughing at her.
 
——
 
The pursuit took forty minutes before Rags caught up with the limb. Forty desperate minutes, not including the time she’d been buried. The problem was the tunnel had collapsed, cutting the arm off from its pursuers, except the Goblins and Trolls who’d been right on top of it. The Trolls, native to their home, knew how to navigate to find the arm, but it was moving away at speed.
The arm was fleeing, dragging itself down the tunnels to safety, to the other limbs, as fast as it could. It was having trouble re-absorbing its core back into its flesh because it was being hunted.
Redscar, Trolls, and an advance party of Goblins were harassing the arm, carving chunks out of the flesh to reveal the seith core, screaming fury. However, the arm was almost away.
It was headed for that chasm that it had been tossed down the first time Rags met it; doubtless, it’d take the insane drop to be free of the real danger. The Trolls knew where it was going and were trying to cut it off, but despite their best efforts, Rags and her group barely made it to the opening where one of the bridges still remained, at a crossroads of the tunnels, as the arm arrived.
It was jerking, twitching, and Rags guessed Redscar had landed at least four blows on the core. She gave rapid orders.
“Wall spells, all of them. Tripvines, everything. Thunderbows, fire harpoons and ropes. Do not let it get out of here! Now, kill it! Charge!”
Trolls ran with Ogres and slammed into the fingers, grappling with each one, and a desperate melee began. The first armor-shredding sinew emerging from the fingers twisted around and slashed at Rags.
Shineshield took the blow, spinning and dropping, and Rags reached down for her—then kept running. She drew her sword, Snapjaw’s commentary in her ear—
“It going, Chieftain! It beat up Teriarch and all the Dragons!”
What did? Teriarch was her secret—she could ask for Saliss. For 2nd Army. She just had to—
Rags saw Redscar fighting to get at the core, covered in wounds. He must have been pursuing it for an hour. He was lacerated down to the bones, and she shouted.
“Redscar, fall back! Let Leapwolf—”
She realized Leapwolf wasn’t here. He’d been with Redscar. Where was—?
“Leapwolf dead.”
He launched himself forwards and cut. The core throbbed, and flesh exploded outwards as Redscar landed a fifth blow. A sixth. The impact hurled Rags down, and her head rose.
“Two more! Somo!”
The Ogre was grunting, fighting with the hand as it reached the entrance of the tunnels. Her feet were sliding back as it snapped through tethers, magical walls, ropes—she tried to grab her club.
“I coming. I—”
A finger flicked. The Ogre stumbled, recoiled, arms flailing, falling backwards—and stared up at the edge of the chasm. She tumbled down, head-over-heels, into the darkness.
Rags heard a scream, and her stomach dropped. Somo? She turned. The drums were beating loud, now, louder than her heart. She heard voices screaming, furious Trolls hitting the hand. Redscar, shouting an order, and a voice.
“Faster.”
Rags stopped. It was faint, but she knew that tongue. That word that was not in any language she knew. It spoke again.
“Faster.”
“No.”
It echoed down one of the tunnels. Rags turned, arm forgotten, and saw it then. A shape illuminated by the ruined, glowing eyes. A voice speaking magic as a head rolled—rolled like a ridiculous ball, rotating, speaking a word of magic and accelerating like a spinning soccer ball, shooting down the tunnel.
“Fasterfasterfasterfasterfasterfasterfasterfaster—
The head rolled into the melee and crushed a Troll into red blood and flesh before anyone could react. It lay there, mouth facing the ceiling, and then spoke.
“Die.”
Rags’ head rang. Blood ran from her nose, and she clapped her hands to her ears. Every living being in earshot collapsed or screamed as the head righted itself, and the arm turned, no longer the hunted, but the predator once more. It reached out and stabbed; a claw ran through the old Troll warrior, who went down, stabbing at the finger with his broken jade spear.
“Retreat. Retreat!”
They had to run. This was all going wrong. Rags shouted, but no one could hear her, and the head was now blocking the way out. It sat there, panting, tongue snaking out to grab a Goblin and drag it into its mouth. Rotten teeth gnashed. It was preparing to speak another word.
“Chieftain, run.”
Rags saw Taganchiel raise a trembling hand. He planted his staff and fired a glowing comet into the open mouth. The head swallowed the spell with a grimace. Then spat.
“Wave of Acid.”
A wall of pale liquid spat out of its mouth and hit Taganchiel. He vanished in a hiss of steam, and Rags felt the liquid splash her as she jumped away. Acid? Her warriors—
“Redscar! Don’t!”
Poisonbite was screaming. Rags turned and saw Redscar leaping at the arm. One of his swords was broken at the hilt; he had the blade of electricity in his hand. Garen’s Redfang was broken. He drove the blade down, stabbing into the seith crystal, and Rags heard it crack and begin to shatter. The hand writhed. The head saw Redscar and said nothing. It opened its mouth and screamed.
A cone of sound and death ran down the corridor. This time, it hit Rags. She dropped, and she couldn’t see as her vision receded. But she felt them dying.
Her tribe. Her warriors.
Poisonbite. Starstarer. Redscar—he toppled backwards with the broken arm as the head howled at them. It was rolling forward, crushing paralyzed Goblins, and the tunnel was shaking again.
Collapsing. Rags realized someone was casting the magic. She searched around, blood dripping from her eyes.
Prixall was on the far end of the corridor, barely a dozen Trolls and Goblins with her. She was reaching out. Rags pulled herself up, leaning on her shortsword.
“Run.”
She didn’t know if Prixall heard; rocks were falling, and everyone was dead. She staggered upright and saw the head of the Mortemdefieir Titan.
It sat there and studied her. Glowing gaze fixed on her. A rotted Drake’s head; she could see the neck-spines snapped off. See intelligence in that hallowed gaze. It said:
“You know me, worm. Somehow. You have injured me, thing. Goblin.”
She didn’t understand what it said except for ‘Goblin’. Rags grinned at it.
“You won’t…survive.”
She panted, clutching at her chest. It regarded her, listening. She laughed at it. Two pieces of it. The inn could handle—she raised her sword.
The tongue lashed out and ripped off one arm. Rags blinked at the blood running from the stump on her shoulder. She fell backwards, lying there, and it ripped one of her legs off.
“Suffer.”
It said that in words she could understand. Rags stared upwards, refusing to scream. She couldn’t feel pain. She was trying to cast a spell, even though she knew—
All wrong.
What happened?
Didn’t matter. Rags was gasping for something. Erin? She wanted to…she lay there, as the head opened its mouth, and heard one last sound at the end of everything. It filled her ears, filled her soul with one last shred of relief not borne of hope, but of realization.
SLAM.
The Goblin started laughing. She laughed as the head halted, confused. She giggled—and her eyes were wide, and she laughed and laughed. With all the energy left to her, she cast one spell.
[Check Time].
And she said—
“It’s…four twelve in the afternoon.”
Then she kept giggling, giggling and laughing with the bitter humor of it all. With despair and devastation and—
Hope.
She hoped they heard it.
 
——
 
Dyeda threw up. She staggered away from the door as Rianchi opened it silently, to bear witness to the end. He was crying.
The door showed them everything. Every moment it would go wrong, and it was going wrong. He spoke as Dyeda wiped her mouth.
“Four twelve. What time is it?”
“Wh—what?”
The [Tattooist] glanced up. Her head was spinning. Her instinct was to tell Snapjaw to get Rags to abort the attack now. Now!
“Time. Chieftain said when she died. She realized…she remembered this place.”
Rianchi closed the door softly and turned. Dyeda pulled herself up, felt at her pockets.
“Not four. Chieftain said she was getting in position. M-maybe lunch? I don’t—”
“I check. You stay here. Mrsha? Mrsha!”
