But when he gazed at her, Halrac Everam’s lips twitched upwards. He covered it with his best impassive scowl, but for a second, he smiled. The Half-Giant laughed, and Mrsha ran. She tried to escape, but a gentle pair of hands found her.
As large as creation. As gentle as her pillows.
“Mrsha, you shouldn’t trouble Miss Imani so. You’re a bit spoiled today, you know. Here, have some of my drink instead.”
Moore lifted Mrsha up, and she turned into a statue. He held her in the crook of one arm, offering her a huge straw, and Ceria flicked her hands.
“I can turn that into a smoothie too, Moore.”
“…I’ll pass.”
The half-Giant wore a polite expression as he grinned at Halrac. Mrsha was just lying there, her eyes on his face. She could hear the thunder of his heart, slow and steady. Halrac glanced at Mrsha’s face.
“I don’t know if she likes that.”
“What? I’m not hurting you, am I?”
Moore looked down, and Mrsha’s face made him almost put her down. But she clung to his arm, shaking her head, and everyone relaxed. Ylawes cleared his throat, like someone giving a boardroom presentation.
“I believe the plan is for us all to share a villa if we can get in on one. I’ve put our request in with Miss Solstice, and Halrac and I were finalizing our bids.”
“Dead gods, lad. You sound like we’re going on a dungeon raid. Mind you, four adventurer teams. We could make a [King]’s villa.”
Dawil rubbed his hands, and Ylawes smiled.
“That may be the plan. If everyone’s in?”
“Of course we are!”
Ceria leapt to her feet with a cackle of delight. Pisces sniffed and raised a finger.
“One assumes we’ll all have well-furnished rooms in this villa? I, personally, don’t see the need for a villa if it is a temporary construction.”
“Okay, if you don’t want a room, Pisces.”
“I never intimated that. I was merely asking—”
“Soundproofed. We definitely need that for reasons. And we’ll need furniture, even if we use magic to make the walls.”
Jelaqua put in, and everyone groaned good-naturedly. They were all talking at once. Arguing over the silly making of a house for adventurers, speculating about the night’s activities.
Moore didn’t speak over anyone; he waited for the opening that never came to interject his opinion. Every now and then, he’d begin to say something like.
“What if—”
“I’d like—”
The rumble of his voice cut off, and he’d sit there as two children ran around him, getting sand into his hair. But he seemed…happy.
There were no lines of grief and rage writ onto this Moore’s face from Hectval. He had not gone to the Village of Dead with wrath. This half-Giant smiled and rubbed at some sand in his eyes as if that was the worst and only thing that could be wrong in the world.
He glanced down a few times, worried about the little girl in his arms, but she just lay there, paws on his arm instead of running about with that abundance of energy he was used to. Someone else noticed her odd behavior.
Halrac Everam. The closest and most similar to the Halrac of another world. The same class, but even he was…lighter. Less burdened. He had the same class.
—But he too seemed more relaxed, even if he was a stiff board, hands shoved into his pockets. The only thing that moved him out of his awkward silence was someone who threw something past his head.
Halrac instinctively caught the volleyball as the other adventurers reacted in a second, and someone shouted.
“Dude, my bad! You want in on this, Halrac?”
Someone was jogging over the sand, blonde hair waving, grinning like a madman because he had been born for this place. A surfboard was set up next to a beach towel in his spot, and he’d broken off DJing the music to play a game of volleyball. Kevin Hall ran over, and then it really was perfect.
“I’ll play!”
Ulinde leapt up, waving her hand, and Kevin raised one hand as Halrac awkwardly tossed the ball back.
“Okay, who wants to be on the next team? One, two, three—Ceria? Hey, Yvlon? Volleyball? You’d be able to do mad spikes with your arm!”
“Just no actual spikes!”
Jelaqua cupped her hands to her mouth to everyone’s mild groans and laughter. She was tugging Maughin up, and he clearly wanted to relax—or talk to Pelt, who was sipping a drink while buried up to his chin in the sand, the water rushing up around him.
There was Mrsha in the middle of it all. In Moore’s arms on this day without end, in something beyond even an [Immortal Moment]. For all Erin Solstice could do was stop time. Even she could not bring back the past.
Impossible.
Not allowed.
This was no dream, no imagined land brought on by a Faerie Flower drink. This was no illusion or recollection. This was real. She could pull on Moore’s beard, and he’d chuckle and tell her that hurt. Touch Halrac’s arm and have him glance at her quizzically.
The little girl exhaled. She beheld it all, the light bouncing off her fur, the smell of cooking hot dogs in the air, the shouting of people on the beach, the crash of waves, and an [Innkeeper]’s happy laughter. She felt the beating of that gentle heart on her skin, the rough sand in her fur, and heard Halrac chuckling.
Mrsha lay there, and her body went limp. She stared around and, for one moment, closed her eyes.
Then the dream became reality.
Mrsha’s mouth opened as she stretched out in Moore’s arms, like someone yawning. No one paid any attention to her, any at all. She put her pawed hands to her face. Her mouth was all the way open now, jaw open wide, throat working silently.
Slowly…slowly, the girl lowered her arms. Her eyes were staring up at that blue sky. Drool was running down her mouth. Her mouth was still open after a minute.
Ceria noticed first, and pointed it out to Pisces, grinning. He turned, staring at Mrsha, before snorting and nudging Revi. Slowly, one by one, all the adventurers turned and pointed.
At first, they laughed or thought she was doing a bit. The little girl was staring upwards, eyes rolling. And her mouth was still wide open. Then, it stopped being so funny.
Mrsha’s face was torn. Her brows contorted. She was swaying, unable to breathe, locked in the half-Giant’s arms.
“Mrsha? You okay?”
Still, she screamed. Screamed like the voiceless King of Khelt, screamed and screamed without a voice.
In an agony of joy for seeing them, for being able to hold them. Because they were gone and here, and because she could feel their beating hearts and lose them every second she was here. For getting her wish, exactly and perfectly as she desired it. Filled up with sadness and happiness until it all became obliterating pain. Without a voice to shriek out loud, she screamed.
Wailing until the laughter of the [Innkeeper] faded, until every [Witch] was on their feet and running towards her.
Mrsha lay in the depths of her hell, unable to move or exist. Tears ran down her cheeks, and she kept screaming as they hugged her and surrounded her. The beloved living and dead, unscarred and worried just for her.
This was no dream. No fake reality.
She screamed and screamed for every second she had lost. Begging for mercy from the heavens. For a chance to undo it all.
Here she was.
 
——
 
“She’s just stressed, I think. I—I hope. I’m so sorry, thank you for staying with her.”
Five minutes later, Mrsha was in Lyonette’s arms, and the [Princess] was babbling. But Mrsha had one paw around Halrac’s arm, and she didn’t let go. Nor did the [Marksman] try to get away.
“Stress. Ye-es.”
That came from Witch Eloise. She was eyeing Hedag, Mavika, and the other [Witches], including Erin Solstice. Not a single one said anything, but none of them believed what the [Princess] was saying.
Neither did Lyonette, really. She held Mrsha, and the girl didn’t say anything. She just gazed at Halrac with an expression in her eyes that terrified him. They were the eyes of fellow adventurers, [Soldiers], comrades in arms.
They didn’t belong to children. When Mrsha finally let go, Halrac followed her, silently, as Lyonette took the girl to her shared room with Nanette.
“I don’t understand this. What happened? Ushar, where is Ser Sest?”
“He’s with Mrsha.”
“He’s—?”
Lyonette put Mrsha down in her room, fussing around with her and broke off conversation. She retreated, nearly bumping into Halrac, and everyone stood in the hallway outside the room for a second. Erin was wavering at the door as well.
“Hey, Lyonette, should I speak with Mrsha? Or Witch Eloise said she could—they all wanna come and talk.”
“Let me, Erin. Please?”
The [Princess] gave Erin such a pleading look that the [Innkeeper] deferred to the mother. Lyonette turned to Ushar, a hand on the doorknob.
“Get me Sest. Now.”
She snapped, and the other Thronebearer was confused as she put a finger to her ear.
“He’s just entering the inn with…Mrsha? Wh—”
Everyone glanced at Erin as the [Innkeeper] exclaimed.
“What in the heck!?”
She peered at the room where Mrsha was, then down at the floor. Lyonette whirled. Erin shoved the door open, and the [Princess] called out.
“Mrsha—?”
There was no white Gnoll in the room beyond. Lyonette’s eyes went round, and Erin pointed down. Everyone whirled and stormed downstairs in a panic, and there was…Mrsha.
She was cold, windblown, clutching a bunch of paper pieces, and seemed thoroughly upset. Ser Sest recoiled as people ran at her. Lyonette shrieked.
“What happened? Mrsha, what did you—”
“She didn’t use the [Garden of Sanctuary]! She didn’t—how the heck did you do that, Mrsha? And she’s not sad! She’s sort of mad, though.”
Erin inspected Mrsha up and down, and the angry girl waved a card around.
I’ve been tricked! There is no prize! I demand a refund!
She studied their faces.
What the heck’s up with you guys?
They surrounded her, demanding answers, and Mrsha glanced around as Lyonette seized her up and Halrac demanded to know what was going on. Ser Sest was trying to account for himself, and Mrsha’s face screwed up as she realized she was in some kind of trouble. And she hadn’t even done anything this time. She came to the only logical conclusion.
Framed! I’ve been framed! I’m being sabotaged!
She waved the card around, howling in indignation, as Rags made her grand return to the inn and realized a white rat had upstaged her—again. As for what the heck was going on with Mrsha’s tears and outburst in the beach…no one, even Erin, had a clue.
After a few hours, everyone settled down, and it was almost forgotten.
 
——
 
Mrsha lay in the [Palace of Fates] until she could breathe. She stared at the open door showing her the ‘good’ timeline, tears leaking from her eyes.
She was out. The door had two roots sticking out of it; one led straight back to Mrsha’s shared room with Nanette, the other was still stuck in the common room of the inn.
Mrsha could tell both roots were in different places, even if they both came out the door. She’d wasted two, now. No…she needed two anyways, and there hadn’t been another way out.
I busted my cover in seconds. Some infiltrator I am. Khorpe would laugh at me.
Mrsha rested her head on the door.
Khorpe’s alive here too. He’s just not here for the Solstice. They’re all alive except for Brunkr.
Time was moving forwards. She knew it; both in the inn and in the doors. Once a door was open, time couldn’t jump forwards; she had to watch it move forwards sequentially, but it passed faster in the door than in the real world.
Even so, she needed the time. Her heart…the girl squeezed her chest with one paw. She didn’t look around as someone called her name.
“Mrsha! Wait, there she is. Mrsha, we’ve been looking for you for ages!”
Dyeda and Rianchi appeared behind her, and Mrsha stared into the doorway. Then realized they might see the roots and closed it almost all the way.
What do you want, Dyeda?
The message was so curt and the scowl so hostile that the [Tattooist] recoiled, hurt. Then Dyeda noticed Mrsha’s distraught face and waved her claws.
“Er—we’re waiting for the Chieftain. You, uh, you doing anything interesting?”
Just checking on the doors. You should wait to hear from Rags.
“Fightipilota’s in the inn. What about you? What if Lyonette notices you’re gone?”
Mrsha gave Dyeda a bleak smile.
She won’t. Tell you what, you check on some of the doors for me, would you, Dyeda, Rianchi? Maybe see if the Titan has more weaknesses? You figured out how to use the doors, right?
“Eh—yeah, but—”
Rianchi was glancing at Mrsha’s face. He noticed Mrsha rubbing at one eye and smiled at her. He took his wife’s arm.
“We can do that. We check back on you in a bit, Mrsha, eh?”
Dyeda was about to protest, but she glanced at Rianchi, and after a brief moment of nonverbal communication, sighed and let herself be dragged away. Mrsha waited until they had vanished, then turned back to the door.
She didn’t know if this timeline had changed from her actions. It seemed like Mrsha was leading Ryoka around Liscor, indignantly pointing out the places she’d been duped into searching. But even the Wind Runner looked exasperated. It meant Silly Mrsha was out of the inn.
Good enough.
Mrsha glanced over her shoulder, made sure no one was watching her—then pulled on the first root. She hauled herself into the door again, and it remained open, flashing that world beyond softly into the hallway.
 
——
 
A minute later, Rianchi and Dyeda came back, and Dyeda cursed.
“She’s gone again! Palace, I said ‘where is Mrsha?’ Not ‘show me where Mrsha was’.”
She kicked a pillar, and Rianchi wandered forwards, wheeling his bicycle.
“She was very sad. We shouldn’t bother her, Dyeda.”
“She’s sad? Chieftain Rags is fighting a Mortem…whatever it is Titan. What the heck is she doing when—oh.”
Dyeda wrenched the door open, and both Goblins saw Mrsha. A little Gnoll girl was sitting on the beach with a bemused Kevin. Water lapping up on his legs as they watched the sun setting. Kevin was grinning, and they were talking.
The [Tattooist]’s face turned guilty, and Rianchi covered his own eyes a second.
Kevin.
Mrsha had been staring into this door? Dyeda turned abruptly.
“—Mrsha’s right. Let’s go look for something to help Chieftain Rags.”
She strode away so fast that when she went to slam the door shut, it bounced back. Rianchi winced and tried to shut the door and follow Dyeda.
“Huh? It stuck?”
He tried to force it closed, but something was in the way. What? He looked down and saw that two roots covered in flowers, one in full bloom, the other sprouting a yellow bud, were stuck…in the door?
Rianchi’s eyes narrowed in confusion, and he pulled at them. But they were stuck in the…
“Huh.”
