He scratched his head, then heard Dyeda shouting at him. The Goblin gave them one more pull, tried to close the door, then gave up and ran after Dyeda. He looked back a few times. Then he stopped.
“Show me Mrsha. Where is she?”
He closed his eyes, spun around—and when nothing happened, the [Cycler] scratched at his chin.
“Hmm.”
“Rianchi!”
“Coming!”
The Hobgoblin ran off, then came back for his bicycle. If he had stopped and stared at that strange door, he would have realized it kept alternating.
Between the little Gnoll girl sitting on the beach with Kevin. And another…throwing a tantrum in the middle of a city as the Wind Runner and a Goblin looked on.
 
——
 
The Grand Design of Isthekenous (temporary subdivision) was monitoring the events of the rest of the world while its ‘main’ mind panicked about intruders or something.
Including dutifully logging each time Mrsha appeared in the [Palace of Fate]’s alternate realities. Which got confusing, because she was hopping between cloistered subdimensions every few seconds. Which you’d think was easy to log, but in fact, it was far harder than merely changing one value in a set of coordinates.
But that was okay! There was no rule in the [Palace of Fates] Skill that said you couldn’t do that. If the main ‘personality’ of the Grand Design had any notes about that, it could sort it out when it got back.
Yep.
Besides, it was really easy to manage, even if there were two Mrshas in the same alternate timeline. Sure, it doubled all the workload, because suddenly the Grand Design was simulating an entirely separate universe…but aside from that, it was easy.
Only one Mrsha had a soul. Whatever you wanted to call that, the value that was intrinsic to her was only in one of them. Mind you, everything else was exactly the same…so what did you want to call that?
The Grand Design of Isthekenous (temporary subdivision) thought about that and how it’d deal with the issue for a bit. Before it decided this was a waste of its processes. It didn’t matter…right? If the issue came up, it’d deal with it.
Maybe it needed to have a think about classifications. It kept working, watching the Mrsha in the [Palace of Fates] with a bit more attention. After a while, it got a query from the main body asking why everything was so slow.
It replied it was processing a Skill and left it at that.
 
——
 
It wasn’t fair. Mrsha lay on the cold streets of Liscor, the mean streets, and wept. Her tears froze in the frigid air, but they weren’t the same tears as a girl screaming in agony.
They were just sulking tears. So, after a while, people departed. Halrac Everam, the [Witches], Erin; even Lyonette was losing patience.
“Mrsha, dear, I don’t care about the riddles. I need to know what—”
“I bet it was the doppelganger. It’s definitely the shapeshifter from the High Passes.”
Ryoka was talking loudly. She’d wracked her brains for the logical conclusion and come to the only sensible answer. And because she was Ryoka, it all made sense.
Ryok…a. Ryok…a. Weird. She felt like everyone had been calling her ‘Ryoko’ all her life, but that was stupid. Anyways, Ryoka was adamant, and Lyonette hissed at her as they stepped aside.
“I know my own daughter!”
“Well, you explain why she was screaming in the beach and now she’s fine—mostly.”
They eyed Mrsha, who was pounding on the ground and demanding her Relic-class robes. Lyonette had to admit that there was no way to solve the discrepancy.
“The shapechanger must have levelled up or something.”
“Or it’s some kind of effect of Erin messing around with the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Or—or Belavierr!”
“She promised to leave Mrsha alone for a decade. Can’t be.”
Everyone had their pet theory as to who was to blame, but it was very clear it wasn’t Mrsha. Even Lyonette got sick of Mrsha a tiny bit after the third time the girl refused to be picked up and went limp.
“Mrsha, you’re going to—my back!”
Lyonette threw out her back trying to heave the sack of wet Mrsha-potatoes up. Dame Ushar and Ser Dalimont had to help her stand.
“Dead gods, Mrsha! Please stop crying. Ushar—Ushar, I need a healing potion. Take me back to the inn. Ryoka, can you please…?”
“Sure. Mrsha—”
Ryoka did her best, but the wailing Mrsha was currently kicking the ground until she rotated in a circle. She had not enjoyed being asked repeatedly what was wrong with her or realizing she’d been duped.
She was sort of being a brat. Ryoka blamed Christmas and capitalism on general principles. Ser Sest coughed after a moment.
“I can stay with Miss Mrsha, Courier Ryoka.”
He was quite chastened and felt this was all his fault, despite not having anything to do with the incident. Ryoka hesitated, but after a few more minutes, she had to jog off. To find Teriarch and ask him about the shape changing thing.
In fact, everyone was so busy trying to find out what the problem or possible threat was, they left the wounded Mrsha behind. She lay there, gasping in outrage.
It’s all connected! First the cake, now this! Believe me, Ser Sest! Look! The card even smells funny!
She held up the card, but everyone had smelled it, even Saliss, and told Mrsha she was crazy. Ser Sest dutifully sniffed the card.
“It, ah, what am I smelling, Mrsha?”
Me!
At his blank look, Mrsha tried to clarify.
It smells like me! But not like me! Don’t give me that stupid look! I can tell!
“So…you stole the cake, Miss Mrsha?”
No, I—
She was having trouble articulating the weird conclusion she’d come to. Mrsha scrunched her face up, and at length, someone spoke.
“Hm. Now this sounds like a good way to earn extra credit over my holiday break. Mind if I ask a few questions?”
Mrsha and Sest turned, and a forgotten visitor to The Wandering Inn swallowed any lingering resentment she’d had. Student Rags sensed something interesting was going on, and she had nothing better to do. She rubbed at her chin.
“Let’s go over this cake incident, Mrsha. And show me that letter again?”
Mrsha scrambled up to her feet in relief. Finally, someone believed her! And it was good old Rags! She knew the Professor’s school was good for teaching something! The two conferred as they began to walk back to the inn, Rags listening and stopping Mrsha.
“Where was this again? Can you show me where, Mrsha?”
She peered at the envelope and the gold writing on blue parchment. It was very good handwriting. Only a few people had such excellent prose. Such as…Mrsha?
If this was all some big prank by Mrsha, she was getting no dessert for a year. But Rags studied Mrsha’s desperate face and decided to run out the possibilities.
 
——
 
Rags was a highly intelligent person. But you know, she had a flaw that hindered her ability to solve the mystery. And that critical flaw was…she wasn’t Kevin.
You could be intelligent, lucky, charismatic, or whatever. Or you could be Kevin. People liked Kevin. They didn’t love Kevin, and sometimes he got on people’s nerves. But in general, on the whole, he got to the ‘like’ area and stayed in that realm by not being too annoying, strident, or extraordinary.
He was amiable. He defined amiable. Sometimes, you weren’t that important if you were amiable, but sometimes, if you were hobnobbing with powerful people, they just told you things, like the King of Khelt.
—And sometimes, a little girl came up and asked if you had time to talk. Kevin had, of course, agreed. He sat on the beach, enjoying the sand and surf, burying his legs in the sand and wiggling his toes and feeling the water over them every time the tide came in.
The air was perfect. The sun was beautiful. There were no bugs—this was the beach of beaches. He could surf perfect waves every single time he wanted. It was a beautiful time.
Yet the girl who sat next to him barely glanced at the waves except to fill the time between her listening to him talk or writing. She played it cool; Kevin knew all about that. She acted a bit goofy, but he was still Kevin.
If he thought about it, Mrsha was supposed to be in Liscor; she never got to go anywhere without a Thronebearer, and after all the commotion at the beach, the odds of her just walking up to him in this secluded section of the beach were remote.
He wondered if Erin were paying attention. But Kevin was also aware the [Garden of Sanctuary] was a no-danger zone, so he went with the flow.
“‘Sup, Mrsha?”
She smiled at him and patted his leg. When she looked him up and down, he shivered. And he told himself that monsters couldn’t look like that. She seemed…like a Goblin. A person in those eyes, filled with such emotion that they never gave voice to, even when they were chilling with him, like Rianchi, one of his acquaintances that Kevin had gifted a bike to.
Can I ask you a few weird questions, Kevin? I know it’s odd, but please pretend I’m serious? Please?
“Sure, Mrsha. Hit me. What’s on your mind?”
The [Mechanic] sat up a bit, and Mrsha glanced at his face. She shuffled some cards and held one out to him.
What would you say if I told you everything was an illusion? A…fake thing?
“Oh, like a simulation?”
Her ears perked up, and Kevin gave her a sage nod.
“I’d say—Matrix. Matrix 1 to 3. And that Troy and Leon were right and that sucks.”
She tilted her head, and Kevin had to explain.
“Right, so Troy and Leon once thought that this world, the one we’re in, was all fake. That we were living in a computer simulation or virtual reality.”
There are stories like that?
“Tons. Didn’t we show you the Matrix on my laptop? Dude, you’ve got to see that.”
Kevin watched Mrsha out of the corner of her eyes, and she rubbed the bridge of her nose.
You know, Earthers having an example for everything really does get annoying. Let’s say for a moment that it’s true. How…would you feel about that?
Kevin Hall pinched at one arm and grinned at Mrsha. Then his grin turned uncertain. He swallowed some water from a bottle next to him, coughed, and spoke, trying to be serious. And he could be serious. Everyone thought Kevin was all jokes, and he liked it that way. Don’t rock the boat. But when he told Headscratcher how gunpowder was made or taught Goblins the things he’d learned—he meant it. He didn’t tell just anyone that.
But when Mrsha, this Mrsha, gazed at him, he shivered again, because she seemed to…Kevin’s voice rasped in his chest.
“I mean, I feel real. How would I—I take it?”
She nodded, and he tried to think.
“That’s crazy. I guess I wouldn’t believe it.”
What if someone could prove it?
Kevin went still.
“…I’ve thought about it, you know. I thought to myself, when I first got here, ‘what happens if I wake up and it turns out me and Imani and all the others were in, like, stasis pods?’ I imagined that every time someone died they’d wake up or maybe their heart stopped. But if someone hit Level 100 or killed the Demon King or something, we’d all wake up.”
Do you still believe that?
The young man from California didn’t want to respond right away. He looked at Mrsha, at some Goblins playing in the surf, at his hands, and breathed in and out a few times.
“I, uh—I never talked about when Magnolia first got us, did I? I thought I was doing okay—she picked me up so fast because I guess it was obvious. But then we were all hanging out and having a good time. We were being assholes, I guess, to the staff, but we were freaked out, man. I—I thought like that until she let us become adventurers. I think we annoyed her by then. Do you know what happened?”
Mrsha glanced at the Goblins, then at Kevin.
You fought monsters.
“Goblins. We fought Goblins.”
Kevin whispered and shivered. He averted his gaze, staring into the waters.
“We didn’t even manage to—I think they were bad Goblins. Actual ones who were killing and hurting people. Mountain City, maybe. The servants led us into a raiding party, and we fought a few. Joseph, me, Leon, Troy; even Galina tried for a second. But it was too real. The first time I cut them, and I didn’t even really—with the sword I had—I was just done.”
That’s when you knew it wasn’t fake?
Mrsha wasn’t judging him. He wished she were. Kevin hunched up, suddenly no longer enjoying the beach.
“No. I thought it could be a super-real simulation. I took it seriously, but I thought it might still be…you can simulate pain, you know? If it was a really good fake simulation or something…it was later. When I came to the inn and Erin was decent to us and I met some Goblins and they were chill. They treated me like a regular dude, and they said ‘hey, thanks for not treating us like monsters’. That was when I—”
He swallowed, hard.
“That was when I decided if this was a fake world, they were too real. So I couldn’t pretend this was a game. I still remember the Goblins we attacked. So if you’re telling me this is fake, Mrsha—”
He jabbed a finger into the sands.
“—I call bullshit.”
And if I can prove it?
Kevin Hall rubbed at his face.
“—What would that even do, Mrsha? You don’t just do that. That ruins people’s days. Dude. In Earth stories, no one does that. Well, okay, you have tons of nutjobs with conspiracy theories even back home. But they don’t want to just tell you the world’s fake. They want to drag you out of the simulation…”
He stopped. A little Gnoll sat next to Kevin, doodling in the sand with one paw. She handed him another notecard, and he read it.
And if you could leave, but everything else had to stay here?
“Hah. That’s…why would anyone want a fake Kevin?”
He looked at her, trying to grin, searching around for Ryoka or Lyonette or Erin or—someone. But they were just sitting here. Kevin tried to work this out.
“Why would anyone want—if you’re the same, then I’d be leaving for the same place. Which is fine, dude, but then I’d be the one fake person in another world. Which makes no sense unless—”
His breath caught.
“—Unless there were no Kevin in the real world.”
The young man’s head turned, but Mrsha was just tossing bits of sand into the ocean.
That’s crazy and weird, right?
“Y-yeah.”
What would you do if someone asked you that, Kevin, hypothetically? Or could show you proof of it?
“Well I mean…if it’s all the same…”
His heart was beating too fast. Mrsha paused and wrote on a card.
What if it was worse? The real world. What if it was worse and you had a choice, Kevin Hall?
After a few minutes of reading, the [Mechanic] burst out into laughter. Too loud, he knew. He shook his head.
“Mrsha, if this is some prank Leon put you up to, I’ll kick his ass. What…”
The girl held his gaze, and everything he tried to say dried up on his tongue. At last, Kevin muttered.
“—Why me? In this scenario, why me?”
Why not?
