Rianchi ran for the entrance, shouting for Mrsha, but without much hope. She’d been missing, and now…Dyeda stood there.
It was too real. She’d felt Rags’ desperation, saw the plan going wrong, and she wanted to tell herself it was all just one possible reality, but it was too…
What the heck was that rumbling that had made the plan fall apart? She hadn’t felt a rumble yet. It was just past lunch. Yet—Dyeda turned.
“Another door. Show me the future.”
An identical scene played itself out. In this one, the rumbling occurred the same as last time. Dyeda slammed the door.
“Show me Chieftain Rags’ futures! All of them!”
She screamed. She was mastering this [Palace of Fates], just like Mrsha and Rags, only it was too late. Dyeda stood in a corridor filled with old, cracked stone. Like the tunnels Rags was crouched in.
Each door was covered in pebbled ‘skin’, like that of a Troll. The handles were that of a clawed hand in gold. Bugs and blood seemed to be caked onto some. Scorch marks, flames on others.
Dyeda had no time for the artistic license. She looked right and left.
She stood in a hallway of doors of the future, of Rags’ future. And each door showed an increasingly narrow set of timelines. Unlike the endless hallways—there were a finite number of doors here, even if they were in the thousands.
Dyeda stood and turned, and the doors were vanishing. One after another, they turned into dust and vanished. One after another, they left this hallway of possible futures and became alternate realities—and no more doors appeared.
No more futures in which Rags lived.
The message was clear as day. It failed in each and every—
“We have to tell Snapjaw. Rianchi!”
He was back already, panting.
“Dyeda, Dyeda! It only twelve thirty! We have time!”
“When did Chieftain Rags attack? Nevermind! Tell Snapjaw to abort! Run, Rianchi!”
She screamed at him, and Rianchi turned and ran again. Dyeda sagged against one wall. She panted there for a minute, five, and then stood.
“Okay. Okay.”
They’d done it. They’d saved Chieftain Rags and Redscar and the tribe. It was okay if they failed to kill the limbs. Rags would make a new plan! Even if the Titan’s limbs all began to fuse…
What happened now? Dyeda peered around, cursing Mrsha for not being here, that brat. She shouted.
“Show me Mrsha, damn it!”
The [Palace of Fates] once again showed her that saved hallway full of the doors Mrsha had bookmarked. Cursing, Dyeda spun from them and spat.
“Show me Chieftain Rags’ futures!”
She expected to see a hallway filled with doors again, an infinite possibility. Because Rianchi had told Snapjaw to call off the trap, right? Dyeda spun—
And that finite hallway was staring back at her. The [Tattooist] wavered, and a coil of terror snaked into her belly.
“No.”
Now she knew how this worked. Dyeda ran, opening doors.
“Show me why! Why?”
She yanked open a doorway and saw—
 
——
 
Chieftain Rags was fleeing, or trying to. Three pieces were in pursuit. Leg, arm, and head. She was visibly wounded, pointing.
“Which way? Which—”
The mountain was shaking. The head was throwing spells, and another tunnel collapsed, cutting her off. Rags skidded to a halt as a groaning Troll looked left and right. 
“This!”
They all ran left and straight into the embrace of a hand, which closed and—
 
——
 
Dyeda slammed the door, ran to another one.
 
——
 
“—ing back.”
Rags stood over the corpse of the hand as a screaming head spat spells at them. They were backed against a collapsed tunnel wall, unable to get clear. She closed her eyes, then opened them once.
“If this isn’t reality—”
She spoke with a half-grin at the sky as Redscar turned to her, eyes confused. Rags tried to meet Dyeda’s eyes.
“—We can’t get out. The tunnels collapsed when the ground shook. It’s—[Time Check]—four thirty—”
 
——
 
Slam.
The quake trapped them down there. And it drove the limbs to gather no matter the cost. The trap for the limbs became a deathtrap for the Goblins and Trolls.
Dyeda saw it. By the time Rianchi had returned, the doors had increased in number as Rags tried to evade or escape the head. But so many timelines ended with her backed against a wall, hit by falling boulders, fighting the Titan’s limbs…
“Dyeda? Dyeda!”
The [Cyclist] had to shake Dyeda and nearly got stabbed with an inking needle as she whirled on him.
“Chieftain Rags is going to die down there!”
“Only that door. Only—”
He was ashen-faced but, Dyeda realized, controlling it. The Redfang had watched his family perishing; he pulled Dyeda back, and she saw someone else was here.
Fightipilota.
The other Redfang was grim, peering into the doors, and she snapped at them.
“Why are all the doors of Rags dying?”
“Because the—because she is still trapped! Even though Snapjaw tells her to retreat, something makes the mountain shake. And it traps her there as the limbs form and then hunt them down.”
Fightipilota and Rianchi regarded Dyeda, confused, and she realized she was the person with the best understanding of how the [Palace of Fates] worked. She explained as fast as she could, conscious of the time pressure.
“I asked for only futures that exist for us. Not ones where something else happened in the past. So we can tell Chieftain Rags is in mortal danger because in every fate, she is dying. If she weren’t going to die, we’d see it. Whatever we are doing, it is not enough. However, Chieftain Rags remembers the [Palace of Fates]. So she gives us hints! Like what time it was she dies.”
“That confusing and dark. How do we stop this?”
“Maybe—maybe we tell Chieftain Rags to fight after all? Or what way to get out?”
Rianchi speculated, and Dyeda shook her head.
“No! Stupid!”
He seemed hurt, and she hugged him.
“Rocks not all fall the same way. We need something else! Maybe we can get Teriarch to help! Only—in the future, Snapjaw keeps saying that he’s all beat up.”
Fightipilota was out of her depth. She could talk theoretical aeronautics and wind drag and the relative flight speed of the Izrilian dove all day, but this was all so abstract.
“Dyeda, you know this place. Give us orders. How can we help?”
“Uh—uh—Fightipilota, you find what caused the quake! Then tell Snapjaw to tell Rags what and when! And if Teriarch can fight! Then you go above, and if Rags or Snapjaw says anything, tell us!”
“Yeah, and tell her she dies at four o’clock most of the time!”
Fighti paused only long enough to give Rianchi a look, but the [Cyclist] was dead serious. Dyeda ran to the doors.
“Show me a future in which Chieftain Rags gets out!”
A door appeared, and Dyeda reached for it—then watched it sink into the hallway. She blanched and turned to Rianchi.
“You find those doors too, Rianchi! We have to find a solution!”
One that didn’t involve telling Rags to run left, right, take the third corridor, and wait for five minutes—that left too much up to chance. Dyeda was a whirl of emotion and desperate determination, and Rianchi, damn him, was just standing there hmming.
“Hmm.”
He had a habit of playing with a wrench when he was thinking, as if he were trying to turn one of his fingers like a bolt. Dyeda shook him.
“Rianchi!”
“I wonder where Mrsha is. This bad. This real bad. Mrsha knows. So why she gone? And why we not find her here?”
She gaped at him and then tried to drag him down the hallway.
“That’s not important!”
“I think it is. Give me one minute, Dyeda. Promise.”
The [Tattooist] glowered at him and ran, cursing Rianchi under her breath, but her husband just stood there a second. Thinking.
 
——
 
Rianchi wasn’t as smart as Dyeda, who could ink tons of patterns and stuff. All he could do was make bicycles.
Bicycles made sense. Each part did something. Everyone said it was complex when they saw the gears and chains, but Kevin had shown him how things fit together. All of it was logical.
The [Palace of Fates] was sort of logical. It had rules. Rianchi knew that Chieftain Rags and Mrsha had figured out more rules than he had, so he hadn’t thought too hard.
But he was also able to observe things. Such as…Mrsha wasn’t here. She was, in fact, in the inn. He’d seen her when he ran to get Fightipilota.
“[Palace of Fates]? Show me Mrsha.”
A corridor appeared, the familiar one with Mrsha’s doors. Rianchi nodded; he could hear Fighti and Dyeda slamming doors behind him.
“Palace? Show me Fighti.”
He blinked, and she was there, in the [Palace of Fates], running past him. Fighti punched Rianchi in the stomach.
“Stop wasting time and help, muckear!”
He ignored that. Rianchi tested his hypothesis-thing a third time.
“Palace? Show me Princess Lyonette, please. Actual Princess, not a door.”
Nothing. No movement. No new hallway.
Rianchi’s eyes narrowed. Point one…and here was another one.
He went stalking back to Mrsha’s corridor and began to re-investigate what he’d noticed. He passed by a mirror filled with a giant Harpy—
Rianchi whirled, and there was no one in the glass mirror. He stared at it, edged away—then hurried over to the door.
His mind was playing tricks on him, unless it wasn’t. He wasn’t sure which was pants-full scarier. But Rianchi could still bend over and inspect the door he’d found that didn’t close right…and the objects within.
Two roots sticking out of the door. Two roots here. He recognized those roots; Mrsha had cut them off from the entrance to this place.
The entrance that Chieftain Rags had never quite explained to him. Possibly because she didn’t know.
Rianchi picked up both roots and opened the door more fully. He eyed an image of Mrsha standing in the snow, talking to Pyrite as Kevin ran away from them. That seemed normal-ish, even if this Mrsha looked exactly like she had this morning…
“Huh.”
Then Rianchi saw the image flicker, and another Mrsha was trudging through Liscor’s streets with Chieftain Rags—a different Chieftain Rags. A different Mrsha. Rianchi’s eyes narrowed.
“Okay. That weird.”
He stared at the roots in his hand.
He stared at the door.
A [Light] spell lit up in his head, and Rianchi recoiled so fast he nearly dropped the roots. He stood there, then turned.
“Dyeda? Dyeda!”
He took off running.
 
——
 
Dyeda almost bit Rianchi when he dragged her away from the other doors. Fighti had found what she was looking for and ran past Dyeda, shouting about ‘Halflings from the moon’ and swearing up a storm.
Rianchi had then grabbed Dyeda before she could investigate and dragged her back to Mrsha’s doors.
“Dyeda, listen. I know where Mrsha is. This crazy, but listen, okay? These roots here? You know them?”
She stared at the roots and resolved that if Chieftain Rags lived and if this wasn’t a good use of their time, she would tattoo the most embarrassing thing she could on his butt in his sleep.
“Yeah? So?”
“I think Mrsha in the doors with the roots. That’s why the palace says she here. She going to learn from people in person. Or maybe—maybe she can go in and out? Or maybe take things in and out?”
He was glancing around, running his claws through his hair, wide-eyed. At this point, Dyeda became convinced her sweet husband had cracked under the pressure and was just crazy.
“Rianchi?”
She put her hands on his cheeks, trying to feel if he had a temperature. Dyeda met his eyes.
“Rianchi? That’s crazy and stupid and impossible, even for this inn.”
He nodded.
“Yeah. But is it crazier than the infinite box of gold?”
She had to hesitate at that one. It was impossible. Even for a super Level 70 Skill like this, bringing people back to life wasn’t real. Unless you had the Faerie Flowers, which Rags claimed broke so many rules….
No. It was still crazy, but Rianchi had an easy way to test things. He held up a root.
“All we have to do is test, right? What if—what if Mrsha going through the doors and bringing people back?”
“Why would she? And why in that door of the nice, stupid future where everyone alive…including Pyrite…”
Then they saw it. They both turned, and Dyeda covered her mouth. Rianchi blanched.
“Kevin?”
They realized what Mrsha was about, and it was so horrible and good, so—complexly painful that neither one could take it in. So they didn’t, and Rianchi stepped away from that door.
“I—I—let me try this.”
He fumbled at another door and opened it randomly. It was one of Mrsha’s doors; Dyeda saw an adult Mrsha stomping out of an inn, and Rianchi raised the roots.
“How they work then, genius?”
She wasn’t sold on this idea now she stared at the plain brown root. Rianchi muttered defensively as he awkwardly poked it around, trying to make it a straight line.
“Maybe you just…poke it through? Like—aaah!”
The tip of the root entered the door, and he leapt back with a shout of horror. Dyeda and Rianchi froze as they saw the root hanging in place. Rianchi eyed Dyeda. He gestured at the door.
She poked herself in the arm with one of her needles and then whispered.
“W-what do we do?”
Rianchi stood there, conflicted, then he squared his shoulders.
“I bet there someone high-level in this door. What if I go in, take a look around, and grab someone? Maybe there Chieftain Rags? Door, does this place have Chieftain Rags?”
The door flickered and showed Rianchi, for a second, an image of a strange Goblin sitting on a moving palanquin. Underground. She and a bunch of weird Goblins were on the march. Headed towards Liscor—
Rianchi gazed at Dyeda and pointed.
“That not Rags. What happened to her?”
“That not a big Goblin like Tremborag. W-what kind of Goblin is that?”
Dyeda was awestruck. The Rags in the image had huge ears and was tall; her skin was pale, possibly from lack of sunlight, and she seemed—
Dyeda realized Rianchi had his hands on the root and was moving forwards slowly before she grabbed him.
“Rianchi! What are you doing?”
An edge of true panic was in her voice. Rianchi looked over his shoulder bravely, seriously, like that stupid idiot who’d take on the Kraken Eaters—even if he was only bicycling away—or ride into the Trolls’ caves because someone had to.
“I’m just gonna look around. You stay here, Dyeda. Okay? I’ll be back soon as I can!”
Then he pulled himself into the doorway before Dyeda could protest. She rushed to the door, which was solid, and pressed her face against it. And she saw, stumbling forwards, looking around, feeling at himself—
Rianchi was in The Wandering Inn.
Ten years later. 
Then—Dyeda knew she was going crazy. She picked up the last root on the floor, searched around, and panicked.
 
——
 
