…Like the [Garden of Sanctuary], but Erin swore up and down no one had anything to do with that. Did someone have access to her garden? A separate garden? Now that was an odd thought. Rags peered around and was on the verge of getting up and having a snack when she cocked her head and her ears perked up.
The [Student] heard something. It was the faintest noise at first, but it raised gooseflesh all over her arms.
“—What is that?”
The Goblin backed off, then began to comb the area around the table. Whatever it was was definitely coming from somewhere nearby…she was within a foot of it, now. But it wasn’t on the ground. Nor the chairs.
It was coming from the air, she realized. Rags searched around, and as if it had been there the entire time, just invisible—she saw the weirdest thing.
There was a brown root, covered in little yellow flowers, just sticking out of the air. Rags blinked at it, then rubbed at her eyes.
Huh.
Some mystery this was. She took hold of the root, then recoiled and let go as the roaring grew louder. The entire root was vibrating, and Rags heard some sound, muffled, as if…
“Hm.”
She took a hold of the root, wondering if she should tell or get somebody. But she didn’t really want to cause a fuss if this was nothing. So Rags pulled—realized she couldn’t dislodge the root, and felt at the weird place where it seemed to poke in from somewhere else.
She put her hand through a hole in reality and recoiled as her arm vanished. Then Rags stared at her claw and felt her heart flutter. She took hold of the root and hesitated.
“Nothing ventured, nothing gained.”
That howl called to her. And besides—Rags’ eyes glinted as she stared at something only she could see and sense. If it were just the scream, she might have hesitated. But why did she hear, as the roar died down…
Crying?
Rags pulled at the root, then walked forwards through the thinnest barrier in the world. It felt like someone stretched her to infinity and back. Like she was going to be ripped back, torn apart—and then she felt like the world had split to let her out.
All in a moment, less than a millisecond, so she gasped and stumbled as she came through the door. The [Student] drew a wand as she stepped into—
 
——
 
A palace filled with strange doors and beautiful, endless hallways. Rags looked around, wand raised, staring at the door and the root which had turned to ash in her hands.
“Aspat.”
She cursed. The sound made the crying stop. The Goblin Chieftain loosened the shortsword in her sheath. She gazed around, then saw the thing she’d heard and sensed.
A weeping Goblin. A Hob with tattoos on her visible skin, wearing what looked like a rain jacket and clothing fit for warmer days. She was crying, kneeling before a closed door.
Oh, and there was a gigantic Harpy in one of the mirrors.
Rags took this all in at once and decided the Titan of Baleros would have been great here. Or Erin. She backed up a step, wand raised, and her head hit an invisible barrier behind her. She recoiled, pointing her wand at…
…An open door?
The Goblin stared at it and the single living root in the door. The dead one—and the still image of an empty common room. She shivered, suddenly unsettled.
Is someone spying on us? No—she looked around and pointed.
“You.”
The Hobgoblin was frozen, mouth open; in awe or horror, Rags couldn’t say. But one thing was clear. She was crying and desperate. Rags could feel that, former [Chieftain] or not.
“M-me? C-Chieftain, I—no, wait. You’re—”
The [Student] analyzed that and narrowed her eyes at the Goblin. Actually, she seemed vaguely familiar.
“What’s your name?”
“Dyeda.”
That was familiar. A Goblin in the tribe? Rags gazed around.
“Where am I? Why are you crying, and what was that roaring?”
She demanded answers, and Dyeda just stared at her before replying.
“The—the [Palace of Fates]. I opened a bad-bad door. The Goblin King’s door. But you can’t be here. You’re in the mountain. You’re—”
Her eyes were filled with terror and confusion, and Rags bared her teeth.
[Burst of Ideas]. [Fast Thinking].
The [Student]-[Strategist]’s eyes lit up, and she spoke like someone delivering an answer before the professor in class could even state the question.
“Dead gods. I’m in the future.”
She looked around, excited, and Dyeda’s mouth fell open in a very satisfying way. Rags’ heart was hammering. She felt at the door.
“Is there a way back? What happens to us? There’s two…what are these things? Roots. They must be roots from a World Tree! Is this place made by a [Chronomancer]? Is it an Erin Skill? What if I—?”
“Don’t touch that! Mrsha is still in there!”
Dyeda shrieked, and Rags recoiled from the root.
“The other Mrsha. Of course. What day is it? How many years in the future?”
“Uh—uh—spring. Next year! Maybe Lundas? The week—but this isn’t the—”
Dyeda fumbled, and Rags’ eyes widened. She spoke over Dyeda.
“Spring. Double dead gods. Where’s Erin? Where’s Niers?”
“The Titan guy? In Baleros? With Erin, I think.”
“In Baleros? Did they get married?”
Rags was fully invested in the moment. Part of her was holding out suspicions this was some kind of prank from Niers or Palt; a kind of advanced training lesson like Daquin. Dyeda just gaped at her.
“Married? No. He rescued Erin after the battle at sea—how is this happening?”
She poked herself with a needle, and Rags’ ears perked up.
“What battle at sea? No, wait. We can be logical about all this. Where’s Headscratcher? Or Pyrite? Also, why are you here? I’d expect me, or Erin, to come back with a message for us. Something more organized.”
They’d catch her up to speed. When Dyeda flinched, some of the excitement faded from Rags’ veins.
“Where’s Pyrite?”
“Dead.”
“Headscratcher?”
“I don’t…one of Badarrow’s brothers? He died during the siege.”
The student stopped.
“The siege? But that was last year. I thought—this is the future, right?”
Her certainty wavered, and Dyeda shook her head. Rags’ mind came to a standstill, and slowly, Dyeda pointed at the other doors.
“This is no future. Just another what-if. Chieftain Rags, Pyrite is dead. Headscratcher is dead. Shorthilt is dead. This is a world where they never lived.”
Fate washed over them. Like a cold bucket of water, a deep, dark ocean extinguishing Rags’ excitement. It was reality she felt, like a physical thing on her skin, and it doused her thoughts. Left her cold, alone.
Certain.
That was the moment when Rags felt like this wasn’t an illusion. Because Palt, thoughtless as he could be, and Niers, cruel as the Professor could be, wouldn’t have twisted a knife in her guts like that. Dyeda’s eyes were wet, and she looked at Rags.
Desperately. Hope in her eyes. That familiar stare of so many people who had met Erin Solstice.
“Chieftain—Rags—the other you, the real—everyone is in danger! In the Troll mountain! They’ll be killed. Please, help.”
She didn’t know Rags. Nor did Rags know her, but she said it with such familiarity that Rags flinched.
Chieftain. So she was still a Chieftain here. She looked around, back over her shoulder, and the urge to retreat was in her veins. Yet she couldn’t deny what she’d just felt, and—Rags put a clawed hand to her head.
“This is crazy. Some winter essay, huh? ‘Dear Professor, you’re not real…’”
She was babbling, like she did when she was nervous. Stressed. Rags realized Dyeda was staring at her uncertainly, not sure what this Rags was capable of or how useful she was. The [Student] paused, and her eyes flickered. Then she felt that familiar twisting in her stomach, the stress she had left and put aside. She took her breath, and closed her eyes, and inhaled, and exhaled, just like Niers had taught her.
Cleared her mind, looked at Dyeda, glanced at the door, and nodded.
“Explain as fast as you can what’s going on.”
She listened as Dyeda gave her one of the most confusing explanations that Rags had ever heard in her life. The [Tattooist] kept it succinct.
“There’s a huge, undead Titan in the mountains. In the land of Trolls! You went down to fight it, but you’re going to die. It regenerates from anything, and there’s a quake in the mountain—it just happened—and you’re going to die, and so is Redscar, and we were trying to help, but Mrsha’s in there, and Rianchi’s gone, and I don’t know what to do!”
Her eyes filled up with tears. Student Rags rubbed at her chin.
“The mountains? Headscratcher said he met a bunch of Trolls there and that they played drums. Kevin was jamming out with them.”
“Kevin!”
A sob from Dyeda. Rags shook her head and asked two pertinent questions.
“Okay, focus with me, Dyeda. I need to know two things. One. Am I the Titan’s student in this world?”
“What? No! Are you?”
Dyeda gave Rags a look of skepticism and disappointment, which was honestly hurtful; Rags got it from most Goblins. Non-Goblins just thought she was a novelty or dangerous. She’d even met some Goblins native to Baleros, weirdos who all lived underground.
Rags sighed, impatient. But now her eyes were glittering.
“Addendum question: is the Titan on good terms with Goblins? Or this inn? At the very least, is he willing to talk to Goblins?”
“Uh? Sure? He was with Numbtongue and Badarrow, and he helped the inn all the time.”
The [Student] nodded, running some quick calculations. She’d transmogrified her entire [Chieftain] class into [Student], and thus lost almost all of her direct combat abilities aside from her magic.
“Okay. Excellent. Question two: what level is ‘Chieftain Rags’ in this world? For bonus points, what level is Erin Solstice?”
The [Tattooist] was glancing at the door behind Rags, doubt entering her voice.
“Why do you want to…fine, every Goblin in the tribe knows Rags’ level. She’s Level 39. [Great Chieftain] and a [Steelflame Strategist]. Erin? She definitely over Level 50.”
Rags’ eyes lit up. So this Erin was at the level to make the Titan of Baleros swoon for her. She bared her teeth and began to make a plan. It was stupid, risky, and this wasn’t her world—
But a Goblin was crying and it was still The Wandering Inn. The [Student] winked at Dyeda, and the [Tattooist]’s tears ceased, because Rags was breathing out the magic of her inn.
“Okay. You’re with me, Dyeda. I need directions to the High Passes. Teleportation would be faster or I’ll burn out of mana.”
“Fightipilota has a Wyvern. But—but you’re not a Chieftain?”
“Student. And I’m still Rags, so show me this Titan. The bad one. I’m good at dealing with Titans.”
Dyeda didn’t get the pun for a few seconds, and her face wrinkled up. Rags was already striding forwards, and Dyeda ran after her.
She was a genius. At least, Rags liked to think so. As proof positive of her genius, she had at least understood what Dyeda was saying this place was, even if she didn’t quite believe it. There was a problem. Rags was here. Intelligence was needed. So—Rags halted in front of a door, pulled it open, and took a look inside.
“Oh. Wow. That’s an Old One alright.”
She took a look at an image of herself facing down a rolling head, and then glanced at Dyeda. The [Tattooist] stopped, mouth ajar, realizing that was the fastest way to explain everything.
Rags took five minutes to watch and ask all the salient questions she could. Then she nodded.
“Alright, let’s go. Where’s the exit of this place? I’ve come up with a plan.”
A very simple plan, but it was pretty much what she’d realized would work when she saw the nature of this thing. A monster like Facestealer would have actually been worse, but she could probably—
Dyeda caught Rags halfway down the corridor. The Hobgoblin woman was shaking her head.
“You can’t help! We need Teriarch! Or—or—a Goblin King!”
“Or me. Trust me, I can help. At least, I can distract that monster if you get me within eyeshot of it. I have to try. Tell me you have a backup plan.”
The student’s claws were getting clammy with sweat, and the Hobgoblin woman was incredulous. This Rags was insane! She was as smart as the real thing, and cocky, but it was cockiness, not the confidence of her Chieftain. She felt younger. She looked younger! Dyeda strode after Rags as the opening to the [Garden of Sanctuary] came into view and Rags studied it.
“There is no way you can stop that Titan alone!”
Rags spun and poked Dyeda in the chest. Her voice was fast, urgent.
“Bet. It sounds like this world is further along than mine. And if I’m any judge, sadder. No wonder that Mrsha came through and made all the [Witches] think she was a torture victim. I came through this door on chance, and you need help. Here I go.”
Rags was climbing up the ropes easily, and Dyeda screeched.
“You’re too weak!”
She saw Rags’ feet vanish up the hole, and then the Goblin poked her head down. She jabbed Dyeda in the forehead.
“Excuse me. One point of clarification. The Erin Solstice of this world might be higher-level than mine. I’m not sure about our Mrshas, but I’ll bet anything’s higher level than that stupid fuzzball.”
She jerked her thumb at her chest.
“Me? I’m a [Student]. I gave away my class. I’m not a [Chieftain], and maybe that means I’m weaker in so many ways. But I’m a student with 96% in the Titan of Baleros’ classes.”
Her eyes flashed as she gave Dyeda a youthful grin with all her teeth, as Chieftain Rags never had.
“—And unlike Chieftain Rags, I hit Level 40 already. I’m Level 45. I’m a [Student of Grandmasters].”
The prodigal Goblin, far from home. Rags inhaled, and she hoped her brave face convinced Dyeda. She didn’t know if her best Skill would work. But—
She thought she’d have years. But she’d known this day would come. So soon? Now? Rags pointed at Dyeda. Her clawed finger trembled, and Dyeda saw it.
“If I don’t come back, go back to that door and tell Headscratcher…tell him and Erin that I had a great semester. I was needed sooner than we all thought. Don’t worry about the Professor. I’ll report to him first.”
Dyeda’s mouth fell open. Rags pulled herself up with a laugh. Then she was running, running into the common room of the inn as Fightipilota nearly flipped out of her chair. Then a Goblin stopped in the common room of the inn and looked around.
It was the exact same as she remembered. She inhaled, exhaled—and then her jaw dropped as she saw a statue of an [Innkeeper] shaking hands with a Goblin.
“—That’s new.”
