This was so much worse than her visions. It had to be done. The two limbs were grappling as they met, mounds of oozing flesh feeling each other, hand stroking leg, malformed toes wiggling. Like they were flirting, exploring the other’s body. She could tell they were going to merge. The two limbs seemed to cast about, but they had no way of sensing the hidden warriors. The bugs weren’t under their control, and they had limited ‘senses’.
All they sensed was magic as far as Rags could tell. They reacted to external stimuli based on touch, but the limbs were blind.
They reacted to natural auras and spellcasting. It was why they kept trying to get closer to each other. It was also why this didn’t work without Rags.
Send the Dragonlord of Flame into the mountain. Let him scorch this place to rubble and ash. Only, the moment he entered, they’d notice and form up, regardless of the cost. The Trolls and Goblins were weak, unnoticed. Beneath contempt.
They were all daubed in a brown-grey mud that Taganchiel had worked up. He wasn’t as high-level as Prixall, but the [Shaman] had enough magic he’d learned from Ulvama to camouflage even the natural auras of living beings. Right now, they were invisible to the two limbs of the Titan.
Arm was extending its open palm to the severed leg’s thigh, where it should have met hip. A hum filled the air, and Rags felt the mana in her body—
“Chieftain. It’s sucking my mana.”
Prixall whispered, terrified, her eyes wide. Rags grunted.
“Don’t let it.”
Two objects of immense power made her teeth start itching as they emerged, pulled from the rotten flesh. Pale, black stones tinged with phosphorescent green energy that licked within the semi-translucent stone.
Seith. The greatest magical catalyst of ancient days. A king’s ransom of it, ovoid, enchanted and written with spells that kept the Titan alive—slowly emerging from the rotten flesh. The hand and leg twitched suggestively, even erotically, fingers splaying out, leg curling and uncurling at the knee as their inner cores began to meet.
A glow filled the air, black light twisting around as the two Titans began to meet, struggle, and dominate the other to achieve control of both limbs. Accordingly…Rags saw the two limbs drifting towards each other, rotten green-black flesh merging together. Attaining some distorted semblance of health as they met and—
The first scales appeared, brown and corroded, regrowing as the limbs began to fuse. The two stones were pulsing together rhythmically. A fast rhythm, like the beating of a heart, before slowing. It took, on average, fifteen minutes for one mind to dominate the other…
“Now.”
She didn’t realize she’d been hypnotized until Rags sensed the moment come, when all the other selves gave the order, and waited to hear her own voice. Then she realized she had to say it, and like someone watching a repeat, déjà vu, but for the first time, she saw it all play out before her eyes.
A Goblin raised a hand, and the first [Fireball] lit the air. She tossed it, fast, and then another as Goblins burst out of cover.
The [Fireball] never reached the Titans. It exploded in the air, burning countless buzzing carrion beetles and giant flies. That was the first layer of defenses; a literal swarm of insects.
Redscar was first out of cover, running, not shouting; a mask was on his face, and the twin blades, one of lightning, the other Garen’s sword, in hand. Poisonbite was hot on his heels, running as Somo and the Ogres thundered out of their covers with suppressed war cries. One hacked as he swallowed a bug.
The Trolls were quieter still. They moved like stones coming to life, enchanted mauls and clubs raising. They ran, weapons on their shoulders, puffing as they jogged forwards.
Fast. They crossed the ground unnaturally quickly, as Leapwolf whirled his blade around his head. [Wild Onslaught]. Redscar was using his [War Leader] Skills too—[Sudden Ambush]. The limbs didn’t even sense them or the spellcasting.
Another [Fireball]. Rags spoke.
“[Burning Blades]. Thunderbows—fire. Prixall!”
Thunderbows cracked, and the first explosive bolts hit the air, once again just clearing the insects out of the way. Bugs as large as Rags’ head crashed down as they turned on living beings. Prixall finally moved.
She raised a hand, whispering a spell as she brought her hand down, slamming it. A wall of air collapsed downwards, and the insects hurtled out of the air, hitting the ground so hard their chitinous bodies broke. The warriors crunched the rest to pieces as they ran.
Now their run was a rumble in the air, panting voices and buzzing insects and that hum. And still…
The two Titans’ limbs sensed nothing at first. They were so engrossed in the act they didn’t even notice the lower-tier spells going off. It was when the first crossbow bolt struck one of the seith cores that the limbs jerked.
They swung around, fingers twitching, leg flopping around like some perverse fish, and the hovering cores remained stationary, connected to both limbs by tendrils of flesh.
“Break the cores! Now!”
Rags howled, and her third [Fireball] burst over the seith cores. It did nothing, but then magic lashed out from both cores, whips of sheer death magic expanding outwards.
There was nothing to strike; the cores wasted their magic and gave the first Goblin an opening. Redscar leapt past the fingers, whose claws had retracted to let red, wavy tendrils slash and snap at the air. He ran past the crook between the middle and forefinger, then he was on the hand, dashing up past twitching tendons, feet sinking into the rotting flesh and releasing liquid and maggots with each step.
Higher, dancing up crags in the arm’s wrist and forearm, like he were in the High Passes, jumping from rock to rock. Then, he leapt—and his blades met the seith core belonging to the leg.
Thunder.
It sounded like a bolt of lightning touching down. His blades flashed, and the pall of death magic lifted as the colliding energies met and mingled—and Redscar went flying. He landed, blades smoking, cursing, and the seith cores began to shriek.
The whine changed pitch; Rags heard the ear-aching hum take on a higher quality from the stone Redscar had attacked. She heard thunder as the limbs jerked again, then began to lash out with real berserk fury and panic.
It’s working perfectly. 
“Attack! Leapwolf!”
The Goblin jumped. He had a single sword in hand, another blade from Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. Electricity coalesced down the blade, and when he struck the same core that Redscar had, a bolt of real lightning flashed through the air.
A second impact; he hit the arm, bounced down, and Somo covered Leapwolf before a finger could stab down vengefully and crush him. She took the blow, and it sent the massive Ogre spinning away.
Then it was a melee. When the two limbs whirled into battle, the first attack from the foot was to just—explode. The flesh that was green and brown and black bubbled up, and boils of pus and filthy black blood and more insects exploded outwards. Deadly poison and plague.
The hand was swifter. It rotated up, and its broken claws extended. Then the fingers waved, dislocating out of their sockets, slashing like massive blades, whirling as it danced across the ground.
The combined onslaught could murder even high-level beings like Relc in a second. Another reason it had to be her tribe. No matter what you told them—no one was prepared for this. But Goblins—they trusted their [Chieftain].
“[Shield of Light]!”
Shineshield reacted to the explosions from the leg and raised her shield. A glowing shield projected from her favorite artifact, blocking the pestilence raining down around her. Goblins dove into cover, but many of them were caught flat-footed.
One Ogre went staggering back as liquid struck him, clawing at it, but instead of the poison taking effect, something flashed on his skin. Magical paint, like Ulvama’s, took the blow, and he backed away unharmed.
The warriors fighting the arm reacted to the whirlwind of blades just as fast. Redscar set himself and parried one finger coming at him; the Goblin went sliding backwards, grunting. No one else did that.
Leapwolf saw a bone-scythe coming for his head and jumped. He bounded off the walls of the tunnel, passing over the slashing fingers, and stabbed the hand before trying to get to the seith core again. Mousebite wasn’t so lucky. She took a slash that knocked her blade aside and sat down.
Starstarer grabbed her and yanked her out of the way of another blade. He threw her almost thirty paces back; his [Pull to Safety] was followed by an [Instant Duck]; a finger passed over his head, and he backed up.
High-level Goblins. Mousebite rolled onto her feet, snarling, and Rags saw her armor was torn open, but the gash was receding. Not even a potion. [Wound Closure]. When she charged forwards, her [Mighty Blow] snapped one finger back.
“Careful—careful—it’s going to leap—now!”
Rags was shouting, her voice amplified to both fighters. She was watching the leg. Sure enough, it had tensed, and Goblins cleared out of the way, the Trolls a hair slower, before the leg leapt with enough crushing force to turn anything it landed on to pulp. It flopped around as it struck the ground, pulverizing stones—confused—
How were they dodging it so well?
Rags had seen it before, and she’d drilled every regular move the limbs made into her warriors’ heads. So long as the Titan didn’t reform, it was ten times, a hundred times weaker.
Still so deadly, but they could do this. Trolls and Goblins surrounded the two limbs, trying to climb or hit the cores above. Thunderbows cracked, but Rags shouted.
“Shoot the fingers! The fingers!”
“Yah, Chieftain. [Harpoon Shot]. [140% Shot].”
A Hobgoblin, Trueshot, pulled the trigger of her Thunderbow, and Rags went temporarily deaf. A bolt of Wyvernbone blasted through the flesh, and the barbs stuck two of the Titan’s fingers together until they could pull themselves free.
Mousebite rushed for the opening, trying to weave under the flailing fingers, but sensed the hand closing. A backflip carried her out of danger before she could be hit again. Rags cursed as the Goblins tried to flank the hand.
They needed someone to hit the cores with all the strength they could. She was on her feet, no longer casting [Fireball].
[Ogre’s Strength]! [Speed]!
Under her enchantments, warriors dove out of the way or found the strength to grapple with the waving tendons and the foot, whose claws stretched out until the keratin structures wobbled and danced and sliced about. Like Yvlon’s arms, but far fouler. This wavy network of blades was deadly. They slashed about, faster than even the fingers, and Rags saw several Goblins take blows. Flashes of light as their protective spells went down. Blood—
The Trolls advanced. They had no Skills. They had few enchanted weapons and lacked the Goblins’ amazing coordination. But they were the natives of these mountains. One of them took a blow from the slashing nails across a chest; it cut in hard and fast.
It barely went through the outer layer of the Troll’s hide. She grunted, grabbed the nail, and brought an elbow down, snapping the section down.
A rumble. Rags looked up as a Troll threw something. She was just in time to see a patched section of the tunnel roof quiver—then collapse, boulders raining down on the leg, knocking it around. The Trolls kept advancing; they kicked smaller boulders like projectiles at the leg before slamming into it, swinging their maces and clubs with so much force she saw the pallid flesh rippling. Rags called out, directing her warriors back as the two limbs were pinned, the arm against one wall, the leg in the middle of the tunnels.
“Wounded—here! Get out of range of the limbs! They can’t move from where they are!”
The third blow came from Dulat’s warriors. One of her clan leaders tossed a wounded Starstarer back; the Hobgoblin’s chest was laid open by a slicing tendril. He battered forwards, roaring, and Rags realized it was the old Troll with the spear. He hurled the spear in one motion, and it hit the seith core and rang like a bell.
This time, she distinctly saw the magic warping around the impact point and knew the core was cracked. A cheer ran up—right before an answering bolt of magic hit the Troll in the chest.
Deathbolt, or close enough. The old Troll collapsed without a word. Another warrior ran forwards, trying to climb up, and Rags shouted.
“[Light Bridge]! Prixall!”
“Trying!”
The [Witch]’s spell flickered into existence, and more waves of death magic canceled it out. It was so overwhelming that every other element began to fade out; a [Lightning Bolt] from Taganchiel’s claws seemed to evaporate halfway towards the seith cores, then came back as a bolt of black lightning.
He screamed, once, throwing up his claws, and Rags shouted.
“Dodge—”
She was too late. Taganchiel lurched backwards, falling, and then looked up as he shielded his face. The bolt of lightning was—gone?
Prixall was holding her hat out, panting. She’d caught the bolt of lightning in her hat. She jammed the pointed [Witch]’s hat on her head.
“Argh! Don’t cast at it like that again!”
Taganchiel scrambled up, and Prixall’s hat kept vibrating as she contained the magic within.
—However, they were winning. Rags was focused on Redscar, who’d gotten to his feet and was trying to climb the leg, burying his blades in the flesh like climbing axes, cursing as it jerked and tried to throw him off. Her vision said he was the next person to—
“Levels or death!”
Poisonbite screamed, and Rags turned to see the old Troll warrior sit up. He’d been playing dead! He tossed Poisonbite up with a roar, scrambling away to grab his spear, now charred, the tip snapped off, and Poisonbite slashed both seith cores in the air in a shout.
“[Dualblade Sl—]”
The explosion tossed her backwards until she almost snapped her neck; one of her warriors dove and caught her. Poisonbite sat up, dazed, and stared at the two charred lumps of her daggers. Then at a broken arm. She began to scream in fury.
That wasn’t in the realities she’d seen. Rags told herself not to panic. That was four blows on one of the seith cores already. They could break it with the right hit if it was hard enough. Eight hits, and it’d develop enough cracks to shatter completely.
Redscar had been knocked down as the leg kicked about to try and attack Poisonbite. He got up, snarling, as someone, inspired by the Troll, threw an axe straight up. Another explosion of intersection magics and spiderweb cracks formed on the first core.
They pulsed, and Rags called out.
“Fall back! Fall back! Death field coming!”
