There are more people that died. More changes. I’ve forgotten them all. I’m Mrsha, from the real world. From the world where Erin Solstice is missing, in the spring rains, and we miss Kevin. Where I clean the graves of the dead every day. Where Pyrite is a ghost on Numbtongue’s shoulder. I came here to ask you to leave your reality behind and please come with me. I know I’m crazy-sounding, but it’s true.
She held the last card up with a watery smile. How silly this all was. Who could believe her? Kevin and Pyrite gazed at each other, and she expected them to laugh or tell her she was crazy. That’s what she would do…
Mrsha didn’t see herself as they saw her. She felt stupid and lost and heartbroken standing there, writing the dead’s names out without their due. Trying to convince two people that the world they knew was but a dream, a figment of a Skill.
They saw a girl, not a child, standing in the snow, older, so much older than the Mrsha they knew, a weight of age in her posture, in her words and her eyes, tears running down her face. Smiling like she was so used to crying that it’d become second-nature.
Kevin began shivering uncontrollably. Pyrite just exhaled softly and watched the steam rising. He tilted his head back, and then he spoke.
“What killed me?”
“Pyrite. This isn’t real. You’re not—”
Tyrion Veltras charged the Goblins after the Goblin Lord died. You slowed him down so Rags could get away.
Mrsha met Pyrite’s eyes, and the Hobgoblin glanced at the goosebumps erupting on his green flesh. He nodded, knelt, and spoke as he locked gazes with her.
“Now I know what it means when they say a fox is walking over my grave. I believe you. I always wondered why he never charged. Now, tell me something to prove it to Kevin. Tell me something only he would know. Or a secret of Goblins.”
Mrsha hesitated. She thought—and had Kevin ever left—? Plans? Schematics. Solar Cycles was still running, but not the same…and what would have changed in this world? She squeezed her eyes shut, thinking. Then she had it.
In my world, I know that Elia Arcsinger looks like the Last Elf, Sprigaena. That’s why she shot the Goblin King and he failed to dodge. I know there were Gnomes, and they were funny, good people who made the Last Boxes of Fraerlings. I know that Roshal has a Slave Ship called the Naga’s Den and a servant named Iert, who’s a Gnoll who should die, and I know that Normen can be a [Knight of Honor’s Flame].
Pyrite recoiled as he read the first sentence of the card. He rocked backwards like he’d been struck, as Goblins did when they heard that name, and his crimson eyes opened wide. He took the card from Mrsha, and she regarded Kevin. Her card to him was simpler.
In this timeline, are you dating Ceria still?
Kevin spluttered. The tips of his ears turned red, and he gaped at Pyrite and Mrsha.
“Why’s his card got all that on it and mine—? You could have just known about that! Somehow!”
She gave him a weak, trembling smile, and his flickered out. He tried to reignite it, but in the end, he stomped in a circle, snow flurrying around him, as he scrubbed at his hair. Kevin laughed as he glanced at Mrsha.
“Wh—why me, anyways? No offense, Mrsha, but I like you, and I think we’re friends. You played the drums with me when we had that band, and we’ve had our moments. But why not—no offense, Pyrite, but you and I? We’re not the highest-level.”
“Mm.”
The Hobgoblin shrugged. Kevin tried to grin.
“And we’re not, like, your best friends. I’m just saying that if—I’m flattered, but the way you were screaming in the beach. Isn’t there someone more important or—?”
He was trying to say it without saying it. We’re not the ones you love the most, right? That was wrong. She shook her head.
Don’t do that, Kevin. I wept for everyone I lost. I didn’t count which tears were for whom. I miss you every day. Everyone does.
He flinched with his entire body and turned away. Mrsha continued, and now she was truly cold, more heartless than the snow around her, ruthless.
But you’re right. I did come here for Moore and Halrac, because I miss them greatly. I didn’t go to them first. Because I have to succeed.
Headscratcher, Pyrite, and even Kevin she didn’t know as well. She would bring them back in a heartbeat if she could. But if she failed and Moore refused, or laughed at her, or she saw Halrac turn away, she felt like she would die of grief and failure.
The harsh message in wet ink seemed to oddly steady Kevin for a moment. He was shaking, visibly trembling, but he worked up enough courage to ask the true question.
“Okay. I get that. And I…now I’m dead. Dead. Me. Who—killed me? I didn’t think I had any enemies. Was it zombies? Draugr?”
The girl hesitated. Her quill dipped and scratched, and she wrote each word slowly. A chill ran down her spine, and when she held up the card, she saw the two of them shiver and thought she felt the world twist slightly. As if fate itself had felt someone walking over its grave.
An [Assassin] of Roshal with a gun.
Fate rippled over Mrsha’s fur. She felt it shifting. As she wrote the words, something—the roots—the limitations of the Skill—let the truth leak into her words. Mrsha saw that moment again, when she had seen Kevin’s body.
A surprised young man lying under a white shroud, guarded by servants of Magnolia Reinhart. His lips parted, a half-smile of disbelief and worry on his face.
She met Kevin Hall’s eyes, and he felt his death. The young man’s face turned pale. He recoiled from the card, stumbling back. He turned—looked at Pyrite, who was staring at his hands, flexing them, studying the card, and Kevin Hall ran with a wordless cry.
Mrsha raised her paws, took a step to run after him, and then gazed at Pyrite. Kevin was having a natural reaction, the one she expected. How impossible was this task? But Pyrite was just listening.
He’d do.
Come with me, now. Pyrite, you must come with me. Into the inn. I’ll show you everything, but we have to hurry. Rags needs you. She’s in danger.
The former Chieftain’s eyes widened a bit.
“Danger?”
Yes. I came here to steal people we lost. But also—Rags needs help. She needs you, Pyrite.
Mrsha hadn’t spoken to Rags long, but the Goblin invoked Pyrite’s name whenever she felt like she wasn’t smart enough. She talked about him like her tribe had lost something vital. Now Mrsha had met him, truly met him, she understood.
Come with me and help Rags. Please.
She had honestly almost forgotten her promise, despite the urgency, in the agony of this place. Now, though, she tugged Pyrite towards the inn, still walking towards the city.
He refused to move.
“What danger?”
A super nasty Titan from the City of Graves. In the mountains. Please—
Mrsha tried to explain as fast as she could, and Pyrite listened. He grimaced.
“That nasty.”
Yes, but if you come—
“No.”
Gently, the Hobgoblin patted Mrsha on the paw, and she opened her mouth. He believed her. He listened to her, but the Hobgoblin’s eyes were kind and set.
“Not me.”
But I have a door. You’re even in my world. Numbtongue sees your ghost. I’ve talked to you. You can come and help.
Mrsha didn’t get it. Pyrite gently touched his scarred chest and shook his head.
“I believe…I have one chance. If I had more, I think I would forget what living means. If I am a ghost, I will do what I think is right. The world doesn’t need another Pyrite.”
He was wrong. He was so wrong—Mrsha began to try to pull him, as impossible as it was. She shoved and yanked, and tears began spilling from her eyes again. The Hobgoblin let her try. He bent down, as Mrsha panted, and tapped her notecard.
“Mrsha, I want to know the truth. I will help you. But I must first understand. Tell me how you came here. What is happening with the Flooded Waters tribe? Tell me more. Please.”
His eyes were knowledgeable, wise, and burdened. Mrsha stopped and stood there, agonizing, but she did. She began to write and write as the snow fell down. She shivered, but the cold didn’t matter. She’d been cold for a long time. She looked in Pyrite’s eyes and prepared herself.
She was going to break every rule there was. Mrsha didn’t care who’d written them. She reached out and grabbed the Goblin’s arm, refusing to let go. No matter what he said, she had come here. If you were allowed to cheat, then she’d take—everything.
 
——
 
Fate. Destiny. If you believed in it, then everything was meaningless. But they were so compelling. You could want to believe you were special, that things were meant to work out in the end. That there was a narrative and you were fulfilling it.
If fate didn’t exist, it meant you weren’t special and there was no happy ending awaiting you. Destiny was the lie each child told themselves that faded with each step and realized the world didn’t revolve around them.
Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe had once believed she had a fate. Goblins were fatalistic; she had grown up knowing she was a monster, a scavenger, afraid of the real people.
She had believed in fate when one [Innkeeper] had been kind to her and thought it meant something. Then she had lost that vision of fate, that certainty everything would work out at the Siege of Liscor when she made war against an [Emperor].
Now? Now, she watched as the threads of fate came together just as they’d shown her. And she wasn’t sure if she believed in it or not. But she feared it.
The tunnels were vast and dark, rounded semicircles running through the heart of the Troll Kingdom like criss-crossing worms. They had been dug so high that even the tallest of the Troll warriors crouched amidst the rocks, like the stones themselves, were barely a tenth as tall as the tunnel’s ceilings.
These tunnels had been made for transportation of vast vehicles—and people. Dulat, the Troll Queen, had said they had been made for guests of truly gargantuan size as well. Wyrms, among other old beings.
Today, the tunnels were caved in, the stone walls collapsed, and a mossy bed covered the ground. The tunnels were lichen farms for Trolls, not highways. Or had been until foul insects had begun to infest them.
Today, they were a fitting ground for a trap. Rags could hear something down the tunnels, beyond the faintly luminescent markings of ancient directions on the wall, in the gloom, past the ranks of her waiting Goblin warriors.
A scraping sound. A shuffling, the click of nails on stone. And from the other direction, a rhythmic thum of sound. A thum, scrabbling, thum—as of something launching itself clumsily, hitting walls, landing hard, kicking again.
Like a disembodied foot, perhaps. And a hand the other way. Meeting, drawn together. Just as planned. Just as Rags had foreseen.
Her breath was hot; the air was limited in the tunnels because so many air vents had collapsed. Prixall had cast a spell to add ‘good air’ to the environment, but she’d turned it off when they’d heard the two limbs getting closer.
Rags could smell sweat, the musty dust of the tunnels, the odor of other Goblins around her. Redscar was standing closest, swords drawn, waiting. Prixall was on her other side, tensed, more nervous than most others. She was no experienced veteran of battles, but she was here.
If Rags looked right, she could pick out Dulat’s best warriors standing sentinel. The Goblins were using the cover of some fallen rocks to hide. The Trolls just stood there, blending into the caverns.
It was a small strike force. Sixty Goblins and twenty Trolls to kill two limbs of a Titan. They didn’t need—couldn’t use—more.
The Titan was adept at killing large numbers of foes, even in limb-form. There was no use trying to restrain it or wear it down; it was too strong, too adaptive, able to regenerate.
They had one shot, and it was when the seith cores exposed themselves. To that end, each Goblin with Rags was armed with an enchanted weapon of some kind. They’d also given the Trolls every weapon they had of their size.
Somo was one of six Ogres present, crouched next to Poisonbite, as the Goblin flirted with her favorite subordinate even now. They were all dealing with the stress as they had to.
Leapwolf, Shineshield, Taganchiel, Mousebite, Starstarer—all Goblins that Rags trusted and knew, some of the best Redfangs. They waited, brushing at insects crawling over them, twitching sometimes when they heard the sounds growing louder.
Waiting.
Rags knew better than to speak or repeat her plans. She’d drilled in what she knew to the others; rehashing it or whispering now would only show she was nervous.
Death.
Death.
Death.
It was coming. The thing that had murdered her so many times—no, other Rags. The Flooded Waters Chieftain closed her eyes.
This time will be different. She’d watched realities where an incarnation of her had killed the Titan in just this trap. That’s how she knew it would work. First, they’d meet.
An arm dragging itself down the long tunnels, withered tendons flexing as a cloud of insects followed it. Fingernails—shattered claws ticking against the floor as it pulled itself forwards.
And across from it—
A leg kicking, ruined flesh of a foot barely recognizable, propelling itself forwards with crude, flailing undulations of force. Even more uncoordinated than the arm.
The two weakest limbs by far. The ‘easiest’ for the Trolls to contain. The only two the Goblins and Trolls had a chance of dealing with. They’d be active and dangerous, even mid-merge.
They were approaching carefully, the two limbs drawn to each other’s presence, but warily, competing minds coming to the conclusion that merging would benefit them both—if they could take over the gestalt. Rags watched, barely breathing, as the buzzing grew louder.
Insects running off both’s bodies, so foully dangerous and magical they made the Goblins shift, forced to squash and kill them or sustain bites. The Trolls barely moved, watching. Tense.
Every instinct told the living to attack, to prevent this merge. Every second the two limbs drew closer together, the air seemed to become more hostile, harder to breathe in. Foreign; like they were breathing in foul smog.
Death magic, so palpable it was harmful to the living.
It wasn’t just the smell of rot, which had actually become less foul than a freshly dead corpse; the limbs were so old and rotten they’d become part of a background odor that left you sickened for hours after inhaling just once. Stay for too long breathing this in, and even in the bright sun, under clear skies with flowers surrounding you, you’d cough and hack and exhale putrescence for a day afterwards.
—Attack. Redscar was tensed, but he had a hand up, signaling everyone else down. Rags was gagging, but made no sound.
