For a second—one second—she turned to granite. Rags saw it; the Ogre’s eyes flashed with magic, Ogre magic, and the fingers slashed and rebounded off of Somo. Then the Ogre was staggering backwards. Her skin was—raw. Chunks had been blasted out of her arms and shoulders, not deep, but the stone had still fractured.
“[Pinning Shot]. Volley!”
Trueshot swung her Thunderbow up and fired from the hip; the impact nearly sent her sprawling, but it was followed by a rain of glowing objects.
Blast Flasks, Potions of Fireball, acid jars, even several Jars of Air. The Goblins hurled everything they had and the whumph re-collapsed the tunnel back on the hand.
It bought them minutes, maybe. Less; the huge shape of the hand was already thrashing around the rocks, and the head was still rolling at them.
But slowly. It was cautious. It wanted them alive. It spoke as Trueshot dragged herself up and aimed her Thunderbow at it.
“[Instantaneous Reload]. Volley!”
“[Better Potion]! Acid jar!”
Mousebite hurled an acid jar, which exploded in a rain of acid double what the jar should have held. More alchemical concoctions flew; the head spoke.
“Shield.”
—The projectiles vanished into a purple haze around its face. The warriors around Rags faltered, then ran for it.
Goblins went charging left, and Rags hoped that if this were another door, whomever was watching would memorize that—
Probably doesn’t matter. Fates change. She hadn’t seen the earthquake in the other doors. Damn it…
She tripped, and two Goblins grabbed her and literally ran while holding her under the armpits. Leapwolf had blood running all down his face, and Shineshield’s shield was gone.
If they survived this, Rags would commission a new shield from Pelt himself. She panted.
“Put me down.”
“Chieftain, give orders. Who slows it?”
The head was rolling after them, and Leapwolf looked around. Rags snarled.
“No one! Run faster!”
—She’d send Taganchiel first. He had a wall spell. Then Leapwolf. Rags panted as her feet hit the ground, and she just ran. But the head was angry. Alarmed.
“Wall. What. Do. You. Know?”
A wall of stone sealed the tunnel, and Rags snapped.
“[Ogre’s Strength]. Somo, break it down!”
The Ogre attacked the wall with a roar as Rags pivoted around. She was desperate; it could kill them with a word, so she calculated. Tell the truth? It could detect lies…
“The Dragonlord of Flames is coming. Hide, wretch!”
That made the head recoil. The creeping hand coming up from the side retreated several paces, and the rotted face made a sound.
“Dragonlord? Traitor. TRAITOR.”
The tunnels quaked with its rage, and Rags saw another plan vanish in smoke. There goes our element of surprise.
Survival came first. She held her sword up.
“This is a gift from him. If you don’t want to die, leave us alone, Mortemdefieir Titan! I know your name. I know how to kill you.”
For a second, she thought it’d work. The head rolled back one rotation, then studied her. It seemed to weigh its odds, then a maggot-infested smile made its lips open wide.
“I…killed Dragons. I devoured six. Send the Pyrelord to me. If you are his minions, I fear him not. To me, my body. To me!”
—And there went their window. Rags heard a shout and saw the wall of stone cave in as Somo battered through. She turned to run, and the head spoke.
“Now die.”
It spat magic at her, and a huge figure threw himself in front of the gigantic deathbolt. The old Troll—he dropped his cracked spear, and Rags made a sound as she turned. He sagged down without a sound.
The head chuckled. It rolled forwards another cycle, towards the dead Troll, and opened its mouth to swallow the warrior whole. Then it noticed a crack on the floor, which the Trolls had guided the Goblins around. The head paused—
Spiders burst out of the hole, glowing green and phantasmal. They raced over the head, and it made an annoyed sound as they bit furiously. Traps. Tricks of the mountain.
Useless. Seconds at most, bought in blood.
“Run!”
Another Troll bellowed, and they ran. Laughter from the head as it followed, whispering what it would do to them.
The pieces were playing with their food. It was a feeling the Trolls didn’t understand; they were panting, running ragged, panicking as they tried to navigate to safety.
The Goblins ran quiet, conserving their strength. Each and every one understood this feeling. The Titan knew them.
It was, after all, a Drake. Nothing had changed between them and it for aeons.
Who’s first to die? Rags glanced over her shoulder and wondered what had possessed her to try. So sick of being saved—she looked at Taganchiel, and the panting [Shaman] using his staff to run faster began to slow and turn.
“No.”
So tired. Rags drew her sword again as they came to another intersection and she heard Trolls shouting. The drums were beating fast, telling the Trolls to run, guiding other warriors to their location.
Trolls with rocks and stones and javelins burst from one tunnel and tried to flank the limbs. They hurled the stones at the head, who turned and spoke.
“Wall of Magma. Die.”
Searing, molten stone washed down the hallway, and Trolls shrieked as they burned. The head swiveled back, and Rags understood.
“It’s after me.”
The Titan was unnerved by whatever had hit the mountains. It wanted to know what was hunting it—and how Rags had known how to kill it. She slowed.
“Retreat.”
The other Goblins halted, gazing back at her, and Shineshield swiveled.
“No! Chieftain—”
“The other parts are coming. No one will make it out of here. It’s maneuvering us into a trap. Keep running. I’ll catch up to you.”
The words sounded like bravado in her ears, but she was grinning. The Chieftain turned on her heel and passed a hand over her blade. Flames melded with crackling electricity, and she cast a familiar spell.
[Ogre’s Strength]. [Speed].
Fate ran around her. The Goblin saw forwards, and in the Titan’s lurid, rotting gaze, she knew that the moment it joined the other parts, it would set off every [Advanced Dangersense] in the city of Liscor and beyond. When it emerged from the mountain, the continent would know.
The Dragonlord of Flame will kill you. 2nd Army will hear of your existence and bring Pallass’ wrath down on your head.
Her tribe would run and escape. So the Goblin grinned as her tribe began to flee, dragging the protesting Leapwolf, Somo seizing Prixall and Shineshield under one arm.
The head didn’t like Rags’ smile. It narrowed its empty sockets at her.
“Why laughing? You will scream, Goblin.”
“I have seen you die a thousand times, Mortemdefieir Titan. Come. I’ve been waiting to level up.”
Rags glanced around and whispered.
“It’s four twenty-six.”
Behind her, she could hear footfalls, the drums pounding like the background of her thoughts. The air grew cloying, and a buzzing of insects became louder as the wet, slopping sounds of flesh moving forwards filled her ears. She felt an oppressive weight on her thoughts, and her heart struggled to beat. She heard a chuckle from a swollen, rotten tongue and pointed her sword at the empty sockets writhing with maggots and that twisted mouth.
Chieftain Rags waited, then heard the footfalls cease behind her. She turned her head.
“I said run.”
Was it Redscar? They would all die here if they tried to stand and fight. Rags realized her entire tribe had halted further up the tunnel. She snarled at them, drew breath to scream an order, and heard laughter.
Laughter. Merry, youthful, from a young woman’s lungs. Delighted, confident, and brave—or was it bravado? It sounded like how Redfangs laughed as they went into combat.
Rags hated it instinctively. She couldn’t have said why, at first. The voice was so oddly familiar, but Rags didn’t understand until she saw the glow. Green light flickered down the tunnel turning long shadows into faint, flickering wisps of darkness. A beautiful, magical light.
Rags turned. The Titan slowed, perplexed, and she saw someone streak past her exhausted Goblin warriors, shoot along the tunnel walls past the Trolls.
The figure was moving impossibly fast and sped along one of the rounded walls of the tunnel, above head-height. It rotated up across the ceiling, then downwards in a spiral, passing Taganchiel, and Rags realized it was a figure. A short Hobgoblin on…
Skates? Rolling cylinders of enchanted mithril propelled her across the ground like the skateboards that Goblins such as Poisonbite loved. But these were on her feet. And she was moving even faster than she should have, skating off walls, leaping obstacles. Propelled by a familiar green fire.
[Apista’s Jetflame]. The spell that Rags knew so well was propelling the other figure forwards in ways that Rags hadn’t imagined. She was burning mana, skidding on one heel, and swearing as she saw the Titan.
“Dead gods!”
That familiar figure screeched to a halt and gawked at the three parts of the Titan. At Rags. She swept a carefully detailed and dyed half-cut wisp of hair from her face.
—She wasn’t even wearing armor, just some kind of bright blue sports jacket with a familiar badge on the collar. It was lined with Carn Wolf fur, and she had on jeans and carried only a single shortsword at her side.
No crossbow. She looked light, young, and free as she flipped one heel up, finishing her skid, and inspected the Titan. And Chieftain Rags.
“That’s one ugly monster. I’d better tell Headscratcher about that. Hey, Rags. Run this way! Hurry!”
A Goblin cupped her claws to her mouth and shouted, her voice tense, but still too merry. She grinned like someone who wanted you to believe she had all the winning moves. Someone trying too hard to be liked.
Rags had never wanted to hit someone more in the world. But she was frozen. Because she was looking at herself.
The [Prodigal Student] was backing up with jets of green flame as the Titan reacted to the newcomer.
“Strange. Same.”
It recognized what was going on, narrowing those eye sockets as it stared between the [Chieftain] and [Student]. It must have seen the identical magical signature, or however it was viewing them. It didn’t like what it saw, so it spat.
“Death.”
A shower of [Deathbolts] coalesced and cut through the air towards both Rags. Both Goblins reacted instantly, and twin jets of [Apista’s Jetflame] turned the dark tunnel to day.
Chieftain Rags jetted upwards, kicking off the ceiling and angling away from the Titan. She saw her duplicate skating up one wall on her skates. They passed each other, crimson eyes staring in astonishment, and then the [Chieftain] snapped.
“Run, you idiot! We’re both going to die!”
“Not yet. Give me a second—whoa!”
The other Rags skated down one wall, ducked another shower of [Deathbolts], and kept skating around, weaving in a serpentine pattern at speeds so fast the Titan couldn’t tag her. Until it spoke.
“Acid wave.”
That familiar wave of colorless liquid—! The student saw it rushing at her and tried to peel away, but she was too close. She threw up her hands, swearing, and a trio of [Fireballs] detonated.
Hissing clouds of steam filled the air as the wave of acid slowed—and then hit a wall of stone conjured by Taganchiel. The student tumbled backwards, and Chieftain Rags reached down and yanked her up.
“Fall back! Dead gods damn it—run!”
The stunned Goblins and Trolls began moving again, but the younger Rags bounded to her feet. The real Rags’ mind was whirling. She came to the only conclusion she could:
This is what Mrsha was up to. That little idiot genius! Of course!
Then, hot on the heels of that thought—
These are the reinforcements she brought me!?
And yet. Rags felt her heart leap. She locked eyes with herself, looking a lot younger but probably the same age, as the other Rags stood there.
For one non-immortal moment, the two inspected each other, seeing how time had shaped the other. Two different versions of the same being, shivering as they judged each other as only they could.
A young Goblin, brushing her floppy tuft of hair back, and a Chieftain, panting as she adjusted her grip on her sword. A gaze of weary exhaustion meeting a bright light. Then—the [Chieftain] saw the fear in the young [Student]’s gaze, the uncertainty, the self-doubt, the anxiety of failing that had led to her leaving her tribe. To try and be worthy of them.
The [Student] saw in her counterpart’s gaze the bone-dragging exhaustion of someone trying to climb higher with fingers worn down to the bone, clinging to each rock she climbed so she didn’t fall back down. Uncertain if she’d even made it a foot off the ground. Despairing…until that gaze brightened and she remembered that silly inn where miracles happened.
Then, Rags felt a note of hope in her chest. She remembered a dancing, pink flame, and turned. The other version of herself panted as they stood side-by-side in front of the hesitating Old One’s head.
“Okay, that was my fault. The Professor was right: [Strategists] should just stay under cover. Damn. Hey, me. Give me cover for ten seconds. I’m calling in help.”
“It had better be good.”
The [Chieftain] grunted; she spun her sword up, giving orders, and Goblins rushed around them. A grin was her only reply.
The wave of acid was receding, steam rising around the two of them, and the head was rolling forwards. It had lost its complacent attitude and snapped at the limbs.
“Don’t like this. Kill them all.”
The arm and leg surged forwards as the Titan decided whatever was going on merited an end to its games. The real Rags saw the student plant her feet on the ground, point at the Titan, and concentrate.
“Volley! Now! Prixall, Taganchiel, wall spells! Shieldwall!”
Her tribe charged past her as the Thunderbows cracked off shots. Trolls, Ogres, and Goblins formed a defensive line as more magical walls rose. The arm crashed through the first [Light Wall] spell and shattered it into splinters. Its fingers stabbed at the Goblins and Trolls, and an Ogre screamed as it snapped an arm, despite the raised shield he carried.
They had seconds.
The [Student] stood there, concentrating, and the Level 45 [Student of Grandmasters] had the audacity to wink at the [Chieftain]. She brushed her hair back—the tips were dyed red—and adjusted her posture as if she were posing for an invisible audience.
Then she spoke.
“Alright, everyone, fall back! [Call for Aid: Send Me the Stuff of Stories]! Hey, Professor! Hey, everyone! Too busy to write an essay—look what I found! Mind sending me some support?”
Her teeth flashed, and Rags threw up her hands as a blindingly bright light entered the depths of the Troll Kingdom. A window appeared in reality, like a [Scrying] spell, but infinitely more clear. The Titan stopped. Its dead gaze widened—
