“I’m not important enough. That’s why. I—hey, uh, hold on. I need to pee.”
Kevin got up, wishing he’d actually had something to drink. He saw Mrsha nod and walked towards the door leading out of the beach. He stepped through it, waiting until he was out of sight. Then he started running.
“Erin! Holy shit, Erin! She’s in the garden! She’s—where’s Erin?”
Kevin went tearing around the inn, stopping in the kitchen. Calescent was playing cards with Pyrite, but the former Goldstone Chieftain stood when Kevin appeared, wide-eyed and breathless. Partly because he was five hands down, but mostly because…
“Mrsha?”
“Yeah! She’s weirding me out. Pyrite, she’s saying some crazy shit. Where’s Erin?”
The Hobgoblin grunted.
“Out of inn. Just as planned? What she saying?”
“That—that—”
Kevin looked around, then pulled Pyrite aside and hissed at him.
“That everything’s fake and she wants to take me out of this reality and into the real one because I’m fucking dead?”
He didn’t even know if the Goblin could process that. Pyrite’s eyes narrowed, and he scratched at his belly.
“Okay.”
“Okay? Dude! She’s the scariest person I’ve ever met, and the Quarass rang me up on the scrying orb and I thought I’d crap my pants—what do we do?”
It was Pyrite’s turn to give Kevin an odd look. He put a hand on Kevin’s shoulder and leaned in to whisper in Kevin’s ear.
“Listen to her. Duh.”
 
——
 
She was doing a terrible thing. The longer she stood here, in this other world, the more she knew it.
They were so happy here. Her presence in this timeline was like poison. Mrsha could feel it; she was the badness, the drop of ink sullying clean waters. And if she succeeded in what she had planned out, cheated fate and death?
She’d take them away into worlds that were not their own. It would hurt. It would—
He was dead. Kevin. She wanted him back more than anything, but was this Kevin going to just fit back into place?
No. How could he? Mrsha clutched at her head, wondering if Kevin was finding Erin to turn her in. If she had to, Mrsha would lie or escape using the roots; she doubted they’d beat her up or kill her, and all she needed was a second.
It didn’t matter. She was a terrible person for what she wanted to do.
She didn’t have to do this.
She could just leave.
But Mrsha felt, in her bones, that this was a chance that would never come again. This was not what was intended, using the roots.
This felt wrong. Not just morally; there was a true trepidation in Mrsha’s soul. Every time she invoked the ‘real’ world and saw the people here interacting, the thought of bringing them through the door…it wasn’t agony, but it was like uncertainty.
Uncertainty, wrongness, like that little voice that spoke in your head when you broke a rule, only magnified a billion times until it was screaming in your soul. When Mrsha had pulled the other Mrsha through the door, she’d felt it. A sensation like her breaking the biggest rule in the world.
That was how she knew this would have consequences. She knew it, and yet…
If she turned her back on it now…she’d regret it forever.
She had one chance to alter fate itself, and she’d do it. Mrsha had talked to the dying Erin about the cost. About stories, and the [Innkeeper] had told her about some fellow called Orpheus and a lady called Eurydice. Then other tales of people who tried to change fate and how it went. They were all tragedies.
Yet Mrsha knew why they had tried. She felt, now, like she really was a Doombringer. She’d asked herself, when her powers became known, if her nature had siphoned luck from people. Maybe she was the reason the Raskghar attacked and all the bad things happened…? Bad luck for everyone else, good for Mrsha?
The Gnoll hadn’t ever decided if that was true. Wer had told her it was inconceivable that she could manipulate luck on the scale of cities without a dedicated class. But right now, she felt like it. She was sitting here, staining this world with her presence, trying to scoop up what mattered to her in her paws.
It hurt every second she was here in this beach, knowing what was coming and not coming. Hurt, doubly so, because she knew her future—but this one surprised her.
—The dome of light that showed the sky above. Mrsha was staring up at it, the one discordant note in this illusion of an island paradise. It reflected the outside world, as it did in every garden.
The sky was moving. At first, Mrsha thought it was a storm rushing in; the clouds were moving too quickly for it to be anything else. But then she realized it was different.
What the heck’s going on? Mrsha got up; she’d never seen the sky move like that before. She heard someone calling her name.
“Mrsha!”
The girl whirled and tensed to run. Kevin lowered his hand, wary, and a second figure halted. Pyrite. Mrsha exhaled hard in relief. Was it coincidence or fate? Or luck?
She’d take it and drew more strongly on any luck she had left. She’d used it all, a lifetime’s worth, for this.
“Hey, Mrsha. Let’s, uh, go for a walk, huh? Erin’s on her way back, and she’s looking for fake you. If we walk in the snow, we can talk.”
Kevin glanced around, sounding casual, and Pyrite grunted.
“Here.”
He had a fur cloak because it was cold outside. Mrsha accepted it, bemused, and they hurried out of the beach garden. The door spat them out one side of the inn, and they were back in the winter wonderland. That was normal. Mrsha stood there for all of a second, breathing in the cold.
—Then jerked as the inn moved past her. Mrsha whirled around and saw it. A stubby set of wooden legs tearing at the snow and ground. Saw that inn rise—and crawl up the hill.
The Wandering Inn walked. Wooden legs braced with copper extended, like the legs of, well, a bug, really, because they were numerous and short, rounded, and pushed into the soil. The inn seemed to crawl past Mrsha as she stood there.
“Okay, now I know she’s not our Mrsha because of that.”
Kevin glanced at Mrsha’s face and then the inn with amusement. Pyrite just nodded, eyes on Mrsha. She scrambled for her notecards, dropping them.
What the fuck—excuse my language—is that?
For answer, Pyrite just scooped her up and adjusted her cloak until she was virtually hidden against his body. He raised a hand, grunting, and a familiar voice made Mrsha shiver.
“Pyrite! Kevin! Are you joining the search? Don’t bother! She’s in the inn! She just left! There was no Sest with her!”
Erin was jogging this way, accompanied by Pelt, Bird, and Headscratcher. Pyrite shouted back as Kevin shifted guiltily, and Mrsha held still.
“We know. She just ran away. That way.”
He gestured towards Liscor, and Erin cursed. The inn shifted directions, rotating in a circle, and Mrsha realized Erin was controlling it. She ran towards the inn, pulled herself up on a set of stairs, a sort of landing ramp, and pointed.
“Thataway! We’ll catch her!”
“Not in the inn we won’t. I’m going ahead. Come on, Headscratcher!”
Palt and the Goblin Lord raced forwards, outpacing Erin’s inn at once. Bird ran after them, waving all four arms and going tumbling down a hill. Erin shouted after them.
“Don’t hurt her! Unless she’s actually the shapechanger! But I’m pretty sure she’s not. I’ll just catch up, because it’s wet and cold!”
She glanced down at Kevin and Pyrite, gesturing at them with a grin.
“You two want to come with?”
“We were gonna. But they’re faster. We’ll just stand here and see if we can spot her.”
Kevin called back. Mrsha, peeking at the [Innkeeper] and [Witch], was afraid that Erin would spot her. But Erin just nodded, and The Wandering Inn began to walk faster.
…It was probably as fast as an adult walking at max speed, but seeing the building move shook her heart. Pyrite waited until the inn had descended a hill to let her out. Then he pointed.
“That way. We walk in the valleys.”
So no one would see them. He was as clever as Numbtongue had always said. Kevin exhaled.
“Okay, we can do that. But what if we run into Rock Crabs…?”
“I’ll hit them. And have seed pods.”
Pyrite patted his belt pouch, and Mrsha held up a card, squinting at him, pointing at the top of the inn she could still see pondering forwards.
Erin’s inn can walk? And why didn’t she see us? [Witches] can see emotion.
She was sure she should have stood out, like those people in the movies whenever someone used their thermal vision stuff, such as in Predator. Erin had watched Predator but none of the sequels.
For answer, Pyrite grunted, giving Mrsha a pleased nod.
“Aura. Easy way to fool lots of Skills. I practiced.”
Mrsha and Kevin’s jaws dropped open, and the former Goldstone Chieftain began to walk, his boots crunching in the snow. He turned his head and spoke.
“Erin’s inn walked at the Meeting of Tribes. So where you came from, it didn’t. What’s her level in your world?”
Over Level 50.
Kevin stumbled, and his eyes went wide.
“Dude. Wait, is that real? Is Mrsha real? Pyrite, shouldn’t we be confirming her identity or…?”
The Hobgoblin was just walking, and Mrsha followed, the cloak trailing in the snow. Kevin hurried after them as Mrsha held up notecards so they could pass them between the two.
What’s yours? I mean, this Erin’s?
“Level 47. She got the Skill to move the inn at Level 45.”
What’s her class?
The Hobgoblin turned, and Mrsha felt tingles run up and down her body, from her scalp to her spine, as he spoke with a smile.
“[The Inn That Walked]. She brought it into a war for her friends. [Goblinfriend Innkeeper of Wonders]. She crushed Wall Lord Dragial with it.”
“Dude. It was hardcore. And gnarly.”
Kevin shivered; he hadn’t had time to put more than a coat on. Mrsha glanced over her shoulder at the moving inn and compared this Erin to hers.
Lower-level. But she had a moving inn, just like Larracel. The current Erin didn’t have that. She had access to the [Pavilion of Secrets] and a box.
Mrsha wrote that bit about Larracel, and Pyrite’s eyes lit up.
“Hm. So you met the Haven.”
“The what? What’s the Haven?”
“Adventurer’s Haven. Important inn. Stays in the north. People say Erin stole its identity. Because both move.”
“Move? Move how?”
The Haven floats. Erin’s inn is different. She meets Larracel in the winter. She should have already. But the Haven never had a reason to come down south. Because there are no New Lands in this world, are there?
“New Lands? What that?”
For answer, Mrsha requested a world map and saw no addition to Izril. She nodded slowly and imagined how the Meeting of Tribes had changed. No great army of Khelt. No ghosts.
The Titan of Baleros, Erin Solstice, and a Goblin Lord doing the job instead. When she sought clarification, Pyrite elaborated.
“Strategist Perorn? Yes. She and General Diomedes hold the Great Plains with their Gnollish allies. They both appeared when the Titan teleported a Goblin tribe and a lot of noncombatants from the Gnolls to his continent.”
Diomedes? You mean the big Cyclops dude?
“Yep.”
—That changed things immensely. Now, Mrsha saw it. Without the Titan being vanished by Belavierr, he must have contributed all his Skills to the battle. He’d probably saved Torishi Weatherfur and stymied Fissival; his Skill that could erase magic would have been pivotal.
She was as astonished as Kevin by all this. Pyrite was the one presenting himself as calm, though Mrsha suspected he was just playing it cool. Kevin exploded after a minute.
“Wait, wait, I have to ask for proof. How do we know you’re not a shapeshifter from the High Passes? Or this isn’t some trick or prank?”
He searched around as if wondering if all his friends would pop out of a snowdrift and shout ‘surprise’! But the only thing that popped out of the snow was a hare. It hopped away as Mrsha felt at her belt pouches. Prove she was from another time?
How about this?
She handed something to Kevin, and he inspected the Wand of Mrsha, blinking.
“Whoa, what’s this? Nice wand. Wait…‘Wand of Mrsha’? You have your own wand?”
I got it from a <Quest>.
“A what now?”
Pyrite’s ears perked up, and Mrsha realized this was another thing that Erin must have failed to create. She explained as best she could, and Kevin laughed.
“That’s cool—and crazy. Why didn’t our Erin do that? No, wait, I still don’t get it. If she is from another timeline, then in that one, Erin’s Level 50. And I’m dead…what happened?”
He was smiling, worry in his blue eyes. He still didn’t believe. How could you? Pyrite might have, but Mrsha tried to think of how to show them. She closed her eyes and thought.
If she stabbed her paw and showed them she bled red, would they believe? Could she take a picture of her memories, of that frozen bier, or of Erin Solstice lying on the raft to show them? Or would they be just too hard to fathom, even with picture proof?
—In the end, Mrsha convinced them the only way she knew. With words. She stood there, trying to smile, as she held up a card.
In my world, you’re gone, Kevin. So are Moore and Ulinde, Halrac too. Gershal of Vaunt, that brave man, is dead. You never knew him. In my world, Headscratcher’s gone. So is Shorthilt. They never survived the Siege of Liscor. Neither did you, Pyrite.
She wrote on as Kevin peeked at Pyrite, and the Hobgoblin chewed on some compacted snow.
Erin was shot when Hectval ambushed her. She died and was frozen and was never present at the Meeting of Tribes. Someone stole her body…I’ll explain that later. Torishi Weatherfur and a lot of brave Gnolls died there too. Eventually, we brought her back with the help of Khelt and Ilvriss and so many others. And everything was okay for a while until the Winter Solstice. Then, we fought the real foe of our world, of every world, and you died, Kevin. So did Moore and Halrac and Ulinde. All in the same battle.
The two adults were just standing there, trying to take it in, but Mrsha had seen those moments so many times it was just—she could write it out. She paused, guilty.
Ser Sest died there too. And Bird, but he came back. Tekshia Shivertail died fighting Draugr in the streets of Liscor. Erin Solstice was kidnapped by Roshal, with Ulvama, and nearly died fighting at sea. Earl Altestiel perished there. So did a worthless [Prince of Men]. Rabbiteater lived, but the Courier, Seve-Alrelious, died, and so did Embraim, one of the first Knights of Solstice. Goat died. Anand died. A Kraken died.
Her paws were trembling as she held up the final card. It was cold. She was cold, writing the list of the dead out.
