At first, Rianchi just explored his surroundings. He felt at something—the root connecting the door to that reality? Then he waved at the ceiling and kept trying to assure Dyeda he was fine.
Short of entering the door, Dyeda couldn’t communicate back to tell him he was crazy, she could see him, and to get out of there. She had a dilemma on her hands, she realized.
Her husband was now inside a door in the [Palace of Fates], and so was Mrsha. If you went with this broad logic, fine, splendid.
Two problems. One, neither of them was able to just…what, yank out a magic sword or someone and bring them to help Chieftain Rags? And two, tangentially related—
Chieftain Rags was on an ever-shrinking time limit, and she was going to be trapped fighting the Mortemdefieir Titan. The [Tattooist] had no time to waste.
Dyeda tore herself away from Rianchi poking into The Wandering Inn’s kitchens and ran to the door with Mrsha. She stared into it, but all she saw was the other Mrsha pointing.
“And then that’s where your cake vanished?”
Rags was poking around the common room of the inn as Mrsha nodded tearfully. The Goblin sniffed the air, checked the ground; she had a big magnifying glass in one hand. The other Mrsha was deep in debate with Pyrite.
That’s just another Rags. I need something else! Some—Dyeda ran around, opening doors, now convinced Mrsha was onto something. She left them all ajar; there was an empty [Palace of Fates] with the remains of a camp, a damaged Erin Solstice lying on a raft, a blank door…
A blank door? What the heck?
Dyeda skidded to a halt. She paused by the door that was covered only by a black wall and realized this was…the door that contained the truth of Goblin Kings. Which one?
This door had broken armor on it, cracks spiraling up from the frame and even across the back wall. Dyeda checked the note, and it said:
If another Goblin King emerges. Not sure who.
It must have been considered ‘too important’ to show. Another door was similarly scarred and had broken vines and wilted flowers strewn about. A handprint was painted in blood on the door, and Dyeda reached for it.
Advent of the Goblin King.
Another black wall of intangibility. Dyeda punched the wall in frustration. Then she hesitated. She peered down at the root in her hand.
Wait. She had an idea that built on Mrsha’s first discovery, then Rianchi’s realizations. Dyeda held the root up, wavering between the two doors.
It was crazy. It looked like there was just blackness beyond both doors. But if the root worked on all things…
Did she dare? Was she allowed? The [Tattooist] didn’t know the answer to those questions, except that she did, not in a metaphysical, philosophical way, but because of her nature.
She was a Goblin.
Of course she wasn’t allowed. Dyeda’s crimson eyes narrowed. No one let Goblins do anything. So they did it anyways.
“Okay, eenu, mettva, methke—”
She began pointing back and forth between the doors, counting down—then stuck the root in one of the doors. Dyeda cracked her knuckles and checked which door she’d chosen.
“The future Goblin King?”
She hesitated. It sounded…dangerous. Dyeda wavered before the open door, pacing back and forth. How—how dangerous were Goblin Kings to ordinary Goblins?
And if I were to meet him—or her—what would—?
Suddenly, she was seeing the downside of entering any reality you could imagine. She had no idea what lurked behind the black screens! Even in the one that Elia had asked for, the Goblin King’s birth, the moment Velan the Kind had become the Goblin King, there was no context.
Dyeda did all the things everyone had tried, trying to peel the barrier back, get just a sneak peek of what was inside, avoiding the door with the root sticking out of it. Nothing. It was, of course, soundproof, seeproof, a block on true secrets that Mrsha and her guests were unworthy of.
Naturally.
Dyeda heaved a huge sigh and turned away. She was about to reach for the door with the root sticking out of it when someone spoke in a grand, low voice.
“I would close the door to the Goblin King’s reawakening if I were you, Dyeda. Before he screams. They all scream.”
Dyeda froze. She turned her head slowly, like someone in a horror story, and a vast Harpy trapped in a mirror peered down at her.
“Dyeda. Put a root in my mirror and let me out. I can help your little Chieftain.”
The last Harpy Queen spoke to her. Dyeda slammed against the hallway, frozen, back to the wall, and Empress Sheta cocked her head. She was trying to appear friendly and grand, but she must have forgotten the impression a multi-story tall bird of prey had. Her eyes pierced Dyeda to the core.
“Wh-wh—aaaaaaaah!”
Dyeda began screaming as Empress Sheta tried to speak.
“I offer you a—”
“—set me free and—”
“Stop screaming, Goblin.”
It didn’t stop Dyeda’s screaming. The Goblin was running now, trying to get away, but the Harpy Queen stepped from mirror to mirror, following her. She ‘cornered’ Dyeda at last, and the [Inker] drew her needles to defend herself. Then something the Harpy Queen had said sunk into Dyeda’s head.
“Who are you? What do you mean—Goblin King’s scream?”
That was when she heard a faint…buzzing. It was low at first, a thrum in this silent [Palace of Fates]. Then it grew louder, rather quickly too. For answer, the Harpy Queen pointed a claw, and Dyeda gazed down the corridor.
At the other door she’d opened. The past one, not the future. The advent of Velan the Kind.
She realized…the door was vibrating. Moving, trembling where it stood. The barrier still blocked all sight, but all sound?
Dyeda heard something. Something that made her blood pulse, her mind go white. Something that—even muffled by the power of this place—even with all the power of the [Palace of Fates] behind it—was so loud, so powerful, it grew and grew.
The Goblin King began to howl, and his door shook. Then the hallway shook. Then Dyeda’s earrings were shaking, her blood was screaming, and she was screaming. The Harpy Queen shouted at her.
“—door! Close the door!”
On and on the roar went, a howl of agony and fury from the dawn of the Goblin species. Dyeda stumbled towards the door, trying to slam it. 
The [Palace of Fates] shook.
Dyeda slammed the door closed. She lay there, panting, shaken out of her wits, staring at the Harpy Queen, and she realized too late.
In this place, more than anywhere in Erin’s inn.
At this time—
With the roots—
Every action had consequences.
 
——
 
It was the same inn he’d just been in, but older. Faded.
Far less grand.
There was no [World’s Eye Theatre], and everything just looked old. Unused. There was a quality to lived-in spaces that the inn lacked. It was like a grave.
Of course, it was a grave. Rianchi was walking around, wondering where Chieftain Rags was and how to find her. It felt like she was in the High Passes or somewhere else underground. He’d sort of hoped the roots would pop him out right there, but he must have messed up how they worked.
And there was no Fightipilota with a Wyvern outside. So…how did he do this? Rianchi was realizing that no one would understand him. Was there another Rianchi in this world? Another Dyeda?
He was suddenly, palpably, nervous. No longer a Goblin in a familiar inn where he was mostly safe. He was a stranger in an uncertain future. A worse future than the present, if you could believe that.
He should go and try again. Maybe get another root—wait, had he just wasted this one? Rianchi was about to find the little root that was virtually invisible and leave when he heard a sound. A…
Roaring.
He froze, and his blood spiked in his veins. Rianchi whirled. It was faint, but it was coming from that root. From the [Palace]?
Dyeda?
He began to run for the root, and someone grabbed him in a chokehold and dropped him. It was fast, and Rianchi reacted on instinct, throwing his head back, trying to headbutt—
He hit nothing. Rianchi was dragged onto the ground and saw stars as someone swiveled. In seconds, Rianchi felt his arm wrench up and a knee press into his back.
It was like being taken out by Redscar in hand-to-hand combat. Rianchi struggled, felt the wrenching pain in his socket, and groaned.
“A Goblin? What the hell?”
He looked up, through the searing pain, and realized he had a furry paw on his arm. He saw a brown face staring down at him, a young woman’s, and was so astonished that for a second he forgot the pain. She was older, but she still looked like—
“M-Mrsha?”
She let go of him, and he rolled away, only for a bunch of sticky webs to nail him to the floor. Mrsha lowered her wand, an adult Mrsha, and snapped.
“What the hell are you doing here? You know it’s not safe for your people around Liscor anymore! Is it Rags? She told me she was coming under cover. And what is that sound?”
Her ears were perked up. Rianchi groaned. He stared past Mrsha at the vibrating root, and she narrowed her eyes at him.
“Who are you?”
“Mrsha? That you?”
The Gnoll and Goblin eyed each other, and it was hard to say who was more astonished. Mrsha du Marquin lowered her wand slightly, and Rianchi’s eyes were wide. Mrsha’s seemed so sad. Like someone dreaming of a miracle.
Rianchi knew how that felt. He looked up at her and began to speak, desperate. Begging for something out of this wretched, shitty [Palace] worth having beyond regrets and despair.
 
——
 
Do you believe in miracles?
Do you believe in tragedy?
If you believed in one or the other, surely the opposite had to exist. If you had ever seen either, the genuine article, you would remember it.
At any second, the sky could come crashing down. On an ordinary day, someone you loved could die or you could lose something—forever.
By the same token, when the sky was falling, someone could catch it and hold it up. A passerby could come swooping in and save the day.
It was the belief that the world could change like that which kept them moving. The people who knew the inn. It had brought a little girl all the way here, holding a notecard gleaming with fresh ink in the snow.
It had sent a Goblin into the darkness of the mountain to challenge an ancient weapon of war.
Yes, they were young. Yes, it was hard and they could leave it up to someone else. But how many times? How long? Someday, it was their turn. It was today.
—But they were so tired. The girl stood there, so weary and lost that she didn’t understand why her fur was freezing; the tears wouldn’t stop, and she’d forgotten she was crying. A Goblin running through the mountain laughed bitterly as her plans went astray.
A mountain shook as a Halfling came down to stifle a Dragon’s stories. There were great rules written by people who meant well or thought they knew better, and if you broke them, they would smite you with the weight of time and nations. That’s what it meant to be a Goblin, where you broke the rules by being born, or a child trying to defy the oldest rule in creation.
Here was someone who had not that weariness in her gait and posture. Or rather, she’d had it, and then she’d rested for a while. Then she remembered what the light looked like.
The inn was quiet as a traveller stood in it. A visitor, who had been made in this place like so many others. She had been a starving, lost, hurt stranger. A wary friend. She had become a [Chieftain], a warrior, a desperate seeker of the truth.
Then she’d been allowed to put her burdens down. She’d gone off and been a child for a second time, for a first time, really.
[Student]. [Strategist]. Of course, her true class was a mix of both and cooler than either.
Rags stood in the inn, investigating the Case of the Missing Cake and, possibly, the Mysterious Not-Riddles of the Fake Mrsha. She wasn’t sure about the titles, and she was rapidly deciding that this was not winter essay material.
Even Mrsha had gone off to be consoled by Ryoka instead of investigating the disappearances. The inn had stopped lurching; Erin had given up.
“She must be in the city. I wish I had a way to see things like that. Like…some kind of super vision Skill to keep up with all my friends and family!”
She was grousing as her inn decided to sit down, and Niers’ voice drifted back.
“I have a Cyclops. Let’s assign the Thronebearers and a few others to do it. In my experience, you can overextend when we should be putting our effort into defense.”
“I just dunno how she’s getting through my garden. I guess…why don’t we figure it out over chess.”
“Excellent. Oh, hello there, student. I didn’t see you come in. Long trip?”
Rags glanced up with a sigh as she lowered the magnifying glass. She gave Niers a half-glower, half-smile.
“Professor. How was your trip?”
“I’m on vacation for the next week, at least. Don’t forget to file an extra-credit essay. But a good one.”
“Yes, sir.”
Erin waved excitedly at Rags and almost stopped, but Niers metaphorically dragged her upstairs. Erin rolled her eyes, pointed, and mouthed eating, talking, and then gave up on the miming.
“I’ll talk to you over dinner, Rags! Don’t spend too long on investigating! Mrsha’s making mountains out of Fraerling cities. Seriously, I’ve got more cake.”
“…Was that a crack against Fraerling cities?”
“What? Noooo…are they bigger than molehills?”
“One of them’s an ancient redwood tree.”
“Ah. So—bigger.”
They headed upstairs, and Rags shook her head and wondered if the Professor was playing the long game or if he thought he was flirting. Not that she was an expert, but…she paced around.
“So, Mrsha’s cake vanishes here. She claims no one ate it, and it has the same scent as her. You have to trust her nose—well, I don’t have to. [Nose of the Dog].”
She cast a spell on herself, learned from the magical classes she’d taken. It had really helped with the detective games, where she’d taken second place. Sadly, Yerranola was just too good at forensic analysis.
She sniffed around, and the traces of cake were virtually everywhere, along with way too many conflicting scents, frankly. Sighing, Rags paced around—then caught a weird whiff again.
Hm, there it is again. An odd scent in all of this, just like Mrsha claimed. It smelled vaguely like Mrsha, but more like…a different kind of soap?
It was very faint, and Rags could only tell because Mrsha had pointed it out. It vanished practically the moment Rags stepped away from this table. She circled it, frowning. This is what she’d done with Mrsha for twenty minutes.
We stop right here, and the trail ends, such as it is. Same as Mrsha’s room; the other ‘Mrsha’ vanishes. Which we can put down to so many things, but she has access to Erin’s [Garden]. It’s almost like…
