“She’s a friend of the inn. Do you want to make an enemy with the Innkeeper of Chaos herself? If you play your cards right, you might get into the beach.”
He scolded his junior guardswoman as he said the word ‘beach’ with longing. The snow was falling, and it was dark as someone else’s sins out here, even though it was technically mid-morning. Rags strolled past the two as she accepted her papers back, and the Gnoll called out.
“We’re going to visit the inn later! Guardsman Merrk and Yissra! Put in a good word for us?”
“No promises! I haven’t been back for months!”
She shouted over her shoulder. Then Rags clicked her heels and grinned. There was a sproing sound, and the female Gnoll, Yissra, turned her head. Her mouth fell open as Rags took one step forwards and began to glide across the ground.
Or rather, it only looked like that. There was a faint rattling sound; a bunch of Liscorians shopping for Christmas gazed around and saw someone speeding past them. It was a Goblin balancing with her arms outstretched, and their mouths fell open.
Not because she was a Goblin, no. In Liscor, that was somewhat ordinary with Headscratcher’s tribe. Rather, they had never seen someone rolling on…her feet?
Rags taking one step, then another, as if she were gliding over ice. But it wasn’t a Skill, nor was she moving by the force of magic. Well, not just magic. The rattling sound was coming from a bunch of little wheels attached to her shoes.
Rags was rollerskating over the ground, cursing as she hit an overly large cobblestone, but the enchantments Hedault had put on the skates mostly mitigated the bumps in the street. They still required her to focus to avoid wiping out, and she’d heard Kevin had created a number of newer models she was definitely going to get her claws on before she went back to school.
Actually, she had to pick up like eight, all in different sizes. Everyone wanted them, even that idiot Venaz. The Goblin sped past shoppers, looking around Liscor and realizing not much had changed.
“Lots of stockings on doors and weird red hats. Must be an Erin thing.”
She grinned as she shot down the main street. Rags breathed in, and her heart pounded a bit in her chest as she skated towards the door in the center of the city.
She was back. She hoped they’d missed her. She had a boatload of presents from Baleros, stories, and the Professor was even in the inn. Which was sort of a negative, but—Rags spread her arms and did a spinning jump past a [Driver], who cursed in surprise. She was laughing.
The Goblin was free. A [Student], not a Chieftain. She gave a passing Drake a pair of finger-guns and laughed again as Lism pulled a face and shook a fist at her. Rags skated on, unburdened by the duties of command.
Nothing terrible was happening at The Wandering Inn for once. No disaster was incoming for Christmas.
Everything was fine.
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin was wailing again. Blubbering as she pointed to Nanette, who was trying to offer her a frozen smoothie. She was standing outside the beach, holding a card up.
She’s got a smoothie! I want one! I want one! It’s not fair! I’m being harassed! Prejudiced against! This is a racist crime! I demand you do something! Watch! Call the Watch!
She was trying to get Watch Captain Zevara to arrest Imani, who was calling out in an exasperated voice as she strode into the kitchen.
“Mrsha, if you get me arrested today, Santa won’t be getting you a present and I certainly won’t give you a smoothie. Nanette got the last one.”
“You can share mine, Miss Mrsha. I’m very sorry, Watch Captain!”
A flushing, round-cheeked little witch was apologizing profusely as she tried to shove the blueberry smoothie into Mrsha’s paws.
I want my own! Watch Captain Zevara, are you just going to stand here and ignore this travesty of justice!?
Mrsha held the card up, and a very tired-looking Drake adjusted the floatie around her stomach. Zevara had a swimsuit on and gave Nanette a pleading look.
“I’m off-duty and I’d like to go to the beach now. Please?”
“Please go through, Watch Captain. We’ll get you a smoothie on the house. Mrsha, what are you doing?”
Lyonette rushed over, and Mrsha danced around Nanette, but held up another card defiantly.
I will not be silenced! First, the Incident of the Missing Cake, now the Blueberry Smoothie Shortage! Mrsha the Great Detective will get to the bottom of this!
Zevara raised her brows, and Lyonette covered her face with one hand.
“Ignore her, please, Zevara. She’s still on about someone accidentally eating her cake slice.”
It was mine! And no one ate it—it vanished! I could tell because I smelled it—and no one ate it! It was probably the weird rat in the basement! Or Pisces. Zevara, you’re my only hope.
Mrsha tried to reach for Zevara’s claw, but Lyonette blocked her, handed Mrsha over to Dame Ushar to put in time out, and let Zevara enter the beach, much to the Drake’s relief.
It was beach day in The Wandering Inn. The entire month had been beach day. Erin Solstice’s garden was full of people enjoying the sun, forgetting the tyranny of dark skies and snow, sipping smoothies or floating around the giant ring of water that encircled the tropical paradise.
Everyone was happy except for Mrsha. She refused to calm down as she wrote frantically to Dame Ushar.
It’s a conspiracy! I’m being sabotaged.
“Yes, Lady Mrsha. It’s a terrible thing. Ser Sest? Why don’t you secure a new smoothie for Miss Mrsha?”
Ser Sest, the most amiable of the Thronebearers, bowed as Dame Ushar followed Lyonette into the beach garden. He knelt down as Mrsha rolled around, kicking at the air furiously.
“Now, now, Miss Mrsha. If you keep kicking up a fuss, I’ll wager you might miss out on the smoothie. Isn’t it better to enjoy today rather than fixate on the bad things that have happened? Even if they were perfectly unjust and you didn’t deserve them?”
The Thronebearer’s eyes twinkled, and his [Reassuring Statement] worked. Mrsha stopped throwing a tantrum, sat up, and huffed as she scribbled on her notecard.
Oh, very well, Ser Sest. Only for you. And only because I’m such a good girl and getting lots of presents from Santa.
“Excellent, Miss Mrsha. Let’s wait right here for your smoothie, and then why don’t we see if we can build a bigger sandcastle than the ones of the House of Minos, eh?”
Placated, Mrsha sat at the table, bouncing up and down as Nanette vanished. Ser Sest heaved a sigh of relief. Mrsha was a bit…well, she was a growing child, and all the largesse of the inn at the moment was having a negative effect on her psyche.
Having an aunt in Selys, who showered her with gifts, a bunch of Hobgoblins who doted on her, as well as a [Princess] for a mother and high-ranking adventurers who gave her what she wanted, probably had an adverse effect on her maturity.
…She was still better than most [Princesses] of Calanfer, but the Thronebearers were drawing up lesson plans to counteract her upbringing. Ser Sest got into line at the kitchen as Imani worked.
The common room of the inn was busy. People went in and out of the beach as Dalimont and Lormel vetted everyone allowed inside. The actual [Garden of Sanctuary] Erin owned was a lot more quiet, and she and her friends had retreated into there for privacy more than once.
But in the common room, everything was fair game, and the Titan of Baleros himself appeared in a flash of light, trading places with a Fraerling who groaned and vanished, leaving their morning milkshake unattended.
“I’m here! Hello, hello. Where’s Erin?”
That was the first question out of his mouth. Ser Sest pointed to the beach, and Niers instantly hitched a ride on the nearest passerby, Grimalkin, as he strode for the garden with Lady Pryde in tow.
“Morning, Sinew Magus. And to you, Goblin Lord.”
He passed by Headscratcher, who was sitting, lost in his thoughts, at a table. The two traded glances, and Headscratcher grunted—but the brief moment of tension was lost. In the [Garden of Sanctuary], Erin Solstice was laughing merrily, and waves were tossing people around. Tyrion Veltras went flying head-over-heels and hit the ground so hard he stared up at the sky for a good ten seconds before sitting up; he caught Sammial before the boy could suffer the same fate, and Ryoka’s voice echoed from the garden.
“Dead gods, Erin! Don’t make your waves that rough!”
“Sorry, Ryoka! Only people above Level 20 allowed in that side of the water! Alright, let me try a tidal wave. Tidaaaaal waaaaaaaave—”
Mrsha turned, ears perking up, but she was still waiting for her smoothie and began to bang on the table. She sat there, ears twitching, on this perfect day until someone flew over to her.
Apista.
The bee largely kept out of the beach because it was hot, wet, and she got in trouble for sipping from people’s drinks. She had been lazing in the regular [Garden of Sanctuary], but she buzzed over and landed on the table.
She was very confused and seemed to stare at Mrsha and circled around her face. Mrsha impatiently batted at her.
Not now, Apista! I’m waiting for my smoothie!
Then she noticed the bee was carrying something. Mrsha took a stamped letter, of all things, and blinked at it. Apista rotated around Mrsha’s head. The bee couldn’t speak, of course, but she seemed to say—
‘What the heck? Why are you here, Mrsha?’
Which was a silly question, and Mrsha ignored it. She broke open a very swanky envelope with bits of glitter on it and a huge red stamp with an embossed sword and star on the seal. It had no signer, but the letter was blue with gold handwriting on it in excellent penmanship. It read:
 
To the esteemed Mrsha du Marquin,
I hope this letter finds you well on this august day. I am writing you and a select number of the most promising individuals I have hand-curated for a contest. You are among <5> individuals competing in the Riddle of the Supreme Druid, to take place in Liscor. 
Do not inform anyone about this event. Doing so will disqualify you from the Relic-class artifact prize. The Robes of the World Tree are yours to win if you can complete the following riddle.
 
Mrsha’s eyes grew round, and she gasped, then hid the letter and searched around as Apista kept buzzing around her face. She read under the table, eyes growing rounder and rounder.
 
‘Where is knowledge stored? Not in a brain, not in a gourd. Go to the place where intellect sleeps. In Liscor, your guide is a sheep.’
Solve this riddle and you will find the first clue to the Robes of the World Tree. You have until the end of the day. A reminder: informing anyone or seeking help will result in your immediate disqualification. Sincerely,
—The Circle of Asmet A Friend.
 
Mrsha swore she could see writing crossed out in the letter where the signature line was. Now all her fur was standing up on end. She tucked the letter away and saw Ser Sest coming over.
“Here we are, Miss Mrsha. Now, shall we see about that sandcastle or those waves?”
Sest! I changed my mind! I’m going into Liscor!
The Thronebearer visibly wilted.
“The…city? Are you sure? It’s dreadfully snowy, Miss Mrsha.”
I am going into the city! I have important business!
Mrsha practically dragged Sest out of the inn, ignoring Apista, insisting she had her reasons. Sest obviously told the other Thronebearers and was assigned Shriekblade in case of trouble, but Mrsha was happily scampering off, and no one paid much attention.
The inn settled back, and Apista flew around in great confusion for a while. She did three circles of the room, then saw a door open.
The [Garden of Sanctuary] opened, closed, and Apista landed, little feelers dancing on someone’s head as she buzzed and headbutted a little white Gnoll girl on the head. Gently, the young girl caught Apista, and the bee tried to do a barrel roll of confusion.
‘What is going on here?’
For answer, Mrsha, a Mrsha wearing a kilt, who stood easily on two legs, who carried her wand, bag of holding, and an air of desperate hope and fear and far more maturity, just held a finger up to her lips. She patted Apista on the head, hugged her gently, and then looked around.
 
——
 
Here she was.
Her heart was beating out of her chest.
Mrsha had waited for this reality’s Mrsha, whom she had termed ‘Silly Mrsha’, to fall for the bait. She’d hidden in the [Garden of Sanctuary] until Silly Mrsha left.
In theory, Erin might sense her there and notice two Mrshas in the inn, but Mrsha had observed from Lyonette that the inn-sense only worked well when you were concentrating. Minute details could escape Erin.
Happily, Silly Mrsha had fallen for the bait. It was just the thing; a bit of glitter, a nice-looking letter that played to her ego, and she’d raced off. She’d be in Liscor all day; longer even if she solved the riddle.
Mrsha had hidden a bunch of riddles over Liscor already, each one with vague clues that led to the other. She’d prepared for this, you see.
If she looked around the inn, she couldn’t see where the root was, but Mrsha clocked it about one-fifth the way down the room, on the left hand side if you were facing the kitchen, currently just past a chair pulled back. It was virtually invisible if you didn’t know it was there.
She wanted to move it, but she couldn’t once it was ‘set’; the one benefit Mrsha had was that it didn’t seem to disintegrate or break to pieces when she used it.
It probably only ‘dies’ when I take someone through. I’m real enough, so I don’t use any energy, or not much. Cake likewise.
She had a few of the roots in the [Palace of Fates] and her bag of holding, just in case. If this worked, she’d need…
…Breathe. Mrsha took a few breaths and felt like puking. She was here. She’d been afraid of this, and it was a bit better now she was actually doing it, but this was surreal.
The inn was merry! People were heading in and out, and she could hear Imani laughing as Palt trotted into the kitchen.
“Palt! I’m working! If you tickle me, I’ll stab you. Stop it!”
Imani…with both eyes. Palt without that bitter look of anger he wore. And that wasn’t even counting—
Mrsha’s eyes jerked away from the Hobgoblin sitting at the table. She turned, stared, looked away—and her eyes were drawn back to his face.
He was so big. Headscratcher had grown again. He was broad-shouldered, wearing a cloak of fur, his neck muscles standing out and a scar down one cheek like a lightning bolt, huge and strong, his gold-jade axe at his side.
But he still looked like a thinker, not just a [Berserker]. His eyes were so contemplative, so sad. It oozed off him like slime, like a physical thing.
The Goblin Lord of Sorrows.
Headscratcher.
Her friend.
Mrsha stood there so long that she only realized she was blowing her cover when someone called out loudly behind her.
