My Erin needs that! I look great! The statue of Erin and Rags smiling at each other was the first change Rags noticed. The second was the patter of rain, the warmer weather—and the feeling of a lot of death magic outside. She stared around the inn as a bunch of skeletons marched past her, dripping water.
“…Toren?”
They stared at her, and Rags shook herself as Fightipilota got to her feet.
“Wh—wh—Chieftain?”
“Yo, you.”
Rags gave the strange Goblin a pair of finger-guns, and it stumped Fightipilota completely until Dyeda came rushing after Rags. The [Student] didn’t waste any more time; she began jogging towards the door. Her blood was aflame; this was crazy, but Rags was a product of The Wandering Inn.
A crying Goblin had wished for a miracle. And dead gods, they were going to get it. That was what guests of the inn did.
The Chieftain vaulted a table, staring around the inn, wondering what ‘Theatre’ that hallway led to. She saw heads turning in the inn. She passed by someone familiar and gave him a look up and down.
“Hey, Ishkr. How’s it going?”
“Uh, Chieftain Rags. Hello?”
The Gnoll turned to glance at her as Rags danced past him, feet light, sneakers squeaking on the floor. Rags passed by two [Necromancers] and their daughter having breakfast.
“Don’t know you, don’t know you, unless I do, sorry—is that Chaldion?”
She did a double-take as she passed by what looked like a dead Drake at first. He stared past her, eyes unfocused, and Rags shuddered.
This is the worst-looking timeline. Not that I’m a judge. Now, Fighti was pointing at the door.
“Chieftain! This way!”
“Coming! Hey, Calescent. Put a spicy bowl of something on for when I get back. Elia Arcsinger?”
Rags nearly slammed into a table, then vaulted over it, passing over the head of a Goblin [Server], who squeaked and almost dropped her burger. Rags snatched it; she hadn’t eaten a good lunch. Asgra stared open-mouthed at the coolest Chieftain she’d ever seen, in dress and style, and saw Rags grin and wink at her.
Then Rags was running out the door as a Drake spy nearly sprayed blue fruit juice over the table. He stared as a Wyvern took off outdoors, then slapped himself. He checked his cup to make sure no one had spiked it.
After a few minutes, the clock turned to 3 PM, and a very unhappy Unicorn wandered into the inn.
 
——
 
When Mrsha exited her door, she found Dyeda standing in the [Palace of Fates], staring at the door. Mrsha was exhausted. And alone.
What’s going on?
“Where were you? No—Rags came through the door, Mrsha! Chieftain Rags is in trouble, and another one appeared and—”
Dyeda exploded, screaming at the girl the moment Mrsha appeared. Mrsha recoiled. Then she realized how much time had passed and looked around.
Oh no. Things were going wrong? A Rags had come through?
Why aren’t you following the plan?
She held up a message, fierce, and Dyeda backed away defensively.
“I was going to! Then Rianchi noticed the root you didn’t tell us about, and…I’ll do it!”
The [Tattooist] pulled out a folded piece of paper and read it. Then she withdrew a pile of letters from her belt pouch, scrunched up, and looked around.
“It says I have to give this to Watch Captain Zevara, Lyonette, and—Saliss or Grimalkin. Or get Ishkr to do it. No, wait, first, go to the theatre and tell ‘Demsleth’ or Teriarch what’s happening.”
Contingencies. On the assumption that Rags had failed or was dead, they told everyone. If the Titan formed up, they had a day or two before it exited the mountain. The letters advised Teriarch to wait and attack with all reinforcements he could gather, Xitegen, Liscor’s army, Pallass…and they had letters they were sure would convince everyone of the danger.
It shouldn’t have come to that. Nor were those the real contingencies. They were just the ones Rags had come up with.
Wait.
Mrsha caught Dyeda’s arm. The [Tattooist] turned; Mrsha was looking around.
Where’s Rianchi?
“I-in another door.”
Mrsha’s eyes went round with horror.
What? You idiots!
She went tearing towards a door—then halted. No, if Rags was in danger—her contingency needed to be activated. Silently, Mrsha turned, and there she was.
Watching her. The Harpy Queen waited, and Mrsha strode up to the door. Sheta said nothing; Dyeda flinched as that imperial gaze found them. Mrsha and Nanette liked to read books at night—or had, until recently. In some tales, important people were described to have ‘patrician’ faces or noses, which she had a hard time imagining.
Well, Sheta had that kind of face. She looked like she had been born to rule, as if she looked down on the world in more than a literal sense; as though each word she spoke were an order unquestioned.
An ancient ruler who had known Teriarch. Possibly a horrific monster in her own right. But Mrsha strode up to her and held up a card.
I need you to promise on the last Empire of Harpies, on any living Harpies, and on the life of the Dragonlord of Flame that you’ll help and not harm anyone I love. If you do, and swear to rescue Rags, I’ll set you free.
It was the logical thing to do. Dyeda gasped.
“Mrsha, no!”
The girl expected the Harpy Queen to ask questions or to negotiate, but the vast bird-woman was still. Her eyes glittered, dark sapphires, as she peered at Mrsha.
“Clever child. But you have not yet learned to negotiate. Nor do you have oaths to bind me properly.”
Mrsha recoiled and held a card up fiercely.
If Rags dies, I will never let you out! Help me, please! I know you want out!
“Mm. Perhaps.”
Sheta’s eyes flicked to Dyeda, then to the doors with roots in them. Mrsha was trying to figure out what Sheta wanted when she heard a sound.
“Argh.”
A door opened fully, and Rianchi rolled out of the future door he’d gone through.
“Rianchi, what happened?!”
“Mrsha. She got good at fighting. I—wha!”
He saw the real Mrsha, and Sheta, and nearly collapsed back into the door. Mrsha whirled, and Sheta nodded to herself.
“Hm.”
She turned and began to walk back into her mirror-world, away from them. Mrsha banged on the mirror, desperate.
Wait! Come back! I need your help!
If not her, then—she searched around and began to dash for another door she’d bookmarked just in case. The last Empress of Harpies turned her head and called over one wing.
“Child. Do not be reckless. The Goblin who came through here may be enough. Check your doorways. If all hope is lost, I will consider your offer anon.”
Mrsha blinked. Rags? The student? Sheta nodded at Mrsha’s perplexed face.
“She has a Skill that may suffice.”
She could see Skills, even through the mirror? Mrsha watched the giant Harpy spread her wings and fly down the hallway. Then she was a speck in the distance. Unnerved, Mrsha stood there, wondering if she should activate Rags’ contingencies.
She only remembered Dyeda and Rianchi were there when she heard them panting for air. Mrsha realized the two were glued in place; the presence of the Harpy Queen had frozen them stiff.
Sheta was terrifying. But compared to Belavierr standing in front of the [Garden] door, she was still less of a monster. Trauma for the win, again.
Sounds like we have a chance. Come on—let’s find out what’s happening! Rianchi, what happened with your door? Did anyone see you?
“Only you.”
Me? Are you okay?
She was appalled and glanced at the door, but it was just slightly open. Rianchi hurried to reassure Mrsha all was well.
“I’m fine. Yeah! Definitely! Other Mrsha was very reasonable.”
He pointed at the door, and the real Mrsha eyed it, then Rianchi’s nervous grin. But they had no time. So she nodded, and they all went running to find more doors. To see what was happening.
—A few seconds after they were gone, Empress Sheta poked her head out from another mirror and inspected the hallway again. This time, she was hidden in the reflection of the glass from one of the lanterns hanging in the hallway. There were secrets to the [Palace of Fates] the child had no way of knowing.
Sheta was, of course, just a memory. But she had just realized she did have a few moves she could make. The most important one was being able to walk away from negotiations. The girl did not have all of what Sheta wanted—yet.
The Harpy Queen sat there, eyes narrowed, thinking, as now a second being from the [Palace of Fates] had entered this world. She hadn’t lied about what she’d said, but she hadn’t jumped at the opportunity Mrsha offered either, because it was too good.
Impossible. Unacceptable. Fate-altering. 
She had her own thoughts on the matter and what it could mean. Mostly, Sheta was waiting to see whether there were—side effects. Because she had to believe there were some. And if there were none? Well. Sheta did wonder, though…if anyone else was watching.
 
——
 
Someone else was watching. Kasigna couldn’t believe her eyes. She was outraged, uncertain, horrified.
Then furious. But she kept observing, glancing over her shoulder at the intruders. And she beheld fate tangling in ways that not even the Faerie King could guess at.
 
——
 
Fly.
It was Rags’ first time on Wyvernback. This Goblin tribe had Frost Wyverns. Her mind was spinning at the implications. But she tried to look like this was natural to her.
Be confident. Project it. These were lessons she’d learned, but been re-taught by her mentor, Niers Astoragon. She was the Rags of another timeline, another universe.
Of a better one, it seemed. But different, even so—for instance, she recognized the Goblin, Flipstrike, in front of her. Only…her name was apparently different here.
“Hey, Flipstrike. Flip—Fightipilota. How much time do we have?”
“Eh—an hour and a bit. Is bad.”
“Plenty of time.”
Fightipilota glowered; she wasn’t happy about what was going on, but she was doing the only thing she could: flying.
“Two hours to get to the Troll mountains and down there? It takes two hours to even get that far down!”
Rags patted her customized sneakers. Mostly to make sure they were snug and didn’t fall off, which would be a disaster.
“I move fast. All I need is a guide. If they marked the way, I can get there.”
“Yeah? What’s the plan?”
The student’s stomach hurt. She closed her eyes, breathed in and out, and spoke.
“—There’s only one Skill I’ve got that can help. Just one. But it’s a good one. I’m a [Student], you know? Level 40+.”
“[Student].”
Fightipilota spat over the Wyvern’s back, and it sympathetically pooped to show what they thought of that. Rags had heard it all before. She knew…
A real Old One. Dead gods. She was afraid. She wasn’t ready. She was supposed to be on winter vacation from class, hanging out with her classmates, learning how to lead, being allowed to be young.
But I knew it was a gift of time. I knew it, Erin knew it, and Headscratcher. Time ran out. She could have gone back, could have told Dyeda she couldn’t help—but she could.
This is what Erin would do. This is what Rags owed her tribe, her friends, the inn. And a Goblin would pay her debts.
So Rags closed her eyes and spoke.
“—It just depends on who are your teachers. Mine? Mine are the best in the world. [Mentor’s Skill: On The March].”
Fightipilota yelped, and the Wyvern screamed as they accelerated. Rags clung to the saddle, grinning and trying not to throw up as they moved half-again as fast. She saw the two looking back at her, wide-eyed. The Wyvern nearly went into a nosedive before it remembered to look straight ahead.
It wasn’t as good as Niers doing it himself, but it did work. Rags breathed out. This could work. My Skills can work. She just wondered—Rags fumbled for something at her belt pouch. She triggered a speaking stone a few times, cleared her throat, and spoke.
“Aspat garguile echo fourteen twenty one. Hey—Professor. I might be needing some help.”
Did you feel that? I bet you did. Rags held her breath, wondering if there was even a chance the Forgotten Wing company used enchantments so similar they’d work even in different worlds.
Then she heard a soft clinking sound as the speaking stone connected. Thank the Drakes’ Ancestors for standardization. Rags heard a voice that made her heart leap in relief, even if it was tinged by anger, uncertainty, and confusion.
“—This is Niers. Who the hell is this?”
She just laughed in relief for a breathless second before she replied.
 
——
 
 
Chieftain Rags leaned on her shortsword and tried to breathe. Dust was fountaining up everywhere from the collapsed tunnel, and she rasped.
“…What time is it?”
Of all the questions they expected from her, that wasn’t it. Prixall helped Rags up.
“Chieftain?”
“What time?”
Rags knew it was a stupid question. She knew it was crazy—if this wasn’t reality, she’d never know it. But just in case, she demanded an answer.
“—Four and six, Chieftain.”
“Good. Thank you. Now, form up. Let’s do this.”
She pointed her shortsword ahead and heard shouting from the rubble. She fancied she could hear Redscar, which meant the cave-in hadn’t killed him.
Three squirming pieces of flesh were coming towards them. A head, a leg, and an arm.
Just wonderful. Just like Dyeda had warned her via Snapjaw. Rags had one consolation; the leg was barely kicking forwards. It was visibly…sagging. And the arm was squirming, shaking, crawling down a tunnel to the left. The head just stared at them, empty sockets oozing with malevolent yellow light. Angry. Furious. Afraid.
One seith core down. They’d broken it in a melee as they fled. Rags had decided her odds of surviving a linked pair of limbs were a lot less than destroying one core and chasing the other off.
—Shame about that earthquake cutting off her escape route. Rags pointed, and her Goblins ran. Trolls hurled boulders at the limbs, trying to clutter the passage or just slow them. The limbs advanced slowly, even the head. It was speaking.
“How…you…know? How do you knoooooooow? Stooooop. Slow.”
It formed each word, each non-magical word with difficulty. Rags just gritted her teeth as she felt something trying to leaden her limbs.
“[Speed]. Run!”
The drums helped as she re-accelerated. Dulat was playing her heart out, and Rags hoped they’d get out of here alive. She was running up the tunnels towards another intersection when the arm blasted out of a pile of rubble. It had crawled around them so fast—
“Left, left!”
The hand leapt like a demented spider, enraged, fingers slashing. Rags saw the fingers curling inwards, to kill.
Somo intercepted the blows with a roar. The Ogre didn’t bother with her club; she just raised her shield, and cried aloud.
“Body is stone!”
