"I didn't do this for you," he said, looking away. "I did it for me."

Stella felt the hatred she had built up for him break as he stood where she should have been.

"You fucking liar."

A tear brimmed at the edge of her eye. She had shouldered the humiliation and torture of the Crowned One for days. Even if it hadn't hurt, it had been mental torment. Finally, someone had come to save her—but it hadn't been Tree, Maple, Larry, or anyone from the sect.

It was her brother, whom she had cast away.

"You've only ever lied," she choked, "from the moment we met."

"That's true," he chuckled. "But there was one thing I never lied about." He looked at her with the warmth of an older brother. "I never stopped caring about you. Even when I was a coward and ran. Every time you almost died on that peak, I was—"

He never finished as the obsidian mirrors shattered under the strain. The Crowned One tried to cancel the ritual, but it was too late. The golden light, with nowhere left to flow and no vessel left to claim, lunged for the only path still open to it.

It poured into Janus.

For one bright, terrible second, her brother's spine arched as the sin of pride's body turned to dust and the Crowned One tried to wear him. His eyes blazed gold. His mouth opened, and a thousand voices tried to speak through it at once.

Stella tried to haul herself up the stairs to help him, but the Mirrored One pulled her back with his obsidian chain. She glared back at him and now saw how deeply wrong their imitation of Janus was.

Janus's screams filled the chamber as he failed to fulfill his destiny. The Crowned One's soul, rejecting the body it had been forced into, tore through Janus like a heart demon, intending to get out.

The Mirrored One ensured the Crowned One couldn't reach Stella. He summoned more mirrors and forced the Crowned One's soul through the soul link to Ao Lingxuan. The entire chamber shuddered as the Crowned One's immense soul was sent down the soul link and out of the soul space.

Janus's body, emptied, slumped sideways across the throne turned altar. The golden chain on his wrist dissolved into nothing. His eyes were wide open, but soulless. Stella knew in an instant her brother was gone.

"Your envy has doomed us," one of the silhouettes said, peeling itself from the wall. It seemed hollow. "Without us unified, our hold over the World Tree will weaken, and this space will collapse."

The Mirrored One ignored the silhouettes' warning and selfishly ascended the steps to the throne, dragging Stella by the chain with him. He grabbed the slumped Janus by the neck and hurled him away like trash.

"You are not permitted to lord over us, Mirrored One." A figure draped in gold said coldly. "We must bring the Crowned One back if we are to continue our joint rule."

Stella's gaze was locked onto Janus, who was sprawled out on the floor like a discarded rag. Below him, the ground began to crack. The soul space was dimming and falling apart. She even noticed a few of the silhouettes fading away to somewhere else.

"Silence, Gilded One. You only speak ill of my actions because you didn't have the guts to do it yourself," the Mirrored One sneered and tried to command the altar to transform back into a throne, but it refused to listen. "I have the Crestfallen vessel, so the throne should be mine," he snarled. Grabbing Stella's chin, he forced her to lock eyes with him—the fake wearing Janus's skin. He loomed closer and licked her. Specifically, the blood on her chin.

Stella reeled back in disgust, but the Mirrored One didn't seem to care. He let her fall to the ground and scurry backward, away from him.

Then something deeply unsettling happened. The Mirrored One's skin bubbled and wiggled as if infested with maggots. His skin tore apart and reformed. Within seconds, she was no longer staring at an imitation of Janus.

She was staring at herself.

"Now, I am the chosen one," the Mirrored One said with a face-splitting grin that was hers. The Mirrored One kicked her down the steps and enjoyed her makeshift throne for a moment.

Until a tree root crashed through the ceiling of the soul space and a voice Stella hadn't heard in a long time thundered into the space.

"Stella!"

It wasn't Ashlock's.

It was her mother's.
