Jacob waved her off, and soon enough, she left the office, allowing Jacob to refocus on the many reports in front of him. He had a lot to oversee, and his Path only made things more complicated.

After evolving to B-grade, Jacob’s Augur abilities had naturally improved, and he’d gotten better at reading the flow of the world and predicting the future. These changes had been noticeable, yes, but they’d become extreme after entering the World of the Exalted Prima.

His prediction that the phase would soon be over wasn’t because he predicted a system message would soon come. Instead, it was because he felt that nearly nine out of ten Territories had already been eliminated.

Jacob’s ability to read the World of the Exalted Prima was truly beyond expectations, and had become one of the major boons of the Holy Church thus far, also helping him increase his influence and reputation among the faction’s members.

He believed it had less to do with this being a simulated world and more to do with who was in the world and able to influence it. Every change, every decision, every action that influenced the future of the simulated world was made by B-grades at most, with gods or other powerful beings having no influence or the ability to affect the flow of things. Sure, there were some with Transcendent Skills or Bloodlines that muddied the waters a little, but in the grand scheme of things, their influence wasn’t that noticeable.

This had allowed Jacob to predict incoming attacks, direct his allies on where to expand, and had made many rely on him as the coalition grew by the day. Reading the reports, he was a little sad to see that while they had reached their goal of total Territories part of the alliance – Vassals counted among them – they hadn’t reached the arbitrary number Jacob had hoped to see.

“Would have been nice to have been in the four figures,” he muttered, looking at the latest map update, showing the absolutely massive domain he was now in charge of. It was likely the largest coalition of factions in the event so far, and the teleportation network was already rapidly expanding, taking full advantage of the fact that they had this many Territories, meaning they could buy new Teleportation Nodes relatively cheaply by not having a single Chief Administrator buy dozens, but instead connecting their many different networks.

They were incredibly well set up for the next phase and whatever new challenges it would bring. While Jacob couldn’t prophesize what the system event would bring, he had a good feeling that the Holy Church, or at least his little coalition, would continue to perform extremely well.

He believed that to be true, even if they encountered some of the individuals who could cause trouble for them. Jacob believed they had the means to address them... well... besides maybe the Eastbound Monk, as no matter how many times he tried, Jacob saw no good future if they ever got into a conflict with that monster.
