Far in front of her, past desiccated forests, the dead swarmed. In an endless multitude, they gathered like grains of black sand into a slow storm that blotted the land and in this case, even the skies. A lumbering hurricane of fliers rotated lazily over the fallen town, in such numbers that even looking at them all made Viv’s mind buckle. They were an uncountable number. Her gaze followed the heartland of Harrak to the left and right. Trails of undead came from the farthest reaches, some so distant that they became tiny black veins of congealed blood. Worse, some of that cancerous growth was sending offshoots south towards the various outposts leading to Sinur’s Gate.

“Holy damn. It would take even me several months to clear them all out.”

Mother, clad yourself in the black.

We need to find them.

Viv didn’t say that figures already shambled over the walls, and that there were no signs of resistance. No spells. Nothing. She used Coating to cover herself in her armor.

For the briefest moment, her control over the black lurched.

“What the —”

I feel it as well, mother.

“What is happening?”

It is not us.

Something is pulling on the black mana.

Parts of the veil of undead fliers peeled off from the main body. They were still kilometers away.

“Wait, they’re going for us!”

It shouldn’t be possible. The undead relied on mana sense more than sight proper. They shouldn’t be able to perceive Viv at this distance. Even if they somehow did, her black mana ought to mark her as a kindred entity.

They are attacking.

Mother?

“We need to break through. I don’t want to believe that we lost everyone.”

Agreed.

Mana rose to answer her call. Again, something pulled on the black though it was soon overcome. Out of curiosity, she called for transparent mana. That one was fine.

“Is your red mana resisting as well?”

A plume of fire emerged from the dragoness’ mouth in an incandescent spray so hot, Viv’s hair was pulled back by the sheer heatwave. The world around her lit up with dark red. The veil of creatures in front of them caught on fire, torched. They fell in a thick ashen rain. Arthur and Viv flew through the massive gap and closer to the heart of the maelstrom.

No.

Just the black.

What could it mean?

“I don’t know!’

More are coming.

Viv focused on her surroundings. The hurricane was slowly breaking part, with entire squadrons of giant bats and other flying horrors making for her. A dry stench filled the air. The black mana concentration was increasing to the point that it filled the abominable creatures with an unholy frenzy. Viv called for a hail of ‘yoinks’, her reserves increasing faster than she could deplete them. Arthur was more conservative.

The wall was upon them. Viv’s spells formed a bubble of death and disintegrated matter around the pair but the deeper they went and the smaller that bubble grew. Arthur pulled back, sending wind and hail to smash against the creatures yet for each that fell, more took their place. The world darkened from the monsters above. They were getting boxed in. They were going to be so swarmed that they wouldn’t be able to move.

Viv couldn’t believe her eyes.

“Dive!”

Arthur roared with fury at being stopped by her lessers, but she didn’t hesitate. Viv watched the squirming ground approach at high speed. The lack of light made it appear as if night had fallen.

Arthur swerved off at the last moment, her claws raking the heads of a few revenants underneath. The carpet of undead extended in front of them until the white walls of the city, and even they were blanketed in corpses, the undead crawling over them. Arthur flipped just as they cleared the wall.

Viv looked up, which was now down.

Some blood. A few heavy corpses, already reanimated as revenants. A few fresh civilian corpses as well. Fizzling teleporting gate, its glyphs burnt by black mana. A hole in the fortifications. A trail of dying fires heading north west. Many of the more dangerous undead formed a loose string of monsters following the trails. White and skeletal crawlers walked on all four with an alien gait. Viv remembered how they’d just scaled the fort walls where she’d hidden as if gravity had no pull on them. There were also cowled puppeteers, their strange tentacles linking them to energized revenants, and the stout gut spillers with their pointed horns. Their acid sprays would wreak havoc on Harrakan tight formations. No wonder Sahin had elected to retreat.

What is in that direction?

“A food cache. It was meant to hold supplies for the expedition to the capital. Why would Sahin… Oh, perhaps he believes he can hold it? Look! A beacon!”

Pillars surged at regular distance, clearly the work of fortification specialists working in a hurry. The debris of life beacons could still be seen shimmering at the top. Her general had probably used them to buy precious time by having part of the undead swarm focus on something else. Trenches and other basic constructs could be seen under the horde of undead. Signs of a fighting retreat.

Mother, they’re still following!

Viv turned to see a cloud of fliers behind them, though none could compete with the dragoness for speed. Part of the slowly moving hurricane was left dispersed and aimless. This wasn’t the work of a necromancer, or if it was, they were both insanely powerful and completely unfocused.

Mother.

We are bringing winged dead things to our allies!

“We need to find them first.”

Mother, even the dead things have wings.

When can you have wings?

“The moment is poorly chosen, daughter mine.”

Listen!

There were growls and cries ahead, behind a tall ridge. Dark smoke rose in thicker plumes there. It was probably a good sign.

“Faster!”

Move your own wings!

Arthur crested the incline at the speed of a plane, revealing the battle ahead. Viv sighed with deep relief when she saw a thick wall of black steel backed against a mountain, with deep trenches filled with burning corpses channeling the monsters into kill zones. Liberators moved forward at brisk speed to crush revenants underfoot before backing away slowly. They’d probably exhausted all of their fuel. There were no arrows and no spells flying. That was usually a sign that an army had expended everything it had. Still, it was pretty impressive that they’d lasted for so long. The One Hundred stood at the fore over a waist-deep mountain of corpses like the rock they were, Brick holding the Harrakan battle standard. Their enchanted shields were covered in greenish goo, its acid failing to break through the powerful ingrained wards. The other groups were slightly behind but still unbroken. The Mountain Sons’ line was so straight she could have used it as a ruler.

On the side, marauding bands of experienced witchpacts fell on revenants falling from the mountain above, or the rare fliers. They carried the bodies on great pyres before they could regenerate. They were going to need more room very soon.

Behind, two mana absorption pylons rested on carts drawn by fearful cornudons. Smart of Sahin to bring them with him. Despite those efforts, Viv had to frown when she saw the backlines. Healers did their best to attend to poisoned men and women grasping wounds that oozed black mana, its deleterious strands crawling across their skin like questing snakes. Those people would die and turn if she didn’t get them out. Fast. Mages near the shelter entrance had formed a pile of exhausted people sipping water from gourds. It was surprisingly organized for what must have been a crazy run.

Some of the scouts were already pointing in her direction.

“We need to evacuate. I’ll activate a portal and link it to the previous node.”

There is already a portal linked to the previous node.

In the city.

“It’s destroyed so it should be fine. I’ll just use the same glyphs. I need some time though. Let’s clear them a bit. You breathe fire, I call the storm?”

Then we teleport back because I will be tired!

And sleepy.

“I don’t think we have much choice. Go!”

They split. Viv levitated towards the solid line of infantry. Cheers and roars of relief saluted her arrival.

“The Empress is here!’

Behind her, the world ignited in fiery red. With a roar of fury, a line crossed the land from side to side. The fire wasn’t content to split the undead horde either. It grew, buffeted by conjured winds. The fire formed a veil that moved away from the Harrakans, swallowing hundreds of creatures as it progressed.

Viv could feel it. She didn’t look back, of course. It wouldn’t have been cool. She wanted to cultivate her evil herald of destruction kind of vibes. The people were pleased anyway. Some of the younger ones were crying with relief.

Ok, but gotta hurry.

“The general would like to talk to you now,” one of Poacher’s people said, pointing towards the entrance of the cave.

“Tell him to come out and meet me. I need to relieve some of the pressure. Fliers incoming.”

Time to get to work. Some of the swarm’s faster creatures were already visible, and without other mages or any of Lak-Tak’s homemade napalm, this was going to go the Hitchcock way very soon.

[Aspect of the Destroyer].

Viv called upon black mana. Once again, there was a jolt, like something fighting her for control.

“Oh no you don’t.”

Massive power coursed through her. She also gathered the ambient mana since there was so much of it. Whatever was messing with mana, it couldn’t contest with her local control. Viv worked faster than ever before. Her skills worked overtime to push her past her limit, from arcane construct to mana mastery. She needed to get those things off her ass or the wounds on her men would be too many to safely purge. That was the real danger with undead wounds: the mana poisoning. Shit, even some of her frontline wasn’t looking too healthy either. The pylons were probably not working at full efficiency since they were being moved. She couldn’t tell since no amount of concentration bothered her… She really had to hurry.

Viv skipped several steps by grabbing many strands at once. The additional strain made her head hurt. Someone was talking but she didn’t pay attention. The birds were almost upon them.

She grabbed all the remaining lines of the spell but they resisted. Too many at once. It was so, so damn complicated to keep all those concepts in her, in her…

A curtain of desiccated flesh and coal-colored feathers. Her mind struggled. She had to finish the spell. Had to. Grab the strands again… she was going to be too late.

The curtain of flame rose to an inferno, pushing to the skies. Burning cinders crashed on her people, disintegrating on impact.

MOTHER!

“Storm of Zamhareer.”

The din of battle deadened. Even the roar of the fire was lessened. Viv’s breath fogged in the ensuing sudden cold. Black flakes rose up in a concentrated rain that didn’t stop. Viv poured as much power as she could into the construct, fueling it past the point of usefulness. It was the only way to be sure it would last long enough. Slowly, the black flakes fell like soft snow upon the gathered ranks of undead. Gut spillers raised their thick arms. Puppeteers hid behind the revenants they controlled. Crawlers hid their ghoulish bodies under the corpses of their brethren. Many of the smartest beasts hesitated, fading instincts competing with the undead urge to consume. It made no difference. The first popping sound came with disintegrated bodies and soon, it turned into a crackle. The undead horde disappeared under the thick fall. Viv breathed a sigh of relief. It had been a bit too close.

“Your Imperial Majesty?” a calm voice asked.

It was Sahin, her general. As usual, the effeminate man kept a completely controlled demeanor. You couldn’t tell he was fighting a doomed battle.

“I just need a moment.”

“I fear time might be of the essence. The mana concentration is increasing with the number of undead. Some of the wounded will not last very long.”

“Dammit. I’ll open the portal right away.”

Viv ran to the back of the camp with Sahin close behind. The shelter was open with rows of wounded waiting on the ground. Witchpacts with no quarrels left took turns to keep the mana poisoning at bay.

“I told them to focus on holding the poison back rather than banishing it.”

“What’s happening? Talk to me while I work.”

Viv cut a circle in the ground almost instantly. She was so used to building the ritual now that she could do it while holding a conversation.

“I observed a higher concentration of undead in the vicinity of Asterley, and reported it, following which you gracefully agreed to hold exercises here.”

Viv kept her best poker face. It was one of those reports she’d glanced over, the kind that went ‘I intend to do this’ and her reaction had been ‘yeah sure whatever’.

“The quick influx of undead led me to believe something was afoot. I intended to hold the city to try and understand what disturbed their habits so. The way they move is inconsistent with… everything we have learnt so far. Even the presence of a lich doesn’t account for the way they behave.”

“We will need Abe’s help, I think.”

“Quite so. I sent reports and a call for reinforcement. I was not too concerned at first. Unfortunately, the mana concentration suddenly increased and something deactivated the teleportation circle and the pillars.”

“All at once?”

“They fizzled within minutes of each other. It was as if something pulled on the strands of power like strings, eventually snapping them. At least, that is what Magister Edria said.”

