He pointed at a pale girl laying on the ground at some distance, her brow covered in sweat. She was breathing short, shallow breaths. Viv was familiar with mana exhaustion and its symptoms. The poor thing was probably struggling to stay awake. She lifted a finger, a Remnants sign of approval. Viv finally recognized her as one of Frosthawk’s stern senior students.

“Magister Edria managed to reactivate two of the obelisks. After only a few minutes of battle, I realized our position was untenable. With retreat cut off and the keep too small to accommodate us all, I realized our best bet was to fall back to the shelter while their flying forces were not yet so numerous. Unfortunately, some of our new squads were cut off during the evacuation. We have suffered losses.”

He swallowed his saliva.

“I am sorry.”

“It’s the first time something managed to deactivate our teleporter from afar. Something is messing with the black mana. We need to figure out why or this swarm will put an end to everything we’ve planned.”

Sahin appeared relieved, yet still aloof and distant. Maybe he expected Viv to yell at him? It wasn’t like she’d have done any better in his position. In fact, she ought to let him know.

“You’ve kept everyone together. Now let’s get them out of here.”

The portal opened, showing the mercifully undead-free node. It was set in a fort. One of Lana’s girls was in the middle of an activation enchantment.

“Oh thank Enttiku, I’d been trying to —”

“No time! Help with the evacuation. I’ll hold the line. Go, everyone, go!”

Sahin distributed orders. With military efficiency, the civilians and resting witchpacts pulled carts filled with moaning people through. Viv returned to the front. Outside, her spell was still running its course, except… Something was wrong.

Something was coming through. Arthur landed next to her, her breath short.

Tired.

Need fish.

“Ban. Ban?”

“Here, milady,” the old warrior replied.

“Start pulling your people back. Quickly.”

“With all due respects, we’re —”

“Do it now. You can’t help with this.”

Ban gave the signal to pull back. At a distance, Poacher did the same with her witchpact. It was a relief how quick and organized they were because Viv was going to need the space.

“What’s going on?” Ban asked. “What’s coming?”

The low cloud of black snow parted, or rather, a shape moved through it. Pitted pale skin covered in rivulets of brackish blood appeared first, then a face, protected by ravaged arms. It had crimson eyes devoid of reason and a gaping hole where the nose ought to be.

“Necrarch.”

You take this one, mother.

The creature roared a strident call that bounced against Viv’s soul. For an instant, she feared that panic might spread through her ranks. She was ready to switch to her [Aspect of the Paragon] to help but it didn’t prove necessary. Brick was here.

“I’ll oversee the evacuation, Your Majesty. Good luck!” Ban said.

Viv thanked him while he turned to scream insults at a few young soldiers who had succumbed to curiosity.

What the fuck was a necrarch doing here? Was it waiting for her? What was going on?

The thing moved at incredible speed. Viv jumped, surprised again by how something of that size could move as fast as a blade master, but her aim was true.

“Yoink!”

Viv bonded with the ancient creature’s massive mana circuit. A contest of will ensued. It was like picking at a rock with a spoon. The beast was as mindless as ever, devoid of lich-like influence as far as she could tell. There was just… so much of it. But she was winning, and the struggle had made it stop moving. It was the safest way to dispose of one that she… wait a minute.

“What do you mean, this one?” she asked Arthur with some concern. The answer came far too soon. There were other shapes lumbering through the Storm of Zamhareer, tanking the spell with their resilient bodies.

Arthur spat one thin line of fire after another, the flames splashing against a necrarch resembling a giant centipede. Part of its abominable body caught fire but the rest hissed and skittered towards the dragoness, who was ready to get her claws on it. It wasn’t right. Arthur ought to be flying. This was her greatest advantage. With a last scream of effort, Viv ripped enough of her foe’s energy out of its body for it to collapse to the ground, dead. Though she’d defeated one of the two greater undead, it failed to fully disintegrate. Dammit!

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

[Sequence: Triple Hyperbeam]

Powerful rays raked the side of the centipedal necrarch. Its assault failed. Arthur used the opening to fall on it in a whirlwind of tooth and claw. Viv didn’t have time to help. Another shape emerged from the spell, then another. More were coming through the last flakes. It was going to get harder. She looked back to see how the evacuation was progressing, knowing full well only a few seconds had passed and it wouldn’t be enough.

Something whistled past her. The next necrarch’s head was skewered to the ground.

//FINALLY, SOME ACTION.

//I WAS GETTING BORED.

“There’s enough for everyone!”

With the heavy staccato of plate-metal slamming into the dry ground; the golems advanced past the retreating heavies. They formed a tighter line. Ares was the next one to decapitate an approaching bear-like creature, with several subsequent necrarchs sharing a similar fate. Soon, revenants joined the assault, but the golems just ignored them. They couldn’t do anything in the face of such overwhelming force.

Viv used a lull to look back. The evacuation was nearly done by now.

It was looking like the horde was already veering away towards the south. This really wasn’t standard behavior for the undead. Not to mention, if the necrarchs were so close, why had they not attacked before? How could they even be here so far from the epicenter? This made no sense.

//WE SHOULD FALL BACK.

//WE MIGHT NEED TO SAVE SOME OF OUR ENERGY FOR LATER.

“Alright.”

Finally…

Viv and Arthur crossed the portal; The poor dragoness dragging herself off to one side. She collapsed there with threats of fiery death against anyone who woke her up without properly slathered fish barbecue. Viv knew she was going to spend the next hour drawing black mana out of poisoned people, but first she needed to assess the situation.

She levitated herself up. That fort had been built with visibility in mind. The watchtower provided a commanding view of the lands around. Even halfway up, Viv could already see the grasping tendrils of the faraway undead horde turning towards them.

She spotted Sahin in the watchtower. His expression was unreadable. Viv didn’t need a strategic council to guess how a confrontation between her three-thousand strong full army and the tens, no, hundreds of thousands of undead crawling towards them would go. Not with necrarchs on the line.

“We won’t win this with a defensive siege. Begin evacuation.”
