The vampire shook his head. Shiv paused. He looked at the dead wardens nearby and ripped the vampire off the ground. He held the bloodsucker up with one hand and pointed to the nearby bodies. "Why, you didn't kill them?"

"No, no!" The vampire shook his head vigorously. "Not me, not me. It was, it was the Rebis."

"The what?" Shiv said, trying to decipher the vampire's slurred and broken words.

"Rebis!" the vampire cried, louder.

"What the hell is that?" Shiv asked.

"Zenith prisoner! Zenith prisoner escaped!"

"And you're not a zenith prisoner?"

"No," the vampire cried out. “I am only Zeroth!”

Shiv was having a hard time deciphering the vampire's messed-up words, so he projected his Psychomancy into its mind. With its Magical Resistance shattered and all its mana fields utterly destroyed, it had no capability to resist Shiv. He dug into its thoughts and stood amidst a whirlwind of chaotic memories. The vampire was terrified of him. A dense chain of blood and tissue formed between them, as Shiv's Shape of Monstrosity was empowered. "Alright, let's speak this way. It's more clear."

The vampire flinched as it heard Shiv's telepathic message, but he nodded in response. "Okay. Okay. I promise. I promise you. I didn't mean to attack you. I was simply—I was simply hiding, hiding from the monstrosity."

"Yeah, you were hiding up until I went for that knife," Shiv said. "And with how you seemed to know where I was standing, feels more like you set up an ambush instead of anything else."

"No," the vampire cried out. But a beneficial thing about Psychomancy was, you could get a general feeling when someone was lying, nested so deep in their mind. Shiv didn't want to kill any of the wardens, but vampires, well, aside from Angelo, most vampires were fair game. He didn't even really consider them people. He reached down and crushed its arm at the shoulder. The vampire let out a piercing cry.

"Do not lie to me again," Shiv said. He pulled on the fear chain running between them and noticed that he was growing a bit bigger. As he grew a bit bigger, parts of his newly stolen armor began to buckle and break. Shiv sighed. "Now look what you did."

"I'm sorry. Please, please understand that I was desperate— I have been trapped here, trapped here for years, years so long, so long without company, no companionship, so long without even blood. My Lineage Core screams inside my chest. The things they have done to me, the things they have done to us here…"

"Done to you?" Shiv asked.

"The Republic, the Republic is twisting us. The deniable prisoners. The Republic is testing things on us. This is, this is, this isn't just a prison, it's a laboratory."
