“Well, I guess I have more regulars in the inn, even if you’re not staying here. That’s cool. I’ll show you guys how to get through Celum and back—it’s really easy, but I have to make sure you don’t trip over any of Octavia’s stuff when you go through the first time. She’s an [Alchemist].”
She showed the Silver Swords how to get to Celum as the others went to their beds. It was late—so late that Octavia was asleep, which was lucky. A midnight sales pitch was the last thing Erin wanted. She went to sleep happy, but exhausted, in a silent inn.
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 33!]
 
And then Erin sat up and remembered Ilvriss was still there.
“Darn it, I forgot I spiked his drink!”
She looked around her dark kitchen, wondering if she should wake the Drake up from whatever memory he was seeing. But then she decided it wasn’t worth the effort and went back to sleep.
“A brother coming to rescue her, huh? That’s nice. But I wonder what’s up with Lady Magnolia? And the Goblins? It sounds…not good.”
Erin’s eyes slowly closed. She went to sleep, dreaming of Goblins and silver and flying spaghetti monsters. Because it was a dream after all.
And in the inn, slumped over at his table, Ilvriss spoke one word.
“Periss?”
 
—-
 
“Periss?”
He knew he was dreaming. Ilvriss could tell by the little clues. The windowless room, the way there was no real smell, no sense of beginning or end to this place, and the tiny Corusdeer leaping about the table in front of him. He stared at them for a few seconds before looking up.
There she was. Even if it was a dream, it was the only one he’d ever want to have. Periss, his second-in-command, his secret lover, stood across from him. She was standing over the table, which was, in fact, a map.
It was the most realistic map in the world. A little world, the map of Izril surrounded by the ocean, had been replicated in minute detail down to the very trees on the table. Animals too. Ilvriss could see herds of tiny Corusdeer bounding across the melting snowy landscape, and a miniature Hollowstone Deceiver, a Rock Crab, snagged one and tore it apart in a bloody mess as he watched.
The map was in fact a replica of one of the magical map rooms in the Walled City of Salazsar. It was depicting the Goblin Lord’s forces as he moved steadily northwards towards Invrisil. It seemed remarkably accurate for a dream map.
Ilvriss didn’t care. He only had eyes for Periss. But she was studying the map intently, not looking up at him. She brushed a claw over the light blue scales near the spines on her head, a gesture so familiar that Ilvriss could have wept.
“Periss!”
“I heard you, Wall Lord, there’s no need to shout.”
Periss looked up with a slight frown. Ilvriss would have run over to her, but he couldn’t move. He was fixed in place on the other side of the map. He stared at her. She was so real! In this place, she was the only thing aside from the map that had any presence. And the dream had copied her down to the last detail. The faint odor of her body, the smell of her armor and the polish applied to it, the sounds her claws made as they faintly rasped against the map.
So real. It was pain, seeing her. Ilvriss would have strained to move, but in this dream, he couldn’t. He couldn’t try. It was a dream rule, and he was powerless. So he spread his arms.
“Periss. Come to me.”
“Not now.”
The Drake woman was focusing. She was tracing the path of the Goblin Lord, frowning. Ilvriss raised his voice.
“Periss! Come away from the map! I want to touch you. I want to hold you. It’s been so long—”
“It will have to be longer, Wall Lord. We have business here, or have you forgotten the Goblin Lord?”
“Damn the Goblin Lord. I don’t care about him or the Humans.”
Ilvriss spoke urgently. Periss looked up for a moment and smiled—his heart leapt in his chest.
“Neither do I. But they are potential threats. Just look here.”
She traced a claw along the Goblin Lord’s route. Ilvriss saw black smoke rising from a collection of burnt houses, fresh.
“He’s been destroying villages, one small town…but avoiding all of the cities, even the ones he could take. He’s conserving his forces, trying to move fast. Why? To avoid a Drake army coming from the rear? Or something else?”
“Periss…”
“And here. He’s going to hit Invrisil unless he turns. The Humans are assembling a force to stop him, but will it be enough? Magnolia Reinhart’s not known for her prowess in battle. Whereas Tyrion is assembling a force here, but it won’t be in time to save Invrisil. If the Goblin Lord attacks.”
It was agony seeing Periss standing over the map. Ilvriss tried to move again and failed. She went on, focused, gnawing at a lip as she did when she was thinking hard.
“It could all be open-and-shut if the Goblin Lord is defeated. But what if he’s not? I know there’s a small force coming to defend Liscor and another army coming north. If they’re needed, if the Goblin Lord isn’t stopped by the Humans, we’ll want to be ready.”
“Who cares? Let it all burn. Just come to me and I’ll leave it behind.”
Ilvriss would have damned his home to ash and fire just to reach out for her in that moment. Periss looked up and glared at him.
“Don’t say what you don’t mean. Look, it’s all predictable, unless the Reinhart woman has a trick up her sleeve. Her army might be able to fend off the Goblin Lord, but never destroy his army. Not without a leader. The key is what General Shivertail knows. Why did he disappear? Unless…no, he wouldn’t do that. Would he?”
It didn’t matter. None of it did. Periss was here, but she was ignoring him. Ilvriss collapsed onto the floor. He begged out loud, he who had never begged before.
“Please, Periss! Touch me. Come here. Speak to me!”
He shouted the last words, cursing the dream he was in, this nightmare, this cruel torture. There was only silence in reply. He wept, clutching the map table, feeling the ocean and land crumbling under his claws. And then he heard a voice.
“Oh, Ilvriss.”
Periss walked around the table. Disbelieving, Ilvriss looked up. She knelt, and then slapped him.
He gaped. Periss was no weakling. She was a trained warrior and her blow made his head ring. She hit him on the other cheek and Ilvriss reeled.
“Get ahold of yourself!”
She shouted at him. Ilvriss raised his hands to the real, stinging pain in his cheeks. Periss glared at him.
“I’m dead for less than a month and this is what you’re reduced to? You’re not the Drake I chose to follow, the leader I fell in love with! You drink and abandon your duties? Because of me?”
“Periss—”
“Stop saying my name like that.”
She glared at him and Ilvriss recalled that she didn’t like him saying her name, even in private. It was always [Lieutenant], then [Captain], and so on as she rose in rank. She disapproved of flirting before the battle was over, too. It was business while they were in the middle of a battle.
Suddenly, Ilvriss was conscious of how drunk he was, of how dirty his clothes were—clothes, not armor. He’d stopped putting it on. While Periss was in her armor, in the prime of her life, ready for action. He felt ashamed and looked away.
“Ancestors, look at me. Look at how I’ve fallen apart. No wonder you look at me like that. I am worthless.”
He sank downwards in misery. Of course she hated him. This was what he’d become. Instead of avenging her, he’d chased Ryoka this far, failed to stop Az’kerash’s minions from taking two lives, and then given up. The Necromancer. The grief had hit him too hard.
Now he had lost it all. Ilvriss couldn’t look at Periss. He heard her sigh in exasperation, and then felt a touch. He froze as she clumsily drew him towards her. Periss had never been one to hug, and so her embrace was crude, and uncomfortable as he pressed against her armor.
But it was real. Oh, so real.
“I know it was hard after I died. But you can’t keep doing this.”
“I tried.”
“I know. I know you did.”
“I fought, Periss. I tried, but—you are gone! Gone and I am alone.”
“I know. And I’m so sorry.”
She was here. In that moment, Ilvriss forgot decorum. He forgot his station and his appearance and began crying as if he were a hatchling. And Periss held him as she had never done, but as she would have if he had cried. Ilvriss clung to her, feeling her heartbeat. And he begged the world for this moment to continue, even in his grief. Another second. Another moment.
Please.
“You can’t waste away. You have a future and more importantly, a duty.”
The Lord of the Wall wept into her arms, clutching at her, feeling the realness of her body.
“I know! I know, but I can’t let you go. I can’t continue—”
“Of course you can. And you will.”
Periss gripped him on the arms, hard, looking into his eyes. Ilvriss grasped at her.
“I can’t just forget you and move on. I cannot, Periss. I—”
He couldn’t finish. The weight of moving without her, of waking from this dream and knowing she was gone was too heavy. Periss looked at Ilvriss and sighed, as if he was an idiot. He’d heard that sigh before, too. He’d used to hate it.
“You don’t have to forget me. I’d be insulted if you did. But you have to stand up. Your people need you. I need you.”
I need you. What choice did he have? Ilvriss stood, though the effort cost him more than words could say. He looked into Periss’ eyes, holding her. And in his heart he knew the dream was ending.
But not yet. Please, a moment longer. He had something he had to say. Ilvriss drew Periss closer and kissed her. She wasn’t good at that either. Neither was he, but it was genuine, real. And then he confessed his sins, the weight of his heart.
“I wanted to say sorry. To ask for forgiveness.”
She looked at him and laughed in his face.
“What forgiveness? For sending me after a lone Human girl? That was a sound decision. Although sending all those elites after me wasn’t. You should have kept the rest back so you could defeat Shivertail.”
Ilvriss blinked at her, surprised. But then he laughed too.
“You know what I mean!”
“Maybe I do, but the strategy was sound. And that’s what matters. You couldn’t have known. Now you need to move forwards. You know what the enemy looks like, where he is roughly. You know, and you can protect your people.”
Periss held Ilvriss, pointing towards the map. He looked and saw the undead rising around the Goblin Lord’s army. For the first time, hot fury flickered in his heart, drowning out the sorrow.
Then it faded. Ilvriss looked at Periss and held her tightly. She wasn’t fading or disappearing, but he sensed his time with her was ending.
“Don’t go. I have so much I want to do. So much I want to say.”
She raised one brow at him.
“As fun as it might be, I don’t think this is the right place for a tumble together. Maybe some other time.”
He laughed against his will.
“Will I ever see you again?”
She looked at him tenderly, and one of her claws intertwined with his.
“Maybe. If you have more of that strange drink Erin Solstice gave you, perhaps. But I’ll always be here.”
She pointed to the war map, the living continent of Izril, their home.
“Because that’s what you need to focus on. Not just the southern half. All of it, Ilvriss. And this inn in particular. There’s more for you to see, more to do. I can’t do anything anymore. But you can.”
Ilvriss closed his eyes. The weight of his duties fell upon his shoulders, but this time he could bear it. He had to. He spoke to her, feeling her claws in his.
“I swear I will. I will protect our home. I will find the Necromancer and make him pay. And if the Goblin Lord threatens, I will protect our people. I won’t slip back again, Periss. I swear it.”
“Good.”
He felt a kiss. When he opened his eyes, she was gone. But the memory remained. And as Ilvriss turned he opened his eyes—
And woke up. Ilvriss jerked upright at his table, and the nearly-empty mug of Faerie Flower ale tipped over. He grabbed for it and looked around.
It was pitch black in the inn. The fire was ash, and everyone had gone to sleep. Ilvriss stared at the mug, and then clenched his hand. He could still feel her, still hear her voice.
Had it been just a dream? The Human girl, Erin, had said—was it magic? A drug? Something more?
It didn’t matter. Ilvriss looked around the room. He was so tired. And then he looked into the mug. There were just dregs left.
Oh well. It would have to do. Ilvriss closed his eyes, and then sat up. He raised his mug and spoke into the silence. His voice echoed in the empty inn, coming back to him.
“To war. War, ever changing, always taking…to war. It’s the Drake way. And I—”
He drank and let the mug fall onto the table. The dream didn’t come back, but he hadn’t really expected it to. Ilvriss looked around, blinked, and then toppled off his seat. He slept on the floor, tears trickling from his eyes. His heart was bitter, sore, and broken. But it was there, and it beat on, reminding him he was alive. Ilvriss slept and whispered her name as the map and colors and the promise of battle whirled in his dreams.
“Periss.”
