Ren bent over her hand and let it go. “We better get out there, before they send in a search party.” He said to Nathalia, and she laughed.

“All right.” Nathalia said and hugged her mother. “Goodbye, Ma. I'll see you in a year.”

“Goodbye, dear.” Narhilda said. “I'd tell you to have fun, but I know where you're going.” She said and laughed. Nathalia sighed and gave her mother a kiss on the cheek.

“Yes, it's going to be a barrel of laughs.” Nathalia said and Ren snorted a laugh. He raided the icebox and took enough food for several people, to last for about a week. He turned to Narhilda and held several gold coins in his hand.

“I've taken a lot of food.” Ren said. “Is this enough to replace it?”

Narhilda smiled and closed his hand over the coins, stepped close, and gave him a quick kiss on the cheek. “Take all that you need, dear.”

“Thank you, My Lady.” Ren said and bowed to her. He took Nathalia's hand and led her out to the courtyard.

“Just a second.” Ren said and went into the stable. “Hey, Ruck...” Ren said and knocked on the cabinet. “I'm going on a short trip. Do you want to come along? I might need some of the things you're carrying.”

The cabinet opened and Ruck came out with a 'thumbs up' gesture. Ren turned around and Ruck climbed up onto his back. Ren concentrated on his Camaraderie Aura and turned to his mount.

“What about you, Princess?” Ren said and rubbed her neck. “Feel like a trip of a few days?”

Princess huffed and stood up.

“Great! I'm glad you want to get some fresh air.” Ren said and put her saddle and harness on her. She looked at him and he laughed. “No, I'm not going to ride you.” Ren said, stored her crate, and led her out to the courtyard. Nathalia looked at him with wide eyes.

“What?” Ren asked. Nathalia shook her head and opened the gate. The female dwarf was still standing there, and saw Ren coming out with a mount.

“I'm sorry, but he can't come with you.” The female dwarf said. “That defeats the whole purpose of your training.”

Ren led Princess out of the courtyard and turned to lock the gate behind him. “I'm not going with her to the convent.” Ren said and smiled. “I'm going mining. Hopefully, I'll find something nice and shiny.”

The female dwarf looked at him like he was crazy, and Ren chuckled.

“I'll be traveling alongside your caravan, if that's okay?”

The female dwarf frowned at him. She knew he was lying about something, but couldn't detect what it was. “If you can keep up, then be my guest.”

Ren reached out and took her hand, and bent over it slightly. “Thank you, Ma'am.”

The female dwarf's face flushed a little red and Ren let her hand go.

“Um... well... ah...” She stammered.

“Why don't you climb up into the cart, so the caravan can be on it's way?” Ren suggested.

“Ah... yes... yes, that's right.” She said and turned to Nathalia. “Climb aboard. We need to go.”

Nathalia smiled at Ren, then climbed up into the closest cart. There were several women in the back, and they helped her up. She sat down and introduced herself to the other women.

The female dwarf climbed into the driver's seat of the front cart. “Roll out!” She shouted, and the carts started to move. There was lots of room on the street for Ren to walk alongside the cart that Nathalia was on, and he easily kept pace with it. They made their way along the back roads and once they got close to entering the main part of Dornrach, they turned and followed the road that went along in the same direction as the mountain range on this side of the city.

I really should have found a map or something. Ren thought. I wonder if there's a road on the other side of the city, too.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “When would you have found a map? You've been going non-stop since we got here.”

Ren chuckled. Yeah, I guess I can't beat myself up over that. He thought. I don't even know if there's a Library here.

“I'm sure there is, somewhere.” Teepo said. “Good luck finding it, though.”

Why?

“Dwarves aren't known for sharing knowledge like that.”

Ren smiled again. I got a taste of that in that stonemason's plush office. Ren thought. He was genuinely insulted that I wanted to learn from him!

Teepo chittered in laughter. “He was an extreme case. I would have warned you about it beforehand, otherwise.”

What do you think about this situation? Ren thought to his friend.

“I'd say we are in for some interesting times.”

Ren widened his eyes. Why do you think that?

“Well, we're in a caravan that's full of women, who are on their way to spend an entire year with other women, to learn how to be courted by a man. Once we get there, we're going to be near a building that has hundreds of other women who haven't seen a man in nearly a year.” Teepo chittered in delight. “This is going to be fun!”

Oh, crap. Ren thought, and Teepo kept chittering in laughter.
