I looked at myself in the mirror, turning my head and flashing my fangs. My wolfy ears twitched atop my head.

Three serving ladies behind me immediately blushed and hid their faces. One of them couldn’t stop herself from squealing, “She’s so cuuute!”

My brow twitched.

I am not cute! I kill and eat humans! I’m the slayer of the Earth Tyrant and the shadow that stalks the caves of the Cragpeak Vale!

But… yeah, I definitely didn’t look like that right now. The pink and flowery kimono they’d given me stripped away whatever menace this small body might have still possessed.

Still, these women were being kind. And they weren’t wrong about my appearance, so I wouldn’t hold it against them and didn’t want to be rude towards them.

I turned and gave a small nod. “Thank you.”

The clothes did feel better than the oversized rags the fox had given me, at least. Though I didn’t plan on staying in this form much longer. I was only staying this way so I could ask questions about Rin Zaoh—for which I’d need a human tongue.

I just hoped this body would grow into an adult soon.

Assuming it followed my development stage, each stage seemed to represent about two years. If my current form was somewhere around ten to twelve years old, then I wouldn’t be an adult until stage 8 or 9.

That… felt really far away.

I sighed and checked my progress.

Stage: 5

Development: 82%

At least I was close to stage 6.

Still, I was a little disappointed I hadn’t discovered a stage 6 evolution yet. The next one wouldn’t appear until stage 7—assuming I could even unlock “Hellborne Fire Witch” by then. Which was exactly what I was hoping these giggling ladies might be able to provide some hints about.

When we stepped out of the changing room, I found a low table set in the middle of a living room, plush pillows arranged around it, and an absolute feast spread across its surface.

Grick—now dressed in a small dark blue kimono with a sash around his waist—was already greedily snatching up piece after piece of fish.

Fox lounged at the far end of the table in her human form, reclining comfortably in an outfit similar to mine while lazily swirling wine in her glass. Her face was already starting to turn red, and her words were slurring slightly.

“Hey, this place is pretty ritzy!” she said with a drunken grin. “This is great!”

“I’m glad it is to your liking,” Aiko the handmaid replied with a polite bow.

Lily, meanwhile, sat the most politely at the table, her tongue hanging slightly out of the side of her mouth as she carefully studied the many dishes.

After a moment of consideration, she selected a large, meaty turkey leg—or at least something that looked like one—and gingerly lifted it off the table. She carried it over to a quiet corner of the room, lay down with it, and prepared to feast. But before taking her first bite, she turned and gave the servants a cheerful yip that said, “Thank you!”

“Please, help yourselves,” Aiko said warmly. Then she looked at me. “Ah—and I don’t believe we’ve yet caught your name.”

My ears twitched. “Um… Oh, I don’t have one.”

I really didn't want to go by Lisha, but I supposed I'd have to come up with something eventually. As Fox said, humans prefer it if you have a name, and for practicality’s sake, it makes things less confusing.

I examined the spread of food before us. Most of the strange plant dishes would probably go untouched. Grick had already claimed the fish, and after weighing my options, I decided to follow Lily’s lead and grabbed one of the large turkey legs.

I took a bite.

My eyes immediately glazed over.

Still chewing, I slowly held the meat out in front of me, staring at it in disbelief as if I had just discovered some rare lost artifact.

How could something possibly taste this good? Even cooked, it was incredible!

Aiko chuckled as she sat gracefully beside me. “That’s puffstork. One of the empire’s favorite delicacies.”

I immediately tore another bite from the bone. Then another. And another.

Within seconds, the entire leg was stripped clean.

I grabbed another one.

“Thesh are amashing!” I said with my mouth still half full. “I need to find out where to hunt these!”

The three girls burst into laughter, covering their mouths as they made those strange cutesy sounds again.

What’s their problem now?! Never seen a wolf eat before? Damn!

Then I felt my tail thump against the floor and I froze.

Slowly, I turned enough to see it wagging enthusiastically behind me, and my cheeks filled with warmth.

I tried to will it to stop, but it just continued betraying me.

Blushing furiously, I sat down heavily and held the untouched Puffstork leg in front of me, trying to mind my manners this time and reclaim some of my dignity.

***

“So about Rin Zaoh…” I said, placing my fourth clean bone on a plate with the other three. My tummy felt tight, but I still had to resist the urge to add a fifth. Grick had failed to show such restraint, as he now lay back on a pillow with his arms and legs spread like a starfish, his belly visibly bulging even beneath the kimono. Lily had come to sit by my side, and the Fox was leaning forward with her head propped on one hand. Always the picture of modesty, even when completely sober, she had loosened her kimono to where it sagged scandalously low on her chest.

Aiko straightened. “High Regent Rin Zaoh. Well, she is very important to us. She protects the city and is the top adviser to the emperor.”

“But is she human?” I asked.

“Huh? Well, of course she is! But… The stories are that she isn’t exactly from here.”

“Do you mean like… From another world?” I phrased it carefully in case the transmigrator thing was meant to be a secret.

“No, nothing like that. The legend is that she was born in the depths.”

“The depths?”

That’s where my parents were from…

“I hadn’t heard of humans living in the depths before,” Fox said with a skeptical brow raised. “How would she have survived? That place is swarming with high-level monsters.”

“Well, as the story says, she was in fact raised by monsters,” Aiko continued. “She was discovered when she was still very young, when an elite team led a campaign to drive back some beasts who were coming to the surface to hunt and would attack caravans. These monsters seemed organized, so it was decided necessary to identify exactly where they were coming from and destroy the hierarchy. They delved deeper and deeper until they stumbled into a trap. They were outnumbered and surrounded by monsters on all sides, no hope of escaping alive.” Aiko's lips pursed. “And that’s when Rin Zaoh appeared. A small girl, hair like midnight and blazing red eyes, standing amongst the monsters as though she belonged there.”

“So what happened next?” I had to ask.

“As the story says, the monsters gathered around Rin protectively, but she seemed curious about these humans and didn’t want to see them harmed. She called them all back, and the ambush retreated, allowing the humans to leave peacefully.”

“Sounds like a tall tale,” Fox said.

Aiko only shrugged.

“So how did the little monster princess end up on the surface and commanding the empire’s armies then?” Fox questioned further.

Aiko smiled faintly at Fox’s skepticism, though she did not look offended by it. Instead, she folded her hands neatly in her lap, as if preparing to recite something she had heard many times before.

“The last emperor, Emperor Taizhen ordered another expedition. A larger one this time, led by some of the empire’s strongest warriors.”

“Let me guess,” I muttered. “They went down there to capture her.”

Aiko tilted her head. “Yes, that was the intention.”

“And?” I asked, leaning forward.

“They found her again,” Aiko said. “But not as deep this time. It was as if she were waiting for them. They say the girl simply walked out to meet them on one of the higher layers of the depths. Alone.”

“So she came willingly?”

“Well, there is some speculation. Perhaps she came with conditions and warnings, or she was grabbed and taken forcefully. Whatever the case, monster attacks soon became far worse, with beasts pouring from the depths. Yet, Taizhen would not release Rin. He thought he could force her power under his control. Perhaps he believed that through her he could command the monsters of the depths and send them out as armies.”

Aiko took a sip of tea and set it down. “Rin was not treated kindly, as the stories say. She was confined to the palace, forced to fight soldiers as training and comply with experiments as Taizhen tried to groom her into his weapon. Some say he tortured her to force her to send the monsters back to the depths, but whether through refusal or true inability to command them, the monsters would not retreat.

“It was not publicly known what was going on, or that this was the cause of the increase in monster activity. This went on for months, until Taizhen’s brother, at the time Price Kaien and now our current emperor, returned to the palace from a diplomatic mission elsewhere. When he discovered what was going on, he was outraged and planned a coup. So began the night of a thousand swords; the older servants can attest to how the palace rang with clashing steel from dusk until dawn.

“At the end of it, after many soldiers were slain on both sides, Kaien challenged his brother to a one-on-one duel in the throne room. He won, of course, and took his place as emperor. After which, he freed Rin and offered her anything she needed to aid her in her journey back to the depths. Rin, however, decided to stay here in the Verdant Empire, but now doing so freely and not as a hostage; the monsters returned to the depths, and to their old, natural behavior patterns soon after.”

“And… she became High Regent?” I asked.

“That came later,” Aiko replied. “At first, she remained as a guest of the palace. But over time, she began advising the emperor on how to deal with monsters. Where they would migrate. Which ones could be negotiated with. Which ones should never be provoked. But she was proven to have an incredible tactical mind on top of all of this, even offering advice on human affairs.

“And so, as the years passed, she proved herself again and again. Campaigns that might have cost thousands of soldiers were resolved with careful planning. Monsters that once threatened cities were driven away with minimal bloodshed. Until finally, she rose to become High Regent… the empire’s greatest strategist and protector.”

Fox hummed thoughtfully. “Monster princess becomes empire general. That’s one hell of a career path. Does she ever head back to the depths on holiday? You know, visit the folks?”

Aiko's lips pursed. “Not that I would know of.”

“You don’t believe the story?” I asked Fox.

She swirled the last of the wine in her glass, watching it lazily. “Stories like that always get exaggerated over time. Every part of it reeks of this. Even the coup part, the Night of a Thousand Swords? I’m sure there was a fight, but I doubt there were a thousand of them.

“As for Rin herself… We’re monsters. Did any of you feel any kind of control power coming from her?”

“I guess not…” I muttered. Lily shook her head, and Grick was lost to the world, snoozing on one of the plush pillows.

“Right, so I doubt that she can just command the beasts of the depths to attack or retreat at will. If she could, why not have them help out with this little war of yours?”

Aiko coughed, interrupting. “I assume it’s because she understands humans should handle their own affairs, and she doesn’t want those monsters used as tools.”

“But the empire does have some monsters fighting for it,” Fox pointed out. “There’s this Genzo guy who sent the kids here, and the kids themselves. Clearly, the separation of human and monster intervention or whatever isn’t that big of a concern.”

"Well, that’s different,” Aiko pouted. Then she snapped her fingers. “But how would you explain the monster attacks at the end of Taizhen’s rule? And the fact that Rin was able to send them back?”

“Did she, though?” Fox smirked. “Maybe she understands something about monsters, knew what was pissing them off, and advised on how to stop it. Having that kind of insight wouldn’t surprise me if she really did somehow survive in the depths as a child. However, that does not make her a monster princess. There is no proof of what the soldiers saw in the depths, only stories, and if she really did have that kind of control over the beasts of the depths, why the hell would she choose to live up here instead?”

“Because… Well…” Aiko thought it over, frowning deeply until she straightened with renewed confidence. “Because she cares about people. Because she saw suffering on the surface and chose to help. Because she is compassionate.”

Fox gave a lazy snort. “Compassionate, huh?”

“Yes,” Aiko said firmly. “High Regent Rin has saved countless lives. She advises restraint whenever possible, seeks peaceful resolutions when she can, and has repeatedly put herself in danger for the empire. She could have returned to the depths at any time, yet she stayed. Why would she do that if not because she truly wished to protect others?”

Fox tilted her head, amused. “Maybe because she likes palace life. Likes the food.”

“That’s not—!”

“Or the baths,” Fox continued. “Or the silk sheets. Or being adored by everyone she passes. Those are all nice perks. The power to command armies isn’t magical; certain skills can help, yeah, but it is an enticing power to have either way.”

Aiko puffed out her cheeks. “You are being deliberately contrarian.”

“I don’t know her motivations,” Fox admitted. “But let me make another point. There is no magic stopping me and the kid there from eating you three.” She flashed her fangs. “Other than the lovely meal you’ve provided, which has already given us full bellies.”

Aiko and the two other servants recoiled slightly, looking at each other.

I sighed. “Don’t listen to her. She just likes pushing people's buttons.”

Fox yawned. “I’m making a point, though. Don’t worry, human isn’t that tasty either way. But if we harmed any of you, there would be soldiers on us in seconds. There’s probably some listening right now, I’d bet.”

I hadn’t thought of that. I tried to use Pulse Sense, but remembered I don’t have it with this current path, so instead I sniffed the air. There were too many varying smells across the table for that to be effective either.

“But the point is, we are not going along with our instincts because there would be consequences, or there are other benefits to us behaving. Or we simply don’t want to or have better things to do. It’s the same for humans. You obey laws because that choice is preferable to not obeying them when weighed against the consequences. You don’t grab that wine bottle and dump it on my head, because then you might lose your cushy job as a head serving girl. It’s all pretty basic, really, and understanding what something wants and doesn’t want is a great way to affect what it will do.”

I chimed in, “But what about the Hellborne thing? When I use Analyze on her, it says Human Hellborne.”

“Well, I do believe she is from the depths, somehow,” Fox admitted. “Maybe she even has a monster daddy or was kept as a pet. Human kids are pretty small, so it’s not like she’d be a vital meal. Anyway, however she survived down there, it wouldn’t be surprising that she acquired some interesting achievements or even quests that could have augmented her species classification. She does have a human System interface from what I could tell, however.”

My ears perked. “What do you mean?”

Fox winked. “I have a higher level of Analyze. Humans can’t evolve as monsters can; they get classes instead. At least as far as that goes, she’s 100% human.”

“Oh. What level is she, by the way?”

“Way higher than me,” Fox answered.

I narrowed my eyes at her. “What level are you?"

She flashed a fang. “Not telling.”

I folded my arms. “I guess that means it's embarrassingly low.”

Her brow twitched. “Higher than yours, twerp.”

“Sure, but I’m just a kid.”

“Hey! I’ll have you know I have a perfectly acceptable level! A lady just has to keep a few mysteries, you know.”

“You’re not a lady—you threatened to eat the help!” I shot back.

“I was joking!” Fox chuckled, waving off the issue.

The humans, despite even jokingly being included as menu items, began chuckling. Aiko laughed most of all, “Wow, you two are like sisters.”

I blushed at that comment. Fox may have been selfish and opportunistic, but I was truly very grateful that she was still with us. As that thought hit me, another one did. However, when I tried using Pack Bond to check her status page, I only received an error message.

[Invalid Target for that ability]

I couldn’t help frowning at that, but shook it off. It’s not like I wanted her to be a part of my pack! Well… maybe a little. No, I just wanted to see her level so I could throw it in her face!

I scratched behind Lily’s ear as she rested her muzzle on my leg, and her eyes were beginning to drift closed.

“Well, if everyone is finished with dinner,” Aiko began, folding her hands politely. “I’ll be happy to show you all to your rooms.”

My ears perked. “Actually, me, Lily, and Grick would like to sleep together.”

“That would be fine,” Aiko said. “We can prepare a larger futon room for you.”

Grick gave a tired thumbs up from where he was still sprawled among the pillows. “Fish room,” he mumbled.

“That’s not what she said,” I muttered.

Aiko turned to Fox. “And for you?”

Fox stretched lazily, her tail flicking once behind her as she leaned back on her hands.

“Oh, I’ll take my own room. Preferably one with a door that closes.”

Aiko nodded. “Of course. We have several guest chambers available.”

After that, we were led to our private room, Grick practically sleepwalking his way there. He flopped face-first down on the futon as soon as possible, and Lily curled up next to him.

“If there is anything you need during your stay, feel free to ask,” Aiko said with a bow. “Just remember that after midnight, stay away from the main corridors and keep yourselves to the guest areas.”

“Okay, I understand,” I said.

Once she was gone and the screen was slid shut, I looked at Lily and Grick, then down at myself. It had technically only been 24 hours, or maybe slightly longer in this form so far, but I was ready to get back into my puppy body.

Let’s see… do I just use the skill but think Hell Hound?

{Veilform}!

Sure enough, as soon as I used the skill, I felt my limbs stretching and bones popping. I quickly loosened the kimono before my hands turned into paws, and soon the garments were pooling around my doggy body, and I had to squirm my way out of them and kick them away.

Veilfang Stalker was a bit smaller than Whisperfang Juvenile, but that was okay. I curled up alongside Lily, who gave my nose a quick lick, and then we both got comfy and drifted off to sleep.

Read Next Chapter Now!
