“Alright. To my purpose in coming here. I’m not saying we have to team up. But…there’s no rule against it. I have been speaking with the others. And the Professor’s only rule is literally ‘don’t kill anyone’. So our class has decided on a truce.”
Venaz snorted softly. The Gnoll frowned irritably at him and then went on.
“Truce. Everyone here doesn’t attack each other unless our plans get in each other’s way. We’ll have enough trouble getting past our pursuers and the other students. I noticed in the supply reports the Professor had us doing that there’s a big increase in the provisions at Daquin. At least enough for a thousand soldiers. Maybe two thousand.”
Marian sucked her breath in sharply.
“That’s going to be a nightmare to evade. Forget running about.”
Cameral shrugged. He’d put his head on his shoulders, perhaps wary of a brawl.
“It’s still possible. Daquin is a big city. But if you add that to whatever hunters the Professor brings in…sometimes the graduates bring in their own hunting groups. Especially if they’re big names.”
“What I’m worried about is who the Professor brings in to hunt us. He could call on any of his graduates. And he’s trained…how many [Strategists] over the years?”
Marian frowned. She scratched at the table. Umina sat upright. She’d had a terrible thought.
“Oh dead gods. What if it’s Miss Perorn?”
The others looked at her. Cameral shook his head. It wobbled on his shoulders.
“No. That would be…unfair.”
Umina looked at him. The Dullahan hesitated.
“Even for the Professor. Surely?”
“Think about it. She’s been teaching us this last month. If Fleethoof herself leads the hunt, how fast do you think she’ll catch us? She could run down half of us herself!”
The others sucked in their breaths. Venaz bit his lip. His crossed legs began to jiggle, and the table shook.
“I would…I relish the competition.”
“You would! I’d be scared hoofless if I had to run from Lady Perorn!”
Marian was pale at the thought. Umina was muttering to herself, getting more and more nervous.
“If we see her in the group going to Daquin…aw, no. I’m getting chilled just thinking about it. And remember what the Professor said? There might be a huge audience this time. This could be my chance to land a really big job after I graduate. Especially with Chandrar and the King of Destruction…”
“Are you thinking of working in Chandrar?”
Feshi seemed surprised. Umina hesitated. She hadn’t talked about this with anyone. She noticed the others, Marian, Cameral, Venaz, looking at her.
“If I get a really good offer…I’d be scared tailless of going up against Flos, but I mean, if I got paid enough, Feshi…”
Soon she’d be working and fighting actual battles. She’d seen blood and commanded a force before, but the real thing was coming closer with each passing week. Soon she’d graduate. That was terrifying. Niers’ game was terrifying for different reasons. Umina was breathing hard. Then she felt a hand grip her arm. She looked up and saw Marian. The Centaur smiled down at Umina.
“It’ll be alright, Umina. You’re not a full [Strategist] yet. And this game’s a game. Come what may, if we win or lose, we won’t die.”
“Not if we play by the rules.”
Cameral remarked calmly. Venaz nodded. He drained his last mug, then stood up. He looked reluctantly at Feshi.
“Very well. A truce?”
“If everyone agrees…”
The Gnoll glanced about. Umina nodded. Marian pointed at the door.
“What if Wil or Yerra says no?”
“Where’s the benefit in that? We’ll all be travelling together. There’s no alliance, but I say we’d all agree to a truce. Within the class. We’ll have enough competition and whoever’s chasing us to worry about fighting each other. Truce unless we foul each other.”
The others at the table nodded. They stood up, fumbling for coins; Marian tossed money down for her drinks and Umina’s. She looked at Venaz, then at Cameral and Feshi.
“We’re part of the truce, but Umina and I are working together. We’re going to win as a team. Umina, we’re going to make some plans tonight.”
“Marian, are you sure?”
The Lizardgirl held her breath. The Centauress gave her a wide smile.
“Two tails are better than one, even if mine doesn’t flex. I want to win this thing and ask the Professor…”
She broke off. The others looked at each other. Venaz, Cameral, Feshi…and there was Wil, Yerra, and all the others. Umina’s heart beat faster. Only one person could win. Unless she and Marian really did win as a pair. And if they won, they could ask…
Anything. Was it the Titan’s arrogance? Or did he really think this was a prize worthy of winning the competition? Any question in the world. Umina thought of all the things she could ask him. There were so many mysteries the Titan surely knew. Stories about him, about Baleros.
Like whether he knew what lay in the upper floors of Wistram. What the great treasure that the Forgotten Wing company had been founded on. Whether the rumors of him being cursed by Queravia during their battle was true or not. What level Niers Astoragon was, really. What his greatest and most powerful Skill was and what it did. The names of the most powerful people in the world. Their secrets.
Umina could ask about anything. Everything. But one question came to mind. Perhaps, if it were her, she’d ask a simple question. The question everyone wanted to know.
Who was his mysterious opponent he played chess with? Did he know who they were? Or perhaps she’d ask him if he knew, truly, how to become a Naga. Or a Lamia. Or if Foliana really did have a map to the world’s greatest treasure. Or what he had really thought of Velan the Kind, if he had really been friends with the Goblin King before Velan had gone to war. Or if he knew where there was any buried treasure. Or…
A thousand and one questions. And Umina couldn’t pick just one. If she won, would she ask about Dragons? Or something else. Would she even win? That was the question. Umina felt her heart beat faster as she walked out of the pub with Marian, and for the first time, she put her mind to winning. Truly and seriously. But she feared her fellow students had already laid deep plans. Still, there was always a chance. Umina set off with her Centaur friend in tow, making plans.
She still had no idea just how exciting the game of hide-and-seek was going to be.
