“True. Umina, what’s the numbers on each side?”
The Lizardgirl called out as she surveyed Niers’ and Venaz’s sides, watching the formations change as both [Strategists] sized each other up.
“Forty [Crossbowmen], twenty [Riders], sixty [Soldiers], and a small command of about ten fighters including the Professor himself. Against that, we have…the students, which are about a hundred being protected by eighty [Soldiers]. Venaz also gets sixty riders and a personal command of about thirty plus himself.”
“Huh. So Venaz has a lot more numbers, and more [Riders], but no ranged. Sounds like your kind of matchup, Marian.”
“Probably why I’m not taking part. Unless the Professor’s going to use his Skills, he’ll be hard-pressed to keep those horses off his archers. Think Venaz will win?”
Marian frowned at the battlefield as she held out a hand for the spectacles. Wil shook his head steadily.
“He’s going to lose. It doesn’t matter that he has double the Professor’s numbers. The students he has are worthless, and the Professor’s got range on him.”
Umina frowned.
“You don’t know that, Wil. The Professor never sets up a battle against us he can’t lose. He says it’s no fun. If Venaz charges him with the [Riders] just right…”
“We’ll see. Oh, look. They’re starting!”
Yerranola pointed excitedly. One of the [Trumpeters] had blown a blaring call to arms. The audience in the bleachers sat forwards as both armies jumped into motion. The instant the horn blared, Venaz roared an order, and his [Riders] shot forwards. The infantry advanced, closing the few hundred feet at a walk at first, which would soon accelerate into a run. Marian made a disgusted sound.
“He’s just going for a charge. Look, he’s aiming straight at the Professor’s archers!”
“Hey, let me see! You’re right…but I mean, what else does he need to do? Hold on—look!”
The Selphid pointed excitedly. The crossbows in Niers’ army had instantly opened up, firing at the [Riders]. Umina saw the unit swerve to dodge as Venaz shouted; she wondered if he’d used a Skill or if their leader had just anticipated the bolts. The training soldiers were allowed some autonomy even with orders; they wouldn’t charge blindly into fake-death.
“Here they come! The Professor’s dropping a few, but…what’s he going to do? Is he pulling his infantry back, Yerra?”
“No. I don’t think—they’re advancing. And the riders are heading straight for—no, look! He’s sent his own riders in!”
The twenty mounted Selphids were charging straight at the sixty or so coming at them. Umina inhaled sharply. They were going to collide! Selphids or no, that many horses dying would be tragic! She saw Venaz pointing and shouting; he was giving the order to charge! Jekilt growled in disgust.
“Typical idiot—he’s going to lose half his riders and maim all those horses!”
“But he’ll get to the crossb—no! Look!”
Another volley of crossbow bolts flew up. Venaz's riders stumbled; Umina saw several stop in place. The riders didn’t tumble from their saddles as the bolts struck them; the bolts weren’t tipped with metal. Neither did the horses get hurt, despite the volley of projectiles.
The horses wore protective headgear, as did the riders. When the painted crossbow bolts struck them, the [Riders] would dismount if the horse ‘died’, or give up completely if the horse and rider were struck. And more were downed, but the rest were coming on; Niers’ crossbows were clearly being operated by people without [Archer] classes. Then Umina saw the horses swerve right, and then into Venaz's riders.
“Look at that! Here they go!”
Horses reared, and swords began flashing. The Selphids on horseback fought carefully, but Umina heard more than one animal cry out in pain. She felt for the horses, but the Selphids on horseback were taking each other to pieces. And Venaz's charge was fumbling. Half the riders had to turn to fight the ones attacking them. And the crossbows were reloading…the rest were coming on…
“They’re going to hit his archers! They’re—oh, look!”
Yerranola shot up in her seat. Wil plaintively called for the spectacles, but she was pointing, and everyone saw the sudden change in the crossbows as the forty Selphids tossed their weapons down, bent into the mud, and picked up something.
“Spears! It was a feint! They’re his infantry!”
Yerranola laughed as, suddenly, the cavalry found themselves heading right for a wall of pikes and spears. It was too late to turn back; riders were committed. Rather than actually hit the horses with the very real spears and pikes, though, the leader of Venaz's [Riders] slowed the charge. Umina heard a cry.
“Horses meet pikes! Casualties: total! Twelve pikes for Lord Astoragon fall!”
The ‘dead’ riders guided their mounts off the field. Meanwhile, Venaz's remaining riders had cleaned up Niers’ riders but found a group of pikes charging straight at them. They tried to disengage, but although they outran the pikes, they found the true archery unit had reclaimed their weapons. A volley picked off all but the stragglers, and they too exited the field.
Umina grinned with delight as she watched Venaz practically hopping with rage from his side of the battlefield. All throughout the stands, the audience was laughing, and some were heckling Venaz. Cameral was shaking his head with his hands.
“That fool. He should have noticed those were fake [Crossbowmen] the instant that first volley landed. He was gambling on the fact that the Professor wouldn’t expect a full-charge, but, of course, he did.”
“To be fair, if he hadn’t done that, Venaz would have forced the Professor to ward his archers and expose his command while his infantry got into range.”
Umina pointed out Niers’ command, from where the Fraerling was presumably issuing orders. Venaz's larger command was advancing now, with the rest of his infantry. Marian winced; the crossbows were reloading, and Niers’ infantry, just under fifty, were moving forwards in a line.
“Yikes. The Professor took out all of Venaz’s horse, but he’s still outnumbered two to one. Think those crossbows will even the odds?”
“He can get off at least three volleys…and he’s aiming for the regular soldiers. What do you think, Umina?”
The Lizardgirl watched as the crossbows volleyed the first rain of bolts at the students.
“I think Venaz is in trouble, numbers or not. His Selphids are falling like flies. And as for the students…remember what it’s like?”
Her classmates nodded. They watched as the infantry streamed across the field. They were a ragged formation, actually slowing down the Selphid [Soldiers] as the bolts rained down around them.
The new students raised their shields as the Selphid [Soldiers] around them screamed and shouted, advancing under the hail of crossbow bolts. They had helmets on, but—Umina remembered her first lesson vividly. You were advancing through the mud, with Selphids screaming in your ear as crossbow bolts fell around you. And they hurt! They were wooden bolts with powdered paint tied to cloth balls for tips, but that was still a painful strike if it got you between the armor.
But that wasn’t the scary part, oh no; she didn’t see any of the students running despite the intensity of their advance. The really horrific moment came next.
“Charge!”
Both Niers’ and Venaz's forces had finally closed the gap. Venaz had left a lot of his Selphids behind, but the students were on their feet. They hadn’t been told to lie down even after being struck by bolts. And they clearly wanted a fight after being pelted with the painted crossbow bolts.
And both sides had real weapons. Steel glinted. The students charged with a ragged yell. The Selphids on both sides shouted. But Niers had the advantage in numbers now, students notwithstanding. The first rank of his Selphids charged into Venaz's soldiers.
And they began to hack them to pieces.
Umina winced. The first two to meet were a Selphid wearing a Gnoll’s body and a Selphid Lizardman holding a glaive. The glaive-wielding Selphid swung as the Selphid with the Gnoll’s body charged with a sword. The glaive cut through the Gnoll’s arm, and he screamed as blood spurted from the wound. He dropped, and the Selphid with the glaive hacked at his legs, drawing blood, chopping through flesh, bone—
The students wearing yellow helmets paused in horror. A Selphid charged forwards, and another ran him through the belly. He fell down, screaming and writhing, and another soldier hacked at his head. It took six strikes, and the soldier finally yanked the head up by the hair and screamed as he held it up. He hurled the head at the students.
“Oh, dead gods. They’re using that fake blood.”
Umina saw blood spurting from wounds as Selphids on both sides began to hack at each other. Both groups of soldiers clashed in earnest, trading actual blows; Umina saw metal hacking into flesh, exposing bone. The blows were deadly! The Selphids took aim at each other, screaming as if they were actually fighting.
Not the students; anyone with a yellow helmet the Selphids on both sides avoided. And indeed, some let themselves be run through with the weapons as they fought with students. Their chest plates protected the centers of each dead body where the Selphid inside would be resting, ensuring that a fatal blow to the Selphid was never struck. But that meant limbs, heads, and other parts of the body were free game. And both sides let each other have it.
The shrieking Selphid with an axe chopped another Selphid’s head off, and the defeated Selphid’s body collapsed, spurting some painted red water as the Selphid with the axe screamed happily. He whirled, and Umina saw a terrified new student from Terandria screaming and raising his shield as the Selphid hacked at it. One blow, two, three…the Selphid let the student run and chased him, screaming—
And laughing. It was a game for the Selphids. They weren’t being hurt. These were just their host bodies. But the students had forgotten that. And faced with actual gore—Umina could remember what she’d felt. She’d been in their shoes.
Look. There, a Selphid was dragging out the guts of another [Soldier], and another was hacking at a dead body as a group of students fled, screaming in terror…the students around Umina were laughing, but the laughter was tinged with a bit of memory. Umina pointed at a student who’d just frozen in place as Selphids from Niers’ army butchered Venaz's force around him.
“I think I peed myself when that happened to me. I had one Selphid on my side holding onto me, screaming in pain and waving a bloody stump of an arm around…”
“Hold your ground! Hold!”
One of the Selphids under Venaz's command was shouting desperately, trying to rally the students. Some were fighting; the ones with actual combat experience were dueling Selphids, who were taking care not to hurt their opponents. But the majority of the hundred were running for the hills. The city folk in the stands were in stitches, enjoying the spectacle. Mindful of what Niers had said, Umina looked around.
“It doesn’t actually matter if they hold their ground, right?”
Wil shook his head. Embarrassed, he rubbed at his neck.
“I ran when it happened. All of us did; we got routed when the Professor sent some of his [Riders] to hack up our group. I think it’s only if you ask to go home. But I imagine a lot will after this.”
Umina stared at a student hiding behind a dead body as the [Soldiers] from Niers’ side pursued the rest, still screaming their lungs out. She wanted to imagine all the brown on the new students was mud.
“I don’t doubt that. Dead gods, I forgot how much the Selphids screamed.”
Yerranola sighed as she watched her kin pursuing the routing students and Selphids from Venaz's force.
“It’s to make it as real as possible. Besides, they’re having so much fun. It must be great, working this kind of job. I’m so jealous.”
“Really, Yerranola?”
The others looked at her. The Selphid [Strategist] nodded wistfully.
“Free bodies if you get yours destroyed, you can Rampage when you’re doing a training exercise and not worry about busting up all the muscles in your host, and you get respect, pay, and the chance to beat spoiled students over the head? It’s any Selphid’s dream come true.”
“Well, they’re all due for a new body thanks to Venaz's tactics. The Professor really must have shook him; he got his infantry butchered without so much as using a Skill.”
Marian nodded. She snatched the spectacles and peered around.
“Where’s that idiot got to? He’s, oh, hold on! Look at that!”
She pointed. Suddenly, Umina saw a group moving forwards, despite the routing infantry. It was Venaz and his command unit of thirty. He’d advanced around the main body of his infantry, using them as a shield! Now his remaining [Riders] streamed towards Niers’ infantry, cutting them off as they tried to turn and block them. But Venaz and his thirty-some soldiers were charging. Straight at Niers’ command unit!
“It was all a decoy? Look, he’s going for the Professor! Will the crossbows get him?”
They hadn’t noticed Venaz's group in the chaos of the students fleeing. Umina saw a command go out and the archers turn. But it was too late.
“Look, they’re firing—but now it’s too close!”
Venaz was leading his command straight at Niers as the crossbow bolts fell around him. Eight or so of his thirty soldiers went down from the sudden volley, but the rest made it. And now it was a melee between both sides, and if the crossbows shot, they’d risk hitting their own side!
“Dead gods! It’s ten versus thirty! And the Professor can’t fight!”
Alarmed, Marian stared through the spectacles. The laughter in the stands had ceased. Umina got to her feet.
“Wait, what if he falls. If they trample him—”
“He’s got magical artifacts, right?”
The others clustered around Marian, trying to squint and see the distant commotion that was the last fight on the battlefield. Marian shook her head urgently.
“He does, I’m sure. But does this mean…Venaz won?”
The others stared at each other. Niers had lost training exercises before, but it was rarer than a blue moon when it actually happened. Had Venaz's last-ditch gamble worked? Umina couldn’t believe it. This was such a simple exercise! Both sides hadn’t employed any Skills or real tactics; it was just to teach the new students a lesson. But had Venaz really…?
Then she heard a voice roaring across the battlefield. Amplified, loud as anything—
“Volley!”
The crossbows on Niers’ side rose. Umina’s eyes widened. They took aim.
“They’re shooting at the Professor’s command?”
