Jekilt looked annoyed by the group. Umina got why; they were new applicants to the Titans’ school. They’d paid to come here and receive lessons, but most probably had only a few levels in the [Strategist] class. They might aspire to be [Lieutenants], [Generals], [Strategists], or what have you, but they’d come here green as grass, and that meant they’d be wandering around, asking stupid questions, and most importantly, getting in the way. But Umina was sympathetic.
“We’ve all been there, Jekilt. Except you, I guess; you were a [Captain] when you got here. But they’ll learn soon enough.”
The Centaur snorted.
“That’s not what bothers me. It’s the arrogance. Especially from the young stallions, Humans, and those Drakes.”
“Hey.”
Kissilt, one of the Drakes in the class, protested mildly. Jekilt looked at him.
“You disagree? Your lot strides in and thinks that you know everything. I’m not saying Drakes are the worst; Centaurs are just as bad. But those Humans…”
“True.”
The Drake looked mollified. Wil, one of two Humans in the group, blushed a bit as the others looked at him.
“I can’t defend that. But it’s not fair to say all Humans, Jekilt. It’s Terandrian nobility I’m afraid you’re thinking of. That includes me.”
“But we like you.”
Yerranola threw an arm around Wil’s shoulders. He shuddered because the Selphid’s hug was literally like being hugged by a corpse.
“Thanks, Yerra. But I’ll admit a lot of the Terandrian aristocracy doesn’t handle Baleros well. Especially, uh, dealing with non-Humans.”
“You Humans.”
Jekilt snorted again and pawed the ground, but Marian cut in.
“How many are from Terandria, Wil? I can’t tell.”
She cast an eye at the Humans waiting about in the sun. There were a lot of young people, some as young as…sixteen? The bulk were younger than thirty, and there were only a few as old as Jekilt, career soldiers perhaps who had the money to pay for lessons. Most of the Humans were young, in their early twenties or late teens.
Umina tried to guess how many were Terandrian as well, but aside from the quality of clothes, it was an enigma to her too. Wil was more experienced and ran a quick eye across the group before shrugging.
“Looks like your usual lot. I see at least a dozen applicants from Terandria. There might even be a member of a royal family.”
“Really? Where?”
The students stared at the young man Wil pointed out. Umina caught a sharp nose, a quickly turning head…the Human in question was shorter and slimmer of stature, more like a Lizardfolk. Wil grimaced.
“That might be the son of Taligrit’s royal family. Third [Prince]. I don’t know.”
“Your people pop out so many heirs…”
“Well, it’s an advantage, isn’t it?”
“Only if they level. How much better is a [Prince] than a [Lord] at Level 10?”
“Why are we waiting about? Where’s the Professor?”
“Bet he’s going for a showy entrance. And why did he want us to come down here?”
“It’s the usual, the usual, remember?”
“Oh.”
Umina’s eyes widened with some of the others. So that was—then she heard a blare of trumpets. Her head turned with all of her class and the new students. And that was when she saw him.
Or rather, she saw the [Servant] carrying him. It was a Selphid who bore a large platform, really an elevated table with a small top, nearly six feet high. And Umina was too far away to see, but standing on top of that table was a figure. The new students stared at the table, and then as it grew closer, they blinked as they saw it had an occupant.
Yes, here he was. The Titan of Baleros. At first the students stared. Then, some of them, especially the ones not native to Baleros, began to snigger. The older new students, especially those who looked like actual soldiers, didn’t laugh. The others clearly thought this was a joke.
The Titan of Baleros! That was who they had come to see. It was for him they’d sailed, sometimes across the world, to learn from! And what was this? A Fraerling? One of the tiny folk? But he was called the Titan of Baleros. And it was him standing on that platform.
What all the stories usually forgot to mention was that the Titan of Baleros was a Fraerling. The smallest people in the world; only half a foot tall. He looked like a Human, except shrunk down; standing and addressing this new class, he was barely visible from a distance. Niers Astoragon even had to use a voice-amplifying artifact for his words to be heard by those in the back.
“Good morning!”
The students stopped laughing. Some looked up. Niers Astoragon, second-in-command of the Forgotten Wing company, the Titan of Baleros, and the Professor as he was known by his students, waved a hand.
“Silence, please. Yes, I apologize for the delay. However, we’re ready to begin. If you’ve just arrived, let me introduce myself. I am Niers Astoragon. The Titan of Baleros as some know me. You will know me as your teacher for however long you’re enrolled in my school.”
There were some chuckles from the audience, but the rest had caught on, and some were staring. They were realizing that, no, this wasn’t a joke. This little fellow…was the Titan? Really? Umina watched their expressions. Niers went on.
“I realize some of you are tired from your travel. We have students from other continents. However, as is customary, you will all receive your first lesson here. You have all come to learn from my school. To become [Strategists], or simply achieve an officer’s class. I intend to start you on that process now. With a brief combat exercise. You’ve been issued helmets and weapons, haven’t you?”
Umina saw the students had yellow helmets; some had placed them on the muddy ground, which was a mistake. And they were wearing armor and holding weapons…some raised them now. The Fraerling might have nodded, but few people saw.
“Excellent! In that case, we’ll begin. You may know that my school has a reputation for mock combat exercises. You will all take part in them as you study here and even experience this fake combat yourselves. I intend to provide you with a little sample of said combat, although I myself will not participate directly. As you can see, helmets do little for me.”
There was a laugh from some of his audience. The Titan didn’t seem to mind. He cheerfully stood on his platform, and Umina felt a prickle on her scales. He was being too nice—when he’d done this to her group, two years ago—
“Some of you are soldiers, and some have even experienced battle a number of times. The rest of you come from places that might not have ever seen war. That changes today. You have all come here, some at great expense, I know. But if you cannot handle today’s first lesson, you will be sent back!”
The students stiffened. That was a departure from what they’d expected. But Niers’ voice cheerfully shouted on.
“I have only a few demands of you. But this lesson is one of them. You’ve heard it said that I can take anyone, anyone, and turn them into a [Strategist]? I can. But only if they have the will and drive to do it. If you lack that basis—there’s nothing I can do. If you can, my promise stands.”
He paused, and all the eyes fixed on him. Niers Astoragon spoke slowly.
“Five levels. If you are under Level 30, by the end of your training here, you will gain five levels. In a single year. That’s for the basic course where we hammer you into functional officers. If you stay for two years, four, or even six, you will emerge even better. That’s my promise. And I stand by it.”
The restless students standing in the muggy heat and sun went still. Five levels. In a year? Maybe if it was from Level 1 to Level 6, that would be a safe bet. But Level 20 to Level 25? But it was a common claim and one of the reasons why Niers’ school was so popular. The Titan’s voice floated through the air, calm and serious.
“I have raised [Strategists] out of [Farmhands]. I have made [Generals] out of people without even a level in [Soldier]. If you have the will, I will teach you. Make no mistake, it won’t be easy. But you can achieve any class you wish if you strive for it. Take a look to your left. You see that group there? That is my most senior class.”
The group of a hundred or so new students looked over at Wil, Umina, Marian, and the others who were waiting in the shade. Umina waved, as did Yerranola and some of the others; the rest just waited patiently. They’d heard this speech before. They’d stood through it. Niers pointed at them, a tiny shape standing on his dais.
“Regardless of how they entered, no one in my advanced class will exit below Level 30. If you have the aptitude, the talent, or just the drive, you may be inducted into their ranks, regardless of tuition. The coming months will determine if there are any of you who make that cut. But today we find out if any of you are going to stay. Venaz!”
He roared, and the new students jumped. The Fraerling turned towards Venaz. The Minotaur hadn’t moved.
“Professor?”
Niers pointed at him.
“Today’s lesson is one for the new students to see what battle is like. They should understand what the [Soldiers] experience when they are led into combat. Thus, I am giving you command of an army. The students will be part of your infantry; my soldiers will not be allowed to harm them! You will also receive training troops in excess of mine. Try to keep your side alive and defeat my army, will you?”
“As you wish, Professor!”
The Minotaur grinned hugely and strode forwards. Marian groaned, and Umina felt a prickle of disappointment. She wished she had been chosen. The new students stared as Venaz strode forwards. Then they looked around. They were going to be part of an army? And take part themselves? Umina saw the worry on the would-be [Prince]’s face until a young man next to him nudged him and said something reassuring. She saw the [Prince] nod, looking relieved. She could imagine what was being said.
The Titan—if he was the Titan—had said that they’d be fighting? But they weren’t allowed to be hurt. So what was the risk? They’d see combat, alright. Maybe show off some of their sword Skills! Most of the students seemed excited by the idea, as if they’d forgotten they were here to be [Strategists], not [Warriors]. Umina shook her head.
“Oh, you sweet, poor hatchlings.”
Yerranola nodded cheerfully.
“They’re dead. Let’s find somewhere to sit and watch. Anyone have something to drink? Oh, look! Here come the training soldiers! Wow, the Professor’s called out a lot of them!”
She pointed. Figures were marching onto the training grounds, holding weapons and wearing no armor save for a metal breastplate that covered only their chests. Umina recognized them at once.
Selphids. Umina watched with interest as some of the Terandrian and a few of the Izril and Chandrarian students recoiled from them. The pale-skinned warriors moved with as much grace as their living counterparts, but their bodies were dead. Some bore the fatal wounds they’d taken; the others were unmarked. But this was the army that formed up on either side of the field. Venaz eyed his command and shouted; he was far away from the watching students and Niers, but he had a field roar that made the students in front of him wince.
“Aren’t you underestimating me, Professor?”
“Not at all! Do your best, Venaz!”
Niers’ voice cheerfully came back. Umina saw a group of Selphids surround him, carrying halberds and spears. It was a familiar situation. Like Niers had said, they were engaging in a war game. With live soldiers.
Well, sort of.
The thing about [Strategists] was that you couldn’t teach experience. Playing games with boards and figures was fun and you could level, but Niers Astoragon promised to train experienced [Strategists] who actually knew how to lead. Which meant that he made his students command actual armies in battle. But what if there was no handy war to be had? Well, then he had his training squads.
Over a thousand [Soldiers], [Mercenaries], and even Bronze-rank adventurers found employment at the Titan’s school. It was cheap pay, and you might get bruised, but you could level up. Because you’d be issued with blunted weapons, and you’d fight in formation, obeying a [Strategist] or officer’s commands, but actually fighting your opponents. Bones would be broken as two sides fought in various terrain, flanking each other, demonstrating different tactics—people got hurt.
And if one side lost badly, there could be serious injuries. Usually it wasn’t bad, thanks to the practice weapons, but the Titan had let it be known that anyone who was hurt by accident would be healed with a healing potion or compensated for an unhealable injury. And despite the risk, there was no shortage of volunteers for his war games. It was better than getting hurt in actual combat.
Still, there were those more suited for fights than others. And Selphids were the perfect species for mock battles. After all, their bodies were dead. They lined up, cheerfully shouting greetings at the Professor or Venaz, taking their ease as they formed into distinct units to be commanded. Umina saw Niers directing his army as Venaz surveyed the units he’d been given.
The advanced students retreated to some stands that had been built to let people view the battlefield from a height. There were some regular citizens in the crowd; to the city folk, watching the Titan’s war-games was excellent, free entertainment. Niers’ students settled into a spot high up by themselves as they talked. Yerranola shaded her eyes as she stared down at the battlefield.
“I see what you mean, Jekilt. Those Humans and Drakes are giving my people a lot of dirty looks. Looks like none of them have ever seen a Selphid before.”
“To be fair, there are more Selphids on the field than I’ve seen in my entire life before now.”
Cameral commented placidly. Wil nodded. He was peering at the battlefield with a pair of enchanted spectacles. Umina nudged him, and he offered her them to look.
“Aside from the Eyes of Baleros, the Forgotten Wing company employs way more Selphids than any other major company. Especially because they’re so useful in training exercises.”
Marian snorted softly.
“Well, they’re going to be more use than those new students. They can take orders. Look at Venaz. See how angry he’s already getting trying to make them form up?”
She pointed. The Minotaur was indeed bellowing orders, and the Selphids were smoothly moving into place, but the students were a disorganized rabble. Jekilt shook his head.
“They might be a disadvantage unless Venaz gives them a simple order. At least they’ll slow the Professor’s troops down.”
“Hah. Do you think Venaz would give any other order?”
The others chuckled. Jekilt grinned.
