“You know what it’s like in Lizardfolk cities. We like each other, but we’re not organized like Centaurs. Some of my family’s friends helped pay for me to get here, and sometimes I get donations, but it’s random. My people mean well, and they’re really proud of me being the only Lizardfolk in the Professor’s current class, but I’m just one of many, you know? How many Lizardfolk [Strategists] do you think the Titan’s taught?”
“You’re special. And if you don’t have a lot of money…what if we teamed up?”
Umina perked up, then felt a prickle of conscience.
“So we can fight at the end, Marian? You know how it works.”
“Well…maybe no one’s ever won as a pair before. But I’ll tell you; I’m not certain I did all I could to prepare. I have a few tricks, but if we worked together, my money and your brain—”
“You think I’ve got any fancy ideas? I only got to ‘buy an invisibility potion and hide in a corner’. Only, I can’t afford that. I don’t know what this year’s criteria for winning is, Marian.”
“Well, don’t give up just yet. Come on. There’s a reason why I wanted you to drink with the others. I’m paying, so try not to look so down.”
They’d come to an inn. The Stalker’s Pub, named after Three-Color Stalker, the rarely-spotted leader of the Forgotten Wing company. It was a regular haunt of Marian, Umina, and the other students, and the Lizardgirl saw there was already a crowd at their usual table in the corner. She slipped off of Marian’s back as she saw Yerranola, Venaz, Cameral, and Wil already sitting. They were drinking and trying to console Wil, who looked about as miserable as Umina.
“Marian.”
“Venaz.”
The Centaur and Minotaur greeted each other shortly. Venaz looked at Umina and waved her forwards as he dragged a seat from an adjacent table with one hand.
“Come on and sit down. One of you help console Wil. I’m sick of hearing him moan already.”
Marian looked over at Wil as she kicked at the Minotaur’s shins with one hoof.
“You’re heartless, Venaz. Wil, what’s wrong? Still upset about the adventurer teams? The Professor said it wasn’t your fault. Excuse me! One ale and some mulled wine!”
The young Terandrian noble was hunched over his drink. He did look morose. Umina accepted a tankard of ale as Marian sipped her wine. Wil shook his head.
“It’s not about today’s lesson. Well, partly. I wish that Gold-rank team hadn’t gotten killed. But it’s more to do with the Professor’s game. I want to win.”
“You and me both, pal.”
Yerra slapped Wil on the shoulder as she drained her mug. If Umina and Marian were a pair, Yerranola and Wil often sat together, although Umina wasn’t sure if the Selphid was just forcing her company on Wil. He didn’t seem to mind, and Cameral was often a seatmate of the two. The Dullahan had removed his head and was offering his head a finger-sized bowl to sip from. His head spoke as his body got up and left the table, possibly to pee.
“Everyone wants to win. But what’s troubling you, Wil? Umina, you look similarly dispirited. Unless I’m prying?”
His eyes shifted towards the Lizardgirl and then away, wary of intruding. Umina smiled.
“No, not much, Cameral. I’m just down about the competition too. I don’t see myself winning.”
“I do.”
“Shut up, Venaz.”
Marian glared at him. Wil shook his head, still looking troubled.
“I’m trying to win, Cameral. I realize that’s a bold claim especially with—”
He indicated his peers, who were some of the best in the Titan’s class.
“—as well as the other students competing. But I think I have a chance. And I’ve made…extensive preparations. It’s just—have any of you actually had a command, before? Outside of the Professor’s lessons? I know you have, Yerra.”
The Selphid nodded.
“Definitely. The Professor made me lead one of his wings on campaign one time. That was terrifying, right, Marian?”
“Yup. We did it, but we had a bunch of officers standing by. So it’s not the same.”
The Centaur sipped from her glass. Wil nodded.
“I’ve done that too. Only, the Professor’s always there, so I know that if I really make a mistake, he might catch me. I mean, no one’s there to stop you, and if you make a mistake, people die. Or you create a huge incident. Have you ever been in that position?”
All of the others, excepting Venaz, shook their heads. The Minotaur grunted.
“Of course.”
His friends gave him skeptical looks. Venaz glared.
“Do you think my people would have sent me here without practical experience? I’ve led more than one mission where people could have died or did die. It’s not fun.”
“Did you ever make a bad mistake?”
Wil looked at Venaz. The Minotaur hesitated.
“Once. I haven’t forgotten it.”
“How do you know if you’re right?”
Umina watched as the powerful drink Venaz was imbibing noticeably lowered in his tankard. Venaz wiped his mouth.
“I thought I was right. Why? Are you hesitating over some decision?”
The young man from Terandria nodded quietly. He traced on the well-worn table.
“I’ve made the calculations. And I’m sure my reasoning is right. But if I’m wrong? It’s such a big leap. And if it pays off? I could be set up. But if I’m wrong…I’ll embarrass myself and cause—”
He grimaced and took a long drink. No one pressed him for details. Venaz sat back in his chair, eying Wil. Yerra sipped from her mug.
“It’s not the end of the world if we screw up, Wil. Granted, I don’t know what your plan is, but the worst we can do is look like idiots. I’m fine with that.”
She glanced around with a quick smile. Wil drained his mug and waved for another.
“If only it were me, Yerra. Then I’d be fine. But this involves my family. You know I’m from the high nobility in Terandria?”
The others nodded. Marian shot Umina a quick glance; the Lizardgirl just kept drinking, listening. Wil sounded awful, which somehow made her feel better. He went on as he received and drank his new round.
“I’m a second son. Not as important as my older brother, but a lot of hopes are on me. My family paid a fortune for me to be here. I realize I’m not as gifted as…”
He looked sideways at Umina, and the Lizardgirl blushed. She opened her mouth, but Wil shook his head.
“I know I earned my place in the Professor’s class. But I still had to pay part of my way in. I worked hard to stay, but my family’s invested a lot in me. I can’t let them down. And if I embarrass them with everyone watching? What then?”
The others nodded. Marian patted Wil on the back.
“I know what you mean. My clan’s going to be watching the games too.”
“And my family. You are not alone, Wil. The thought of embarrassing myself—I’d rather strip off my armor and walk around naked for a day.”
Cameral gravely announced to the table as his body came back, wiping its hands with a handkerchief. Everyone looked at him. Coming from Cameral, that meant a lot. Yerra grinned uncertainly.
“I don’t know about all that. But we all want to win. No hard feelings if we lose, right?”
She nudged Wil. The young man stared into his mug. He had three sitting next to him. And it hadn’t been long since they’d started drinking! He shook his head again. Umina felt it was her chance to chime in.
“Wil.”
He looked at her. Umina hesitated, then tossed him her coin pouch.
“That’s what I’ve got.”
He blinked into the pouch. Venaz leaned over.
“Hmf. Well, that’s a relief for me.”
“You jerk.”
“Ooh, that’s tough. You mean that’s all you have to spend?”
“She means that’s all she has, period, Yerra.”
The others fell silent. Umina spoke before anyone could grow embarrassed.
“It’s not your fault. I’m just not rich. So if I go into this competition or spend my money, I’m taking a huge risk. I might not be able to eat, or pay rent—I might have to borrow from Marian or someone else. That’s my problem. If you’re afraid of embarrassing your family…you had a chance. Whether you use it is up to you. That’s what the Professor would say, I think.”
The others fell silent. Wil silently handed Umina her pouch back. Yerra smiled.
“Spoken like the Titan himself, Umina.”
Wil nodded. He got up. The [Lord] straightened his clothes, then looked at the others, a touch unsteadily, but with a hint of steel in his gaze. The same steel he’d shown when he beat Umina or the others on the training fields.
“I’m sorry for complaining. You’re right, Umina. I’m going to do it. There’s no turning back. I wish you all the best of luck. But I intend to win.”
He walked away from the table, then came back to put a few coins down. The others watched him go in silence. Umina wondered what Wil had planned; whatever it was, she was sure it was big. Venaz broke the silence by snorting and finishing his drink.
“Insecure. One wonders how he manages to pick his clothes in the morning.”
The others let out a huge sigh. Umina wondered if that was Venaz's way of being encouraging. Regardless, Marian still slapped his shoulder hard. He didn’t even budge.
“Didn’t he outmaneuver you in our sea training exercise, Venaz? And he’s brilliant, and I mean brilliant, at logistics. Maybe he knows something we don’t. Plus, you’re forgetting something.”
“What’s that?”
“You’re an ass. Do you know how hard it is to have you in class? You don’t respect anyone but the Professor.”
The Minotaur laughed softly into his mug. He raised two fingers, and a Dullahan trotted over with two more drinks. The Minotaur drained half of one in a breath, a feat that made Cameral blink, and then looked up. He surveyed his fellow students with the lofty, arrogant gaze, and then nodded slowly.
“I respect most of you. It’s just that I have to be better than all of you. That’s why I came here. To prove that. If I’m inferior—well, it won’t happen. Which is why I must win the Professor’s game of hide-and-seek the day after tomorrow. I’d rather it were a combat exercise. Either way, I have a question I want to ask him. And so I’ll win. Simple as that. I’m not underestimating Wil; it’s just that I’ll overcome him.”
“And you pull that confidence out of…?”
Yerra raised both brows. Venaz replied steadily.
“My very soul. If I could not, I would not be here.”
He finished his mug and reached for the second. The others stared at him. Umina sipped her drink. She wished she had Venaz's fire. Or his coin; he was drinking Firebreath Whiskey, a Drake favorite. That was expensive, and he was downing it in mugs. Yerra eventually stood up.
“I’m taking the Professor’s games seriously. And after this, I think I need to make a few more plans. You all should too. I knew this would be a big event, but after hearing Wil, I think it might be a lot more important than we thought.”
She got up. The Selphid tossed a few coins on the table and walked out the door. Venaz looked over at Marian and Umina.
“What about you two? Are your preparations in place? I don’t feel the need to change mine.”
Cameral sighed as he fed his head some nuts with a spoon.
“Money is a factor. I can’t afford to spend too much on this game, even if it’s important. I have spent some money, but I’m not confident I can win like Wil or you, Venaz. Thus, I am hedging my bets.”
“You too?”
All four remaining students turned. A Gnoll was standing next to them, mug in hand. Feshi gestured at the table, and Umina edged her seat back to let her slide in.
“Feshi? How long have you been listening?”
The Gnoll grinned.
“Not long. But I saw you sitting here and wanted to join in. Are you talking about the competition in Daquin?”
Marian let the Gnoll sit next to her in Yerranola’s seat.
“What else would we be talking about? How committed are you, Feshi?”
Feshi shrugged, her ears flicking cautiously.
“I wouldn’t waste my tribe’s coin overly much either, yes? But I have made some preparations. But are we sharing plans? Because I think that would be unwise. We are competing against each other, of course.”
Venaz harrumphed. He was displeased at Feshi’s entrance; the Minotaur didn’t get along with Feshi. He didn’t get along with Marian, of course, but theirs was a rivalry, whereas Feshi and Venaz clearly just didn’t like each other. He eyed the Gnoll over his drink.
“I’ll win, of course. I’ve been making plans. I’m warning you, if you get in my way, I’ll have to deal with you. I intend to ask the Professor a question after the games. As well as prove my abilities to the world.”
The Gnoll bared her teeth in reply.
“Minotaur might? One bag of Tripvines and you’ll be caught. This is a game about intelligence, Venaz. Cunning. Or did you forget this morning already?”
Venaz scowled. His brow darkened, but before he could answer, someone else called out. A group of students at another table, most older than Umina, turned around. There were two Humans, a pair of female Dullahans, and a male half-Elf sitting at their table. They were from one of the senior classes, but not part of Niers’ special group. The half-Elf looked at Umina’s table.
“So you’re all planning to win the competition at Daquin too. Tell us, does the Titan’s special class get a heads up about what the game’s going to entail this time?”
“All we know is what you know. The Professor doesn’t give us any favors. He wants a fair game.”
Marian calmly shot back. The half-Elf glared.
“Well, I’m glad about that. We’re intending to take first place too, you know. Don’t forget about us while you snipe at each other.”
He and his table turned their backs. Umina stared at the half-Elf. Venaz looked amused.
“Was that a challenge?”
Feshi grinned. She eyed the other students and spoke loudly and casually.
“They’re going to try and foul us up. Not that subtle, yes? I suppose the other classes are working in concert against ours.”
The backs of the other students stiffened slightly. Venaz just waved a hand.
“Rabble multiplied is still rabble.”
For a second, Umina thought the Dullahans would turn around and throw their drinks at him. But they just got up and left. Marian exhaled slowly.
“Venaz, you have a talent for picking fights.”
He shrugged, unmoved.
“They clearly wanted to provoke us. I simply baited their trap. Knocking a few candidates out of the race wouldn’t bother me unduly.”
“Should I check my bedding for poison, then?”
Umina joked lamely. Venaz glanced down at her.
“Not from me. But this is a competition. And I regard the stakes as significant. Don’t you?”
The others fell silent. After a moment, Feshi cleared her throat.
