His students nodded to varying degrees of excitement. That was certainly true. In the past, this might have been just a game Niers played for his own enjoyment and his students’ benefit in outwitting each other. But as was the nature of all kinds of spectacle, word had spread, and now his semi-regular competition had an audience that would come from all over Baleros to watch.
And it mattered. It always did. Umina saw several students including Venaz look around warily at the Titan’s words. Because, of course, they were all already being watched.
It was a fact. Umina, Marian, Venaz…they were all the Titan’s best students. When they graduated, they would be the best crop of [Strategists] of their age in the entire continent. Perhaps one of them might be as brilliant as Perorn Fleethoof, or perhaps even as gifted as the Titan of Baleros himself.
Other nations and companies kept an eye on Niers’ class; some had even approached Umina, covertly or publicly, to test her out, see if she might make a good hire. And if there were eyes on Umina already, well, during the games, there would be even more. Umina had seen visitors watching her as she conducted those war games against her fellow students, evaluating her.
This would be another chance to stand out. If she somehow performed really splendidly, she might even get an offer to serve as a [Strategist] in another company or for a nation after she graduated. Some students had even quit the academy during school because they’d impressed a visiting [King] or ruler so much!
“A chance to win prestige in the eyes of the world. A rousing competition for me to enjoy. Sea and surf at Daquin; they do some very fine prawns too. What’s not to like?”
The Titan looked around at his students. They smiled back, but with an edge. It was all fun for him, but they were [Strategists]. They wanted to win. And there was a reason, even more than the thrill of beating older [Strategists] and their classmates. There was a rumor about winning this particular game. Umina had heard some of the older students whispering about it in the past.
There was always a way to beat your pursuers outside of outwaiting the seekers. Sometimes it was to solve a puzzle, or travel a certain distance. One time it had been to subdue a Wyvern the Titan had let loose, and hadn’t that been a bloody year? But the risk was always worth the reward, and it was always the same.
The reward was that you got to go to the Professor’s private rooms, you entered, and apparently, you could ask him anything you wanted. Any question in the world and the Fraerling would answer it if he could, be it personal or huge, earth-shattering.
Any question. The students looked at each other, wondering if it was true. And because they wondered and because Venaz was…Venaz, he raised his hand.
“Professor, sir! I have a question.”
“Go on.”
The Titan looked at the Minotaur with a sparkle in his eye. Venaz got to his hooves, and hesitated, which was uncharacteristic even of him.
“Professor, I’ve heard that this…contest of yours has a reward. I’d like to know if that’s true or not. Otherwise, what’s the purpose of victory?”
The Minotaur met the Fraerling’s eyes. Umina held her breath along with the other students. Niers looked up at the ceiling.
“Hm. A reward? I wonder. I do know there are rumors—I wonder how they started? Which prize would you be referring to, exactly, Venaz?”
“Professor…”
The Titan’s eyes twinkled as the Minotaur growled at him. He stood upon his lectern for a moment, and Umina wondered if he’d refuse to answer. Then he smiled.
“The answer, Venaz, is yes. Any question in the world. If I know it, I’ll answer it. So choose your question wisely. If you win—you only get one.”
The silence in the room was complete. Umina felt her heart skip a beat. So it was true. Then she saw the Titan grinning with delight. His students exhaled slowly. Venaz looked around.
“Any question? But what if—”
“Ah.”
Niers raised a finger. The Minotaur shut up. Niers Astoragon looked stern.
“Venaz, obviously there are some questions that are tantamount to giving away the secrets of my company. Obviously some questions are dangerous.”
His student nodded, a tad disappointed. Niers smiled.
“I’ll answer them. Any question in the world. As dangerous as it may be to know. I’ve done it before. And some of my students have died because they asked a question and got my answer. Not from me, personally. But I know a lot. Any question. Any question. My level, the location of buried treasure. The name of your greatest enemy. Their weakness. What Foliana had for breakfast. Anything.”
His students stared. And then they whispered. Marian looked at Umina, vibrating with anticipation.
“What could you ask…?”
She cut herself off. Niers raised a hand.
“If you win. If you’re the one who finishes first. Don’t get excited; there’s only one winner. And you’re hardly the only competition. Two years running, the victor hasn’t come from my advanced class. Remember that.”
His students calmed down. Then they appraised each other again. There could only be one. Niers Astoragon smiled.
“Well, as I said, we’re leaving tomorrow. Pack your things. Make your plans if you haven’t already. Remember the rules. Try to win. Class dismissed!”
He leapt from his podium and strode up the platforms leading towards the Fraer-ways. Before anyone could stop him—and a few of his students shouted questions—the Titan was gone. And that left Umina excited, nervous, and very scared. She glanced at her fellow students, then hurried out of the room, grabbing her notes and things.
Let the games begin.
 
——
 
“I’m going to lose.”
Twenty minutes later, Umina sat in her small room in the apartment she’d rented only five minutes’ walk from the citadel. She buried her head in her claws. She’d known it already. And she’d tried not to get excited by the game because of it, but now she wanted to win. And she knew she was going to lose.
It wasn’t that Umina didn’t have the drive. Or the levels. She was a Level 27 [Strategist], a genius for her age. At nineteen years old, Umina was one of the youngest students in Niers’ advanced class, a prodigy among her species. She had a dozen Skills she could call on, and she placed with the best when it came to his field exercises or debates in class. She could and had beaten every one of her classmates in the practice war games; she was especially good at taking down Venaz, who, despite his brash attitude and nature, was still one of the best students when commanding the training soldiers in practice.
However…Umina’s face fell as she checked her purse of coins. She had all her worldly wealth sitting on the table in front of her, illuminated by a [Light] spell she’d cast. The Lizardgirl counted unhappily.
“One, two, three…”
The coins came out of her purse, as if by counting them Umina could double or triple their number. But no matter how many times she counted them, she barely had more than twenty coins.
Silver. Not gold. And she had two gold coins, but that was rent and food for this month. If Umina spent them, she’d be destitute until her family sent her more money. And while she could probably survive by borrowing from her friends, at least Marian…what was three gold coins’ worth of money going to buy her?
“Maybe some rope. A few blankets? I could get…a potion or two…nothing! Not even enough to avoid a [Scrying] spell!”
The Lizardgirl hunched over her desk, scattering the coins miserably. Then she hurried to pick them up in case one rolled between the cracks in her floorboards. She sat at her table, her tail curling and uncurling.
“I want to win. I want to win. But unless there’s a puzzle, I won’t have half of what the others do! If it’s Wil—even his clothes are enchanted! And Marian has her bow. Even if she can’t shoot arrows at people, she can still pay for…everything! Venaz probably made plans. I know Yerra’s been plotting how to win. And I can’t do anything.”
She was poor. That was just how it was. Umina wanted to cry, but she knew that would be stupid. The fact that she had gold to spend and she was Niers’ student was amazing. And she wasn’t poor. Not really. It was just that compared to the others in her class, she was. Most of them could drop ten gold coins on something without blinking twice. Umina couldn’t drop ten silver coins without doing a double-take.
“Umina? Hey, Umina!”
Someone was calling from outside. Umina looked up. Her room was very small, even by Lizardfolk standards. She hesitated.
“Marian? I’m busy—”
She tried to put away her coins. But her Centaur friend was insistent.
“Umina, I’m coming in!”
“Hold on—”
Umina swiped her coins into her pouch and hid it on her belt. Marian trotted into the room.
“There you are. Come on. We’re going to have a drink together. The Professor’s setting off tomorrow, and you’re going with him, right? Let’s talk with the others before that. They’re at the Stalker’s Pub.”
“I’m not that thirsty.”
Umina mumbled. She knew her tail and frills were drooping. Marian eyed her.
“Well, come anyways.”
“I don’t want to.”
“I think you should.”
“Marian, I really—hey!”
The Centauress trotted forwards and picked Umina up. Before the small Lizardgirl could protest, the Centaur had tossed her on her back.
“Come on! Where’s your key?”
She trotted out of Umina’s apartment, pausing to let the Lizardgirl lock the door, and then trotted down the ramp that led to Umina’s apartment on the second floor.
The presence of Centaurs meant that many buildings in Baleros were designed to accommodate them, which meant the stairs were often ramps and buildings tended to be wider and shorter, the rooms very spacious to avoid claustrophobia. Umina knew Marian hated her small room and so she didn’t protest. Especially because she was on Marian’s back.
Centaurs were like horses. Half their body was humanoid, but their lower half was horse. Except that they hated being ridden by people they didn’t implicitly trust. Anyone who tried it on a dare might get their head kicked off their necks. The fact that Marian let Umina ride was a sign of true friendship. The Centauress trotted down the ramp and into the street.
“What’s gotten you so upset, Umina? You were buzzing in class when the Professor complimented you on your strategy. And he chewed me out for my strategy.”
She tossed her head. Umina ducked to avoid being slapped by Marian’s hair. She hesitated, and then muttered.
“I don’t think I’m going to do well, Marian.”
“What makes you say that?”
The Centauress looked over her shoulder as she walked down the street. A few Lizardpeople waved at Umina and she waved back, trying to smile. She knew that they could tell it was fake, but at least they were out of range before they could come over and ask what was wrong. She had Marian for that.
“It’s just…I know you made preparations for the games.”
Marian nearly missed a step. Her hooves clicked on the smooth paving stones.
“I have. Not as much as the others, maybe. Why?”
“I haven’t done a thing?”
“What? Really?”
The Centauress was astonished. Umina shook her head miserably.
“I can’t afford to.”
“But you did so well at his other assignments. Like the adventurers—”
“You know the Professor normally gives us a budget. I use his budget. I can’t pay for anything else. Especially not traps or potions or…anything.”
“But if it’s just a few potions or a little ring, surely—”
“Marian. You know I—you know what? Look.”
Umina grabbed her coin pouch. She’d never shown Marian it explicitly. Why would she? The Centauress had never needed to ask. Now Umina shoved the pouch in front of Marian and opened it.
“Well, that’s not so bad if you—”
“That’s all I have. If I use that, I don’t eat, Marian.”
“Oh.”
For a while, Marian’s hooves were the only source of sound from the two. The Centauress blinked at Umina, looking ahead now and then to make sure she didn’t run into anyone.
“That explains why you don’t always drink with us. Or buy much. Cameral thought you were just bad at handling alcohol. I thought that too.”
“You weigh three times what I do.”
“Only three?”
That made Umina smile a bit. Marian picked up her pace.
“I didn’t know you were that tight on coin, Umina. But you don’t fall behind any of us. If anything, everyone else thinks you’re serious competition.”
“No they don’t.”
A hand ungently flicked Umina across her forehead. The Lizardgirl recoiled. Marian frowned at her.
“Yes they do. You got into our class based on pure talent. That’s more than anyone else can say. Everyone else paid more to get into this class, including me. You were in the one year program, and the Professor let you join our class!”
“I guess I did. But you’re all still as good as me. You beat me last time we faced each other.”
“Because you fell off your horse. That doesn’t count. You trounced Venaz three times so far; no one else has done that. My best is two wins in a row.”
“Well, I’m glad you think I’ll do so well. But it doesn’t change the fact that I can’t pay for any preparations. Or artifacts. Someone casts a [Scrying] spell, and they’ll find me in a moment.”
Umina flopped over Marian’s back. The Centauress hesitated.
“It’s not all about—”
“Say it’s not all about money and I’ll pull your tail, Marian. I know how much you have.”
“…Sorry.”
The two trotted along. Umina could tell they were entering the entertainment district of the city, which was wide and prosperous; Niers’ students liked to use their free time, and they often had coin to spend. Most of them, at any rate. Marian frowned at a few students as they passed by.
“Wil’s rich. Or rather, his family is. So is Venaz, that bastard. I mean, they’re both really rich. Wil’s a [Lord]’s son, and I don’t know what Venaz is, but he can toss around gold like water. I guess I always thought I was poor compared to them, but—I suppose not. My family’s not that wealthy, Umina.”
Umina resisted the urge to tweak Marian’s tail. Friends or not, she’d probably get bucked off for that.
“How do you have so much gold, then?”
The Centaur’s gait faltered.
“I…got a lot of support from my clan. Everyone I knew contributed money to fund me. I need to repay them.”
Oh. Centaur pride. Umina could just imagine how that went. Marian would be the pride of her clan. They’d probably all pitched in. Her tail wagged unhappily.
“Makes sense. Yerra’s got a lot of money from her family too. Selphids supporting Selphids. I wish I had that.”
“That didn’t happen for you?”
Marian was surprised, but she needn’t have been. Umina sighed.
