“Hey. Did you do your homework today?”
“Of course. And it was a pain. What about you?”
“As if I’d turn up today without having done it.”
It was a curious phenomenon. An odd system. As immortal in its own way as mountains or geography. Somehow, despite magic and monsters and the passage of time, society still conspired to bring it about. And that strange thing was called school.
Worlds over, it was the same. As people progressed, as ideas became facts and theories and methods codified, institutions of learning would appear. Erin and Ryoka and those from her world knew of school as a part of life, but in other places, school wasn’t such a basic pillar of existence.
In Baleros, no, in the world, there were fewer places to learn. Oh, you could learn to swing a sword or hammer, or even pick up one of the more mentally challenging trades wherever you went. Apprenticeships were as common as dirt. But places where people sat in classrooms and learned from people whose sole job it was to teach? That was rare.
The Academy of Wistram. Belchan’s [Mage] Schools. The Draconae Scholarium of Fissival. To name but a few places. [Mages] had more colleges than any other class, perhaps owing to the complexity of magic. But there were other institutions that had been created that were just as notable.
For instance, the Walled City of Manus trained officers, leaders in the field. Terandrian kingdoms had training programs where [Squires] trained from a young age to become fully accredited [Knights]. Similarly, if you wanted to learn [Fencing], there were training schools there too. And if the life of an [Assassin] called to you, well, there were darker, private schools too. Places where children were trained in poison or forced to learn to become killers—or die in the process.
But all these places of learning, cruel or voluntary, prestigious or infamous, shared a commonality. They were schools, and there existed a relationship between teacher and student, class and pupils, that seldom existed anywhere else in the world.
Manus and Belchan taught magic and war, but some nations like Illivere taught everything, and that was rare. Where else could you wake up and know what your day was, if only in general? Where else was life systemized, learning turned into a process experienced en masse? Nowhere.
And still, some things were the same no matter where you went. Regardless of how hard it was to get into some schools, the great honor or privilege it was to have the money or talent to reach Wistram Academy or the libraries of Fissival, you’d meet students who showed up every day with their homework done, and those who clearly resented the effort. It was still a pain to be taught, for some, and they took little away despite the time spent.
Unless you liked what was being taught. Unless what was being taught mattered and your teacher was…a genius. One of the greatest authorities in the world. Then you showed up early, and you obviously did your homework. Because you had fought tooth and claw and nail to get here.
“Look. Here’s my homework.”
Marian yawned as she sleepily trotted towards the citadel from the city streets. She was holding a fang. It was huge, yellowed, jagged at the end, and as large as the Centauress’ arm. And around the base, despite the tooth having been cleaned, Umina could still see a bit of flesh. In short, it was a freshly acquired tooth, and the Lizardgirl hoped that whatever had owned the tooth was very dead. Or it would be quite, quite upset.
“Ooh. That’s nasty. What’s it from?”
“Guess.”
Marian smiled down at her companion. Umina was a Lizardgirl with pink-and-yellow scales, a pattern running from the violet frills around her neck to her long tail. Unlike Drakes, the Lizardfolk of Baleros were smaller, thinner, and possessed more vibrant scale patterns than Drakes, who were usually monochrome.
They had frills of skin around their necks, which could raise in moments of excitement, but were usually kept folded, a sign of their connection to their primitive relatives. And Lizardfolk were certainly unlike Drakes in that they were, by and large, much more friendly. They were laid back, cheerful, and enduringly social.
It was wrong to generalize, but Drakes were known to have inherited their ancestors’ greed, tempers, and snappishness as a whole. Whereas Lizardfolk like Umina were curious. The smaller Lizardgirl peered closely at the tooth as Marian held it lower.
The Centaur had to move slowly, and Umina had to hurry her steps for them to keep the same pace as they walked towards the citadel. The sun was still rising, and Umina yawned as she studied the ivory.
“It looks like…an Armorgator’s tooth? One of the giant alligators that lives in the water?”
“That’s right. I thought it was a crocodile, though. Aren’t they the same family?”
Umina shook her head. She blinked at the weight of the tooth as Marian handed it to her. The Lizardgirl whistled as she imagined the mouth that must have given up this tooth. If the tooth was the size of her elbow down to her claws…she imagined a twenty-foot-long beast lurking in one of the huge rivers of Baleros and shuddered.
“This is a boat killer alright. And it’s definitely an alligator, Marian. It could be a croc, but I can tell the difference. It doesn’t matter…crocodiles will eat you in both salt and freshwater.”
“Oh. I had no idea the two were even different species.”
“That’s because your people live on the plains. Far away from water. Trust me; the two species are different. Alligators and their kin aren’t nearly as aggressive as crocodiles. Although both are quite vicious, and if one got to be this big…I hope it’s dead.”
The Centaur smiled.
“It’s dead alright. I wouldn’t have dared bring this in unless it was. What, do you think I’d cheat?”
She tossed her head a bit, and her long hair flicked in the morning’s breeze. Much like a horse would toss their head. And the look Marian gave was slightly offended, even though she and Umina were fast friends. A Centaur’s pride, that. Umina shook her head instantly.
“Not at all. And I have my homework right here. Want to see?”
“Sure. What did you get?”
“This.”
The Lizardgirl fished in her belt pouch and offered up a handful of quills. Sharp, thin, and long. Umina could handle them with a bit of care due to the scales on her hands, but she cautioned Marian.
“Careful. They’re sharp.”
The Centaur took one look at them and snorted softly.
“Sorry, Umina. But are you serious? Those come from Scattershot Porcupines. Honestly…porcupines?”
“They’re a threat. And you know what the homework was.”
“I suppose. But…”
“Let’s just see what the Professor says.”
Umina refused to let Marian’s skepticism sway her. She put the quills back in her pouch as Marian took the tooth again. It was indeed an impressive trophy, but Umina wondered if the Centauress had understood the point of the Titan’s homework. What he wanted from you often differed from what he told you to do.
The Lizardgirl and Centaur trotted up the hill towards the palace. They were walking along the streets of the city that had been built beneath it. But the citadel was the thing. It was worthy of any [King], but it didn’t house royalty. Rather, it was the seat of power of one of the Four Great Companies of Baleros—the Forgotten Wing company. And it was also a school.
Soldiers were on duty at the open gates. But it was students, hundreds, who made up the foot traffic at this early hour. Some citizens too, but aside from the staff—and for a citadel of this size, there were a lot of employees—the streets mostly belonged to those who had come here to learn strategy from the world’s greatest expert on the subject.
Some of the city folk waved at Umina, especially the Lizardpeople; they were used to the sight of the students’ daily commute. And indeed, a lot of the business of the city was designed to cater to the students, from lodgings to inns to a very profitable business selling ink and paper. Umina and Marian waved back as they trotted into the academy.
Some of the other students noticed them, but aside from a few nods of acknowledgement, the pair was left alone. They were…different. And they headed to a different place than the other students. While a majority flowed towards some classrooms, or outside to the large training grounds reserved for students, Umina and Marian went up.
“I wonder how the others have done?”
Umina reached the third floor with Marian and headed straight for the end of the hall. The citadel was indeed a school, but it had reserved the lower floors for education. The higher floors were reserved for housing its inhabitants, war rooms, armories…and it was naturally off-limits to regular students. Go any higher and one of the guards would stop you. And the third floor was fairly empty too; only the advanced students ventured this high up. A room at the far end of the hall was Umina and Marian’s destination.
A small classroom with a lectern opened up for the Lizardgirl as she walked in, holding the door open for Marian. It was more of a lecture hall than a classroom, to be honest; a semi-circular set of raised seats, like slowly rising balconies, let the students look down on whoever was standing at the podium. The podium was absent of a teacher at the moment, and the students were clustered on the ground in front of the seats.
The best part of the Titan’s school for [Strategists] was that it was exactly not like school in all the right ways. Or at least, this class was. Umina looked around at the students gathered in the small classroom. There were just under fourteen of them. And like her and Marian, they had all shown up early. And they had all done their homework, or tried, at least. Some had clearly failed, but they had made their best effort.
That was because this school, the Titan’s school, wasn’t like other academies. It wasn’t Wistram, where the [Mage]-students were known to have outrageous parties, or other institutions like some of the Terandrian [Knight]-schools, which sometimes cropped up in the news with stories of disgraceful conduct by the would-be [Knights] as they turned from children into adults. No, this was a school that expected adults. You came here to learn, not to grow up. And if you didn’t apply yourself as hard as you could, you had better just leave.
That went double for this class. This group was infamous because it was the Titan’s private class. The one that followed him on campaign, that took daily lessons from him. Everyone who was here had either paid an outrageous sum or had won entry by being gifted beyond all the other students. Sometimes both. In the citadel with its population of eight hundred or so would-be [Strategists] at the moment, everyone in this class was recognizable on sight. Especially the ones who stood in the center of the room, talking quietly.
Venaz the Minotaur. Cameral, a Dullahan. Yerranola, the class’ only Selphid. And the Human from Terandria, Wil. Umina and Marian joined their group, along with Jekilt, a short Centaur with darker skin.
He was a [Commander] who’d enrolled in the school and was older than the other students by a decade. Even so, while he was with them, he was a [Strategist]. And he didn’t talk down to the six standing with him; they were equals, if not in age, then experience. Because this class was a competition, and all of the students, not just the seven, were competing to stand out.
“Morning, everyone. How was your homework?”
Marian yawned as she trotted forwards. It wasn’t a casual question either; it had been a week since she and Umina had seen the others. They had all been on the road for the last week. And their homework had been a rather impressive assignment. The others were bearing trophies like Marian’s tooth and Umina’s quills. Well, most of them.
“Naturally, I succeeded in my task.”
Venaz, the Minotaur, turned and snorted. He was holding a rather impressive pelt in his arms; it was huge and, as he unfurled it, Umina saw it was a huge bear’s hide. The Minotaur smiled smugly.
“Mossbear. My team eliminated it and two others. What of you, Marian?”
“Oh, I don’t know. All I have is this tooth.”
The Centauress smirked as she showed the giant Armorgator’s tooth. Umina smiled as Venaz’s triumphant look instantly turned crestfallen. That was Venaz. She looked around.
“Hi, Cameral. Yerranola.”
“Hello, Umina.”
The Dullahan nodded politely. He was holding a rather large mana core in his hands. Yerranola smiled. She was wearing a dead Lizardman’s body, but Umina thought of her as female. She waved a huge scale at Umina.
“What’s that you’ve got? Quills? My team managed to bag a giant carp or something. Not my best showing, but the Professor might not yank my head off for it. At least I have something. Better than poor Wil and Jekilt.”
She indicated the other two. Umina turned. Jekilt was pawing the ground restlessly. He flushed.
“You needn’t have spoken, Yerranola.”
“Don’t be mad. Jekilt.”
The Selphid teasingly smiled. She looked at Wil, and her smile wavered. The Human was staring at his crisply cut leather boots.
“Aw, don’t feel too bad, Wil.”
“I’m ashamed.”
He spoke quietly. Umina looked around. The other students had proof of their homework too, with one other exception. She looked at Wil and Jekilt.
“What’s wrong? Did your teams not finish their mission?”
“Mine quit. It was a sensible choice, but…a failure’s a failure. I regret choosing them now.”
Jekilt pawed the ground, annoyed. He glanced sympathetically at Wil.
“As for Wil…better he explains.”
“Wil?”
The young man shook his head. He was a [Lord], and as such—and because he was Human—he was more fully dressed and better dressed than anyone else in the room. Umina had noticed Humans liked to cover a lot of their bodies; compared to her light clothing or Cameral, who just wore his steel armor, Wil was fully dressed in a dark blue tunic and leggings that wouldn’t have been amiss at court. Whereas Marian and Jekilt only wore clothing on their upper bodies. And Venaz…well, he was dressed, but somehow, the Minotaur’s bare chest seemed as fitting as clothing for him. He was glaring at Marian as she needled him.
“Three Mossbears, Venaz? You could have done better, I’m sure. My Armorgator was over twenty feet long. More than enough to swallow a Mossbear whole, I bet.”
He snorted angrily. Yerranola rolled her eyes.
“They’re already getting into it before class.”
She looked at Umina. The Lizardgirl shrugged helplessly. Marian was her best friend in class, but the Centauress and Venaz got along like fire and oil. In that when you put them together, they tended to combust. Venaz snorted as he clenched one fist.
