“If I’d been allowed to take part myself or lead the team—it’s quality that counts, Marian. Quality. You and I were both assigned Silver-rank teams.”
“And I did better. Come on, admit it.”
“The Professor will judge us. Where is he, anyways?”
“I saw him outside. We’re going to meet with him soon, I think. We just…”
Cameral cut off. The other students stirred as the door opened. A Centauress trotted into the room. But she wasn’t one of the students. She was in her mid-forties, had a pair of spectacles, a slight limp on her back right leg, and a scar on her right flank that reached down to said leg. But she moved swiftly, and the students immediately stopped talking and looked at her.
“Miss Perorn, good morning.”
Cameral and two of the Dullahans present immediately took off their heads and inclined them with their hands: a Dullahans’ bow. Marian and Jekilt inclined their torsos as well. Umina didn’t, but that was because there really was no need. It was just that the Dullahans felt the need to show courtesy and the Centaurs respected the teacher who’d just come in. Perorn, the Centauress, walked past the podium and turned.
“Good morning. I won’t keep you long. This morning’s class is cancelled as Lord Astoragon has another class to teach. A new group of potential students has arrived, and he intends to lead this morning’s class. Thus, you will leave your…homework…here and head straight down to the training grounds. I will inspect your results first, however. Please present your results if you have them, or give me a short verbal report in front of the class.”
She gestured at Venaz. The Minotaur immediately stepped forwards and showed her the Mossbear pelt.
“A trio of Mossbears. I contracted the Silver-rank team, Thunri Dwarves, to deal with them.”
Perorn had a clipboard. She noted down Venaz’s details swiftly.
“I see. Any casualties?”
“None.”
“Thank you. Please place the pelts…here. I suppose Niers—Lord Astoragon—will want to inspect them later.”
Perorn sighed and indicated a space behind the lectern with one hoof. Venaz placed his pelt down carefully, and Marian stepped up. Umina and the others got into line. She was near the end and noted Wil was right behind her. He looked downcast.
“It’ll be okay.”
“You haven’t heard what happened.”
“Next?”
The line moved fast; Perorn asked only for basic details. Umina showed her the quills.
“Scattershot Porcupines. I had the Bronze-rank team assignment.”
Venaz looked disbelievingly at the quills. Marian sighed, and Yerranola raised her brows. Umina knew how it looked. Scattershot Porcupines were not a threat. Oh, they could fire their quills, which turned the already dicey business of getting near a porcupine into a positive threat, but they were hardly able to kill in most cases. But Perorn only noted down the detail. She glanced up.
“I see. The name?”
“Uh…they didn’t have one.”
The Centauress paused. Her eyes flicked up to Umina, and a small smile crossed her stern face. She also had a scar running down one cheek, but it was nearly invisible except if you were up close. Healing potions usually covered most injuries anyways.
“Ah. I’ll note that. Next?”
Umina laid down her burden on top of Venaz's Mossbear pelt, which was being used to hold most of the trophies. She felt encouraged by Perorn’s smile; she might be right after all! Then she turned to watch Wil step up. He was, of course, empty-handed. Perorn gave him a severe look.
“Lord Kallinad, do you have anything to present?”
The young man flushed, and Umina winced as Wil Kallinad, one of the two Humans in this class, shook his head. He looked miserable, even more so than Jekilt and Yerranola had been.
“I do not, Strategist Perorn. The adventuring team I contacted failed during their mission.”
Perorn adjusted her spectacles as she stared down at Wil.
“To what extent?”
He hesitated.
“Six out of the nine adventurers perished, Miss Perorn.”
“Ooh.”
Umina’s gasp was part of the class’ groan. Marian leaned over.
“Wil was told to hire a Gold-rank team, wasn’t he?”
“Yeah. I guess they got beaten. The Professor’s going to chew him out about that!”
The Lizardgirl shuddered. Perorn stared at Wil, then made a short note on her paper.
“I see. Thank you. Well, that’s all for me. I’ll leave this here—”
She flicked the clipboard onto the lectern and turned.
“Follow me. I’ll take you down to Lord Astoragon. My class is on the way.”
She trotted out the door. The others followed her, abandoning the paper and quills they normally brought along. If they were going outside, notes would just get dirty. Umina walked after Marian. The Centauress and the other students formed a group that followed Perorn at a respectful distance. Marian looked slightly aghast.
“Miss Perorn came here just to take notes and lead us? Surely someone else could have done that. A [Servant] could have done the job!”
“She likes making sure things are done. Remember when we saw her taking over for one of the [Tacticians] one day?”
Umina shrugged. Marian grumbled as she trotted a hair faster.
“But still. It’s her. I know we have the Professor around all the time, but…her?”
The Lizardgirl nodded. She understood the feeling. She watched as Perorn trotted down the Centaur ramps as opposed to the narrower stairwell. Perorn was a teacher, but she didn’t have the [Teacher] class. Rather, she was one of the instructors that the Titan employed out of his own company; Perorn was a [Strategist] in the Forgotten Wing company, a figure of renown in her own right.
Umina had studied three of her campaigns in class—the Centauress was fifty-one, had slain over sixty enemy [Generals] and leaders in combat, fought for three years in Rhir against the Demons, and even taken down a small army of Trolls and other giant humanoids during the Mountainkin Incursions eight years back! If you knew [Strategists], you would know her name. Perorn Sadiluc, or, if you wanted her nickname, ‘Fleethoof’.
And here she was, teaching a class! But that was just how this school operated. It brought in famous [Strategists] to teach classes, rotating them in as these famous officers in the Forgotten Wing company returned from their duties for well-earned vacations. Sometimes one would stay to give a talk, or lead some students on a practical lesson for a day or two.
Other times they might be here for a month, or an entire season. And they were always battle-hardened veterans. And why not? The Forgotten Wing Company was filled with the best [Strategists] and warriors in all of Baleros. And the greatest [Strategist] of them all, Niers Astoragon, was the students’ main teacher! You sometimes forgot that.
On the way down, the small group of students passed by a few classrooms. These were far larger than the ones on the third floor and held many students, sometimes as many as a hundred. The teachers weren’t as illustrious as Perorn, but they were good at their jobs. Umina heard a shout as she passed by a room on the second floor; she stared inside and saw a Dullahan roaring at a room full of students.
“Today you’ll be learning how to direct specific units in the field in the midst of a battle. There are a number of ways to do it, but regardless if you’re using flags, horns, magic, drums, or any other signal, you must be able to signal everything from a squad to an entire battalion to maneuver, brace, engage the enemy, set up pikes, retreat—don’t bother writing this down! You need to have this memorized; no one’s letting you read your notes when a bunch of [Riders] are charging your left flank! There will be a test in three days, and if one of you misses a single basic order—”
She winced as she saw the students fumbling with their quills and rolls of parchment. Marian tsked softly as she stared into the lecture hall.
“They must be pretty new if they’re learning basic commands.”
“Maybe it’s an officer training course. Three days. Yikes. I remember having to learn horn calls and getting them confused with drums. Old Rustarmor there will chew them to bits and spit them out.”
Umina shook her head. She peered at the grizzled Dullahan, who had earned the semi-affectionate name ‘Rustarmor’ by his students. Despite his armor being free of rust; it was the dark red coloration he’d chosen to paint his armor that gave him the nickname, much to his displeasure.
Venaz snorted as he took one look into the room and tromped on by. The Minotaur was the tallest member of his class, bar none, and only Marian came close to his height.
“Idiots. If they can’t memorize the instructions in a day, why bother becoming [Strategists]? They’ll only be third-rate if they can’t even train their minds to memorize basic horn commands.”
His voice was deep and booming, and Umina winced as the Dullahan inside paused to glare at the passing students. Venaz didn’t lower his voice for anything. Marian slapped Venaz on the back as some of the students in the class rustled like offended ducks.
“Don’t be rude, Venaz. Some of the students are quite young. They can hear you when you insult them in public, you know.”
“Good. Next time I’ll raise my voice so all of them get the message. They came here to learn. This isn’t Wistram or some place to be coddled. I’m glad I’m taking part in the Professor’s instructional lesson with the new students. I enjoy this every time it happens.”
Venaz rubbed his hands together, grinning unpleasantly. Marian sighed, but turned and deliberately walked in front of Venaz, showing him her behind. He stepped out of her way, grunting irritably; the sound of both his and Marian’s hooves clicking on the floor was the only sound for a moment.
“So, anyone here read the latest installation of that [Strategist] from Liscor? You know, Olesm whatshisface?”
Umina spoke up brightly. Yerranola chuckled, and Cameral nodded.
“I paid for an early edition. Why? You read it too?”
“I got ahold of one. Just the [Message] spell; I hear there were maps, but I didn’t get sent one. Mind if I borrow it?”
“Oh, sure, sure. But I bet the Professor will have something to say when he reads it. Have you read it, you lot?”
The Selphid looked around. Venaz shook his head.
“I didn’t think it was worth paying for. Why? Has he included more chess strategies? The Professor’s only interested in that new game, Go, anyways.”
“He’s got chess and Go and something else. Actual strategy! He wrote his analysis of the Siege of Liscor.”
“Really?”
The other students looked around. They were, after all, [Strategists] as well. Yerranola grinned widely.
“Yep. But his analysis…I’m not going to say he’s wrong, but you have to read it. I’ve got a copy ready to show the Professor if he hasn’t read one yet.”
“I bet he has a copy himself. There’s no way he wouldn’t.”
“Yes, but he might not have read it yet. And let me tell you, when he does—”
“Just spit it out, Yerranola! Cameral, what does it say?”
The Dullahan was frowning.
“It was about Goblins. You see, this Olesm Swifttail seems to think that Goblins saved Liscor. He even went as far as to say they might actually be potential allies, not monsters. He cited several Hobgoblins and a tribe that—”
“He said what?”
Venaz’s voice made Perorn turned around. The [Strategist] glared at the Minotaur.
“Quiet. My class is up ahead. You all proceed down to meet Lord Astoragon. In silence.”
Her glare made the Minotaur flush. Perorn stepped into one of the advanced classes, and the rest of the students followed her, keeping silent until they reached the first floor. Then Venaz whirled on Cameral, Yerranola, and Umina.
“Someone wrote that? Show me the article. This is outrageous. If that idiot thinks—Goblins? I’ll write in myself to tell him how idiotic that notion is.”
Umina raised a placating claw.
“Don’t worry, Venaz. You’re not alone. I think half the [Strategists] on Izril will be kicking down his door, never mind the ones overseas. I don’t know what possessed this Drake to write it, though.”
Yerranola chuckled.
“I just want to see what the Professor says.”
Venaz calmed down a bit, but he stomped ahead, angrily muttering about idiots. Marian looked at Umina.
“You’re still keeping tabs on Liscor? Or just that chess magazine thing?”
The Lizardgirl swished her tail idly. She noticed some of the others looking at her sidelong.
“Just a bit about Liscor. The Professor did have his big lecture on the siege, remember? And there’s that dungeon…mind you, I’m more interested in Chandrar at the moment. Remember the King of Destruction’s announcement a few days back? Now that’s going to be huge news. I bet the Professor brings it up first.”
The others nodded, and Umina sighed internally as they began to discuss the dramatic events from a moment back. War in Chandrar. But that was normal. Liscor on the other hand…she noticed Marian smiling at her and pretended nonchalance.
That was the thing. Marian was her best friend, but they were still students competing to be…well, the best. Umina would graduate from Niers’ school sometime, and hopefully it would never happen, but maybe she’d one day face Yerranola across the battlefield. Or Marian. Or…anyone.
Even Niers Astoragon himself. This was school, but it didn’t mean life stopped. Umina was already trying to get any advantage she could for when she graduated, and a hint about the Titan’s interest in Liscor—or an inn—was an advantage Umina wanted to keep to herself.
She didn’t want to ever face Marian in a situation that meant life or death. But some secrets were secret. Yerranola rubbed her hands together as they arrived.
“And here we are. Looks like Miss Perorn was right. It’s a new class of students.”
The group of students reached the outside at last. The first thing Umina saw was a large collection of people, lined up in the morning sun and on the slightly muddy cleared area that was used for practice skirmishes and other activities.
They were Lizardfolk, Dullahans, Centaurs, but also species from across the world. Humans of course, but Drakes, Gnolls, even a Garuda! Half-Elves, no Dwarves, but that was hardly surprising…Umina didn’t see any Gazers either, but the assembled students accounted for most of the world’s species.
“New students. I forgot this was the time the Professor accepted new students. Damn. I hope they don’t take up too much time.”
