“Why are the tanks over there?” Ali asked. But Malika just showed her. She sprinted down and punched the massive treant, and her body was instantly overtaken by a strangely familiar formation of nature mana. Then she vanished, appearing a hundred meters away in the branches of a dark and twisted tree.

Tree Stride? Sage of Learning kicked in, helping her sort out something resembling a pattern in this mayhem.

“The trees are level two hundred and seven!” Lyeneru shouted.

Ali’s mind accelerated, taking advantage of her Arcane Recall passive to boost the speed of her reactions and her mental processing. She split her awareness, leveraging all her minions’ senses. Different focuses tackled different spells and magic abilities, breaking them down and sorting them, prioritizing, and memorizing. Idly, she directed Joraa and the Sylvan Dark Druids to heal the raid while she summoned barriers to protect the vulnerable healers below from the endless rain of dark bolts.

“That’s definitely Tree Stride,” Ali murmured. The first domain magic seemed to be a nature enchantment focused on Lira’s Tree Stride skill. Every time one of the treants was hit, Tree Stride triggered, teleporting the attacker to some random nearby tree. Although ‘nearby’ seemed to include trees over a hundred meters away. That explains the chaos and the lack of tanking, she thought.

“Calen! We need to run,” Ali shouted. They would need a very different strategy to tackle this fight, and she knew for certain there was no way they would figure it out in time to save this disaster. She could still study the magic while the group undertook an orderly retreat.

“Weldin! Town Portal,” Calen yelled, wasting no time questioning her judgment. “Everyone out!”

“Guard the gate,” Ali commanded, mustering her minions to form a defensive perimeter around the sudden Gate that materialized in the clearing. Then, she turned her attention back to the curiously powerful domain magic that animated the four trees.

Clone. She recognized the magic easily, after all, she had learned it from the original Living Flame Landing boss. But how are there four? The clone spell’s maximum was three.

One of the Malevolent Oaks was glowing with a dazzling infusion of mana – the one that wore Lira’s face like a grotesque badge. As she studied it, the mana shifted, and the face vanished to immediately reappear from within the trunk of another tree. The deceptive voice rang out to taunt the adventurers. Ali ignored it, categorizing magic and sorting formations. There was some unknown type of healing spell or aura the treants were using on each other, and the third domain magic was clearly Mass Summoning, as she witnessed the number of lesser treants almost double with a fresh surge from the domain.

Or is that four? Ali couldn’t quite tell, but the manifestation of Lira in one of the treants seemed to be a powerful magic that was filled with domain mana. If she hadn’t already seen three domain magic spells, she would definitely have classified that as a domain magic skill.

Adventurers vanished in an orderly fashion, several at a time, some of them even diving through the Gate to escape, but Ali remained, wielding her barrier magic furiously to block treants and rot spells alike until all who remained were Mato, Malika, Calen, Lyeneru, and Vivian.

“Everyone out,” Ali said, and, anticipating their objections, she added, “I have the barriers.” To prove her point, she erected a quarter-dome wall surrounding their remaining forces and the Gate behind her, but that was not all – she had Minion Teleport, too, and she could leave even without the magic of Weldin’s Gate.

“Be careful, Ali,” Mato said, ducking into the portal and vanishing.

Quickly, her friends all jumped through the Gate until finally she was the last one remaining. Only her barriers and her minions held back the tide, and her forces were about to break. She stepped through the Gate, feeling the familiar lurching disorientation, and suddenly appeared on the marble floor she had created for Weldin in the middle of the forest outside the town. But her job was not yet done. Holding her focus, she put her hand on Weldin’s arm, stopping him from dismissing the Gate, and she retrieved all her minions, one at a time, starting with the trolls and kobolds, and ending with the minions she was least worried about handing to the dungeon – the Sylvans.

“Thanks, Weldin,” she said, nodding at the Gnome. “Can’t be feeding the dungeon.” She could not miss the irony of that statement.

Several of the last minions fell through the Gate, still tangling with smaller treant monsters, to be quickly dealt with by the raid group. Finally, Ali signaled Weldin when the last of her minions were through and the Gate vanished with a pop, cutting a final treant in half.

“Did you get anything?” Malika asked.

“Three, maybe even four domain magic skills,” she said. “They have a healing skill they use on each other, and some area blast of rot magic.”

“I think four isn’t that surprising,” Lyeneru said. “That looked like a Champion-class monster.”

“What is that?” Ali asked, turning to stare at the Night Elf Pathfinder. There had been no mention of that in her book.

“It’s rare to find dungeons that are powerful enough to make them, but Champion monsters are in a category all of their own, above even Raid bosses. There are few rules or guidelines for them, other than they are extremely powerful and usually take multiple raid groups to defeat.”

“Multiple?” Calen echoed lightly.

“Multiple, highly specialized and well-equipped groups,” the other Elf replied, with a knowing smile.

Mato grunted, “So we break it down.”

“Well, that explains it,” Ali said. Noticing that Calen had his pen and notebook out, she continued, listing the spell formations she had understood. “Mass Summoning. It looks like only treants, though. Nature enchantment that casts Tree Stride on whoever hits it. The treant is a single monster that has been cloned four times. The undead spirit of–” her voice caught painfully in her throat for a moment “–Lira can move from one to the other, imbuing it with an enormous amount of mana, but I couldn’t figure out precisely what that does.”

“The Dryad’s face makes that tree immune to damage,” Lyeneru said. “I tested that with physical, fire, and lightning damage.”

“Light didn’t work on it either,” Calen added.

“Well, this is going to be a challenge to tank,” Mato said.

Ali let out a puff of pent-up air. How could they damage the treants, let alone tank them, if everyone who hit one suddenly found themselves falling out of a distant tree?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
