The brief opportunity to rest proved to be educational, once they got moving again. First, Ranthia learned that—yes, yes, how ironic—clovers did not agree with Clover, at least not when consumed in the quantity that the poor bunny had managed. When Ranthia realized the rabbit was distressed, she gently removed Clover from her backpack to find the poor dear’s stomach was rumbling ominously.

She also discovered that Clover was a girl, while she investigated the rabbit’s unhappy abdomen. Sure, it could be harder to tell with juveniles, but Ranthia had dismantled a lot of rabbits—she was certain.

Unsure of what else she could do to help, Ranthia opted to carry the bunny gently in her arms while she continued onward. Clover didn’t seem to mind—maybe it was warmer.

Night was about to fall, but she was basically at the foot of the mountain. And maybe, if she reached the City of Arts, she could find someone that could give her advice about how to help the rabbit—or at least how to avoid a repeat if the problem resolved itself before then. It wasn’t like she’d taken rabbit husbandry classes at the Ranger Academy! And clearly her best guesses were leading her astray.

There was no trace of any tunnel, so Ranthia committed to climbing the mountain. She had faced off against a hydra and powerful shimagu twins—with the full breadth of her capabilities at her disposal, she chose to hope that she could outmatch any beast that dwelled atop a frigid mountain.

Determined, Ranthia had removed her traveller’s cloak and started her ascent.

But the climb was proving to be an unexpected challenge. The mountain’s slopes had appeared to be reasonably gentle when she approached, but they proved to be steeper and far more treacherous than she had expected. Ranthia tried to carry Clover where she could—surprisingly, the rabbit seemed to prefer being in her arms—but she was often forced to backpack the bunny so she could use both hands.

Fortunately, her knives made for superb climbing accessories. Adamantium was undeniably superior to mundane rock, and [Void Edge] made them even easier to use. She just slipped her blade into the rock—blade horizontal—and she had a sturdy handhold or place to stand. Even better, she didn’t have to pull her knives out as she went. She stood on her knives, then used her spares for the next leg of the journey, before she deformed the knife at her furthest foot and waited for the adamantium sand to cross her body to her hand—then she formed the blade anew.

She’d learned her lessons when she climbed mesas during the war: stability was crucial while she was exposed against bare rockface—especially when the wind picked up. By her standards, the ascent was slow—but she was confident that she’d make it to the top well before the sun rose.

“Stupid… freaking… hidden… tunnel.” Ranthia gasped as she hauled herself over the ledge of what she sorely hoped was the final climb she had to make on the mountain. …On that side; she hadn’t forgotten that she still had to descend. She collapsed bonelessly onto her chest and tried her best to rush her recuperation.

Climbing for hours on end was punishing exercise.

Ranthia felt the weight shift, then watched through her [Divine Eye] while Clover hopped out of the backpack and started to sniff at her head. At least her rabbit seemed to have recovered from her digestive issues—but could Clover truly be checking on Ranthia out of concern? Somehow, Ranthia struggled to attribute that level of emotional complexity to a rabbit—not that she was an expert. Hanging around with alley cats when she was a kid didn’t give her deep insight into the minds of animals.

“I’m fine, I just wanted to rest for a second and catch my breath.” Ranthia still chose to reassure the bunny, because at some point she’d abandoned her better sense.

She stood and dusted the snow off of her armor while she surveyed the area. It looked like they’d be able to walk from there, and the snow wasn’t near as deep as it’d been before the ascent. Still, the upper region of the mountain was bitterly cold—almost as bad as the snowstorm had been—and they weren’t even at the top of the mountain. It looked like she could skirt around the mountain from where she was though, so she was more than happy to avoid the peak.

Ranthia picked up her surprisingly non-resistant bunny and resumed walking.

“Looks like there’s a cave up ahead. If it isn’t occupied, we’ll stop there and I’ll feed you some of the clover I dug up. But just so you know, I’m not letting you gorge yourself on it this time.” Ranthia warned the bunny in a serious tone.

Clover’s oversized ears twitched in response. Or possibly because they were cold or itchy or just because Xaoc alone knew why bunnies did the things that they did.

The snow on the mountain felt crunchier beneath her sandals than the snow in the woodlands had. But Ranthia scarcely paid any attention to it—she was focused on the distant horizon. With every step she took, her view of the forest that awaited her on the other side of the mountain grew a bit wider. Elencor had said she’d see the City of Arts—the place she was to meet the love of her life—from the mountain and she was impatient to lay eyes on her destination. Her pulse quickened with anticipation as her heart rate slowly picked up. Any step might finally—

“Ow, hey, watch those claws, Clover. What’s wrong with you?” Ranthia was pulled out of her reverie when her rabbit suddenly started kicking her arm.

But even as Ranthia tried to soothe the agitated bunny, Clover thrashed and kicked harder than ever while she ground her teeth.

It was like she was scared…

No, she was terrified.

Ranthia hurriedly spun her [Divine Eye] around while she tensed her body. Even with her level advantage, there was a good chance Clover still had better hearing—and better instincts for danger—than Ranthia did.

[Gorilla – Ice] level 999, [Gorilla – Decay] level 1036, [Gorilla – Decay] level 750.

Godsdamnit. An ordinary bit of the landscape—a snow-covered rock—exploded into motion almost the very instant she clocked its true nature.

Yet the forewarning meant that Ranthia faced the threat with her perception already at its limits. Which gave her ample time to appreciate just how flatfooted she was. Her knives weren’t formed, she had a noncombatant cradled in her arms, and the damned beast was somehow higher level than most of the shimagu twins had been!

“Sorry!” Ranthia’s single word was probably uttered too quickly for the bunny to understand (not that she expected Clover to understand anything she said), but it was all Ranthia had time to offer before she tossed the rabbit and woven bag to the side, hoping that Clover would be safe.

The gorilla was fast; the damn beast was practically on top of her the very moment the airborne bunny had moved beyond its reach. A massive hand—encased in claws of Ice—swiped at her while Ranthia threw herself backwards. The gorilla’s claws tore through her left sandal, but it felt like they only lightly grazed her skin.

Her backwards lunge carried her a lot further than it normally would have—she wasn’t just moving backwards, she was moving down the mountain. And she really didn’t want to inadvertently throw herself off of the side of it, which meant that she needed to land instead of vaulting herself even further to spare herself the impact.

Ranthia landed on her back—jamming the backpacked safebox against her armor painfully—and hit the quick-release on the backpack’s straps in the same instant. The straps would be annoying to reassemble, but at least the pack was left in her wake as she rolled to the side. Ranthia stopped in a crouch, and began forming her knives…

Yet the gorilla hadn’t pursued her. It was just standing there, watching her. Was it nervous about getting too close to the edge of the mountain?

Ranthia’s attempts to make sense of her unwanted opponent’s motivations came to an end as an all-encompassing pain surged through her left leg. The exquisite agony failed to overwhelm her, but it was atypically intense—pain seldom registered so acutely.

[*ding!* [Adamantium Will] has leveled from 55 to level 59!]

Okay, yes, that was a bad sign, but Ranthia willfully shoved her accruing panic aside. With her System notifications silenced, she tasked her [Divine Eye] with keeping tabs on the gorilla while she quickly checked her leg over with her actual eyes. The horrendous stink that was reaching her came from her own leg—black, jagged lines were climbing her leg, as the darkened flesh (and the leather of her sandal) rotted.

Ranthia didn’t hesitate. She brought her mostly-formed knife down and activated both [Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation]—severing her own leg through the knee.

She wasn’t sure if it was a curse-like effect, natural decay accelerated to an obscene extent by the System, or some toxin; but she wasn’t about to take any risk. The safest option was to excise the tainted flesh before she shifted.

Crippling herself in a fight had its own risks, so she worked quickly. She conjured multiple images behind the gorilla and activated [Reflections of Reality] for the image that she deemed less likely to get attacked—not that the gorilla chose any of them. Instead, the white-furred monstrosity charged directly at her just as her blood began to stain the snow.

The creature was fast, at least in a straight line, but it had tarried too long.

The gorilla crashed through the image she’d just abandoned, and Ranthia watched the rampaging, confused beast as it came to a frantic stop. While it hammered at the rock and snow with its fists in a vain attempt to find where she’d gone, Ranthia assessed her options—and finished forming the six images that [Submind] could control alongside [Divine Eyes in the Void].

The damned caster monster had a Decay-aspected attack that could blitz through even her vitality to make her body rot within seconds of inflicting an otherwise inconsequential blemish upon her skin. Worse, the Skill had affected leather in equal measure—her sandal was utterly gone. She’d long been forced to protect her armor while she fought, yet there she was, facing a threat that could destroy her only intact suit with a single touch. …And she was only mostly certain that she could build a second set with the parts stuffed into her backpack.

“I’m not going to yield before an animal.” Ranthia vocalized her declaration, intentionally drawing the gorilla’s attention.

Sure, she was (presumably) a trespasser in the creature’s territory, but it wasn’t like it was going to let her collect her things and leave. She’d drive it away if she could, but she already suspected that was an unlikely outcome—with the monster’s level advantage, it was unlikely to withdraw while it still lived.

Predictably, the gorilla began a new charge. Ranthia and her images each invoked a dance—creating seven different styles of movement as they swept toward the beast at varying speeds. Against an animal, her images meant far more than they had during the war—it was unlikely to figure out any of the flaws [Diffuse Reflectance] possessed.

The gorilla was far removed from its dark-furred kin that she’d occasionally seen in Remus. This brute was considerably taller and larger than she was, with massive forearms that were even thicker than the burliest ogres’ had been. Its shaggy white fur was coated in shards of Ice, and where the fur grew sparse the beast had thick crusts of Ice layered like armor. Its teeth were stained and filthy, in stark contrast to the perfectly transparent tusk-like lengths of Ice that protruded from both of its jaws. The worst part was its eyes—red and bloodshot—which radiated a malicious hostility that almost transcended bestial intellect.

There was no way to even tell the beast’s sex with its protective layers of Ice and frost. Not that it mattered.

Ranthia and her images readied their knives as the distance closed. The gorilla was fast, but Ranthia was no slouch in terms of speed either. Her opponent slammed into an image shoulder-first and crashed into the snow-covered rock with explosive force.

Too bad for the beast—the image in the lead was unoccupied. Ranthia and her remaining images gracefully avoided the reckless slam and unleashed their assaults on the gorilla as they passed it by.

And Ranthia nearly lost her rhythm when her knife deflected off of the beast’s hide.

Where she expected a thick harvest of flesh and frost to be deleted, Ranthia left only a shallow cut that slowly beaded with scant drops of blood. It was absurd! Sure, the beast undoubtedly possessed far greater vitality than she did, but [Void Edge] was a potent equalizer! She hadn’t experienced one of her attacks being deflected like that since her earliest days of fighting against the troll twin!

Unfortunately, the battlefield was no place for incredulity. Had she been less focused on the trivial wound she’d left, she might have noticed the gorilla’s ice-crusted fur bristling—[Divine Eyes in the Void] tried to warn her, but it came just a bit too late. Countless needle-like shards of Ice launched from the gorilla in every direction, and it was all Ranthia could do to protect her face. A thousand and twenty-four shards pierced her flesh while her images were sundered by the volley.

Worse, the gorilla started moving at the same time. Ranthia was already on the back foot, and she barely avoided the first swipe of the creature’s icy claws. Out of desperation, she met the second swipe with both of her knives—yet [Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation] failed to shear through the Ice.

