To begin the new creation, I crafted many multilayered runic panels. It was something I'd been wanting to try for a while - multilayered runes. After all, the cipher worked in three dimensions: length, width, and height. If I could implement more methods for using those dimensions, I would be able to get more out of the cipher. If anything, the highest form of the cipher was likely a sculpture rather than simple characters on a page.

So, I created runes that traveled across many panels of my dimensional fabric. In many ways, the panels came out looking like a book that wouldn't open, its secrets hidden from all. All but me. M'yes. I let out an evil laugh, relishing in an unfounded paranoia. As I kept composing panel after panel, Torix leaned over to me.

"This, ahem, appears unsafe."

I raised a hand, making a circle with my thumb and index finger.

"No. It must be...Perfection."

My work continued for three days and nights. Nothing else mattered as the council of Daniels and I went to work. We argued and iterated, killing the worst of our ideas and letting the best fight. In a simulation of evolution, we destroyed the weaknesses that our minds conjured up by having them annihilate one another.

It was beautiful. A beautiful destruction.

We improved. Our ideas became sharper. Leaner. Superior. It was always a painful proposition to admit how foolish our initial designs were, but what was progress, if not pain? The Daniels and I continued relentlessly hounding our iterations, improving and crafting one panel after the next. As we finished on the third day, Torix wiped his hand down his face.

"Am I supposed to be your science experiment?"

I shook a hand at the golem with gusto.

"Can't you see? It's perfect."

It wasn't. Far from it, actually. The design carried so many flaws and failings. I winced, even thinking about how many of the designs wouldn't hold up to scrutiny. Pathetic. Awful. Like staring at a shining turd. I shook my head in resignation. Torix deserved better, yet this was the absolute limit of my and the other Daniels' potentials.

It left me humbled at the overengineered nonsense. Torix inspected parts of it.

"It does match the same aesthetic as before, of which I was quite the fan, by the way."

I raised a brow.

"Are you certain? I can scrap this-"

Torix waved a hand.

"Enough. This is plenty. Aside from that, you've developed quite the case of neuroticism over these last few days, haven't you?"

I shifted auras back to quintessence. The crushing sense of perfectionism faded.

"Eh, not really. It's more like my dimensional wake gives me access to multiple personalities. In reality, they're just shades of myself, and I kind of have to...Keep them in check when they emerge."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"It could be a partial possession by the Old One that rules over that specific mana type."

I took a breath.

"I thought of that, but I don't think so. You see, my dimensional wakes do spawn after uncovering mana, but they don't require mana. Instead, they are like...Hmm, me altering the domain under my control. It's an emulation of their power, but not the genuine article."

I held a hand, dollops of primordial mana rising from my palm.

"This energy is the actual thing, and I think it's Eonoth's attempt to bait me into becoming one of his avatars. That's the case with everyone. The mana is the poisoned apple they offer. However, I'm a supposed multiverse. That means I can take on any number of different forms, assuming there's some kind of mana associated with it."

I squashed the mana.

"So I can bend and turn my domain into areas that manifest similar paths of energy even without the energy itself. I become its source instead of the Old One."

Torix scoffed.

"You mirror a skinwalker but for mana instead of flesh?"

I shrugged.

"Maybe, if a skinwalker is what I think it is. Either way, I don't actually end up feeling more of my mind getting seized by mana or an Old One whenever I use my dimensional wakes. Instead, I am mimicking their power."

Torix put a hand on one of the pylons.

"That sounds rather dangerous."

I raised a hand.

"It is, but one day, I won't need to mimic them. I'll make mana my own."

Torix's eyes flared.

"I love the ambition in regards to yourself. However-"

He gazed at the constructed golem, its entire body littered with runic carvings, fine-flowing fabrics, and crafted gear.

"My new body isn't one of those times, now is it?"

I turned a palm to it.

"I mean, come on. It's not that bad, it is?"

Torix reached up and put a hand on the golem's shoulder.

"I like it. Aside from that, I like how this is only 25 feet tall. Enormous, yes, but it's not so large that I can't walk the halls of Mt. Verner. Gah, I would hate to constantly need to shrink myself."

"Oh man, do I understand that sentiment, but you do get used to it. Eventually."

Torix swished his hand.

"Well then, nothing ventured, nothing gained...This will do."

I smiled.

"Onto the next task."

We moved on to other parts of the ritual, having delayed them for my manic onset of crafting. Many of the runes across the central monolith glowed with the color of different elements, and those energies funneled to the uppermost point of the gray, angular monolith. As time passed, Torix dumped more elements at the foot of each pylon.

They feasted on the energy, and I molded a few calderas to hold the supplies, putting them on the twelve outer pylons. Torix refined the forces of each treasure, and my dimensional fabric acted as a nice holding cell for all the odd trinkets.

Like this, a day passed. Then two. I helped supply the ritual with my own mana, handling much of the ritual's need for raw, unrestrained power. Even when careful, I would've overwhelmed it if not for the tempering of the pylons. Their elemental harmony channeled the energy I fed the ritual, ensuring I didn't blow everything up.

That energy flooded the pylons before converting into more flavored, elemental energies. Torix directed those bursts, creating a raging cyclone of energy at the central monolith. It ate away at the ice, creating a small crevice reaching up to the surface miles above. On the third day, Torix turned to me.

"It's time for me to unshackle these mortal coils, wouldn't you say?"

"I'd probably say it differently, but as far as the sentiment is concerned, hell yeah."

I peered at the rune-covered body. I'd spent quite some time on it during our stay here. I finished my inane, frenzied carvings by adding cipheric augments for necromancy. The sleek designs originated from Torix himself. Well, conceptually. I had the actual carving skills and know-how. He offered the perspective that painted the intent of the runes themselves.

That intent bled into every aspect of the armor. It would enhance skills such as speaking, thought processing, and mana manipulation. Torix's abilities would multiply not just from attributes but these carvings as well. Torix marveled at the new vessel for his soul.

"It is a thing of dark beauty. I look forward to using it to march across the many continents of this world and conquer them."

I sighed.

"Are you finally realizing your dreams of becoming a leader of an undead army?"

"I've done so during several of our campaigns, but I did so under your protection. It was fulfilling in its own way, but to wage a war on the living...It is a tantalizing prospect."

I raised my brow.

"That's an interesting way to word it. You know, we'll still be focusing on the welfare of humanity and even on sentient eldritch when we can."

Torix waved a hand at me.

"Certainly, but having so much of my time taken up by the university and Mt. Verner has left me restless. I wish to gain accolades, wage wars against the monsters that roam these lands, and spread knowledge to all corners of this world. While I am grateful to those who have given me a home here, I'm exhausted with the logistics of a city and its citizens."

A silence passed over us before I took a deep breath.

"Torix...I never thanked you properly for doing that all this time. I've been having you be the actual guild leader of my guild in my stead, and I'm sorry. It's a lot to put on anybody, but especially a friend."

Torix watched the elemental cyclone harmonize around the metal monolith.

"It's something born out of necessity. You had no choice. I was competent and trustworthy. The moment you found anyone who could handle portions of the project, you gave it to them willingly. The load has lessened over the years, as it were."

The elemental storm radiated on the reflections of Torix's metal body. He murmured,

"Speaking of our new lead economist, I have my misgivings if you'll hear them."

"You mean Alfonso and his temperament? Don't worry. I've got a few contingencies in place to handle any issues that may crop up."

Torix's eyes flared bright.

"Such as?"

"Firstly, the executive is reviewing Alfonso's documentation and the systems he uses for his accounting."

Torix leaned away.

"Ugh. While I respect its strength and force of will, that golem is quite young. Do you honestly believe it can handle the scheming of a centuries-old bureaucrat?"

I smiled.

"Not at all. However, I think it can filter out the most obvious attempts at overt control and a few of the less obvious ones."

"I'll assume it isn't the only backup in place then?"

My smile deepened.

"That's right. I learned from Obolis that the albony had a culture revolving around extreme capitalism. It's a fine method of production, but it needs tempering from certain incentives and failings. Otherwise, resources are burned through, and people are taken advantage of. That, and the economic style tends to distribute out expenses when it can. E.g., a company won't take responsibility for the long-term health repercussions from using toxic materials."

Torix crossed his arms.

"Ooh, philosophy once more. I will say that taking stances on larger ideologies doesn't always result in good decisions, whether they be economic or political. Any leader is tempered best by pragmatism first and idealism second. Or perhaps not at all, if I could be so honest."

I nodded.

"Understanding and classifying the albony's ideological structure lets me communicate what they do and have done more efficiently. That's why I've done so, but generalizations always fail to capture nuance. Limitations of language aside, I think the albony will attempt to finagle resources out of us in perpetuity. It's a nuisance, but I can also direct that same greed at our enemies and opponents."

Torix steepled his hands together.

"Hm. While wise to use someone's demerits as a resource, I don't see how that protects our faction from their greed."

"It will keep them more preoccupied. Florence has been meeting with many of the influential leaders I saved during the lottery. He's setting up negotiations, ones where we really don't know much of anything. That's where the albony will help us with their general economic nuance and knowledge for trade deals. After all, they have perspective, something we sorely lack."

Torix waved a hand.

"This helps mitigate the problem, though it will certainly still be present."

I took a breath.

"That's where the third source of power balance comes from. I've set up an economic council for my faction. It has representatives from every race that were democratically elected."

Torix scoffed.

"When did you find time for all of this?"

"I didn't. I sent a message to a few of the community leaders for various districts in Mt. Verner. They organized everything and got this entire project off the ground. It only took a few messages on my part, along with some funding to keep people interested."

"Did you find these people trustworthy?"

"Some of them, but I think trust isn't the most reliable currency for this kind of thing. I mean, what kind of person wants to run an economic council?"

Torix shrugged.

"A greedy bastard."

I swung a hand.

"That's right, so how in the hell can I find people to put my trust in?"

Torix took a breath.

"It's a rather pressing conundrum that I've struggled with myself. I have no answer to it."

I put my hands on my hips.

"I think I do. Instead of trusting in their goodwill, I'll change the paradigm. I'll trust their greed instead."

Torix's eyes flared.

"Ooh, how so?

"I'll create a balance of powers so that they keep each other in check."

I weighed my hands back and forth.

"After all, I can't always have people that are morally incorruptible leading every position in my empire. Greedy people will fall between the cracks in my judgment."

I spread my arms.

"Therefore, I'm setting up systems of power where everybody's self-interest and greed duke it out. As for me, I don't want to have to oversee every little detail. One thing I don't mind is enforcing a no-violence policy using my raw power and strength. Knowing that they can't kill each other, I can simply set every party so that they have a roughly equal amount of influence and responsibility."

Torix gestured at the monolith.

"You're creating perpetual conflict that will essentially direct the greed of ruling officials against each other, preventing them from having the time for embezzling or fraud. Did my disciple grow up and learn to adore politics, or am I dreaming?"

I shook my head.

"It's actually the opposite. I'm tired of hand-holding every part of the empire and its growth. I want to create self-sustaining systems before handing off the reigns to someone else. If I make them well enough, then people find purpose within those systems, and I'll get more of what I want."

"Which is what, exactly?"

I gazed at the seafoam-colored ice above. Light poured in, dappled by the endless, cold ripples.

