"I want to explore the wider cosmos. I want to have adventures and see what the vast galaxy has to offer. Once I'm able to get a better understanding of our place in it all, I can use that hard-earned wisdom to direct us with more understanding and awareness."

"This all sounds like an entirely different direction than the one you've been taking. What inspired you?"

"Diesel."

"Ah. His projects are immaculate, but I don't know if they involve this level of philosophic detail."

"They do. He mentioned using old-world aesthetics to get people on board with our infrastructure project. If you think about it, he'll be hiring people who are old-world artists, locals, and community leaders. They'll work with us, see how we do things, and join our cause. It's a positive cycle that feeds itself, and it happens because we're doing the right thing the right way."

I put my hands on my hips.

"If that isn't a model for how to live, then nothing is. Oh yeah, and when he's finished, Diesel will leave a project with people in place to maintain it for however long we need. I'll be doing the same with an auditing company."

"That's quite the entrepreneurial ambition."

"If I'm honest, I don't care about the money they'll make. I do care how well they'll be checking on everybody, and I'll even have a third-party, Schema-run organization double-check the documents every five years as well. If someone manages to get past all these stopgaps to skim off the top, then they earned whatever money they've stolen."

Torix shrugged.

"It's not as if either of us have ever cared for money before, regardless. What are stolen pennies to the well-adjusted?"

I took in a frigid breath.

"They're means of demonstrating disrespect and law-breaking. Just as well it's not a good idea to let people steal from me. It sets an undue precedent."

The monolith at the center of Torix's ritual hit its absolute zenith of resonance. It thrummed with enough force to crack bone and till soil. Torix stepped up to it.

"I'd love to continue this conversation as I find it fascinating. However, it's time."

I took a step back, getting outside of the pylon's perimeter. Torix hovered towards the center. Once next to the central monolith, he sat cross-legged and began culling the minds of the many eldritch near here. Their mental energy flooded into the ritual, and a barrier formed around the pylons. As Torix culled the populace, I performed a few mental calculations and frowned.

"There's nowhere near enough bodies for the ritual here."

Torix nodded.

"Indeed. I'll be using my own stockpiled minions for the cause."

I rolled my shoulders and opened my dimensional storage.

"Actually, I have an alternative."

I pulled out one of the primevals from L-7. The glacial beast matched the frozen terrain here, and like a lavender infection, it crystallized the frozen sea around us into void ice. Its mind was a chaotic, distraught tumbling of drowned thoughts, and it carried immense power that far exceeded all the eldritch here combined.

Torix's cape ruffled behind him, and his eyes shimmered purple. Fear leaked into his voice.

"That's quite the monster you've put on a leash."

I gazed at it, disgusted.

"Yes. It is. I think killing it would be a service, considering what I've already done to the poor thing. Do you mind mentally taking it out?"

Torix took a breath.

"I don't know if I can."

I raised a brow. Torix gestured to the monster.

"Have you ever inspected one of these creatures?"

"I can't remember, but I don't think so."

"Perhaps you should."

I turned and did it. I let out a sharp breath.

The Sound of Winter | Lvl: 41,234 | Guild: Eldritch | State: Corrupted - The Sound of Winter is a strange life form found on the planet Leviathan-7 outside of systemized space. Upon that planet, it was able to find life amongst a storm of chaos and brutality, eventually rising to the status of a king among kings. It arose from the bones of its brethren, a force of nature incarnated as a concept given form.

It carries its title through carnage and horror. The Sound of Winter holds enough ice energy within itself to destroy continents and end entire species. Its abilities are manifold. Firstly, its ability to control temperature enables the absolute destruction of life, matter, and even causality within confined spaces. This general manipulation has allowed the once simple ice elemental to take on a different role.

In many ways, it has evolved into a harbinger of destruction. If it arrives on an undefended world, the entirety of the planet will be turned into a wasteland. The Sound of Winter may then bend the world to facilitate certain kinds of growth involving various ice affinities. Over the course of millennia, it will siphon all the life force of a planet to generate as much energy as it can.

By absorbing the residual energy, it inevitably loses its physical form and becomes a heightened, ethereal existence. At that point, the end state eldritch enters an entirely different lifestyle. It will travel between worlds and convert them into icy tundras and frozen domains for its expanding pocket of a galaxy. If it is able to consume multiple planets, it can evolve further into a causality-disrupting entity capable of warping entire lightyears of space.

In its current state, this is a monster capable of leaving Earth as a cold, desolate badland within several decades. While you can destroy it, the resulting battle will leave the planet scarred. It must be stopped.

I murmured.

"Wow...They're, uh, a bit stronger than I expected."

"Indeed. While I do think of myself as an excellent mage who's able to eliminate foes above my level, I am not close enough to this monster's abilities that I may bridge the gap between us. It's simply too overwhelming a difference in raw attributes."

I put a hand on the eldritch's head.

"I've already left its mind hollowed out with a mana flood. Does that change your ability to conquer it?"

"Though I wish it wasn't the case, I doubt that changes anything. While I still fashion my mind magic as more developed and nuanced than yours, the difference in our abilities is also liberally apparent here. I couldn't conquer the soul of something this unique and powerful. It's something...Ominous and foreboding. When I stare at it-"

Torix shivered.

"My mind and thoughts go cold. It goes to my depths in a way few enemies have. The fact you conquered many of these entities makes me dwell more on your stay in Leviathan-7. It must've been a rather...Tumultuous affair."

My eyes went cold, but not from the Sound of Winter.

"Yeah. It was a wake-up call."

A quiet passed over us, and it settled like an uncomfortable truth over our shoulders. Torix crossed his arms.

"I'm no psychologist, but perhaps there's more to unpack there?"

I let out a scathing laugh.

"Definitely, but it's not complex. I met with plenty of high-level individuals who ended up being subservient to Elysium and Valgus. The rulers and I fought them, and only Shalahora and I survived. You know, I thought I'd be able to come away from the experience with a different outcome than Springfield."

Torix's eyes dimmed.

"Oh, Daniel. Don't say that-"

"It's true. I thought I'd changed. I'd fought galactic-spanning organizations and won, but the result of all I've done amounted to nothing in the end. I was once more the only survivor. Well, aside from Shalahora."

I raised my palms to Torix.

"Don't get me wrong, I'm glad I'm alive, but damn. I was hoping to pull the others out."

Torix pointed a finger at me.

"You imbecile. You did. Remember, Florence has been establishing relations with the many empires you saved. That, in and of itself, is a tremendous victory."

My eyes softened.

"Oh, yeah...I did. Huh. It's easy to forget since I handed them off to Kessiah, but you're right. I did save those guys."

Torix shrugged.

"And you will continue to make a difference, given we continue to strengthen ourselves and improve our agency in various ways. Speaking of-" The lich put a hand onto the ice elemental. Void ice spread up the arm of the lich before he pulled the frozen limb away.

"I cannot fight this entity. That same effect is actually impacting its mind magic on top of the rules of reality near it. I've never seen it from anyone aside from you. Not even Lehesion or Plazia."

I scratched the side of my head.

"Huh. I didn't notice that when I was on L-7."

Torix grabbed his chin, diving into thought.

"It's a mere hypothesis, but I think the chaotic, energized environment limited the physical impacts of these, er, primevals. Given their natures and abilities, I think they'll be able to spread a far more malevolent influence onto planets and worlds without as strong of a baseline energy level."

I put my hands on my hips.

"I wonder if there's a way to affect the energy on a planet. You know, outside of being close to a star or something."

Torix waved a hand.

"There are few limitations in a world governed by magic and cosmic beings. We could go about trying to find some means of changing our planet for eons if we so chose. However, I believe we'll need to remain focused on the task at hand for any real progress to be made."

"True, true. Anyways, I can help take these primevals apart for you so that they're more vulnerable."

"Do you think it's a good idea to put them into the ritual in the first place? While they're as perfect a resource for the elemental resonance as I could hope for, they're also tools I can't wield for myself. I worry they may overcharge the ritual with energies I can't withstand."

"You can always bail to your phylactery, right?"

Torix's eyes dulled.

"Hm. Yes. I could, couldn't I?"

"Using my otherworldly disciple senses, I can tell something's off. What's wrong?"

Torix gestured at the eldritch.

"This is an abomination that can quite literally freeze my mind and soul. Do you honestly believe a phylactery will save me?"

I shrugged.

"No clue."

"I am left ignorant as well. The more I think of it, the more I'm realizing this is far beyond anything I'm capable of."

I gazed at the Sound of Winter.

"Then this may be too big a step."

Torix took a moment. He peered down at his hands before pulling out a journal. He opened the pages, words already written within. It was Alfred's memoir from BloodHollow. Torix shook it before letting out a long sigh.

"After more thought, I think I'll rise to this occasion rather than cower away from such an opportunity."

I peered at the journal.

"What changed your mind?"

"Alfred's ambition. He risked everything and devoted millennia to helping Ruhl achieve the impossible. That has resulted in your armor. Even though it seems to have left you scarred, you were empowered many times over by the difficult experience. I think that this is also a similar opportunity for me, though this ritual may take far more time than I anticipated."

My eyes narrowed.

"How long?"

"Several months. If my theory is correct, I should be able to force a class evolution using several of these primevals as a catalyst. They'll give me the resources I need to impact the laws of nature along with their raw energies and manas."

I cracked my neck.

"Excellent. Are you ready for a bit of elemental war?"

Torix's eyes flared red.

"Always, disciple."

Atop each pylon, I placed a primeval. They hovered just above the pillar's tips, their bodies omening change and environmental corruption. I had around thirty to forty of them lying inside my pocket dimension, given their lower densities. To give twelve away wasn't the biggest loss in the world, though their impacts on the laws of nature were an interesting facet to explore later.

Regardless, we postponed the departure for Amara's mission for a few days to beef up the rituals. While robust, the previous rite never planned for this scale of augmentation. The previous incarnation intended to make the transition into a new body as smooth as possible. This new approach would handle that task before having Torix endure an elemental baptism.

Each of the primevals would create a kind of artificial world that Torix would need to mentally conquer. By doing so, he would learn more about whatever element they represented, and the lich's magic would gain permanent upgrades. While risky, it would enable Torix to wield twelve different elements of nature with a potency he couldn't achieve without this kind of risk.

For that, we built up the leylines with the primevals as the cores. I set up a few temporal runes for the mental subspaces, letting Torix save some time while he handled the trials. I even used twelve blue cores to control and temper the area so that Torix wouldn't have to worry about stability for the project.

Along the way, we established a new protocol for Mt. Verner University and the logistic teams of Mt. Verner. In many ways, Torix could've left the facility and mayorial position a while ago, but he loved overseeing every last detail. That is to say, micromanaging. Torix letting the organization breathe could be a learning opportunity for both of them, and many of the other professors voiced their support for Torix's temporary exodus.

For the logistics of the city, my executive golem took up all the slack and then some. It had already started many expanding operations around the city to help the economy. With more control over the comings and goings, it intended to set up Mt. Verner as the global capital of the entire planet before making it an imperial center for the legion...On a galactic scale.

It sounded like a lot to me. That being said, I preferred a more hands-off approach to my, er, empire. Being on the forefront of terraforming, fighting hordes of eldritch, and exploring the vast unknown, that's where I thrived, and it's what I wanted to be able to do. Having Earth be safe enabled me to dive into that madness while knowing I'd be ok.

It was my home, and I needed that to remain centered.

