But homes were more than places to stay. They were refuges where one could stagnate as well. By pouring my efforts into keeping my empire safe, I lessened my endeavors onto leveling, cipheric work, and gaining worldly knowledge. Even after so many years, I understood very little about the system and what was happening out there in the stars.

I understood hearsay from the occasional rumor from Helios or Florence, but I was far from even a basic kind of awareness. Aside from that, running the mere fledglings of an empire left me exhausted. I could work day and night yet never leave even a dent in my empire's projects. They were myriad and perpetual, and as one endeavor closed, others opened.

I would help with the most vital initial efforts of my Empire's undertakings before setting them up for success long term. I would need to put some time in occasionally to look into how the branches and organizations were faring, but constant surveillance over everything? That prospect alone left me wanting to run away to some corner of the galaxy where no one knew my name.

I had the feeling I would follow that growing desire whether I wanted to or not, given enough time. It was better to squash that urge before it overwhelmed me. Torix was the same. He wanted to dive into the esoteric minutia of magic, but his responsibilities left him entirely preoccupied with the mundane aspects of university work and city logistics.

That kind of oppressive, all-consuming responsibility would inevitably wear anyone down, especially an immortal without any hope of retirement. This would be Torix's first initial separation of himself from those responsibilities, and I couldn't be happier with how he left everything. Considering how I had a three-month epiphany session that left my guild on the precipice of absolute destruction, I wasn't exactly in a position to criticize either.

Either way, we finished the augmented and far more swole version of the ritual. The twelve primevals left a mark on the entire continent, their energies resonating for hundreds of miles in every direction. The life here mutated from being so close to the divine, elemental monarchs. Once fully saturated, Torix spent a few hours culling the eldritch across new Antarctica completely.

I helped by flying around and gathering as many of the critters as I could. It was an irrelevant amount, considering how little energy they had compared to the primevals. One of the near celestial entities dwarfed all the eldritch here combined. The twelve primevals might even exceed the power of all the eldritch on Earth.

Having them act as the energy source gave me confidence as Torix's ascension arrived. Sitting in the middle, Torix aligned himself to the chaotic flow. Life force flowed from each of the twelve pillars, descending onto the thick ice. I remembered this part last time, and it had proliferated as red blood. The bubbling energies dispersed as something far less mortal in shape now.

They coursed across all of reality, bending it to their own vision. The star primeval's energy burned anything within, turning air to slag. The ice primeval ripped the mist and miasma into shards, condensing everything into a solid stasis, creating a crystallized reality. The earth elemental inverted my vision of the sky, leaving nothing but a mountain in its wake. Each vision carried the weight of a world, and they pressed down onto anything that could see them.

The twelve radiant dungeon cores whirled within each pylon, an addition of yours truly. The cores kept the primevals contained, but the eldritch gods swirled and encompassed their entrapment in utter chaos. Over time, the pylons curated and refined their rage into something palpable. A dense, coagulated barrier formed around the ritual, binding the area and anything that happened there.

Torix turned to me.

"If this barrier is broken, my soul will shatter. Remember that."

I gave him a nod. Like the ichor of gods, glowing streams of blood condensed from the manifested visions above the primevals. I watched space bleed, and it held the remnants of dreams and nightmares alike. They flowed into the outlined dodecagon, pooling up until they mirrored glistening oil or shining paint. If an artist could wield those colors on their palette, they could paint a world. A universe. A reality. The sheer vibrance rivaled a heightened state of being as if my previous understanding of reality was a mere pale imitation of this new, superior existence.

The shimmering ichor kept pooling, and my armor hummed with hunger at the sight. It looked delicious. I shook my head, not letting my instincts get the better of me. In the ritual's center, Torix's mind was pulled out of his previous body. The old, rune-carved professor turned into slag as the energies demolished his old body, which had become a corpse.

Torix's shining soul hovered over the multicolored pool of reality-warping blood. He became a siphon. He pooled an enormous amount of the manas, and Torix's soul lost its characteristic stability. Before it became too volatile, the lich pressed onto the twelve dungeon cores. Their radiance and absurd balance helped the lich direct energies far above his level and being.

The lich kept siphoning the energies within until his soul gained a physicality. He pressed onto his surroundings, an ethereal entity with weight. As the imbibement swelled to a final crescendo, the energies altered in form.

The many colors of the ichor turned into a black solvent. All consuming, I gazed at a version of Torix. It carried a hunger like my armor, but it manifested an entirely different appetite. My armor wished to consume all of reality. This entity wished to understand it. To probe and prod and break everything within its purview until nothing could hide from it.

Power was nothing more than a means to an end to this entity. It wanted omnipotence as a means to attain omniscience. It would rather understand something than wield it, as pressing its understanding onto a concept would taint its purity. The tendrils of that dark ichor kept searching even as it toiled to direct the many energies within the ritual.

It was Torix. It was his soul. And it wanted more. Always more.

I frowned. This wasn't how he handled the ritual last time. Torix had created a spectral entity that we seized. He then tied it to a dodecahedron of my armor to reset his phylactery. This...This process used Torix's own mind and animus as the binding agent. By having his soul as the anchor, he could take the all-encompassing forces and make them his. In doing so, he could leapfrog ahead of his current strength, emboldening himself in the process.

But that carried risk. If Torix lacked perfect control of the manas, had a poor vision of himself, or didn't understand the ritual in any way, he would be subsumed. Even as ignorant as I was, I could see how sure Torix had been before the process even began, but still. The lich knew who he was and what he wanted, but I still gnarled my hands out of nervousness.

His insight paved the way as the black, energized ichor flowed into his new body. As it did, his previous body crumbled from molten slag to ash. It floated away in the wind, leaving no way of returning to his last incarnation. The runes across the new dark gray body dimmed to a soul-sucking black. It was an elevated dark, the kind that consumed any light near it. Unlike Shalahora's shadow, this wasn't an absence of light. This was an all-seeing gaze, like staring at the pupil of some large beast. It soaked in all it saw, leaving nothing left that it did not know.

A chill ran up my as the primevals let out unearthly howls. Blood poured from them, filling the ritual's perimeter once more. I lifted Torix's new body with gravitation, and I dipped the metal colossus into the new, vibrant, and multicolored ichor. It drenched in the essence of the elementals. It soaked in the light of those hidden worlds.

Above, a portion of the black ichor remained floating. From it, Torix's voice radiated.

"It is time."

My voice was like dark iron.

"Where is the new phylactery? You'll need one so that if this body is destroyed-"

The voice omened like death, the floating ichor shifting into a smile.

"There will be none."

I squeezed a hand into a fist.

"What are you talking about?"

Torix's voice went distant.

"Do you know what it is like to watch someone step further and further away as you remain motionless? I'd imagine not."

A coldness came over me. I gulped before frowning.

"Torix. You don't have to do this."

Torix let out a cackle.

"You know, I've been afraid of death for so long. It's an end, surely, but I never feared the end of life. I feared the end of learning. I wanted my faculties so that I could continue to broaden my horizons and expand my purview. In my mind, I had established a perfect system for my immortality, but now I know it was all built upon a facade."

Torix rippled.

"I trained my mind magic to a knife's edge and dedicated myself to its mastery. In that regard, I've been able to defend my detached mind and soul from corruption, even when bound to something that isn't truly my own. However, this has come with limitations. I am like a corpse lord, some amalgamation of flesh that isn't a true embodiment of the mind within."

Torix's voice echoed around me.

"I've reached the limits of this detached philosophy. To progress further, I will need to put all that I am on the line. To continue forth with you, disciple, I will need to step into the domain of permanence. Otherwise, I will merely be an observer as I always have been."

My eyes widened.

"You don't have to do this. There's nothing wrong with having a backup plan. You know, some contingency or something."

Torix's dark form smiled.

"I am tired of living as if waiting to die."

He carried no delight in his voice, only a determined resolve. Before I could say anything more, the dark embodiment of Torix's soul dove into the pit of glowing blood. I watched in horror as seconds turned to minutes, then hours. Eventually, a bubble popped within the iridescent ichor. Several more hours passed before another frothing churn erupted from the pit's surface.

The dense liquid began to boil. I let out a sigh of relief as a cold sank into my surroundings. Unlike the ice, this cold was a consuming, otherworldly stillness. The silence crawled into all senses, muting the howling around me. It stole all that tried to escape its confines. My sense of touch left me. My eyesight waned as ink spread from the pit, the rainbow torrent turning into dark dominion.

In the distance, a whisper coursed across the land. It was a sound as loud as one's heartbeat. It was the slightest of sounds, something akin to the falling of a leaf. Yet, I trembled at the weight behind its echo. It carried force. Defiance. Power. It held an almighty potential. A radiance. A desire. And it left the world trembling with me.

The wind let out a whisper, one of pain. It droned into a percussive agony, a kind of listless lamentation of what could've been. It howled as something escaped it, walking onto a different path. Around me, the light above dampened. Black veins spread over the ice, coursing into the glacier and continent below. The sun shrank into a small point before being subsumed.

The droning turned into a soul-shaking drum. It throttled my mind, leaving me afraid and waiting. It kept building to a cacophony of howling screams. I smiled as the colossus of metal rose from the pit of now dark ichor. Within the hollowed skull, bright flames of dark blue erupted. Its colossal form became sapient.

Torix regained his full faculties, and the dead metal evolved into a creature of yearning avarice. Avarice for knowledge and to uncover the secrets of the world. Of all worlds and all times. As he gazed down at me, his eyes pierced through a veil. They saw through all I was. They carried the determination to see through everything.

It left a fearful smile on my lips, and Torix raised a hand. The armor rippled in response. It kept rippling, turning into a churning pool. Torix's eyes flickered. As mana surged from the body and over the horizon, the lich froze in place. Far in the distance, ice cracked, and glaciers collapsed. Elemental torrents flowed as tornadoes tore through a dead and dying land. The air howled. The ground wailed. A darkened miasma infested our surroundings, and Torix turned to me.

He grasped the sides of his skull before raising his head. The jaw slackened before he took in an unneeded breath. Within his voice, the sound of sheering metal echoed.

And Torix screamed.
