The return trip through the Boundary turned out to be slightly faster compared to reaching the barrier the first time around. Probably because the weakening toxicity allowed everyone to relax a little, and they didn’t have to play it safe to ensure that everyone could hold on until the end.

A bit of a shame, as Jake would have loved to travel within the treasure trove of Palate food for a little longer, but alas, actually getting back into Venus remained the priority. On the way back, the entire atmosphere in the group had definitely also become a lot more positive and relaxed, as Jake had a nice conversation with both the Shaman and the Arachnec Lord.

Unsurprisingly, they still didn’t talk to each other, but at least Jake could function as an in-between a few times here and there. As for what they talked about, well, it mainly turned out to be common knowledge of the multiverse. Non-sensitive stuff, like the mere existence of planets.

“I find it difficult to imagine that most live on spherical islands... how is one even supposed to be on its bottom region? Don’t they risk falling off?” the Shaman asked a question Jake would have expected from someone who pre-system believed Earth was a pancake.

“Gravity,” Jake answered with a smile. “A concept I’m not even going to bother explaining to you, but let’s just say it’s what allows everyone to remain grounded and is the reason the very concept of up and down exists.”

Even though Jake wasn't entirely sure of that answer, he went with it anyway.

“And these massive gaseous planets appear to function as gathering points for other planets?” an Arachnec Lord asked if star systems existed.

“We call these ‘gaseous planets’ stars, and the one closest to the entrance of this Minor World is generally referred to as the sun. Thinking about it, most planets seem to refer to their local star as the sun, but I digress. You’ll see it in due time. I reckon you’ll find it quite a sight,” Jake said with a slight chuckle.

He continued telling more interesting facts, and the reactions continued to amuse him, as all the normal things in the rest of the multiverse sounded entirely unheard of for these natives of Venus. Just the fact that there was no “bottom” to the universe seemed like a concept they simply couldn’t wrap their heads around.

This casual chatter continued as the Boundary really started thinning out, and soon, they would be out of it. Jake released a few Pulses of Perceptions and tried to feel ahead, and fortunately, it seemed that they had managed to return to the same place they had entered from, much to his relief.

However, this relief only lasted for a short moment as he frowned, because from what he felt ahead, the situation at the entrance had undergone a drastic change in the many hours they’d been gone.

At least there were far more presences than before... and from how it felt, at least one, if not more, of these newcomers were stronger than even the Horned Slayer.
