Before the Defiled invasion, Changgong would’ve likely executed the lion’s share of Western soldiers currently serving under his command, but desperate times called for desperate measures, so he could only stay his hand. This wasn’t to say he welcomed every compromised Warrior with open arms, and over the months they uncovered more than one traitor hiding within their ranks, but thanks to Leony’s guidelines, the damage any one traitor could do was limited to his or her own link in the chain. No one knew where any other group was hiding, not even Changgong himself, and they had designated meeting times and areas depending on a number of different factors involved. It made it difficult to coordinate any sort of large-scale response, but their goal was not to overthrow the Enemy themselves, only to survive until Imperial reinforcements arrived to cleanse the West of the Defiled taint.

But as the weeks, then months, then almost an entire year passed by, Changgong was forced to admit that help was not coming. There were rumours of the border being closed off and the West declared lost, but Changgong clung to hope and urged his people to do the same until Brigadier Shaoyi failed to report back from his mission to scout out their Defiled pursuers.

And so, for the umpteenth time in recent memory, Changgong gave the order for his people to withdraw, but this time, he meant to abandon the province for good, having long since made preparations should the worst have come to pass. His people had been lucky enough to make contact with Healer Taokang Geyan on the front lines of the war, a good man and personal friend who’d been absent from the province when it fell. Through him, they learned of matters in the outer provinces and the changes that had taken place since the Defiled invasion, but all Changgong wanted was a place where his people would be safe and fed. He’d been ready to sell his life for this, to swear an Oath of service and urge the soldiers under him to do the same, for over the course of his steadfast resistance, he’d gathered an elite fighting force the Empire had rarely ever seen, one which had been forged in the fires of this Defiled Tribulation to emerge stronger than ever before, a tempting prize for any ambitious Central noble with the power to take them in.

To his surprise, no such Oath was demanded, or even brought up, for soon, Geyan sent word of safety and shelter from the most unlikely of benefactors. Akanai of the Behkai, a half-beast Lieutenant General whom Changgong had never heard of, not before Geyan wrote a letter detailing the rise of young Falling Rain.

Now, being a Great General of no small fame himself, Changgong knew how rumours of a Warrior’s reputation could easily get away from the truth, and thus he thought it strange that the cynical and level-headed Taokang Geyan had bought into the obvious lies about this northern youth. A formidable military record on the front lines given his young age, and Geyan personally attested to the boy’s brilliant mind, but some of his titles were just too fanciful to believe. The Chosen Son of the Mother Above? The attendant to the Divine Guardian Turtle? An Imperial Scion by marriage to a concubine? All titles worth less than the parchment they were scrawled upon, propaganda meant to stir up the hearts of simple folk and give them a future to believe in, but nothing more. What stood out most was how clever and experienced the boy appeared when it came to matters of military tactics, possessed with knowledge far beyond what one could learn from mere books and instruction. No, he had someone guiding him from the shadows and telling him what to do, as so many young ‘geniuses’ liked to do, but pride was a common failing for good reason. Still, according to Geyan, it was the boy who argued against his Grand-Mentor Akanai to take the Western soldiers in, which Changgong believed meant the boy was also greedy and possessed delusions of grandeur as well as pride aplenty, since he wanted the Western soldiers and acted as if nothing could possibly go wrong. This worked to Changgong’s favour of course, though it seemed odd that the Bekhai made no demands for Oaths or even mentioned any sort of debt or repayment. Instead, they sent representatives to receive his people from the shores of the Azure Sea and provided them with food, clothing, and shelter while hiding their existence from the rest of the Empire.

With each passing day, Changgong watched his people reclaim their lives with help from the Bekhai, and as the debt grew beyond what even he and his army could repay, he worried the Bekhai would soon come calling for reparations. He did his best to keep up with new developments, but aside from Geyan and the Bekhai, he had no contacts with the outside world, and thus could not trust everything he heard from their letters and lips. Falling Rain had been crippled, was well on his way to recovery, had been made Legate despite his infirmity, and had amassed a fortune selling stamped papers of debt for more than the debt was worth, these were but the most far-fetched of rumours that Changgong could remember, and of the least interest. Far more compelling were the things few cared to ever mention, such as his Districts offering commoners the chance to provide for themselves without being worked like dogs, alongside his schools and orphanages taking in children of all backgrounds and providing them with free beds, meals, and an education to boot, all at no cost to them. Then there was the matter of how well paid his soldiers were, a topic that came up often as the Bekhai Warriors were cut from the same cloth as soldiers found anywhere else in the Empire, and did so love to complain about anything and everything. Small wonder the soldiers of Falling Rain’s retinue would fight on the front lines consecutively for so many weeks, because they knew that their commander would not waste their lives frivolously and that their families would be well cared for should they ever fall.

The more Changgong learned about Falling Rain, the more interested he was in meeting the boy, yet despite all their supposed troubles, never once did the Bekhai call upon the Western soldiers to aid their personal cause. It wasn’t until after Huanhuzi emerged as a threat to SuiHua harbour and the entire Western Wall in turn that Falling Rain finally contacted them for assistance, which was hardly the personal favour Changgong expected. Even then, there was no talk of Oaths of slavery or even one of silence, just an apologetic letter asking for help from the Western soldiers who ‘had already given so much for their countrymen’. The boy was either a charitable fool or coached by the greatest politician in existence, for his actions had long since won him Changgong’s gratitude and that of the surviving people of the West.

Leading his soldiers to battle against Huanhuzi was hardly a matter for consideration, as he was happy for the opportunity to do so. He’d clashed with the canny half-badger many a time over the course of his career, and he was glad for the opportunity to do so again, even if he had to change his name. Gao Changgong was dead and gone now, and in his place stood Gao Liang, though he was still adjusting to the change so many months later. Unfortunately, due to injuries suffered during the withdrawal from Jianghu, It was only recently that he came to know Falling Rain on a more personal level, all while witnessing his miraculous recovery and meteoric rise firsthand. No longer did Changgong believe Falling Rain had someone guiding him from the shadows, for his plans wowed even his Mentor and Grand-mentor both despite being accomplished tacticians themselves. Even more impressive was how the boy progressed from comatose cripple to a full-fledged Martial Warrior far beyond any of his peers in strength and comprehension all in a matter of weeks, a rising dragon unlike any ever before seen.

And now, Falling Rain had finally seen fit to call upon Changgong and the Warriors of the West again, not to fulfill any obligation or repay any debt owed, but because he trusted them to guard his back and do what was necessary to see their countrymen free from oppression. A worthy cause championed by a good man, Falling Rain was truly a rising dragon unlike any other.

After a brief meeting to discuss strategy, Changgong followed the Legate as he led a force of three-hundred Peak Experts away from LuZhou under the cover of night. Even though there were crowds of Peak Experts gathered in the three Citadels these days, it would be difficult for anyone else to command such a formidable force to fight as a unit on the battlefield. As a rule, Peak Experts were a prideful bunch, and not without reason, but not only were Changgong’s hundred and eighty three Peak Experts wholly willing to follow the Legate’s commands without question, the Templar Aspirants were similarly devoted to Falling Rain and contributed fifty five Peak Experts to the cause, four and a half dozen more individuals than Changgong would’ve expected to find within their ranks. There were a myriad of minor forces scattered across the Azure Empire formed by a single Peak Expert alone, for it was better to be the head of a dog than the tail of a phoenix, yet the Confessor’s former spymaster had somehow managed to convince more than fifty of his like-minded peers to support his cause, for no reward save unpaid service to the Mother Above. Madness is what it was, but they would not betray Falling Rain, not like everyone suspected the Azure Ascendants would once matters grew dire. They were present too, a small faction of five Peak Experts or close enough to it. Six now, with former Corsair bandit leader Liu Gan having joined their ranks, but given the Tyrant’s absence, this made little difference to their overall numbers.

The remaining members consisted of a mixture of Bekhai, Northern soldiers, Royal Guardians, Death Corps, and a single smiling monk who the Legate clearly didn’t want coming along, as well as the fearsome tiger Rakshasa whose status was similar to Bai Qi’s in the past. The beast was a murderous monster, but one who would hopefully fight for them, so they would tolerate his presence for now. Changgong would be lying if he claimed he wasn’t looking forward to unleashing the beast against the Enemy, though the Legate’s wild plans left much to be desired. Despite the glaring flaws and multitude of ways things could go wrong however, Changgong was confident in their chances tonight, for though he started off as a skeptic and doubter, he now truly believed the boy was Chosen by Heaven and the favoured son of the Mother Above, for nothing else could explain his luck and strength.

The twenty-one year old Legate Cloud Stepping through the skies was a common sight these days, usually with his ‘wifey’ in tow. In comparison, Changgong had been thirty five when he learned to Cloud Step, and forty when he mastered the skill well enough to avoid embarrassing himself in public. What’s more, after twenty plus years of further practice, his skills still paled in comparison to the Legate’s flawless grace and refined elegance as they soared through the night’s sky. Where Changgong leaped from point to point like a farmer in a sack race, the Legate bounded along with effortless efficiency as if literally walking through the clouds themselves. This was true Cloud-Stepping, and anyone who believed differently was just plain wrong. Falling Rain possessed a mastery of the skill that few would ever match, not even after a lifetime of dedicated practice, and it came to him as naturally as breathing.

Noticing Changgong’s attention, the Legate glanced over with a raised eyebrow in silent question, one Changgong responded to with a grin and a gesture towards their differing strides. Catching onto his meaning, the Legate furrowed his brow and gave a little half shrug before Sending, “Envision your Lightening lifting you from below and pulling you up from above at the same time, two forces working in concert instead of just one bearing the full burden. At the same time, when taking each step, there’s no need to put so much physical effort into it. The step portion of Cloud-Stepping lasts barely more than an instant, so the majority of your efforts are going to waste. Constrain the springing motion to just your toes, feet, and ankles and release as much force as possible within a split second for smoother and more efficient trip.”

While it grated to be lectured by a boy young enough to be his great-grand child, Changgong’s pride was a small price to pay for the Legate’s Insights. It wasn’t as easy as the boy made it sound, but after a few minutes of travel, Changgong finally understood what to do and found that while he wasn’t moving any faster, his forward progress was much steadier than before. “This Gao thanks Legate for his guidance,” he Sent, truly grateful the young man would share his secrets so easily. “This Gao swears never to divulge this to another soul, so long as he should live.”

“Why not?” The quizzical Sending caught him off-guard as the Legate continued, “It’s no profound secret or anything, and it’s not like it’ll work for everyone. It helped you, which is great, so if you know anyone else in similar straits, don’t hesitate to share my advice.”

