“Then we’ll deal with it as it comes, though ideally I’d like to attack the next harbour within the hour before they have time to put any nasty surprises together. We need to move fast in order to save as many lives as we can, and only then can we rest easy after having given it our best.” A statement which more than anything showed how different his mindset truly was. Peak Experts were the noble elites of humanity, yet Falling Rain not only wanted to work them like dogs to save commoners, he believed it was their duty to do so. Most other commanders would have chosen the safe route at the expense of ‘insignificant’ lives, but instead he was here putting himself and his Warriors at risk to save them, and Gao Changgong loved the man for it, as would all his fellow survivors of the West. There was a time when Changgong shared this ideal, but time and reality ground it away to nothingness, so to see it in the young Legate was most heartening indeed, a sign that Changgong had not lived his life in vain. This was a cause worth fighting for, a cause worth dying for, so they would join him in this risky gambit of his. Strike hard and strike fast, a lesson many Great Generals learned too late, but the Legate had his own mountain behind him and picked things up far quicker than most.

Eyes narrowed in muted dissatisfaction as he took in the slaughter, the Legate had the look of a man about to put down his favourite camel, an unpleasant task, but a necessary one given the circumstances. Most would have relished the bloodshed and victory, like Akanai’s cannon wielding husband up on the battlements, but not the young Legate. He’d known suffering enough to derive no pleasure from it, or at least, so Changgong believed until the boy’s eyes lit up in delight. “Demon birth,” he exclaimed, with all the excitement of a child catching sight of his favourite sweets. “With me. Kill it before it escapes.”

A strange man, this Legate Falling Rain, mourning the death of Defiled while celebrating the birth of a Demon, a fate far worse than death. No matter though, because Changgong had sworn to serve the young Legate, and would march headlong into the Father’s Maw with but a single command.

Not without hesitation of course, but he’d do it regardless, because if anyone could bring them back out alive, it would be Falling Rain, Chosen Son of the Mother.

Chapter Meme
