A marked difference from the mindset of most Imperial Nobles, as even the army guarded its secrets jealously. Not so with the Legate, who shared teachings and information as if they had no value whatsoever, or rather as if everyone was entitled to learn. An odd attitude considering how carefully he guarded himself against threat, as one would expect him to hide everything regarding his methods to keep his enemies from learning how to counter them. Instead, he practised out in the open where anyone could see him and happily explained his thought process to anyone who cared enough to ask, and sometimes even to those who couldn’t be bothered to listen. The Dao was largely personal to each and every Martial Warrior, but the Legate was determined to simplify it into something anyone could understand, a dream which made Changgong wonder just how far this young man could truly see.

Young Rain reminded him of himself, and Bai Qi as well, possessing the latter’s decisive nature and unshakable determination to do what was necessary for the greater good while maintaining his empathy and compassion for the common man. If only Bai Qi could have retained his humanity in a similar manner, or perhaps Changgong was to blame, for he never took the effort to explain why he disagreed with his former commander’s vision. Could they have changed things for the better by working together? Difficult to say, but Bai Qi was beyond all redemption now, and Changgong prayed he would find cause to bring the traitor to justice on this day.

It didn’t take long for Sha Meng harbour to come into view, less than half an hour of Cloud-Stepping in total, and the Legate had them stop a good distance away to rest and give time for his spies and scouts to assess the situation. The reports soon came back indicating that the inhabitants were in poor condition, but mercifully still alive unlike the unfortunates back in LuZhuo. Seeing the remains of his fellow countrymen used to create such a grotesque spectacle almost broke the young Legate, and truth be told, it almost broke Changgong himself, because he’d been foolish enough to believe in the Legate’s naive aspirations of saving the people of the West at minimal cost. No, better to accept that the fighting would be bloody indeed, with death tolls in the millions when factoring in civilian casualties. A hefty butcher’s bill to pay, but so long as they drove the Enemy from the West and rescued enough people to start over, then it would be well worth the cost.

A mindset which ironically was similar to Bai Qi’s attitude wherein the ends justified the means. By doing this, Changgong was consigning millions of his countrymen to their deaths, but the difference was that under Defiled rule, they were dead either way, and at least this way, he might save a fraction of those poor souls.

The scouts’ reports continued to filter in over the next hour, and they painted an increasingly grim scene. Aside from the twenty-thousand estimated prisoners housed inside the fort, one sturdier than LuZhuo as it had been built by Imperial hands to combat pirates and bandits alike, there were at least eight-thousand Defiled stationed in and around the harbour, a pittance compared to the fleet anchored in LuZhuo, but far more than three-hundred Peak Experts could manage with ease. While a single soldier was supposedly worth ten Defiled, and a Peak Expert worth a hundred Defiled, this assumed the Imperial soldiers were holding a defensible position against tribal savages, not assaulting a fortified encampment full of disciplined soldiers clad in Runic Armour, to say nothing of the Enemy Peak Experts or Demons lying in wait. What’s more, not every Peak Expert could match the likes of Bai Qi, Nian Zu, Du Min Gyu, or Mitsue Juichi, able to kill dozens with a simple wave of the hand. Peak Experts were faster and stronger than your average Warrior, but on a battlefield, individual strength mattered less than overall coordination, and Peak Experts held no advantages there besides an abundance of experience accrued over a lifetime of trials and tribulations. Even if the odds were more in their favour, losing a single Peak Expert to eliminate a mere three-thousand Chosen would make for a poor trade, given how it generally took the better part of four decades to replace a Peak Expert, to say nothing of the vast luck, effort, and natural talent required, as opposed to the mere seconds it took to ‘train’ a generic Defiled Warrior. Were there maybe half as many Defiled, an argument could have been made to whittle the Enemy numbers down by striking hard and fading away, tactics favoured by bandits and pirates both, but unless they could identify the Enemy Peak Experts by sight, then Changgong was in favour of lying in wait to observe the situation while the fleet made its way over, but the Legate seemed determined to make a play tonight, as he ordered his scouts to focus on uncovering the enemy positions above all else.”

“Split into groups of five and maintain Concealment as you surround the harbour fort,” the Legate Sent, dispatching these same orders to the rest of his command cadre once he had all the information he needed. “Avoid direct engagements and pick off the Enemy while they run.” Defiled? Run? Even tribal sorts were not so cowardly as to flee from a force ten times smaller, even one comprised solely of Peak Experts. No, the orders stated to remain in Concealment, so how did the Legate expect to make the Enemy flee? “Gao Liang, you’re with me,” the Legate continued, flashing a strained smile as he Sent, “Pass the word along that discretion is the better part of valour. I know you and yours are eager for vengeance, but you’ll kill no more Defiled once you’re dead. Better to kill ten today and spend the rest of your life fighting than to slaughter thirty or forty before falling.”

Warmed by the young man’s sentiment more than he was annoyed by the Legate looking down on his skills, Changgong swallowed what he wanted to say about teaching one’s grandpa to butcher hogs and simply nodded instead. “By your will, Legate.”

As the Peak Experts broke off and moved into place, Falling Rain Cloud-Stepped out over the water to stand atop the natural harbour wall, an outcropping of stone and coral that forced incoming ships to gather at the mouth of the bay and enter one by one after making a sharp, ninety degree turn on the approach. The natural wall also made for the perfect vantage point to take in the harbour and fort, which was likely why the Legate chose to stand here, but it left him exposed and vulnerable should the Enemy discover his position. Thankfully, Falling Rain was not so foolish as to come out here alone, as accompanying him were his Death Corps Guards, Imperial Protectors, Bekhai Khishigs, and Templar assassins, as well as the solitary smiling monk and the tiger beside him. Despite harbouring many doubts regarding the wisdom behind these actions, Changgong knew the time for discussion had long since passed. Even a bad decision was better than sitting around arguing in the field, especially considering they risked discovery with each passing second. Besides, the young Legate had enough people second guessing his decisions, so Changgong was content to advise only when asked and serve in whatever capacity was necessary, which meant keeping Falling Rain safe and sound. Losing three-hundred Peak Experts would make for a disastrous start to the campaign, but it would be nothing compared to losing the Legate himself, for upon his broad shoulders sat the hopes of a free West, a hope that would die alongside him, binding the surviving Warriors of the West to his cause more tightly than any Oath ever could.

Unfortunately, much like Bai Qi, the Legate was not a man to do things by half-measures, for as soon as he received word that his troops were in place, he ordered the torches lit and dropped his Concealment before Changgong could interject. “This is Legate Falling Rain,” the boy declared, bold as could be. “I have come to demand your surrender. Lay down your arms and your lives will be spared. Resist or harm an innocent, and your lives are forfeit.” Almost as an afterthought, he added, “So long as no one is killed during the wait, you have five minutes to comply before I sound the attack.”

The balls on this boy, to use his own presence as a bluff to make the Enemy think twice, but while the Defiled were a great many unpleasant things, cowards they were not. The Legate’s warning only served to give them enough time to move out to the walls and ready a defence, but despite the obvious refusal, Falling Rain stood tall and proud out in plain sight as the Enemy readied for battle. If the opposing commander had half a brain, he would know that the Legate could only have gotten here so quickly by Cloud-Stepping over in haste, meaning he would only be accompanied by Peak Experts. As such, the smart thing to do was to hold position and wait for Enemy Peak Expert reinforcements to arrive, and it seemed as if he was preparing to do just that.

“Five minutes are up,” the Legate declared, accurate to the second by Changgong’s count, and he readied his staff to defend the boy with his life. “By your actions, I can only assume you are rejecting my offer of surrender?” The Enemy forces jeered and crowed in response, and several screams rang out as Imperial citizens were thrown to their deaths with a sickening splat on the jagged rocks below. Stifling a sigh, the Legate lowered his head in regret and raised his hand to signal the attack. For a split second, Changgong wondered if the Legate wanted the gathered Peak Experts to storm the walls in a battle of three-hundred against eight-thousand, but then the Heavens roared with righteous fury and shook the world around him. No, not the Heavens, but the Legate’s Runic Cannons, the dragon-shaped tubes launching heavy iron spheres from the left and right flanks of the fort. There was no earth-shattering rumble as the walls came apart, but instead, a chorus of screams rose up as Defiled died in droves atop the battlements to the cannonballs which had been aimed lengthwise along the wall to maximize the casualties.

The Azure Ascendants unveiled five Runic Cannons during the siege of Central’s Citadel, and they used them here again to great effect, but there were three more cannons now, borne by figures whose leather armour identified them as Bekhai Khishigs. Two gold-furred half-monkeys with irascible smiles flanked a hulking, one-eyed half-bear whose rage and fury was fearsome to behold, and together with the Azure Ascendants, they loaded their cannons and fired again, the second volley arriving mere seconds after the first. The heavy weapons belched solid death and rendered Defiled Warriors into meat paste with a spray of blood, and then they did so again, and again, and again, firing at a rate of perhaps one shot every three seconds. Changgong had seen the weapons at work during the siege and thought them a powerful tool, but here atop the close confines of the fort wall, they were nigh unmatched in sheer, destructive power.

The slaughter continued unabated as the Enemy Peak Experts were picked off before even coming close to the cannons, and less than a minute later, the Defiled ran screaming and shrieking in abject terror as they fled from certain death. Some even were crazed enough to throw themselves from the walls, following the unfortunate prisoners to their inevitable deaths on the jagged rocks below. Some survived the drop, but only just, and Changgong derived no pleasure in seeing the ‘fearless’ Defiled drag their broken bodies through the rocks and sand in a desperate attempt to find shelter from the explosions above. The majority kept a cooler head, or at the very least retained enough survival instincts not to risk a nigh fatal drop in order to avoid near certain death, but they did not stop running once they were free of the fort walls. To them, the sturdy stone walls no longer offered any protection and instead had become the cage they would die in, so they fled into the surrounding desert and scattered across the sandy dunes where the waiting Peak Experts picked them off with ease. “Send word to let a few escape,” the Legate declared. “So they can spread word about what happened here to the cities inland and bring hope to those who still endure.”

“And if they set a trap for u at the next harbour?” Changong asked, “Or Heaven forbid, slaughter the captives and withdraw entirely?” A price he was willing to pay, but would still rather avoid if possible.

