Behind every Great General lay a mountain of corpses, and having risen to fame in the turbulent Western deserts, Gao Changgong’s mountain towered over most.

Not a point to take pride in, to have killed and lost so many of his countrymen over the course of his career, but an inevitability of war. At sixty-seven years old, his career spanned over five decades now, having first taken up arms at the tender age of fifteen after desert nomads slaughtered his family in a fit of rage over his family’s lacklustre larder. Those were hard days during difficult times, when peasants rose up in revolt every other month because they were too hungry or thirsty to work, hence why the Western Imperial Army was willing to take in commoners to train them from the ground up in hopes of uncovering a diamond in the rough.

Gao Changgong had been one such diamond, and Bai Qi another, but rather than build a friendship upon this foundation of similarity, they became the most bitter of rivals instead.

He still remembered the first time he met the cruel Prince of Barbarity, during the Kang Tao rebellion. Changgong had been but a raw recruit back then, trembling from head to toe as he stared across the field at the army arrayed against him. Fisherfolk mostly, men and women he would have once called his own people before that life was lost to him, and it pained him to point his spear at such pitiful souls. The conflict all started after a local merchant lord passed away and his heir refused to honour the contracts signed in his name, a conflict which soon spiralled out of control as rioters took the streets and set fire to the Magistrate’s manor, killing the Imperial Tax-Collector housed within.

An unfortunate turn of events that led to this all-out rebellion, and Changgong could see the sheer desperation in their eyes even from so far away. These were not people who murdered out of greed and excess, but impoverished labourers sick of going hungry while working day and night to meet the Province’s demands. He remembered well the pain of knowing there was salted fish sitting in the warehouse next door while his stomach sat empty and swollen, stored and secured by the merchants who owned father’s fishing boat and charged him for the privilege of using it. Nets too, with a hefty penalty for each one that broke since they were woven from materials which had to be shipped in, enough so that many took to using sharpened stones lashed to reeds instead because they could no longer afford to take on more debt. Having known what their lives were like and the struggles they faced, how could he not empathize with the poor souls across from him?

One thousand soldiers had gathered here along the coast, so close to the village Changgong once called home. Against them stood ten to twelve times their number, desperate commoners holding their ground against trained Martial Warriors with naught but the same nets and sharpened stones they fished with. The commoners were no match for the military force arrayed against them, this much was clear, and they knew it too, their lines already wavering before the battle had even begun. With only two years of basic training and garrison duty behind him, Changgong knew little of actual warfare as this would be his first real large-scale engagement, having only seen actual combat in barroom brawls and the occasional bandit hunts. As such, he expected the Commanding Officer would open a dialogue with the fisherfolk and offer them a chance to surrender, but there would be no discussion on the field that day. Instead, the horns sounded the charge, and being the novice soldier he was, Changgong followed orders and joined his fellow soldiers in slaughtering every last man, woman, and child who stood against them.

A battle which haunted Changgong to this day, because as pitiful as those who died might have been, at least they were spared the horrors of what came next as Bai Qi re-established ‘order’ by terrorizing the survivors into compliant servitude.

Even in his youth, Bai Qi was not a man of half-measures, and his quick resolution of the issues plaguing the Magistrate earned him a promotion to Major once he demonstrated he had the strength to contend against a Demon. This more than anything made Changgong sick to his stomach, the fact that the higher echelons of command cared naught for the suffering of the Western people so long as shipments of fish and clean water came in on time. However, as a soldier locked into service with no backing or significant talent to speak of, he had no choice but to continue serving under Bai Qi for another five years. The war-crazed slaughterer sought out conflict after bloody conflict, and while not all campaigns were as abhorrent as the first, Changgong soon discovered that stringing up dead and dying bandits proved no less distasteful than doing the same to impoverished rebels. Effective? Undoubtedly so, for few cared to cross Bai Qi twice assuming they survived their first encounter, so for the sake of his career, Changgong kept his head down and followed orders because he felt he had no other choice.

Then came the fateful day when he finally opened his eyes, the day Bai Qi promoted him to the rank of Captain to reward him for his years of ‘honourable service’. “You be the most promising talent under this soldier’s command,” Bai Qi had said, his slim build and youthful features making him look younger than even Changgong. “Had I a thousand others just like you, then we could usher in an age of peace unlike any the West had ever seen, one which would last for ten-thousand years.”

A jarring statement to hear, for Changgong saw no such peace in sight, nor could he see a future in which any peace could be secured. The peace of oppression was no true peace at all, no different from the cruel injustice his father suffered at the hands of the merchants who all but owned them. Having grown older and wiser after seeing the world, he knew that his family had been slaves in everything besides name, ones free to do whatever they pleased so long as their master’s harsh demands were met. A province under the tyranny of Bai Qi’s rule would be no different, peaceful yes, in the sense that there would be no bandits or rebellions, but only because the remaining people of the West lacked the courage and strength to stand against him. Was it worth it, the exchange of freedoms for the sake of peace and prosperity? Having seen the thankless fate of most fisherfolk living under merchant rule, Changgong did not believe so.

Having found the courage to look back on his actions and see them for the sins they were, he was determined not to continue forwards on this path and set himself to task seeing Bai Qi brought to justice. The moment he learned enough characters to convey his message, Changgong penned an anonymous letter to the Disciplinary Corps detailing the atrocities committed under Bai Qi’s command. When this failed to elicit any sort of response, he sent copies of his letter to influential merchants, Officers, noble families, and anyone else he thought might care. Eventually, someone took notice of his efforts and brought it up to someone in the higher echelons of command, until it finally came to the attention of the local Magistrate who had Bai Qi drawn up on accusations of suspected Defilement. Changgong only learned of all this after the fact, as it’d all been handled quietly and nothing came of it save to bring him to Bai Qi’s attention, who not only emerged unscathed from the investigation, he also recognized the handwriting on the letter accusing him of all his misdeeds as the brushwork of one of his favoured Captains.

To his credit, Bai Qi didn’t retaliate against Changgong for raising his concerns in so cowardly a manner, and instead merely had him transferred into a different retinue after stating that their bond of trust was broken. Say what you will about the murderous bastard, but he dealt with his problems in a frank and forthright manner, and Changgong could respect that much at least, the one useful lesson he took away from his time serving under the future Lord of Martial Peace. Anything worth doing should be done in an open and aboveboard manner, because to do otherwise would be to admit shame in your actions. Changgong wanted Bai Qi to pay for his crimes, but in a public trial with the reason for his fall from grace known to all, so that others could learn from his terrible example.

Now, nearly fifty years later, Changgong scorned his younger self for not slitting the monster’s throat in his sleep, for in doing so he could have prevented so much needless suffering.

For decades, Changgong and Bai Qi rose through the ranks as the most accomplished officers of their time, and though they never served in the same conflict together again, they were both accredited with bringing peace to the West. Changgong was always a step or two behind though, never quite able to match up with Bai Qi’s exploits even after taking into account their difference in age. The reason was simple: if you needed a soldier to fix a problem, like the rebel Magistrate of LuoYang or the ShaNan marauders, then Gao Changgong was the soldier to call on. However, he was merely the hammer with which to flatten any protruding nails, whereas Bai Qi’s horrific methods offered lasting change and stability by ensuring every last nail was embedded so deeply they could never rise up again. He was a man who believed the ends justified the means, and so long as people had food and water aplenty, they should not mind the iron boot resting atop their necks.

Still, the results spoke for themselves and there were times when Changgong’s determination wavered as he saw the changes wrought by Bai Qi’s rise to prominence, for it was true that the West had never known such peace. Twenty years without an official rebellion, that was what Bai Qi’s supporters claimed of late, and it was true. No force had risen up to reject the rule of law in that time, but only because the Lord of Martial Peace responded to rumours of civil unrest with preemptive and heavy handed military action. The oppressed soon learned to keep their heads down and their mouths shut lest they receive a visit from one of Bai Qi’s loyal dogs, who were more than happy to hang ten peasants to keep ninety in line, and after centuries of turmoil, the people saw it as an acceptable outcome, if not the best one possible. As an added effect, with no more sieges to break, Changgong’s once ascendant career stalled at the rank of Major General as he served at the Western Wall for the better part of a decade, but he cared naught for fame or renown. All Changgong wanted was a Western Province in which the people had food and water enough to survive, and under Bai Qi, such a dream had been made possible, albeit in the worst of ways.

None of that mattered once the Western Wall fell to treachery and deceit, a failing Changgong took full responsibility for. Though he’d not been in command of the entire Wall, he gave the order to his fifty-thousand soldiers to withdraw instead of staying to stem the Defiled tide pouring through the breach. A gatehouse had fallen, faster than anyone believed possible, and a decision had to be made, but rather than set the example and pray his fellow commanders followed suit, Changgong placed his faith in the soldiers of the West instead of the Wall itself and brought his army away before they were overwhelmed so that they could live to fight another day. Two months they held in Shen Sha, the City of the Divine Sand, and when it became clear they could hold there no longer, he ensured that every last person under his protection was seen to safety before finally abandoning the city to the Enemy forces. He led the survivors north to the Defiled held coastal city of Taktala, where he freed the captured population and set fire to the ocean trawlers feeding the Enemy combatants, while simultaneously plundering enough dried and salted rations to feed his forces for months. Even under Bai Qi’s rule, the West was never wholly settled, and Changgong’s people had plenty of shifting dunes, abandoned mines, and hidden oasis's to hide in while he and his soldiers went to ground while doing everything in their power to make the Enemy bleed for every step they took in the Western Province.

All the while holding out hope for the Lord of Martial Peace to make his presence known and drive the Defiled back from whence they came.

It was a strange sort of charm Bai Qi possessed, that of a fearsome, murderous beast, but one who ensured the overall stability of the West. This made him their beast, one Changgong hoped would set himself upon the true Enemy wreaking havoc in their lands. However, in all the months of hard-fought resistance, never once did Bai Qi make his presence known, nor did the Mataram Clan take action, for reasons that were obvious now. During those times however, Changgong crossed paths with other famed Warriors of the West and drew them to his banner, most notably the Thorny Desert Flower, Brigadier Leony of Lhatep, who devised the segregated structure of their resistance efforts before meeting her unfortunate demise at the hands of a Defiled hunting party. A grievous loss for the resistance, but he went to great lengths to spread tales of their victories as often as possible, whether it was something as minor as waylaying a shipment of weapons to a monumental success like freeing a garrison of captured soldiers.

