But he’d thought he would encounter a lot more ambition than he had so far. More than in regular high school.

I guess I subconsciously stuck too many Avowed in the insanely dedicated category because my real-life experience was all with Hannah. And she was a workaholic by any measure.

Maybe the most useful thing he’d learned on the tour was what normal here on Anesidora actually looked like.

He called Boe to leave his daily voicemail.

“I’ve been thinking that living on a demon moon made me confused about who I am and what I want to do now,” he said in a conversational tone. “Upon reflection, that’s not accurate. What it made me unsure about is long-term career choices.”

He took a sip from a bottle of blackberry soda. The vending machines in the dorm were free and they had drinks from all over the place. Trying them all was a mini goal.

“Honestly,” he said, “being a hero sounds so damn horrifying right now. If someone walked into this kitchen and said, ‘Alden Thorn, run with an injured child on your back for days until you are bloody and broken,’ I think I’d have to ask if the kid was Kibby or not.”

He split open another soy sauce packet and poured it over what was left of his rice.

“I’m not sure it’s in me to do something like that again. To deliberately put myself in a situation where I know I might have to. For her—a thousand times. But maybe not for someone I don’t know.”

He took a bite and swallowed. “I’m…really so disappointed in myself. For not being the person I imagined I was. Was I naive before? Or am I a coward now for not wanting to go through something that terrible again? I don’t know. But I do know who I am at this moment. Better than I thought. And I know what I want to do next.”

He paused.

“Come out of hiding if you want to find out what it is, Boe. Otherwise you can just suffer from your own curiosity. Talk to you tomorrow.”

He ate the last few bites of his lunch and finished his reading.

The first spell in the auriad book was complicated. This wasn’t a wizard kindergarten textbook for sure. He had no way of knowing if it was actually advanced, but it was definitely more advanced than he’d been expecting.

She has a lot of faith in my fingers and my authority control, doesn’t she? he thought as he studied the method.

When he mastered it, the spell would create a small crushing shape around objects at close range. About the size of an apple. And the things inside it would get very crushed, since it said it could turn “even a stubborn stone” into powder.

Neat.

He tucked the book back in his magic bag and locked it, wincing again at the bite of the id chip against his sore authority. He’d been wondering how secure it really was in there. As far as he knew there wasn’t a population of dorm thieves. But on the off chance that there were, it was going to be hard, bordering on impossible, for Alden to get his hands on another auriad book of this quality if anyone stole it to sell to wizard paraphernalia collectors.

“All right, System,” he said, shoving his takeout garbage into the trash. “What would it cost to store my magic messenger bag in one of your warehouses?”

It immediately gave him a list of options, along with prices that frankly hurt.

The System warehouses held the Wardrobe items and whatever things other classes could purchase before they were sent out to their new owners. There was tons of stuff for Wrights from what Alden understood.

But it didn’t do post-purchase storage for free. And it cost even more to store things that were totally personal and not class-related. Like a bag of books. Over the course of a year, if he had the bag stored and teleported to him on a daily basis, it was going to cost like two hundred grand.

But nobody was going to rob the System of its Artonan-made goodies unless they wanted the Triplanets to take an aggressive interest in them. So it was undeniably safe. And convenient.

Maybe the bag can’t be stolen at all because of the lock. Maybe it knocks thieves out or attacks them. How do I even figure that out?

“Hey, I know you know how my magic bag works,” he said to the System hopefully. “And I respect the fact that you don’t usually answer random questions. But since it was a gift from another System, maybe you’ll tell me? Do I even need you for storage?”

It didn’t answer.

“Fine. Be that way.”

He let the System disappear the bag and the books to one of its overpriced hideaways. Then he left the apartment and headed for the elevators.

Halfway down the hall, he passed by a dark-skinned girl with long braids. She was sliding fliers under doors.

<<Stop!>> she said, whipping around to hand him a flier. <<You need us.>>

The System translated the flier for him. It turned out the Rabbit girls in Room 802 had complementary skills, and they had used them to set up their own in-apartment salon. Like Natalie, a lot of people who’d taken the class were business-minded. They were planning on their skills being a big part of their future careers, either here or for the Artonans.

Maybe that was why I was a little surprised by the others on the tour.

<<Your hair,>> said the girl, staring at Alden. <<I can help.>>

Alden smiled. “It’s that bad, huh?”

<<Asymmetrical is a fine look. But that’s too hacked up.>>

He knew it was. Met-oosa’s party haircut had required wires and gel to look good in the first place. And then it had grown out for months. It was significantly longer in some places than in others. And on top of that, he was growing a ton of new hair thanks to Rrorro.

<<You look like something bad happened to you,>> she concluded. <<I’ll fix you for free, and you can decide to pay me if you like it.>>

He’d been planning to take care of it eventually. He hadn’t even been here a week yet. “I’ll probably take you up on that.”

She looked satisfied.

He went downstairs to the counselor’s desk. Neha was there with her feet propped up, watching television on an Artonan-made tablet. Like the kind from the lab. Alden hadn’t actually seen anyone else using one on Earth before.

“Hey,” she said. She spied the flier in his hand, then glanced up at his hair. “Good choice.”

“Wow. I must be hideous.”

She snorted. “Of course not. You just look like you ran afoul of some cursed scissors. What’s up?”

“Goals,” he said. “You asked about them. I have some.”

She sat up straighter. “Do you want to duck into the counselor’s office for a private chat, or—”

“No. It’s not private. We can schedule something more in-depth for later. I just realized I do have some things I’m already sure about, and you said you usually kept track of peoples’ goals. So I wanted to tell you.”

“I’m interested. And I’m listening.”

“I want to spend the next two months living here in intake. I want to get used to life on the island and get to know people. I want to focus on settling in and prepare for what I’m going to do when I leave.”

Neha set aside her tablet. “I think that’s probably a really wise choice for you.”

It might have been. But it was also a necessity since he couldn’t really use his powers right now.

“After that,” he said, “I want to go to school.”

“You have to go to school,” she pointed out. “In some form. We’ve got lots of options. Anesidora is all about keeping new young Avowed in school and out of trouble. And using your time in intake to go through the application process is the norm. What kind of education do you want to pursue?”

“I don’t care which school it is. Or what the program is. As long as they can help me train my body and my mentality to be…let’s say stress-resistant. Or even disaster-resistant.”

It rang true as he said it. It wasn’t a big, bright life goal, like he’d had before. But it was something he actually wanted right now.

“And I need talent development. I want them to make me practice the hell out of my skill. I want to get really great at using it. I suspect it has creative applications, but it’s going to take a ton of effort to figure them all out. I could use some help.”

Neha lifted an eyebrow, but when she spoke it was in the same quick, businesslike tone she usually had.

“Okay. That’s a different take from most of our kids. Especially Rabbits. But it’s probably all doable.” She paused before adding, “I don’t actually know what your skill is. You don’t have to share your full profile, but to offer the best guidance, it would help to know what kind of power set you have.”

Alden went to Choose Persona and clicked the share button under his false profile.

Neha blinked rapidly as she read through it.

“Let Me Take Your Luggage.” She glanced up at him. “I see…that’s the one that vanished from the B-rank list early this year. No kid ever showed up on the island with it. When you came in, I wondered if it was you.”

“It vanished?”

Alden was startled, though he probably shouldn’t have been. Joe had called it “limited edition.” He hadn’t thought to read through the Rabbit skill lists since he got back home.

“You know it happens. Skills get cycled out. Either the System itself decides they’re not working well for humans, the committees decide they don’t like them, or they were experiments to start with and once someone claims them, the System is supposed to take a wait-and-see approach before releasing them more widely.”

She shrugged. “Some of them are just one-offs to start with. They’re designed for something really esoteric or special. Sometimes the Triplanets is interested in having something but not having too much of it. There was someone who got S-rank Bridge Wright around the same time you must have gotten this one. You know how old I am, and I’ve never seen that subclass float by. Although in that case, it was a brand new creation, and your skill has been on the Rabbit list for as long as I’ve been reading it.”

“It’s an object preservation skill.”

“I see that. I also see that you’re a bit of a badass.”

“I’m really not.”

“No. I’m looking at this, and I see three levels gained in six months under presumably shit conditions. Some slightly weird balancing going on between your foundation points and your levels. I guess you had strange options because you leveled without a System around?”

Among so many other things, thought Alden.

“You also really like Dexterity,” she noted. “That’s quirky.”

“Quirky?”

She smiled. “I don’t mean that as an insult. Quirky is good. I see way too many teens coming in with ‘ideal builds’ they found somewhere. And they don’t even know what they’re building themselves for. You should pick at least some of your talents because you think they’ll give you joy. Even if you do want to be ‘disaster-resistant’. You have to remember that you’re living a whole life here, inside your own skin, not designing an unbeatable video game character.”

“Noted.”

Actually, extra noted.

That seemed like advice he should make an effort to keep in mind. Now that Alden knew what skills cost there was additional pressure not to mess up with his choices. It seemed like it would be easy to reach for practical-sounding powers he hated rather than stuff he actually liked.

“Flickerer was a fun choice for an F-rank skill,” she mentioned. “I’ve only met a couple of other people with it. It gets overlooked, but temporarily breaking things is unexpectedly useful. Even if it only works on minor enchantments.”

Alden brightened. “I thought it would be good for that, too!”

He expected The Bearer of All Burdens to do a much more thorough job than a skill like Flickerer. It ought to lift any enchantment the skill was strong enough to support, not just minor ones.

But it was nice to have confirmation that people found a similar skill useful.

“Do you know if your skill preserves living things?”

“It does.”

“No damage?”

“Zero.”

“How long?”

“It depends on the thing.”

“People?”

Alden stopped himself from saying “days."

“A few hours. I have to carry them though, so small people are better.”

Neha smiled. “All right. Got it. You want to get your bearings for around two months and get your applications done during that time, and then you want to head off to a school where they make you get creative and ‘use the hell’ out of that power.”

Alden nodded.

“It sounds like you do indeed have goals. I will think about these things, call some people, and come up with ideas for you to consider.”

“Thanks.”

He turned to go.

Before he’d taken two steps, the Rabbit counselor said, “You could have just specified that you wanted to go to a high school with a hero training course, but you didn’t. Is that because that option is off the table for you?”

“No,” Alden said, staring at his blurred reflection in the elevator doors. “If the hero prep schools in Apex are the best places to help me level up my skill and gain survival know-how, it’s fine.”

“So you did know those were the places most likely to match your goals then?”

“I thought they might be.”

“All right. I ask because the culture in those is pretty unique. They’re hard on B-ranks. And on <<oddballs>>. And I don’t mean the coursework, though that’s incredibly tough, too.”

Alden glanced back at her.

She was resting her chin on a hand. “I don’t have to burst this particular bubble very often because Rabbits tend not to be big fans. But superheroes are…hmmmm…how to put it?…let’s say half of them are focused on the hero part. And half of them are focused on the super part. The ones in the first group are very nice people. The ones in the second are some of the most obnoxious on Earth. Personally, I find both types difficult to take in large doses.”

