He considered it. “You think half are in it for the glory?”

“The siren song of celebrity doesn’t skip over Avowed. If anything, it’s the opposite. And frankly the whole superhero concept is built on an unwholesome mix of necessity—thanks to the existence of superhuman criminals—and pandering. Every major city has to have its pretty little mascot team because people love watching them.”

“I understand that.”

She nodded. “Then let me tread on your dreams just a little more. Even the good ones have their flaws. It’s usually a particular kind of personality that goes to superhero school, even for the right reasons. If you don’t fit the type…”

“I don’t expect people to be perfect,” Alden said, surprised she was making such a point of it. “And right now I’m just looking for a place to teach me the stuff I need to know.”

“Okay. I’m only telling you because…the hero programs are the best at the things you just asked me for. The training portion of becoming a hero is hardcore, and it’s impossible to deny that the programs are excellent at pumping out more powerful Avowed. So, unless you want to go to arts school to become a professional gymnast—”

“A what?” Alden couldn’t hold back a laugh.

“Hey, I see these specs for balance and agility, and you want to work on your body and your mentality…have you ever met gymnasts? Super gymnasts? I’m teasing you because it’s really a career for Brutes. But you say, ‘Stress me out bad, Neha,’ and I think of those guys.”

“I said I want to be more stress-resistant,” he said.

“It’s the same thing.” She gave him a smile. “And lucky for you, you will have plenty of stress if you end up at hero prep school. Because I think you will find many of your classmates, and perhaps even a few of the more unprofessional instructors, will be inhospitable to you.”

Alden considered it. “Do you even think the really good schools will let me in?”

“The ones in Apex? They’ll let you in.”

“I know they don’t accept many B-ranks.”

“I assume you would want Celena North's feeder high school?” she said. “Unless you’re ready to jump up to college, and I don’t recommend that. The college and high school hero courses are well connected anyway, and for that kind of program in particular it’s better to stick with Avowed of your own age group. Especially if you’re weaker than them.”

“I wouldn’t mind going to the other schools. It’s just nice that Celena North classes are mostly in English. Subtitles are fine, but…you know.”

She nodded. “Hard to deal with. Especially when you’ve got groups talking over each other. Or when speed or nuance is important. CNH caps annual B-rank acceptances at 25% for most programs, but for their hero course they cap it at a generous—” she drumrolled her hands on the desk “—5%.”

“Oh, okay. I’m never getting in. I’m a Rabbit.”

“I was wondering if you knew that. But they’ll let you in. Like I said, you’re secretly a badass.”

“Because of the three levels?”

“Those are very impressive, but probably not impressive enough under normal circumstances for a Rabbit. The thing about our class is that it’s a choice. Everyone knows you wanted it when you got it because it’s easy to trade out of. Picking it tells the world you prioritize certain things. None of those things dovetail well with superhero work. Or even superhero school.”

“Right. The timers. And summons frequency. But I do have eight months off. And vacation days on top of it. And some refusals.”

“Nice break. Please make good use of it, and take care of yourself. After that…your school will just have to suck it up and deal with it. Because someone important gave you a star.”

“The commendation?” Alden frowned. “That doesn’t really have anything to do with school.”

She arched her brows at him. “The commendation for bravery from Numero Cuatro doesn’t have anything to do with getting into a hero program?”

“Did...did you just call Knight Alis-art’h ‘Numero Cuatro?’”

“The System translations for their…I don’t know what to call them—extra special champions against chaos—get pretty ridiculous. I just use what I like in the moment. I’ve seen a few of them from a distance at events. Never met one face to face, though. You can bet I’ll use my proper Artonan terminology if I do.”

She was giving him a very curious look.

“Oh,” he said, after realizing she wanted juicy details. “She was nice to me. They all were. I think.”

“All? How did you manage to encounter multiple Numeros in one half year session? I do understand it was a bad session. But I’ve spent longer on the Triplanets than just about any human you will ever meet, except for the people who’ve literally moved there. Seeing one is like sighting an endangered animal. All the other wizards in the room get odd.”

Alden scanned her face, trying to figure out if she knew why the other wizards got odd.

“Well, they are really powerful, right?” he said finally.

“So I’ve heard. I have suspicions about them, but that’s all. I think wizards are socially—hell, maybe even magically—obligated to keep silent about them outside their own class. Even teenagers will clam up if you start prying. And the regular Artonans I’ve asked seem to regard them as a separate, higher class of wizards.

“But just between you and me, I’ve always suspected that the Triplanets saved the really good talents for themselves. Why wouldn’t they? I don’t know why wizards don’t all affix something, but I assume it has to do with limiting who gets access to additional power. Whatever oaths the Numbered Ones have to swear are probably so restrictive that they exclude most of the species.”

Ah. So she…didn’t know. Not really. Alden was just guessing, but he suspected the oaths themselves weren’t that bad. And it was just the other thing that kept people from signing up for knighthood. Because it was bad enough.

He found he felt no need to clarify. Instead he said, “I guess I was lucky? I actually met a couple of them even before everything went wrong.”

It did feel really good to talk casually with someone about Artonan stuff. He hadn’t realized he’d be able to. With most people in the dorms, it would be like talking about a study abroad trip you’d taken to a country they knew nothing about.

“They were at a party,” he said. “At LeafSong University. It’s on Artona III.”

“Gotta love a Triplanets party. Also…sweet job. That’s literally their second best wizarding university. They rank schools with absurd seriousness, just like they do everything else. The first is on the Mother. LeafSong supposedly has a better climate.”

“It has a terrible climate.”

“For them,” Neha clarified.

“I sweat so much,” Alden said, leaning over the desk. “Like, there was not enough antiperspirant. I kept wondering why the hell it didn’t bother them that their human staff were all disgusting and dripping on their stuff.”

She cackled.

“It was ninety degrees Fahrenheit!” he exclaimed. “All. The. Time. The human dorm was air conditioned, but it reeked of body odor from peoples’ unwashed laundry.”

She kept laughing.

“The outfit I had to wear to do lab work was a full-length leather coat.”

“Oh my god, kid,” she said, wiping her eyes. “Stop, stop! You’ll get me started on some of mine.”

“How do you not melt?” he demanded. “I need you to tell me. You’re my Rabbit elder. It’s basic survival skills.”

“You…you…” She snorted. A couple of guys stepping off the elevator gave the two of them a strange look before they headed down the hall. “You have to suck up to a wizard who likes enchanting. Give them all of your clothes, and have them put cooling spells on them. It will save you. From pit sweat. And rashes.”

“Okay,” said Alden. “Since we’re talking about this…what is with all the drugs?”

“Don’t do them.”

“I don’t do drugs. Normally. But you get there, and they’re like, ‘Here’s a pill, human. And here’s another pill. And here’s a shot in your jugular. And here’s a dozen shots to fix what that first shot did to you.’”

“They actually have substance abuse problems,” she said. “Seriously. It’s a big issue for the wizard class. But they have to learn all of the magic chemical stuff for school so none of the ingredients are illegal. And they just really like making and taking potions themselves. And they want to share.”

Alden cleared his throat and whispered, “Also, I wanted to report it after reading my legal guide, but I didn’t know who to tell. I think maybe I committed a crime by bringing a piece of gum back with me.”

She blinked. “That would depend on what kind of gum it was,” she whispered back.

“Some kind of sensory sharing stuff. They gave it to me at the party.”

“Oh. That kind’s actually not illegal. You can keep it.”

“At first I thought it might be useful for combat training or something…”

“No,” she said.

“No?”

“Nope.” She was still whispering. “I’m sorry. But as your Welcome to Avowed Life counselor, I have to ask before you make some kind of mistake…you know what that gum is designed for, right?”

“Sharing senses?”

“Yes.”

She stared at him.

He stared back. And, very belatedly, he remembered certain implications that had been made by Joe the first time he’d asked about the gum.

“Um…so. That was indicated to me. By someone. A girl wanted to eat appetizers with me? I just thought it was one of many possible functions—”

“Maybe? But if someone of an appropriate age gave you that, they were hitting on you. Trading that gum is junior wizard flirting.” She was keeping her expression professionally blank. “I’m just trying to make sure you know, for future reference, that appetizers plus gum is a lot more suggestive than it would be at a human party.”

“Shit. I just…now I have to go to my apartment and crawl under the sofa and die.”

“Don’t feel embarrassed,” she said. “It’s a totally reasonable point of ignorance. And when you get done dying, please note that there are some educational courses about that kind of thing you can take for credit. Gustavo teaches them with one of our other counselors. They try to keep it lighthearted.”

“I’d rather not.”

“Suit yourself. But if you don’t take them here, they just make you take them as part of high school orientation.” She paused. “Welcome back to Earth. Think of it as our special way of making sure you don’t get too comfortable here.”

“Thank you,” said Alden. “I will never ever forget this conversation. Unfortunately. And you’re going to live forever and remember how dumb I am eternally. So…yeah.”

“I’ve already forgotten it.”

“Thanks.”

“I don’t even know what you’re thanking me for.”
