That got a resounding silence before Tala chuckled. “So, my husband could become Eskau of the House of Blood, with me as his weapon?” She frowned in thought. “Oh! Or Terry! My terror bird.”

“That…” The feline head tilted to the side. “That is actually a possibility. You yourself are the precedent for having a gated human as an Eskau, after all.” The cat then shivered. “The terror bird would not be possible. If I understand correctly, he is bonded to you, not the other way around, and that would negate even the smallest portion of the possibility.”

Tala nodded at that. “I suppose I can see that.”

Eskau Pallaun chuckled. “Either of those options would be solving complication with complication. And can you imagine the oddities that would come from it? Were Eskau Rane to accept a challenge, he would be bringing another combatant into the clash with him every time, one that out tiered him. No one in the other Houses would allow that to stand, even our allies would fight against it, no matter if it does hold up, legally speaking.”

Pillar Sanguis sighed. “Indeed.”

The administrator nodded. “Very well. Moving on, then. She could ‘retire’ and become an Eskau advisor, unable to participate in the jockeying of Houses, but holding the position nominally.”

Tala shook her head at that. “No. I need to be active. I need to be able to be challenged and to prove my worth, otherwise the utility that my holding this position grants to gated humanity that we’ve discussed would be greatly lessened.”

Eskau Pallaun nodded. “I agree with Eskau Tala’s assessment. She needs to be active.” He glanced toward his Pillar before adding. “Besides, the penance that we have for her would be… unseemly if she were in retirement.”

Pillar Sanguis nodded and sighed. “Agreed. What else is there?”

The cat-kin visibly swallowed. “Well, my Pillar, that… those were the five options we’d been able to find. We could shift her to the position of Pillar, as Eskau Meallain hinted in some of her missives, but as discussed, that would remove her from the ‘directly challengeble’ members of our house, thus mitigating much of the benefits we are seeking. That is assuming everything else about it was a good idea.”

The Pillar grimaced, but before he could speak, Tala cleared her throat. “What about Eskau of War? It has somewhat of a ‘Pillar flavor’ while remaining an Eskau in truth.”

Every eye turned toward her.

“In times of true war in the past, in order to maintain continuity, an Eskau could be appointed as preeminent over the forces of the House. They were below no Pillar, so that there was no ‘soft target’ for our enemies to take advantage of.”

“I am aware of what an Eskau of War is, Eskau Tala.” Pillar Sanguis steepled his fingers, clearly considering. “This is in regards to the Black Legion?”

Tala nodded. “Yes, Pillar.”

He glanced toward the still standing administrator. That man shrugged. “When researching, we were not aware of this war as a factor. If memory serves, she is correct.”

The Pillar gave the man a flat stare. “I am aware that she is correct. I know the structure of my own House.”

The round cat ears laid back atop his head as the man hunched slightly. “Yes, Pillar. My apologies.”

“How is such a one selected? That does not come to mind.”

“A vote by the Pillars, or their representatives, can appoint an existing Eskau to that position. Once appointed, however, it cannot be rescinded until the war is fully executed. Otherwise, it is a lifetime posting. Such an Eskau is considered Eskau to the entire House and not a specific Pillar. As such, she is not under the direct authority of any. It is a position rivaling the Head of House in power, authority, and prestige.”

“Are there ever multiple Eskau of War? I seem to recall…” The Pillar was frowning in thought.

“In the same House? Only if they are executing simultaneous, non-overlapping wars. I believe it has only occurred once, during the War of Houses.”

That got a grunt in return, but Pillar Sanguis was nodding. “I think this might be an acceptable position for her to assume.”

Tala cocked an eyebrow. “You would give me such power within the House?”

He grinned at her, clearly breaking out of his contemplative mood. “Girl, even when you were an unwilling member of our House, you strove for our House’s good, and achieved it across the board. Now? When you willingly return to us with much to gain and little to nothing to lose? I almost fear for the other Houses, were you to gain such a posting.”

She considered for a long moment. “Alright. What is to be done?”
