“Needlework is a noble pursuit that turns one’s dreams into reality!” he boldly proclaimed, leaving off the fact that he only knew how to sew in order to make cosplay. Costumes for himself, but more importantly, for his female friend, who was happy to wear anything he made for her, no matter how trashy the waifu—ahem, the earnestly developed female character. Others, less devoted to the cause, might not appreciate the depths he delved to see the trashy characters he loved brought to life, but they were simply those who didn’t fully understand his purpose. If he didn’t personally make the costumes, who would? No one wanted to put time and effort into being one of his favorite trash-tier characters.

His female friend… Rhys paused for a moment, trying to bring her name to mind. Of all people, she deserved to be remembered, but just like his own name, her name slipped his mind. He scowled. Were all names from his world impossible to recall in this one? Was that some kind of law of the world?

Ah, well. A pity about her, but that wasn’t important right now. He needed to get these bags made posthaste.

“Brings one’s dreams into reality,” Bast muttered, running his hands over the fabric. His brows knitted, and he tilted his head back the other way.

Rhys nudged him. “C’mon, get those scissors moving. We need to get these done before the tournament kicks off at dawn.”

“We going to be out here all night?” Bast asked, lifting the scissors.

“Not if you move fast,” Rhys returned with a grin.

“Challenge accepted.”

The two of them settled down in the trash heap and got to work. After a while, Bast took up a needle and thread too, once the rectangles had accumulated far beyond Rhys’ ability to sew them together. Rhys gave him a few pointers, and Bast joined him in stitching. The bags took form. They were nothing fancy, just two rectangular squares sewn together, with a long shoulder strap attached at either end. If they were placed in a shop, next to properly made bags, they’d fall flat, both literally and in terms of quality. But at the spur of a moment, in a strange place, to commemorate a rare event? They were pretty and flashy, with bright colors and fine fabric. Everything they needed to sell like hotcakes.

Dawn rose, and Rhys rose with a yawn to stretch and greet the rising sun. He’d used a drop of the mana potion to get through the night, and for all that, felt way better than any of his all-nighters he’d pulled on energy drinks and sheer will. In fact, he had the sneaking suspicion that if he managed to absorb a little more mana and circulate it all the time, he might not need to sleep at all.

He was up to four drops of mana now. Not a respectable amount, by any means, but the point was: his capacity was growing. The training regime was working. He barely felt feverish when he used mana anymore, even when he circulated the full capacity of four drops. Overnight, he’d gained the Sewing skill and leveled it up to 5. The rest of his skills had somewhat stalled out. He suspected that he had hit a bottleneck of sorts, or an EXP slowdown. Basically, if this was a game, then he no longer could gain full EXP by farming in the starting area. He needed a more difficult region to level up at the same rate.

…Or something like that, anyways. In any case, his objective for now was to level up his gold, not his skills, so he didn’t mind so much. Once he’d tapped out all the resources here, then he’d move on, but not a moment sooner. And he especially didn’t want to move on while such a rare opportunity was presenting itself, in the form of the tournament.

He looked over their stock. Two health potions and one mana potion to sell, plus twenty bags. Not too shabby. Rhys collected all the bags and slung them over his shoulder, then stopped. He looked at Bast.

Mid-yawn, Bast could only raise his brows. “What?” he asked at last, when he could finally speak normally again.

“Do you want this?” Rhys asked, offering him the mana potion.

“Huh? Why?”

“I… I’ve found mine to be an incredible training aid. I wouldn’t want to withhold the same from you,” Rhys said.

Bast looked at him, then laughed. He thumped Rhys on the back. “Rhys!”

“Er, what?” Rhys asked, a bit at a loss about what was so funny.

Bast shook his head. “I don’t think a mana potion works as a training aid for anyone but you. I’ve seen you sneaking drops of your potion. If I were to do the same, I’d gain nothing. Even if I drank that whole mana potion right now, I’d only refill my mana. Sell it! If you’re offering it to me for my sake, then know that it’s worth more to me as gold than as a mana potion.”

“Oh,” Rhys muttered to himself. He’d almost forgotten how trashy his stats were. Of course Bast would laugh at such a suggestion. Even untrained Bast could absorb mana smoothly and in great quantities. It was only Rhys who struggled to absorb mana, and had such low limits he had to rely on the mana potion to slowly expand his mana limits.

And then his eyes shimmered. Resolve built in his chest. He was trash now, but he wouldn’t be forever. It was only right for the god of trash to start trashy! If he feared such things as being weaker than others, he wouldn’t be here at all. It was starting weak that gave him the strongest desire to grow strong. There was no fun at all in being powerful from the get-go. The thrill came in finding the skills everyone else overlooked, and combining them together to make a truly overwhelmingly powerful build! So what if he had trash stats? If he gave up, then he truly became trash. Trash stats were only trash for now. He’d grow them. Grow more powerful. And then everyone else would have to appreciate the trash that he was, whether they wanted to or not.

He thumped Bast on the shoulder, reinvigorated. “What do you say? Let’s go sell some bags.”

Bast nodded, and the two of them set out for the arena in the center of town.
