Blinking, he found Matt just a foot away with his eyes glued into the skill shard in his hand.

“Do you know what you just did?”

Like a spell was broken, a murmur broke out as everyone started talking at once but Ra’thala was just thoroughly confused.

He had just done what was asked of him.

Wiggling the skill gem, he responded, “I created the skill for you all as you asked. It was a bit more difficult making it in an outside source, but it's quite handy if someone else can absorb it later. Or even just view it without absorbing it.”

Matt laughed, but it had an edge Ra’thala couldn't place. It wasn’t anger or anything targeted at him, but there was something there nonetheless.

His worry evaporated when Matt grinned at him. “Ra’thala, when we mentioned making the skill, we meant for you to make the skill in your spirit and then push the skill out of your spirit as if you were discarding a skill. With a blank skill shard in hand, you can safely eject it inside.”

Ra’thala blinked his confusion. “Eject a skill? Why would you do that? I didn’t even know that was possible.”

That caused another stir, but even as they reacted, Ra’thala realized that it should indeed be possible, just unimaginably wasteful. But for a people who absorbed skills instead of creating them, it was entirely possible for them to fill up their spirit with skills.

Matt dumped a bag of blank skill shards into the air where they floated on display, as Ra’thala started to understand what was going on. “These are almost considered trash. They are, or rather were, damn near useless for anyone who didn’t want to transfer a skill. No one had ever tried to create a skill inside of one. Not successfully at least. After seeing you do it, we obviously started trying for ourselves.”

Looking up from the floating skills, Matt met Ra’thala’s eyes and asked, “Unless your method is somehow safer, what happens when you mess up creating a skill?”

Ra’thala winced but answered. “Spiritual damage. It is both painful and takes a long time to heal. It can also make breaking through to the next Realm harder, and in some cases, impossible until the damage is fully healed. Which takes longer than being healed well enough to fight normally.”

Everyone he knew had messed up at some point, and it was a lesson that was taught the first time. Creating a skill was to be done carefully in small steps, and preferably in secluded meditation for good reasons.

Ra’thala watched as Matt started carving inside a skill gem he grabbed. “All true for us. Except, when you fail when working inside a blank skill shard. Which is something none of us have succeeded in even while watching you.”

As he said, the skill structure fell apart, taking the skill shard with it. Crystal turned into dust and then into nothing, but there was no wince of pain or discomfort as the skill creation failed.

Ra’thala opened his mouth before shutting it. Reaching for another skill shard, he deliberately failed in the creation of a skill and watched as the shard fell apart without any harm to himself.

“I thought you wanted me to make the skill in the shard and knew something I didn’t. I figured the difficulty of making the skill was why your people didn’t do it often.”

Matt barked a laugh. “You surprised us, that's for sure. No one in the Realm knows of this, or if they do, they aren’t sharing. And I’ve checked sale records, no one is buying lots of skill shards, so I doubt there is anyone really using this to their advantage. And frankly, no one really develops new skills in this Realm.”

Ra’thala could only smile that he had even inadvertently shown, or possibly taught, these people something new.

It felt good and put him on more of a level playing field. Part of him wanted to keep his method to himself but that would be cruel with so many eager and expectant faces after all the kindness he’d been shown and it was obvious why they were failing and so he explained his method in detail to the eager listeners.

That seemed to open the floodgates as nearly everyone in the room started asking him questions at the same time, but they instantly stopped as Matt held up a hand.

All except Erwin, the man who had spoken earlier. While everyone else had what Ra’thala would call a healthy fear of the Ascender, Erwin seemed oblivious that he was ignoring the man's clear instruction.

From the bemused and tolerant expression on Matt’s face, Ra’thala put together that they had a history together, which was both why he could get away with such acts and why he was the only one.

“The skill you created. I’ve been analyzing the structure Matt sent over and watched you create it. Why did you create this extension before the surrounding area? It just seems to get in the way. Why not create it after the surrounding protrusion?”

Ra’thala reviewed what Erwin was saying and nodded in agreement. “That would be a more advanced method. The protrusion creates an area of stability that makes all of the smaller, more delicate work that follows easier. That's why we make all four of those platforms first. It's possible to not make them, as they aren’t needed for the function of the spell, and if I was recreating this skill for my personal use I wouldn’t bother. But I’m making a show model, so I followed standard practice for all novitiates.” Feeling the word wasn’t exactly the one he wanted, he surged his cultivation to speed up his perception and searched through a few dictionaries for what he wanted. “Novices.”

The first question answered opened the floodgates, and Ra’thala answered a few more questions, quickly sketching out a few more generalistic skill patterns that were commonly used by low Tiers in his world.

Of special interest was the basic [Fury of the Blade] that he had started with, a [Draw Heat of the Stars] that coated one’s blade with fire, a variation of that same skill that sent out a small dart of flame called [Sun Flare], and [Star in My Hand] which conjured a small plate-sized shield of mana on the caster’s hand.

There were more, but those four were the ones that the actual team members selected to work on the skill project were most interested in.

Ra’thala had half expected all of the people there to be working on the project, but as it turned out, most of them just wanted to see a new discovery in the making, as he accidentally showed everyone what blank skill shards could be used for.

Which was a question he had to ask. “When you say the skill shards are useless, what is going to happen now that they have a use?”

Matt made a gesture Ra’thala didn’t quite follow. “The price will rise once we release the information. Eventually it will stabilize and new rifts will be created that regularly drop blank skills, as well as popularizing the rifts that already drop them. Currently, most blank skill shard rifts are just destroyed and recreated to have a more useful drop.”

Having heard about that, Ra’thala asked about the rift creation methods and was given the promise of a full walkthrough once they were done getting the teams started.

A process Ra’thala didn’t fully understand until Matt explained.

His people were going to take what he had taught them and iterate upon it using their own methodologies, trying to standardize and simplify the skill creation method.

When Ra’thala asked if Matt had any hope that they would succeed, because he doubted it, as the skills had been boiled down over tens of thousands of iterations in his realm to reach the widest audience, the Ascender simply shrugged. “What does it matter if they fail?”

Ra’thala was baffled at the question. “But the costs? I heard you allocate a number of resources to them that I admittedly don’t have context for, but if those Tier 30s are excited for the resources, that indicates it’s costly enough they couldn't gather it themselves, and therefore valuable. If that value is wasted, won’t you be upset? My method at least works and can be shared immediately at no cost.” Realizing how that sounded, he added, “Not that I believe my methods can’t be improved upon, but it seems wasteful.”

“Okay, but what does it matter if they fail?” Matt just repeated his question, which forced Ra’thala to reconsider his position.

Finally he gave up. “I don’t know. They fail and waste the resources and time.”

“Yeah, but is that such a bad outcome? Sure, I might lose some money, some time where those researchers could be doing something else, and it delays the rollout of the idea. But out of those outcomes, the only one that really bothers me is the last one. So what if it wastes resources? It's just money. Money can be made, time would be used no matter what they were doing. But the possible reward is something that can let the poorest people make up for their own lacking wealth by spending some of their time. Most people in our Realm don’t delve, but there are a number of people who do. Ninety nine percent of them start by buying either normal weapons or, if they are magically inclined, magical wands that cast specific spells. They are a money sink, so not everyone can afford them. But everyone has time. For those without money but willing to dedicate some time each day to making a skill, even a skill that is slightly larger than normal, they can get not only a leg up, but something that will advance with them, instead of needing to be replaced every few Tiers.”

Matt paused for a minute before he continued. “Realistically, the skills will break into something like five percent of the target audience, but even that is enough for me to try. The blank skill stuff is way cooler in my opinion, but will probably be limited to research. I know Liz would love to test some of her more esoteric skill ideas without risk, but others will follow in her footsteps, and who knows what else will come out of the discovery? So yeah, I’m willing to roll the dice and spend an inordinate amount of resources in the hopes we can create an even simpler skill. My people don’t have much experience in creating skills outright, like yours, but we do have extensive experience in modifying them. I’m hoping by mixing the two together, we can make something better.”

Ra’thala was about to respond when Matt gestured outward. “I didn’t have much growing up, but I had chances and opportunities. One of my goals has been to help everyone.”

“Creating more ladders.”

Matt looked at him oddly and Ra’thala realized he spoke in his native language, and so explained the saying to which Matt nodded.

“Exactly.”

Grinning, Matt tapped his temple. “Also, you should check your [AI]. I reported your finding to the Emperor, and he has seen fit to reward you. Normally, that would only be if you decided to share the discovery, but it was so public that the cat is out of the bag. Credit will still be given to you, or your name can be left out of it.”

A quick peek had shown that the Emperor had already been very generous with his reward, and no matter the laws of this land, wealth put a target on one's back.

Ra’thala’s pride liked the idea of his name being attached to the discovery, but he shook his head. “I’ll take the anonymity if it's all the same.”

Matt laughed and agreed, before clapping his hands together and rubbing them. “Okay, the next stop is the enchanters. They want to go over every rune you know so they can see if anything is worth iterating on. This is fun, isn't it?”

Ra’thala couldn't help but agree: It was fun.
