Rozeta could not delegate the Script’s demands to any lesser powers. She could not give that power to mortals. That would be the height of foolishness. Worse than giving Erick’s new [Physical Domain] to everyone who had an extra 9 points!

“… Dammit, dad, now you got me thinking.”

And so, while Rozeta worked, she thought of what would go into the Script 2.0.

“Bah!” Rozeta mocked, “Buh buh buh ‘Have I seen Jane’s computer? Have I looked at the ‘car’?’ buh buh buh.” She harrumphed. “Insulting, is what it is! Nothing but insults from that decrepit old man. And what a foolish idea! An untended manaminer? In this Cosmology! What hubris!”

- - - -

Erick and Jane arrived back at the temporary base to find Poi and Teressa both still asleep. Neither of them had heard the sound of his new ‘explosion Domain’, so Erick woke them both and explained what had happened. Poi rapidly suggested they move base. So they did.

In a new spot a good hundred kilometers away from the first, and more inland, dinner was fish again, but this time with rice. Erick had a container of extra seeds in his bag that Tenebrae had been kind enough to leave him with, even though he took many of Erick’s magical supplies, so with rice in hand, Erick soon had rice in paddies. He even used filtered seawater to grow the plants. No need to alert people to their location by changing the weather, no matter how brief.

He practiced changing the natural color of his magic for a while. Mostly, it was easy; all you needed was a bit of Mana Altering, and Erick had done this much when he was creating his new All-All-Stat rings and belt, back during Shadow’s feast. The hardest part was getting Ophiel to be magenta instead of white. That took a good hour.

But soon, Ophiel was a bright magenta. It was a great color, actually, but it was also a very incani color.

The color of an incani’s magic usually laid somewhere between red and blue, with a great many of them having magic that was an offshoot of purple, and with a heavy correlation with their skin color. Humans tended to have ‘natural colors’ as some would say; blue, red, yellow, green, white, black. Dragonkin almost always had magic signatures the same color as their scales, but usually a brighter hue, and some of them had metallic-looking magic. Orcols were greens, browns, and greys. Wrought were as varied as the people they resembled, but also with metallic accents in their mana signatures.

And so, Erick’s ‘incani’ color led the team to decide on some cover stories. Erick would be a demi, or half-incani, as some would say, or, half-human, as others would say. Horns were unnecessary; some demis looked exactly like humans, or incani. No one but the most rude of people would ask for proof, either, but everyone would recognize him as a demi, since he had a human look to him, but magenta magic, and that was not a normal human magical color. If anyone did ask for proof, he was well within his rights to tell them to fuck off.

He would likely need to tell people to fuck off quite a bit, but with his Avowed Pacifist Silver Star on his chest, and claiming to be a demi, he would mostly be off of the radar for casual fights, which seemed to be a normal occurrence between Clans in Nelboor.

And that was another thing. They had finalized the idea of pretending to be an insular clan, out exploring the world for the first time.

Jane would likely get a lot more challenges than Erick, but being in Erick’s company would likely drive off most obvious warmongers, for he would still step in as Jane’s father, even if he looked too young for the part.

They’d have to come up with new names for everyone, though…

Jane readily immersed herself into the idea of false identities, coming up with false backgrounds for everyone, and false names, too. Teressa happily joined in, though Poi remained on the periphery of the whole ‘false identity’ thing happening all around him.

From what he saw, Erick suspected that Poi had some issue with him pretending to be demi, but Erick didn’t poke too hard at that revelation, and Poi didn’t seem too put out about the discussion happening all around him. As the discussion slowed down, Poi agreed that the ideas paraded around were good ideas. Being a demi was a good cover story. Erick would need to put a lightward over his Silver Star to make it look less like silver crystal and more like plain silver, though, but that was just a detail; one of hundreds that would need to be accounted for, and that would likely fail fast enough. This was Erick’s first time out pretending to be something besides an archmage, after all.

Night fell. Eventually, everyone slept.

While they slept, Ophiel patrolled, flickering his magenta eyes across the world, looking for trouble.

When Erick awoke, Ophiel reported on the many events that had happened while he slept. There was lightning on the horizon! Some bugs ate some other bugs in the dunes! Fish swam in the ocean! There were crabs on the beach!

In other words, nothing had happened. Erick patted Ophiel, told him he was a good boy, then waved to Yggdrasil’s [Scry] orb. He got up and recast his [Personal Ward] as magenta, and went about the normal business of being the first awake.

The sun rose across the dunes, heralding the start of another bright day, as Erick made a stir fry breakfast out of leftover fish and rice and sweetsauce.

As they got ready to move on, Erick remembered something. He went to his bag and found what he was looking for. A small container of potion dyes, meant for the eyes. Cyan, magenta, yellow, black, and white. They would last for 26 hours, and one drop per eye was all you needed. Erick used his lightform to quickly mix a drop of magenta and a drop of white, and then poked himself in the eyes with the new color. He blinked several times. He looked at his own eyes with an extension of his lightform. Bright pink irises looked rather fetching, actually.

Jane looked at his eyes, too. “Looking chuuni, dad.”

“… Middle School Syndrome?” Erick asked, “Did I remember that right?”

Jane snickered and waved it off, saying, “Looks good. Very pink. Your disguise is complete.”

Erick smiled. “And it won’t come off in a [Cleanse], either!”
