“Eh… Maybe. But, no. I want this completely separate from lightform.” Erick said, “It’ll be a [Particle Domain Aura], or whatever it ends up being called.”

“Light is a particle,” Jane teased.

“… A valid point.” Erick said, “But, no. I want to be able to see through this magic; Not blind myself. And I don’t want there to be any elemental conversion shenanigans that other people can exploit. Adding [Stillness] would create way too much light.”

“Fair enough. It was just an idea, anyway.” Jane poked him with another finger full of dark blue magic. “Whatever the case, if you don’t like what you make, you can always remake it in ten days.” She went back toward her protective space, saying, “Good luck!” just before ducking back into safety.

Erick smiled at his daughter, then he turned back toward the water. He breathed. He held up a hand and began channeling mana through his new spells, to check to see if his new auras made any unintended sounds different from his Particle Spells. He expected static, just like all of his other Particle spells.

His eyes went wide, as his ears, and his soul, heard sounds that were not static.

There was an underlying calmness to [Normalize Aura]. A unifying density to [Harmonize Aura]. A rising tension, in [Amplify Aura]. And finally, some jazz-like oddity to the ordered chaos that was [Discord Aura]. Erick laughed a little. What a happy accident! He wasn’t particularly fond of Jazz, but he liked the sound of [Discord Aura].

With a thought, Erick had four Ophiel flutter down to stand with him on the beach. Each one took a part of the new magic, and each one helped to bring them all together. With a ringing joy in his heart, Erick cast.

A vibrancy filled Erick’s aura, spreading out like a symphony, touching the world, and turning it all more solid. He snapped his fingers, and a controlled gong broke the beach under his feet, splashing away water and flinging dirt in every direction as shockwaves crashed from his whole body. The crater was only a five-meter-wide crater, but Erick was standing on air again.

He flexed. The crater expanded.

He pulled back, turning on Discord. Sand flowed like water, into the space it had been before. Erick pulled back his whole aura, like a breath withheld. The world turned normal as his feet met the sand, again. He walked, like normal—

And he fell over, falling into the sand like it was made of air, all the way up to his chest. He cut his aura, instantly.

… And now, he was stuck in the sand. One arm was completely submerged, the other free to flail around. His mouth was barely above the surface and the beach pressed in from all sides like a tight blanket. Erick couldn’t help but laugh, and so he did.

Jane stepped out of her safe space, saying, “Don’t fall too far down! You don’t have [Stone Body]!”

Jane didn’t get a chance to get close enough to help. Erick just turned to light and stepped out of the dirt.

He spread his arms, indicating that everything was fine, saying, “There’s a learning curve.” He looked around. “Now where’s that box. It’s taking its sweet time—”

A blue box appeared.

Physical Domain, instant, super large area, aura, 5 mana per second

<Produce a myriad of Physical effects.>

Erick hummed, then handed the box to Jane, saying, “Something tells me that there are hidden depths to that tiny description.” He glanced at his other, really good Domain, and then at his third Domain, which read differently than how it used to read.

Lodestar, instant, close range, aura, 1 mana per second

Shine Timeless Brilliance.

All of your Light effects are supercharged, and difficult to corrupt.

All of your Light effects require 10x more mana to Dispel.

Your Light effects are uncorruptible and undispellable while they exist inside your Lodestar.

Domain of the Withering Slime, instant, super long range, aura, 2 MP per second

Provide an anchor for the Withering Slime to exist on your world.

Slightly empower all physical damage dealt when in use.

Particle Mage Only.

[Domain of the Withering Slime] did not have that ‘Slightly empower all physical damage dealt when in use.’ until recently, until Particle Magic was integrated into the Open Script and all those alpha-spell carets in all of Erick’s spells got removed, and the spells were adjusted to be closer to what they actually were. He hadn’t experimented too much with his Withering Domain since then, but he suspected that the ‘revealed attribute’ had actually always been there, it was just unnoticeable. A lot of magic had effects that weren’t listed in their little blue boxes, like the Restful space of [Prismatic Ward] making [Duplicate]d metals automatically be ‘wrought quality’, and ready for enchanting. Particle magic had more ‘hidden effects’ than most. [Condense Hydrogen], [Condense Oxygen], and [Condense Carbon], was just one such trio of spells with untold secrets.

Erick handed over the other two Domains to Jane, saying, “[Physical Domain] obviously has hidden depths.”

Jane read the three boxes, then dismissed them saying, “Maybe [Physical Domain] needs [Stillness]. And then you should add [Domain of Light].”

“I had considered [Stillness] and all of that—” Erick said, “The idea is to have separate powers, though. Why combine everything?”

Jane shrugged. “I’m combining everything these days and it feels nice to switch through Elements as fast as I can make them. [Illusionshape]. [Gloomshape]. [Plasmashape]. I made them all. Just the other day, I started practicing with [Prismatic Body] and using Shape spells to pull those aspects out of me, and then cast them away like minor [Fireball] like effects. You just wrap them up tight and then throw them at a target. It’s all exceedingly clunky and none of it works that well. Most Elements are about as useful as bonking monsters with an active [Stoneshape].” She said, “But some are great.”

Erick happily said, “I want to see! I didn’t know you were doing this.”

Jane blushed a little, looking embarrassed, then she said, “Okay. Here. Watch.”

Jane turned to a rainbow watercolor, then stepped to the side, and pointed down the beach. A dark fragment of her radiance flung away like a spreading blot of— Ah! It was Elemental Gloom. A mix of Shadow and Air. Gloom spread like, well, gloom, quickly expanding into a large blot of wispy shadows that drifted away on the wind like so much smoke.

And then Erick frowned. “Ah. I just realized. I know what it feels like to [Lightshape] my own lightform, even if those feelings have been secondary and mostly experienced through Ophiel.” Ophiel chirped in flutes, agreeing with him; it was painful! Erick asked, “Doesn’t that hurt, Jane? Like, a lot?”

Jane returned to her body, and said, “Not really. It’s a small pinch from the whole. I tried this with [Greater Shadowalk] and yes, that is painful if you do it wrong, but if you do it right, then you can make all sorts of strange effects, like shadow spears and whatnot.” She gestured to the spreading gloom, saying “And now I have shadowed air to move around in, but I didn’t have to make the spell first. I can do the same with plasma for an explosion-like effect, or fires to start a fire, or sand to throw in a monster’s face. [Lightningshape] is a bit… uncontrollable at the moment. But I’ll get that one right, soon enough. [Prismatic Body] is every Element, and those Elements come back fast enough.”

“Is this useful, though?” Erick said, “I remember seeing you in your [Greater Shadowalk] and spearing wyrms with a bit of [Shadowshape] to start off the process. Why not work on getting [Greater Prismatic Body], and all of this… self-injuring Shaping would be a lot more effective. And not so injurious.” He added, “And besides. The Shaping spells make those elements weightless and non-injuring until you let them go, which just screams of danger, to me.”

Jane said, “It’s not that useful right now, and a [Stoneshape] released above a monster still does a lot of damage, but I’ve only been trying for a few days. And I can only sustain [Prismatic Body] for ten minutes. It’s been difficult to understand how to upgrade it to ‘Greater’.”

Erick asked, “Did you upgrade to [Greater Lightwalk], yet?”

Jane instantly turned reluctant. She frowned. “… Not yet.”

Erick pressed on, saying, “I probably can’t help you with [Prismatic Body], but I know I can help you with [Greater Lightwalk]. I helped Kiri with some advice, but I can do a lot more than advice.”

Jane glanced down and away, frowning. Then she looked up, right at Erick, and said, “Okay. I’d take some help with that.”

Erick smiled wide. “Great!” He cast a bit of [Stoneshape] to create two stone seats on the beach, facing each other. He sat down, saying, “Come! Come, sit.”

Erick began to glow with light, and the world seemed to glow with him, humming alongside him as he sat across from the seat which would eventually hold his daughter, if she would hurry it up! He was happy that she was letting him help her, and happy that she had helped him with her healing spells while he was… injuring himself. But none of those temporary, fleeting joys compared to the bliss of just being here, in the moment, with the person he loved most in the universe.

Jane… sat down across from her father, and turned on her own lightform.

Where Erick’s form was almost an exact copy of himself, but brighter, Jane’s was herself, but darker, lighter blue.

Erick began at the beginning.

He said, “Feel the world around you, and the light of it all.”

“This is so weird, dad,” Jane mumbled.

“Come on now! Give in to the New Age thinking!” Erick teased, “Or maybe, pretend I’m a massive dragon and you’re a little spider.”

Jane laughed. “Careful, dad. He might hear you.”

“Bah.” Erick said, “Of course he can. He’s listening right now, I am sure! But whatever. Now, do as I say.”

Jane smirked, briefly, then wiped that emotion from her lightform and raised her head and soaked in the sun, glowing just a bit brighter, but not much. She had a blockage of some sort, for sure.

Erick channeled [Greater Lightwalk] into the world, and shifted his sight outside of himself, for while Jane was a body of light locked into her imagined form, Erick was a being of brilliance much larger than the small lightform sitting on the stone seat below. He regarded the lightform of his daughter, and then he shifted his own lightform a little, matching hers, but not completely.

Erick’s white core tinged with blue. Jane’s dark core of herself responded, glowing white, glowing brighter.

This too, was a resonance. Exactly the kind of resonance that Erick had worked with all this time, in matching various pieces of spells to other pieces of other spells, and driving the resulting spell to higher heights.

Pulses of radiance echoed from father to daughter, granting her a semblance of a secret that he had understood, but she had not.

Erick saw the exact moment that something clicked inside Jane’s soul. Changes radiated throughout her whole lightform. The dark blue light of her lightform shifted, becoming brighter, becoming bluer, but not changing too much at all, as instead, Jane expanded.

- - - -

Jane felt her soul shift.

She was the light, and the light was so much more than what it had been.

Jane opened her eyes.

In a way that normally only happened when she was her shadowform, Jane was under the ocean, swimming alongside fishes. She played in the grass, watching as the sun soaked into the green. She was in the sky, flying with Ophiel. And she was also sitting across from her father, who was currently beaming with pride and a lot of white light, and a bit of blue.

She smiled, and came back to herself, to her too-small physical self.

A blue box appeared.

Greater Lightwalk, instant, long range, 10 MP per second + Variable

You are the radiant day.

Jane laughed loud, and then her father was there with his arm draped over her shoulder, singing her praises. She shoved him off, playfully, speaking of how it wasn’t a big deal.

And yet, it was.

- - - -

Erick stood on the beach, watching his daughter play with shadows and light about thirty meters away. She had gotten [Greater Lightwalk]. All it took was some resonant harmony between his own glowing lightform, and hers. It was magical. It was easy.

Well. It was not easy. Helping Kiri had been ‘easy’. All Kiri needed was a few hints. Helping Jane had been… A good workout. Erick would not delude himself into thinking his experiences were the experiences of everyone in the world. What he had just done had taken a lot of magical knowledge, strung together through a myriad of experiences, and a great deal of control, in order to—

She called out, “You can start experimenting, too! I’m watching!”

Erick smiled, then started his own experimenting.

[Physical Domain].

Nothing happened, and then, tiny ripples flowed from his skin, into the world. Resonance built, because Erick let it, quickly becoming gongs that heralded the start of the shockwaves.

Erick adjusted his aura, letting the shockwaves happen well outside of his body, while keeping his body safe. It was an almost instinctual reaction that he had yet to understand, but he would. The gonging sounds lessened, as he fiddled with his new power. Soon, he could hear the world outside of him like he wasn’t the center of a constant producer of pressure waves.

He lifted his foot from the sand, and he stepped forwar—

His foot sunk. He caught himself.

But his shockwaves suddenly grew even larger, pulsing across dunes and disturbing sand, and racing across the waves, kicking cresting waves into mist. [Physical Domain] continued out much further than was comfortable at the moment.

