

He dismissed the spell.

A blue box appeared.

Expandable Hasted Shelter, instant, close range, 500 + Variable

Multiply the subjective time of a large area to a variable degree, or expand the area of an existing cast. If one section breaks, the spell will contract, and not fully break.

Base version is 1 hour of subjective time in 1 minute.

500 points of damage to the barrier will break the effect. Always Restful. Always Cleansing.

Pretty much the same as before, but now it was ‘Expandable’, and Erick had even managed to work in that part about not fully breaking if one section broke.

Which was great!

… But the spell was rather a great deal stronger timewise than it needed to be, if they were only going to do 48 hours of partying in 12 hours of real time. With this, Erick could have 30 days of a party inside a single night.

… Had Tania Webwalker’s ‘hasted shelter’ spell, that covered the entirety of Ar’Kendrithyst, been weaker in strength? No. Obviously not. Obviously it had simply been tuned more for area, and less for density of time. Was Erick’s own spell a problem?

… No. They would have a normal night until midnight, and then Erick could cast [Expandable Hasted Shelter] and seal everyone into the party, rapidly filling the House with this magic. And then, from midnight to 1 am, they could have 60 hours of time to do whatever they wanted. Good. Yes. That… Could work.

He could keep going with this magic, though; add in some Undertow and such—

Oh!

No. He wasn’t going to make this magic drain the people inside in order to keep working longer. That seemed like… A really bad idea. REALLY bad, actually.

But Erick’s stray Undertow thoughts knocked loose some other magic he had been meaning to make for a while. Not a combo of all this other ‘party time enabling magic’, but something far more useful. A generalized Undertow, able to extract mana from donors from one side, and through a [Renew], empower any magics on the other side. He hadn’t actually put that magic together yet, and now was a good time to do so—

As a few Ophiel came together and started to sing, Erick realized that this spell was likely larger than most of the magics he had ever made. He stopped Ophiel’s song. He restarted.

Had to do this right, remaking all of this particular magic from the very beginning, Basic Tier, and he had to write everything down so that future generations could do this magic right, too. After a few false starts with wording, Erick got some paper and wrote down his thoughts… Mostly.

It starts with a set of magic controlled.

A [Renew] laid down to form the base mold.

Then comes Abyss to pull mana and hold

in a [Ward] made of Drain, the mana will fold

into self-made creations; eternal stronghold.

The base form is set, conditions are laid;

take all you’ve made, and now start to braid.

The Abyss plunges far, drawing mana down deep.

Collapsed shadow to star! Light bleeds, it doth creep

In the form of [Renew] laid down at the first

powering self and others, here now, determinant.

It’ll work well now that you’re magically versed

And capable of making power that’s Permanent.

It wasn’t a poem Erick sang to the mana. It was a primer for people, and therefore it was purposefully cryptic.

It was also rather unnecessary, considering the whole point of [Renew] was that anyone could buy that and use that to directly power any other magics out there; that was how Erick had created that magic, after all. But with this Erick could set out a ‘charging station’ for his eventual city-wide runic web, that would eventually be powering all the city…

Oh. He could go a bit further, couldn’t he?

Erick’s grin went wide as he laughed a little, happily aware of what his next spell would look like; what it could do.

He lined up some Ophiel and they sang with him.

Seconds later, a spellform popped into existence.

The base nature of the magic was a blot of cold shadows in the air, and a tiny pinprick of light in the center. It almost looked like Erick’s [Undertow Star], all made of tendrils of shadow and hovering above the ground, but in a much, much smaller form. It was only about a meter across. This spell was only tier 2, as Erick had started from the base creation of his Undertow effect and added [Renew] right at the beginning. This was because he had needed to start over. All his other Undertow spellworks had been much too specialized already, and this was the spellwork he imagined many, many other people would attempt to replicate in the many, many years to come.

The blue box for the spell was taking a while to come through.

So Erick got to experimenting. He had an Ophiel hover near the shadowy tendrils and, almost lazily, the tendrils began to touch Ophiel. This was a subdued version of this spell; not fast acting at all. At least not right away. As glowing lights flowed from Ophiel into the ball of shadows, the light at the center of those shadows began to glow brighter and brighter—

The tendrils released Ophiel; the spell was fully—

Node of the Renewing Undertow, instant, super long range, 500 mana + Variable

Conjure a node that you can further direct to Renew spellwork within line of sight of the node. Nodes once linked to other spellwork will continue to Renew that spellwork until told otherwise, or until that spellwork is fully powered.

Ethereal. Permanent. Self-recreating, if part of a network.

10,000 base mana containment.

10,000 extra mana containment per 500 initial mana invested.

Erick smiled. That was a good blue box.

He summoned another [Node of the Renewing Undertow] a hundred meters away from the first. For a few seconds the two Nodes just hovered where he had placed them. And then, with an easy-to-understand, almost instinctual feeling, he directed the two Nodes to link.

A thin beam of light shot from the mana-filled-Node and struck the shadows of the new Node. Erick had Ophiel move away from the first Node as he watched that first Node pour ethereal power into the second. The first Node dimmed. The second Node brightened.

They rapidly equalized.

This, now, was a runic web, but in spell form.

No need for metal at all—

“Oh!” Erick chuckled a little, then said to Ophiel, “This is probably the supremely easy version of whatever they got going on in Ar’Cosmos with Redflame’s nodes.” Ophiel twittered. Erick nodded, then looked to his Node, saying, “… Maybe I should expand my own Gate Space, too? That space is also called a ‘node’.”

… But where, though?

He only had one Gate Space out there right now. Every single Yggdrasil guarded a main entrance to that singular Gate Space.

Erick needed to double up on Gate Spaces, for sure, just in case something happened to the original. It was only… Hmm. How much did it cost to make a new Gate Space node? Erick brought up the box for [Gate].

Right there in [Gate]’s big blue box, it read, ‘Special Function, Special Cost: Open a gate into <Elemental Benevolence> to a known location OR create a node inside <Elemental Benevolence> to claim a portion of that space as your own gate space.’

Yeah.

The ‘special cost’ was a bit worrying, but he still needed to make at least one backup Gate Space. But where?

… Maybe Rozeta would have a good idea. He needed to ask her about the special cost, and also about this whole ‘Shadow’s Triumph’. Lotta reasons to call her up, actually.

So Erick surrounded himself in a Privacy and then opened his Minor Relevant Entity permissions and wordlessly sent off his magical question, in the form of a prayer.

He got an immediate response.

Normally the founding of an expansion to your Gate Space would require the use of your core to create a new node, but you managed to avoid that cost the first time through breaking yourself from the Script temporarily and using your mana to do that. If you can do that again, then I suggest you make several backups. If it doesn’t work, then you will get an Error message. Shouldn’t hurt too badly.

I will work on ensuring that you can reconnect, so don’t worry about that.

If you can do that, then put a Node at each Yggdrasil you have in the world, and somewhere else, too.

But you will likely have to wait until you can make a second core and extract that from your body in order to use it for base materials, before you can make another Gate Space.

All of the most permanent and special forms of magic make use of this type of artifact creation, and Gate Spaces are no exception.

“… Ah.” Erick said, “Thanks. I suppose I should work on accretion more than I already have, huh.”

Your original Gate Space is well protected. Anyone seeking to invade would have to go through every single Yggdrasil simultaneously including the one inside the Gate Space itself, incapacitate you at the same time, and then corrupt all of Benevolence itself into their own mana. The list of entities capable of doing that is very, very small, and only really includes me, Melemizargo, and Koyabez, and we’re all invested in ensuring that no harm befalls you in those sorts of ways.

We can’t do much about mortal worries, but there aren’t any of those capable of truly harming your Gate Space, either. Small harms, yes. But harms you can recover from.

As far as accretion, though:

It would be good if you could make extra cores, but since exceeding a certain level of power might kick you off the Script (even with all the extra attachments I have given you, and continue to maintain), I would caution against trying to go too far with accretion.

The Script can account for a lot, Erick, but it can only do so much against a truly powerful Wizard.

I’ll warn you if it looks like you could possibly lose Script access long before you actually do.

Erick smiled a little. There were worries in that note, but also a lot of hope, and friendly reassurance. “Thanks, Rozeta.” And then he moved on to the meat of the conversation, asking, “Any thoughts on this ‘Shadow’s Triumph’, thing?”

The box took a moment to appear, and begin filling with words.

Hopefully nothing untoward will happen, but of course my father would demand an honoring. We had all hoped that he would maybe skip a year or twenty, but of course he would not. We’ll be watching and ready to support your side if you need us, Erick, but what we suspect will happen, if anything, is that nothing will happen and he will lull you and others into a false sense of security.

Anything big might happen long after new worlds are opened.

So play whatever parts you feel you need to play, but don’t fall too deep down into whatever abyss my father makes inviting.

“Then I’ll proceed as planned. Thank you, Rozeta.”

The blue box bobbed a bit, and then vanished.

Erick canceled the Privacy.

And then he opened a [Gate] to the Yggdrasil over at Songli.

The night was deep in this part of the world, but Yggdrasil was full of light. Erick glanced down at the world below, at the lake waters, and at the Wanzhi River that ran north to south, to the west of the lake. Yggdrasil’s roots, like white dragons, had buried into the lake, cropping up here and there as illuminated white arches, and in and out of the ground, almost like exposed stitching, crashing into the lakeside and expanding far into the river. This location had been rather large for Yggdrasil, back when Erick had originally planted him, but Yggdrasil had ‘outgrown the flowerpot’ sometime in the last few months. House Benevolence and Songli had been in talks to create a Gate Network for a while now, but ever since Erick had decided against marrying Nirzir, those talks had gone rather frosty.

The expansion to the Network should have gone down… there… somewhere.

Erick saw no good place for the Network to go, though. Everything was stitched with glowing white roots. If talks ever properly resumed with Songli, the expansion to the Network would probably have to go… Over at Holorulo? On the horizon over there?

Erick gazed across the world, to the west, and saw the clan mountains of Holorulo. They stood in light, almost like Yggdrasil stumps, ringing the central ceremonial city between them all. Erick cast his gaze further, seeing through Ophiel, looking upon the ancestral homes of High Clan Devouring Nightmare, where the former-Scion, now-Patriarch of Devouring Nightmare, Hangzi… was probably not there right now.

Hangzi was probably doing work somewhere, or something.

Erick should be doing work, too.

Erick had half a mind to search out Patriarch Hangzi Devouring Nightmare, and also Matriarch Lingxing Void Song, and also Matriarch Tipanri Severing Crescent, to get them all in a room together and actually fix this problem; to get them their Gate Network expansion. That would be incredibly rude, though.

Eh.

Whatever.

Erick had enough plots on his plate. Let this one take years to happen if it had to.

Erick turned his attention back to Yggdrasil.

He floated into Yggdrasil’s crown, to where he stood above a part of Yggdrasil’s branches that had a particularly fluffy looking patch of moss covering. With a twitch of thought, he pinged Yggdrasil attention. “Yggdrasil? You see me?”

An iridescent eye popped into the air beside Erick. “Hello father! What are you doing here?”

“I’m going to try something. Keep an eye out, okay? I might fall down onto this moss, but it shouldn’t be any worse than that.”

“Okay!”

And then Erick cast the Special Function of his [Gate]—

A blue box appeared bigger than anything, an ERROR message, but the size was simply Erick’s imagination because something spun inside of him, attempting to rip him open from the inside out. Everything went dim as horrible wrenching pain ripped at his insides and—

And then the pain flashed and vanished.

Erick came to, on his knees, on the moss. He coughed up glowing red blood that splattered across Yggdrasil’s mossy surface, sprouting little red mushrooms everywhere it landed. Something was caught in his throat, so Erick hocked up blood and bile. He spat out even more blood, and one shard of his own core.

Erick paused.

Yup. That white, glowing shard of something gem-like had been a part of his core.

—had been a part of his core.

He didn’t feel that bad, but upon seeing that shard he looked inside of himself.

Panic went up, and then down. It was just a surface crack through the whole thing, mangled arteries that were already healing, and a heart that was already pumping blood back where blood should be pumped. His lungs had taken some damage and there were other shards of core inside his body…

But he could fix that.

