Erick went back home to his warehouse in Candlepoint’s Yggdrasil and sat down on the floor. He started to accrete like he did every morning, but this time there was a lot of damage to heal through, and shards of core to reattach. It took about half an hour to repair the damage, using a combination of [Renew] and accretion.

He did not realize until he was fully healed how absolutely shitty he had actually felt when his core was that damaged. He had been kidding himself before; tricking his mind into not feeling the pain. Or maybe… It just wasn’t that painful, until it was gone, and then it was like looking back at something he was glad was over.

But anyway. Now he breathed easy.

And then he said, “Fucking hell that had hurt!”

Maybe his opinion of ‘it won’t hurt much’ was different from Rozeta’s.

But… He was never in any danger of death… He supposed.

Erick decided that he could wait to make multiple cores before he tried that again. It was time to plan for a party, anyway; Erick had already planned out the magic, but there was a lot more organization to do than that. He summoned a chalkboard and began a rough sketch of the plan.

Ten minutes later, he was mostly done making a plan, because, even though he had so much other shit to deal with he was expected to put on a party for Melemizargo. Which. Fine. Let’s do this right, and such. Keep the alliances going and all that…

With some basic planning done, it was time to do more than that.

Erick went to see Quilatalap.

- - - -

Quilatalap’s Library was impressive.

Most of it was hidden behind a great many illusions. Erick had to walk a certain path to be admitted to the main library, which also caused him to go out of Sight of almost everyone as soon as he got halfway down that path. It was similar to the way that Kydyr had hidden his own [Fairy House], but different, for they were still on Veird inside Quilatalap’s ‘[Library Space]’.

Erick needed to ask Quilatalap how he did this, exactly. It was one of his many new questions for the big guy—

Ah. Fuck. Stop with those sorts of thoughts, Erick. Quilatalap was just a guy who had a rather easy time making connections with others. He didn’t actually mean anything when he asked you out on a date.

It wasn’t a date!

It was just dinner!

Okay.

Stuff those thoughts away…

Erick walked down a hallway of books that were all trash. Daily distributions from popular copper-coin publications. Old editions of various Arcanaeum Consortium classroom publications that everyone and their grandfather had likely read in their Introduction to Force Magic class. All of those had been positioned here specifically to discourage people from looking deeper. And then Erick crossed a threshold. In big black letters over an archway made of bones and monster skulls, which looked like sapient skulls (but which were not, according to Quilatalap) the actual entrance to the library read:

‘VENTURE FORTH, THOSE WHO VALUE KNOWLEDGE MORE THAN THEIR LIVES’.

Erick had a lot of thoughts on that proclamation.

Part of him was all like ‘oh, okay, Quilatalap doesn’t want odd people to poke around; this is fine’. The other part of Erick was not happy with such dangerous proclamations being present in his kingdom, for any reason whatsoever. And yet, Erick was fine with it, for Quilatalap was simply protecting himself.

Quilatalap was perfectly capable of taking care of himself.

… And Erick really wanted to have dinner with the guy, but he hadn’t found a good time to finalize those plans… Or to talk about the warning Quilatalap had posted outside his library. Or to talk about all the magic he wanted to talk about.

Erick had kinda found himself in the last few days, simply wanting to be around Quilatalap. They had talked a lot about a bunch of topics, and yet neither of them had brought up that promised ‘date’—

An orcol skeleton came walking around the corner with its arms outstretched, fires in its eyes, and a dead-to-the-world incani in its grip. The man was not actually dead, but he was missing his left arm up to his bicep. It looked like he put his arm into an explosion of some sort.

Erick had seen something like this happen twice before, though, so he wasn’t too worried; Quilatalap was removing someone from his library. Erick merely stepped to the side and let the skeleton walk the guy out of the library. The injuries were new, though. A repeat offender?

Erick couldn’t tell; the guy looked different—

Suddenly narrowing his eyes, Erick watched as the unconscious man and his skeleton escort vanished around the corner. If that man had face-stolen someone else’s body to come here… Erick needed to talk to Quilatalap about that, too.

With his libido now firmly annihilated, Erick walked below the archway, into the library proper, his mana sense collapsing with each step forward. Soon, Erick could only see what he could actually see, and a bit through the shelves upon shelves of books. He walked below skeletal birds, who watched everyone who came and went, and then he passed into the main room.

It would be a fantastic library one day. Many, many eternal stonewood shelves (Quilatalap knew that spell himself) stretched up multiple stories into the air. Rows upon rows. Depths upon depths. But as for actual books, there were only a few scattered around here and there. They were all books on magic. Almost all of them were from the Arcanaeum Consortium catalog, of which Quilatalap had managed to acquire about 40%. The rest of that whole entire catalog was on backorder. Soon, Erick would have a copy of Oceanside’s public library here, at House Benevolence, and he kinda loved that entire idea.

What had arrived so far came in by the Platform-full. On the east side of the library, Quilatalap was still unboxing those books and setting them out on the shelves. Erick found the ancient archlich setting a nice set of books on Force Magic out on the shelves.

“Hello, Erick!” Quilatalap said. “Come to inspect the library?”

“It’s looking great, but that’s not why I’m here.” Erick thumbed backward. “That guy was missing most of an arm?”

“And he’ll find a healer to get it back for him. Maybe next time he’ll think before he pesters me for answers to something I have told him I cannot tell him.” Quilatalap didn’t say those words with any rancor at all; he was merely explaining what had happened.

“Was he a face stealer?”

Quilatalap jerked a little. He finished putting away a book, and then he turned to Erick. “I don’t think so? Though I will probably get one or two of those in here eventually.”

With conviction, Erick said, “Feel free to murder those who murder others in order to take their Familiar Forms.”

“Ehhh... I try not to murder anyone these days, Erick. Maiming? Sure. I could relinquish those types to Burhendurur, though?”

Erick blinked. “Uh. Yes. That’s a better idea. Uh…” He looked back toward the entrance, then he turned back to Quilatalap. “I just got a bad feeling about that guy?”

“He’s… Probably not harmless.” Quilatalap glanced up, then turned back to Erick. “There. The guy is being handed over to Enforcement now.”

A flush of relief passed through Erick. “Thank you.”

Quilatalap smiled a little, asking, “So why are you here? Just that? Or are we going to the Saucery tonight? I keep waiting for you to set a date, but it appears I might need to do that myself.”

Erick’s heart thumped. “Uh. Yes. Tonight? Tonight. Yes. I’ll. Uh. I’ll pick you up here at 7?”

Quilatalap smiled wide. “Sounds good to me!”

Erick smiled a little bit, too. And then he nodded, and turned—

He turned back. He had come here to ask about preparations for ‘Shadow’s Triumph’—

He turned back around and kept walking out.

Getting a date set was much more productive.

They could talk about the party on their date.

He paused—

He had come here to ask about accretion. Not just the party. Erick needed to know what Quilatalap knew about making multiple cores. Erick could ask some other dragons, too, but multiple opinions were good.

— he kept walking; they could talk about that on their date, too.

Behind him, Quilatalap grinned and went back to stocking the shelves.
