After some monitoring, Marshalla confirmed that Niala's “cleansing” of the impurities within her pathways had no negative impact that she could detect.

Instead, bursting these fel bubbles appeared to be strengthening her pathways, increasing her mana reserve and control by a tiny bit, with the effect prevalent in the area where the bubble was consumed.

It was only a little each time, but Niala felt that she had a lot of these unwanted guests in her system, and Marshalla's instruments agreed.

Niala thus began “meditating”, always near David, and hunting down these invaders, pouncing on them and ripping them to shreds. Given that nobody knew if having these bubbles of fel energies within her would have long-lasting impacts, she made it a priority.

For David and Niala, the days became quiet things; he, resting and letting his body heal, while she cleansed her pathways, lying down next to him or on a nearby chair.

Having little else to do, he read a lot, mostly manuals on engraving and enchantments. He couldn't even be called a novice yet, having only dabbled in the craft, but he was really proud of the few, basic magic tools he had managed to assemble.

The process required finesse, dedication, and control, and he found it calming and rewarding, something he happily pointed out to whoever listened.

Plus, it kept him from having to travel everywhere, and, eventually, he was certain he could create something that would help Niala with her alchemy.

He looked away from the manual he was reading, turning his head to lay his gaze on his wife next to him on the bed. Her eyes were closed, though her face was scrunched up in concentration.

She had been at it for almost a week now, and it was faint, but their soul link felt a tiny bit more tangible. He wondered how far it would go.

He frowned. Now that he thought about it... If she could feed off of his mana, couldn't they open the door and keep it open basically forever?

Something to try once they were both healed.

And, maybe, also explore the process with which they could mix their mana to create the little wisp people, see if they could create powerful tools like this.

Neither of them intended to go and jump into danger, but since settling down in Riverwall, danger seemed to be finding them.

... Alright, maybe they did subject themselves to a bit of danger, now and then, though it was always for a good reason, and he would die on that hill.

A hollow bell ring snapped him out of his musings. Niala opened her eyes and looked at him. They both knew that sound.

It was the weldtree portal opening.

Niala escorted Totori into their bedroom, where David was resting. The fairy had a concerned smile after being told that her client had been injured, but as soon as she laid her eyes on him, even that disappeared, replaced with something closer to panic.

“Oh no! David!” She exclaimed, dashing forward and climbing up the side of the bed like a cat on a curtain. Once on top, she froze and observed his state more closely. He had a cast on one leg and one arm, his torso was heavily bandaged, his empty eye socket was similarly covered, and he had dozens of fading bruises and fresh scars visible.

She approached on shaky legs, on the side of his good arm, and put a hand down on his shoulder, looking him in the eyes. “David. You're not going to die, right?”

He shook his head. “I don't think so. Just have to heal the slow way.”

Totori's shoulders slumped as the panic left her. “Oh, thank the great confectioner! I don't know what I would have done!”

He began smiling.

She put the back of her hand to her forehead. “You're my only client. I would have been out of a job! And, well, my contract would have awarded me plenty of severance pay, but still! I wouldn't have a super-star client to threaten fairies with!”

His smile strained.

“Do you have any idea how many contacts and connections I've made just by dropping your name? It's insane! Fairies grovel at my feet for the mere chance of meeting you!”

He blinked. “I feel that I'm missing something. I thought I was just a rich mana battery?”

Totori tilted her head. “Huh? Oh, no no no! I mean, yes, early on, you were, but your exploits were strategically leaked by undisclosed individuals, and now you're a super-star! The Sprinkletown mintery is going to put your face on next year's mana-mints!”

Niala's ears twitched. “They're going to put David on their money?”

The fairy looked over her shoulder at Niala, grinning. “Yeah! Isn't that amazing?”

“I thought he'd wrecked the city. Now they're praising him?”

Totori nodded. “Yeah! He did! I sold the rights to the movie last month, and the book's been at the top of the best-sellers for so long! We commissioned sequels! And we've been approached by a toy company that wants to make action figures, supported by a marketing cartoon. We're still finalizing the design.”

They stared at the little fairy for a moment. Niala put up her hands in front of her. “I don't know what a cartoon is, but... why? How? Books? Movies? Toys?”

David cleared his throat. “Also, when did I agree to this?”

Totori frowned. “What do you mean? You signed a contract with me! It was all in there!”

“I thought that was just about being my agent!”

The fairy blinked. “Yes? Managing your estate, public image, and likeness is what an agent does, David. Can I add that you're on track to becoming the richest non-fairy in all of history?”

David blinked, not knowing how to respond.

Niala pipped up after a while, her voice subdued. “Totori? Do you think... I could get a mundaneworlder-sized David figurine, once they're available?”

The fairy smiled. “Of course! And I'll get you a copy of the books and movie and everything! Well, actually, it would be easier if you just visited your mansion in the Fairlands...”

“Mansion?!” David and Niala asked on top of each other.

They spent a few bells getting all the details out of David's enterprising agent.

When Totori had said she was managing David, she really meant she had taken control over his existence in the Fairlands and had been plastering his face everywhere.

She explained that it had begun after their visit to the CLAS Institute, where David had used his mana to power science projects. The Fairies who David had worked with had been rather impressed by his ability to generate apparently limitless mana and had gotten in touch with her to learn more about him.

For the appropriate sum, she'd held a small Q&A session at the institute. The room had been overfilled, and the session had lasted nearly double the specified time.

When she'd asked around, curious about the interest in her client, she'd quickly learned that David was a holy trifecta of personalities: exotic, powerful, and mysterious.

His mana-related exploits had gone around the campus a few times, and while it was a little hard to exaggerate on just how much mana he could generate, the fairies had found ways to dream up extra powers, such as the ability to create mana storms.

Which, if Totori had to admit, had a kernel of truth.

She'd immediately gone to the biggest publishing house she could find, throwing money at them to get a meeting, and brought a summary of David's history in the Fairlands, testimonies from the CLASI students, and a business proposal.

She had never seen a contract signed so fast.

A team of in-house writers were brought onto the project, and within a few months, the first book was published alongside a monstrous marketing campaign.

Titled “Stormborn Menace”, it told the story of a mundaneworlder who had drifted into the Fairylands through a freak accident on his boring old world. Arriving in the Fairylands in a burst of mana statics, he set out to find a way back home. Along the way, he fell in love with a fairy, who was in deep financial trouble, right at the cusp of terminal debts, due to desperate dealings with an underground criminal syndicate. Through investigation into the matter, they find out that the syndicate is the tool of a secret lieprechauns society working toward the destruction of Fairykind.

Many adventures, battles, and drama followed, culminating in the foiling of a lieprechaun plot to corrupt the Sprinkletown managrid, necessitating the Stormborn to overload it with his purifying mana.

The story concludes with the fairy standing up for the stormborn in court, making a case about how the destruction wrought in the city was less than what it would have been if the lieprechaun plot had been allowed to continue.

In a twist ending, it's revealed that the fairqueen handling the case is in cahoots with the lieprechaun cabal. The stormborn and his fairy love escape together, deciding to go and fight the lieprechaun menace while on the run from corrupt law officers.

It was an instant success. Whether that was because of the quality of the story or the marketing efforts, Totori wouldn't confirm, saying that it didn't matter anyway.

What did matter, according to her, was that David was now famous after it was revealed that the Stormborn was based on him.

He wasn't sure what to do with this information. Niala, after her initial shock, was all in, however, and had Totori take an oath that she would get her a copy of the book, in a format she could read.

As for the mansion, Totori said that all celebrities needed a mansion. A mansion-less celebrity was nothing but a well-known person, after all, and not a true celebrity.

There were some practical considerations to this, though; with David's growing fame, as Totori had said, doors had begun to open. She was having a much easier time securing the kind of technology that they had asked her to retrieve, and had even gotten permission for the weldtree in their backyard to receive a private weld-link and access control.

In other terms, David and Niala would be receiving a control wand which would allow them to open a connection from their side, and they could choose to open the connection to either the Weldfacility in Sprinkletown, or to their brand new, private, and very expensive, weldterminal at the Stormborn mansion.

She quickly added that the mansion had 31 bedrooms, 11 bathrooms, 2 kitchens, 3 dining rooms, 4 patios, 2 pools, a gym, an infirmary, a 2-story garage, an armoury-shooting range-kennel-barrack-bunker-prison-motor pool, private airfield, decontamination centre, art gallery, mini-mall, fire station, and a small chocolate factory. There were also a few hundred acres of unused land, if they wanted to build something else on the premises.

David asked if he had any obligations toward the mansion.

Totori had smiled and said that it was fully paid, fully staffed, with the staff's salary covered by a long-term trust fund. He could disappear, and the stormborn mansion would keep going until the sun grew dim.

She looked pleased with herself.

He had no doubt she'd also conveniently put aside a portion of the mansion to act as her offices, with full access to the amenities.

He sighed. As long as he didn't have to take care of the thing, it didn't matter. And, from Niala's expression, she seemed rather excited about visiting the place.

Wait... had Totori said a barrack?!

They covered a few other topics, such as the Old Woman herbs deliveries, and the logistics of what increasing the shipments twenty-fold would mean for their backyard.

Thankfully, Totori said that the area where the goods would appear could be moved within a certain radius around the weldtree, up to 20 metres away.

She also told them that David's next planned visit to the CLASI was coming up soon, though she would look into pushing it back due to his health.

And, regarding his mana affliction, she did inquire if there was anything that she could do to help. She noted that she had access to a whole lot of aethericists who, either through money or the chance to meet the stormborn, would gladly come over.

Niala asked if Kevin could visit. The fairy was curious as to the reason, but she didn't think it would be any problem. From what she knew, Kevin was finishing up her doctorate and had submitted her thesis. She should have some free time.

And, if not, Totori mentioned that huge donations tended to help smooth things over with universities. Either way, she'd get it done.

The fairy remained with them overnight. Even though her first concern had been her employment, she was sad to see him hurt and asked if she could do more to help.

Along with retrieving Kevin, she said she'd look into fairy medical treatments that could be compatible with mundaneworlders.

She left mid-morning the next day, saying she'd be back soon.

Niala watched her go.

And mentally began counting the days before she got her “David” novel.