“Do we have to chase all the balls around right now?” Alden asked. They’d scattered all over the lobby. “Can’t we test something that doesn’t roll.”

“Yeah, now that we know containers work. Just stick whatever’s handy in the box.”

Alden grabbed the lighter and dropped it in.

“Am I still targeted?”

“Yep.”

“All right. We know I don’t have to physically hand you the thing, which is amazing. Let’s see if I can entrust something to you that you’re already holding. Alden, please carry my box.”

Alden started walking. “No,” he said, surprised. “It’s not working. I can tell. Why though? It’s your box. Is it not an ownership thing?”

“Let’s see. Alden, I’m entrusting you with that potted fig,” he pointed at a tall tree in the corner.

“Really, man? That thing’s giant. I’m not sure I can even lift it. Never mind walk around with it.”

“Don’t you want try out your new super strength?”

“Shut up. I bet the spread-down from Agility isn’t giving me anything worth mentioning.”

“I get to arm wrestle you later,” Jeremy said, pulling up a sleeve to show off a bicep. His parents had a weight room that he used sporadically.

“Fine,” said Boe. “Pick up that chair, then. I entrust you with it.”

Alden picked up the faux-leather chair Boe was pointing to and immediately felt the skill kick in. “It worked. So you don’t have to own the thing you entrust me with. But you can’t entrust me with something I’m carrying.”

He considered it as he set the chair down. “Is it a control thing? If someone else has direct possession of it, another person can’t entrust it?”

“Seems reasonable. Go steal Jeremy’s wallet.”

Alden walked over and took the wallet from Jeremy’s back pocket.

“Didn’t work,” he reported, passing it back to Jeremy. “Can we test the shield theory now?”

“It’s punching time!” Jeremy said.

Alden shook his head. “Now we know what your hero motto would be.”

Boe entrusted him with the box again. First, while pacing beside Alden, Jeremy tried reaching inside the box to take the lighter out.

He couldn’t. “It’s weird,” he said, tugging lightly on the lighter. “It’s made of plastic, but it doesn’t feel like plastic.” He felt around the bottom of the box. “The cardboard doesn’t feel like cardboard either.”

Boe walked over and felt the box, too.

“Neat,” he said, flicking a nail lightly against the side of the box. “There’s no sound when you thump it.”

“What’s it feel like if not cardboard?” To Alden it felt like a regular box.

“Like electricity and water had a baby,” Jeremy said.

“Yeah about like that,” Boe agreed.

“So it’s a shield right?” Jeremy said excitedly. “I can punch the box?”

“Why are you so eager to break your hand? You could just hit the box with a bat or something.”

“A friendly reminder that I am standing on the other side of the box,” Alden said, still walking slowly to maintain the preservation. “No bats.”

“I’ll punch it easy the first time,” Jeremy said decisively.

“Wait a sec, Jeremy,” said Alden as his friend took a step back. “Don’t just punch m—”

A second later, Alden staggered sideways. It wasn’t from the force of Jeremy’s blow, though it hadn’t been an easy punch judging by the way he was huddled over clutching his hand and swearing. Instead, Alden felt like someone had just taken a bite out of his ability to bear the package’s other weight.

He suddenly really wanted to set it down. He gritted his teeth and took another step to keep the preservation going, and the feeling gradually returned to its normal, low-level drain.

The box was unharmed.

“What was that stumble?” Boe asked. “Did the momentum transfer somehow?”

“No. It was more like he sucker-punched me in the skill’s generator…or my self-discipline or something. I really wanted to drop the box.”

“It’s a drain on your ability to perform magic?” Boe suggested.

“Ugh…I guess. That’s tough to make sense of, too. I’ve only been able to ‘perform magic’ for an hour, and it really just feels like walking around.”

“My hand,” Jeremy moaned.

“Is it still attached?” Boe asked dispassionately. “The box didn’t bite it off or anything?”

“So I have…minimal shielding,” Alden decided. “I wouldn’t like to try taking a bullet with my junk box here if Jeremy’s punch almost made me lose control.”

After that, they tried several other experiments.

They discovered Alden’s targeting range was large. Even when Boe went across the street and out of sight, Alden could still target him just by saying his name. He saw a dot of light in Boe’s direction to represent the halo.

And if he was in sight, Alden could target by pointing at him with either index finger. It was simple, and it would get even easier when he taught himself to give the command mentally.

When Boe lit the lighter and passed it to Alden the flame froze. And when he held a freshly cut slice of apple for several minutes it wouldn’t brown. Holding the lit flame by itself was slightly harder than holding the entire box had been, but it really wasn’t a massive difference.

They learned that anything counted as an item as long as it was physically touching the other components of the item. A bunch of random things stacked on top of each other could be one item. No part of an item could touch the floor, however, or it wouldn’t be preserved. Alden had to carry it. But he could carry it in his arms or on his back or even in his mouth.

Finally, worn out and with some unexpected muscle aches from trying to master his new movement trait, Alden decided to reward himself with something from the Wardrobe.

Though, he wasn’t sure it was so much for him as for Jeremy and Boe, who desperately wanted him to buy the stupider looking outfits so that they could tease him.

“All right, fine,” he said, flopping into a chair and pulling up the Wardrobe for the first time. On the sofa across from him, Jeremy and Boe had pulled a copy of it up on the laptop.

The items in the Wardrobe were more like work uniforms than actual armor. They did all boost Sympathy for Magic by at least a full point. And many of them had an additional half point of another stat. A few of the higher end numbers—the ones that would take twenty percent of Alden’s newfound wealth in a single swoop—had some kind of uber-specific special effect with them.

For example, there was an ensemble for bartending that would prevent the wearer from getting drunk. According to Boe, it was polite on Artona for the bartender to share the first drink with each patron, so they needed that to keep themselves from falling over.

Most of the outfits looked a little peculiar. Bartenders wore lots of glitter. Butlers dressed in long jackets with an unfortunate bustle-like poof of fabric over the butt. Alden thought an outfit called “Garments for Housekeeper” was the best looking, since it was just a lightweight black tunic over black pants. The half point of Stamina it gave was welcome.

“What about this—”

“No!” Boe and Jeremy said at the same time. They were both chuckling like idiots over the outfit they were trying to convince him he had to buy. Because of reasons.

It looked like someone had gotten confused and tried to make a hazmat suit sexy. It was a lavender jumpsuit covered in awkwardly placed leather straps. It had a clear window for the wearer’s navel. And a bejewled gas mask.

“I’m not wearing that. What is it even for?”

“It says it’s for a tattooist’s assistant.”

Alden made a mental note to stick to human tattoo artists if he ever had a need.

The real benefit of the Wardrobe, for most Rabbits, was the passive effect every single item had. Wearing any of the clothes from it would reduce the magical expenditure required to summon you, thereby making you more likely to be summoned ahead of others. As for the specific outfits…some jobs had special requirements. Someone who was summoning in a servant for a last minute event wanted them to arrive dressed for the occasion.

The ideal usage was to buy an outfit for a job you particularly wanted and then wear it. Every. Day.

Despite Boe and Jeremy booing him, Alden chose two sets of clothes that he could stomach wearing regularly. The black housekeeper’s garments and a pair of cargo pants and boots in matching shades of forest green that would boost his strength by half a point. They said they were for “expeditioners.”

Finally, he was left with his finger hovering over a possible third purchase. It was one of the million dollar pieces. It felt like it would be insane to buy it…especially since it was weird enough that he wouldn’t want to wear it and try to make friends at the same time. But it offered a full point in Dexterity and Agility. And an effect that was actually useful—Blast Resistance.

If he was wearing it, he’d have a little extra protection from heat and sudden explosive force.

It was called “Hot Lab Coat,” and according to the computer, ‘hot labs’ on the Triplanets were used for making magical bombs. Not where Alden wanted to be running errands, that was for sure. But still, a don’t-get-exploded effect was hard to complain about. And two stat boosts outside the standard…

“Why is it so red?” he demanded. “Who thought that was a good idea?”

It was a long, shiny leather trench coat with a hood. Which could have been manageable, maybe, if it wasn’t the color of a STOP sign. It also came with goggles. Alden couldn’t tell from the description if he had to wear those too to get the benefits or if they were optional.

Finally, he just bought the thing.

What was the point of being a millionaire at fifteen if you couldn’t do something a little out-there with it? And Boe and Jeremy would be happy to have something to tease him about.

He had the new lab coat teleported to him immediately, which cost him extra. The Wardrobe was not a personal subspace, just a Rabbit-exclusive marketplace. But Alden could pay for the gear he bought there to be stored in and teleported from one of the System’s warehouses.

It was extravagant. Most people just stuffed their most frequently used gear in a backpack and carried it around.

“You have to put it on!” Jeremy said, staring at the glaringly bright leather coat. “I want a photo.”

“So this is what you’ve chosen,” Boe said, poking at the goggles. “Really not the superhero persona I saw you going for, but okay.”

“I’m not sure what persona this even is,” Alden said, slipping the coat on over his shirt. It fit flawlessly at least. “I just wanted something with some kind of actual defense. And I wanted to play with the extra Agility”

He started buttoning it. “Oh, wild, I can feel the Dexterity. My fingers feel limber.”

He reached for the goggles.

His interface flashed.

[Summons to Artona III incoming]

[You do not have an available refusal.]

[Please make any necessary preparations.]

Time Until Summons: 48s
