“And what if there isn’t peace; what if the war is forced to continue?” Tabitha reminds us of the very dark possibility that Olebert and Scholl might not come to terms with each other’s demands. “What would happen if Lord Bullok guaranteed people peace, only to have to tell the people the war had to continue? How do you think people would react? It is better to keep people in the dark until things are resolved.”

I see; if a treaty is signed, Bullok can proudly claim the war is over. If it isn't, the war continues, and people wouldn't have had their hopes up in the first place.

“Sound’s smart to me,” Reel gives his two coppers on the situation.

“I guess,” Aaliyah yawns. “But you see my problem; I only have so long to take care of the things I need to do before then. So you should be happy; I got a lot of stuff for you," she tiredly grins at me and motions for us to follow her.

Aaliyah leads us over to the shed we emptied last time we were here and flings the door open. My jaw threatens to hit the clearing's floor when I see the numerous kaglese weapons inside.

“They aren’t as pure as the last ones. I needed to stretch my supply of kaglese. I don’t suppose you were able to bring me anymore?”

“What? No!” I glare at the girl dumbfoundedly. “You used all of it in a month?!” Sure, the last batch was smaller than the first one, but I expected it to last her months, not A month! “How many weapons are here?”

Aaliyah brings her hand up to her chin and hums. “Honestly, I’m not sure. I lost track a while ago.”

This child. I want to sigh, but I keep up my professional demeanor.

“Does this mean you already finished my dagger?” Reel asks, grinning ear to ear.

“Dagger? What dagger?” Aaliyah looks confused, and I watch as all the joy washes from Reel's face.

"Ha! Now, who looks like shit!” Aaliyah playfully punches Reel in the arm, surprisingly catching him off guard, and sends him stumbling back.

“So, you didn’t forget?” Reel anxiously asks, catching himself before toppling over and rubbing his shoulder where she hit him.

"Of course, I didn't forget. Who do you take me for? Wait here, and let me grab it.”

I don’t know where Aaliyah was summoning all this energy from, but she scurried into the shed faster than any of us expected.

“Now, I didn’t have time to have mom make a sheath for it, so you’ll have to get one made on your own, but I don’t think you’ll mind when you see this baby!” I watch as Aaliyah walks out of the shed holding a dagger-shaped object wrapped in a piece of leather.

"Tada!" She shouts, removing the covering, reviling an oddly-shaped dagger underneath. The blade looked more prominent than it needed to be compared to its handle.

“This is the dagger you made me?” Reel asks with a complicated expression. “It doesn’t look like what we discussed.” Translation: why are you giving me this.

Aaliyah doesn’t look surprised by Reel’s reaction and instead grins like a street-side vendor trying to hock a potion of immortality. “What, you said you wanted a dagger to poison people?"

“I never said, people,” Reel points out.

“We both knew what you meant,” Aaliyah giggles in a way a girl her age shouldn’t. “But I suppose if you don’t want a MAGIC POISONING DAGER,” Aaliyah stresses each word. “Then you don’t have to take it.”

She moved to wrap it back up, but Reel was already rushing to her side. “Wait. Wait. Wait! You said it’s a magic dagger!?” Reel’s attitude does a 180.

“I did,” Aaliyah cockily grins, knowing she had him where she wanted. “Observe.”

Aaliyah shows us the daggers pummel, where a fancy-looking 4 was inscribed. She grabs it with her hand and twists it, and to all our amazement, it unscrews to reveal a compartment inside the handle of the weapon.

"Now, does anyone have some water?" She asks.

I reach to my side and hand her my waterskin. “Thank you." She takes it and pours it into the dagger's handle, careful not to spill a single drop.

She then screws the pommel back on and holds the dagger out for Reel to take. He gently takes the offered weapon and inspects it closely. "What do I do now?"

“Rub your finger against the blade.”

He does and frowns. “I don’t feel anything?”

“Exactly!”Aaliyah shouts.

I'm about to recommend she take a nap and collect herself, but she cuts me off before I can say anything. “Now pour a bit of mana into it,” she instructs and stresses, "just a bit!"

Reel does as he's told, and we all see blue lines erupt from underneath the binding, acting as the grip. The lines snake towards the area where the pommel screws onto the handle, and twelve small blue dots appear on the dagger's blade.

“That’s enough,” Aaliyah instructs, and Reel stops channeling his mana, and the blade goes dark again. “Now, touch the blade again.”

Reel gently rubs his fingers across the shiny metal, and his eyes immediately widen with surprise. "It's wet now! How?” He looks to Aaliyah for answers, and she's standing there smiling with a huge shit-eating grin on her face.

She holds out her hand, and Reel reluctantly hands the dagger back to her.

"You have no idea how much trouble making this was," she stresses, holding the dagger up for us to see. “There is a small compartment running down the blade's spine; it connects to the handle where you can store any liquid you want.”

I glance at Reel and see the wheels turning in his head.

“There’s a mana absorbing rune underneath the grip,” Aaliyah continues to explain, pointing as she goes. “I engraved a single line between the handle and down into the blade. Then, with my engraving skills, I poked twelve small holes into the blade's surface and connected them to the internal reservoir. When you pour your mana into the dagger, it escapes those holes and drags out a bit of the liquid."

Aaliyah rubs the back of her head, “Sandra and I needed to come up with a whole new way to engrave stuff to pull it off; what do you think?”

"I think it's amazing," Reel holds out his hands in a pleading motion to have the dagger back.

Aaliyah hands it to him with a satisfied smile on her face and gives him a bit of warning. "Remember, it's made out of kaglese, so it's sturdy enough, but its spine is still hollow. So be careful how you use it in battle. Also, you can sharpen it like any other dagger without fear of damaging the enchantment, but make sure you channel some mana through it afterward, so you don't accidentally clog the openings. Understand?”

Reel absently nods his head while staring at his new toy.

“I didn’t know you could make your own unique enchantments already, congratulations.” Aaliyah blushes at my compliment but shakes her head.

“It’s actually not an enchantment,” she tells me. “I just used the same principles engraving pens work off of. There’s only one rune, so you can’t exactly call it an enchantment.”

“I see…. Will you make another one?”

Aaliyah snorts mirthlessly. “Not unless someone orders one. I meant it when I said it was difficult to make. In the same time it took me to make that dagger, I could’ve made ten other weapons. I did this for a friend, that’s all.”

I watched Aaliyah as she turned her attention to a happy-looking Reel. Again she went overboard.

I know I thought the village would continue to grow after she left, but I can’t imagine this place without her here. And if she’s right, she will be leaving soon. What happens then?

Will I be reassigned, or will I go back to my old route?

What about Reel? If Aaliyah leaves, would he still be assigned to me? She wasn't in danger anymore, and I’m sure he’s only still with me because Giovanni wanted someone close to him to keep an eye on her.

I've been putting off thinking about it, but what happens to me after Aaliyah is gone?

It was scary to admit, but I had no idea.

Where do I go from here? The thought frightened me.
