When these auras continue to flow pasts us, I feel a temporary soul tie formed with this mysterious demon.

Even Ember's soul tie grows stronger when I can feel his golden aura.

However, I can still sense him even when there is no conversation going on. Just like the construct around the galaxy, I have a permanent soul tie attached to him, and can sense his direction.

It is not one that I can just simply create a few propulsion arrays and reach. The only method I have to move closer to this feeling is to push all of my mental pressure toward it. I have to let all of my attention toward other soul ties lessen, and strengthen my focus on Ember's.

It makes the perceived flow of time in the Upper and Lower Realms all slow down to basically stopped.

Even the shattering demonic artifact that is in this darkness with us, when my mind flows away from it, all of its scattering energy freezes, waiting for me or anyone with a strong enough aura to think of it again.

Another wave of golden energy streams in toward us, making my connection and pull toward their direction even stronger.

It carries Ember's words, responding to the demon's claim that he hates that he talks down to him, and that he will wait until all life dies out then break through the membrane when even it decays. "I will not let that happen. It is a foolish desire. It is a shame that a side effect of your talent makes it so that you cannot gain wisdom despite technically living for eternity. I'd say your loyal dog, Marcellus, he had far more time to think than you. At least he saw reality for what it was..."

A strong wave of silver and purple aura flows back.

"This is more of your brainwashing! You are shameless, and a sore loser! I will break free from this system and your lies will all be washed away! You only feed me these words because you want your half of the silver Overseer's core back. It's the only way you can trigger that final awakening of the amplifier you were obsessed with finding, but never did! The only way you'll ever touch another silver thread of mine is if you dive in here with me! But the moment you do, whatever mortal you've bonded with will die before you can even blink. Give it up, Fallen One. Admit your defeat while I find out your secret, I will find out what a Supreme Being really is!"

Ember's calm aura flows in again. "I will not have to take such a risk. I am merely here as an Observer. I will watch your defeat, and make sure that time still passes by once it is finished. It is my duty, to fulfill a component of my Legacy."

"You know that's impossible! There is not enough time or energy in the Origin Plane for a being to gain enough will. My skill is unique, only someone with the same power as me could ever come close! And, no one has a will as strong as the one we shared in the demons' first era. You built me up to be unbreakable, in a time with unmatched conditions for growth. How would there be anyone capable of defeating the perfect demon?"

"Noctus. There are always anomalies. You think you are truly special? Do you even believe this system itself is special? I have seen demons like you more times than there are particles of ether in the galaxy. On a large enough scale of time, there will always be outliers. This is why your ideals are flawed. Life always finds a way to prevail."

The intensity of the dragon and demon's aura becomes stronger and stronger.

I end up letting everything else fall away from my consciousness and subconscious mind, only picturing the forces talking as another point of gravity in the darkness.

Maria and I interlocked, circulate the information pouring down on us, and send out our own wave of energy into the dark like we are one entity.

The glyphs I see from Noctus' words now look bright purple, white, and silver when they crash into our minds.

What was just a flicker before now shows the entire dark side of the demonic Legacy. I can fully comprehend that he intends to use his own mind and soul as a capsule for all of the known energy in the galaxy, and create a point of gravity so dense that it erodes this darkness we float in.

It is quite horrifying, at the scale and single use that many of these glyphs have been created for.

I do appreciate the effort, ingenuity, and innovation necessary to create this Legacy for his purpose.

I retrieve the old memories I saw of him yelling out in rage at the Creator's Legacy tomb again, and watch the display he put on while coming up with this plan when he was only still a purple-cored demon fighting against the Dryads in the Upper Realm.

Everything is clicking together, except for a few small details.

There is a configuration in this Legacy that links directly to a single collection of system commands.

When I try to look deep within myself and find those commands, or even the shadowy indents of where they would be in my own system, it comes up blank.

There is no skill, or buff that I hold that matches it.

Whatever this demon's unique talent is, the one that is being spoken of with Ember, that's the final link to this whole Legacy.

Another burst of the purple and silver aura sends words into my mind. "Lies! All lies! Have you returned to mock me one last time? Can you not accept that I have won? That I am better than you? That I have claimed my place as the Emperor Demon?"

"In this false existence you choose to stay in after death, time passes, but your own experiences do not grow. You do not value the life that all those below exist in, making the most out of their finite existence. It is what birthed complex systems like this in the first place, civilizations compounded knowledge and trust in their future generations. You lack this understanding, and this is why I know that the Great Cycle shall begin again with the True Emperor defeating you."

Another dense burst of golden aura pours down on me, and this one feels different.

Maria and I have entered a perfect trance, connecting to this soul tie, and finally gaining momentum toward the pair.

Yet, just as I feel this strong pull, an alarming vision takes over my senses.

It looks like a shockwave frozen in time. Or, kind of like a huge curved wall of bent space. I can't see through or past it, but I can tell that it's made entirely up of pure ether, primordial aura, some kind of vibrations, and extremely dense silver threads.

My mind seeps through its outer layers, and it gives off the properties of what can only be an enormous Realm Wave.
