“Just a second.” Ren said, deactivated the forge, and walked over to Anabelle. No customers were around, so he took out a step ladder and climbed it. “I'm going to be gone for a few days on a dangerous quest.”

“Be careful, and come back to me.” Anabelle said and hugged him.

Ren leaned into her and whispered. “Even if I die, I'll still come back to you.”

Anabelle's heart beat faster at the words. She knew he meant because he was an Adventurer, but she felt like it was much more of a promise to her personally.

“You're so sweet.” Anabelle whispered back. “I just want to eat you all up.”

“I don't have time for that right now.” Ren said and kissed her. “Maybe when I get back.”

“Maybe?” Anabelle kissed his ear.

“I can't let you have all the fun, can I?” Ren asked her, and she smiled.

“Yes, that would be too much to ask.” Anabelle said, kissed him again, and let him out of the hug. “Have fun with your friends.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and stepped off the step ladder and stored it. “See you when I get back.”

Anabelle nodded, then Ren and Elelryth left the shop.

“You really like her, don't you?” Elerlyth asked.

“Of course I do.” Ren said and stopped beside Princess. “She runs a successful business all by herself.” He pat Princess' neck. “I pretty much dropped it on her, and she rose to the task admirably.” He smiled. “She's doing a much better job of it than I would.”

“That's not true.” Elerlyth said.

“Yes, it is.” Ren said and bent down. “Princess, I need to take your Hooves of Speed off for a minute.”

Very well, My Lord. Princess thought. Ren opened her inventory and stored the Legendary Hooves of Speed. They still had the Horseshoes of Speed attached, and Ren thought about what he needed to do.

“I think an Augment rune for Speed should work.” Ren said and took out his Book of Runes. “Now, what would a Speed Rune look like?”

“What about dash lines?” Elerlyth asked. “You know, like they draw in comic books.”

“Actually, that's not bad.” Ren said, and took out a writing instrument. He flipped to a blank page and drew 4 parallel angled lines, slightly staggered. “They need to be connected, too.” He said and drew a line through the ends. “Ha... it looks like a wing without feathers.”

“Like Hermes!” Elerlyth said. “The greek god of Speed.”

“He did have little wings on his ankles.” Ren said and smiled as he finished drawing the new Rune. He put his hand on it and poured a bit of Mana into it, and the rune disappeared. “Hey, what...”

The rune reappeared at the top of the page, in the same color ink as the other 'official' runes, and Ren grinned at the popup he received.

Notice!

You have created a new Augment rune: Speed. This rune grants the user a +5% increase in their speed, and an appropriate increase in speed related abilities (running, jumping, etc.).

“I wonder if 5% is the cap per rune.” Ren said. “That seems to come up a lot.”

“You can always message the tech guys and-”

“Not a chance.” Ren said and cut Elerlyth off. “I'm sure if I did, they'd try their best to change it, and might drop it down to 1% or something.”

“I don't think they're vindictive like that.” Elerlyth said.

“Excuse me?” Ren frowned at her.

“Ah, never mind.” Elerlyth said and her skin grew slightly darker from her blush.
