“What makes you so scared of her, Charlay?”
The Centauress hesitated. She glanced back, and Ryoka saw her shudder again. This time, when she spoke, there was no bravado, only fear.
“I just heard rumors. And one time I…I was in the guild, and she cut in line. So I said some things, and later on the road, she passed me. I think she cast a spell because the next thing I know, my tail caught on fire.”
She gestured at her tail with a shaking hand. Ryoka stared at the pale hair. It appeared alright to her, but there was something…she looked at the Centauress. There were tears in her eyes.
“I couldn’t put it out. I had to use four healing potions until the fire stopped, and my coat…”
Ryoka looked closer. Charlay pulled away, but Ryoka had seen the faint imprint around Charlay’s hindquarters and tail. Traces of a burn scar. She looked back sharply at Alevica’s carriage.
“Maybe I’ll go back. I don’t feel like running anymore.”
Charlay slowly pawed at the ground with one hoof, her upper body drooping. She looked unhappy. And Ryoka, watching her, was struck by a thought. Charlay had followed her for the last three days, bickering, insulting, but always waiting for Ryoka. Talking with her, running at her pace. It might be Charlay’s personality, but she hadn’t been unpleasant all the time. And not once had Ryoka ever seen one of Charlay’s friends looking for the Centaur.
Slowly, the young woman looked at Charlay.
“If you want to go back to Walta, no one’s stopping you. But…hey, I could really use someone to run with. Want to check out Riverfarm? That’s where I’m headed. You could do some deliveries on the way. And I wouldn’t mind the company, really.”
Charlay paused. She looked at Ryoka, and her miserable expression vanished. She visibly perked up. Then she hesitated. Ryoka saw the head toss coming and recognized it as what it was. Bravado.
“Well, I suppose if you insist. I don’t like you, Ryoka. You’re rude, slow, and you took my theme. But I suppose I could keep you company.”
She hesitated and peeked at Ryoka out of the corner of one eye. Ryoka folded her arms.
“Is that how you really think?”
“Yes. No. Okay, fine! I would like to come, happy?”
The Centauress stamped one hoof. She glared at Ryoka.
“Don’t take it personally! I know I made fun of you a bit. But I do that all the time with my Centaur friends. In…Baleros. I guess it’s different here.”
She hesitated. And Ryoka realized that Centaurs really were different. Like any other culture, really. She wondered if anyone else had realized that. Slowly, Ryoka smiled and shook her head, pretending not to notice Charlay’s anxious look.
“Hey, I don’t mind. Just don’t do it all the time. You know how thin-skinned we Humans are.”
“Yeah, and touchy. But insulting each other is what friends do. We are friends, aren’t we?”
Charlay’s question took Ryoka off guard. But then Ryoka nodded. And Charlay’s smile provoked one of Ryoka’s as well. Without a word, the Centauress trotted forwards and then into a run.
“Well, that was obvious. Why did you need to spell it out? Come on, Ryoka! Let’s go!”
She beckoned, and Ryoka followed. The young woman stared at Charlay’s back as the Centaur laughed, running with all four legs, and shook her head, mystified, happy—she turned her head up towards the sky.
“It’s so easy, Erin. Why didn’t you tell me that? Why didn’t I listen?”
And then she ran off, south. With a new friend. As they ran towards Riverfarm, Charlay’s voice echoed back towards her.
“…Hey! Do you know if we’re going the right way?”
 
——
 
If Ryoka Griffin’s first encounter with a [Witch] left her less than impressed with Alevica, well, like Charlay, there was more depth to the odd class than Ryoka first thought.
It seemed like [Witches] were on the mind, and not just hers. Charlay and Ryoka were stopping for directions—just so Ryoka could stop Charlay from asking—when they heard people talking about [Witches].
“Five with broken arms. Men and women no less! At least they burnt down that wretched place. [Witches].”
“Witches?”
Ryoka and Charlay turned to a knot of distressed men talking in a marketplace of the town they were in—Totiled. It wasn’t large, and Ryoka first thought they were discussing Alevica, given Charlay’s description of her. But instead—
Well, the first thing the cluster of townsfolk did was clam up, but when they were introduced to two City Runners, they relaxed. Charlay was certainly novel to them, and they stared up at her and asked questions of the Centaur, who clearly loved the attention.
“What’s this about [Witches]?”
“Psht. They’re all about, Miss Runner. Going here and there. Run out of villages. And good riddance, I say!”
One of the townsfolk who’d been listening to the other men spat, but the group who’d actually run into another objectionable [Witch] turned out to be from a village, not the town itself.
“It’s not all like that! We had a good [Witch]—in Ecedale, twenty miles yonder. But it’s all gone bad. Terribly so! First one [Witch] dies in the streets, the next, our [Witch] throws down, and then her schoolhouse burns down and she’s gone!”
What was this about? Schoolhouse? Ryoka had to get some clarity here, and the story, when deciphered, worked out like this. Charlay chewed on some flatbread as she listened.
“It all began…oh, I can’t say how long back. There was talk about, well, bad witches. That’s how it all began. You hear stories of ‘em.”
Everyone nodded, from townsfolk to villagers. Ryoka scratched her head.
“But you have one.”
The man from Ecedale protested.
“We had a good one! Very normal, she was! No warts or hexes; she kept a clean place, had a bunch of little ones in training—Miss Agratha, she was. But you hear stories about the bad ones, now and then. There was some business in Terandria…I don’t want to tell stories or run my mouth. I figure they’re bad enough not to spread.”
The villager actually took something from a pouch at his neck and tossed some over his shoulder. The others did likewise. The townsfolk looked amused at this quaint superstition, but the Ecedale folk went on.
“Miss Agratha was telling everyone it was pure nonsense. She’s well liked for the little magics she does. Not by all! But I never had anything but politeness from her, and she always paid for anything she bought.”
“Not like some folks.”
The dour mutter gave Ryoka an odd impression of ‘Witch Agratha’.
“So where’d the dead [Witch] come from?”
The men looked at each other nervously.
“Well, that’s just it. It happened one night: Miss Agratha was out travelling. Witches do that sort of thing, you know? A stranger comes pounding on our doors, shouting for help. Says she’s been chased! Hunted! Now, most folk were ready to take her in, but then they realized she was a [Witch]. Pointed hat? So they turned her away. They didn’t want trouble. Miss Agratha has a schoolhouse, and they pointed her there. The poor woman must’ve made it, but Agratha and her apprentices were all gone. We didn’t know it, but when someone went to check…she’d expired in the schoolhouse. Leg infected, worn to death. Poor woman.”
The street went silent as Ryoka swallowed hard, and Charlay lost her appetite. Poor woman indeed.
“Sounds like bad business. Who was after her?”
Even the townsfolk looked slightly shaken. The villagers’ spokesman spread his hands.
“No one knows. Perhaps she was a…bad witch. There was a vote that very evening on whether or not we should kick Miss Agratha out. You know, just in case? Obviously, most people were set against—until Agratha returned. When she found out one of her kin had died there, well, she caused havoc.”
Another man cut in, looking wide-eyed with respect as much as regret.
“She laid into the folk who wouldn’t open their doors! All of us! She has a tongue like—well, some of them who didn’t like her got a bit pushy and stroppy. The next thing you know, there’s a full brawl in the middle of town and she’s laying about with a club!”
“What? A club? I thought it’d be with witchcraft!”
Charlay burst out laughing, but the villagers gave her dark looks.
“Yeah, well, who needs magic when you can hit someone that hard? After all was said and done, it was a lot harder to vote for her, but it didn’t matter either way; someone burned her schoolhouse down in the night. The next thing you know, Agratha’s gone, and all her apprentices run off too. Even some of the children she was tutoring!”
“She’s kidnapped children?”
That brought the townsfolk against the [Witch], but from what Ryoka had heard, it was all a mess. The Wind Runner shook her head as the villagers clarified.
“It might be kidnapping—”
“She was tutoring the girls, two of whom had no proper parenting—”
“One family’s put a bounty on her—”
“Agratha’s the right sort. She set my leg when it was broken better than a [Healer]. If some idiot hadn’t torched her schoolhouse—”
The townsfolk of Totiled were a lot less sympathetic. One spat.
“Well, I’ve heard similar rumors about witches of late. I say, run them out everywhere. I’m glad this one’s gone! As for one running a schoolhouse, hah! Who needs that sort of thing?”
Ryoka stared at him for a while until she remembered [Teacher] wasn’t even a class on Izril, really. People did apprenticeships instead. She had never been the biggest proponent of education herself, growing up. But still…Charlay went back to eating and added a comment.
“Witches. Huh? Are they just a pain or are they useful?”
That provoked a long silence from all. One of the townsfolk answered airily.
“Oh, they’re useful sometimes, but you can’t trust a lot of them. Good for villages. Not a town or city. And there’s always a bad witch.”
“Ever met one?”
Ryoka got a glower from one of the townsfolk and shrugs from the villagers of Ecedale. No…not personally. But there was always one.
And it seemed like everyone had heard something about a ‘bad witch’ of late. Maybe it was something like the witch hunts of Salem, that paranoia that swept over people for a while. Or the inquisition. Or…Ryoka saw a few of the villagers touching the charm that Witch Agratha had apparently made for them. She heard a whisper.
“…Helpful Servants in Noelictus. I heard…”
But they fell silent when others looked at them and did not want to say it out loud. And Ryoka and Charlay had to be going. They were running down the road when Charlay pointed something out.
“I still think you don’t know where you’re going, Ryoka.”
The Wind Runner sighed.
