That was another thing Ryoka had learned about Centaurs recently; because they could run and do things independently with their horse and human halves, they loved to chat while running. It was harder for Ryoka, who was running with her entire body, but she could still respond.
“I just ate. You’re a horse.”
“Centauress. Don’t be rude.”
“Sorry, my mistake. You’re so different.”
Charlay bared her teeth, much like an angry horse would.
“We are! We’re intelligent, leveling creatures. Not like animals at all! Are you a monkey?”
“Fairly close. I’ll acknowledge the link and resemblance. You’re even closer. Half your body is horse. It’s pretty much the same thing.”
The Centauress turned scarlet. Ryoka grinned to herself—their relationship was already well established by this point too. Charlay was easy to annoy. The Centauress snorted angrily as she ran ahead of Ryoka.
“It is not the same thing. Do you think I’m like one of those things?”
She pointed down the street. Ryoka saw the rider and shifted left. Charlay made room, and the rider rode down the right side of the street. He was riding a roan, a quite energetic one. It whickered as the two Runners ran past; Charlay flipped it off. The rider looked affronted, so Charlay cupped her hands and shouted back at him.
“Not you, the horse!”
“What was that about?”
Ryoka stared at Charlay. The Centauress folded her arms.
“He was checking me out. Damn animals.”
“You understood that horse? And you’re seriously saying you’re that different from them?”
Charlay looked blank.
“Obviously I can understand them. They’re animals. It’s not hard. You can’t understand monkeys? That’s your problem. I’m pretty sure they can understand me.”
“I—haven’t actually met that many monkeys.”
“Huh. I guess Izril doesn’t have that many. I saw them all the time in parts of Baleros. Hey! What’re you looking at?”
The female Centaur snapped at another rider’s horse passing by. Ryoka just shook her head. The streets were filling, and a good number of riders were filling it. More than average; Walta was a horse-city, catering towards treatment of the animals, saddles, stables, training, breeding, and more. The horses Walta produced were of a superior stock than most; if you wanted to get a proper warhorse or even a good riding horse, you’d look for a Walta horse or come to the city itself.
Horses. In a world where automobiles and mass-transport were wagons, they were incredibly valuable. They’d made Walta and Lady Bethal rich. These were her lands, after all, and Ryoka had stayed in the city after making Bethal’s emergency delivery alerting her people of the rift between her and a number of factions in Izril. She was at war—in a political and, to some degree, real sense—but the city was peaceful still.
“Charlay, you know I work around Reizmelt normally. I might be going back there today.”
Ryoka decided to broach the subject at last. The Centauress snorted.
“You might. Or you might take that very lucrative delivery down south. Where was it again?”
“I thought personal deliveries were supposed to be personal. So what if I do? It’s none of your business. Why have you been dogging me for three days? Do you like me that much?”
“Hah! Don’t make me laugh. I’m just scoping out my competition. Everyone’s making a fuss about your little run from Reizmelt to Walta; I’m not impressed. You might have a few unique Skills, but let’s remember who the better Runner is here.”
“Me?”
“Me! Don’t get overconfident, Ryoka. I’m a well-known City Runner around here. I have a nickname! Dustrider Charlay. I earned it after running in this area for two years.”
“I have a nickname too—”
The Centauress glared at Ryoka as they turned left down a street.
“Shut up! See, that’s your problem, Ryoka. You’re infringing on my turf. And my theme.”
“Your theme.”
“That’s right. I was doing this first, so I have dibs on the dust theme. I don’t mind you being the Wind Runner, but if people call you Duststorm Ryoka—just because you can make a bigger cloud doesn’t mean you get to take my nickname! I’m the Dustrider! Dustrider Charlay!”
For emphasis, Charlay slapped her chest. Ryoka just stared at her. She could have sworn Charlay was her age, maybe a bit younger. But the way she acted…Ryoka thought about being the adult, but it was too tempting.
“I hear they call you Dusty Charlie.”
The Centauress’ face went scarlet. Ryoka had to laugh. She saw Charlay stiffen, then gallop ahead. If she had a horse’s ears, Ryoka was sure they would have been flat. Charlay widened the gap between her and Ryoka until she was right in front of the girl, and Ryoka wondered if she’d take off to the guild or just do that the entire rest of the way. Instead, the Centauress shouted.
“[Spray Hoof]!”
“No, don’t you d—”
Ryoka shouted in outrage, but it was too late. One of Charlay’s hooves kicked backwards, striking a handy clump of exposed earth on the street where a cobblestone had been uprooted. Normally, she’d kick up a cloud of dust, hence her name. This time, though, the result was a huge splatter of mud and water.
“Gah! Damn it, Charlay!”
The young Human woman stopped as the mud splattered her front and face. She wiped at it, and Charlay trotted back, looking smug.
“Don’t insult me, Pukey. You threw up on me, remember? As far as I’m concerned, this is the least you deserve.”
Ryoka gritted her teeth. Then her eyes widened. She pointed.
“Oh shit. Is that a snake on the ground?”
“Gyaaaaah!”
The Centauress jumped and ran screaming from what was, in fact, a line of horse crap. She turned to Ryoka, shaking.
“Don’t joke about that! Snakes aren’t funny!”
Ryoka chuckled as she wiped the worst of the muck off her face. Charlay glared, and Ryoka stepped back in case she tried to bite. The two regarded each other in the damp street. Ryoka sighed.
“Now I’m dirty. Truce?”
“Fine. Truce. Here.”
Charlay tossed something at Ryoka. The young woman blinked.
“What is it?”
“Drying stone. Use it on the mud. It’ll probably get all of it. Don’t worry if it runs out; they’re cheap.”
“Thanks.”
Ryoka did just that. The stone didn’t break or disintegrate, and she handed it back. The two ran on. Charlay huffed as she ran next to Ryoka.
“I can’t believe you’re so mean to me. All the time! And I was nice to you even though you were so rude at the start.”
“I’m an awful person. You should know that by now.”
Charlay hesitated.
“Well, you’re better than a lot of other Humans. No one else’ll talk to me, much less talk back. Half of you lot are too scared to talk! The other half just act like I’m an idiot or…weird.”
“I don’t think there are many Centaurs in Izril.”
“There aren’t. But it’s not like I’m rare. There are just too many Humans! We’re all over the place in Baleros, especially the middle. The south’s mostly Lizardfolk and Gazers in the jungles. And Humans. You lot get everywhere. And the north is too cold for anyone but Dullahans.”
“But not many in Izril, right?”
“Nope. And it’s a shame. Izril has these lovely flat places, especially in the north. If it wasn’t for the need to cross the ocean on boats, I think there would be tens of thousands of us here.”
The Centauress shuddered. Ryoka regarded her thoughtfully. Three days had taught Ryoka a lot about Charlay, if only because the Centauress had stuck to her like glue. She had a horse’s palate for bland foods; she couldn’t handle spices, and she went absolutely nuts for salty, savory stuff. She was afraid of snakes, had a temper, got seasick just staring at a bathtub—
Oh, and she held grudges.
“You know, if you didn’t keep insulting how fast I run and calling me the ‘Puke Runner’ or ‘Pukey’ or ‘Ryoka the Vomitter’, I’d be nicer to you.”
Charlay turned her head and glared.
“You threw up. On me. Where’s my apology?”
“Lying somewhere on the road with the last fourteen apologies I gave you. Will you give it a rest? Why are you really following me? It’s not for the fun. Don’t you have a job to do? You haven’t made one delivery since I got here.”
“I don’t have to take jobs all the time. I’m a successful City Runner. What, do you spend all your coin after each delivery in the taverns?”
“No…”
“Then what’s the problem? Jeeze, why are you so rude? You’re the rudest Human I’ve met, you know. And that includes a lot of my clients!”
Ryoka sighed. Walta’s Runner’s Guild appeared on the edge of the city at last. It was sprawling and had a stable attached—a lot of the local Runners used horses. It wasn’t economical for Runners in general, but the city was good for horses, and there was a lot of flatland around. Charlay trotted in first and didn’t hold the door open for Ryoka. To be fair, it would’ve been hard with her body shape, but she was at the [Receptionist]’s desk, pawing the floorboards, when Ryoka walked over.
“We’re here! Hey, Jilta! Ryoka’s here to take that personal request!”
Charlay called out loudly. Ryoka sighed as some of the Runners in the Guild looked up. She’d met a lot of them the last two days, and some waved at her in a friendly way. She waved and smiled back and was grateful for Charlay’s presence for the first time; but for her, the others might have come over to talk to her.
It was true that Ryoka’s run had been noted, if not by the entire world then by the local Runners and those interested in such things. Her run hadn’t been the fastest, but it had been for a [Lady] of renown, and Ryoka had beaten a number of groups aiming to intercept her. It hadn’t been easy; Ryoka had paid a price for using so many potions and calling on the wind. But she’d done it, and the fruit of her labor was the attention she gathered. And Charlay following her.
The [Receptionist] at the desk sighed as Ryoka stepped up. She gave Charlay a sharp look that the Centauress innocently returned.
“Charlay! You can’t announce things like that on Ryoka’s behalf, much less publicly! There are rules, you know!”
“I could do it in Baleros. They didn’t care there. Besides, everyone knows you can get information for free from the [Brokers].”
“Not in this Guild. If you’re not in line, step back. Runners get privacy.”
“What? But I—”
“Back, Charlay.”
The [Receptionist] pointed. Grumbling, Charlay did retreat until she probably couldn’t hear what was being said at the desk. The [Receptionist] watched her sharply, and the Centauress innocently turned her head. The woman at the counter had dealt with the Centauress before; that was clear from the long-suffering sigh she let out. She looked at Ryoka apologetically.
“I’m sorry, Miss Griffin. Is she still following you about?”
“It’s fine.”
The [Receptionist], Jilta, the same woman who’d helped Ryoka on the first day by making her puke the potions that were poisoning her and getting the Knights of the Petal, gave Ryoka a rueful smile.
“She’ll get bored in time. She just…fixates on other City Runners, especially female ones around her age and level. She’s very competitive. Now, can I help you? Are you going to take the request from yesterday? The sender is, ah, waiting on a reply.”
Jilta said it delicately, but Ryoka knew she was very interested. As interested as Charlay had been; the Centauress had bugged Ryoka all about it yesterday. A personal request? With money backed by two [Lords]? Asking Ryoka to deliver a handful of potions to Riverfarm?
It made no sense. But Ryoka, who knew who the real sender was, had thought hard over it last night. Laken Godart had asked her for help, and after thinking it over, there was only one real answer she could give. She slowly nodded.
“I…think I will.”
She had a lot to say to Laken, and he had a lot to explain, but visiting Riverfarm was essential in either case. Jilta nodded sharply and reached under the counter.
“Very well. It’s a priority delivery, although there’s no time frame on it; I have, er, six healing potions and three stamina potions here.”
She offered Ryoka a satchel. The Runner pulled out her bag of holding.
“I’ve got a bag.”
“Ah, well, place them inside—you’ll need to deliver them straight to Lady Rie Valerund. They’re…just generic potions we bought from the local [Alchemist]. The request did say to do that, but…”
Jilta looked at Ryoka, and only her professionalism kept her from asking the obvious. Who paid that much gold to get a bunch of potions you could get anywhere? The answer had to be that it was either something that had to be delivered personally—a message or secret item with the potions—or the Runner herself. Ryoka smiled and didn’t explain.
“I’ll get it there as fast as I can. Can I see a map?”
“Of course.”
The [Receptionist] pulled one out. Ryoka studied the route to Riverfarm; it was south of Walta and Bethal’s lands, southwest of Invrisil, a bit of land in the shadow of a small mountain not claimed by any noble house. The Valerund family, whose [Lady] was apparently in Riverfarm, had a small area of influence, but they were a day’s journey away from Riverfarm.
“Looks straight enough. I’ll be going through this marsh—I hate marshes. But aside from that, it’s straight. Thanks, I’ll head out right away.”
Ryoka nodded at Jilta. The [Receptionist] smiled.
“Of course. If you want to come back this way, I can do the confirmation. But of course, any large Runner’s Guild can handle it. Even so, we’d be happy to see you here again, Miss Griffin. You’ve been the talk of the Guild since your dramatic delivery.”
Ryoka felt her face heat up. Jilta was in her late twenties, a former Runner herself. Ryoka didn’t recall much of what had happened when she’d staggered into the Guild—she recalled throwing up on Charlay, and the Centauress reminded her of that every few seconds—but she also remembered Jilta helping her puke onto the floor. Ryoka cleared her throat.
“I’m really grateful for all the help. I was an imposition with the wind, the sand…”
Jilta waved that away.
“It was a request from Lady Walchaís. And this is my job. As I said, you’re welcome back here. And you’re easier to deal with than…”
She nodded at Charlay. Ryoka grinned and ducked her head.
“Thanks again.”
