Day 54 – Ryoka
 
When the Wind Runner of Reizmelt woke up, she knew it would be another rainy day. Honestly, she was sick of them, but they were symptomatic of Izril in the spring. Wet.
And it was still better than Liscor, whose spring rain season was the thing of nightmares. Even so, as spring waned and became summer, the rains persisted. And yes, they were good for crops and all that. Ryoka was still tired of being wet.
She knew it would be a rainy day as soon as she woke to the drumming of rain on the roof above her room. But as Ryoka got up, she realized a few more things.
Firstly, she wasn’t in Reizmelt. She knew that because it was past dawn and Madain hadn’t been banging about, swearing and shouting for everyone to wake up!! Funny, but Ryoka almost missed that. And because her bed was freshly made, smelled of flowers, and the sheets had been washed by someone other than Ryoka.
She was in Walta, staying at the Rose’s Retreat, a very nice inn with a female [Innkeeper] who was accommodating and strict. Miss Iglesias Theroben had expressed a firm desire to Ryoka that her rooms not be sullied by impropriety or any untoward advances towards her all-female staff.
She obviously hadn’t been suspecting Ryoka of the latter, given how it seemed like most people in this world’s society didn’t acknowledge or even know about sexual orientations beyond being straight, but Ryoka was amused to know that the upstanding Miss Iglesias thought of Lady Bethal Walchaís as a paragon of virtue. She’d been too grateful for somewhere to sleep and for Miss Iglesias’ welcoming, if strictly proper, inn to shatter the woman’s beliefs.
That wasn’t her. And as Ryoka got up and dressed with the speed and efficiency that came to people who live in a hurry, she realized one last thing: it was going to be a bad day to run. She could still do it, but it would be a bad day.
Not a bad bad day, to be clear. A few days of rest had cleared the minor potion-sickness out of Ryoka’s veins and stomach and rejuvenated her after her now-famous run from Reizmelt to Walta, capital city of Lady Bethal’s lands. She felt good, today, in fact. Hungry. It was just that as soon as Ryoka had sensed then felt the wind outside howling in the rain, she’d known it was going to be a bad day.
The Rose’s Retreat was already bustling when the sleepy young woman exited her ground-floor room. Unlike other inns, the layout of this inn more closely resembled one of the cheap motels Ryoka had ‘run away’ to when she was sick of fighting with her father or trying to get her mother to agree to…anything. Like a good motel experience, breakfast was a buffet.
A very nice buffet. Ryoka saw the goat’s cheese being spread onto a bun first, then she smelled some cooked sausage and saw a delicate spread of garden-grown vegetables, fresh from Miss Iglesias’ own soil. Her stomach rumbled, but when she saw the somewhat portly, very gracious host, Ryoka stopped to greet her. There were such things as manners, and Ryoka wanted to mind hers.
“Ah, Miss Ryoka Griffin. A fair morning to you! I trust you weren’t awoken unduly early? The blessed rain woke me up earlier than I would have liked, but you Runners do keep early hours.”
The woman sighed as she turned to greet Ryoka, goat cheese and bun in hand. Ryoka eyed the bread and decided she was having that first with some of the roasted meat. Miss Iglesias’ inn might not have had the random excitement that was an attraction or a deterrent in Erin’s inn, or the dirt-cheap prices and unique…personality that was Madain’s inn. But it was arguably better than both.
Ryoka knew that was an insult to Erin, but did she have a dedicated [Cook] with [Advanced Cooking] and a host of other Skills like [Rising Dough] or [Two Hour Warmth]? Maybe her inn had changed, but Ryoka saw a [Maid]—not a [Barmaid], just a [Maid]—delicately arranging a gentle-smelling bouquet next to the dishes of warm, delicious food. Still warm, thanks to that Skill, and fresh as…
Ryoka’s mouth watered. Say what you will, and Erin did make a good pizza, but this was home-cooking and as much as you wanted of it.
Fresh and organic too, if that was your fancy. Ryoka would settle for delicious. She nodded politely to the smiling Miss Iglesias.
“Good morning to you too, Miss Iglesias. I’m not so sure it’ll be a fair one, though. The rain might clear up, but you shouldn’t count on hanging anything out; the wind will be blowing hard all day.”
Miss Iglesias glanced out of one of her glass windows with a frown.
“Really? My [Gardener] friend swore her [Weathersense] told her it would be only rainy tomorrow, but perfect for gardening later on if I wore boots. But if anyone would know, it would be you, wouldn’t it?”
Ryoka grimaced.
“I’m not an expert, Miss Iglesias, so don’t quote me on it. If I’m wrong, I’d be delighted. But…uh, this breakfast looks lovely.”
“Oh! I’m terribly sorry. Go on and enjoy yourself by all means. I imagine you’ll want to be up and about. Will you be staying another day?”
The woman stepped aside so Ryoka could fill a plate and chat at the same time. Biting into her first cheese-and-sausage roll—Miss Iglesias stood on no customs aside from the bit about hanky and panky and horrifically graphic displays of sex—she swallowed and then replied.
“I doubt it, Miss Iglesias. I have all my gear in my bag of holding here—I’m paid up, aren’t I?”
She patted the bag at her side. Miss Iglesias nodded.
“You’re free to leave, but I will keep your room open until tonight. If you wish to stay, you need only return. You have been a good guest.”
“Thank you.”
Ryoka smiled gratefully. Miss Iglesias was used to travellers, being one of the more popular inns for travellers to stop by. She had any number of rooms available, but keeping Ryoka’s open for a day was still generous.
Ryoka helped herself to a big breakfast—she might be eating rations on the road if she took the offer she’d gotten yesterday. She might have lingered to talk with Miss Iglesias, but a howl of wind against the windows made her, the innkeeper, and a few guests enjoying the early breakfast look up.
“What a storm. My garden will need no end of work after this.”
Exasperated, Miss Iglesias went to the window and peered outside. Ryoka grimaced, trying to imagine running in that, but—her internal sense told her the wind was upset. Yet that didn’t correlate to the rain. Indeed, it was just a light sprinkle now. Ryoka brightened; she could handle that. And the noise made her realize something else.
“Ah, Miss Iglesias, I might be taking off now. I’m very grateful for your hospitality…”
The woman turned and realized Ryoka was edging towards the door. She opened her mouth and then realized why Ryoka was in a hurry. So she smiled understandingly and reached out to shake Ryoka’s hand gently.
“Well, as I said, you’ve been very easy to look after. No messes, no blood or muck for my girls to tidy up—if you stop by Walta in the future, stay here by all means! I know you Runners, and I have no doubt I’ll see you again.”
Ryoka ducked her head, smiling.
“Thank you, Miss Iglesias. I’m normally around Reizmelt, but if I’m ever in the region for a delivery…”
She began to walk towards the door. But, too late, as Ryoka put one hand on the brass knob, she heard the sound she’d wanted to avoid. Clip-clop, clip-clop.
Ryoka cursed. Miss Iglesias sighed as she turned to greet another guest. Ryoka opened the door; there was still time to get away before—
“Good morning, Miss Iglesias! Ryoka! Hey, Ryoka, wait!”
A Centauress walked into the room. That wasn’t a euphemism. She trotted in, her shod hooves clattering on the floorboards as she navigated her way through the cozy inn. A Centaur.
Perhaps, if you had never met one, the idea of the half-human, half-horse species would be exotic. Fascinating. While that was certainly all true of the female Centaur, something else had to be pointed out. A Centaur was half-horse. And as such, the first consideration anyone in the nearby vicinity of a Centaur was—
Both Ryoka and Miss Iglesias stepped hurriedly out of the way as the Centauress clattered forwards. Her hooves touched the floor lightly, but the Centauress was still over seven feet in height, and she had to weigh…Ryoka thought about horses from her world. A ton?
At least. And this Centauress wasn’t even a big example of her species. Her horse parts didn’t resemble the huge draft horses, but rather a lighter riding horse. She had a tan hair coat with a few large, brown spots, pale brown skin, and blonde-gray hair, cut short, but styled—the Centauress trotted closer, and Ryoka leapt back again. She was barefoot, and she had no intention of having her foot broken by a stray hoof!
“Charlay, watch the hooves!”
The Centauress caught herself and checked her hoof placement. She tossed her head dismissively.
“What? I’m nowhere near your feet. Stop being such a foal, Ryoka. Hey, good thing I woke up, right? I nearly missed you. But for the rain and I would have slept in!”
She gestured outside at the clouds, which had decided to dump one last time before giving up. Ryoka eyed the Centauress. She had a light shirt on her upper half, concealing the place where her waist met the horse parts. Her lower half was bare today, although Ryoka had seen Charlay wearing a half-skirt or full dress that covered her horse bits. She eyed the street, but it was too late. Charlay smiled at the [Innkeeper], who gave her a polite smile of her own.
“Fair day to you as well, Charlay. How was your sleep?”
“Good. Thanks for the extra pillows. My legs were hurting from the ground yesterday. Ooh! Food’s already out?”
She eagerly trotted over to the buffet and inspected it.
“Just what I wanted. Ryoka, stick around. I want to eat first.”
The Asian girl groaned. Charlay never woke up this early. Both times before she’d been up in the late morning. But after a second of staring out of the inn, she closed the door and walked back to the buffet. Miss Iglesias gave Ryoka a sympathetic smile.
“Hey, Charlay. Good to see you. I’m probably leaving today—”
“That’s fine. I’ll run with you to the Guild. Hey, you want this?”
The Centauress waved a bowl, and Ryoka saw what she was eating for breakfast. It was a bowl of boiled, steaming…
Oats. As bland as licking wheat seasoned with white rice on top of unsalted porridge with a bit of whole-grain bread for that rare contrast in flavor. Ryoka and Miss Iglesias watched as Charlay happily filled a bowl with the stuff and added some grains of brown sugar and bits of pepper flakes.
Ryoka resigned herself to another helping and took about four times the pepper that Charlay had to add to a lovely browned sausage with some eggs. She liked the flavor, and the pepper wasn’t so much hot as sweet to her palate. But Charlay blew out her cheeks halfway through her bowl.
“Hot! This is spicy stuff, Miss Iglesias! You should warn people, or they might get indigestion!”
The Human woman raised her eyebrows, but only nodded and took Charlay’s suggestion ‘under advisement’. Ryoka waited as Charlay ate one bowl, then another, and coughed.
“I need to be going—”
“What’s the hurry? I’m done, I guess. Good food, Miss Iglesias. Thanks for putting it out for me.”
The Centauress craned her upper body to speak to the woman while her horse half shuffled around towards the door. Miss Iglesias pulled a chair out of the way; Ryoka just stood back. Charlay was bigger than Calruz, both in height and body. And in a building built for Humans, she was like an elephant. Or a horse.
“Not a problem, my dear. Will you want supper? Or lunch?”
Charlay shook her head impatiently.
“I’m done. And I’ve paid my room; I don’t know if I’ll be back, but I’m packed up. Let’s go, Ryoka.”
She trotted towards the door without even saying goodbye. Ryoka went back to Miss Iglesias and shook her hand again.
“Thank you again, Miss Iglesias.”
“Best of luck, Ryoka dear. And you too, Charlay.”
“Oh. Yeah. Thanks!”
The Centauress turned her upper half, nearly out of the door. Ryoka sighed and followed her. She found the Centauress outside, stretching.
“Good food, right? I like staying at the Rose’s Retreat. It doesn’t have stairs, and Miss Iglesias gets oats just for me. You liked it?”
“Yup. It was great.”
“Awesome. Stay away from me. I don’t need you throwing up on me again.”
Ryoka paused as she stretched out her own legs. The Centauress smirked at her. She worked in the region around Walta as a well-known City Runner. And she was good at her job; so good that Ryoka had given up trying to lose her. Now the Centauress pointed in the direction of the Runner’s Guild.
“Come on, let’s run to the Guild. The streets aren’t that wet, and the rain’s stopped. Last one there is a mule!”
So saying, she took off. Ryoka watched her go and kept stretching; after three dozen feet, the Centauress noticed Ryoka wasn’t following and galloped back. She scowled at the young woman.
“Slowpoke. Afraid to race me?”
“I’m stretching. And I’m not racing.”
“Afraid I’ll beat you again?”
Ryoka sighed.
“You’re a Centaur. I don’t race things with four legs.”
“That’s not what you said last time. Or the time before that. Come on, afraid I’ll beat you a third time?”
The young woman refused to rise to the bait. She took off running with a slow, contained pace, and after a moment, Charlay followed her. Then, at least, Ryoka had some peace. She ran down the streets of Walta, still slick with rain and deserted for the moment. The rains had kept everyone indoors, so the two female Runners proceeded down the street at a quick jog by Ryoka’s standards.
As they ran, Ryoka admired the city of Walta where she had been staying. She would be sorry to say goodbye to it. The streets were smoothed, and one-in-three buildings that Ryoka passed had glass instead of shutters. The city was lovely, like Amsterdam, but minus the canals and water. It was one of the most modern cities Ryoka had visited, aside from Invrisil, and the reason behind that was because Walta was about two or three times as rich as Reizmelt.
“You’re so slow.”
Charlay complained as her hooves clattered across the stones. Ryoka sighed. She couldn’t even admire the city in peace. Not that she was one for admiration anyways; two more seconds and she’d have gotten bored. She looked at Charlay as her arms pumped at her sides; the Centauress was folding her arms and eying Ryoka as her legs easily kept pace.
