Ryoka stared at Truvia, thought of Bethal, and then gave up. This was overkill, but Ryoka didn’t want to waste any more time. Charlay trotted out, and the two saw that Truvia’s horse was already being led out of the stables. The horse had pink armor, like the rider. Charlay shook her head.
“You are so lucky. I’ve been trying to get a request from Lady Walchaís myself! Apparently, she tips really well—and now you get an escort?”
“Will you be riding with us all the way, Dame Truvia?”
Ryoka called to the [Knight]. Dame Truvia mounted up in one motion and nodded down at Ryoka. Her voice was slightly muffled, but entirely distinct.
“As far as the outskirts of Walchaís lands, or if an incident takes me. I am on patrol. Don’t trouble yourself, however; set whatever pace you please. I’ll keep up.”
The nonchalant air of the [Knight] as she sat on her horse in full armor made Ryoka raise her brows and Charlay snort. The Centaur and Human Runners looked at each other. A [Knight] was one thing, but this? This was their job. They grinned at each other.
“Nice and slow then, right, Charlay?”
“Sure. Hey, can you use your wind-thing? You can conjure a breeze, right?”
Ryoka hesitated. She looked up. The wind was still blowing hard. The rain had stopped, but Ryoka still felt it. It was angry, wild—why? Ryoka reached for it and finally understood.
Ah, that was it. Out there, somewhere, someone was trying to control the wind. And it was pissed.
“Nope. Feels like a [Weather Mage] or someone’s doing something to the wind. It’s out of my control today. Or rather, I wouldn’t risk it.”
She’d tried it once on a day like today. The wind had thrown her into a wagon. Charlay shrugged, her hair blowing in the strong gusts.
“Maybe it’s Alevica. She’s got a lot of weird abilities. Fine. Your legs still work without your wind?”
“All the time. We’re heading south. Dame Truvia, can you keep up?”
“After you.”
The [Knight] watched as Ryoka lowered herself into a Runner’s starting position. Charlay just tensed. The two took off like a shot, racing down the street, startling Truvia’s horse. She calmed it and laughed as the two Runners raced out of the city. Then she dug her heels into her horse’s side, and it raced after the two.
 
—–
 
Ryoka ran out of Walta with Charlay by her side. She raced across the outskirts, the suburbs that had sprung out around the city, and across wide, flat land devoted to farmland or pastures for the horses.
Walta, no, the lands of Lady Bethal Walchaís were rich. It reminded Ryoka of a true medieval world, only with less poverty and more Arthurian romance. A world, a time that had never truly existed in her world as far as Ryoka knew. But it existed here.
[Farmers] tending fields as prosperous—if not as scrumptious—as the corn fields tended to by Farmer Lupp looked up as Ryoka and Charlay raced down the road. They waved at the Runners, amused by the competition and Charlay heckling Ryoka as she maintained a horse’s length of lead on the Human girl. Then they bowed or cheered the Knight of the Petal, Dame Truvia, as she calmly followed the two Runners.
She was fast! Dame Truvia had a Skill that allowed her to keep pace with Charlay and Ryoka despite the armor. Or her horse was magical. Or simply a superior breed. Ryoka was the slowest of the three, and she slowed the breakneck run as soon as it became clear that she wasn’t about to lose Truvia. Charlay slipped into an even run beside Ryoka, and they just enjoyed running. It was what they did.
The lands of House Walchaís passed Ryoka by, green and verdant, growing from the spring rains. Ryoka saw people looking up and waving at her—not just at Charlay and Truvia. They recognized her.
“That’s the Wind Runner! Hey, you! Don’t blow any more dirt into my fields! And do something about this wind, will you?”
A [Farmer] raised her hoe as Ryoka passed by. The young woman raised a hand, slightly embarrassed, and Charlay waved with both arms as well. Ryoka had passed down this same road on her way to Walta—through a few fields too. At the time, she’d been so tired she hadn’t noticed, but she’d dragged a dust storm through any number of farms and down roads—even through a village! Part of the last few days had been coming out here and apologizing for the destruction, even offering payment.
She’d expected the people to be furious, and they were. But one line saved Ryoka from a lynch mob: it was for Lady Bethal. Suddenly, the people were all too happy to take Ryoka’s coin, even congratulate her on the run. It was incredible, but the [Lady] was beloved. As one furious [Shepherd] had said whilst his dusty herd of sheep had to be bathed and their wool combed, that changed things.
“If it’s Lady Walchaís, then it’s fine. House Walchaís has always been good to us folk. They paid for medicine with the Redvein Plague two decades back, fought for us during the Sacrifice of Roses—any bastards who’d smirch Lady Bethal’s name I’ll personally put an arrow through. Just let them try to attack her lands!”
And he’d meant it. The Knights of the Petal had gone to war for their [Lady]’s honor, and the people of Lady Bethal’s lands had immediately refused to do business with anyone who’d sent Bethal a rose. It was incredible, actually, for Ryoka to see that much loyalty. But Bethal was beloved for her flights of fancy as much as how she treated her folk.
Speaking of which…Ryoka and Charlay paused as they ran towards a more populated stretch of road. They didn’t need to run on the road, but Dame Truvia was clearing a path for them. Pedestrians and travellers moved over to let the [Knight] race after the Runners unimpeded.
Walchaís lands lay along one of the natural routes going north towards First Landing. If Reizmelt was a local hub, one of the crossroads near Walta was a major one, and the wide road had hundreds of people and wagons moving up it. Ryoka stared at the huge flow of traffic, but Charlay just pointed.
“We’ll cut across there and run south. Just don’t block anyone. It’s easy, see?”
There were five City Runners running up the road that Ryoka could see, one of whom turned towards Walta at the crossroads. Ryoka nodded—and then spotted something else.
A [Knight] in a golden suit of armor painted with silver was slowly riding up the highway. He’d stopped once to address a family in a wagon, and he had a shield and mace strapped to his side. Ryoka blinked and pointed out the armored man to Charlay. The two Runners slowed to stop and observe.
“What’s that?”
“Just a patrolling [Knight]. What, are there none around Reizmelt?”
“I’m from further south. Celum.”
“Oh, right. Well, you see them around here. They help get rid of [Thieves], patrol roads…they’re great if you get into trouble, unless the trouble gets them.”
Charlay shrugged. Ryoka hesitated. So they were like roaming police officers? This world’s version of a patrol car? She opened her mouth to ask another question and heard a voice from behind her.
“Ryoka Griffin.”
Ryoka turned. Dame Truvia was frowning at the [Knight] in gold. She lowered her visor, and her pink-clad horse pawed the ground. Truvia reached for a holstered lance and nodded to Ryoka.
“Ah. I fear this is as far as I take you, Runner Ryoka. I bid you a safe journey, but I cannot accompany you to the edge of Walchaís lands. That is a [Knight] in service to House Averin. I recognize the colors. I must address him.”
“Address…?”
Ryoka stared blankly at Truvia, and then she remembered. One of the black flowers had come from—
Truvia rode past Ryoka, picking up speed. Charlay chortled and trotted back to watch; Truvia rode straight at the [Knight], and the traffic on the road parted to give her a wide space. People leaned out of their wagons or stopped on the road, sensing what was about to happen.
“[Knight] of House Averin! Hold your ground!”
Dame Truvia roared across the highway. The gold-armored [Knight] looked up and raised a hand. He called back towards Truvia.
“What seems to be the matter, Lady Knight?”
His voice was conversational, friendly even. Ryoka winced. Like the Clairei Knights, this one hadn’t gotten the message about the flowers, or he hadn’t understood the import. Truvia’s voice was loud enough for everyone in a hundred paces to hear clearly.
“Your order has insulted and cast false accusations against the name of House Walchaís and Lady Bethal, whom I serve! This insult cannot stand! The Knights of the Petal ride to their lady’s honor, and until our grievance is met, House Averin is our sworn enemy!”
She pointed her lance with one hand at the startled [Knight]’s chest.
“Sir, I challenge you! Put up your shield or retreat!”
With that, she kicked her horse into a trot and then a gallop, picking up steam and surging behind her shield. Ryoka could see the Averin [Knight] do a double-take. He swung his horse around and raised a hand as he fumbled for his own equipment.
“Wait—what did you—wait, wait!”
Charlay danced in front of Ryoka, and the Runner swore.
“Charlay, I can’t see!”
She shoved at the Centaur, but Charlay was, again, over a thousand pounds, and all Ryoka managed to do was push herself back. She tried to step around the Centaur, but there was a lot of Charlay to manuver about. Then Ryoka heard Truvia hit the Averin [Knight] along with a roar from the spectators.
Ryoka heard a crash, a horse’s scream, and finally got around Charlay, who was dancing with excitement. She saw the Averin [Knight] lying on the ground as Dame Truvia strode towards him.
“Dead gods, are you mad? We’re both [Knights]! I have no quarrel with you!”
He screamed up at her. Dame Truvia grabbed her weapon; she didn’t carry a sword or shield but a spear to go with the lance.
“There is no excuse for dishonor! Draw your sword, ser!”
She charged, and the Averin [Knight] swore and grabbed his mace. Ryoka decided that was enough and started running, watching the battle as the two warriors, one dressed in gold and silver, the other pink, began dueling along the highway. Ryoka ran south, past the traffic jam and people calling out to ask what had happened up ahead. The clash echoing behind the two Runners made Ryoka wince. The Centauress just smiled.
“I like the people living around here. It reminds me of home.”
“It’s certainly…fun.”
Ryoka had to smile as they ran ahead. The two Runners passed further down the road, calling out what was going down to the people shouting warily to know if there was danger ahead. The wagons couldn’t move off the road, but any number of people hopped down or walked or rode ahead to see. The fight between the [Knights] was certainly something Ryoka wanted to see, but she had a job to do.
Riverfarm and Laken—Ryoka’s mood grew less exuberant. Yes, she had a debt to pay, but to whom and how, she had no idea. She just wanted to see the trouble Laken had hinted about. After that—
“Ryoka!”
Ahead of her, Charlay suddenly drew up, nearly rearing in alarm. Ryoka halted at once, and her hand went to her bag of holding. Then she saw what Charlay had seen and blinked.
“Are you serious?”
A familiar face was poking out of a carriage rolling past them. The vehicle wasn’t going that fast due to the traffic, but the amused face that met Ryoka’s eyes was familiar. Ryoka had just seen her.
Alevica, the strange City Runner that scared Charlay, was sitting in the carriage. She had hired it along with three other bored passengers. She was riding one of the travel-carriages that went from city to city. It was an expensive option, but quick and comfortable.
“Alevica?”
Ryoka stared. Charlay just froze. The young woman with the blue hair and hat nodded to Ryoka and Charlay.
“You’re heading this way too. Fancy that.”
“I—yeah. Are you taking the carriage?”
Alevica smiled.
“It’s safe, secure, and pretty quick. Why? Want a ride?”
She patted the seat next to her. Ryoka just shook her head. Alevica was a bad Runner. She wasn’t running, first of all. Ryoka supposed the payment for the carriage wasn’t much given how much she stood to earn, but she was putting everyone in that carriage at risk!
If someone wanted the Steel-box delivery she had, they’d attack the carriage. Ryoka opened her mouth to say so and saw Alevica looking at her. Just…looking. As if she knew exactly what Ryoka was going to say and just wanted to know if she’d say it.
Slowly, Ryoka closed her mouth. Alevica nodded to herself, and her smile grew a bit deeper.
“It’s not a bad way to travel. I’ll go my own way if I need to. But it really does save energy. You’re running barefoot? It’s a long journey for me. You too, I suspect. Why not ride with me? It’ll be free.”
She offered carelessly, ignoring the looks the other passengers and the driver gave her. Ryoka hesitated, and she looked at Charlay.
“Charlay won’t fit.”
“I didn’t offer her. If she wants, she can run alongside the carriage. She’s a Centaur. She could keep up.”
Alevica’s eyes didn’t change once as she turned to regard Charlay. The Centauress shuddered.
“I’ll—I’m—”
She looked at Ryoka. The Runner girl didn’t have to think twice.
“Thanks, but we like running, Alevica. Maybe some other time.”
The young woman shrugged.
“As you please. You’ll make better time than we will. Looks like that [Knight] duel is stopping us. See you around, Wind Runner, Charlay.”
She waved at the two, and Ryoka slowly kept on running. Charlay gratefully followed her. The two were silent as they ran further, and then Ryoka turned to Charlay.
“Okay, what is Alevica? A [Mage] with a temper? Some kind of criminal class? What?”
The Centauress shook her head and warily cast a glance back down the road at the stopped carriage. As she ran, she leaned down and whisper-shouted to Ryoka.
“She’s a [Witch]! We don’t have them in Baleros. Not really. We have different classes. But Ryoka—I’m glad you didn’t ride with her, but if she ever tells you to do something—do it. She’s powerful and dangerous.”
Ryoka nodded. Alevica gave her that impression. She was no Persua, who was a mean girl taken to the extreme of pushing someone into a wagon. Then try to murder you, yes, but Persua worked up to it.
Alevica looked like the kind of person you made enemies with and then tried to murder as fast as possible. Before she got you. She gave Ryoka goose bumps. Then Ryoka latched onto what Charlay had said, and her skin and that sense inside her tingled.
“A [Witch]? Are you serious?”
She turned her head. Alevica was out of sight, but that dress, the hat—yes! It wasn’t classic Harry Potter, but it all fit. Ryoka was just so used to [Mages] that she hadn’t noticed. Charlay nodded. She slowed to a trot, and Ryoka saw her breathing hard.
