She turned to go and jumped. Someone else was waiting in line with Charlay. Only, this woman wasn’t a Runner. A woman in bright pink armor with a shock of grey in her black hair nodded to Ryoka as she tucked her helmet under one arm. Ryoka stared at the Knight of the Petal as Charlay blinked and stepped out of the way. The Runners in the Guild and Jilta looked up. There was a flurry of bows as the [Knight] strode forwards. The woman halted in front of Ryoka and offered her a slight formal bow.
“Miss Griffin. Good morning to you.”
“Dame Truvia. Uh—how can I help you?”
Ryoka recognized one of the senior Knights of the Petal, one of the protectors of Walta. Dame Truvia was a Knight of the Petal, like the others that Ryoka had met. Lady Bethal’s personal order of [Knights]. They garnered a lot of respect from Walta’s citizens, but also in general; the Knights of the Petal were a fairly powerful order of [Knights] for their size, or so Ryoka gathered. Truvia’s presence certainly had an effect on the rest of the guild. Jilta bowed again.
“Dame Truvia! I’m terribly sorry to keep you waiting. We’re just opening—how can I help you?”
She was poised, ready to attend to any of the [Knight]’s needs at once. Truvia smiled, her stern face warming slightly.
“I have no need of your assistance, Miss Griffin. Nor do I need to place an order, Miss Receptionist. I am simply here to check up on Miss Ryoka’s condition.”
“With me?”
Ryoka blinked. Charlay was staring behind her. Truvia nodded.
“Lady Bethal was most impressed with your run, especially the…spectacle of it. She ordered me to check up on you before you left.”
“That’s kind of her. Er, Lady Bethal was very generous. If she has any other requests, I would be happy to take them.”
Ryoka bowed awkwardly. Sending a [Knight] just to see if she was well was strange. But Bethal Walchaís defined the word. Ryoka distinctly recalled the woman. Passionate and strange barely described her. Truvia nodded, looking Ryoka up and down.
“I’m sure Lady Bethal will remember you. It is just a formality. Forgive me for imposing.”
She bowed to Ryoka and Jilta. There was something so graceful about her humility. Impressive too; the woman was almost everything Ryoka wanted to be at her age of around…forty? Fifty? Except for the pink.
“Not at all, Dame Truvia. It’s an honor to have you in the Guild. Can I offer you refreshments? Anything else…?”
Jilta was fussing over the woman, star-struck as if Truvia were a minor celebrity. Which…she was. Ryoka stepped back, and Charlay trotted forwards. Breathless, the Centauress held out a hand.
“Dame Truvia? Dustrider Charlay at your service. I’m the best Runner in Walta, and if you have any needs, any at all—”
Truvia turned politely to Charlay, barely blinking over the Centauress. Ryoka saw Jilta’s face color, and the [Receptionist] chased Charlay away. Charlay trotted back, looking hurt.
“I’m just making an impression. Sheesh! No one else in this Guild does it, but why not?”
Ryoka shrugged.
“I think that’s another thing they do in Baleros but not here.”
“Hah. Baleros is more open. Here’s too much about etiquette. I could talk to a Named Adventurer or famous leader of a Company in Baleros. Okay, maybe not Marian if I saw her, but that’s different.”
Charlay huffed as she watched Truvia speaking with Jilta and a few Runners who’d decided to follow Charlay forwards. She stared at the Rose Knight’s armor, clearly impressed. Then she bumped Ryoka with her hindquarters.
“One of Lady Bethal’s personal [Knights] here just to make sure you didn’t sprain an ankle. And you got to do a delivery for her! You got lucky. If I was there, I’d have done the run in half the time and with half as much puke!”
“Yeah, yeah. You’re not that much faster.”
Ryoka glared at Charlay. She hated to admit it, but the Centauress really was faster than her. Charlay refused to be placated though. She tossed her head again and stamped a hoof.
“Not that much faster? I’m twice as fast as you. Just check the rankings! Any [Broker] could tell you how good you are, if you’re important. I am. I suppose you are now. But I’m still better. You barely qualify for Courier rank, and you were out for two days recovering after that! I’m well faster.”
“I know the rankings.”
Ryoka folded her arms. She hadn’t known they’d existed until Fierre told her about them. And she’d seen the ones Jilta kept as a [Receptionist].
“It says your endurance needs work. And you have a lower combat ranking than me.”
“That’s just—”
The two were pleasantly bickering as Ryoka walked towards the door. Then the door opened and let another Runner in. At least, Ryoka assumed she was a Runner. A young woman with a shock of light blue hair walked into the Guild. That caught Ryoka’s eye first. The hair color. Then she took in the entire young woman and blinked.
The woman was in her late twenties, had blue hair, a hat, and robes. Her hat was slightly pointed, but angled, swooping off to a point behind her. And both her robes and hat were that of a [Mage]. But her body, the way she walked, all spoke to Ryoka of someone who was athletic. Her irises were a bright, pale pink.
She was striking. But there was one other reason Ryoka stared. She felt a strange tugging at her chest, almost like the sense that told her the wind wouldn’t obey any of her commands today unless Ryoka really pushed. It was odd, unfamiliar—
The young woman walked into the guild and noticed Ryoka and Charlay in her way. Rather than walk past them, she stopped and stared. There was nothing apologetic or furtive about the way she did it; she just stopped and looked both up and down.
“So you’re the Wind Runner, huh? Interesting. And here’s Charlay, already following you about. Hi, horse-girl. Anything interesting about?”
The introduction caught Ryoka off-guard. She winced, expecting Charlay to have a snappy response, but the Centauress froze.
“A—Alevica! I—I wasn’t doing anything. I was just talking with Ryoka.”
The strange new Runner eyed Charlay as the Centauress backed up and tried to hide behind Ryoka. She had a piercing stare, and when she smiled—Charlay grabbed Ryoka’s shoulder, and Ryoka felt the Centauress’ hands shaking slightly.
“Fine. Hey, you are the Wind Runner, right? You feel like the wind.”
Surprised, Ryoka turned back to the stranger. She’d assumed her face was known, but perhaps not.
“That’s me.”
“The name’s Alevica. City Runner, like you. I hear you’re good. Slow, but you conjured a storm. I saw it. Let’s get along.”
The hand was slim but strong when Ryoka grasped it, and Alevica’s smile seemed genuine. Although there was a reserve there…she wasn’t challenging or anything. Ryoka almost thought she’d like Alevica’s boldness and the clear way she gave no care to how others saw her. Charlay trembling behind Ryoka gave her pause.
“Of course. I’m on a job, but if I see you around, I’d love to talk.”
“Sure. Something like that.”
Alevica nodded. Then she looked at Charlay, grinned, tugged on her hat, and walked past the two.
“I’ll see both of you around. It’s a small continent.”
She strode up to the counter, past Truvia and the other Runners, all of whom drew back at the sight of her. Jilta looked up sharply, and Ryoka noted her wary expression as well. Ryoka pointed at Alevica’s back.
“Who’s that, Charlay?”
“Alevica. Don’t point! And don’t say anything bad about her!”
“Why? Is she some hotshot Runner?”
Ryoka didn’t see it. Alevica seemed fit, but her calves didn’t speak of a runner to her. But she did have good ears. She turned her head and grinned as Jilta fumbled with something at the desk. Charlay whispered as she tried to pull Ryoka further back.
“She’s really good. Really good.”
“Better than you, the best City Runner in Walta?”
At the desk, Alevica burst out laughing. It was loud and mocking. The other Runners looked uneasy. Charlay paled. She whispered in Ryoka’s ear.
“Don’t quote me! That was a boast! Are you stupid? She’s faster than you or me in short distance travel. And she has the levels and Skills to be a Courier. But there’s more to passing the Runner’s Guild’s tests than just speed. Obviously.”
Even scared, Charlay still managed to find a way to be insulting. Ryoka blinked. That good? And if Charlay said so—why was she so afraid? She whispered to the Centauress.
“What’s holding her back?”
Charlay stared at Ryoka.
“The fact that it’s Alevica? You really haven’t heard of her? She’s famous around all the local Guilds! Reizmelt has to know of her!”
“I don’t keep up on other Runners.”
“Well, remember her! Alevica’s one of the least-trusted Runners, even though she’s a good one. She opens mail, threatens other Runners—and she’ll throw away important packages rather than deliver them if the client insults her! She could be a low-tier Courier, but you have to be sponsored to become a Courier, and no Courier or any of the local Guildmasters will vouch for her.”
Ryoka whistled. That was exactly the kind of Runner she didn’t want to be. The ones with the lowest reputations almost never got personal requests, or if they did, the requests were shady and dangerous. On the other hand, you could make good money doing what Alevica apparently did—if you didn’t mind attracting the wrath of your clientele. But from the way Alevica turned and grinned at Charlay, she didn’t mind the rumors about her.
At the desk, Jilta was fumbling with a paper. She didn’t look happy, but she eventually nodded and pulled something out. Ryoka blinked as she recognized a metal box sealed with a magical lock. Jilta looked at Alevica.
“We do have one Steel-box delivery. It’s worth eighteen gold coins and seven silver if you manage it. The penalty is double, but—”
“I’ll take it.”
Alevica interrupted Jilta and casually reached into a pouch. She pulled out gold coins and began counting them onto the counter carelessly. Ryoka and Charlay stared. Ryoka muttered out of the corner of her mouth to Charlay.
“A Steel-box delivery?”
“I didn’t know we had one. I’m glad, though; I’m not paying that price! It must be a dangerous request!”
Ryoka nodded slowly. Steel-box deliveries were a form of request she’d been introduced to in the north. Sometimes someone wanted something delivered, but the cost of it being intercepted was too high, and they might be wary about Runners risking their wrath. So what any citizen could do was post a high price on a delivery, but require a Runner to put their own gold on the line by way of insurance. If Alevica failed this delivery, she’d have to pay double the fee for success.
Naturally, this was a high-stakes delivery, and the Runner’s Guilds usually demanded to know what was worth the risk. Steel-box deliveries weren’t often picked up and usually only confident or desperate City Runners or Couriers would take them. Alevica was clearly the former; she grabbed the box and headed for the door before Jilta had explained more than the destination.
“Wait, Alevica! The danger’s—”
“Don’t know, don’t care. Just have my gold when I get back.”
The City Runner tipped her hat and flashed Jilta a mocking smile. The [Receptionist] stopped, frowning, but she let Alevica go. Ryoka was impressed. She didn’t like the risk aspect of Steel-box deliveries. You put not only your reputation but your own money on the line. And any delivery for a Steel-box delivery was guaranteed to have some peril during it.
As if she could read Ryoka’s mind, Alevica stopped and turned to the City Runner. She tapped the metal box with one hand.
“If you’ve the guts, try taking on one of these. The pay’s good, and sometimes it’s worth more not to deliver. We’ll see with this, won’t we?”
“Runner Alevica! You’re obligated to obey the Runner’s Guild rules—”
Jilta’s voice fell on deaf ears. Alevica strode out the door with the box under one arm. Charlay stared from behind Ryoka until she was gone and then exhaled slowly.
“Wow. She’s the one person I didn’t want to meet today. Let’s get going before she decides to come back and cast a spell on us all or something.”
“Cast a spell…? Hold on, I’m going on my delivery. Sorry, Charlay, but this is where we part. It’ll take me days to get to my destination, and if I’m back in the area, we can meet again…”
Ryoka blinked and tried to walk towards the door. But the Centauress, suddenly bold and bothersome again, just snorted.
“What? No. I’m bored, so I’m coming with you. I’ll keep you company. Two Runners are better than one, right?”
She trotted towards the door to the Guild. Ryoka stared at her.
“You want to follow me?”
“Yup. I want to see you actually run. Come on, where’re we going? And for who? You can tell me when we’re on the way if Jilta—”
Charlay winced as the [Receptionist] strode around her desk. Jilta waved a finger as the Centauress danced backwards.
“Miss Charlay, you cannot follow another Runner on her request, especially not a personal delivery!”
“But Jilta—”
“You’ve bothered Ryoka Griffin enough. Your behavior reflects on Walta’s Guild, and if you follow her, I’ll issue you a penalty—”
“It’s fine.”
Ryoka’s voice made both Centaur and Human turn. Jilta blinked at Ryoka.
“Miss Griffin, you don’t have to accommodate Charlay. I don’t care how Baleros does things, but here—”
“No, it’s fine, Jilta. I don’t think my client will mind. And I’ll take some company for the road.”
Ryoka glanced at Charlay. The Centauress looked delighted, then instantly tilted her head up and looked superior.
“I’m only doing it because I want to see how good you are, Ryoka. And to prove that I can outrun you any day of the week.”
“I’m sure.”
The tone needled Ryoka, but she’d caught the look on Charlay’s face. So had Jilta. The [Receptionist] pursed her lips, but slowly nodded.
“If you’re fine with it, Miss Ryoka. But I’m warning you, Charlay. If Miss Ryoka complains or claims you interfered with her in any way—”
“I’m just running with her! It’ll be fine.”
The Centauress rolled her eyes. She trotted towards Ryoka, and the Runner nodded. They were heading towards the doors at last when a last person stopped them. Dame Truvia. She approached the two and put her helmet on.
“You’re leaving on a delivery, Miss Griffin? Allow me to accompany you.”
Charlay’s jaw dropped. Ryoka blinked up at the pink [Knight].
“Me? But why?”
The older [Knight] smiled as she raised the visor to her helmet.
“Lady Bethal also bade me to ride with you. She would not wish you to suffer injury on her lands.”
“But I—”
