After a short image capture session on the cathedral's front stairs, the first opportunity for the throngs of journalists to get their own images for tomorrow's newspapers, the new couple climbed aboard the luxury autocar waiting for them. An honour escort made of house guards from both families took up position around them, and they left for the Solar Grand Hall, where the festivities had already begun in a limited manner.

Mainly, alcohols had begun being served a few bells ago.

In the temporary quietness of the cabin, Angeline leaned into Isaac, resting her head against his neck. She brought her hand up, exposing her wristband and its minor imperfections. “Isaac, did you weave this yourself?”

He didn't answer at first, though she felt the warmth rise up his neck. “...I did. Is it not to your liking?”

The desperate hope in his voice made her heart crack a tiny bit. “Oh, no! It's perfect! I'm just surprised. I didn't know you knew how to weave.”

His neck felt warm all over once more. “I didn't. Know, I mean. I didn't know how to weave. I've been taking private lessons in secret since we arrived in Majestic. I only finished your band yesterday night, after you stopped trying to break my resolve with your thighs and left my bedchambers.” He revealed.

She didn't move or say anything, keeping her hand up and staring at her wristband. After a minute, he cleared his throat. “Is everything alright?”

He heard her sigh. A long, languorous one. Her raised hand moved to his cheek, gently turning his head toward her. His gaze met her bright, smiling eyes. “Isaac, you're wasted as a noble.” She said with a velour purr.

He frowned. “What does that mean? I strive to be everything a nobleman ought to be. Loyal, dedicated, mindful, attentive, stead-”

Her finger on his lips cut off his words. “That's exactly what I mean, my dear husband.”

The base of his neck tingled. Husband. That's right. I've married this wild, extraordinary woman. Or rather, she allowed me to marry her.

Her smile told him that she somehow knew what he was thinking. “Nobles are not like you, my love. Most of them, anyway. They are vain creatures, obsessed with their reputation and the accumulation of power. Men like you...”

She sighed again. “Men like you are rare, Isaac. You might think yourself lucky to have won your place within my arms, but I think I am the lucky one, to have earned my place in yours.”

His brain had some trouble reconciling what she was saying with what he knew. The blank stare that resulted made her chuckle. She shook her head to clear the hair out of her face and returned her gaze to his eyes. “Isaac, my love, my husband, my treasure. Never think for an instant that you are not worth a thousand other noblemen. It might feel as if I sunk my claws into you, and I did, not because I was hungry, but because I didn't want to let you go.”

Giving up all pretense of propriety, she shuffled and straddled him on the bench, cupping his face with her hands, even as his body refused to respond. She pressed their foreheads together and locked her eyes with his. “Isaac, I know I am a forceful woman. The worst kind, perhaps; a manipulator. But you saw past even that, and look beyond. Each time you thanked me for my help, for my actions, you were battering down my defences.”

She coiled her arms around his head, pressing his face into the crook of her neck. Her breath drew hot. “Until the final strike, on our way back, on the airship. By then, I had already decided that I was going to try and marry you, out of love and practicality both.”

Her thighs worked his legs; she leaned in and pulled at his earlobe, stopping to whisper. “But that final act of gratitude that you showed me... that one destroyed me. I didn't just want to marry you anymore. I needed to marry you. To make you mine. You were the first to talk to the real Angeline. For that, you have made me yours.”

She pulled her head back, eyelids fluttering. His eyes were wide open, pupils dilated. Her hand pressing over his chest could feel his heart trying to beat its way out of his chest. She smiled.

A smile of a million mornings and nights, the first and last thing he would see for the rest of his life. The most beautiful thing a man could ever lay his eyes upon; the physical embodiment of love, directed at him, in the simplest and purest way possible.

His mouth, despite his daze, managed to move. “Angeline, I-”

She pressed her lips against his, the desperate trust of someone gasping for air, finding solace in a kiss. Her hands ruffled his hair as she pressed her body into him, suffocating him with her warmth, presence, and touch.

His own hands reacted on their own, rising to hold her tightly in place against him.

He wanted this woman. He needed this woman. She could take over his life for all he cared, as long as she allowed him to stay by her side one more day. He would give her his leash, obey her commands, become her pet, and he would love it.

But he knew she would never ask any of this. He knew she would respect his freedom, and yet he craved for her control.

Really, something was wrong with him.

And he couldn't be happier about it.

They both felt the autocar slow down, and distant music seep through. They were arriving at the Grand Hall.

They pulled away from each other with the same joy as having a tooth removed.

Patting down their clothes, straightening the wrinkles, they looked at each other and shared a smile.

A smile that promised a very enjoyable night together, later today.

They only needed to endure through the next twelve or so bells.

Their driver opened the door onto a carpet in the colours of their families, black and silver, red and gold, leading toward the Grand Hall's main entrance, flanked by house guards on both sides, holding back a mass of bodies pressing to catch a glance of the newlywed.

Beyond this procession, nearly a thousand of the most powerful or influential men and women of the kingdom, most likely already jockeying to garner more clout.

Isaac and Angeline's hands laced together as they turned their heads toward each other.

Her eyes twinkled. She spoke for his ears only. “Husband, let's go conquer the world, together.” She said with an impish smile.

His lips drew into a crescent as he pointed forward with his head. “Lead the way, wife.”

They marched as one toward the Grand Hall.

As per their instructions, the music swelled just as they entered the main hall, overpowering discussions, while the lights dimmed except for a quartet of projectors shining bright on their entrance.

Swivelling heads spotted the guests of honour and hands began clapping, building up to a glass-vibrating rumble.

Isaac and Angeline walked down the middle as the crowd parted before them, making their way to the long table at the top of the dais, applause following after them. Up at the table, already sitting, were their respective families; Jacob, Agatha and Annabelle on the Wardenfel side, David, Niala, Cornelius and Mahala on the All Brew end. They shared smiles and nods with all.

They walked up the steps and stopped, turning around. A staff member, as rehearsed with Isaac, hurried in to hand a voice-catching orb to the couple. The musicians, as instructed by yet another staff member, stopped playing.

Angeline accepted the orb with a nod and graced the room with her best smile before lifting it to her mouth, her words picked up and transmitted to the enchanted metal plates all around the wall.

Her voice filled the space. “Family, friends, guests. My husband and I thank you for attending our wedding and reception. It is with love that we joined hands, and it is with love that we bid you an afternoon and evening of festivity. Eat, drink, dance, mingle! A celebration to mark the end of two single tales, and the beginning of a new one, written by two hands, and with you all playing a role in it today!”

A polite wave of applause answered her speech. She lightly bowed and handed the orb to Isaac.

He waited for the hall to quiet once more before speaking. Nodding, he brought the orb up. “I have little to add to what my lovely wife has said, but I would offer you these few words: Thank you for coming. Enjoy the hospitality of the Wardenfels and All Brew, and remember to do so with respect and restraint.”

A second, lesser wave of hand claps underlined his announcement. The music soon picked back up, and the crowd's focus returned to itself, only to be attracted once more as the side doors opened and wait staff began pouring out with carts and platters of food, dispersing throughout the hall and offering their wares to all interested.

As people began partaking in the offered bites, discussions ended, and a new topic usurped their place: the food.

Surprise, praise, questioning. The waiting staff accosted at nearly every step, asked the same thing: what is this delicacy? Where did it come from? Who is the chef?

The carts and platters began emptying before they could reach the centre of the hall. The guests noticed and began crowding the edges. Staff who had gone in to replenish came out to be nearly mugged by the crowd.

Isaac sighed, while Angeline, to his side, smiled like a cat watching mice dance to her tune.

He looked her way. “Well, this is what you wanted when you asked your sister to dictate the recipes for the entrees, wasn't it?”

She grinned at him. “Indeed! This is marvellous! Look, Isaac! The centre of the hall is wide open now. It is time for our performance!”

He let out a breath and nodded, resigned, as she grabbed his hand and pulled him toward the empty space.

His wife called it a performance, but they were only going to dance a little. Of course, it wasn't just any dance; Angeline had selected a variety of culturally significant sets, joined together as a sort of subtle message, enhanced by deliberate choices of music.

They had practiced their “performance” over several weeks.

Their intent would be wasted on the majority of guests, who would only see the newlywed dancing, but some would catch onto the hidden meaning. For one dynasty, the dance of their founding ancestors, alongside the music of their spring festival. For another, an assemble of grief to the tune of their family hymn.

As Angeline had explained when he had asked the purpose of such an elaborate display and questioned its effectiveness, the point was to set the right state of mind. In the same way carefully selected scents could change the feeling of a room, so too could a dance.

And, because she never did things by half, having the crowd gathered along the edges without anyone actually asking them to clear the centre would send another message: we can get what we need without asking.

He thought it went even further: you will do what we need, and you will do so of your own volition.

She had smirked but refused to confirm, but she didn't need to; he knew he was right.

And so, as they took up position, the serving staff retreated beyond their doors and stayed there. A few seconds later, the music changed and swelled. Angeline and Isaac tapped the floor in unison, dragging the crowd's attention to them while the lights were directed on them, the silvery lines of both of their clothes scintillating, and they danced.

It had taken him a while to understand why his now-wife had insisted on reflective silver threads for their outfits' outlines. Now he knew.

Their dance had only been the opening move in what Isaac could only describe as an assault on these poor people's psyche. He could do nothing but be dragged along, playing the part and saying the lines that Angeline had fed him, as he watched his wife work her own kind of magic.

Her sister, Niala, could weave magic into inanimate objects, bending them to her will.

Angeline wove minds, turning people into her puppets. She picked up on desires and fears as easily as one identified night and day, and played on them. Where they tried to defend themselves, their own words were turned into swords and thrown back at them. Where they tried to comply, they found giving up more than they wanted, yet could not claim foul play, having agreed to everything.

Even ignoring her completely, a tactic he saw a few people use, all clearly well acquainted with his wife, only slowed her down. In these cases, she resorted to using other people, inserting ideas and twisting their desires to go accost those defiant bastions and sabotage their defences.

A baron, whose lands produced a surplus of high-quality timber, who he was stubbornly stockpiling to eventually crash the timber market in order to swoop in and acquire his competitors, saw himself deal away his reserves in exchange for lowered taxes on a trade route toward the port town where a merchant's shipyards were floundering, cut off from a stable supply of wood by competing interests, and from which cheap preserved fish would flow back toward the barony, which struggled to feed its people.

The merchants who were aware of the baron's actions but could do nothing against, the shipyard's owners, the lord of the lands through which this new trade would flow, and the baron's new, profitable trade with the shipyard...

They all owed her a favour, now, and one disproportionate to the actual worth of her actions.

If he had been given only a few reports on the region and a few bells to review them, he could have come to the same conclusion and offered the same deals.

Only, his wife had done more; she had directed the conversation with each of the involved parties toward their current ailments and had kept them there, wallowing in their newfound misery, before swooping in and offering them a solution.

Before they could realize what was happening, Angeline pulled onto the weave, and the stories connected. The solution was in place, and she received their praises.

And lastly, perhaps the most important part of the process, she sealed her position in their minds by dragging the conversation away and onto other topics, ones that inflamed tempers just enough to make them forget the details of what had happened a few moments ago.

And she did this over and over and over.

By the time the night was over, Isaac belatedly realized that they must have directly interacted with nine out of ten guests, and travelled the equivalent of several dozen kilometres by simply traipsing all over the Grand Hall.

Just in case he hadn't realized how influential and manipulative his wife was, the endless procession of nobles and merchants who came up to her to offer their thanks would have done it.

She told him that, obviously, favours like these were ephemeral by nature; merchants and nobles alike were quick to forget their new, improved situation was thanks to her hands.

Which was why the second part of the process was crucial: letters. Letters to everyone she had interacted with, with nuanced reminders of what they had gained, and vague threats of what they could lose, should they refuse to repay the boon.

He guessed that explained the frequent short pauses she took to write in a notebook. Inside were short lines with names, dates, and a summary of interactions. For most, these books would appear worthless. In Angeline's hands, these could be used to move the kingdom.

Scary.

And exciting, if he had to be honest. He felt like a bit of a conspirator, yet his conscience was at ease; he had yet to see his wife attempt to steal or cheat someone. Except for a few one-sided deals, where one party rightly deserved a punishment, everything she had done had been for the good of the people.

He didn't need more reaffirmation that Angeline was a righteous soul, but still she kept reminding him.

Eventually, the wedding reception and crash course in social manipulation ended. The last few guests left, or were made to leave, and their close family and friends hugged, kissed, exchanged best wishes, and it was finally time to leave.

It had been a very exciting day.

The way their clasped hands nearly vibrated against each other as they made their way toward the autocar promised an even more exciting night.

The autocar deposited them at an All Brew guest house that had been reserved for them only. Apart from a few guards and house staff, who all had orders to stay far away from the master's bedroom, they were alone.

They somehow retained their control, greeting the staff and guards properly before stately retiring to their room.

It was only once the door was closed and locked that they sprang at each other, kissing between gaps of undressing each other with thoughtless grasps and pulls.

They staggered, more or less naked, toward the bed, where she pushed him down and straddled him. Before could say or do anything, she planted a hand over his chest and, with the other, uncorked a small vial filled with a milky-white substance.

She drained it and threw it away onto a pile of discarded clothes before turning toward him and smiling.

He glanced in the direction where she had thrown the vial. “Was that...?”

Her smile widened. “Contraceptive potion, brewed by my sister.”

“Oh.”

She leaned forward, her breasts brushing up against him. “Is that all you have to say? Oh?”

“...I love you.”

Her eyelids fluttered. “Isaac...”

“Yes?”

“Do you... how do you want to...”

They stared at each other for a while, breath hot, chests heaving, their entire bodies screaming to jump at each other.

He swallowed. “I... maybe you could... give me orders?”

Her face went blank for a second before it split apart on the hugest, warmest, and hungriest smile he had seen yet. “Oh, Isaac... you are so perfect.” She said, grabbing his head and ruffling his hair.

And then the warmth on her visage sharpened into something else. Something that he knew he would only get to see in moments like these, where they were alone.

Something she would reserve for him only.

He lay there, waiting for the words to come out of her mouth.

She gave him her first order. A simple thing: Kiss me.

His entire body shuddered in near-ecstasy.

He kissed her.