Niala slammed her other hand on the fel's arm, unleashing a small weave, something to relax his muscles for an instant.

The woven mana disappeared into his flesh, sucked in.

The pin pupils never left her. His head tilted a millimetre to the left. His mouth opened on perfect, yellowed teeth. “Amazing. Mana given purpose without soul. I wonder if it will be subsumed along with you? We will find out.”

David, teeth grinding, his neck still held within the fel's grasp, reached out with a hand toward Niala, straining to cross the last few centimetres.

The Fel ignored him and pulled at Niala's mana, consuming it.

And stopped immediately, his eyes widening to full globes, his mouth gaping open for a moment. “What... is this? Your mana... is consuming me.”

His head tilted farther to the right than a humanoid should be able to. “You have... the gift... but you do not have... his presence. How? Tell me.”

Ears flattening away from the uncomfortable vibrations of its voice, Niala kept trying to pull her hand away from its grasp, uttering a single word with each attempt. “What! Are! You! Talking! About! Gnnn! Let me go!” She demanded, slapping another dose of woven mana at the fel, to the same effect as before.

It pulled her in like a landslide, its face a hand's breadth away. “You are as the Sanctified. Your mana consumes. To subsume you would be a ritual of enrichment. One of us would overcome the other. The weaker would enrich the stronger.”

It rolled its head to nearly the opposite position. “But you do not have His presence, not in a way which would give you the gift. To perform the ritual would be foolish.” It kept explaining, more to himself than her.

“Curious. Singular. Heresy. Keep you for observation? Otherwise, destroy, but wasteful.”

Niala squinted, eyes between confusion and despair. “What- what are you saying?! It doesn't make any sense!” She glanced at David, still trying to reach out to her, still holding in his scream, even if she could hear it through his eyes.

She looked up at the Fel. “Let David go, and I'll let you, ugh, observe me! Just- stop hurting him!”

“Ni-arrgh-la. No!” David hissed through his teeth.

The fel narrowed its eyes. “You presume much. The Sanctified does not need your assent. The anomalous vessel will be kept and used. You, the untouched magivore, will be examined.”

It leaned its head forward, its nose almost touching Niala's. “So is the will of the sanctified.”

Niala stared back. She let out a singular breath, and with it purged herself of fear and panic. Her eyes hardened, and she bared her fangs. “To the pits with your will! This is my will!”

She slammed her hand on the fel's wrist. No woven mana this time.

No, she tried something else. Something she'd felt hints of over the past year, but had rejected. She didn't want to be more of a freak than she was already, with her weaving, and then with Anaakendi's gift.

But... none of that mattered, here and now.

She stirred her mana, poked at the leashes which coiled around it. Bindings she had unconsciously woven.

The first few, she broke herself.

Then the next one snapped, and the rest followed in a surging chain.

She stared at the fel at the exact same time her ravenous mana hit its pathways.

And blessedly, finally, the fel's eyes widened in something other than surprise or curiosity.

Mikayl One-One was concerned.

This was too many unknowns, all at once. An anomalous vessel with unfiltered access to the aetheric sea. An unknown power. An untouched gifted one.

No, not gifted.

This wasn't the gift in the woman. It was something else. It felt like the gift, but it hadn't been given to her. She had stolen it, made it her own.

He didn't know that was possible.

A secret to be uncovered later, after he had won in this lopsided ritual of enrichment. She stood to gain his power. He stood to retain his life.

Pulling back the strands of his consciousness, he directed them toward the battle taking place at the edge of his mana pathways, where the girl's hand grasped his wrist.

But... he realized he hadn't needed to fear.

He had an advantage she didn't. Thanks to the vessel in his other hand, he had an unlimited amount of mana to sate her hunger with. She did not. No matter how ravenous she was, he would win by attrition.

He allowed his mouth to twitch upward.

She could feel the clash unfurling at the point of contact with the fel. Her mana, hungry, feeding like a swarm of starving beasts. At the same time, the fel's mana was taking chunks back, like springing snakes.

She could feel her rate of absorption outpaced his by a wide margin, but she was still losing ground. He simply had so much to feed her that it was overwhelming her capacity to consume.

A pang of familiarity, through the fel's sickly mana. Like a pure droplet of water, from a source she was more than familiar with.

David's mana.

She could taste his mana, but only in ephemeral strands. The fel was feeding on him, then using it to feed her in turn, once it had been corrupted by its pathways, except that process didn't have the time to finish.

But it explained why the fel was slowly gaining on her, and that she couldn't win. She needed... David's mana.

She looked at him, hand still outstretched, trying to reach her. She lifted a leg, extending it toward him. The fel noticed the movement, its eyes snapping to her leg and then back to her, and he simply extended the arm holding her, pushing her out of reach from David.

With clouds of despair gathering, she redoubled her feeding on the fel's essence. Maybe, if she occupied him enough, David would have a chance...

A long, drawn-out duel wouldn't work. Pulling deep within her, she threw everything she had, all at once.

And, for a moment, as both of their mana gorged on each other's in equal measure, the tug of war ground to a standstill.

Isaac, for the tenth time, cursed the architects who designed this temple. Corridors which seemed to lead nowhere, or double-backed on themselves, or rooms you had to go through to keep moving forward.

It was madness, and he was certain they must have passed by half a dozen secret doors by now. He was of a mind to simply start blowing a passage through the walls and out of the temple, but he couldn't risk it while his group seemed to remain undetected.

He glanced back at the nearly hundred people following him, and wondered if they really were undetected, or just ignored?

The guards were in fighting shape, but the workers were shuffling around. He simply didn't have enough supplies for them all, and getting them mobile was the best he could do.

He grimaced. If need be, he'd go down fighting to allow them a chance to escape. He hated the idea of not being able to return the sword to Angeline, but she'd understand if it came to that. This was his duty as a Wardenfel, after all.

One of the scouts he'd sent ahead to make sure they weren't about to turn the corner onto a band of guards jogged back to him. Isaac narrowed his eyes in place of a question, but the scout shook his head.

No enemies ahead, yet.

He kept moving as the guard took a walking position at his side. “Sir, A few corridors ahead, I think I felt a breeze.”

Isaac quirked an eyebrow. “A breeze? A window, maybe? If we have a view outside...” He hoped it was something like that; he'd gladly use explosives to get out of this place.

The guard shook his head. “More than that, sir. Felt more like someone left a big door open.”

The young lord's next step hitched. “...A big door, open.”

“Yes, sir.”

Isaac sighed. “That sounds like how my brother would decide to barge in.” He looked up to the guard, a bit more certainty in his voice. “Lead us to where you felt the breeze.”

The guard nodded and saluted, taking point.

He looked at the group over his shoulder. With some luck, they'd be out soon. Once the workers were safe, he'd ask for volunteers, and if he was relatively certain his brother was in here, he'd come charging back.

He wasn't about to leave his brother and sister-in-law without his support, even if it was to be as nothing but a distraction.

This was his duty as a Wardenfel.

It was also his duty as a brother.

David gritted his teeth, clamping down his urge to scream and trying to ignore the prickling pain all over his body as he scrambled for an idea. Something, anything, to distract the fel.

Physical attacks did little, even with Heartsong. If he had time, maybe with enough strikes, but he didn't.

His imbuements weren't strong enough; even fully powered, all he could do was shake the fel's hand around his throat, but not dislodge it.

And, Niala... she was doing something to the fel, but he wasn't sure what. The fel seemed to say she was a magivore. If that was true, then right now she was probably trying to consume it, but it was also draining his mana, which must have been refilling his reserves.

He needed to talk to her, to touch her, to give her his mana, not to this creature.

How-

His eyes went wide for an instant before he clamped them shut. It took him a dozen attempts, but he was eventually able to shut the pain away. When he reopened his eyes, he was gazing at his inner sea. Hundreds of sky-reaching tornadoes were scouring the sea's surface, siphoning the water away, up into the sky and disappearing into black, pulsing clouds.

Below him, Leviathan was doing his best to avoid the funnels. He dove toward him, screaming as he got within earshot. “LEVIATHAN! IT'S TIME TO COME OUT!”

The sea serpent craned its head up. “My Lord! The sea might not allow it! You need to saturate the air with it!”

David alighted before his aspect, the tip of his feet touching the disturbed mana sea. “I don't care what it wants. It's happening. I need your help.”

His aspect stared back for a second before nodding. “What do you need of me?”

The young man smiled. “Same as usual, my friend. Help me blow this place up.”

David floated, cross-legged, with Levianthan coiled around him, his face scrunched in irritated concentration.

The mana funnels were making this really hard. He could barely raise the ambient mana before it got sucked away.

There was no other way, though. He just had to power through. He knew he could do it; it just required him to forcefully expand his pathways even more than they already were.

It was a problem of the mind; it was shying away from even more pain.

David was in the process of beating his mind into submission. Niala needed this. He needed this.

If only the pits damned pain could stop disturbing him. It was like being pinched all over, all at once.

Leviathan's voice boomed. “This is not working, my lord.”

“Please tell me something I don't know!”

“... I enjoy the colour blue.”

David blinked and then stared at his aspect.

Leviathan blinked back. “Did you already know this?” He asked, concerned he had failed his lord.

“No, Leviathan, I did not know that you liked blue.” David enunciated slowly.

His aspect smiled. “It is because, when you power your imbuements, blue script appears in the sky, like the constellations in the outside world. Some dim, some bright.”

David slowly nodded, but stopped his head and frowned.

Some dim, some bright. More than one?

He cleared his mind and tried to feel out his imbuements, wondering if he could power them while in his inner world.

It was only with a trickle of power, but... yes, he could. He tried Iron Body, and he felt the effect fizzle into place, but only the outside. His current “body” being nothing but a projection, it appeared unaffected.

However... He looked up, and his eyes widened. There really were runic scripts in the sky. He even recognized a good portion of them from his enchantment studies. Not enough to read them fully, but enough to have a guess of a clue as to what they did.

There, the brightest of them, Iron Body, flashing brighter. All around it, however, were dimmer lines of script. He made out Strong Arm, Quick Step, and so on, all the ones he knew.

But there must have been over a hundred.

All of those, his powers, unawakened. His eyes darted about the runic constellations. Maybe one of those would be useful, something to block out the pain, something to-

There! He didn't know exactly what it was, but he could make out the rune for “mind” and “resist.”

He didn't have more time than that. Working on instinct, he burrowed into his mind, sniffing out the imbuement he'd glimpsed. He found something that had the same general shape and smell, and latched on to it.

His mind's hand squeezed and forced mana into the imbuement, without any training or preparation, with no idea how to regulate it.

Everything disappeared. Every superfluous thought, gone. Emotions, desires, joy, pain. His new mind rejected all of those, ordering them in a line and closing the lid on top.

Now, without distraction, he would finally work.

First, stretch his pathways to their breaking point.

Done.

Second, clamp down on the siphons with his mind. He could feel their pull eroding the edges of his self like belt sanders on wood, but he didn't need long.

Done.

Third, suffocate this space with mana. Force it past the saturation point, so that an ulcerous bead of mana forms.

Done.

Lastly, destroy it.

Done.

Mikayl One-One noted with detached curiosity that the vessel seemed to have passed out. Its mana was still flowing out, so it mattered little.

His battle with the girl was still deadlocked, but he could see the beads of sweat forming on her brow, the microscopic shakes of her muscles as she continued dredging up the far reaches of her reserves.

She was running out, and soon he would subsume her.

A pity. He would have preferred observation to ensure he could gain her strange ability, but he would just have to hope that subsuming her essence would do the same.

And, if not, surely there must be more like her. He would only need to send a few threes to retrieve more samples.

His plan was set, then. Finish the girl, spend the next few decades feeding on the vessel, reach the next step of His revival, and acquire this new power.

And then his mana pathways exploded.

Consuming fire ripped through his being. His mana lost all cohesion and rampaged through his body, burning flesh and His blessed essence in equal measure.

A whine escaped his throat.

And then a giant blue-scaled sausage appeared above his head and ground him into the floor.