Erick rushed out of his testing room and ran down the hallway. He got to Kiri’s room, and said, “I’m so sorry. I did not consider—”

“It’s fine. It’s fine. I have Health, too, so...” Kiri was currently doing her best to appear calm, but hyperventilating flames flickered out of her mouth as she spoke. “I should have Favored [Ward] a long time ago, but I need to go to the Registrar and get a few things switched around to be able to do that. Your… [Force Beam]… that was a wake-up call.” She said, “You’re experimenting with reflective magic. Of course I should not have been there. Sorry. I have made you worry, and that is my fault.”

“… I’m so sorry,” Erick said. “Take some of the grand rads downstairs— Or. You’ve been killing monsters for Mog. You probably—” He pitched up his voice, trying for levity, “You’re rich, right?”

“Yeah. I am.” Kiri put on a smile. “Thank you for the offer, but it is not necessary. See you, later.” She vanished in a blip of green.

Sunny remained in the air where Kiri’s shoulder’s had been. After a rapid shift of colors from blue to red, the winged snake vanished in a blip of green, following Kiri.

Erick stared at the space for a long moment.

“Fuck,” Erick whispered. “Shit. That was my fault.” He went back to the classroom, saying to himself, “Get it together, Erick. We’re not even on the battlefield and you’re already making stupid decisions.” He smiled to himself, thinking of Rats, spilling food at every loud noise.

… Hopefully Rats— Ah. No. Hopefully Xendross was doing okay, wherever he was.

Hopefully Kiri would forgive him, when she got back.

Erick walked back inside his classroom, trying to forget the mistake he had almost made. Worry over magic was not conducive to making magic, as Erick well knew.

He breathed a bit and centered himself, and when he was ready to continue, he did so.

He had already done well with [Ward] and [Rebound] to make [Pure Reflection Ward], months ago, but he was going to either have to attempt for a tier 3 version, using that and [Force Wall], and likely fuck it up and have to try again 10 days later, or recreate that entire spell from the beginning, starting with [Force Wall]. With the second, more complicated option, he could just try again tomorrow.

The second option was obviously the better choice for a longer term solution, but there was nothing preventing him from trying both ways, if the first option didn’t work.

Channeling mana through [Ward] produced a spherical ball, and a muted sound, like hearing a party down the street, or in another room. Erick brought the ball of light to his head, and once he got past the tingling sensation of having raw mana essentially billowing against his face, he heard [Ward]; it was everything, and nothing, all at once. It was the full breadth of magic, and also the dearth of interactions beyond a certain point. It was contained, variable intent and power, solidly placed.

[Ward], [Force Wall], and [Rebound], all held a common thread that might not have been fully obvious, but it was there. [Rebound] was all about joining to other magic to make that magic bounce and change direction. [Force Wall] was about rigidity, and unmoving protection. [Ward] was the bridging concept. Together, the three spells would bring about a wall with the ability to transform any magic that touched it into reflected magic.

Add in a few ideas of what ‘reflect’ actually meant, with intent and magic becoming as light rays, returning harm back to where it came from, and—

[Rebound], [Ward], [Force Wall].

A brilliant sheen of reflected reality popped into existence in front of Erick. Success! Or…

Erick frowned.

For a long moment, while a blue box hovered just outside of his vision, he looked at himself in the floating pane of reflective Force. It was like looking through a dark mirror. He was physically younger, but looking at himself, he saw his worries manifested in his reflection. He looked aged, with wine dark eyes and slumped shoulders. His hair was growing in darker brown again, but the ends were still salt and pepper. He badly needed a shave and a haircut. He was unkempt; wild and half crazed.

The man in the mirror was a wreck. He was ready to go to war, to take on the burden of bloodshed and death, and yet, he was not ready at all, for that was not who he was, who he was capable of being, or who he wanted to be.

Erick sighed and saw how truly tired he was. The man in the dark mirror sighed with him, while Ophiel held on for the ride, silently clinging to his shoulder.

And then Erick looked past himself, directly at the shadows of the room that clung under the windowsill, and in the space between the open door and the wall.

Without turning from the mirror, he asked the shadows, “Why does your clergy have to be like they are?”

The shadow’s gentle movements froze at Erick’s words. Erick waited. After a moment, the darkness, or maybe the Darkness, began to swirl again, like nothing had happened, like he or they or it hadn’t heard his question.

Erick asked, “Why did you make monsters to kill everyone? Or tell the Old Demons how to kill all the halves? Or curse the dragons? Or raise up Ancient monsters? The Script is smaller than what you had, but it cannot be that bad.”

The shadows stirred again, as though they were listening.

Erick waited.

And waited.

And nothing happened.

He ignored the darkness, and turned his attention from the mirror in front of him, to his recent notifications.

Ah. His new spell had a pretty large mana cost. That would explain the drain he felt, and the activation of Meditation’s active effect, along with the subsequent un-reality he saw whenever Meditation was on. He wasn’t inside the dense, Restful air of his house, inside this classroom, after all.

Pure Reflection Wall, instant, close range, 1920 MP

Hang a wall of spell reflection in the air. Lasts 1 hour.

“Pretty good.” Erick conjured an Ophiel and sent him blipping out into an unimportant part of the Crystal Forest. “Now let’s see how this works...”

- - - -

Where the wind blew from the north and tiny bits of sand hung in the air, another experiment began. Ophiel conjured a pane of reflection, and then, floating at an angle to the left of the solid surface, and making sure there was nothing else down below —there were only mimics and dunes and streamers of sand coming off of those dunes as far as his many eyes could see— Ophiel targeted the pane.

A single wing pointed forward, coalescing a pearl of power; a speck of white that seemed to dim the rest of the sky to twilight. Radiance shot forward, the brightest thing in the world, to strike the mirrored spell, and bounce, scattering to the right, flashing across dunes and sky like a laser pointer flashing through foggy room.

[Luminous Beam] lasted for mere seconds, but the effect was devastating where it had caught the ground. A trench began where it had touched down, but stretched out for kilometers into the distance.

The [Pure Reflection Wall] was fine, though. Erick shot the pane of Force again, producing much the same result as his the first time, but now there were two molten trenches trailing off into the distance.

Looking all around him, at the mostly empty land, Erick decided he really needed to level [Luminous Beam] and [Vivid Gloom] to 10. Just in case they were needed.

Ophiel conjured a personal [Lightmask] first, for he had taken a little bit of damage from the light of the beams, but not a whole lot. Then he conjured a floating platform and set down in the center, before surrounding himself with a medium strength [Prismatic Ward]. It wasn’t totally necessary, since Erick would have to cast his magic himself to level the spells, but it was necessary to protect Ophiel from the backlash.

And then he cast a [Cascade Imaging] in the sky far above, set to check for ‘people’, to make sure that no one was around.

Erick really should have checked for people every time he experimented. He would have…

… He didn’t know what he would have done, if he had accidentally killed someone watching him.

Logically, he knew that the chances for such an event were very, very small. Anyone who was 700-ish kilometers out from Spur like he was, certainly had [Teleport], or some other way to get away from danger. But, still, he didn’t know what he would have done if his experiments had actually hurt someone.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself, alone in the third-floor classroom, looking at his reflection.

He half-expected Melemizargo to be there when he returned his senses to his body, standing behind him or having taken over his image in the mirror, but that did not happen.

So he dismissed the floating [Pure Reflection Wall], and turned his attention to the side of the room. He conjured a blackboard and began writing down some goals.

Combat experience.

Support Jane.

Monster knowledge.

Finding allies.

-Odaali (And Greensoil Republic?)

-Archmages (Syllea, in particular)

-Oceanside

-Wasteland

-Gods? What can gods even do? Probably have to go with champions.

Uncovering the purpose of Candlepoint.

[Teleport Spell]

[Gate], via Fork and Wayfinders (Archmage Tenebrae, too)

Another [Familiar]

Create Stat fruits.

Support Guard and Army and Guilds with rings

Erick stepped back from the board—

“Oh!” He conjured another Ophiel and set him blipping out to the Lake.

A quick once-over revealed a stable land, filled with green grasses, wildflowers, and thick clover, yet the cattle pond was dry and the exposed edges of the Lake were drying and cracking under the harsh glare of the sun. Erick immediately began a platinum rain, targeting trees for his selective [Grow]. When no trees poked up from the ground, Erick switched over to ‘all plant life’, and the vibrancy of the Lake and the Ranch doubled. Grasses grew tall. Wildflowers blossomed like a rainbow splashed across the land. Clover sprouted strong.

Erick switched over to a double cast of shaped [Call Lightning], making sure the rain only fell over the Lake and the Ranch. Platinum rain turned mundane.

Erick came back to himself, and started a new list.

Support the Lake and Ranch

Keep Spur safe (could go on both boards, for sure)

Community Garden Council, and necessary rains (make staff of rain?)

Enchant staffs of my other spells; [Exalted Storm Aura]

[Renew]; still haven’t figured that out.

Support Spur’s Care Service, donate money on behalf of Delia

Find Delia. Hire someone? Talk to friends? But that would be an invasion, and drive her away?

Support Delia’s friends, on behalf of Spur’s Care Servi

Erick stopped writing. He frowned. He said, “But if I help her, then she’ll be seen as a weakness, and used to get to me.” His frown deepened. “Gods dammit.” He erased Delia’s entries from the boards, but he kept the part about helping Spur’s Care Service. And then he saw what he had written, and added another entry: ‘Find a way to Super Long Range collect rads, for enchanting’.

He stood back, and said, “I’ll have to do it with some form of Particle spell… but what even is a rad? Crystallized mana, sure, but… what is crystallized mana?” He hummed. He said, “Someone must have figured out this problem long before I ever got here.”

Erick went to his library, and tried to find an answer to any of his problems. While he read, and since the [Cascade Imaging] Ophiel had put up in the Crystal Forest showed no people for a hundred kilometers around, he began leveling [Vivid Gloom] and [Luminous Beam] to 10.

The sky cracked in a dozen locations as radiance poured down, transforming into darkness and hidden light as it spread across the dunes and the monsters, killing everything it touched.

Pearls of power shot white beams of gamma radiation and light across the sky and into the clouds below.

It didn’t take long before Erick discovered an interesting functionality of his two new spells. While [Vivid Gloom] blanketed the land in billowing clouds of pure, sucking darkness, when he struck the cloud with his gamma laser and particle beam spell, the dark cloud doubled in size. The beam vanished into the expanse, of course; darkness absorbed light. But what was surprising, was that cloud’s increase in size was so dramatic and sudden, that Ophiel almost got caught by the engulfing cloud. A quick blip higher put him well out of range of the spell below, but it had been close.

When Erick had finished leveling his magic, the two spells looked slightly different.

Luminous Beam X, instant, super long range, 500 mana

Conjure a coruscating, tightly controlled plume of severing light that deals <massive damage> and lasts for <5 seconds>.

Particle Mage Only.

Vivid Gloom X, instant + 1 minute, super long range, 500 MP

Chaotic radiance expands to fill a super large area, dealing <damage> every second to all inside. <Various effects of direct exposure include, but are not limited to, Cancer, Blindness, Magic Failure, Immolation, Boiling, and other Decay-like effects.> Spell lasts <1 hour> after conjuring is complete. Effects last longer.

Particle Mage Only.

And the land where Erick had experimented, looked vastly different.

Puddles of molten glass glowed under the sun, where there had been dips in the sand, and shimmered in thin, broken veneers of glass where dunes had poked high. He heard glass break as it cooled unevenly, like a mockery of ice breaking on a lake in winter—

Poi asked, ‘Sir?’

Erick came back to himself. He looked up from his book. “Uh? What’s up, Poi?” He looked to the left, and saw Teressa standing beside Poi, wearing bright silver armor, like a guard. “Er? Teressa?”

Teressa seemed to reluctantly say, “I have been asked to formally request your assistance in locating some missing people.”

