“Don’t knock it until I’ve tried it.”

“Pre-medieval. When was the sling invented?”

******

******

Alden made an effort to get to the MPE building early, hoping that he’d be able to talk to a faculty member about his likely absence on Monday. The healer Stuart was introducing him to was someone for whom you cleared your schedule, so he wouldn’t be asking for a different appointment or rushing through the one he’d been given.

Still kind of awkward, he thought, shifting his duffel bag to the other shoulder as he headed through the front doors. Informing them I might be taking time off to work on my mental health after I stridently refused their suggestion that I take some time off to work on my mental health.

Stuart and the Artona I kernel were just better at persuading people. That was all.

Maybe I don’t even have to tell them why I’ll be gone. “Because of the aliens” was a fantastic excuse for an Avowed and one that didn’t necessarily need a lot of follow-up explanations.

Alden wasn’t surprised to see students practicing on the floor when he entered the gymnasium. It was only empty during the periods between classes when it was being set up for the next group. But he was surprised by the number of teenagers watching from the bleachers, and he was a little put-out that they were all still there when he came back wearing his gym suit. After getting dressed, he’d dawdled on purpose, taking a walk down the halls, checking the contents of a vending machine, and reading a “thank you” form letter from The Capeless Brave, a multinational organization that provided funds to the families of emergency responders and aid workers who were killed or injured on the job.

He’d definitely delayed for long enough.

Usually, this more advanced class would all have headed to the locker rooms by now, and the faculty for his own group would be in here prepping for them. Dueling doesn’t have as much prep I guess.

He watched the class for a couple of minutes, trying to figure out why so many people—most of them wearing uniforms that marked them as students from the other two CNH programs—were observing right now. It didn’t seem like a special event, just a general combat class, playing a violent version of capture-the-flag.

“Look. Look, you two! That’s him. The Matadero guy.”

The excited whisper came from behind Alden, and he looked around to see two girls and a boy, all with the words “Anesidoran Forever” written on one cheek with face paint.

“Did they like it?” one of the girls asked, taking a step toward him.

“What?”

“The wizards!” she said. “Did they like all the food?”

“Yes. Everyone seemed to have a really good time.”

“I offered to paint some of the vegetables for the cornucopia, but that Juniper first year wouldn’t let me,” said the other girl.

“Jupiter. Sorry about that.”

“I have a grandmother who was born in Trenton, New Jersey,” said the boy.

Alden had to think about that for a second. Maybe…he’s trying to tell me he has a special connection to the holiday, or to me, by virtue of being one quarter former-American?

“Cool,” he said. “Nice to meet you all. Sorry, though. I’ve got to go to—” No, don’t tell them where you’re going. What if they want to follow you and ask questions about the cube? “—to a place and get ready for my class. It’s starting soon.”

He hurried away. When he was sure they weren’t watching, he ducked into the storage room under the bleachers. Relieved to find it free from curious observers, he started preparing some options for the evening’s duels while simultaneously monitoring his most recent messages to make sure there hadn’t been any problems with his donations.

Giving away nearly a million dollars wasn’t something he did every day, and he felt nervous about transferring such large quantities of money. Like he might have typed the numbers in wrong even though he’d quadruple checked every one.

The Capeless Brave’s form letter had the amount listed, but the donation he’d made to improve Anesidora’s teleportation infrastructure had just instantly vanished with no follow-up letter or anything. That made him worry that the sixty-five thousand argold hadn’t gone to the right project.

It was my largest donation, too.

Infrastructure meant easier teleports, which meant less stress for the Earth System, which meant Alden felt like he was paying to make sure the thing never malfunctioned. Easier teleportation was also good for a hundred other reasons.

Maybe I should call them and ask them to confirm it, he thought while he laid a dozen small bags—now emptied of dried lavender and filled with gravel—against a length of paracord he’d put on the floor.

As far as Chicago charities, he’d donated to the zoos in memory of his parents, and to the parks department for the bench. He’d given some to Skiff’s free swim lessons program, too, since he found himself far more respectful of water safety a week after his own near drowning.

He’d also set money aside for Kimberly’s cash envelope idea.

On Anesidora, he’d anonymously sent fifteen thousand argold to an organization in F-city that provided classes to low ranks who wanted to level. And he’d bought gift cards for self-defense schools and firing ranges. A lot of them. He was donating most of them to The Warren. They definitely wouldn’t be the most popular freebies in Rabbit intake, but Alden would have the pleasure of imagining some future unlucky Rabbit getting a commendation for shooting a demon with the training he’d paid for.

Thus annoying Bash-nor.

Long, longterm revenge. But still satisfying.

And, finally, there was the birthing center in Nashville. They’d already emailed to set up a call so they could see him face to face and tell him how his generosity would make a difference. He was thinking of saying ‘no thank you,’ out of cowardice. He didn’t want someone to tell him how much trouble the sudden, wizard-ordered dirt and tree removal had been.

He placed his last gravel bag against the cord. Well, it looks interesting.

If nobody objected to him trying out this particular weapon, then he would probably do a couple of different versions of it to get the hang of it. The first challenge he was giving himself was just trying to preserve all of the individual sachet bags and the cord as a “stack” while ignoring the gravel. A perception game, like doing just the outside of the suitcase, only a little harder because of the number of sachets.

Once he got that part right, he’d try the basic catapult with it.

Stand at my end of the dueling block, and swing it. When I drop preservation, the gravel pouches should go flying, but I’ll still have the cord itself entrusted to me.

He tied another set of empty bags to the cord by their handles. If his opponent was just sitting around at the other end of the block for some reason he might get a chance for a re-load. Unlikely, but why not prep for it?

The really cool thing would be if I could drop preservation from just one gravel pouch at a time. For multiple shots with no reloading. I’m not sure that would work, but I should try it some other time. Today, I’ll try a sling for—

“You’re here earlier than usual.”

Alden looked up from his project and saw that Max had just come into the storage room. The Adjuster hadn’t changed out of his school uniform yet, and he was carrying a small gym bag with the name of his old high school printed on it. The uniform made him look even taller than usual.

“I didn’t have other classes,” said Alden. “Not in-person ones anyway. So all I had to do was recover from Thanksgiving and then fly over.”

Max looked at the makeshift catapult, then examined a few other, pre-assembled rock-flinging options Alden had pulled out of his duffel bag. “You know how hard it’s going to be to hit the Goliaths in the forehead, don’t you?”

“The forehead? I’m just happy to hit them at all right now.”

Max stepped over to examine a pair of rather imperfect slings Alden had made for himself before leaving Matadero. They were lying on top of a stack of mats. He poked the longer one with a finger.

“What’s with you and the Artonans?” he asked.

Blunt.

“I’m sure you really were seeing a healer at the cube. But they wouldn’t usually keep you as long as they have, would they? And the early teleport off the bridge…”

Alden dragged his duffel bag toward him and started looking through it for other options. “You know,” he said, “it’s really nobody’s business but mine.”

“That’s what you’re going to tell everyone?” Max asked.

“No.” He pretended to be totally focused on the spool of thread he’d just found. “I’m going to tell them I have a commendation from a hn’tyon I met on Thegund.”

Alden had time to make a crappy thread net that would hold a temper sphere before Max spoke again.

“That explains a lot of things.”

Alden decided not to ask which particular things he was thinking of.

“I know what I want for my favor.”

One of the favors from Kon’s party. Finally coming due. Alden looked up. “What is it?”

“Beat Winston with the fishing line again.”

“That’s not the spirit of the offer.” Alden frowned at him. “It’s supposed to be a chore with our powers.”

“It matches the description well enough.”

Alden didn’t really think it did. Technically, preserving a piece of fishing line was a small, non-dangerous magical favor, but that wasn’t what Kon had meant when he’d announced the rules of the game.

Max rolled his eyes. “I’m not asking you to shorten him at the neck on his way to the bathroom one day. Just wait until the opportunity presents itself during one of your duels. Actually, you don’t even have to use the fishing line. I just want you to try to beat him in any way you can at a moment when you’re already supposed to be fighting him.”

“What makes you think I wouldn’t anyway?” Alden asked.

“You almost never try to beat people.”

“That’s not exactly—”

“You prefer experiments to victory. It’s very sane of you. You’ve already got six different ways to use your skill for throwing rocks that you want to try out today, and that’s with them limiting what tools you can use.” He touched the sling again. “But that means the next time you fight Winston you’ll probably be busy figuring out how your skill enhances your ability to use a surujin or you’ll be trying version number eighteen of that basket on a stick you made on Wednesday.”

I need to look up what a surujin is. “It’s for Reinhard. I’m going to tangle him up and then flip him like a pancake.”

Max’s lips pursed.

“It’s going to work.”

“Anyway…” Max said. “I’m just asking you to focus on winning against Winston instead of learning from him. One more time.”

Alden sighed. “Fine. I want to beat him anyway after that crap he pulled yesterday.”

“You do now. They’re not going to pair you two up today, though. They’ll give you both time to cool off. Winston will just simmer in resentment, but you’ll actually go back to ignoring him.”

Maybe. I’m still feeling a little vengeful.

He’d avoided looking at social media all day because if Winston was talking out of his ass about Esh-erdi again…

“I’ll make an effort,” he confirmed. “But no promises on my success. Why do you want me to do it, though?”

Max had very obvious problems with Winston. And as pissed as he’d been yesterday, Alden still hadn’t missed Winston’s public proclamation that Alden was the best B-rank in their class.

But Alden was sure Max would rather beat the Speed Brute himself. It wasn’t impossible with his traps. He just needed to wait for the right circumstances to crop up.

“I want him out of my apartment,” said Max. “Among other things.”

Alden felt his eyebrows lift. “I’m positive your apartment is the most hostile one on campus. I feel sorry for Jeffy. But how is me beating Winston in gym going to get him out of your dorm room?”

“He’s been trying to get me to move out. I’m going to goad him into saying that if you beat him again he’ll leave instead.”

“Just like that?”

“It might take me a couple of tries.”

Only a couple to get something that specific out of him?

For about the tenth time, Alden was really relieved he’d tricked Lexi into being his roommate.

Max headed over to the shelf that held the drones he sometimes practiced with.

“Is that other class still on the floor?” Alden asked.

“They just finished, and the locker room is full of them. That’s why I’m in here.”

“They were so late, and they have an audience. What’s that about?”

“It’s an observation period for students considering applying to the program. Thankfully they won’t be watching us. The school schedules those periods to coincide with the advanced classes.”

Mystery solved. Now, how do I want to manage each fight after the rocks and spheres are thrown? Shielding against the wrong person just means I’m done with class for the day, and that sucks. They’re not going to establish a penalty for dying, so I might as well…

He was still thinking it through when Max said, “There shouldn’t be so many.”

“Rocks?”

“No, you probably need even more of those. I’m talking about the people in the stands. There shouldn’t be so many of them.”

“It looked like about three hundred or so?”

“It’s usually more than that,” said Max. “But usually most of the observers are from middle schools and high schools in F-city. These are almost all from CNH or one of the other Apex schools.”

