My chest aches as I watch my fiery beloved endure a storm of blows for lack of any better options, and it eats me alive to see her slowly succumb to fear and doubt as she weathers the storm without faltering. A conflict she is only losing because of the foul Enemy working pervading all of Meng Sha, but even without it, I fear she would be in most dire straits. Though talented beyond compare, Mila’s ego is fragile as glass for it has never been broken before, a failing born of being too damned talented to be beat by someone close to her age. This is simply a poor match-up for her, but that doesn’t mean all hope is lost, only that she must rise above her limitations and reach her full potential in order to emerge victorious here today.

Though I love my wives dearly, I care about my friends and comrades too, so even as Mila and Yan fight for their lives, I take in the dozens of other viewpoints showing me what’s happening all across Meng Sha. Staunchly guarding Li-Li’s flank to keep the Mataram Clansmen from interfering, Dastan howls in wordless rage as he fights like a man possessed. It is more than duty which holds him here, but fury for his fallen friends who died here today. Though it was no fault of his own, he blames himself for their death, for he is more like me than either of us would care to admit. Possessed with the pride of a rising young dragon, Dastan sees Li-Li’s superlative efforts and hates himself for failing to measure up, for if he were as strong as she was, then his friends and comrades would still be alive. The rage eats away at him, and his hatred burns strong, but even this is not enough to unhinge him as he holds fast to Balance. Again and again, he swings his axe, scything through Chosen like a farmer through wheat thanks to his advanced form of Honing, but even a thousand dead Defiled will not be enough to quench his thirst for vengeance. In his frenzy, he advances upon his next foe without noticing the blue-trim of his armour or the arrogant demeanour he holds himself with, and though Dastan Zhandos might well be the match of every Junior Mataram Officer on the field, he is tired and spent from almost a half-hour of constant conflict while his foe is fresh in from the back lines.

Muttering obscenities beneath his breath, Siyar stalks along the battlements seeking out targets to kill from afar, having emptied three pouches of ammunition already and fast coming to an end of the fourth. A life of lackadaisical sloth and indulgent drinking has left him with a Core smaller than most, a failing he usually makes up for by relying on cold steel alone to secure the bulk of his kills. Today however, he’s going all out and paying dearly for it, though he’s suffered far worse than a headache before. Ignoring the sound of his heartbeat pounding away at his skull, he loads his Spiritual Rifle and fires into the crowd, killing yet another Mataram Clansmen. This one was no Officer, but he was about to put his spear through one of Siyar’s comrades, which meant one less body between him and the Enemy. A cold and calculating way of seeing things, but that’s always been his way, and the only way he knows how to find Balance. No fear or anger, no thrill or pleasure, just bloody business plain and simple, and he stalks off to find yet another target as he loads his gun once more.

Standing upon the southern gate, Zian’s twin sabres whirl about as he fights with everything he has, but even this is not enough. A daunting foe, this fleshy, corpulent Demon, whose legs are almost as thick as Zian is wide. Though he possesses a Domain of his own, he lacks the raw power needed to drive his blades home, as every one of his blows glance ineffectively off of the Demon’s many layers of malleable yet durable fat. Arms leaden and lungs burning, Zian fights on regardless because to do otherwise would be to admit defeat, for he is confident in his ability to get away if needed, to say nothing of how he believes his Guardian and protector Situ Chi Gan will keep him safe.

Alas, the formidable Peak Expert is embroiled in a bitter exchange against the Whirling Dervish Mataram Minzhe, a menacing Enemy Expert who might well have killed Situ Jia Yang if not for Chi Gan’s intervention. Their exchange is a dizzying back and forth that leaves me breathless with awe, but I cannot bring myself to spare too much attention towards it, for I am only now seeing an even greater exchange taking place nearby.

For unbeknownst to me, the Mataram Patriarch has taken the field, only for Naaran to step up to the challenge.

A single exchange is all it takes to see that Naaran is outmatched. When Mataram YuGan thrusts his spear, he moves so quickly that multiple attacks blend together into one, making it appear as if he is wielding one spear with two dozen spear-heads attached to the end. In contrast, Naaran can block a single attack before retreating from the flurry of blows, giving way as he circles about Meng Sha in a fruitless effort to hold the Defiled Patriarch back. Despite being a formidable Peak Expert who once surpassed Dad, Naaran has long since lost his drive to advance along the Martial Path, and his skills have stagnated and regressed in recent years. Then again, even at his prime, he would have fallen short of matching the Mataram Patriarch in combat, but not through any fault of his own. YuGan himself is a skilled spearman, but similar to Mila, a good portion of his domineering prowess comes in the form of his superior physique, one bestowed upon him by the Demon residing in the armour merged to his flesh. There is a wrongness to the Mataram Patriarch that I have not been able to sense before, an aversion to his existence that sickens me to the core, for in order to bind the Demon to his will, he has opened his soul to the Void and allowed the Demon to feast on the very essence of who he is.

In short, he has tamed the beast by feeding a part of himself to it, and in doing so, bound their fates together in a twisted union of man and Demon that leaves them straddling the boundary between both. Though he retains his sanity, it is difficult to say if this will last, for his Will is lessened by this union and the Demon’s strengthened in turn. Rather than the divisive Wills of a thousand fragmented souls driven by desire to become whole, the Spectres which make up this Demon have been united in purpose by the taste of Mataram YuGan’s soul. Devour him, and they can become him, or so they believe, and they will not rest until their ravenous hunger is sated.

These are but a handful of the conflicts concurrently taking place, with hundreds of thousands more to still go through. Much as I yearn to view them all, there are limits to how much information I can take in, and limits to the time I have left to act. I know what Lin-Lin was trying to say when she showed me Li-Li’s battle, that there are other Warriors here to help hold up the Heavens, so I shouldn’t take on the whole burden myself. She’s right, of course, because I’m just one man, a stupid one who shouldn’t even be here in this world in the first place. If only I wasn’t in a coma, then maybe I could do something about all this, but what good are hypotheticals here and now?

I cannot stand up and take part in the fighting, and even if I could, there’s no way I can save everyone, but here in my Natal Palace, I operate at the speed of thought and can slow my perception of time down enough to stretch a single second into minutes if need be. Comatose as I am, the only way for me to affect the battle is to send out Natal Souls in my place, but I only just recently learned that this means dying a death for every Natal Soul I send. Though my Core self will still be here after all is said and done, I am literally sending a part of myself out to die, so how am I to trust my Natal Souls to carry out my Will without regret? I would gladly lay down my life for Mila and Yan, as well as Li-Li, Zian, Dastan, and so many other comrades in arms, but what about Joe Nobody on the wall about to take a Mataram Spear to the heart, or John Smith fighting down on the beach? Am I willing to experience death for them? Will my Natal Souls willingly expend their brief and limited lives to save them? I would love to confidently say yes they will, but I know myself better than that. There are few things I fear more than death, because the only reason I would die for my loved ones is because I fear what life will be like without them.

But even as I wrestle with my doubts, I know I have no other choice, because if I sit here and do nothing, then I will feel personally responsible for each and every death in Meng Sha. Doubly so if someone I love dies, but that goes without saying, so I do what I always do when faced with a difficult, life-changing decision.

I Leeroy Jenkins my way headlong into the fray, because I know I’ll only have to worry about the consequences if I survive.

Chapter Meme
