Good question. From what I could gather from Monk Bones’ explanation, this ‘natural’ Aura is merely a reflection of reality, meaning it’s radiating despair because that’s the prevailing emotion floating about in the air. From there, it’s easy to snowball into an inescapable pit of wretched misery, but the inverse is also true. A single beacon of hope might well be enough to kick the world’s Aura into a different gear and turn the tides on the Enemy, assuming Zhen Shi doesn’t just shut it all down the moment things aren’t leaning in his favour. A simple, straightforward solution to a seemingly complex issue, because much like Min Jun, Lin-Lin isn’t one to get hung up on the specifics, but unfortunately the devil is in the details. “And how do I do that?”

“You don’t, hubby.” Hearing the smile in her tone, I glance at my wifey who looks oh so proud as she shifts in my lap and takes hold of the mouse and keyboard to shift my viewpoint around, and it makes me feel a little better seeing her struggle with the unintuitive controls at first. “You’re stuck here in a coma and can’t do anything,” she continues, with no regard for my pride at all as she masters the mouse and keyboard to find what she’s looking for and points at the monitor in triumph, “But even the Enemy knows you’re not the only one who can inspire hope.”

There on the screen is none other than fair Li-Li, trading blows against the ragged monk Yuanyin. No, trading is the wrong word here, for despite putting on a dazzling display of shimmering steel, their blades never once connect. Not for a lack of trying, as Yuanyin’s fury mounts in his desperation to land a decisive strike, but Li-Li reads him like a book and dances around his clumsy attacks so effortlessly it almost looks like a practised routine. Her formal, unwavering recital of the Classics of Poetry lends an air of grace and dignity to the battle, the cadence of her monotone words matching the flow of her movements in a way that transcends rhythm and tempo, as if there is more to this demonstration than what our eyes and ears perceive, more than even what the human senses can distinguish. Those who see her have their spirits lifted, for they see a Hero of the Empire who stands fast against all odds, spurring them to fight that much harder to support her.

This is what they meant by a beacon of hope, for no soldier is an island unto themselves. Li-Li is but a single stone in the river, but enough stones working in concert can hold back even the greatest of floods.

The only fly in the ointment is Li-Li’s inability to cut him down where he stands, for though Yuanyin is little more than a fish upon the chopping block, her sabre is unable to pierce through his figurative scales, which in this case are his bones. Yuanyin’s efforts to refine his body are crude and unfinished at best, having focused far too much on the aspect of physical durability alone. That is merely one benefit of merging the physical with the metaphysical, and quite possibly the least important of them all, but Yuanyin has focused on this to the exclusion of all else in his desire to advance along the Martial Path. He didn’t even do it right, because though he was able to refine his bones and bind the metaphysical to his physical frame, the connection is shallow and one-way, an overlap of the two rather than the true blending of the real and immaterial. Had he truly succeeded, then he would be peerless beneath Divinity, but as he is now, any Warrior with a Domain could cleave clean through his torso with little more than an effort of Will.

How do I know this? Not entirely sure, but it seems obvious and apparent at first glance, the answers coming to me without even needing to think about it. Knowing without knowing, something that has always left a bitter taste in my mouth, because it makes it all too easy to mix up Insight with self-delusion. In this instance however, I will have to trust but verify, meaning I will accept these answers as they are for now, but find time later to figure out the details in depth.

Unfortunately for Li-Li, she has still yet to wholly understand how to truly Develop her Domain, even though she has everything she needs to take the next step. A Domain is merely seizing authority from the Heavens, or in simpler terms, exerting your Will upon the world until it gives way and accepts it. That’s all it takes, the confidence and conviction to bend the Energy of the Heavens to your Will, and the rest will sort itself out so long as you meet the prerequisites. Though she has yet to understand this, she’s already got her toes over the finish line and only needs to push herself forward another step, as evidenced by how easily she evades all of Yuanyin’s best strikes. Such a feat would not be possible if she were relying on her physical senses alone, for her Spiritual Senses are contributing to her decision making as well, senses which she can only utilize by creating a pseudo-Domain.

That’s why they call it One With the World, because the world itself is feeding her the information she needs through her Spiritual Sense, but Li-Li has yet to wholly tap into the connection and register what it’s telling her. So close, yet so far. I could push her over the finish line, but it would be so much better for her to cross that final bit herself, an indisputable fact I know in my heart of hearts without any logic or reasoning to back it up. I pushed Rustram to Develop his Domain, or rather essentially did it for him, but nothing in life comes without a cost. I have no doubt that skipping this step will make things harder for him down the road, but I also believe in his skills and in his Mentor who will not settle for anything less than greatness. Mom saw it long before anyone else, that Rustram has it in him to be among the best of us, and she will not let him rest until he reaches his full potential.

Sorry Rustram. I might have inadvertently made things more difficult for you, but I’m sure you won’t hold it against me.

More knowing without knowing, an annoying experience if there ever was one, but that doesn’t make it any less convincing, so I watch with bated breath and pray Li-Li finds success even as my mind wanders and wonders what everyone else is up to. Taking over the mouse and keyboard from Lin-Lin, I open up new tabs to check on others who are near and dear to my heart, with Yan and Mila featuring prominently on the left and right monitors, alongside a plethora of other viewpoints which surround them.

Heedless of the blood and viscera caked across her face and uniform, my beloved wife Yan is embroiled in a bitter struggle against the waves of Demons and Champions threatening to overrun the parapets. Despite all the odds stacked against her and the pervasive Aura of Despair hanging over her head, her beautiful smile stretches from ear to ear as she throws herself into the thick of things time and time again with what I can only call exuberant glee. Though she’s come a long way since I fought beside her in the wild forests of the North, she’s still the same rough and tumble brawler deep down inside, and it shows in the spirited manner in which she runs roughshod over the opposition. She has no qualms about fighting dirty and hitting her foes while they’re duelling someone else, and anyone ready to fight her head on is promptly ignored in favour of easier prey. Though not quite as domineering as Grandpa Du, Yan sweeps through the lines with near impunity thanks to her careful target selection, striking and killing unsuspecting foes time and time again. As she kicks, punches, and headbutts her way through the crowd, there’s a liveliness to her movements that speaks to the heart, a brisk and efficient methodology that values speed and efficiency above all else. She is no duellist standing out on the battlefield, no towering hero holding up the Heavens with one hand, merely a lowly Warrior doing everything she can to win and enjoying every last second of the challenge.

An attitude which is both inspirational and infectious at the same time. The soldiers fighting alongside her don’t see her as a larger-than-life figure, but a Warrior no different from themselves, but one with the courage to shoulder what they see as more than her fair share. Shame is a powerful motivator, and the soldiers of the Empire are nothing if not proud, which is why they swallow their fear and fight even harder in the presence of Du Min Yan, taking on just a bit more of the burden so she doesn’t have to. Where Du Min Gyu inspires hope through sheer, single-handed domination, Yan does so through example alone, and it is an example we should all aspire to.

Even as I watch however, Yan’s good fortune comes to an end as three Demons come together to box her in, forcing a fight where they hold all the advantages. Never one to give up without a fight, Yan opens with a Wind Blade that bisects the closest Demon from shoulder to hip and opens up a possible path to salvation, but alas, her foes are too quick as the remaining two Demons pounce upon her from either side. Time slows as Yan whirls around in a futile effort to block their deadly attacks, and my heart freezes in place. Her ranged attacks possess a pseudo-Domain which can injure and kill Demons well enough, but even if she delivers two Wind Blades and deals two killing blows in quick succession, there’s no evading the Demons’ attacks. Momentum alone will send their claws plunging deep into her upper torso, to say nothing of the sheer volume of weight behind those extended talons. Dogged and pragmatic as she is, my beloved Yan stands ready to accept this trade and bank on surviving through Healing, but I know there are still better options left to her.

At the same time, Mila fights for dear life on the rightmost screen, her beautiful freckled features twisted in anger and frustration. The Demon that was once Gen is a formidable abomination blessed by Metal, or Earth’s Fire as he loved to so pretentiously announce. This means that not only is the Demon capable of spewing pillars of burning hot flame, it is also physically stronger than Mila despite its twisted, spindly frame, no different from how Gen was in life. Paragon hangs loosely at her waist as she hunkers down behind her shield with spear in hand, warding off blow after hammer blow while fighting to stick close lest the Demon turn its attention elsewhere to wreak havoc on the Imperial lines. Alas, her ability to emit Radiant Chi is limited to barely beyond her skin, meaning she can protect herself from Elemental Chi, but that’s as far as it goes. If a pillar of flame were to erupt beneath her feet, she would be helpless to save anyone standing nearby, nor can she use her Blessing at range, which is why she is so desperate to drive the Demon away from the front lines.

That’s my beloved Mila, so conscientious and dutiful. Though she puts on a show of being prickly and ill-tempered, she is a kind and compassionate soul, someone whose heart is always in the right place even if her reasoning is less than ideal. Ever since she was a little girl, she’s always wanted to make both her parents proud, which is why she strives so hard to emulate them by becoming a Warrior, Commander, and Divine Blacksmith all at once. She knows her parents love her and would be proud no matter what profession she chose, and while others would have long since been forced to revise their childish dreams due to a lack of talent, Mila is a once in ten-thousand-year genius who excelled in everything she tried her hand at. Thus, her parents did not see fit to limit the scope of her studies since it seemed like she could shoulder the burden, but now Mila is fast approaching the limits of how far natural talent and hard work can carry her.

Because like in all other facets of life, hard work and talent is no guarantee of success.

Despite standing at the forefront of her peers in terms of strength, Mila has fallen behind Li-Li and Yan when it comes to progress along the Martial Path, largely due to her broad focus. A flaw which only revealed itself recently because she’s too talented for her own good, but now that she’s locked in battle with a superior foe, she is suffering for it. The Demon Gen is both faster and stronger, and while Li-Li is able to put up a fight and even hold the upper hand against Yuanyin under similar circumstances, Mila is unfamiliar with fighting from a disadvantage. Sparring against Da’in has given her some experience in this aspect, but losing to superior skill is not the same as losing to overwhelming strength. Against Da’in, Mila could still bring her formidable physical prowess to bear, but against the Demon Gen, her greatest advantage is of little use against his heavy, Earth-enhanced blows. To make matters worse, Mila is somewhat naive and most certainly idealistic, for she is unwilling to let others come to harm so that she can exploit an opening in the Demon’s defense. A noble sentiment, but foolish in her current circumstances, seeing how helpless she is in the moment. She can’t even use Paragon to bind and mangle her foe, for she lacks a Domain to pierce through his chitinous hide, one that has been reinforced beyond even that of a normal Demonic constitution thanks to his Blessing of Metal. Even the advantage of speed is denied her, though she has always been limited in this aspect, a trade-off for the increased bone and muscle density afforded to her by her Blessing.

Minor aside here, but seriously: Fucking Blessings. How do they work?

