Byron sat staring despondently at his map, hoping against hope that the moving shapes depicting the rout being inflicted upon his forces outside the barriers would somehow shift and magically rally. Futile wishes. Unfortunately, anyone with a shred of rationality knew it was impossible. He twisted his lips and frowned, not that his feelings would have any positive impact on the pathetic wreckage of his carefully planned formations. In the background, the battle continued unabated, felt in the thumps and crashes of magic detonating upon the flagging city shield with enough force to shake even the foundations of this building.

As the general in command of the defenses of Southport, he had commandeered the largest table in the cramped headquarters to lay out his map, leaving his aide, Crixi, with just a small chair and a side-table with which to conduct the newcomer onboarding – not that there was a lot of clamoring to join the stricken defense of New Daria’s capital city anymore. The crown quests had initially attracted many, but that was before the Lich had encamped and revealed his forces.

“Next,” Crixi called out, and Byron tuned her out, just like the cacophony of artillery magic that had been their constant companion ever since the Lich arrived. If they couldn’t scavenge more magicite soon, the shield would likely fail in the next couple of days. The problem was that magicite could only be found in the highest-level artifacts and weapons, and those were nearly always critical for fighting the undead.

Logistics. The death of armies. Yet another problem he had no solution for.

He returned his attention to the live map and the slow retreat of his forces. He had four brigades deployed in the field along with several regiments defending the most critical strategic towns and supplies, in addition to those troops defending the city, but somehow, the Blind Lich’s army had not ceased growing. The Lich had already amassed enough undead that he was easily pushing back every single army he had deployed.

It would take weeks, as these things did, but he could already read the outcome, clear as day.

“It says you’re all gold ranks in the guild registry,” Crixi said, her high-pitched voice breaking through his gloomy thoughts.

“Yes,” a deeper husky woman’s voice answered.

“Well, I’ll ask the obvious question then, Moira,” Crixi said, her voice sounding surprisingly curious. “How come you’re all above one thirty?”

“We classed up this week in the dungeon under Myrin’s Keep,” the woman answered. “We didn’t have time to return to our home guild and have our Guildmaster update the registry.”

“I see,” Crixi asked, continuing to pepper the applicants with the usual questions.

Myrin’s Keep? Where did I hear that name? Byron thought as the woman’s words triggered a forgotten memory buried under all his worries and lack of sleep. Aah, that was it: Garland Manning, he thought as he suddenly recalled the rather insignificant and annoying meeting with the Head Acolyte up on the battlements at the commencement of the siege.

Right. Wasn’t that the dungeon that supposedly killed The Heroes of the Crimson Blade? Hold on…

Suddenly, his curiosity exceeded his despondency. He glanced over to study the group of five adventurers clustered around Crixi’s table, doing a silent double-take as he identified their levels.

Witch – Human – level 134 (Lightning / Arcane)Warrior – Human – level 133 (Metal)Rogue – Gnome – level 131 (Poison)Sorcerer – Sun Elf – level 136 (Sound / Ice)Priest – Half Orc – level 139 (Nature)

The witch, presumably Moira, cut a striking figure with her raven hair and the extraordinary white robe that shimmered and flickered with blue light within the weave, casting off tiny snowflakes that drifted about, slowly fading.

Is that Frostweave?

His gaze drifted to her companions, taking in the rogue with his pair of mithril daggers and rugged black leathers, and the sun elf with gorgeous long braided hair who was wearing a similar shimmering robe, clearly made by the same tailor.

Each of them wore several hundred gold worth of top adventuring gear, conspicuously expensive and well-crafted, and yet, they were here in his headquarters at the heart of a failing siege, answering Crixi’s questions patiently, without complaint.

The half-orc priest and the warrior tank were shifting uncomfortably, both of them over seven feet tall and bulky to boot, crowding the small space.

Byron felt his eyes drawn to the beautifully crafted mithril breastplate and shield the warrior carried, noting the obvious hand of a master smith at work.

This group seems strong, he thought. His experienced eyes did not miss the readiness in their poise, the well-rounded affinities and classes represented before him, and the obvious care and expense they had taken with their equipment.

“Excuse me for interrupting,” he said, standing and approaching. All five of them turned to look in his direction, and he got a raised eyebrow from Crixi, but she remained silent. “I couldn’t help but overhear. Did you find a dungeon in Myrin’s Keep? Something high-level enough to earn your evolutions? How did you all avoid losing group members to broken paths?”

Typically, people following natural path evolutions rolled the dice with fate, and if their classes broke, they retired. It was unheard of for a group of five to survive the process intact. Inevitably, newly platinum adventurers were forced to form fresh and unfamiliar groups, but he could tell – even without their explicit confirmation – that these adventurers had all been together for a long time, possibly even from their initial class ceremony.

“Oh, we used the shrine,” Moira answered.

Shrine? What shrine… but she continued:

“Ours is a typical story. We all stalled at the threshold for several years, waiting for the Aman Rak shrine, but as you know, that was destroyed by the Blind Lich when the troll kingdoms fell. We thought we would be forced to use the natural path, but then the guild in Myrin’s Keep posted shrine services. We were one of the first groups to take advantage of it.”

“The Myrin’s Keep adventurers guild has secured a shrine? A shrine with evolution capabilities?” he gasped. The idea sounded insane. No wonder Garland was so upset. But if the guild has a shrine…

“Not quite,” Moira said. “The dungeon that owns the shrine is a guild member. Her name is Aliandra, and she’s a Fae.”

“She was very polite and helpful,” the half-orc priest added, his voice a deep rumbling bass.

Byron opened his mouth and then shut it again, his brain failing to produce anything but blaring swear words. Not just a dungeon, but a sentient one. Garland and his hordes of sycophants would be baying for blood as soon as this news became widely known.

But they have a shrine!

“Huh, would you look at that?” Crixi murmured, looking up from her tablet. “It’s right here in the Myrin’s Keep guild registry. Shrine class services, affinity assignments, evolutions, class resets… all … free?”

Suddenly, a thousand questions slammed into Byron’s mind all at once. “How long till it… she… can use the shrine for someone else?” Aman Rak had taken months to recharge the shrine between uses.

“She did all of us at the same time,” Moira said. “The shrine is powered by the dungeon itself; the guild says she can use it several times a day.”

“I see,” Byron said, but he really didn’t. This was too much. His head was spinning as he tried to figure out how he could get the crown to pay for long-range teleportation of a high enough level to bypass the shield and the Lich’s offensive formations. “And this… Aliandra… she just let you use the shrine?”

“We had to fight the bosses for it,” Moira answered. “Why don’t you show him, Galeth?”

“Her bosses are crazy strong,” the giant warrior, Galeth, said quietly. “She has an undead troll – a Fetish-Painted Assassin with human slayer and several other abilities. It almost one-shot me even after my evolution.” The huge man produced another breastplate from his storage – this one with massive, poorly repaired puncture holes both in the front and the back.

“Undead?” Byron asked, but as the huge warrior turned to show him the breastplate, Byron’s eyes caught sight of the sword he was wearing on his back.

Or more accurately, the dancing white light that shone out from the dark blade.

“What is that sword?” he blurted out.

“Oh, heh, she said you’d like it,” Galeth said, drawing the oversized longsword with one huge hand and offering it hilt-first. It was clearly a longsword, but in Galeth’s massive grasp, it would no doubt be used one-handed along with his shield.

Byron took it carefully, identifying the beautifully crafted weapon.

Azryet’s Wrath, Holy Avenger – level 120Blessed by the Dragon God Azryet, this sword glows with holy power, wreathing your mind to protect you from fear.Added Physical damage on hit.Added Holy damage on hit.+117% to Physical damage.Attacks gain +57% additional damage as Holy.+70 Strength.Fear Ward (Your resistance to fear is greatly increased)Requirements: Strength 420.Created by Kavé Steelscale in the Dungeon of KnowledgeOne Hand – Sword – Eimuuran Steel

For a moment, Byron’s mind simply stopped working, shocked into inaction by the impossibility of what he held in his hands.

This is… this is a Holy Avenger sword! Such things belonged in the legends and fairytales he read to his grandchildren.

“She had it blessed by a holy Dragon God called Azryet,” Galeth continued. “But it’s specifically designed for killing Death Knights. I thought it was a smart choice, given that we were coming here.”

“I need access to this master smith, immediately,” Byron demanded. So many of their best weapons had been cannibalized to feed the city shields, but what he now held in his hands was the answer he’d been seeking. If only he could get this Kavé Steelscale to make him more swords…

“Oh, she’s just the apprentice,” Galeth said, chuckling as he clearly read the unspoken question. “The master smith is a dwarf named Thuli Emberforge, and he made these.” He held up his ridiculously large mithril shield and banged his matching breastplate with a fist. “Here, she said to give you this.” He produced a small slip of paper and offered it.

Frowning, Byron took the offered slip, noting the mana signature and seal. “A private auction slip?”

“She was still making these swords when we left; she said she would put fifty of them in that auction. Your royal weapons orders couldn’t be satisfied unless the swords were fire-enchanted, and these are holy, so she couldn’t use the quest to offer them.”

“Crixi!” Byron yelped.

“On it, sir!” And before he could even blink, the little Gnome had snatched the slip of paper out of his hand and vanished with a sharp popping sound.

Byron sat down heavily on his chair. He had had more than enough surprises for one day. Fortunately, the last few had been very favorable. “If those swords are real, I can afford to sacrifice some of the stronger fire swords to feed magicite to the shield,” he said, murmuring his thoughts out loud. “That should give us a week or two…”

“Um, sir, that won’t be necessary either,” Moira said.

“What do you…” Byron began, but when he looked up, he found the witch holding out a fist-sized piece of glowing green rock.

“Aliandra’s dungeon spawns magicite. Nature, light, ice, arcanite, voidstone, abyssal bloodstone, you name it. Just put out a quest and the guild will farm it for you.”

Just then, Crixi reappeared with an excited yell as she produced sword after sword, pulling them from her storage ring like a street peddler, producing trinkets from a bag of holding, every last one of them glowing with the same dancing holy light. One thing was for certain: Byron could not wait to see Garland’s apoplectic fit when he started handing out Holy Avenger swords blessed by this Azryet instead of pandering to his rabid loyalty to Helios. He had to restrain himself from rubbing his hands in anticipation. That would just be unprofessional. Still, his heart danced beneath his breastplate. Nevermind that fool. This… this could change everything…

“There’s one more thing,” Galeth said. “I was instructed that intoning, ‘thanks for the damage’ upon slaying a foe is the appropriate way to offer gratitude to Azryet for his blessing. Please pass the message along when you distribute those swords.”

“Very well.” Byron felt a strange sensation rising from his heart, and for a few moments, he puzzled over it before he realized what it was.

Hope.

He had almost forgotten what it felt like.

Ali studied the chaotic flow of mana throughout the battle. The sheer power of the ice and death magic emanating from the center pinpointed Haverron through the raging storm far more clearly than any mundane sight could hope to do.

With the sheer quality of perception she had now, it was trivial to see the Siphon Life skill forming in the epicenter of the storm. Having disrupted it several times now, she found herself growing quicker at fashioning the counter-formation and more precise about striking with it. The golden needles lanced through the storm, passing over the popcorn-like detonations of Explosive Conflagration, and tearing into Haverron’s formation with a rather satisfactory precision. She ripped the heart out of his skill and shredded it into motes of mana.

But it wasn’t that skill she was waiting for; the Elemental Storm she could not counter would be far deadlier.

As she searched for signs of the domain magic spell, she suddenly saw something surging forward out of the storm. The ghostly shape of Haverron tore across the plaza, hovering halfway between the mortal and spirit realms, his body passing clean through her defenders, walls of ice, and skeletal mages, barely disturbing them with his passage. The only sign he was affecting the mortal realm was the vortices his outstretched glowing greatsword left in the storm as it passed.

He's coming for me!

She knew it with dreadful certainty. The glowing blue light in his eye sockets was fixed upon her with a focus that sent shivers down her spine. He was moving so fast; she was certain he could outrun even Calen’s arrows.

Malika? What happened? Ali had no time to contemplate why their plan with the beetles had not worked. All she knew was that she needed Malika to block his impale, otherwise she would certainly die, but when Malika appeared from the storm behind Haverron, glowing with the intense blue-white that meant she was burning all her stamina to overload her abilities and pushing her speed to the max, it was obvious the Death Knight was faster still.

