Ali’s mind quailed at the sight. She had no idea what had gone wrong, only that Malika was stretching to her limit to reach her and that she was going to fail.

She briefly considered Arcane Recall, but he was insubstantial, passing through mundane monsters. Something about Malika’s magic had been able to stop him, and she had no idea how to duplicate that with her Grimoire. While she spurred her brain to find any solution, she tossed up barrier after barrier in his way in a futile effort to slow him down, producing only a tinkling crash and a spray of golden shards in his wake.

She knew from experience that Haverron could redirect his rush to chase her down if she teleported, and yet there were no minions between her and Malika, so she couldn’t even use that to get closer. All she had were the three groups and the Scions of Azryet overhead. All her other minions were deep within the deadly storm of ice, and only those with the highest health, like her berserkers, warriors, Mato, and Malika, had braved the blizzard. Or back home. But that would require abandoning her friends to this monster.

Health… Mato…

Suddenly, she saw the mana emanating from Mato’s floating tree spirit, the Lirasian Sage, hovering deep within the storm. Haverron was less than five meters away and closing fast, and she was out of options. With a thought, she teleported, swapping places with Tol’brekk and dumping herself in the middle of the storm.

She snapped a golden barrier shut around herself as her mind reached far away to her domain and the monster she had made for just this eventuality. The Malevolent Lirasian Oak boss was her only monster with the primary attribute of vitality, and while she had deliberately created it for exactly this kind of situation, she hadn’t expected to ever need it. At least, not this soon. With a thought, she traded her Eye of Agnor, and its enormous perception boost, for the Malevolent Lirasian Oak, adjusting her chosen minions for Empowered Summoner.

The loss of over a thousand perception hit her hard, like someone had suddenly blindfolded her. Mana faded from view all around her, and the crystal-clear perceptions of all her minions darkened and blurred. But her tiny body surged with life as if filled to bursting with the sap of the oak, and her vitality skyrocketed, clearing two thousand. The soft light of Mato’s Lirasian Sage filled her, and even with her physical penalty to health, she suddenly found herself with a little more than fifteen thousand health for the first time ever.

Seconds later, Haverron was upon her, his greatsword shining bright in the darkness of the storm. He passed through her golden barrier as if it were not even there, and his giant sword plunged through the center of her chest, transfixing her upon its runic mithril blade. She coughed at the sensation of steel sliding through her lungs, but somehow no blood spilled forth.

Haverron’s triumphant expression faded to puzzlement and then anger as she persisted in not dying. She struggled against the blade, writhing as she tried to extricate herself, but as he turned corporeal once more, he wrenched the blade from her chest, almost ripping her body in two, just like Malika. The sword passed through her, separating flesh in an amber spray of blood. Ali gasped, coughing violently and almost blacking out at the rush of pain.

She glanced to her side, finding Mato standing there in a giant puddle of blood. Tendrils rose from the bloody pool and were drawn from her amber spray, swirling about and sucked into Joraa’s blade, shield, and totems. A crimson ribbon of his healing spell pulsed and surged as it arced between her and Mato. Their wounds rapidly stitched themselves shut, and Ali breathed again.

“Thank you,” she whispered, her voice still hoarse and raspy, encasing herself in her barrier once again and whisking herself out of the Death Knight’s warpath. Arboreal Sanctuary. Damage redirection is so strong. Of course, she had to reach the range of Mato’s domain for it to be effective, but the moment she had, he had simply taken the hit for her.

“You’re welcome,” Mato replied.

To Calen’s infinite relief, Ali appeared beside him with a great tear ripped clean through the center of her robe. It flapped open on the stiff, frigid breeze, slowly repairing itself under the influence of her mana.

“You ok?” he asked. How is she even alive?

“I think so,” Ali said, running her hands over her body as if checking her words by touch.

“Why did he attack you? Did we get it wrong?” Calen asked. Malika had been certain Haverron was targeting the lowest health, but they had a horde of beetles engaged with the skeletons, all of which had lower health than Ali.

“I think he’s smart enough to ignore minions.”

“Aah. Shit. I should have thought of that,” Calen said, frowning. It certainly made sense. In hindsight. Nevertheless, it was a nasty surprise. Nasty and near-lethal. “So, do you have a plan for the next attack?”

“He won’t attack me next,” Ali said. “I used my Empowered Summoner to increase my health, and I can’t set it back for an hour. I’m sorry.”

“Sorry?” But it came to him a moment later, at the same moment Ali explained.

“You’re next.”

“I got this,” he said with a confidence he didn’t feel. Certainly, watching Malika being ripped in two had been shocking, and he had no desire to experience the same fate.

“Mato can take the hit for you if you’re in his domain,” Ali said. “That’s how I survived.”

“Got it,” Calen said, immediately shooting out his motes of light, ensuring that at least two of them were inside Mato’s Sanctuary aura, giving him valid locations for teleportation.

But… I’m sure I can do better. After all, he had some very powerful skills. With that thought, he sent out two more decoys, hoping to confuse the inevitable attack when it came, and returned to his task. Arrows flew from his bow in wide, fan-like volleys, shooting across the black stone at about waist height and tearing through the skeletal horde without pausing. Each arrow pierced dozens of undead as it flew, and on each hit, his magic detonated, both light and flame tearing through the animated bones. He alternated Grappling Shot and Light Damage, relying on his piercing and explosions to distribute shackles across the sea of spawned undead. He did not even want to think about the prohibitive mana consumption of using his abilities so quickly in succession, but his mana leeching enchantments against any sufficiently large group were more than sufficient to the task.

“Incoming,” Mato said, speaking into his mind. He didn’t even question how Mato knew it was him; he trusted it implicitly. Decoys, perfect replicas of his body, shot out from his form, and he instantly called upon Eclipse to go invisible, shooting upward on ephemeral wings as the shifting, spectral outline of Haverron tore across the black stone. Halfway across, the Death Knight swerved up into the air on an unerring trajectory, ignoring all the decoys.

He sees me.

Calen reached for his teleportation, but as he did, he noticed something curious. Wisps of magic that made sense to him, remnants in a long trail behind the terrifying charge of the Death Knight that flickered across the border between the realms.

A movement skill.

Without hesitation, Calen activated his incredible Realm Hunter evolution to Explorer, a skill that allowed him to track his foes by duplicating their movement skills. But he did not intend to track Haverron; he intended to kite him.

The power of Devastation Rush settled upon him like a mantle as the skill ripped him halfway out of the mortal realm, casting him as a partial projection into the Spirit Realm, and with that, he shot off, zooming past the surprised Death Knight and tearing across the battlefield, passing through all obstacles like one of his arrows.

I’m faster than him. Ha!

That realization pasted a fierce grin on his face. While he was using Haverron’s very own Devastation Rush, his class and gear provided over fifty percent more movement speed, and he had an enormous amount of dexterity with which to back it up.

Haverron turned and hurtled after him, but Calen had the advantage. Not only was he faster, but he could also see in the spirit realm, thanks to his class, and he had activated the movement skill after Haverron. Any time now… Sure enough, a few moments later, the powerful Death Knight suddenly became solid once more, and his speed faltered as his Devastation Rush expired.

And I didn’t even need to use Mato, he thought, happily. Now, if I just knew how to use a sword, I could impale something. Wait… can I use a dagger? With a wry grin, Calen realized he might just get the chance to leverage his Basic Daggers skill in a high-end battle after all.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
