Yrelstromoz couldn’t help but still have an uneasy feeling despite a week passing since her odd encounter with the human who avoided her attack. His ominous words as he left still annoyed her, even if, realistically, they shouldn’t.

It hadn’t helped when she faintly felt some magical tracker of some sort lose effect on her the same day they met, as the notion of her being unable to sense when it had been applied was unsettling to say the least.

However, the more she thought about it, the more she questioned her need for fear. Logically, she didn’t actually believe there was any credible threat after thoroughly considering everything.

The person who approached her gave off the unmistakable aura of a C-grade. She did now believe he had hidden his actual level, but hiding grade and level were two very different things, especially when one used energy, which he had while dodging.

Only those far stronger than herself could disguise themselves as C-grades and evade her detecting it, but that wouldn’t make any sense. No A-grade or B-grade of a high level would come for her, as that went against the norms of the multiverse. No, if the United Tribes wanted to get revenge for her killing a dog, they would have to send a bunch of new B-grades or face criticism.

That meant Yrelstromoz saw only two options. Either it had indeed been an A-grade or someone else far more powerful than herself, in which case he had likely just done all that to mess with her, perhaps as some kind of psychological attack. That… or it had indeed been a peak C-grade who was incredibly powerful for his level and managed to avoid her killing attack.

Ultimately, both options meant the same thing: there was no credible threat. Again, no A-grade or too powerful person would dare kill her, and in case it was a C-grade, she found the sentiment of a C-grade even trying to kill her laughable.

Hence, she returned to enjoying herself, remaining a bit more cautious in case she was under observation. At least she remained cautious until that day when she was relaxing at the pool and she sensed something.

At first, she questioned her own perception, but when the feeling persisted, she quickly reacted by sitting up and expanding her senses. Far away, there was something familiar… something draconic in nature.

Frowning, Yrelstromoz hesitated, finding this all too suspicious. Why would she suddenly feel what she believed was another dragon on this planet? It was naturally related to the human from only a week prior, but that only made matters more confusing.

She didn’t believe a dragon had come to kill her. Dragons didn’t usually kill dragons, after all. However, that just made matters even more confusing. Clearly, whatever it was tried to bait her there.

Could it be an attempt to ambush me? Yrelstromoz wondered for a second before quickly dispelling that thought. If they wished to attack her, she’d given them an entire week of her doing nothing. The thought that any would-be attempted killer would even consider potential collateral damage didn’t even cross her mind.

After thinking on the matter a while longer, her curiosity won as Yrelstromoz decided to investigate why she felt the presence of another dragon. She went fully aware that someone might be plotting against her, but even if that was the case, did she really need to be that concerned?

She was a True Dragon, after all.
