Oh! She'd turned the floor into mud. That was clever. The dragonshades were forcing their way through, but these ones weren't clever enough to counteract the spell, so it had formed something of a roadblock.

It didn't even need the Cauldron if that was the case, did it? Better to keep that in reserve. It did still have its earth spells, after all, and Tajia had so helpfully offered it a corridor full of mud.

It cast a single [Pebbleblast]. Tajia watched in something akin to horror as it threw out what appeared to be an awfully ineffective spell; the pebbles couldn't even get through the scales of these dragonshades. Before she could say anything, though, Syphus followed up with a spell it had learned from studying with Flia, [Pebbles to Piranhas].

Tajia's expression changed into a very different kind of horror as the newly animated pebbles started racing through the mud, eating their way through the dragonshades. They slapped at the mud ineffectually, roaring. A few attempted to burn their way through, casting the ground beneath them in a bout of dragonflame. Fortunately the mud acted as an insulator, so now they were covered with boiling mud and being attacked by heated, piranha-shaped rocks.

Syphus was pleased. It hadn't even had to use all that much mana for this. Now all it had to do was...

Its vision flickered briefly. It froze. Everything seemed suddenly clearer, which could only mean that something had attempted a scrying spell and its etherite crown had absorbed and incorporated that into its eye—except none of the regular dragonshades were casters, which meant—

It cast [Stoneshape], grabbed Tajia, and rolled straight into the wall, wrapping it around them. A fraction of a second later it watched with [Truesight] through the stone as a distended jaw swept through the entire crowd of dragonshades and the space Syphus and Tajia had occupied only an instant ago.

That moment was all it took. All the dragonshades were gone in that one instant. But in the far end of the corridor, a massive dragonlord chuckled, his voice rolling down the hall.

"I'm impressed," he said. "Most people can't tell when I scry on them. What's your name, little one? I am the dragonlord Okorin, and I have been looking for a capable servant."

In ordinary circumstances, Syphus might have bristled and rolled out to argue, but it was still holding on to Tajia. It didn't have as much of that so-called intuition its friends occasionally talked about, and so it had less of a way to measure things like how powerful an opponent was, but it did notice how shallow Tajia's breathing had gotten the moment the dragonlord appeared. Her mana turned from a flame down to a flicker, like it was being heavily suppressed.

That was enough for Syphus to decide this was no time to waste on banter.

Still hidden within the wall, Syphus engaged the Third Form. Its left arm elongated into a thick, heavy construct, so much so that it had to brace its arm on the floor to even aim the thing properly. Then it shoved one of the spells that had been circulating within its Cauldron for the past two weeks.

The Third Form blazed with magic, lighting up the little chamber they were in with a display of brilliant blue.

Fire poured out, an order of magnitude stronger than the beams they'd been using to take out the dragonshades. Syphus threw up a barrier to protect itself and Tajia from the worst of the heat, but the strength of this spell was such that the entirety of the hallway began to melt.

And when the glow faded, it had pierced the center of Okorin's chest. Syphus began to relax, letting the Third Form fade away—

"Not yet," Tajia said suddenly, tension in her voice. She gripped its arm. "It's not over yet. Get ready."
