“When we were young—and I feel like it was yesterday—we fought like we were invincible. We won battles we could have never won with sense. In our old age, we’re cannier. We fight battles we know we can win.”
“That’s just good strategy.”
Someone snorted. Niers nodded.
“But it was that spark of youth, Juste, that let us beat the old guard. The old [Generals] and leaders who thought they had us cornered. When did we lose that? Have we lost that? Because if we have—it’s time to retire. Get out before we end up like the very same people we defeated. But if we’re still young—let’s continue. Which is it?”
Silence for a moment. It wasn’t something the Titan wanted an answer to, anyways. Perorn listened. Niers looked around, eyes glittering with excitement.
“…I’m going. I’ll be back. But I want to reclaim that youth, if it’s even slipped a bit. Friends. I leave the company in your hands. Peclir, Perorn, all of you—take care of Foliana.”
“Mm.”
The [Rogue] rolled her eyes. Niers laughed. He accepted a tiny glass and raised it. The others did likewise, staring at him. He was serious.
“Let us never grow old!”
He drank, and they toasted him. Perorn rose, as the others ate or asked questions. Niers looked…excited. Eating his food quickly, chattering, trading jabs with Foliana—
“No, you can’t come. One of us gets to go. You’ve had your vacations. Try and sneak along and I’ll burn your t—well, actually, you can’t. So suck it up and eat your beets.”
“When are you leaving, Niers?”
Perorn saw the Fraerling turn. She expected him to say tomorrow, or in a week. Yet his smile was answer enough.
“Now.”
The Titan looked at Peclir Im. The [Chamberlain] bowed, shock on his face.
“Now? Then—which mode of transport should I prepare, Lord Astoragon?”
“No need. I have that set up. I just need you to do something for me to help me on my way, Peclir. You’re about to learn one of my secrets. Quickly now—I need to be on my way in five minutes. You just need to…”
He stood up. The others stirred, knowing which trick this was. And their speculation intensified. He really was leaving. The Titan rose. He turned, beaming, and swept off his hat.
Then—
He was gone.
 
—-
 
The Earl Altestiel of Desonis left The Wandering Inn in the early morning. It was raining in Invrisil, as he began his journey home.
…Mostly over the carriage his people were bundling him into. Nowhere else, really. Just a storm cloud in the air. Erin thought it looked really cool. And silly.
And it was bundling the Earl, not escorting him. Erin Solstice had never seen an Earl being practically tied up and carted off, but the Queen of Desonis had apparently given an order no one but Altestiel dared to disobey.
“I could delay another day! Say there’s a damn Creler infestation on the roads!”
Altestiel was sulking as Kiish and two others tried to push him into the carriage without actually doing so. He turned to Erin.
“Miss Solstice. I hope I can prevail on you for at least a few games? Keep in [Message] contact? And my invitation stands…”
“Of course, Altestiel.”
She was trying not to laugh, but he took her hand meaningfully.
“If I could just say that—Kiish, I will fire you!”
The [Strategist] pulled.
“Milord, the Queen is threatening to remove your estates!”
“I have too many to begin with! Miss Solstice—it has been an honor. And if you should ever find yourself by way of Terandria…”
The Earl hesitated.
“…I could stay for that gala you mentioned. Kiish! Tell her Majesty that it’s a social event. Building ties with Izril. It won’t be longer than a week. Maybe a month to—”
“I’m sorry about this, Sire.”
Kiish and two [Knights] tossed the Earl into the carriage, slammed the door, and then jammed a piece of wood in the rattling handle. The [Strategist] turned to Erin as the coach began moving and an angry voice began to echo from inside.
“Miss Solstice, allow us to convey our gratitude on behalf of Desonis. I…”
She looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] stuck out a hand, smiling.
“Take care of him, would you?”
“Of course.”
Kiish shook Erin’s hand. She smiled faintly. Then she hopped on the carriage. The Earl shouted and waved at Erin as he left. Then he sighed and, looking forlorn, disappeared.
So they left. But they would meet again. Erin shook her head over the silly Earl of Rain. She had rather liked him.
 
—-
 
She returned to Liscor just in time. Wilovan and Ratici, who had escorted her as she said goodbye to Altestiel in Invrisil, paused by The Player’s Retreat.
“Miss Solstice. Just to clarify, as a man must do, but the door will be offline for an hour or two, is that so?”
“What? Oh yeah, Ratici.”
Erin paused. On the other side, Hexel was chivvying about a group of Lizardfolk and Antinium. The hallway was busy and everyone was waiting on her. The Drake nodded and sighed as he adjusted his hat.
“In that case, we might take ourselves off for a bit of a break. Just in that the door being offline might reduce the incidents if you catch my drift. Never fear, we’ve got two good folk on your side.”
Erin laughed.
“Okay, Ratici, Wilovan. If you want to! Hexel should have it installed and done in—”
“Four hours or less. Longer if Miss Solstice stays there.”
The [Architect] called through the door. Erin scowled and shook her fist at the Lamia.
“I’m coming! I’m coming! Sheesh—I’ll see you tonight, you two!”
She waved at the two Gentlemen Callers. They tipped their hats at her, then sighed and stretched when she was gone. Finally, a break. They’d been watching incoming visitors like hawks ever since the Invrisil incident. But they’d be free to relax soon enough…
On the other side of the door, Erin saw Hexel disengage the door from its temporary frame the instant she was through.
“Very well. Let’s begin the transfer.”
“Isn’t it as easy as just, I dunno, plopping it into another room and then building around it, Hexel?”
The Lamia slowly rotated on his serpentine body and looked at Erin under the reading spectacles he’d donned.
“Excuse me, Miss Solstice? Do you mean, put the door in any random spot in the inn? Not, as I had understood it, perfectly calibrating the door’s position to take advantage of the mana flow in the inn, the natural synergy of room design to begin with, even shaping the natural currents of mana to gather more strongly in that room? Well, if it’s just ‘plopping it down’, why don’t we just—”
“Alright, alright! I’m sorry! I didn’t know it was all feng shui and stuff. No need to bite my head off.”
“Then stop belittling my craft. If anyone could just put up a wall and have it as good as any other wall, then Antinium would rule this world. You’ll see results as well. Now—building team, with me. We’ll have to lay down temporary tiles once we see how the door fits…”
The Lamia slithered off. Erin stuck out her tongue at him. Then her eyes went round.
“Oh no. Wait. Is this a Wednesday?”
“A what?”
The Lamia turned around. Erin hesitated.
“The…third day in the week?”
He stared at her.
“Yes. By that, you mean—”
“I need to use the door!”
Erin threw up her hands. The discussion of applying a seven-day week naming convention to this world’s longer week was put to one side. Hexel grabbed her foot with his tail as she ran for the door.
“Absolutely not! Miss Solstice, I told you to make time for this! All your guests were aware I needed the door! If you keep using it—”
“I know. But Hexel, this is really important! Belgrade! Belgrade—can you change the door to the beige one? Please?”
The Antinium did so as the two Soldiers put down their burden, but his fingers slipped. He peered at the red stone marked with a ‘???’.
Hexel and Erin stopped arguing as the Lamia threatened to choke Erin into unconsciousness and Erin tried to explain. Both blinked.
“—What was that?”
Flicker. For a second, Erin saw…a hut? Beyond, some dirt, tamped down. She thought she saw someone jerk—
The light went out. Hexel frowned.
“What was that? The door just—”
Frowning, he slithered over. Erin stared at the red stone. She thought that had been—
“Wait, turn it back, Belgrade! Turn it back!”
The [Tactician] did so. But the door failed to activate the portal. Erin put her hand on it.
“I thought…what happened, Hexel?”
“It must be out of range. The door just drained all of its mana.”
The Lamia frowned, inspecting the wood. He looked at Erin.
“Where does that stone lead?”
“I don’t…know. I—how can it run out of mana?”
“At a guess? The connection was boosted for a moment. Perhaps your Skill is stronger or…something on the other end gave it the power to link. But it clearly ran out in less than a moment. Hm. Well—another reason to let me install the door in a specialized room. It might improve the connection and range of the spell. Which is why you will not be travelling—”
“I have to. It’s really important, Hexel.”
“What could be—”
The Lamia was ready to strangle Erin. But she looked at him and explained. And his wrath faded.
“…Very well. It may delay the door, but go. We’ll have it set to your destination. The orange one?”
“Thank you. Let me just get…um…I’ll be five minutes!”
Erin ran off. Hexel’s fingers twitched towards the wand he carried.
“If I hex her—will anyone object?”
The Antinium hesitated. Silveran looked at Belgrade. The [Tactician] rubbed at his head.
“Sometimes it may be warranted. But not in this case, I think, Master Hexel. Let us talk more about traps.”
“Oh, very well. Maybe we can test them out on her.”
The [Architect] grumbled. The building team took five. Which turned out to be eight. Erin had to change clothes. But no one stopped her or complained beyond that.
It mattered.
 
—-
 
It was the second funeral she’d been to this week. She had asked—and the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings had seen off Teor by themselves. They thanked her. But they laid him to rest. She had seen him once.
The same with Redit. This funeral was grander than both combined. A procession of honor guards. [Lords] and [Ladies] in attendance. The people of House Everight.
A parade of thousands. Weeping, or silent, hats off. Kneeling or reaching out to touch the platform he was being carried on.
A bier. That was the word for it. The old man lay there. Much like in life.
No—better than he had been in life, in truth. The [Mortician] had brought some color into the cheeks, preserved his body. Concealed the wounds that had ended the brave old man’s life.
Erin saw it as she wiped her eyes again. She stood, near the end.
He would be cremated, as per his will. No coffin for him. Even in his family’s cemeteries, Lord Toldos had written, he did not want to risk his remains being despoiled by necromancy or death magic.
Cremation was, apparently, the most common practice. Sometimes the ashes were buried afterwards.
They lit the flame as the [Lords] and [Ladies] spoke. Then the retainers, one of whom was old enough to have known Toldos as a boy. The woman was in her eighties. And she shook as she looked at the burning light.
Erin wiped her eyes again. People stared at her. Some—some accusatorially. She had come, with flowers, in black.
The mourners wore white, mostly. Erin hadn’t known that. The colors of death changed. The meaning did not.
It was a bit too long. A bit too drawn out. It was sad to say—but each of the [Lords] had prepared a lengthy speech and not realized their counterparts would do the same. Erin listened, sensing the mourners fidgeting. A baby wailed—multiple ones.
Did it take away from the moment? Erin didn’t know. All she knew was that they had every right to hate her.
He died because of me. She did not say that out loud. But she thought it.
Redit, Teor—and more that she hadn’t known. She had seen the new markings on the wall of the Antinium’s barracks and asked Pawn about each one. Even if it had been less than she could have hoped for.
I asked him to fight for an idea. For what was right and good. I asked him if he would die. And he never hesitated.
“…Lord Toldos Everight was a true [Lord] of Izril. We will never see his like again.”
Erin Solstice looked up. Lord Alman Sanito was delivering the last lines of his farewell. They were the same words she’d heard others say.
We will never see his like again. He will be dearly missed. He was taken too soon. He died well.
If you were uncharitable, you could call them trite words. Too often repeated, until the meaning was taken away. Insufficient for a life.
“Miss Solstice? Will you speak?”
Erin looked sideways. Edere Sanito was holding a child, one of the ones who’d been complaining with more insistency as the funeral went on. The [Lady] stared at Erin uncertainly, like many here.
No hostility here. Just…confusion.
Who was this young woman? Why had the retainers given her a place of honor? Why—her?
Give meaning to his death. They wanted that. Erin shook her head.
Lord Alman left the pyre. Now—all those who wanted to could file by. And there were many. But the nobles of Izril were first. They went, one after another, paying their respect. Saluting the man with blade, swearing to hunt down the last of the Circle of Thorns, or the Guild of Assassins.
Children, holding onto their parent’s hands. Not comprehending the entirety of it.
A baby crying again. Shuffling people, moving into a long procession line. Erin saw Edere tugging her son along. The [Lords] looked back. The waiting retainers, the closest of the servants to the last [Lord] of House Everight looked ahead.
Hostility, not given voice here. Erin Solstice saw the smoldering embers, reduced to ash by the furious blaze. At least they knew how to burn a body properly in Izril. She had been afraid when she went to Redit’s funeral…
House Everight ends with me. It was one of the last things he had said. Then he had charged towards the Runner’s Guild.
He could have fallen back. He should have. He had plunged ahead, practically inviting his death. Vainglorious. Stupid.
The wrong thoughts for a funeral. Erin didn’t exactly think them. She’d just heard it said. She stopped by the embers, felt their dying heat.
She tried to remember the old man’s face in every detail. And it was hard. She had looked at the portraits of him, which captured a younger man.
But the truth was? She did not know him well. She had met him twice at length, other times to help bring through food for Everight, talk about the door. Reassure him that Bird wouldn’t go through, he was just looking.
He had fought for an ideal without knowing her well. And that spoke to more of Toldos than Erin knew.
