This was Niers Astoragon, the adventurer. The same equipment he wore when the Titan went to war. The enchanted leather armor over his clothes—all made by the tiny people of Baleros.
“You look quite ready for an adventure, Lord Astoragon. Is the adventuring team in aid of you conquering Liscor’s dungeon? Albez’s?”
Merxel had a few ideas of why Niers Astoragon would appear in Izril himself. The Titan waggled a finger as he paged through the documents, flipping over each page with effort.
“The Cherinion Swords? Never heard of them. Well, whatever. Lodgings in…the Tailless Thief, if I need them…mhm. Peclir’s a tidy worker.”
He sighed. The [Chamberlain] had set all this up within less than an hour, with the Forgotten Wing Company’s extensive contacts. He did frown at one note hastily added from Peclir himself.
“…may need to travel on foot. Dead gods, why? I thought the magic door was right in Invrisil! The…Player’s Retreat?”
He looked at Merxel. The [Spymaster] shook his head.
“The door’s under renovations, Lord Astoragon. Poor timing.”
“Damn. Well—perhaps it’s for the best. The door’s too obvious. I’ll just move into Invrisil and…who’s my contact?”
“A ‘Remane’, Sire. Drake. And I don’t believe the door’s out for long. A few hours was what I was told…and it has been a few hours.”
“Oho. Well, in that case…I’ll see him now. Mind sending for him? Again—”
“Not a word, Lord Astoragon. I know the score.”
Merxel sighed. He shook his head as he went to send a runner for the Drake, who was one of the Forgotten Wing’s actual agents on the ground. Niers Astoragon. Merxel was sure he’d hear of what the Titan was up to soon.
He just wished the Titan wasn’t so surprising. Merxel put a hand to his heart. But it was thudding for another reason entirely.
The Titan had come to Invrisil.
 
—-
 
Oh yes. It was happening. As Remane strode hurriedly towards the [Spymaster]’s mansion, exhorting the adventurers to do exactly as they were told, Hexel was finishing the door’s placement.
At the same time? Laken Godart was interrupted at work by Lady Rie.
“Your Majesty. I don’t want to interrupt you, but—”
“What is it, Lady Rie?”
“I have a…a [Message] request. For dialogue with someone in Liscor. I wouldn’t trouble you, but the sender represents herself as ‘Ryoka Griffin’s friend’. And it is not Miss Charlay. I did check.”
“Liscor?”
The word provoked a memory in Laken. He sat up.
“I’ll need you to take my words, Lady Rie. I can, of course, trust you, can’t I?”
“Absolutely, your Majesty.”
The [Lady] nervously produced a [Message] scroll. Laken smiled thinly.
“Good. Then accept!”
The [Lady] moved about as Laken decided he should relax, rather than sit on the throne. He was reclining in a significantly more comfy seat in his Riverfarm home when the [Lady] connected him with Liscor.
She read the words out loud to him, transcribing his responses. Laken listened, not interfering. He found…his heart was beating quicker. His pulse racing.
When the first line of the conversation was read out loud, he sat up.
 
Are you Ryoka’s friend? She told me to contact you. Sorry it’s taken a while.
 
He hesitated.
“That’s what it says?”
“Verbatim, your Majesty. How would you like to respond? I could advise her that you are—”
“No.”
Laken drummed his fingers on the armrest of the padded chair. He was aware this was going through a Mage’s Guild, and he assumed the other person was, so he hadn’t minded Rie transcribing. It was a sign of his confidence in her—or that was how she could take it.
“Tell her—no—”
His curse was in another language. Rie hesitated with her quill over the scroll.
“Just—write my words exactly. Just as I say them from now on, would you, Rie?”
“Of course.”
So the conversation began.
 
Are you Ryoka’s friend? She told me to contact you. Sorry it’s taken a while.
I am.
…Are you really an [Emperor]?
 
“Wait, she wrote ‘…’ down?”
“Yes, your Majesty. Er…”
 
Wait, she wr
I am. I think Ryoka has referred to me as ‘L’? She has told me a bit about you.
She told me your name was Laken. I’m Erin.
I see. Forget about the aliases, then.
I can call you ‘L’ if you want. You can call me ‘E’.
 
Rie did not copy down the German swearing.
 
—-
 
Door. Titan. German [Messages]!
It mattered not. The citizens of Liscor dwelled in blissful ignorance, going about their day. What they did not know was that this was the day their sins came home to roost! They had escaped justice too long.
Today—vengeance would be dealt upon them. The most important event in Liscor’s recent history was about to occur.
The force of Drakes crept towards the city, moving off the road once they were clear of the Bloodfields. They were a seasoned force. Veterans.
Their city lay behind them. Not far—but they had marched hard. Come farther than they had ever gone.
For justice! For insult! The honor of Hectval had been damaged! A Scalespeaker insulted under the banner of peace!
It was not a full army who came. Oh, no. That was too easy to spot. Just an elite strike force, ready to lay carnage and waste! The leader was a seasoned [Ambush Leader], who had raided other cities before.
“In and out. We’ll use the hills as cover. Those soft-scaled idiots haven’t offended a real city with an actual army in centuries. They won’t know what hit ‘em. Crossbows up, boys!”
The Drakes sniggered as they moved under stealth Skills. Oh yes. This was going to be both fun and rewarding. Liscor would rue the day they crossed Hectval! And besides—their strike force was one of four waiting in the area, ready to strike a devastating blow against the city and retreat. All was in readiness, and the Drakes expected to take the shoddy City Watch off-guard. Heck, they didn’t even have patrols on the road! It was going to be simple, and they were excited.
They were positively, absolutely certain that they were going to be the most surprising thing that had ever happened today.
 
—-
 
The Last Light of Baleros. The United Nations company. Another world. I put it all by the wayside for this.
Perhaps…it is all connected. But either way—it will be today. And I will be shriven of it.
Shriven—a word out of time. Of an era where there had been [Priests]. When, perhaps, the gods had been…
It was like an obsession. He knew that. So he had decided, in the end, thanks to the Earl of Desonis’ taunt, to do it like this.
“There’s no plan, Remane. The Cherinion Swords walk in with you, carry me out to Liscor. I’ll enter in my own terms. I’ll retain the team’s services—they’re paid for…?”
“Indefinite retainer, Lord Astoragon. Master Im wanted to make sure they were at your disposal.”
Niers nodded. The Drake agent that the Forgotten Wing Company employed was clearly nervous. After all, the second-in-command and functional head of the company was right here.
And he’d be riding in Remane’s coat pocket into The Wandering Inn. Niers sighed.
“Just get me to an inn. I’ll walk in on my own two feet.”
The team of six Gold-ranks nodded, listening intently. Master Merxel had given them room to ‘plan’. Which was tricky because they expected a plan and this was not a plan.
“And we’re just waiting around, er, Titan—Lord Astoragon?”
One of the [Warriors] asked, visibly confused on how to address Niers. And the plan. Niers rolled his eyes.
“Yes. Think of it as a paid vacation. Just stay available.”
The others brightened at that. But some were just staring at him, fascinated. Niers could practically hear their thoughts. It was a common reaction. This was the Titan of Baleros?
“He’s so tiny.”
One of the Humans whispered to the others. Her voice was a bit too loud. Remane whirled around and raised a claw.
“Don’t be disrespectful! Lord Astoragon—”
“At ease, Remane.”
The Drake desisted. The Gold-rank adventurer looked guilty, but Niers just put a foot on one of Merxel’s books as he looked at her.
“What’s your name, Miss…?”
“Chres. Lord Astoragon.”
He nodded, amiably. Niers knew they had to be checking out his enchanted gear. He let them look him over. His voice was quite gentle. Lecturing, as a professor to a student.
“You may think I’m small, and not much use in a battle with monsters. However, I’ve fought with Named-rank Adventurers. Given them orders in combat. I was one. Not part of a Named-rank team. A Named-rank Adventurer, before I retired. Tell me, have you ever had a [Strategist] boost you while adventuring? Have you ever worked with any?”
“Er—no, Lord Astoragon.”
She shook her head, looking bemused. So did the others. Niers smiled.
“Then do you have a [Leader]? [Commander]? Team captain in anything but name?”
Another, hesitant, shake of the heads. Niers sighed, almost dramatically.
“In that case, you haven’t ever assembled a proper team. When you want to stop playing at combat, hire a [Tactician].”
He looked around the room and clapped his hands briskly.
“Now, let’s get moving. To Liscor. Unless that damn door’s out. In that case, drinks are on me.”
And they were moving. The disgruntled Swords escorted Remane as Niers hopped in a slightly-smelly pocket. He tried to relax. But here they were.
He should have done this a long time ago. Throw it all to the winds. He wondered…the Titan sighed as he sat in the fold of cloth.
Either way. It would be worth visiting.
 
—-
 
The elite raiding party was the fourth to get into position. They moved, noticing the flashes of directed mage-light from the other three groups. It was still mid-morning. They could strike, but they’d reconnoiter with the others. Form a plan of action.
They had camouflaged blankets they used to disguise themselves in the lee of a hill, giving them almost perfect cover to observe Liscor. The [Ambush Captain] smirked.
“Not even a dozen patrols out. Sitting ducks. I’ll communicate with the other [Captains]. Get ready—we might be moving on a target if that Gnoll-hugging bastard shows himself. Remember—he’s top of the list. Purple scales.”
The others nodded. They settled back as the [Ambush Captain] wormed his way stealthily towards another marked position. When he was in range, they could use [Throw Voice] to communicate.
“Squad Four has arrived and is in position. Status? Do we have any targets to hit immediately?”
“Reconnoitering. Hold for delays on assault, Four.”
“Why?”
The [Ambush Captain] paused. He heard a strained voice from the female Drake, the [Captain] of Squad Three.
“…Squad One was here longest. They ran into some kind of huge monster. A crab encased in stone. Hollowstone Deceiver. They’ve taken two casualties. Be on the lookout for unusually large stones—”
The [Ambush Captain] hesitated. He glanced back at his squad just in time to see a large boulder creeping up on their left flank. Then he heard the clicking.
 
—-
 
The conversation went like this.
 
It might be unwise to communicate too much like this. I assume you’re planning on joining the event?
Yup. I’m going to start moving tomorrow or two days at the latest. Is that okay?
You should make it by carriage. I would warn you to be careful. We are not always safe.
I know that. I’m taking some help. That’s why I wanted to talk. I think some [Lords] and [Ladies] might come with me—or soon after. Not the Five Families, but local ones.
Did you persuade them?
Yup.
 
A break in the writing. The cheerful scrawl went on.
 
I’ll be safe from jerks. Even ones who like to listen in on private conversations. But how much protection should I bring? Do you have a lot of monsters?
That depends on your point of view.
Hmm. Well, I’ll have some people with me if that’s okay. And some people you might want to speak to.
Really? 
Yup. But my real question is: are you okay with Goblins?
 
Silence. Or…blank space on the scroll for a while.
 
I do not have a problem with Goblins. Why would you ask? Ryoka has mentioned some things…
I would like to bring some Goblins with me. If they’ll be attacked, I won’t.
I see. I believe they would be quite safe.
I see myself. So they’re okay?
Yes.
And you’ll put away your trebuchets?
 
A slight wobble in the reply.
 
I believe I have much to apologize for. And much to speak of, with you, Erin Solstice.
Yes. If Goblins are okay, then I’ll have like, at least twenty people with me. And about eight noble families. Just FYI.
Understood. 
 
Laken Godart drummed his fingers on his armrest. Lady Rie was giving him an incredulous look. He had heard Ryoka talk about her friend—but this was already unexpected.
On her side, Erin leaned on the counter. She narrowed her eyes, waiting.
 
Is Ryoka Griffin well? We have inquired after her health, but she has not contacted us or been seen.
She was hurt. I think she’ll be okay.
Very well. We’ve received no word that Magnolia Reinhart intends to attend the gathering. What of the other Five Families?
I think one will come, at least. Probably two. We’ll see. Say, I have another question just in case.
Go ahead.
Do you kill little Gnolls? Or Drakes? I normally wouldn’t ask, but I feel like I should be sure.
I do not. And I will guarantee their safety. My army
Your army? Say whaaaaat?
I have a personal force that will protect the event. And one Gold-rank team on retainer. Griffon Hunt. You may look up their history. They’ve been quite effective
GRIFFON HUNT? I KNOW THEM!
Indeed?
 
“Your Majesty, she’s writing too fast for me to finish my sentences.”
Rie was exasperated. Laken just rubbed at his forehead.
“Someone call for Captain Halrac and his team.”
 
Okay, if you know Halrac (how is he?), you’re probably okay. In that case, I’ll bring friends! And food. I have some things our ‘other guests’ will really like. Like this bread.
Bread? I would be grateful for any entertainment you could provide. I believe the ‘Players of Celum’ are already moving to Riverfarm. Do I have you to thank?
Maybe. Yes. Well, say ‘hi’ to Halrac for me.
 
The [Emperor] hesitated. He felt that at some point—probably the opening lines—he’d lost control of this conversation. Negotiation was a fine dance of status and intention.
 
I will be delighted to welcome you to the Unseen Empire, Erin.
Oh, right. You’re an [Emperor], huh?
 
And what did you say to that? Rie sounded exasperated as she read out the reply. Laken sighed. But the writing went on, scrawling, chatting. Using up a lot of their [Message] budget per word.
 
Okay. I think we’re cool on most things. Is there anything I should know before I arrive? Really important stuff?
…I believe that everything that merits discussion should be had in person.
