“Oh, heck yes! You mean the super-party with the [Emperor]?”
“That’s right. Ylawes, Fierre will explain all about the…evil needles. Joseph, you find Troy and Leon. Rose, Galina. Kevin, I think Moore’s in the garden with Mrsha? Can you get him to send a [Message] to Jelaqua in Pallass asking if she can go? What’s her rates?”
“On it.”
The others scrambled about as Fierre edged back from Ylawes and he gave Erin a pained look. Erin looked about.
“No, Fierre? Okay, tell Dawil or something—now, I need to talk to Selys. And Mrsha and Numbtongue. Where’s—what’s up, Lyonette! Hey! Your hand is cold!”
The [Princess] was feeling at Erin’s forehead for a fever. Erin slapped away her hands.
“Don’t be weird, Lyonette.”
“Me?”
“Yes, you. Go send a [Message] to—actually, Temile! Temile! Lyonette has a job for you and the Players of Celum! Maybe Liscor too! We’ve got to get them to the party! Dead gods!”
Erin slapped her own forehead. Now she was thinking of everything—
But she had risen to greater challenges before. She’d organized a battle in less time. The trick was just…
“The Players of Celum performing for an [Emperor]? We’ll all level! I’ll tell Emme right away! She’ll rush everyone to—where is it? Riverfarm? Wait a second, I think she did get an invitation, but she turned it down—”
“Well, unturn it! Okay! Players done!”
Erin spun. Lyonette’s jaw was hanging there.
“Just like that?”
“That’s how you do it, Lyonette. Temile and Emme will handle it. So it’s like—check! Next on the list!”
The [Innkeeper]’s style of management was different from Lyonette’s. And the [Princess] was taking notes—Erin was a master-delegator. She poked someone, told them what to do, and let them do it. Wait—had she been doing this with Lyonette the entire time and was only working hard because she needed to now?
There were some similarities with the Goblin Chieftain’s ethos right there. Snapjaw saw Erin march into the Earth-rooms a moment later. She was overseeing a competition between Badarrow and Numbtongue. They were playing on Kevin’s laptop.
“You die. My turn.”
“Not fair!”
Numbtongue pounded a fist on the table. Badarrow was smug. He was winning, thanks to the most unfair of things—his aiming Skills let him hit his targets in the FPS-game better than Numbtongue, even with less experience.
“Numbtongue! We’re going to a party in two days or less! Not sure if you’re able to come. I’m gonna ask, but either way, Mrsha is coming. Yes, Mrsha! You can take Moore!”
Erin shouted back into the garden. A little furry ball raced into the inn. She got to take her Moore? Huzzah! She did a dance in celebration. But what about her Numbtongue?
“Ryoka party? With [Emperor]?”
“Yes! I’m going to ask but—Badarrow, Snapjaw, if I can get Goblins, do you want to show up incognito?”
The two Hobgoblins looked at each other. Erin’s finger wavered from Goblin to Goblin. Snapjaw raised a claw.
“…Party? Will there be lots of food?”
“Yup. Lots of nobles too. But lots of food—”
“Okay. Badarrow, we go. Tell Chieftain.”
Now that was the kind of decisive Goblin decision-making she liked to see! Numbtongue grumbled as he watched Badarrow turn back to his game.
“You cheater.”
“Am not.”
The two brothers glared at each other as Erin checked things off her list. They could bring the laptop, maybe. Well, should they bring Palt? Montressa? Beza? You always needed a utility-[Mage]. Why not?
Drat! She kept forgetting Imani!
 
—-
 
Within an hour, Erin had it set. Players? Check. Earthers? Check! Especially since Kevin was going to bring a bike prototype out and make some sales. Same with Joseph and the soccer ball. Imani would go, and Palt had asked even as Erin explained.
So that meant Montressa and Beza would also come. Which meant they needed more carriages. Especially since the Halfseekers and the Silver Swords were coming. Which meant Todi’s Jerks didn’t need to come, but maybe? It was a Ryoka-party which meant anything could happen and some meat shields would be great if it came to bad stuff.
Erin made a note to find out how much food they should take. Not that there wouldn’t be food there already…but she didn’t know.
She didn’t know. Ryoka had been in charge of the plans and she’d been preparing with Maviola’s help. But since Ryoka was out of action—it was up to Erin. And she regretted not getting on this a month ago. Honestly, she could have gotten…Grimalkin? Chaldion? Saliss?
Eh. That wasn’t exactly a smart move. Erin wouldn’t consider getting Ilvriss even if she could. Selys might be okay—not a Wall Lord of Salazsar.
No Antinium, and no super-important Drakes. Goblins now? She marched out of her inn. It was time to do what she’d been putting off.
It was time. She walked into the Mage’s Guild. The [Scribe] at an empty desk looked up, remembered yesterday, and hurriedly cleared his workload. Erin leaned on the counter with a smile.
“Hey. Can someone send a [Message] to…let’s see. The [Emperor] of Riverfarm? Tell him it’s Ryoka Griffin’s friend.”
Erin waited. The [Scribe] blinked as she waved a hand in front of his face.
“Hello? I’m sort of in a hurry. Why are you looking at me like that?”
 
—-
 
The Mage’s Guild in Invrisil was not the Mage’s Guild in Liscor, where some Human could walk in and bring it all to a standstill. One was a small city, at least compared to the metropolis of the City of Adventurers.
In Invrisil’s Mage’s Guild, what brought the Guild to a halt was this:
“Incoming delivery! Long-ranged teleportation! I need a link!”
“Origin?”
“Baleros! Recipient: Master Merxel—of course. It’s that time of the month again.”
The [Mage] on duty sighed. She knew what the delivery was. Heck—most people in Invrisil did who were in the know.
The best [Spymaster]—or perhaps ‘information broker’ in all of Invrisil was Master Merxel. It was unwise, generally, for someone to have their class so openly advertised in his line of work. So rather than [Spymaster], call him a retired one who essentially distilled all the information worth knowing in his area of Invrisil and sold it to…everyone.
Master Merxel was one of those sorts who had cultivated a reputation like Drassi’s. Quick, informative, and never unfactual information. If it was a rumor, he tried to get to the source of it. He dealt in numbers, locations. As a consequence, his work was prized and he didn’t really cultivate enemies since he stuck to what was known—he just reported all of it.
It was a fact that he had clients as famous as the Titan of Baleros, Queen Yisame—or at least her representatives—the Iron Vanguard’s top [Strategist], Tulm the Mithril, and so on. They all relied on him to be their eyes in Izril. Of course, they probably had other sources of information…
But Master Merxel had a special relationship with the Titan of Baleros. Not only did he do the most work, it was a known fact that Niers Astoragon was generous to those who helped him.
Hence, Merxel being delivered exceptionally expensive vintages of wine each month. Wine, spirits—boxes of Balerosian grapes minutes after being plucked—thousands of gold pieces. Tens of thousands! Each month, on the dot.
It was facilitated by teleportation. The [Mages] linked as their counterparts had to do the same.
Teleportation was only easy in bulk with Fissival—or powerful Mage’s Guilds. And even for a bottle or two of wine—the [Mages] had to strain to manage it.
Gone were the times when an [Archmage] of Wistram would teleport over for a cup of tea. That was Zelkyr’s era and before.
Nevertheless—pop! Three bottles of wine appeared in the summoning circle as an equivalent amount of air was exchanged. The [Mages] gasped, wiping at their brows.
“Status of cargo?”
“Intact. Dead gods!”
“What?”
The [Mage] in charge of the delivery service looked up anxiously as a [Mage] exclaimed over one. The man shook his head.
“Nothing’s wrong. It’s just—this is a six hundred year old vintage! Enchanted! You could send five dozen deliveries like this just for the bottle alone! Just a sip—”
“Oh no you don’t. Someone get a City Runner with a high credibility rating to run this to Master Merxel, with our compliments. Dead gods. Stop fondling that wine bottle!”
“But it’s what Dragons used to drink! Six hundred years old! Distilled from half-Elven vineyards thousands of—”
“Shut up! Stop tempting us!”
The [Mage] snapped. She was tempted, hearing that. She was glad enough when they handed it over to a City Runner.
“Not in the bag of holding. Instructions are clear. Must conflict with the holding spells.”
The [Mage] repeated the order. The City Runner rolled his eyes.
“I’ve done this before. And rest assured—by my House, it will get there. All half a mile.”
Delanay d’Artien saluted with his hat and rolled his eyes. But it was paid work. He jogged, making sure not to slosh the bottles of wine and he was soon at the rather fancy estates that belonged to Master Merxel.
“Priority from the Mage’s Guild. Delivery for Master Merxel?”
The [Bodyguards] checked him thoroughly before entering, but then let him in. Inside the estate, Delanay only had to wait a moment.
The [Spymaster] had known he was coming, perhaps even before Delanay had arrived at the Mage’s Guild. Delanay was waved in, and a rich Runner’s Seal was produced and handed over.
“Ah, the usual wine. Dead gods, is that an Iremmien Bottle? What have I done to…? Well, I can think of a few things!”
The [Spymaster] chortled, looking delighted at the gift. Delanay himself did a double-take, noting the vintage at last.
Merxel was slightly paunchy with time, but he had never been the fittest, even as a [Spy]. He was a jovial type, the last person most had suspected of being a [Spy]. Now, he dressed himself like a Chandrarian [Sultan]. He was rich and wanted people to know that.
He also had a huge drinking habit, and his eyes were on the bottle. Delanay reflected that the vintage, which had appreciated in value for six hundred years, would meet its end tonight.
What a waste. But he kept a smile on his face, tipped his hat, and was out the door in a minute, to collect his fee.
It was always like this. The bottles came like clockwork, a handsome bribe of loyalty. And they always had the same strict instructions. Master Merxel rubbed his hands.
“What generosity. I certainly earned it with all that data about that [Innkeeper]. Spits blood my left testicle. But I laughed hard enough—dead gods. Dead gods, an actual Iremmien! I suppose just a sip—and I’ll have company tonight!”
Allegedly, just one sip of the heady wine was enough to make even Dragons smile. The [Spymaster] reached for the bottle. He produced a corkscrew, delicately inserted it into the bottle.
Then hesitated. Wait a moment. Normally, these bottles were blast proof. Enchanted such that air or spells couldn’t ruin the aging vintages. You had to actually recite passcodes to unseal the magic. The corkscrew had gone in with ease, and Delanay hadn’t given the man any magical words.
A little warning bell rang in Merxel’s head. Slowly, he took his hands away from the corkscrew. He reached for—
Pop. The cork blasted out of the bottle. Merxel saw a head poke out of the top—
He screamed, fell out of his chair, and was halfway towards the door and his [Bodyguards] before he saw the Fraerling clamber out of the bottle, soaked in wine, holding a crossbow aimed at his face.
“Lord Astoragon!”
Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros, had tiny flippers and a Fraerling-style diving suit on. He kicked off the wooden flippers, and pulled out of the waterproof suit with a grimace. He left a puddle on the desk as Merxel stared at him in shock and horror.
“Paugh. That’s close to vinegar! I should have told Peclir to fill it with a better vintage.”
“My—my—Lord Astoragon?”
“Merxel. Thanks for opening that right away. I would have blasted out of it if the City Runner had been daft enough to put it in a bag of holding.”
“I am going to have a heart attack one day, sir.”
Merxel spoke faintly, hand on his chest. It had been sixteen years since the Fraerling had done that—and Merxel had been in Terandria. It was going to take another decade before Merxel opened another bottle by hand.
“Stop whining. You know how the system works.”
The Titan of Baleros. Some people wondered how he got around so fast. Rumors were that he could be in multiple places at once, or he had doppelgangers, or it was just his mythos.
The truth was…most people forgot the rule of magical physics sometimes overlapped with actual physics. Smaller, lighter things were easier to transfer.
Even a small person was exceptionally hard to transfer short of grand magic or a lot of [Mages]. But a Fraerling?
The trouble was, Niers had too many enemies and he’d be too noticeable. So he’d established the wine trick long ago.
“You should switch back to fruits. It’s healthier and a lot easier to hide in.”
The [Grandmaster Strategist] wiped some wine off his arm. Merxel still hadn’t gotten up.
“I think I may be off the drink completely. Thank you for that, Niers.”
“Don’t be such a baby. What, do Fraerlings in wine bottles scare you? Do you know how many mashed up bugs you eat in wheat?”
The [Spymaster] didn’t answer. He was still trying not to imagine bugs or something else lurking in the other bottles.
“…May I at least assume there’s liquid, not an army of Fraerlings in the other bottles, Lord Astoragon? If my Iremmien is not to be enjoyed?”
He couldn’t help but sound disappointed. Niers rolled his eyes.
“I’ll gift you two Iremmiens and a fat bonus once I’m back. Is everything ready?”
“Of course.”
Merxel sniffed. He hadn’t known it would be Niers himself, but he could follow orders.
“I understand Peclir has organized an appropriate escort. Lodgings. And a contact on the ground.”
He fussed about, and produced a packet of details. Niers strode over the desk. Merxel stole a taste of the ‘Iremmien’ and shuddered. Diving suit aside—it really was vinegar.
“Whoever disguises wine like that should be shot.”
“I’ll give you a crossbow later, if you like. Mine’s not for sale.”
Indeed, the little Fraerling was bedecked, as Merxel noted now. He hadn’t seen Niers Astoragon since Terandria. And then…
Well, the Fraerling was older. And some of his gear had changed. But some hadn’t.
He had a masterwork Fraerling-sized crossbow at his side. The same one he’d menaced Merxel with. Enchanted, made by Fraerling-experts. A shortsword at his side, six rings, a bag of holding—
