She didn’t belong here. The gazes pricked at the young woman as she stopped there. How dare she? He was dead. Lord Toldos died for what? An arrogant young woman from…
…from…
The [Innkeeper] slowed, bending slightly, standing before the pyre. The wind stilled. The baby’s shrill cry, stifled once, breaking the somber mood—
—faded away. The biting flies, attracted to the crowd, stopped buzzing their wings. A noisy cough in the crowd seemed removed. Then stopped.
There she stood. The hostility in the crowd stopped. They saw…a young woman standing there. Dressed in dark clothing, teary-eyed. Not weeping, for she had not known him well. And she had wept enough.
She was here to pay her respects. She looked past the remains of the fire. Towards the venerable mansion. Over the heads of the crowd.
This was Lord Toldos Everight. This was his legacy. The worth of a man was more than how he died, or his funeral. It was in how he was remembered.
The Flowers of Izril, stopped in the street, looked back, sensing…something. The air was still, devoid of mortal irritations. Something more than silence stole the sound away.
There she stood. Erin looked past the fire. And knew—she did not remember his face. Not perfectly. But every line of it, every stern facet carved by age, every mark laughter had given him would be there.
In the garden. On a statue on a hill. Never forgotten. Nor would any of them.
He had not been her lover. Her dear friend. He had not ruled her, and she had so few words with him.
But he had died, fighting for what he believed was just and true. He had been her guest.
That was all. Slowly, the [Innkeeper] spoke. What she said, not even the closest to her could hear. Just a bit—perhaps minutes. Perhaps hours.
A moment. Then she stepped past him. Stopped.
Erin raised a hand in farewell. She shed more tears.
Then she was gone.
But the [Immortal Moment] remained. The next man to stand there spoke, and time dared not touch him. He walked past the pyre, and the next came.
It took a lifetime.
It took a moment. It was almost enough time to say goodbye.
The thousands filed past the pyre. In the time it took the embers to cool. Between the moment of a baby’s cry.
Then the moment ended. The baby drew breath to wail—and stopped, perplexed. A fly bit again. A hand slapped it.
The eyes followed the [Innkeeper] as she joined the wake. Then came sound, grieving by a different mood. Laughter, jokes. Reminiscences. Food and conversation.
It was a poor thing to let the dead lie too long in silence. Remember their names. The people of Izril knew that much.
It was a fast moment between funeral and wake. But a long time had passed, or so it felt. And the hostility? The first person to approach Erin was one of the [Soldiers] who had ridden for House Everight that day. Erin transferred the drink to her other hand and shook his.
There was nothing immortal here. But it was enough. She had given the one thing she had to the old [Lord].
“…Thank you. I’m so sorry…”
He nodded, teary-eyed.
“I—he always swore he’d rather die in the saddle than alone. Mind you, I don’t think he’d have desired it too much. But it was something.”
Erin nodded. Half-shook her head.
“He would never have died alone.”
The man paused. She was looking at him. His grip weakened.
“True enough, milady.”
“I’m not a [Lady].”
Erin shook her head. The retainer looked at her oddly. But then he bowed slightly and stepped back.
“Miss Erin Solstice. Was that…your Skill?”
“Yes. I’m sorry if it…”
Erin found herself speaking to a [Lord]. Not one she remembered directly. He had been at the riots too. He shook his head.
“It was—appropriate. Momentous. I thank you.”
“I’m glad. Lord Ranga, right?”
He nodded. Erin heard laughter. She turned. Someone was telling a story of Lord Toldos. They left his remains behind. Trying to capture the man, explain him with words.
His mansion would be filled. The streets of his town filled with people from the wake, celebrating it in their own way.
Erin wiped her eyes again. Lord Ranga looked away, as if they were something to be ashamed of.
She hadn’t known she could use [Immortal Moment] like that. She’d just…felt it. And it wasn’t as if she had used it on every person there.
Just on one man. One moment.
She was getting stronger. What a way to find it out. What a…
Useless Skill? No. The most important Skill in the world. Just not one that fit battlefields or fantastical scenes.
A Skill for a funeral. The [Mortician] had shaken Erin’s hand and thanked her for it. She thought of that class with more respect than she ever had before—not that she had thought of someone whose job it was to tend to the dead.
What an important job. Erin took another breath. She let it out. And realized Lord Ranga had said something.
Goodbye, Lord Toldos. I will see you again. And never. I wish—
Then Erin looked up.
“What was that, Lord Ranga?”
“…I said, I should be delighted if you visited House Owe. I believe Alman has tendered the same invitation? Certainly, it would be an honor. Have you met my son?”
Erin recognized the impetuous young [Lord]. She eyed Lord Ranga. Then she shook her head.
“Maybe in a bit, Lord Ranga. But there’s somewhere I have to be.”
“Well, I didn’t mean directly after this—”
The [Lord] looked slightly affronted. Erin clarified.
“No, I’m grateful for the invitation. It’s just—I have somewhere to be soon. Very soon. Actually—”
It was time. She looked up at Lord Ranga.
“—Have you heard about what’s happening on the Summer Solstice?”
He blinked.
“The Summer…ah. Do you mean the event in…where was it…Riverfarm? I did receive an invitation, but I thought it was far too late—and far.”
“Mm. What about with a magic door?”
The man looked struck for a moment.
“I hadn’t considered it—mind you, I hadn’t any desire to return to Invrisil. Say. Could I just walk through to visit House Sanito?”
“…Yeah? Wait, how did you get here?”
“We rode. It took two—and that door would have brought us through?”
Erin eyed Lord Ranga and took a long slurp from her drink. The man colored slightly in the meaningful silence. She threw him a bone.
“Don’t worry, I made the same mistake before I realized how to use it. Yes! Lyonette mostly sends through goods, doesn’t she?”
“The young woman? Er—yes. We have a shipment of nails from Esthelm, very cheap—very convenient! Lord Alman! Alman, Edere! Listen to this—”
Ranga practically dragged Erin over. Alman’s expression was much like Erin’s own.
“You rode here, Ranga?”
“Yes, I—wait. How did you get here, Alman?”
The [Lord] slowly raised his cup to his face. Edere hid her expression behind a fan and waved it delicately.
“What’s this about that event in Riverfarm? We received an invitation, but it seemed quite far. Are you planning on attending, Miss Solstice?”
More of the nobility looked around. They drifted over as Erin nodded.
“Yep. I’m told it’s…really important. Well, my friend will be there. She had better be there. I’m going.”
“I hear that rumored [Emperor] lives there. Although I heard it was just a [Baron]. Not an actual [Emperor].”
“I heard he’s called the Unseen Emperor. Who told you he was a [Baron]?”
“Er…well, he couldn’t be an actual [Emperor]. Could he?”
The nobles murmured. Some of them eyed Erin Solstice. They knew. The [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn. And the name of the inn—and she herself was enough that she was part of this aristocratic gathering amid the wake.
“There’s an [Emperor] there.”
Erin told them. They blinked. But they looked at her and believed. The [Innkeeper] took a breath.
“I’m going to be there. If you want, you can use my door from Invrisil. We have to leave soon.”
“So you are going?”
Edere glanced at her husband. Erin nodded.
“Me. And some of my…family. We’ll probably need like, an escort. But apparently there’s this coach service that can take us pretty cheap and fast.”
“An overnight carriage? Well—I did hear Lady Imarris was attending herself. And a number of the nobility. Lady Walchaís—”
“Lady Imarris and Bethal Walchaís? That can’t be right. They’d skewer each other with the dinner forks before attending the same event.”
Edere shook her head, looking as mystified as her husband.
“I know what I heard, Alman. It may be expedient to attend.”
“Do you know if Magnolia Reinhart is back on Izril? She promised to attend.”
Erin looked around. The moment she mentioned Magnolia’s name, the other nobles rustled like a breeze had run through them.
“Magnolia Reinhart was going to attend?”
“Yeah, I’m a bit worried about—”
Erin saw significant glances and listened to the whispers. She wondered if she shouldn’t have said that. But suddenly—Edere was asking her when she planned on going, and was a RSVP too late?
Well, it seemed like she had some work to do. Erin began talking up her door. And the party. Definitely an [Emperor]. Maybe even two! I mean, how would you know if you didn’t…?
Then she went and looked at the portrait of Lord Toldos. His family. She listened—and realized he had been at the Sacrifice of Roses.
House Everight ends with…it had died there. She listened. She wept. She shook hands and talked to people.
Then she went back home. She left those who knew him better time to grieve. And plan for the future amid death.
It seemed callous. But what else did you do?
 
—-
 
Erin came back and upset Hexel’s calibrations. He swore as she walked through, but only sighed.
“Okay. Let’s all ignore that spike in the mana flow and recalibrate. Two more hours, Miss Solstice.”
She’d only been two hours? It felt…far longer. Belgrade was equally impressed.
“The last funeral took six hours to attend, Miss Solstice. I am pleased that the efficiency of funeral services has increased nearly 250%…”
“No, Belgrade. And that’s not the point. I think it was my fault.”
How long would the paying of respects have taken without her Skill? Erin hoped it had been something Lord Toldos would have wanted. But everyone had had time to…she walked past Belgrade.
“I need to talk with Lyonette. Sorry, Hexel.”
“Just don’t go back through the door! And don’t step on those tiles! They’re monitoring the mana—”
Erin heard too late. She heard a sound from the Lizardman and looked down.
Little marked tiles, with arrows and lines indicating some kind of mana flow—and other invisible currents in the inn spun, destroying the delicate pattern Hexel had been monitoring around the door to place it just so. Now they were all pointing at her. Hexel closed his eyes.
“…Brunch break. I need a drink.”
Erin slowly backed into the common room. By the time she’d changed into her typical dress, Hexel was making good use of his ‘free drink’ policy.
“Erin.”
“I’m sorry! But I had to go—the stepping on the tiles was a mistake. Lyonette, by the way, we might get a bunch of nobles who want to go to the solstice party.”
The [Princess] put her hands on her hips and blew out her cheeks.
“And you didn’t discuss teleportation fees? The mana issue?”
“…Lyonette, you know I super appreciate you and everything you do, right, right? Have we given you a raise recently?”
“Save it. Erin—the party. Is Ryoka awake?”
“No.”
Erin’s face fell. She rallied after a second.
“But she’s got time! And I’m helping!”
“I’m sure that would fill her with nothing but delight and confidence.”
The [Princess] relented at Erin’s hurt look.
“Oh, very well. But I’m worried about the party. We know where it is, and this…Lady Rie sent word that we had a free ride to the party. But should we go now?”
“Yes. I think. Maybe. And you’re coming, right?”
Lyonette du Marquin folded her arms.
“This is all something we should have discussed at the time with Ryoka. I’m beginning to think she’s worse at planning than you are, Erin. Who’ll manage the inn?”
“…Ishkr?”
“Well, he could hardly make a mess of it. Fine! But there’s more that needs to be done!”
Lyonette waved a finger, conceding that point. Erin chewed on her lip.
“Right. And if Ryoka’s asleep…Maviola needs to come. I know that. She should be here soon. Didn’t Olesm say she’d arrive today or tomorrow at the absolute latest? In that case—I’ll make sure we’re good to go now. Then we’ll leave at the end of the week with Maviola. Sound good?”
“Wh—whuh?”
Lyonette looked at Erin, blinking. The [Innkeeper] smacked her palm with her fist.
“End of the week gives us like, two days! Maybe a day or two earlier? Just to be safe. I’ll tell the nobles to come tonight. Assuming they go back to their homes. Actually—they’re coming through the inn, even Lord Ranga. I’ll get them then. Let me just tell Mrsha, Numbtongue…do we take Bird?”
“That seems like—”
“—A bad idea. Right. Darn. Too bad. But it’s just too dangerous. Numbtongue? Maybe if he wears his armor. I’ll have to make sure.”
Lyonette’s eyes were bugging out. She was opening and closing her mouth. Then she burst out.
“Protection! You haven’t thought of—”
“Exactly. We should be careful, right? I was thinking the Halfseekers. And maybe Todi’s Jerks. If we invite Selys, she might pay for it. Do we take Olesm, and like—others? Wait! We’ll get the Silver Swords to come. And Fierre of course. I’ll talk to all of them.”
“Who are you? Are you really making plans? Albeit late?”
Lyonette stared at Erin as if the [Innkeeper] had turned into a Creler. Erin looked at Lyonette.
“Hey! I’m just being responsible. You should try it, Lyonette. Speaking of which! The others! There’s someone from E—okay, let’s get to work.”
The [Princess] was so offended she didn’t even have the breath to reply. She stared after Erin as the young woman strode off.
“Fierre! We’re going to the solstice party! You should pack!”
The Vampire glanced up.
“In Riverfarm? Ryoka’s party?”
“Yup. Ryoka should be there. No, she will be. I’m telling you since we might leave tomorrow—two more days at max.”
“Dead gods. I forgot it was Riverfarm. I—I need to buy some protective charms.”
“Wait, is there danger there? Ylawes! Do you want to go on an adventure to Riverfarm?”
The [Knight] glanced up, slurping up some spaghetti. He patted at his mouth.
“Er—say what?”
“We need protection! Here, come over and I can explain. Fierre—is there danger?”
“Needles.”
The Vampire girl shuddered. Erin nodded a few times.
“Needles, Ylawes! Evil needles, probably! We need your help! And—Kevin, Rose, Joseph—”
The three looked up. Erin hollered.
“You want to go to a party? Meet someone like us?”
They stared. Rose pumped her fist into the air.
