No. How clever. His employers had speculated, but Peclir Im had concrete proof of the Titan’s trick. A shame it wasn’t replicable.
He regarded the carefully marked bottle he’d swapped the contents of the expensive drink with. It was actually vinegar mixed with wine he’d given for the Titan’s last voyage. Just a parting gift.
Peclir Im had been working for a few years as the Forgotten Wing’s [Chamberlain]. He had passed every test, asserted his loyalty—and he knew he’d been watched.
Well, he’d given no one any reason to suspect. That was what the best [Infiltrators] and [Traitors] did. Not like fat Merxel, an unwitting dupe. Not that he was a traitor in his mind.
He was always loyal. Peclir carefully poured himself the actual vintage of Iremmien. Then he sighed as he took a slow, deep sip.
People thought the Forgotten Wing Company was impregnable. The genius of the Titan, the terrifying Three-Color Stalker—well, they were certainly extraordinary. But not invincible.
The trick was—you just had to know where Foliana was at all times. When you were certain? That was when you were safe. Peclir knew Foliana was tormenting Perorn at this very moment. Therefore, he was safe.
She wasn’t the all-seeing eye, nor was Lord Astoragon, for all he was sharp as a needle. But everyone slipped up. You just needed to think—
And have nerves as tough as steel. Peclir wondered if Remane would succeed. A Gold-rank team…but it was the Titan.
Either way, it did not matter. Because you didn’t plan around uncertainty. Peclir shook his head. The Titan was stranded. Or dead. He raised the single-use charm to his mouth and spoke the words he’d been waiting to say for a long, long time.
“The Titan is out of the way.”
Then he took another sip of wine. It really was the best.
 
—-
 
I’m heading out tomorrow. We’ll talk.
 
Erin Solstice finished writing. Laken Godart read her message and sat back. He really wanted to meet her. If only so she would stop haranguing him via text.
Erin’s nerves were buzzing. Not just that. She felt like something was going on in her inn. But the news made her electric as she left the Mage’s Guild.
Goblins were alive. She hurried towards home.
There was going to be a reckoning. But first—why did she feel like someone had just been in her inn as important as…? It was just a feeling. If it had been real?
Where had they gone?
 
—-
 
The bits of the Drake lay in the grass and on the ground. The Cherinion Swords were shouting, looking around.
“He just killed Are! That bastard said he was just a [Strategist]!”
“Where is he? Where is he?”
They were looking around. The Fraerling was gone. Had they blown him up? One of the [Mages] lifted his staff.
“[Detect Life]! Guard me!”
Two [Warriors] closed up. The five traitorous adventurers, who were sometimes killers-for-hire, looked around. They’d drunk potions. They’d come ready to kill, and their opponent had been taken off-guard.
But he’d gotten the drop on them. And what was worse, they’d made two mistakes. The first was believing that even a Fraerling had enchanted gear below theirs. His tiny crossbow didn’t have as big an explosion as a Human-sized one, but it had blown off a head and destroyed the midsection of their friend in two shots!
And the second? The [Mage] turned his head frantically.
“Where is he? Where?”
“I—I don’t know! He’s too small! There are moles and frogs and damn stuff all around!”
They had never fought a Fraerling.
The Titan of Baleros crouched behind a tiny stone in the grass. Panting. His armor was charred and he felt roasted. But his amulet had saved him from a direct [Fireball].
Damn tallfolk [Mages] and spells ten times larger than you are! The [Strategist] had dropped the tonic. He nearly reached for another one—
But no. Hiding was his best gambit here. Principles of engagement. He’d taught his students the rules that were guiding his actions here.
Don’t take risky battles unless you have to. Unless the reward outweighs the risk. These were hired thugs. There was no reason for Niers to risk dying. He could fall back. Go to Esthelm or Liscor—damn them, he’d been too distracted!—and secure aid. Or just hide and figure out how badly Peclir had betrayed him.
One [Message] scroll…or had Peclir already subverted their communications systems? Which company had hired him? Damn, damn—
The words were echoing in his head. He heard his own voice, mocking him.
“…look at us now. Growing fat and complacent in our success. Our old age.”
“Not yet!”
He whispered. He still had his crossbow and gear. The [Mage] couldn’t find him. Niers heard them debating.
“—let’s just get the hell out of here. Forget the bounty—”
“Like hell! We kill the Titan, we’ll be famous!”
“Not if I kill all of you. Get lost, you amateurs. You can’t even spring a trap properly.”
The team whirled. Two of them cast spells—Niers plugged his ears as the explosions echoed. He felt the impacts—but then spoke again.
“You really think you can kill me? I’m the Titan of Baleros.”
“Where is he?”
“I don’t know! I don’t know!”
They stared in the wrong direction entirely. Speaking stone. Niers smirked. He’d tossed one and was bouncing his voice. Intimidation tactics.
“Let’s call it a draw. You all get lost and I won’t put a hundred thousand gold bounty on all your heads. I know who betrayed me. I know who to go after. And I don’t feel like wasting a ten thousand gold bolt on each of you.”
“Boss—I think—”
One of the adventurer’s nerves was already breaking. Niers saw the Gold-rank Captain’s head swivel around.
“No. No, shut up. We’re dead if he gets away. He’s bluffing.”
Damn. He had better nerves than the rest. Niers felt in his pouch. He’d have to set a trap. They were moving towards the speaking stone. He began dropping miniature charges. Here, here—blow off a leg and hopefully take—
“Wait a second. I have an idea. Stop! [Detect Magic].”
Niers’ skin prickled again. Oh no. Not—
The [Mage] whirled. Niers raised his crossbow.
“He’s right th—”
The bolt exploded on the magical barrier. The [Mage] went flying. Niers began to shout. Skills! He had so few Skills that worked without a group! Damn it! He shouldn’t have bluffed. He should have run. Idiot. Overconfident—used to everyone running from him. Used to having an army.
“…that spark of youth…When did we lose that? Have we lost that? Because if we have—it’s time to retire.”
A [Warrior] charged at him with a roar.
“You little bastard! You—”
No time. Niers kicked his boots against the ground.
“Hop!”
He shot upwards as the Boots of the Grasshopper flicked him into the air. The [Warrior] recoiled as his [Braveheart’s Charge] sent him forwards. He tried to swat at the foot-high figure—
Niers landed on his head. He caught himself by an ear. An armored gauntlet went up to swat him—
[Potion of Haste], drunk in midair. The Fraerling disappeared. The [Warrior] screamed.
“He’s on me!”
“Hold still! Where is he? Where—”
“He’s in my armor! He’s in my—”
The armored man had been yanking at his breastplate, feeling the movements. Suddenly—he began screaming.
“Miral! Miral! What’s happening?”
The Human man fell down. He began thrashing. The others crowded around as he screamed. Then opened his mouth wide.
Wide. As if someone was forcing his jaws apart. He howled with such an animalistic sound of pain the others recoiled. Then suddenly—shuddered.
“Miral?”
Blood leaked from his mouth. The others stared at him. They’d yanked off the breastplate. And they saw—
Someone had cut into his chest, through the shoulder. Just carved into the man’s body like—like—
“Dead fucking gods.”
Then the man’s chest bulged. An enchanted sword carved out. A tiny face appeared. And a crossb—
The third adventurer’s face exploded. The last two recoiled with screams. The Fraerling fired again, cursing. He missed—the last two had shields on.
“Kill him! Kill him!”
The adventurer captain was shrieking at the [Mage]. The spells blasted into the [Warrior]’s corpse, but the Fraerling was using it as a shield.
“Monster!”
The Titan was laughing. Covered in blood, he clutched at the tonic.
“You should have run.”
He rose—and saw the adventurer [Captain] charging at him. Niers cursed. He raised his crossbow. And too late—saw the [Mage] switch tactics.
“[Lightning Bolt].”
The world went bright. Niers felt his amulet give. He shouted in pain. His shot—hit the adventurer’s shoulder and detonated. The man cried out, but he came on. Niers raised his sword.
And the man stomped on him.
The blow drove Niers into the dead man’s flesh. A crushing impact. He rose—and saw a wand pointing down.
[Fireball]. This time the Fraerling went flying. He landed on the road. Picked himself up. His crossbow—he’d dropped it. He scrambled for his sword.
“There!”
He saw the [Mage] running at him. No, no—
It was just a kick. That was all you needed to do. When he was a boy—the greatest Fraerling [Warrior] of their time, over Level 40—
Had died when someone stomped on him.
They were strong for their size. The Titan’s amulet flashed.
The [Mage] screamed. The blow had shattered two toes. Niers’ amulet went dead. The Titan was still thrown through the air. He landed.
“—damn it.”
Unfair. He was still holding his sword. It was so hard to fight the tall alone. The captain was running at him. Niers reached for his tonic.
His hand didn’t find his bag of holding. He looked around. Where—
His belt was torn apart by the spells and impacts. The Titan stared about him.
“….Get out before we end up like the very same people we defeated.”
The captain kicked him again. Niers tried to stab. He felt his sword pierce the man’s toe before he was hurled through the air. This time—he felt every part of the blow.
He landed on his back. Blood in his mouth. His ribs felt—his leather armor had saved his life. He lay there.
“—dead? Get up! It’s just a broken toe!”
“They’re all dead! All—”
“I’ll kill him.”
The adventurers looked at the tiny figure. He was pulling himself up. The captain raised his spiked mace, sneering.
“Not so tough without your gear, eh, you little shit?”
“You pathetic little Human.”
The Titan’s voice rasped as he stood. He had only his shortsword. No gear. But his Skills burned. He beckoned.
“Come over here and die, adventurer. You think you can kill me?”
He flicked his sword up. The little Fraerling cut the air as the two Humans stared. And his voice was louder. A shout.
“My sword will slay the skies! The tall fall harder! Tallguard of the Fraer!”
A young Fraerling’s boast. The Tallguard’s motto. Niers beckoned.
And the Human adventurer—wavered. The tiny little man wanted him to come close. All he had to do was get a handhold. Then he was climbing a mountain of flesh and bone.
“Blast him.”
He muttered to the [Mage]. The man hesitated. He lifted his staff.
“Coward.”
Niers spat. He pointed at the [Mage].
The magic died. The [Mage] stared at his staff in horror. The Titan exhaled. That was a Skill meant for a damn army. What a waste.
“He just killed our artifacts. Boss—he just killed—I can’t feel magic—”
“Well, we’ll fucking step on him! You go left, I’ll go—”
The two Gold-rank adventurers circled him. The Titan checked his sword. He spat blood. Then he laughed. They flinched as they charged.
“Let us never grow old!”
 
—-
 
“We have a list of targets. Let’s just hit one—and—”
The [Ambush Captain] was nervous as the Hectval elites moved towards the city. They were looking for anything to hit.
Something was wrong. They were in range of the other three groups. But one squad’s transmission had cut off and they were not responding.
“4th Squad to 3rd Squad. Report!”
The [Ambush Captain] shouted into his Skill. He had no fear of the words being heard—and yet no one replied.
“2nd Squad, what happened to 3rd? They were headed around the city from the east approach—going to attack that farmstead. Where are they?”
“Farmstead looks untouched. I don’t know. 4th, 1st—I think we’re made. Fall back?”
“Not without taking revenge! The Scalespeaker will have all our tails! We’re approaching the inn! W—”
“1st Squad under attack! Under—”
The [Ambush Captain] heard shouting through their link.
“City Watch! Surrender!”
“Contact! Fall back! F—aaah! AAAAH!”
The scream came from 2nd Squad. The [Ambush Captain] shouted through his Skill.
“What is it? What is it?”
“Anti—”
Then silence. The [Ambush Captain] tried again as his Drake [Elite Skirmishers] stopped, staring nervously at their leader.
“1st Squad, fall back! 2nd, where are you? Do you need reinforcements? 3rd? Is anyone there at all?”
“Captain. I think—this was a bad idea.”
One of the Drakes whispered. The [Ambush Captain] was shaking.
“We can’t leave without firing a single shot! Our city’s pride—we’re undetected. The others were just sloppy. Let’s…”
He focused on the building closest to them.
“The inn. We’ll sack the inn and go. Move up the hill!”
The Drakes surged out of their cover, their camouflaged cloaks rippling in the wind. They had the element of surprise! The Watch was occupied, and the Antinium were too!
“For Hectval! K—”
An arrow sprouted out of one of the Drake’s heads. He dropped as the [Ambush Captain] began to shout.
“Archer! Take cover!”
They screamed—and another Drake raised his crossbow only to have an arrow appear in his throat. The [Ambush Captain] stared in horror up at the inn. And the figure shooting down the hill. He recognized, with horror, the legendary Antinium that had climbed onto Pallass’ walls. No. Why here?
Bird the—
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn’s lower floors were in chaos. Lyonette had all the guests far from the doors and Todi’s elites had manned the kill-zone. So had the inn’s staff—Silveran had two crossbows trained on the door. The [Princess] though, was worried.
“Mrsha, stay in the [Garden]! No one goes out until Zevara takes care of it! Bird! Don’t attack them! Bird! Stop killing them! They might not be enemies!”
This could be a diplomatic incident! Belgrade had gone off and attacked one of the patrols! Lyonette was tearing at her hair. But the worst offender was—
“Numbtongue, stop!”
He and Badarrow halted as they went for the doors. Snapjaw was rolling her eyes. But the two were glaring at each other.
“I get five first.”
“Pssh. Bow.”
The two shoved at each other. Lyonette ran over as Mrsha peeked out of the [Garden]. A worried Moore pulled her to safety.
“Are you two competing? Don’t be idiots!”
“Bird will kill all of them. Our turn.”
